s

.d.

^^^kMM

i^ffi

w

:^»;^

l»m

«.

ivs,^%;*^ 4^m^m - >*i*'M?

^^^^^

IN MAREMMA. By Ouida. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE. By

Robert Buchanan. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin
McCarthy. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles Gibbon.
2 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tytler. 2 vols.
Crown 8vo.

CHAT TO &^ WIND US, PICCADILLY, IF.

3i fiobd

By JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF * BY PROXY,' ' LOST SIR MASSINGBERD,' ' HIGH SPIRITS,
LESS BLACK THAN We'rE PAINTED,' * UNDER ONE ROOF,'

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. L

E out) on
CHATTO AND WINDUS. PICCADILLY

82^

TO
GEORGE V. Fool

THIS BOOK

js




in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/forcashonlynovel01payn

CHAPTER PAGE

I. COUSINS - I

II. A FAMILY PARTY - - - - - 22

III. AN INDEPENDENT OPINION - - "35

IV. THE DOCTOR FROM LONDON - - "53
V. A PROTRACTED LUNCHEON - - "72

VI. AT THE HALL - - - - - " QI

VII. FATHER AND DAUGHTER - - - - 109

VIII. LOVERS 'a la mode' . - - . 127

IX. A QUESTION OF TASTE . - - - 149

X. A HALF-LIE 173

XL IN CONFIDENCE - - - - - 1 89

XII. GOSSIP - 204

Xii MR. Rode - - - - - - 223

PAGE

CHAPTER

XIV. SEEING THE LIONS - - - " " 23O

XV. A DISSATISFIED GUEST - , " ' ^S^

XVI. THE TIMEPIECE - " " - 272

XVII. PROCRASTINATION - " " " - 29 1

CHAPTER I.

COUSINS.

THE place is StokeviJle, and the time —
which is a bad one for the place
is autumn. Even in summer, when
Stokeville looks its best, it does not look
well. Its long, unlovely streets are for the
most part too narrow to admit the full face
of the sun. A mill, which looks like a
prison, forms one side of them and another
mill forms the other side, and in both
these prison - like edifices — except when
trade is slack or there is a strike — hard
labour is incessant. Though there is no

VOL. I. I

brightness anywhere ■ — the thing which
ladies put up their parasols and pull down
their window-blinds to avoid, and with a
contraction of their dainty foreheads call
glare ' — there is everywhere oppression.
There is air, indeed, but it is not from
heaven. Quite the reverse. It is the hot
breath of the factory which pours out from
the open windows on all sides, accompanied
by an Infernal clangour — the shrieks of
engines apparently in torment.

Above Stokeville hangs, as above the
Israelites on their march, a pillar of
cloud by day and a pillar of fire
(from the furnaces of its ironworks) by
night. Cotton and iron are the flesh and
bone of Stokeville ; and its life-blood is
commercial prosperity. Everything to the
outward eye Is of man's making or unmaking.
Nature has been expelled — not
'with a pitchfork,' indeed, but by fire and
smoke. The unoccupied spaces which in
other towns would be pleasure-grounds,
oases of verdure in the desert of brick and

mortar, are here mere waste places, of
which the gardener can make nothing, and
which have been given up to the cinder-sisters.
In Stokeville the art of cinder-sifting
has been carried to perfection ;
and where no cinders can be distributed,
on account of elevation or other obstacles,
there are smuts. To wash, except on
Sunday, is useless ; and, as a substitute
perhaps, a large part of the population
anoint themselves, or are anointed, with
oil. It Is said that they are born white —
just as It is averred by some that men are
born equal — but the Impression of the beholder
Is to the contrary : at all events,
from a very early period, when the juvenile
inhabitants begin to disport themselves
in the recreation-grounds aforesaid, they
assume the ' local colour.' Attempts have
even been made by persons of a widely
different complexion (not to say 'whited
sepulchres') to paint them black Inside as
well as out; but just as when you scratch

I — 2

the Russian you find a Tartar, so when you
get below the surface, which is not promising,
of the good folks of Stokeville, you
come upon that best of soils (though unknown
to geologists), True Grit.

Indeed, in these 'cinder-heaps,' as Stoke-ville
and Its congeners have been contemptuously
termed, are found certain treasures,
such as Honesty and Independence, which
have been very foolishly thrown away elsewhere,
as having no market value.

In Stokevllle huge fortunes are made
(and lost) by the few, and high wages received
by the many ; vile indeed must bethe
soul of that man who, knowing the
place they are earned in and the work that
wins them, would grudge them.

In winter only is anything quite clean
seen out of doors ; namely, a snowstorm
on a Sunday. On working-days it passes
through the smoke, and reaches the earth
in tints of ' mitigated mourning ;' but on
Sundays if a flake is caught by a Stokeville

child ia transitu, and before it settles, the
novelty entrances him : ' Why, here's a bit
o' cotton frozen !'

The merchant princes of Stokeville can
command all the luxuries of the earth ; but
what is in other places thought a necessary,
namely, fresh air, they can not get. It is,
however, agreed upon to Ignore this fact.
They dwell in palaces of ebony, and call
them alabaster. They import trees and
plant them, and talk of them as if they grew;
the leaves wither and the branches shrivel
{' Air, air,' they murmur, ' this is smoke ;
bah ! worse, it's soda), but their owners
regard them with complacency; 'Our plantation,'
they say, ' is getting on nicely.'
Indeed, next summer it looks as well as
ever ; the fact is, they have imported more
trees, but It is the local courtesy adopted by
every well-bred visitor (and the Stokeville
magnates are hospitality Itself) to believe
them to be the old ones. The vain struggle
for existence on the part of the poor trees

is pitiful to witness ; one longs to put them
in the great conservatories (where, strange
to say, foreign products are here 'protected')
out of the smoke and smuts. The
flowers, however, whether from their humility
or from their making no pretence of a
long life, do pretty well, and likewise the
grass — only you must not sit upon it in white
trousers. In a garden well walled in, you
might fancy yourself, I won't say in the
country, but a dozen miles from Stokeville,
whereas you are perhaps only three.

Such a garden I have now in my mind's
eye. It is not a large one, but it is beautifully
kept, or, as one might almost put it
in respect to external influences, preserved
from decay. For, as we have said, autumn
is a bad season for Stokeville. The summer
is over, the leaves of the alien trees
begin to fall, and in the absence of the sun
the fogs already make their appearance, as
shady folks will do when undeterred by the
policeman's bull's-eye.

On the lawn, however, at Oak Villa (so
called from quite a patriarchal specimen of
that tree, which had braved smoke and soda
for nearly six years) not a dead leaf was to
be seen. The grass was green and smooth,
the trim parterres were aglow with flowers.
Mr. Lyster, the proprietor of Oak Villa,
had many things therein to boast of : graceful
statues, charming pictures, and furniture
as elegant as it was costly, but he was only
proud of his garden. Sir Peter Fibbert (of
Fibbert and Lyster) had a bigger one, just
as he had higher statues, larger pictures.,
and more massive furniture — but in beauty
it yielded the palm to the garden of his
junior partner. As Sir Peter said, with his
somewhat pompous courtesy, 'No gardener
could have brought the place to such a
pitch of perfection ; it was only the exquisite
taste and solicitude of Miss Clare, the
Eve of this miniature Eden, which kept

matters in such a — such a ' here the

language of compliment failed the worthy

knight, and had to be supplemented by
that of commercial life — ' such an A i condition.'


Clare was in the garden now, pacing
the gravel-walk with her cousin Herbert,
a young man of three-and-twenty, and two
years her senior. A remarkable girl to
look at, and well worthy of attention. At
the first glance at her close-cut hair, and
resolute, handsome face, you might say,
How masculine !' The voice, too, though
gentle, has just now a certain decision unusual
in one of her sex and age, which
increases this impression. But in reality
it is the short hair only (the consequence
of a recent illness) which produces this
effect ; you associate it with the genus boy,
and the rest follows. The effect, to men at
least, was very pleasing ; perhaps she reminded
them of Shakespeare's Rosalind.
Her eyes, of that patient grey which one
somehow associates with cheerful endurance
; her hair, a glossy brown. Not very

promising materials for beauty, one would
say, yet the cunning hand of nature (which
lays its blues and greens together as artists
dare not, and paints the rainbow without
gaudiness) had so combined them in her
as to witch all (male) beholders.

Herbert Newton, as he moves now before
us with firm step and hands behind him —
an attitude with him indicative of thought
is not, one would say, an individual easily
subject to enchantment. For so young a
man he has a grave and earnest air (albeit
the blue eyes which are now so steadfast
are wont to twinkle with humour, and the
brown face that is now so serious to ripple
over with smiles), and yet, if you watch
him closely, you will perceive he is under
the spell.

His eyes never leave his companion,
who for the most part averts her gaze from
him, though ever and anon, when her
speech is more earnest than usual, it meets
his own, resolutely enough ; his voice.

though calm and distinct, is freighted with
feeling, if not with passion, and his Hps are
pale.

Then you have nothing more to say,
Clare ?' said he presently, after a little
pause.

Nothing, cousin, except to express to
you my most earnest and kindest wishes' —
it was plain she was picking her words —
'for your success in the new walk of life
you have chosen for yourself.'

Partly chosen for myself, Clare, I allow,'
he put in gently, ' but also partly — that is,
there are other circumstances which have
led me to leave your father's firm.'

Of course, I know that you dislike
Percy.'

Percy !' It is impossible to convey in
words the contemptuous indifference with
which that word was echoed. ' I do not
admire that gentleman, I confess, Clare ;
but not twenty Percy would have induced
me to take my present step, had I been

Otherwise disinclined for it. In three
months, or less, I shall sail for South
America.'

South America !' exclaimed the girl in
astonishment, and even alarm. * You never
told me that. Oh, Herbert, why do you
go so far away ?'

What does it matter ?' he answered,
bitterly. ' Who cares whether I am near
or far ?'

But I thought,' she answered, without
taking notice of this last outburst, ' you
were going to Coalborough, to the Railway
Works.'

I remain there till the end of the year
only, when I am promised an appointment
at Rio.'

What appointment ?'

I scarcely know. 
to some railway one has
never heard of. I shall do there as well as
anywhere, they tell me however, and that's
quite true.'

But with your talents — nay, genius,' she
pleaded, still ignoring his bitter tone, ' it is
throwing yourself away, Herbert. Papa
can surely find you something better nearer
home.'

Home ? To me one home is as good
as another ; that is, all places have become
equally indifferent to me.'

You pain me very much with your wild
words,' she murmured.

Forgive me ; I did not know I had the
power to pain you, or I would not have
done it. It is curious,' he went on, as if to
himself; ' stone and steel will melt, iron can
be moulded to our will like clay, but a
woman's heart, once bent on her own
destruction, nothing can turn.'

That is ungenerous and unlike yourself,
Herbert,' she answered calmly. ' Do not
abuse the absent even by implication. A
woman's heart is not to be turned that
way.'

True ; I was wrong there,' he answered

cynically ; ' it was an error in judgment.'


It was worse than that, Herbert,' she
.continued gravely. ' You are by nature a
just man ; it is unreasonable, unjust, and
tyrannous to be angry with me because —
because — I make my own choice.'

He threw his hand out with an impatient
gesture.

No, Clare, you do me wrong. I am
not angry with you. But you talked just
now of throwing one's self away.'

I will talk no more of it, no, nor listen
to it,' she interrupted, with a quick flush.
Come, cousin, we used to be friends.'

We did, we are,' he answered, taking
her proffered hand, pressing it gendy. ' I
will never so offend again. Until you say
with your own lips, "I was wrong, Herbert;
you knew that man better than I did," I
will never say another word against him.'

It was very characteristic of the speaker
that, out of mere steadfastness and perseverance,

he thus involuntarily repeated his
offence even while begging pardon. Clare,
however, understood him thoroughly.

I can trust your word, I know, Herbert,'
said she simply. Then, dropping her voice,
not from fear of being overheard, though
all the sitting-room windows of the house
were open, making it look one ear, and
with her eyes grown very soft and pitiful,
How do you think dear papa is looking
to-day ?'

He looked to me much the same, Clare;
I wish I could see him better. He spoke
less despondently of himself, however ;
indeed, much less.'

You noticed that, did you ?' she answered
quickly. ' Yes, it is very curious
that while to all appearance dear papa
grows no better, he has, of late, taken
more cheerful views of himself.'

Let us hope he feels himself better.'

She shook her head.

You know what Dr. Dickson said

about him. It was, In fact, a sentence of
death.'

The tears began to stream slowly down
her cheeks, but she wiped them away
hurriedly. It was not her way to exhibit
strong emotion before others.

Doctors are very fallible,' observed her
companion gently.

But dear papa has wasted so. Did it
strike you, Herbert,' she continued, after a
long pause, ' that despite his cheerfulness
he seems anxious — worried — I don't mean
about his health T

He shook his head.

Well, he is so. You are sure there Is
no cause which would affect a man like
dear papa ? Are things going prosperously
at the mill ?'

Never abetter. There has been a long
depression, but trade has revived. Fibbert
and Lyster are having golden days. No
one,' he added, with a pleasant smile, ' can
say I am the rat that leaves the sinking ship.'

If she were sinking you would stay by
her to the last plank,' said Clare, not as
though she were making a compliment or
pronouncing an eulogy, but as one who
states a fact. Her reply, Indeed, was
almost a matter of course, for she had
something else upon her mind. * Molly
was singing " The Queen of the May " the
other day,' she continued ; ' when she sang
'' I thought to pass away before," papa
whispered to me, " That Is my case ; I
feared that I should never see the year
out. Now, please God, I shall, my dear."
Was not that strange, Bertie ?'

Yes,' he answered, with a quick, searching
glance at his companion ; but her face
wore only that sad pained look which Is
the shadow of a coming bereavement.
She does not know,' he thought to himself
; ' It Is better so.'

If nothing Is amiss with business
matters,' continued Clare, ' as I had almost
wished was the case, it must be something

worse. Do you think ' — here she sank her
voice almost to a whisper — ' that papa frets
about Gerald ?'

No, I do not. He does not know
enough about Gerald's affairs to fret about
them.'

That is a bad reason indeed,' sighed
Clare.

*And I don't think his heart is much
bound up with Gerald.'

Clare sighed more deeply still, as though
she would have said, ' That is a sadder
reason even than the other.'

For my part I cannot blame your
father,' continued Herbert, replying to her
unspoken thought. ' Having done his best
for the lad, he hopes for the best, though
perhaps he does not expect it.'

But poor Gerald has been left to himself
a great deal.'

My dear Clare, in Stokeville we are all
left to ourselves pretty early. To my
mind there is no worse cant than that

VOL. I. 2

which throws the blame which we ourselves
deserve upon the shoulders of our
parents and guardians. Education is another
scapegoat. As a matter of fact,
beyond reading, writing, and arithmetic, a
man educates himself; you cannot dose
him with learning as you stuff chickens ; If
It is against the grain, he remains for ever
an ignoramus.'

I have heard you say, too, you think
there Is nothing in heredity.'

Certainly. It is a mere excuse for vice
and Idleness. That is ' — here he began to
hesitate and stammer — ' I am speaking
generally, of course. There may be cases
there are — where the circumstances and
surroundings of a man, his natural connections,
and so on, handicap him very
heavily.'

Yes, I feel that,' interrupted Clare
quietly. ' There are great excuses for
poor Gerald, though I own he has grievous
faults. That is another reason — you will

say a selfish one — why I regret you are
leaving your present employment. My
brother will now lose his best adviser.'

Your half-brother,' observed her companion,
in quiet correction.

Herbert, why do you say that ?' she
inquired, with a quick flush. ' Of course,
he is only my half-brother ; but is there
any reason beyond those with which I am
acquainted —-why — why — I have cause to
.be ashamed of him V

Her companion was silent for a little,
then answered slowly :

No ; no particular reason.'

That means you have a general distrust
of him. Well, you and Gerald, it must be
remembered,' she said with an air of reflection,
' are of widely different temperaments
and dispositions.'

Yes ; he has doubtless temptations
where I feel none. Moreover, if I were
to be quite frank and honest, I should, I

think, acknowledge to myself that I am
prone to exaggerate his shortcomings'.

Why on earth should you be so uncharitable
?'

He thought a moment what he should
say. He could not tell her his real reason,
which was, in brief, that he so honoured
and revered her that he resented the relationship
to herself of one who was unworthy
of her.

I suppose,' he said, with a smile, ' it is
for the reason given in Hudibras ; our
temptations, as I have said, are different,
and we '* compound for sins we are
inclined to, by damning those we have no
mind to," and the sinner also. However,
as to Gerald's having an adviser in myself,
Clare, you are mistaken. I have no influence
over him.'

Then I am afraid no one has,' sighed
Clare.

Yes; one person has ; the more's the pity.'
Fortunately Clare did not hear him ; her

eyes within the last few seconds had taken
a brighter tint, her face a warmer flush ; it
was plain that her thoughts had suddenly
become attracted elsewhere.

Look ! papa is coming out in his
wheeled chair, Herbert.'

Yes,' said the other quietly ; ' and
Percy is with him.'

Why, how did you guess that, since
you have not turned your head ?'

I did not guess it ; I read it in your
face as in a looking-glass. As I have
already seen my uncle, I will now take my
leave. Good-day, cousin.'

She returned his ' good-day,' and shook
his hand, as he passed quickly out through
the garden-gate ; but he felt she was not
thinking of what she did. It was the
same sort of perfunctory attention which,
when we are identifying our luggage on the
railway platform, we pay to a friend who
passes by ; we throw him a 'How d'ye
do,' but our soul is with our portmanteau.

A FAMILY PARTY.

HERBERT NEWTON'S sagacity,
or intuition, had not deceived him.
Not only was Mr. Lyster coming in his
wheeled chair as usual, but Percy Fibbert
was pushing it. Beside them sauntered a
lad of seventeen or so, smoking an excellent
cigar. As Percy is almost concealed
by the chair and the head of the invalid,
we will describe the others first.

Mr. Lyster is so covered up with shawls
and wraps that nothing is discernible of
him but his thin face, but that is very remarkable.
It Is the face of a man prematurely
old, and lined with thought

rather than with years. A few months
ago, indeed, his hair, which is still plentiful,
and worn much longer than his daughter's
(which gives him a patriarchal look), was
brown as her own; it is now white as snow.
The features would strike a physiognomist
not so much by their sharpness as their
haggard expression. His hands, which he
pushes nervously in and out from the
shawls, are as white as his face, and even
more emaciated. His eyes are bright and
restless. His smile — for he is smiling now,
as he meets his daughter's eye — is transient
and more eloquent of pain than another's
sigh. But there are the relics of a handsome
man about him.

In recoenislnof them. It Is difficult to
persuade one's self that the boy Gerald by
his side is his own son. A tall, shambling,
thread-paper youth, with hay-coloured hair,
and of a colourless complexion. His eyes
are blue, but it Is difficult to catch their
tint, for they are shifty and averse to meet

those of others. He has that studiously
indifferent expression which is ' the mode '
in aristocratic circles, but which in his particular
case Is very unbecoming. It makes
him appear not so much like a member of
the 'upper ten' as of a gentleman in
trouble before the magistrate, whom he is
endeavouring to convince in vain of the preposterousness
of some accusation brought
against him. But though Ill-looking, he is
by no means untimely, in a mere physical
sense. When he smiles, albeit that is not
often, his face has a certain feminine attraction,
which, however, lacks the gentleness
that belongs to a woman.

His mother was the beauty of Stokevllle ;
a mill-hand.

That infatuation of Mr. Lyster's was in
the view of his brother manufacturers (or,
rather, their wives) an inexpiable offence ;
but most fortunately,' as everyone expressed
It, the second Mrs. Lyster ende
Chigwell) died in giving birth to her first

child. The cloud under which her husband
had been placed for nearly a twelvemonth
in consequence of this indiscretion was
thereupon withdrawn ; and he was once
more received into the bosom of Stokeville
society. But the affair had left its consequences,
of which the chief, of course, was
Gerald.

Percy Fibbert, his senior by seven years,
is a very different specimen of humanity ;
he is not quite so tall as the overgrown
stripling, but his height is above the
average, while every limb is in exact proportion.
His features are so regular, his
complexion so delicate, his hair so black
and plentiful, that his style of beauty (for
he is very handsome) would perhaps
remind you of those paragons seen in hairdressers'
windows, but for his large dark
eyes, which are full of expression. Just
now there is more colour than usual in his
face, for the occupation in which he has
been engaged has brought the blood Into

it ; but though the chair is heavy, it has not
affected his lungs, which are in first-rate
condition. As the little procession came upto
where Clare stood, ' I cannot offer you my
hand,' he said, with a light smile, ' for the
best of reasons, because it is already engaged.'


On the invalid's forehead, unseen by
the speaker, gathered at this pleasantry a
heavy frown ; while Clare, who perceived
it very well, became suffused with blushes.

Gerald, who noticed both these 'effects,'
indulged in an odious cachinnation.

My dear Gerald,' said Percy reprovingly,
' " the swan," says the poet, '' is born
to be the only graceful shape of scorn'' and,
in like manner, though vice verse, you must
allow me to observe that the only objectionable
form of merriment is the sni^^er.'

That is quite true,' observed the invalid
pettishly. * Why don't you laugh outright, ina
wholesome way, like your cousin Bertie ?'

'Well, really, Mr. Lyster,' remonstrated

Percy, ' don't you think that's going a Httle
too far in the other direction ? To my
mind, Newton laughs just as one is obliged
to speak in the mill, on account of the
machinery ; he laughs like that bird in
Australia — what's its name ? — that one can
hear all over the bush.'

Clare drew herself up displeased, for she
understood the allusion : fortunately, perhaps,
for the speaker, Mr. Lyster knew no
more than his son, the ignoramus, about
the ' Laughing Jackass,' but he observed
with earnestness : * For my part I like to
hear Bertie laugh ; it does me good.'

Then I wish he was always here to
laugh to you, papa,' said Clare, with earnest
tenderness.

Ah, but he will not be here,' answered
the invalid complainingly. ' He is going
away at the year's end. Not that that will
matter to me' he added, in muttered soliloquy.
Then louder, ' I cannot understand
why he leaves the mill'

Well, Newton, you see, sir, is a man of
science like his namesake,' observed Percy,
in a tone so soft and respectful that had it
not been for the contemptuous expression
of his eyes, still concealed from the other,
it might well have been taken for earnest ;
we at the mill are too grovelling for him.'

There is something In that,' assented
the invalid naively. Whereat Gerald
sniggered again, not, it must be confessed
(for Percy's discomfiture was obvious),
without some provocation.

No man of his age has ever been so
useful to us,' continued the Invalid reflectively.
' That Invention of his for
stamping the pieces ought to have been
patented. He had a great future before
him, if he had only stuck to us. Your
uncle, I am sure, Percy, would have been
only too glad to take him into partnership
next year.'

I hardly think next year, sir,' returned
the young man significantly.

You mean because in all probability it
will be exceptionally profitable ?'

It will be the very best of all years I
have little doubt, sir.'

You think so ? Well, of course, you
are in a position to judge. That is also
quite my view.'

The tone of the speaker was peculiar ;
it was cheerful, as the subject seemed to
demand, yet more excited than cheerful.
His pale cheeks were hushed, but his eyes
were less eager than anxious. Suddenly
he appeared to become aware of this,
perhaps from the solicitude he saw expressed
in his daughter's face, and breaking
off from the topic, returned to that of his
nephew.

If Herbert had only stopped with us,
fortune would have been assured to him.'

M don't thinke cares for fortune, sir,'
said Percy, his face this time compelled to
be as serious as his words, ' so much as for
fame.'

A bubble !' ejaculated the Invalid.

That is my humble opinion too, sir ;
but Newton is always in the clouds. There
was that balloon of his, for instance. The
steering apparatus was a most brilliant idea,
no doubt ; but there is, unhappily, the law
of gravity.'

In Ignorance, or despite, of the law In
question, here Gerald sniggered again.
By Jingo, to see him come down,' he
said, * a thousand feet to the second or
so !'

He was not up a thousand feet, nor a
hundred,' observed the invalid curtly.

Gerald only means the rate, sir,' explained
Percy apologetically ; ' he really
did come down rather quick. Did he not,
Clare ?'

Don't speak of it, Percy ; It makes me
sick to think of it,' answered the young
lady, with a shudder.

He had the courage of his opinions, at
all events,' observed Mr. Lyster.

So had Icarus,' commented Percy, 'but
he was not thought better of — by aeronauts
— on that account. The general
opinion is, I am afraid, that his was a very
foolhardy experiment.'

It is not necessary to use such strong
expressions, Percy,' observed Mr. Lyster ;
let us be content to say it was injudicious.'


I was not referring to Newton, but to
Icarus,' explained the offender. ' I should
certainly not dream of applying so offensive
an epithet as '' foolhardy " to your nephew,
and Clare's cousin.'

'And a very worthy young fellow,' observed
the invalid with a glance at his
daughter, whose eyes, however, it almost
seemed by design, had sought the ground.

No doubt,' assented Percy. ' It is the
more to be regretted that he should have
risked his life in so hazardous a manner.
If he has a fault, it Is briskness ; while his
confidence in his own talents — generally,

no doubt, amply justified — makes him indifferent
to the opinions of others. In
that particular instance of which we are
speaking, for example, he was within an
ace of what everybody told him he would
do— breaking his neck.'

I have owned that it was injudicious,*
said the invalid tartly.

And don't you think it is injudicious of
soit, dear papa,' observed Clare gently,
to be out of doors to-day ? The wind is
quite autumnal.'

No, my dear, I am better — better,' returned
the invalid. ' For the last few
days I have gone out every day, remember.'


Yes, papa, but was it wise .^ Dr. Dickson
says '

I know my own feelings better than
Dr. Dickson,' he interrupted petulantly,
and must be allowed to judge for myself.
At the same time, Percy ' — here he turned
for the first time to his young friend and

junior partner — ' It may be some time —
indeed It is doubtful whether I shall ever
be at the office again. And I should like
to see the books.'

The books, sir !' exclaimed the other,
in astonishment. ' Do you mean the accounts
of the firm ? Then they must be
sent on a trolly.'

No, no,' returned the Invalid, taking
no notice of this sally. ' I only meant the
returns for the last few months ; since
things have begun to mend.'

Very good, sir ; you shall have them.
Newton Is for science, Clare is for literature.
'rare red-lined accounts," she asks
contemptuously, " richer than the songs of
Grecian years ?" but you and I, we are
simple matter-of-fact people. I venture to
think that you will find the books of
Fibbert and Lyster — at all events their
later ones — very pleasant reading.'

Mr. Percy Fibbert had certainly a great
charm of manner ; he had an airy way of

VOL. I. 3

putting things, even when they were not
Intrinsically agreeable, that made them
palatable. That he could make himself
very pleasant was agreed upon all hands — ^
except the mill-hands : perhaps the coarseness
of their natures incapacitated them
from appreciating his lively sallies, his delicate
satire ; or perhaps, as some uncharitable
people averred, he did not lay himself
out to please common people. For though
very popular in the Stokeville drawing-rooms,
and, on the whole, even liked in
the pool-room of the local club, by the
young men of his own rank, the mill-hands
did not like him. They said, ' Percy ' (in
Stokeville work people don't say Mr),
Percy is a time-server.'

AX INDEPENDENT OPINION.

IN Stokeville, the value of each member
of the local aristocracy was expressed
(or understood) in figures ; and none of
them were under ^30,000. Those who
had less than that sum might be ' rising
men,' who would eventually take their
place in the front rank of society ; but in
the meantime were considered what our
American cousins call 'small potatoes,' or
one-horse concerns.' Indeed, unless you
had at least a hundred thousand pounds
you were not entitled to be termed ' warm '
at all, but were merely tepid. But about
Sir Peter Fibbert's warmth there could be

no manner of doubt. He was a merchant
prince of the highest class, and though his
dominions, superficially speaking, were not
extensive, he counted his subjects by the
thousand. With such an amount of caloric
about him, it was of course impossible that
his partner, Mr. Lyster, should not share
in it. It is true the firm had been suffering
for a long time from the depression in
trade, during which it might well have
been that while the senior partner could
live, like the bear, by sucking his paws —
that is to say, upon the interest of his own
savings — the junior partners might have
been put to straits and had to rough it,
though not exactly on beans and bacon ;
but so far as Mr. Lyster was concerned, a
prudent man to all appearance who lived
in ' a bijou residence ' (as Oak Villa was
termed by the auctioneer who sold it to
him), and affected comfort and elegance
rather than grandeur, it was understood
that he would * cut up ' when the time

came (and the time was undoubtedly near)
remarkably well.

As to how he would leave his money
there were different opinions ; but it was
certain that Clare would come in for the
lion's share of it. This, it was considered
by everybody, was but just ; for it was with
her mother's money that her father had
joined partnership with Sir Peter, then
Mr. Fibbert ; whereas, from Gerald's
mother, the mill-hand, nothing of course
had accrued to him but Gerald. Moreover
it was probable (though not so certain
as it would have been, thanks to the young
gentleman's own shortcomings) that the
latter would himself in due time become a
member of the firm, and by that means be
amply provided for. It was the general
opinion, therefore, especially when the
present activity of the cotton trade was
taken into account, that Clare Lyster
would be very wealthy ; what was considered,
even in Stokeville circles, an
heiress.

It was no wonder, then,' said the
young ladles of the locality, ' that though
she was so unfortunately masculine in her
appearance, and expressed opinions which,
to say the least, were '' peculiar," Clare had
many suitors.'

Of these Frank Farrer, son of Sir John
Farrer, the county member, had been perhaps
the most eligible, and Herbert Newton
the least. I am quoting what the
young ladies said, for certainly so far as
Herbert was concerned, he had never professed
anything beyond respect and admiration
for his cousin. He had only ten
thousand in ' the business,' placed thereby
favour of Mr. Lyster, and could hardly
(one would hope), being, too, of a scientific
turn, have given reins to his Imagination
to the extent he was credited with. But
whoever had once aspired to the honour
of Clare's hand, they were now, it was
well understood, all out of the running ;
for the man that had won It, or the promise
of it, was Percy Fibber t.

That it was a good match in a material
sense, even for. her, there was little doubt,
for not only was Percy already a partner
in the firm, but had great expectations
from his uncle.

With his daughter's fortune thus assured
to her, and with the consciousness of his
own prosperity, one can scarcely imagine
Mr. Lyster's mind could be troubled about
money matters. Indeed, to some folks
(who do not, however, live in Stokeville) it
might have seemed strange, how, under
present circumstances, with his lease of
life admitted to be growing very short, he
should interest^himself in them at all. They
might have thought that the Book of the
Recording Angel, so soon to be offered to
his attention, would have occupied it in
anticipation, rather than the returns, however
gratifying to those who might hope
to benefit by them, of the house of Fibbert
and Lyster.

It is on these latter documents, however,

that Mr. Lyster Is now pondering alone In
his study, and It Is with eager satisfaction
that he peruses them. They reveal an unprecedented
prosperity even as matters
stand ; and for the rest of the year and the
year to come, If only this revival of trade
should last, promise a golden harvest :
wealth,' as one who had no personal experience
of Its possession expresses It with
some simplicity, ' beyond the dreams of
avarice.'

What avarice may dream, thank Heaven
I know not ; but the expectations of rich
men, even when they are no misers, I
have noticed are not easily satisfied.
From one point of view — the clergyman's
the occupation In welch our Invalid Is
engaged was undoubtedly deplorable. He
Is thinking of the future, it Is true, but by
no means of eternity. Just fifteen months
not one quarter of which he can reasonably
hope to see — Is the limit of his mental
horizon. If the tide of trade Is still at

flow, his share of profits for that period
will be, he reckons, a hundred thousand
pounds. The idea of this huge fortune so
possesses him, that with trembling fingers
he makes a note of it in black and white —
One Hundred Thousand Pounds.'

The ruling passion strong in death,' is
the remark that naturally rises to our lips.
This man,' one says, ' must certainly bea
miser.'

Far from it ; Charles Lyster has been all
his life a free-handed man. He has not,
it is true, been notorious, as his partner
Sir Peter has been, for philanthropic enterprise
; he has founded no museum, built no
institute, given no free library, laid out no
public parks ; but he has given, whenever
he has been asked to do so, without stint,
and has neither denied himself, nor those
belonging to him, whatever in the way of
comfort and luxury has seemed suitable to
their position. Indeed, as his second
marriage bore witness, he has been on the

whole an impulsive rather than a calculating
man. Nor is he now, though taking
so much thought of money's-worth and
full of anticipations of gain, calculating for
himself.

To my mind, at least, this goes far to
excuse his present occupation and frame of
mind. To see an old man, with one leg in
the grave, rich in this world's goods, yet
with his eyes fixed on personal greed, is a
spectacle so disgusting that it does not
admit of pity ; but provided that we have
not hardened our heart, nor closed our
hand, against our fellow-creatures at large,
there is no harm in our taking pleasure in
the autumn of our years in laying up store
for those dear and near to us. Indeed (to
confess the whole truth) in many cases
there is lltde else left for an old man in the
way of pleasure than the contemplation of
his own honest gains.

What do you do with your money ?'
was a question once addressed with great

irritation of a cheerful old millionaire, who,
I am afraid, had declined to subscribe to
some missionary enterprise. * Sir, I roll in
it,' was the frank rejoinder ; and though I
have never had the least experience of the
pleasure derived from that exercise, I can
imagine It to be considerable. When I
hear of a miser being put out of the way, it
moves me little more (unless the crime is
attended with circumstances of cruelty,
which are never excusable) than the shooting
of a mad dog ; but I have no objection
to rich old men, who are also very good
fellows, taking pleasure in their possession
of property to the very last. The sun
and the moon and the stars, as the sacred
poet tells us, are darkened to them ; the
daughters of music can soothe them no
longer ; the grasshopper is a burthen, and
desire has failed ; and who would grudge
them the satisfaction derived from reflecting
on that reward of their life's toil, which is to
make life easy to those who come after them ?

On Mr. Lyster's face however, the
pleasure evoked by the sight of that unit
and five noughts has passed away ; he has
placed that little memorandum, of future
profits in a drawer in his desk, and devoted
his attention to two documents of another
kind which he finds there, and which are
by no means of such an exhilarating
character. They are the copy of the deed
of partnership between himself and Sir
Peter, and his will. The former he knows
almost by heart, yet he reads it again word
by word very carefully : the latter, though
its details are not so familiar to him, he
peruses with less attention. There is
nothing to be added to it nor removed from
it ; it still represents, as it did twelvemonths
ago, his last wishes. Yet he sighs,
not as one who has relieved his mind from
earthly cares, but wearily, almost hopelessly,
as he puts them, back in the drawer
and locks it. The books of the firm he
lifts with difficulty, one by one, and piles

them up with characteristic neatness, to be
returned by a trusty messenger the next
morning. Surely now all is done with this
world's affairs and he need take no further
heed about them ; yet he sits with his
elbows on the desk, his face pressed in his
hands, weighty with a load of thought and
care.

There is a gentle knock at the door, but
though old age has not yet dulled his hearing,
he hears it not. It is repeated ; the
handle of the door is turned, but in vain,
for it is locked, and a Gentle voice with
come tremor of alarm in it says :

Tea, papa ; will you have it here or in
the drawing-room T

In the drawing-room,' he replies with
.an effort that sets him coughing ; he does
not move, however, but from the desk takes
out a hand-glass, and contemplates in it his
own sharp and bloodless features.

Death is written here,' he murmurs. * I
cannot deceive myself, then how much less

Others ? Nor do I wish to deceive them.
God forbid that in my last days I should
begin to take advantage of any man. I
may be taking too gloomy a view of the
case, however ; let those who should know
best decide that. I will give myself the
chance at all events ; and I must do It at
once.'

As he was about to put the mirror in his
desk, his eyes lit upon a photograph lying
in it. The portrait of a very handsome
young man apparently full of health and
strength.

To look on this picture and on that !'
he groaned with a glance at the reflection
of his own countenance. ' To think that
that was me, and this is me !'

The mystery of youth and age, of
strength and decay, for the moment seemed
to overwhelm him ; he was a man, though
steadfast in the face of commercial peril,
unused to philosophic thought of any kind;
a bad debt he could contemplate with

Stoicism, and he had on one occasion stood
on the brink of ruin and looked down into
the abyss with a clear head ; but the contemplation
of this material change between
Now and Then unmanned him quite. Ina
moment or two, however, he recovered
himself.

Great heaven ! how it all goes !' he exclaimed
bitterly, as he put the picture by.
What would I give to look like that next
Thursday. Unhappily I shall look like
this', and he returned the mirror with a
sigh.

Papa dear, the tea is getting cold.'
I am coming, darling.'

The voice of his daughter seemed to
revive him ; perhaps it reminded him that
though ill and old there was still something
left to him, and that if his own strength and
beauty were gone he had transmitted them
to another.

He moved feebly to the door, which,
contrary to his usual custom, he had

secured ; but when on the other side of It,
affected something of activity.

Your step is brisker, papa, this evening,'
observed Clare, as he entered the drawing-room.


The invalid, however, Is not sorry to find
himself In his chair, whither Clare brings
his cup.

Where Is Gerald ?'

He is out to-night,' she answers cheerfully
; as though it was unusual for her
half-brother not to be taking tea at home.
I dare say he has gone down to the
club.'

By the expression of Mr. Lyster's face
one would have said that he had grave
doubts of the young gentleman's having
sought that sanctuary, but he made no
remark upon the point.

It Is just as well we are alone, Clare ;
as I wish to talk to you upon a private
matter.'

Indeed, dear papa : what Is It ?'

She had put her work away in a
moment, and drawn her chair close to
his.

Well, it is not that I am not perfectly-satisfied
with Dr. Dickson, but I think I
shall have further advice.'

I am delighted to hear it ; it is the very
thing, dear papa, which Dr. Dickson himself
has always wished. He has no doubt, he says,
of the nature of your illness, nor of the
correctness of his treatment ; but for all
that it would be more satisfactory — that
was the very term he used — to have a
second opinion.'

Yes, my dear, but the opinion should
be an independent one. If there is a consultation,
as Dickson would propose, it is
after all only Dickson over again, illus
somebody else. No physician ever finds
fault with another physician's treatment.
So I shall have a man from London all to
myself, Dickson is not one to be huffy.'

The last man in the world, papa ;
VOL. I. 4

though, if he were, I should still say, Please
yourself. It is a matter in which no one
has any right to interfere, and for my part
I am very glad.'

You think folks are more sanguine in
London than in Stokeville, do you, my
child ?' he answered, with a smile. ' You
must not think that, because you will be
disappointed. It is not possible, I am well
aware, that I should be cured, hut the
man I have in my mind may do something
perhaps to prolong my life. I should
dearly like, Clare, to be a little longer with
you

She often thought afterwards of the
tone in which her father spoke those
words. They were not merely earnest and
affectionate, they expressed a yearning so
intense that it thrilled through and through
her. She seemed never to have guessed
before how her father loved her.

And Clare,' he continued, * I don't want
anyone to know of this. I don't mean

Dickson only, but anybody. I am going
to fix Thursday for the man's visit — Dr.
Bell, his name is — because that is Gerald's
day for going to Middleton, so that we
shall be quite alone.'

Nothing more was said upon the matter,
though much was thought about it by both
of them — each in their own fashion ; as to
Mr. Lyster, we shall presently be able to
guess at the nature of his reflections ; but
among those which occurred to Clare came,
unbidden, the remembrance of what dear
old Miss Darall, her mother's friend and
hers, had once observed to her apropos of
her father's second marriage :

Nothing, of course, could be less expected,
my dear ; but it did not take me
by surprise ; nor did I blame him for the
secrecy with which the matter was carried
on, as others did. My conviction is, your
dear father has never asked any human
being for advice in his life ; his character
is an unusual combination of qualities ; he

4—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

is at once impulsive and secretive. If he
ever tells you of anything he has made
up his mind to do, it will be because he
can't help it.'

And somehow it struck Clare that her
father would not have made her a confidante
of this visit of Dr. Bell, of London,
though it was on a matter that concerned
her so nearly, if it could have
taken place without her knowledge.

THE DOCTOR FROM LONDON.

DR. BELL, of London, was a most respectable
physician, filling a highly
responsible medical post, and possessed of
a fair practice ; but among other Dr. Bells
he was not the chief. He was not a specialist
— one of those who has made the
upper joint of the thumb, or the lobe of the
left ear, his peculiar study — but a mere
general practitioner. He was conscious,
of course, of merit, like other members of
his learned profession, and had a vague
notion, entertained by most of us, that the
said merit had not been fully appreciated ;
but that summons to Stokeville, two or

three hundred miles from London, took
him considerably by surprise. Ten miles
out of town had hitherto been the limit of
his professional radius; and even in such
cases he had only been sent for to old
patients who had migrated to the suburbs.
He was almost afraid that there was some
mistake when he received that letter from
Oak Villa from Mr. Lyster, marked ' Private
and confidential.' The contents were
very brief, and merely informed him that
the writer was desirous of obtaining his
professional opinion about his case, one of
incipient consumption ; and that if he could
make it convenient to come by the morning
express to Stokeville, on Thursday, the
writer's carriage would meet him at the
station, and convey him thither in time for
his return by the six o'clock up-train.

It was a very business-like letter, which
gave him confidence in its genuineness, but
just at first he was inclined to think that
the patient's complaint might have been

Incipient madness Instead of incipient consumption.
It also struck him that the
letter might have been mis-sent to him,
and been intended for Dr. Bell in the next
square, who had been sent for to Scotland
on certain occasions, to the great disgust of
the physicians of the modern Athens. Not
one word of these suspicions, however, did
he breathe even to the wife of his bosom,
but sat down at once to inform his correspondent
that he had little doubt he could
so arrange his professional engagements as
to admit of his coming to Stokeville on the
day appointed. The interval he spent
mainly in gleaning the opinion of his professional
brethren — to whom he casually
mentioned he had an important case in
Slagshire — as to how much it would be advisable
to charge per mile. He was a tall,
stout gentleman, with an aquiline nose
bestridden by gold spectacles, and with an
air of cheerful sagacity calculated to inspire
confidence in any patient not absolutely

moribund ; a sort of doctor, in short,
whom, for my part, I Hke.

As he had never been to Slagshire on
business, we may be sure it was new to
him, for no one in their right minds (except
foreign princes who are escorted thither to
be instructed in British commercial enterprise,
and come back exceedingly dazed
and bewildered) ever go there for pleasure.

Why, bless my soul, we shall have
some thunder !' was the observation he
made to himself many times on his journey,
as he looked up at the leaden and murky
air ; and when he peeped down from the
train into the dark and crowded towns he
thought to himself, ' What money these
people must be making who find it worth
their while to live here !' and secretly resolved
to put an extra threepence on his
rate of mileage. This determination was
strengthened by the sight of Mr. Lyster's
carriage, which was in waiting for him as
promised ; a very well-appointed equipage

with a couple of dark bays, which, when
they left their stable, had been light bays ;
while Oak Villa with its statues and pictures
so impressed him with a sense of
superfluity, that he felt, in justice to his
wife and family, he must make that threepence
sixpence.

Clare met him in the hall, and, by her
father's directions, insisted on his having
luncheon before he saw the invalid.

It is impossible, my dear,' he had said
with a smile, ' that a doctor can take a
cheerful view of any patient on an empty
stomach, and I don't want him to take a
dolorous view. If he asks you any questions
about me, you must be as sanguine
as you can, because despondency reacts
you know, upon everybody.'

Acting upon this hint, Clare spoke as
cheerfully as she could in answer to her
visitor's questions, which were very few.
She said that her father was ill, and very
ill ; but that of late he had seemed in

better spirits ; and mentioned his having
gone out every day that week in his
garden-chair.

Come, that looks well, my dear young
lady,' said the doctor kindly (he was holding,
however, a glass of Madeira up to the
light at the same time) ; ' but the weather
Is a little winterly for out of doors, is it
not ? I suppose he has the sanction of his
medical attendant for such an experiment ?'

'Why, no. That is, I am not quite sure,*
hesitated Clare ; for she had an impression
that Dr. Dickson had not altogether
approved of it.

Well, well, I shall have the opportunity
of conferring with Dr. — Dickson, I think,
you said — upon that little point.'

Dr. Dickson will not be here to-day,'
said Clare ; ' he has already paid his visit.'

But, dear me, that's strange ; is there to
be no consultation } How am I to hear
what treatment has been hitherto pursued .f*'

Oh, papa has all that at his fingers'

ends, and the prescriptions, and so on,'
answered Clare, a little confusedly ; ' it is
not that he is not quite satisfied with his
ordinary medical attendant, but he wishes
to have the very best advice — as of course
he will get in your case— and independent
of any other.'

The doctor bowed ; he thought Clare
not only beautiful, but endowed with great
perspicacity. ' I never met with a young
woman,' he afterwards remarked, ' so conspicuous
for her intelligence ;' in the presence
of such a hostess, the considerations
even of professional etiquette lost their importance.


Well, it is not certainly quite usual, my
dear young lady ; but under the circumstances
— and since you say my should-be
confrere has paid his visit, and in point of
fact gone — there is nothing for it but to
give way. So if Mr. Lyster is quite ready,
and as my time is limited — thank you, I
will take just one more glass of that exquisite

Madeira ; it is unwholesome, bad for
the coats of the — I mean for everything,
but it is irresistible. Very good ; I'll follow
you.' And the doctor rose with a smack
of his lips, so gentle and yet so full of
appreciation, that if he had been a clergyman
you would have pronounced it to be a
private grace.

Mr. Lyster, who was sitting in his study
by a small fire, rose to receive his visitor,
in spite of the latter's entreaties.

I am not so bad as that, doctor,' he
observed, smiling. ' Clare, my dear, I am
afraid you must have made the worst of
me.'

Then, as soon as doctor and patient were
alone together, the former proceeded, after
a few questions, to business.

It is needless to describe it. Few of us,
alas ! are unfamiliar in our persons, or in
those dear to us, of the knocking and
the thumping at our creaking doors, that
take place under such sad circumstances ;

the * Does this hurt you ?' and ' Does that
hurt you ?' and the ' Now, draw a deep
breath.'

To any student of human nature the
features of Dr. Bell would have been a
curious study, so distinctly could the
seriousness with which the case speedily
inspired him be seen stealing under that
professional smile of encouragement which
never left his face. When he had quite
completed his investigations, he said,
Yes.' A most significant monosyllable,
which seemed to imply that at one time
certain indications had puzzled him, but
that now all was clear, and the case was at
his finger-ends.

The left lung is gone, as I understand,'
said Mr. Lyster quietly.

Well, really, *' gone " is a strong word ;
It Is very seriously affected, no doubt. But
then one lung is of no great consequence.
Men have lived for half a century with one
lung.'

But the other ? That is In a bad way
too, is it not ?'

'Well, it is far from sound. There is
serious damage ; in fact, if I had been
called earlier, say six months ago, I should
have recommended Madeira — the island, of
course,' added Dr. Bell, moved by a recent
reminiscence.

But, as it is, things have gone too far ?'
inquired the patient calmly.

Why, yes. When one considers the
voyage, and the leaving home, and the
worries.'

I should die before I left the steamer,'
interrupted Mr. Lyster, finishing the sentence
for him. * So I imagined.'

' Nay, indeed, I did not say that,' said
the doctor soothingly. * You have a good
deal of vitality I should say. Even the
power of will goes for something in these
cases ; and we take things quietly while
looking them in the face, I am glad to see.

I know that I am dying, doctor.' The

patient waited for a moment, perhaps in
hopes that the other might say something,
give even a sign of negation ; but there
was an ominous silence. ' Yes, I am quite
prepared for that,' he continued ; ' it is nota
question of eternity, therefore ' (here
there was a flicker of a smile), 'but of time.
It is concerning that matter, indeed, that I
sent for you. I know it is not probable,
but is it possible that I shall live a year ?'

'Well, really, in the classics, you know,
some one says — I forget who, but perhaps
you can remember '

Mr. Lyster shook his head. It was
indeed very unlikely that he should remember,
as he had never read the classics.

Well, some one says, "No man is so
old, but he thinks he may live a year'"

*so old, yes, but not so ill,' put in the
patient bluntly. ^ Now in my particular
case ?'

I am afraid, considering the state of
the left lung '

Very good, doctor ; I want to know
the truth, and I have got it. Now, Instead
of a year, let us say six months. Is it
possible — again you observe, I don't say
probable — that I shall be here six months
hence — I mean, of course, above ground ?'

It IS possible. '

Ah, I see ; it is as bad as that, then }
Now, once more. Dr. Bell, if you are not
tired of these childish questions ; they
remind one of a barrister with his victim
in the witness-box : " Will you swear it
wasn't ten minutes ? will you swear it
wasn't five minutes ? will you swear It
wasn't four minutes and a quarter .^" and
so on.'

Not at all,' said the doctor politely.
You wish to elicit the truth by the Socratic
method, that is all ; why not ?'

The Socratic method might have been
trepanning, for all Mr. Lyster knew about
it ; but he understood at least that permission
had been given to him to proceed

Now, doctor, tell me truly, shall I live
three months ?*

I can't say, of course, for certain, my
dear Mr. Lyster ; but I honestly tell you —
humanly speaking — that I think It very
likely you will.'

Thank you. You have taken a great
load from my mind, or rather you have
given me hope, which Is strength, to bear
the load. As I understand you, I may or
may not be alive this day three months ;
but the probabilities are that I shall
be.'

The probabilities are,' said the doctor
firmly, ' that you will be.'

Very good. And now what am I
indebted to you for this welcome and
satisfactory visit ?'

The doctor named a sum, which included
the extra sixpence for mileage, without
hesitation — the word ' satisfactory ' had put
that question beyond a doubt — and Mr.
Lyster drew him a cheque for it.

VOL. I. 5

You have still ten minutes before the
carriage comes round for you ; oblige me
by taking a cigar.'

It will make you cough,' urged the
other kindly, though, to say the truth, it
was the very thing his lips had been yearning
for ever since his luncheon.

Not at all — I smoke myself — though,
alas ! it is no longer tobacco ; these medicated
cigarettes.'

Aye, aye,' said the doctor, lighting the
magnificent Intimidate his companion offered
him, the value of which (not to mention its
length) perhaps suggested, though too late,
more mileage. * I have heard them spoken
well of in asthmatic cases.'

You are the consulting physician, I
believe, for the " Halcyon Insurance Company
:

The doctor started, as well he might.
A terrible suspicion began to dawn upon
him. Perhaps it would be necessary to
express himself to this excellent gentleman,

for whom he felt a sincere regard, In less
honeyed tones than he had hitherto used.
He was pretty sure he had not committed
himself by the expression of a too sanguine
opinion, but he felt that he might have
done so, and that, if so, such opinion
would have been obtained from him to
some degree under false pretences. His
face grew grave.

Yes, Mr. Lyster ; I am.'

In view of the facts of which you have
possessed yourself, Dr. Bell, it would, of
course, be idle to apply to the " Halcyon
Office " in the ordinary way. IMy life Is
like an empty purse, not worth their taking.
But for six months '

Dr. Bell shook his head.

Well, then, let us say for three. You
said that it was very likely I should live for
three months.'

'I said 'humanly speaking'" replied
the doctor evasively. * The probabilities
no doubt are in your favour. But the

'' Halcyon " has always set its face against
extraordinary risks

But if the proposed premium should be
in proportion to the risk,' urged Mr. Lyster
earnestly. * I am prepared to pay any
premium In reason.'

To be sure, that alters the case. May
I ask — not that I am curious, but I conclude
from what you say that you propose,
to make me In some sort your intermediary
— may I ask the sum for which
you propose to insure your life for the
three months ?'

certainly you may. Indeed, I wish
you to act for me In this matter. The
sum Is one hundred thousand pounds.'

Bless my soul and body !' exclaimed
the doctor. That question of mileage,
past and gone though it was, began to
assume In his eyes quite gigantic proportions.
' That Is a very large sum.'

And the premium will be also large, no
doubt,' observed Mr. Lyster. 'What I

want to know is simply how much it will
be. I will send a form of application to
the company, and then can only trust to
your good offices.'

Those, Mr. Lyster,' returned the other
gravely, ' will be at your disposal. But I
have no authority, no influence whatever,
remember.'

I did not suppose you had, my dear sir.
You will, of course, simply do your duty.
I shall say that you have seen me, and
here's an end. My motive in sending for
you was to make you acquainted, as the
consulting physician for the society, with
my state of health ; and if possible I should
like to keep the matter a private and confidential
one. If it should be necessary to
place yourself in communication with Dr.
Dickson, my ordinary medical attendant
'

It will be absolutely necessary,' Interposed
the other.

Then be so good as to enjoin him to

keep the matter secret. I think I have
nothing more to say.'

Nor had the doctor either. Indeed, he
had a vague impression that in his character
as physician he had already said a
little too much as regarded his other calling,
that of consulting adviser to the
Halcyon.' He could not divest himself
of the idea that he had been induced to
take a too cheerful view under something
like false pretences. It was not that, however
(though he thought it was), which
gave his mind a twist prejudicial to his
late patient, so much as that unfortunate
admission of Mr. Lyster's that his motive
in sending for him was the fact that he
was connected with the Insurance Company.
Hitherto he had persuaded himself
that the reason of his having been sent for
had been a much more obvious and natural
one ; namely, because he stood so high on
the medical tree.

*A hundred thousand pounds, and only

for three months,' he murmured to himself
as he got into Mr. Lyster's carriage.
There's something fishy about that, or
I'm mistaken.'

A PROTRACTED LUNCHEON.

SCARCELY had doctor and patient
been closeted in Mr. Lyster's study,
when, to Clare's astonishment and dismay,
Gerald made his appearance. He had
missed the train, it seemed, for Middleton,
and ' taken a trap' home.

Well, 'pon my life,' he said, as he beheld
the well-appointed luncheon - table
with the remains of the feast upon it,
you and the governor know what's good
between you ! When I'm with you I never
see a spread like this. By Jingo ! Madeira
too!'

It was evident that Gerald had no suspicion

that there was a stranger In the
house, and it was no part of Clare's duty
to undeceive him. If she could conceal
the fact of Dr. Bell's presence, even though
in doing so she should incur the charge of
goiirmandise, she felt that she would be
acting in accordance with her father's
wishes. The question was, how to get
her half-brother out of the way before the
doctor took leave of his patient.

For so young a man Gerald had no great
appetite ; but, on the other hand, he had
what, in default of a more recognised expression,
I have heard termed ' drinkitlte '
and he never threw It away upon water.
After he had applied himself In the ordinary
way to the refreshments, he cleared a space
before him for the Madeira, and began to
help himself at regular intervals in a manner
that obviously meant business. Clare began
to get nervous, on two accounts : first, lest
he should outlast the doctor ; second, lest
he should give way to a certain weakness,

which he was unhappily known to entertain,
and take more liquor than was good for
himself, or agreeable to other people.

Remember, Gerald, that Madeira Is not
the sort of wine people take much of In the
middle of the day.'

I know It Isn't. But the reason Is, because
they can't get It. If It's good for an
Invalid — for I suppose It Is for the governor,
and not your own peculiar tipple — It must
be good for everybody.'
- And the speaker laughed triumphantly,
as one who has established a logical position,
and helped himself to another glass.

The conditions were not the most favourable
to him as regarded personal appearance
; whenever Gerald Imagined he had
got the better of a fellow-creature he was
given to chuckle. And next to sniggering,
the chuckle is the most obnoxious of all
forms of humour. Neither the painter nor
the sculptor would have seized this particular
moment, had they had the opportunity,

to immortalise our young friend. His face,
indeed, had a roseate flush upon it, but
there his attractions ended ; his head was
on one side ; his left eye, half-closed, darted
forth a glance of superhuman cunning ; and
his mouth was distended with a grin.

You must take care not to miss another
train, Gerald,' observed his sister gravely.

I didn't miss the other ; it was the cab-horse.
You don't suppose I walked ?'

No, indeed, I do not. It would be
better for you, my dear boy, if you were
more fond of walking.'

'Yah!'

The above monosyllable, though not a
graceful, is a very significant expression ;
and when it is accompanied by a projection
of the lower lip, it fulfils all the conditions
of Demosthenes eloquence ; the action is
suited to the word and the word to the
action.

Not fond of walking ! That shows how
much you knows about it. Why, I played

at pool five hours yesterday. I should
have been playing now if I could have got
anybody to play with me, but I do believe
Stokeville is the slowest place in all
England.'

I suppose in the middle of the day, at
least, gentlemen have something else to do
than play at billiards.'

Then they ain't gentlemen. Gentlemen
are people who have nothing to do
except enjoy themselves.'

That is one definition of them, no
doubt.'

Gad ! It's the only one that I know of.
Do you suppose that real gentlemen —
Frank Farrer for example, and men like
that — pass their time in a country house,
or a mill T

There is no occasion for Mr. Farrer todo
so ; he is not a manufacturer, nor an
employer of labour, at least of the kind
that requires supervision ; he is born, remember,
to a great estate.'

His governor is no richer than my
governor, and why should I work anymore
than he ? Do you think just because
' — here the young man stopped himself,
and concluded his sentence, somewhat
precipitately, with another ' Yah !'

It had occurred to his mind to make
some remarks upon second marriages, with
an inquiry why the issue thereof should beheld
inferior to that from first marriages,
the whole to conclude with a particular application
to his own case ; but something
in his sister's face prevented it — it was
grave and sad, but unmistakably full of
kind intentions.

I\Iy dear Gerald, I do so wish you would
think differently about work, if it were
only to please our father. Think what a
difference it would make to him now that
he is so ill — and — and — in such danger, if
he could persuade himself that you intended
to turn over a new leaf, and be a
credit to us all'

Difference to him ! I can't see that ;
what's the good of my promising when I
know that he won't believe me ?'

The observation had at least the merit
of nawetS, but his companion's face grew
graver than ever as she replied :

And has he not had good reason to
disbelieve you, Gerald ? If he himself
was speaking to you, he would adjure you
to love work for Its own sake — to let that
employment have some attraction for you
which he himself has pursued so diligently
all his life, and to which, materially, he
owes so much. But I know such arguments
have lite weight with you. I
would entreat you rather to amend your
ways for yom father's sake ; he cannot belong
with us — It lies with you to soothe
and comfort his last hours, or to embitter
them.'

'Well, If I thought I'd any chance of
altering his mind towards me, that would
be another thing,' mused Gerald, lifting

the remains of a oflass of wine to his
lips. It would have been clear to a less
intelligent observer than his present companion,
that this young man's thoughts
were taking a more practical direction than
that of moral duty ; but Clare charitably
ignored that circumstance.

It is never too late to mend, Gerald.
Consider how differently every other young
man in your position conducts himself.
Look at your cousin Herbert !'

He is not my cousin, to begin with,'
answered Gerald curtly. ' And as to the
mill, he hates it, and has cut the whole
concern.'

That is because his taste lies in another
direction.'

'Just my case,' said Gerald coolly, filling
his glass with the last of the Madeira.

Nay, It Is not your case. Herbert Is
devoted to scientific pursuits.'

I can give him twenty out of fifty at
billiards, any way.'

He Is only exchanging one kind of
work continued Clare, taking no notice of
this vaunt, ' for another, for which he hasa
particular bent. Idleness Is abhorrent to
him. Then again there Is Percy ; he has a
position much more assured than you have,
yet see how dllllgent he Is !'

Is he ? That shows how much you
know about It. But never mind that,' he
added abruptly. ' Do you suppose, If
Percy were as sure of getting his uncle's
money — as Frank Farrer, for Instance, Is of
getting his father's — that he would go down
to that mill every day to be poisoned with
oil and grease ? No, no ; of course you're
spoony on him and will believe anything ;
but Master Percy knows on which side his
bread Is buttered, I promise you.'

There Is nothing more contemptible,.
Gerald, than the Imputation of a bad
motive to good conduct.'

I said nothing about a bad motive,' returned
the young man coolly ; ' it's only

human nature. Do you suppose Percy
would have come courting you if he could
have got his cousin Milly ? Not a bit of
it ; when one can't get the best, one must
put up with the second-best.'

This speech was delivered with such
exceeding gravity, and with a confidence
so very marked, that Clare could not repress
a smile.

It is something, at all events,' she said
good-naturedly, ' to be even second-best.'

^ No doubt it is something,' answered
Gerald, who had now finished the bottle,
and was in that malevolent and grudging
condition of mind which too much wine
often induces in low natures ; ' but it isn't
justice. You're a gal, and I'm a man. It
isn't right that gals should have money ;
they don't want it. Ain't I my father's
only son ? When he is gone shall not
I be his repre — ' a long word was by
this time a considerable obstacle to his
tongue — ' representative ? And shouldn't

VOL. I. 6

I have the money to keep up the position
?'

He accompanied this sentiment in favour
of hereditary rights with a thump on the
table that made the glasses ring.

Gerald ! Gerald! pray be quiet!' implored
the girl, alarmed at his vehemence; * remember
how ill papa is.'

Quiet ! Yes, of course you wish to be
quiet and keep good friends. When we
have got all we want, and it ought to go to
other people, there is nothing we hate so
much as a row.'

I don't know what you mean, Gerald ;
I have nothing of yours, that I am aware
of.'

No, but you're going to get it. Miss
Innocence ; at least you hope so, and Percy
hopes so too. Yah !'

This revelation of the young gentleman's
secret sentiments, being, too, her
own kith and kin (though only on one
side), was certainly very unpleasant to his

companion ; it was like being shown, under
a very powerful microscope, the creatures
in the water we drink, or in the air we
breathe.

But what was most dreadful to Clare,
was the impossibility of getting rid of
the young man before the time when the
carriage was ordered to take Dr. Bell
to the station, of whose presence in the
house he still knew nothing, and of which,
as she guessed, her father would wish his
son, of all men, not to know. With Gerald's
drinking habits she was, unfortunately,
already acquainted, but in his own home —
though he had once or twice been brought
thither in a quiescent state — he had
hitherto put some restraint on himself.
It was now clear that he was growing
quarrelsome and noisy.

Clare was almost at her wits' end, when
there came a ring at the front-door bell.
She ran out to reiterate her father's orders
to say he was particularly engaged, when,

6—2

to her great relief, she found the visitor to
be her cousin Herbert.

Without a word of question, or even of
greeting, she whispered :

Oh, Bertie, Gerald is here, and in such
a state — I mean ill-humoured and inclined
for mischief ' (for even then she did not like
to say her brother had taken too much
wine). ' Pray, get him away before my
father sees him.'

Herbert nodded and went into the diningroom
at once. Gerald turned round in his
chair, and confronted him sulkily.

Oh, it's you, is it ? I thought you were
at the Junction.'

And I thought you were at Middleton.
We are both, it seems, playing truant.'

Gerald grew suspicious at once. Muddled
though he was, he had sense enough to perceive
that the other wished to conciliate
him, which naturally rendered him antagonistic.
The idea, too, of Herbert playing
truant was incredible.

If you are coming after what you can
get, Master Herbert, I hope it ain't the
Madeira, because it's gone.'

So I see,' returned the other, in a tone
which impHed, in spite of himself, ' and
also who has taken it.'

There was very little to begin with ;
Clara and the governor had been at it
before I came ;' observed Gerald cunningly.


Clare forced a smile, and Herbert, trying
to fall into the young man's humour (not
with much success, as was not to be wondered
at, considering that he yearned to
thrash the humorist to within an inch of
his life), remarked that everyone knew
what great wine-drinkers his uncle and
cousin were.

Gerald nodded defiance ; he felt that
there was a scheme for his overthrow,
though he did not associate it with wishing
to get rid of his company. He held himself
ready to object to every proposition.

I smell tobacco,' said he ; 'let's smoke

'We can't smoke here,' answered Herbert
; ' we will go out and have a
stroll.'

I hate strolls,' said Gerald sententiously
; * when I walk I must always have
an omjeck — an object.'

If he could have seen a looking-glass,
there would have been no need for his
walking ; the speaker was an object himself,
and a very repulsive one ; flushed,
sulky, and suspicious, he glanced from one
to the other of his two companions like a
baited bull.

If Clare were not here,' thought Herbert,
' I would knock you down, stuff a
napkin into your mouth, and carry you off
in your own fly' — which he had noticed
was still waiting at the door for him.

If you two want to be alone,' said
Gerald pompously, ' you will be disappointed.
I don't think it's right ; I won't
permit it, in justice to Percy.'

Herbert mechanically seized a napkin ;
he felt like a Thug.

No ; unless I can get somebody to play
billiards with me, here I stick till my train
is due.'

I shall be very happy to play billiards
with you,' observed Herbert coldly.

Yah ! you can't play billiards.'

I'll ^Xdiy you, at all events,, for what you
like.'

For what I like ?' The wild beast of
greed that lived within the soul of Gerald
began to show itself. ' Do you mean for
money ? Then I'm your man.'

He rose, dipped his napkin in a finger-glass,
and mopped his forehead : ' Now I'm
ready for you.'

They went out together at once, but as
Gerald got into the fly his suspicions began
to re-awaken ; he stood up in it, swaying
from side to side as he did so : ' I say, no
larks ! I can't afford to waste my time ; I
am not going to play for sixpences.'

Go ont f cried Herbert to the flyman,
and at the same time jerked at his companion's
coat-tails, so that he fell backwards
in the seat, all of a heap.

I say,' exclaimed Gerald complainingly,
but not with the ill-temper he had shown a
few minutes ago ; there was something in
the other's face that awed him. ' That
shook me like .the deuce. You want to
shatter my nerves to put me off my play.
But it won't do; I'm as fit as can be. I'll
play you at pyramids for half-a-crown a ball.*

Very good !'

The ill-assorted pair drove on till they
were in the outskirts of the town. Then,
How much do you count upon to win of
me }' inquired Herbert coolly.

Why, hang me, how did you guess I
was thinking about that ?' returned the
other naively. * Well, I calculate the next
three-quarters of an hour — for we have
fully that to spare — you will be worth two
pounds ten to yours truly.'

'Well, I'll give you three pounds to let
me off.'

What ? You'll pay forfeit, will you ?
By all means.'

Herbert produced the money at once,
and paid it over to him.

Come, that's a good stroke of business,'
said Gerald triumphantly.

But it's understood that you go to
Middleton, or at all events not home
again.'

You didn't say that,' said Gerald
cunningly. ' Why, it's flat bribery. You
want to see Clare alone, which is very
unfair to Percy. I really could not permit
it — at least, not for three pounds.'

Herbert turned very white.

I have no wish to be alone with Clare,
but you are not in a fit state to go home at
present, and you shall not do it.'

But suppose I do do it ?'

If you do,' said Herbert, giving him
a look (which, to say the truth, was

not a pretty one) from which the other
shrank in alarm, * as sure as your name's
Gerald, I'll break every bone in your
skin !'

AT THE HALL.

Somerville HALL was to Oak
Lodge as an epic is to a sonnet.
The latter residence, as we have said, was
perfect in its way, but it had no pretensions
to grandeur ; whereas the former was
palatial. Its style was understood to be
Italian, and perhaps, under an Italian sky,
it might have had its merits. As it
was, the vast (should be) white portico,
with its pillars of (long fallen) snow, suggested
neither purity nor poetry, but only
the pressing necessity for soap and water.
On the broad forehead of this structure
was written, as on a phylactery, in letters

of gold, the family motto, 'In medio tntis-
similis ibis, the meaning of which puzzled
a good many local visitors. The majority
imagined that in 7nedio had reference to
the circulating medium, and freely translated
the sentence, 'Fo7^ Cask Only.'
Others took it to signify * No risks and
moderate profits ;' a sentiment, however,
which, years ago, would have been more
appropriate to Sir Peter's case than at present.
Others, again, thought that the
aphorism had some reference to the quality
of the goods dealt In by the worthy knight ;
and a few even ventured to hint that It
had a moral signification, and suggested
that Honesty alone (like coffee without
priory) was not to be so much recommended
as when a little mixed.

It was sad to think that a man like Sir
Peter could have such detractors ; but, on
the other hand, it was a consolation to
reflect that he would leave a monument of
beneficence behind him — the Fibbert

Museum, built at his own sole expense, of
a material which would survive all their
malice.

The Hall Itself was almost a museum, so
well filled it was with objects of art and
vertu ; and, though new in itself, Its contents
were so carefully selected from
ancient sources, that, once inside It, you
might almost fancy yourself inside a
pyramid, or underneath the lava of
Pompeii. Not a picture graced the walls
that was not centuries old, or at least
claimed to be so. If there were not eleven
thousand Blessed Virgins, as at Cologne,
there was a very large number, and all
more or less authentic ; at all events they
were exceedingly alike. ' Virgin and
Child,' by Goodish ; ' Virgin and Child,'
by Bettering ; ' Virgin and Child,' by
Resting ; the ' Holy Family,' by Bothering,
etc., etc. The picture-gallery was crowded
with them, but not exclusively ; there hung
beside some very different specimens of

ancient art, and which could hardly be
called companion-pictures. Nymphs who
had obviously flourished at a time when
there was no Fibbert and Lyster to supply
them with cotton goods ; and Dryads who
would have found Stokeville much too open
a country. There were Claudes, too, or
what passed for Claudes, with every object
included on their canvases that the face
of nature affords ; and caves, by Salvator
Rosa, with robbers carousing in them.

In any old-fashioned country house of
the same size as Stokeville Hall, these
would have charmed every artistic eye,
because they would have been almost invisible
; but here, where vast plate-glass
windows let in floods of light, it was really
very trying for them. They seemed to
feel themselves in a false position ; on
Sundays, when the Stokeville sun could
work its will, the poor robbers especially,
though there was only a smudge of
lamp-black and a dab of scarlet to establish

their identity, fairly cowered before
it.

The Filbert ancestors, who were collected
in the dining-room, in very noble
frames, expressed a fine contempt for these
surroundings. No expense had been spared
in procuring them, but, unfortunately, no
pains had been taken to secure uniformity;
so, far from looking like one family, they
had not a feature in common. The only
sign of relationship about them, as Percy
was wont to observe, was that they scowled
at one another as if their interests were
antagonistic ; but it might have been that,
being old-fashioned folks, they resented the
attempt that had been made by the upholsterer
and the cabinet-maker to impose
upon them. They knew that ' In medio
ttitissimus ' on the ceiling never came from
the Heralds' Office, and that the worm-holes
in the oak that lined the room spoke
less of the effect of years than of small-shot.


The architect whom Sir Peter had employed,
after his house was built, to give
what flavour of antiquity to it was possible,
had done his best, no doubt, and the upholsterer
had seconded his efforts ; but the
result was incongruous. It suggested the
device of some eminent receiver of stolen
goods who would have folks believe that
they were his own furniture. Why the
spoils of the chase should have adorned
the hall of a man who had never fired a
gun in his life * in anger ' (as he called the
practice of partridge-shooting), was a question
not easily answered ; but it sank into
insignificance beside the inquiry, ' Why an
armoury ?' Yet in Stokeville Hall there
was a passage (leading to the bath-room)
adorned by weapons of all ages, guarded
by men in armour, who (their existence in
such a spot being naturally unexpected)
had frightened many a new maid-servant
into fits.

Sir Peter himself passed most of his

time In a little room, like a pantry, at the
back of the house. In company with the
picture of his own mill as It appeared In Infancy
— a harmless edifice, with one chimney ;
an old map of the county, wherein Stoke-ville
was represented by six dots, the
number of houses It then contained ; and
the certificate of his knighthood, framed and
glazed. In spite of his reverence for
antiquity, It was whispered by cynical persons
that. In his secret heart, he had doubts
whether anything had taken place of Importance
anterior to fifty years ago, when
the Filberts began to rise In the world ;
and It was certain that such outdoor dignities
as had been earned, for example, at
Crecy and Poitiers, seemed very small to
him by comparison with his own rank, which
had been conferred upon him by his
Majesty George the Fourth, In person, for
distinguished services In connection with
a deputation, the precise nature of which
had been lost In the mists of time.
VOL. I. 7

In addition to the decorations on the
walls of this sanctum, there stood on the
table, altar-shaped for that, especial purpose,
a complete model of the Fibbert Museum
In cork, with a plate In front of it, like a
metal mat, on which was inscribed the date
of erection of the building, and the name
of the donor.

Si monumentum requires the knight

was wont to observe, pointing to this edifice

(for he was a wag In his way, though he

stole his jokes), ' sir — come — spy — see!

His museum was to him what the Pyramids

were to the Egyptian kings ; he would

have been burled In it If he could, but in

default of that he wished it to be a witness

to his greatness throughout all ages. The

greatest honour that could be conferred on

you as a visitor at Stokeville Hall, was

to be admitted to this bower to smoke a

cigar with your host, who would narrate to

you at some length how he had been once

a little boy living tJieix (here he pointed to

one of the six dots on the map), and
working there (here he pointed to the infant
mill) for wage ; but that, thanks to good luck,
and perhaps a rough sort of merit (here he
would smile and smooth himself), ' I have
become' (here he glanced comprehensively
at the certificate and the cork model) ' what
I am.' On other occasions, and even the
same evening, if the visitor was a whisky-drinker,
he would serve up the same narrative,
as the cooks say, ' another way.' He
would treat himself as though he were somebody
else, and his biography as a sort of
parable, the object of which was to show
the advantages of diligence and perseverance
; and when he had painted the dizzy
heights to which the poor but honest lad
had risen by his own exertions, he would
suddenly surprise his companion (If a
judicious person) with the unexpected
revelation, ' / am that boy.'

Besides Sir Peter's sanctum, there was
another apartment at the Hall that was an

7—2

exception to Its general style, the boudoir
of his daughter. Miss Mildred, or, as she
was called by her Intimates, Mllly Filbert,
had a horror of all ' antiquated rubbish ;'
she was young herself (barely slx-and-
twenty), and disliked anything about her to
smack of age. The furniture of her apartment
was of the latest design ; Its ornaments,
constantly recruited from Paris or
Regent Street, even to the ' old blue china,'
looked ever bright and new ; while the
novels that crowded her pretty buhl table
(Percy called it, from Its surrounding, ' the
bull in the china shop') were always 'just
out'

Mllly was more particular in getting her
fiction fresh and hot (like muffins), than in
its wholesomeness. Her papa was not
literary, despite that Latin quotation about
his monument, and she was left to her own
taste, which was for pickles and sauces, or
at all events for entrees, rather than the
joint.

I am afraid she endeavoured, In some
measure, to reproduce in her own proper
person the fast and fashionable heroines of
whom she read, a habit only too common
with those who shared her taste
in imaginative literature. With women
and old gentlemen (unless they were
superior to herself in rank, in which
case she was always on her best behaviour)
she was languid, lazy, and indifferent
; with young gentlemen, on the
other hand, she was no longer a Du-du (this
was Percy again), nor yet a Don't-don't.
She gave them a helping hand if they
needed encouragement ; and if, on the other
hand, they were ' great fun,' allowed them
and herself considerable license.

To look at her now you would think
that butter would not melt in her mouth ;
so inanimate and calm is her beautiful face,
so indolent is her attitude, as she lies on
the sofa with a book held aslant in her
languid hand. After an eulogistic description

of one of his characters, Latter adds,
'but he does not hold his book well,' and
he would certainly have said the same of
Milly Fibbert. But then she could hold
it better if she would. She has learnt
from her pet authors that to be negligent
is to be charming, and also that you should
never trouble yourself to exhibit interest
unless it is worth your while — to a lord for
instance or a lover. In the present case,
her only companion was her father, so that
of course there was no necessity to put
herself out of the way. However, as she
had not seen him before this morning, for
he always breakfasted at eight, in order to
be at business early, and she generally at
ten, she acknowledged, by a gracious
movement of her eyelids, Sir Peter's entrance
into the room.

He was a man of advanced aee, but
looked much younger than his years. His
hair was plentiful, his figure plump, and
out of business hours he wore a roguish

smile, the nature of which was disputed.
His friends said it was only the sly humour
characteristic of the man ; his enemies,
while admitting the smile, affirmed that
it was put on to conceal his roguery, in
which it did not succeed. They even mistrusted
the twinkle of his eyes, which they
averred was too instantaneous to prevent
their losing sight of the main chance, even
for a moment ; a position they further illustrated
by the fact that when he smiled he
always jingled the money in his pockets.
His eyes were blue like his daughter's,
and, though they never yearned and languished
as she had taught hers to do,
they were capable of other expressions than
that of the easy good-nature which they
wore at present. She too, as we have
said, was plump ; and there all resemblance,
except that their years sat lightly
on them both, between father and daughter,
ended. Not even the custodian of his
own museum could have called Sir Peter

beautiful ; but Milly was In her way
splendid. Her complexion soft as cream,
with a subdued colour in it, like light
through egg-shell china ; her well-rounded
limbs in exquisite proportion ; her brown
hair, finer than silk, and with a shimmer
on it as though it were the playground
of the sunbeams. Percy called her the
Princess Blondissima, a name he pretended
to have found in a fairy-tale, but
if she was a fairy her weight was over the
average.

So, Miss Milly, you have got a fire,
have you ?' said her father, at the same
time taking advantage of it to warm his
back ; ' that is beginning early. I suppose
you remember that coals are cheap in
Stokeville.'

Milly smiled the very faintest smile
imaginable ; her pretty mouth parted perhaps
a hair's breadth, but she made up for
that condescension by almost closing her
already half-shut eyes. Who but Sir

lo:

Peter could have dreamt of associating her
thoughts with the price of coals ?

Fortunately cotton is looking up continued
Sir Peter consolingly.

Milly, unlike the cotton, did not lookup
; her eyes sought her book a little impatiently.
She had been interrupted at a
critical point, where the guardsman with
the tawny moustache and fifteen thousand
a year was endeavouring to persuade the
Lady Adeline Montblazon to fly with him
to the sunny south. ' i\ husband,' he said,
when she mentioned that obstacle, 'like
the ledge of a beehive, is made to fly
from.'

Have you any news from Oak Lodge,
Milly, this morning ?'

Sir Peter's tone had altered ; it was no
longer bantering and airy ; though not
absolutely severe, it had become abrupt.
Milly, who knew how very swift with him
was the transition between jocularity and
irritation, sighed wearily, and, sheathing an

ivory dagger In the leaves of her novel to
keep the place, resigned herself to conversation.


No, papa ; I have heard nothing from
Clare. Let us hope that no news Is good
news.'

The philosophic calmness with which
she uttered this aspiration would have
been admirable had she required to keep
her feelings under control ; but the fact
was they were not greatly interested In
the subject. The illness of her friend's
father was a matter that only touched her
In so far that It made Clare melancholy,
and unfitted for the offices of friendship.

Mt is my opinion, Mildred — and what
Is of more consequence, it Is Dickson's
opinion — that Lyster will not get over it.'

Poor man !'

The words of the speaker were appropriate
enough, but sympathy could scarcely
a less distance go than It did In the tone
in which they were expressed.

You are begging the very question I
am asking myself,' said Sir Peter gravely.
Is John Lyster a poor man ?'

Mr. Lyster poor !' Milly raised herself
quite naturally, without thinking (for
once) of how she did it, or of her pose
afterwards. ' Why, is he not your
partner ?'

Till his death, yes ; but that cannot be
far off.'

That will make no difference to us,
however, will it ? — that is, materially ?'

Her concern for the Lady Adeline
Montblazon had been considerable ; but
there was another young woman in whom,
although untitled, it was manifest she took
a still warmer interest.

I should hope not ; no, indeed,' said
Sir Peter, straightening his waistcoat ; ' but
it would be a sad thing for Clare — a dreadful
come-down in the world.'

It would be shocking, inexpressibly
shocking,' assented Milly, arranging a

bracelet that had slipped too far over her
wrist.

Then there's Percy.'

These three words dropped with great
significance from Sir Peter's lips, but his
daughter only acknowledged them by an
inclination of her head. Her answer took
that form for two reasons. First, she
could not trust herself to speak ; secondly,
the action concealed her face from her
father. She had finished from chin to
brow and her heart — for she had a heart
was beating against her tight-laced stays
like a bird in a cage too small for it.

FATHER AND DAUGHTER.

know,' continued Sir Peter confidentially,
' though you tie in your
skirts so tight, and limp on your toes, that
you have got a head on your shoulders,
Milly, and are not given to blab, or else I
should not be talking to you about what Is,
after all, more or less of a business matter :
but the fact is, I want to get all the information
I can about Lyster. A little bird,
as you women say, has hinted to me that
his affairs are not as they should be. Ita
dead secret, mind. But have you any
reason for suspecting this ?'

Mildred was silent, but it was clear she

was deep In thought. She was not treating
the matter with that graceful indifference
which she had read was the proper
attitude to assume with respect to everything
human and divine, except flirting
and fashion.

Its not likely, of course,' continued Sir
Peter, ' that Clare should have told you in
so many words that her father is in difficulties
; indeed, he is so precious close in
all he does that she probably does not
know it herself But she may have her
suspicions.'

She is very prudent about expenditure,'
said Milly slowly, ' very prudent. She
gives a good deal away, I hear ; but one
can get a great reputation that way at no
great cost. Percy says it even pays in the
end.'

Sir Peter frowned heavily.

Percy lets his tongue run a great deal
too fast, and often knows very little of what
he's talking about. I'm asking about Clare.'

Well — Clare, I have always thought,
considering her position, spends very little
money ; of course, if they are really poor
that explains it.'

Tush ! That's not it,' said Sir Peter
impatiently ; ' that only shows she's a
sensible girl, and doesn't waste her father's
money on gimcracks and rubbish.' And
he looked round his daughter's highly-decorated
boudoir in a manner that implied
a personal application.

Yes, Clare is very sensible,' said Mildred,
the bow of her Cupidon lips drawn a
lite tighter than usual, ' and very practical.
I always thought — though you didn't agree
with me — that she rather laid herself out
for Percy."

Not a bit of it. That's mere woman's
jealousy.' Sir Peter while making this
general reflection addressed himself to the
opposite wall ; if he had been looking at his
daughter he would have seen her start and
tremble, and then, as if irritated at her own

indiscretion, frown and bite her lips.
You thought, I know, that your cousin
might have looked higher than my junior
partner's daughter. On the other hand,
she miofht have looked higher too. Frank
Farrer has now brought his pigs to a better
market — there, you needn't sniff ; everyone
knows that If Clare had held up her little
finger she could have had him.'

You are delicately suggesting, in short,
that In encouraging Mr. Farrer's attentions
I am taking up with Clare Lyster's
leavings.'

Upon my life !' exclaimed Sir Peter,
vehemently, ' I am sometimes Inclined to
think that all women are alike, and born
fools. Here am I talking about business
really Important matters — and you fly
into a passion because I drop a word that
wounds your vanity. What would you
have ? Didn't I say that Farrer's second
thoughts were best ; if not, 1 meant to say
it. Second thoughts are often best, and

the thoughts that people think for us, I
may add — people who have a right to do
so, of course — are better than those we
think for ourselves. No, I don't think
Clare's economies have anything to do with
this matter, one way or another. But have
you seen no change in her of late months ^
has she seemed despondent, down in the
mouth ?'

How could she, having just secured her
prize ?' observed Mildred sarcastically.

To be sure ; though that's not so
certain, mind you ; indeed that was what I
was coming to. My consent to Percy's
marriage was, of course, only conditional.
I should never permit him to marry an unsuitable
person — one I mean unsuitable as
regards position.'

I am afraid you would find it rather
difficult to stop him now,' said Mildred,
shrugging her plump shoulders.

Difficult ! Where's the difficulty, I
should like to know ?' returned Sir Peter

VOL. I. 8

angrily. ' If Percy chooses to consider
himself his own master, well and good ;
but if I know him he will think twice
about that.'

Still, the matter has been quite arranged,'
continued Mildred, looking at her
father keenly, as he chafed and frowned
under her gaze ; ' you have passed your
word to Percy, remember.'

'Then, if what I suspect is the case,'
said Sir Peter bluntly, * he'll just have to
pass it back again. As long as there's
nothing in writing, one can always get out
of a bad bargain ; besides,' he added confidently,
like one who is fortified by religion
as well as morality, * Clare is the last person
to think of bringing an action against a man
for breach of promise of marriage.'

Mildred shook her head ; not that she
meant to dissent from this opinion, but only
to imply that it would not be so easy to
change front in the face of the enemy asher
father appeared to imagine.

Then there's that fellow Gerald,' continued
Sir Peter, pursuing, as it appeared,
some reflection of his own ; ' I dare say he
may have something to do with it, in case
things are as bad as I hear. He has cost
his father, no doubt, a pretty penny. They
tell me he not only drinks but gambles. If
I had a son who gambled, he should never
see one penny of my money.'

Again Mildred bent her head ; perhaps
in assent to this virtuous observation, only
it was observable that that flush came into
her face again, for which in this case there
surely seemed no need.

What can one expect of Gerald ?' she
said disdainfully.

Well, common decency for one thing,
and that he does not exhibit. There is
something wrong with him, I hear, and
Rachel Warder, a girl at our mill.'

I say again, What can you expect ?' said
Mildred coldly, ' He has the example of
his own father before him.'

That's true, begad !'

'And In his case he even went to the
length of marriage.'

'Yes ; but then Lyster Is Quixotic. Hb
view was, that having begun by making
a fool of himself, he was bound In
honour '

Honour !' exclaimed Mildred disdainfully.
She could have been eloquent on
this point, for the arguments of the guardsman
with the tawny moustache were fresh
in her mind, but her tone was equal to a
folio.

Well, of course, it was most ridiculous''
assented Sir Peter ; ' If Gerald was to do
anything of the sort, it would be all over
with him ; though, so far as we are concerned
— I mean the firm — we should not
be altogether sorry for It. It would give
us an excuse for shutting the door against
him. But his father's case was altogether
different.'

In what respect ?' inquired the young

lady disdainfully. ' The woman he married
was of the same class as this Rachel ,
was she not ?'

Well, yes ; but she was a superior person
for her station ; and when he was
caught by the devil — a' precious narrow
squeak it was, I can tell you — it was her
presence of mind that saved him.'

Sir Peter's allusion, of course, was not to
our ghostly enemy, but to a certain piece
of machinery in the mill called after him — a
chevaux de fine of iron teeth, making one
hundred and eighty revolutions or so per
minute, with which Mr. Lyster had once
made too near an acquaintance.

Indeed the girl herself was very respectable,
and even presentable,' continued the
knight, whose mother herself had been a
mill-hand, and, to judge by the care with
which her portrait was kept strictly under
lock and key, had not been very presentable.
It was the relations — that Chigwell lot —
that rendered the match so unsuitable.'

Unsuitable!' echoed Mildred. ' My dear
papa, It Is very nice and generous of you
to stick up for your old friend ; but the
whole affair was most disgraceful and discreditable.'


Sir Peter, whose excuses had really had
a personal source (for though one can
ignore one's grandmother, one can hardly
burke one's mother), did not resent the
imputation of the more noble motive.

Well, well, let bygones be bygones. I
have never cast the matter up against him,
except as regards the secrecy with which It
was brought about ; and It Is the recollection
of how deuced close Lyster was
throughout that business which makes me
suspicious of him now. I have been his
friend and partner these twenty years, and
yet I know no more than the dead where
he has invested his money ; whether he Is
rolling in wealth, in short, or as poor as
Lazarus.'

Percy thought, no doubt, he was as

rich as Dives,' observed Mildred decisively.


Well, yes ; I dare say he thought
Lyster would cut up for a pretty penny,
as, indeed, did I : but, besides, Percy was
taken up with the girl herself, there's no
doubt of that, which made him precipitate.'

He was not given much time, perhaps,
to make up his mind,' remarked Mildred
drily.

You think she snapped at him, do
you ?' said Sir Peter dubiously. ' Well,
I confess that never struck me. While, as
to Lyster himself, I am bound to say he
discouraged the engagement from the first.
And that has to be considered, mind you,'
added the knight, with the air of one to
whom, for the first time, some new and
powerful moral argument has presented
itself 'Is it right that a young man
should marry a girl contrary to the wishes
of her sole surviving parent ?'

His Majesty Henry VHI. could not

have looked more conscience-stricken,
upon discovering that he had married a
wife within the forbidden degrees of relationship
— and wanted to get rid of her —
than did Sir Peter.

On the other hand,' he continued, 'my
informant may have been altogether on a
wrong scent ; and Lyster, as you were
saying, may be a Dives instead of a
Lazarus. I wonder, now, whether Herbert
Newton's leaving the mill had anything
to do with this ? It Is possible he
smells a rat.'

I should think it very likely.' She was
going to add, ' because the mill is overrun
with rats.' But, fortunately for her — for
Sir Peter did not like jokes (that is, other
people's jokes) when business was being
talked — her father interrupted her.

You do, do you ? Now, that's what I
wanted to get at !' exclaimed Sir Peter excitedly.
'You women have a certain
quickness, and that is why I consulted

you. To an outsider, of course, Herbert's
leaving the mill is unaccountable. He is
the best man we have, and he knows it.
Percy is a clever fellow,, but that Is all. I
am much mistaken If Herbert does not
turn out an Arkwright. Yes, or as you
say, now he has taken to this new line, a
Watt.'

Mildred had said nothing of the kind ;
she had said ' What ?' not knowing what
an Arkwriorht was. But Sir Peter, full of
his subject, had credited her with equal
knowledge. The truth was, mildred knew
very little of anything, except what was to
be picked up from Society novels. Of
manufactures In a general way she was
absolutely ignorant; and, even as respected
her father's mill, she was acquainted with
little more than the fact that it produced,
in good times, a great deal of money.

She was, however, naturally quick-witted,
and on the present occasion perceived
that her best way of becoming

acquainted with certain facts that might
concern her, was to pretend that they were
already at her fingers-ends.

It Is quite certain, you see,' continued
Sir Peter, * that in a year or two, or less,
if Herbert had stopped at the mill he would
have been made a partner. But at present,
though his money is in it in a certain
sense, it is only as a part of Lyster's share.
If he smells a rat — thinks his uncle's affairs
are In a bad way — It is only natural he
should wish to realise, which he can do
just now, at a profit. If Lyster cannot
buy him out, he knows that I shall be glad
to do so. And when one comes to think
of it, for what other reason can he want to
go ? As to his devotion for science, and
wishing for a more practical development
of his talents — which Is what is given out
that's all damned nonsense ; don't you
think so ?'

Though accustomed to fast expressions
and slang terms, Mildred could hardly endorse

Sir Peter's statement as it stood, but
confined herself to saying that she thought
such motives for Herbert's retirement were
highly improbable.

Very good ; you take the same view of
the affair that I do.'

But, papa, if business is so brisk, and
matters are going on so well, and Mr.
Lyster is your partner, he must be making
money in proportion. If the revival of
trade lasts only for a few months — so
Percy told me — the gains will be enormous.'


Well, well, they will be pretty large, no
doubt,' admitted the knight, his self-complacency
for the moment getting the better
of him ; ' but as to Lyster, that depends.'

And Sir Peter pulled up his stiff cravat
with the air of one who has something to
conceal besides his shirt-collar.

Depends on what, papa ?'

Oh ! — well, you would scarcely understand
it ; stocks and shares. If, for

example, Lyster has been speculating —
and there's really no knowing — largely, his
present losses may have swallowed up his
contingent gains.'

Mildred, it is true, understood little of
stocks and shares, but she knew when
people, or at least some people, were deceiving
her ; and she felt that her father's
reply was not altogether ingenuous.

*And what is it you want me to do, papa?'

Why, to keep your eyes open. You
are not often at Oak Lodge, but there's
now an excuse in Lyster's illness for your
making more frequent visits ; and girls can
find out things from girls. I shouldn't
wonder if Gerald knew something about
this, for he has a certain sort of cunning —
pump him. You see it's important to get
at the truth for Percy's sake.'

Well, it may be infatuation — indeed,
people say it is — but in my opinion, however
matters may turn out, you will not
easily induce Percy to give up Clare.'

Induce him ! Gad ! if it should turnout
that Clare's a beggar — for that's what
it may run to — I shan't talk about inducements.
I shall say, " Young man, you
will marry at your peril." '

But that will be very harsh, papa, will
it not ?' said Mildred, looking down to
conceal a glance it was difficult to decipher,
but which had something of malice
or triumph in it that belied her plaintive
tones, 'and very, very sad.'

Never you mind about its harshness or
sadness,' replied Sir Peter curtly ; ' that's
Percy's look-out and not yours : but I
think he is too wise to quarrel with me.
There's the door-bell ; did I not hear hoofs
on the gravel-sweep ?'

Yes, papa, it is Mr. Farrer ; he said he
would ride over this morning.'

Very good ; you mustn't keep him waiting,
so I'll not detain you any longer. But
you quite understand the position as regards
Percy ?'

Perfectly

'And the necessity for caution in the
way of going to work ? That's well. You
may rely on't, I shan't join you in the
drawing-room for the next twenty minutes,
missy,' he added, with a sly nod ; ' I am
not one to spoil sport.'

LOVERS ' A LA MODE.'

CONSIDERING that Miss Mildred
had been admonished not to keep
her visitor waiting, and also that he had
the reputation of being her suitor, even if
he was not actually engaged to her, she
evinced no great alacrity to seek his
presence. For some moments after the
servant who had announced his arrival had
left the room, she remained with her hands
clasped before her, and wearing an expression
very different from that calm repose
so much recommended (in company with
the Vere-debere ' hat) to young ladies of
fashion.

The news that had just been confided to
her, should It turn out to be true, might
alter, she felt, the whole tenor of her
future existence. A hope that had at one
time thrilled her very being, with joy, and
which had been somewhat rudely snatched
away, was once more re-awakened within
her ; but It was dangerous to entertain it,
even In secret, and difficulties lay in the
way, which to a less resolute nature would
have seemed gigantic. To a frank one,
indeed, they would have seemed insurmountable
; but Mildred's nature was not
frank, or rather her mental training had so
imbued her with conventionality and affectation,
that duplicity — which is the next
step to them — was easy. To affect a virtue,
though she had it not, would indeed have
been beyond her powers : but a more difficult
feat was within her compass : she could
conceal a passion that enthralled her, and
simulate It where it did not exist.

For a minute or two her brow was

weighty with care, her eyes full of pain
and dread ; but as she took a flower from
.a vase and placed it in her hair, and cast a
last look in the Mass as she left the room,
it reflected all that she would have it : a
beautiful girl, not indeed aglow to meet
her lover, for she was very pale, but with
.an expression of pleased expectation that
might have satisfied a more exacting swain
than he who was awaiting her.

As she entered the drawing-room she
cast a comprehensive glance around it,
that included not only its tenant but the
windows, and when the young gentleman
opened his arms (which it was clear was
expected of him), she threw herself into
them with all the confidence and elan of a
swimmer takino;- a header.

I thought you would never come,
Frank — take care, there's the gardener.
How is your father ?'

As it happened, there was no gardener ;
but Mr. Frank Farrer, who thought there
VOL. I. 9

was, sprang away from the young lady
with great alacrity, and plumped into a
chair with his back to the window in such
confusion of mind that he forgot to make
any reply to this kind inquiry after his
parent's health.

Did you come over on the mare, or
Tito ?' inquired Mildred, seating herself
beside him.

On Tito,' replied the young gentleman.
Dear me, is he gone ?' he whispered,
wiping his scarlet face with his pocket-handkerchief.


He was unscientific, and had no confidence
in glass as a non-conductor of sound,
and he was exceedingly sensitive to ridicule.

He is there still, but he didn't see us,'
observed Mildred unblushingly.

If the means excuse the end, she was
justified in the tarradiddle ; for her object
was to keep Mr. Frank Farrer at a
distance. She had encouraged his attentions
hitherto, and was prepared to endure

them still if it should be necessary ; but
they had suddenly become very unwelcome.
Her kisses, alas ! were of that sort ^ by
hopeless fancy framed on lips that were for
others ' (or one other), and Frank had only
received a base imitation of the current
coin of love, no more like the genuine
article than the ' kisses ' in a pastry-cook's
shop ; but now that the ' fancy ' might not
prove so ' hopeless ' she even grudged him
these.

Yet he was by no means one to inspire
the gentler sex with repugnance. On
horseback, indeed, Mr. Frank Farrer
looked the very model of a gentleman, or,
at all events, of a gentleman-rider. On
Tito, or ' the mare,' he was at home, and if
the world (beyond that of the hunting-field)
could still be ' witched with noble
horsemanship,' he would have been an
eminent individual. Out of the saddle,
however, he was like a fish out of water
He, who could face the stiffest 'bullfinch'

9—2

without a tremor, and had never looked
out for the weak place in a wall, was, in
the presence of a lady — that is, a real one
bashful, shy, and heavy in hand. The
Fibbert filly,' as he termed Mildred in
private, had been always too skittish for
him ; he never knew whether she was at
play or mischief; and even in her most
caressing moods he had a suspicion that
she might bite. Of late months, however,
she had grown more docile, which
evidenced, he thought, a certain sweetness
of disposition, since he was conscious that
he had not made a bid for her till he found
the ' Lyster filly ' was not to be had. He
had not as yet proposed to Mildred inform,
for though the behaviour of these
young people may be thought by old-fashioned
folks to be that of an engaged
couple, it was only the result of the lady's
reading ; he had no apprehension, however,
it should be added, of failing: to win her.
There was nothing, indeed, to trouble

Mr. Frank Farrer as to his future, except
that when his father died he would have
to stand for the county, and make a speech
in public out of his hat ; an ordeal which,
though vague and indistinct, gave him
secretly great disquietude.

How deuced hard,' he thought, * it was
that he was not the son of a peer !' in
which case his horizon would have been
cloudless.

To look at him on horseback, you would
have said it was so, even as matters were ;
his face, redeemed from the imputation of
boyhood by a dapper, black moustache,
was so bright (though indeed with a material
brightness such as one would almost
say might come from oil and flannel,
rather than from intelligence) ; his manner
so gay ; his laugh (albeit it had a somewhat
vacant ring) so cheery. But on land,
as Percy called it, Frank Farrer was not
at his ease ; when not engaged in conversation
he would look at his legs as if he

missed something — which was his horse —
and when addressed, would shift them
uneasily, and tapping his white teeth with
the handle of his whip, reply, ^ No, really,'
or ' You don't say so.'

It is a fact, however, though not generally
known, that a man may be very dull
without being a flat, and Mr. Frank Farrer
knew very well how to take care of himself.
If Miss Mildred Fibbert had been a bad
match, he would, on the present occasion
for example, have been upon his guard,
and never run that risk (though as it happened
it had been an imaginary one) with
respect to the gardener. But Mildred was
an excellent match, at all events as regarded
money ; and though somewhat past
the flower of her youth, was in no need of
suitors. She had looked on them all disdainfully,
and kept herself as it were for
hinny which was pleasant to reflect upon.
The maturity of her charms was no disadvantage
to her, since while she did not look

five-and-twenty, she had all the gush and
abandon of eighteen at her command at a

o

moment's notice.

Mr. Frank Farrer much preferred her
under present circumstances, than when
she was trying on him the arts of conversation.
He felt that it was very good
of her to talk to him about cub-hunting
(her favourite authoress made men's sports
her speciality), but it was like playing
billiards with one who had never handled
a cue ; it was plain she knew nothing
about it. Lawn tennis had long been
over, the season for picnics was passed,
and Frank did not care twopence for
second-hand accounts of the doings of
London Society ; and all the sources of
human interest being thus cut off, conversation
was rendered very difficult to poor
Mildred.

To narrate what passed between these
two young persons in the way of talk
would be like presenting the reader with a

necklace of dull glass beads; a thing
absolutely worthless in itself, though the
stringing of the beads together may have
Served to pass an idle hour, and in certain
company even an agreeable one. What
was significant in the interview were the
tones, and looks, and those occasional
caresses, which in the absence of the
gardener (quite unnecessarily guaranteed
by Frank), were their accompaniments.

During one of these last Mildred shivered.

Why, Milly darling, are you cold .^'

No,' she said, with a light laugh; 'I
think a goose must have been walking
over my grave.'

Happy goose !* replied he, with some
vague idea that he was not only paying a
compliment, but making an epigram, and
patting her cheek softly.

She would have avoided such endearments
if she could, but these tender attentions
once encouraged in a young gentleman
(and she had been wont to encourage them)

are apt to recur, and In geometrical progression.


What a complete success your mother's
ball was last week,' observed Mildred, in
hopes to make a diversion, and also to
gain time.

The twenty minutes had long been over
at the expiration of which Sir Peter had
promised to make his appearance, and filial
instinct had never asserted Itself within
her so strongly. Why did her father leave
her with this maudlin fool so Ions: ?

My mother's ball ! Why, that's a very
old story — matter of history by this time.
I've told you twenty times how well you
looked at it.'

You've told me so, but I am not sure
that you really thought so. No, you shan't,
sir ' (he was trying to get possession of her
hand, presumably to squeeze it), 'till you tell
me why you were so cross before supper.'

One is always cross before supper,
Milly.'

Yes, but you were not cross In that
way ; you were distrait — thinking of something
else than what I was saying to you ;
perhaps of some absent person. It has
been upon my mind ever since.'

Mr. Frank Farrer had that sort of
complexion that blushes In deeper and
deeper tints : It had grown scarlet through
the Influence of the tender emotion and in
his struggle to secure Mllly's hand ; but It
now became purple.

I don't know what you mean, Mllly.'

His tone was unmistakably sulky, his
straightened forehead had a pucker In It,
where there should have been a frown.

Yes, you do, sir.'

Well, and what if I do ?' he answered
resentfully : * I thought it was understood
between us that bygones should be bygones.
Of course I was sorry that Clare could not
be at the ball ; because — because of the
reason that prevented her.'

Whatever were Frank Farrer's faults



nature had never intended him for a liar :
the falsehood to which he had just given
utterance was so transparent that the very-hesitation
in his speech showed the ingenuousness
of his mind.

Oh, I see,' said iNIildred gravely : * you
were so cut up about poor ]mr. Lyster's
illness.'

Yes, that was it,' replied the young
man naively ; ' you see I had been to call
at Oak Lodge that very day.'

To try and persuade Clare to come to
the ball, I suppose.'

'Yes, my mother sent me: she did, upon
my life and soul !'

Milly's object had been effected, the
diversion had been made ; and she was by
no means anxious that Frank should protest
too solemnly that Clare Lyster was now
nothing to him. He had done so already,
on more than one occasion, so that there
was no necessity for such an assurance.
It had then been her role to draw him onto

a declaration of his devotion to herself ;
but circumstances had now altered, and her
tactics had to be changed with them.

No one can blame you for trying to get
Clare Lyster to your ball,' she said frankly;
she is an ornament not easily spared.'

'It is very plucky — I mean generous —
of you to say so, Milly. I used to think
you were rather hard on Clare ; called her
tomboy and things.'

If I did, it was only in fun, Frank ;
why we are fast friends.'

Ah ! that's just it,' said Frank cunningly
; ' you gals — why, dear me, it's like
an All's Fair Steeple Chase, you run down
one another so.'

But I think Clare charming, my dear
Frank — I mean even to look at, for everyone
admits how' good and clever she is.
Her eyes are lovely and her figure perfection.
'

By Jingo, yes! And I don't mind her
short hair ; it makes her look — I mean sofar

— like a page in a pantomime, and they
are always so pretty. Now your style is
quite different,' he added hastily, alarmed
lest his enthusiasm had carried him too far,
and — and — in some ways, very superior.'

Mitred rose and made him a stately
courtesy, which increased his confusion.

At the same moment Sir Peter entered.

I hope I don't intrude,' was the quotation
with which he greeted the unhappy
young man, eked out by a significant
twinkle of the eyes, which completed his
discomfiture.

Oh no ; indeed,' stammered Frank, * I
assure you we were doing nothing particular.'


No doubt, no doubt,' observed Sir
Peter slily ; indeed, until the idea of his
daughter marrying Mr. Frank Farrer had
entered his head, he had always thought
him the greatest idler and ignoramus inhuman
form ; that ' nothing particular '
was, in short, the very role for him.

Oh, but we really weren't, Sir Peter,'
pleaded the wretched youth : ' we were
talking — dear me, what was It about,
Mllly ? Yes, about Mr. Lyster. You
know he's very bad. Sir Peter.'

It was probable that Sir Peter, being Mr.
Lyster's near neighbour and partner of
twenty years' standing, was quite as well
aware of the fact of his Indisposition as Mr.
Farrer was, who lived half a dozen miles
away ; but the fact was, the young gentleman
had lost his head, without which
(though some averred the contrary) he
could not get on as well as with it.

The worthy knight, as a self-made man
of very perfect construction, and his future
father-in-law, excited his wonder and
almost alarm, as though he had been
suddenly brought Into close connection
with some complicated and dangerous
piece of machinery. He did not understand
him in the least, but strove to conciliate
him by feeble conversational efforts.

which had about as much effect as a
softish brush would have had upon a locomotive.


To my eyes there are few spectacles
more painful than the endeavours of a weak-minded
man to recommend himself to one
he deems his superior, or of whom he stands
in dread, by small-talk. He seems to be
aware that every observation he makes is
a failure, which sinks him deeper and
deeper into the slough of embarrassment,
and yet he quill go on as though these
offerings at the shrine of superior Wisdom
and Power had been accepted.

There had been a time when Sir Peter
had no scruple in squashing with elephantine
tread his young friend's rudimentary
eloquence, but it had now become worth
his while to encourage it.

I know Mr. Lyster is ill, my lad, of
course,' he observed with a sort of
serene pity ; ' but you have heard of no
new symptoms in the case, have you ?'

'Well, yes. You see I have been in
London for the last two days ; have I not,
Mildred ?'

This fact being corroborated, Mr. Frank
Farrer turned very red, as though his visit
to town had been connected with some
trouble with the police, to which it was
.most Imprudent to have alluded, and began
nervously to tap his teeth, and look for his
horse between his knees. The fact was,
in his confusion and flurry, he had clean
forgotten what he was going to say.

And did you meet anyone in town
who knew Mr. Lyster ?' suggested Mildred
sweetly.

That's just what I did,' exclaimed the
young man delightedly ; ' yes, that was it.
I met out at dinner a Dr. Bell who had
been down here to see him.'

Yes, yes, the London '' opinion," I have
heard of that,' said Sir Peter, with interest.
Tt was so like Lyster to send for him without
telling a soul ; but Dickson found it

out. I believe the other man wrote to him,
though he was rather close upon that point.
These doctors tell one another all about us,
but they don't tell its!

Oh, but Dr. Bell told me all about Mr.
Lyster,' observed Frank, with importance.

The deuce he did !' exclaimed Sir Peter,
surprised into a tone so unstudied that it
seemed to imply, ' Then if he told yo?i> he
must have told everybody.'

Yes, he was very confidential and
communicative indeed ; asked me whether
Mr. Lyster was thought to be a rich man,
and all sorts of questions.'

Sir Peter threw a significant glance at
his daughter, from which she gathered that
the operation of pumping this unexpectedly
interesting young man was to be continued
by herself

But it seems to me, may dear Frank,'
she said, * that the confidential communications
between yourself and Dr. Bell were
all on one side. What did he tell you ?

VOL. I. 10

Why did he want to know whether Mr.
Lyster was rich ?'

Well, I suppose he was curious to know
what he would cut up for : one always likes
to know that, you know ;' and Mr. Farrer
glanced instinctively at Sir Peter, concerning
whose post-mortem affairs the young
man's parents had often indulged within
his hearing in the liveliest speculations.

Then Dr. Bell thought that poor Lyster
was not long for this world, did he ?' inquired
Sir Peter, with an air befitting the
gravity of the subject, but with his head on
one side to catch the reply, and a cunning
look in his eye, such as one sees in predatory
birds like the raven and the magpie, which
somewhat belied it.

He did not say that ; no. I'll tell you
exactly what he did say. The fact is, I
totted it down, because I thought it would
be a satisfaction to you.'

You are a deuced intelligent fellow,
Frank,' cried Sir Peter, with enthusiasm.

And very kind and thoughtful,' added
Mildred, to whose ear her father's tone had
had too much of surprise in it.

Frank, however, never doubted but that
a compliment had been paid to him, and
went on, much pleased, with his narrative.

Dr. Bell was a very quiet gentlemanly
fellow, very, and for a learned man not at
all stuck up in his manner ; and when I
asked him point-blank what he thought of
poor Mr. Lyster's case, he told me '

Well, yes, and what did he tell you,
lad ?' inquired Sir Peter, a little impatiently

'Well, he said — these were his very
words — "Your friend Mr. Lyster, young
man, is very seriously ill. As to whether
he will last into next year, I can tell you
this " '

Sir Peter's eyes grew big as gooseberries
in the silly season, in his earnest intentness.

swell, lad, well?'

" I can tell you this, it all depends : if
his constitution is strong enough he will do

10 — 2

it ; and if it is not strong enough he will
not do it." Yes, that was it,' added Frank,
in self-corroboration of having quoted the
oracle with complete correctness ; * those
were his very words.'

And that was all that passed, was it ?'
inquired the knight, after a long pause.

Well, yes. Sir Peter ; except that Dr.
Bell took a great quantity of snuff between
every sentence, and dropped it all over the
place.'

A QUESTION OF TASTE.

WHATEVER might have been the
London opinion on poor Mr.
Lyster's case a month or two ago, by the
time November had seen its last fog it was
clear that he had but a few weeks to live.
His frame had shrunk to skeleton limits :
neither food nor wine seemed to lend him
strength ; and on his cadaverous face was
written, so plain that it needed no doctor to
read it, the summons which brooks no
denial. Yet up to the last few days he
had replied to all inquiries that he was
Better ; yes, on the whole certainly
better ;' and the light of hope had seemed

to burn, though waveringly, In his hollow
eyes. What had kept him alive was known
to no one but himself, as often happens ; for
though we tell our fears, from some superstitious
notion that If revealed they are
less likely to be fulfilled, we keep, for the
same reason, oiir expectations to ourselves.


No one could say that from any selfish
brooding over his own condition, during
these latter days, Mr. Lyster lost Interest
In human affairs ; for the well-being of
those dear to him, and to whom he was so
soon to be a mere memory, possessed him
almost wholly. Out of which arose at
least this benefit, that Oak Lodge did not
become a house of mourning before Its
time. It is difficult, when he for whom the
Shadow waits Ignores Its presence, for
others to recognise how constant Is Its
watch, and how close it stands.

Every morning, on Mr. Lyster's waking
and finding himself still alive, his first

inquiry was for the post ; and the letters
that his trembling hand opened with the
greatest impatience had a large seal with a
bird upon them. He had had a good
many such, and they were all of the official
kind. The secretary of the Halcyon
Society was always acknowledging his
favour of the — Inst., and begging to
assure him that the subject of it was under
the best consideration of the society. The
proposition of INIr. Lyster was, however, a
peculiar one, and indeed unique ; it was
impossible, as he (the secretary) had
already had the honour to inform him,
that the Halcyon Society could deal with so
gigantic a matter single-handed, but that
negotiations had been opened with certain
other societies, on the basis of the terms
agreed upon between the Society and Mr.
Lyster, and as soon as the secretary should
be In a position to report progress, Mr.
Lyster should be at once communicated
with.

The correspondence was polite and
prompt enough, but as for the business, it
hung on hand most tediously. Mr. Oysters
a business man himself, could guess how it
hung waiting for this board-room of directors,
and for that, postponed for some
official reason or for none, and accelerated
by nobody, as if weeks were of no matter,
though weeks were now the sole unit of
time with which he had to deal, and as if
death itself were a mere fiction of the law.
At last there arrived a letter more polite
than all, informing him of the failure of the
whole undertaking. The Halcyon, an
enterprising young society, which had its
way to make, would not have been unwilling
to risk the insurance for a proportionate
premium, but the older offices to
which it had applied, had, after some
coquetting, definitely declined to enter
with them into the speculation.

Mr. Lyster had taken the precaution to
open this communication in his own private

apartment, so that none were witnesses
to the manner in which he received it : for
the moment it unmanned him quite ; he
lay back in his chair with the letter on his
knees, as though it had been his death-warrant.
But the nature of the man, as of
most of those who have borne British
commerce shoulder-hio^h, was to fio^ht and
not to yield ; to treat misfortunes, even of
the direst kind, as a bad debt to be wiped
out and forgotten.

Presently he rose up gently, and, taking
from his desk the Halcyon correspondence
(neatly and appropriately tied up with red
tape), threw the whole of it into the fire ;
then he took out certain accounts and
compared their total, which was very
seriously on the debtor's side, with the
gains of the firm up to the end of the
year. It left an insignificant balance to his
credit.

Then, for the fiftieth time, he glanced at
the figures which represented the probable

profits of the firm for the ensuing year.
Had the Halcyon consented to his proposition,
he might have counted that
^100,000, the premium, as being already
in his pocket, laid up for the advantage of
those who should come after him, but
now — now there was but one means by
which he could secure it to them.

He must live ! To anyone who beheld
his emaciated frame and wasted features,
such a resolve would have seemed a
mockery. But it is difficult to set limits
to the victories of human perseverance.
Through time and trial the juggler accomplishes
with ease what to the uninitiated
seems miraculous — the whole history of
perfection in a nutshell ; and would it not
be possible for a man, with no other purpose
in view but life, to live under conditions
which would render it impossible in
another whose efforts were less concentrated
on that object ?

By Heaven, I'll live through it,' exclaimed

the sick man, striking his wasted
hand upon the desk, ' if it's only to teach
that fellow to have a little pluck !'

The ^ fellow' was Dr. Bell, whom he
thus associated most illogically with the
refusal of the Halcyon to temporarily insure
his life ; but the aspiration was characteristic.
Neither he nor his partner, Sir
Peter, had been ever deficient in commercial
courage, and, to say truth, in audacity ;
and they had a very considerable contempt
for those who were. What had helped to
waste and wear John Lyster for the last
few weeks had been anxiety as to the
course that might be taken by others ; he
was anxious now, but one of the worst
factors of apprehension had been eliminated
dependence. The fight was now between
Fate and him alone. He rose somewhat
more feebly than nature dictated, with the
idea of husbanding his strength ; his face
showed it. It had lost its haggard look.

As he entered the drawing-room he

heard a voice near to him observe with
some heat:

I am quite content to leave the matter
to my uncle's judgment.'

And what is it you want my opinion
upon, Herbert ?'

The reply of Mr. Lyster in his own
proper person to this appeal to him seemed
to discompose not only the person who
made it, but the other two occupants of the
apartment, who were Clare and Percy. All
three looked confused and embarrassed.

I did not really mean to trouble you,
Uncle John,' exclaimed Herbert, ' but we
were having a discussion, and I promised
to make you referee.'

A discussion ?'

Well, hardly that,' explained Percy,
with his pleasant smile, which he had not,
however, been previously wearing, as the
old man had noticed on his entrance.
We were merely arguing a question of
taste ; nothing of any consequence.'

There I differ from you said Herbert,
in his resolute way.

Come, Clare,' smiled the old man,
seating himself by his daughter's side, and
taking her hand, which trembled a little, in
his own : ' what is this matter which,
weighty or not, it seems requires an umpire
to decide ?'

It is about this book — a new novel —
Butterflies" is the name of it — which
Percy recommends and Herbert objects
to ; I really cannot Imagine' (this with a reproachful
look at her cousin) ' It can be
worth making such a fuss about.'

I am content that your father shall
judge between Percy and me,' said
Herbert.

Percy laughed sardonically.

I mean upon the merits of the question,'
said Herbert. ' Pray put myself and
Percy out of your mind, sir. If you do not
think it a vile book, altogether unfit to be
In a young lady's hand '

My cousin lent it me,' put in Percy
gently; 'the authoress is Mildred
favourite writer.'

Then I do not envy Miss Fibbert her
taste.'

Quiet, quiet,' said the sick man, looking
from one young fellow to the other, with
grave face. ' You have both read it, of
course T

Percy nodded ; Herbert said :

No, sir, I have something else to do
than to read such stuff ; but I know what
it is about.'

By intuition, I suppose }' said Percy.
I dare say he has read some review
of it.'

'That is quite true, and it gave me' —
here he made a gesture of disgust — ' no
wish to make any nearer acquaintance with
the thing itself

Still if you have not read it, Herbert,'
said Mr. Lyster gently, ' and Percy has, he
ought to know more about It ; and if he

sees no objection to Clare's reading it — •
recommends it even, she says — eh ?' He
looked doubtfully at Percy, and took up
the volume in dispute. ' What's it all
about — what's the plot ?'

'Well, that would be unfair to the
author,' hesitated Percy; 'one mustn't
judge from extracts : besides, I could
scarcely tell you just now, sir.'

That is to say, he cannot explain before
Clare,' observed Herbert scornfully, ' the
story he has given Clare to read.'

Pooh, pooh ! ril look at it myself this
evening,' said i\Ir. Lyster, with a frown.
Now you have become an engineer,
Herbert, you want to break Butterflies
upon wheels, it seems.'

The little pleasantry was well-intended,
but it failed to smooth matters. It was
never easy to stir Herbert from any
position he had taken up ; while Percy,
though for the present he might well consider
he had got the better of his adversary,

looked very 111 satisfied. Clare, the unwilling
cause of this disagreement, sat with
troubled brow, wishing 'Butterflies' In the
fire or the sea. Upon the whole she preferred
Herbert's judgment to that of Percy,
but then she preferred Percy to Herbert ;
and since the former, her destined husband,
had brought her the book, she was naturally
distressed to hear his taste questioned, and
disinclined to find fault with It. The most
uncomfortable of the whole party, however,
save for the thought which dominated hurt),
and compared with which all others were of
small account, would have been Mr. Lyster
himself. The rivalry between Percy and
Herbert was known to him, though not to
Clare. The girl only knew that the young
men ' got on badly together,' and thought
it a pity that was so, since each was so nice
In his way ; but she quite understood that
those ways were different and Incompatible
with friendship. Her father knew that
and much more.

To say that Mr. Lyster loved Herbert
as his own son would, alas, have conveyed
a very inadequate idea of his regard for
him : he liked him better than any human
being, except Clare; and if anything besides
the certainty of the prolongation of his
own life could now have given him pleasure,
it would have been the knowledge that he
and Clare were to be man and wife. This
had been the dream of his later life, but, as
we know, fate had decided otherwise. It
was one of the great merits of the Stoke-ville
people that they were in their own
way virtuous, and appreciated one another
that is to say, within limits, for some
virtues were not in their ken — as they
really deserved. There was, of course, a
good deal of shoddy in the place ; the
admiration of its drawing-room folks for
the magistrates of the county — who were
not manufacturers — such as the Farmers, for
example, rose to sublimity ; but the very excess
of it rendered it harmless by making it

VOL. I. II

ridiculous. And the male Stokevlllites had
scarcely any of it. It was with difficulty, as
we have seen, that Sir Peter could conceal
his contempt for young Frank Farrer, while
he had expressed himself with what, for him,
was enthusiasm when speaking of Herbert
Newton. And Mr. Lyster, who knew
more about Herbert than Sir Peter did,
estimated him still more highly.

Amongst country folk, admiration for
one's neighbour is of very slow growth.
Examples of intelligence are so rare among
them, that it is perhaps not worth while to
be on the look-out for them ; they are content
to wait until distinction has been
conferred on them from without, when they
honestly confess

Although they Used next door
They never knew this famous man before.'

But in manufacturing towns, where scientific
geniuses spring up pretty often, things are
different. There were many men in Stoke-ville
who had predicted a golden future for

Herbert Newton, and Mr. Lyster was one
of them. In all things concerning: which
that gentleman might pretend to have
some knowledge, the lad distinguished
himself, and had given promise of much
more. His conduct, except for a certain
obstinacy which had occasionally opposed
itself four-square to authority itself, had
been always what it should be ; a man, a
Stokeville in its literary Philistinism termed
it, thoroughly ' reliable,' diligent, persevering,
ingenious, patient — in a word,
bound to wain.'

Beside Air. Lyster's knowledge of these
facts, there were peculiar reasons that endeared
this young man to him. First, his
son had turned out a ne'er-do-well, and in
Herbert he had found, in some sort, a substitute
for him, to whose loving care he
might leave Clare with confidence ; and
then he had done, or might do (for the
matter was not yet certain), a great wrong
to Herbert Newton, which perhaps made

1 1 — 2

him yearn towards him more than all. He
had not done It in Ignorance either, but the
wrong had seemed so far off that he had
shut It out from his calculations — which,
alas, had proved erroneous. He well knew
that Herbert would never have so behaved
to him, which was wormwood ; but it was
the very * unlikeness ' of the lad's nature
to his own, the sense that the other was
rich where he was poor, that enhanced his
admiration for him. But now since Clare
had chosen for herself, though in his judgment
wrongly, Mr. Lyster felt that he
should do what he could to make things
pleasant. He had been very careful, since
her engagement had been settled, to be
civil to the man who would hold his
daughter's future in his hands, and not to
show favouritism to Herbert. But the
recollection of past years, during which in
all the squabbles at the mill he had backed
Herbert, and during which, at home, he
had been his father, elder brother, and

friend in one, could not, as he was well
aware, be easily effaced from a mind so
sensitive to impressions as Percy's. Hence
it was that this new disagreement between
the two young men was very painful to the
sick man, though he strove to make light
of it. 'What does it matter ?' he was saying
to himself, even now ; ' what does anything
matter if I can only live a little longer ?'
A method of mitigating calamity which,
though philosophic enough, has never been
of much practical utility. The position
was very unpleasant for all parties, and the
silence aggravated its embarrassment.
Percy was the first to break it ; it was more
essential for him than for any of the others
to make matters smooth, and perhaps he
was the only one equal to that task. He
had perfect self-possession, a winning
manner, and that sort of wit which turns,
if it cannot blunt, the sword-point of antagonism
; he had tact too, which led him in
the present instance not to shirk the subject

in dispute (which would have been a tacit
acknowledgment of its importance), but to
return to it though in light fashion.

It does really astonish me, Newton' — he
never called him by his Christian name, as
the rest of the world did, down to the mill-hands
— ' to find you so hard upon these
lady-novelists. You spare neither sex nor
(as I should judge in the present instance,
since the authoress has written a good
many novels) age.'

I said nothing against lady-novelists,*
answered Herbert in a tone the gravity of
which contrasted curiously with the other's
airy trifling. ' On the contrary, I think
some of them beat the men. I only spoke
of that section of them who deliberately,
and for the sake of popularity, write with
familiarity upon matters on which, I do not
say no lady, but no honest young woman,
should ever so much as think. Moreover,
what is still worse, they endeavour to persuade
their readers that all English gentlemen

are like the fashionable scoundrels
they depict, and all English ladies are — ■
well, like themselves. It is quite a new
plague in letters.'

Nay ; there you are wrong, my dear
fellow. In reading an old English classic
the other day, I came across this passage
concerning novel writing : '' That branch
of business is now engrossed by female
writers, who publish for the propagation of
virtue, with so much ease and spirit and
delicacy, with knowledge of the human
heart, and all in the serene tranquillity of
high life, that the reader is not only enchanted
by their genius, but reformed by
their morality." '

Gad, that's good !' smiled ]mr. Lyster.
Who says it T

Smollett, sir.'

Then Smollett was a prophet as well asa
satirist,' exclaimed Herbert.

What a memory you have, Percy !' remarked
Clare, admiringly. ' I can repeat

poetry pretty well, if it takes hold of me ;
but prose, never.'

That is because your own life is not
prosaic as ours is,' said Percy gently ; 'the
extract dwelt in my mind from its application
to matters of the present day ; for
though I did venture just now to champion
poor Milly's views about " Butterflies," I
am, on the whole, of Newton's opinion.'

Percy's treatment of this topic was

skilfulness itself. The literary illustration,

"J

the allusion to his cousin, and the apparent
agreement with his adversary, save on the
minor point, all worked together in his
favour, and nothing more, perhaps, would
have been heard of the subject of dispute
but for an unlooked-for incident.

At this moment Gerald entered, accompanied
as usual by a strong smell of
tobacco-smoke. The sight of the family
conclave a little alarmed him, for he didn't
like family conclaves ; he suspected them
of having: reference to his own peccadilloes.

His father's mild ' How are you, Gerald ?'
however, reassured him. In these latter
days J\Ir. Lyster's manner had been tender,
almost pleading, with his son ; perhaps
because his time on earth was growing so
short, but also, it is fair to say, because
Gerald's own behaviour had decidedly improved.
He still absented himself a good
deal from home, but that could be borne ;
while under the paternal roof his ways had
become quiet, and even subdued.

I really hope Gerald is turning over a
new leaf,' Clare had said to Percy.

It is possible,' he had answered with
a shrug of his shoulders, and in a tone
which seemed to add, ' everything is possible.'


She had made the same observation to
Herbert, and he had answered grimly :
You are sanguine.'

But what does it mean — I mean his
being so docile and practicable all of a
sudden }'

Mischief

You never seem to credit poor Gerald
with a good motive,' she had replied almost
angrily.

And Herbert had not disputed that Imputation.
His Ideas were fixed upon that
point, as well they might be. For when a
young gentleman of seventeen has been
convicted of pouring paraffin on a live cat
and setting fire to it, It is difficult for anyone
but a humanitarian to entertain much
hope of him. Clare did not know about
the cat, but she knew of other things
which made her much more distrustful of
her half-brother's comma to Brood than she
cared to admit.

To see him glance at Percy (whom he
feared), and at Herbert (whom he hated),
and at his sister (whom he envied), and
then at his father (on whose death and Its
consequences he was always speculating),
and In that stealthy furtive way which his
feline victim might have bequeathed to

him, did not open a very promising moral
vista. He had come for something which
just at present he could not obtain (it was
a pecuniary loan from Clare), and, as he
could scarcely leave the room immediately
and without explanation, went wandering
up and down it, taking up this and that,
after the manner of such cubs in a .


Hullo, Clare, I congratulate you !' he
suddenly exclaimed ; ' you have got a
readable book from the library at last. I
can't say my taste is yours in a general
way, but here I am with you. It's the
most scrumptious novel out.'

And he held up that unfortunate copy of
Butterflies ' Mr. Lyster had by this time
well-nigh forgotten, and which Percy had
made up his mind to drop in his pocket and
never to bring back again.

Give me that book,' said his father.

What ! are yo7c going to read it,
governor } Oh lor !'

Yes, I am, since It has been so fortunate
as to secure your approbation.'

And he took possession of It accordingly.


It has been said that It Is better for the
fortunes of a book to be abused by the
critics than not to be noticed at all ; but
there are some critics from whom praise Is
such a doubtful compliment that obscurity
Is preferable to It.

A HALF-LIE.

HERBERT still occupied the same
lodgings in Stokeville that he had
used while engaged with Fibbert and
Lyster, since the town was within easy distance
of the Junction, where he was now
employed ; and he was quite as often a guest
at Oak Lodge as formerly. This was at
the special desire of his uncle, however,
rather than from his own wishes ; if he
had consulted them he would have avoided
the house where Percy was now a constant
visitor, and of which it was certain he
would at no distant date be the master.
It was a bitter cup to him to watch the

young couple whispering their soft nothings
together, and to see them fly apart and
become suddenly immersed in yesterday's
newspaper whenever he entered
the room ; not because Percy was in his
eyes a successful rival, but because the
treasure that he valued so highly was
about to pass into what he deemed unworthy
hands. He had not Percy's dexterity
and readiness of resource, either, to
avoid disagreement or to escape from its
consequences ; and therefore he sought
safety in silence, save — as in the case we
have just seen — where harm seemed to
threaten Clare, and imperatively to demand
his interference. He withdrew himself
from the society of the other two as much
as possible, and always remained with his
uncle after dinner, while the young couple
looked through the portfolios in the 
— a favourite occupation, I notice,
with engaged couples, as bringing them
very closely together, and admitting of
little endearments between the large leaves.

They were engaged as usual in this
artistic pastime on the evening of the day
on which that question of taste in novels
had arisen ; and apropos of a view of the
pride of Milan, Percy asked :

Would you like to be married in a
cathedral, Clare ?'

That would depend on who was to
marry me,' was her reply. ' If it was a
prince, or even an hereditary grand duke,
It would be appropriate enough.'

I see ; but with a poor fellow like me
you would prefer a register-office ?'

Of course she told him (for she was not
High Church ; the cult, indeed, was unknown
in Stokeville) that the simple rites
of a register-office with him would be
more satisfactory than the most gorgeous
solemnities with an Imperial Majesty.

That is spoken like yourself,' he said ;
you would never throw me over for anyone
else, would you T

Anyone else ?' she echoed, in a tone

that seemed to Imply that in all the world,
In the matrimonial market at least, there
was nobody to be compared with Mr.
Percy Fibbert.

■ And you'd stick to me in spite of
everybody; 'though father and mother
and a should go mad," as you were singing
yesterday ?'

My dear Percy, you must be going
mad yourself,' she answered earnestly.
What do you mean ?'

Well, I mean to be your husband, Patty ;
but even yet there may be obstacles ; — don't
look frightened, darling ! • — I mean, there
may be endeavours to cause a slip between

the cup and ' Here he kissed her, as

though he were composing a picture-letter.
'It's a dead secret, and there may be nothing
in it, and if there is, it don't matter,
for you are mine for ever ; but things are
not looking quite so rosy as they were for us. '
But, Percy, I can't imagine what you
mean. Papa has given his consent. You



don't suppose that anything which happened
to-day — such a miserable trifle '

No, no, darling,' he interrupted, smiling;
you needn't look so like a startled fawn.
Your father, as you say, has consented,
though not very graciously, I am afraid.
I am no favourite of his, though I think
from no fault of my own.'

No, darling ; from no fault I am sure,
though it is a very sad misfortune. And
he is not one to go back from his word.'

There I agree with you — unless his
pride was wounded. If he thought, for
example, that my uncle objected to it.'

But Sir Peter has all along approved of

our marriage.

So it seemed ; indeed, so it may be
still : but a hint has been dropped to me
that his views have been altered.'

His views } What have his views todo
with us ?' cried Clara, with a flush on
her cheek and a flame in her grey eyes.
I mean he has no right to alter them.'

VOL. I. 12

Of course he has no right ; but with him,
unfortunately, might is right. Because he has
thirty thousand a year, or twenty, or ten —
Heaven knows which it is, I don't, nor care
neither — he thinks he can do as he pleases.'

But, Percy, this is monstrous. Why
should your uncle have changed his views }'

I can scarcely tell you, darling ; I can,
myself, only guess at the reason why myself
and — and — it is rather difficult to
explain. Milly has been here a good deal
lately, has she not .^'

Mildred ? Yes, she has ; but what
has that to do with it ?'

Nothing; or, at least, it may be nothing.
I am only hazarding a guess. What has
she come about ?'

'Well, I suppose, about poor papa.
Since he is so very ill, it is only natural.
And of course I cannot get to the Hall
myself.'

True ; and her manner has not struck
you as being different in any way T

Perhaps she has been graver than usual,
but that was to be expected.'

Has she been asking no questions ?'

About us ? No, none at all. She takes
all that, of course, for granted. She has
meant, I am sure, to be very kind, though I
did not much like it ; such things jar on me.'

What things ?'

Well, T scarcely like to say ; girls are
so different. Milly can talk, for instance, of
what will take place if anything should
happen to her father, quite coolly. She
says she is a woman of business.'

Then her character must have lately
developed in that direction,' observed
Percy, smiling.

Well, so I should have said myself.
She has taken, however, to talk about my
future, hoping that I shall be as well off
as everybody expects — as if I expected or
thought of such things — and speaking of
dear papa as though he were already dead
and gone ; and I don't like it, Percy, though

12 — 2

of course she means it kindly. *' I take
such an interest in your affairs, dear Clare,"
she tells me, when I remonstrate

Aye, and she does,' said Percy, so significantly
that Clare looked up amazed.

My darling ! this is a matter,' he continued
earnestly, ' concerning which I have
been in two minds as to whether I ought
to speak of it to you or not.'

Of course you ought to speak of it, if it
concerns yourself, Percy,' she answered tenderly
; ' for you and I are one.'

Just so ; that is what you must remember,
darling, whatever happens. No
matter what arguments are used, nor who
uses them. Yes !'

He said this with great emphasis, yet
looked at her with a certain tender indecision.
His handsome face was what is
called a speaking one, and he was a master
of the art of suggestion as well as of expression.


If you are hesitating on my account,

Percy, I pray you not to do so. Do not
spare me. I can bear anything but
suspense, and — and,' she added beneath
her breath, ' separation.'

It is not you, darling, of whom I am
thinking,' sighed Percy ; ' I mean as to
'' sparing ;" and you must pardon my hesitation,
for the matter is very difficult to
explain.'

It was not only difficult but delicate.
The fact was, that Sir Peter had dropped
the day before a very broad hint to his
nephew concerning the possibility of ^^Ir.
Lyster not ' cutting up ' so well as was
expected, and of the necessity that there
would be in that case of his (Percy's) breaking
off his engagement.

The firm,' he said, ' wants money ; weare
about to extend our transactions much
more widely in view of this great revival
of trade, and I will not have my nephew,
who is also my partner, marrying into a
pauper's family.'

Instead of getting into a passion, as Sir
Peter hoped, Percy had merely pointed out
that his word was pledged, and that he
could not draw back from his engagement
without Clare's consent.

That's just it,' said Sir Peter eagerly :
she is not one to bring an action for
damages, so you are safe there ; and she's
devilish high-spirited. It is true she has
got over her own father's objection to the
match ? And I am precious glad now
that he did object ; but if she was made
aware that I myself had (for whatever
reason) become opposed to it, her pride
would be wounded, and she would let you
slip at once.'

Percy admitted this even to himself.
Nothing would have been easier than to
have slipped out of marrying Clare Lyster;
and unless he himself openly offered resistance
to his uncle's iron will (which he
did not dare to do), he felt that that gentleman's
scheme was likely to take effect.

On the other hand, Clare was a woman ;
and if her jealousy could be aroused, that,
in addition to her strong sense of justice,
and her complete confidence in his affection,
would render her adamant. He did love
her vehemently, madly, after his fashion,
and had not the least intention of giving
her up. Even should Sir Peter's suspicions
as to his partner's circumstances prove
correct (which he deemed improbable) he
would still have married her ; for though
greedy of money he was yet more fond of
having his own way.

Clare looked at him with puzzled face.

Your words, Percy, grow more and more
mysterious. If Sir Peter has altered his
views, and wishes to withdraw his consent
to our marriage — well, I will not say what
I think about him, as he is your uncle ; but
I confess I don't see why you should spare
him in talking to me.'

Her colour was high, her voice was firm;
it was clear that Sir Peter's view of her

character had been a correct one. She was
growing very indignant.

My darling, it is not Sir Peter — or
rather, he is urged on, as I am convinced,
in this matter by some one else, who hasher
own reasons for wishing our marriage
to be broken off.'

Is it possible you mean your cousin
Mildred ?'

He nodded.

Yes, I am shocked and ashamed to say
that I believe it is. It is all the more
dreadful because she allows it to be understood
that Frank Farrer is paying attentions
to her. The fact, however, is as I
state it. Of course she would deny it, and
we must keep the secret to ourselves, but
that is the key of it. She is jealous of
you.'

Clare for a moment looked incredulous.
Then she called to mind what Gerald had
said about Percy having proposed to her
because his cousin had refused him, or

would not accept him. There might then
be just this scintilla of truth in the statement
(which she had hitherto set down to
sheer ill-nature on Gerald's part) that
Mildred loved Percy. Was it not likely
that she should love him ? Who could
help it ? On the other hand, how un-maidenly
and disgraceful it was in his
cousin, when he had made his choice, thus
to strive to come between them !

If this is true, Percy, I shall tell Mildred
what I think of her.'

Then you will ruin me,' said Percy
simply, ' Do you suppose she would ever
forgive me for having told you the truth ?
No ; she would make Sir Peter my enemy
for life. I have told you all, under the seal
of secrecy, because I had confidence in your
judgment as well as in your fidelity. I
hope, dear Clare, that confidence is not
misplaced !'

What is it you would have me do ?
said she hoarsely. Her face was very

white ; she held the hand which he had
placed in hers with spasmodic tightness.

Nothing ; I would only have you be
secret and quite firm. You will never give
me up, I know, at the bidding of another
woman.'

Indeed I will not. If you really love
me, nothing shall part us.'

That is what I told my uncle — I mean
as to my own intentions,' he added hastily,
marking her quick flush. ' He felt that
nothing could move me, but he hopes by
appealing to your pride to get you to throw
me over.'

What, into Mildred's arms ?'

Well, he didn't say that, of course ; but
I know what it all meant. She has been
angling for me ever so long, and is now
desperate.' *

This is shocking — horrible, Percy !'

Then think what it must have cost me
to disclose it to you. For a man to have
to say such things of a young woman — and

his own cousin too — is beyond measure
painful. But I was obliged to tell you. I
saw no other way out of It.'

But how shall I see her, how shall I
speak to her when she comes tomorrow ?'

Just as usual. Keep on saying to yourself,
"If she suspects that I know about
her, my Percy is ruined." To be forewarned
is to be forearmed ; we now know exactly
what we are about.'

Clare passed her hand over her forehead,
as if she was very far from knowing. ' You
have distressed me beyond measure,' she
said.

I can see that ; I felt only too sure that
it would be so ; but I had no alternative.
Whatever pressure Is put upon
you, darling, remember from whence It
comes, and cling to the man who loves you.'
He clasped her in his arms, and kissed her.
I .shall leave you now,' he said, ' for I am
sure you will be better alone. Good-night
good-night.'

Upon the whole, Percy congratulated
himself upon the result of this coup. He
felt that he had bound Clare to him as with
links of iron. If he had known what was
going on in Mr. Lyster's study at that
moment, he would perhaps have congratulated
himself still more. Of course he
was playing a very dangerous game ; but
he could rely upon Clare's not revealing to
anyone the secret he had so ingeniously invented.
Curiously enough, his fiction had
some foundation in fact : his cousin Mildred
was really in love with him ; but as for her
father furthering her views in that direction,
he would as soon have thought of setting
fire to the Fibbert Museum.

IN Confidence.

T T is a nasty book — a vile, prurient
A book !' exclaimed Mr. Lyster angrily;
he was pointing to the unfortunate novel
that had been the subject of dispute that
morning, as though it had been ' Black-beetles
' instead of ' Butterflies.'

It lay upon his study-table, half read —
which was all it was likely to be — and his
observations upon it were addressed to
Herbert Newton, sitting opposite to him,
with his eyes steadfastly fixed upon the
fire.

I knew you would not like it, sir, and I
knew you would not like Clare to read it.

That was why I remonstrated with Percy
against putting it into her hands.'

Like it ! Like a book which treats of
a woman marrying her lover to her own
daughter ! It is not fit for a man to read,
much more a girl.'

'It is to be remembered, however, that
many girls do read it. Taste is very
different to what it was in your day : moreover,
neither you nor I are perhaps very
good judges of novels.'

I admit that ; but one knows what is
poisonous. One would think that any man
who gave such a book to the girl he was
engaged to marry must do it with some
vile motive — to debauch her mind.'

No, no, sir ; you are going too far,'
exclaimed the other earnestly. ' I almost
regret that I brought it under your notice.
Good heavens ! what are you at, uncle ?'

With an exclamation of wrath and disgust
the sick man had thrown the book
into the fire, and at the same moment

Struck his right hand against the mantelpiece
with such violence that he sank into
his chair with a feeble cry of pain,

It is nothing,' he murmured, looking at
the blood as the other wiped it away with
his handkerchief; 'the pain is nothing as
compared with what I feel here,' and he
indicated his heart with his other hand.
To think that I must leave my darling,
body and soul, in the power of that man.'

The same thought was in Herbert's mind
also, but, far from giving it expression, he
did his best to rob it of its barb.

You must not charge Percy hastily,
uncle ; he is still very young, and Mildred,
with whom he has been brought up, is so
altogether unlike your daughter. Men
judge of women ' by their own female
belongings, and he does not understand
your daughter.'

Nor does she understand him,' replied
the old man bitterly. ' She thinks him
noble, generous, and straightforward.'

And since she is to be his wife it is
better for her to think it,' answered
Herbert. ' My prayer is that her eyes
may never be opened.'

The old man shook his head.

Such glamour does not last ; and when
she comes to know him as he is, the disenchantment
will be terrible.'

'After all, we may both be wrong,' urged
Herbert ; ' and we are scarcely fair judges,
at least I know I am not. With others, who
have had equal opportunities of knowing
him, Percy Fibbert is a great favourite.'

Yes ; he is clever enough — too clever.'

Above all, uncle, he loves Clare. That,
at least, must be conceded to him, and —
and — that of course is a great matter.'

Her love will not reclaim him,' answered
the sick man inexorably. ' I have looked
at the matter all round a thousand times,
Herbert ; my darling has chosen ill for
herself

Herbert too had looked at the matter as

often, and thought the same, but it was no
part of his duty to strengthen the other's
sad presentiments.

Let us hope for the best, uncle,' he
said.

The old man smiled scornfully.

When we come, as I have come,
Herbert, to the brink of our own grave,
that sort of hope grows very thin, and we
see through it the facts beyond it.'

There was a loner silence, during which
each sat — the old man and the young —
wrapped in his own bitter thoughts. They
were like a father and son who (as sometimes
happens) have associated with that
relationship that of elder and younger
brother.

Herbert, my hand hurts me very much;
it was foolish of me to give way to passion.'
In his own mind he felt it to have been
madness, for with his health in so critical
a state, even a lame hand might help to
beckon death to come a little quicker.

VOL. I. i^

Sit down and write a line for me to Mr.
Rode.'

Mr. Rodenn was an uncle of Clare's by
the mother's side, and she had shared with
him, which he had not a little resented,
their father's wealth. That had happened
so long ago, however, that the grievance
had almost ceased to exist, and he was on
friendly terms with the Oysters. But upto
this time, though repeatedly invited, he
had never paid a visit to Stokeville. He
was a dilettante and a valetudinarian, a
bachelor who almost lived at his club, and
rarely left town except for Brighton. Mr.
Lyster and he had occasionally met in
town, but they had nothing In common,
and rather despised one another. Herbert,
who knew the relation between them, involuntarily
lifted his eyebrows as he took
up his pen.

You are thlnkinof It strangle,' said Mr.
Lyster, ' that I should have anything to
say to Mr. Rodenn at a time like this. But

when one Is dying one clings, as If one was
drowning, to straws. When I am gone,
Clare will be absolutely without a counsellor.
It had been my hope that you yourself '

Herbert shook his head.

No, sir. I should be of no use In that
way ; Indeed, I should be worse than useless.
Any Interference of mine would be
resented excessively.'

No doubt — though not, I am sure, by
Clare,' answered the other earnestly.

He had had In his mind quite another
hope respecting Herbert ; but It was just as
well that he had been thus prevented from
attending to It.

Perhaps the other read his thoughts in
his face, for the pen trembled in his hand.
Our tender might-have-beens are like the
jessamine and the rose, which can turn
even strong men sick and faint.

What shall I write, sir ? I have only
2:ot the date, December 6th.'

The sixth ? Alas, I hoped it was

13—2

the seventh,' murmured the other, unconsciously.


Why the seventh ?'

Aye, you may well say that, lad,'
answered the sick man, recovering himself,
and calling up a smile. ' The fancies of a
sick man are Inexplicable, even to himself.
Go on, please, from my dictation :

Dear Rodenn,

I am In very bad health — so bad
that, unless you come to see us this Christmas,
I fear we shall never meet again. I
especially wish you to make the acquaintance
of your niece ; remember you are the
only near relative she will possess when I
am gone. We shall be able to make you
pretty comfortable, I hope, at Oak Lodge,
and I am sure my partner, Sir Peter, will
do everything In his power to make your
stay at Stokevllle agreeable.

Yours faithfully,

'John Lyster.'

Does he know Sir Peter ?' inquired
Herbert.

Not personally. But don't you recollect,
when Rodenn dined with us at the club in
town, how handsomely he spoke of him ?'

To be sure laughed Herbert ; ' about
the museum, and so on. Mr. Rodenn
seemed to be much impressed by our
Stokeville magnates. I should think he
liked big people generally. He didn't like
my calling him uncle, I remember — I suppose,
because I wasn't big enough.'

On the contrary, it was because you
were too big : Rodenn affects to be young
still. He will not be much good to Clare,
I fear ; but he will be better than nobody ;
and he is her natural guardian. I'll get
Oldcastle to meet him.'

]mr. Oldcastle was Mr. Lyster's lawyer.

But he always goes away at Christmas
into Berkshire.'

True ; I had forgotten that. Add this
postscript to the letter :

If you can come at once to us, so
much the better ; it will probably be more
convenient, as I know men like you are
sought after in scores of country houses
about Christmas time.

Then just add that I am employing you
as my amanuensis because I have lamed
my hand.'

That is a little strong, uncle ; I mean
about the country houses — isn't it ?' said
Herbert doubtfully.

Not a bit of it ; it's just the thing to
tickle Rodenn.'

A touch of scorn lit up the old man's face
for a moment, and then he was himself
again — helpless, well-nigh hopeless, ill and
worn, at the fag end of his days.

I think, uncle, it will be well to let that
matter drop,' said Herbert, nodding towards
the fire, where the blackened leaves of the
burnt book still curled and shrivelled. ' I
am very sorry that I began with it.'

You were not to blame, lad, you were
right ; but, as you say, let it be. Perhaps
silence is always best when speaking cannot
mend matters.'

Though the sentiment was general and
axiomatic enough, to the speaker at least
it seemed to demand some explanation.

It is useless, I mean,' Mr. Lyster went
on. ' to tell the whole sum of a calamity
when it may not happen, and when to tell
it cannot arrest it.'

No doubt,' said Herbert, thinking the
other spoke of Clare. * On the other hand,
it is terrible to think what it costs to find
things out for ourselves.'

Yet, when one comes to know, lad,' and
the sick man laid his hand on the other's
knee, ' one is not necessarily angry with
those who have not told us — who have not
had the courage to tell us.'

Surely not, uncle.'

But suppose, before their deaths, they
had not only held their tongues, but wronged

US — were the cause, indeed, though
the unwilling cause, of our misfortunes.
Would that not alter matters, think
you ?'

Not with me, if I were the wronged
person,' said Herbert simply.

You would forgive them, would you ?
You would not harbour resentment ao^alnst
a dead man ?'

I don't say that,' answered the young
man coldly. * I never understood why bad
folks should be liked better because they
are no more.' *

But if a man did not mean to hurt you,
though he did it,' persisted the other, ' and
it came out after his death, with other things
to his discredit, perhaps, and you had loved
one another all along ?'

Then I should love him no less, sir, but
pity him from the bottom of my heart.
Would you not do the same ?'

I suppose so ; yes, that would be the
way,' mused the other ; but though his

tone was indifferent, his eyes were full of
tears.

Among other things that trouble me,
Herbert,' he resumed, after a long silence,
there is Gerald. When I am gone there
will be no one to exercise any authority
over him. Would you consent to be his
guardian till he comes of age ?'

I will do anything to oblige you, sir ;
but I frankly tell you I think such an
appointment would be injudicious. Gerald
does not like me.'

He likes no one but himself, I fears
answered the old man bitterly.

Herbert could have undeceived his
uncle upon that point, had he chosen todo
so ; the scandal about Rachel Warder
had not yet reached Mr. Lyster's ears,
though it had those of Sir Peter.

He is very young,' observed Herbert
apologetically. ' In my opinion, till a man
comes of age, his thoughts are generally
fixed upon himself. Men do not, as a rule,

act upon what is called principle till they
come to years of maturity

It was curious to hear so young a man as
Herbert Newton discoursing in this philosophic
manner, but he was one who from
very early years had been thrown upon his
own mental resources, and such men, if they
think at all, do their thinking early. As
for mere money, he had ten thousand pounds
of his own, which, on his coming of age, he
had placed in his uncle's hands to be invested
in the mill ; but money was with
him mere means to an end — most of the
proceeds from it, in the way of interest, had
been spent in scientific experiments.

But poor Gerald gives no promise of
good,' sighed Mr. Lyster.

'Nay, I would not say that, sir. He is
by no means without talents, though they
are of a mechanical sort. He is clever with
his pencil, and still cleverer with his pen.
When check-clerk of the mill his books
were quite a model,'

Only he wouldn't keep them put In the
old man drily. * That was a bitter day forme,
when my son — my own son, was degraded
from his post. What is the use of
talent when its possessor Is an idler and a
good-fortnight ?'

He needs some incentive to industry,
no doubt,' said Herbert.

'Well, he will have that,' said the old
man sternly. ' Perhaps you are right
about the guardianship — I will think it
over. Come, let us join Clare ; I heard
Percy leave the house an hour ago, and
Gerald is out as usual, so she is quite
alone.'

Clare has gone to her own room,' said
Herbert quietly. ' She went when Percy
went — I heard her step upon the stairs.'

GOSSIP.

A MAN with two bankers is certainly
in a noble condition, since he must
needs possess two balances ; but a man
with two lawyers is not generally in better
plight than a man with one, and is perhaps
still less to be envied than one with none
at all. As to two doctors, I am not so
sure of the comparative advantage of the
situation, though it undoubtedly enables
one to follow the best advice — that of the
physician who recommends the more liberal
diet. What certainly detracts from the
charm of the last two positions (for with
regard to the bankers, alas, I have no experience)
is, however, this fact, that No. i

Solicitor and No. i Doctor each object to
the employment of No. 2. And with this
fact Sir Peter Fibbert, as a man of the
world and a man of business, was well
acquainted. He knew things in general,
in a rough material way, and did not shut
his ears to anything, not even to gossip,
with which latter we may be quite sure
that a man in his position, who showed
himself eager for it, found plenty of people
to supply him withal. So well, however,
had the secret of Dr. Bell's visit to Oak
Lodge been kept, that until Frank Farrer
informed him of the fact. Sir Peter was
not aware of it. On the next occasion of
his meeting Dr. Dixon, which happened
on the average about twice a day— for the
stout little doctor attended the families of
all the Stokeville magnates, and his hard-worked
but speedy horses clattered over
its paved streets from morn till eve — he
stopped that gentleman's brougham for a
few minutes' talk.

Well, Dixon, how goes it ? Trade as
brisk as ever ? Cough, catarrh, consumption,
in full blow, eh ?'

Yes, Sir Peter, thanks to you and your
great chimneys, there is a considerable
difficulty in breathing.'

'Ah!'

Sir Peter was fonder of his own wit
than that of his neighbours, and especially
of that of his humbler neighbours ; but the
doctor, though comparatively poor in purse,
was rich in humour, and of an independent
spirit.

It's something worse than smoke that
ails my old friend at Oak Lodge, I reckon.
What is your last report of him ?'

The doctor, who was a kindly man when
not brushed the wrong way, shook his
head gravely.

He's bad. Sir Peter, bad. I see a
change for the worse every time I call. I
fear he is not long for this world.'

'No, I fear not ; yet there is no occasion

for him to hurry out of it, which he
has taken steps to do, I hear.'

I don't understand you.

Why, has he not sent for another
doctor ? But you may not have heard of
it ; perhaps I am indiscreet.'

You should say rather misinformed,*
said the other coldly, but turning very
red.

Oh no ; I am quite certain of my information.
Mr. Lyster has had an opinion
from London. I know the man, a Doctor
Bell. It seems to me so strange that he
should have gone so far afield, or, indeed,
elsewhere at all, being already in such safe
and competent hands.'

Sir Peter had hit the doctor on a tender
spot. If he had had time to consult his
dignity, he would have scorned to give any
explanation ; but for the moment dignity
a delicate creature and unable to bear
the spectacle of wounded amour propre —
had fled the field.

Your Informant, Sir Peter, may have
been right In his facts, but he Is quite
wrong In his deductions. Dr. Bell was
sent for from London, but only, as I
happen to know from his own communications.
In his official capacity as consulting
physician to an Insurance office.'

Oh, then, Lyster wanted to Insure his
life, did he ?' said Sir Peter eagerly.
'Would you mind telling me in confidence,'
here he dropped his voice, ' what was the
sum ?'

I really cannot,' said the doctor ; ' the
fact Is, that as I have not yet made my
fortune, I am compelled to mind my own
business.'

The glass was up, the check-string
pulled, and the brougham half-a-dozen
yards away, before Sir Peter could understand
that he had been Insulted.

He had some of the attributes of the elephant,
but not all ; he could push through
most things, and, indeed, had done it — but

he couldn't pick up the pin. He was altogether
wanting in delicacy of touch, and
when he trod upon people was quite surprised
that he hurt them. It was as though,
having trodden them flat, he looked at
them edgeways, when, of course, there was
nothing to see. But in this case he had,
as it were, set his foot on a spike. However,
the fact that Mr. Lyster was trying
to insure his life when almost at death's
door was very important information to
him.

He walked on till he came to Mr. Oldcastle's,
where he looked in. The lawyer
was his man of business, a tall sleek personage
with gold eyeglasses and a hesitating
manner, which was of great use to
him, as it gave him time to think before
speaking.

You have heard this news about poor
Lyster, of course,' said Sir Peter, as if
his motto, instead of in medio, had been in
medias res,

VOL. I. 14

Good heavens ! what? You don't mean
to say he's gone ?'

No, no ; not so bad as that. But, gad,
he seems to have been making preparations.
This attempt to insure his life at
the eleventh hour — between ourselves, it's
rather significant ; think of the premium
he would have to pay !'

I suppose it must have been — dear me,
yes, pretty considerable.'

You suppose ? Come, Oldcastle, you
must know.'

Indeed, Sir Peter, I know nothing
about it.'

I feared so, I feared so. The fact is,
he has been employing another man of
business. I call that rough on you, Oldcastle.
I should never think of doing that
myself.'

You are very kind to say so, Sir Peter
- — very. But Mr. Lyster is his own master,
and does things — well — in his own way.'

Just so ; he's deuced secretive, as you

say. You've made his will, I conclude.'


Why, yes ' — Mr. Oldcastle took off his
glasses and rubbed them softly. ' I think
I may say that much ; but a will, you see,
is rather a confidential thing.'

No doubt. I am speaking to you In
confidence.'

Just so ; you may depend upon me. I
never reveal anything that passes between
me and a client.'

This rejoinder was far from welcome to
Sir Peter, for It took the wind out of his sails.

But the Insurance, Mr. Oldcastle, don't
you think It a sign of something wrong — a
deficit ? I don't mean In his accounts,
man ' — for Mr. Oldcastle had put his
glasses on again, and was staring through
them at his visitor in amazement — ' but as
being significant of empty pockets. Now,
I think, as a partner and, as you say, in
confidence, I have a right to Inquire.'

No doubt, no doubt. I wish I was in

14—2

a position to oblige you. Perhaps the
other lawyer you spoke of '

You mean there would be a mention of
the life insurance in the second will, though
there was none in the first ?'

Just so.'

This was all Sir Peter wanted ; he had
transposed Dr. Bell into a lawyer, as he
flattered himself, with complete success.
As the doctor had no existence in that
capacity, he felt confident that there was
no second will, and, therefore, that Mr.
Lyster's application to the insurance office
had been unsuccessful.

As a matter of fact, Mr. Oldcastle had
given him no information whatever. He
had been able to say that he knew nothing
of the premium, but of the amount which
Mr. Lyster had endeavoured to insure for
he was fully cognisant, and the reason why
was plain to him also, though, wrapped in
his own selfish speculations, it had never
occurred to Sir Peter.

I suppose it Is egotism,' mused the attorney
when his visitor had departed, ' which
makes that man so dull. He is a curious
example of what a small degree of intelligence
Is required to make a large fortune.
I am inclined to think that it Is rather the
absence of certain attributes than the
possession of others which insures that sort
of success. Sir Peter would never have
made much of a mark in our profession, that
I will say for it. I never saw a man lie
with less ingenuity or a worse grace. The
idea of his not being able to put two and
two together as regards Lyster's wish to
insure his life ! "Is it not significant,"
he said, " of a deficit ?" and yet the old
fool Is Lyster's own partner, and has the
deed of agreement In his strong box. Of
course if Lyster couldn't get It done, and
if, as seems probable, the poor fellow
can't last, why then things may be serious.
Empty pockets ! Well, It may be so.
Lyster is as close as wax, but that he

speculates is certain. I wonder who has
aroused Sir Peter's suspicions, for it is clear
he has suspicions. If he is right, all will
depend upon Lyster's being what Percy-would
call '' a good stayer." I wonder, by-the-bye,
whether Sir Peter suspects his
nephew as having anything to do with that
line of business. Bless my soul, how I could
open his eyes !'

And Mr. Oldcastle smiled complacently
and serenely as though he were the
God of Secrets, as indeed your family
solicitor is. He knows, on the whole,
a good deal about us ; and the family
doctor knows something too : and yet, in
spite of the general opinion to the contrary,
and of the famous dictum of the Greek
philosopher, I am inclined to think we know
more about ourselves than either. What
thoughts, what eager hopes, what shameful
fears, were, for example, agitating the
minds of young and old in our present
life drama, undreamt of by their fellow-creatures,

and unknown — nay, least known
of all — to their nearest and dearest !

Fortified in his resolve by Mr. Oldcastle's
corroboration of his suspicions, Sir
Peter took an early opportunity of giving
a piece of his mind to his nephew concerning
his engagement, with the result of
which we are already acquainted.

On the morning after his interview with
Clare, he was summoned, as he expected,
to Sir Peter's sanctum. This young man
had had the night to think over his position,
and had not wasted his time. He had a
genius for plots and stratagems, and thoroughly
despised the mental qualifications
of his opponent, with whose weak points he
was perfectly familiar. His present role
was to be aggrieved, but submissive ;
and every feature of his handsome face, ashe
stood before his uncle, was in accordance
with the part he meant to play, and illustrated
it.

Well, sir, and what did Clare say ?'

Very little, Sir Peter. She Is not one to
talk much, as you know. But I am afraid
she feels that she Is being very hardly
used.'

But she has given you up. That Is the
main point,' was the unsympathetic rejoinder.


By no means, Sir Peter ; she holds me
to my bargain.'

What ! after you told her that I had
altered my views ?'

I hinted that of course, but had the
greatest difficulty In making It clear to her.
Sir Peter, she said, Is a man of honour.
It Is Impossible that one of his character, a
benefactor of his species, and who stands
on such a moral elevation, should break his
word.'

I never passed my word,' said Sir Peter
turning the colour of beet-root.

Not actually, but of course it was Implied.
To her, you seemed to be bound by It.
*' What is his reason ?" she Inquired; a question,

as you may guess, very difficult to
answer. I could not say, "It Is because he
doesn't think your father is so well off ashe
once believed him to be." You did not
authorise me, yourself, to go to that length.'

Well, of course not ; but you are sharp
enough when It suits your purpose ; you
could have made use of some delicate phrase
to signify the same thing. If you make a
fool of yourself with that girl, sir, you'll live
to repent It.'

I told her that next to her — to whom I
had pledged myself — my duty was owed to
you ; that my future, so far as means were
concerned, was In fact In your hands. She
suggested, however — and though you deplore
her determination, I am sure you will
admire her spirit — that we should have
plenty to live upon without you.'

The devil she did !' exclaimed Sir
Peter. ' Then let her live on water and a
crust, with love to butter it !'

Pardon me. Sir Peter ; so far from

entertaining any such views, her reply-proves
that she at least is quite unconscious
of any change in her father's circumstances.
If she were, it is very possible, nay probable,
that her pride (of which you admit
she has plenty) would at once induce her
to set me free. No ; my proposition —
subject to your better judgment — is as
follows : let no further steps be taken in
this matter till Mr. Lyster's death, an event
which cannot be far off We shall then
know for certain how his affairs stand. If
all is well with them, the matter can proceed
; but if otherwise, you can, with some
show of justice, make appeal to Clare's
independence of spirit. As for me, I have
obeyed your wishes sto the letter, and I
venture to think that no further sacrifice of
self-respect should be demanded of me.'

Well, well, perhaps your plan is as good
as any. It is not as if you were going to
be married tomorrow. We shall probably
know what we are about in a week or

two. At all events, before the end of the
year.'

In that case it will make a great difference,'
observed Percy significantly.

No doubt ; a very great difference.'

Let us hope for the best,' said Percy.

The hackneyed phrase was uttered in
the cold, conventional tone that suited it,
yet Sir Peter looked up with a quick flush.

What the devil do you mean, sir ? do
you suppose I want the man to die ?'

Of course not, sir. I was alluding to
his survival.'

Sir Peter cast a suspicious, almost a
baleful, glance at his nephew.

I am glad that was your meaning. It
would be a great misfortune to us, let me
tell you, if through any immediate catastrophe
Lyster's money should be just now
withdrawn from the firm, when we are
extending our operations in so many
ways.'

No doubt,' returned Percy assenting.

Yet, curiously enough, the same Idea was
now passing through the young man's mind
that lately occurred to Mr. Oldcastle, namely,
that Sir Peter did not He well ; with the
additional reflection that if he (Percy) had
had to simulate regretful apprehension he
would have done It better.

There Is one thing I would suggest,
uncle, In connection with this matter, that
Mildred's visits to Oak Lodge should not
be unnecessarily frequent ; since In case
anything should happen to necessitate,
that Is to induce, Clare to dissolve our engagement,
the matter would be all the
more difficult and embarrassing, in proportion
to the Intimacy between the two
families.'

To be sure, that is worth thinking of,'
said Sir Peter approvingly. ' And there is
no use in her going, for she can worm
nothing out of her young friend. You'd
better tell her yourself what we think about
it.'

Percy's face grew crimson, as It seemed
to his companion, and might well seem,
with shame.

No, sir ; to that I cannot stoop. I
have humiliated myself enough to please
you.'

Tut, tut ! to please me ? not a bit of it ;
it is all to benefit yourself. You will be
ready enough, aye, and glad of an excuse,
to be quit of the girl if she's not worth
having. However, If you're squeamish
about the matter, I'll speak to Milly myself.
To do her justice, she has no more
wish to be allied, however indirectly, with
pauperism than I have. And I'll take
deuced good care we're not allied with it, so
you had best not play me any tricks.'

The last observation, delivered as it was
with an unmistakable scowl of suspicion,
was a most unpleasant one ; and though
Percy only replied to it by a smile of
gente astonishment, disturbed that young
gentleman very much.

Up to that point everything had gone,
quite literally, as a marriage bell ; but here
was a sad jangling. It took the gilt off his
bright expectations very considerably.

MR. Rode.

IF there is anything in the theory of the
Survival of the Fittest, there should
surely be something of merit in those who
retain the appearance of youth after it has
long departed from them ; and in this light
Mr. Augustus Rodenn, of Paragon Chambers,
Pall Mall, and the Ranunculus Club
may have been considered to be not wholly
without his uses. He had at one time enjoyed
one of those sinecures under Government,
about which, when they are swept
away, prophecies are made concerning the
downfall of our native land ; but as no one
was the worse for its abolition, and Mr.

Rodenn many pennies the better (for he was
amply compensated), the outcry in his case
soon subsided, leaving him a magnificent
private grievance. His features were classical
and aristocratic ; his figure, tall and
spare, was, from behind, save for a certain
shambling in his gait, still youthful ; and
scorning spectacles, he carried an eyeglass,
with which, though years of practice had
failed to enable him to stick in its proper
place, he emphasised his observations in a
very dignified manner. Having nothing
to do, he took the whole domain of art
under his protection, and cultivated such an
especial knowledge of blue china as was a
terror to his acquaintance. He was accustomed
to say he was not a conceited man,
but that he ' knew more about blent de roi
than anyone in the United Kingdom ;' and
as to the latter statement, he may, for aught
I know, have been correct. For the rest,
he was a professional invalid, a calling that
enabled him to wear fur trimmings to his

coat in winter, and to indulge himself,
under medical advice, with his favourite
dainties. The one crumpled rose-leaf in
his existence was that he was subject to
colds in the head which took away his
taste. In the great Lavatory of the Ranunculus
he was discovered, on more than one
occasion, eating soap ; a circumstance that
led to injurious reports as to his sanity ;
but, as he did me the honour to explain tome,
it was a practice he always adopted
when suffering from his usual complaint :
If one can taste brown Windsor one can
taste anything ; if I find myself able to do
so I order a good dinner at the club ; if
not, I go home to my bed and water arrowroot.'


He had a delicate complexion — quite the
'pompadour pink,' as he used to boast in
moments of complacency — and after he
had ' dieted ' (such was his term for banqueting)
exceptionally well, this became
intensified, which caused his enemies to
VOL. I. 15

aver he painted ; but this was a Heel. It
was only his character that was artificial.
In some respects it was also flabby enough,
but it had this attribute in common with
iron — it was subject to attraction ; not indeed
from the magnet, but from all persons
of title, wealth, or notoriety. The woes
and wants of commonplace people did not
move him at all : he bore the misfortunes
of his friends with the most philosophic
serenity ; but the lightest wish of a lord, a
millionaire, or a celebrity, was law to him.
And this, we must do him the justice to
say, was without any idea of a quid pro
quo, save the merest trifle of personal acknowledgment.
It must be also admitted
that when he did do anything for anybody
he did it with all his might ; that is to say,
he said it (for it rarely came to doing) withall
the power of gracious expression of
which his vocabulary, and it was a very
copious one, was capable. On receiving
Mr. Lyster's invitation it was not the fact

of that gentleman's failing health, or his
reference to the probability that the opportunity
would not occur again, which induced
him to accept it ; he felt he could with
equanimity have postponed making his
niece's acquaintance till she was an orphan,
and have even omitted it altogether without
much distress of mind ; but he could not
forget that the man was, after all, his
brother-in-law, and had the reputation of
great wealth ; that though he had contracted
a second alliance he would probably
leave Clare well provided for, and that to
have an heiress for a niece is advantageous
for a gentleman's social status.

Moreover, Mr. Lyster's reference to his
own popularity with the lords of the soil
showed a very just appreciation of his
position ; while the reflection that ' my
partner. Sir Peter,' was prepared to make
things at Stokeville pleasant for him, was
very gratifying. On the whole, he decided
to accept the invitation ; and as that idea

15—2

of his being 'sought after at Christmas-time,'
was much too wholesome a one to be
discouraged, he resolved to run down to
Stokeville at once.

On the third day after the despatch of
his brother-in-law's letter he accordingly
arrived at Oak Lodge. During the latter
part of his journey he had been greatly
inconvenienced by atmospheric effects and
smuts on his nose ; but the comfort, and
especially the appearance, of the carriage
that had been sent to meet him, had
soothed him much, while the warmth of
his reception had quite restored his good-humour.
Like most selfish persons, when
once in for a disagreeable duty he was
affability itself Though it struck him that
he had never seen a man alive looking so
like a dead one as his host, he congratulated
him on his appearance with much fervour.

You are thin — that I must say — my
dear Lyster, and paler, perhaps, than we
could wish ; but I cannot think, to look at

you, that matters can be so serious as you
represent ; the rim of your eye — and I remember
my dear friend the late president
of the College of Physicians made a great
point of that — looks exceedingly healthy.'

To Clare he was more than gracious.

My dear niece, people may talk of the
air of Stokevllle being trying, but you are
Hebe herself.'

I think she has pretty well recovered
from her recent illness,' observed Mr. Lys-ter
; ' though, you see, her hair, which they
had to cut for the fever, is still short.'

To be sure, and very nice it looks,'
continued Mr. Rodenn, in no way abashed
at his forgetfulness of Clare's late indisposition
; * as I was about to say, one would
never have guessed she had suffered so
severely. Poor soul ! how I pitied her !
Kiss your uncle, my darling ; he has been
longing to see this day, I do assure you.
And this is George, is it ?' bringing Gerald
to the window to examine him, as if he had

been a specimen of bleu de roi, and he was
looking for his jffeur de lis, ' You are a fine-grown
young fellow, Master George.'

Gerald suggested that young man, with
an uncomfortable grin.

To be sure, you're Gerald ; the idea of
my forgetting your name ! What a height,
and what a build for sixteen.'

I am just eighteen,' growled Gerald.

Dear me, how time flies ! but how can
you be so, when Clara here '

Clare,' put in Mr. Lyster gently.

Of course, Clare — did I not say Clare ?
when Clare here doesn't look eighteen
herself.'

But I mn twenty-one, you know, uncle,'
smiled Clare.

Well, I should think I did know ; the
fact of your having come to years of discretion,
my dear, is too important, I hope,
to have escaped my recollection. And you
have lost no time in asserting yourself as
your own mistress, I hear, eh ? What a

charming blush ! Well, I hope I am to
see this vounof gentleman.'

Percy is coming to dine tomorrow, on
purpose to meet you said mr. Lyster, with
an involuntary sigh.

'Ah, you grudge him his prize, and I
don't wonder,' said ]mr. Rodenn. ' Lord
Rackstraw, who is in the same position —
his daughter is engaged to the Marquis of
Blueblazes, as you are doubtless aware —
was saying to me, only the other day :
*' How one hates these sons-in-law — the
smiling young scoundrels who rob us of
our dearest and nearest !" Not that my
Lord Blueblazes is so very young ; though
junior to me at college. And Sir Peter,
by-the-bye ' — (one titled person always
suggested another to Mr. Rodenn) — ' how
does he carry his age ? Full of years and
honours — a phrase used too often, alas ! ina
conventional sense, but not in the case
of a benefactor of the human race, who
has founded a mausoleum.'

A museum,' put in Mr. Lyster, for really
the difference was important. The mistake,
too, if not corrected, might possibly have
been made to Sir Peter himself, with whom
the subject was sacred.

Just so ; a museum — one of the most
interesting institutions which reflection can
dwell upon, and which in a few years will
doubtless possess the advantage of being
opened for the public benefit on a Sunday.
I do hope Sir Peter is well.'

Mr. Rodenn's carelessness of all matters
that did not directly concern himself, caused
him to fall into a good many errors which
the most ordinary attention and recollection
would have avoided ; but, on the other
hand, his unfailing flow of words carried
him through everything, while his self-complacency
led him to imagine that others
thought as little of his inaccuracy as to
time, and place, and name, as he did himself.
He was described, by the vulgar as
able to talk the hind ley of a horse off ;'

and though that was probably an exaggeration,
his eloquence was undoubtedly trying
to an invalid.

Mr. Lyster, therefore, took an early opportunity
of leaving him to the hospitable
ministrations of Clare — who endured him
with that gentle resignation with which all
good women suffer boredom — till dinner-time.
Gerald, too, who, as we have said,
had been of late on his best behaviour, remained
on duty, though it must be admitted
that his demeanour resembled rather
that of a captured deserter than a guard of
honour. Nor was he more reconciled to
his position by the compliments which ]mr.
Rodenn incidentally bestowed on him with
reference to his (supposed) business habits,
domestic virtues, and the responsibilities
that must needs devolve upon him as ' the
right hand of his father.' These 7jial
a propos eulogies reached their climax in
Mr. Rodenn's discovery of a most striking
likeness in the youth to his ' sainted

mother,' whom he had not only never
seen, but had very positively declined to
see, and whom for the moment he confused
with his own sister. Even this, however,
on perceiving his error, the visitor, assisted
by a flourish of his pocket-handkerchief,
the production of which this hypothetical
reminiscence had necessitated, contrived to
smooth over, and in place of embarrassment
sonorously blew his nose.

Clare, who thought him decidedly
cracked,' treated him with the gentleness
exhibited by the American Indians to
those whom the Good Spirit has afflicted
In their minds ; and Mr. Rodenn, convinced,
as usual, that he had made a favourable
Impression, was almost as well satisfied
with her as with himself The boy he set
down as a cub, but that, he reflected (now
that the circumstances of his birth had
been brought to his recollection), was only
what was to be expected ; as to Mr.
Lyster, sitting silent and ghostlike at the

head of his own dinner-table, he thought
him greatly improved in manner. He had
lost that habit of self-assertion which he
had noticed in him when they had met at
the Ranunculus, and seemed to listen with
becoming deference to his dissertations on
the dinner-plates (which were Derby, it
seemed, but not Crown Derby), and his
remarks on the prospects of the Spring
Exhibition.

On one occasion only did INIr. Rodenn
contrive to interest his audience — or rather
two-thirds of them, for Gerald, relieved
from guard, gave no further attention to
him, but sat clutching his wine-glass, and
immersed in his own thoughts — when describing
one of the most remarkable circumstances
that had ever happened to him
as a traveller, which took place on his
journey down.

While waiting at your junction — Coal-borough
is, I think, its name ; if I am
wrong be so good as to correct me — while

waiting on the platform, I say, a young
person, very black and grimy, with a slimy
appearance, produced, as it would seem, by
some powerful application of oil, came up
and stared at me very hard. He appeared
to be a superior kind of stoker, and If
washed would have been a handsome
young fellow enough ; moreover, his expression
was far from suggesting impertinence.
'' Well, my good lad," said I — for
no one can accuse me of a want of affability,
I hope — " what can I do for you ?"
Then, as I had my hand In my pocket
for some coppers, he burst out laughing,
and said, " No, thank you, uncle. I can
buy my own beer to drink your health in."
The train came up at that moment, and off
he ran — probably to get on the tender —
but that he used the word Uncle, I am confident.'


'Why, that must have been Herbert,'
observed Clare, laughing.

Perhaps, indeed very likely,' said Mr.

Rodenn cheerfully. ' But who is Herbert
?'

Why, my dear Rodenn, he is your own
sister's son replied Mr. Lyster. ' He
dined with us at the club when we last
met in London, don't you remember ?'

But he wasn't a stoker then, was he ?
Such a circumstance could hardly have
escaped my recollection.'

No ; nor is he now,' said Mr. Lyster
coldly, for he did not like to hear any depreciation
of his favourite; 'he is simply at
Coalborough to pursue his studies.'

Dear me !' ejaculated Mr. Rodenn, putting
up his eyeglass, ' he was certainly not in
academical costume.'

He is learning engineering, though indeed
he has very little to learn ; he is a
young man of the highest promise.'

'But I thought he had ^10,000 of his
own,' objected Mr. Rodenn.

Mr. Lyster grew paler than ever.

Yes,' he said ; ' but he is not one of

those young men to whom a competence is
fatal. He is full of work and energy, and
endowed with such talents that, in my
opinion, he will find the road to fortune
easy.'

Gad ! he had oil enough to smooth it,'
exclaimed Mr. Rodenn, with a shudder of
recollection. * But I am glad to find there
is a scientific genius in the family — that is
to say, beside this young gentleman here,'
he added, with a sudden recollection of
Gerald's presence.

Eh, what !' exclaimed Gerald, roused
from some gloomy thoughts of his own.
'Yes, I'll take a glass of wine with you
with pleasure.'

SEEING THE LIONS.

MR. RO DEN'S objection to stokers
did not extend to the higher
branch of civil engineering ; indeed, he
had a keen appreciation of the higher
branches of everything, and the information
that Herbert Newton was Hkely to
make a figure in science made a considerable
impression upon him.

As a man of the world, he of course
had heard many similar prophecies of
future greatness, but they had been mostly
concerning young persons who had little
else but prophecies to depend upon ;
whereas Herbert, with ^10,000 of his

own, was voluntarily embracing an unattractive
profession, which really looked
like fitness.

Under such circumstances it might
some day be very agreeable to speak of
my nephew, the engineer ;' and, as there
was no chance of the young fellow's becoming
a burthen to him, Mr. Rodenn
determined to cultivate his acquaintance.
He was secretly conscious of not having
been so very affable when they had met at
the railway station, and was willing enough
to show himself friendly.

When therefore Mr. Lyster proposed
his going over the mill next day, he at
once suggested that Herbert should act
as his cicerone, and a letter was written
that very evening to summon that young
gentleman to the Lodge.

It will be more convenient every way,'
said Mr. Lyster, ' as Herbert will be only
a volunteer supernumerary, whereas Gerald
has his work to do.'

And Mr. Rodenn, who had forgotten
Gerald's existence in his desire to make
Herbert's acquaintance, observed modestly
:

That was the very thing which occurred
to my own mind ; the least that an
idle man can do is not to interfere with
the work of other people.' Then, after a
pause, ' You hinted that Sir Peter had
been good enough to offer to show me
some of the lions of Stokeville.'

Oh, certainly ; you will see him at the
mill ; and if he doesn't introduce you to
the museum,' said Mr. Lyster, smiling, ' it
will be a very unusual loss of an opportunity
to trot out his hobby.'

This was not at all the frame of mind in
which ]Mr. Rodenn wished Sir Peter to
show him the museum, or anything else :
he had come to Stokeville as a visitor of
considerable social importance, whose reputation
had preceded him, and this offhand
manner of treating him, as though he

VOL. I. 16

had been an ordinary excursions, was intolerable.
When an invitation to dine at
the Hall next day, however, couched in
courteous phrase, was put into his hand,
his ruffled plumes subsided, and all was
smooth again. His only regret was that
his acceptance of it would take him away
for a few hours from his excellent brother-in-law
(who, of course, could not dine from
home), and his charming niece (who could
not be persuaded to leave her father), and
dear George — I mean Gerald.'

His reception of Herbert was quite
enthusiastic ; the oil which he had so
much objected to on the previous day
seemed to pervade his own speech and
manner.

Now you are dressed like anybody
else, my dear boy, I can't think how I
could have ever failed to recognise you ;
but I must acknowledge that — well, that
scientific costume and, shall I say, local
colouring did rather disguise you.'

I looked very queer, no doubt, uncle,'
said Herbert, laughing good-naturedly ;
but at Stokeville we are not ashamed of
our working-clothes.'

Very right, I am sure ; no one need be
ashamed of honest labour. I knew what it
was to work hard myself, till an infamous
Government deprived me of the opportunity
of serving the State ; and I remember
I always kept an old coat at the office ;'
which, indeed, he had done — to smoke in.

On their way to the mill ]mr. Rodenn introduced
the subject of science, a topic of
which he knew little or nothing ; and
though that, indeed, was no bar to his conversing
upon it to any extent, he dexterously
drew out the young man on his
favourite pursuits, and listened to him with
as little interruption as his own natural
turn for eloquence permitted. When one
has taken a man of genius for a stoker,
and offered him twopence-halfpenny as a
p07cr boii'e, no self-sacrifice with a view to

16—2

making amends can be considered excessive.


To me, a mere looker-on upon men and
things, my dear nephew, ' he began, ' It
seems incredible that you should have left
cotton - spinning, with Its assured and
enormous gains, for a calling, honourable
no doubt — but, dear me, shall I say so
problematical ? — as civil engineering.'

The term is very appropriate,' returned
Herbert, smiling ; ' no doubt It Is a toss-up
whether I shall succeed in It or not. But
the fact is, material success Is not so attractive
to me as the indulgence of my own
fancies. Even the work at the Junction
does not quite satisfy me. I take greater
interest In the employment of my leisure-hours
; just now I have a new and
promising design In hand for a diving
apparatus.'

Bless my soul ! I have had fancies too,
but never in that line. I remember once,
as a small boy, going down In the bell at

the Polytechnic — at least I did not go
down, because my courage failed me at the
last moment, but I was very nearly doing
it.'

You would have found it very disagreeable,
and, as you say, perhaps a little
alarming. But my invention supersedes
the diving-bell altogether. I make myself
that is, if I succeed in my experiments —
quite independent of extraneous aid. No
bells, no pipes, no anything.'

My dear Herbert, you astonish me. I
do hope, for all our sakes, that you at least
take the precaution of wearing a waterproof


To anyone but a mechanician (who
always gives his fellow-creatures credit for
the rudiments ') this remark would have
shown the hopelessness of scientific explanation,
but Herbert replied to it quite
seriously :

A special dress, and a helmet, are of
course essential ; but I flatter myself I

have found the means of disposing of the
carbon dioxide.'

That, indeed, is most satisfactory,' said
Mr. Rodenn, who concluded it to be a
salable production, and that the other
had found a market for it.

Ah ! I see you understand the obstacle
that has hitherto stood in our way. I had
long ago arranged for a supply of concentrated
oxygen, but what to do with it after
expiration was the great problem.'

So I should imagine,' said Mr. Rodenn,
who could not conceive what more could be
wanted for a thing that had already expired,

Well, at last I have succeeded in absorbing
the dioxide gas by soda.'

A capital thing soda,' observed Mr.
Rodenn approvingly ; ' I absorb a good
deal of it myself.'

But, my good sir,' said Newton earnestly,
' it's of course not ordinary soda ; a
well-known chemical action is taken advantage
of.'

Quite right — quite right,' interrupted
Mr. Rodenn, who, though feeling out of his
depth, and without any scientific appliances
to assist him, still floundered on.
Take advantage of everything and everybody.
At least — that is — I mean,' he
added precipitately, ' so far as the rules of
morality and — dear me — gentlemanly feeling
permit of it.'

Rapt in his subject though he was,
even the young inventor now perceived
how matters stood, and observed good-naturedly:
'Well, uncle, I am afraid I have
bored you with my crude attempts at explanation,
and after all perhaps have failed
to make the matter clear ; but I can only
say, as I have brought the thing to the
experimental stage, that if you would like
to try it yourself, the reservoir above Oak
Lodge is the very place, and '

My dear Herbert,' put in the other
earnestly, ' it is most generous of you to
offer me such an opportunity; underground

we must all go sooner or later, but since
the going under water may be postponed
indefinitely, I don't think I'll risk it.'

The genuineness of this reply, and the
naturalness of manner (so far as the
speaker was concerned quite unparalleled)
with which it was delivered, tickled his companion's
very heartstrings. But it puzzled
him to think why Mr. Rodenn, being the sort
of man it was now obvious he was, should
want to go over a cotton-mill. The truth
was, Mr. Rodenn wanted to do nothing of
the kind, but, like two out of every three
would-be spectators of that industry, was
the victim of circumstances. He thought
it was the right thing to affect a personal
interest in British manufactures, and that
his visit would gratify Sir Peter.

Herbert took him first to the office and
introduced him to that magnate, who sat in
commercial state, surrounded by speaking-tubes
and in communication with half a
dozen telegraphs. The worthy knight



secretly held his visitor in much the same
light as Doctor Johnson would have regarded
a dancing-master, but It was curious
to see how a few well-chosen words and
honeyed sentences soon won his favour ;
he liked his flattery in slabs, and Mr.
Rodenn laid it on with a trowel. The
knight was studiously courteous to his
partner's guest and relative, but if the
task of conciliation had devolved upon
him, he would certainly not have acquitted
himself with such dexterity as his companion.
If war had chanced to have been
declared between them, what very different
things they would have said of one another
! But the fact Is, that men of
shallow feelings and .no convictions get
on together in the path of life (so long as
it doesn't come to jostling) far more agreeably
than their betters.

A well-informed and intelligent man,'
was Sir Peter's verdict on his visitor as he
left the room, to visit those works which in

his eyes (he said) had always been ' the
archetype of England's commercial greatness.'


Mr. Rodenn's admiration for the establishment
of Messrs. Filbert and Lyster was
not, however, unmixed with awe ; he had a
wholesome dread of cogs and wheels, and
was exceedingly afraid of being caught in
the machinery. At the very first start,
indeed, his prudence was nearly the death
of him ; for In placing a safe distance
between himself and the ' cotton-opener,'
he backed on to the ' scutching machine,'
and was within an ace of being disposed of
(in small pieces) as 'refuse material.'

From that moment, as Herbert afterwards
remarked with some humour, the
keenest apprehension seemed to possess
him lest the termination of his earthly
career should be ' to be reeled off into the
finest cotton thread, and sold for i,ooo yards
of it, when In truth he only made 500.'

When his guide observed, ' We are now

going into the card-room,' he brightened up
a Httle, under the impression, perhaps, that
he was at last to see something familiar ; but
the room, I need not say, was not such ashe
expected, and (except that it had ' flats '
in it) by no means reproduced the apartment
of the same name at the Ranunculus.

In one portion of the manufacture, however,
Mr. Rodenn seemed to take particular
interest: the * throstle-frame.' It may have
been that some poetical association with the
songster of the wood attracted him to it,
but at all events he tarried there for some
minutes watching the bobbins and those
who ministered to their needs.

On the conclusion of their visit of inspection
they chanced to meet Percy, to
whom ]mr. Rodenn was most gracious and
effusive. It gave him the most unfeigned
pleasure, he said, to meet the future
husband of his beloved niece ; and not
only congratulated him on that event, but
ventured to congratulate himself upon the

FOR CASH ONLY.

prospect of becoming connected, however
indirectly, with the great house of Fibbert.
And Percy answered him, with the least
curve of his lip, in the same high strain,
while Herbert stood by biting his lips, and
wishing the ground to open.

Nor were his embarrassments at an end
when that interview was over, for as they
went out together they came upon Gerald,
with whom Mr. Rodenn affably entered into
conversation about his duties ; though, as
Gerald's time was mostly passed in evading
them, he could hardly be expected to be
enthusiastic on the topic, and, indeed,
showed his indifference to it very clearly.

To me,' said Mr. Rodenn, ' I confess
everything has been intensely interesting ;
and, by-the-bye, what an uncommonly pretty
girl was attending to that throstle-frame of
yours !'

It isn't my throstle-frame,' said Gerald,
turning very red.

Nay, I only say '' yours " because

Herbert told me it was included in your
department. The young woman I speak
of seems wonderfully dexterous with her
fingers, but so indeed were all of them ;
what struck me in her case was her sinooilar
beauty, and her delicacy. It occurred to me
not of course that it's my business — that
in her condition she ought not to be standing
about so much.'

I don't know, I am sure,' said Gerald,
picking some refuse from the floor with
elaborate care, as if it had been a drawing



room carpet. ' We employ so many hands
that we don't know one from the other.'

As Mr. Rodenn and his cicerone returned
home, the former again returned to this
subject.

One has heard of the want of sympathy
between employers and employed in the
manufacturing districts,' he said, ' so
different from the charming feudal feeling
still to be found between landlords and
tenants ; but that Gerald should not know

one *' hand," or rather one face, from
another — and especially such a very pretty
one — eh, don't it strike you as peculiar ?'
and Mr. Rodenn nudged his nephew with
the handle of his umbrella in a very significant
manner.

My dear sir,' said Herbert, ' the conditions
of life are so different here to what
they are In the south. A man doesn't
respect his employers less because he
doesn't touch his hat to him or call him
'' sir." Our people are more independent.'

Tut, tut ! you are fencing with me. I
suppose it is not in nature that a young
man should not so much as inquire the
name of a pretty girl with whom he is
brought into daily contact, however distant.
Come, now, I'll bet a shilling you know
the name of that girl yourself.'

Well, as it happens,' said Herbert, with
as indifferent a tone as he could assume,
^ I do.'

Indeed ; yet Master Gerald, in whose

department she works, has never acquired
that Information. There Is an absence of
natural Interest about that young man which,
If one was disposed to be uncharitable, one
would say Is rarely found associated with
native simplicity ; the idea of his trying to
hoodwink inc', added Mr. Rodenn with indignation,
as though Justice herself had
been submitted to that indignity. ' I have
a deuced good mind to tell his father.'

Pray don't, sir,' exclaimed Herbert
gravely ; ' my uncle Lyster has trouble
enough upon his mind already.'

Ho ! ho ! there is a scandal then about
this very young woman and Master Gerald,
is there ?'

I am sorry to say there Is.'

Well, well ; I will be as discreet as
Memnon. But I acknowledge to sharing
one passion with the gentler sex — that of
curiosity. What Is this interesting young
person's name ?'

Her name Is Rachel Warder.'

A DISSATISFIED GUEST.

THE astuteness displayed by Mr.
Rodenn in connection with the heroine
of the throstle-frame made a great impression
on Herbert Newton. A certain
simplicity as regards social matters is
generally found associated with scientific
pursuits, and the manner in which the man
of the world's suspicions had been excited,
and the rapidity with which he had come
to his conclusions, had seemed to the young
fellow almost miraculous. Though fully
aware in his own case of the great results
of exclusive application to one or two
subjects, he did not understand that scandal

and intrigue could be themselves objects
of study, and that the idler — within certain
narrow limits — can be a master craftsman
as well as another.

As a rule, Mr. Rodenn was so wrapped
up in his own affairs that his thoughts never
strayed beyond them ; but when they did
so, the faults and follies of his fellow-sinners
not seldom revealed themselves to him.
Nor was this accomplished by any exceptional
sagacity on his own part, since he
always took their existence for granted, and,
like a man who is given to prophecy, it
necessarily happened that he was occasionally
correct. As he had frankly confessed,
he was also curious — a male gossip
and, like an Italian greyhound which has
started a rabbit, having hit upon Master
Gerald's delinquency, he felt that that sort
of sport was his mission, and kept his ears
pricked and his eyes open.

The afternoon was dedicated to a visit to
the Fibbert Museum, to which Sir Peter

VOL. I. 17

himself had volunteered to act as his guide.
It was really a handsome building, the
erection of which had doubtless cost a vast
deal of money, but, like all similar institutions,
a little of its contents went a great
way with the amateur. There were specimens
of the geological strata in the neighbourhood
of Stokevllle ; specimens of its
flora in wax (looking more beautiful than real
life, and a much better colour) ; specimens
of Its manufactures in all stages, enough to
make your head go round. But the great
attraction, as it seemed, to the visitor (as
they undoubtedly were to his cicerone) were
the various effigies in marble, In plaster of
Paris, in terra cotta, and on canvas, of the
founder himself. In each of these Mr.
Rodenn recognised something characteristic
of the genius and energy of the original,
while Sir Peter smiled and purred his ' Do
you really think so's ?' and ' So I've heard It
said's,' In a manner that would have charmed
a cynic, and sent a humorous observer of

human nature into fits. Unhappily there
were no observers of any kind except the
custodian, who Heed in a glass box at the
entrance, and passed his time, like a squirrel
in a cage, In cracking nuts. The issuing
of umbrella-tickets, which was his raison
d'etre, was a sinecure office.

The Inhabitants of Stokeville had all
seen the museum, and none of them had
ever come twice. The bed on which the
founder had been born, the model of the
cottage In which he had passed his boyhood,
his first letter, and a copy of the certificate
of his knighthood, each in its turn aroused
Mr. Rodenn's admiration to its highest pitch ;
and when Sir Peter, at parting, observed
with a generous warmth, ' I shall look
forward to seeing you at dinner to-night,
Mr. Rodenn, with the greatest pleasure,' he
meant it. On the other hand, when Mr.
Rodenn, on finding himself well round the
first corner, took out his handkerchief,
wiped his forehead, and exclaimed in

17 — 2

accents of intense relief, ' Thank Heaven
it's over,' he meant that too.

At the Hall, Sir Peter's hospitality, which
was of the imperial kind, delighted him :
from the turtle soup to the pineapple at
dessert, everything was strictly in accordance
with his views of the fitness of things,
while his host's apology for not having
the magnates of the county to meet him
at so short a notice, was the more
graciously accepted since the doctor and
solicitor, who supplied the void, gave him
the opportunity of dispensing patronage.
He had never perhaps been more like
himself — that is to say, more thoroughly
artificial and affectedly demonstrative —
than throughout the banquet ; his deference
to Sir Peter, his devotion to Miss
Mildred, his geniality to Percy, his affability
to Mr. Oldcastle and Dr. Dickson, were
perfect in their several ways ; if he had
been alone with each member of the company
he would doubtless have made a

great success, but, as It was, the sense of
contrast rather marred the effect.

The general Impression In short which
Mr. Rodenn produced at the dinner-party,
save on the host himself, was that he was
a consummate humbug — a phrase which,
curiously enough, Is applied to one who
/aiVs in his attempt to gammon. After
dinner he had the misfortune to lose the
good opinion even of Sir Peter. Any
host who knew "Sir. Rodenn's foible for art
would have put his statues into the cellar,
and turned his pictures with their faces to
the wall, rather than have given him the
chance of talking about them ; but in an
evil moment It was proposed that they
should take coffee in the picture-gallery.
Perhaps, after what he had suffered In the
museum that afternoon, Mr. Rodenn thought
that it was his turn to play the oppressor ;
or, perhaps (for there is no limit to human
vanity In this direction), he really thought
his views upon mediaeval art were worth

hearing : but, at all events, he discoursed
upon it, coffee-cup in hand, till his companions
were ready to drop.

Poor Sir Peter had little guessed what
he bargained for — or, rather, what was to
be thrown into the bargain — when he invested
in those Claudes. Praise of his
property was not displeasing to him, but
criticism was quite another thing; and,
like the poet's brook, shallow, but ceaseless,
this critic ' went on for ever.' His
host, as in duty bound, accompanied him
from picture to picture, and listened perforce,
like the guest in Coleridge's ballad,
though even the ' ancient mariner ' was
not so unmerciful as to discourse on art.
At last, exasperated beyond endurance,
the unhappy knight whispered, ' Hang
him ! stop him, Percy,' to his nephew, behind
his hand.

Perhaps Mr. Rodenn, not so wrapped in
the old masters as he appeared to be, may
have caught a thread of this appeal ; or,

what is more likely, Percy's half-smothered
laugh, which followed it, may have reached
his ear : but certain it is, he brought his
lecture to an abrupt termination. So
dashed were his spirits and so wounded
his feelings by that unseemly exhibition
of Impatience, that in the drawing-room,
crowded though it was with the oldest
and most hideous of china, he forbore
to dilate upon its attractions. A sudden
interest in the affairs and state of health
of his brother-in-law caused him as it
seemed to give his chief attention to
Dr. Dixon and Mr. Oldcastle, whose
names, as he took care to inform them —
though under the disguise, as it would appear,
of Dickson and Newcastle — had long
been familiar to him in the great Metropolis.
To Mildred, whom however he
seldom addressed, he was still demonstratively
polite, and assented entirely to all
her sentiments and opinions : he had not
been prepared, as he frankly confessed to

her, to find a young lady in Stokevllle sa
eminently qualified to shine in London
society as herself, and delicately hinted
that in his opinion, though delightful in
her way, his dearest niece was wanting in
espieglerie.

But you must remember, Mr. Rodenn,
that Clare is just now in trouble,' said Mildred
apologetically, ' and that you do not
see her at her brightest.'

She is in trouble on the one hand,' he
admitted softly, ' but on the other she has
reason to be in excellent spirits : the
happiness of her own future, linked as it
is about to be with your charming cousin,
seems assured.'

And here, though he put up his glass, in
apparent admiration of a blue dragon on
the agere behind her, his eyes never left
her face.

Indeed it seems so, Mr. Rodenn.'

You say '' seems," ' he rejoined apprehensively,
though nothing could have been

more natural than the tone of her reply ;
is there, then, any doubt upon that subject
?'

Oh dear no ; I only said '' seems " because
you did.'

And though her voice was unmoved and
her fan waved to and fro to the same slow-measure
as before, he noticed that her foot
was restless as that of a hound at quest.

They have known one another from
children, I believe ?'

I believe so — that Is, of course, I know
it,' she added quickly ; ' they have been
neighbours all their lives.'

To be sure ; Mr. Percy Filbert has
always resided with Sir Peter : a young
man of charming manners, no doubt, but
of whose taste In certain matters one may
venture to entertain a doubt ;' and Mr.
Rodenn smiled significantly, and laid his
crush-hat — without which he never went
abroad at niorht — on the session of his
heart.

There had been compliments paid within
Mildred's range of reading whereat the
heroines, their recipients, should by rights
have been more frightened than flattered,
but which she had taken, as they did, as
matters of course ; but Mr. Rodenn's flattering
speech alarmed her exceedingly : nor
did any reply to it suggest itself to her,
save an uncomfortable laugh. Ere its last
titter had died away the butler had announced
Mr. Rodenn's carriage, and so extreme
was her affright and dislike of him,
that it is hardly too much to say that Miss
Mildred Fibbert would have preferred it to
have been that gentleman's hearse.

On the other hand, Mr. Rodenn did not
even yet consider that the insult to his
amour propre had been sufficiently avenged.
The * purse-proud knight and his insolent
whipper-snapper of a nephew,' as he
privately described them, had wounded his
vanity to the quick; and as for the time at
least they were out of his reach, he had

made Mildred their scape-goat and his
victim. With his natural curiosity already
whetted by his discovery of Gerald's weakness,
and agog for new revelations of
Stokeville life and manners, he had noticed,
or fancied he noticed, a meaning glance
or two interchanged between Percy and
Mildred. Though the tongue cannot be
tamed, it can be trained, it was his experience,
to deceive the ear ; but the eye (which
was, perhaps, his own ' excuse for a glass ')
can no man train to keep secrets. Moreover,
unless his own eyes had deceived
him, he had seen this vision In one of the
drawing-room looking-glasses : a young
woman, standing with her face to the company,
and regarding them with a smile of
the politest welcome, had put her hand, as
If mechanically, behind her, and for one
fleeting instant It had (by no means
mechanically) been seized and pressed by
another hand — that of her cousin, who
stood behind her.

On his return to Oak Lodge, Mr. Rodenn
found his niece dutifully sitting up for him,
and before retiring to rest he had quite a
confidential little chat with her by the
drawing-room fire. He spoke of her father,
of her brother, and of Herbert, as though,
albeit hitherto separated from him by
malignant Destiny, they had now become
indissolubly connected with him, and then
touched on her own future and on Percy.

I can see for myself that he has charming
manners,' he said, 'and from what I
gather he is a universal favourite.'

He is generally very popular, very,'
returned Clare, with a quick flush ; ' but
there are some persons by whom, unhappily,
he is misread. One cannot avert prejudice
or surmount it.'

Yes, yes ; a prejudice is a difficult thing
to overcome, no doubt ; but on the other
hand, my dear, so is a penchant.'

I don't understand you, uncle,' said
Clare coldly, who believed that Mr. Rodenn,

perhaps at the instance of her father, was
about to advance some argument against
her lover ; ' my love for Percy is no penchant.'


Of course not ; I was only wondering
whether, being, as you say, so popular, he
may not have inspired a penchant difficult
to get over in somebody else — in some
other young lady.'

Clare drew herself up, and looked at her
companion with an air so haughty that it
was almost contemptuous.

That is really no affair of mine, uncle.'

Of course not, my dear,' said Mr.
Rodenn, who was occupied in cleaning his
eyeglass, an industry to which he always
turned in moments of embarrassment. ' I
only thought I would just put you on your
guard.'

Thank you, uncle.'

'Don't mention it, my dear; no, if I
were you I would not mention it to anyone
— especially, too, as I may have been

mistaken. Only, as I am going away tomorrow,
and this is the only opportunity I
may have of speaking to you alone, I
thought it right to speak. You will think
of your dear uncle when he's gone, just
now and then, I hope. Good-night, my
dear.'

He had certainly given her something
to think of, if not of him, in connection
with him. For what he had said, which of
course referred to Mildred, corroborated
all her lover had told her. On the other
hand, he had been far too wise to say anything
to the detriment of Percy himself;
he felt that having thus sowed the seed of
suspicion, that young gentleman would, in
the course of nature, presently come in for
his share of the crop.

Mr. Rodenn was not naturally malicious ;
if his sentiments in respect to Mr. Percy
Fibbert that night had been put into
words, they would have gone no farther,
perhaps, than ' Pll teach him to laugh

behind my back when I am explaining my
views, which are both interesting and instructive,
upon the works of the old
masters.'

But his vanity was such, that to wound
it had the same effect on him as an imputation
on a merchant's credit, or a
soldier's courage.

THE TIMEPIECE.

IT was curious, and yet but an inconsistency
common enough with all of
us, that while Mr. Rodenn thus showed his
sagacity in picking out the small threads
in the skein of human life, he was all but
blind to the large ones.

Perhaps the reason of the popularity of
scandal lies in this, that, like a child's
game, the nature of the subject develops
the exercise of ingenuity even in the
humblest of intellects ; since they can grasp
the evidence of weakness even in great
minds, they flatter themselves that they
can fathom them. Like a man who finds

a shark's tooth in a cliff, and straightway
imagines himself to be a geologist, the discovery
of a vice in some unexpected
quarter convinces them that they are
students of human nature. Their investigations
into it, however, are but skin-deep :
below the surface they know nothing of it,
and even, perhaps, are ignorant, judging
from their own shallow and selfish thoughts,
that it has depth at all.

Of the real characters of mr. Lyster
and of Clare, Mr. Rodenn knew as little
when he left Stokeville as when he came ;
nor could he even detect the shadow that
hovered over the little household and cast
its shivering gloom on both of them.

I shall come and see you again in the
spring, Lyster,' were his last words to his
brother-in-law ; ' and, in the meantime,
you can always command my services.'

INIr. Lyster had spoken earnestly to him
respecting Clare, and had besought his
counsel and good offices for her when she

VOL. I. 18

FOR CASH ONLY.

should be left without a protector ; and on
the whole, although the other's assurances
had been somewhat vague, they had been
profuse enough.

The dying man, for his part, had been
very willing to take his protestations for
earnest. It seemed to him only natural
that, having once made acquaintance with
Clare, her uncle should feel a strong personal
interest in her, of which, however,
Mr. Rodenn was not capable. He liked
the girl very well, perceived that she was
a thorough gentlewoman, vastly superior
(for all that he had hinted to the contrary)
to her friend Mildred, and admired her
beauty ; except for her genuineness and
veracity, which secretly made him rather
uneasy, she had indeed produced a very
favourable impression on him. But, like a
voter at an election who wishes well to No. 2,
but has already promised his vote to No. i,
Mr. Rodenn had no 'personal interest' to dispose
of; No. I had secured it from his birth.



However, the result of his visit had
been on the whole satisfactory to Mr.
Lyster ; if the entertainment of his guest
had somewhat taxed his feeble strength,
the other's promise of future help had
given him hope — and hope was now what
he lived on. It was Indeed most strange
to notice how hopefully he talked, as
though Death, instead of being next door,
was going on his rounds upon the other
side of the way. Especially when Sir
Peter called, he summoned all his remains
of vigour, and presented quite a cheerful
front to him, which caused that worthy
knight (for a reason with which we are at
present only In part acquainted) unspeakable
mystification.

The man looks as if he had one leg in
the grave,' was his reflection after these
Interviews, ' and yet he has certainly great
vitality. I look upon it still as quite a
toss-up.'

What the ' it ' was did not appear, but it

18—2

could hardly be that he had any expectation,
however remote, of his partner s restoration
to health.

Then, again, Lyster is so cheerful ; a
man of his temperament could hardly keep
such a bold face if his affairs were in Queer
Street. And yet, my informant was to be
trusted. If that fellow Dickson could only
be got to speak out. Oldcastle, too, I believe,
knows more than he pretends to do.
But there's nothing like confidence about
those fellows.'

By which it may be surmised that Sir
Peter's views on such matters were somewhat
original, and were even slightly associated
with the confidence - trick, which
presupposes virtue to be all on one side.
In accordance with Percy's advice, which,
under present circumstances, had Sir Peter's
approval more than ever, Mildred came but
seldom to Oak Lodge, and no longer in the
character of an amateur detective. Indeed,
any attempt to extract confidential information

from Clare was obviously hopeless.
That young lady always received her with
civility ; they even embraced as usual, but,
as Mildred expressed it, it was 'like kissing
a snow-man,' which, as Percy rather impudently
observed, was not at all the sort of
kissing she liked.

The two girls never spoke of Percy now,
though he was the subject of both their
thoughts ; but sometimes he would call at
Oak Lodge when Mildred was there.
Then, albeit the ' two ' might not have
been ' company,' the ' three ' indeed were
none.'

The ordeal to Clare was very severe : to
have to sit and talk to the woman who was
plotting to steal him from her for herself,
was trying enough ; but to see him In the
other's presence was Intolerable. Of course
he was her very own, but she yearned to
claim him — to put her hand upon his shoulder
and say, ' This man is mine, and will never
be yours.' Thanks to Percy's falsehood, as

we know, Clare did her wrong ; but for all
that, it was wormwood to Mildred, though,
of course, there was no such claiming, and
far less any endearments, to indicate that
he had promised himself to Clare.

The man appeared most at ease, for he
had all that tact and dexterity of manner
with which the other sex is so often erroneously
credited ; but in his secret heart he
always dreaded an explosion. It was a
relief to them all when even Gerald, with
his sidelong suspicious looks and uneasy
air, chanced to join them. He was more
often at home now than he had been for
years, appeared really solicitous about ' the
governor,' and would volunteer to do little
matters of business for him — such as acting
as his amanuensis and checking his banker's
book.

The sick man always accepted these
offers of service, and the lad's exquisite
penmanship and accuracy of calculation
never missed their meed of praise. But

the light that fires the father's eye with
pride at even the smallest achievement of
his offspring, was wanting In Mr. Lyster's
case. That his son was a failure, and
something worse, was a conviction not
likely to be shaken at a time like this, when
all Illusions were vanishing. To Clare
he was less demonstrative than nature
prompted him to be ; for emotion weakened
him, and above all things he wished to husband
his strength : but his heart yearned
towards her, and next to her, to Herbert.

As men draw near their end they cling
to truth and genuineness, and love to have
those about them In whom they can trust ;
and at Mr. Lyster's wish, as the year drew
near Its close, his nephew took up his
quarters at Oak Lodge.

It is not a place for merry Christmas,*
he wrote touchingly, ' but you will, I know,
not grudge me your society. It will not
last for long, and It Is a favour I shall never
ask again.'

It was likely enough that the sick man
wished to have his favourite near him ;
but, as Herbert afte wards conjectured, perhaps
he had another reason for desiring itt
was not the first time by many that he
had acted for his uncle as a witness, and in
that capacity there might once more be
need of him.

Day by day, and hour by hour, Mr.
Lyster grew paler and frailer ; and as in
the great water-floods the watch-dog and
the fox and other four-footed antagonists
will crouch together watching the ground
grow less about them, and the pitiless
rising of the tide, so, in view of the dread
approach of death, Herbert and Percy and
Gerald seemed for the time to have forgotten
their mutual animosities. To Percy,
bound by duty to put in an appearance in
that melancholy house, but forbidden by
the nature of the case to solace himself
with the caresses of love, the whole thing
was hateful, and he could hardly conceal

his disgust and enntti ; whereas Gerald
was merely sad and silent, as became him.
Within the last few days he had worn his
usual anxious and apprehensive air, but
that had now deserted him, and he seemed
to breathe more freely. To Percy this
was a problem which interested him, and
since he had nothing else to do, occupied
his attention. Herbert's solicitude was, in
reality, divided between the sick man and
his daughter, but appeared to be absorbed
by the former. Clare thought of her
father only.

What was very strange and gave a certain
weirdness to the general gloom was,
that nothing could persuade Mr. Lyster to
remain in his bed, which was obviously
the proper place for him. He got up at
his usual time, or nearly so, and was assisted
to his study, where he now sat all
day ; nor, though so obviously nearing his
end, would he have anyone to watch him
at night.

This was at first a great trouble to
Clare, and not the less so because Sir
Peter, who had heard of it, had assured
her that it was but a sick man's fancy
which there was no use in thwarting ; her
attitude towards the worthy knight (which,
however, was hardly to be wondered at)
was not altogether conciliatory, and she
distrusted his advice as though it had been
the gift of an enemy. On the other hand,
when Dr. Dickson was appealed to, he
had decided that matters should be left as
they were.

This is one of those cases, my dear
young lady, where the patient knows
better than we do what is best for himself.
There are some natures which resent the
restraints of a sick-room ; who seem to
recognise the fact that taking to their bed
is the beginning of the end or even the
end itself; and who absolutely appear, I do
not say to parry, but to delay, the stroke of
fate by their attitude of self-defence.'

Since delay was all that could now be
looked for, this argument was conclusive to
Clare ; but when Sir Peter heard of it he
shook his head, and, perhaps from antagonism
of character, veered round in
his opinion, and plainly told the doctor
that it was his duty not to give way to such
unbecoming caprices.

The man actually wanted to teach me
my own trade,' complained the affronted
physician to his friend ]mr. Oldcastle ; ' did
you ever hear anything so audacious and
unreasonable ?'

Never,' assented the lawyer ; but a
dry smile curled about his mouth, for truth
to say, it was his private impression that
Sir Peter had not spoken wholly without
reason.

That the worthy knight was very solicitous
about his partner's state of health
was certain ; for though the sick man was
now denied to all visitors, he sent to Oak
Lodge to ask after the invalid twice or even

thrice a day. The time was coming, however,
for a cessation of all such messages,
and for the beginning of kind Inquiries of
another sort.

Christmas had come and gone in the
little household without its cheer. It is
one of the evils of having set times for
holidays and rejoicing, that when misfortune
comes at those dates the contrast
between past and present becomes the
sharper.

With such compelling cause to grieve,
As daily vexes household peace,
And chains regret to his decease.
How dare we keep our Christmas-eve ?'

Instead of mistletoe at Oak Lodge there
was rue, and in place of its white berries
silent tears. . It would have been a relief
to Clare to find the season of merriment
had passed, but that, in so doing, it brought
parting from her father nearer. To the
surprise of all, even of herself, on the last
day of the year he was still alive, though

scarcely In flesh and blood — he was a mere
shadow.

It is his will that does it,' said the
doctor, with that admiration for stamina
always felt by members of his craft. ' Another
man with less strength of purpose
would have given in a week ago.'

And even now it was Mr. Lyster's wish
that all things should go on as much as
possible as though that Visitor, whose step
was on the very threshold, was not expected.


It had been the invariable custom at
Oak Loose to see the old wear out and
the new year in, and he desired it should
be observed on this occasion. Of course
he himself retired at his usual early hour ;
but he laid strict orders on Clare and on
the rest that they should come up to him
at midnight and wish him — well, certainly
not ' Many happy new years,' but, let us
say, pleasant dreams. Not that Mr. Lyster
dreamt much, even as sick men are wont

to do ; nor, I fear, even thought much of
things apart from this world.

The clergy of the Church of England
had but a small flock in Stokeville — perhaps
it was the smuts that made black sheep of
them — at all events the fact was that the
great majority of the population were dissenters
; but Mr. Lyster had seen his
particular minister, and apparently satisfied
him as to his spiritual condition.

Since that incident, and indeed on this
very day, he had had an interview with
Clare, which had left her with paler cheeks
and graver thoughts than ever. It was
piteous to see her now at the head of the
supper-table on which lay the untasted
food, and around which sat the joyless
guests. Her lover was next to her, and
ever and anon he made some observation
to her in a low voice, to which she replied
in monosyllables. She never avoided his
glances, but met them with strange looks
of tenderness and pain.

The old fool has been making his last
protest to her against me,' was the thought
he concealed under that reverent manner,
and masked with that gentle deprecating
face. And the sagacity which had so often
enabled him to ' track suggestion to her
inmost cell,' in this case also had not failed
him. No one ever knew exactly what had
passed between father and daughter in that
supreme hour, but it afterwards came to
light that Mr. Fibbert's resolution to make
the best of what was inevitable had given
way, and that almost the last use to which
he had put his failing breath was to induce
her to break with Percy.

Opposite sat Herbert, silent as the grave
to which all their thoughts were tending,
and beside him Gerald's vacant chair. The
lad had retired, overcome with filial emotion,
it was charitably hoped — though he
was the only one who had displayed any
appetite for the viands — and was smoking
in his own room.

Presently Herbert observed gravely :

I think, Clare, I heard the town clock
strike twelve just now

You are right,' she said, consulting her
watch. ' I don't know how I came to miss
It, for I seem to do nothing else but listen.
Let us go upstairs.'

This conversation, and Indeed all that
happened subsequently, became of some
Importance. The three rose at once from
their seats, as bound on an errand wherein
It was necessary to be punctual, but which
did not admit of haste. At the top of the
stairs they found Gerald standing with
white face at the sick man's door, welch
was open.

Come quick !' he whispered hoarsely ;
there is a great change !'

Opposite the door was a mantelpiece
with a clock upon It, that marked' five
minutes past the hour. Clare took note of
It mechanically, with a vague, pained sense
that they were behind their time. Herbert



and Percy looked at it too, as indeed they
could hardly avoid doing, and interchanged
a momentary glance full of significance.
The next instant they were in the presence
of the dying man. He was lying propped
up in bed with a look of intense anxiety
and impatience, which melted, as he recognised
them, into one of supreme content
and resignation. Then before Clare could
reach his pillow, all expression faded from
his eyes, and the face, ceasing, as it seemed,
to be flesh and blood, became marble. It
was no longer her father that lay before
her, but a dead man.

An hour afterwards Herbert let Percy
out of the house of death. As they stood
on the door-step the latter said :

It is scarcely the time to talk about
such things, Newton, but did you happen
to notice the time when this sad event
occurred ?'

Yes ; it was five minutes past twelve by
my uncle's clock.'

VOL. I. 19

I made it five and a half ; but that is
a detail. The point is that it was past
twelve. You are aware, of course, how
important this is ?'

You mean to Clare ?'

Yes, of course, to Clare. I cannot say
that I was very anxious about Master
Gerald. Good-night.'

Herbert looked after him with lowering
brow as he disappeared in the darkness.

There was one thought for Clare, na
doubt,' was his reflection, * but there were
two for himself. Would to Heaven that
matters had turned out less fortunately, for
in that case she might have escaped him !
Poor Clare ! Poor Clare !'

Procrastination.

THOUGH it Is past one o'clock in the
new year, Sir Peter has not yet
gone to bed when Percy reaches the Hall ;
he is sitting in his study, wide awake and
nervous, and for once deriving no consolation
at all from the contemplation of his
museum in miniature. His strained ears
catch the rattle of his nephew's latch-key
in the door, and he goes out and beckons
him into his little room at once.

Well, well ? you have news, I see,' says
he in a hushed and impatient voice.

Yes ; all is over, Sir Peter. Poor Mr.
Lyster is gone !'

19 — 2

Aye, aye ! and when did It happen ?'

A little after midnight.'

A little after ? How can you talk like
that ! Pray be explicit, sir ; perhaps it was
a little before ?'

No, sir ; It was five and a half minutes
past twelve.'

Oh ! then it seems you can be correct
enough when you please. I can tell you
this will be inquired Into. Do you know,
sir, it may be a matter of eighty thousand
pounds out of the business ?'

I should think. If things go on at the
present rate,' replied Percy coolly, ' it would
be a hundred thousand.'

Indeed ! you seem to have been going
into very nice calculations upon the subject.
On the other hand, as regards
this affair, I need scarcely remind you that
you are not an altogether independent
witness.'

Perhaps not,' answered Percy, smiling,
though beneath his smile there was a volcano

of passion. * As it happens, there
was another witness.'

Gerald Lyster, I suppose ? — a fellow I
wouldn't believe on his oath — and one
more interested in the matter even than
yourself.'

Nay, I hope not, Sir Peter,' returned
Percy gravely. The self-command of this
young gentleman, naturally headstrong and
bitterly contemptuous of his adversary, was
marvellous to see. He had the air of a
judicious sick-nurse who has to deal with a
preposterous patient, and gradually brings
him to reason. ' Gerald, however, was in
the room, as you suggest, and Herbert
Newton also.'

Oh, that is a different matter. On the
other hand, perhaps Newton did not take
any particular notice of the time, since he
had no reason to do so.'

You forget, Sir Peter ; he had ten
thousand reasons, or rather the interest
of them. And as it happens, he did take

FOR CASH ONLY.

notice — he made the time five minutes past
twelve, as he took occasion to impress
upon me.'

You all seem to have had a pretty sharp
eye for business said Sir Peter curtly.
Then, after a pause, during which some
feeling of decency apparently pushed its
way through the ashes of disappointment,
I hope poor Lyster did not suffer much.'

I think not, sir. His face was fixed on
the clock when we came in ; and I am sure,
from the expression of it, that his having
over-lived the year was the last thought in
his mind — and of course it was a comforting
one.'

I dare say. It is not, however, so comforting
for other people. Upon my life, it
is uncommon hard to lose the profits of a
whole year — and such a year !'

'You mean Mr. Lyster's profits T put in
Percy.

Well, of course ; but they would have
been my profits had he died five minutes

earlier. However, there's one thing — the
money remains in the business ; and we
shall want every farthing of it, and more,
for these new ventures.'

They are very promising, no doubt, sir;
but '

But what ?' exclaimed Sir Peter, with
irritation.

Well, I was going to say they were justa
trifle risky.'

Oh, indeed ; that's your opinion, is it ?
When I ask for your views upon such
matters, it will be time enough for you to
express them. You think perhaps, I suppose,
because you may now have the
control of Lyster's shares, as well as your
own, you are going to dictate to me ?'

Indeed, Sir Peter, nothing was further
from my thoughts.' And to do Percy justice
he spoke the truth. He always avoided
the least semblance of dictation, but at the
same time the course of action of the firm
had of late, and especially since Mr. Lyster's

illness, been shaped by his advice. Whatever
.vas ' risky' but at the same time
promised large profits had always his recommendation,
for he vas a gambler to the 
did not displease him, however, to hear
Sir Peter ascribing the more speculative-undertakings
of the firm to his own proper
notion, since if anything went wrong with
them the responsibility would lie on his own
shoulders. It was also agreeable to him to
hear Sir Peter hint that he was about to
have control of the dead man's shares in the
business, since it implied the other's consent
to his marriage. His union with
Clare might, in fact, be now considered
certain, though he was well aware that it
would still meet with opposition in one
quarter. Indeed, at breakfast the next
morning, he would gladly have confined himself,
in Mildred's presence, to speaking of
Mr. Lyster's demise, without reference to
its inopportuneness as regarded the means
he had left behind him ; but Sir Peter

was much too full of his own disappointment
on that point to keep It to himself.

Upon the whole,' he said, ' as I worked
it out last night in my bed, for I could
hardly sleep a wink, Lyster made about
;^i 5,000 a minute out of us during his lifetime
in the present year.'

Mildred, who knew nothing of her father's
business matters, looked up in extreme
surprise, as well she might ; her eyes, as
Percy felt, though he averted his own from
them, were fixed on him.

*Why no, uncle,' he replied, in as indifferent
a tone as he could assume, ' that
is hardly correctly stated. Mr. Lyster
gained no more by living five minutes into
the new year than one.'

I didn't say he did,' growled Sir Peter ;
only if it had been one minute I should
have had a word to say, as Indeed I may
have even now. For my part, I don't like
such close shaving.'

Percy might very reasonably have urged

that Mr. Lyster would have Heed longer if
he could, and could therefore be scarcely
held responsible for the shaving in question ;
but he knew his uncle too well to argue
with him. Moreover, he would have gladly
avoided all allusion to the subject before
Mildred. That young lady, however,
hearing of what had happened from her
maid, had come down to the early breakfast
with the express intention of getting all
the information she could about it. And
no sooner had her father retired, as usual,
to his den to read the morning's letters over
his cigar, than she turned to Percy for an
explanation.

What on earth is this ?' she said, with
an anxiety very unusual with her ; ' what
does papa mean by Mr. Lyster's having
made ^15,000 a minute out of us in the five
minutes he survived after twelve o'clock?'

Well, as I told him, he was mistaken,'
said Percy. ' He made something, of course,
but after all it was only a contingent gain.'

Don't fence ; I want to know all about
it, sir, and I will know. Please to use
words that I can understand.' Percy felt
he was in for it. He had seen his cousin
moved by passion before, but without the
resolute determination which it was now plain
underlaid it. He had had a very difficult
game to play with her all along, but this
was the crisis.

Well, it's only a matter of business,
Milly,' he began ; •' I would have told you
about it honos ao^o, but that I know how
business bores you. The articles of partnership
in your father's firm are drawn up in
this way. I n case of the demise of a partner,
his estate becomes responsible for the debts
of the firm, and of course shares in its
profits for the current year, whether the
remainder of it be much or little. If Mr.
Lyster had died yesterday, his estate therefore
would have suffered no loss and derived
no benefit from any future connection with
us ; but as it has happened, since he lived

over the year, his representatives are our
partners for twelve months.'

And that will be a great gain to them,*
said Mildred.

Well, it may be. There is a revival
in trade, and things are looking up ; so
that, as I have said, it will be a contingent
gain.'

A gain of ^80,000 ; that is what papa
said.'

That is what he has estimated it to be ;
but then you know what a sanguine man
he is. It may be half that, or it may be
nothing — or it may even be a loss.'

I understand,' said Mildred drily. * I
am not perhaps quite so foolish as you
think me. And Mr. Lyster's 'representatives,"
as you call them, who are they ?'

Nay, that is impossible to tell till we
have seen the will.'

'You lie!'

Her voice was firm, but her frame
quivered with emotion.

'You lie!' she reiterated; 'you know that
it is Clare who will have all this money

I know nothing of the kind, Mildred.
I say again, that will depend on the terms
of the will. Indeed in the eye of the law,
so far as I can see at present, Mr. Lyster's
representative is Gerald.'

He spoke so confidently that for the
moment her convictions were shaken ; his
voice, too, was stern and cold as it had
never been before, and she was a little
frightened.

I don't know what you mean by saying
you lie !" ' he continued, perceiving his
advantage, and pushing it at once. ' That
is not language which I will put up with
from any human being, even from a young
lady. I am not in the habit of having my
word questioned.'

You have broken it to me,' she put in
passionately ; but the obstinacy of manner
had faded away, and in her eyes there were
tears as well as fire.

I have not, Mildred. You know, as
well as I do, that we have both been the
victims of circumstance. Would your
father permit me to marry you if I asked
him now, more than at any other time ?
You know he would not. He would be
just as set against it as ever.'

But he is no longer set against your
marrying Clare.'

I don't know that. The affair is at
least now postponed indefinitely. We
must trust to the chapter of accidents.'

And in the meantime you will go and
see her daily ?'

I know that I have made a fool of myself,
Mildred. I have already acknowledged
as much. But as a man of honour
I cannot behave as you would have me.
It would be different, of course,' he added,
dropping his voice, and speaking very
tenderly, ' if you and I were free agents.'

If you really loved me, Percy, you
would risk anything.' "

And so I would. But it is not a question
of risk, but of utter ruin. Sir Peter
would never forgive either you or me.
You are saying to yourself, my darling,
that where there is a will there is a way.
That, of course, is true ; but I am not so
selfish as to take it.'

She shook her head as though she had
her doubts about that last sentiment, and
began to walk the room impatiently to and
fro.

You don't know what I suffer, Percy ;
every hour that you spend with that girl
at Oak Lodge takes a year from my
life.'

^ It does not seem to do so,' he answered,
smiling, and with admiring eyes.
You seem to me to grow younger and
more beautiful every day. And since you
talk of Clare, do you suppose that I also
do not suffer when Frank Farrer comes to
call upon you ?'

Frank Farrer !' It was impossible that

scorn could be expressed more bitterly than
in the tone in which she pronounced that
young gentleman's name. 'You know as
well as I do that I care nothing for Frank
Farrer. But you and Clare, that is quite
different ; for you love her, sir. Yes, you
do ' — for he was about to speak — ' you do !
you do /'

Percy shrugged his shoulders, v/ith a
faint pained smile.

You are certainly the most unreasonable,'
he sighed, ' as you are the most
charming of women. You have nothing
to propose yourself, and yet you reproach
me with inaction.'

I am not a man,' answered the girl
bitterly ; ' but if I were, I think I should
be a brave one.'

'You are brave enough as it is, Mildred,*
he answered quietly ; ' neither am I, I
hope, a coward. I confess, however, I
have not — for that Is what your suggestion
comes to — the courage of despair.'

That Is because you have no reason for
despair,' was the quick reply.

That is true,' he answered gently ;
there is no reason for either of us to
despair. There is only need for patience ;
we are not masters of our Fate, but Fate
may do us a good turn yet. A good man
of business, in however great difficulties,
thinks little of them if he has only time to
turn about him.'

I should have thought that that was a
sharp, rather than a good man of business,'
observed INIildred curtly.

This was probably the wisest speech she
had ever made in her life ; or, rather, it
was a stroke of genius, for she was unaware
of its wisdom : it had been suggested
by no knowledge of the world, but by irritation,
which the other perfectly well knew.
He affected, however, to misunderstand
her.

Well, as to good, I don't pretend to bea
model of all the virtues, Milly, like

VOL. I. 20

Master Herbert Newton. I confess that
I am but human — very human.'

Say rather manlike — very manHke,' answered
the girl bitterly.

How unkind you are, Mllly, and how
unreasonable !' he said, with a tenderness
accompanied by appropriate action.

Yes ; you preach patience, but In another
hour you will be comforting poor
Clare with your arm round her waist.'

But though she reproached him thus,
she did not draw back from his embrace.

Under the circumstances, my dear
Mildred,' he went on, In a tone In which
reproachful gravity mingled with gentle
persuasion, * your Imputations are very
cruel ; and If you examine your other
strictures upon my conduct dispassionately
I mean with common fairness — you will
find them equally baseless. That we are
not acting as we would wish is very true,
but we are doing the best we can for ourselves.
Just at present, at all events, it is

plain I cannot discontinue my visits to Oak
Lodge.'

This, of course, was not the point in dispute
; but it was, as Percy guessed, the
thorn that was just now pricking jealous
Mildred's breast.

*I suppose not,' she sighed. 'No, Percy,
I won't be kissed ; it is not right, though it
may be very pleasant iox yo2i'

The fair student of ' Butterflies ' had
still some notions of propriety, and felt
that the copyright in a young gentleman's
caresses should not be shared.

Just one to make it up,' said Percy
imploringly.

As if I was a child !' returned she with
indignation. ' No, sir, I — oh, Percy, Percy,
you are breaking my heart !*

As Percy said to himself five minutes
afterwards as he started for Oak Lodge, in
garments of woe, but with a cigar in his
mouth, Tf it had not been for old Matthews
coming in in the very nick of time to take

20 — 2

away the breakfast-things, there would have
been a deuce of a scene.'

He felt tolerably convinced, however,
that he had staved off any further manifestation
of dissatisfaction on Mildred's
part for the present, and had obtained that
great business desideratum, * time to turnabout
in.'

END OF VOL. I.

IU-1N(; AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

CHATTO & Winds's

List of Books.

NE IV PINE-AR T WORK: Large 4to, bound in buckram, 21J.
Abdication, The ; or, Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven
Etchings by John Petrie. R.A., W.Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter. A.R.A.,CoLixHuNTER. R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham.

Crown 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, ys. 6d.

Advertising, A History of.

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens,
a nd Notices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson.

Allen Grant), Works by :

The Evolutionist at Large. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Vignettes from Nature. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

"One\o/ the best specimens of popular scientific exposition that we have er-er
hMd the good fortune to fall in with." — Leeds Mercury.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, 71. 6d.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

From t he German of A. Rosexgarten by W. Collett-Sandars.
Crown Svo, with Portrait and Facsimile, cloth extra, 7J. 6<f.

Artemus Ward's Works :

TheWorksof Charles Farrer Browne, known as Artemus Waked.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7J. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;

With some Account of their Predecessors, the Early Goldsmiths : together
with Lists of Bankers from 1677 to 1876. By F. G. Hilton Price.

Barley (Rev. C. W.), Works by :

English Surnames : Their Sources and Significations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7J. txi.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. Cr. Svo, cl. extra, *is. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7J. 6i,

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21J. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.

The First Series including Examples by Wilkie, Constable,
Turner, Already, Landseer, Maclise, E. M. Ward, Frith,
Sir John Gilbert, Leslie, Anselm, Marcus Stone, Sir Noel
Paton, Feed, Eyre Crown, Gavin O'Neil, and Maddox Brown.

The Second Series containing Pictures by Armytage, Feed,
Goodwill, Henley, Horsey, Marks, Nicholls, Sir Nom.
Paton, Pickersgill, G. Smith, Marcus Stone, Solomon,
Straight, E. M. Ward, and Warren.

All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, Mea.
This hook is well got up, and good engravings by Teens, Lush Stocks, and
cthtrs, bring hack to us Royal Academy Exhibitions 0/ past years"— Times.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s, 6d. ; gilt edges, js. 6d.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bernstein. With
Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations by
Richter.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1882.

A New Serial Story, entitled "All Sorts and Conditions of Men,"
written by Walter Besant and James Rice, Authors of " Ready-money
Mortiboy," "The Golden Butterfly," "The Chaplain of the
Fleet," &c., and Illustrated by Fred. Barnard, was begun in the
January Number of Belgravia ; which Number contained also the
First Chapters of a New Novel, entitled " The Admiral's Ward, "
by Mrs. Alexander, Author of "The Wooing o't," &c, ; the first
portion of a Comedy in Two Parts, by Ouida, entitled " Besurgo ; "
and a Story by Wilkie Collins, entitled " How I Married Him :
A Young Lady's Confession." In this Number was also given the
First of a Series of Twelve Papers, by Mrs. Macquoid, entitled
"About Yorkshire," Illustrated by Thomas R. Macquoid.
•»• The Forty-sixth Volume of BELGRAVIA, elegantly hound
in crimson slothful gilt side and hack, gilt edges, price js. 6d., is now
ready. — Handsome Cases for binding volumes can be had at ar. each.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, aw.

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. ScOTT. With descriptive Te xt.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, ^s. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron;

or. Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait, and
Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, unison in size for binding,

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes, 1875. With 40 Illustrations. u.
Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, ix.
Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, ix.
Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, u.
Academy Notes, 1881. With 128 Illustrations, u.
Grosvenor Notes, 1878. With 68 Illustrations. is,
Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations. ix.
Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations. ix.
Grosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations. u.
Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, ix.
Pictures at South Kensington. With 70 Illustrations, ix.
The English Pictures at the National Gallery. 1 14 lusts. ix.
The Old Masters at the National Gallery. i28Illusts. ix. 6^.
Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with

nearly 600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6x.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.

With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3^.
UNIFORM WITH 'academy notes:*
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, ix.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, ix.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 1 14 Illustrations, ix.
Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881. 104 Illustrations, ix.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 lusts. ix.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. ix.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. ix.
Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts. ix.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. ix.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. ix.
Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1880. 100 Illusts. ix.
Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, ix.
Society of Artists Notes, Birmingham, 1878. 95 Illusts. ix.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. ix.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from

Gorseborough. II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with
Stag Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 2H.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured in

facsimile of the originals. Oblong 4to, half bound, 21X.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. dd.

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis. An entirely
New and Revised Edition, with fine full-page Illustrations,

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each,
VoL I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.
VoL II. Earlier Papers— Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches

Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends,
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts— Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV, Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry, With

Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Harte.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2*. ; cloth limp, 2J. 6d.

The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Cap.

8vo, picture cover, ij. ; crown Svo, cloth extra, y. 6d,

The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2X.

Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte, Fcap. Svo, picture

cover, IS. ; clot h extra, 2s. 6d.

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with full-page Portraits, 4J. 6d,

Brewster's (Sir David) Martyrs of Science.

Small crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Astronomical Plates, 4J, 6d.

Brewster's (Sir D.) More Worlds than One,

the Creed of the Philosopher and the Hope of the Christian.
A HANDSOME GIFT-BOOK.— Small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Brushwood.

By T. Buchanan Read. Illustrated from Designs by Frederick

Delian.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6^.

Buchanan.— Ballads of Life, Love & Humour.

By Robert Buchanan, Author of " God and the Man," &c,
THE STOTHARD BUNYAN.—Cro^n Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. 6d.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by
Stothard, engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy :

A New Edition, complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of the

Classical Extracts.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d,

Byron's Letters and Journals.

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore, A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates,

Demy 8vo , clo th extra, 14J.

Campbeirs (Sir G.) White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M. P.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6</.

Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and

Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig
Salvator of Austria. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author.

Post 8vo, cloth extra, u. dd.

Carlyle (Thomas) On the Choice of Books.

With a Life of the Author by R. H. Shepherd. Entirely New and
Revised Edition.

Two Vols,, demy Bvo, cloth extra, 21J.

Cavalry Life;

Or, Sketches and Stories in Barracks and Out. By J. S. WINTER.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 7J. 6d,

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of
the Indian Tribes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6<f.

Chap-Books.— A History of the Chap-Books

of the Eighteenth Century. By John Ashton. With nearly 400
Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of the originals. \^In the press.

*^ A few Large Paper copies will be carefully printed on hand-made
paper, for which early application should be made.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28J.

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving : Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
John ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition.

Small 4to, cloth gilt, wich Coloured Illustrations, ioj. dd.

Chaucer for Children:

A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With Eight Coloured
Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 2J. td.

Chaucer for Schools.

By Mrs. Haweis, Author r of " Chaucer for Child drew."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 75. 6rf.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers," and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. BucKSTONE, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2^. td.

Convalescent Cookery:

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan.
Full ef sound sense and useful hints"— Sattwcday Review.

Conway (Moncure D.), Works by:

Demonology and Devil-Lore. By Moncure D. Conway,

M.A. Two Vols. , royal 8vo, with 65 Illustrations, 28*.

A Necklace of Stories. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A.

Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Wandering Jew. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. By Moncure

D. Conway, M.A. With Illustrations. Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21 j.

Cook (Button.— Hours with the Players.

By Dutton Cook.

Mr. Dutton Cook has-more dramatic lore than any living English writer,
and his style is always easy and pleasant. . . . To all-with any feeling /or the
stage the book will prove deli fitful reading." — World.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2J. 6d.

Copyright.— A Handbook of English and

Foreign Copyright in Literary and Dramatic Works. By Sidney
Jerrold, of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-Law.
Till the time arrives when copyright shall he so simple and so uniform that
it can be generally understood and enjoyed, S7ich a handbook as this will prove of
great value. It is connect as well as concise, and gives Just the kind and quantity
ef information desired by persons who are ignorant of the subject, and turn t0 it
for information and guidance." — Athenaeum.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances of the West

of England ; or, The Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Old
Cornwall. Collected and Edited by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Sted-plate Illustrations
by George Cruikshank.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, js. 6d.

Greasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

with Notices of the Early History of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of "The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Fast and Present.

By William Jones. Fas. A., Author of ** Finger-Ring Lore," &c.
Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s,

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " Dei Delitti e delle Peace."
By James Anson Farrer.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, Two very thick Volumes, ^s. 6d. each.

Cmikshank's Comic Almanac.

Complete in Two Series : The First from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second
from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the Best Humour of
Thackeray, Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel Engravings
by Cruikshank, Hike, Handel's, &c.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 24s,

Cruikshank (The Life of George).

In Two Epochs. By Blanchard Jerrold, Author of "The Life
of Napoleon Iii," &c. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of
his Works, [/« tke press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7J. (>d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;

with Instructions for Tracing Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient MSS.
&c. By John E. Russians. Entirely New and Revised Edition.
Illustrated with over 400 Plates and Woodcuts. [/« the press.

Two Vols., demy 4to, handsomely bound in half-morocco, gilt, profusely
Illustrated with Coloured and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, price £^ js.

Encyclopaedia of Costume ;

or, A Dictionary of Dress— Regal, Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military—
from the Earliest Period in England to the reign of George the Third,'
Including Notices of Contemporaneous Fashions on the Continent,
and a General History of the Costumes of the Principal Countries of
Europe, By J. R. Blanche, Somerset Herald.
The Volumes may also be had separately (each Complete in itself) at £3 13X. 6d. each }
Vol. I. THE DICTIONARY.

Vol. n. A GENERAL HISTORY OF COSTUME IN EUROPE.
Also in 25 Parts, at SJ. each. Cases for binding, sj. each.
A comprehensive and highly valuable bock of reference. . . , We have
rarely failed to find in this book an account of an article of dress ^ while in most
of the entries curious and instructive details are given. . . . Mr. PlancJift
enormous labour of love, the production of a text which, wJ-^ther in its dictionary
form or in that of the * General History,' is within its intended scope immeasurably
the best and richest work on Costume in English, , , . This book is not only
one of the most readable works of the kind, but intrinsically attractive and
amusing*' — Athenaeum.

A most readable and interesting work — and it can scarcely be consulted in
vain, whether the reader is in search for information as to military, court,
ecclesiastical, legal, or professional costume. . . . All the chrom-o-lithographs,
and most of the woodcut illustrations— the latter amounting to several thousands
are very elaborately executed; and the work forms a livre de luxe which renders
it equally suited to the library and the ladies' drawing-rooms — Times.

Entirely New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, yj. 6<f.

Dora's Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. John Dor an, F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations.
[/« the press

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21 j.

Drury Lane, Old :

Fifty Years' Recollections of Author, Actor, and Manager. By
Edward Stirling.

Demy 8vo, cloth, i6j.

Duty's India; Fast and Present;

with Minor Essays on Cognate Subjects. By Shosheb Chunder
DuTT, Rdi Bdhddoor.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6j. per Volume.

Early English Poets.

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete
Collected Poems. With Memorial-fletcher

s (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial Introduction
and Notes. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto
Unpublished MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited. Memorial-introduction
and Notes. Two Vols.

Introduction and Notes, Steel Portrait,
Index of First Lines, and
Glossarial Index, &c. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works, Including all
those in * ' Arcade ia. " With Portrait,
Memorial-Introduction, Essay on
the Poetry of Sidney, and Notes.
Three Vols.

Crown svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 6j.

Emanuel On Diamonds and Precious

Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ^s, 6d,

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, doth extra, with nearly 300 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Evolution, Chapters on;

A Popular History of the Darwinian and Allied Theories of Development.
By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S. Eden. &c. [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6j.

Fairholt's Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By F,
W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards of
100 Illustrations by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ^s. 6d.

Familiar Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ,; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. [/n the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 45. 6d.

Faraday's Chemical History of a Candle.

Lectures delivered to a Juvenile Audience. A New Edition. Edited
by W. Crookes, F.C.S. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 4J. 6d.

Faraday's Various Forces of Nature.

New Edition. Edited byW. Crookes, F.C.S. Numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. 6d,

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary, and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With
Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries.
*sone of those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as 0/ ittstruc-
iicn." — Athhn^um.

Two Vols,, crown Svo, cloth extra, 2,1s.

Fitzgerald.— Recreations of a Literary Manor,

Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's Working Life. By Percy Fitzgerald,
yn preparation.

Gardening Books:

A "Z ear's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice

to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and
Frame Garden. By George Glennv. Post Svo, cloth limp-zs. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we
Cook Them. Ey Tom Tenfold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the
Rent," &c. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2J. 6^.

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By ToM
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2^. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis

George Heath. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5^.
One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1882.

The January Number of this Periodical contained the First Chapters
of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne,
Author of "Garth," &c. "Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly.
*»* Now ready, the Volume for Jilt to December, 1881, cloth extra,
price 8j, Sd.; and Cases for binding, price zs. each.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

THE R US KIN GR/MM.—Squaxe 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. 6d, ; gilt edges, js. 6d,

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar Taylor.

Edited nth an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations

after the inimitable designs of GfEORGB Cruikshank. Both Series

Complete.
The illustrations of this volume , . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate ; and the original etchings, as I have before said in the Appendix to
my ' Elements of Drawing,' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rent'
brandt (in some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . . . To make
somewhat enlarged copies of them., looking at them, through a magnifying glass,
and never putting two lines where Cruikshank has put only one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards UttU to be learnt
in schools."^Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Square imo (Tauchnitz size),

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By

W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of

the Echo Club.

Byron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the

Breakfast Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's Professor at the

Breakfast Table.

Hood's Whims and Oddities.

Complete. With all the original Illustrations.


Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both

Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale

for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2j. per volume.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

d' Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B, Montgomery
Ranking.
Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. Crib,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.



Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.


St Pierre's Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and

Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh

Hunt.

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion

and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,

the Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel

borne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, js. 6d.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The :

An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.

Post 8vo, doth limp, 2J. Sd.

Blenny's A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the management
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Blenny.
A great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. Tht
amateur need not wish for a letter guide. "—Lkevs Mercury.

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, ys.Sd.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described from Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.
KONER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by
Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.
*' Must mind a place, not only upon the scholars shelves, hut in ez'ery well-chosen
library of art." — Daily News.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 41. 6d.

Guyot's Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its Relation to the History of Mankind.
With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray ; 12 Maps
and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and copious Index.

Crown 8vo, is.

Hair (The): Its Treatment in Health, Weakness,
and Disease. Translated from the German of Dr. J. Picus,
of Berlin. [/« the press.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 410, cloth extra, Sj.
New Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.

With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice
ZiMMERN. A New Edition.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Hall's(Mrs. S. Sketches of Irish Character.

With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by Maclise, Gilbert,
Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.

The Irish Sketches op this lady resemble* Miss Mit/ord*s beautiful English
sketches in * Our Village,' but they are far m^fre vigorous and picturesque ana.
3r^A^"— Blackwood's Magazine.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5J.

Heath (F. G.)— My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of
"The Fern World," &c.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the

Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is. \ cloth limp, if. (id.
A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costume

of ladies oj our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to th

pointy she does not mince matters hut boldly remonstrates with her own sex
on the follies they indulge in. We may recommend the book to the
ladies whom, it concerns" — Athenaeum.

The Art of Beauty, By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,

cloth extra, gilt, gilt edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly loo
Illustrations, vos. 6d.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,

handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, lo . 6d.

*^^* See also Chaucer, p. 5 of this Catalogue.

SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Croy/n 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells.
The merits of the book cannot he fairly estimated by means of a few extracts ;
it should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and, in our opinion, its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed'— Sr. i \iab.s,'s Gazette.

Cr. 8vo, bound in parchment, 8j. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15^.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, virith an Introduction, by J . Wharton Collins.
Complete in Four Vols., demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s. each.

History of Our Own Times, from the Accession

of Queen Victoria to the General Election of 1880. By Justin
McCarthy, M.P.

"Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval.
This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled on words
could say no more for //."—Saturday Review.

New Work by the A author offa HIS TOR YofOURO WN TIMES."
Four Vols, demy Svo, cloth extra, X2S. each.

History of the Four Georges.

By Justin McCarthy, M.P. ' sin preparation.

Crown Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Holmes's The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, L.R.C.P.E.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d,

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6j.

Hood's (Tom) Prom Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by

W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes.
Tfu amusing letterpress is profusely interspersed with the jingling rhymit
which children love and learn so easily. Messrs. Brandon and Barnes do fu I
justice to the writer's meaning, and a pleasant result of the hanttanious ct
operation of author and artist could not be desired." —Times.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. 6d.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns, and Hoaxes;
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and Illustrations,

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, yj.

Home's Orion :

An Epic Poem in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horeb.
With a brief Commentary by the Author. With Photographic Portrait
from a Medallion by Summers. Tenth Edition.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7J. dd.

Howell's Conflicts of Capital and Labour

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Soda, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell.
This book is an attempt, and on the whale a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in the past, and their objects in the future, fairly before the
puilicfrsfH the working mean' s point ofview."—^KL.\. Mall Gazette.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 12J. (xi.

Hueflfer's The Troubadours:

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. Ey
Francis Suffer.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6j.

Janvier.— Practical Er amies for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.

iVill be fouK'i a useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacture
ar decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to know something
9f the gr^."— Morning g Post.

A New Edition, Revised and partly Re-written, with several Ne-Jiy
Chapters and Illustrations, crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Jennings' The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries. With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five lull-page
Plates and upwards of ;::too Illustrations.

Two Vols. Svo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 141.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Jerrold (Tom), Works by:

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By ToM

and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2J.6</.

Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook

Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of "The Garden that Paid the Rent,"

&c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2^. ()d.

'' The combination of hints on cookery "with gardening has been very cleverly

carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work.

Mr. Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do not make half the use of

vegetables they might ; and by shoxvinghow easily they can be grown, and so obtained

fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular." — Daily Chronicle.

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6j.

Kavanaghs' Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and JULIA Kavanagh. With

Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

•* Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as tht

best of Grimes * German Popular Stories.' For the most part tht

series are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind.

. Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable** — Spectator.

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6j.

Knight (The) and the Dwarf.

By Charles Mills. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas
Lindsay,

Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2j. 6d,

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Portraits, "js. 6d.

Lamb's Complete Works,

In Prose and Verse, reprinted from the Original Editions, with many

Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with Notes and Introduction,

by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and Facsimile of a Page

of the " Essay on Roast Pig."

"A complete edition of Lamps writings, in prose and verse, has long been

wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to have taken great pains

to bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a

number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original

appearance in various old periodicals." — Saturday Review.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, los. 6d,

Lamb (Mary and Charles) :

Their Poems, Letters, and Remains. With Reminiscences and Notes
by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's Portrait of the Essayist,
Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare First Editions of Lamb's and
Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.
•• Very many passages will delight those fond of literary trifles ; hardly any
portion will sail in interest for lovers of Charles Lamb and his sister. " — Standard,

Small 8vo, cloth extra, 55.

Lamb's Poetry for Children, and Prince

Doris. Carefully Reprinted from unique copies.
*• Thu quaint and delightful little hook, over the recovery 0/ which all the heart
■>/his lovers are yet warm, with re joining" — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. By Florence Caddy.

The whale hook is well worth reading, for it is full of poetical suggestions.
• . . We hose nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a
good deal about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones"—
Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth, full gilt, 6j.

Leigh's A Town Garland.

By Henry S. Leigh, Author of "Carols of Cockayne."
"If Mr. Leigh's verse survive to a future generation — and there is no reason
why that honour should net be accorded productions so delicate, so finished, and so
full of humour — their author will probably be remembered as the Poet of the
Strand." — Athenaeum.

Second Edition.— Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6j.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.

By Andrew Wilson, F.R.S.E., Lecturer on Zoology and Comparative
Anatomy in the Edinburgh Medical School.
It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator
who in the intervals of his more serious prof essional labours sets himself to impart
knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,
with tho danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this
little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.
Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in science at Edinburgh and Glasgow, at
leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem wit h
matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the truth s
9f nature*' — Saturday Review.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. dd.

Life in London;

or, The History of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6j.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander, B.A«
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
thoreau: A Study."

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7J. 6d.

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.

Including "Outre Mer," "Hyperion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets
and Poetry of Europe," and "Driftwood," With Portrait and Illustrations
by Valentine Bromley.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, is. 6d,

Longfellow's Poetical Works.

Carefully Reprinted from the Original Editions, With numerous
fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood. j

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By a Sane Patient.

Th* story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the subject
it. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book ; it is
bright, calm, and to the point." — Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, iBj.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian verse by Robert French Duff,
Knight Commander of the Portuguese Royal Order of Christ.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 'js. 6d.

Maclise Gallery (The) of Illustrious Literary

Characters : 84 fine Portraits, with Descriptive Text, Anecdotal and
Biographical. By William Bates, B. A, vin preparation.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 5J.

Magna Charta.

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Mallock's (W. H.) Works :

Is Life Worth Living P By William Harrel Mallock.

New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6^.
This deeply interesting volume It is the most powerful vindication
of religion, both natural and revealed, that has appeared since Bishop
Butler wrote, and is much-more useful than either the Analogy or the Ser'
m-ons of that great divine, as a refutation of the peculiar form, assumed by

the infidelity of the present day Deeply philosophical as the both

is, there is not a heavy page in it. The writer (is 'possessed,' so to speak,
with his great subject, has sounded its depths, surveyed it in all its extent
and brought to bear on it all the resources of a vivid, rich, and impassioned
style, as well as an adequate acquaintance with the science, the philosophy,
and the literature of the </ay."— Irish Daily News.
The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an

English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2J. td.
The New Paul and Virginia ; or. Positivism on an Island. By

W. H. Mallock. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2j. td.

Poems. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, 8j,
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. H. Mallock.

Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown Svo, zij.

Macqnoid (Mrs), Works by:

In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

50 fine Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Uniform with "Pictures

and Legends." Square 8vo, cloth extra, los. (td.
This is another of Mrs. Macquoid' s pleasant books of trecv el, full of useful
information, of picturesque descriptions of scenery, and of quaint traditions
respecting the various monuments and ruins which she encounters in her
tour. . . . To such of our readers as are already thinking about the year' t
holiday, we strongly recommend the perusal of Mrs. MacquoicTs experiences.
The book is well illustrated by Mr. Thomas R. Macquoid."— Graphic.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By

Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R.
Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, lar. 6d.

Through Normandy. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.
One of the few books which can be read as a piece of literature, whilst at
the same time handy in the knapsack"— 'British Quarterly Review.

Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.
** The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wandering
from, one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed charm,
around each of t-depicted scene." — Morning Post.

Mark Twain's Works:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected

throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With

100 Illustrations. Small Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Cheap Edition, illustrated
boards, w.

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents

Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By Mark Twain. Post Svo,
illustrated boards, zj.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain.

Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain. With nearly

200 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Uniform with " A Tramp
Abroad."

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New Pilgrim's Progress :

Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land, with descriptions of Countries, Nations,
Incidents, and Adventures, as they appeared to the Author. With 234
Illustrations. By Mark Twain. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Uniform
with "A Tramp Abroad."

A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, js. 6d.
The fun and tenderness of the conception, of which no living man hut
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make oj all this episode oj
Jim. Baker and his jays a piece of work that is not only delightful as mere
reading, but also oJ a high degree of Tnerit as literature. , . . The book is
full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest of those that have gone before" — Athenaeum.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Post 8yo, cloth limp, 2J. 6</. per volume.

Mayfair Library, The

The New KepubUo. ByW. H.

Mallock.
The New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Mallock.

The True History of Joshua

Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.

Old Stories Re-told. By Walter

Thornbury.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims.

By H. A. Page.

By stream and Sea. By William
Senior.
Jeux esprit Edited by Henry

S. Leigh.

Juliana. By the Hon. Hugh

Rowley.
More Juliana. By the Hon.
Hugh Rowley.

Puck on Pegasus. By H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.

The Speeches of Charles

Dickens.

Muses of Mayfair. Edited by
H. Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Gastronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin.

The Philosophy of Handwriting.
By Don Felix de Salamanca.


Curiosities of Criticism. By

Henry J. Jennings.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, Frolics. By W, T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by
W. T. Dobson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert

Kempt.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by
W. Davenport Adams.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.

First Series. Containing:
The Wicked World— Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess—
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing :
Broken Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts
— Dan'l Bruce — Gretchen —
Tom Cobb— The Sorcerer— H. Mss.
Pinafore — The Pirates of Penzance.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry

S. Leigh.

The Book of Clerical Anecdotes.
ByjAC9B Haywood.
The Agony Column of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.

The Cupboard Papers. By

Fin-Bec.

Pastimes and Players. By

Robert Macgregor.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations
by H. H. Walker.

Melancholy Anatomise : A

Popular Abridgment of " Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy."

Quips and Quiddities. Selected

by W. Davenport Adams.

Leaves from a Naturalist's

Note-Book. By Andrew Wilson,
F.R.S.E.

The Autocrat of the .
By Oliver Wendell
Holmes. Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson.

Forensic Anecdotes ; or, Humour
and Curiosities of the Law and
the Men of Law. By Jacob Larn*

Other Volumes are in preparation.

Small 8vo, cloth limp, with illustrations, zs, 6d,

Miller's Physiology for the Young;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology, with its Applications to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.
"An admirable introduction to a subject which all tui* valut health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the

Management of the Skin ; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,
&c. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Small
8vo, iJ. ; cloth extra, \s. dd.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small 8vo, \s.\ cloth extra,

is.tcL

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7J. 6</.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Coins Carr. Illustrated by Randolph Caldecott.

•• A delightful book, of a kind which is far Uo rare. If anyoru wants to really
know the North Italian folk, we can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and
read Mrs. Carr' stages instead. , . Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift. .
It is rarely that a book is so happily illustrated"— Cosr^^vovJ^KV Rkvikw.

New Novels:

IN MAREMMA.

By OuiDA. 3 vols., crown 8vo. \ Shortly.

GOD AND THE MAN.

By Robert Buchanan, Author of " The Shadow of the Sword," &c.

3 vols., crown 8vo. With ii Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
THE COMET OF A SEASON.

By Justin McCarthy, M.P., Author of " Miss Misanthrope." 3 vols.,

crown 8vo.

JOSEPH'S COAT.

By David Christie Murray, Author of "A Life's Atonement," &c.
With 12 Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
A HEART'S PROBLEM.

By Charles Gibbon, Author of " Robin Gray," &c. 2 vols, cro^vn Svo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS.

By Sarah Tytler, 2 vols., crown Svo.

PRINCE SARONI's WIFE, and other Stories.

By Julian Hawthorne. 3 vols., crown Svo. { Shortly.

SOMETHING IN THE CITY.

By George Augustus Sala. 3 vols, crown Svo, vin preparation.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE.

By Robert Buchanan. 3 vols., crown Svo. shortly,

Crown 8yo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6j. per Vol.

Old Dramatists, The:

Ben Jonson's Works. | by Ai.g«rnonCharlbs Swinburne.

With Note., Critical and Explanatory, i Vol. I H. the Translations of the Iliad

and a Biographical Memoir by Wil ' ^?r^\^^^^^^- .

Liar Gifford. Edited by Colonel MarlOWe 8 WorkS.

Cunningham. Three Vols. Including his Translations. Edited,

with Notes and Introduction, by CoU
Cunningham. One Vol,

Chapman's Works

Now First Collected,
Three Vols. Vol. I. coi
complete, including th

Vol. II. the Poems an

nations, with an Introductory Essay ' Col. Cunningham. One Vol

Now First Collected. Complete in Massinger's PlayS.

Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the Plays | From the Text of William Gifford.

complete, including the doubtful ones; ; With the addition of the Tragedy ol

Vol. II. the Poems and Minor Trans I " Believe as you List." Edited by

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur) Works by :

Songs of a Worker. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap.

8vo, cloth extra, 7^. dd.

Music and Moonlight. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap.

8vo, cloth extra-js. 6d.

Lays of France. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, los. 6d.

Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, $s. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine.

Triootrin.

Puck.

Folle Ferine.

Dog of Flanders.

*^* Also a Cheap
boards, 2j. each.

By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
Edition of all but the last,

Pascal. By Ouida.

Two Wooden Shoes. By Ouida.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Moths.

Pipistrello.

By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By OuiDA.
By Ouida.
By Ouida.

A Village Commune. By Outpost

8vo, illustrated

Post 8vo, cloth limp, u. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook
of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Large 4to, cloth extra, gilt, beautifully Illustrated, 31J. 6d.

Pastoral Days;

Or, Memories of a New England Year. By W. Hamilton Gibson.

With 76 Illustrations in the highest style of Wood Engraving.

The volume contains a prose poem, with illustrations in the shape of wood
engravings more beautiful than it can well enter into the hearts of m-ott men to
conceive." — Scotsman.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6^.

Payn.— Some Private Views.

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to The
Times. B/ James Payn Author of " High Spirits," " By Proxy,"
Lost Sir Massinger," &c.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, ioj. 6d,

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes, Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhornb.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, ^s. 6d,

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's " Essay."



Library Editions, many Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3J. ^d, each

Piccadilly Novels, The.

popular ^Xs^xxz^ 65 ^t %t^i Sut^orif.

By

Maid, Wife, or Widow?

Mrs. Alexander.

Ready-money Mortiboy. By
W. Besant and James Rice.

My Little Girl. By W. Besant

and James Rice.
The Case of Mr. Craft. By

W. Besant and James Rice.
This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
With Harp and Crown. By W.

Besant and James Rice.

The Golden Butterfly. By W.

Besant and James Rice.

By Celia's Arbour. By W.

Besant and James Rice.

The Monks of Helena. By

W. Besant and James Rice.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By

W. Besant and James Rice.

The Seamy Side, By Walter

Besant and James Rice.
The Chaplain of the Fleet By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

The Ten Years' Tenant. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

A Child of Nature. By Robert
Buchanan.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins.
Basil. By Wilkie Collins.
Hide and Seek. By Wilkie

Collins.

The Dead Secret W. Collins.
Queen of Hearts. W. Collins.
My Miscellanies. W. Collins.
The Woman in White. By
Wilkie Collins.

The Moonstone. W. Collins.
Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.
Miss or Mrs. ? By W. Collins.
The New Magdalen. ByWiLKiK
Collins.

The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.
The Law and the Lady. By

Wilkie Collins.

The Two Destinies. By Wilkie
Collins.

The Haunted Hotel. By Wilkie

Collins.

The Fallen Leaves. By Wilkie

Collins.

Jezebel's Daughter. W. Coll nf.
The Black Robe. By Wilkie

Collins.

Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. H.

Loveth Cameron.
Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs. H.

Loveth Cameron.

Felicia. M. Bentham-Edwards.
Archie Lovell. By Mrs. Annie

Edwards.
Olympia. By R. E. Francisco.
Queen Cophetua. By R. E.

Francisco.

The Capet Girls. By Edward

Garrett,
Robin Gray. Charles Gibbon,
For Lack of Gold. By Charles

Gibbon.

Li Love and War. By Charles

Gibbon.
What will the World Say P By

Charles Gibbon.

For the King. Charles Gibbon.
In Honour Bound. By Charles

Gibbon.
Queen of the Meadow. By

Charles Gibbon.

In Pastures Green. By Charles

Gibbon.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

By Thomas Hardy.

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne.
Ellice Question. By Julian

Hawthorne.

Sebastian Stroke. By Julian

Hawthorne.
Thomicroft's Model. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.
The Leaden Casket. By Mrs.

Alfred Hunt.

Fated to be Free, By Jean

Angelo.

Confidence. Henry James, Jun.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels — continued.
The Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.

The Dark Colleen. By H, Jay.
Number Seventeen. By Henry

KiNGSLEY.

Oakshott Castle. H. Kingsley.
Patricia Kimball. By E. Lynn

Linton.

The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
By E. Lynn Linton.

The World Well Lost. By E.
Lynn Linton.

Under which Lord By E.

Lynn Linton.

With a Silken Thread. By E.

Lynn Linton.
The Rebel of the Family. By

E, Lynn Linton.
"My Love!" By E. Lynn

Linton.

The Watergate Neighbours.

By Justin McCarthy.

My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.

Linley Rochford. By Justin

McCarthy.

A Fair Saxon. J. McCarthy.
Dear Lady Disdain. By Justin

McCarthy.

Miss Misanthrope. By Justin
McCarthy.

Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy.
Quaker Cousins. By Agnes

Macdonald.

Lost Rose. By Katharine S.

Macquoid.

The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.

Open ! Sesame I By Florence

Marryat.

Written in Fire. F. Marryat.
Touch and Go. By Jean Middlemost.



A Life's Atonement. By D.

Christie Murray.
Whiteladies. Mrs. Oliphant.

Lost Sir Massinger. By James

Payn.

The Best of Husbands. By

James Payn.

Fallen Fortunes. James Payn.
Halves. By James Payn.
Walter's Word. James Payn.
What He Cost Her. By James

Payn.

Less Black than we're Painted.

By James Payn.

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Roof. James Payn.
High Spirits. By James Payn.
From Exile. By James Payn.
Carlton's Year. Bv James

Payn.

A Confidential Agent. By

James Payn.

Put Yourself in his Place. By

Charles Reade.
Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.
J. H. Liddell.

Bound to the Wheel. By John

Saunders.

Guy Waterman. J. Saunders
One Against the World. By

John Saunders.
The Lion in the Path. By

John Saunders.

The Two Dreamers. By John

Saunders.

Proud Maisie. By Bertha

Thomas.

Cressida. By Bertha Thomas.
The Violin-Player. By Bertha

Thomas.

The Way We Live Now. By

Anthony Trollops.

The American Senator. By

Anthony Trollope.

Diamond Cut Diamond. By

T. A. Trollope.

What She Came through. By

Sarah Tytler.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.

Planche.— Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.

By J. R. Planche. Edited, with an Introduction, by his Daughter,
Mrs. Backwardness.



Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2j. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WiLKiB Collins' Novels and Besant and Rick's Novels may also be had in
cloth limp at «. td. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, /<?r Library Editions']

Man and Wife. W. Collins.
Poor Miss Finch. W. Collins.
Miss or Mrs. P \V. Collins.
New Magdalen. W. Collins.
The Frozen Deep. W. Collins.
Law and the Lady. Collins.
Two Destinies. W. Collins.
Haunted Hotel. W. Collins.
Fallen Leaves. By Collins.
Leo. By Button Cook.
A Point of Honour. By Mrs.
Annie Edwards.

ArchieLovelL Mrs. Edwards
Felicia. M. Betham-ildwards.
Roxy. By Edward Eggleston.
Polly. By Percy Fitzgerald.
Bella Donna. P. Fitzgerald.
Never Forgotten. Fitzgerald.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson. By

Percy Fitzgerald.
Seventy-FiveBrookeStreet. By

Percy Fitzgerald.

Filthy Lucre. By Albany de

FONBLANQUK.

Olympia. By R, E. Francisco.
The Capet Girls. By Edward

Garrett.

Robin Gray. By Chas. Gibbon.
For Lack of Gold. C. Gibbon.
What will the World Say ? By

Charles Gibbon.

In Honour Bound. C. Gibbon.
The Dead Heart. By C. Gibbon.
In Love and War. C. Gibbon.
For the King. By C. Gibbon.
Queen of the Meadow. By

Charles Gibbon.

Dick Temple. By James

Greenwood.

Every-day Papers. By Andrew

Holiday.

Paul Winter's Sacrifice. By

Lady Duffus Hardy.

Under the Greenwood Tree.
By Thomas Hakoy.

Confidences. Hamilton Aide.
Carr of Carrion. H, Kit.
Maid, Wife, or Widow? By

Mrs. Alexander.

Heady-Money Mortiboy. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

With Harp and Crown. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.
This Son of Vulcan. By W.

Besant and James Rice.
My Little GirL By the same.
The Case of Mr. Craft. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

The Golden Butterfly. By W.

Besant and James Rice.

By Celia's Arbour. By Walter

Besant and James Rice.

The Monks of Helena. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay. By

Walter Besant and James Rice.

Seamy Side. Besant and Rice.
Grantly Grange. By Shelley

Beauchamp.

An Heiress of Red Dog. By

Bret Harte.

The Luck of Roaring Camp.

By Bret Harte.

Gabriel Convoy. Bret Harte.
Surly Tim. By F. E. Burnett.
Deceivers Ever. By Mrs. L.

Cameron.

Juliet's Guardian. By Mrs.

Loveth Cameron.

The Cure of Souls. By Mac-laden

Cobban.

The Bar Sinister. By C.

Allusion Collins.

Antonio. By Wilkie Collins.
Basil. By Wilkie Collins.
Hide and Seek. W. Collins.
The Dead Secret. W. Collins.
Queen of Hearts. W. Collins.
My Miscellanies. W. Collins.
Woman White. Collins.
The Moonstone. W. Collins.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular 'ii^ows.i.s— continued.

Garth. By Julian Hawthorne. |
Golden Heart. By Tom Hood.
TheHunchback of Notre Dame.

By Victor Hugo.
Thomicroft's Model. By Mrs.
Alfred Hunt.

Fated to be Free. By Jean

Ingkixjw.

Confidence. By Henry James,

Jun.

Time Queen of Connaught. By

Harriet Jay.

The Dark Colleen. By H. Jay.
Number Seventeen. By Hknb y

Kingsley.

Oakshott Castle. Kingsley.
Patricia Kimball. By E. Lynn

Linton.

Learn Dundas. E.LynnLinton.
The World Well Lost. By E.

Lynn Linton.
Under which Lord .» By E.
Lynn Linton.

The Watergate Neighbours.

By Justin McCarthy.

Dear LadyDisdain. By the same.
My Enemy's Daughter. By

Justin McCarthy.
A Fair Saxon. J. McCarthy.
Linley Rochford. McCarthy.
Miss Misanthrope. M cathy.
Donna Quixote. J. McCarthy.
The Evil Eye. By Katharine

S. Macquoid.
Lost Rose. K. S. Macquoid.
Open! Sesame I By Florence

Marryat.
Harvest of Wild Oats. By

Florence Marryat.

A Little Stepson. F. Marryat.
Fighting the Air. F. Marryat.
Touch and Go. By Jean

MiDDLEMASS.

Mr. Dorillion. J. Middlemost.
Whiteladies. ByMrs.OLiPHANT.
Held in Bondage. By Ouida.
Stratford. By Ouida.
Chances. By Ouida.
Under Two Flags. By Ouida.
Italia. By Ouida,

Cecil Castlemaine. By Ouida.
Tricotrin. By Ouida.
Puck. By Ouida.
Folle Farine. By Ouida.
A Dog of Flanders. By Ouida.
Pascal. By Ouida.
Two Little Wooden Shoes. By
Signa. By Ouida. [Ouida.

In a Winter City. By Ouida.
Ariadne. By Ouida.
Friendship. By Ouida.
Moths. By Ouida.
Lost Sir Massinger. J. Payn.
A Perfect Treasure. J. Payn.
Bentinck's Tutor. By J. Payn.
Murphy's Master. By J. Payn,
A County Family. By J. Payn.
At Her Mercy. By J. Payn.
AWoman'sVengeance. J. Payn.
Cecil's Tryst. By James Payn.
The Clyffards of Clyflfe. J. Payn.
Family Scapegrace. J. Payn.
The Foster Brothers. J. Payn.
Found Dead. By James Payn.
Gwendoline'sHarvest. J. Payn.
Humorous Stories. J. Payn.
Like Father, Like Son. J. Payn,
A Marine Residence. J. Payn.
Married Beneath Him. J. Payn.
Mirk Abbey. By James Payn.
Not Wooed, but Won. J. Payn.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

By James Payn.

Best of Husbands. By J. Payn.
Walter's Word. By J. Payn.
Halves. By James Payn.
Fallen Fortunes. By J. Payn.
What He Cost Her. J. Payn.
Less Black than We're Fainted.

By James Payn.

By Proxy. By James Payn.
Under One Roof. By J. Payn.
High Spirits. By J as. Payn.
Paul Ferrol.

Why P.Ferroll Killed his Wife.
The Mystery of Marie Roget.
By Edgar A. Pok.



Popular Novels — continued.
Put Yourself in his Place By
Charles Reade.

Her Mother's Darling. By Mrs.

J. H. RiDDKLL.

gaslight and Daylight. By

George Augustus Sala.

Bound to the WheeL By John

Saunders.

O-uy Waterman. J. Saunders.
One Against the World. By

John Saunders.
The Lion in the Path. By John

and Katherine Saunders.
A Match in the Dark. By A.

Sketches.

Tales for the Marines. By

Walter Thornbury.

The Way wa Live Now. By

Anthony Trollops.
The American Senator. Ditto.
Diamond Out Diamond. Ditto.
A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

By Mark Twain
Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain.
An Idle Excursion Twain.
Sabina. By Lady Wood.
Castaway. By Edmund Yates.
Forlorn Hops. Edmund Yates.
Land at Las:. Edmund Yates.

Neil Two-shilling

Pipistrello. By Ouida.

The Ten Years' Tenant. By

Besant and Rice.

Jezebel's Daughter. By Wilkie

Collins.
Queen Cophetua. By R. E.

Francisco.

In Pastures Green. By Chas.

Gibbon.

A Confidential Agent, By J as.
Payn.

By E.

NOVELS IN THE PRESS.

Ellice Question. By Julian

Hawthorne.

With a Silken Thread.

Lynn Linton.

Quaker Cousins. By Agnes

Macdonald.

Written in Fire. By Florence

Marryat.
A Life's Atonement. By D.

Christie Murray.
Carlton's Year. By J. Payn.

Fcap. avo, picture covers, u. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavoumeen. By the Author of "That I.ass o' Lowrie's."
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, yj. td.

Primitive Manners and Customs.

By James A. Farrer.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, 3^. bd.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. ByJ. Mori? Smith.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7J. dd.

Pursuivant of Arms, The ;

or, Heraldry founded upon Facts. By J. P. Planche, Somerset
Herald. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.

Proctor's (R. A.) Works:

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the

Year, Drawings of the Constellations, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7^. dd.
Saturn and its System. By Richard A. Proctor. New and

Revised Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, lOJ. 6d. \^In preparation ,

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Rich. a. Proctor,

Author of "Other Worlds than Ours,"&c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6f.

Pleasant Ways in Science. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.
Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6j.
Our Place among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting

our Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By

Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ts.
The Expanse of Heaven : A Series of Essays on the Wonders

of the Firmament. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo. cloth, ts.
Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crown 8vo, \s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, yj. 6d,

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, and
numerous clara theistic Illustrations by Gustave Pore.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, js. 6d.

Rambosson's Popular Astronomy.

Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated

B. Pitman n. Profusely Illustrated. ^

Entirely New Edition, Revised, crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, js. 6i,

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Third Edition,
revised throughout, with a new Appendix containing a Complete

En glish Bibliography. [/n t he press.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6j.

Richardson's (Dr.) A Ministry of Health,

and both er Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D &c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. With over 50 Illustrations. By

Alfred Rimmer. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, xos. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer.

With 50 Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth gilt, los. 6d. Also an
Edition de Luxe, in 4to (only a limited number printed), with the Illusts.
beautifully printed on China paper, cloth bds., edges uncut, 425. shortly.

About England with. Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred
Rimmer and C. A. Vanderhoof, Sq. Svo. cloth gilt, xos. 6d. [In the press.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. per volume.

Robinson.— Natural History ot tHe Poets.

By Phil. Robinson. Author of " Under the Punjab," &c. In Four
Volume?. Vol. I. The Birds. Vol. II. The Beasts. Vol. III. The
Fauna of Fancy. Vol. IV. The Flora of Poetry. [In the press.

By J.
byC.

Handsomely printed, price p.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, A.D. 1066-7.
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Two Vols,, large 4to, profusely Illustrated, half-morocco, £'2. x6l«.

Rowlandson, the Caricaturist.

A Selection from his Works, with Anecdotal Descriptions of his Famous
Caricatures, and a Sketch of his Life, Times, and Contemporaries.
With nearly 400 Illustrations, mostly in Facsimile of the Originals. By
Joseph Greg, Author of "James Gillray, the Caricaturist ; his Life,
Works, and Times."

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 4J. 6^. each,

Secret Out" Series, The.

The Pyroteclmist's Treasury ; : Magician's Own Book :

or, Complete Art of Making Fire Performances with Cups and Balls,

works. By Thomas Kentish. With Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All

numerous Illustrations. from Actual Experience. Edited by

The Art Of Amusing: i Wherever. 200 Illustrations.
AcSStfon^raceful Arts. Games, ^^^|i°. ^° ^L'Jf T. RM ^
Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By ^"^^T^ ^^^^^-^ Dice, Balls, &c

Frank Belle. 300 illustrations. ' "V^ ^"^l descriptive Directions ; the
^ Art of Secret Writing ; Framing of

Hanky-Panky : Performing Animals, &c. Coloured

Very Easy Tricks, Very Difficult Frontispiece and many Illustrations.

Tricks,White Magic, Sleight of Hand. The Secret Out :
Edited by W.H.Cremer. ao* lusts. One Thousand Tricks with Cards, and

The Merry Circle : other Recreations : with Entertaining

A Book of New Intellectual Games ' Experiments in Drawing-room or

and Amusements. By Clara Bbllbw. ' "White Magic." By W. H. Cramer.
Many Illustrations. 300 Engravings.

Shakespeare :

Shakespeare, The First Folio. Mr. William Shakespeare's

Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Haggard and Ed. Blunt,
1623. — A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic process — ensuring the strictest accuracy ia every detail.
Small 8vo, half-roxburgh, 7*. td.
Shakespeare, The Lansaowne. Beautifully printed in red
and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of
Droeshout's Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7J. td.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By

Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Move Smith. Crown 410, cloth gilt, los.Sd.

Shakespeare Music, The Handbook of. Being an Account of

350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse. 4to, half-roxburgh, 7*.

Shakespeare, A Study of. By Algerian Charles Swine

EURNB. Crown 8vo dotJi extra 8*.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ta.

Senior's Travel and Trout in the Antipodes .

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (red Spinner), Author of " By Stream and Sea."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, witH lo fall-page Tinted Illustrations, yj. 6^.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. ; with a Collection of Sheridaniane,
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, wish loo Illustrations, js. 6d,

Signboards ;

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten
~ ~ Crown Bvo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d,

Slang Dictionary, The :

Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal. An Entirely New
Edition , revised throughout, and considerably Enlarged.
Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, zs. 6d.

Smoker's Text-book, The. Bye. Homer, rr.s.l.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 5J.

Spalding's Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Power rs possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 4to, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, ioj. dispenser

for Children.

By M. H. Tory. Illustrations in Colours bv Walter J, Morgan.
A New Edition, small crown 8vo, cloth extra, $s.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Games. By Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B. World .
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gs.

Seaman.— Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Seaman.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, 6s.

Stevenson.— Familiar Studies in Men and

Books. By R. Louis Stevenson, Author of " With a Donkey in the

Cevennes." &c. [Nearly ready.

Post Bvo, cloth extra, $3.

Stories about Number Nip,

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children, by WALTER

Grahams. With Illustrations by J . Move Smith.

Two Vols., crown Bvo, cloth extra, histories

from the State Papers,

By Alex. Charles Ewald, F.S.A., Author of " The Life of Prince
Charles Stuart," &c. With an Autotype Facsimile.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 24^.

Strain.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life. By Alexander Strain. \Jn the pre s: .

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with lilustrauons, js. td,

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People

of England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140

Illustrations. Edited by William Hone.

Crown 8vo, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, js. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society ,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,

and House Accommodation.

Crown Bvo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, yj. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of "Tulliver's Travels."

Swinburne's Works :

The Queen Mother and Rosa George Chapman :

mont. Fcap. 8vo, 5^. An Essay. Crown 8vo, 7*.

Atlanta in Corydon. Songs of Two Nations.

A New Edition. Crown 8vo, fix. Crown 8vo, 6f.

Chastened. , Essays and Studies

A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 71.

Poems and Ballads.
First Series. Fcap. 8vo, gj. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.
Second Series. Fcap. 8vo, gs. Also
in crown 8vo, at same price.

Notes on ** Poems and Ballads."
8vo, iJ. Crown 8vo, 8f

William Blake : \ Songs of the Springtide.

A Critical Essay. With Facsimile ; Crown Svo, 6s.
Paintings Demy Svo, idr. ; studies in Song.

Songs before Sunrise. | crown 8vo, ^s.

Crown 8vo, los. 6d. \ Mary Stuart :

Bothwell : A Tragedy. Crown 8vo, 8^.

A Tragedy Cro wn Svo. f>*. ^^ ^

Small 4 to, cloth extra, Illustrated, 251.

Sword, The Book of the :

Being a History of the Sword, and its Use, in all Countries from
the Earliest Times. By Captain Richard Burton. With over 400

illustrations. [/« preparation.

Medium Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. bd.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

in Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations,
in Colours, and Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten.

Crown Svo, iw.

Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 6j.

Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, i*.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze.

Crown Svo, 6s.

A study of Shakespeare.

Four Vols, small 8vo, cloth boards, 301.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry Van Lain.
•»♦ Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 15J.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, dr.

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.

One Vol. crown 8vo, cloth extra, 75. 6rf.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," "Jeanne Dare, Twixt Axe and Crown," "The Fool's

Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion."
*»* The Plays may also be had separately, at la. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Frontispiece and numerous
Illustrations, ^s. 6d.

Thackerayana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Sketches by
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Hundreds of Wood Engravings, facamiled from
Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thombury's (Walter) Haunted London.

A New Edition, Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numerous
Illustrations by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. '

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Times' Clubs and Club Life in London.

With Anecdotes of its famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns,
By John Times, F.S.A. With numerous Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Times' English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters, &c. By Jan Times,
F.S.A. With nearly 50 Illustrations.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14J.

Torrens' The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Proconsul
and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connell: Historic
Portraits. By W. M. Torrens, M.P. In Two Vols.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, pj.

Tunis : the Land and the People.

B y Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg. With 22 fine Illustrate ons.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Coloured Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Turner's (J. M. W.) Life and Correspondence:

Founded upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow-academicians.
By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition, considerably
Enlarged. With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile
from Turner's original Drawings.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Plans, 14J.

Walcott's Church Work and Life in English

Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev.
Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, Bed.

Large crown 8vo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 7J. 6rf.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler:

or. The Contemplative Man's Recreation : being a Discourse of^Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton, With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations.

The Twenty-second Annual Edition, for 1882, cloth, full gilt, 50J.

Walford's County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walfcrd, M. A. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Famines, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country Addresses.
Clubs, &c. just ready

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 35. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Merrier England in the Olden 1 Low-life Deeps. An Account

Time. By George Daniel. With ' of the Strange Fish to be found there.
Illustrations by Root. Crltkshakk. By James Greenwood.

The Old Shorten and the Old Seven Generations of Execu-

London Fairs. By Thomas Frost. tones : Memoirs of the Samson

The Wilds of London. By Family (1688 to 1847). Edited by

James Greenwood. Henry Samson.

TavemAnecdotes and Sayings ; The World Behind the Scenes.

Including the Origin of Signs, and • ^y PeRCy Fitzgerald.
Reminiscences connected with | London Characters . ByHENRY
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c. Mathew. Illustrated.

By Charles Handley. With Iiiusts. The Genial Showman: Life

Circus Life and Circus Celebrated Adventures of Artemus' Ward,

ties. By Thomas Frost. By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece.

The Lives of the Conjurers. ; Wanderings in Patagonia ; or,

By Thomas Frost. ! Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By

The Life and Adventures of a ! Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.
Cheap Jack. By One of the Frater , Summer Cruising in the South

city. Edited by Charles Kindly. i Seas. By Charles Warren Soothe

Story of the London Parks. dard. Illustrated by Wallis 
Jacob Haywood. With Illusts. ' y.k^.

Warrant to Execute Charles I,

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original MS., price 2J.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots,

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and a
Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with numerous Illustrations, 45. 6rf.

Westropp's Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or. History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

What shall mv Son be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, Mea.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v. Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler.
A VERY HANDSOME Volumes "L^ixge 410, cloth extra, 31J. 6d,

White Mountains (The Heart of the) :

Their Legend and Scenery. By Samuel Adams Drake. With
nearly 100 Illustrations by W. Hamilton Gibson, Author of
Pastoral Days."

Crown Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2J. 6d.

Williams' A Simple Treatise on Heat.

By W. Mattie Williams, F.R.A.S., F.C.S.

Small Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 6s.

Wooing (The) of the Water-Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By EvAN Daldorne. lUust.byJ. Moyr Smith.
Crown Svo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Believer Edwards.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, js. 6d.

Wright's Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs,
Broad sides, Window Pictures, &c . By Thomas s Wright, M.A., F.S.A.

Large post Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Wright's History of Caricature and of the

Grotesque in Art, Literature, Sculpture, and Painting. By Thomas
Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A,

J. OGOBN AND CO., Printers, I72, ST. JOHN STREET, B.C.

Vet *^.,

s»>«

*i.^*.

UN/VEOS/TV

ffi/K?^^

mm



mf'.

^■^¥^^^^ " •

W^^M^

1^^

Ir

^^^iliil

IN MAREMMA. By Ouida. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE. By

Robert Buchanan. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin
McCarthy. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles Gibbon.
2 vols. Crown Svo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler. 2 vols.
Crown Svo.

CHATTO &> WINDUS, PICCADILLY, W,

Jl fiohd

By JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF * BY PROXY,' ' LOST SIR MASSINGBERD,' ' HIGH SPIRITS,

LESS BLACK THAN We'rE PAINTED,' ' UNDER ONE ROOF,'

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. n.

EouTJon
CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbaha-Champaign

htfp://www.archive.org/details/forcashonlynovel02payn

CONTENTS OF VOL. II.

CHAPTER XVIII.

HALVES.

THERE Is a beautiful Eastern poem
which describes a mother with her
dead child applying to her deity for its
resuscitation, and being recommended byway
of prescription Its being rubbed with
mustard-seed, begged from some house Into
whose doors death had never entered.
The mustard-seed was to be got In plenty,
but not, of course, under those conditions.


There is no flock, however watched and tended,
But one dead lamb is there ;
There is no fireside, howe'er defended,
But has one vacant chair.'

VOL. IL 21

And in the case of the aged and infirm
the calamity is still more common and to
be looked for. But though she knew all
that, and had been expecting the stroke to
fall for many a day, her father's death for
the time quite prostrated Clare. Independent
of spirit as she was as regarded
her fellow-creatures, she was not one to
rebel against the will of God, but resignation
was at first impossible to her. She
had been, as we know, the very apple
of her father's eye, and there had been
none to share the love she had reciprocated.


Her affection for Percy was, of course, of
another kind ; and though her regard for
Herbert was very great, it bore no comparison
with that she entertained for her
parent. So long as the tie, however frail,
which had bound the dead man to life
existed, she had interested herself in all
that interested him, entered into his plans
(so much of them at least as he confided to

lier), and in all but one thing (a most important
exception, however) had conformed
herself to his wishes. And now, when
-she had lost him, it almost seemed to her
that she no longer belonged to the o^reat
human family. It was not only that she
was orphaned, but isolated. There was no
loving bosom on which she could fall
and discourse upon him ; to Percy especially
her lips were sealed, for how could
she speak of him to one who loved him
not ? Herbert, indeed, could have sympathised
with her on that topic, and the
knowledge of the fact endeared him to
her; but circumstances had interposed to
prevent her obtaining that solace. What
she wanted was some one faithful friend
of her own sex, and that was denied
her.

The state of her father's health had of late
withdrawn him much from society, as the
fact of his second marriage had formerly
done, and she had made it a rule never to

21 — 2

leave him for any purpose of mere gaiety ;
so that though beloved by many of the
poor folks in StokevUle, among whom she
was a constant visitor, Clare had no intimate
acquaintances among those of her
own rank. Mildred and she had never
been sympathetic, and under present circumstances
that young lady's society was
anything but agreeable to her. For the
few days, in short, that followed her father's
decease, Clare felt that the only true companionship
left to her was with that irresponsive
something above stairs, to which
the inexorable law compelled her to pay
her last adieu.

When that was over she wrote to the
only woman in the world whom she could
call her friend, and who had already
written to her on her bereavement, to
beseech her, for the sake of old times, to
come to Oak Lodge.

This lady was a Miss Darrell, who had
been a pupil-teacher at the same school asher

mother, and had remained her lifelong
friend. subsequently she had started
an educational establishment of her own,
and having met with somewhat exceptional
success, had retired upon her savings.
Clare and she had constantly corresponded,
and the elder lady had more
than once been her father's guest, but
she had not been to Stokeville for many
years.

The kind-hearted old lady had answered
in person her young friend's pressing Invitation
at once; not a day too soon, for Clare
was not only in sorrow, but in trouble.
Before John Lyster was cold in his grave,
there had been a constant babble in the
neighbourhood about the state of his affairs,
some of which perforce had reached Clare's
ears, though far from attentive to any such
things. She had desired to be left alone
a little with her grief, and not to have it
Intruded upon by baser topics, but this had
been denied to her.

The very condiments offered had
been in many cases unwelcome to her,
since they were accompanied by vague
allusions to the opportuneness of the
calamity they deplored. ' We all rejoice
to hear that your material interests
will still remain connected with Stoke-ville.
Since it was to be, alas, dear Miss
Lyster, it is a great satisfaction to us to
reflect that it happened when it did etc.,
etc. In one instance, from one of her
poorer protdgds, the allusion was even still
more direct. ' We are thankful to think,
miss, for your sake, that your poor father
died in the very nick of time.'

With a worn and weary air, in which
there was little indeed of curiosity, Clare
had inquired of her cousin to what these
allusions referred. With a delicacy and
forethought that very literally did as much
honour to his heart as his head, Herbert
not only answered her question but went
beyond it. To the outside world the whole

transaction appeared in the light of a lucky
stroke of business ; they knew by this time
that ' old John Lyster' (for being dead he
was already old) by living a few minutes
into the current year had thereby secured
his partnership in the firm for the next
twelve months ; but they did not know what
a difference it had made to those he had left
behind him. They imagined that they
would have been rich enough in any case ;
but as it was, that they would be millionaires.
If they had been cognisant of the
dying man's hopes and fears, of his passionate
longings to protract existence, the profit
arising from his success would have been
a sufficient explanation of them. But, as
Herbert well understood, this would not
have been the case with Clare. To her mind
the struggles and anxieties which she had
witnessed, and of which the secret was now
revealed to her, would have had no adequate
cause ; nay, that her father's mind at such
a time should have been so monopolised

by the acquisition of gain for gain's sake,
would have been a serious moral shock to
her, and gone far to taint an unsullied
memory. It was, therefore, necessary for
him to hint what Mr. Oldcastle had confided
to him as his ' suspicions,' but which
to Herbert's ear (besides explaining many
things which of late had puzzled him) conveyed
a certainty, viz., that Mr. Lyster's
private estate was far from being what it
was supposed to be. Herbert began by
speaking of it to her as ' far from large,'
and ended with ' indeed, perhaps, next to
nothing,' as though it were intelligence that
required 'breaking;' a piece of tact and tenderness
that was, however, thrown away.
Indeed, strange as it may seem to those
whose motto is * For cash only,' the poorer
he represented her father to have been,
the more grateful was the news to his
listener. For the poorer he had been,
by so much the more explicable became
his eager desire for life, not for its own

sake, but for that of others : instead of self,
it was plain that self-sacrifice had been
actuating him, and that that stubborn resistance
of his to his death had been, in fact, an
heroic struggle.

To this view, Dr. Dickson, who looked
in daily as an old friend, gave unconscious
corroboration. In telling her, as he had
previously told Sir Peter, that in his opinion
Mr. Lyster's life had been prolonged by his
own marvellous power of will, he had meant
to point a moral, to show that the depression
of mind and body from which she herself
was suffering, could be mitigated by
her own act, and to preach the duty of
*making an effort' from her father's example;
and his arguments, although he
mistook the cause of their success, bore fruit
in an increase of cheerfulness in his patient.
It is some consolation, when one has loved
and lost, to know how worthy was the
departed of our regret ; and to the sorrowing
eyes of Clare the dead man seemed not

only her father, but a hero — almost a
martyr. The lightest word that threw a
shadow of a shade upon his memory was
abhorrent to her, and in this respect the
society of her half-brother was almost intolerable
to her. His behaviour, as we have
said, during the latter portion of his father's
illness, had improved, and his habits grown
more domestic or orderly ; nor could it be
said that in the house of mourning he conducted
himself with any indecent levity :
but it was now very clear that his late
depression of spirits had not been caused
by filial sorrow, but by anxiety upon his
own account. And what was very characteristic
in the young man, he credited his
half-sister with the same feelings, only
overlaid with a thicker tarpaulin of hypocrisy
than it was in his nature to assume.
For several days he had restrained himself
from talking on the matter, which, as he
was convinced, lay nearest to both their
hearts ; but on the night before the funeral,

finding himself alone with Clare, he ventured
to touch upon It.

To-morrow, my dear sister he said,
will decide our future positions In life ;
but I am sure it will make no difference in
our mutual relations

Clare, deep in sorrowful thoughts,
looked up amazed, as much perhaps at
the unaccustomed elaboration of the young
gentleman's language, which was worthy
of Mr. Rodenn himself, as of the sentiment
it conveyed.

Indeed, Gerald, I hope we shall not
only be no worse friends than of yore, but
much better. That you are your father's
son Is a tie that has been ever binding tome,
even when you have strained It most ;
and now that he is gone, you are, In a
sense, all of him that Is left to me.'

*Just so — his representative,' said Gerald.
But, as Mr. Oldcastle says, that which
means everything to-day may mean nothing
tomorrow.'

I don't understand said Clare, pressing
her hand to her forehead, and looking
at him wearily but not unkindly.

Well, you see, it will depend upon the
nature of his will.'

Oh, I see,' she sighed ; ' you are thinking
of his money. Don't you think that at
all events to-night, Gerald, we might speak
of him with reference to other subjects, or
not at all ?'

No, Clare. It distresses me as much
as yourself to talk business at such a time,
but tomorrow would, in some respects, be
too late for discussing the matter. I wish
to assure you that notwithstanding our
dear father has made me his heir, as I have
reason to believe he has done, I shall take
advantage of no legal technicality, but
share and share alike with you.'

Clare knew her half-brother pretty welland
excusing and pleading for him as she
had often done to others, had been conscious
of a weak cause and, to say the

least, an ' unsatisfactory client ;' but she
could not believe that in such a solemn
hour Gerald would tell her a deliberate lie.
She believed, because he had said it, that
her father had made him his heir ; and
she grave him credit for the resolution he

o

expressed, or rather for the momentary-impulse
that moved him so to express
himself

Your offer is a very generous one,
Gerald, and gives me as much pleasure
from its intention as perhaps anything
could give me just now. But my acceptance
of it is out of the question. If my
father has made you his heir, he has done
it for some purpose that seemed good to
him, and I hope will prove good for you ;
and nothing would induce me to be a
party to any transaction counter to his
wishes. I never wanted dear papa's
money, but only his love ; and that, thank
Heaven, he gave me.'

Yes, but one can't live on love, Clare,

and far less on the recollection of it. What
I want to assure you is that in any event I
will take care to see you comfortably provided
for. I assure you that makes a
great difference, as Percy himself will
tell you. He is very fond of you, of
course, and all that ; but if it turns out that
you have nothing to speak of, only a few
thousands, if so much, or a small share in
the business '

Clare drew herself up proudly and looked
him stralo^ht in the face.

Gerald saw that this line of argument
was altogether dangerous : it was as though
what he had taken for a ford was deep
water. It was difficult to retrace his steps,
and he began to flounder.

Of course he will keep his word, and
marry you at all events ; but — but — things
would not look rosy. Sir Peter, who thinks
of nothing but money, would, for one, be
sure to object ; and, in short, it might be
very unpleasant.'

I cannot help that, Gerald,' said Clare,
in icy tones. ' It may be as you say.' Indeed,
it struck her for the moment that her
father, in his extreme dislike to Percy,
might have left her portionless with the very
object of breaking off the marriage. ' If
Percy does not love me for my own sake,
or even partly for my own sake, it is better
that we should not marry. As to Sir Peter,
I care nothing for his consent.'

Quite right,' said Gerald, thankful to
have got to land somehow, and glad to have
found a topic of agreement. ' Sir Peter is
a mercenary old scoundrel ; and, as to his
daughter, I am sure it's no great feather in
your cap that you should have cut her out
nasty, purse-proud thing !'

Cut her out !'

Well, that's all past and gone ; but it's
generally believed she used to throw sheep's
eyes at Percy. People always said you were
worth a dozen of her ; but if you were
left dowerless and he cried off, of course

Mildred would be pleased — that's only in
nature.'

Gerald had drawn his bow at a venture,
but, perceiving that the first shot had told,
he was ready with a quiverful.

It is not necessary, I think,' said Clare,
to discuss Mildred Fibbert's character,
nor to retail all the ill natured gossip that
may be afloat in Stokeville concerning
her.'

She spoke coldly, and her face was fixed
and white ; but at heart her half-brother's
words had affected her even more than he
suspected. She had every confidence in her
lover, but he had spoken to her of ' ruin '
in case his uncle quarrelled with him ; and
if she was indeed a beggar, or what Sir
Peter would consider so, the knight would
without doubt, as Gerald said, ' object ' to
her marriage with his nephew, and if that
was broken off — and at the thought of it,
Clare, who was but a woman, though a
brave one, felt sick at heart — it would certainly

be a bitter humiliation to her and a
triumph to Mildred.

I care no more about gossip than you
do, my dear Clare continued Gerald, with
unaccustomed energy : ' what people say
goes in at one ear and out at the other ; it
is the facts that stick. You and I are now
alone in the world — quite alone ' (it was
Gerald's habit when lying — upon the principle,
perhaps, of two negatives making an
affirmative — to reiterate the particular falsehood
he wished to Inculcate), ' and should
have all things in common.'

He hesitated, and Clare, only half hearing
him, and with her thoughts on other
matters, inclined her head.

Just so ; I am so glad that you agree
with me,' he went on, quickly. ' Now " all
things " of course includes the property ; and
I do assure you it would be a great comfort
to me, notwithstanding my own reasonable
expectations, if you would, as I have proposed,
agree to share and share alike. I

VOL. II. 22

have a little memorandum in my pocket, if
you wouldn't mind putting your name to it
along with mine.'

The importunity of his manner aroused
her; she looked up suddenly from the depth
of her sorrows and forebodings into Gerald's
face.

It was the countenance of a lad of only
seventeen, but disfigured by a crowd of evil
passions, hate feigning love, base expectation
struggling with despair, rapacity, greed.
She shrank from it as if it had been the
Gorgon's.

I will sign nothing,' she said, with an
involuntary shudder ; ' I will talk no more
with you to-night.'

^As you please,' he answered,wlth an ugly
look ; * I meant no offence, I'm sure.'

They sat over the fire, side by side, without
speaking for a minute or two. Then
Gerald rose with a yawn.

It is growing late, and tomorrow will
be a trying day — a very trying day — for

both of US. You should take all the rest
you can. Good-night, dear.'

Good-night.'

She could not bring herself to add the
dear ;' she felt as if the sight of that evil
face had been a revelation of the other's
nature. It recurred to her again and again
in the night — that night of all others, on
which she would have thought of other
things — and gave to her melancholy dreams
a tinge of horror.

22-

HUSH MONEY.

HOW often it happens that even the
average man — one who is neither
thief nor scoundrel — goes to his last home
without a single genuine mourner ; women
as a rule (and it is a good one) do not
attend funerals, and it is the women who
bewail our loss. Widow and daughter sit
at home reading the prayers that are said
over the dead, and hearing, in imagination,
the earth strewn on the coffin-lid. They
will miss us, as our own sex, who have
other friends to fall back upon, other things
to think about, will never do, and they
know it. ^ A man's rare tears,' a 'Well,

well ; he was a decent fellow,' and our last
duties are paid.

It was so in John Lyster's case ; Herbert
Newton alone was moved as the earth
closed over his old friend and relative.
Sir Peter stood — with his eyes shut — regretfully
enough, thinking of that unfortunate
five minutes of survival which had
so seriously marred the promise of his
gains for the whole twelve months. Percy,
while taking a much more cheerful view of
that particular incident, bethought him with
serious face of the state of the deceased's
affairs. From all he could gather, though
he had no doubt of her inheriting the bulk
of his property, there would be very little
ready money at Clare's disposal, and he
wanted ready money. Mr. Oldcastle, who
knew more than anybody about the matter,
and yet not much, was full of cogitations on
the same subject. Dr. Dickson, more than
professionally moved by the sad ceremony,
repeated to himself the date upon the coffin-plate,

and passed a silent eulogy upon his
lost patient's pluck. Mr. Rodenn, who had
been very unwillingly summoned to Stoke-ville,
leaned over the grave, and mournfully
shook his head ; the snow was on the
ground, and he was doubtful whether his
feet were not getting wet, in which case a
cold was certain, accompanied by a total
deprivation of taste. He had been informed
by Mr. Oldcastle that he had been
made trustee with him and executor, and
he was wondering how he could with decency
refuse to act.

Gerald outdid the mutes in looking the
very picture of woe. He was thinking
of how matters would stand with him
an hour hence or so, when the' contents
of the will should have been made
known ; of the wife he had secretly taken
to himself a few months back, and of whom
he had already grown weary ; and of a
certain other matter, small in itself, but the
consequences of which might be tremendous

and overwhelming. There was indeed,
good cause for his white face and haggard
eyes.

And all this time Clare was in her father's
room, upon her knees, with thoughts unutterable,
and a bruised heart that she almost
accused of hardness because it would not
break, and suffer her to join him whithersoever
he had gone.

Clare did not attend the reading of the
will, which took place immediately after the
funeral, in the drawing-room of Oak Lodge ;
and her absence was, perhaps, a fortunate
circumstance. There was no 'scene' of any
kind, but the expression of Gerald's listening
face would probably have frightened
her for the second time. That young gentleman
must have been misinformed when
he had stated to her that he was his father's
heir. He had but one-sixth of the property
outside the firm, while the remaining five-sixths
and the whole of the money in the
firm was left to Clare. Wrapped up in the

will, which was the same which Mr. Oldcastle
had drawn up for the deceased, was
a letter for Herbert Newton, 'to be destroyed
unopened if I live to the first of
January,' and which the lawyer accordingly
put in the fire. The money for Gerald was
left, of course, in trust. Tt is my express
wish,' the testator added, that no lump sum
be given to my son Gerald, while underage,
by his half sister, nor at any other
time, unless under such conditions as shall
ensure its not being squandered.'

Contingently — that is to say if the expectations
of the firm respecting their receipts
for the current year should prove correct —
Clare was thus left a great heiress. But
what Mr. Lyster had died possessed of,
independently of his share in the firm, could
not at present be ascertained. There versa
long memorandum of shares and securities,
arranged in the most methodical manner,
over which Mr. Oldcastle privately
shook his head, but to which he made

no reference on this occasion. Sir Peter
looked as if he would have liked to have
asked a question or two, but it was clearly
not his business ; while Gerald, who was
so nearly concerned, said not a word.
Indeed, judged by the ear, the young man
had behaved very well under what were
undoubtedly trying circumstances ; but his
face, especially when that reference to the
lump sum' was being made, wore a very
sinister look. One might have almost
fancied it a picture designed by some weird
artist, under which he had scrawled ' The
Parricide.'

When the company had dispersed Gerald
did address a few words to Mr. Oldcastle,
who listened to him with considerable commiseration.


No doubt, my lad, you are disappointed.
Whether deservedly or not, your own conscience
is the best judge. I am bound to
confess, however, when drawing up your
father's instructions I myself made no protest.

Your behaviour, you must be aware,
has not inspired confidence.'

So it seems said Gerald bitterly.

Still, there is nothing in this continued
the lawyer, laying his hand upon the will,
to cause you disquietude for the future.'

Indeed ! One-sixth of what my father
has left behind him is not a fortune, I suppose
?'

I am afraid not ; I should say indeed,
though I have not looked into the matter,
far from it. It may be even a misfortune :
that is, there may be a large deficit. Your
future will depend upon your good behaviour,
which is what, as I conjecture, your
father intended.'

I don't understand,' said Gerald doggedly.


Well, if your father had died before the
year was out, I could not have so put it.
In that case you would have had but a pittance
at the very best, besides your salary
from the mill. On the other hand, Clare

would have been no better off, perhaps.'


You think the residue so small as that ?'

I think it may amount to less than nothing.
But even supposing it had amounted
to a few thousands — yes' (this in reply to a
stifled execration, which the lawyer charitably
set down as a groan) ; ' the fact is, your
father s speculations have been most unfortunate.
He took his own way; he was never
a man to ask advice,' he continued, almost
in soliloquy, ' and generally, I must say,
most judicious. It was the desperate effort
to recoup himself, no doubt ; otherwise, I
can't account for it.'

You are speaking of the residue,' said
Gerald hoarsely.

To be sure. I was about to observe
that the interest of five-sixths of it would
not, in any case, have exceeded your own
income. So far, in short, Clare and yourself
were placed on the same footing.'

What !' hissed the other between his

teeth, ' with all the money in the business
left to her absolutely ?'

The money was her mother's, not yotir
mother's, Gerald. You had no sort of
claim to it. Excuse me, but your manner
compels me to be frank.'

^ No doubt — thank you,' answered the
other, moistening his lips with his tongue.
'Notwithstanding all this frankness, your
meaning as to my not being " disquieted,"
and the advantage of my being on my
"good behaviour," is not clear to me.'

Well, I mean that Clare has it in her
power to help you, and I am sure that she
will do so to any reasonable extent.'

But the will forbids that.'

Only as to a lump sum. There I think
your father was quite right. What can a
boy like you want with a lump sum } I
shall advise your sister to allow you a
certain income.'

How much ?'

'Well, really, Gerald, that is a matter

for consideration. At present your expenses
can hardly be very great. You
will continue to live here, of course. What
can you want with money?'

I do want it,' was the curt reply.

'Well, well, we will see about all that.
Clare is not one to close her purse-strings
against anyone.'

And when Clare is married am I to be
dependent upon that infernal Percy ?'

^ Hush, hush ! Pray restrain yourself.
No ; I think that would be very improper.
I shall do my best to persuade Clare to
keep her money in. her own hands.'

She is in love with him, and a fool
besides. She will give it him all.'

No, sir. Your sister is not a fool.
Moreover, she has a sense of filial duty,'
answered the lawyer sternly. ' She will, I
know, be guided by her father's wishes in
this matter, which he expressed to me very
precisely.'

Why didn't he tie the money up }' asked

Gerald passionately. * He knew how todo
it, it seems.'

You are an ungrateful son, sir, and
your passion blinds you,' answered the
lawyer coldly. * It ought to be sufficient
for you to know that your father had his
reasons. One of them, moreover, was, I
am well convinced, that Clare should beat
liberty to act towards you with liberality.'


What does all that come to ?' returned
the other contemptuously ; ' put it in
figures.'

That is impossible just now. The
amount will depend upon your needs, but
still more upon your deserts. That is the
point, which, as your father's friend, and
one who will be yours if you will let him,
I wish to impress upon you.'

You mean that I am to be in leading-strings
all my life ?'

*At all events before you are out of
them you must convince us — that is, your

trustees and your sister — that you are
competent to take care of yourself.'

Mr. Oldcastle turned away as though
he had nothing more to say, and sat down
at the dead man's desk. He opened It
with a key he produced from his own
pocket.

^ I wish to say,' said Gerald, in a subdued
and humble tone, ' that if I can be of
any use to you in arranging those papers,
I shall be glad to help you. My father
employed me of late in all his smaller
business affairs. The petty cash, and the
cheques drawn on his private account,
and so on.'

Very good. I will apply to you incase
anything requires an explanation. In
the meantime say nothing of what I have
told you as respects your late father's
private estate. Things may turn out better
than I expect, and on the other hand
much worse. In either case it will make
little difference to you.'

*You mean that the anticipated profits
of the firm this year are so large that this
other matter is a mere fleabite.'

I meant nothing of the kind, sir. The
profits of the firm, whatever they may be,
will not be yours. I only wished to
impress upon you once again that your
prospects will depend upon your own conduct.
I have nothing to add to that.'

Gerald felt that he had not conciliated
the lawyer, and had done himself more
harm than good. But conciliation is not
easy to us when the chief desire of our
minds is to possess a hatchet and the opportunity
of terminating with it the lives of
one's immediate friends and relatives.
Never, he thought, in the history of the
world had anyone been so infamously
treated as he had been. The idea of his
future depending upon his good behaviour
was especially abhorrent to him, and indeed
seemed almost cynical — like a bequest
to a man with a wooden leg, which should

be made contingent upon his distinguishing
himself in pedestrianism. That a chit of
a girl like Clare should hold the purse-strings
of his supplies was the circumstance
that galled him most of all. How
much more in accordance with the fitness
of things it would have been to have made
him the almoner and her the recipient.
And this terrible disinheritance, although
his last and crowning misfortune, was not
the worst thing that could befall him. He
was environed on every hand by troubles
which were not the less hateful because
they were of his own making. Besides
having to cringe to Clare, and if possible
to cajole her, it was necessary for him in
other matters to wear a mask of serenity ;
and, though his very soul was bursting
with chagrin and impatience, to move
with caution and pick his way.

As he was about to mount the stairs to
Clare's boudoir (for the task of conciliation
could not be begun too soon) he saw Percy

VOL. II. 23

coming out of it. He marked him close
the door and stand for a moment outside
with frowning face. The interview he
rightly conjectured (like his own with Mr.
Oldcastle) had been an unsatisfactory one,
and it had cost him something to play his
part in it. He was waiting, no doubt, for
the thunder-cloud to clear from his brow,
and the smile to corne back, with which it
was his custom to meet his fellow-creatures
when it was worth his while to do so.
Was it possible that after all that had
come, and gone Clare had refused him ?
To Gerald such an event would have been
indeed welcome ; it Alas most desirable
that she should have her mind free from
thoughts of love and fixed on duty — the
duty of providing for her nearest relative.
But that seemed too great a piece of lack
to be true. It was clear, however, that
there was a rift in the lute of love ; its
harmony had received some check, and
apparently a rude one.

Percy descended step by step with
downcast eyes, and so rapt in thought
that he did not see the other till he was
close upon him.

What the deuce are you grinning at ?'
he then exclaimed imperiously.

^ Grinning ! I was only looking at you !
A cat may look at a king, and grin too, for
that matter.'

I am glad you are in such good spirits,'
replied Percy, with a sneer. ' I should
have hardly expected it.'

The hostile character of these remarks
was immensely heightened by their being
uttered on both sides in a subdued tone,
necessitated by the circumstances of the
case. Each of the antagonists was careful
not to make a disturbance in the house of
mourning. Percy's last innuendo, referring,
as Gerald well understood, to the contents
of his father's will, was, however, almost
insupportable to him. It was with difficulty
he restrained himself from an outburst

; as it was, he glared at the other in
silent fury.

After all,' continued Percy, who, having
found an object, was evidently giving rein
to the passion which he had hitherto been
obliged to suppress, ' it is not as if you
wanted money. A lad like you, without
incumbrance — a gay young bachelor at
most — can afford to smile at being disinherited


That's true,' said Gerald slowly. ' If
I had really expensive tastes, such as
keeping racehorses for example, the thing
would be more serious.'

Racehorses ? Who keeps racehorses ?'
answered Percy. His tone was indifferent,
and even contemptuous ; but to one who
observed him narrowly (and for once
Gerald's eyes gazed point-blank upon his
interlocutor), it could be seen that he turned
a little pale, and that his moustache was
twitching uneasily.

Oh, I don't know ; let us say, for example,
Jennings.'

To be sure,' said Percy with a faint
smile, and in a voice that was also faint.

Well, he would sometimes want money,
I should think. And as to disinheritance,
why that is a thing that might happen to
anybody.'

Quite true, Gerald. I was wrong,
however, to make light of it in your case.
The fact is I have been put out, and
scarcely knew what I said. Forgive me.'

This was a point so very opportune for
the utterance of his favourite interjection
that Gerald could not resist it. Indeed, sofar
from rejecting it he gave it full stress
and significance, so that it sounded like the
malignant snarl of a dog.

'Yah.'

*Come, dont be sulky said the other
quietly. * I mean you no harm, but quite
the contrary. You are not perhaps in
such a hole as you think ; and if you are, I

may be able to help you out of it. If
there's anything pressing '

I want twenty pounds,' interrupted
Gerald.

'Twenty pounds,' repeated Percy. His
face had become very quiet and thoughtful
; he appeared to be reflecting as to
whether he had the money about him, for
he felt in his breast-pocket for his notebook.
But the real question he was
putting to himself was a far more important
one. ' If I suffer this horse-leech
to draw blood once, will he cling to me
for ever ?' ' Yes,' he said, drawing four
bank-notes from a largish roll of them, ' I
will lend you twenty pounds with pleasure ;
and I dare say we shall not quarrel about
the repayment'

'I dare say not,' sneered Gerald; 'and
as to helping me in a general way — I mean
as to the allowance that is to be made tome
by Clare and so forth — I dare say I
may look to you for that also.'

My Influence will certainly be exerted
in your behalf.'

That sounds very pretty, but I am not
going to be put off with a pittance. If
that is all Clare does for me it must be
made up to me by somebody else ; do you
understand ?'

Make your mind quite easy upon that
subject, Gerald.'

Percy nodded assuringly as he let himself
out at the front door, and walked
down the gravel-sweep swinging his cane.
Gerald gazed after him with grim admiration.


What a fellow he is to carry a thing
off! He is the best and greatest liar alive,
I do believe. One would think that that
twenty pounds was all he would have to
pay to yours truly. But he knows as well
as I do that it's only the beginning of our
little running account. Sam Chigwell, you
scoundrel, I owe you a good turn for this ;
not that you meant it however, for you

would never have let the cat out of the
bag If you hadn't been drunk. And I
didn't know about it myself for certain till
I saw the fellow's face twitch. That's a
hint old Dickson gave me which I have
not forgotten. A man's mouth will often
tell the truth when his tongue lies. That
let us say, for example, Jennings," was a
bold stroke of mine. But what a fool I
was to say twenty instead of fifty ! To
think that some fellows should go about
with rolls of notes when a man like me is
in want of a sovereign. It's disgusting.
However, I shall not want for sovereigns
now — thanks to Jennings.'

BROTHER AND SISTER.

EVERYBODY says that it is better
to be good than to be clever, though
very few people believe it. A judge the
other day, indeed, took off half the punishment
he should have inflicted upon a very
cruel murderer, because he was informed
that the man was ' by disposition dull and
slow;' but that was an exceptional case
arising probably out of his lordship's fellow-feeling
with the prisoner. As a rule, it is
considered that dull people don't get on,'
while clever ones do. I have, however,
my doubts upon this subject. The clever
ones climb the ladder of success in life

with great rapidity, but often as not lose
their footing (through sheerness), and
back they tumble heels over head ; or they
reach the very top even, and then, like
vaulting ambition, fall on the other side.
Percy Fibbert, for example, was perhaps
the cleverest young fellow in Stokeville ;
but his position just now, as one may guess,
was far from enviable. Gerald Lyster, too,
had lots of cleverness, though of the kind
that is called ' cunning ;' and yet, as we
have seen, he had his apprehensions. For
the moment, indeed, it seemed that things
were going better with him, and that in
hitting on a certain blot in the affairs of the
suave and smiling Percy, he had, as it were,
struck oil.' This, however, was but an
oasis in his desert of troubles. If he had
been a wise man, or even a dull one, he
would have let well alone for awhile ; but
being so astute, he thought that no time
should be lost in paying his court to his
father's daughter and heiress, especially

now he had won her lover over to his
side.

So he went up to Clare's room, and,
knocking with all the sympathy that could
be expressed by the knuckles, was admitted.
She was standing by the window with her
back to him, and did not turn to meet him
for a second or two.

Blubbing,' said Gerald to himself.

And, indeed, Clare was shedding very
bitter tears. Since the death of her father
she had been conscious of a barrier, or
rather, for it was very thin and vague, we
will say a him of obstruction between Percy
and herself. She could not forget that her
father had not loved him, and she suspected
that that antagonistic feeling was at
least reciprocated. It seemed just now
almost a sort of disloyalty to the deadman's
memory to encourage Percy's attentions,
and in the late interview she was
conscious of having: behaved with what he
might well consider cruelty. He had not

said so, but on the contrary, which aggravated
her remorse, had behaved with admirable
self-control and gentleness. He
had recognised where the difficulty lay at
once, and had addressed himself to remedy
it.

He had described to her, in his picturesque
way, the circumstances of the
funeral. How many of the shops had
been shut in Stokeville (a circumstance
that had escaped the observation of the
other mourners, no doubt from the preoccupation
of their minds with grief), and
how everyone had testified by their manner
the sense of a loss to the community.
Then he had painted, without exaggeration,
his own feelings, or rather what he
imagined she had conceived them to be.
How the knowledge that the dead man
had not understood him was a bitter pang
to him, now that the time had passed for
such understanding ; though on his part
there had been, he was glad to feel, at

least the highest respect and reverence.
Indeed, of late (this he put very carefully),
he had ventured to hope that Mr. Lyster
himself had looked upon him with less
unfavourable eyes.

Never perhaps had Percy Fibbert shown
himself so clever ; and yet to the ears of
loving regret all this had a false ring in it.
Clare involuntarily compared it with the
few words her cousin Herbert had whispered
to her, hand clasped in hand, when
he took leave of her, five minutes before,
and the lines of contrast had stood outwith
painful distinctness.

And yet she loved this man with all her
heart.

We call * marvellous' the love that is
instinctive, as that of a mother for her
child. But how much more marvellous
is that which is no instinct, but infatuation,
the love of a pure girl for an unworthy object.
Clare had cast herself for a moment
upon Percy's breast and returned his

kisses, for was he not her betrothed and
all she had to look to in the future ? But
even of that she had almost repented as of
an act of treason. And when, on the other
hand, he proffered his caresses, and she
had avoided them, she felt that she was
cruel and unkind. Percy did not put it
quite in that way himself, but he thought
himself very badly treated. He had no
'patience' with the grief that interfered with
his tender affections ; thought it ' infernal
rubbish,' and that more than enough had
been already sacrificed on the altar of
filial sentiment. The provisions of the
dead man's will had been satisfactory to
him ; but he had looked for nothing less,
while he had a strong: conviction that his
uncle would look for something more. If
Mr. Oysters property, apart from what he
had in the mill, should prove to be nothing,
or even, as was quite possible, a minus
quantity, Sir Peter would be far from
satisfied. It was expedient on that account

that matters should be arranged for
his marriage as speedily as possible ; and
still more expedient, inasmuch as a jealous
woman, to whom he had not behaved
fairly, was bent on putting every obstacle
in the way. This last fact, it was true,
was his trump-card with Clare, and in an
indirect way he continued to play it. But
to his bitter disappointment it had not
the same effect as on the previous occasion.
Sir Peter, and even Mildred, might
do their worst, said Clare (or as much as
said), but for the present she for her part
could not think of marriage; and it was
plain that at that time it distressed and
pained her to speak about it.

No wonder then that Mr. Percy Fibbert
with so many irons in the fire, but thus
compelled to inactivity and suspense,
should have resented it, and, though he
left the boudoir of his lady-love with
the gravest and tenderest of smiles,
should have stood outside with a frown

on his face (as an angry cat waits for her
tail to go down before she can pass under
some grating) for his rage to subside
before he showed himself to society.

From first to last, however, the astute
Percy had never said one word about
Clare's money.

Now Gerald, though, as we have said,
astute in his way, was quite unable to
steer clear of that important topic : he
took it for granted that both Herbert and
Percy had been full of it ; and his first
words on entering his sister's room were :

Well, Clare, I congratulate you — most
heartily congratulate you.'

She turned from the window with astonishment
on her pale and tearful face.

Congratulate me, Gerald ?'

She scarcely thought she could have
heard aright ; he must surely have meant
condolence.

Well, yes, dear ; of course, though you
expected it — or at least we all did.' It

was bad for Gerald as an habitual liar that
he had a very short memory. ' But I am
so glad that your hopes, and, indeed, my
hopes, are confirmed.'

For the moment she really thought that
this unhappy boy, instead of having all his
wits about him, and the steadiest possible
eye to the main chance, was in liquor.

I mean, of course,' he added very
cheerfully, for it suddenly struck him that
he might after all be the first bearer of the
good tidings to her, ' I mean that my
father has made you his heiress.'

Luckily for Gerald the material significance
of this information, and consequently
the motive that prompted it, was
not the first thing that struck Clare ; the
news was to her only a fresh 'proof of
the dead man's love, and it utterly overcame
her.

'Don't cry, dear Clare, don't cry; be
sure I am not here to reproach my father.'

Reproach him, Gerald T If a glass
VOL. II. 24

of water had been flung in her face, as
Gerald afterwards observed, It could not
have brought her more speedily to herself.
Why should you reproach him ?'

Of course not, there is no sort of reason
why ; and though, as I told you, I was led
to imagine that matters would have been
very differently arranged, I am not at all
jealous — though perhaps just a little disappointed.
I have not behaved as I ought
to have done, I know ; I did give him reason
to distrust me — but, but ' And

Gerald took out his handkerchief and
covered his face.

My poor Gerald !' said Clare kindly,
with her hand upon his shoulder ; * it was
not distrust, I am sure, but only that he
thought you improvident, and — and — perhaps
a little reckless. If he has left what
he had to me, he did so knowing well that
I should see your interests were looked
after.'

That is just what I told Mr. Oldcastle,*

exclaimed Gerald triumphantly. * *' My
father knew," said I, " that Clare would
never let me be the sufferer. He had such
confidence in her sense of right." '

I hope so, dear Gerald said Clare
humbly.

And Percy continued Gerald, in the
tone of one who makes a candid admission,
though he has not always shown himself
friendly to me, I must say Percy says the
same. When he talks to you about it, Clare,
if he has not already done so, I am sure you
will find that he takes my side — the side of
justice. That I should be left penniless
and you an heiress would, he allows, be
very hard, if it were not, as Mr. Oldcastle
would say, for the intention of the testator.
The mere words of the will are nothing
when we know what he really meant. I
do not ask, of course, that we should share
and share alike, as we should have done if
things had been the other way ; but some
suitable arrangement — something of the

24 — 2

same kind — Percy thinks should be entered
into for my benefit.'

I think you may trust me said Clare,
faintly smiling. ' I don't want even Percy
to advise me as to right or wrong.'

No, nor Herbert either said Gerald
quickly, for next to making sure of our
friends, It Is as well to provide against our
enemies. * Herbert has always done his
best to worm himself into my father's good
graces, and set him against me.'

Oh, Gerald, Gerald ! don't say that ;
Herbert is justice itself.'

Well, you'll see. He'll be the very
man to oppose my getting my rights. It
was he, I know, who suggested that I
should not have a lump sum. That's down
in the will.'

But, my dear Gerald, what can a boy
like you want at present with a lump sum,
which I suppose means a large sum of
ready money. If you have any debts, of
course they shall be paid.'

There was a moment when, taking note
of Clare's gentle looks and the tender clasp
of her hand in his, he had a mind to tell
her all. How he had clandestinely contracted
a disgraceful marriage ; how something
was on its way towards life which
would be a lifelong burden to him ; how
he had lost money, as well as spent it,
which was not his own. But his habitual
cunning restrained him.

Well, of course I have debts,' he said
doggedly. ' I have expenses, too, as
every young fellow has : as a fellow, I
mean, in my position' — for he saw he was
making a bad impression — ' has a right to
have.'

^ I will consult with Mr. Oldcastle,
Gerald,' said Clare earnestly, 'and everything
shall be managed for the best.
Pray, pray believe that I have nothing
but your good, the good of my dear
father's son, at heart.'

I had rather you consulted with Percy,

for he's a young fellow himself, and knows.
Mr. Oldcastle is an old fogy, and a skin-flint
beside. He would suggest, perhaps,
three hundred a year.'

In Clare's eyes three hundred a year fora
young gentleman who was hardly nineteen,
and lived at home, seemed a very
sufficient allowance; but she only observed,
with a sigh: 'All that shall be seen to,
Gerald ; but I must take the advice of
wiser heads than mine.'

'Well, Percy, of course, would be your
natural adviser. I am sure I am quite
willing to leave everything to his good
feeling and sense of justice.'

Clare thought it strange that Gerald
should exhibit this confidence in Percy,
between whom and himself, as he had
often said, ' there was no love lost ;' and
it also occurred to her that Mr. Oldcastle,
as much the older man, and her father's
friend and professional adviser, was the
more proper person to consult on such a

matter. But as she perceived it would
annoy Gerald to say so, she only bowed
her head. A sense that she was somehow
placed in antagonism to Gerald, or
rather that he conceived her to be so,
oppressed her and begat a sense of embarrassment.
It was literally a relief to
her — such as is hailed by a besieged garrison
— that her maid now entered the room
with ' Mr. Oldcastle's compliments, and if
convenient he would come up upstairs and
have a few words with her.'

Now,' said Gerald, with great earnestness,
' you be firm, Clare. The lawyers
always go by the letter and not by the
spirit ; you mustn't let him breed bad
blood between us.'

Bad blood !'

I mean, being a lawyer, nothing would
probably please him more than that we
two should quarrel, which, living as we do
under the same roof, would be to the last
degree unpleasant.'

The tone as well as the words were
menacing, and under other circumstances
would have brought the fire of defiance
into Clare's eyes. She was not a girl to be
coerced into anything ; but on the present
occasion she only answered gently :

It takes two to make a quarrel, Gerald
and kissed him as he left the room.

Neither the kiss nor the assurance, however,
were warmly received. She felt that
there were troubles coming of a different
sort from those which had hitherto befallen
her, and In addition to there. It had been
her earnest wish, and even her prayer, that
for the future Gerald and she should live
as sister and brother ought to do ; but she
could not help feeling that It would be very
difficult to get on with him. Percy, too,
she could not conceal from herself, was far
from pleased with her. In a word, she felt
not only forlorn and bereaved but isolated.

Thank Heaven, good little Miss Darrell
was coming tomorrow.

NANNIE.

MISS ANNIE DARRELL (commonly
called Nannie by her intimate
friends) was a little lady of fifty or
thereabouts, who, thanks to early troubles
and later cares, looked in some respects a
hundred. Her face was deeply lined, her
hair was white as snow, and she had only
a few ounces of flesh on her bones impartially
distributed. But her manner was
cheerful and even airy, her eyes bright and
birdlike, and her heart was young. I
should rather say it was rejuvenescent, fora
sort of Indian summer (except that it
was to last) had befallen it. As a pupil

teacher she had tasted very few of the delights
of youth— her friendship with Clare's
mother had been the one bright feature of
that dreary existence ; as a governess she
had had a still harder time of it ; and as a
schoolmistress who never shirked her duty
she had been worn, as she herself expressed
it, to fiddle-strings. But competence and
leisure had come at last to her ; and — what,
alas seldom happens — not too late. Unlike
the birds, she sang in the winter instead of
the spring. Her experience was, for one
of her sex, large and varied ; life had no
longer any illusions for her (Indeed, poor
soul, it never had had any), but she found
it enjoyable. Though her face was wrinkled,
it had the delicate complexion of a child,
which, combined with the fragility of her
form and the diminutiveness of her stature,
gave her the look of a figure In Dresden
china.

How good of you to come !' whispered
Clare, after a long embrace.

Good of me ! It is the sort of o^ood-

t.

ness most easily practised, the doing what
one likes best. What could be so pleasant
to me as to come to you ? Only, if you
cry I shall go away again. You know I
never could stand tears.'

She had seen a good deal of them in
her time, nevertheless ; and if she herself,
thanks to the necessity of self-control, had
shed but few, it was not because she had
not had plenty to cry about.

I cannot help it, Nannie. I was thinking
of the last time you were here.'

'When your dear papa was alive. I
understand all that. Do you think, however,
he would wish you to weep like that?
That is surely the great point now — how
you can best fulfil his wishes.'

It is indeed,' sighed Clare, thinking of
many things — of what Mr. Oldcastle had
impressed upon her with respect to Gerald,
of what Gerald himself had said to her, and
chiefly of her lover.

Miss Darrell at once understood that
there was a difficulty somewhere, and
shifted her ground.

It is easy to see from your eyes, my
poor darling, that your debt of sorrow has
been overpaid. Yet your father was a
good man.'

The best of men,' answered Clare fervently.


Then it is certain he is in heaven.'
She was about to add, ' with your sainted
mother ;' but the remembrance of his second
marriage, suggesting a plurality of sainted
wives, restrained her. * And If in heaven,
why should you weep ? Such behaviour Is
not only illogical, for It Is Impossible you
can grudge him his eternal happiness, but
unfits you for your earthly duties. How
can you consider what Is best to be done
for others — which is what we are given
brains for — when your thoughts are fixed
upon one for whom you can do nothing ;
except, of course, carrying out his wishes 't'

^ But that is the difficulty, Nannie.'

Tears, however, will only render you
less fit to cope with it'

There was a touch of the schoolmistress
in her tone, which was not inopportune.
Clare was just now not only in need of a
counsellor, but even to some extent of a
dictator.

Before an hour had passed. Miss Darrell
was in full possession of the circumstances
in which her young friend was placed as
regarded Gerald ; and had learnt more
perhaps than Clare was aware of, or had
intended she should, of her relations with
Percy.

I must look at things for a little with
my own eyes,' was the old lady's conclusion,
' before giving you any definite
opinion. But I think you may trust to meat
all events as to business matters.'

If Miss Darrell had a weakness it was
the conviction that she was a ' woman of
business ;' and it must be allowed that she

had some cause for it. As a general rule,
I have noticed that the ladies who have
acquired this reputation derive it from their
lawyers, and that it is conferred on account
of the number of letters the said clients
write to them, each of which demands a
reply — price six and eighteen. Miss
Darrell had had little or nothing to do
with lawyers ; but she had a very accurate
knowledge of finance and a consciousness
of the value of money, which, to persons
of sentiment, would perhaps have seemed
incompatible with a generous and simple
nature. She would have given the very
shawl off her back in the bitterest of
winter weather to anyone she loved, had
such a sacrifice been required ; but she
understood the comfort of clothing, and
specially the exceeding discomfort arising
from its insufficiency. Her sense of the
evils of poverty, quickened by long experience,
was in no way dulled by her
present prosperity ; and, curiously enough,

it indirectly led her to be Gerald's apologist.
Clare had told her — not in the way of complaint
of him, but in explanation of that
want of sympathy with her half-brother of
which she had accused herself, and deplored
— how he had come on the very day
of her father's funeral to congratulate her
upon being his heiress.

It seemed to me so sadly ill-timed,' she
said, * and altogether unsuitable, that I am
afraid it rather set me against him

Then I don't think it should have done
so,' said the old lady bluntly. 'It is a
matter of very great congratulation that
you are left independent of all money cares.
Every other kind of trouble is healed by
time, but those endure for ever. It is only
those who have not felt it who underrate
the pinch of poverty. When sorrow such
as yours overtakes us, it seems for the
time that nothing else is worth thinking
about ; but if narrow or insufficient means
accompany it, wee have soon to think of

how to make them go as far as possible,
and farther — to stretch what is not elastic.
Our sorrow, which seemed something
divine and eternal, is then quenched in
sordid cares ; but it is a very miserable
way of getting rid of it. Dear Clare,' continued
the old woman, speaking with
energy, ^ I had once a free and independent
spirit like yourself. Thank Heaven,
it has been restored to me ; but I shall
never forget what it cost me, and how I
lost it. The shifts I have been put to, the
wretched scrapings and hoardings, the
adding of not house to house and field to
field, but of shilling to shilling — these
things, not to mention the necessity of
holding one's hand when Pity cries " Give,
give," are not easily forgotten. But, bitterest
of all, and the remembrance of which
can never fade, are the slights and contumelies
that Poverty compels us to submit
to ; the hypocrisies it forces upon us ;
the bated breath, when we should speak

out ; the bended knee, when we should

stand upright ; the ' She stopped

suddenly, quivering with emotion. * No
matter, dear; all that is past and gone.
Where were we ? Talking of Gerald, true.
Well, I think he was quite right to congratulate
you.'

I have forgiven him, I am sure. Indeed,
your words have put his own in quite
a different light. It was the inopportune-ness
of the time, I think, that struck me.
Percy, for example, never dreamt of alluding
to money matters.'

Indeed !' The tone of this remark
was what wine merchants term ' extra
dry.' ' I suppose it is the privilege of
engaged young ladies to know what their
lovers dream about.'

I mean,' said Clare, with a quick flush,
that Percy has too much good taste and
delicacy of mind to have thought of such
things at such a time, much less to have
talked about them.'

VOL IT 25

'And Herbert?'

sand of course Herbert, too. Indeed,
at no time does Herbert much concern
himself with pecuniary matters. He is
consideration and kindness itself, and there
is no one — no one — of whom dear papa
had a higher opinion.'

He always gave me the impression of
being a very sensible young man,' said
Miss Darrell quietly. ' Though he takes
nothing under your father's will, it seems,
this continuation of partnership with Sir
Peter must be of great advantage
to him, since he has money in the business.'


I suppose so ; I'm sure I hope so.'

But surely you must know. I understood
that the year's profits would be
enormous.'

So it is expected ; but Mr. Oldcastle
took great pains to point out to me that
that was but a contingency. I am afraid I
did not give him my whole attention, but

he hinted that things might possibly go
the other way.'

You mean that the firm might have
losses instead of gains, for which your
father's estate would be responsible

Yes ; and in that case, as I understood
him, there would be very little left for poor
Gerald to quarrel about.'

Then there can be nothing but what is
in the business — no savings ?' suggested
Miss Darrell thoughtfully.

I suppose not, at all events very little,
and Mr. Oldcastle even spoke of a deficit.
There may be liabilities : he said something
about an unlimited company.'

But, my darling, that is most important,'
put in the lady earnestly ; ^ it may mean
ruin.'

'You had better talk to Mr. Oldcastle
yourself,' said Clare wearily. ' Oh dear,
oh dear, this money — it has set Gerald
against me already, you see !

Yes, it's the root of all evil,' assented

2; — 2

the old lady ; ^ but there's one thing worse,
my dear, than money — and that is, the
want of it. How's Sir Peter ?'

I believe he is as well as usual said
Clare coldly.

Ah, so I should suppose, and in his
usual spirits ! I should think he was a
man who could bear to lose his friends
with a great deal of philosophy.'

I don't think Sir Peter was ever a
friend of papa's, though he was his partner.'


Indeed ! That is what seems to me a
risk in partnership that is not duly considered.
If there is a common bond of
sympathy, well and good ; indeed, nothing
could be more pleasant : but if the bond is
only one of interest, it must become very
irksome. It is almost as great a lottery as
marriage.'

'You don't fall in love with your partner,
however, before entering with him into
business,' said Clare, smiling — for the first

time for many a day — at the old lady's
seriousness.

No, you do that with your eyes open,
which is so far an advantage. I am not
speaking of your case, my dear, of course :
you have known Percy Fibbert all his life ;
it is not a matter of love at first sight —
taking a house to live in all your life, as it
where, without inquiries, just because it looks
well from the railroad.'

But I did love Percy at first sight,'
smiled Clare. ' You will forgive me, my
dear Nannie, for saying that this is
one of the few things you don't understand.'


No doubt, my dear,' answered the old
lady simply. ' It's a mystery to spinsters.
I have never loved anybody till I felt, so
to speak, justified in so doing. I like to
have something to go upon. Love seems
to me like ice, and one ought to try
whether it will bear or not before one
ventures.'

Clare laughed again, and this time quite
merrily.

Love is not at all like ice, I do assure
you, Nannie.'

By-the-bye, talking of ice,' said the old
lady, ' how is your friend Mildred ?'

Clare's face grew very grave. ' She is
quite well, I believe ; I have not seen
much of her lately.'

Ah, she is not one, I should imagine,
who agrees with Solomon that it is better
to come to the house of mourning than to
that of feasting !'

I do not say that she has been inattentive,
but the fact is we are not very sympathetic'


You don't like the same things, or the
same people.'

Clare felt the colour glowing in her
cheeks, though she would have given
worlds to hide it from the other's scrutinising
glance.

We have not the same tastes in anyway,'

she answered quietly, ' and I don't
think Mildred likes me'

That is unfortunate, since you are going
to marry into the family.'

Yes, it is so ; one has misfortunes, you
see,' she added with a ghost of a smile,
'even though one is an heiress.'

The old lady nodded, and went on with
her needlework. (She was always armed
with a needle and thread, being constitutionally
unable to sit idle for five minutes.)
Then the conversation grew more desultory,
and she refrained from asking anymore
questions. She had already possessed
herself generally of the map of the
country with respect to her young friend's
affairs. The by-paths, she flattered herself,
she should presently discover for
herself.

CHECK AND COUNTER-CHECK.

THOUGH Percy Fibbert's last interview
with Clare had not been wholly
satisfactory, his conduct had betrayed no
sign of it ; his temper, to say the truth,
was not of the best, and when once let
loose was one of the worst, but he had
great control over it. You would never
have guessed, to see him in the presence
of his betrothed, with that smiling air of
his, and only an occasional sigh to show
her how cruelly she was treating him, what
a volcano of impatience was raging within
him. How he despised all that affectation
of affection and regret which seemed to

find relief in procrastination, and was only
one degree less contemptible in his eyes
than prudery itself.

Perhaps if he could have told her all,
Clare would have named some reasonably
early date for their union, but all he dared
not tell her ; and mere passionate pleading
was not only of no avail in her case, but
might defeat its object. He suspected, indeed,
what was the fact, that any importunity
would have quickened the sense of
remorse she entertained in acting counter
to the wishes of her father, notwithstanding
that consent had been wrung from him.
Every week's delay would he knew, give
Mildred hopes of his marriage being broken
off, and thus make matters more unpleasant
in the end, while it would give opportunity
for examination into the state of Mr. Lyster s
affairs, which he conjectured were anything
but prosperous, a disclosure which would
once more place Sir Peter in opposition.
It was creditable, therefore, to Percy's self-restraint

that he came daily to Oak Lodge
to play the part of a sympathising friend
rather than that of a lover. He had, however,
another reason for his visits, that of
keeping up an intimacy with Mr. Oldcastle,
who was now constantly the house on business,
and who, in spite of Gerald's voluntary
offer of assistance, was much less confidential
with him than with Percy. Clare's
coldness whetted his passion, or some of
the lawyer's revelations might have cooled
it, for the young man had as keen an eye
to the main chance as his uncle, though he
pursued it under other conditions. He
liked risk — that is, the gambler's '' perfect
certainties " — for its own sake ; and when
he had once promised anything (to himself),
was most honourably resolute to keep his
word. Thus it happened that when Mr.
Oldcastle pointed out that Mr. Lyster's
affairs were not only bad in themselves, but
were involved in certain, or rather uncertain,
contingencies, Percy received the information

with considerable philosophy. If
an investment was in an unlimited company,
then it must be got out of it ; if a security
was shaky, it must be disposed of for what
it would fetch. Advice it was easier to
offer than to put into effect. At the same
time, Mr. Oldcastle felt that it was good
advice, and, knowing that Percy was fully
aware of the danger to which the estate
was exposed, became more favourably disposed
towards the young man for making
light of it. They both agreed that the
matter should be kept as long as possible
a secret, and, as always happens, grew
more familiar and confidential from their
common possession of it.

One morning, as Percy was leaving the
house, the lawyer called him into the
study.

Look here,' he said; ' I have been going
into these things,' pointing to a little heap of
papers labelled 'Personal Expenses.' 'They
are of little consequence, as compared with

Other matters ; but what do you think of
this ?'

It was one of Mr. Lyster's cheques payable
to ' self or bearer,' and crossed as usual,
for ^25.

I see nothing peculiar in it,' said Percy ;
that is his signature, if you mean that.'

No doubt ; but look on the other side.
What do you think of the endorsement ?'

Samuel Chigwell [ That's odd, certainly.'


Mr. Samuel Chigwell, or Sam Chigwell,
as he was more generally called, was a
cousin of Mr. Lyster's second wife, and the
most disreputable member of what, at best,
was not a very respectable family. He had
some little property of his own, supposed
to have been acquired in the lower walks
of sporting life, such as dog-fighting and
pigeon-shooting, and which had placed him
in the enjoyment of a banker's account.
The late Mrs. Lyster's relatives had never
found her husband the milch cow which

their hopes had pictured him : to herself,
for the short time she had been with him,
he had been liberality itself; and he had
assisted to some extent her immediate
relatives. But she had not Importuned
him In that way, nor had he felt ashamed
of their poverty. In Stokeville it was so
common for one member of a family to
become suddenly possessed of wealth that
there was no public, sense of incongruity ;
and as to the outlying members of the
Chlgwell race, ]mr. Lyster had seldom
been brought Into contact with them.
Least of all had he been acquainted with
Sam, who, indeed, except by hearsay, was
unknown to all respectable people. It was
no wonder, therefore, that on seeing Mr.
Lyster's cheque with Sam's endorsement
Mr. Percy Fibbert should have exclaimed,
That's odd, certainly.'

You know Master Sam — to speak to —
don't you ?' inquired Mr. Oldcastle drily.

He had heard stories of Percy which Sir

Peter had not heard ; not discreditable ones
exactly, but certain hints of his goings on,'
such as a lawyer in a provincial town is
pretty sure to hear of a son of his client if
at all inclined to fast life. He knew that
he made a point of going to London upon
business during the Derby week, and that
business required his personal supervision
in the north at the time of the Leger.

Yes, I know him, as you say, to speak
to, or rather to nod to said Percy indifferently.


Well, I dare say it's all right — indeed,
we have it under Mr. Lyster's hand — but
I should just like to have that view confirmed.
If the cheque was paid directly
to Mr. Chigwell it could hardly be for
value received, and otherwise I don't see
how it comes here through his hands.'

That's true,' said Percy; ^ I'll find it
out.' And he folded the cheque with his
usual neatness, and put it in his note-case.

That very evening as he came out of the

pool-room of the local club, he met Mr.
Samuel Chigwell in the street, and considering
he only knew him ' to nod to,'
addressed him with considerable familiarity.


I say, Sam, I want a word with you ;
just walk a few yards with me up Lessons
Lane.'

Having attained this retired spot, Percy
stopped suddenly, laid his hand on the
other's coat collar, and exclaimed in a voice
of suppressed passion :

What have you been saying about me
to Gerald Lyster, you drunken dog ?'

Nothing, s'elp me ! I never breathed
your name,' replied the other with much
earnestness, but with some difficulty of
articulation.

But you breathed Jennings's name, which
is worse.'

Strike rne dead if I did ; that is, not as
I know of. I was a little '' on " the other
night when v;e were at billiards at the

Crown together, but not so bad as to do
that'

You did, I say answered the other
passionately. ' Gerald knows all about it

It don't follow that I told him,' was the
dogged reply There's others as knows
it besides me. It's a thing that must come
out sooner or later.'

If it comes out sooner, it will be the
worse for you.'

Now, really, Master Percy, this is very
hard,' answered Chigwell, in a tone between
a whimper and a whine. * I give
you my word of honour '

'What?'

Well, well — you must let a fellow tell
his story his own way. I was no more
oh " at the Crown that night than I am
at this blessed moment of time.'

He pronounced ' moment ' in several
syllables, and made his ' blessed ' very soft
and squashy.

You drunken beast,' cried Percy

through h-is teeth, 'what did Lyster give
you for telling him ? If you lie I'll kill you !
And besides, I know the exact sum. It
was a cheque for five-and-twenty pounds.'

That's right. Passable — peaceable — I
mean payable, to bearer.'

So you sold me, did you ? told him all
about me and the horses for twenty-five
pounds ?'

Not a word. Not a blooming syllabub
syllable. Might have said Jennings, but
don't think so,' said Sam, struggling with a
gigantic effort of memory. * Never mentioned
your name, that I'll go to the chop
I mean stake — upon.'

^ Then why did he give you the money .^'

Long account — billiards, drirlk, bets —
all sorts of things. Got tired of waiting.
Pay me what you owe me," says I, ^'or,
by hooky, I'll tell your father." Dying,
you know,' added Sam, with a cunning leer,
which put the screw on, you see, on my
young friend.'

VOL. II. 26

You mean If his father had known what
the money was paid for he might have cut
him out of his will.'

'Just so; we are up to snuff, we two.'
And he stroked the other's shoulder in a
manner that expressed at once conciliation
and sympathy.

Percy looked at him with a contempt
that seemed uncalled for by so contemptible
a creature ; the fact was, it was self-contempt.
Not because his own behaviour
had begotten this familiarity, but because
of his folly in having trusted an important
secret with such a sot. In his sober moments,
however, Mr. Sam Chlgwell was a
very prudent person, or, as he himself
would have expressed it, a ' wide-awake
and cautious cuss enough.' Even in his
cups he retained a certain sagacity.

I didn't half like the cheque he continued.
* I should have much preferred the
shiners ; but as it happened, it was all right.
I suppose the old man got soft-hearted at

the last. But of course he didn't know
that the cheque was coming to me ; and
when Gerald heard I had put my name on
it he wanted it back again : offered me five
stiff uns for it — where he got 'em from
nobody knows — but, says I, " Why I ain't a
blooming fool, my lad ; I got your cheque
changed the same day." '

A very proper precaution,' said Percy,
in modified tones; ' only in future be equally
prudent about my affairs as about your
own, or you'll get into trouble. I don't
threaten twice, mind.'

I'll be as close as wax, Percy. Your
secrets are my own. It's Jennings and
Company, and I'm the Co.'

'How are things getting on at the
cottage ?' inquired the other abruptly.

Worse and worse. She is sorry enough,
I reckon, that she ever took such pains to
catch him. And now there's a young un
coming, that makes him more hard upon

26 — 2

her — as is but natural,' added Mr. Chlgvvell
apologetically.

Just so,' said Percy drily. 'You are
quite sure, by-the-bye, that the marriage
was a leo^al one ?'

Certain sure. I was there myself. It
was the neatest thing. Gerald was sent
to town to learn how things were done at
your London agent's, and then he combined
pleasure with business ; both parties resided
in the same parish for the proper
time, and had their banns put up all
regular. It was his contrivance, not hers,
of course ; but she fell into It very easy,
and now, poor thing, she wishes it undone.
That often comes of marriage, don't it ?'

I dare say. Now, look you, Chlgwell,
keep a quiet tongue in your head for the
future, and not a word of my having
spoken to you to-night, mind that.'

He turned on his heel and walked away
without another word.

^ Now, that ain't civil,' observed Mr.

Samuel Chlgwell, shaking his head reproachfully
as he watched the other's retreating
figure. ' Not so much as to say
'good-evening" to a fellow, far less '' Have
a dram ?" You're a very clever fellow,
Percy, and you've got better folks than
yourself under your thumb. But there
will be a bust up some day, even with you ;
yes, there will, Mister Jennings. And
there's a many as 'full be glad to see it.'

The next morning, as Gerald was engaged
in his room at the mill in his usual
occupation — biting his nails and looking
out of the window at the strong horses
drawing their huge loads up the steep incline
of the yard — he saw Percy coming
his way. Under ordinary circumstances
he would have plunged, as it were, head
foremost into the ledger ; but since he had
obtained that little loan of his brother-in-law
that was to be, he had grown more
independent. The borrower, in his casein
place of being the servant of the lender,

had got the upper hand of him, and he did
not scruple to show it.

Well, Percy, how goes it ?' inquired
the young gentleman, producing a toothpick.


Do you mean the business ? Oh, extending
on all sides, like an octODus.'

The business,' answered Gerald contemptuously.
' What do I care about the
business ? Though that reminds me,' he
added suddenly, * I am going to care.
I think I have been working long enough
and hard enough without any share of the
profits ; and by hook or crook I intend to
become a partner.'

'Well, as to that, Gerald,' observed the
other, smiling, ' I am only a junior myself,
you know. I have no power.'

'You mean that you have not the will,'
answered Gerald sulkily. ' I have heard
you say that you could do most things for
which you had a mind ; so just have a mind
for this, will you T

You shall have my good word, Gerald,
when the time comes, you may be sure.'

That's all very well ; but when will the
time come ? I can only say that in the
meanwhile I must look to somebody to
have it made up to me — that's only fair.'

'Well, well, we'll see what can be done.
Your penmanship, I must say' (here he
turned over the ledger), ' is first-rate.
Your handwriting is ever so much better
than your poor father's, and yet sometimes
I see a likeness.'

I never heard that before,' said Gerald
surlily.

It's only occasionally ; but when it's
like, it's very like. I don't mean to say it
would deceive an expert. Of course you
had to practise before you attained perfection
; that is, almost perfection. They are
what Mr. Jennings calls trial-gallops.'

What the deuce do you mean ?'

Well, it's rather delicate to explain; but
to a person of your keen intelligence, a hin

will suffice. Do you recognise this cheque?
Not so near, if you please ; you have
very good eyes, and I don't wish it to
be thrown in the fire. It is, or has been,
money.*

I see that.'

And you have never seen it before ?'

Never.'

How curious ! Then I must have been
misinformed.'

From white to red, from red to white
again, and then to a leaden grey, with
moisture on it, grew Gerald's face. But
his voice was confident as brass, as he
once more repeated, ' Never.'

The story I have heard,' continued
Percy, his eyes on him with relentless
scorn, 'is that you gave this cheque to
Sam Chigwell in discharge for a debt you
owed him.'

Sam is a liar, as everybody knows. The
cheque is to bearer : who knows to whom
my father gave it?'

In your very natural excitement and
apprehensions,' observed Percy coldly,
'you have lost sight of your business
habits. The cheque is crossed ; here is
Sam's name at the back of it.'

And what if it is ?'

It shows it came into his hands, and, ashe
is prepared to swear, from you.'

And what if it did ?'

'Well, it shows that other people are liars
besides Sam, for you have just said you had
never seen it. However, that's nothing.
Sam is prepared to swear that you wanted
to buy it back again with five five-pound
notes — my notes most probably. I don't
blame you, for that would have been worth
the money to you, my friend, ten times
told. I don't wonder you were so anxious
to assist your father of late in his private
affairs. I don't wonder that you were so
anxious and excited in your manner that
some people really began to give you
credit for filial sorrow.'

' I deny everything,' said Gerald doggedly.


Very good ; that is, you reserve your
defence. In that case the Bank has no
alternative but to prosecute you for forgery.'
Gerald staggered and sat down ; or
rather he fell backwards into a chair,
where he lay huddled up like a heap of
clothes, but with his frightened eyes fixed
mechanically upon his persecutor. His lips
essayed to speak, but could only murmur
the name of Mr. Oldcastle.

Quite right,' said Percy approvingly.
^ As being a friend of the family, Mr. Oldcastle
would naturally wish to avoid exposure
; but then he is a lawyer also, and
would never compound a felony. No,
there is only one way out of it that I can
see,' he added thoughtfully.

A way out of it — what way ?' exclaimed
the wretched youth. * I'd pay the money
twenty times over to have it squared.'

Squared. One would think the matter

in hand was forty shillings or six weeks,
instead of penal servitude. Your only
chance, sir, is to plead guilty.'

But then I shall be sent to prison.'
Not necessarily ; no, I think I can stop
that. When I said " plead guilty," I only
meant make a clean breast of it. I have
brought a little slip of writing, in case I
found you in a sensible frame of mind.
It is a full acknowledgment of your error,
that's all. But you'll have to sign it.'

And then you'll destroy the cheque !'
exclaimed Gerald eagerly.

'I shall tell Mr. Oldcastle that I have
destroyed it, which will be the same thing.
He does not know what I know ; he
has only his suspicions. I shall tell him
that I have made inquiries and found
them groundless.'

And the Bank ?'

What can the Bank do without the
cheque ?'

I'll sign it,' gasped Gerald. ^ And

henceforth Til never bother you — I won't,
upon my word, Percy — about Jennings.'

'I'm quite sure you won't,' said Percy
grimly, as Gerald signed it.

MISS darrell's views on girls.

MR. Lister's affairs were left ina
condition so intricate, as Mr.
Oldcastle expressed it, that their settlement
seemed indefinitely postponed. To
all Sir Peter's inquiries, which were numerous,
the lawyer had one answer : ' I do
not know, myself.' He protested that his
late client had dabbled in pretty nearly
everything, and that what he might be
worth was for the present incalculable.
This last word was a very satisfactory one
to Sir Peter, who characteristically associated
it with untold wealth instead of affixing
to it its legitimate meaning:. When

closely pressed as to the possible sum, the
lawyer resolutely shook his head.

You must surely know within a few
thousand pounds,' persisted Sir Peter.

No, sir,' said Mr. Oldcastle, ' nor yet
within twenty thousand ;' which was strictly
true, since even that amount might turnout
to be a drop in the ocean of his late
client's liabilities as respected his unlimited
ventures. Sir Peter never suspected that
the sum might be a minus quantity, and in
Mr. Oldcastle's opinion it was not his business
to enlighten him. He entertained a
great regard for Clare, whose happiness,
he perceived, was In Percy's keeping, and
his object was to do his best for the young
couple. He had a lawyer's regard for
agreements ; and that notion which he perceived
Sir Peter had in his head of the
marriage being made dependent upon how
Clare was ' left,' offended his sense of right.
Mr. Oldcastle would not perhaps have been
so solicitous that the course of true love

should run smooth, had he entertained the
same opinion of mr. Percy Fibbert as of
yore. But since Mr. Lyster's death he
had seen a good deal of the young man,
and was inclined to dismiss certain prejudices
he had formed against him. Though
a man of the world, he was no student of
human nature, and did not understand how
light a thing self-interest is when weighed
against the promptings of passion ; it
seemed to him a fine thing in Percy that
he should have ' stuck to his guns,' by
which he meant to Clare, in spite of the
pecuniary dangers that encompassed her.
He was accustomed to look at matters
objectively, just as they really stood, and
did not comprehend how so excellent a
business man as Percy took, as a lover, so
sanguine and rose-coloured a view of them.
He also lost sight of the fact, or, we should
rather say, of the value set on it by the
ambitious Percy, that the bulk of Clare's
money being invested in the firm would

give her husband, for the time at least, a
far more powerful voice in It than he had
yet possessed. On the whole. In short, he
took him to be a disinterested lover.

Moreover, he was very favourably Impressed
with his conduct towards Gerald.
He had asked him ' How about the cheque ?'
and Percy had given him an evasive
answer.

But I must know, my dear sir, If there
is anything wrong about It. It Is a mere
question of duty. If Sam Chlgwell has
obtained that cheque improperly, his being
poor Lyster's cousin shall not screen him
from the consequences.'

Sam Chlgwell was not to blame In the
matter,' replied Percy, with a pained look.

^ That is as good as saying that someone
else was.'

It was a disreputable transaction upon
somebody's part,' admitted Percy unwillingly,
but it would be better — much
better — to say nothing about It.'

My dear young sir, I appreciate your
motives, but this is a business affair. As
Mr. Lyster's executor I must at least know
whether that cheque was honestly come

by.'

I am sorry to say,' answered Percy,
quietly, ' that I must decline to answer that
question. The cheque is burnt.'

Burnt ! Who burnt it ?'

I did. It is, as you say, a business
affair ; and here is the twenty-five pounds,
which makes all square.'

^ And you are paying that sum out of
your own pocket }'

Well,' said Percy, with a forced smile,
it is your duty to take it as a part of the
estate, but not to ask embarrassing questions.
However, between ourselves, I am.
Pray, let us say no more about it.'

Mr. Oldcastle shook his head as he
took the notes, but he did take them.
That Gerald had behaved in some disreputable
way, he was well convinced, and

VOL. II. 27

he was far from wishing to know the
details. On the other hand, Percy seemed
to have behaved admirably ; and that
young gentleman, who had the cheque
quite safe in his notebook, was very well
satisfied with what had taken place. * I
have scratched a horse before now,' he said
to himself, ' but never paid forfeit to such
advantage.' He felt that Gerald was more
under his thumb than ever, while he had
secured a powerful advocate upon his side
in many ways, but especially with Clare.

If that young lady, indeed, had been of
the other sex, it would have been difficult
for her to resist the arguments which were
addressed to her in favour of an early marriage.
Mr. Oldcastle was in favour of it
on material grounds. He wished to see
his client's daughter safely mated with the
near relative of one so powerful as Sir
Peter ; the palladium of whose money and
influence would protect her — even if the
worst came to the worst (which, however,

he was far from anticipating), with respect
to those investments. Percy, by this time,
felt justified in pressing the point with the
ardour of a lover. And even Gerald,
though it could hardly be said with much
force of natural eloquence, expressed to
her his opinion that it was ' deuced hard on
a young fellow to be kept on and off,' as
Percy was.

A decent interval had now elapsed since
her loss, and it seemed reasonable enough
that she should turn her thoughts towards
matrimony, instead of casting backward
glances, as it were, upon the tomb. But,
being a woman, argument and reason, even
though her own feelings seconded their
efforts, were powerless against sentiment.
The voice of her father's disapprobation
still rang in her ears, though, doubtless
with failing strength, she still pleaded for
time. Perhaps, too, Mr. Percy Fibbert, in
this matter, had been hoist by his own
petard ; his having told her of Mildred's

27 — 2

passion for him, having put Clare on her
mettle. It is just possible that she said to
herself :

Since he loves me he can wait for me ;
nor am I afraid that any woman shall rob
me of him in the meantime.'

To Miss Darrell, to whom she had often
spoken upon the subject generally, one maybe
sure she said nothing of this. She only
affirmed that her heart was for the present
too sore with sorrow to permit her to think
of love. It was rather unsatisfactory that
to these protestations the little old lady
confined herself in her replies to 'Just so,'
and ' Indeed.' Talkative enough upon
other matters, she was very reticent upon
this one, nor did she even volunteer one
syllable of advice. To Herbert Newton,
however, she was less reserved. His scientific
invention had not yet been brought to
perfection, the weather being still very
unfavourable to subaqueous experiments,
and he had therefore postponed his departure

for South America, and was still an
occasional visitor at the Lodge.

One afternoon, when Miss Darrell and
the young engineer happened to be alone
together, ' Does Clare ever talk to you
about her marriage ?' inquired the old
lady bluntly.

To me ! Good heavens I I mean,' he
added, repenting of the astonishment in his
tone, which he saw had excited hardly less
surprise in his companion, ^ it would be
surely strange if she did so. Young women
don't usually talk to young men about such"
things.'

But you are her cousin, and her father's
dearest friend,' replied the other, shutting
one of her bright eyes, and threading her
needle with deft deliberation, ' why shouldn't
she ?'

For that very reason,' answered Herbert
quietly : ' her father never took to Percy ;
and she naturally imagines that I may share
his prejudices.'

And do you ?'

Well, speaking for oneself one does not
call one's dislikes prejudices ; but I do not
like Percy Fibbert.'

That is frank, at all events. Your ways
are always above board, that I will say for
you. I don't believe,' said the old lady,
smiling, * that you will ever be able to
breathe under water, Herbert. You must
let some one else make your experiments
for you. However, I think I know why
you don't like our young friend.'

'Indeed,' said Herbert, with an answering
smile, and in a tone of affected indifference,
that is very clever of you.'

Yes ; the reason is ' and she paused

here, which was cruel of the old lady, since
the poor lad was blushing scarlet, 'that
you and Percy are so. different in this
matter ; I mean as to plain sailing, he tacks
a good deal ; / call him Percy Fibber.'

I am not going to say a word against
him,' said Herbert, resolutely.

Of course not, noblesse oblige; but you
know that he tells stories. He told one
yesterday to Clare.'

It is just possible,' said Herbert.

*Well, there now, I should never have
thought you could have been so bitter.
But this was not an ordinary story, it was
a bolder flight of the imagination than
usual ; and what's more I don't think Clare
believes it.'

Indeed.' His tone so far from being
indifferent had this time a good deal of
interest in it.

Yes ; it is the first occasion, perhaps,
that Clare had had suspicions of his veracity
; but they are certainly aroused. He
was pressing his suit, as usual, importuning
her (as I must say he has some right to do)
to name the day for their marriage ; and
she, also as usual, was pleading the newness
of her sorrow, which is really not now so
very new. " What you mean," he said,
getting, I fancy, a little out of temper, 'ris

that you can't forget your father's objections
to our union. That they existed atone
time I do not deny, but I do assure
you, Clare, he surmounted them. He told
me so with his own lips." '

That is a lie cried Herbert, vehemently.


^ Hush, hush ! Some people think that
all things are fair in love and war ; let us
call it a stratagem. Of course Mr. Fibber
was very particular as to the date of the
interview in which Mr. Lyster withdrew
his opposition. It was December the 7th.
Clare told me that Percy and her father
had a long talk together on that day.'

That was true,' assented Herbert.

I supposed so. Percy is not a man to
go wrong as to circumstance. But as to
the main fact, Clare is doubtful; Percy's
assertion has had a very painful effect on
her. I told her that she should endeavour
to place herself in the young man's position,
and not be too hard upon him.'

Then I think you did very wrong put
in Herbert, bluntly.

Miss Darrell looked at him with twinkling
eyes. ' How odd it is that scientific
folks are always so simple,' she said. ' The
mathematical master in my school, to whom
algebra was easy, and was understood to
know something even of logarithms, could
never understand when the girls were
laughing at him. Not that I am laughing
at you, Mr. Herbert, of course. But
is it possible that you, to whom creating
a vacuum is, I suppose, quite a common
occurrence, can imagine that Mr. Percy
Fibber is likely to profit by any advocacy
of mine ; or that defending him to Clare is
the way to further his interest with her.'

I should certainly say that it was the
way.'

Goo — d heavens exclaimed the old
lady, ' and this is the man who is going to
teach us to breathe under water ! Why
a child of fourteen — that is a girl child —

would know that to take a woman's part Ina
quarrel with her lover Is to turn her
complaint Into approval, and to reunite
them at once

^ I did not know you wished them to be
disunited.'

Nor would you ever have guessed It
had I not told you. I flatter myself Clare
does not know It herself; but I do wish It
nevertheless.'

It Is no use wishing, however,' sighed
Herbert.

No. But thanks to what Mr. Fibber,
when speaking of it to me has termed
Clare's exquisite sensitiveness," and, when
speaking of it to himself — for I happened
to hear him once on the landing — her
*' infernal obstinacy," we have still time
upon our side ; and the longer she knows
Percy as a lover the better chance she has
of finding him out, and rejecting him, as a
husband.'

She will never do that now,' sighed

Herbert, ' since she clove to him when her
father was alive, and spoke to her against
the match.'

My dear Mr. Herbert, you may understand
steam locomotion, but it is quite plain
you know nothing of the workings of a
woman's mind. There is an old riddle that
compares our sex to ivy because '' the
greater the ruin the closer it clings " (one of
your cynical sex has answered it the other
way, "the closer it clings the greater the
ruin ;" that's rubbish). I don't say the more
worthless a man is the more a good girl
loves him, but the more he is abused the
more, unquestionably, she feels inclined to
stand by him. In my opinion — and I ought
to know something of girls' minds — Percy
has not advanced in Clare's good graces
since your uncle's death.'

But, my dear madam, they are engaged
to be married.'

And you've been engaged as deputy
assistant actions engineer to the Pernambuco

railway any time within the last six months,
yet here you are still at Stokeville ?'

But that's because my experiments are
not finished.'

And perhaps some one else is trying
experiments.'

What ! do you really think Clare has
doubts of him ? Oh, my dear Miss Darrell,
if you knew what I think — I do not say of
Percy ; I do not wish to speak of any man
behind his back — but the apprehensions I
entertain for Clare's happiness, which I believe
is about to be entrusted to unsafe
hands ! I ventured once, with no sinister
or selfish intention, Heaven knows, to say
as much. I told her she was throwing herself
away. I warned her that a day would
come when she would think as much.'

You did, did you ?' cried the old lady,
throwing up her hands. ' And this is a
man who makes railways. One of those
to whose intelligence and foresight honest
folks entrust themselves whenever they go

a journey. It's enough to make the poorest
take post-horses. Clare may marry, sir —
partly thanks to you — of course she will
find out her mistake ; but if she confesses
it, after what you have said to her, and to
you, I'll swallow this case of needles. Pray
go away — go to the — the Junction. Black
yourself, oil yourself, attend to your business,
but don't come here (unless you can keep
your mouth shut) till I send for you. It
may be Clare will want your help.'

Clare ! Oh, Miss Darrell, if I could but
serve her.'

Of course. I know all that. I said, it
may be. If we want you, I'll send for you
the idea of your having told her that ; no
wonder she keeps you at arm's length. /
would if I were she ; go away, sir. You'll
do no harm ? You'll never speak ? I am
not so sure of that ; indeed you've spoken
enough, and done harm enough, to last a
professional mischief-maker for his natural
life. Go away, sir.'

ON THE BRINK.

EVEN the richest men have their
weaknesses, and that of Sir Peter
Fibbert was ' temper.' Unlike a fire he
was easily put out, but by no means so
easily put in again, and the difference
between fair weather and foul was very
marked with him. When he didn't joke
he stormed. The least thing would do it ;
a kink in the machinery of the mill ; a
scowl from ' a hand ' dismissed — a very
different thing from that ' vanished hand,'
the touch of which the poet missed so ; — a
fall in the cotton market ; the omission of
his man to brush his hat, or a disagreeable

business letter. It was this last misfortune
that put him in ill-humour one morning
when at breakfast, as usual, with his
daughter and Percy. He had received
news of the commercial failure of a village
linen draper, which meant a bad debt to
the firm of perhaps twenty pounds, and the
state of Sir Peter's money market was
always what is technically termed ' sensitive.'


What the deuce people mean by failing
in this outrageous way I can't think,'
exclaimed the outraged knight. ' Here's a
fellow starts with nothing • asks us for
credit ; speculates with our goods, loses
them, and then comes out of the bankruptcy
court as white as snow.'

It reminds me of our own manufacturing
process,' smiled Percy, ' except that '' the
devil " has him at last instead of at first.'

I see nothing to laugh at , sir,' cried Sir
Peter, incensed at this ill-timed jest on
the loss of good money. * What it reminds

you of I don't know, but it reminds me
that the affairs of the firm want looking to.
It is most abominable that in the only
good time we have had for years, or are
likely to have, a third of our profits should
go to a dead man, who can do no stroke of
work to help us. For my part I think It
something worse than discreditable, since
he only lived a few minutes into the
current year, that such a quibble should
be taken advantage of by his family.'

swell, really, sir. If Mr. Lyster had
lived a few minutes short of the necessary
time,' urged Percy ; ' you wouldn't have
called it a quibble to take advantage '

Hold your tongue, sir,' exclaimed Sir
Peter, vehemently. ' I should have done
everything that was right and proper in that
case, as in any other. I use the word discreditable,
In connection with Mr. Lyster's
affairs, advisedly. I f everything was correct
and above-board, should we have Mr.
Oldcastle shaking his head and declining

to talk about them, even in confidence, to
his own client ? It's my belief that the
man has left next to nothing, except the
money in the business.'

I am quite certain, Sir Peter, that is not
the case said Percy firmly.

Then what is the case ? For if you
think that Clare's thirty thousand pounds —
no, begad, it's twenty, for Newton holds
ten of it — will satisfy my just expectations,
I mean as regards you, you're deucedly
mistaken. Our agreement was that the
girl was to be bona fide well provided
for.'

But her share of the profits, sir, during
the present year '

How dare you talk to me of her share
in the profits ?' broke in Sir Peter. ' How
dare you remind me that she is picking my
pocket ? Yes, sir, you are going to get
your wife's dowry out of your uncle's
purse.'

At the word ' wife,' Mildred, sitting

VOL. IL 28

quietly behind the tea-urn as her custom
was in these domestic commotions, set her
lips together and flashed a fiery glance at
Percy.

No doubt, sir,' admitted that young*
gentleman, ^ Mr. Lyster's death was most
inopportune for all parties except his own
family. But it Is hard that I should beheld
accountable for it.'
^ 'Yes, it's very hard, no doubt,' sneered
Sir Peter, rising, * that you should be compelled
to accept — if all things go as they
should do,' he added, parenthetically, and
as it almost seemed in spite of himself,
something like a hundred thousand
pounds. But I daresay you'll contrive to
bear it. What is it to you If Swaffham
here has failed for I don't know how
much ?'

Percy might reasonably have replied
that it was as hard proportionally for him
as for Sir Peter, or even have suggested
that Swaffham was not a man whose misfortunes

would seriously affect the firm of
Fibbert and Lyster ; but he was too glad
to set rid of his uncle on any terms to
detain him by argument. He only wished
he could have got rid of his cousin also.

'What is this ?' said Mildred In cold Incisive
tones, when her father had left them,
'about Clare's having a hundred thousand
pounds ?'

'It is mere moonshine, my dear; Sir
Peter is too much In the habit of counting
his chickens before they're hatched. Mr.
Lyster's share In the business may no doubt
produce a considerable profit ; perhaps one-tenth
of what Sir Peter chooses to put it
at ; but it may also produce nothing, or
less than nothing. The fact is, your father
is much too sanguine ; in my opinion the
revival in trade already shows signs of
slackening, and our liabilities are something
enormous.'

I don't want to hear about trade,' said
Mildred, fixing her eyes suspiciously on

28—2

her cousin, ' I want to hear about
Clare;

There Is nothing to tell more than I
have already told you, my dear Mildred.
At present she still holds me to my word,
and while she does that, you know as well
as I do, that I am powerless. At the same
time I am doing my best to put off the evil
day. Do you suppose that It Is her fault
that no day has yet been named for our
marriage ?'

No, indeed, I don't suppose that,' said
Mildred, bitterly.

Well, it's some comfort to feel that you
at least give me credit for good Intentions.
If I dared to do more than procrastinate,
I should precipitate a catastrophe. Coldness
and delay may effect our object, but
should it once be guessed, It is as likely as
not that Clare would come straight to your
father and denounce us both. I shrink
from picturing to myself what might
happen to us then ; the very best would be

that Sir Peter would insist on my marrying
the girl within the week so as to render our
hopes impossible.'

And you call that *' the very best," do
you ?' exclaimed Mildred.

My dear child said Percy gravely, ^ I
have always been frank with you — duplicity
is not in my nature — and I confess that I
would rather lose you than drag you down
with me to irretrievable ruin. That is
what a quarrel between me and your father
means, and — for your own dear sake — I
will never risk it.'

Mildred bit her lips and frowned, but
Percy felt that for the time he had conquered.
His victory, however, had been
obtained, as it were, with a dead lift, and
the next conflict mio^ht have a less favour



able result. Such struggles, indeed, were
almost too much even for his iron nerve
and front of brass, and had become to be
intolerable.

What did you say to her last ?' inquired

Mildred, with downcast eyes, her
taper fingers tracing out the pattern on the
table-cloth.

To Clare ? Well, I spoke of her
father ; the old man never liked me, you
know, and I find that subject is my best
protector. I talked to her of the last interview
he and I had together, and affected
to deplore his obstinacy. She is never
very sweet upon me after a reminder of
that sort.'

Hypocrite !'

The observation was uttered with such
extreme sharpness and energy, that for the
moment Percy was taken aback. He really
thought that the injurious epithet had for
some inexplicable reason been applied to
himself instead of Clare, for whom it was,
of course, intended.

And there are some people,' continued
Mildred, ' who call that girl simple. In
my opinion there is no such thing as a
simple girl.'

They're rare, no doubt,' assented
Percy ; ' and simple women still rarer.
There's one of that sort now at Oak Lodge.
One of those " honest, old-fashioned creatures,"
who are in reality deeper than all
the rest. A Miss DarrelL'

She was a governess, or something of
that sort, was she not ?' said Mildred,
indifferently.

Yes ; she has taken up her old trade
again, if I am not mistaken, and aspires to
govern Clare. A very dangerous little old
woman, in my opinion.'

Of course, she endeavours to tgg Clare
on to Entrap you.'

'Just so; she never leaves a stone unturned
to effect that object. Her notion is
to procure a comfortable home for herself,
and to rule the roast when — I mean, incase
her efforts should prove successful.
What a very pretty ring you have got on,
my darling ; that's something new, is it
not?'

Yes ; but I don't admire It. Mr. Farrer
gave it me.'

Oh dear me. On your engaged finger,
too ! Now, If you were In my place, here
would be a fine opportunity for a scene.
Confess, If Clare had given me a ring, what
a row there would have been about it.'

ril throw it in the fire,' cried Mildred,
puling at the ring.

No, you won't, darling, at least not to
please me said Percy, softly, and taking
her hand In his. ' It looks very pretty where
it is, and I do assure you I don't mind ;
I understand the necessity of circumstances,
and bow to it. I am not jealous.'

No, because you are so conceited,' said
Mildred, with pretended indignation, but
secretly melted by his caressing tone. The
touch of his hand had all the influence of
the mesmerist. * You cannot picture to
yourself that you have really a rival ?'

*No, I can't, Mildred — at least with
you,' he added, dropping his voice to a

whisper. * Whatever happens, I am afraid
I shall never be persuaded of that.'

She knew very well what he meant ;
that even if she married Frank Farrer she
would still hold her cousin dearer than her
husband. Yet she meade no attempt to
reprove him, not because she admitted the
fact (though she did do so), but because
her literature had undermined her principles;
she felt that it was 'naughty' in
Percy, but when young ladies begin to call
things ' naughty' they soon forget that they
are wrong. On the whole, indeed, such
was the perversion of her mind, that the
young man's imprudent speech flattered
her vanity instead of being a proof of his.
As to Percy, he felt that it was a great
point gained that she had received that
whatever happens' without an explosion.
It led him to hope that when his marriage
actually took place, Mildred would bring
herself to endure it without creating a
public scandal. But her manner on this

occasion, not to mention that of Sir Peter.
urged him to bring matters to a head at all
hazards. The account he had j^iven Mildred
of his last interview with Clare was,
as we are aware, anything but a correct
one ; indeed, it was the very reverse of
correct. It was true, however, he had
spoken of her father, with the result with
which Miss Darrell has made us acquainted.
He knew that his attempt to
persuade Clare that Mr. Lyster had been
reconciled to their engagement had failed
for the present ; but he had other means
of convincing her which could scarcely fail.
The use of them, it was true, was a little
dangerous, but disappointment and delay
had made him desperate. If it had not
been so, certain news which was communicated
to him that morning would
certainly have given him pause. As he
passed by Mr. Oldcastle's window, on his
way through the town, the lawyer beckoned
him in.

You will be glad to hear I have got the
Delver Aline Company wound up. Of
course there has been a loss, but nothing
to speak of, and we have got rid of all
responsibility.'

'That is good indeed,' cried Percy.
Yet Sir Peter told me you shook your
head yesterday when he asked how affairs
were getting on, and that has excited his
suspicions.'

I can't help that, young gentleman,'
answered the lawyer gravely. ' I can hold
my tongue when duty, all things considered,
seems to demand my silence ; but to smirk
and smile when your uncle — one of my
own clients, too — asks questions about Mr.
Lyster's investments, is not to be expected.
It would be an act of hypocrisy, of which
he would have good reason to complain —
a clear case of suggcstio falsi. There is
still that bank, you know.'

It's a very little one.'

Yes ; and it has done very little business.

Its liabilities, it Is true, I have
reason to believe are proportionally small,
but, such as they are, Mr. Lyster's estate
is responsible for them. The other proprietors
are mere men of straw.'

What a risky old fool he must have
been ?'

No, it wasn't that ; he was not a fool,
far from it. But when one has lost money,
even the wisest of us are sometimes seized
with a sort of desperation to get it back
again at all risks.'

To plunge .^ I know it,' said Percy
naively.

Well, what you probably do not know,
the desire is far stronger when you have
lost money belonging to other people.'

You don't mean to say Lyster did
that.'

Not in a fraudulent sense ; an honest
man never drew breath. But he did not
consider his money to be his own so much
as Clare's ; and what he had saved for her

he had lost. If he had not had the great
good luck to live into the present year,
and share in the profits of your firm, he
might have left his daughter almost destitute.'


But she has twenty thousand in the
firm.'

In the eyes of the law she has thirty
thousand.'

How's that ? I thought ten thousand
was Newton's.'

So it is, of course ; but there is no legal
document to prove it. It is quite astounding:
how so clever a man as Herbert
Newton should have permitted things to
be done so loosely. When he came of age
he seems to have handed his money over
to his uncle to place in the business without
so much as an acknowledgment.'

What a born idiot !'

Well, it was at all events imprudent ;
you would certainly not have behaved so
to your uncle.'

Percy threw up his head and his hands
as though he would have said : 'Am I a
madman ?'

So if this unlimited bank should fail,'
continued Mr. Oldcastle, 'poor Newton's
money is actually liable to be swept away
as though it were a portion of his uncle's
estate.'

Of course he knows nothing of this
himself T observed Percy.

Newton ? He knows everything. It
was my bounden duty to tell him. He
took it as cool as a cucumber ; one would
really have supposed he had been prepared
for it. That he could hardly have been,
however ; his uncle had left him a letter
which he was to have had if Mr. Lyster
had not lived to the first of January, and
the contents of which I can now guess at,
as Newton assuredly can ; but it was of
course never delivered. Though Clare, of
course, would never let him be wronged of
a penny if she could help it, Newton has

positively declined for the present to have
matters set right. He will see how they
turn out, he says. As it happens, there
is no real danger to his interests. I have
taken measures to prevent any further
mischief; the bank will presently be wound
up like the mine ; and our total liability, if
things come to the very worst, will not
exceed fifteen thousand pounds. What
might have happened had I not interfered
when I did Heaven only knows ; poor
Lyster certainly never knew ; he was for
the last months of his life, I am now persuaded,
consumed with terrible apprehensions.'


Serve him right,' said Percy, contemptuously.


Well, yes ; it did serve him right, but
he suffered enough for his folly. You now
understand that expression you found upon
his dying face, and why his eyes were fixed
upon the clock hands. He felt that his
daughter had escaped from penury, and

that his nephew's money was safe. During
those last five minutes he was comparatively
a happy man.'

That is very satisfactory,' said Percy,
drily. ' But even as matters stand, it is
possible, then, that poor Clare may have
nothing left but her share in the business,
minus fifteen thousand pounds — that Is
a surplus of fifteen thousand.'

Only five thousand ; ten belongs to
Newton.'

To be sure ; only five thousand.'

However continued the lawyer, ' matters
can hardly turn out so badly as that.
Moreover, she has five-sixths of her father's
estate, but that will be but a modicum when
we subtract what has been dropped in the
mine.'

I see,' said Percy, thoughtfully ; his
mind was full of anger against the deadman,
and of disappointment on his own
account. But his heart — or those desires
which occupy that region In so many of us

was still fixed on marrying Clare. If
Newton was foolish enough to leave ibis
money unsecured the law would give it to
Clare's husband ; and when once his wife
he would find arguments to persuade her
to keep it. And even if it slipped through
his fingers, what was ten thousand pounds
compared with her share of that bounteous
year in the profits of Fibbert and Lyster ?
She would still be a cfreat heiress, though
her fortune would fall far short of Sir
Peter's expectations. If, however, his
uncle should get to know about that bank,
he would certainly put that spoke in his
wheel which he had often threatened to do,
and forbid the marriage ; and once set free
of his engagement, what trouble he would
have with Mildred !

Upon the whole he decided to play his
trump card — one that involved all the
danger of exposing a revoke, but which if
it passed unchallenged would win the game
for him — that very day,

VOL. II. 29

A BOLD STEP.

THERE are some folks who have a
horror of lying and nothing else ;
who are themselves so honest that they
take a genuine pleasure in telling the truth
however unpleasant it may be to their
fellow-creatures ; who make no allowance
for dependence, poverty, or any other
miserable circumstance which suggests ' the
weapon of weakness,' and by whom every
unhappy wight whom they have once
caught in a falsehood is from henceforth
anathematised. Such persons are sometimes
worse, as they are often more disagreeable,
than the offenders on whom they

pass such sentence. But, notwithstanding
this, Truth is, on the whole, the touchstone
of character. Wherever there is a want of
it, there Is something else wanting in the
moral sense ; and where It abides there Is
strength.

Clare Lyster had passed too much of her
life in active benevolence, to be hard on
those who (though, poor souls, with little
art) attempt ' to make the thing that is not
as the thins: that Is.' She could make
allowance for human necessity (or what
seems to be so), and separate the offender
from his crime. But when there was no
necessity, nor evil custom bred of patronage,
she was in all offences against truth a
perfect Draco.

It was not woman's jealousy so much asher
innate horror of duplicity, that set her
so against Mildred, to whom, after Percy's
revelations of her schemes, she could hardly
trust herself to speak, for, to herself, even
concealment, much more deception, was

29 — 2

difficult. What Percy had told her about
that young lady she believed impllcltlj^ It
was her nature to trust until she had found
reason to distrust ; and she could even
hope against hope, as she had done in
Gerald's case, to find truth even in the
most unpromising moral strata. Kinship
and duty had fought long and hard for him
with her : and even now, though trust was
gone, she pitied him as much as she blamed
him. But with Percy it was different ; her
love had invested him with an atmosphere
of its own, through which she saw him not
as he was at all ; and nothing but his own
act could have dispelled it.

Percy's sagacity had, as we know, led
him to suspect that on the day of Mr.
Lyster's death he had made some last
appeal to Clare to induce her to break with
him. He even believed that it was the remembrance
of that final interview, more
than any general sense of her father's disfavour
to him, which now caused her to

withhold her consent to name a day for
their marriage. And yet, in the teeth of
this he had ventured to assert that Mr.
Lyster, on a certain date, had, in a private
conversation with himself, formally withdrawn
his objections.

This Clare did not believe. On the
other hand she was very far from imputing
to Percy a direct falsehood. She thought
it probable that her father had, to her lover,
used much gentler terms in speaking of the
matter than he had done to others, or even
to herself, while Percy, on his part, had
retailed to her what he said with a certain
natural but unconscious colouring.

I am well aware, dear Percy,' she said,
that my father gave consent to our
marriage ; but he did so unwillingly and
because he saw that his daughter's happiness
demanded it — as it does still. Oh,
Percy, give me time. You do not know
what a struggle it is for me. How love
and duty rend my poor heart.'

There is no reason for their doing so,
my darling-/ he had answered. * They
should be both on one side. I do not
pretend to say that I was a favourite with
your poor father, but he confessed to me
with his own lips that he had allowed his
prejudices to influence him too strongly ;
and that in our marriage I should have his
best wishes and you his blessing.'

Then why did you never tell me so
before ?'

The tone was such as Clare had never
used to him before, nor dreamt of using ;
as unmistakably incredulous, as though
she had said, ^ if this had been so you
would have certainly told me of it
before.'

Percy had answered very softly, ' I had
hoped that such an argument would have
been unnecessary ;^I trusted to our mutual
love to find its own way with you ; it is
only because I find you inexorable that I
bring myself to advance this plea. It is a

humiliation. But I would do anything to
win you

She looked at him with yearning eyes,
but which yet had some suspicion in them.
Since he confessed that he would ' do anything'
to attain his end, perhaps he would
even tell a falsehood.

You do not believe me, even now he
continued, bitterly. ' I suppose I must
bring you the proof.'

What proof ?'

Only of your lover's truth and honesty,
which it seems you doubt. I am humiliated
already, why should I not be abased ?'

Clare did not reply to this, which he was
far from being displeased at ; nor at that
time did he repeat his offer.

It seems so strange she said, not so
much apologetically as thoughtfully ; ' I
cannot understand it ;' and Percy felt, not
only that his weapon had missed its aim,
but had recoiled upon himself.

At the time, as we have said, he made

no further attempt to shake Clare's convictions,
but when he came to reflect he
recognised the danger of leaving things as
they were. If his statement was not reiterated
she would naturally construe his
silence unfavourably — she would hold him
to have tried to impose upon her, and to
have given up the attempt as a failure.
On the other hand, to reiterate the statement
and be again discredited might be
fatal.

In the meantime came Percy's interview
with his uncle and Mildred, and his talk
with Mr. Oldcastle, both combining to
convince him that there was no time to
be lost in his wooing, or rather his winning.
It was a desperate case and required a
desperate remedy.

He walked to Oak Lodge that
morning, instead of, as usual, taking a
vehicle or riding, in order to consider the
matter at leisure, and from no point of
view had It an agreeable aspect. The

element of risk, however, which would
have dismayed most men, however audacious,
weighed with him but lightly, even
if it had not a certain attraction. The idea
of giving Clare up, or, as I am sorry to say
it presented itself to him, * of letting her goto
the devil,* only occurred to him to be
summarily dismissed. 'And if she gives
vie up,' he grimly soliloquized, ' it weill not
be my fault ;' concerning which observation,
however, perhaps one may venture to
say that there were two opinions.

He found Clare looking Slaver and
sadder than usual, of which his sagacity
failed to explain the reason ; he flattered
himself, especially as she also looked kind
and pitiful, that she repented of her incredulity
; whereas she was sorrowing for his
own fault, for which she had nevertheless
forgiven him.

I hope, my darling,' said he, as he
pressed her to his breast, ' that you have
been thinking differently of me in my

absence than you thought or seemed to think
of me when we spoke together yesterday

Do not let us talk of that, I beg of
you sighed Clare.

I do not wish to do so,' he answered
gently. 'I only ^ want the assurance that
you do not longer deem me capable of a
deception.'

None of us are incapable of deceiving
ourselves, Percy,' was the grave reply.

If you mean that my version of your
father's words was an incorrect one,' he
said, ' or even coloured by my own wishes,
I must be allowed to deny it. I cannot
submit to such an imputation.'

She sighed again, and gazed through the
window on the gravel path on which her
father used to be wheeled in his chair to
enjoy the wintry sunshine. Her face and
her silence convinced him that he had lost
ground with her, and it had become so
necessary to gain ground ! The moment
had arrived for his coup cTdtat.

I am not accustomed, my dear Clare,'
he said, with gentle gravity, ' to find my
word called in question by anybody, and
from you least of all did I anticipate such
a things. When I said that such and such
was the case — even if it was an unlikely
thing — I had hoped that that would have
been sufficient for you. Even now I cannot
but think it would have been so but
for evil counsel and detraction. Nay, hear
me out,' for she had moved her head, in
the negative, and seemed about to speak.
Whether this be so or not, it seems your
lover's word of honour requires some
corroboration. I had hoped that would
have been unnecessary, but it shall have it.
Your poor father, it seems, knew you better
than I did. On the day after my interview
with him he wrote me a letter, with
the object, as I now believe, of its being
shown to you in case of necessity (such
as has now arisen), reiterating what he
had expressed to me with his own lips.

Is It Still necessary that you should see
it?'

A letter !' she said, eagerly, and taking
no notice of this last inquiry. ' A letter in
his own hand !'

Certainly. What use,' he added bitterly,
' would a message from him have
been ? You would only have said that
I invented it, or suborned the messenger.'


Percy ! Percy !'

I am sorry to wound you, Clare ; but
you must remember how you have
wounded me. Here is the letter ; you
recognise the handwriting, I suppose.
You do not suspect me of forgery ?'

She took the letter, sobbing bitterly ;
and kissed it. It must have been the last
letter, she reflected, her father had ever
written ; the words were formed a little
irregularly, as with a weak and failing
hand, but were quite legible, and In his
well-known hand.

Dear Percy,

I have nothing more to say than I
said to you yesterday morning. But something
prompts me to reiterate it. It maybe
a satisfaction to you — and to another —
to have my approval of your marriage, for
my consent has already been given under
my own hand. I have had, it is true,
certain prejudices to surmount ; but now
they no longer exist — that is, they do not
do so to-day. As I grow weaker (for I ama
dying man), they may recur. I take this
opportunity, therefore, while it is yet afforded
me, to accept you unreservedly as a
son-in-law. I bequeath my darling daughter
to your tender keeping ; I charge you
to love and honour her ; and in all matters
of advice and guardianship to fill my place.
Whatever ill I may have imputed to you, I
have never accused you of covetousness.
I believe you love my darling for her own
sake. Whether my failing strength will
carry me into the next year or not — upon

which hang such Important consequences
to her as regards fortune — will, I feel,
make no difference In your Intentions
towards her. She will be yours In any
case. That she will have my blessing she
Is well convinced, and be assured that It
will also attend your union with her. I
enjoin you to look after Gerald. When
Herbert goes abroad there will be no one
but yourself to exercise any Influence over
him, and he will need a firm hand. As to
Clare, should my partnership continue, I
know her Interests will be well attended to.
I never Impugned your business capacities,
Percy ; and I now hereby withdraw my
objections to you In all other respects.
Yours faithfully, »

'John Lyster.'

Clare read the letter over to herself with
great attention ; her tears had ceased,
though one or two had fallen when she
came upon the tender references to herself.

Then she rose up and kissed her lover.

I have done you wrong, Percy

Nay, dear Clare, say rather you have
done yourself wrong in entertaining a
suspicion unworthy of your generous
nature. I am sorry it was necessary to
show you that letter.'

So am I,' she answered, frankly, ' yet it
makes me happy to have seen it. It
shows me that at one time, at all events,
dear papa had quite relinquished his
opposition.'

^ At one time, yes ; and observe, he
guards himself against any possible recurrence
of his prejudices against me ;
perhaps they did recur.'

She moved her head in grave assent.

'There you see he absolutely foresaw
what might happen to him through weakness
of mind.'

Clare did not answer this ; she was
recalling her last interview with her father
on the day of his death, when, although ina

State of extreme physical prostration, his
mind had certainly shown no sign of weakness.
' You will be unhappy with that
man,' he had said, when all his arguments
had failed to move her.

Mt is very, very strange mused Clare.

That is what you said when you mistrusted
my word before I had brought you
the proof of my veracity. You do not
doubt me now, Clare ?'

^ No,' she answered slowly, ' I do not
doubt you now.'

'Weil, that is something. But it will
not be easy to forget that you did doubt
me. Give me the letter.'

Why ?' She put back his extended
hand, and clasped the letter close.

Because it is hateful to me. Not in itself,
of course, but because whenever I look
upon it, it reminds me of a humiliation.'

Then you mean to destroy it ?'

I do. It is my own letter, though I
have permitted you to read it.'

Quite true. You can do as you like
with it tomorrow, but you must let me
keep it to-day, Percy.'

Very good. I must ask you to remember,
however, that it is a private communication.
I have forgiven your doubt of me,
but I cannot permit others to become
cognisant of that insult. It seems that
you have already hinted of your incredulity
; that was not fair, nor kind, nor like
yourself, Clare.'

If I have hinted of my incredulity,
Percy,' she answered firmly, M did you
a wrong which must be remedied. You
spoke just now of "evil counsels" and
'detractors." You have none such here;
you yourself do me wrong in supposing it.
But it is true that I took counsel with an
old friend.'

With Herbert !' exclaimed Percy vehemently.
' He is a prig, and like all prigs
a backbiter.'

That is not true, Percy,' said Clare

VOL. II. 30

gravely. 'You are also. mistaken in your
suspicions. I never spoke to my cousin on
this matter. I spoke of it, however, to
Miss Darrell.'

A born mischief-maker.'

His tone was quiet, but it was easy to
recognise the rage that lay beneath it.
Clare had once or twice before noticed this
in Percy ; that he was easily moved to
wrath, but showed great power of self-restraint.
It had seemed to her in him a
proof of good principle and of a well-regulated
mind. But for the first time
there was something in his face that frightened
her — a pent-up passion that appeared
to be hot so much restrained as, biding its
time.

No, Percy. You misjudge Miss Darrell,'
she answered. * Moreover, so far
from being your detractor, as it happens,
she took your side. It was I who expressed
my doubts of your word, and she
who combated them. In justice to her

as well as you, I will show her this letter,
which proves me to have been in the
wrong.'

'Very good, my dear; though for my
own part I have ho wish to have my
character rehabiHtated in any eyes save
your own. You must promise me, moreover,'
he added, after a brief pause,
for the reason I have already given,
that the letter shall be shown to no one
else.'

You may depend on that ; and you
shall have it again tomorrow morning.
I do not wonder at you setting such store
by it, Percy. How good it was of dear
papa to write it.'

Yes, and so like him : it is not everyone
who is so careful to acknowledge himself
in the wrong, or even to admit he has
altered his opinion.'

Clare answered nothing. Her eyes, full
of tender tears, were once more fixed upon
the letter. It seemed to her as she read

.^0—2

it that she was Hastening to the voice of the
dead man.

It must be clear to you whither all this
tends, my darling,' continued Percy; 'there
can now be no sort of reason, indeed there
never was a reason, but there is now no
ground for even a sentimental objection
to your naming the day for our marriage.
Just now I will not press it, for I can read
where your thoughts are ; but when I come
tomorrow '

She looked up at him and smiled. It
was the first smile of true love, unmingled
with hesitation or regret, that she had
given him since her father's death. He
folded her in his arms and kissed her, and
she returned his kiss.

x\ lover will not tread a cowslip on the head,
Though he should dance from eve to peep of day,'

sings the poet. Mr. Percy Filbert was
not a lover of this stamp, but he left Oak
Lodge that day with a light step and a

liorht heart. This sort of happiness is wont
to communicate itself to others, and on
meeting Gerald at the mill that morning
(with whom in private he had now somewhat
stern relations), he gave him a cheerful
greeting.

On the same afternoon, in an upper
room fitted up as a laboratory at Coal-borough
Junction, a young man, who had
taken but half the dinner hour for his
midday meal, was employing the other
half in extricating carbonic acid from caustic
soda, when a telegram was brought to him
by a porter :

To From

Herbert Newton, Miss Darrell,

Coalborough. Stokeville.

Come at once, but do not say you were
sent for.

SENTENCED.

THE snow had fallen lightly about
Stokeville for many days of frost,
and though the town itself was, of course,
as black as ever, its environs looked like a
landscape out of the Black and White
Exhibition, while the neighbourhood of
Oak Lodge, which had not more than
half-a-dozen tall chimneys within a mile of
it, resembled a table-cloth, though it must
be confessed one in an economical household,
and upon a Saturday night. The
gravel-sweep of the house in particular
was nearly spotless, and ' threw up,' quite
artistically, the red breasts of the robins

that congregated there as usual for Clare's
appearance after luncheon with her crumbs.
After she had fed them and retired upstairs
to her boudoir, which, as we remember,
looked in the other direction towards the
garden, Miss Darrell hopped out like a
robin of another colour, and with a quick,
birdlike glance to left and right, to make
sure she was unobserved, betook herself
into the little shrubbery that intervened
between the road and the carriage drive.

The path was dry and sheltered, and
what was more natural than that the active
little lady should take a few turns there
up and down by herself. Her object,
however, could hardly be a mere ' constitutional,'
to judge by the eager way in
which she listened to every hoof and footstep
on the iron road without, and when
they came nearer stood on her toes and
grazed the tip of her nose against the wall
in futile efforts to look over it. If she had
but been forty years younger, the impatient

vehemence with which she repeated the
ejaculation, ' Drat the boy, why don't he
come ?' would have convinced you she
was keeping an assignation. Yet ' the
boy ' was doing his best to meet her wishes,
and if not on the wings of love was flying
towards her as quickly as the Coalborough
afternoon express could bring him. Presently
a vehicle stopped some fifty yards
short of the gate where, as she knew, there
was nothing but a milestone to attract the
passenger; and 'regardless of grammar' the
ex-schoolmistress exclaimed, 'That's him.'

She understood at once that Herbert had
stopped short of his destination for the
same reason which had induced her to anticipate
his arrival.

^ Upon my word,' she cried, as she ran
out to meet him, ' I feel like one of my
own naughty girls — when I had girls —
doing something on the sly ; it's quite a
comfort to find a respectable young manlike
you descending to the same arts.'

Well, really,' expostulated Herbert,
since your telegram said, " Don't say that
you were sent for," I naturally took every
precaution, and in case you might want to
see me alone '

Quite right, quite right ; not a word of
apology,' interrupted the old lady. * It is
very important that I should have a few
words with you in private, and I'm here todo
it. Give me your arm — you needn't be
afraid of my asking for your hand — and
take a turn with me. Herbert Newton, ita
crisis.'

^ With Clare?'

Of course, with Clare. If it had been
anything to do with Gerald, I should have
said a catastrophe. It is my opinion
she is going to marry Mr. Fibber immediately.'


Good heavens ! I mean that was
nothing more than was to be expected. It
was never anything else but a question of
time.'

Perhaps of money, too,' suggested the
old lady, tentatively.

No. To do Percy justice, money had
nothing to do with it'

You think, then, he really loves her ?'

He would marry her whether she were
rich or poor,' answered the other evasively.

Aye ; at all hazards. That is just the
point. You know how she delayed and
hesitated on account of her father's objections
to the match. Well, they have been
removed in a very singular manner.'

Removed ? You mean weakened ; that
must have happened sooner or later.'

I mean what I say — removed. Sometime
before his death, it seems Mr. Lyster
had a private interview with Percy, in
which, as he tells Clare, her father withdrew
his opposition to the match.'

That is not true.'

My dear young man, how can you possibly
tell that ?'

I can tell it. I am sure of it. I knew

my uncle so well. We often talked upon
this subject, though not, to be sure, very
lately ; but I am quite confident that up to
the very last he maintained his old opinion
of Percy. His fears for Clare's future
happiness never left him, though his
anxiety for her on another account was
still greater.'

Then you think Percy invented the
conversation in question ?'

I am convinced that it never took place
so far as Mr. Lyster's being reconciled to
the idea of the marriage was concerned.
He never was reconciled to it. Clare
knows it.'

She thought she knew it ; but Percy
has persuaded her to the contrary, not by
his assertions, which, truth to say, she did
not credit, but by the corroboration of the
statement in Mr. Lyster's own hand. He
wrote Percy a letter to the same effect ashe
had spoken with him, and adding to his
consent his blessing.'

Impossible.'

I have read the letter with my own
eyes.'

Show it to me.'

I cannot do that. Percy made her
promise to show it to no one but herself.'

^Ah!'

You think he had some reason for that.
Well, you shall hear what Mr. Lyster
wrote,' and she drew from her pocket a
paper.

If Clare said it was not to be read, I
cannot read it,' said Herbert gravely.

She did not say that. On the contrary,
she said she wished everybody to know the
contents of it, only it was not to be shown.
This is a copy of it I made myself from
memory.'

What, word for word ?'

'■ Certainly. Do you suppose it is only
mathematicians who can remember things ?
You may have logic and reason, which we
women have not. I never knew a woman

yet who could do a rule-of-three sum — that
is, a double one with many terms in it —
though of course we taught it ; arithmetic
and the use of the globes, etc. ; but I have
not given out dictation for twenty years for
nothing. I can spout whole pages from
'' Field's Speaker." I read the letter
twice, and as soon as I got to my desk
wrote out the whole of it ; and I can
guarantee every word. There is no need
for you to look at it — listen.'

As they walked along the raised footpath
the schoolmistress repeated to him the
letter with sharp distinctness — every word
was carried by the keen frosty air into the
other's ear. ' Well,' she said, when she
had done, and after a long pause, ' what
do you think of it ?'

I don't know what to think. Give me
time.'

There is not much time to spare, and
in these matters things strike one at once
or not at all. Of course it is a most serious

matter. I hardly dare, even to you, to
suggest the possibility of what is nevertheless
in both our minds. Percy said to Clare
^' How like" it was of her father so to write.
Is that your opinion ?'

Mf he had written at all he would probably
have written like that. But it was
not like him to write at all.'

That is what, I think, struck Clare. It
struck me, too, that it was strange Percy
should have made such an observation. If
the letter was Mr. Lyster's, why should
Percy say it was like him.'

I don't see much in that,' said Herbert,
thoughtfully.

Of course it is unfortunate I cannot
show you the original. I am not sufficiently
acquainted with Mr. Lyster's handwriting
to identify it with any certainty.'

Clare can identify it.'

True. There spoke man's inexorable
logic : a woman in your case would have
shut her eyes to that fact: / did. It is

possible, however, that the Idea of forgery
especially from such a source — never
entered into poor Clare's head.'

No doubt ; but on the other hand she
would have dwelt on the handwriting for
other reasons.'

^ Ratiocination again ; I saw her kiss the
letter.'

You omitted to read me the date.'
It Is December the 8th.'

What ! Are you quite sure ?'

Certain. It was on the seventh that he
had the interview with your uncle, and on
the next day, as Percy affirms, Mr. Lyster
put the result of It — that is, reiterated his
consent — in writing.'

Did you see the envelope in which the
letter came addressed to Percy ?'

There was none.'

No. Nor was there a letter. jNIIss
Darrell, it is a forgery.'

Great heavens ! Take care what you
are saying, sir.'

If I see the envelope, with the postmark
December the 7th or 8th upon it, I
will retract the assertion ; otherwise my
conviction remains unshaken. On the 7th
December, as Percy says, he had his interview
with my uncle ; that proves the date
for me, which I also recollect, because I
wrote some letters for him that day at his
dictation, one, amongst others, to Mr.
Rodenn. I say on the previous afternoon,
and in my presence, Mr. Lyster
lamed his hand, which caused me to
act as his amanuensis. The wound remained
unhealed for many days, nor do I
believe he ever wrote a letter afterwards.
On that day or that night it was simply
impossible that he should have done
so.'

Will Clare remember this ?'

^ No doubt ; she keeps a diary, wherein
I feel certain such an occurrence, since it
happened to her father, will be found set
down.'

My dear Herbert, this is very terrible.
Poor Clare ! Poor Clare !'

They had turned back as if by mutual
consent, and were walking slowly towards
the Lodge.

Why did you say " Poor Clare " ? ' inquired
Herbert presently, in low, grave
tones.

Because I must tell her this. Do you
think it is pleasant for a young woman to
discover that her bridegroom is a forger ?'

If you tell her, Percy will never be her
bridegroom.'

'You think so returned the old lady,
with a smile that had a touch of contempt
in it. ' It is clear you have never been in
hove yourself.'

She looked up at him sharply as she
said this, and noticed that a quick flush
came into his face, and that he kept his
eyes fixed upon the ground.

To be sure you may have been ; I forgot
you were a man. When a girl loves,

VOL. II. 3 1

the knowledge that her lover Is a scamp
only makes her pity him. In some cases
she loves him all the more for it.'

Not Clare,' answered Herbert gently.
The old lady looked at him again, but

this time out of the corners of her eyes.

You have studied your cousin's character,
it seems.'

I know her well enough to knov/ that to
tell her this will go nigh to kill her.'

Then it is your opinion that I had
better say nothing about it ? Yet surely
since we are both agreed that Mr. Percy
Fibbert will not make the best of husbands,
or, to speak the plain truth, will make a
very bad one, it is our duty to save her
from him if we can. Why don't you speak,
Herbert ? Have you no advice to offer ?'

Only that you should do what is best
for Clare,' was the quiet reply.

That was loyally spoken,' exclaimed
the old lady admiringly. * I must think over
the matter myself, and it is one in which it

is just as well you should not appear. I
have got out of you all I wanted, and much
more than I expected. You had better go
back again to your Junction ; work is a
good thing for all of us, and is just now the
very best thing for you. I'll keep you informed,
too, of what happens here ; but in
the meantime, as the father of one of my
pupils — he was a builder — once practically
expressed it, work "like a navvy at a barrow."
I have found it a panacea for all
troubles.'

He shook hands with her warmly, and
they parted without another word. ' There
goes what I call a wonder,' murmured the
old lady, looking after him : ^ a young
man who is actually not thinking of himself.
What powers of abstraction he must have !
Poor Clare ! Blind Clare ! Never has such
a half-hour been before me as awaits me
now since I had to tell Lady St. Ermen-
garde that her daughter Evening Victoria
had run away with our French musical

— 2

master. Fortunately he was a Count in
his own country, which her ladyship found
an immense mitigation. But in this case
there is no per contra. For one's lover to
be a fibber is bad enough, but to be a
forger! How shall I ever tell it ?'

With trembling limbs and beating heart,
but with a resolution as steady as a rock,
Miss Darrell repaired to the boudoir. Clare,
however, was not there, but in her dressing-room,
at the door of which the old lady
knocked gently, at the same time announcing
her presence.

'Come in, dear Nannie,' said Clare.
Her voice, the other noticed, had quite
changed within the last few hours. It had
regained its old cheerfulness of tone. Her
face, too, though pale, had recovered its
youth and brightness. She had, for the
first time since her father's death, some
white in the dress she had just put on, and
was in the act of putting a white camellia
in her hair as her old friend entered.

It is not vanity, as you think, Nannie,'
she said, smiling, ' that makes me stand
before this pier-glass ; but my hair is still
so short it is difficult to stick anything in
it except a comb. Percy said, " Let mie
see my flower in your hair to-night when I
come to dinner," so I am beginning my
lesson of obedience. Is it not a beautiful
flower? Why, Nannie, what's the matter ?'

Come here, darling : sit by me on the sofa,
and I'll tell you what I have to say, though
my heart shall break with the shame of it.'

•' The shame of it " ? Oh, Nannie, what
has poor Gerald done ?'

It is not Gerald.'

Clare turned as white as the flower in
her hair, and though her face was fixed
and searching as that of the Sphinx, Miss
Darrell felt her tremble like an aspen.
She guesses the worst at once,* was the
old lady's reflection, ' which shows the
poor dear has her doubts of him. It will
be the easier for her to bear it.'

My darling, I have a sad story to disclose
indeed ; and it is better that it should
tell itself. May I look at your diary ?'
The little book was lying on the table
close beside her.

Clare nodded assent ; she could not
speak ; there was something rising in her
throat that choked her.

I will turn to December 6th. Yes,
here it is, just as I anticipated. '' Dear
papa much the same, but hurt his hand
badly in falling against the mantelpiece.
Herbert is fortunately with us, who writes
all his letters for him." ^' December 7th.
Dear papa visibly weaker. His wounded
hand troubles him sorely." '

What has all this to do with your bad
news, Nannie ?'

A good deal, my darling ; only too
much, alas ! Now look at the letter Percy
gave you to-day.'

Clare drew it mechanically from her
bosom.

Look at the date, my child.'

It is December 8th.'

On which day your father was incapacitated
from writing.'

Then there must be some mistake in
the date.'

No mistake is possible. Your father's
words, or rather the words that pretend to
be his, are, " I have nothing more to say
than I said yesterday morning." That is
the day of his interview with Percy, which
was December 7th. The letter is a forgery ;
I suspected it from the first.'

There was a little plaintive cry that
struck the heartstrings, and then all was
silent. Across the beautiful face swept one
look of agony, and then It grew suddenly
still and colourless as death. Clare had
fainted away.

The schoolmistress had had much experience
in faints, and knew what was to be
done. While applying the proper remedy,
she did not omit to take the camellia from

Clare's shapely head and put it In a drawer.
She had half a mind to destroy the letter
itself, but fortunately restrained the impulse.

In a little time the patient's consciousness
returned.

Spare him, Nannie, for my sake,' were
her first words ; ' keep his shame secret.'

No one shall know it who does not
know it now, darling,' answered the other
softly. The evasiveness of her reply was
unnoticed. The expression of the young
girl's face, though intensely sorrowful, vas
far from stern. There was pity, if not
love, in it still. Miss Darrell said to herself,
* She will forgive him even this.'

It is four o'clock, darling,' said she
gently. ' What is to be done ? He will
be here at five.'

He } Oh no, neither to-day nor ever
again.'

Shall I write to him ?'

'No; swill.'

Do not do anything rash. It is possible

just possible — that Percy may have
some explanation to offer.'

Clare shook her head.

It is all over ; he is guilty.'

She rose up, walked with a firm step to
her desk, and began to write. Presently
she put her hand to her head and looked
round, as if in search of the flower she had
placed there.

Here is your camellia, darling.'

It is not mine ; it is his.'

She folded it in the letter, and placed it
in the envelope.

Be sure this is put in his own hand,
Nannie. Now please to leave me a little.
Do not fear; I am not going to fret.'

Pale as a moonbeam, but with not a
trace of tears in her eyes, Clare joined her
friend at dinner that evening. Fortunately,
Gerald was not present. A few commonplace
words passed between the two
women, and the girl retained her self-possession
even when a note was handed

to her by the servant, which she put in
her pocket without reading. But Miss
Darrell observed that Clare had once more
resumed her deep mourning ; and rightly
guessed that it had the same significance
with respect to Percy as the putting on by
a judge of his black cap. The offender
had been convicted, sentenced, and to
Clare was henceforth dead.

SANDFORD-OX-SEA.

WHEN men, or at least most men,
find they have been deceived in
her whom they would have made one with
them, they cut her out of their hearts as
cleanly, if not as easily, as they cut others
out of their wills. It is done by one
stroke, which is in fact struck by the
offender, who is self-erased in the Japanese
fashion. The effect is often serious in other
respects ; some men become jaundiced inconsequence,
and take to woman-hating or,
what is worse, are piqued and propose on
the instant to their cook ; but, so far as the
once beloved object is concerned, she exists

no longer, or rather is resolved into a case
of mistaken identity.

She is not the ball-room belle,

But only Mrs. Something Rogers.'

But with women these things are different.
When their beloved goes utterly
wrong, they either cling to him and 'go
under' in his bad company, or, if they
have the courage and wisdom to cast him
off, they are consumed with wild regrets ;
they do not easily or soon forget that the
mad dog, whose bite is death, was once
their pet. He is dead to them, it is true ;
but the effigy of him — not more resembling
him than stuffed animals usually do resemble
their originals, but in this case a
very complimentary likeness — remains in
their minds' eyes for ever so long.

That Percy Fibbert was a mad dog,
dangerous to the community, and fatal indeed
to whomsoever he should be coupled
with. Clare in her heart was well convinced.

Her letter to him, though grave and
decisive enough, and affording him no
locus penitential if guilty had given him a
loophole for explanation ; but he had made
no attempt to take advantage of it. His
reply had been short, almost offensive.
As she appeared to doubt his word, he
said, which he v»-as not in the habit of
having called in question, he quite agreed
with her that it was better they should
part company.

It is a hard letter,' observed Miss
Darrell, to whom Clare showed the communication
in question ; ' but It confirms
everything. There Is no longer any room
for doubt.'

She privately thought it vulgar and even
maid-servants ;' but she readily forgave
its style since its sharpness would probably
help to sever the last strands of the bond
that bound him to Clare. It did sever
them beyond the possibility of reinstatement,
and so completely that it gave her

no pang to feel that Mildred could now
have her wish. If there had been need
for it she could have sincerely said that
she owed her no ill-will, and hoped that
Percy would treat her with a confidence
and candour that he had denied to herself.
But though she had exiled him from her
heart, she could not get him out of her
mind. The idea of meeting him, though
in a manner ever so casual and momentary,
was terrible to her, and she kept herself
close prisoner within her own doors from
the apprehension of it.

After a week or two of this seclusion, of
which Miss Darrell easily guessed the true
reason, the energetic old lady took matters
into her own hands. ' My dear,' she said,
you are getting hipped, and so am I. We
both want change. What do you say to going
to Sandford-on-Sea — for a little while ?'
She' added the last words diplomatically,
for her intention was, having once got
Clare away, to keep her there.

Clare had her objections to make ; one
was that since her cousin was to start for
America so soon it would be cruel to leave
him.

It might be cruel if he was bedridden
was Miss Darrell's dry rejoinder; 'but
since the express from Coalborough reaches
Sandford in two hours, and as the seaside
is at least as pleasant a place for him to
pass his leisure-hours in as Stokeville, I
don't see the strength of that argument.'

Then there is Gerald. It would be
wrong to leave him to his own devices.
This house is dull for him, no doubt '^ — this
in excuse for the fact that he was hardly
ever in it till it was time to go to bed, and
when he did come showed that he was
bored to extremity — ' but it still affords
him a home.'

He can be with us at Sandford, and
come to and fro by train to business like
anybody else, I suppose. Moreover, he is
much less likely to get into mischief there

than here. Objection No. 2 *' quashed," my
dear, as the lawyers say ; though why not
"squashed" I could never understand, especially
as it is longer.'

You may take me where you like,
Nannie,' sighed Clare wearily. And in
twenty-four hours they were at the seaside.

Why the young heiress did not go to
Blackpool, which is the Brighton of that
part of the world, instead of that Mead-alive'
place Sandford astonished many of
her young friends. There seems a general
opinion that after a great trouble there is
nothing like an esplanade with a brass band
on it for restoring serenity of mind ; whereas
depopulated spots which have only natural
beauties to recommend them are avoided as
having a tendency to promote suicide.

It must be conceded that, even in summertime,
Sandford-on-Sea is not a place that
gives itself up to excitement ; while in
spring-time it can hardly be said to awaken
from its winter sleep at all. In this respect.

though sweet enough, It is less like a violet
in that season than the ' mossy stone,' which
the poet describes as half-hiding it from the
eye. It is built of stone, and very well
built. It has several good hotels ; one of
them, *the Grand,' is about the size of the
Bingham, Portland-place, and at the period
of which we speak had two people In It.
It has several fine terraces. It has the
prettiest public garden in England. The
cliffs are not steep, but to give the idea that
they are precipitous, a hydraulic lift Is provided,
which brings tired pedestrians to the
summit for a penny a head. There is a
pier, which may be said to be unrivalled,
for there is no end to It. The end was
carried away by an enterprising steamer
under the false pretence of landing passengers,
and has never been replaced. The
air Is divine, and if It had not been so
would no doubt have been Imported ; for
the railway company which made 
spared no expense. Where they

VOL. II. 32

failed was in making people come to it.
You can bring horses to water (though you
can't make them drink), but it is difficult to
bring society even so far as the seaside unless
they have a mind to go there. Perhaps
it would have been some satisfaction to the
railway company — in default of dividends —
if they could have known how thoroughly
Sandford and its quiet suited Clare and her
friend. They established themselves in a
pleasant hotel upon the cliff top, and passed
their time in quiet serenity, save on the
occasions when Gerald honoured them with
his company. He did not hesitate to tell
them that he found Sandford excessively
slow,' and though all was done for him
that could be done to meet his views — he
had champagne twice a day — he yawned
even over his cigar.

During his first two visits he never mentioned
Percy's name ; but when he came
the third time he informed them during
dinner that the Fibberts were gone to

London. ^ For the season, I suppose ?'
observed Miss Darrell drily.

Not they ; Lor' bless you, Sir Peter don't
care for seasons. He will be there for only
a day or two, worse luck to him ; but Percy
will stay over the Derby, I'll bet a guinea.
As for Miss Mildred, she'll stop a month
at least, I reckon, for she's gone after her
trousseau.'

There was fortunately a vase of flowers
in the centre of the table which hid Clare's
face from Gerald ; her cheek turned pale,
and her knife and fork trembled in her
fingers. Her heart was beating hard ; ' so
soon, so soon,' it seemed to say.

'When the wedding is to come off is
not, however, settled,' he continued. * It is
said Master Frank is not in a hurry to
surrender his liberty — and quite right, too.'

You mean Mr. Frank Farrer ?' observed
Miss Darrell.

Well, of course ; who else should I
mean ?'

The remark was not unnatural, for by
this time Mildred's engagement was well
known in Stokeville. Miss Darrell, however,
had only heard of it as a rumour, and
though Clare knew that it was anticipated,
she had felt convinced in her own mind
that Mildred, whom she knew to be at
once passionate and resolute, finding Percy
free, would have found means to break off
with her other flame. She felt it somehow
a relief, though she did not grudge Percy
to Mildred, that that match was not to be.

Gerald had never much appetite, making
up for his deficiency In that respect by what
a certain lady of my acquaintance — she is a
monthly nurse — terms 'drinkitite.' On this
particular evening he ate less than usual, but
consumed a second bottle of champagne.
He was much too well seasoned, however,
to be affected by it ; it only gave him a
hllip,' as he called it, of which, as it
happened, he stood in particular need.
After dinner he lit a large cigar and

Strolled out as usual ; but instead of
lounging in the street, or dropping in at a
certain public-house which he was wont to
patronise in the little town, he sauntered
out upon the sand.

There was no moon, and the interminable
sea looked vaster from its vagueness
; at his feet the shoreward wave
creamed over with a gentle murmur. He
was alone with his thoughts, and that
monotonous whisper chimed in with them
strangely. ' Better not, better not,' it
seemed to say in long-drawn sighs. It
was curious how the sound disconcerted
him. ' Curse the sea,' he muttered under
his breath ; and finding a cliff path after
some difficulty, ascended it, and began to
pace to and fro on the moorland without
the town. The lights of the houses were
only dimly visible, but to eastward there
was a large and steady light, which reddened
all the air about it. He knew that
this was from the great iron-foundry miles

away, the furnaces of which burned like
the sacred fire of Vesta, night and day continually
; but to-night they wore a mystic
and uncanny look he had never seen in them
before. The voice of the sea could hardly
have reached him there, but the words
Better not, better not recurred to him with
persistence, and he seemed to read them
as on a placard, huge and black against
that distant glare. He felt in his pocket
for a brandy flask he now always carried,
and took a deep draught ; but even that
failed to compose his nerves or warm the
blood in his veins. His nerves were utterly
unstrung, and he knew it. * I am not
myself,' he said aloud, with angry vehemence,
as though he were apologising to
himself for some mental weakness. It
would have been well for the unhappy boy
if he could have changed places with anybody
else. It was not till after a second,
and even a third application to the flask,
that he could bring his wits to bear with

any steadiness on the matter in his mind,
and even then he occupied himself (as the
wicked are wont to do) with the result of
what he was proposing, rather than with
the plan itself.

It is a large sum,' he murmured, ' and
all to be paid on the nail. And then I
shall get away from all this and away from
him! Here followed a frightful execration.
* With that money no doubt I could
do well enough by myself — but Rachel ? I
must give her the slip, or all's lost. To
think that a man like me should have tied
such a millstone around his neck with his
own hands.' Here followed more * cursory
remarks,' as highly coloured as those which
had preceded them, but this time directed
against himself. ' What a fool, an ass, a
dolt, I was to be so cajoled and jockeyed !
The vanity of that slut has been my ruin.
Not that she has much to boast of now,' he
added, with a bitter smile. ' Well, I'll get
quit of her as soon as may be, somehow or

another. Gad ! I don't know whether I
don't hate this other one as much. Three
hundred a year. Yah ! I detest such
meanness. What is it to me that Oldcastle
says this, and Oldcastle says that ;
it is not enough, nor half enough. She
gave me fifty pounds last week, it is true ;
but what's fifty pounds to one with her
income ? What do I care for her promises
of what she will do for me when I come of
age ; when I marry when I marry ; the
fool of a girl little guesses !) or when I setup
in business for myself I want it done.
And since you won't do it for me, my
pretty little minx, it shall be done for me
by somebody else at your expense. Yes ;
the present value of what I am to have for
this little job will be more than all such
expectations put together. And then I am
to get away, clean away, beyond seas.
That's the plan — his plan — and a very
good plan too — that is, unless one hits
upon a better. It will be well worth her

while to square matters, then I can cut the
painter just the same with twice the coin
in my pocket and leave him raging, which
will be worth half as much again. It is
true I there miss Herbert, whom the other
scheme will ruin ; he has no security for
his money, and of course when she finds
herself in want of it she'll stick to it. I
should like to ruin Herbert. But there,
one can't have everything. It was not so
wise of you, Master Petty, as you thought,
to take yourself off to town, while I was
making a clean breast of it. By the time
you come back again, if Clare is wise, I
shall be a thousand miles from Stokeville.
Whichever way it turns out, nothing but
good can come of it, that's certain. She
will never let the thing be made public, for
the old man's sake. Percy's right there ;
I'm safe enough from judge and jury.
Still, I would give something if the next
half hour or so was over. It's a nuisance,
too, that she has that little old woman with

her. They are at their coffee now. If
you're stubborn, Miss Clare, you may have
to come down to chicory. Oldcastle told
Herbert the other night that that bank
had stopped. It's lucky they're not here,
though I shall have to meet 'em before
all's well. There's a whisper, too, that Sir
Peter's been over-trading ; as it happens
that don't matter either way ; but I hope
it's true. I should like to see Miss Mildred's
nose, that is so high in the air,
brought down to the grindstone. How I
hate everybody !'

He had finished the flask by this time,
and was frank and natural. It is a common
error to suppose that scoundrels are
not scoundrels in their own eyes, but on the
whole have rather a good opinion of themselves
than otherwise ; and that, even in
the privacy of their own self-communing,
they gloss over their viler sentiments and
pay lip service to virtue. As a matter of
fact they do nothing of the kind, only

while acknowledging their atrocities they
excuse them as being done in retaliation for
certain wrongs inflicted upon them by mankind
in general, which in truth are the misfortunes
begotten by their own misdoings.
The ' Implacable, Unmerciful,' so justly
denounced in the Scripture, have (unless
they are quite desperate) very tender feelings
with respect to their particular case,
and though their hand is against every
man, are exceedingly indignant when a
finger is raised, even in reprobation, against
themselves.

The task that lay before Gerald Lyster
involved as he well knew (though it must be
conceded that he underrated it in common
with all moral pains) the infliction of excessive
distress upon an innocent person ;
yet that idea did not so much as enter his
mind, nor, if it had done so, would it in anywise
have disturbed his equanimity; on
the contrary, since the person in question
had offended him, it would have presented

itself to him in the light of a retribution,
and even of a judicial punishment ; as
matters were, he thought only of his own
part in the affair — how he should demean
himself, how most easily persuade, and
how escape from unpleasant consequences.
The man who can say 'No' as agreeably
to himself as saying * Yes,' has his counterpart
in the scoundrel who has surmounted
scruple, and the attribute in each case
ensures success — not, however, without
some drawbacks.

It was the custom with Clare and her
friend to retire together early, leaving
Gerald, by no means unwilling, to his
own devices ; but as they lit their candles
on the night in question, Gerald said in a
hushed, grave tone, ' I should like to have
five minutes' conversation with you, Clare,'
whereupon Miss Darrell withdrew with a
pleasant ' I shall see you presently, my
dear,' designed to keep up Clare's spirits,
.and also perhaps, to remind her that she

had an adviser, without whose counsel it
would be well not to compromise herself.

Miss Darrell had not a good opinion of
Gerald Lyster, but it was Heaven high in
comparison with what it would have been
could she have guessed what was coming.

THE WITNESS.

WHAT is it, Gerald ? For heaven's
sake, speak !'
In his nervous agitation the young man
was drumming on the table with one hand
and ^ stroking the down upon his lip with
the other ; his eyes were downcast ; his face
was pale to the lips, which twitched incessantly.
' It is bad news, very bad news,'
he murmured. That was clear to her without
his saying it ; he looked a messenger of
evil tidings from head to foot ; his endeavour
to counterfeit sympathy, as if resented
by the muscles of his face, which had never
been put to that work before, gave him the

air of a mounting raven. ' Not bad forme,'
he added, gulping something in his
throat, ' but bad for you.'

Here he expected Clare to shriek out, or
perhaps to faint, instead of which, to his
amazement, her face assumed an unequivocal
appearance of relief. * It is not shame,
then,' she said to herself, 'whatever has
happened.' Then immediately afterwards
she exclaimed, ' I hope nothing has happened
to Herbert.'

Not that I know of,' returned Gerald
petulantly; the idea of her thinking that
anything relating to her cousin could have
moved him so aroused his contempt, which
was unfortunate, since the impression he
wished to convey was that of a wounded
spirit.

Sit down,' said Clare, * and tell me all.
I am not so unused to misfortune but that
I can bear to hear your news, whatever it
is, Gerald.'

It is not news so far as I am concerned,'

he began, with his eyes on the carpet. ' I
have known it ever since our father's death,
only I did not like to speak of it. It
was wrong of me, but I kept silent for
your sake.'

That was a mistaken kindness, Gerald ;
never mind, go on.'

*I dare say you have observed, Clare,
how down in the mouth I have been for
this long time ; how out of sorts and unlike
myself. Well, as you will soon learn, there
was reason enough for it. Can you carry
your mind back to the night of father's
death ?'

Most certainly.' Indeed, she might
have added, *My mind is seldom elsewhere,'
but instinct told her that any such assertion
would be out of place.

V/ell, I was upstairs, you know, while
you and Percy and Herbert were below.'

My father wished it to be so^that is, sofar
as we were concerned,' she answered
quietly.

'Just so; but as for me, I was too
miserable to eat anything.'

I remember you left the table soon
after dinner said Clare coldly.

On all other matters she extenuated
Gerald's shortcomings, but this pretence
of his having felt a more poignant sorrow
than herself for the dying man offended
her and stung her into plain speaking.

Well, at all events, I was upstairs when
no one else was. I was in my own room,
full of sorrowful thoughts, when I heard a
noise next door — that is, in my father's
room. I stole in on tiptoe, and this is
what I saw.'

He hesitated and stopped ; his tongue
felt dry and his lips parched ; and in the
silence he heard once more that warning
murmur from the sea — ' Better not, better
not.'

I saw my father, who had crept out of
bed and dragged himself to the mantelpiece,
putting back the hand of the clock.

VOL. II. w

He had put it back a few minutes or so
when some noise — perhaps he had heard
my footsteps — attracted his attention, and
he turned and climbed into his bed again.
I was so amazed that I did not move for a
moment or two, and then, hearing nothing,
I grew frightened and went in to father,
and he looked so white and strange that I
called you up — as you must well remember
only just in time to see him die.'

This is a very strange story,' said
Clare, gravely, looking at her half-brother
intently, who, however, kept his face
averted from her, ' nor do I understand
why you have hitherto concealed it.'

To spare you,' he murmured hoarsely.

She shook her head.

If it was so, I thank you. That such
a spectacle should be most distressing I
can easily believe ; but since you did not
mention its occurrence at the time, why
mention it now ?'

I couldn't help it ; my conscience

pricked me so. I have not had a happy
moment since, and I was obliged to relieve
my mind, no matter what should be the
consequences. I am very sorry, for your
sake.'

^ What do you mean ?'

Is it possible,' he answered, stealing a
glance of amazement at her, and then
reverting to his old dogged look, ' that you
don't see what hangs on this. It was those
few minutes which did it — which established
your claim to be in the partnership for
another year.'

She had not seen it until it was thus
pointed out to her ; the question that had
so monopolised her father's thoughts, aggrieved
Sir Peter, filled Percy with hopes
and fears, agitated the whole world of
Stokeville, had occupied but a very small
space in her mind ; now, however, everything
was made plain to her as by a flash
of lurid and ghastly lightning which leaves
all dark behind it.

She rose from her chair and confronted
Gerald.

Do you dare to say then — you, his son
that our father, finding himself about to
die, used his last breath to defraud some
fellow creature of his rights ? You lza7\'

Gerald shrank into his chair like one
who has received a blow, and cowered
there as though expecting another.

No,' he murmured, ' I don't say that.'
'What do you say, then?' Her eyes

flashed fire, but her voice was ice-cold with
disdain.

I say,' answered Gerald doggedly, That
the old man was mad ; that through always
wondering whether he should live over
the year or not, and through dwelling
upon the consequences, he got his brain
into a morbid state, and just at last, like
one in his sleep, not knowing what he did,
but as it were mechanically, he put his wish
the father to the thought, you know — •
into action. That's my view of it.'

If it was so, It was only a view he had
very recently — In point of fact within the
last minute or two — taken into his consideration.
It had been his intention to suggest
the very thing which had provoked this
storm ; but his sister's manner had frightened
him. Familiar though he was with
duplicity, he did know sincerity by sight.
He felt that it was not self-interest that
had provoked Clare to express disbelief in
his statement, but her confidence in her
fathers innocence. Upon that point he
was convinced that she was capable of opposing
his testimony to the uttermost, and
in the presence of all the judges in the land.
So, on the spur of the moment, he had hit
upon this idea of 'unconscious impulse' to
explain matters, which at once left his own
statement where it was, and relieved his
father from the imputation of wrongdoing.

It is very strange,' said Clare, regarding
him thoughtfully and with great intentness.

Of course it is — I mean was; nothing

could be queerer. He had to crawl along
the floor, poor old man, to get to the fireplace.
I don't blame you for denying it —
nobody could believe it who hadn't seen it.'

Still less could any one who knew him,'
answered Clare thoughtfully, ' believe that
he could do such a thing in his right mind.'

Quite right,' said Gerald ; ' that is what
I have kept saying to myself all along.
And since he didn't do it on purpose, and
since nobody could ever dream of his having
done such a thing at all, it of course remains
a question for your consideration whether
it is worth while to tell anybody about it.'

You mean about the actual fact,' observed
Clare gravely.

*Justso,'he answered, glancing at her
for the second time, in hopes to read her
thoughts. He began to hope from her last
words that things were turning out in the
best manner possible, namely, that while
believing in his statement she would agree
to keep it secret. He knew, as we are

aware, what it was to receive hush money ;
and though he had had an all too short
experience of the sensation, it had been
very sweet. In this case, since he could
trust himself to drive a good bargain, he
would obtain a fortune, and with it what
was equally desirable — his freedom. If
Clare's case had been his own, he would, of
course, have made terms at once ; and
though he did not give her credit for such
good sense, he hoped that was what it was
coming to.

As our father was unconscious of what
he did, Clare, there is really nothing wrong
in the matter.'

'There is not a shadow of wrong
answered Clare confidently.

Now this was going a little too far for
Gerald. It was very prompt and judicious
of her to take this sensible view of
the transaction, but if she was really going
to persuade herself that she might be silent
without scruple, where would be his hold

Upon her ? It was high time for him to
hint that what he had seen was not only
strange as she had called it, and a very
curious instance of mental phenomena, but
valuable otherwise than as a contribution
to physiology, namely — to the spectator.

'Well, when you say " not a shadow of
wrong," Clare, in which I cordially agree
with you, you must remember that that may
not be the view of the outside public, who
did not know our father as we did.'

That is just what I am thinking about,'
replied Clare simply.

In the eyes of mere casuists. In fact,'
continued Gerald, ' it may be doubtful
whether our father's act, though unconscious,
may not seem to have the same
effect as though it had been done designedly.'


Good heavens ! Do you suppose I am
thinking of keeping the money ?'

Gerald stared at her aghast. He was
all at sea again. If she was not thinking

of keeping the money, what on earth was
she thinking of ?

Well, you said, yourself,' he answered
doggedly, * that it would not be necessary
to reveal the actual fact.'

I meant, sir — that we never need speak
of what — you say — you saw

He was still ignorant of her meaning,
but he dared not put another question to
her ; that ^ you say ' of hers convinced him
that she still harboured doubts of his
main story.

It is very easy,' she went on, ^ to convince
some people that money belongs to
them. Let Sir Peter have his dues ; he
will not be particular to inquire into how
he came by them.'

Oh, if you really mean to throw up
your chance said Gerald, ^ that part of the
business will be easy enough. Sir Peter is
always going about saying how hard it was
that he should have lost his money by
five minutes ; if you choose to have

conscientious scruples about It being such
a narrow shave, he'll share them, I warrant
; he'll take all he can get, and only
look on it as restitution.'

Let him look on It how he likes, in
Heaven's name,' ejaculated Clare, * so long
as our father's memory Is kept stainless.
You and I well know that it is as pure as
snow, and in that, although we lose our
all, he will still have left us a rich legacy.'

'Well, as for me,' said Gerald, in an
aggrieved tone, ^ I am not aware that he
ever left me anything else worth speaking
of The whole matter is one for your own
consideration, not mine. You seem still to
doubt my story, but what reason can I
have for inventing it ? You don't suppose
I'm in Sir Peter's pay, do you ? In so far
as the thing affects me at all I shall lose
by it, for I suppose that beggarly three
hundred a year, to which Mr. Oldcastle
persuaded you to limit my allowance, will
go with the rest.'

To be sure ; I had forgotten that,' sighed
Clare, ' and my good intentions are gone
with it; we shall both be losers by our
honesty, my poor Gerald.'

Good intentions ? What do you mean,
Clare ?' inquired the other excitedly.

Oh ! no matter. It can make no difference
now. And yet I should like you to
know that I was not so hard upon you as you
persuaded yourself to think I was. On the,
day you came of age half the money, the
loss of which you regretted so, would have
been settled on you.'

But look here, in that case I have a
contingent interest in this matter,' interrupted
Gerald. * You must not do anything
in a hurry and without consultation with
me. Why the deuce didn't you tell me
about all this before?'

It is better as it is, Gerald she answered
with a sad smile : ' you have been
saved from what might have been a
terrible temptation ; though I hope yoa

would have revealed everything just the
same.'

I hope I should not have been such
an unspeakable idiot,' exclaimed Gerald
naively. ' You don't really mean to say
that you are going to throw away your
money — my money — for a mere caprice ?'

A caprice ! It is an act of common
honesty. Would you have your father's
daughter be a thief, brother ?'

Gerald looked at her as Claudio might
have regarded Isabella. He murmured
something about her conduct being quixotic,
but attempted no further argument.
He saw the mischief was done as regarded
those contingent expectations of his, of
which he had only heard when he had lost
them, and cursed what he deliberately
termed his ' folly.'

Of course I would wish you to do
nothing wrong, Clare,' he answered complainingly
; ' it is very hard that you should
always misjudge me so. As to what you

suggest about concealing the actual facts, I
think. you are most judicious; nobody
need know about them save you and me.'

Nay, some people must know about
them, Gerald : it is only right that I should
repay the confidence which others have
placed in me by taking counsel of them.'

Counsel ? I don't know any good that
you have done to yourself or anybody else'
(he was thinking of Mr. Oldcastle's advice,
which had restricted his allowance so
meanly) ' by taking advice of that sort. I
should have thought your nearest relative
myself — would have been the proper
person to advise with. Of course you will
do as you please; but people will talk,
however much they have shown you confidence,
as you call it, and if once the story
gets abroad I wonder how many will believe
that the governor did not put on the
clock on purpose — I mean in his right
mind ?'

I see that quite clearly, Gerald,' she

answered gravely ; ' there is danger on
every side.'

'And on one side certain ruin, Clare,
remember that.'

It was his last shot fired in desperation.
If it went home, as it could scarcely fail of
doing, it would surely give her pause.

It will make us very poor, no doubt,
Gerald she answered gravely ; ' but it will
at least leave us honest. Do not suppose
that I feel angry with you for having done
your duty ; quite otherwise. I am grateful
to you for having preserved me from committing
an unconscious wrong. Of course
it is a bad thing for both of us in one way ;
but the having relieved your mind of such
a burden must of itself be grateful to you,
and a time will come — the same that came
to our dear father — when you will rejoice
in what now seems loss as a great gain.
Think, think, Gerald, that perchance he is
now cognisant of what we do, hearing perhaps
the very words we are now saying !'

Vol Lord,' interrupted Gerald, pushing
back his chair, * I wish you wouldn't talk
like that ! I hate it. I thought we had
come to Sandford to keep our spirits up.'

Does it distress you to talk about the
dead, Gerald.'^' she answered gently, almost
pityingly. ' Well, well, I will say no more.
I will now go to my own room, and think
of all you have told me, and what is best to
be done. Good night, dear boy.'

She stooped down and kissed him. He
did not move his face to meet hers, but sat
with shut lips and a frowning brow, the
very image of moody discontent. He could
not have better played his part (though
he acted naturally enough) in the plan he
had in view. His demeanour went far to
remove any lingering doubts she might
have entertained of the truth of his tale.
He looked exactly as a man might have
been expected to look who, having confessed
something to his own detriment, repents
of his frankness. But in reality his heart

was full of fear as well as of chagrin. That
Clare believed his story was now clear
enough, but would those others, whom she
had expressed her intention of consulting,
believe it ? She herself was ready enough
to give up her share in the profits of Fibbert
and Lyster, but would she be permitted todo
so without investigation ?

That notion of his father being cognisant
of all that had just passed affected Gerald
more than he could have thought possible.
Of course it was all * rot,' but it was a very
unpleasant idea to lie down with on one's
solitary bed at night. He had a brandy and
soda, and another cigar before he retired, to
help him to get rid of the notion ; but even
those remedies failed to restore his equanimity.
Moreover, happening to look out
of his bedroom window, which faced the
great furnace fires, a still more unpleasant
thought suggested itself. The words,
^ Better not, better not,' were no longer to
be read in them, but the flame now reminded

him of a certain old picture he had
been attracted to as a child in Sir Peter's
mansion, depicting in the ancient material
way the place of lost souls. Something
whispered to him as he gazed at its lurid
glow, ' If hell has but one man in it, that
man will be Gerald Lyster.' The notion
was egotistic. He might easily have pictured
to himself at least one companion,
but even had he done so, that would have
afforded him anything but comfort.

VOL. II. 34

A GOOD GUESS.

EVERY mature mind is aware that
when two ladies are alone together
at night, with their brushes in their hands
and their back-hair down, that is the
supreme moment for the repose of confidence.
Miss Darrell had not much to
brush, which enabled her to give her undivided
attention to her young companion,
who retailed to her all that Gerald had told
her without hesitation or reservation. Miss
Darrell had passed the age of astonishment,
but just at first her brush dropped upon her
knees ; and as if that action had mechanically
affected her muscles, mouth and eyes

flew open to their extreme limit. As
Clare proceeded, however, she gradually
recovered herself, and by the time the
narrative was concluded, could have recited
the whole prospectus of her scholastic establishment
without a mistake — her test
for her intellect beings in full machine
order.

Well, my dear, my conviction is that
your first impression concerning the matter
is the correct one. I believe the whole story
to be a falsehood from beginning to end.'

What ! Do you really ' think that
Gerald is so wicked as to have invented
it?'

I don't know about 'wicked," my dear,
though some men — aye, and women — are
more desperately wicked than you have
any idea of; and I don't say a word about
invention, for I have no high opinion of
your half-brother in that way ; but that he
has told you a deliberate lie I have small
doubt.'

34—2

But what motive could he possibly
have in thus defaming my father's memory ?
He never loved him, but there was no
quarrel between them ; and even if there
had been, surely no human being — let alone
the case of father and son — would carry his
enmity beyond the grave ?'

It is often done, Clare, nevertheless
sighed the old lady ; ' but I readily acquit
Gerald of any such intention. He is not
that kind of person.'

Moreover,' continued Clare, ' he can get
nothing by it; nay, he loses a certain
income which — though, as it happens, it falls
short of his expectations — is surely worth
having.'

There, of course, is the difficulty,' mused
the old lady.

Unhappily, he does not like me, Nannie,
and persists in misunderstanding me, who
have no other wish than to do what is most
kind for his own good; but even if he hated
me, he would surely not wish to compass

my ruin, in which, moreover, he himself is
involved.'

He did not know that,' put in the old
lady quietly; 'but, nevertheless, I am sofar
of your opinion. Gerald would not do
you any harm unless he could do himself
good by it. The question is, Is there anyone
else who has a grudge against you, and
who in gratifying it would at the same
time benefit himself?'

My dear Nannie, how can you talk so !
I have not, thank heaven, an enemy in the
world.'

I did not say '' an enemy ;" I said one
who had a grudge against you. Think,
think.'

You cannot mean Percy ?'

I did not mention him, but since you
have done so, I may say that it is not only
women who resent being cast off by those
whom they have loved.'

'Oh, Nannie! one might regret it and
even resent it, but surely, surely, one could

never wilfully injure one whom we have
once loved!'

My dear Clare, you could never willfully
injure anybody. Yet, undoubtedly, there
are many people who have no hesitation in
doing so. Your own feelings, therefore,
go for nothing in pursuing an inquiry of
this kind. We are dealing with natures
that are altogether out of your experience.
I have known scores of them. It is quite
possible that Percy Fibbert has a grudge
against you ; he has good cause, or cause
that he may call good, for having one. It
is no use your denying it ' (for Clare held
up a remonstrating hand). ' I know that
man well, and he is one neither to forgive
nor to forget. Granted, then, that he
would willingly — or, as you term it, wilfully
do you an injury, the next question is.
Has he anything to gain in the present
case ?'

What can he have to gain by injuring
poor me T

Well, I don't know how much, of
course', pursued the imperturbable old
lady ; * but if you turn out to be disunited
to any share in the profits of the firm, the
other partners are proportionately benefited
by it. Percy is a partner, is he not ?
Mr. Oldcastle told me that Sir Peter's
expectations of this years gains were
something enormous.'

But what has all this to do with
Gerald's story, Nannie ?'

In my opinion a great deal. Perhaps
Percy and Gerald have formed a limited
company of their own, to which Percy contributes
the invention. Gerald does not
possess that faculty.'

Do you mean that they have entered
into a conspiracy together to commit a
fraud !'

The old lady nodded, shut her eyes, and
pressed her lips together. She might have
sat for a miniature monument of Conviction.


But even supposing anything so wicked
could have entered into Percy's mind, why
should Gerald join in it ? He does not
like Percy

No ; that is one great advantage of disliking
everybody : in some cases, at all
events, one must be right. Gerald, as you
say, dislikes Percy, but he is very much
afraid of Percy. Some people are like
wild beasts, with whom love does nothing
and fear everything. The whip cracks, and
Gerald jumps through the hoop. That is
my solution of the enigma. 'j

A very far-fetched one, dear Nannie, in
my opinion,' answered Clare sadly; *and
one which I should be very very sorry to
believe myself.*

As to its being far-fetched, my dear, I
don't see how you could expect to find it
nearer,' said the old lady, with a momentary
display of * temper.' She plumed herself,
not without some reason, upon her knowledge
of human nature (though in this case,

perhaps, her prejudices, at least as much asher
sagacity, had led her to her conclusion),
and she resented having it called in question.
The next moment the sight of Clare's
pained face banished from her bosom every
feeling but tenderness. ' You speak of
being sorry to believe such things, my darling
; there was a time when I was sorry
too, even for those who commit them. I
keep my little stock of sympathy now* for
the victims only. Do you not think I have
some for you ? Clare, Clare, my darling,
child of my dead friend ! you have been
cruelly deceived, infamously plotted against,
but you shall not be wronged if I can help
it. I will write to an honest lawyer whom
I know this very night ; Mr. Oldcastle is as
honest, it is true, but he is not so keen.'

What !' interrupted Clare ; ' write to a
stranger, to reveal what, if that which you
believe is true, must be my brother s shame !
Or worse, to one who, since he did not know
my father, may impute fraud to /ii7Ji! Oh

no, oh no ! As Gerald says, if once the
thing gets abroad, the world will be sure to
think my father guilty.'

He said that, did he ?' interrupted the
old lady ; ' do you suppose he cares about
your father's memory ? Not he. Depend
upon it, he has reasons of his own for avoiding
publicity.'

'And I, Nannie, have not I the reason
which you suggest he only pretends to
have ?' continued Clare firmly. ^ True or
false, no earthly consideration — nothing,
nothing — will induce me to permit this story
to become the subject of public discussion.'


Do you mean to say,' exclaimed the
schoolmistress, with indignant severity,
that you will submit to be robbed by a
footpad rather than call for help to the
passers-by ? Nay, that is a feeble image
for the position you are taking up. Will
you permit yourself to be reduced to ruin
by two scoundrels .f*'

Nannie, dear Nannie, pray spare me !'
expostulated Clare entreatingly. ' I n speaking
so harshly, and, as I honestly believe,
so unjustly of the persons in question, I
might well say you do your own nature a
grievous wrong ; but since such an argument
may have no weight with you '

Not a feather's,' put in the old lady
coolly.

Then I appeal to you for my own sake.
Every injurious word you apply to Gerald
and — and — to Percy, is a stab to me ; I do
not believe them guilty. For the moment,
it is true, I was inclined — I know not why
to come over to your opinion.'

Instinct,' observed Miss Darrell remorselessly.


No, no,' she pleaded passionately ;
it is instinct that repels such base suspicions.
With all his faults Gerald could
never have devised so foul a plot, and in a
manner so cruel. Strange as it is, I feel
his story must be a true one. I suppose

if I give up my claim, it will be necessary
for Mr. Oldcastle to know it ?'

He is one of your trustees, that's all
put in her companion drily.

True ; and Uncle Rodenn is another.
It would be dreadful to have to discuss the
matter with Uncle Rodenn,' said Clare, with
a shiver.

^ I am sure he would treat you with
great consideration, because he would
believe you to be a lunatic'

Oh, Nannie, do not be hard upon me.'

I am not hard, Clare ; but it makes me
mad to see you so hard upon yourself. As
if the villains of the world did not prosper
sufficiently without innocence and simplicity
playing into their hands. It is a cruel wish,
but oh that I could lend you my own
bitter experience for the next few days !'

One must act according to one's lights,'
said Clare gently.

In knowledge of the world, my dear,
yours are as a farthing candle. That's very

rude, of course, and I apologise. I'm in
such a state of irritation (not with yoic, my
dating ; I have nothing but pity for you),
but with the most — that is, with the world
in general, that I am not in a fit state of
mind to give advice. Go to bed now, and,
if you can, to sleep. In the clear dawn of
morning more reasonable thoughts will
come to you. At present you are confronting
a nightmare.'

Clare rose with a smile, and embraced
her old friend affectionately. How different
it was when they had last wished
one another 'good-night'! It seemed to
her, by comparison with her present condition,
that she had then been crowned with
content, without having deserved or being
grateful for it. And now ; now !

Certainly in some respects the wisest of
human creatures are, ah! those whom we are
in the habit of considering the most foolish;
who catch the fleeting pleasure as it flies,
and, while the sun shines, bask in it; who

have few apprehensions and less regrets ;
and who, if they never rise to the heights
of human happiness, find easy footing on
the tableland of it, and by some beneficent
law of their nature never gravitate to the
depths of human misery. To such as these
the death of a father is ' the common lot,'
and the loss of a lover an ephemeral calamity,
while the anguish that was now oppressing
Clare was simply an impossibility.
For what Miss Darrell was feeling for her
the probability of her being stripped of
means, and exposed to the untempered
winds of poverty — she felt not at all. Her
terrors were immaterial, and shook the very
soul within her. On the one hand, she
trembled lest the finger of public scorn
should be pointed against the memory she
revered above all earthly things ; on the
other hand, she shrank from the suspicion
that her father's son had committed an unparalleled
and inexpiable baseness.

*' I do not believe them guilty'' were her

words,' mused Miss Darrell, as through the
night she paced her room in her dressing-gown
and sappers, or flung herself impatiently
into her arm-chair, because the
counsel she demanded of her own quick
wits was slow to come. * She said so, but
she does not believe it, nevertheless. And
yet she will let them have their way rather
than risk exposure. Fortunately Herbert
is coming tomorrow morning, and he will
see Gerald face to face.'

A reflection that had so soothing an effect
upon the old lady that, towards morning,
she retired to bed and slept a little.

Tongue-tied.

NOTWITHSTANDING their bad
night — for Clare had not been so
fortunate as her friend, and had snatched
no wink of sleep — the two ladles met at
breakfast at the usual hour. Clare, self-involved
in her own sad thoughts, took
little note of external objects, but Miss
Darrell's quick eyes perceived that the
table was laid for two only.

Gerald is gone,' she said; ^ I ought to
have anticipated that.'

Why so ? Perhaps the waiter has forgotten
him.'

It is much more likely he has forgotten

the waiter,' returned the old lady, acidly.
She considered Gerald mean in all ways,
and no longer thought it necessary to withhold
her opinion.

The man was summoned, and at once
informed them that ' the young gentleman '
had departed by the six o'clock train to
Stokeville, where he said he had very particular
business. ' He told me to give this
note to you, miss,' addressing Clare.

She did not open it till the servant had
left the room, when, having read it, she
handed it to her companion without comment.


I am obliged to be early at the mill this
morning. All that I told you last night is
true from beginning to end.'

Nevertheless,' observed the old lady,
scornfully, ' it does not bear daylight. He
was afraid of being tackled by even me,
you see.'

It was a modest observation, for the fire

VOL. II. 35

in the old lady's eyes and the vigour in her
tone would not have recommended her
just then to any adversary as one to be
easily ' tackled.'

How glad I am,' she continued, 'that
Herbert is coming by the first train this
morning. I think I shall go and meet him.'

This was artfully put, for if she had
said, ' Shall we go ?' Clare could hardly
have declined, and it was Miss Darrell's
wish to see Herbert alone before he saw
Clare. He had seen Clare once, and once
only, since her engagement with Percy had
been broken off; and on that occasion no
allusion had been made to it. It was a
delicate subject between them, because he
had known Percy all along, and had
warned her against him until matters had
gone too far for warning. And though
she knew he would never have dreamt of
saying ' Was I not right ?' or ' Did I not
tell you so ?' Clare had somewhat shrunk
from meeting him.

The happiness Herbert felt for her escape
was easily concealed, since compassion for
her misery overwhelmed it ; but, nevertheless,
feeling that he had no sympathy
with her previous infatuation, and that
Clare knew it, he too had been glad when
that interview was over. But now — now
that he was coming to see her for the second
time, a free woman, with a future before
her, his heart beat high within him, and not
only with the thought of her enfranchisement.
He had always loved her dearer
than any human being, but so long as he
could remember — though she had been
always kind and even affectionate to him —
another had been always preferred before
him. He knew little of women's ways, and
it seemed inexplicable to him that his uncle
should have detected his love while its
object had remained in ignorance of it.
The greatest pleasure the old man had had
in those later days had been to talk of
Clare to Herbert; to praise her, to dwell

35—2

upon her sweetness, her unselfishness, her
helpfulness to himself and all about her;
and his greatest misery (though it had a
morbid attraction for him) to bewail her
shortsightedness and her mistaken choice.
And though he never spoke of it directly,
he had given Herbert to understand, not
only that he would have preferred him of
all men for a son-in-law, but that he had
divined, had not Percy stood in the way,
that the desire of the young man's heart
would have been to stand in that relation.
For a man of science Herbert was modest
even about his professional acquirements ;
and in social matters had a very humble
opinion of himself. With young women of
his own class he knew that he was at a disadvantage
; it was as difficult for him to
interest himself in croquet and lawn tennis,
in their gossip about society and their
anecdotes of the aristocracy, as for them to
sympathise with his aspirations to guide a
balloon, or his ambition to walk about

under water ; he hated afternoon teas and
balls, and small talk, in which, indeed, Clare
herself took little pleasure ; and his incapacity
to appreciate them gave him a sense
of difference from other men of his age,
and, therefore, of inferiority. So far from
thinking himself too clever, he ascribed his
want of appreciation to some serious deficiency
in his own nature, and bewailed it as
one might regret the want of an ear for
music.

In a general way he was conscious that
this handicapped him very heavily in his
efforts to get on in society ; that in a girl
like Mildred Fibbert it excited indeed
something like contempt, while even with
Clare he must needs cut a very poor figure
in comparison with a man like Percy. But
now Percy was gone, certain vague hopes
which had hitherto been kept down by the
weight of circumstances began to arise
within him and take shape. Clare was
different from other orirls. When she had

come to see him on one occasion at the
Junction, and found him in his working
clothes, she had not been horrified, or
even amazed (as Mr. Rodenn had been),
and would have shaken hands with him,
notwithstanding her delicate gloves, if he
would have permitted her. He had shown
her over the works, and she had taken an
intelligent interest in all he had to tell her,
and put pertinent questions to him about
this and that, which had contrasted very
favourably with those of other visitors.
She had expressed a genuine sorrow at
his proposed departure from England ; he
had postponed it for her father's sake, but
since the old man's death mail after mail
had started for South America without
him. Why } He had persuaded himself
that he had been waiting for Clare's
marriage ; but that ceremony would certainly
have had anything but an attraction
for him. If he had asked himself why he
was waiting, he could have given no

definite, and certainly no satisfactory
reply. That Clare had a very sincere
regard for him, he knew ; he had been
told by Miss Darrell that her young
friend * respected him very highly,' but he
was not quite sure that that sort of estimation
was to his advantage in his present
case. Women ' respected' their parish
clergymen, their family solicitors, their
uncles by marriage, but such a feeling
seemed somewhat to preclude a more
tender sentiment. There was indeed one
undoubted point in his favour : his suit
would be backed by Clare's knowledge of
her father's love for him. To have to
rely on the good word of a dead man for
one's success with a young woman is not,
however, very encouraging ; and Herbert's
modesty represented it to him as his main
chance ; but there were two things at all
events which his professional education
had taught him — the exceeding value of

Patience and Perseverance and the danger
of ' Haste, half-sister to Delay.'

As he drew near to Sandford his spirits
rose. The mornings was brilliant and the
numberless smile ' of the sea seemed to
reflect itself on his own features. He had
promised himself, at Clare's request, what
was very rare with him, a few days of complete
holiday, and here was an Eden to
spend it in, not without its Eve. Perhaps,
as she had written in her invitation that
there was nothing to be done in the place,
and he must expect dulness (the idea of
dulness where Clare was), she might
come to meet him at the station. He
scarcely thought of Miss Darrell, which
was very ungrateful of him, but took it for
granted that she would come with her.
And there she was on the platform looking
out for him eagerly enough. He looked to
right and left for her companion, and even
when he was shaking hands with ' the old
lady, glanced about him inquiringly.

Clare is not here, Herbert,' she said,
gravely. ' She would have come, but
something has happened.'

Good heavens ! No accident ! She is
not ill ?'

No ; she is well enough. Send your
luggage on to the hotel, and give me a few
minutes' talk before you see her.'

His heart beat very fast ; he had a vague
notion she was about to make some communication
to him respecting his cousin of
a tender kind. He knew Miss Darrell
had a kindness for him, and perhaps was
about to confirm his hopes, though he had
never whispered of them. Women, he
had read, were so quick-sighted in such
matters.

Who of us has not been similarly fooled
by Fate ; been certain that she had this or
that wished-for gift in her hand, and lo,
when it opens, there is nothing, or the very
thing in all the world we least desire ? It
is fair to add, though the fact, as it happens,

has no place here, that often when that
same Fate seems frowning, and has her fist
doubled as if for a blow, her features
suddenly relax with a smile, the fingers
open, and out comes the unexpected gift.

Miss Darrell led the way across the road
into the public garden, in which no public
ever entered, because there was none. A
ravine by nature, a paradise by art ; through
the midst of it, far down, ran a small stream,
which, to the upper terraces, sent only a
gentle murmur ; from the walks jutted here
and there little promontories, from which
the most charming views were visible, and
on each of these coigns of vantage was a
rustic bench. On one of these they seated
themselves. In spite of the tumult of his
mind, Herbert, who had never been at
Sandford before, or dreamt that so much
beauty could lie so near Stokeville, could
not restrain his admiration.

How very very beautiful !' he exclaimed.

Yes,' said his companion, drily, ' but as

often happens when the earth is so fair
there are serpents about ;' and then she
told him Gerald's story. He interrupted
her occasionally with a remark very much
to the purpose, but otherwise listened with
great calmness. There were no indignant
outbursts such as she had expected ; his face
grew a little more ' set as is the way with
thoughtful faces when those who wear them
are deeply moved ; and once or twice he bit
his lip, but that was all.

You do not seem surprised ?' she said
when her narrative was concluded. ' You
have surely heard nothing of this before ?'

No, nothing; but then,' he added significantly,
' I know Gerald.'

Then you must feel that this story of
his is a falsehood ?'

I should have known that even if I had
not known him. I was at Oak Lodge that
night. And as we sat at supper — a miserable
pretence of a meal, but so my poor
uncle would have it — I remember just before

we were called up to him, the town clock
striking midnight

Just before. Are you sure of that ?*

Quite sure. I remarked upon it to poor
Clare, and she said, " I can't think how I
came to miss hearing it, for I seem to do
nothing else but listen." Those were her
very words.'

It is strange you should have remembered
them so accurately,' observed Miss
Darrell, glancing at him curiously.

I remember all she said and all she did,
both then and afterwards,' answered Herbert
simply.

Then this testimony of yours and hers
settles the matter. Mr. Lyster did survive
into the New Year.'

Unfortunately we were not disinterested
witnesses,' observed Herbert,
gravely.

To be sure, I forgot that you were in
the firm yourself.'

I have no legal position in the firm

whatever,' he said ; ' you are quite mistaken.'


I don't mean as partner, but you have
money in it '

There seems to be some misconception
about that,' interrupted Herbert ; * Mr.
Oldcastle, however, knows all about it.
When I said '* not disinterested," I referred
to my relationship to Clare, and the possibility
of my uncle leaving me something-which,
as it happened, he didn't do.'

I am quite sure you never thought of
that,' said the old lady, confidently.

I am thinking of what other people
will think, my dear Miss DarrelL'

When one knows one is saying truth,
sir, and doing right, that ought not to
matter twopence halfpenny.'

So far as I am concerned,' said Herbert
smiling, ' you may deduct the twopence.
But what people will think — and say —
about this, will matter to Clare very much.
You and I know she would not tell a falsehood

to save her Hfe ; but It is only natural,
or at least excusable, that people who do
not know her should attribute an interested
motive for her making the statement of
which we speak.*

Do you imagine that injury in the world
not composed of convicts would disbelieve
Clare's evidence as opposed to Gerald's ?'
exclaimed Miss Darrell, vehemently; ' why,
he has 'hang-dog" written all over him

This matter will never come before a
jury,' answered Herbert, sadly. ' Nothing,
nothing, I am quite sure, will ever induce
Clare to permit it to become the subject of
public discussion.'

Her very words,' murmured Miss
Darrell to herself ; ' he knows her every
thought, poor fellow,' and she looked at the
young man with that tender sympathy
which women over fifty can still feel ;
among men, to be sure, judges retain the
faculty of shedding tears even beyond that
epoch, but it is only when for the nonce

they have become feminine by putting on a
• cap.

But Herbert, you and Clare were not
alone that night

True ; there was a third person who
heard the clock strike, or, at all events,
heard my remark upon it.'

Percy Fibbert Y

Yes.'

*Well, surely his testimony would be
disinterested enough, and if he makes the
least pretence to be an honest man he will
give it. Then, even if Gerald's story were
true, there would be no sort of good in his
repeating it.'

But there would be a good deal of
harm,' answered Herbert, gravely. ' It is
the story — that is to say the disclosure of
it — and not the fact that Clare fears.'

Herbert Newton, let us be frank with
one another,' said the old lady, earnestly ;
Percy could stop all this if he liked.'

I have not the slightest doubt of it.'

But you don't think he will stop it ?
Yet we should be asking no favour of him
in urging that, but only the barest justice.'

What would Sir Peter say, Miss
Darrell, if his nephew's testimony prevented
Clare's share of this year's profits
from passing into his hands ?'

Good heavens, what has that to do
with the matter, I mean with Percy's
telling the truth ?'

Morally, nothing of course ; but I am
putting myself as far as I can into Percy's
shoes.'

You'll never get your toes into them,'
exclaimed the old lady vehemently. * That
man is a rascal.'

And yet you are taking it for granted
that he will voluntarily give up the claim
which Gerald's story would establish for
him.'

We will try, at all events,' said the old
lady.

I am doubtful about that,' resumed

Herbert, thoughtfully. ' I think you should
take counsel with wiser heads than mine before
hazarding such a step. Remember, his
reply, so far as Clare is concerned, will
be final ; and it is not from Clare such
an appeal can come. Her trustees should
be consulted.'

I have telegraphed for both of them
this very morning said the old lady, though
the notion even of telling them about this
matter was most distasteful to her. ' If I
had not been here I do believe she would
have given up everything without a struggle
on Gerald's bare word. Here is the
note he left behind him :

'' All that I told you last night is true
from beginning to end'"

" Methinks he doth protest too much," '
quoted Herbert, drily.

Protest ! Yes, indeed ; I think, however,
I should have got the truth out of
him if he had stayed here. My fear is

VOL. II. c>6

that he will tell his tale to somebody
before we can get at him ; if he has not
told It already

If somebody else has not told It to him,*
observed Herbert.

Ah ! then you think as I do,' said the
old lady quickly, * that this story, like those
of Erckmann-Chatrian, Is elaborated.'

Stop said the young man firmly ; ' I
entreat you to say no more. I am not a fit
person to discuss what you have in your
thoughts. I was picturing to myself certain
effects which disappointment and dislike
might give rise to in the mind of another,
without taking into consideration how they
might move — nay, how they do move —
my own. I am not a fair judge in this
matter.'

'Well, I don't understand you. You
were frank enough about Mr. Fibbert's.
character the other day, when he was only
open to the suspicion of forgery ; and now,
since he has been found guilty and drummed

out, as it were, of Clare's affections, you
won't open your mouth against him. I do
hope you weill not be so reticent when she
herself asks your opinion upon this matter.'

She will never ask my opinion about
Percy Filberts he answered earnestly ;
and as for me, unless she does ask it, my
mouth is sealed.'

Who sealed it ?' asked the old lady
sharply.

Clare herself.'

Indeed !' exclaimed Miss Darrell, looking
up at him with wistful curiosity.
Lately ?'

'No; months ago. I promised her
never to say a word against him.'

Oh, well ! I must say exclaimed the
lady bitterly, ' it is difficult to act with
people so ridiculously full of scruples as
you and Clare. It is like having for allies
some very worthy comrades, but who insist
on bringing their wives and children into
battle with them. Let me tell you, my

36—2

good friend, we have to contend against
foes who have no such ties.'

Nevertheless, what is rio^ht will come
uppermost, and justice be done,' observed
Herbert confidently.

It is possible,' answered the old lady
drily ; * but, like Napoleon, I prefer to have
on my side strong battalions. So, by your
leave, we will not discuss this matter with
Clare till my reserves come up.'

You mean till Mr. Oldcastle arrives T
Yes, and Mr. Rodenn. You may smile,
my good sir, but I would rather have a
child to fight for me, than a man with his
hands tied and his mouth sealed. Come,
let us eo in.'

THE TWO TRAVELLERS.

A RICH individual of my acquaintance
who is the architect of his own fortune,
and admires the architecture, was
once so good as to tell me how he made
his money. * I have no blood, sir, but I
have brains ; I have no learning, but I
have common sense ; I have no crest, but
I have a motto : it is " Shove ;" ' which he
illustrated by an appropriate action — the
protrusion of a gigantic shoulder. Yet,
when one considers the matter, this excellent
principle is not always the talisman of
success. There are even some people who
get things through not shoving ; as though

one who watches the surging crowd round
a stage-door, but hesitates to take part in
the trampling of women and children,
should be beckoned in by an appreciative
manager through a side entrance, and given
a front place in the pit. When this happens
the manager is generally a female ; but it
does happen. I doubt, for example, whether
Herbert Newton lost much in the
opinion of Miss Darrell, though she expressed
herself about it so contemptuously,
by declining to speak his mind about Mr.
Percy Fibbert. The opportunity of climbing
into one's beloved object's good graces
by stepping on the prostrate body of a
defeated rival offers such a combination of
pleasure and profit as is almost irresistible ;
but a woman — because perhaps she appreciates
the temptation so thoroughly — is
sometimes capable of appreciating the self-sacrifice
of him who declines it.

Clare, who had seen Herbert's portmanteau
arrive, guessed easily enough what

had delayed him and Miss Darrell. Indeed
she had (very improperly) watched from
the window their flirtation in the garden.

The old lady, who was judiciousness
itself, left the two young people alone together
for half a minute,

'She has told you all, Herbert?' said
Clare, in a hurried whisper.
AIL'

Then of Gerald's two alternatives — for
one is impossible — does that theory of his
that dear papa was the victim of a mechanical
impulse seem to you credible ?'
' It is as incredible as the other alternative,'
said Herbert gravely.
*And that lad is his own son.'
It is terrible ; but he is but a lad, as
you say.'

And therefore open, you would in mercy
add, to evil influences.'

I was not going to add that, Clare ; but
it is true, no doubt. You once rebuked me
for charity to him, and reminded me very

properly that he and I were of widely different
temperaments and dispositions.'

She remembered it very well, and the
occasion ; how she had not only defended
her half-brother, but some one else ; and, in
particular, how Herbert had said that there
was one person who had a permanent influence
over Gerald, the more's the pity
She knew that Miss Darrell had communicated
to Herbert her suspicions of that
person's handiwork In the present matter,
and she honoured her companion's reticence
in forbearing to retail them.

*Oh Herbert — dear Herbert — what are
we to do ?'

Miss Darrell entered the room as the
question was concluded.

^ Nothing,' she answered for him — * nothing
at present. Your trustees, my dear,
will be here this afternoon — I have received
a telegram from each of them — and no
decision can be arrived at in their absence.'

It struck her as highly undesirable that

these two young people — one so full of
sentiment and the other of scruples — should
come to any understanding on so weighty
a matter without consultation with their
seniors.

It is a beautiful day ; let us enjoy It, and
forget this trouble till the time comes to
bear it.'

The proposition was full of wisdom, but
difficult of accomplishment. Who of us who
have survived the good old days of schooltime
— the days which those only can call
'golden' who are themselves brazen — can
forget that miserable morning of the day
we departed to resume our studies for the
second term, when, though still small, all
illusion was at an end as to what school —
and the boys — were like. We were still
for a few hours with our parents and our
friends ; no one for the moment was pulling
our hair, or borrowing our money, or stealing
our cake ; the kindly atmosphere of
home was yet around us. And yet how

hopeless were all attempts at enjoyment in
the shadow of the coming sorrow. There
are some people — murderers — who eat the
very heartiest breakfast on the morning on
which they are to be tancred ; but such
powers of mental abstraction are exceptional.
The probable villainy of her half-brother,
the possible baseness of her quondam
lover, the disgrace that menaced the
memory of her father, these things Clare
could not forget even for a moment. They
dulled the spring sunshine for her, and
tainted the very air. Nevertheless, the
sense that she possessed Herbert's sympathy
in the matter was of some comfort
to her. From those husks of conventional
consolation ' well meant for grain ' (but
which go nigh to choke their unhappy
recipients), she was as safe in Miss Darrell's
care as in his own ; but she knew he could
enter into her hlial feelings, which the
other could not. Every touch of his hand,
every tone of his speech, assured her of it.

So far as his influence could effect it, she
was convinced that, at whatsoever sacrifice
of fortune, the dead man's fair fame would
be kept free from stain.

All three went to the station to meet
their expected visitors. The London train,
which was to bring Mr. Rodenn, arrived a
few minutes before the Stokeville one, by
which ]mr. Oldcastle was to travel. The
former gentleman was in a state of great
effusion.

How very good of you, uncle, to have
come so promptly,' exclaimed Clare, with
genuine gratitude.

My dear niece, every trouble undertaken
for you — however onerous — is, and
always will be, a pleasure to me. Miss
Darrell, I am charmed to make the acquaintance
of my beloved niece's most
devoted friend. And Mr. Hubert, too!
Delighted, I am sure, once more to meet
you ; a most auspicious occasion.'

For the moment Herbert thought him

demented, but Miss Darrell had a shrewd
suspicion of what he had in his mind, and
hurried him off to the hotel, not unwillingly.
It was inconsistent with his dignity to wait
on a railway platform for a country attorney,
and he had also anxieties about his
luggage.

I hold it to be a great principle of life
he said, * never to lose sight of one's portmanteau.
My good man' (this to the hotel
porter), 'why do you turn it bottom upwards ?
You always do it, I know ; have you any
logical reason for it? — So my dearest niece
is going to marry her cousin after all.'

'Good heavens! what put that into
your head, Mr. Rodenn ? I was afraid you
would have said something to that effect in
Clare's presence.'

I, madam ? Indeed, you little know
me,' he replied, drawing himself up ; * I
am the discreetly of men. But surely
that is the same young gentleman I once
met under widely different circumstances,

covered with oil. Hubert ; I remember
the name from '' King John." '

His name is Herbert — Herbert Newton ;
but Clare is not going to marry him, nor
anyone else

'' But this is most extraordinary complained
Mr. Rodenn. 'Why, what am I
brought here for '^. I am come down at a
vast inconvenience and some expense '

The telegram said your journey would
be paid, sir!'

Pardon me, my dear madam ; be so
good as to permit me to proceed. The
journey, as you say, is provided for out of
the estate ; but of course there will be extras
to which a man in my position can make
no allusion. Delicacy forbids. I make
no complaint on that score, but surely I
have not been inveigled for nothing to
this abandoned and deserted spot ? Good
heavens ! where are the people 1 Is there
any infectious disorder from the ravages of
which the inhabitants have fled T

My good sir ' expostulated Miss

Darrell.

Once more pardon me, and permit me
to conclude,' proceeded Mr, Rodenn. ' I
have in that portmanteau a little cadeau
for my sweet Clare. It is of the rarest
and most delicate china — ofreat heavens !
how he is bumping it round the corner in
that hand barrow ! — and specially designed
for the interesting occasion which I had
pictured myself as about to attend.'

I am sorry to say, Mr. Rodenn, your
presence has been necessitated by quite
another matter, and under circumstances
far less agreeable. Mr. Oldcastle is
coming on the same account.'

Good gracious !' exclaimed the valetudinarian,
adjusting his scarf with a
shiver ; ' you don't mean to tell me that I
have been brought down here in springtime,
when east winds are proverbially
prevalent, upon a mere matter of business
!'

It is one, however, of some Importance,'
observed Miss Darrell drily, 'since
it seriously affects your ward's fortune.'

I hope it does, madam,' answered ]mr.
Rodenn testily ; ' that is to say, I hope it
will turn out to be an affair of sufficient
weight to excuse such an extraordinary
proceeding. What on earth can she have
been doing to affect her fortune ? Young
girls should never have any money ; they
are never satisfied till they have lost it.'

Very likely ; no doubt it is best that
men should have everything,' observed
Miss Darrell, her smothered indignation
finding vent in satire, of which the other
was quite unconscious ; * but, as it happens,
Clare is not to blame in this case. The
misfortune has arisen from the conduct of
her half-brother ; you remember that young
man, I dare say ?'

Of course I do. Edgar — Edgar Lyster,
son of Clare's father by his second marriage,'
returned Mr. Rodenn, with some

pride, arising from the consciousness of
unwonted exactness.

Not Edgar — Gerald,' interposed Miss
Darrell gently.

^ To be sure, as you say, not Edgar.
I was thinking of " King Lear." Shakespeare
is a passion with me. So they've
found out Gerald at last, have they ? I
read him like a book in those few days I
spent at Stokeville. A young fellow,
rather loose, or if the expression Is too
coarse for a lady's ear, let me say 'fast,"
but without any real harm about him ;
the mere exuberance of youth. Eh, what ?
Tells falsehoods ? Now there you show
your discernment, my dear Miss Daredevil
Severely, I mean. I should say he was
a most tremendous and unmitigated — yes
—liar.'

You are right there, Mr. Rodenn,' exclaimed
the old lady with genuine approval ;
whatever Clare says to you, stick to that.
This is our hotel. Clare ordered a fire in

your room, as the spring air is chilly ; and I
hope you will find everything comfortable.
In ten minutes or so we shall have afternoon
tea, if you ever take such a thing.'

My dear Miss Severely, you will make
a sybarite of me ; no, I don't take tea
before dinner, but I take coffee — cafe noir
with just a dash of curacoa in it.
Thanks.'

In the meantime Clare and Herbert had
arrived with Mr. Oldcastle.

What is the matter ?' were the lawyer's
first hurried words as he stepped out of the
train. ' You have had no communication
from the Bank, I do hope ?'

The Bank I' said Clare ; ' what Bank ?'
Oh, never mind. I was afraid that
certain persons connected with the — but as
they haven't done it, it doesn't signify —
might have been making some direct application
to you, instead of through the
proper channel. It would have been highly
unprofessional, but — well, if it is not that,
VOL. IT. n

it will keep. I never talk business in the
open air. There's a text against it. The
birds of the air will carry the matter. Mr.
Rodenn here, did you say ? What on earth
did you send for him for ? Important I
That's the very reason why you shouldn't.
Advice ! You might just as well have
called in a Chinese Mandarin.'

The co-trustees, however, shook hands
across the tea-table with much cordiality.

I am delighted to meet you again, my
dear Mr. Newcastle,' said Mr. Rodenn, 'and
under more auspicious — or at least, taking
the average, less melancholy circumstances
than on the last occasion. Let me recommend
a little curator in your tea.'

Not if we have a business matter to
discuss,' said the lawyer, smiling. ' Now,
my dear Miss Clare, who is to be the
speaker — you, or Herbert, or Miss Darrell ?
Or is it a matter of united testimony ?'

It certainly is not,' observed Miss Barrel!
sharply. * The story you are about

to hear is utterly destitute of corroboration.
Clare, my darling, I am afraid you must
repeat to these gentlemen what you have
already told to me. I wish I could spare
you the task.'

It was certainly a painful ordeal for poor
Clare, though she had the sympathy of her
whole audience, who did their best to relieve
her from embarrassment. Mr. Oldcastle
put in a question here and there,
which, so far from interfering with the flow
of narration, was of great advantage to her,
as, in answering his queries, she divested
herself of the role of public speaker. Once
Mr. Rodenn inquired whether there would
be any objection — as he found his feelings
on his dear niece's account getting a little
too much for him — to his smoking a cigarette
; but otherwise there were no interruptions.


Zl—^

THE CONSULTATION.

WHEN Clare had finished, everyone
looked towards Mr. Oldcastle,
except Mr. Rodenn. Perhaps that gentleman
did not understand that what was
required was a professional opinion, and
rather resented that this appeal should not
have been made to himself as a man of the
world, and occupying so high a position
in It, in the first instance. At all events
he took occasion to make a remark which
at once attracted attention to the proper
quarter. ' Well, I must say, my dear Clare,
that Gerald is deserving of great credit.'
It is just there that I differ from you,'

replied Mr. Oldcastle, with unwonted
promptness. ' Credit is the very last thing
I should be inclined to accord to his
story.'

Pardon me. You are too hasty,' continued
Mr. Rodenn, with a pitying smile.
I was about to add, when you interrupted
me, that Gerald deserves great credit for
ingenuity ; but that when wee had praised
the young man's talents for fiction, our admiration
was exhausted.'

What we have first to look to in a statement
of this nature,' observed Mr. Oldcastle,
is motive.'

just so,' assented the valetudinarian.
My dear Mr. Herbert, oblige me with a
light — or, since we are dealing with a work
of art, should we not use, my dear sir, the
French word motif?'

In plain English, however, which I
believe we all speak,' pursued the lawyer
grimly, ' the question simply is, What does
he get by it ? As I have said, the story

is incredible to me ; but it is also inexplicable
why Gerald should have invented
it

Not at all,' answered Mr. Rodenn. * If
even the young gentleman had said he had
put the clock on himself I should not
attach one whit more importance to his
statement. From a love of notoriety people
often confess to murders they have never
committed ; and as for Master Gerald, he
has already done a good stroke of business
in the way of sensation by bringing us down
here on a fool's errand.'

There is some truth in what you say,
Mr. Rodenn,' admitted Miss Darrell ; ' but
you don't know Gerald as we do. There
is not only method but meaning in all he
does. A practical joke is the last thing to
enter his mind.'

There I quite agree wn'th you. Miss
Darrell said the lawyer gravely. * Indeed,
saving Miss Clare's presence, who has the
misfortune to be related to him, I fear that

the young man has much more knave than
fool in his composition.'

You have had proof of that, eh ?' put .
in the little lady sharply.

Why — yes — ' (the lawyer was thinking
of that cheque for five-and 'twenty pounds,
the circumstances connected with which
Percy had hinted had better not be inquired
into) — ' I am afraid I have. Now, my dear
Miss Clare, there is one point in what you
have told us that seems to me of the last
importance : the question would be a painful
one for me to put if your character were
not well known to every one of us, but is it
not your impression that at one time, at all
events during the course of Gerald's Interview
with you, he had the idea of obtaining
hush-money ?'

He did say,' answered Clare, with a
deep flush, ' that it was a question for my
consideration whether it was worth while
to tell anybody about this matter. He explained
that, however, in another way.'

Just so; he saw he had gone too far
interrupted the lawyer, * and then went off
on another tack. That course of conduct
is very common in such cases. After that
plan failed he was less strenuous in his assertions,
I conclude.'

Of the truth of his story ? Not at all
Indeed, after the interview was over — the
next morning — he left this note behind
him :

" All that I told you last night is true
from beginning to end." '

Then he had two strings to his bow,'
remarked the lawyer thoughtfully.

sand a deuced long bow it was remarked
Mr. Rodenn.

Quite right, quite right !' exclaimed
Miss Darrell. ' As a matter of fact, Herbert
Newton here is a witness to the falsehood
of Gerald s statement ; he will tell you
that the town clock struck midnight before
he and the rest were summoned from the

supper-table to Mr. Lyster's room, when
they found him still alive ; so there was
not only no need for fraud on the part of
the dying man — a monstrous idea, to begin
with, to anyone that knew him — but an
absolute impossibility of its commission in
respect of time.'

That is so,' observed Herbert ;' I remarked
to Clare at supper that night that
the town clock had just struck, and that it
was therefore time to go upstairs, as we had
promised her father to do.'

And she heard it also ?' put in the
lawyer.

No, I did not hear it,' said Clare, ' but
was as certain of the fact as though
I had, since Herbert affirmed it. Indeed,
it was corroborated by the clock
upstairs.'

That is, of course, the clock in your
father's room to which Gerald's statement
has reference,' observed the lawyer. ' Miss
Darrell speaks of '' the rest ;" there were

Others, then, besides you and Newton and
Gerald present on that occasion ?'

Gerald was not there,' said Clare
gently ; * he was upstairs, you know. But
there was one other person with uS' — Mr.
Percy Fibbert'

In his earnestness and satisfaction, Mr.
Oldcastle did not remark the hesitation
with which this name was mentioned, nor
the blush that accompanied it.

Then that settles the matter. Percy
is what you, and indeed Newton, are
not ; an independent witness. In fact, his
interests lie quite the other way ; and it is
not to be conceived but that, as a man of
honour '

Here he stopped, for he suddenly remembered
that the relations between Clare
and Percy had been abruptly broken off —
for what reason he did not know, but
probably a disagreeable one ; perhaps, not
finding her so wealthy as he had expected,
and notwithstanding his protestations (often

made to the lawyer himself) that money
Avould make no difference to him in that
matter, he had jihed her. Moreover, the
looks of all around him were so peculiar
that Mr. Oldcastle felt he was getting on
dangerous ground.

Before Miss Darrell, who was about to
speak, could get out a word, Mr. Rodenn,
delicately removing his cigarette, observed :

You may hold any opinion of the
gentleman you please, Mr. Oldcastle ;
but as my dear Clare's nearest relative
and trustee I must protest against anything
whatever relating to her material
interests being left to the honour of Mr.
Percy Fibbert.'

You are a most uncommonly sagacious
man,' exclaimed Miss Darrell, with irrepressible
admiration.

Mr. Rodenn bowed, smiled, laid his hand
upon his heart, and daintily resumed his
occupation. He had no objection to be
called sagacious, but the fact was, it was

no knowledge of Mr. Percy's character
that had thus moved him, but the remembrance
of a certain evening passed at Sir
Peter's, on which he had been treated with
much less consideration than was his due.
The amour p7^opre of much wiser men
than Mr. Rodenn is at once their strongest
and their weakest point, and any wound
inflicted on it goes to the very root of
what they are pleased to term their
opinions.

Neither Clare nor Herbert uttered a
word, but their silence, as Mr. Oldcastle
felt, was sufficiently significant.

Perhaps there are some here he said,
who are in possession of other facts concerning
this unhappy matter than have
been communicated to me. Is it possible
that there is any suspicion of collusion
?'

I have none, Mr. Oldcastle,' answered
Clare firmly ; * nor are there any grounds,
as I believe, beyond mere prejudice, for

such a suggestion. We have only to
consider Gerald's story in relation to himself,
and, what to me is paramount, so far
as it affects the memory of my dear
father.'

But, my dear Miss Clare, even Gerald
does not presume to suggest any intentional
misdoing upon the part of Mr.
Lyster. He said, as I read it in my notes
here, that he performed the action imputed
to him " like one in his sleep," or " under an
unconscious Impulse' which your brother
himself explains as having arisen from his
brain beinor in ''a morbid" state through
Its constantly dwelling on his chance of
survival Into the present year, upon which
such important Interests depended. I am
bound to say from my knowledge that
your poor father did give a great deal of
thought to that contingency.'

Of course. If Gerald's tale be true,' said
Clare, *such would be the only explanation
of the matter to those who knew my

father. But I am thinking of those who
did not know him. Do you suppose that
money — all the money in the world — ■
would compensate me for the defilement
of his good name ? No ; at all risks, at any
sacrifice, I will keep it unsullied.'

My dear Miss Clare,' said the lawyer
gravely, ' I cannot and will not imagine
that your speech implies anything so
monstrous and ruinous as an intention to
give up what the fortunate prolongation of
your father's life has secured to you ; a
competence which he may be truly said to
have earned for you, since Dr. Dickson has
assured me many times that nothing but a
supreme efibrt of will enabled his patient
to live on as he did ; but if such a mad
notion should have taken possession of
you, I must point out that nothing would
be more likely to produce the very, misfortune
that you dread, since the giving up
of your undoubted rights would be a tacit
admission that you had no claim to them ;

and if no claim, that it was abrogated by
sour father's act.'

I have thought of all that, Mr. Oldcastle,'
returned Clare gently, ' and I
think I have overcome the difficulty, if
Gerald's tale is to be accepted.'

'A large " If," ' ejaculated Miss Darrell.
One hears of stories of a Cock and Bull,
but they are Gospel to it.'

Mr. Rodenn emitted a little stream of
smoke In the speaker's direction, as though
it were so much incense, and kissed his
hand in gallant adhesion.

*■ I say if Gerald's tale should on the
whole be accepted as correct,' pursued
Clare, quite unmoved by these demonstrations,
* I think my plain duty could be performed
without the danger to which you
allude. It is certain that only a very few
minutes made the important difference to
my prospects of which you speak; indeed, as
you know, Mr. Oldcastle, I have felt some
scruples (though your arguments overcame

them) in taking advantage of that
circumstance, and why, though late, should
I not once more entertain them ? The firm
would hardly be very solicitous to inquire
into my reasons for this change of views ;
but if necessary it would be easy to attribute
them to what, if (I say again) Gerald's
tale be true, would be the true cause —
namely, that since the event in question we
have discovered that my father's clock, on
the correctness of which everything hinges,
was a few minutes fast'

My dear Miss Clare, the case is admirably
put, but ' here the lawyer hesitated,
smiling blandly, with his fingers on
his watch-chain.

But you were about to say,' interposed
Miss Darrell, ' that persons suffering
from mental aberration do sometimes put
absurd cases admirably. My dear Clare, I
blush for your intelligence. Mr. Rodenn,
did you ever hear anything so unreasonable
r

My dear Miss Darrell, let me say
rather, unseasonable ; it is midsummer madness.'


'Still pleaded the lawyer, smiling-there
is method in it; is there not, Mr.
Newton ?'

'Indeed, sir,' answered Herbert, 'supposing,
as Clare says, we are to accept
Gerald's story as true, it seems to me no
better plan than hers could possibly be
devised for combining restitution with
secrecy. I don't think Sir Peter would
stir the question of how she came to find
the clock fast. I agree with may cousin
that it is impossible to exaggerate the importance
of Gerald's statement; but I am
much more disposed than she is to hold ita
complete invention. As he sticks to it,
however, of course it must be investigated ;
and this, because of Clare's delicate but
very natural feeling in the matter, is our
difficulty. We can only appeal from Gerald
drunk, as it were, to Gerald sober ; get him

VOL. II. 2i^

to retract a statement which by this time,
perhaps, he regrets, if only from fear of the
consequences.'

In plain English,' observed the lawyer,
we must make it worth his while to tell
the truth.'

I will have no bribery,' exclaimed Clare
decisively ; ' not one shilling shall be given
with my consent to close anyone's mouth.'

What ! Not to prevent this young man
telling a falsehood !' exclaimed Mr. Rodenn,
throwing up his dainty hands. * My dearest
Clare, where is your morality ?'

At all events observed the lawyer
diplomatically, * there can be no harm in
giving Gerald the opportunity of withdrawing
his allegations in case he repents of
having invented them. He suggests, what
we don't think very possible, that his father
was actuated, in what he is affirmed to have
done, by a mechanical impulse ; perhaps-gerald
was driven to invent this very
singular narration by a similar hallucination.

If he repents his false step he will know
that, as has just been said of Sir Peter, we
shall not be very solicitous to inquire how
he came to make it.'

My opinion of him, nevertheless remarked
Miss Darrell, with a tightening of
her lips, ' whatever explanation of the phenomenon
he may offer, will remain precisely
the same.'

That, however, my dear madam,' replied
the lawyer cheerfully, ' such is the callousness
of the human heart to moral reprobation,
it is probable he will survive. What
we are brought here to-day for is to put a
stop to a calumny such as, thanks to certain
scruples on dear Miss Clare's part — which
we will not go so far as to say do greater
honour to her heart than her head —
may become a calamity ; it is only a little
spark at present, but if it once spreads there
will be a conflagration. What we want is
not to bring Gerald to book — for that his
accounts will be cooked we may be certain

but to obtain from him a retractation. I
propose, therefore, to write to him in a
guarded way, informing him why we have
been summoned here, and requesting his immediate
attendance, at the same time taking
care to afford him not only an opportunity
of recantation in case of repentance, but
also a loophole of escape.'

It will be a composition that will require
very delicate handling,' observed Mr.
Rodenn drily, ' especially the construction of
the loophole. — I am quite of your opinion,
my dear madam.'

This last was an aside in reply to a muttered
aspiration from Miss Darrell, that the
said loophole could be a slip-knot attached
to a gallows.

Oh, as to that,' observed the lawyer,
smiling, ' in such cases a mere keyhole is
amply sufficient for exit. I hope this plan,
my dear Miss Clare, as being fair to everyone,
as well as merciful to Gerald himself,
commends itself to your sense of right.*

At the moment Clare was thinking of a
letter somewhat similar to the one proposed,
written of late by herself, and also leaving a
loophole, and what came of it. How hard
it was to find baseness in one so dear, and
now again (for it seemed taken for granted)
in one so near !

I suppose it is the wisest course she
sighed. ' I thank all here from the bottom
of my heart for all the pains they are taking
for my sake.'

But she felt, as everyone could perceive
who heard her, that it was labour in vain.

Gerald's telegram.

THAT metaphor of Mr. Oldcastle with
respect to a conflagration should the
spark of calumny once get ahead was by
no means an exaggerated one. It was
clear to all the little party now assembled
at Sandford that should Gerald once communicate
his story, whether it was false or
true, to other ears, irreparable disaster must
needs follow. The proposed letter was
therefore despatched to Gerald by the next
train to Stokeville, the guard being instructed
to place it in the young man's own
hand. In it he was adjured by every tie
that is supposed to be sacred to retract the

charge against his dead father, which,
though absolutely incredible to ordinary
ears, was making his sister miserable, while
at the same time he was assured that, in
making a clean breast of it, he would obtain
her forgiveness. The simple phrase, * he
would be no loser,' which the lawyer had
added in place of the last sentence Clare
had struck out with her own hand. ' Just
as you please, my dear young lady,' he had
said, with a shrewd conviction that the
young gentleman would have taken forgiveness
in a very material sense. In
adding that all that was wanted from him
was the truth, Mr. Oldcastle had also
pointed out to Gerald that his omission to
come at once to Sandford would be a tacit
confession that the whole story was an invention.
' My own private impression,'
the note concluded, ' is that it was a practical
joke, designed, I must say, in the
worst taste, but still not of course the unforgivable
sin ; and I can only hope you

have already repented of it' — which was
the loophole.

At Clare's earnest request Mr. Oldcastle
gave himself a holiday ' — a present he
seldom got from other people — and stayed
the night at Sandford, in hopes that there
might be some reply from Gerald by post
the next morning. She felt that, next to
Herbert, the lawyer understood her best,
and could be patient even with what he
might consider morbid weakness in her with
respect to the matter in hand ; whereas,
though they would be powerless to move
her from any settled purpose of her own,
she rather shrank from the sharp antagonism
it might evoke from Miss Darrell, and
from the contemptuous philosophy of
Uncle Rodenn. As it was Miss Darrell
could not restrain herself from giving utterance
to significant opinions with reference
to the wickedness of weakness in certain
cases ; and how people with the best intentions
in the world often did more harm for

the sake of peace and quietness, or from
sentimental considerations, than the most
terrible tyrants. To give way to injustice
in one's own case was, she argued, the most
certain method of encouraging it in that of
others, and, under the guise of self-sacrifice
and patient submission, was in effect to act
most selfishly and to the disadvantage of
the whole human race. To Mr. Rodenn, for
whom she conceived an unwonted admiration
from the manner in which he had ' put
his foot down ' on Gerald's story, she appealed
with confidence for corroboration of
these views.

My dear madam,' he said, ' I have no
doubt you're right : conciliation in the case
of a disagreeable person is not only thrown
away, but most injudicious; it leads him
to imagine you are afraid of him, and encourages
him to further acts of aggression.
At the same time I am bound to confess I
never tried it.'

Well, I have; said the old lady. ' When

I first retired from the educational profession
I had no proper pride ; exacting
parents and their audacious offspring had
broken my spirit. I only wished to be
quiet and comfortable, and to this end —
among other things — I thought I would
furnish my sitting in church with a cushion
and a hassock. The next Sunday, when
I entered my pew, I found them both
occupied by another lady — mine was the
very first seat as you entered — and nothing
left for me but the bare seat and floor as
usual. I said nothing on that occasion.'

Very foolish,' interposed Mr. Rodenn.

But I could not make a disturbance
with a stranger in the sacred edifice.'

Pardon me, my dear madam, it was
the very place for it ; she would have been
more frightened than even you were, and
have given everything up at once.'

At that time, however,' continued the
old lady, ' I had not your keen sense and
knowledge of the world. On the next

Sunday, however, when I again found the
interloper in possession, I did venture to
murmur, ** I think, madam, this is my
place;" and — would you believe it? — she
said simply, " Oh, indeed!" and pushing my
cushion, and viy hassock up to the other
end of the pew, left me the bare boards
and the floor, just as before.'

Exactly what I should have expected,
and precisely what you deserved,' said Mr.
Rodenn.

Indeed, I think you are very hard on
Nannie,' said Clare, smiling. ' What on
earth could she have done under such
circumstances ?'

Why, my dear Clare, she could have
sent for the beadle and got the woman
turned out of the pew'

'Well, to confess the truth, that is just
what I did do,' said Miss Darrell naively.
What are you all laughing at ? Was I
not quite right, Mr. Oldcastle ?'

No doubt you were quite right, madam ;

only, as an example of [passive obedience
carried out to the bitter end, the narrative
seems a little defective.'

Well, at all events I am wiser now,'
insisted the quondam martyr ; ^ and I only
wish,' she added, with a glance at Clare,
^ I could impart my experience to others
who have a natural tendency to be trodden
on, but, unlike the worm, are averse to
turning.'

Clare only laughed good-naturedly.
They were walking (in complete privacy)
in the public garden, and all the sights and
sounds about them were redolent of the
beauty of the spring. The fresh air and
friendly companionship had done her good.
For the next few hours at all events she
would keep her mind free from troubles,
and not mar by downcast looks the enjoyment
of those about her, two of whom, at
least, were putting themselves to inconvenience
on her account. The despatch of
Mr. Oldcastle's letter had been a relief to

her, as any kind of action always is in such
cases ; and in particular his having informed
Gerald that his silence or absence would
be held equivalent to retractation gave her
comfort. As a matter of fact, of course,
Gerald could neither have written nor
come to Sandford since the letter was
sent ; but in the meanwhile the truce
suggested peace.

Talking of being trodden on continued
Miss Darrell, who was in high good-humour,
and because Clare made no
attempt at self-defence, imagined, perhaps,
that she was on the road to conviction, ' I
never knew what real oppression was till
I flattered myself I was emancipated from
it, and set up a page. The humiliation I
have suffered through that boy exceeds all
I have undergone from my one hundred
and fifty young ladies. He leaves my
most important morning callers behind the
glass doors in the hall, for fear they should
steal the umbrellas and things, and ushers

all the begging-letter impostors up Into the
drawing-room ; while out of doors he is
worse than at home. When I go to pay
visits In my hired brougham to the parents
of my old pupils, and wish to be particularly
dignified, he has to call in the assistance of
the passers-by to reach the knockers ; and
when I come out, Instead of finding him at
the carriage-door, I discover, to the ill-concealed
delight of the powdered footman,
that he is in the next street looking at
Punch. He is always just where he ought
not to be, and never where he ought to be.'

He is here, at all events, looking for
his mistress observed Mr. Rodenn, who
had his eyeglass up, as was his habit when
amused.

Here ! Where ?' exclaimed the old
lady, in extreme dismay. ' I left him onboard
wages.'

It is the boy from the hotel,' observed
Herbert quietly. ' He has a telegram.'

The message was for Mr. Oldcastle,

and, as all rightly concluded, from
Gerald.

•

I have nothing to retract of what I have

said. It Is all quite true. I cannot come
to Sandford ; the whole subject Is much too
painful to me to bear discussion.'

The little party looked at one another In
amazement.

Well, upon my word, that is cool !' exclaimed
Miss Darrell indignantly.

'Still it is very delicately expressed
observed Mr. Rodenn in his blandest tones.
I like the phrase *' too painful." It shows
a sensitive disposition.'

Oh, Uncle Rodenn, don't laugh at it !'
pleaded Clare pitifully ; ' it is such dreadful
news.'

Pardon me, my dear ; If you refer to
the character of the writer, of which this
message is certainly very significant, it Is
hardly to be called news. If you expected
him to come here and submit himself to

cross-examination, you must have been
sanguine indeed.'

What Miss Clare means is his sticking
to his story,' remarked the lawyer, ' which
is a serious matter.'

Of course he sticks to it,' returned Mr.
Rodenn airily. ' When I was at Eton we
had an eleventh commandment, which we
broke less often than the others. " Tell a
lie, tell a good one, and stick to it;" inspirit,
at all events, this young gentleman
is an Etonian.'

Nevertheless, it is evident to me,' said
Mr. Oldcastle thoughtfully, ^ that whatever
may be his motive he means mischief. It
is impossible for us to ignore such a statement
as he has committed himself to.'

^ I should treat his story precisely as I
treat that slug yonder,' observed Mr. Rodenn,
pointing out the object in question with
the neatest of umbrellas. ^ I should let it
alone.'

Wherever It crawls it leaves a slime,'

answered the lawyer sententiously. * In
the slug's case it doesn't matter, but something
must be done to stop this ' — and he
struck his hand upon the telegram, which
he had spread out on his knee. ' If this
sort of thing goes on, it will worry Miss
Clare to fiddle-strings

I would rather die than endure it,' said
Clare firmly.

Then we must produce counter-evidence
— or rather, let us hope there will
be no necessity to produce it ; if we can
only make sure of having it — to use if we
wanfc it — that will nip the mischief in
the bud and frighten Gerald into veracity.
What I now propose is to write to the only
other person who was present at Oak Lodge
on the night when ]mr. Lyster died — Mr.
Percy Fibbert.'

Mr. Rodenn uttered a little sniff of
contempt; j\Iiss Darrell pressed her lips
together ; Clare, pale as a ghost, cast
down her eyes, which fell upon the law-vol.

11. 39

yer's late metaphor, the slug, and shuddered.


*If something must be done,' said Herbert,
' I agree with Mr. Oldcastle that it
must be that. We shall, after all, be asking
no favour of him, but only that he shall
speak the truth.'

*A difficult thing with some people when
it is opposed to their interests remarked
Mr. Rodenn drily. 'What do you say, Miss
Darrell?'

An impossible thing.'

Still,' urged the lawyer, * we shall be in
no worse position than if Gerald goes to
Percy, or it may be to Sir Peter himself,
as I am inclined to think is more than
possible.'

Possible ! ' ejaculated Mr. Rodenn scornfully,
* it is certain ; the whole affair is a
plant between them from first to last.'

Miss Darrell cast a glance of admiration
at the speaker which would have flattered
Solomon. All she said was ' Ah ! ' but the

Interjection had the significance of a
folio.

Well, in that case,' pursued the lawyer,
the affair might present Itself in the form
of a distinct claim. My suggestion is to
anticipate and thereby prevent that. I
propose to write In general terms to Mr.
Percy Fibbert, admitting that a question
had arisen as to the precise time at which
Mr. Lyster expired, and recalling to his
recollection the fact that the town clock
struck twelve while he was at supper with
Herbert and Miss Clare. All that I
shall ask of him is a corroboration of that
circumstance.'

'And suppose he declines to give it?'
inquired Mr. Rodenn.

Well, that will look ugly for him in the
eyes of a jury — nay, my dear young lady,'
for Clare had been about to make objections,
* I am quite aware that the case is
never to come into court, but Mr. Percy
Fibbert does not know that. He will take

39—2

a practical view of the matter. If he
answers truly, that will cut the ground
away from Gerald's feet. You may say,
indeed, that it will still be open to Gerald
to repeat is statement; but upon the supposition
that it is false he will forbear to do
so, since nothing can then be got by it.
Even you, my dear Miss Clare, will hardly,
I conclude, giYQ up your property on the
unsupported word of this young man when
it is also contradicted by independent testimony.'


'It is a frightful thing to entertain a
doubt on such a matter,' said Clare hesitatingly.
' However slight it may be, it
seems to me that Sir Peter — that is to say
the firm — ought in honour to have the
benefit of it.'

My dear Clare,' interposed Mr. Rodenn,
^ you are wearing my watch.'

Your watch ?'

Yes ; you may have had a conviction it
was yours, but I have an idea that it's mine.

My idea may not be so strong as your conviction,
but it creates a doubt ; and however
slight that doubt may be, you are
bound in honour to give it me.'

My dear Uncle Rodenn,' said Clare,
with a faint smile, ' the cases are not
parallel. You have a watch of your own.'

That is just what completes the parallel ;
I have apparently no motive for depriving
you of your watch, just as Gerald to our
eyes has no motive. But that docs not
make either of our claims less preposterous.
Do, I beseech you, behave like a reasonable
being.'

If Miss Darrell had known Mr. Rodenn
better, she would have admired him even
more than she did for the attitude he had
assumed with respect to Gerald and his
story. During the whole of his existence
he had probably never taken so much
trouble, or interested himself half so much
in the affairs of a fellow-creature. But in
addition to his liking for Clare, and his

detestation of the Fibberts (whom he really
believed to be at the bottom of it all), he
resented beyond measure the possibility of
his niece giving" way to her morbid and
Quixotic feelings in the matter. As an
heiress, she reflected credit on him ; but
should she be mad enough to strip herself
of her fortune through these foolish
scruples, she would be a credit to nobody,
and, if he had been of a weaker disposition,
might even become a burthen to him.
For all she knew (though he knew better)
he was wealthy ; and her conduct aggravated
him all the more, since it seemed to
him that she was ready to make a sacrifice
at his expense, the very wickedest thing in
his eyes that any human being could propose
to himself.

If you have any regard for your friends,
Clare,' pleaded Miss Darrell, unconsciously
following up this argument, ' I entreat you
to follow their advice in a matter so
momentous.'

Thus pressed on all sides, Clare cast an
appealing glance at Herbert.

I used to think it was always easy to
know what was right she sighed, 'but now
it seems so difficult ; what would you do,
Herbert, if you were in my place ? '

I should put myself in the hands of a
just man, who also knew the ways of the
unjust,' replied Herbert with an inclination
of his head towards Mr. Oldcastle.

Then be so good, my dear Mr. Oldcastle,'
said Clare firmly, ' as to write that
letter to — ' her lips quivered, as though
declining to pronounce Percy's name —
the letter, that is, which you have suggested.'


Mr. Rodenn looked thunders, and frowned
so hard that his glass fell out of his eye,
and Miss Darrell lifted her hands from her
lap in silent protest; but Mr. Oldcastle
bowed like a lawyer who has received his
instructions, and to whom it only remains
to carry them out.

CHIVALRY.

BY common consent, and also because
opinion was so divided among the
little party, the subject of Gerald was
dropped for the remainder of the day.
The lawyer's letter was despatched in due
course to Percy's address in London, and
for the present there was an end of the
matter. Mr. Rodenn withdrew himself in
dudgeon from the rest of the party until
dinner-time, and gave himself up to his
own devices. With his gold eyeglass and
superior bearing he patronised Sandford to
that extent that if patronage could have
done it, independent of numbers, the

dreams of the Railway Company In creating
the place would have been realised —
its fortunes would have been made. As
It was, he rather Impoverished them ; for
finding In the guide-book that the lift used
many thousand gallons of water in its
ascent and only cost a penny to the hirer,
including the services of an attendant, he
amused himself by going up and down in
it, taking especial care to use it when nobody
else desired its accommodation. By
this invigorating exercise and the consciousness
that he had got his money s worth out
of It and more, Mr. Rodenn so far worked
off his ill-humour as to meet the lawyer
(who was the chief cause of it) at the
dinner-table with renewed complacency ;
but when the ladies retired for the night
he also lit his bed-candle, and took his
cigarette with him to his bedroom in
preference to remaining with the other
two.

Thus, for the first time since they came

to Sandford, Mr. Oldcastle and Herbert
found themselves alone together.

Now that that cantankerous gentleman
has taken himself off, my lad,' said the
lawyer, as soon as the door had closed
behind their late companion, ' I should
like to have a few words with you. A
second consultation of five, and two of
them ladies, is not a thing I have a taste
for ; and I doubt if the result of the first
will be satisfactory.'

Still I think we have done — or rather
you have done — the best that could be done
under the circumstances.'

Let us hope so ; but to tell you the
truth, I am much more apprehensive about
what may come of the affair than I have
cared to show. I have reason to entertain
a very bad opinion of Master Gerald Lyster.
Clare has often assured me that the young
gentleman Is nobody's enemy but his own ;
but that is sometimes a very dangerous
sort of person, eh ?'

The lawyer's tone was interrogative ; he
seemed to expect some revelation from his
companion that might throw further light
on Gerald's character : but Herbert only
answered gravely, ' That is so, no doubt.'

I know, of course, that he is a very
young fellow, but still there are sad stories
about him ; a man in my position in a
place like Stoke ville hears a good deal
about people.'

Naturally.'

Now I don't want you to tell tales out
of school, Herbert, but it is important that
I should thoroughly understand our position,
which is affected by his own. The
time, too, has quite gone by for any false
delicacy, or reticence, as regards this fellow.
Is Gerald married ?'

I don't know. I have heard it stated
that he is, but I have never believed it.'

That is, from what you know of his
character, you think he is much too selfish
to have sacrificed his prospects, as his father

did, from any scruples of morality. But it
may be, as he would put it, that he couldn't
help himself. He has certainly something
on his mind which troubles him ; he is
always in urgent need of money ; girls of
his own rank in life seem to have no attractions
for him. Upon the whole, it is my
impression that he is married.'

It is quite possible.'

Mn that case there may be motives for
his present proceeding; for that his whole
story is a lie, I take it for granted you are
convinced. It is so, is it not ?'

It is, I am quite sure, an invention from
beginning to end,' said Herbert.

'Just so. Well, if he's married, there
may have been many things to quicken his
invention — necessities.'

Herbert shook his head.

Ah, but you don't know. His wife is,
I hear, expecting a son and heir ; and he
has debts besides. These things make a
man look about him. He must have

funds from somebody. Gerald invents
this tale, to get them out of his half-sister
in the shape of hush-money.'

Gerald never invented it,' said Herbert
quietly.

What do you mean ? You surely don't
agree with Mr. Rodenn that the whole affair
is got up between him and the Fibberts to
deprive Clare of her share in the profits of
the firm. He called it "a plant." It made
my blood run cold to hear him. Why,
Sir Peter, with all his faults, would sooner
see his museum burnt down than do such
a thing.'

I don't deny it ; I don't wish to say a
word against Sir Peter nor anyone else.
But I am quite sure that Gerald did not
originate this scheme.'

You mean he is not an inventor like
yourself; hasn't got the wits for it? But
perhaps some of his belongings have.
There's that Sam Chigwell, for instance,
a very cunning fellow, who, moreover, as

I have reason to believe, has already been
mixed up discreditably with Gerald's affairs.
If it be so, it may prove very difficult to
keep matters quiet, as Clare has set her
heart upon doing. Though, on the other
hand Percy's answer to our letter should
be final. When Gerald hears we have
got that, he will know that the game is
up.'

Do you build very much on Percy's
reply ?'

Most certainly I do. With Clare in
this Quixotic and morbid state of mind,
which of course ties our hands, what else
have we to build upon ? The whole edifice
of our defence rests upon it : as to our
legal rights, those could be established
easily enough, I flatter myself, in any court
in England ; but there's Clare. Her
scruples stand in our way. Now, with
Percy's word to back us '

You will never get it,' interrupted Herbert
; ' that, at least, is my firm conviction.'

What ? Why, you yourself advocated
my writing to inn !'

Because it was the only chance which
suggested itself in Clare's favour ; the only
plan which, if successful, would satisfy her.
I may be wrongs, but I fear it will not be
successful.'

My dear Herbert, you astound me ! Do
you think, then, with Mr. Rodenn, that
Percy is a scoundrel ? You must surely
have some reason besides personal dislike
(for I know, of course, you dislike him; for
imputing to him such a course of conduct.'

Herbert flushed to the temples. ' You
will please to remember, Mr. Oldcastle,
that I have volunteered no expression of
opinion regarding Mr. Percy Fibbert,
whom, as you justly observe, I do not
like. But we are discussing Clare's affairs,
and since you tell me they depend on
Percy's aid, I must needs say that I believe
it will be withheld. What you wish him
to do is, in effect, to cancel his own claim to

Clare's profits in the firm for the year, as
also his uncle's claim. On the latter ground
he may reasonably decline to assist us.'

Even by telling the truth?'

If you put it that way I answer, ''Yes.'"

Unless you know something of Percy
Fibbert which I don't know, I think, Herbert,
you are very uncharitable. It is
possible he may have behaved ill to Clare —
it is that, is it ? You didn't say so — no ;
but I can see what has prejudiced you
against him. Well, I can only say that I
think your suspicions unworthy of you.'

I am very sorry, Mr. Oldcastle. But
after all, since in twenty-four hours we
shall see which of us is right, it is hardly
worth while to discuss the matter.'

The lawyer rose from his chair and
began to pace the room uneasily.

If you had said " Percy Fibbert is a
thief," or " Percy Fibbert is capable of
forgery," you could hardly have astonished
me more, Herbert. I feel sure you are

mistaken, my dear lad. But if you are not
I have not told Clare, because I thought
it would be injudicious ; since the greater
disadvantage to herself the more she would
be set on doing what she calls justice to her
father's memory — but if Percy does play us
false, so far as Clare is concerned this may
mean ruin.'

Ruin ?'

Yes, nothing less ; that Bank In which
her father was so mad as to invest his
money, turned out even worse than I expected
— much worse. I trusted to the
profits of the firm for the year to make her
straight ; but if she doesn't get them, her
whole fortune — that is, all she has invested
in the concern — will hardly meet her liabilities.'


Good heavens !'

It is perfectly true. Rodenn showed his
sense — confound him ! — in washing his
hands of all responsibility. And that reminds
me, by-the-bye, that although he has

VOL. II. 40

done so, he may, as Clare's nominal trustee,
make himself obnoxious to yourself.'

To me ? How is that possible ?'

Well, in this way ; of course one hopes
it may never happen ; but if Gerald sticks
to his story, and Percy shows any disposition
to side with him — if anything, in fact,
in the shape of a claim is set up to Clare's
beneficial interest in the firm, she will give
up everything at once. From that, no
argument, I am convinced, v/ill turn her.
She will throw everything overboard rather
than the least stigma should attach to her
father's memory.'

That is certain,' said Herbert.

Very good ; in that case, when her
liabilities with respect to the Bank have
been seeded, there will, as I have said, be
very little left of the principal invested in
the firm ; a few thousand pounds at most
will be all she will then have to live upon.
But what Rodenn will say, or may say, is
this : *' Mr. Lyster had thirty thousand

pounds in the business ; you tell me ten
thousand pounds of it is Herbert Newton's,
but where is the proof of that ?" And, indeed,
thanks to your own dilatoriness in
the matter, there is no proof. Of course
it will make no difference to you, because
Clare would rather cut her right hand off
than take advantage of such a circumstance
; but I do think it quite possible
that Rodenn, who as one can see is horrified
at the idea of anyone belonging to him
becoming poor, may make himself unpleasant
about it. I may say that Mr.
Lyster's conduct in the matter was something
worse than the sin of omission ; I
don't mean to say that he wilfully took advantage
of your characteristic carelessness
as to money matters to leave the thing in
doubt ; but to have left behind him no
legal acknowledgment of your rights, and
not even to have explained to you the

circumstances '

My dear Mr. Oldcastle,' interrupted

40 — 2

the young man earnestly, * you are labouring
under the strangest mistake, and it is only
due to my poor uncle to enlighten you.
Before his death, so far from making no
allusion to it, he and I came to a complete
understanding in the matter. Our conversation
was of a private nature, but I
may state this much, without breach of
confidence, that my ten thousand pounds
in Fibbert and Lyster's business is, in fact,
only mine provisionally.'

Provisionally. How can that be ? It
was your own money, which you inherited
when you came of age, and which Mr.
Lyster invested for you in the concern ;
and a very good per cent, it paid at that
time, though it fell off afterwards before
this great spurt came.'

That is very true ; but the arrangement I
speak off was long subsequent. May I speak
to you as a client — I mean, will you hold
the communication sacred as to privacy ?'

Of course I will.'

Do you remember a letter left by Mr.
Lyster addressed to me, but only to be
delivered in case he died before the list
of January?'

I do. It was destroyed unopened, according
to his instructions.'

Well, if it had not been destroyed you
would have learnt from it what I am now
about to tell you. He had very grave
apprehensions about those unhappy bank
shares, which it seems have been partly
realised.'

They might have ruined him, stock,
lock, and barrel,' observed the lawyer sententiously.


No doubt they might ; he had a dreadful
suspicion they would. If he had died
before the list of January, and Clare had
not inherited her interest in the firm for
the present year — which, observe, is exactly
the position in which she will be placed if
she gives credence to Gerald's story — he
thought it possible that his liabilities might

swallow up her whole fortune, which, since
as you say I had no legal acknowledgment
of my claim, would have included mine as
well

'A most abominable and shameful risk
to run,' observed the lawyer indignantly.

But not so, if it was done with my own
knowledge and approval.'

Mr. Oldcastle gazed at the young man
with a sort of sublime admiration.

In that case it would be — legally —
justifiable. But as to morals — '

Nay, that is not jj/^^/r business,' returned
the young man naively. ' There was, as
you say, a risk, but that I acceded to ; nay,
more, if you will have it so, there was an
intentional wrong, but that I forgave him.
It was thoroughly understood between the
dying man and me that if that money was
lost I should rub it off like a bad debt and
say nothing about it.'

Say nothing about it,' echoed the lawyer,
rubbing his chin as if to arouse himself

from a dream, if dream it was ; ' say
nothing about ten thousand pounds?'

'Now, as it happens,' continued the young
man, ' it is very possible — in my opinion
almost certain — that Mr. Lyster's estate
will be placed in the precise position which
he apprehended.'

But not by the same means,' remarked
Mr. Oldcastle.

Quite true ; but, so far as I am concerned,
the agreement which I entered into
is equally binding.'

The lawyer shook his head.

What ?' cried Herbert contemptuously.
'Am I to receive the thanks of a dying
man, the gratitude for what he chose to
consider a great service — but which, in my
opinion, was only a part payment for the
kindness and affectionate consideration
always displayed to me by him and his —
and then to cry off the bargain and keep
my money ? Would you have me be as
base as Gerald ? '

No, Herbert, you are not base — certainly
not base said Mr. Oldcastle, laying his
hand upon the other's shoulder ; ' but there
is such a thing (though it's not very frequent)
as going too far in the other
direction. Now, though a lawyer, I aman
honest man, and I cannot consent to bea
party to such a self-sacrifice.'

'The duty of an honest lawyer, Mr.
Oldcastle, is surely owed in the first place
to his client. I tell you this money is not
mine ; it is surely not your place, as Clare's
legal adviser, to question her right to it.
If you did so, though ft would be most
distressing to me to have to do so, I
should appeal from your judgment to
that of your co-trustee, Mr. Rodenn, who,
I am sure, would take my view of the
matter.'

I don't doubt it,' said the lawyer, smiling.
But even if it should be so, or if I myself
could be persuaded to take advantage of
your generosity in this matter, there is one

person whose consent would never be given
to such a proposal — namely, Clare herself.'


'Clare's consent must never be asked,'
answered Herbert vehemently. ' You have
given your word to me to keep secret what
has passed between us.'

*But she will naturally say to me, '' Where
does this money come from ? How is it
that I have thirty thousand pounds instead
of twenty, wherewith to settle these liabilities?"
'

'She will do nothing of the kind; you
know as well as I do, Mr. Old castle, that
her indifference to money matters is almost
equalled by her ignorance of them. Whatever
you choose to tell her she will believe
or rather, on whatever point you choose
to be reticent she will ask no questions.
Her own property may be more, or her
debt to the Bank may be less — what does
it matter ? She will only look to the
total'

Upon my life, sir, you are very ingenious
; if you took to cheating other people
besides yourself you might become dangerous.
But at present you are new to
knavery. It is necessary before the commission
of a pecuniary fraud to look at
the matter all round. Now Miss Clare,
although as you say indifferent enough to
her own affairs, takes a great interest in
those of her friends. She may, I admit,
be inclined to take for granted that you
have received your ten thousand pounds,
but she will very soon remark that you are
not living upon it — that, in fact, you have
nothing to live upon.'

Oh, that's all right,' said Herbert
lightly ; * I had stupidly forgotten to say
what, if I had mentioned it at first, would
have spared you all astonishment. I am
now, thanks to the liberality of the Railway
Company, quite independent. A suggestion
as to the economy of fuel, arising curiously
enough out of my own diving experiment —

I'll tell you all about it some day — has been
favourably received, and is, in fact, adopted.
I am in receipt of a crowd income.'
What do you call a good income ?'

Whatever is sufficient to its possessor.
I tell you I have lots of money, and how is
Clare to know where it comes from ? If I
don't seem to live extravagantly, so much
the better ; she will give me credit for
prudence.'

But what will the world say ?'

That is a matter of absolute indifference
to me. Perhaps I shall be represented as
hoarding treasure, and become greatly
respected. At all events I am quite fixed
as to what ought to be done, and must
be done.'

^ You are as Quixotic as Clare herself,'
said Mr. Oldcastle. ' I could not brine
myself to say " yes" to such a proposal as you
have just made, but that I feel sure there
will be no occasion to put it into effect.
To-morrow evening's post will, I am convinced,

bring a letter from Percy, which
will put an end to our troubles

If it does, I shall be as pleased as yourself,'
said Herbert, smiling, 'and at the
same time shall have gained a character
from you for self-sacrifice at the cheapest
possible rate. You know I am an early
riser, so I will wish you good-nights

Mr. Oldcastle shook the young man's
hand as though he would never let go
of it.

This beats me altogether,' mused the
lawyer, as he nursed his leg before the fire.
There is no precedent for it in the books.
If this Herbert Newton were an older
man — that is, a good deal older — I should
have said he must have been some offspring
of Adam before the Fall.'

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELECTROTYPERS, GUILDFORD.



mm



Slli<!ttOiBSMIIfl4tii8SSHINISM!»!i!C»M

sd.

CM

^

IN MAREMMA. By Ouida. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE MARTYRDOM OF MADELINE. By

Robert Buchanan. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE COMET OF A SEASON. By Justin
McCarthy. 3 vols. Crown 8vo.

A HEART'S PROBLEM. By Charles Gibbon
2 vols. Crown 8vo.

THE BRIDE'S PASS. By Sarah Tatler-vols
Crown 8vo.

CHAT TO &> WIND US, PICCADILLY, W.

51 fio\izl

By JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF ' BY PROXY,* ' LOST SIR MASSINGBERD,' ' HIGH SPIRITS,

LESS BLACK THAN WE'rE PAINTED,' * UNDER ONE ROOF,'

ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. in.

Mouton
CHATTO AND WINDUS, PICCADILLY

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/forcashonlynovel03payn

CONTENTS OF VOL. Ill

CHAPTER PAGE

XXXV. Percy's letter . . . . i

XXXVI. COMPROMISE OR NO COMPROMISE? - 1 8

XXXVII. GERALD IS CONFIDENTIAL - - - 44

Xxxvii THE RESERVOIR - - - - - 61

XXXIX. TWO YOUNG MEN - - - - 80

XL. AT HIS MERCY - - - - 99

XLI. MISS DARRELL AT HOME - - - I16

XLII. A QUESTION OF CONSCIENCE - "135

Xlii SECOND LOVE - - - - "153

XLIV. ALMOST OUT OF THE BAG - - - 1 77

XLV. HER SUCCESSFUL RIVAL - - - I91

XLVI. AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR - - - 2x6

XLVII. A MENACE - - - - - - 228-

CHAPTER PAGE

XLVIII. A BRIEF FRIENDSHIP - - - - 245

XLIX. FOREBODING - 262

L. THE LOSS OF THE ' Phoenix ' - - 285

LI. WEDDED - - - - - - 307

CHAPTER XXXV

Percy's letter.

HERBERT NEWTON'S room at
the hotel was the same which Gerald
Lyster had occupied before him, and he too
looked forth upon the furnace-fires to eastward,
and gazed into the future by their
ruddy gleam. That he had at last
persuaded the lawyer to take his own views
in the matter of his share in the firm was
an immense satisfaction to him ; for he had
thereby secured Clare from the keen tooth
of poverty. And on the whole he had no
VOL. in. 41

cause to reproach himself with deceit.
What he had said to Mr. Oldcastle with
respect to his uncle Lyster was but a paraphrase
of the conversation which has been
recorded as having passed between him
and the dying man.

He felt sure that he had translated
aright the vague phrases which had
dropped from Mr. Lyster's lips, and which
had of late assumed so particular a meaning.

It is useless,' the old man had said, 'to
tell the whole sum of a calamity when it
may not happen, and when to tell it cannot
avert it ;' an illusion which, though it had
seemed only to refer to Clare's projected
union with Percy, Herbert now clearly
perceived had a double meaning. He
had gone on to ask, ' Would one be angry,
if the calamity should happen, with him
who has not forewarned us of it — who had
not had the courage to forewarn us ?' and
Herbert had answered for himself ' Surely
not and answered truly. For though all

was known, and the blow had fallen — or,
as he felt sure, was In act of falling — he
was not angry now.

But suppose,' the old man had continued,
with a persistence that had then
surprised him, but was now explicable
enough, ' suppose before his death such a
man had not only held his tongue but
wronged us — was the cause indeed, though
the unwilling cause, of the calamity — would
not that alter matters ?'

And Herbert had replied, ' Not with me
if I were the wronged person ;' and here
again he could say to himself, ' I told the
truth.'

Lastly, his uncle had said : ' But if a
man did not mean to hurt you, though he
did it, and it came out after his death, with
other things to his discredit perhaps, and
you had loved one another all along ?'

And Herbert had answered : ' Then I
would love him no less, sir, but pity him,
from the bottom of my heart.' And

41—2

his heart was full of love and pity for the
dead man now. That the letter his uncle
had left was an acknowledgment of his
error and an appeal to his nephew for
forgiveness of it, Herbert felt certain.
And he forgave him now as he would
have forgiven him had he received it.

That the old man had been devoured
by anxiety in those latter days he had
been well aware ; but now for the first
time he understood the extremity of it.
Mr. Lyster had clung to life, not as other
men do, from any happiness to be derived
from it, but from the desperate hope of
remedying the past, and providing for the
future ; and he had imagined he had
succeeded In this. That smile of restful
triumph which Herbert had seen upon the
dead man's face had now an ample explanation.
He had felt in those last moments,
not only that competence was assured to
his daughter, but that the possible wrong
which had threatened his nephew at his

hands had been averted. And, dead
though he was, he should rest in that
assurance still. Upon that matter the
young man's mind was fixed, without
shadow of turning. The only thing that
at all troubled him was the manner in
which he had made this plain to ]mr. Oldcastle.
He had, no doubt, slightly exaggerated
the tacit understanding that had
existed between himself and his uncle ;
but, after all, it was a venial, nay, a creditable
error, and gave him less disquiet than
some folks experience in communicating
the most unpleasant truths. Upon the
whole, Herbert Newton was happier man
that night for losing ten thousand pounds
than many another man would have been
for gaining it.

That it was lost to him, and for ever, he
had no scintilla of doubt. It was one
thing to expose and disparage his enemy,
and quite another to take measures for defence
against the wickedness of which he

was privately convinced he was capable.
And now, so far as Clare was concerned,
Percy might do his worst. He might
deprive her — Herbert felt certain he would
do so— of a large portion of that which
was by rights her own, but it would not be
in his power to impoverish her, which had
been his object. Of that, too, Herbert
was well convinced.

In Gerald's case it was greed, and greed
alone, that actuated him ; but in Percy's it
was revenge. He was not one to forgive
the woman who had rejected him and detected
him in a baseness ; his love was of
that sort which disappointment turns to
hate. Among Herbert Newton's studies
that of the human heart was not included ;
but in this particular case, his wits,
sharpened by anxiety for her he loved, had
pierced his quondam rival's breastplate of
cunning, and laid bare his very soul.
Moreover, he had undertaken Clare's defence
without fee, for she would never

know that he had been her advocate. He
had thrown himself, as It were, between
her and the other's cruel thrust, as a
brother might have done for a sister, without
hope of reward, but only out of the
old love he had always borne her. There
was no expectation of gratitude even, far
less of fruition.

Herbert's sleep that night was as the
sleep of a child. So bright and cheery
was he the next morning, that Mr. Rodenn,
who had slept ill — as he always did, he said,
out of his own bed — was greatly aggravated
by it.

'That young man,' he privately observed
to Mr. Oldcastle, ' will get on in
the world ; he takes the misfortunes of
other people so uncommonly lightly.'

It is possible he is only doing his best
to keep up his cousin's spirits,' suggested
the lawyer.

It Is possible, of course ; but I don't
think he would be quite so cheerful if his

own fortune was in danger ; and as for
doing his best, it is my experience that
nobody does more than his second-best at
the very most for other people.'

The lawyer only smiled grimly ; but
what he thought to himself was, ' Now,
this gentleman, though he looks older than
Herbert, and I fancy is a deal older than
he looks, was certainly born after the
Fall'

For his own part Mr. Oldcastle was not
depressed, for, as we know, he entertained
no such misgivings as his young friend ;
and on the whole, the day, though one of
suspense, passed not unpleasantly. As it
wore on towards evening, however, and
the evening's post, the little party became
somewhat anxious ; and at the dinner-table
appetite failed most of them, and especially
the ladies, so signally that Mr. Rodenn
thought it necessary to apologise for the
way in which he plied his knife and fork.

'I have no appetite myself,' he observed;

my natural apprehensions with respect
to what may be in the post-bag forbid
it. But the fact is, I am afraid I have a
cold coming on, and when that is the case
I make a point, while taste is left to me, of
eating as much as possible.'

For my part,' said Miss Darrell
severely, ' I have eaten next to nothing ;
I felt as if every mouthful would choke
me.'

Then, my dear madam,' returned the
social philosopher, ' try drinking. It is
unusual to take it with dessert, but there is
nothing like dry champagne like this — for
restoring — dear me, what does he say, Mr.
Newcastle?'

For just at that moment the waiter had
brought in a letter and placed it in the
lawyer's hands.

Well, it is not satisfactory ; no, I am
afraid not,' said the other, with a rapid
glance at the contents of the missive. ' This
is what I\Ir. Percy Fibbert writes :

" My dear Sirs — I lose no time in replying
to your very surprising communication.
With respect to the town clock
having struck midnight before we left the
supper-table on the occasion of the sad
event to which you refer, I cannot say that
I have any recollection of that circumstance."
'

Very judicious of him,' observed Mr.
Rodenn grimly ; * next to a good memory
there is nothing like a convenient want
of it.'

'eon the other hand," continues Percy
said the lawyer, ' '' I cannot conceive what
importance can be attached to this, since
the time of Mr. Lyster's death was marked
by his own timepiece, from the evidence
of which there can be no doubt of his
having survived the year. I remember
that Mr. Herbert Newton called my attention
to the fact that it stood at some
minutes past twelve at the moment of its

owner's decease : a proof — unless, of
course, the clock was fast — which seems tome
final.

" Yours very sincerely,

" Percy Fibbert." '

'But, my dear Mr. Oldcastle, why do
you consider that so very unsatisfactory .^'
inquired ]\Iiss Darrell.

Because, madam, in my own note I
made no allusion whatever to Mr. Lyster's
timepiece, but only to its corroborator the
town clock. Now Mr. Fibbert ignores the
latter altogether, and makes the whole case
hang upon the accuracy of the timepiece.
It is a very curious coincidence that this
letter and Gerald's story should turn precisely
on the same point.'

It is not a coincidence,' observed Mr.
Rodenn ; ' it is a conspiracy. Pray remember
that it was not with my consent that
this gentleman was written to.'

The advice was mine,' admitted the

lawyer. ' At the same time, If what you
suggest Is true, such a course of action can
only have precipitated matters ; our silence
could not have saved us.'

Saved us }' ejaculated Mr. Rodenn.
Who can hurt us ? I would see Gerald,
and Percy too, with Sir Peter to back
them *

A long way off,' interposed Miss Darrell
quickly. ' That is, of course, where we
hope to keep them. We are not going to
give way to exaction. It would be nothing
short of criminal to give up what Is our
own, what has been secured for us with
such pains and care, by self-sacrificing
love, at the bidding of a footpad In league
with a receiver of stolen goods.'

Oh, Nannie, how can you say such
things !' cried Clare entreatingly. ' How
can you have such thoughts ! For all the
money in the world I would not harbour
them.'

I can't shut my eyes to facts, my dear,

because they're ugly,' answered the old
lady curtly. * There they are, In their
own hideous deformity. I didn't paint
them.'

Oh, cousin, speak for me.' pleaded
Clare. ' Pray speak for Gerald himself.
You cannot believe such things of his
father's son. There must be some frightful
mistake somewhere.'

There will be a much worse one if you
let such people frighten you,' observed Mr.
Rodenn, frowning. ' I really never '

Herbert, I speak to you interrupted
Clare. ' You are just, you are generous.'

Be just before you're generous,' muttered
Miss Darrell ; ' that is in the first copy-book.'


My dear Clare, it is not a matter of
opinion,' said Herbert gently. ' A few-hours
at most should satisfy us upon this
point. I think Mr. Oldcastle will agree
with me that Sir Peter has by this time
been communicated with.'

The lawyer nodded.

Yes ; under the circumstances I have
no doubt that Mr. Percy Fibbert has felt
it to be his duty to do so.'

In that case,' said Clare, unconscious of
the quiet scorn of the other's tone, * my
duty is obvious.'

No doubt,' assented Mr. Rodenn ; ' write
them a letter beginning, '' Gentlemen;" run
the pen lightly through the word, and substitute
" Scoundrels all," and dare them todo
their worst.'

Charming !' exclaimed Miss Barrel!
approvingly.

But slightly libellous and just a little
compromising,' suggested the lawyer. 'We
must really go to work with caution. I
think, Instead of writing, It w-Ill be better
that I should see Sir Peter.'

Just so,' assented Mr. Rodenn. ' Then,
without witnesses, you can tell him what
you think of him.' He honestly believed
that Sir Peter — a man who had shown

impatience under aesthetic criticism —
was capable of any description of atrocity.


Clare did not seem to hear what was
said, but kept her anxious eyes fixed on
her cousin's face in wistful entreaty.

This trouble,' they seemed to him to
say, * is greater than I can bear ; nor do I
know how to deal with it.' At last she
sighed, ' Oh, must Sir Peter know, Herbert
?'

Yes, Clare ; if he does not know what
has happened already, it is certain he will
do so. And it is better the news should
come from us. There is no need to
suggest to him the possibility of what we
know is impossible — any wrongdoing on
your father's part. He knew him too
well to entertain such a thought. And
and — if you really don't mean to fight
it '

Fight it ! See my father's memory
torn to pieces, his good name falsely put to

shame, for money ! They shall have my
last sixpence first'

Then you may depend upon It,' said
Herbert, ' not a word will be said.'

*Oh, I'll answer for that,' put In Miss
Darrell grimly.

But In that case don't let us talk about
the wickedness of hush-money,' observed
Mr. Rodenn, with a bitter smile.

Uncle Rodenn, you do not understand,'
said Clare gravely ; ' to me this Is a matter
of feeling, and though I am sure you wish
me well '

I do, my dear ; I wish to see you restored
to your right mind. At present
you are not In a condition to be at large.
The spectacle Is painful to me ; and — and
threatens my digestion. Moreover' — here
he rose from his chair — ' I positively decline
to be a party to any decision the
effect of which will be to feed the Insatiable
maw of fraud and exaction at your expense.
I do not wish to see you again
until you have regained your senses.'

And with that he straightened his thin
figure, which always drooped persuasively
during any oratorical effort, and stalked
out of the room.

VOL. III. 42

COMPROMISE OR NO COMPROMISE ?

THE little party looked at one another
in amazement, as well they might, at
this unexpected defection.

I am afraid Mr. Rodenn has washed his
hands of us,' observed Mr. Oldcastle ; ' and
upon my word, my dear Clare, I can
scarcely blame him.'

I blame him very much,' said Miss
Darrell. * I blame myself for having
changed — even for one hour — the opinion
I once formed of him for the better. He
is the rat that leaves the sinking ship.'

One should not condemn a natural
instinct,' said Mr. Oldcastle.

On the whole, he was not displeased at
what had happened. He knew Clare's
strength of will, and that it was not in his
power to oppose her decision. But he did
not wish that a man like Mr. Rodenn
should » be a witness of what might appear
to be weakness on his part. He felt sure
he could have fought his client's case, and
gained it, but what use is there in defending
a citadel when its commander is benton
capitulation ?

Miss Darrell was as convinced as he
was that resistance was now out of the
question, but she hoped even yet that
things might not be quite so bad for her
young friend as they looked.

You will see Sir Peter, of course, tomorrow,
Mr. Oldcastle,' she said.

I shall see him to-night, madam. I go
by the mail-train to Stokeville.' Here he
looked at his watch. ' Indeed, I have no
time to lose.'

How good and kind you are !' 

— 2

claimed Clare gratefully. ' That is exactly
what I would have had you do, but feared
to ask it

My dear Miss Clare, there is nothing I
would not do for you,' answered the lawyer
gently. ' Unhappily you yourself have
put it out of my power to serve you, or to
save you. Think, think once more, before
it is too late, of what you are compelling
me to do. I do not put the case as Mr.
Rodenn did ; I say nothing about the
existence of a conspiracy to defraud you of
your rights — though as I am a living man I
believe it to be so — but at the very least
you are about to impoverish yourself for a
scruple. As for defending your father's
memory, who impugns it ? A son in every
way unworthy of him !'

True ; but still his son. The world,
which knows only their relationship, must
needs believe his testimony. With my
consent it shall never hear it. Spare me,
good friend, and go.'

Very good ; then I have no alternative.'


He stooped down, and as she buried
her pale face in her hands, kissed her forehead
in farewell.

If you had been my client, Miss Darrell,
we should have managed matters better,'
he said.

Don't speak of it.' murmured the little
old lady ; then whispered in his ear, ' You
will make terms for her ? you will save
something for her out of the fire ?'

He shook his head.

It is all or nothing, my dear madam ;
still I will do my best.'

Herbert accompanied him from the
room.

'You were right,' said the lawyer, * and
I was wrong. That man Percy is at the
bottom of this.'

It is no matter now who is to blame.
Clare has taken the course I foresaw she
would.'

Aye, and that involves the loss of your
fortune.'

Hush ! remember your promise ; it is
not mine but hers, as you must now see.
I am glad at all events that suspense is
over.'

You are thankful for small mercies, my
young friend.'

As they passed by Mr. Rodenn's room,
they saw through the open door certain
indications of departure : one-third of the
male staff of the hotel domestics were
occupied in packing his portmanteau under
the immediate supervision of the proprietor.


Be very careful of that bottle of hair-wash,
William — eh, Robert, is it ? quite
right ; I never call people out of their
names. And Thomas — it is Thomas, is it
not } — be sure you don't put those brushes
back to back. Good heavens ! you are
packing up those polished boots in paper!
What on earth do you suppose wash-leather

was made for ? and yet people talk of
missionaries to the heathen !'

Here he paused, catching sight of the
lawyer and his companion.

Are' we both leaving Sandford to-night,
then ?' inquired Mr. Oldcastle, smiling.

Yes, sir, yes : I can't stand it any
longer. I don't mean the place — though
that's bad enough — but — I refer to your
fair client. My patience is exhausted. I
can't trust myself to speak upon the matter
in hand. In the words of that ingenious
young story-teller, Mr. Gerald, '' the whole
subject is too painful for me to discuss." —
Alfred, will you or Richard be good enough
to tell the boots to take my luggage to the
railway station ? — So far, Mr. Newcastle,
we are fellow-travellers.'

He had by this time his great-coat on,
and led the way to the front-door.

Mr. Herbert Newton, you are young
and comparatively ignorant of the nature
of females. What you have heard to-night

must have astonished you. When a woman
once gets an idea into her head — in itself
an anomaly, like the 'lady" in the lobster's
head or thereabouts — there it sticks.
Reason is powerless to refute it, eloquence
is wasted upon it. Even if you punch her
head — which in this particular case is of
course out of the question — the idea is
only punched in. It is ineradicable. I
won't trouble you to accompany us any
further, my dear young friend, as I
wish to converse with Mr. Newcastle
alone.'

At this very broad hint Herbert was
compelled to take his leave, though he
would fain have had some conversation
with the lawyer on his own account. It
was no great penance, however, to return
to the hotel, and Clare, who, he well
knew, stood in sore need of comfort.

I have been thinking a good deal about
that young man,' pursued Mr. Rodenn confidentially,
' while my luggage was being

packed. His father left him ^10,000,
didn't he ?'

The lawyer nodded.

Well, I really don't see how Clare can
do better than marry him. He is perhaps
a little wanting in refinement, but on the
other hand he has no expensive tastes.
Not brilliant, but sagacious, I understand,
in his own line of business, and likely to
get on.'

He has got on,' observed the lawyer,
smiling. ' The Railway Company, instead
of charging him a premium, have already
given him a salary.'

I am delighted to hear it ; I hope it
includes a suit of clothes or two. Wear
and tear is one thing, whereas oil — however,
that's a detail. If he has a professional
income, so much the better ; but
my plan is this — let the young people be
thrown together.'

But they have lived under the same
roof half their lives already.'

*Just so; but it was the wrong half,
and during the other portion this scoundrel
Douglas '

Percy !'

Quite right. What could I have been
thinking about ? Chevy Chase. That is
one of the evils of having one's mind
stored with poetic recollections. Yes,
Percy. Well, ever since she has been
marriageable, Percy has naturally had his
eye on her. He thought, of course, she
was an heiress. Now, however, the coast
is clear for our young friend. At present
it is obvious he sympathises with her in
her idiotic scruples, and uses his influence
over her, which is considerable, to foster
her folly. He flatters himself that he is
playing the part of a man of principle :
the most agreeable of roles when undertaken
at the expense of other people.
Now, once put it into his mind that he
may become Clare's husband, and we gain
a powerful ally. He will instantly see this

proposition to impoverish herself for the
benefit of '* Fibbert and Lyster " in its
true Hight, because it will mean impoverishing
him.'

I am afraid that will not make much
difference to Herbert Newton said the
lawyer, smiling.

Now, my dear sir, that is prejudice ; a
thing I should not have expected in you.
Because a man's given up to science you
take it for granted that in other matters he
must needs be a born fool. I do assure you
this is not invariably the case. Take this
very calling of railway engineer, for example
; do you know any class of persons
I, of course, except your own profession
who have a prettier talent for feathering
their own nests ? The single item of
coal-contracts is a gold mine to them.'

My dear Mr. Rodenn,' said the lawyer
gravely, * it may seem strange to your ears,
and stranger still as coming from my
mouth, but I do assure you from what I

know of his character, and I know him well,
that self-interest is the very last motive —
in any question of principle — by which
Herbert Newton is liable to be actuated.'

Then I withdraw, sir, upon physiological
grounds,' returned Mr. Rodenn
quickly, ' my suggestion that he should
marry my niece, for he must be a congenital
idiot. Since that plan fails, it is
obvious that you must save Clare from the
ruinous consequences of her obstinacy in
spite of herself. Something must be lost,
no doubt, but a great deal may be preserved.
Sir Peter is not the man I take
him for if he is not open to compromise.'

But that is just what your niece objects
to.'

'My niece objects to!' repeated Mr.
Rodenn, looking round him as if in appeal
to the Invisible powers. ' Is it possible I
am speaking to a man of the world } The
train is signalled, and there is no time for
argument ; but let me adjure you as a —

dear me, as a reasonable being —-to reconsider
this matter. Come to no terms
that are not favourable. If Sir Peter
offers ;^5,ooo take it ; but if a penny less
don't take it, and say you would not have
taken it if it was fifty thousand. A manlike
you, with such a name for acuteness,
will surely never permit yourself to be
over-reached by a cotton-spinner, or rather
by an individual who, under pretence of
cotton - spinning, is a fraudulent conspirator.'


I will do the best I can for Miss Clare,
you may rest assured, Mr. Rodenn.'

That is spoken like yourself — there I
recognise Mr. Newcastle. You will not
permit a client of yours to execute a deed
of self-destruction. Here is the' train. —
My rugs are in, I trust, porter i^ — Notwithstanding
all our difficulties, I leave this
affair in your able hands, my dear Forecastle,
with the utmost confidence. God
bless you !'

Late as it was when the lawyer arrived
at Stokeville, he turned his steps at once
to the Hall. Sir Peter, he was informed,
was alone in his sanctum, Miss Mildred
being still in town.

The butler ushered him in at once ; Mr.
Oldcastle was well known to him, and it
was a house where ceremony was never
allowed to stand in the way of business.
Nevertheless the visitor had half a mind
to ask, ' Am I expected ?'

This was not the case, however, to
judge by the haste with which his host
shovelled aside his letters and papers that
crowded his table, and by the somewhat
flurried and embarrassed manner in which
he welcomed him.

'Why, dear me, Oldcastle, I thought
you were at Sandford ! Sit down and
have a glass of grog — it's a cold night.'

He knows all about it,' thought the
lawyer, * or he would certainly have inquired
what brought me.'

Yes, it's cold and late too. I should
not have looked in at such an untimely
hour had there not been urgent occasion.*


Indeed. Nothing wrong, I hope ?'

Well, I don't know ; there is certainly
something amiss ; very much amiss. I
am here on behalf of my client ' (those
two words he emphasised), ' Miss Clare
Lyster.'

Very good ; I am your client too, and
she and I have always been friendly.
There can therefore be no difficulty between
us, whatever has happened.'

'You have heard from Mr. Percy Fibbert,
then ?'

From my nephew ? Yes, I had a few
lines to-night.'

Then you must be aware of my business
?'

Well, of course, I suspect the nature of
it. Nothing could have taken me more
by surprise than what Percy tells me. He

writes in confidence, but of course there
are no secrets between you and me. And
let me say at once that, for my part, I
acquit my late friend and partner of any
guilty intention whatever in the matter in
question. It is hardly necessary to allude toit
more particularly. It was the act of a
person not in his right mind.'

Pardon me, but it is most necessary
that we should not only allude to it but
discuss it. I quite agree with you that no
moral blame attaches to your late partner,
even if the circumstance alleged took
place. The question is, however, did it
take place ?'

We have the testimony of his son,' said
Sir Peter coldly, ' that's all.'

just so, that is all. Gerald Lyster's
character is only too well known. Our
contention would be that he lied.'

That, of course, is a matter for a jury,'
returned Sir Peter, shrugging his shoulders.
^ But since he would lose three hundred a

year or so, as I am informed, by his revelation
— a mere pittance it is true, but still
his all — there seems to be an absence of
motive. You do not suggest, I hope,' and
Sir Peter smiled contemptuously, ' that we
have bribed him ?'

No, of course we do not suggest that.
Still, since the interests involved are so
very weighty, there is room for motive
somewhere — that is, in the view of a jury.'

If that is to be your course of action,
Mr. Oldcastle,' said the other stiffly, ' I
don't know why I am honoured with your
present visit. As a friend you are welcome,
but as a lawyer '

Nay, it was you who first spoke of
juries, Sir Peter,' interrupted the other,
and I frankly tell you, if my advice were
followed in the matter, the course of action
you allude to is the one my client should
pursue. If I were Miss Clare Lyster, I
would say to you, " Do your worst," which
would be very little ; I would not give up a

VOL. III. 4 3

single iota of my rights upon Gerald's testimony,
which, moreover, is distinctly disproved
by that of another.'

Indeed. And that other, of course, is
some disinterested person ; one who would
gain nothing by his evidence. Come,
come, Mr. Oldcastle, you speak of frankness
— let us then be open with one another.
In going to law, your client would
be only throwing good money after bad.
She has not a leg to stand upon. Dr.
Dickson says, though of course he could
not have anticipated such an occurrence,
that considering how the anxieties of his
position weighed upon poor Lyster's mind,
he is not surprised at the circumstances of
which Gerald tells us he was a witness.'

Then you have seen Gerald, have you ?'
Most certainly I have. Considering the

importance of Percy's communication, I
felt bound to look into the matter at once.'
Then it is already the talk of the
town ?'

JD

I hope not. I trust not. Nothing has
been said, I am quite sure, to my late
partner's detriment. If you mean to fight
the thing, however, we must make use of
such weapons as He to our hand. You will
do me the justice to acknowledge that
from the very first I looked on this affair
with suspicion ; it was too near a thing not
to awaken some doubt : but out of good
feeling — and — and old associations — I acquiesced.
Injustice to myself, however, and
and my family — I shall now have no hesitation
in pressing my claims. Miss Clare
Lyster is not entitled to one penny of the
profits of our firm during the ensuing year.'

Mr. Oldcastle gathered the sense of Sir
Peter's speech mechanically, but the words
hardly reached his ear. His mind was
with Clare at Sandford ; what would be
her feelings when she learnt that Gerald's
story had got abroad ? He himself had
felt it would be very difficult, if not impossible,
to prevent this, and had even

43—2

foreseen the possibility of Sir Peter taking
immediate action. But the news that
matters had already gone so far staggered
him. Sir Peter had probably acted
on Percy's advice in going to Dr. Dickson.
Since things were in this condition, could
going to law make them much worse, sofar
as Clare was concerned } Would not a
verdict favourable to his client, notwithstanding
all idle gossip, leave her father's
memory unstained ? But in the meantime,
and during the process of the trial, what
colonies would she not suffer! No, there
must be no trial. Mr. Oldcastle's mind
was also exercised upon another matter.
He could not understand, since his companion
seemed so confident, and (as he was
himself obliged to admit) with reason,
about recovering his rights, why his manner
should be so conciliatory. That was not
Sir Peter's way when he had got the upper
hand of anybody. Moreover, since he
believed he had been imposed upon, how

was it that he showed no signs of indignation
or resentment, which in one of his
character were naturally to be expected ?
It was a small thing, but tie hurried
manner in which he had pushed his letters
and accounts aside and thrown a newspaper
on the top of them had not escaped the
lawyer's attention : was it possible that the
business of the firm was not quite so prosperous
as it was reported to be ?

I may tell you in confidence,' said Sir
Peter, after a little pause, ' that those
profits are enormous.'

To be sure ; you were speaking of the
gains of the present year. Well, that is
scarcely an argument in favour of my
client's foregoing her claims.'

I had hoped from your silence, and
also from the knowledge I had of your
sagacity, Mr. Oldcastle, that you had got
to see things in their proper light. Her
chances are not worth that newspaper —
yesterday's newspaper.'

Very good. That is your view ; but it
is not counsel's opinion.'

You may take what opinion you please ;
but in that case — mark me — it will be then
too late for compromise. Now, though, as
you know, I am a man of business, Mr.
Oldcastle, I am not a hard man.'

Then nails are not hard,' thought the
lawyer to himself. ' What does he want ?'

'Moreover, I cannot forget the long years
of cordial association with my late partner,
and the friendliness — though interrupted of
late months —-between our respective families.
These things, Mr. Oldcastle, though
they are not in the bond, I am not ashamed
to say affect me nearly, even in a business
transaction. With your client. Miss Clare
Lyster, you may take it for granted I am
not inclined to drive a hard bargain.'

Mr. Oldcastle bowed and smiled, like a
polite automaton.

What can he be driving at ?' was his
unspoken reflection. ' There is a screw

loose somewhere — if not in the man's head
I'm certain.'

Now the terms I would propose,' continued
the knight, ' while of themselves
such as you will admit to be generous, will
have the advantage of putting an end to
all foolish and malicious gossip upon this
unpleasant matter. My plan is that to the
outside world things shall go on exactly as
they do at present ; that Miss Clare's money
shall remain in the firm, and that we pay
her Interest for the use of it, say at the rate
of six per cent. Now, though of course
that bears no comparison with the profits of
our business, it is more than she could
safely realise elsewhere from her twenty
thousand pounds.'

Thirty thousand !' put in Mr. Oldcastle.

But ten thousand of that is Newton's.'

I am acting for Newton in this matter
as well as for Miss Clare. Whatever
decision Is arrived at as regards that young
lady, win be acquiesced in by him.'

Very good,' said Sir Peter ; ' that simplifies
matters. The young man is Miss
Clare's relative, nor should it be forgotten
that he was at one time in our service. He
shall share the advantage which we offer
to his cousin. They shall each receive
seven per cent, for their money.'

Seven ? I though just now you
offered six.'

Dear me, so I did. However, I am
not one to go back from my word ; so since
I mentioned seven, seven let it be. To tell
you the truth, Mr. Oldcastle,' added Sir
Peter, with a quick smile, ' the percentage
is a bagatelle compared with what we get
just now by trading with the money. I
think, however, you must allow that my
offer as it stands is liberal. It is not as if
we were in want of funds to carry on with.
I need not tell you how folks would jump
at the notion of being in with us at such
a time ; but when one has a good thing one
likes to keep it to one's self, eh ?'

It was the first attempt Sir Peter had
made to speak in his natural manner, and
it was not a successful one. His always
somewhat clumsy gaiety, was, as it seemed
to his companion, forced, and his air of
carelessness artificial. As to the sentimental
considerations which he described
as actuating him, the lawyer put them out
of his consideration altogether, except sofar
as the pretence of them argued necessity.
Why should my astute friend be so civil ?'
was the question he was constantly putting
to himself, but to which he could find no
reply. Though entrusted with full powers
by Clare, he felt he must go home and
think the whole matter over before coming
to a decision.

Well, Sir Peter,' he said, rising, ' I will
communicate your proposition to my clients,
and let you know what they think of it.'

Think of it !' returned the other testily ;
what need is there of that ? They pay
you to think for them, don't they'd What

does Clare know about business ? She will
be guided, of course, by your advice.
Come, come, don't humbug nef A letter to
Sandford Is but six-and-elghtpence In your
pocket after all. Why not say "yes" at
once ?'

I can't do that. Sir Peter,' said the
lawyer stiffly ; ' the matter Is far too
important to be decided out of hand. And
as for Miss Clare's being guided by my advice,
let me tell you it is quite contrary to
my own judgment that I am here this
moment listening to any terms whatever.'

Well, well. It Is only your professional
duty to put a good face on the affair, and
I don't blame you. Only don't forget that
seven per cent, in a safe concern Is not
picked up every day. Let me hear from
you as soon as possible that our offer is
accepted. The Interest will stand over, of
course, as the profits would have done in
the other case, till the end of the year.'

This last observation, though made in a

careless and incidental tone, was a great
mistake ; for It gave a distinct and final
shape to the lawyer's suspicions.

If the firm was In no want of money, and
was making such enormous gains, it was
hardly likely In an arrangement of such
magnitude that it would have occurred to
Sir Peter to mention any date at all In connection
with the payment of the proposed
interest. He had heard rumours of the
gigantic development of the business of the
firm of late months, and it was just possible
that Fibbert and Lyster might not be such
a very ' safe concern ' after all. It was with
no little satisfaction therefore that he remembered
that, by the deed of partnership
which he had himself drawn up, the whole
of Clare's investment had been due to her
since Mr. Lyster's death, supposing that
had occurred during the preceding year,
and could be withdrawn from the firm
without notice.

GERALD IS CONFIDENTIAL.

ONE sometimes wonders when one
considers the difficulties of the
feat, the precautions necessary to it, and
the constant ' alarms and excursions ' involved
in it, whether any secret — even the
most shameful — is worth the keeping.
Better than a life passed in continuous apprehension
is surely a dishonoured one ;
that is, dishonoured at first instead of dishonoured
at last, for it is ten to one that
that will be the end of it.

When ' the carrion vulture waits to tear
one's heart before the crowd it is just as
well, to my mind, not to keep him waiting,
but to let him have the organ in question

at once to gorge himself with, hind have
done with it.

It was curious that so intelligent a mind
as that of Clare Lyster could have conceived
it possible that a story like that of
Gerald's could be hushed up by her paying
forfeit. ' Rumour full of tongues ' is not
to be bought off that way ; scarcely, Indeed,
any way.

Before a week had passed everyone \\\
Stokevllle knew that Clare's money had
been withdrawn from her late father's firm,
with every particular concerning that
transaction : that is to say, with every
detail that imagination could suggest in
the absence of authoritative information ;
where accuracy was wanted it had Its substitute
in particularity. Everybody knew
that Mr. Lyster's bedroom clock had been
accelerated, and also that Gerald had done
it; an example of the reward that Is always
reaped from having an established reputation.


As regards Clare, gossip was more
correct ; for it was understood that the
instant she had discovered what had happened,
she abandoned every claim in the
face of tempting offers of compromise.

The late Mr. Lyster had been connected
with a mine, somewhere in Golconda, his
liabilities for which had swallowed up his
entire fortune. Everyone knew this for a
positive fact — upon the best authority.
None blamed Mr. Lyster except for weakness
in permitting himself to be persuaded
by Herbert Newton to embark on that
speculation. The young man, always mad
upon science, had convinced him that the
soil was still diamondiferous (a very favourite
word in the mouths of the narrators),
notwithstanding much ancient exploration.
The young fellow, however (and this went
far to excuse him in the eyes of the speculative
public), had displayed the courage of
his opinions, and his own money had gone
with the rest.

Upon the whole, from one's experience
of such matters, one might say that rumour
had got nearer to the truth of the affair
than it generally does. moreover, which
doesn't happen everywhere, it loosened
purse-strings and unlocked coffers.

In Stokeville the word ' smart ' was
used in two senses : in the one, it signified
acuteness, and was exemplified in getting
the better of other people ; in the other, it
was a synonym for generosity. And curiously
enough the term was often applied,
and with justice, to the same individual.
There may be more liberal folks on earth
than the Stokeville magnates, but they
would be hard to find ; and there are certainly
none who, having so much, are so
free to part with it.

Offers of pecuniary assistance poured in
upon Clare Lyster by every post, from unknown
hands, but in very unmistakable
figures. The very names of her correspondents
were sometimes strange to her.

Dear Madam,

I knew your father well : an honest
and worthy man. You will not, I trust,
feel offended that an old friend of his
should, in a season of adversity, wish to
show himself a friend of yours. Be so
good as to keep this communication
private, and believe me your sincere well-wisher.'


That was the usual style ; a little stiff,
perhaps, but amply redeemed by the enclosure.
Chesterfield letters, written under
similar circumstances, rarely contain
cheques ; these did. Moreover, they were
for very large amounts.

When Stokevllle folks are ' smart,' they
are very smart.

Clare returned every one of them, of
course ; but the letters touched her deeply.
To her they were so many evidences of
her father's worth. From a want of
egotism, she almost Ignored the chivalry

which prompted so many swords to leap
from their scabbards in defence of a gently-nurtured
girl, who had behaved gallantly,
from the demon Penury (feared and hated
of all in those parts). Still less did she
understand that dislike of Sir Peter had
anything to do with it.

But the fact was that neither the knight
nor his nephew was popular in Stokeville,
nor even (I am sorry to add) his daughter.
They were all 'smart' (Miss Mildred very
much so), but not in the right sense.
Moreover, rumour said that Mr. Percy
Fibbert had jilted Clare.

In more fashionable circles this would
have been thought lite of ; but in Stoke-ville,
where such literature as ' Butterflies '
was not much in demand, and the whole
place, though so advanced in science, was
behind the age in morals, this sort of conduct
was thought shameful.

It would have been too much to say
that the help offered to Clare was as much

VOL. III. 44

in protest against the Fibberts as in kindliness
to herself; but there was a good
deal of protest in it. Stokeville believed
that she had been ill-used, and took this
generous way of showing its resentment.

Though she felt its kindness deeply, and
none the less that she took no advantage
of it, it was an additional reason for Clare's
not returning to her old home. Her
greatly reduced means, however, would of
itself have precluded her residence at Oak
Lodge. When all Mr. Lyster's liabilities
had been paid off, there remained less than
one-half of the ;^30,ooo withdrawn from
the business, or about ^13,000.

So complete was Clare's confidence in
Mr. Oldcastle, and her ignorance of the
real state of affairs, that when all was
settled she wrote a few kind lines to Herbert,
expressing her regret for his loss of
interest, little thinking that it was a loss of
capital ; to which he replied that he had
received a fair return for his money in

past years, and had nothing to complain
of.

She had even endeavoured to persuade
him to take the seven per cent, offered by-sir
Peter, which, though her own position
with respect to the Fibberts compelled her
to reject, there seemed to be no reason for
his declining. On the whole, however,
she was not surprised at his refusal, and
never doubted that he had realised and invested
his money elsewhere.

The withdrawal of that ^30,000 from
the firm, mr. Oldcastle was wont to liken
to the drawings of a tooth with three fanes,
and he didn't take much longer in pulling
it out. Sir Peter offered eight and even
nine per cent, for the accommodation,
which only quickened the lawyer's efforts.
It was with great difficulty he accomplished
his object without quarrelling with the
knight, but he contrived to do so.

It is not,' he wrote, quoting the other's
very words, ' as if you were in any want of

44—2

funds to carry on with ; scores of folks
would jump (as you said) at the notion of
being in with you at a time of such immense
prosperity ; but with both my clients
it is a question of feeling, not of argument,
and I have no alternative but to obey their
instructions.'

The matter ended in Clare having some
five hundred a year or so to live upon, which
no one but Herbert and the lawyer knew
came out of Herbert's pocket. Indeed,
with his salary from the Railway Company
that young gentleman had the character of
being * warm' for his years, and likely to be
warmer' on account of his economical
habits. Just at present he had taken up
his residence at Oak Lodge previous to the
sale of the house and furniture, in view of
certain subaqueous experiments which could
not easily be carried on at the Junction.
This, at least, was his alleged reason, but
Mr. Oldcastle had suggested to him that it
was well that the Lodge should have a

caretaker in it besides Gerald, of whom the
lawyer now entertained the "gravest suspicions.
* I know he is a Har,' he said to
Herbert in confidence, ' and I think it exceedingly
probable he may turn out a thief.
If he were to lay hands, in Clare's absence,
on any unconsidered trifles in the way of
plate, statuary, or pictures, he is well aware
she will never prosecute him, and it is just
as well he should not be exposed to the
temptation.'

By this time the lawyer had not a doubt
that Gerald's clock-story was a fiction, or
that it had been paid for by somebody, at
a price which fiction, alas ! seldom fetches
in the literary market. And Herbert had
never had any doubt. Under the circumstances,
it was not pleasant to be residing
under the same roof with Gerald ; but it
was much more unpleasant for Gerald. He
knew Herbert's opinion of him and of what
he had done quite well, though no allusion
was ever made to it. Once when they

FOR CASH ONLY.

chanced to dine together (which was very
seldom), the doors of the two rooms being
open, they heard Mr. Lyster's clock upstairs
strike as they sat below, and Herbert,
looking half mechanically at his watch, found
the two synchronous to a minute. ' I put
it back five minutes,' stammered Gerald.

When, and why ?'

The two monosyllables came out with
the rapidity and directness of bullets
from a revolver. There is nothing so
disagreeable to slippery folks as a short
question curtly put ; there is no room for
that foul play of the imagination, Evasion.

Gerald's eyes sought the table-cloth, to
the colour of which his cheeks had turned,
and he murmured hoarsely :

The same night*

What ? with your father lying dead in
the room !'

For the moment Herbert had forgotten
his resolve to leave this matter undiscussed :
the mischief had been done, and nothing

was to be gained — since he had no ear for
lying, however ingenious — By re-opening
the question ; but Gerald's first ejaculation
had taken him by surprise, as well it might,
and now that he heard him affirm what,
from the others constitutional timidity, he
felt convinced was a falsehood, his tone, in
spite of himself, expressed sheer incredulity.


You may believe it or not, as you please,'
answered Gerald, with a return to his old
dogged manner. ' But I did put the clock
back again that night. As to " why," the
reason, I should think, is clear enough. If
it had been found to be five minutes fast
the next day, it would have been all up with
Clare's claim.'

I think you had better leave your sister's
name alone in connection with that
story,' said Herbert sharply. The mention
of it in this man's mouth seemed like blasphemy
added to sacrilege.

I am quite aware that she wishes to

have nothing to do with me,' replied Gerald,
meek as a sheep, or rather as a wolf who
has not yet quite accustomed himself to
sheep's clothing. ' However, I shall not
trouble her long with my presence here ;'
and he sighed as if the seeds of consumption
were growing up fast within him, and
he was soon to become an angel.

You are going away, are you ?'

There was certainly not much regret in
Herbert's tone at this prospect of separation
; but, on the other hand, the fact of his
young connection's departure could not beheld
decisive merely because he affirmed
it.

Yes,' continued Gerald; 'I have resolved
to leave Stokeville. I do not wish to blame
anyone in particular, but I have been misjudged
and calumniated. Public opinion
has been set against me. I have some
good friends left, however, who are prepared
to start me in life elsewhere.'

Ah !' It was but a monosyllable, but



it was very significant. Herbert guessed
at once who those friends were, or one of
them, and Gerald knew that he guessed
it. He had been for some days waiting
for the opportunity to make this revelation,
which was necessary to his purposes. To
have left Stokeville immediately after the
dissolution of partnership, and without
any declaration of his intention, might have
excited the suspicion of collusion ; but the
fact was he was bound for Australia,
whither, indeed, his passage was already
booked. His fear was that some obstacle
might be opposed to his departure, even
now, by Herbert, who might not perhaps
have given up all hopes of reversing the
late proceedings. Gerald knew, of course,
that the other had been deprived of his
interest in the firm. If he had known
that, thanks to his story, he had been
deprived of his whole fortune, he would
certainly never have ventured to make the
present disclosure. To Herbert, however.

supposing this intelligence was true, it
seemed in all respects good news. In a
new world, and under new conditions of
life, it was possible that even Gerald
Lyster might show signs of moral improvement,
which at present and under
existing influences was out of the question ;
but it must be admitted that that cause
of congratulation was but secondary ;
Herbert's greatest satisfaction arose from
the reflection that Gerald was about to
separate himself from Clare. Though it
was not in the nature of things that she
could feel affection for him, she still acknowledged
the claim of kinship ; it was
indeed with some difficulty that Mr. Oldcastle
had prevented her, notwithstanding
all that had passed, from making her half-brother
some allowance, though his salary
from the mill was far from despicable, out
of her now slender income; and it was
only too probable, in case of any sign of
reformation or repentance on Gerald's part,

that Clare would hold out her hand to
him. And the touch of Gerald's fingers
would, in Herbert's view, be pollution
to her.

If it is no secret, where are you thinking
of going to ?' inquired Herbert, after a
pause.

I am not quite sure,' replied Gerald, to
whom frankness was as repugnant as cats
are to other unprincipled persons — it was
a sort of ' natural aversion' — and who
moreover thought he had already told
enough ; 'it will be somewhere, however, a
good long way off; as far perhaps as you
are going yourself. You are going, are
you not ?' he added with curiosity.

For over Herbert's face there had come a
look of surprise and embarrassment. That
sudden reference to his proposed departure
to South America had taken him unawares.
He had put the same question to himself
of late without getting a satisfactory reply.
He was certainly not hot about that South

American appointment. He felt a disinclination
to leave England which he had
not experienced at the time he had accepted
the offer. Perhaps it was because
the Coalborough Railway Company had
shown an appreciation of his services ; or
because he had not yet finished those
scientific experiments that were to dispense
with the use of the diving-bell.

I have not quite made up my mind
upon that point he answered. Nothing
could be more truthful than that reply ; yet
Gerald put his tongue out and winked.
Which, I am told, is among vulgar persons
a sign of incredulity.

THE RESERVOIR.

FAR away in the fields, about midway
between Fibbert and Lyster's mill
and Oak Lodge, was the reservoir that fed
the mill ; an inconsiderable sheet of water
as to size, but eighteen or nineteen feet
deep in all parts. It was, of course, on
rising ground, but was shut in from general
observation by a high brick wall. In winter,
sliding and skating went on there, but in
other seasons the place was very lonely.
It had none of the beauty which even a
pond with trees about it never fails to have,
but by means of various scientific appliances
the water was kept clean, except for ' the

blacks which settled on its surface as freely
as the Chinese in Chicago. On the afternoon
of the day on which Gerald and
Herbert had held that unsocial talk together,
and when it was already growing dusk, a
young woman unlocked the door in the high
wall, and entered this Paradise. To judge
by the caution with which she looked about
her, one would say she had no business
there, while on the other hand, it was but
too evident that she did not come for pleasure.
She had a very pretty face, but it
was wan and pale, and her soft brown eyes
were red from recent weeping ; she was
still but a girl in years, but as she trod the
stone flags that formed a path round the
water, her gait was slow and weary. There
was an .iron bench, attached to the leg of
which was a rope, that hung down some
steps that led into the water, and after a
few turns to-and-fro she sat down with a
weary sigh. It was not easy to guess for
what purpose she had come to such a place

at such an hour ; but it was certainly not to
meet a lover. There was impatience indeed
in the glance she occasionally cast towards
the door in the wall, but no expectation.
With her hands folded before her, and a
thin shawl drawn over them, she sat with
down-drooped eyelids, motionless, save
when a shudder seized her, it might be
from without, for the air was cold, or it
might be from a chilled heart within. At
last her ear caught the sound of a click in
the lock, and she rose up with a heavy sigh.
How late you are, Gerald,' she murmured
in a complaining voice ; ' and I am so bitter
cold. It is very hard that you have made
me meet you here when I can hardly drag
one leg before the other ?'

I could not help it,' he replied, looking
at her askance with ill-concealed disfavour ;
I am not my own master.'

And why not? That is just what I
cannot understand,' she answered ; ' it
makes me so unhappy.'

If everything makes you unhappy that
you don't understand,' was the cynical rejoinder,
' you must be a very miserable
woman.'

I am she answered. There was a
genuineness in her tone that made the two
words very pathetic ; perhaps it was this
that moved him, for he answered in gentler
tones.

'Well, I'm not in tip-top spirits myself
You know how everything has gone wrong
with me of late — my poor sister turned out
of the business, and my income consequently
cut off from that source ; however, things are
looking a little better, if I'm only let alone.
It's always 'give, give" with you '

Good heavens ! what are you saying ?'
pleaded the girl, throwing up her thin arms.
I have only asked for bread. Have I not
two lives to keep, and not enough of it for
one ?'

Aye, aye, more's the pity. Well, if
you'll only keep quiet, things may come

round. You know that our marriage is
suspected, and yet you are always wanting
me to run risks. You grumble because I
keep away from you, and you grumble
when I come home.'

Home !' she repeated, like an echo from
a ruin. ' Do you know I have had no fire
to-day, and not one meal .^ Oh, Gerald !
Gerald !'

Be quiet, I say,' he said, looking suspiciously
around him. ' What use is therein
mentioning names ?'

What use indeed !' she murmured, but
he did not hear her. His attention had
been attracted by something in the water.

What the devil's that ? Are there rats
here ? — Well, if you are favouring me with
your attention I was going to say I've got
some good news for you.'

She looked up, very incredulously.
There are people in the world — thousands
who find the same difficulty in believing
in good news as sceptics do in accept-vol.

III. 45

ing miracles ; it is contrary to their experience.


I have got some money for you. A
large sum. Twenty pounds.'

Thank God !' cried the woman, bursting
into tears. ' If my little one is born alive
it will not be starved, as I feared it
would.*

Her companion looked at her from under
his knit brows as though he could have
choked her.

'Well, if you're not starved, I suppose
the child won't be. Here's the money —
four five-pound notes. Only, mark this : If
I go away for a little time, perhaps a day
or two, don't you be coming to the mill, or
applying to my sister, as though I had deserted
you.'

Going away !' she exclaimed quickly.
^ What for ? Where are you going to ? You
swore to me upon the Bible, Gerald, that
though you might not acknowledge me as
your wife just at first — that is at present ' —

here she sighed, doubtless, in remembrance
of some cruel deception — ' you would
never leave Stokeville without doing so.'

Nor more I will. Why, I ran down to
Sandford the other day, and came back
again all right, didn't I ?'

That was to your sister. I didn't
mind that. I felt that whatever you
had to do with her must be for your
good.'

Oh, you did, did you ? Well, this is
for my good too. I've got something to do
for her in London. If I am not back in
two days you may call me a liar.'

The woman shook her head. The privilege
evidently did not impress her as it
might have done. It is possible she had
already experienced the satisfaction to be
derived from it.

If you don't believe me, I tell you what :
if I am not back by the time you mention,
I give you free leave to go to Percy and
tell him the whole truth.'

45—2

Which he knows already answered the
other coldly.

Well, If that won't satisfy you, you may
go to my sister herself. That is what you
have been begging and entreating me tolet
you do any time these six months. You
may make a clean breast of it to her.*

'Then you're not coming back!' exclaimed
the poor woman, with an exceeding bitter
cry. * You shall never do it. I don't want
your money ; keep It, keep it, since I know
you grudge It me, but keep your word.
You swore to me that you would make mean
honest woman In the sight of the world,
as I am In heaven's sight, aye, and in that
of the law — the law — Gerald.'

Curse you, be quiet ! ' he cried, running
up to her and seizing her by the wrist.
Now, look you ! will you listen to reason,
or will you not ?'

If you mean by that, will I sell my
child's birthright for twenty pounds ?' she
answered shrilly — * no, I will not. I will

go to your sister tomorrow. — Oh, Gerald,
would you kill me ? Help — help !'

He had stooped down and pulled at the
rope, with the intention, as it had flashed
on her frightened senses, to bind her arms.
But the rope was a long one, and he could
not, with only one hand at liberty, pull it
in. Then with an oath of disappointment
he caught her round the waist, and covering
her mouth with his hand to still her
screams, forced her to the water's edge.
He was a strong man for his years, though
drink and dissipation had done their work
with him, and she was enfeebled by her
condition, and want of food, and misery of
mind and body. In a minute more or so
the guilt of blood would have been on his
soul, when he suddenly staggered backward
with a cry of terror. From the
water immediately beneath him there had
risen up a gigantic head. Its eyes protruded
like those of a lobster, magnified a
thousand times ; its head, even in the dull

evening light, had a burnished gleam; it
had all the spectral weirdness of the
helmet of Otranto, with the inexpressible
horror added that it was coming out of the
water. It was also undoubtedly coming
towards kzm. With a howl compared with
which poor Rachel's recent shrieks had
been soft music, Gerald fled to the door,
which he flung open without a look behind
him, and sped homeward. He had dropped
his wife like some inanimate burden, which,
fortunately for herself, she had indeed become.
Her senses had left her with her
last remains of strength, and she had
fainted without perceiving the monstrous
portent which had presented itself to her
husband's eyes, and palsied the hand of
murder. When she came to herself she
became dimly conscious of some one standing
beside her, chafing her cold hands.

Don't speak, Rachel he said kindly.
Take a drop from this flask ; you will soon
be better.'

What has happened ?' she murmured
wildly. ' Where is my — I mean Gerald ?'
Then, with a shudder of anguish and fear
as recollection returned to her, ' How could
he — could he do so !'

Because he is an absolutely worthless
villain returned her companion gravely.
That is the simple truth, Rachel.'

Oh, Mr. Newton, is that you ? But
after all, he did repent. His good angel
did not desert him altogether.'

Then his good angel must be of a very
persevering disposition. Gerald's own impression
is to the contrary. If you asked
him what prevented his drowning you, he
would sa' — and for once truly, for he thinks
it — that it was the Devil. Behind you,
where I have put it so as not to frighten
you, is my diving-dress, in which I do not
appear to advantage. I was under water
when he pulled my rope, and I fortunately
obeyed the summons. That helmet' —
here he kicked it into view — 'comines

of the reservoir might have frightened
a bolder man with a better conscience

Deary me !' shuddered the poor woman,
alarmed at the spectacle even as It was ;

he must have thought he was come for.'

^ No doubt he did ; however, It Is only a
postponement. Now, tell me all about It.
That you are Gerald's wife I know.'

*Yes, sir, his wedded wife exclaimed
she eagerly ; ' only he will not acknowledge
me.'

He shall,' returned Herbert grimly.

Have you your marriage-certificate ?'

He took It away from me. I think he
carries It about with him. But I have forgotten
whereabouts in London we were
married, and he will never, never give It
up;' and she wrung her hands despairingly.
It was difficult to say whether her distress
or her simplicity touched her companion
most

By heaven he shall, though !' replied
Herbert curtly. ' Now, do you be quite easy

in your mind, my girl, that this fellow has
done his worst. You hardly want to live
with him any more, I suppose, but only to
get your rights ?'

Yes, sir, and not for myself only,' she
answered, with a faint flush.

I understand, and will take care that
you shall have them. Now, how came you
to meet him in this solitary place ? Was it
by appointment ?'

Yes, sir

What an unspeakable villain !'

Nay, sir, it was not that. He did not
come here to hurt me. He chose this spot
to be free from observation and interruption.
He wanted to break it to me that he
was going away — he said for a few days,
but, as I believe, he meant to desert
me.'

I am quite sure he did. Go on.'

He offered me twenty pounds, and when
I refused it, and threatened to tell all to
Miss Clare, his sister, he — oh, Mr. Newton,

but for you I do believe he would have
drowned me !'

I am quite certain he would, and with
just as little remorse as though you had
been a blind kitten. My poor girl, you
believe there is some mercy in this man yet.
I can see it in your face. I do not blame
you, because you are his wife. But I will
take care that you do not suffer for it. If he
took you abroad with him, it would only be
to murder you. He shall never do that,
however, for I will send him into penal
servitude !'

'Oh, no, no, no! not my husband — not the
father of my unborn babe!' she pleaded, and
with such passion that she would have fallen
at his knees if he had not prevented her.

I ought to do it,' said Herbert, with a
pretence of hesitation. 'To forbear is to
compound a felony. But if he 'makes due
provision for you, and departs forthwith,
and on your solemn promise that you will
not see him '

I don't want to see him she broke in.
'Oh no ; not yet, at all events. But oh,
Mr. Newton, when his child is born — he
did love me at one time — do you not think
it will make a difference ?'

No doubt it will. He will then compass
two deaths instead of one. Well, if sou do
not agree to my terms — that is to say, to
have no communication with this man from
henceforth, and to leave the arrangement
of your affairs in my hands — there is but
one course open to me. I go straight to
the police station.' And he took a step
towards the door.

She was up and hanging upon his arm
in an instant.

Oh, Mr. Newton, for heaven's sake ! I
will do anything you ask of me. Think,
think of his poor sister.'

He had been thinking of her already a
great deal. In the matter of the highest
justice, that is as regards the punishment
of the cruel, Herbert Newton was implacable.

The very tenderness and simplicity
of his nature in that respect made
him adamant. He had none of that
bastard charity which throws its cloak over
baseness and brutality in the name of
philanthropy. If a word of his could have
saved Gerald from the gallows, he would
not — so far as Gerald was concerned —
have spoken it. He had a firm conviction
that such persons were better out of the
world than In it. He had no misgivings
about the matter except as it affected their
victims. It was they, and they alone, who
had his sympathy.

^I have thought of Miss Clare he
answered gently ; ' and for her sake — and
for your sake, not for his — I will
spare this man. Come, take my arm ;
you are not fit to go alone. I will see you
home.'

Thank you, no, sir ; I will make shift
to go by myself. What would people say
if they saw Mr. Herbert Newton going

through the town with such as me upon
his arm ?'

I don't care what people say ; besides,
tomorrow it will be known that you are
Gerald Lyster's wife.'

Here he suddenly dropped his voice.
It suddenly struck him that this would bea
humiliation for Gerald's sister. The
woman's quick ear perceived the change
of tone. The glow of triumph that his
words had called up into her worn face
faded away ; but her voice was firm as she
replied :

No, sir ; I can wait for that. Heaven
knows I am used to waiting ; and there are
others who ought to be considered.'

He looked at her with undisguised
admiration. ' How strange,' thought
he, ' that this bruised reed should have
a thought for others ! How wholesome
must that nature once have been which,
despite its sufferings and despair, can
bear such fruit ! And hove vile the

wretch who, for his own ends, could have
thus misused it !'

Yes,' he said, ' there are others, Rachel.
If you will leave your claim for a little, and
can trust me '

Yes, sir ; I little thought to put trust inman
again, but I can trust yoti,'

Good. Your interests shall not suffer
from it. I will see you down the hill to the
cabstand. I dare say, by-the-bye,' he added,
with a bitter smile, * Gerald Lyster does
not allow his wife cab money. Take this.'
And he put into her hand a sovereign.

I thank you, sir,' she said, putting the
coin aside and wrapping her hand up in
her thin worn shawl, as if to keep it from
temptation ; ' but I have never begged save
where I had a right to beg.'

That is Stokeville all over,' said Herbert
kindly ; ' well, I am of Stokeville too,
and I understand you. Be so good as to
accept a loan, then ; tomorrow you will
have money of your own, and can repay me.

Come, let us go.' She needed no assistance
now, for lire and food were In her
hand, and In her heart that faith which
gives strength to the feeblest — the conviction
that she had found a friend.

TWO YOUNG MEN.

WHEN Herbert arrived at Oak
Lodge he found that Gerald had
not yet returned home. He felt some apprehension
that the others fears had
prompted him to flight at once, and that
he might already be on his way to put the
seas between himself and Stokeville ; in
which case his own task as respected Rachel
would be very difficult. But hardly had
he taken his seat in the parlour — poor Mr.
Lyster's former sanctum, now the only 
in use — when he heard the front-door
softly open and Gerald's footsteps on
the stairs. He knew them well, for many a

night when sitting up over his books he
had heard their stealthy fall when the old
man was asleep unconscious of the misdoings
of his son. He waited purposely
for an hour or two for his anger to subside
(for anger blinds the judgment), and then
without the formality of a knock presented
himself in Gerald's room. The apartment
was In disorder ; an open trunk and portmanteau,
almost filled, stood on the floor,
with various other indications of departure.
Gerald, Who was packing a carpet bag,
rose from his knees and confronted his
visitor with such a look of mingled hate
and terror as might be worn by some
hunted wild beast of the hyena species
when brought to bay.

I know that was you, Herbert, up at
the reservoir,' he stammered.

You didn't know It when you saw me
there ; you thought It was the devil,' was
the grim reply.

'The devil don't live In the water

VOL. III. 46

answered the other, with a ghastly
smile.

He lives everywhere where there are
cowards, perjurers, and murderers. He
is sitting now in your own cruel, craven
heart.'

Come, I say, what do you want ?' cried
Gerald, shrinking back and putting up his
hands as if to ward a blow ; ' I didn't mean
to hurt the woman.'

You meant to kill her. She knows it,
and I know it, and am prepared to swear
it ; and look you, so help me Heaven I
will swear it, ere you are twelve hours
older, before the nearest magistrate, unless
— —'

Not now, not now ; oh, do not ask it
now,' broke in the other, falling on his
knees. * I know what you want quite
well ; though I was the first to think of it,
he tempted me to do it. He is a villain,
and hates you both, and I hate /izm. I'll
expose him, I'll ruin him ; you may hang

him for all I care and welcome. But you
must have patience.'

You mean that you must get away first
out of his clutches,' said Herbert, coldly.

He pieced together the other's wild
words, and gathered their full sense at
once. There was nothing strange in the
disclosure ; the suspicion he had always
had in his mind had become a certainty;
that was all.

Yes, I must get away — safe away, and
then I will tell you all. I'll write it under
some lawyer's eye, and get it signed and
sealed. You shall have the whole truth.'

You may keep it to yourself, as valueless
as any other word of truth has ever been
to you,' was the stern reply. * I wish to
have none of your shameful secrets. What
I want, however, I mean to have. Getup,
you worm, or I'll set my foot upon you.
First give me the certificate of your
marriage with Rachel Warder.'

I never did marry her.'

46 — 2

Now take you care, Gerald Lyster.
If I do not want your truth, do you think
it likely that I need your lies ? If once
I ring this bell, no power on earth shall
keep the handcuffs from your wrists.'

He laid his hand upon the rope, then
added, * Give up the paper.'

From the breast of the coat that hung
on the chair beside him, Gerald produced
a pocket-book, and with trembling hands
picked out the required document and
handed it to Herbert.

Stop. Do not put that note-case back.
To-night, before it entered into your evil
mind to murder your wife, you offered her
twenty pounds under pretence of a bribe,
but in reality all you intended to leave her
for the maintenance of herself and unborn
child when you had deserted them. That
was not enough, Gerald Lyster, she must
have two hundred pounds.'

Two hundred devils !' exclaimed the
other passionately ; * where am I to find

such a sum even if she wanted It ? And
she doesn't want It. She has not
been used to deal with large sums of
money; It would all go In a week. You
are a man, Newton, and I appeal to your
sense of reason.' And he held out both
his hands with the air of the treasurer of
some thrift society pleading the cause of
domestic economy.

I can easily believe,' returned Herbert,
coldly, 'that your wife has not been used
to deal with large sums of money ; It is
possible, of course, that finding herself for
once with enough to eat and drink she
may be thrown off her mental balance and
become extravagant ; that, however. Is her
look-out. You ask where are you to find
such a sum. That is yottr look-out,
though If you press the question I should
reply '' In that note-case." It Is hard, no
doubt, when we have received the wages
of iniquity, and are about to enjoy them Insecurity,
to have anything subtracted from

them for the necessities of others. Perhaps
the hind that has already supplied
your wants, especially as it has only to
dip into somebody else's pocket, v/ill
supply the deficiency. That is a matter,
however, in which I do not feel the slightest
interest. Now, sir, give me the money

But two hundred pounds remonstrated
the other, with a whine like a dog. ' It is
downright exaction ; if you had said fifty
or even one hundred.'

I will give you half a minute,' cried
Herbert, sternly ; and, producing his
watch, ' when that is gone, my terms will
be raised to '^ three hundred." ',

With a smothered cry of rage and fear,
Gerald hastily separated two notes from
the rest and put them into the other's
hand; they were each of them for a
hundred pounds.

*You have, I perceive, a liberal paymaster,'
said Herbert significantly. * I
wish you joy of him. If that money

prospers, there is no such thing but,

there, what is all that to you ? I do
not say — promise you will never again
set foot in Stokeville ; first, because your
word is worthless, and secondly because
it is your own interest to keep away.
But I warn you if you ever molest byword
or deed that unhappy woman, your
wife, or if ever you attempt to communicate,
except through me, with her
who has the misfortune to be your half-sister,
it will be the worse for you, and
much the worse. As I am a living man I
will not spare you twice

Spare me,' echoed Gerald, with a
hideous smile ; ' you have spared me, have
you ?'

But the satire was lost on his companion,
who had already left the room and
closed the door. Gerald cast himself on
his bed, and lay there without sign of life,
except for the movement of the lines upon
his forehead, which showed that thought —

and evil thought — was alive within him.
The darkness closed about him, but he lit
no candle ; but lay listening and thinking,
till he heard Herbert come up to bed,
when he sofdy struck a light and finished
his packing.

Then he put on his coat, and with his
hand in the bosom of It stole out into the
passage. All was still as death. Noiseless
as a cat he crept along towards Herbert's
room ; on the way he had to pass an
open door, that of his late fathers room,
and as he did so the clock struck twelve.
He stopped suddenly, as If spell-bound ;
every [ tiny stroke seemed to affect his
nerves, but his lips counted them everyone.
Then he went on, and with one
hand still In his bosoni laid the other with
a touch of velvet on the handle of Herbert's
door. The door was locked.

Coward,' he muttered between his
teeth, and stole back again.

When Herbert rose at his usual hour

next morning, which was an early one, he
found that Gerald had left the house ; a
cab having called according to orders for
him soon after daylight.

sand a good job too,' was Herbert's
reflection, as he chipped his egg at breakfast.
' He was always a noxious creature ;
but when he beo:an to Interfere with scientific
experiment — pulling my rope like that
before half my time was out, confound him
he became Intolerable. I have a suspicion
he tried my door last night. Come
to say *' Good-bye " no doubt. Well, he'll
be hung for something some day, that's
certain. Let us hope It will happen soon
and somewhere a long way off. If not, I
foresee we shall have further trouble with
him.'

Then the post came In ; there were two
letters : one from the secretary of his
railway company, and one In a hand which
he had seen before, but did not immediately
recognise. As in duty bound he opened

the former first. It contained a proposal
that he should leave the junction and
establish himself at the London terminus
of the company as assistant engineer In the
locomotive department.

His suggested 'improvement In axles
had not proved of such material benefit as
had been expected,' notwithstanding which
the Board had recommended that the
royalty for which he had stipulated should
be compounded for, and a moderate sum
which ' it is conceived, under the circumstances,
you will consider liberal,' was offered
him. Herbert looked at the figures
and smiled shrewdly. ' I will not presume
upon their generosity,' he said to himself ;
if they don't use my axles, this is a mere
charitable donation; if they do, I shall
make more by my royalties in a single
year.' The London proposition was not
so easily disposed of. The salary was no
better than that which he already enjoyed ;
on the other hand, there was professional

promise in it ; it might lead to better
things. He sat with the letter in his hand,
looking out into the garden where he had
so often seen his imcle walking thoughtfully
to and fro, before his late illness, full
of undreamt-of cares ; where Clare had
been wont to tend the roses which would
never know her fostering hand again. Of
that little household he alone was left ; one
had departed an hour ago in shame ; one was
dead ; the third was still at Sandford, but
would never more visit the once familiar
spot. Death and change had been busy
indeed. Would it not be well, since he was
thus left alone, to begin life anew in another
clime, where things might turn out more
fortunately ? South America was a long
way off, but, as regarded his friends generally,
so was London. He knew no one
there but Mr. Rodenn, and he was scarcely
an attraction. The cost of living, too, was
greater in London. This last consideration
was so utterly foreign to his character

that as he made mental note of It a smile
rose to his lips of that bitter sort which is
evoked by the discovery of self-deception.
The fact was, though he still hesitated
about departure, life in England had
become distasteful to him. Since Clare
was in comfort he had done his work there ;
and though Science still had its allurements
for him, there was a wider field for it and
him elsewhere. He had been always old
for his years, and it seemed that at five-and-twenty
he had become mature, not
only in thought, but in feeling. With a
sigh of perplexity he put the secretary's
letter aside and took up the other one.
To his surprise he found it was from Miss
Darrell.

Dear Herbert ' (it began),

The familiarity of this address will
doubtless take you by surprise; but you
may think yourself lucky I don't write " My
dear Herbert." I have still, however, some

respect for the rights of property, which (to
judge by the facility with which some
people fling them away) others have not.
There was a Latin master In my establishment
(though he was an extra), a circumstance
which enables me to add verbum
sap. As a rule I object to the playing
upon the simplicity of human nature (that
chord being already worn almost to attenuation)
; in this case, however, you may
trust me not to spoil sport. I hate the
Jesuits, but I must acknowledge that if
ever a pious fraud was justifiable, It was
so In the instance I have in mind. Only I
cannot permit you to Imagine that Annie
Darrell has fallen a victim to artifice ; nor
can I resist the pleasure of writing " Dear
Herbert." That irrepressible outburst of
affection will, however, hardly have surprised
you more than the news I am about to
communicate. Clare and I are in London.
As Parliament was sitting, and the fashionable
world In town, we thought it only due

to them, and ourselves, that we should
come up, at least for the season. Our
common passion, as you know, is for gaiety
routs (an old-fashioned term which
always tickles me) — and it is not as if we
had not money of our own wherewith to
entertain society. Our " at homes" will,
no doubt, be duly advertised in the
Morning Post, so that you v/ill know when
to look in without putting us to inconvenience.
Seriously, we left Sandford
somewhat suddenly on account of somebody
on a very high horse indeed being-seen
to ride by our windows. With Mr.
Fibber was Miss Fibber, and her affianced
husband, a handsome young gentleman,
who, however, off his horse, did not impress
me so favourably ; there was a sense
of loss, as though four of his own legs had
vanished. I cannot suppose that any of
the party — which nominally includes Sir
Peter, but him we did not see — knew Clare
was still at Sandford ; but there they were

among the '' fashionable arrivals ;" and it
being quite within the bounds of possibility
that we might all find ourselves (at five-pence
the bunch) in the lift together, we
two at once fled the place, and left the
enemy in possession of the field. Clare
was dreadfully agitated at the sight of
Percy, not that I believe she has one spark
of affection for him left ; but '' the associations"
were probably too much for her. It
seemed to me that she suffered from a
positive sense of suffocation, and only
began to breathe freely when the train
began to move. Our lungs are now in the
most perfect order, as you may imagine
when I tell you we now reside in Bellingham
Park, where moreover there are no
trees to interrupt the light and air. It is a
fancy of the post-office authorities to add
the letter N to this address. It is my own
little house you must know, which, for the
present, Clare has consented to share with
me. How I wish you were at this end of

the Coalborough line ; Its terminus is not a
quarter of a mile from us. We may think
it strange if (with all your money !) you
should seem to grudge the railway fare,
and not run up to see us occasionally ;
besides I conclude you can get a free pass.
A morbid desire for originality prevents
me from repeating the classical quotation I
have already made use of, but you will
bear this in mind.

'Always yours, dear Herbert, very
sincerely,

Annie Darrell.'

Light, and designedly light, as was the
tone of Miss Darrell's letter, it set its recipient
thinking gravely enough. That the
schoolmistress had guessed the secret which
he believed was confined to himself and
Mr. Oldcastle was very clear, but in her
hands he felt it was safe. There was a
chord, not only of sympathy but of tacit
understanding between himself and the

writer running throughout her lively communication
which gave him assurance of
this. She knew Clare's character as well
as he did, and would therefore be very
careful — holding the views she did as
regards the disagreeable of poverty — to
drop no hint of the actual state of affairs.
On the bare suspicion of it he felt that
Clare was quite capable, for she, too, was
Stokeville bred, of stripping herself of her
last penny and taking in plain needlework
for a subsistence. He would have given
all he had left in the world to have been
able to persuade himself otherwise.

On the whole, however, since Miss
Darrell evidently took a sensible view of
the affair, he was by no means sorry, under
the circumstances, to have her for his confidante.
He read her letter over again very
carefully, and, having folded it with his usual
precision, placed it in his breast-pocket.
Then he turned once more to that of the

VOL. III. 47

secretary, and declining In a few civil words
his offer of a composition in lieu of the
royalties for his invention, accepted the
office of assistant engineer in London.

AT HIS MERCY.

WHILE Herbert and Gerald were
having their unpleasant quarter of
an hour together at Oak Lodge, a scene
was being enacted under another roof
in Stokeville, hardly inferior to It in
dramatic interest. There had been a
dinner party at the hall the previous
night, in which three young people had
returned from Sandford-on-Sea on purpose
to take part. Indeed it was a sort of
informal banquet in honour of Mildred's
marriage with Mr. Frank Farrer, which,
it was understood, was to take place
almost immediately. Mr. Farrer, senior,

47—2

had been present as the guest of the
evening. The old Squire was not a
frequent visitor at the Hall ; his politics
were opposed to those of Sir Peter, and
being as great a man in his way as the
knight himself, their intercourse partook
of the character of that of the two kings
of Brentford. Mr. Farrer's ancestor had
come over with the Conqueror, and laid
hands on certain property (belonging to
other people) of which his descendants
had never loosed their hold. They had
stuck to the land like barnacles to a ship's
bottom, a circumstance in the Squire's
eyes as meritorious as the behaviour of
a Casablanca. Whereas, Sir Peter, ' too
proud to care from whence he came,*
plumed himself on being a sort of William
the Conqueror in his own person. Then,
to set against the latter's museum, which
nobody visited, Mr. Farrer had built a
model village, in which, since no public-house
was allowed within two miles of It,

very few people could be Induced to
live.

The Squire had no title, but on the
other hand was a knight of the shire,
and cherished the remembrance of one of
his ancestors having refused a baronetcy
on the ground that it could add no dignity
to his social position. It was true that
both the fact and the ground were disputed
; but that did not prevent a sense
of self-sacrifice mingling with the Squire's
self-importance In a manner very agreeable
to himself, and which was displayed to
most advantage when, as on the present
occasion, he could place his thumbs in the
armholes of his white waistcoat with his
back to a drawing-room fire. Percy
Fibbert remarked that his uncle's behaviour
that evening resembled that of
a magnificent Newfoundland dog, eclipsed
in the courtyard, where he was wont to
reign, by the appearance of a St. Bernard.
The necessity of being civil had not

presented itself so forcibly to the worthy
knight for years, and he resented it by
many a private sniff and growl. But
towards his rival he conducted himself
with urbanity. If everything could not be
said to go ' as merrily as a marriage bell '
it was because that pastoral description
of enjoyment hardly suited an atmosphere
so laden v/ith wealth and redolent of
importance. It was generally agreed
that ' there had been no hitch which, on
the whole, was satisfactory ; for considering
the volcanic character of the chief
elements there might have been an explosion.


In the evening there had been a reception
which included half the beauty and
three-fourths of the wealth of Stokeville,
and if, as Sir Peter observed with pardonable
pride to Dr. Dixon, * you could have
figured them all up the bottle would have
been millions.'

Mr. Frank Farrer did not return home

with his father, but remained to accompany
Mildred and the home party to some local
entertainment the next day. He was a
late riser, and on coming to the breakfast
table found Mildred awaiting him alone,
Sir Peter and Percy having already repaired
to the mill as usual. There was
an unwonted gravity in the young man's
eyes, and a pucker on his ordinarily smooth
forehead that would have attracted the
attention of vaoslfiancdes, but Mildred, who
had her own reasons for seriousness, was
too pre-occupied to notice it. She gave
him her cheek to kiss as in duty bound,
though in a somewhat perfunctory manner ;
but to her surprise, and even alarm, he
took no advantage of the offer. There
was a bloom on her cheek, not, it must be
confessed, so natural as that which belongs
to the peach, but for all that it was a very
pretty cheek, and few men would have set
their faces against it, except in a physical
sense.

*Why, Frank, what Is the matter with
you ?'

With me ? nothing he answered
quietly. ' I am no saint, heaven knows,
but I think I have nothing to reproach
myself with. Can you say the same, Milly?*

She had no need of any extraneous
colour now. The warm blood rushed into
her face in a torrent, and into her eyes
there stole an affrighted look which he
took for tenderness alarmed, and which
touched him.

Of course I may be wrong ; I hope I
am wrong,' continued the susceptible
youth, laying his hand upon her shoulder,
though not caressingly ; * but there are
matters which require explanation. Will
you answer me one question — truly —
before I go into them ?'

She moved her head in assent — she
could not speak ; she would have given
much to have been able to avoid his gaze,
which was very fixed and earnest.

Very good ; it Is simply this : Do you
really love me. Mildred ?'

Oh, Frank, what a strange question T

^ Yes ; a strange question, no doubt,
from an accepted lover ; one, too, the date
of whose marriage has been already fixed
twice, and has twice been postponed sine
die ; still I must trouble you to answer it.
Do you really love me ?'

My dear Frank, of course I do. I am
not, it Is true, a village girl to go into
ecstasies ; much less *' to sicken and to
swoon " like the girls in poetry books.'

I admit that ; still I hope you are not
quite like the girls In the book 5^ou gave
me to read the other day — '' Butterflies," I
think it was called. Girls without any
hearts at all, and some very queer ways of
their own. They have their attractions,
no doubt, but scarcely as wives.'

I really don't know what you mean,
Frank. Am I to prepare for a lecture on
morals ?'

Pray, pray don't talk like that, Mildred,'
said the other earnestly. ' No ; I am not
fitted to preach morality, even if I had the
gift of preaching. Far from it.'

You are good enough for me answered
Mildred softly.

Nevertheless I wish I was better, for
your sake — that is, if goodness has anything
to do with the matter at all. I sometimes
think it has not. You don't know
how difficult it is for me to talk like this —
I mean to express my thoughts.'

And the young man left her side and
began to pace the room.

Mildred uttered a gentle sigh, really of
release, for the touch of his fingers had
embarrassed her strangely. It was something
that she had got rid of his searching
eyes, and could collect her thoughts and
prepare her defence.

My dear Frank, I think you are a lite
extgeantJ

Mildred, for Heaven's sake, speak

English,' he exclaimed curtly. ' I hate
those artificial ways and phrases. They
are good enough for ballroom flirtations ;
but let us two for once — and before it is
too late — understand one another. When
I asked, *' Do you really love me ?" I
meant something more than, " Will you bear
my name ? will you sit at the head of my
table ? will you accompany me to dinner
parties and balls ?" If you don't know
what I mean, it will be very sad for both
of us.'

But I really do love you, Frank.'
I thank you ; and I believe you ; but
unhappily there is another question, Mildred,
to me at least equally important, and
which I must have answered with equal
truth. It is this.' He had come up to her
again and taken both her hands in his, and
was once more looking straight into her
eyes. ' You have said you love me — well
enough, at all events, as I conclude, to
marry me — but before I make you my

wife you must assure me of one thing.
Upon your honour, Mildred, for your
honour and mine may be concerned in it,
do you not love some one else better
?'

How cruel, how unjust you are she
cried. ' What could have put so shameful
an idea into your head ?'

Since you have called it shameful returned
the young man, coldly, ' let the term
stand : it is you who have used it and not
I. I am willing to believe that under the
influence of certain notions they have
picked up, and which they think are agreeable
to us men — but which, believe me,
are not so — girls allow themselves a certain
licence. I don't want to be hard upon
you, Mildred, Heaven knows, but things
have happened — you think I am a fool, but
I have noticed them — between you and
Percy which annoy me.'

Percy ! You silly, jealous boy, what
can you mean ?'

[09

Well, to be frank, did you not kiss him
in the conservatory last night ?'

He kissed me because he is my
cousin.*

Pardon me — for I had the misfortune
to see it — you kissed him ; it did not seem
to me a very cousinly kiss, but let that
pass. My question is, do you prefer any
other man — your cousin, for example — tome?'


She hung her head like any rose — or
peony — but he still held her firmly, and
never took his earnest eyes from her burning
face.

Percy is so different,' she murmured,
we were brought up together. I have
not known you nearly so long, but then, of
course, when we are married he will be
nothing: to me.'

He shook his head and stamped his
foot.

Whether that is *' of course " or not,
Mildred, I will not have it. Do you hear

me ? You must choose between him and
me.'

I have chosen,' she murmured. She
looked weak and faint, and he placed his
arm about her mechanically to give her the
support she seemed to need.

If I could only believe you,' he said
softly.

Her whisper filled his pulses with the
fulness of the spring, her touch drew back
his ebbing love as the moon draws the
wave.

If I forgive you, will you promise me
that — that — what I saw last night shall
never happen again.'

It never shall. Oh, Frank, it never
could if we were married !*

He did not perceive the inconsistency of
this assertion with her late plea of kinship.
His position was scarcely favourable to
logic, yet passion had not quite blinded
hem.

Your promise is sufficient for me,' he

said, ' but there must be no more of it, and
no more risk of it. I ask you now, for the
third time and the last, Mildred, to name
the day for our marriage. For your own
sake as well as mine it must be an early
date.'

An early date,' she murmured mechanically.


Yes, that I insist upon. Three weeks,
or four at latest. I have waited long
enough. And you have broken your promise
twice. It must not happen a third
time.'

And if it does ?'

"■ If it does !" why do you drive me to
say such things ? I go to Sir Peter, and
with much regret, but certainly without
hesitation, retract the offer which, under
the false impression that she loved me, I
once made for his daughter's hand. What
is the matter ? Are you mad, Mildred ?'

She had slipped from his hold, upon her
knees, and seized his hand.

Spare me, spare me !' she cried ; ' I can
never be your wife ! I have treated you
very ill — not shamefully, no' — for he had
drawn back from her, with a look of fiery
scorn — 'but very falsely and ungratefully.
Listen, listen.' He stooped down, scarce
knowing what he did, and she whispered
in his ear. He staggered back as though
a blow had struck him. Then drew himself
up, as she, too, rose, and with a burst
of tears hid her face within her trembling
hands.

I wish you, madam,' he said with chill
severity, ^ a very good morning.'

Oh Frank — oh sir — for pity's sake !'

Sobs choked her utterance, but she
stretched out her arms, and turned her tearstained
face in dumb appeal towards him.

What would you have me do ?' he asked,
not quite unmoved, despite his wrath, by
the piteous sight. * Have you not used
me for your own purposes enough ? would
you befool me further still ?'

No, Frank, no. But I might have
done it. It was remorse that made me
tell you. I deserve any punishment at
your hands. But you did love me once,
and if you expose me it will be my ruin.
Spare me ! spare me !'

What is it you want ?' he inquired
hoarsely.

Time, only time. You would not have
me turned out of my father's house. He is
vexed and troubled just now about business
matters, and easily moved to anger ; and if
he came to know '

Deceive him then, as you have deceived
me !' put in the other. * It will be easy work
for you, but as for me I am a dull man. I
could not play a false part if I would.'

The bitterness of his speech was lost on
her ; she saw nothing but the simplicity of
it and her own danger.

But you can be silent,' she said, earnestly
; ' silence is all I ask, I beseech of
you, and even that but for a little while,

VOL. III. 48

You have a generous heart, Frank ; do not
trample on me.'

A generous heart he answered scornfully.
' That means that I am a fool.'

No, no.' Her tone was genuine
enough ; at that moment, at all events,
while she marked his indecision, and saw
that despite his wrongs he had half a mind
to spare her, she estimated him aright ; she
felt that dulness, with a heart behind it,
was preferable after all to the polished
cynicism and selfish passion which she had
hitherto mistaken for virtues; the heroes
of her fancy were but fops or worse, and
here was a true gentleman. ' Oh, Frank,
forgive me.'

That I cannot do, madam,' was his
quiet reply. * I am not, however, one to
revenge myself upon a woman. I will not
tell a lie to save you any more than I would
tell a lie to save a friend ; but I will hold
my tongue unless compelled to speak. I
will say nothing to Sir Peter.'

You are too good, too kind. Oh, Frank,
Frank, I was never worthy of you.'

It is a pity,' he answered coldly, ' you
did not mention that before. You can tell
your father — but why should I cudgel my
dull wits for pretexts for one who has them
at her fingers' ends ? I was never clever
enough for you, I know. Well, you will
not have that to complain of now. Good
morning.'

One word of pardon ; Frank, dear
Frank '

But the door had closed upon him ; he
was gone.



MISS DARRELL AT HOME.

THERE is a story extant respecting*
the golden wedding of an excellent
pair. ' Joan and I,' said Darby, ' have
never had a quarrel, and we have been
married fifty years Joan nodded her
grey head assenting, but was heard to
murmur under her breath, ' and uncommonly
dull it has been.' But things-may
be dull — though people may not — and still
pleasant. Upon the whole I am inclined
to think that the good folks who live what
is scornfully termed humdrum lives have
the best of it in this world. One may cultivate
literature and love, nay, even friendship,

on a very little so long as there Is no
absolute pinching ; and what is called
society ' can be very well dispensed with.
In Bellingham Park, N., there are absolutely
no * carriage people,' even a hired
brougham is an unusual spectacle ; a private
one as rare as the griffin it bears on its
panels ; yet it is possible to live there
quite happily, and to go to heaven, afterwards
upon other grounds than that of
compensation.

The house occupied by Miss Darrell
and Clare Lyster was a small one, but
it stood in a large square which looked
into what is commonly called ' the garden
common to its inhabitants, but cut off
from the public. A lltde balcony on each
drawing-room floor afforded a pleasant seat
in summer time, with plenty of light and air.
One could sit there, and read or knit, watching
the players at croquet and lawn tennis
(for 'the garden' was but grass), and fancy
one's self a hundred miles from London ;

while the place had the enormous advantage
over a country residence that it was not
necessary to know one's neighbours. You
made your own acquaintances, or none,
as you pleased. Miss Darrell knew very
few people. Time never hung heavy on
her hands. She had excellent tastes ; was
fond of reading and eating ; and rejoiced
in the possession of a magnificent Persian
cat, black as a coal, and soft as velvet.
'Fluff' never palled on her as a companion.


His temper had no uncertainties about
it ; provided that he had good meals,
often, regularly, and in abundance, and
was allowed to lie where he liked, his
behaviour was angelic. The last sie quid
non was a little inconvenient, for his
favourite resting place was somebody's
shoulders, on which he would leap unexpectedly
and repose with his head and
tail curled round their necks like a tippet.
Of this habit his mistress was far from

complaining, and would desist from any
pursuit in which she was engaged (save
saying her prayers) rather than disturb
her favourite ; but strangers, especially at
meal times, were wont to be alarmed by
this proceeding.

I am afraid it is not too much to say
that by their conduct under these trying
circumstances their hostess was inclined to
gauge their characters. If they only turned
red or white (which is a matter of complexion),
and murmured ' What an affectionate
creature !' they established themselves
in Miss Darrell's good graces beyond
the reach of scandal, or even of well-founded
accusation ; if they shrieked ' Oh
Lor, how it frightened me !' she smiled
compassionately, and set them down as
poor creatures ;' if they cried ' Ah, the
horrid beast !' and shook the interesting
animal from its perch —-which did not
happen without a struggle — she used to
say of them, * I don't wish to be uncharitable,

but I am afraid So-and-so has a bad
heart.'

■ Even with this ' rider ' (for a drawback
she would never consider it to be) Miss
Darrell's dinners were attractive to all
persons of judgment. Her cook at £2^
a year was better than most people's cooks
at ^40 ; her mistress was not so foolish
as to teach her all she knew, but she
taught her some things, and when she
wanted anything particularly well done — •
that is, cooked — she adopted the well-known
plan of doing it herself. Instead of
a blue-stocking — a schoolmistress — she was
fitted by nature for a cordon bleu. In
other kinds of art she was perhaps a little
deficient. Her touch on the piano smacked
of the academy ; the pictures that adorned
her walls did not ; they were of the most
heterogeneous description, and though most
of them had cost money, it is fair to say she
had not bought them herself.

That is Miss Gill's,' she said of a

charming landscape that had attracted her
young friend's admiration on her first
arrival.

Indeed,' said Clare, * I thought it had
been a Birket Foster.'

So It Is, my dear. I was speaking of
the old pupil who gave it me.'

Association was more powerful with her
than art, and the names of Jones and
Brown and Robinson, with now and then
a title of nobility and wealth, usurped
those of the painters with whose works
they had presented her. Her gift books
were still more various, and whoever had
attempted to portray Miss Darrell's
character by the contents of her library
would have been puzzled. The fault of
the establishment was its extreme neatness,
which rivalled that of a model prison.

I know everything looks very stiff, my
dear,' she said, when Clare first surveyed
her little drawing-room ; ' you must mend
that with your better taste. I cannot get

out of the way of making preparations for
pupils' parents (though, thank heaven, I
have done with them), who like things to
be in spick and span order.' But Miss
Darrell herself was not stiff. Nothing
could exceed the cordiality of her welcome
to Clare, or the evident delight she experienced
in her becoming her home companion
; for her guest she had positively
declined to be. It had been arranged that
the two ladies should share the expense of
housekeeping between them.

I am afraid you find it very different
from the fashion of life at Oak Lodge, my
dear,' said Miss Darrell, one morning.
The coffee, which came from * the stores,*
had fallen short, and some had been procured
from the neighbourhood to supply
the deficiency ; as is the case with all
London suburbs, almost every article
bought within two miles of Bellingham
Park was adulterated, and inferior, except
in price.

If I thought you were capable of such
a thing, Nannie, I should say you were
fishing for a compliment,' returned Clare.

I am not much of a judge in such
matters, but your fare seems to me better
than I have ever tasted, except on those
rare occasions when I feasted at Stokeville
Hall ; certainly much better than wee had
at home.'

That was because you trusted to your
cook alone,' cried Miss Darrell, modestly.

Here cook and I are a firm. For my
part, I don't believe in low living and high
thinking. Mere beef, as Sir Andrew
Aguecheek discovered, dulls the wits.'

No doubt il is pleasant to have
things nice,' admitted Clare. ' I have
often wondered if matters had turned out
worse for me materially — as they might
easily have done— how I should have
borne real poverty. I am glad it did not
happen, for I think it possible my poor
philosophy might have broken down

altogether ; it would have been dreadful to
find oneself a moral failure.'

No doubt ; I should not fear ///^^,
however, in your case, so much as your inability
to provide yourself with the necessaries
of life ; even stuff of this kind —
chicory. If you knew, as I know, how
difficult it is for young girls brought up in
luxury, and with only accomplishments to
support them, to live — to keep soul and
body together. Bah, when I hear people
talk slightingly of such things, or worse, in
their high philosophic way, about the
cleansing fires of adversity, I could shake
them.'

Do you think I should have starved,
Nannie,' inquired Clare, earnestly, ' if
that dreadful bank had swallowed up all
poor papa's money ?'

'You would not have starved, my dear,
because Annie Darrell, alive or dead, would
have prevented it.'

You dear old thing. At the same

time you are making me out very useless.'


On the contrary, your uses are incontestable
; but they are what tall-talking
folks would call " the higher uses ;" these
fetch a very small price in the open
market. Dear, dear, don't let us talk
about it any longer, please. Where where
we before we began the '' Doldrums," as
Miss Gill used to term every subject that
had the slightest seriousness about it ; oh,
the difference of life at Oak Lodge and
Bellingham Park ; well, one of our disadvantages
is that one mio^ht as well be in
Kamtschatka as far as visitors are concerned
people won't leave the centres of civilisation
to explore those benighted districts


I shall endeavour to survive the absence
of morning callers, Nannie.'

However, there is one rather nice
person who has lately come to live in this
neighbourhood, and whom we shall see

something of, I hope ; indeed, he has promised
to take an early dinner with us today;
he is a railway engineer.'

Indeed. That reminds me of cousin
Herbert.'

Yes, I think he will remind you in
some things,' said Miss Darrell thoughtfully,
* of Herbert. By-the-bye, I am sorry
to say that your cousin has been anticipated
in his plan for breathing under water by
another inventor. That is always the way
with your scientific geniuses ; it is ten to
one that somebody has entertained their
ideas beforehand.'

I am so sorry !' exclaimed Clare regretfully.


Oh, it does not much matter. " I am
full of inventions," he writes, *sand since
water won't do " '

He writes ? interrupted Clare, ' why I
was wondering why he had been so long
silent. Have you heard from him T

Miss Darrell had dropped her knitting

needles, and stooping for them on the carpet,
came up with a good deal of colour in her
face.

To be sure I forgot to tell you. Yes,
he wrote to me quite lately. You need
not look so indignant because he chooses to
write to another young woman. You have
not a copyright in his letters, have you ?'

For a moment Clare herself had the appearance
of having stooped for knitting
needles.

A copyright ! of course not. But you
know how interested I am in all that concerns
Herbert. And I had become quite
alarmed at his long silence.'

You should have mentioned that, my
dear,' said the old lady quietly. ' I had no
idea you entertained such a solicitude upon
his account. I'm sure he'll be very flattered
to hear it.'

It is quite unnecessary to tell him anything
of the sort, Nannie.'

No doubt ; it Is quite unnecessary to

make any young man gainer than he Is
already.'

I didn't mean that at all,' replied Clare
earnestly. ' The very last thing of which
Herbert can be accused is vanity. He is
the most modest of men.'

There's a margin even in that eulogy,'
observed Miss Darrell. ' I am afraid it is
almost as difficult to find a modest young
man in these days as — well, as a modest
young woman. Of course, my dear, the present
company — you and I — are exceptions,
but I have noticed, though it may be only
a coincidence — that since I gave up teaching,
young women have deteriorated. As
to Herbert Newton, he is certainly a favourable
specimen of his sex in some respects.
A little too prudent, perhaps, for his years ;
for my part I don't mind a little extravagance
in a young man.'

Oh, Nannie, think what it may lead to,'
exclaimed Clare ; ^ that is how things began
with poor Gerald.'

No, they didn't. They began with
kilHng cats. He was a vile, cruel boy.'
(Here she looked at Fluff.) 'Poor Gerald!
What a deal of surplus pity, my dear Clare,
there must be in your composition ! Think
of 'poor Gerald's" wife !'

I do think of her, Nannie. I have got
her sad letter by heart. And when you
talk of Herbert's prudence it should remind
you that he is not frugal for his own
sake. She writes of him as if he was an
angel.'

That is only by comparison : she has
not had much experience of angels, you
see ; indeed, quite the contrary.'

To this Clare answered nothing, but
sighed softly, and looked at her plate.

Now, I would give something,' murmured
the schoolmistress to herself, ' to
know whom you are thinking about, miss.
Is it " poor Gerald," or is it Herbert ? I am
sure I have abused him enough ; yet,
although you have defended him, it has

VOL. in. 49

been in a very lukewarm manner, in quite
a different fashion from that in which you
used to stick up for somebody else. What
I should have liked to have done — and
what you ought to have done, and what
you would have done if you knew all
would have been to put yourself in a
frightful passion. You ought to be ashamed
of yourself that you didn't fly at me like a
tiger ! But the fact is, you don't care twopence
about the young fellow. It makes
me sick of my sex. I sometimes think
that as respects his winning a girl's love
there is no use in any man's being good. As
I'm a living woman, I believe you are
thinking of Fibber even now. How can
one wonder that there are so many miserable
wives in the world, with husbands who
execute /(25 5^^//^ in clogs on them, when
even a girl like you can cling to such
rubbish ! If I had ventured to praise
dear Herbert, it is ten to one you would
have picked a hole in him, and then I

should have lost my temper and spoilt
all

She concluded these private reflections
with a suppressed ' Bah' of disgust, as near
to Gerald's ' Yah' as it was possible for a
lady who had passed her life in polite education
to go.

'Was there any news in Herbert's letter
about — about Stokeville ?' inquired Clare,
after a long pause.

Oh yes,' returned Miss Darrell cheerfully.
' The sale at the Lodge was turning
out, on the whole, satisfactorily. He has
taken care to remove all the things which
he thought were most endeared to you
by association, and which you might wish
to retain.'

That is very kind and thoughtful of
him,' observed Clare softly.

'Well, he seems to have taken some
little trouble about it, considering the selfishness
of young men in general,' remarked
Miss Darrell.

49—2

No one who knows him would ever
dream of calling Herbert selfish,' observed
Clare.

What an aggravating girl it is !' muttered
the old lady Indignantly. ' She might be
talking of the dead, for all her face tells to
the contrary. Why doesn't she flare up
like magnesium wire ?'

And was there no other news, Nannie ?'
continued Clare Indifferently, and brushing
a crumb from her finger.

Now, I wonder what sort of news she
wants ?' reflected the old lady. ' If It's anything
from the Hall, I wouldn't tell her
even if I could. — Yes she continued,
aloud ; ' Herbert tells me that Rachel is
gone into other lodgings, and seems pretty
comfortable — why, dear me, there's a ring
at the front-door bell ! People are very
unfashionable at Bellingham Park, but
who can possibly be making a call at this
time in the morning ? Hush ! that's a
man's voice. Did you hear it ?'

She shot a glance at Clare sharp enough
to pierce her through and through.

Yes ; I think it is a man's voice,' said
Clare quietly.

It's a man's step, too continued the old
lady. ' Who can it be, Clare ?'

My dear Nannie, hove can I possibly
tell ? It is somebody, I suppose, upon
your visiting-lists''

The old lady sighed, and turned to the
door, at which the parlour-maid had made
her appearance with a card upon a salver.
It would have been as much as her place
was worth (exactly) to have brought it in
her hand.

Miss Darrell took the card, and, hardly
glancing at it, passed it on to her
companion.

Dear me,' cried Clare delightedly.
This is an unexpected pleasure. Why,
Nannie, I do believe you knew he was
coming all along !'

'Well, to tell you the truth, I did. I

thought It would be a nice little surprise
for you. Let us come and see him.'

Her tone was joyless and ill-fitted to her
words. It seemed to the old lady that
her * surprise' had utterly missed fire. As
she led the way into the drawing-room,
she murmured to herself :

'She didn't know his footstep, she
didn't know his voice. The poor dear
lad might just as well have stayed at Coal-borough.'


A QUESTION OF CONSCIENCE.

HOW glad I am to see you, Herbert !'
cried Miss Darrell, holding out
both her hands.

He took them cordially ; but, even while
acknowledging her welcome, stole a look
at her companion, as if to inquire whether
she too derived pleasure from his visit.

^ Nannie is a born conspirator,' laughed
Clare ; * but you are not made for plots and
stratagems, Herbert. Don't you think it
very hard that she should never have told
me you were coming to town, and thereby
debarred me from all the pleasures of anticipation?'


I think it very hard,' assented the young
man eagerly.

'Oh yes; unfeeling, indeed quite brutal!'
exclaimed Miss Darrell, highly delighted.

I don't approve of you two having
secrets together apart from me continued
Clare, * and I know it is Nannie's
fault

Certainly it is her fault, Clare. As
for me, I abhor duplicity ; besides, I have
nothing to hide.'

'What a villain !' cried the old lady, in an
ecstasy. ' How dare you !'

Ah, Herbert is in your power, is he ?'
continued Clare. ' Look how he changes
colour! Tell me something about him that
he may also be in mine. Is it something
he has omitted to patent, and of which you
know the secret ?'

Yes, that's it,' replied Miss Darrell.
Dear me, how quick you are !'

Don't talk of patents,' said Herbert,
smiling. * It's a sore subject

Yes. Nannie has told me about the
diving business coming to nothing,' said
Clare sorrowfully. * She tells me all the
melancholy things.'

What cruelty !' exclaimed Herbert.

Go on ! go on, you two observed Miss
Darrell resignedly. ' In my own house
you can say what you like.'

'And what a pleasant house it is!' said
Herbert. 'It has a much better look-out
than my rooms at the Terminus.'

At the Terminus !' exclaimed Clare.

What ! Has she not told you that I
have been made assistant engineer in
London ?'

I thought you would like to bring your
good news yourself said Miss Darrell,
looking a little disconcerted. * You have
all the day to tell us it in, I hope ?'

I am afraid not. I only just looked in
on my way to the Patent Office, to see how
you both were.'

But you are coming to dinner, sir. You

promised to do that, and of course we shall
be quite alone.'

^ You forgot the young engineer, Nannie,
you expected. — Oh, I see! that was Herbert
himself.'

Yes. I am sorry if I have disappointed
you, my dear. Perhaps you would have
preferred a new engineer.'

No ; I greatly prefer old friends.'

Miss Darrell bit her lip. This last reply
was not to her taste.

Indeed, I hope to come to dinner,' said
Herbert. ' It is so pleasant to be near
you.'

I am afraid if I were in your place I
should think nothing pleasant,' said Clare,
after such a disappointment as you have
suffered.'

But, then, remember I have got my
new post,' said Herbert.

Near tts, put in Miss Darrell.

How conceited you are, Nannie ! Do
you suppose that can console him ? Think

of all those submarine experiments going
for nothings.'

^ To be anticipated in scientific matters
is the fortune of war,' observed Herbert.
And talking of war, I have a new idea —
indeed, I have had it for many months —
which, if it turns out well, will put an end
to war altogether. I\Iy last venture was
with water ; this is with fire.'

It is better to be under fire than underwater,'
observed Miss Darrell, epigrammatically.
' I would rather be a soldier
than a sailor.*

Did you ever know anything like
Nannie ?' ejaculated Clare ; ' she is incapable
of being serious.'

I have noticed that little drawback in
Miss Darrell's character myself,' assented
the young man gravely.

The old lady threw up her hands, as
though she would have said, ' Has Heaven
no lightnings ?' but, as a matter of fact,
she was charmed to see these t-.vo young

people making common cause against
her.

But about the new invention ?' continued
Clare.

'Well, it's rather a long story; but I
believe I shall be able to poison the atmosphere
for about ten miles round.'

What a philanthropic scheme !' exclaimed
the old lady, whose attention, it is
fair to say, was somewhat diverted by the
Persian cat, who had jumped on Herbert's
knee, an attention which she was delighted
to observe was received with favour.

Oh, Herbert ! Poison the atmosphere !'
cried Clare ; ' how shocking !'

You are both right said the young
man quietly. ' The idea is shocking, but
the result will be beneficial to the human
race. No nation, when inclined to be uncivil,
will be able to approach another
nation. I've thought it out all round,
and it can be done. — What's the matter,
Clare ?'

I am only a girl. I don't go into
things as you do, Herbert,' she answered
earnestly ; ' but all the thought in the world
would never reconcile me to such a scheme
as that.'

But if it succeeded ?'

Even if it succeeded and filled your
hands with gold, I should still prefer
to think of you, Herbert, as you were
before you made fame and fortune that
way.'

By success, Clare, I meant success in
its object,' said the young man gently.
Suppose it put an end to war ?'

That would make no difference. To
my mind, the end would never justify such
means as that.'

But you may say the same of any
scheme for human destruction, from the
burning mirrors of Archimedes downwards.'


The burning mirrors, however, never
burnt anybody,' put in Miss Darrell, who

was of opinion that the argument had gone
far enough.

Pardon me ; I am not so sure of that,'
said Herbert, whose hobby was fairly on
its legs. * In comparatively modern times
the same thing has been attempted, and
with such success as makes the old story
credible. Parker, the glass manufacturer,
produced a burning-glass with a diameter
of three feet, which melted platina and
limestone in a few seconds, and in half an
hour made a diamond blossom like a
flower ; while as for wood, of which, of
course, the Roman ships must have been
made, it kindled it in a clear sky at a
distance of three hundred feet.'

And where is this wonderful mirror
now Y

Well, the public subscription that was
set on foot to buy it failed, and Parker
sold it to Lord Moriarty, who took it to
China with him to astonish the natives ;
and there it is now, probably in fragments.'

How like us English !' exclaimed Miss
Darrell. * Why didn't the Government
buy it ? But no reward of science or
genius ever does come from that source.'

Nay, there you are unjust,' said Herbert
; ' or rather you share a popular error.
Mr. Ernshaw got three thousand pounds
for his chronometer for finding the longitude,
and Mr. Harrison no less than thirty
thousand.'

I had thought there was as little
reward as romance in such things,'
observed Miss Darrell.

Romance ! Indeed, I think science is
full of romance ; and quite as much so in
these modern times as it was in the days of
Pythagoras, who attributed earthquakes to
a synod of ghosts assembled underground.
It is only persons who have no real poetry
in their composition who suppose romance
to be dying out, like the gentleman who complained
that all the barriers and distinctions
of mankind were thrown down by the

invention of gunpowder, whereby the knight
clad in steel was placed on a level with the
shepherd. However, I suppose Clare will
agree with Don Quixote, who expresses
his belief that the inventor of artillery is
now in the infernal regions.'

Nay, I don't say that,' said Clare
softly ; ' and perhaps with respect to the
other matter — your new invention — I have
said more than I should have said. I
spoke from feeling rather than from reflection.'


The instinct of some folks is better
than the reason of others,' returned Herbert
thoughtfully. ' I am far from saying
that your view is not worthy of consideration.'


Clare flushed to her very forehead. It
was certainly a gratification to her that
Herbert should have so spoken. Upon
the subjects he had made his own he held,
she knew, decisive opinions. He rarely
spoke of the studies that interested him,

because he felt that they did not interest
other people ; but on the present occasion
he had been Involuntarily led on to talk
a little about them, and had certainly impressed
his audience. ' How much It
struck both the women, ' must this young
man know, and how modest he is withal
in concealing his knowledge !' Peace has
its victory as well as war, and It Is not only
the narratives of our Othello which attract
the female ear.

And must you really go to the patent-office
this morning?' observed Miss Darrell.
Think how long it is since wee saw you,
Herbert; how much we have to talk about !'

That's true,' said Herbert gravely.
Clare is looking very thoughtful ; do you
think she objects, among other things, to
patents ?'

*Very likely. Perhaps her instinct,
which, as you say, is better than other
people's reason, Is against patents.'

Herbert never said anything so foolish

VOL. III. 50

remonstrated Clare. * He said some people s
instincts were better. How ridiculous
you are, Nannie!'

'Well, 'some people" have a great
objection to patents,' remarked Herbert.
They say invention should be as free as
the air we breathe.'

Yes ; and that's all they would give an
inventor to live upon observed Miss
Darrell.

Quite true ; on the other hand, there is
something in their objection,' continued
Herbert thoughtfully. 'The question is,
has one a right to keep any secret — or to put
any obstruction in the way of its being
known— the knowledge of which is of use
to the human race ? Tartalea discovered
a method of solving cubic equations, which
he only revealed to Cardan upon the most
solemn promises of secrecy ; and Cardan
published it. What do you think of that,
Clare, as a question of morals ?'

In my poor opinion Cardan behaved

badly, but Tartalea behaved very much
worse. That is, if the solution of cubic
equations tends to the happiness of the
human race. Indeed, if the happiness of
only a single individual is concerned in its
revelation, the keeping of any secret seems
to me an act of cruelty.'

You really think that, do you ?' said Herbert
; his chin was in his hand and his eyes
upon the floor, as his manner was when
deep in thought.

Miss Darrell watched him with a face
hardly less grave. She was thinking of a
certain secret between him and her. Herbert
was thinking of nothing of the kind.
The circumstance of his having deprived
himself of fortune for the benefit of another
was one that never recurred to his recollection
; the result of it had been satisfactory,
and so far agreeable to him, but he only
looked upon it as on some fortunate investment.
It had repaid him, and that was

enough.

;o-

By-the-bye,' said Clare, ' I have to
thank you, Herbert, for what, perhaps, you
meant to be a secret from me — though I
am sure for some kind reason — the having
reserved certain articles from the sale at
Oak Lodge.'

*Tone sure, yes,' interrupted Herbert,
awakening himself, as it seemed, with an
effort from some monopolising reflection ;
there is a grateful of things that ought to
be on their way here already. I thought Mr.
Oldcastle would have written to you about
them. The sale went off exceedingly well,
he thinks. It was a sad sight to see, of
course, but I believe many of your friends
bought things out of regard for "auld
lang syne," as much as because they wanted
them.'

Was — was Sir Peter there ?' inquired
Clare, looking straight before hen

No ; no one from the Hall,' he answered,
replying to her thought rather than to her
words. * The fact is, you will be sorry to

hear — for I know that in spite of all that
has happened you will be sorry — Sir Peter
is not in a position to be buying things.
If rumour is to be believed, the firm is
in difficulties

The firm ! What, Fibbert and Lyster ?'
exclaimed Miss Darrell. 'To me, that
seems like saying the Bank of England is
not solvent.'

It sounds the same to a good many
other people returned Herbert gravely.
The excitement in Stokeville is beyond
description.'

'Good heavens! How did it come
about ?'

Well, there are all sorts of stories He
glanced at Miss Darrell, as much as to say,
Do not press this Clare observed
nothing ; her eyes, with tears in them, were
staring at the fireplace, in which stood a
pretty screen, the hostess's own handiwork,
in sign that the winter was past. ' The
catastrophe is thought to have been brought

about by overtaking ; there are enormous
liabilities. I* am afraid it is nothing short
of a catastrophe

Then, after all, It is better that your —
I mean Clare's money should have been
withdrawn from the business

Herbert nodded with shut lips.

'Poor Mildred!' sighed Clare.

Yes, she is not a young lady formed
to shine in adversity observed Miss
Darrell.

Hush, hush ! for shame, Nannie !' said
Clare, in reproof of the other's tone rather
than of her words. 'Think of what my
case might have been, and of what you
yourself were saying of it an hour ago !
Do you really think that the firm is
ruined, Herbert ?'

Indeed, I am afraid so. People have
had their suspicions of something wrong
for some time. The mill, indeed, has not
stopped working, but I expect to hear of it
by the next post. Mr. Oldcastle promised

to write last night. There may be a letter
even now at my lodgings.' Miss Darrell
was nodding at him as though she would
nod her head off. ' I'll just step round
and then come back again.'

Do, Herbert ; we shall be very anxious
to hear your news.'

He did not need the speaker's significant
glance at Clare to tell him who would bethe
most anxious.

He rose quickly, and, accompanied by
his hostess, left the room. Then the pent-up
tears began to fall down Clare's pale
cheeks. She had been infamously used,
but all her illusive was forgotten now. It
was no thanks to Sir Peter and his people
that she had not been reduced — and as she
believed fraudulently reduced — to penury ;
but it was not of her possible misfortune
she was thinking, but of their real one.
Poor Mildred ! What a wretched fate is
yours !' she murmured ; a knowledge of the
weakness of the girl's character, and even

of its duplicity, only swelled her pity for her.
With her artificial views, and love of wealth
and show for their own sake, how would
she ever bear such a reverse of fortune ?
And then — but under her breath, as though
she dared not breathe his name even to
herself — she added, ' Poor Percy !'

SECOND LOVE.

IT was more than an hour before Miss
Darrell rejoined her guest. She
came in very quickly, and sitting down by
her side, took out her knitting-needles and
worked away in silence, waiting to bespoken
to like any ghost.

Had Herbert anything else to say
about — about this sad business, Nannie ?'

'Yes, my dear, a great deal. His heart
is so tender and his feelings so delicate
that he did not like to speak to you more
fully, for a reason that you can guess.'

Is it anything about Percy ?'

Of course it is returned Miss Darrell

snappishly ; she was angry that Clare did
not so much as assent to her eulogy on her
young favourite's good taste. ' Percy has
been behaving most infamously. It is
quite true that the firm has been over-trading,
which seems to have been Sir
Peter's fault, who was always for greed ;
but that was not the cause, or at all events
the chief cause, of the failure. Percy has
been pledging the credit of the firm upon
his own account ; he has lost thousands
and thousands.'

Lost, how lost ? How could he lose
money if it was Sir Peter's fault ?'

It was not in trade ; it was on the turf.
For years and years it seems he has been
gambling on the racecourse. He has been
running horses of his own under false
colours ; his turf name, it seems, is Jennings.
I always said he was a fibber; oh, my
darling, from what a fate have you escaped
!'

How could he, could he do so !' moaned

the girl, taking no notice of this course of
congratulations; 'as if he had not money
enough and to spare !'

Not enough ; my dear, that's just where
it is. No one has ever enough money in
Stokeville. I grant they are very liberal
with it — that is, some of them — but they
are always wanting more. Their motto is,
For cash only." '

True, and that should make us charitable,
Nannie, to the failings of those who
have been brought up among such surroundings.'


Not a bit of it!' exclaimed the old lady;
that is, I mean the losing money in the
way of business Is very different from
losing it on a racecourse. If your thirty
thousand pounds' worth of railway debentures
were to go wrong, that would be
your misfortune, not your fault ; but if you
put the money on the favourite for the
Derby it would not be '' uncharitable," I
conclude, to call you a gambler.'

Of course not ; women, however — unless
they are very great ladies indeed' (this
she put in with a faint smile of deprecation)
— * are not exposed to that sort of
temptation. We cannot understand it,
and therefore our condemnation should be
less severe.'

Then the same thing must be true of
drinking,' observed the old lady ; ' when
one meets a sot, one ought to say,
instead of " How shocking !'* '' Well, after
all, one does not know how nice it is
to get intoxicated." '

I think there is a difference,' pleaded
Clare, * though I am far from defending
Percy's conduct.'

Well, that only shows how people maybe
mistaken,' observed Miss Darrell implacably.
' I really thought you were excusing
it. To my mind, his passing under
an alias is not a creditable feature in the
affair ; but, as you suggest, one cannot

understand the temptation that besets some
folks to pass under an alias. ^

The man is down said Clare, lifting up
her head for the first time and confronting
her friend with great displeasure, ' why
trample on him ? Such conduct is unworthy
of you, Nannie

I do not trample on him, but I do not
pity him ; and I confess it makes me mad
to see you waste your sympathy on so base
an object. There is one infinitely more
worthy of your sympathy '

She stopped, disconcerted by the look of
genuine astonishment in the other's face.
She had meant to take her to task for her
conduct to Herbert Newton ; to accuse
her of coldness and ingratitude ; to point
out to her that here indeed was a man
worthy of a woman's love, but whom she
treated at best only with friendly regard ;
but the conviction thus suddenly borne in
upon her that Clare might be in total
ignorance of Herbert's feelings towards

her closed her lips. If this was so, the
language of reproof would be out of place
and injudicious ; nay, the very worst
means of recommending him as a lover.
Even as it was, she feared she had Injured
Herbert's Interests by declaiming against
his rival.

Of whom are you speaking ?' asked
Clare earnestly. ' Who has a greater
claim upon my pity than this unhappy
man ?'

The man he has wronged, Frank
Farrer.'

'What has Percy to do with Frank
Farrer ?'

Notwithstanding this inquiry it was
plain that Clare had guessed what had
happened. Her face had turned deadly
pale ; her hand was pressed tight against
her heart, as though to still its forebodings
; her voice had sunk almost to a
whisper.

He has carried off his bride from him ;

deceived him ; fooled him. Percy is Mildred's
husband.'

Clare gave a little start, then turned her
face away from her companion and listened
without speech or movement.

When Mildred went up to town to buy
her trousseau, and though the very day
for her wedding with Mr. Farrer was
actually fixed, she was privately married
to Percy Fibbert. It is supposed they
have been in love with one another for a
long time, or rather, I should say,' said
Miss Darrell, hastily correcting herself,
that Mildred has always had a penchant
for her cousin. I wish him joy of her !'

I am afraid, indeed, she will make an
indifferent wife for a poor man,' observed
Clare, speaking very slowly and distinctly,
like one who essays a foreign and unfamiliar
tongue.

Oh, as to that, Mr. Fibbert has taken
care that, his nest is well feathered. Sir
Peter settled a large sum of money on his

daughter years ago, of which, no doubt,
his nephew was aware. The old man is
said to be more irate about this clandestine
union than even about the loss of his
money.'

Poor man — poor man !'

Yes, one feels much more sorry for him
than for Mr. Farrer, who indeed has had
a most fortunate escape. It seems he was
informed of the marriage by Mildred herself,
but was prevailed on to keep it
secret. He must be a very weak young
man.'

Or else a very chivalrous one put in
Clare. ' Perhaps he really loved her.'

That is possible, of course said Miss
Darrell. ' One can be certain, however,
that Percy didn't.*

Why ?' inquired Clare gently.

Because Percy Fibbert is incapable of
loving any human being except himself,*
was the uncompromising reply.

Clare answered only with a sigh. At

the bottom of her woman's heart there had
been, perhaps, a hope that her companion's
reply would have been different. Love
was dead within her, but she remembered
the days when it had been alive, and surely
not in her own bosom only. To hear that
Percy had never loved her was what, in a
lesser nature, would have been a wound to
its amour promise. She fell into a reverie,
which Miss Darrell, upon whose shoulders
Fluff had just established himself, was careful
on all accounts not to disturb ; the
memories of her former passion from birth
to blight thronged her thoughts. Like
some pagan ' suckled in a creed outworn,'
and convinced of its falsehood, who revisits
the sacred objects of its former worship,
she gazed on the deserted temple, the
shattered shrine of her dead love, for the
last time.

Her case was worse than that of the
sceptic ; for the conviction was at last
brought home to her that the object of her

VOL. III. 51

worship had not only been a false sod, buta
bad one. How strange it seemed that
all the happiness of her life — or certainly
its greatest happiness — had up to lately
been evoked under a misapprehension
grounded on a mistake, and was in fact an
illusion. Illusions of this kind cost some
women their lives, but she was not one of
that description. She knew that she had
escaped a fate, of the wretchedness of which
she was fully cognisant, by a mere hairbreadth.
And yet, alas ! this afforded her
no ground for congratulation. She felt like
a gambler who has lost his all to sharpers,
for no possible gain. Her youth, her love,
her trust, had all been flung away, as it
were, into the gutter. How should she
have known, how should she have guessed,
what manner of man he was ? Then she
remembered how her father had warned
her against Percy, and what Herbert had
once been on the point of saying in the
garden at Oak Lodge, when she had silenced

him with ' I will not listen to one
word against him.'

Presently there was a ring at the bell,
which announced her cousin's return.

If to see him — to see anybody I mean —
distresses you just now, darling,' whispered
Miss Darrell tenderly, * I will make your
excuses.'

Clare shook her head. ' It does not distress
me ; besides, Herbert would think it
unkind if I were to run away.'

No ; he would wish you to do what is
best for yourself. That is the peculiarity of
Herbert ; he is always thinking of others.
Did you not notice how Fluff took to him ?
that is an infallible sign.'

But he doesn't take to me,^ smiled
Clare ; ' he has not once jumped upon my
shoulder.'

That is because you wear a ruffle. I
didn't like to mention it, but those nasty

crimped collars tickle the poor darling.

Well, what news, Herbert ?'

51—2

I am sorry to say, bad news. The mill
has stopped ; the firm have suspended payment.'


Well, they were not nice people, any of
them,' observed Miss Darrell, ' but I am
sorry for It.'

Poor Sir Peter !* sighed Clare ; ' what a
terrible downfall for him ! I cannot fancy
Sir Peter as otherwise than prosperous.
Surely in Stokeville, where he has done so
much, something will be done for him.'
She was thinking of the generous offers that
had poured in on all sides upon herself.

Miss Darrell shook her head. * You
may build a museum, my dear, and call it
after your own name, but, after all, it is
but a brick-and-mortar god-child, and no
gratitude can be expected from it. I
doubt whether Sir Peter ever made a
friend.'

Friends could do little in such a casSe,
even if he had heaps of them,' observed
Herbert; 'when such a business as his

comes to grief, it is next to impossible to
build it up again

Yes, it is like Humpty Dumpty,' assented
the old lady, burying her nose in the
fur of her favourite. ' All the king's horses
and all the king's men cannot set it up
again. Can they. Fluff ?'

She was a kind-hearted woman, who
would have died for a friend, but she bore
the misfortunes of her enemies — whom she
generically described as ' wicked people ' —
with great equanimity.

It is, at all events, some comfort to
know that Mildred is provided for,' remarked
Clare earnestly.

Unfortunately, that is not so certain,'
returned Herbert. ' Sir Peter, it seems,
had retained the interest of the money he
had settled upon his daughter, and the
creditors, Mr. Oldcastle writes, will probably
lay claim to it upon the ground of
testamentary intention.'

Clare, who looked full of thought, was

apparently about to ask a question, but restrained
herself.

Come, Mr. Herbert,' said Miss Darrell
sharply, ' you have made us melancholy
enough for one morning. Let us hear
something of your own affairs.'

They are flourishing beyond my expectation,
Miss Darrell.'

A modest man would say '* beyond my
deserts," ' remarked the old lady, with
severity. She was annoyed, In reality, not
with Herbert, but with Clare, for evincing
no Interest in the subject on hand.

The sharpness of her tone, however,
seemed to arouse the girl from her meditations.
She looked up with a smile and said,
Nay, there is such a thing, Nannie, as
mock modesty. Herbert knows he deserves
success in his profession, just as one man
knows he has black hair and another grey.
It is a matter of fact of which he makes no
boast, but which It would be affectation to
deny.'

Well, upon my word,' gasped the old
lady, * I would not say such a thing of Fluff
himself in his presence. Herbert will not
be fit to speak to.'

That is just what they have been telling
me at the works said Herbert, laughing.
The company have decided to adopt my
improvement in axles. I rather thought
they would when they proposed a composition
of the royalties. If other railway
boards show the same discernment I shall
have good cause for congratulation indeed.'

Why, my dear Herbert, you must be
growing as rich as Croesus,' cried Miss
Darrell excitedly. ' What will you do withall
your money ?'

Roll in it,' said Herbert gravely ; 'that
is the great pleasure, so far as I can understand,
to be got out of surplus capital.'

And then there are your inventions ?'
continued Miss Darrell. ' I mean those
outside your own particular calling.'

Those are my amusements,' returned

Herbert quietly. * I do not look upon them
as a source of profit.'

Then why patent them ? Did you not
say you were going to patent your new idea
what was it — some charming novelty in
pestilences?'

He smiled and shook his head.

What do you mean, sir ?' continued the
old lady, with a world of significance in her
twinkling eyes. ' Do you change your
mind every quarter of an hour ? Or has
somebody persuaded you that the proposition
is wicked ? Some railway engineer,
with conscientious scruples? If so, he is a
gentleman whose acquaintance I should
like to make above all things.'

^ If any words of mine,' put in Clare in
hesitating tones, and with a faint flush,
have caused you to alter your decision,
Herbert, I hope you will consider them
unsaid ; I am not a fit adviser.'

There I differ from you, Clare,' said
Herbert, and so softly that Miss Darrell

rose, and murmuring she had forgotten to
provide Bluffs dinner (a far more unlikely
omission than that she should have forgotten
to provide her own), left the room
with her furred favourite.

Your opinion, with me at least,' he continued,
'has always weighed more than that
of any other person.'

You have always thought much better
of me than I deserved,' she answered with
downcast eyes ; ' and have been patient
with me, even when I was most obstinate
and mistaken.'

I had no right to be otherwise than
patient, Clare,' he answered. ' I have no
right now, perhaps, to speak to you as I
am about to speak ; a word, however,
dropped by yourself this morning emboldens
me.'

To what he was alluding: she knew
not ; but she felt the colour rushing to her
cheeks. It could not but gratify her to
know that what she had spoken and forgotten

should have been thus treasured by
another.

We were speaking of secrets,' he continued,
' and you said that if the happiness
of one individual was concerned in its
revelation, the keeping of any secret would
be an act of cruelty. You little knew how
nearly you hit my case

How should I have known it, Herbert ?'
That seems so strange,' he continued,
thoughtfully, * and for me so sad. For if,
as it is said, true love should be reciprocal,
my chance must be small indeed. Clare,
I have loved you since I first remember
you. There has not been a day, an hour,
in which I would not have willingly laid
down my life for your sake. It was a
love, Heaven knows, without hope of
reward.'

Dear Herbert, I have not your noble
and unselfish nature,' she answered gently,
but believe me, I too have loved you ;
no brother could have been dearer to me.'

No brother, no. That is the point.
You never guessed that I loved you save
as a brother might do. Yet your poor
father knew it ; and Miss Darrell knows
it.'

What !' she cried in an affrighted tone,
'have you told Nannie ?'

Oh no ; I told nobody : my secret was
far too sacred. But they guessed it. I
am as sure they did as that you did not.
Do not think that I blame you for it. It
was not your fault ; it was my misfortune.'

I am so sorry murmured Clare.
'Yes; you pity me, because you have

so kind a heart. It is not the pity that is
said to be akin to love.'

If he could have looked into her eyes,
so tender as well as pitiful, he might not
have been so sure of that, but she kept her
face averted from him.

I know,' he went on, with a certain
earnest simplicity, ' that I am not one for
whom nature has made a royal road to the

hearts of women. You would feel for me
if you knew the envy with which I regard
those who are so favoured ; you would
despise me if you knew the hatred with
which I have regarded one of them. Do
not fear, however, that I am going into
that subject ' (for she had raised her
hand in deprecation). ' You told me once
to keep silence upon it, and one '' No " from
your lips is sufficient for me. That word
will be sufficient presently to seal my lips
for ever, when you have once spoken it.
If I do not look, if I do not speak, as a
lover ought to do, Clare, it is not, Heaven
knows, because love is wanting; the
pitcher may be full of good wine, but for
that very reason it flows with difficulty.
My very metaphors,' he added with a faint
smile, ^ are as mechanical as my trade. It
is hard indeed that eloquence should be
denied to one who is pleading for his very
life. Clare, Clare ! can you never love
me?'

Never — that is, as you deserve to be
loved she added softly.

Her first word had turned him into
stone. Those that followed it repeated the
miracle of Pygmalion, and gave the statue
life and warmth ; his eyes beamed with
animation ; his face, generally set and
thoughtful for all its frankness, glowed
with pleasure, and, with an inarticulate cry
of joy, he seized her hand and covered it
with kisses.

'Herbert, Herbert ! you mistake me,' she
murmured, and would have drawn her
hand away, but that he held it close. ' I
have listened to you, and now you must
hear me. All that you say of my ignorance
and blindness is true. I have never thought
of you as a lover. How could I think that
you were asking for what I had already
given away to another ? I loved Percy
Fibbert for years with all my heart and
soul.'

^ I know it,' he answered quietly.

You know it, yet you do not know what
sort of a heart it must be to have devoted
itself to a man Hke that. Some girls would
say to you, perhaps, in my case, '^ I cannot
give you my first love, but you are welcome
to the dregs of it, if that will content
you.

The young man nodded, as though he
would have said, ' Quite right ; that is a
reply for which I should be thankful.'

But then they have not made shipwreck
of themselves — no other girl could
have done it — as I have done. They did
not lay their whole lives down as though
at an altar's foot, at the feet of a god of
clay.'

It was a mistake, dear Clare, no doubt,'
he put in softly, ' but a very natural one ;
though I worship you, you are but human.'

A mistake!' she repeated with fierce self-scorn.
' The mistake of a nature that takes
tinsel for gold — a mistake that can never
be remedied.'

My dear Clare, I have fallen into the
like error myself,' returned the young man
simply, ' not once, but half a dozen times.
To misplace one's trust, to find one's
dearest hopes illusory, is the fate of an
inventor. The machine looks perfect,
works to perfection, and one thinks that one
has overcome every obstacle. Then, just at
last, one finds a flaw in it — some little rift
through which the air escapes, but which
no human power can close hermetically.
Then all is over with it. You talk of
tinsel, but what dazzled you was something
more than that ; and for the possession of
it I, who possess it not, would just now give
all I have. I do not blame you, far from
it. I can guess what a man's smile can do
with the woman who loves him, from what
is done with me by a smile of yours.
Dear Clare, I have little to offer you but
my love.'

^ Hush, hush!' she put in hastily; ^ in
offering that you are offering far too much.'

There Is a good crop of it, certainly he
answered, smiHng. ' It has been growing
for years.'

You must give me time, dear Herbert,
to think of this she answered presently.
I ask it for your own sake

To that I must answer '' No," Clare

Then I must needs ask it for my own.'

So be it, darling ; there is nothing I
would not do for your sake.'

There was a discreet knock at the door,
and Miss Darrell entered.

Dinner is ready, young people / then
looking significantly from one to the other,
she added, somewhat inconsequentially,
since it was not meant for grace, '' Thank
Heaven !" '

ALMOST OUT OF THE BAG.

'Tl[ yell, my dear, I have heard a
V V great deal of the taciturnity of
'* engaged young persons," ' observed Miss
Darrell, when Herbert had left the house,
after a somewhat hurried meal, to attend
to certain duties at the works. ' But one
would really think you had given up all
the privileges of your sex. If you mean
to let Herbert have all the talking for the
future, as you did to-day, you are a lost
woman.'

But Lam not an engaged young person,
Nannie,' was the quiet rejoinder.

Oh, fie, fie ! that is worthy of ' she

VOL. in. '^2

was about to say ' Fibber himself,' but
most fortunately substituted *Falstaff ' justin
time. ' Do you suppose I am deaf and
blind ?'

Mf I didn't speak I don't quite see,
Nannie, how your sense of hearing could
have helped you much replied Clare
gravely.

Nay, my dear, but I heard hi77z. And
never did I hear a man run on so. Why,
he was like a champagne bottle with the
cork out, exuberant with life and spirit.
A silent man, too. In a general way,
though so full of sense. Am I to believe
that a miracle of that kind has been
worked without a divinity ? Of course
you have promised to marry him ?'

Indeed, Nannie, I have done nothing
of the kind.'

Then you ought to be ashamed of
yourself, you cruel creature ! That is, I
mean added the old lady, her voice
changing suddenly from Indignation to

tenderness, ' If you don't promise to marry
him you will break his heart, and mine too.
Oh, Clare, Clare ! how can you be so blind
as not to see how he loves you ; and how
good and kind and generous he is, and how
worthy of the best of wives ! My dear,
my darling,' and the little woman actually
plumped down on her knees with Fluff on
her shoulders, ' I entreat you, for my sake,
to make him a happy man.'

My dear Nannie,' replied Clare, embracing
her affectionately, ' that is, above
all things, what I wish to do. But he has
asked what is not good for himself, and
therefore I have declined to give it him.
That he is good and kind and generous,
and worthy of the best of wives, is the
very reason why he should not possess
the worst of them.'

The worst of them — meaning yourself?'
put in Miss Darrell contemptuously.

'Meaning myself,' said Clare gravely.
If I were. not myself — that is, if I stood in

52—2

the position of a stranger to you, instead of
a spoilt child and favourite — you would seethe
matter in a just light. Supposing you
were this man's mother, Nannie, and he
had fallen in love with some girl who had
known him for years ; had lived under the
same roof with him, had had every opportunity
of estimating him at his true
worth, and yet who had never dreamt of
loving him ; nay, who had set her heart on
some one else the very opposite of him,
a man base and dishonourable, to whom,
despite advice and warning, she had clung
to the very last, even after his baseness
had been proved — for that is the fact,
Nannie — who had not succeeded in
tearing him from her heart till he had
wounded her self-love past all healing, by
marrying another — would you wish your
son to marry a girl of this kind ? tell me
that' She spoke with marvellous force
and vigour, and a scorn of her own self
that was most pitiful and painful to witness.

I don't quite recognise the original of
the portrait you have painted,' returned
the old lady with quiet tenderness. ' It
seems to me to be too much in shadow.
But I would certainly wash ' — and here she
placed her hands on each side of the girl's
face, as though to form a frame for it — ' my
son to marry a girl of this kind.'

• No, Nannie, no ; not if he was your
son.'

I love Herbert as though he were so,
my darling, and next to your own dea*
self.'

That is the point, Nannie ; your love
for me disturbs your judgment as regards
his welfare. You are thinking of what is
best for me ; I am thinking of what is best
for him. A man so good and noble, so
honest and pure, deserves a better wife
than I can make him.'

Tut, tut, my dear ! you must forgive an
old woman who knows the world for
speaking with some plainness, but that's

all rubbish. No man is a paragon, nor
anything like it. Herbert Newton, bless
the lad ! is as good and pure as the best of
them, no doubt; but, my dear girl, you
may take my word for it, he's no angel.
Is he, Fluff?'

Disturbed by this appeal, or by the
caress with which it was accompanied,
Fluff uttered a petulant mew of remonstrance.


Just so ; Fluff is sorry to say it, you
see, for she likes the young fellow : but
the fact is, man is not made of alabaster. I
had a wide experience of them in my establishment,
including French and Germans,
and I really don't think you need disturb
yourself about any one of them being too
good to marry either of us.'

What have I got to give him ?* murmured
Clare, on whose ears this sweeping
condemnation of the other sex had shared
the fate of most generalisations. She did
not see the applicability of it to the case in

question. ' Respect, regard, affection, those
he always wins from all who know him ;
they are no return for the single-hearted
love he offers me, and for which I have no
equivalent.'

My dear child returned the old lady
earnestly, ' you are still in that fool's paradise
of first love, though one would really
have thought you had had enough of it.
Some girls seem to think that if the first
man who takes their fancy proves a villain,
all is over with them ; and, moreover, that
they themselves are to blame for it. Why
should the state of matrimony be the one exception
to that good old saying, ' Second
thoughts are best.' You admit you have
respect, regard, affection for Herbert
Newton. Is it not more reasonable to expect
that love should follow those all in good
time, than that they should follow fancy.
You have often told me that you loved Percy
Fibbert from the first ; surely a great misfortune,
since otherwise you could not have

been blind to the faults which others saw
in him. And now just because you did
not love Herbert from the first, though you
have always recognised his good qualities,
you say you can never love him.'

I did not say that, Nannie answered
Clare plaintively, ' though I feel, indeed,
as though I had no longer the capacity for
love ; but that my love at the best would
be no match for his.'

My dear child, that is Herbert's lookout,
not yours. If he is satisfied with it,
surely that is sufficient. What else have
you got for him, you ask me, in exchange
for his devotion } Why, the very thing
he wants — sympathy with his pursuits.
You will share his troubles and double
his joys, and be in very truth his helpmate.'


Help him ! What do I know ? What
can I do for him ? How can I help
him ?'

Well, I don't suppose that the idea of

such assistance has ever entered into the
dear fellow's mind, but you can undoubtedly
help him. and that in a very
material vva3\ Outside his profession, to
which he is devoted, he is always hitting on
some new invention, such as he was talking
of this very day.'

Yes ; and / put a stop to it murmured
Clare bitterly.

True ; that is a proof of the value he
sets on your opinion. For other things you
will have nothing but approbation, and
your praise will be a spur to him. Those
experiments of his, as he has told me, are
often very expensive ; and your money maybe
of the greatest service to him. What
happiness must it be to a wife to be able to
say to herself, *' I helped my husband to
greatness when he was poor and unknown."
For though I have no doubt Herbert will
be rich some day, he has nothing at present,
you see, but his income '

Nothing but his income! What has

become of his ten thousand pounds ?' exclaimed
Clare.

If it had not been for her Persian cat, as
Miss Darrell afterwards observed quite
seriously, she would at this juncture have
gone off in a fit. Until posed by Clare's
question, she had utterly forgotten that the
girl was ignorant of the manner in which
Herbert had disposed of his property. If
she had had to meet Clare's inquiring eyes,
full of alarm and anxiety upon her cousin's
account, she felt that the truth must have
been dragged out of her ; and Herbert
have been offended past forgiveness. His
secret, it is true, had not been confided to
her ; she had discovered it for herself, but
when she informed him that she knew it, she
had tacitly undertaken to keep it. With any
other girl the revelation of it might have
had good results by favouring the object
Herbert had in view ; but the knowledge
of his generous behaviour to her would, in
Clare's case, Miss Darrell felt convinced,

onl)^ Increase her sense of inferiority and
humiliation. Fortunately the cat was in her
lap, and the old lady was able to hide her
guilty face in its ample fur. ' Oh dear, oh
dear!' she murmured in an agony of confusion
; ' I have let you out of the bag, my
darling.'

Nannie, Nannie, what do you mean ?'
persisted Clare. ' Has Herbert ruined himselfe?'


'Yes, that's just it,' replied Miss Darrell
in desperation ; ' It's a dead secret, and you
must never breathe a word of it, or he will
never forgive me. A man like Herbert,
you see, hates to be reminded of his failures;
but the fact is, the money is all gone.'

Good heavens! What, in experiments ?'

Well, yes, in a philanthropic experiment.
Either that one he has told us about or
some other. Perhaps it was thrown into
water, in that diving business — who knows I
At all events, it's gone.'

Poor Herbert ! Poor dear Herbert !'

He bears his misfortune, however, like
a man, does he not ? You would never
guess he had lost his patrimony to hear
him talk as he did to-day, would you ?
But then, poor fellow, he certainly imagined
he was about to be compensated for all his
calamities.'

Clare answered nothing, but sat with a
flushed face and an eager look in her eyes,
which her companion strove in vain to
construe.

I hope you don't think, Clare, that
Herbert has behaved ill in not telling you
how he was circumstanced.'

111 ? Herbert behave 111 ? No, certainly
not. Indeed, he told me, now I
come to think of it, that he had nothing
but his love to offer me.'

That is only what I should have
expected of him ; he is incapable of
duplicity.'

Duplicity ! I should think he never
had so much as a secret from other people,

unless it was something scientific that they
couldn't understand.'

No doubt,' assented the old lady, with
a quiet twinkle in her kind eyes. ^ He
never could keep such a thing as a secret
from anybody. He told you one to-day,
did he not ? I saw him whispering to you
in the passage as he went away.'

Clare's delicate clear-cut face was crimson.


And yet it was all no use, was it, Fluff ?'
continued the old lady, soliloquising. * She
sent our young friend away without a
gleam of hope.'

I said I must have six months to think
about — about what he asked of me,'
faltered Clare. ' In that time he may see
his mistake, or — or somebody else '

Just so ; some young person with more
money, for instance,' put in the old lady
cheerfully. ' By-the-bye, I do hope I have
not prejudiced you against Herbert by
revealing his pecuniary misfortunes. Although

he has no capital he has a pretty
good income, which, with his royalties and
so on, will no doubt be greatly increased.
You mustn't think that, being poor, his
offer was dictated by any wish — he is not
in the least like an adventurer — to get hold
of your money.'

Clare jumped to her feet with flashing
eyes.

Nannie, how dare you ! Herbert an
adventurer ?'

There, now ! you have frightened the
cat. You needn't put yourself in such a
state about the young man. We didn't
say he was an adventurer, did we, Fluff?'

Upon the whole, Miss Darrell felt that
she had good cause to congratulate herself
(though it is not a recommendation to be
relied on with young ladies) that she had
revealed to Clare that her lover was a poor
man.

HER SUCCESSFUL RIVAL.

THE smooth time runs the fastest, and
the coil of life at Bellingham Park
ran out without a kink in it. To Herbert
Newton there was still, indeed, a hope unfulfilled,
but he felt secure of the reward of
his patience, and in the meantime work —
the best remedy for unrest — was plentiful
with him, and when he had leisure he well
knew where to spend it. If at the mid-day
meal he was absent from Bellingham Park,
the evening always found him there. He
had generally something to tell the two ladies
which had an interest for them ; and as for
him, he cared not whether they had news
or not.

To the man who has for the first time
found a woman to love him, it is news
enough to hear her breathe his own name,
nor needs his ear any other music.

To Miss Darrell he felt a boundless gratitude
for the good word which he knew
she had spoken for him. For undoubtedly,
if Clare had thought of him as prosperous
and successful, she would not so easily have
been persuaded to accept him as a lover.
But now, though she still deemed herself
unworthy of him, it was a comfort to her
to feel that she might be of service to him,
might further his plans and realise his
hopes, and in a material way make it upto
him for the slights of Fortune. In this
respect their relations as lovers were inverted
; it was the woman who experienced
the sense of defender and protector, and in
so doing became love's bondwoman. It
was the first time in her life that Clare
had ever realised the value of money.
She cared nothing for It for its own sake ;

but if she could have persuaded Herbert to
take all she had and expend it upon the
construction of an aerial machine, or on the
discovery of the philosopher's stone, or on
the transmutation of metals, that would
have seemed to her anything but an ineligible
investment, since it would have
afforded him a temporary pleasure. The
extravagances Which other people permit
themselves she would, for this reason, have
rejoiced to see him indulge in. Whenever
inventions were the topic of conversation,
she struck in for the fanatics who had lost
their all in retorts and crucibles, with ardour.
Miss Darrell shook in her shoes, as she
listened to what she well knew was a
defence of Herbert's imprudences.

Dear Clare is quite dangerous in her
enthusiasm said Herbert to the old lady;
'instead of throwing cold water upon my
magnificent enterprises, she will make me
worse and worse. I had no idea she was
so speculative, bless her !'

VOL. III. 53

That's her character observed Miss
Darrell drily ; * without being absolutely
mean she is voracious.'

To behold Herbert's face was better than
any exhibition of pictures.

But when the old lady began to laugh he
out-roared her. The idea of Clare's being
voracious was certainly enough to tickle
anybody.

At all events, before we are married
he said gravely, ' as it is possible that dear
Clare may have some influence over me -'

I see no sign of that,' put in the old
lady, who delighted in teasing him.

Well, still she may, Nannie ; so I shall
take care that every farthing of her money
is settled upon her beyond the reach of
science.'

You mean every farthing of your money.'

Hush ! That is past and gone ; if you
ever allude to it again, even to me, I will
never forgive you.*

But, my dear Herbert,' said the old lady.

alarmed at the vehemence of his manner,
you must tell her some day, and that before
she marries you.'

I don't see the least necessity ; and as
for her knowing it before she marries me, I
would not have her do that for twice the
money. Why she might consider herself
under some sort of obligation.'

'That is just possible,' replied the old
lady gravely. ^ On the other hand, does
it not strike you that you have proposed to
her under something like false pretences ?
She may take it for granted, for instance,
that you have still that ten thousand pounds
of your own which has been transferred to
her own pocket ; so that you are, in fact,
not nearly so eligible 2l parti as you appear
to be.'

Good heavens ! I never thought of
that,' exclaimed the young fellow naively.
My royalties, however, are doing very
well,' he added thoughtfully ; ' and I can
insure my life for the ten thousand pounds.'

53—2

It is not for the royalties that Clare
Lyster cares, sir, but for the person that
owns them,' was the retort upon the tip of
Miss Darrell's tongue ; but she dared not
have him believe that all was smooth sailing.
It was necessary for her peace of mind
to get leave to tell Clare — what in fact she
had already told her.

She must certainly be told you have not
got the money, Herbert.'

Dear me,' he said, greatly troubled, 'can
you not persuade Clare that this wretched
money of mine has been lost in some other
way ? I don't think it will make any
difference,' he added modestly, * but I see
that she ought to know. And, on the other
hand, she must never, never guess what
has really become of it.'

'You leave this to me,' said Miss Darrell
thoughtfully, ' and I think I may almost
promise to get you out of it.'

When Herbert seized her hand and
gave it a grateful kiss, it is possible that

she experienced a pang of remorse for her
duplicity ; but on the whole I regret to
say she felt very serene and comfortable.
Women like a stratagem for its own sake,
even when there is no wickedness to make
it piquant ; and when they succeed, each
flatters herself she is a Machiavelli.

The worst of it was that, from the
nature of the case, the little old lady was
debarred from boasting of it to other ears.

On the present occasion, she had another
innocent intrigue on hand, which, so far,
had been equally successful. She had had
to explain away the absence of Clare, who
for once had not been in the little drawing-room
to receive Herbert that morning.
As a matter of fact, she had gone into
town to look after a certain present she
had bespoken for him — for it was his birthday
— and which the showman had omitted
to send, though he had promised to do so
that morning. It was some sort of aneroid
barometer she had heard Herbert describe

as being of the most scientific kind, but
which was nevertheless unable to find its
way to Bellingham Park, on Its own hook
though it had a hook. Clare had been
so foolish as to pay for It beforehand,
which is only one degree more reprehensible,
and much less convenient, than
not paying for it at all. Under such circumstances
it was not surprising that the
article had not been delivered at the proper
time. As it happened, when Clare called for
it, she found that certain alterations had not
been attended to. It was growing late,
and she felt that to wait for it would keep
her from home beyond supper-time ; but it
was a fine warm evening, and she knew
Miss Darrell was not one of those ladies
who picture to themselves, when a guest
chances to be five minutes late for a meal,
either a hospital ward or a police station ;
whereas if a birthday present is late fora
birthday. It is no longer a birthday present,
but a bathos.

At last the thing was done, and slipping
the delicate clever contrivance into her
pocket, she hurried from the shop into the
lighted street. It was much later by this
time than she could have anticipated, and
she was looking about her for a cab when
a woman suddenly accosted her, haggard
and painted, at whose touch — for she had
laid her hand upon her arm — Clare shrank
back mechanically, though the next moment
she looked at her very differently.

There was a hopeless wretchedness in
the stranger's eyes that went straight to
her heart, and also a certain look In her
face that was not wholly unfamiliar, though
it was not recognisable.

Do you not know me, Clare Lyster ?'
Great Heaven ! It Is Mildred.'
Yes, It Is Mildred,' returned the other,
with bitter self-contempt. ' I need not ask
what you took me for. Perhaps you
would rather have spoken to some lost
woman In the streets than to me.'

For shame, Mildred ! why should you
think so ?'

Because I have wronged you, and you
know it. If you do not, let me tell you.
It was I who planned and plotted to
deprive you of your lover from the first.
And I succeeded. There is where you
had your revenge.'

And she laughed a laugh that suited
better with her rouged cheeks and glittering
eyes, than any tears could have
done.

I wanted no revenge,' said Clare gently.

But you have it,' continued the other,
nevertheless. Everything you want comes
to you without seeking.'

I have much to be grateful for, indeed,
replied Clare simply. * But believe me,
it gives me genuine distress to find you are
less happy than myself.'

You pity me, then ?'

I do, from the bottom of my heart.'

^ That is well. To be pitied by you

fills up my cup of bitterness. I drink it
now to the very dregs.'

Her tone was so fierce, and she looked
so wild as well as wretched, that Clare
trembled for her reason.

Pray, calm yourself, dear Mildred.
Let us go into yonder shop and sit down.'
She pointed to a pastry cook's, where it
struck her they could get a few minutes'
privacy under pretence of having some
refreshment. ' If you have anything to
tell me '

I have much to tell you, but not there.
I cannot sit down, because then I begin to
think. I must walk, walk, walk, or else
my brain becomes on fire.'

Then walk with me,' returned Clare
tenderly.

She recognised the anxiety that her non-arrival
at home must, sooner or later,
create ; but she knew that Nannie and
even Herbert would forgive her absence,
and their own trouble upon her account, inconsideration

of the motive that had
detained her.

They moved on together aimlessly, side
by side, and for some time in silence, but
Clare noticed that her companion's face
was looking more tranquil.

It seems so strange,' she murmured
presently ' to have found a friend. It is
so sad to be quite alone in London.'

But where is your husband ?'

My husband ! Yes, to be sure I have a
husband ; and a home, which he is supposed
to share with me. It is not a nice home,
and therefore has no attractions for him.
You know we are poor people, Clare.'

I did not know that, Mildred ; though
of course I knew that Sir Peter had lost a
great deal.'

Poor papa ! Yes, he has lost everything
— I had almost said, *' including his
daughter," but that was a gain to him. It is as
much as he can do to get bread and cheese

But I heard he had settled money on

you, enough to keep you at least in
comfort

^ A married woman has no money,'
answered the other bitterly. ' My husband
finds it scarcely enough to keep himself.'

Oh, Mildred ! Mildred ! he can never
be so base as that !'

Can he not ?' she answered fiercely.
You should know he can, if anybody.
He always tells me, as an excuse for his niggardliness,
that we are very poorly off, and
even what we have is in danger. Papa's
creditors, it seems, have laid claim to it.'

I had heard of that, but I thought their
claim had failed,' returned Clare pitifully.
^ I am very, very sorry ; but if poverty
really threatens you, that is surely a reason
why your husband should be economical.
You may be doing him wrong in thinking
him too prudent, when he is only careful
for both your sakes.'

Careful ! Did you ever know him
careful even for his own sake ? My house

is not far off. Here is the address.
Come and see it, and judge for yourself.'

1 cannot do that, dear Mildred ; it is
growing late, and Miss Darrell, with whom
I am living, will be expecting me. Another
day you shall come and see me, and we
will talk over what can be done.'

Oh, I see, you are afraid of meeting
Percy. There is no fear of that, Clare.
His own house is the very last place in
which to find a man like him.'

Oh, Mildred, this is shocking ! Remember
he is your husband.'

Am I likely to forget it ?' she answered
fiercely. ' Does the slave forget he has a
master ?'

But surely he does not ill-treat you,
Mildred ?'

He does not beat me, if you mean that.
But what was it we used to read together
when we were children ? Some play
where some one is said to speak daggers
though he uses none. That is what he did ;

and when I felt the steel and turned upon
him, he left me. In the day I seldom see
him ; in the evening never. . At first he
told me he was detained on business here
and there ; he does not trouble himself now
to invent excuses for his absence. Some
day he will desert me altogether. Then I
shall starve.'

That you shall never do,' said Clare
impulsively.

'Will you promise me that?' said the
other, with pitiful earnestness. * Oh, I am
so afraid of starving ! At one time I never
gave a thought to such things ; it seemed
to me quite natural to see shivering creatures
in want of a piece of bread. I was
only interested in rich people.'

Clare was aware of that, and it was one
of the many things that from an early date
had put her out of accord with Mildred.
The latter's love of display, devotion to
fashion, and general artificiality of character,
had always excited in her a certain repulsion.

But now that she was in adversity it
was different. She thought of the bringing
up Mildred had had ; of the influences that
had surrounded her; of the worthless
books on which her imagination had been
fed ; and felt nothing but compassion for
her, and the desire to help her.

Where she pitied her most, but could not
help her, was in the miserable picture she
had drawn of her domestic life ; yet even
there she essayed to give her comfort.

When a man is worried about business
affairs, dear Mildred — even a good man
such as my dear father was — I well know
it is apt to change him. Papa could never
be unkind, but he became at times distraught
; paid no attention to what was remarked
to him, and shut himself, as it were,
within himself. If one had not known him,
one would have said he was careless and neglectful
of others, when in fact he was always
thinking how to benefit them. How can you
tell it is not so with — with Percy ? How do

you know he is not engaged, when away
from home, in forwarding your common
interests ? — What is it, Mildred ? What
is the matter ?'

Clare felt her companion's fingers pressing
her arm as if in a vice, and following
the direction of her eyes, beheld this spectacle.
On the left hand of the street, which
was a wide and fashionable one, stood one
of those hotels once peculiar to the Continent,
but which have of late become common in
London, where dinners only are served,
and which have nothing in common with
the English inn. The house was one of
great pretensions, and through the thin
lace curtains of the gorgeous and well-lighted
dining-room its inmates could be
distinctly seen. There were many tables,
each laid for its proper quota of guests; but
that nearest the window close to which
Clare and Mildred stood was the only one
occupied. There were six persons seated
at it, evidently a very merry party, and.

from the early hour at which they were
dining, probably bound for the theatre.
Next the window, in evening dress, and
with a flower in his button-hole, sat Percy,
and beside him a young lady to whom
he was evidently paying marked attention.


Do you see that?' exclaimed Mildred,
in low but vehement tones; * that is my
husband, who tells me he does not know
where to turn for a 'live-pound note.'

To Clare's ears this sounded very
strangely; if her case, she thought, had
been Mildred's, the idea of the selfish extravagance
of her husband would not have
been, under such circumstances, the first to
occur to her. The situation, indeed, impressed
her as so painful that, disregarding
Mildred's remark, she good-naturedly endeavoured
to explain it away.

Do not judge Percy too hastily,' she
said ; * after all, there is no harm in his
dining with friends.'

Friends!' she answered In a low, shivering
voice; 'they are not my friends.'

Here the company rose, and a servant .
came out and spoke to the commissionaire
in attendance :

Three hansoms wanted

The commissionaire whistled shrilly, and
the cabs drew up.

Through the Mass door of the hotel could
be seen the gentlemen putting on the ladies'
cloaks in the hall within. After Percy had
performed this office for the young lady
who had been his neighbour at the table,
he handed her a bouquet, for which it was
plain she thanked him as if for a gift.

That is your first love, and my husband
whispered Mildred in terrible tones.

Clare, alarmed by her manner, was apprehensive
of some public disturbance; but
the other stood motionless and silent while
the party entered their vehicles, two by
two, and were driven off to some theatre
the address of which was given by the com-vol.

III. 54

missionary. Her husband passed so close
to Mildred, who made no attempt to conceal
herself, that his companion's cloak
swept her dress.

sand now I am going home' said Mildred.


The last word had such an extremity of
bitterness in it that for the moment an awful
conviction fixed itself upon Clare that her
companion was meditating suicide. In this,
however, she wronged her, or rather it
would be more just to say she over-rated
her capacity for wretchedness. Mildred
meant only what she said ; her husband,
after feasting, had gone to the play, no doubt
to enjoy himself, and be made much of by
his companions ; while she was left to fare
on some remnant of a meal, and to pass the
melancholy hours alone. Though intensely
miserable, Mildred did not, indeed, appear
to be so shocked as Clare was ; the fact
being that her course of reading had accustomed
her to regard with some philosophy

what girls, who are unacquainted
with a certain modern class of literature,
shrink from with disgust and repugnance.
To Mildred it seemed more base in Percy
that he should stint her while he indulged
in luxuries, than that, being her husband, he
should carry on a flirtation with another
woman. She had been assured, on what
she conceived to be competent authority,
that gentlemen of spirit and position think
but lightly of the marriage tie ; and that
this liberal notion, if not actually reciprocated
by their spouses, is regarded by them
with great charity. What, however,
doubtless conduced to this state of mind in
her more than aught else, was that she no
longer cared for Percy. Her love for him
had been very vehement, and had lasted for
years ; but her marriage with him, which,
it must be confessed, had been more her
work than his, had dispelled all her illusions.
If prosperity had attended it, she would
have been as well content, even though her

54—2

husband mloht have driven her cause for
jealousy, as nine women out of ten of high
fashion and flimsy nature contrive to be ; but
to be poor and to be neglected Is a very different
thing from being uncared for Indeed,
but at the same time having the means
to take one's own way in the world and
enjoy It. If Mildred could have dined at
an hotel herself, and gone to the play in
equally pleasant company, it would not have
spoilt her pleasure (though it might not,
as in Percy's case, have enhanced it) to
reflect that her consort was not of the party.
To Clare, with Herbert's birthday gift
in her pocket, and the thought of how that
little remembrance would please him, such
sentiments as these were utterly unintelligible.
If she had reflected on the
matter she might have been certain that
the fact of Mildred's having denounced her
husband to another woman, and to her of
all women, was clear proof that his conduct,
save when it caused her personal inconvenience,

had no longer power to pain
her ; but this sudden and unexpected meeting
with Mildred, the disclosure of her
unhappiness, and more than all, the having
been thus brought face to face with Percy,
had disturbed Clare's judgment, and left
only a quick sense of womanly sympathy
and compassion.

If I had a home of my own to offer
you, Mildred, I would say '' Come to it."
But you know that I am living with Miss
Darrell'

Aye ; the old maid that was a schoolmistress.
No, I don't 'think I should get
on with her. I would rather eo to the
Burtonss — they are Stokeville folks, who
keep a boarding-house — only Percy said it
was too expensive. How strange it is that
the same man can be so lavish and yet so
mean !'

This was a true touch, far beyond poor
Mildred's ordinary powers ; the miser
spendthrift, though he exists, is but lite

known ; but she had had a personal experience
of him.

You will be in tomorrow If I call on
you ?' she continued earnestly. ' You will
not let that dreadful old woman persuade
you to say '' Not at home " ?'

Oh, Mildred, how could you think It
possible ?' said Clare reproachfully.

Then I will come to lunch. I do so
hate to take my meals alone.'

It was curious how, from her first passionate
appeal, and notwithstanding that
painful Incident In the meantime, Mildred
had sunk back Into her old shallow manner.
It somewhat comforted Clare, while It
shocked her; and upon the whole, when
they parted and she got at last Into a cab,
she felt less miserable upon Mildred's
account than she had done at first. Her
chief fear, after all, it was evident, was of
poverty, and from that, at least, Clare
could shield her ; and though It would be
robbing Herbert of a portion of what had

been wholly designed to defray his scientific
experiments, she knew that Herbert would
not grudge It. What a pleasant thing —
though she was far from subscribing to
Sir Peter's motto, ' For Cash Only ' — was
the possession of money after all !

AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR.

TH E news Clare brought home with her
saddened rather than surprised her
audience. The three sat far into the night
discussing what was best to be done.

If a marriage such as Mildred's had
proved a happy one,' 'said Miss Darrell,
it would have been a miracle indeed. I
never did like the young woman, nor
never shall, but in getting that man for a
husband I can easily imagine she has been
punished beyond her deserts.'

It was a severe remark to make in
Clare's presence, who had once been so
near getting him herself ; but such was the

old lady's indignation against ' the Fibber,'
as she called him, that she could never
forego an opportunity of expressing it.

The kindest thing that could be done for
Mildred continued Miss Darrell, • would
be to procure her separation from him.'

Oh, Nannie, Nannie ! he is her husband
after all, remember,' said Clare reprovingly.

Of course he is ; that is just the difficulty.
The problem is how she is to
escape from him, and yet retain the means
of livelihood. What do you say, Herbert?'

I agree with Clare ' he began.

That is mere surplusage,' put in the
old lady sardonically. ' At present, moreover,
Clare has said nothing to agree
with.'

What she meant to say, Nannie,' pursued
the young man with unruffled good-humour,
'is that a separation between
husband and wife should not be dreamt of
till all other means of reconciliation have
been tried.'

Reconciliation presupposes something
of goodness and tenderness on each side ;
in this case, on one of them at all events,
it does not exist. You know it as well as
I do, Herbert.'

Then the question Is returned he,
tacitly accepting the position, ' can Mildred's
husband be induced to agree to
a separation .^'

He'd jump at it,' replied Miss Darrell,
with confidence.

And would he make her an allowance,
supposing he was in a position todo
so 1:'

Most certainly not,' answered the old
lady, with even more intense conviction.

Then It becomes a question of How
Much, and where it is to come from.'

^ Just so ; like most other problems of
human life.'

My dear Miss Darrell,' said Herbert
gravely, * it is my belief that in some
previous state of existence you carried on

a manufactory in Stokeville on an extensive
scale.'

Let us hope I was more successful than
some people snapped the little old lady.
Clare, why don't you take my part, and
rebuke this young man, who is very rude
to me ?'

That is not Clare's business yet,' observed
Herbert audaciously.

What the end of that six months' ' probation
' was to be, it seemed he now took
very much for granted ; as, indeed, did
Clare herself. They had arrived at the
same goal of mutual devotion, albeit by
different roads. He had never loved anyone
but herself, whereas, as she had confessed
with shame, she on her part was
unable to say as much ; on the other hand,
she felt that although she did not deserve
it, she was now really beloved for the first
time. With this conviction it is no wonder
that when once * Love struck the harp of
life in her case * the chord of Self had

passed out of sight' It could not be said
of her, since she still retained such sympathy
for others, that she lived only for Herbert ;
but that young gentleman and his interests
were certainly in the occupation of a great
portion of her mind. It was impossible for
her to repent of a good intention, but the
responsibilities she had taken upon herself
in regard to Mildred somewhat troubled
her. She wished to be generous to her,
but as she had already given all she had,
in thought, to Herbert, it seemed like being
generous with other people's money.

The next morning, before Mildred should
call, therefore, she resolved to lay this case
of conscience before Miss Darrell, and get
the benefit of her advice.

You see, Nannie, poor Mildred, though
you may not like her '

I don't,' put in the uncompromising old
lady.

Still she is a very old friend of mine'

Indeed !' was the dry rejoinder; ' I can't

say that I ever heard of her doing anything
friendly towards you. However, since you
say so, I'll take your word for it.'

'Moreover, my father and hers were good
neighbours for many years, and closely connected
in business.'

I remember that ; and also that after
your father's death her father did his best
to ruin you.'

Not to ruin me, Nannie.'
It was not his fault,' murmured the old
lady. She could never forget that, but for
Herbert, Clare would not now have had a
penny left in the world.

Still he only took what, I am sure, he
thought were his rights.'

And very little good they did him,' put
in the other.

'Just so,' pursued Clare good-naturedly;
'on the other j^hand, he actually did me a
service by causing me to leave the firm, as
I thereby escaped its responsibilities. For,
although I should have had no hand in

Percy's speculations, I should have suffered
for them.'

Well, that is true. Somebody — • we
needn't mention names— certainly did overreach
himself in that matter. I can see
what you are coming to, that Sir Peter is
your benefactor, and therefore that his
daughter has a claim upon you.'

That is not the ground on which I
should plead her cause with you, Nannie.'

Then I should like to know upon what
ground ?'

Because she has been an enemy, and is
in misfortune.'

It was good to hear the tone in which
those words were said, and pleasant to
behold the face of her who listened to
them.

Of course you will help her, my darling;
I knew that all along. I only hoped to
moderate your generosity by pretending to
oppose it, just as one gets things cheap in
shops by pretending not to want them.

You may frown, but I've often done it, my
dear, and with success. I know I am parsimonious,
but I flatter myself I am cunning.'


You are just the best creature in the
world, Nannie, but one who gives herself
the worst of characters. Now, I want you to
advise me out of your true heart, and not
out of that scarecrow one you use to
frighten people away from you, if poor
Mildred's case should prove to be as we
suppose it, how much should I be justified
in guaranteeing her out of my present income
? Mr. Oldcastle has invested my
money so well, you know, that it brings mein
;coo a year. I had comforted myself
with the idea that it would all go to Herbert,
to further something he takes interest
in, and promised myself a great treat in
getting it all settled upon him before our
marriage without his knowing it ; but now
I must deprive myself of some of that pleasure
— though, of course,' she added with the

least tinge of a flush, ' It is a pleasure,
though of another kind, to help poor
Mildred.'

No doubt It is a pleasure to such as
you,' said Miss Darrell thoughtfully, 'and a
very innocent and healthy one ; and yet I
have heard you say quite stupid things in
depreciation of money. The poor creature
who clings to it for its own sake, who is
always thinking of how to get It, or of
boasting of it when it is procured, is contemptible
enough, Heaven knows ; but to
my mind the man who sets no value on it
(though I grant he Is probably a much less
disagreeable individual) is the greater fool.
Though itself but dross, it is the most
powerful instrument for good that man,
nay, or woman, since it fits the hand-of a
simple girl like you, can wield. While on
the other hand, Clare, believe me, not to
possess It — that is, to be in actual need of
it — is to be without a weapon in a forest of
wild beasts; nay, it is not only to be

defenceless one's self, bat — what with
natures like yours is much worse — to be
unable to protect the defenceless. Analyse
your own feelings at this moment, Clare, and
you will discover that for three-fourths of
the happiness of which you are in enjoyment,
nay, of the very good that you are
now purposing to do, you are indebted to
the possession of a competence.'

Now, upon my word, Nannie,' exclaimed
Clare, laughing, ' except that last
line of all, which struck me as rather a
bathos, I call that quite a flight of oratory.
I'm sure I don't wish to contend that it is
not pleasant to be well off and able to
assist others, but when I think of poor Sir
Peter — a sort of dethroned Midas — and
what comes of money-grubbing, Fd sooner
live on a crust '

'You never have lived on a crust, my
dear,' put in Miss Darrell. ' If you had
done so, you would find that the feeding
is not the worst part of such an ex-vol.

III. 55

instance. I must say for Mildred that sofar
she seems to take a sensible view
of the situation. — Well, Jane, what is
it ?' for here the parlour-maid had entered.


If you please, ma'am, a young person
has called to see Miss Lyster.'

Miss Darrell and Clare exchanged a
rapid glance. The visitor could not surely
be Mildred, so long before she was expected,
and described in so singular a
fashion.

When you say " a young person," Jane,
do you mean a young lady ?' inquired her
mistress.

Well, ma'am, it might be, and it might
not ; she did come in a keb, but she is
carrying a baby.'

Good gracious I Who cast it be ?'

Please, ma'am, she said her name was
of no consequence, but that she had come
from Stokeville to see Miss Clare on business.'


It Is Gerald's wife, Nannie,' whispered
Clare.

To be sure, no doubt. What on earth
could have brought her up to London ?'

55—2

A MENACE.

UNTIL she now beheld her m Miss
Darrell's drawing-room, Clare had
never seen her half-brother's wife. Almost
all she knew of her was from Herbert, who
had described her as gentle and well-behaved,
and getting on comfortably
enough at Stokeville now that her lord and
tyrant had left the place. But Clare had
written to her very kindly so soon as she
understood her true position, and Rachel
had received her advances with warmth
and gratitude, and by letter acknowledged
them. Having been encouraged to write
quite frankly about herself, she had done

SO ; most Stokeville girls of her class express
themselves better on paper than viva
voce ; they are not bad scholars, and the
rough gauche manner which is the cloak of
their independence is necessarily absent
from the lettered page. She had told
Clare of Herbert's kindness to her, of the
trial that awaited her, and presently how
she had gone through with it, with a description
of the ' little stranger.'

If the child had not 'clothed the father
with a dearness not his due,' its father's
misconduct had certainly in no way prejudiced
the mother against it. She had
written of it — albeit if Gerald had had his
way it would have been without a legal
status — with a pride and tenderness that
would have befitted the offspring of some
pair wedded in Westminster Abbey, and
who had had a royal duke for his sponsor.
As Clare now entered the drawing-room,
Rachel held the child out to her as though
it had been a palm-branch ; not indeed that

any sign of peace or goodwill were required
between them, but simply because it was
something she knew the other would be
glad to see, even though a welcome might
be wanting to herself. Nor was she disappointed
; after an embrace of the young
mother which filled Rachel's eyes with
pride and pleasure, Clare took the child in
her arms and began to fondle it. If there
was aught in the doctrine of heredity, he
was bound to grow up her enemy. But of
that she took no thought ; her reflection, as
the tendril-like fingers closed about her own,
was, how doubtful it was that an infant so
thin and fragile should grow up at all.
Why, Rachel, the dear little fellow looks
rather delicate.'

'Yes, indeed. Miss Clare; but then' — with
a nervous apprehension and eagerness that
showed how her own apprehensions had
been excited in that direction — 'he has come
a long journey, you see, for one so young.'

But why have you brought him up to

London ? or rather why have you come
yourself, since you two, I suppose, are inseparable
?'

Well, Miss Clare, it was bad news as
brought me — news as come last night by
post ; news from my husband.'

Is he ill ?'

Worse, much worse than that, Miss
Clare. He is coming home again to Stoke-ville.'


But I thought that Herbert — that is, my
cousin Herbert Newton — had made Gerald
promise that he would remain at least for
some years out of England.'

Clare had not been told of Gerald's attempt
to murder his wife, but she knew
that he had ill-treated her and was in someway
liable to legal punishment, under threat
of which he had been got rid of.

Promise 1' echoed Rachel. ' Heaven
help the man or woman who trusts to
Gerald Lyster's promise ! I feel, for all that
Mr. Newton said to the contrary, that I

shall never be safe from him ; but it was
not on my own account that I have come
here to-day, Miss Clare, but upon yours.
From my husband's letter, though I don't
rightly understand it, I feel sure he means
mischief to you, and, thinking that no time
should be lost in providing against it, and
fearing to trust this to the post, I came upto
you at once.'

^ That was very kind and thoughtful of
you, Rachel,' said Clare, taking the letter
from her hand, 'but Gerald can do me no
mischief that I am aware of.'

Most people would have said ' no more
mischief,' but it was not Clare's way to
admit her own wrongs ; in Rachel's
presence too, who was after all his wife,
she was careful to say nothing against
Gerald. At the same time she was not
one of those weak characters who, in
forgiving an enemy, lose sight of his innate
baseness, and imagine that their pardon
not only condoned the crime but reforms

the criminal. In her heart of hearts she
knew that her father's son was a villain.

Rachel he wrote in his beautiful
clerkly hand, ' you will be surprised to
hear that I am coming back to England.
I had arranged, as you probably heard, to
remain away for some time, but circumstances
alter cases. I have been unfortunate
in my speculations over here, but,
on the other hand, things look brighter forme
at home. My sister Clare will, I
think, now perceive that it will be to her
advantage to remember how near of kin I
am to her. If she does not see this she
had better consult her cousin Herbert, who
has a sharp eye for business. It seems
Sir Peter, after all, had not. If his
creditors knew of something I could tell
them, they would have cause to rub their
hands. I am so plaguy hard up that I
am coming by cargo ship, so that you will
have plenty of time to make things pleasant

for me with Clare, beforehand. I shall
arrive by the Phoenix, at the port of
London, on the loth of September, or
thereabouts, and shall expect to find you
with a good supply of cash. I write to
you instead of to Clare, because you know
me better than she does, and will make her
understand that when I say a thing I mean
it. What I say now is that I intend to
have my rights.

Gerald Lyster.'

What does it all mean, Rachel ?' inquired
the bewildered Clare.

Mischief, Miss Clare ; of that I'm certain.
As for the rest, I know nowt about
it, except that he wants money. His heart
is so set upon that,' she added bitterly,
that he does not even ask, you see, whether
the child, which he knew was coming into
the world, is alive or dead.'

This, then, is the first time you have
heard from him ?' said Clare, scarce knowing

what she said ; a vague sense of peril
had seized hold of her. There was, however,
one to advise her, and on whose
sympathy and judgment she could rely in
any case ; a thing indeed to be thankful
for, and as she looked upon poor Rachel,
who had staked her all and lost it (as she
herself had been so nearly doing), and had
no such loving counsellor to whom to take
her troubles, her heart was filled with pity.

Yes, Miss Clare, it is the first time ; nor
should I have heard from him at all, but
that, as you see, he wants something.
Something that I am to get for him out of
you, and which I never will get for him.
He may kill me if he pleases — that is, he
might, if it were not for the child,' she
added, in a tone half tender, half apologetic
— ' but I will have no hand in hurting
you. Perhaps Mr. Newton, who is so wise
and kind, may know how to advise us.'

Stay,' said Clare, ' that is his knock at
the door.' (Clare knew that now, and

could have recognised his step among ten
thousand.) ' He has come just in time

Heaven bless him !' cried Rachel.
He saved my baby boy.'

One might have thought, in alluding
thus indirectly to Herbert having saved
her own life, Rachel implied that her own,
in its then wretched plight, had not been
worth saving ; but one had only to follow
her eager looks, and mark the hungry love
with which they devoured the child, to understand
that the two were one ; or rather
that the woman's self had died to rise
again and dwell within those narrower
limits. What struck Clare with a sort of
terror — for, not knowing the extremity of
Gerald's guilt, she did not understand that
his intention to return home was a menace
to both wife and child — was that Rachel's
love for her Infant, so far from softening
her towards its father, seemed to increase
her loathing of him.

To Clare, on the brink of marriage, and

associating the name of husband with all
tenderness and trust, such a state of things
was terrible. Indeed, as Miss Darrell
afterwards observed in confidence to her
furred favourite, ' If with the example of
Rachel and Mildred before her Clare
marries at all, it will show she has a deal
more courage than you and I, Fluff.'

'What! Rachel No bad news, I
hope,' were the first words that burst from
Herbert's lips, as he shook hands with
Clare's visitor.

Yes, Mr. Herbert ; my husband is coming
home.'

He had better not,' was the stern
reply.

Rachel put Gerald's letter in his hand,
and whispered, with a shiver, ' He is on his
way already.'

Herbert read it through very carefully,
with knitted brows and lips tightly pressed
together, as Clare had never before seen
them.

What does he mean ?' she faltered.
What does he want of me ?'

What he has always wanted, and what
he shall never get answered Herbert
slowly — * hush-money.'

But, Herbert, I don't understand '

How should you, my darling,' he interrupted
with a faint smile, ' when the matter
in question is extortion, and means perjury ?
Fortunately I have brought with me this
morning the best of counsellors ; Mr. Oldcastle
is in town on business, and I persuaded
him to look in at lunch. He is
now having a tHe-astute with Miss Darrell.
While you finish your talk with Rachel I'll
just run down and have a word with him
about this.'

One moment, Herbert,' interposed Clare
calmly, but with pale face ; ' this letter says,
"■ If Sir Peter's creditors knew of something
that I could tell them, they would have
cause to rub their hands ;" does that mean
my creditors ?'

How can they be your creditors when
you are not in the firm ?'

Yes, but I remember when poor Sir
Peter failed, that some one said It was a
good thing for me, as It had turned out,
that dear papa's money was out of the
business

Undoubtedly it was. If it had been
there it would have been lost ; though It
would have been very hard upon you, since
you would have been the victim of reckless
trading over which you would have had
no control.'

And does not Gerald imply that my
m.onev was in the business, and not out
of it, at the time that the firm failed ? Pray
tell me the truth, Herbert — the whole
truth.'

My dear Clare, to extract truth from
any words of Gerald's is an impossibility.
I confess, however, it strikes me, as It does
you, that he has some scheme in his mind
a fraudulent one we may be sure — to

place you, or rather to make-believe to
place you, in the position you describe

But why fraudulent, why make-believe,
Herbert ? I know you thought the story
Gerald told, and through which I became
disconnected with the firm, untrue ; now
suppose he admits it was untrue.'

'Admits ! What is his admission worth?
or, for that matter, his oath either ? Of
course he must prove it.'

But if he does prove it ? Dear Herbert,
let me know the worst.'

If he does prove it — if judge and jury
could be persuaded to believe a fellow
already, by his own confession, perjured —
then your fortune would become liable for
the debts of the firm.'

In other words, I should thereby be
penniless, Herbert.'

Nay, if you come to paraphrase,' he
answered with a light laugh, * I should
thereby obtain my heart's desire. My only
objection to you is that by comparison with

myself you are an heiress. That is,' he put
in hastily, *' I take it for granted that you
know I am as poor as Job.'

Clare sighed and inclined her head.

'What a lucky thing thought Herbert,
that Miss Darrell has already told her. —
Well he went on, ' so far it would be much
more pleasant and of a piece, as it were, so far
as I am concerned, that we should neither of
us have a fortune ; but for you it would be
by no means so comfortable, and therefore I
am not going to let you part with yours at
this highwayman's "Stand and deliver"'

It was balm to Clare to hear her lover
speak so lover-like and (what is very
different) so truthfully: it was not, as she
well knew, for her money that Herbert had
wooedher; but, on the other hand, she stood
in sore need of balm. The barb of a bitter
disappointment had pierced her heart, and
was rankling there ; she already foresaw in
that vague menace of her half-brother's
the overthrow of her highest hopes. The

VOL. III. 56

promise she had held out to herself of becoming
of material service to her future
husband might now remain for ever unfulfilled;
his bride, in addition to her other
shortcomings, would now come to him
empty-handed. Even the help that she had
had in her mind to guarantee to Mildred it
might be out of her power to bestow. For
the first time she felt it possible that the
estimate in which worldly wealth — or rather
a sufficiency — was held by Nannie, might
not after all be an exaggerated one. At
this moment, at all events, money was
making for her all the difference between
contentment and melancholy. As to Gerald,
he had doubtless no other motive save to
get it, in all he did } He was a highwayman,
as Herbert had said — yes, that was
very true ; and yet, though he had no right
to wdiat he demanded, it might not be the
property of the wayfarer of whom he asked it.
In view of such a possibility, at all events,
she could not chime in with Herbert's last

confident remark ; and, on the other hand,
she shrank from arguing the question. It
was one she felt she ought to look at face
to face alone, and free from external pressure.
' Come, Rachel she said abruptly,
it is high time you took your bonnet off :
I will show you to my room.'

Some apology might have seemed reasonably
due to Rachel for having so long kept
up a conversation in which she had had no
part, but the fact was that that young
woman had herself never ceased talking to
the fourth person present, who on his part
had shown the utmost attention within the
power of staring eyes, closed fists, and an
occasional jerk of both legs, to show.

For the first time in his life, perhaps,
Herbert was not unwilling to escape from
Clare's society ; her apprehensions, since
he had no power to allay them, troubled
him ; her questions he found it difficult to
answer; and, above all, he was alarmed
lest, from tenderness of conscience, she

^6 — 2

might come to some too hasty resolution,
from which (as he knew by experience)
no argument of self-interest would have
force to move her a hair's-breadth.

Below stairs long-headed Mr. Oldcastle
and keen-sighted Miss Darrell were awaiting
him ; and he eagerly desired the
benefit of their counsel under circumstances
grave and menacing enough in any case,
and which might even involve (however
undeserved) both disgrace and ruin.

A BRIEF FRIENDSHIP.

AMONG the many things that turnout
contrary to human expectation
there are few more annoying than the
missing fire of our good intentions ; and
this is specially the case as regards the
subject of them. For as to the object, if
that fails, it is only fortune that is to blame
for it ; we have done our best, and if bookkeeping
is properly attended to in the
celestial regions, have earned a good mark
for ourselves in the angelic record ; it is
when the subject of our goodwill turns
out unsatisfactorily that we feel the shoe
pinch. To Clare Lyster the opportunity

(which at the time she imagined she
possessed) of doing Mildred a good turn
had been honestly welcome. There was,
that is, no afterthought behind it (such as
would have lurked in some female bosoms)
'of heaping coals of fire upon the head of
her rival and enemy ; no gratification in
the fact that the husband Mildred had
filched away from her had proved, after alla
bad bargain. She felt nothing but commiseration
for her old playmate and companion's
lot, and an eager desire to amend
it. The extremity of Mildred's wretchedness
had even invested her in Clare's eyes
with certain attributes which she was far
from possessing. The halo of misfortune
had shed upon her that artificial light in
which the illumed appear innocent, and the
poor deserving. To Clare, Mildred's revelation
of the previous evening had seemed
the outcome of desperation. Life, upon
its present terms, she thought, had become
intolerable to her, and if bitter experience

had not taught her wisdom, it had, at least,
opened her eyes to the worthlessness of
those views of life she had formerly entertained.
In all this she was mistaken.
Mildred was one of those persons (alluded
to by an ancient writer) from whom folly
would never have departed, even though
she had been brayed in a mortar. The
sight of Clare's familiar face in the wide
world of London had roused her in a
moment of passionate impulse to lay bare
her woes ; and what had happened afterwards
had so excited her indignation that
she had felt no regret for having done
so. But with the morning had come repentance.
Circumstances had in no way
altered with her; passionately, madly, as
she had once adored her husband, the time
had gone by for the revival of any illusion
concerning him : even if, for example, he
had given himself the trouble, which he
had not, to explain away to her his conduct
of the previous evening, she would not

have believed him on his oath. But for
all that she felt, as respected Clare, that
she had humiliated herself unnecessarily.

And yet she was not unused to humiliation.
That very morning she had received
a letter, the contents of which to some
minds would have seemed indeed to have
plumbed the very depths of degradation.
She had not shown it to her husband — she
showed him nothing now ; all confidence
was at an end between them — but if she
had done so, it is probable he would have
manifested no annoyance ; his views upon
such matters being philosophic.

Dear Mrs. Fibbert,

I deeply regret to hear the creditors
of your father's firm are likely to gain
possession of the property which, as you
say, he obviously intended to be your
security against any reverse of fortune such
as has unhappily taken place. In case
your apprehensions should be realised I

shall be very willing to guarantee to you
the modest sum per annum you suggest.
My own responsibilities are just now (as
you may guess) considerable, and do not
admit of my assisting you more materially ;
but to the allowance in question you are
very welcome. With respect to the advisability
of your taking up your quarters with
the Burtonss or elsewhere, that is a matter
upon which I must be excused from offering
an opinion.

Yours truly,

Frank Farrer.'

After her husband's departure that
morning Mildred sat with this letter before
her for a longer time than perhaps she had
ever before given to serious reflection.
She was not ignorant that the acceptance
of her late lover's offer (which, however, as
we have seen, she had herself invited)
would be equivalent to separation from her
husband. If she became Frank Farrer's

FOR CASH ONLY.

pensioner it was clear she would, so far as
Percy was concerned, have burnt her boats.
But however suspicious matters might
look — and the more suspicious they looked
the better, since the more they would annoy
her husband — Mildred had no design
against his honour.

She was a woman (of whom there are
many) almost as free from vice as from
virtue, not only the victim but the slave of
circumstances. Under favourable conditions
she might have been (as Miss Darrell
had once suggested) a professional beauty,
and under unfavourable ones she might have
been worse — much worse. But she had no
inherent vice. She had written to Frank
Farrer, first, because he was the only person
sheknewinapositiontoafford her assistance ;
and secondly, because her study of social
butterflies and the like had led her to
believe that a man in his position would be
eager to give it. Fortunately for her, the
motive that influenced him was a more

generous one than would have actuated
most gentlemen of fashion.

He was very willing to shield from want
the woman on whom (under whatever misapprehensions
of her character) he had
once bestowed his love, but he meditated
no revenge upon the man who had robbed
him of her. As for herself, he now cared
for her no more than for some beautiful
and historical personage, such as Mary
Queen of Scots, whom time and chance
had removed from his own horizon
altogether. And of this Mildred was only
too well aware. In her letter to the young
man she had adverted — indirectly indeed,
but still too significantly to have escaped
his attention — to the relations that had once
existed between them ; but his reply struck
no answering note. Its coldness, indeed,
filled her with bitterness. ' My own
responsibilities, as you may guess, are just
now considerable,' was an allusion to his
marriage with a young lady in the neighbourhood,

of the preparation for which she
had heard from the Burtonss, who kept up
their connection with Stokeville for business
reasons. It was wormwood to her that
this man, for whom she had never cared
and whom she had so shamefully jilted,
should have dared to write of his engagement
as a matter of course, without a word
of apology or tender regret. But her indignation
by no means prompted her to
cast his generous offer in his teeth. On
the contrary, she was all the more resolved
to hold him to it and spoil the Egyptian.
With the income she had asked of him,
which, notwithstanding he had called it
modest,' was by no means contemptible,
she would be enabled to live at the Burtonss'
in some degree of comfort, even if she
failed to receive any allowance from her
husband. Whatever she might extract
from the bounty of Clare Lyster would be
so much over and above what was absolutely
necessary, but not less welcome upon

that account. And In this case too, she
felt she would be spoillnor an Egyptian.
For, however the manner of her old
acquaintance might have seemed to protest
the contrary, Mildred on reflection was
convinced that she had not been altogether
displeased at the troubles that had overtaken
her successful rival. It was not inhuman
nature (so she reasoned, because it
was not in her nature) that a girl in Clare's
position could have forgiven her trespass
against her at the mere spectacle of her
misfortune. No doubt it had been a secret
satisfaction to Clare to have been able to
promise her assistance, whether in the way
of help to escape from the man she had
schemed to win from her, or as a mere act
of charity. And in Clare's case, as in
Frank's, she was resolved to secure it
without thankfulness and free from all
sense of obligation.

A little before the hour agreed upon she
accordingly called in Bellingham Park.

She was shown up to the drawing-room,
whither Clare at once came down to meet
her with grave face. She was sorrowful
as ever upon Mildred's account, and pained
upon her own, since the pleasure she had
promised to herself of assisting her might
now lie out of her power. The two
women embraced affectionately, the one
because her feeling prompted her to do
so, the other because her interest suggested
it, and simulation (when passion
had not the upper hand) was easy to
her.

Dear Mildred, are things any better
with you ?' asked Clare gently.

Better with me } how should they be
better with me ?' was the reply, in a tone
the bitterness of which hardly concealed
its impatience.

The mood of the previous night was
over ; she resented the other's compassion
now, and was in no humour for her sympathy.
If it had been possible she would

have taken Clare's money In her hand and
left her without a word.

Poor Clare, who was not herself of a
variable mind, was unable to understand
this change of front.

I thought — that Is I hoped,' she faltered
* that you and your husband might have
come to some sort cf explanation. Oh,
Mildred, I have been thinking so much
about you ! I do trust that you will do
nothing hastily, without counting the cost.'

The cost is just what I have to consider,
and nothing else,' returned Mildred
bitterly. ' My one desire is to get away
from this man, who, on the other hand,
has no wish to retain me. You have heard
of a marriage de convenance. Well, what I
am about to effect is a separation de convenience.
The only difficulty is the de quod

The scoffing tone of this speech, the
French phrases with which it was interlarded,
and the manner of her companion,
filled Clare with a horror that seemed to

FOR CASH ONLY.

freeze her powers of speech. Unconscious
of the impression she was creating, and
suspicious of the others silence, it was
with some acidity that Mildred continued :

You were good enough to say you
would do your best to help me in this
matter, Clare. You have not altered your
mind, have you, since last night ?'

I have not altered my mind, Mildred,
and I will do my best to help you,' returned
Clare slowly; 'but '

She hesitated, not knowing how much it
was wise to tell concerning Gerald's letter,
and Mildred struck in, contemptuously :

But you were going to say, I suppose,
that you have consulted your friend the
schoolmistress in the meantime, and she has
advised prudence, or the young gentleman
from the railway works has given the signal
for caution.'

Oh, Mildred ! Mildred ! how can you be
so cruel, so unjust 1' cried Clare. 'It is
quite true I spoke about you both to Herbert

and Miss Darrell, but neither of them
are, as you think, your enemies. I will
help you all I can, I will indeed. My
desire to do so Is, heaven knows, as strong
as ever. But since last night a great misfortune
has happened, or rather I should
say threatens to happen me. If it passes
away I will help you to the uttermost of
my power ; if it does not pass away I shall
be powerless to help even myself, for I
shall lose every farthing I possess.'

It was impossible to disbelieve Clare as
she spoke those words. Even the habitual
liar, to whom the very aspect of truth from
within has been forgotten, can recognise
it — from without — in another.

Dear, dear ! that is very unfortunate,'
said Mildred.

Her tone was full of sincere regret, for
she was thinking of the matter as it affected
herself and not her companion ; indeed, so
intense was her egotism that fortunately for
Clare she had not the curiosity to inquire

VOL. III. i^

how the peril to the other's fortunes had been
brought about ; or perhaps, being ' Stoke-ville
born,' the sudden change from competence
to poverty did not strike her as
being particularly abnormal, or to be
wondered at.

Most unfortunate,' continued Mildred,
wondering within herself whether Mr.
Farrer's allowance could be made to 'do
supplemented from Clare's purse, ' and
most inopportune. I can see you are
really sorry that you cant help me,' she
added graciously; ' on the other hand, it is a
great disappointment.'

It is to nne, I assure you, dear Mildred.
For myself I may truly say I trust it Is
only a pleasure deferred. There is the
luncheon-bell — bad as my news is, I hope it
has not spoilt your appetite.'

I don't think I'll lunch with you today,
my dear,' said Mildred, who had not
relished the idea of the society of ' the old
schoolmistress,' as she called her, from the

first, and had only persuaded herself to
submit to it on the ground, no longer existing,
that it was worth her while.

'Oh, Mildred, but I hope you will,'
pleaded Clare ; * for we quite expected you,
you know, and Miss Darrell has been at
such pains to provide what I told her you
used to like. As it happens, too, there are
some of your old Stokeville friends here —
Herbert and Mr. Oldcastle — and there's
poor Rachel, too '

What ? You surely don't mean Rachel
Warder ?' exclaimed Mildred contemptuously.


Yes ; there is nothing against her,
poor thing, that I am aware of.'

Nothing against her ! Why, she was a
mill-hand, was she not ?'

What if she was V

Clare's grey eyes seemed to flash fire as
she asked that question. Had not her
own father married a mill-hand, and did
not this woman know it ? Nay, had not

57—2

Sir Peter himself been years ago a mill-hand,
or something like it ? Yet here was
his daughter, a mere feather-head, in
whom, except for her misfortunes, it was
difficult to feel any human interest, speaking
of mill-hands with the scorn of a stage
duchess.

Mildred's pride was of the most back-hopeless
description, a mere social conceit,
born of the fashionable novels which form
the literary pabulum of such young ladies,
but it was very easily aroused, especially,
as in this case, when she wanted an excuse
for a quarrel.

Well, I don't like mill-hands,' she
answered insolently. ' At all events, I am
not going to sit down at the same table
with Rachel Warden'

She is not Rachel Warder. She is my
half-brother's wife.'

To be sure. I had forgotten she had
made such a fool of him as that. No, I
don't think I care to enlarge my circle of

acquaintance in that direction, thank
you.'

Clare being a true gentlewoman did not
forget that Mildred was her guest, and
only answered, coldly enough indeed, but
without the least sign of temper :

As you please, Mildred.'

Whereupon that young lady gathered up
her train, and hitching it through her arm
(exactly as the devil carries his tail in the
old pictures), put up her painted cheek to
Clare's pure lips, and with an aic 7'evoh',
and a false smile, took her leave.

FOREBODING.

THE council of three below-stairs had
meanwhile met in high debate.
Gerald's letter was read and re-read, and
passed from one to the other like some,
bomb-shell dug up by peaceful f^xcavators,
who do not know if it is loaded or not. Had
Gerald really the power to hurt his sister,
and if so, in what way ? was of course the
question under discussion. What his words
seemed to point to — vague in all but their
deep significance of menace — was a retractation
of his previous story about the clock,
which, if disproved, would replace Clare in
the position she occupied before he told it.

i.e., as a partner in the firm of Fibbert and
Lyster for the current year, and answerable
for all their debts. It could not, however,
place her affairs in statu quo, since twenty
thousand pounds of hers had been already
disbursed in settling the claims of her
father's estate ; any such retractation would
therefore involve incalculable complications
out of which would come only one thi ng
certain ruin. It was true, as Herbert had
put it to her, no judge or jury would be
likely to believe Gerald affirming upon oath
the falsehood of his own previous statement
; but suppose Clare should believe
him ! In that case they felt she would be
obstinately resolute to make restitution,
even to the uttermost farthing of her means.
to those she had never wronged. On the
other hand, it was quite possible that
Gerald had hit upon some scheme of extortion,
of which they could predicate
nothing, save that it would be fraudulent
and malicious.

If he did not fancy Clare was under his
thumb in some way,' observed Mr. Oldcastle
thoughtfully, and after much discussion,
' he would not have sent Rachel to her
in the first place, or showed his hand so
plainly.'

But what an obstinate fool he must be,'
struck in Miss Darrell, 'to expect to get
anything out of Clare in the way of hush-money
— as a bribe for concealing something
which duty bids her disclose — after the experience
of her on the last occasion. He
must be a downright pig and mule.'

It seemed to give the good lady great
content to have found these new names for
Gerald : she had already exhausted the
ordinary language of invective, such as perjurer,
villain, and the like ; but her indignation
remained at the same white heat as
ever.

I suppose mused Herbert, ' he could
be taken up on the charge of having attempted
Rachel's life, just as though the

offence had been committed yesterday
r'

No doubt,' assented Mr. Oldcastle.

Then he trusts, as before, that our desire
to spare the family disgrace will leave
him harmless, as well as free to treat his
unhappy wife exactly as he pleases,' observed
Herbert. ' Upon my life he will find
himself mistaken! It seems to me there is
nothing left to us but, having our foot upon
this reptile once again, to stamp him out.'

It is probable, my dear Herbert, that
he already credits us with that intention,*
remarked Mr. Oldcastle coolly. ' What he
says to himself is, " These people" (meaning
his friends and relations) " having so strong
an interest in putting me in prison, will not
now dare to do so ; any criminal proceedings
taken against me — especially after so
considerable an interval — will look uncommonly
bad for them in case of any civil
action being instituted against them in
which I am the chief and only witness." '

Nevertheless, as I am a witness also of
his endeavour to drown his wife, I shall
meet him at Southampton with a warrant
observed Herbert firmly.

Perhaps his wife will not prosecute,'
suggested the lawyer. ' As a rule, wives
don't think much of a husband's first attempt
to murder them.'

Rachel will prosecute,' returned Herbert
confidently. ' She has her child to
protect as well as herself.'

'Think of Clare,' said Mr. Oldcastle
gently.

To do poor Herbert justice, he was
thinking of nobody else, and bad indeed,
he felt, was the best he could do for her.
What the lawyer was saying to him in
other words, he well knew, was, * Do you
think Clare could survive the trial of her
father's son for an attempt to murder?'

We must let things take their course,'
continued Mr. Oldcastle, after a long pause,
^ and act as seems best when the occasion

arrives. We cannot provide against a peril
the nature of which is unknown to us; the
very precautions we may take may make
things worse. My advice is to let matters
run their course for the present.'

Oh dear, oh dear !' sobbed the little old
lady, fairly breaking down for the first
time, ' what a blow this is to everything !
It was only yesterday that Clare and I
were planning to go to the Isle of Wight,
where Herbert was to come down to us ;
and then, after a few weeks, he would have
made my darling the happiest woman in
the world ; but now, but now '

Take her to the Isle of Wight all the
same. Miss Darrell. Let everything go on
as before until we see some definite object
to grapple with. Come, come, you must
not give way,' continued the lawyer encouragingly.
' If you had had as much todo
with scoundrels as I have, you would
be of better cheer. The advantage they
have over honest folks in some respects is

often more than counterbalanced by their
short-sighted recklessness ; one false step
and down they come.'

But they drag others with them
moaned the old lady. ' Whether Gerald is
successful or unsuccessful in his villainy,
Clare suffers in either case

It may be so, but it also may not be so.
Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof.
Take her down to the Isle of Wight, I say,
and leave Herbert and me to deal with this
gentleman when the time arrives.'

At this moment Clare and Rachel made
their appearance. In the latter's presence
it was felt by all, notwithstanding that her
sympathies were with them, that the subject
under discussion could be pursued no
further. Miss Darrell welcomed Mrs.
Gerald Lyster with a cordiality that at
once set her at her ease. She had not been
very favourably disposed towards that
young woman, but her promptness incoming
to town to warn Clare of her

danger had touched the old lady ; the conviction
too that she must wish Gerald hung
at least as sincerely as she (Miss Darrell)
did. tended doubtless to Increase her goodwill.


So occupied had been her mind with
Clare's affairs, that not till her eye met the
vacant place at the luncheon-table did the
hostess remember that another guest should
have been present.

Why, dear me ! where Is Mrs. Fibbert ?'

Clare offered some explanation, which,
though of course it was accepted, did
not tend to decrease the embarrassment
of the little party, who were all thinking
upon a subject on which they were tongue-tied.


They had hardly sat down before there
was a double knock at the front door,
which electrified poor Miss Darrell, made
Clare turn pale, and caused Rachel to rise
from her chair with clasped hands, as
though an ogre had called for her baby.

It Struck all three women that the new-arrival
was Gerald himself. It was not,
indeed, the tenth of September, nor anything
near It, but happy are they who have
never feared the impossible ; moreover, as
Miss Darrell afterwards pleaded, * Would it
not have been just like him to give a false
date ?'

If It had been Gerald he could hardly
have been less expected than the visitor in
question, who turned out to be no other
than Mr. Augustus Rode.

Oh, if they are just sitting down to
luncheon, my good girl,' they heard him
say to the parlour-maid In the passage,
with even more than his usual suavity,
I'll walk in ;' and he did so.

He had held no communication with his
niece, nor any of her friends, since she had
abdicated her position in the firm. To
give up money, he said, was almost under
any circumstances an act of madness ; but
to give way to extortion was a crime, and

he could not consent to associate with
criminals. It was not, then, to be hoped
for that he would ever again give his
countenance to Clare and her guilty crew.
Yet here he was wreathed in his immortelle
of a smile, and beaming on them in the
most patronising manner through his gold
eyeglass.

At first Miss Darrell was inclined to be
'put out,' but her fine sense of humour
came to her rescue. The idea of this
artificial creature looking in at such a time
of general perplexity and embarrassment
struck her as exquisitely ridiculous ; at the
same moment she caught a responsive
twinkle in Herbert's eyes, which informed
her that he too appreciated the situation.

Now I call this charming, perfectly
charming,' observed Mr. Rodenn, kissing
his hand to the company by way of general
salutation. ' Here is not only my dear
old friend, Miss What's-her-name, whom I
expected to see, but also my excellent

friend Newcastle. As to dearest Clare
and Herbert, I rather thought where one
was to be found, the other would not be far
off; that In their case I should kill two
birds with one stone — shall I say he
added in a sly whisper, * love-birds ?'

My dear sir, do pray take a seat exclaimed
Miss Darrell ; 'there is a vacant
one.'

So I perceive said Mr. Rodenn with
dignity ; he could not understand how
anybody could possibly wish to cut short
his elaborate observations, and it must
be confessed that Miss Darrell's impatience
was rather marked. ' There is one young
lady present he continued with gentle
gravity, ^ whose face I recognise (as who
could fail to do so who had once seen it }),
but whose name I fail to recall.'

Poor Rachel blushed crimson; her position
had hitherto been far from comfortable,
but to have public attention called to her
in this way was to the last degree disconcerting.

She did not know, of course,
that Mr. Rodenn had had his attention
drawn to her when working at the mill, nor
indeed had she the slightest notion as to
who he was.

'That is Mrs. Gerald Lyster,' explained
Miss Darrell blandly.

To be sure, dear Gerald's wife. Where
it is that I have seen you, madam, has
escaped my memory, but I am glad indeed
of this opportunity of making your acquaintance
; your husband is still abroad, I believe
?'

'Yes, he is still abroad, sir.'

He must find attractions there indeed,
to keep him from home.' said Mr. Rodenn
with a france round the table as he sat
down, to call the general attention to his
pretty compliment. ' He is staying somewhere
on the Continent, no doubt ; the
sunny plains of France, the vines of Italy,
or (less known but equally attractive) the
ancient splendours of Spain are perhaps

VOL. III. 58

the excuse for his absence ; for my part, I
never feel so much at home (if I may say
so without an Irish bull, or, more elegantly,
an Libertinism) as when I am abroad.
What an excellent galantine, my dear Miss
Darrell !'

He had had no conception that Bellingham
Park could turn out such a galantine
and put such a meal upon the table as he
saw now spread before him ; and he began
to regret that he had not effected his reconciliation
earlier. The reason of the
revival of his patronage was certain reports
he had heard to Herbert Newton's advantage.
He had met out at dinner the chairman
of the Coalborough Railway Company,
who had spoken In the highest terms of the
young man ; and as ' the breath of kings Is
like the breath of gods,' so the breath even
of a railway king goes a good way with
some people. Mr. Rodenn felt that It was
a cruel thing to harden his heart against
his own flesh and blood (even though she

had acted contrary to his advice) when she
was on the point of being married, as the
chairman had told him, to, perhaps, the
most promising young engineer in England.
With that ten thousand pounds of his own,
and his royalties, and his salary, he would
be in a position to give very good dinners,
especially if his wife could obtain the advice
of this excellent Miss Darrell as to cooking.
What a galantine, and what a trifle, and
what admirable anchovies upon toast! He
had had a cold for several days, which had
deprived him of taste, and he felt that this
sense had been most mercifully restored to
him in the very nick of time.

You may call this luncheon, my dear
Miss Darrell,' he said, in a burst of
enthusiasm evoked by certain cheese-straws
of exquisite make, ' but I call it a
banquet.'

And indeed the meal, to provide which
the hostess had made some effort with a
view to the entertainment of Mildred, had

been far superior to most so-called banquets.


Strange as it may seem, Mr. Augustus
Rodenn's presence that afternoon (which,
moreover, did not endure for long ; for he
very judiciously took his departure, cigarette
in mouth, immediately after his meal)
was felt as a relief rather than otherwise.
The listening to his honeyed speeches,
which resembled those of a judge whose
salary depended upon the suffrages of his
jury, absolved the little party from talking
among themselves ; and it was felt by all
that silence was far preferable to talk as
regarded the subject they had in their
minds. As for Miss Darrell, it was not
till Rachel and her child had been despatched
to Stokeville, and Herbert and
Mr. Oldcastle had departed arm in arm
together to the former's lodgings (thereto
discuss the dangers of the future), that
she began to draw her natural breath.

Oh, my darling, what a morning this

has been !' she cried, throwing her arms
around Clare's neck. ' To think that you
should have had to *' do the civil" — a vulgar
phrase, I own, but nothing else adequately
expresses it — to Mildred and Mr. Rodenn
all these hours with a heart so heavy with
woe. But Mr. Oldcastle says we are not
to despair, but to look on the bright side
of things ; to go down to Niton just as we
proposed, and to enjoy ourselves as if
nothing had happened.'

I don't despair, Nannie,' answered
Clare gently. ' I should be ungrateful,
indeed, to despair when Herbert has behaved
so — oh, so nobly, and loves me
so !' Here she broke down a little, for
certain words of her lover at parting had
melted her tender heart. ' But of course
it's a great disappointment to me, though
not, the dear fellow says, to him, that I
shall come to him without a penny.'

Why should you be without a penny ?'
inquired Miss Darrell sharply.

Well, supposing Gerald comes to unsay
all he has said before, I shall of course give
up the money. That will be but justice.'
^ Indeed ! Then why did you give it up
in the first instance ?'

Because, supposing Gerald's account to
have been a correct one, the law demanded
it.'

Oh ! then you wish to satisfy justice
and law both, do you ? That is what I
call serving God and Mammon. Now,
just consider what this comes to when
carried out to its logical end. In obeying
the law, as you call it, you gave up what
seemed to be a most profitable investment;
and out of the money thus realised, very
properly paid your father's debts. But in
now obeying the dictates of justice, as you
call it, and offering what remains to you
to the credit of the firm, you forget that
you owe them twice or thrice as much :
the rest has been spent in paying those
same debts.'

I see,' sighed Clare ; ' it was very
foolish of me not to see it before. I
am not only a debtor but a bankrupt.'

I did not tell you that, my darling, you
may be assured, in order to cast you down,'
said Miss Darrell earnestly. ' I lay the
plain facts of the case before you simply to
show that mere sentiment cannot shape
them into smoothness. Even if you give
up your all without a struggle at the
summons of this perjured scoundrel — for,
of course, we shall dare him to do his
worst — you will have still not paid your
debts, nor anything like it.'

I shall have paid all I can of them,
Nannie; more than that is out of my
power, less than that I hope you do not
expect of me.'

There is one thing I don't expect of
you, Clare — and that is one pennyworth
of common sense. If all honest people
were like you, the world would be the
prey of knaves and scoundrels. Upon my

word, you seem to me to court extortion !
May I ask have you already given instructions
to Mr. Oldcastle to sell out your
little fortune, and to pay it over to the
creditors of the firm as an instalment —
only as an instalment, mind — or are you
going to wait till they make a formal
application for it, per Mr. Gerald Lyster ?'
^ Don't be angry with me, Nannie,'
pleaded Clare gently. * One can only act,
you know, according to one's lights. I
have done nothing, and mean to do
nothing, till I know what is my real
position. It is quite possible, as Herbert
says, that we may all be wrong in this
hypothesis of ours. Gerald may have
some other scheme which will break down
on examination. It is no use making
ourselves miserable beforehand ; and, indeed,
I am very far from miserable. I
should be almost happy, Nannie,' she
added slily, 'if you didn't look quite so
cross.*

'Should you really!' exclaimed the old
lady naively. * Well, I am only cross upon
your account, my darling. It makes me
mad to see you so submissive ; not one
syllable have you uttered yet against this
villain who, not content with ruining your
fortunes once, now threatens to do so a
second time.'

'After all, Nannie, he is my father's son.'

Then say something, for goodness
gracious sake, against Sir Peter, against
Percy, against Mildred ! do, just for once,
show yourself somebody's enemy but your
OAvn.'

I have too many friends to think of my
enemies,' answered Clare, laughing, and
beginning to count on her fingers. 'There's
Herbert and you, Nannie ; Rachel, Mr.
Oldcastle, Dr. Dickson — come, there's a
smile at last.'

My darling, I should always smile,' said
Miss Darrell, tenderly, ' if I could sq you
smile. Now we will make a treaty. I, on

my part, will cease to reproach you for your
quixotic notions, if you, on yours, will promise
to put Gerald and all his wicked works
for the next week out of your head. Let
us go down to the Fair Island the day after
to-morrow as we promised ourselves to do
before these evil tidings reached us, with a
determination to enjoy ourselves, and to
make dear Herbert's well-earned holiday a
pleasant one. Unless your face is bright
remember there will be no sunshine for
him.'

So, smiling through her tears, Clare gave
the required promise; and, so far as in her
lay, she kept it on her journey to the 'Fair
Island,' and afterwards. Only, notwithstanding
her sweet cheerful looks (as the
fair lily roots in the river mud), lay deep
down in her heart despondency and darkling
fears ; if what she dreamed should
really come to pass, her path in life that
had seemed so fair with flowers would be
choked with mud indeed.

I am not only then a debtor, but a
bankrupt,' was the self-made reflection that
was continually recurring to her.

Her lover, it is true, was as willing to
take her even thus, as though she had
been an heiress ; but her pride, though it
did not say him ' nay,' was wounded to
the quick, and revolted as it were against
herself.

If Miss Darrell could have looked into
her young friend's heart and beheld this
root of bitterness, her views as to the
advantages of a competency, well assured,
would have received corroboration indeed.
Even as it was, she guessed the truth in
part, and discoursed of it to her confidential
friend in private.

These people, Fluff, called men and
women, who pique themselves on their
philosophy and affect to despise the ills of
poverty, have not one half your sense and
truthfulness. As for you, when you miss
your dinner, you make no pretence of

thinking abstinence good for you, but are
sometimes — yes, you are, you pretty puss
even just a wee bit cross. But to listen to
these fools, one would think that want made
folks genial and good-tempered instead of
sour and envious, and that debt braces the
mind instead of fretting it to fiddle-strings;
when I hear such rubbish talked, I almost
wish I were not a lady, and could swear
like you, Fluff, to relieve my feelings.'

THE LOSS OF THE ' Phoenix.'

WHEN Gerald Lyster wrote, ' I am
coming by cargo ship,' he meant
to say that he would not make the voyage
by an ordinary passenger steamer, and
doubtless intended to imply that it was a
very hard case that the state of his income
would not permit him to patronise the
Cunard, Inman, or White Star Line for
Liverpool. The Phoenix, though mainly
designed for goods, conveyed passengers
of a humble rank from the new world to
the old, or vice versa, at small expense, and
regardless of speed or punctuality. She
vas slow, but those who were in the best

position to judge of her deficiencies would
hardly have added (except upon oath, with
a view to the insurance), ' and sure.' Her
machinery, which was old, had a habit of
breaking down in mid-ocean ; her crew,
which was new (for very few sailors could
be got to enter twice upon her books), were
ignorant and insubordinate, and she looked
as if she had been sunk and brought up
again — an incident which had actually
happened to her in, unfortunately, shallow
waters.

Gerald Lyster, however, was not in a
position to be critical even if he had been
a judge of ships, and took his passage onboard
the Phoenix full of heart and hope.
It is true he had but a very few dollars in
his pocket over and above what would
bring him home, but he flattered himself
lie knew where sovereigns were to be
found. He had landed at New York
but a few months ago in quite a prosperous
condition ; that is to say, with a

well-filled purse, and prepared, free from
all encumbrances such as wife and child,
to beo^in the world anew. But while looking
about for an Investment, he had been
persuaded, without much pressing, to take
a hand or two with some choice spirits
at a game called ' poker,' with the most
unfortunate results. To such straits indeed
had he been reduced by ill-luck,
and an extra ace or two among his companions,
that there is no knowing to what
temptation he might have been exposed,
or whether In the end he might not have
been driven to downright dishonest courses
for his livelihood, but for news of the failure
of Fibbert and Lyster, which chanced to
meet his eye in a New York newspaper of
ancient date. Succinct and bald as was
the style in which the statement was conveyed,
It is not too much to say that It
affected him more than the most touching
poem or divinest melody had ever done
or could do. It awoke within him all the

associations of home, and filled him with
penitence and such a thirst to make amends
for his wrongdoing as was not to be assuaged
till he had gratified It — or received
some adequate compensation.

It Is betraying no confidence at this
time of day to acknowledge that Gerald's
story of his having seen his father put the
clock on was a pure Invention. Originally
the work of Mr. Percy Filbert's Imagination,
Gerald had adopted It as his own on
condition of receiving from that gentleman
a certain cheque which laboured under the
Imputation of being a forgery, and ten good
hundred-pound notes, two of which, however,
had been confiscated, as we have seen,
for his wife's maintenance. Sensitively as
Gerald felt his obligations all round, the
remembrance of how he had been compelled
by Herbert to disgorge that sum, for the
benefit of so uninteresting a subject as a
wife of whom one had got tired, weighed
most with him, and filled him with the

keenest yearning to see justice done. He
disliked Clare exceedingly, but his present
exultation at finding her at his mercy was
immensely heightened by his knowledge of
Herbert's love for her, and the conviction
that in putting the screw on, as he termed
the putting his intentions towards her
into effect, he would squeeze his thumbs
as well as hers with every turn of it. As
to Percy, Gerald had no more love for
him than before, but he had now no fear
of him, and it was possible that he might
be of use to him. If hush-money could
not be got out of Clare, he might sell himself,
perhaps, to Percy, instead of to the
creditors of the firm, a course of conduct
that would have one distinct advantage.
There would be no difficulty in that case in
explaining what would be rather a delicate
matter to divulge to outsiders. But as to
these details, he intended to be guided by
circumstances. The trump card he had
to play was the threat of retracting upon
VOL. III. 59

oath his former story, the effect of which
would be to reinstate his half-sister as a
partner in the firm, and make her liable
for its losses. At present — which was a
most poignant reflection — he had absolutely
done her a good turn instead of a
bad one. Honour and justice (not to
mention self-interest and revenge) with
one voice exclaimed that such a state of
things must be remedied. Were the confiding
creditors of a reckless and speculative
firm to be deprived of twenty
thousand pounds of its assets through the
want of testimony ? No, a thousand
times no — unless he should receive some
proportionate sum of money for withholding
it.

On the other hand, he was not afraid of
any consequences to himself Mr. Oldcastle
had guessed his thoughts accurately
when he said that what would strike Gerald
as ensuring his safety from a criminal prosecution
for the attempt upon his wife, was

the fact that it must seem to be instituted
by those who had an interest in keeping
his mouth shut.

Upon the whole, it will be seen that his
plans and motives had been predicated
pretty correctly. Herbert even understood
that the reflection that he would now have
Rachel at his mercy, to make her as
miserable as she deserved to be, added a
piquancy to Gerald's expectations ; it was
this knowledge, perhaps, more than anything
else (though it was no business of his,
and therefore to Gerald himself would have
seemed inexplicable) that set Herbert
most resolutely against him. He had persuaded
Miss Darrell to offer Rachel, for
the present, an asylum under her own roof
at Niton ; and she and her child were now
residing there with Clare and Herbert
himself, waiting for the first move of the
enemy.

It must not be supposed, though he had
some defects, that i\Ir. Gerald Lyster was

59-2

without his personal friends. He had
made acquaintance on board the Phoenix
with Mr. John Bute, the second mate,
which, under the genial influence of rum
and water, had ripened into intimacy. Mr.
Bute in his early years had lived at Stoke-ville,
and might have lived there still but
for a rather serious disagreement with one
of Squire Farrer's myrmidons with respect
to poaching, which (though he got much
the better of him at the time, and indeed
left him for dead) compelled him to fly the
place, and eventually his native land. Since
then he had followed the marine profession,
and, quite as much from his recklessness
and daring as from his scientific proficiency,
had attained his present position. The
name of Lyster was of course familiar to
him, and the information, derived from
Gerald himself, that that gentleman was
returning home to claim a large amount of
personal property, at present unjustly withheld
from him, but for the establishment of

his rights to which he had ample proofs, gave
him a strong interest in his young friend.
Gerald, too, perceived the advantage of
having a bold fellow who would stick at
nothing as his confederate in future proceedings,
so that their friendship was soon
cemented. After a certain amount of grog
consumed in Mr. Bute's hospitable cabin,
Gerald would even wring his hand, and
with tears in his eyes would protest that
when he came to have his own again, the
other should never be in want of a liver.

With the exception, however, of this
sentimental attachment, Mr. Lyster was
not a favourite on board the Phoenix. His
attentions (after one of the symposiums
above alluded to) to one of the female
passengers had been so far misconstrued
as to cause her brother to kick him down
the hatchway : a most unjust as well as
hasty proceeding, since (as Gerald bitterly
complained to his only friend), for all the
violent brute could have known to the contrary,

he was a single man, and might have
entertained the most honourable intentions.
The captain, too, in consequence
of some venial mistake of Gerald's in appropriating
a sick man's rations as well as
his own, had taken an unreasonable prejudice
against him and stigmatised him as
^ a mean hound ' in public ; and with that
miserable tendency to follow in the wake of
an important personage, Which belongs to
human nature afloat as well as ashore, both
passengers and crew were inclined to endorse
this statement.

Even if he had not been the ^ boss' of
the ship, Captain Ragge would have been
a man of mark there or anywhere else.
He had considerable insight into character,
was of dauntless courage, and could effect
wonders with what seemed very insufficient
materials. But for this last attribute — and
indeed, perhaps, but for the two last — he
could never have sailed the Phoenix, as he
had done, six times across the Atlantic

and back. Besides himself, the second
mate was the only officer who had served
in her before, and who knew her defects.
She was not, indeed, a coffin-ship ; her
owners had no intention of having her
cast away and scuttled (though if such a
misfortune should have occurred, there
were circumstances in connection with an
institution known as ' Lloyd's' which would
have mitigated their grief), but she was
ill-found, badly manned, and creaky. Why
so able a seaman as Captain Ragge stuck
to such a craft was a matter of astonishment
to those who did not know what he
vias paid for it : he was one of those men
to whom great risks, if even they are not
absolutely attractive, weigh very little in
comparison with great gains paid in ready
money. But for all that, the captain was
always well pleased to sight land on either
side of the Atlantic, and to feel that for that
voyage at least the Phoenix had escaped
from Davy's locker.

On the present occasion she had come
across with fair winds and made an unusually
quick passage, until off the south coast of
England she was overtaken by a south-wester.
They had no pilot on board as
yet — it was not the habit of the Phoenix
to signal for pilots until she stood in
actual need of them — but even when
black night came on, and the gale increased
to something like a hurricane,
and the old Phoenix groaned and creaked
and sped before the wind, refusing to
answer her helm. Captain Ragge knew
very well where he was going. He knew,
for example, that she was going ashore
somewhere on the Isle of Wight. * It is
that infernal No. 13,' he said to himself,
thinking of her past voyages, ' that will
prove the unlucky one.' His private impression
was that this time he would not
indulge in that ' big; drink' which was the
first enjoyment he always afforded himself
on the other side ; for, though he never

touched a dram on board ship, Captain
Ragge on land was an habitual drunkard.

His conviction of what was about to
happen, however, in no way interfered with
the performance of his professional duties.
He gave his orders upon the wave-swept
deck, above the roar of wind and sea, as
coolly as though his ship was being warped
into St. Catherine's docks. There was
just light enough to show the land, though
not distinctly ; it looked like a high cloud
with filmy breaks and ridges, and the
white-lipped waters round about the bows
of the ship told of unseen dangers. Suddenly
there was a frightful crash which
shook the Phoenix from stem to stern, and
then another and another. She had struck
twice upon a reef, and broken, not indeed
her back, but what to a steam-ship is her
backbone, the main-shaft.

The engine, however, would have been
useless in any case, for the waves, pouring
in through many a rift and seam, soon put

the fires out To add to the horrors of
the moment, the stays of the ponderous
chimney had given way and, after swaying
twice or thrice Hke a drunken man, It fell
obliquely across the poop and starboard-quarter,
carrying away a great portion of
the bulwarks. Had not the ship been
elevated by the reef itself, the waves would
have overwhelmed her there and then ; but,
as it was, her destruction was delayed, or
rather prolonged, a little. * Lower the
long-boat for the women !' rang out the
captain's voice through his trumpet, and
an attempt to obey his order was gallantly
made. The captain himself superintended
operations, holding fast to the rigging with
one hand, and with a revolver in the other.
This last circumstance, notwithstanding
many other distracting Incidents, did not
escape the notice of Mr. Gerald Lyster,
who resented it exceedingly. That the
long-boat should be lowered for the
passengers, for whose safety the captain

was presumably responsible, was only an
act of duty on his part, and one which had
Gerald's warmest approval. But that
politeness to females — a mere conventional
caprice at best — should be adhered to in
such a moment of peril, and when the
devil take the hindmost' was the only
adage that could, be suitably applied to the
position of affairs, struck him as most
ridiculous and disgusting. The crew, of
course, where bound to stick to their vessel,
with the exception of those hands who
were necessary for the navigation of the
boats ; but surely a young gentleman with
great expectations, like himself, was not to
be left out of the first boat-load for the
sake of a parcel of women.

Notwithstanding the lurching of the
deck and the floods of water that traversed
it, Gerald felt he could have got into
that long-boat somehow, and without two
sailors to help him, as was the case with
each drenched and tottering female — a circumstance,

moreover, which wasted precious
time, and placed one invaluable life
at least in greater peril every instant. And
yet that hateful revolver in the captain's
hand seemed to fascinate Gerald's eye,
and paralyse his movements. At one
time, indeed, thinking the women had all
been lowered into the boat, he had made
a desperate rush from the spot where he
had huddled under the bulwarks, but the
strident voice of Captain Ragge, with its
Ladies first, you beggar !' accompanied by
an injurious epithet, and a quick movement
of the pistol towards his head, had
sent him to his corner again. There he
lay shivering till a voice whispered in his
ear, ' Come with me, man ; I have got a
boat ;' which sounded like an angel's
whisper.

That there were not enough boats for
the conveyance of the ship's company to
shore, even if they could get there, Gerald
had a shrewd suspicion, which made the

question of precedence of more importance
than even etiquette has any conception of
This suggestion of John Bute, therefore (for
from him it had come) struck him as one
of the happiest that had ever occurred to
mortal mind ; and following this messenger
of glad tidings, he crept forward upon hands
and knees to the bows, under shelter of
which a small boat, with a man in it, holding
on to a rope, was tossing and plunging.
It was already half filled with water, and
presented anything but an alluring prospect
; the bowl of the wise men of Gotham
might almost have been its prototype.
Yet, on the other hand, the distance to land
was but a few hundred yards ; nor had
the voyage to be made in a very tempestuous
sea, for the landward side of the
reef (which acted as a breakwater) was
comparatively calm if you could only get
to it over the intervening line of breakers.

o

'Jump, man — jump!' cried the second
mate, suiting the action to the word ; and

Gerald obeyed him only too precipitately.
Mr. Bute had underrated his friend's ag^lllty^
or rather the fancy price which he set upon
his own existence, and which quickened
his movements to an extraordinary degree.
They plumped in together, and neither
quite in the centre, the effect of which was
to drive the boat indeed in the desired
direction, but unfortunately to turn it
bottom upwards. The two seamen were
canted out, as ninety-nine out of a hundred
would have been under the like
circumstance ; but Gerald, like a bird
caught in a sieve-trap, remained within,
clinging to the seat with the tenacity of a
barnacle or a sea-anemone.

The boat had overset so quickly that the
very air had had no time to escape, but was
shut up with Gerald between the bottom
of the boat and the sea, making a sort of
impromptu diving-bell, which would have
extorted Herbert Newton's professional
admiration. It Is Impossible, however,

wretch began, after a minute or two, as a
boxed caterpillar will nibble his green leaf,
to feed on hope.

If he had been thus far preserved, why
should he not be picked up or drift to
shore ? It would only, he flattered himself,
be one more example of the survival
of the fittest. Nor, for my own part, do I
perceive why sympathy should be refused
to Mr. Gerald Lyster by that large class of
mankind who admire mere tenacity of life
in the vilest of their fellow-creatures.
When a Bushranger or other savage, or
some criminal who has committed unheard-of
atrocities, ' dies game,' as it is called, it
is quite usual to applaud him. The fact of
his defending his life with resolution —
setting, in fact, a very high price upon
what is not only absolutely worthless, but
harmful — is held to be a virtue. This
feeling I myself do not understand. The
skunk, it is said, is a difficult animal to
kill, but we do not like the skunk the

better on that account. Why, then, should
we like the human skunk? As for myself,
I think, it an aggravation of the case of
scoundrels and villains that they die
biting hard among the hounds.' If their
courage were shown in defending other
people, or even their own young, I should
appreciate it. But this desperation of
theirs is not only mere selfishness, but opposed
to the general convenience.

Gerald held on to life as he held on to
the boat thwarts, and indeed harder. In
the latter case he felt his grasp might
relax, so, with infinite difficulty, lying at
length as he was across the seats, he contrived
to tie himself to one of them with his
handkerchief. Thus he lay, in total darkness,
tossed and drenched by the wild
surges, but his thoughts were not inactive.
The consolations of religion were for obvious
reasons denied him, but on the other
hand he had no apprehensions such as religion
excites in some folks. His idea of

VOL. III. 60

the future was getting to land. He made
no vows of penitence ; no promise of candles
— six or sixteen to the pound — to his
patron saint, should he succeed in doing
so. Greed and revenge had dwindled
within him in presence of the over-mastering
sense of the desire for life, but they
still abode in his dunghill of a mind, only
waiting their opportunity to come into full
blossom again. For minutes he thus remained,
which seemed to him years ; then
something grated against the boat, and he
heard human voices. * Help, help I' he
cried. To which some one answered, from
above and without, * By heaven, there is a
man alive inside !'

WEDDED.

WHAT a night it has been, Nannie !'
exclaimed Clare, as she met her
hostess at the breakfast table, on the morning
after the storm. * I now know what it
means by '* blowing great guns ;" though I
sleep on the other side of the house I really
thought sometimes that the roaring of the
wind was cannon.'

My dear Clare it was cannon,' replied
Miss Darrell, gravely. ' Those were ship
guns you heard ; there has been a wreck in
the night.'

A wreck! Good Heavens! Where?'
And she strained her eyes to seaward.
Nothing but flying foam and broken water

60 — 2

were visible, with dark grey clouds above,
hurrying before the wind like a beaten
host.

It was on Sumpter's reef, but it is not
there now. The vessel has gone to
pieces.'

What, and all hands lost ? Could nothing
be done ? Can nothing be done ?
Where is Herbert ?'

He has been out of doors these three
hours, with the coastguard and the lifeboat
men.'

Oh, why did you not tell me ?' she
answered wildly. ' I must go at once. He
will surely, surely never venture out to sea
on a morning like this.'

'Sit down, sit down, my darling! Herbert
is quite safe. I have just seen him.'

But where is he ? Oh Nannie, you are
not deceiving me ?*

Her fine face, so bright and pure, and
instinct with intelligence, had become a
picture of alarm and horror.

No, darling, I am telling you the truth.
Herbert is gone to the shore again, where
you must not go. It is strewn with — oh,
terrible things !'

Alas, alas ! Where Is poor Rachel ? Her
child is ill, and she is quite unstrung. Don't
let her know of this !'

She does know of it. She is gone
with Herbert.'

Oh, how cruel ! Whv did he let her
go?'

My darling, it was necessary. Her
testimony was needful — while it could be
given — in a matter of identification.
Shocking as it is to have to say it, what
has happened will set her mind at ease.
That lost ship was the Phoenix '

Good heavens ! Then Gerald '

Clare sat down unable to finish the
sentence. It seemed so terrible that her
own father's son, albeit so unlike a brother
to her, should have been thus cut off. Fora
moment he appeared to her as a child

againe — in black velvet, with red ribbons,
sitting on his fathers knee — all happiness
and innocence. Oh why — oh why was he
not taken then ?

Yes, darling — Gerald is dead ! It is
a sad story, and a very strange one. The
lifeboat, which has saved scores of those
unhappy people, was indirectly his destruction.
They came upon a boat bottom
upwards, and heard a voice from beneath
it : he was somehow kept alive and afloat
by the imprisoned air, and the men not
understanding this, smashed the bottom into
release him, whereupon the air rushed
out, and the boat went down with him and
he was drowned. Two hours afterwards
the boat was cast ashore, with the body
still within it. It was tied there.'

After a moment or two, Clare gendy
murmured :

How I pity poor Rachel, for after all
he was her husband. What did she say
when they told her what had happened ?'

'My dear, she said, "Thank God."
It may be shocking, but it was only
natural. He was coming, as she thought,
to persecute her and perhaps ill-treat her
child, who lies between life and death. I
cannot blame her.'

I wonder she could bear to look at
him, Nannie, with such feelings in her
heart.'

It was very trying to her, no doubt ;
but, as I have said, it was necessary. Indeed
she wished it herself.'

'Wished it ! Good heavens ! Why
did she wish it T ^

To make quite sure.'

Not another word was said between the
two women on that subject, on which they
always continued to take different views.
Though Clare had had her experiences
she had not lost her illusions nor even her
hopes of the Irreclaimable. Miss Darrell,
on the other hand, not only knew spades
for spades, but called them so. She

thought it an immense relief for all parties
that Gerald was dead, and even said as
much to Mr. Oldcastle, who answered in
his cut-and-dried way, * No doubt.'

Clare could forgive them both, though
she thought them * hard,' but that ' thank
God' of poor Rachel's stuck in her mind
like a bone in the throat, and checked
her liking for her. When the child died,
which happened not long afterwards, the
last tie between her and her brother's wife
seemed to be sundered, though she was
always ready to afford her material assistance.
In course of time Rachel married
again, this time in her own sphere, and
began life anew under happier auspices ;
her burthen, like Clare's, was laid upon
her, contrary to Fate's general usage, at
the beginning of her life, where she had
youth and strength to bear it, and not at
the fag-end with the tombstone alone to
rest it upon.

'To the very last,' as Miss Darrell indignantly

observed to Flush in confidence,
Gerald made himself disagreeable for his
death delayed Clare's marriage for some
months. But it took place next spring at
Bellingham Park Church, where i\Iiss Darrell's
pew was now thoroughly furnished.
Mr. Rodenn always spoke of the wedding-breakfast
as the most perfect thing of the
kind in his experience. ' You know what
wedding-breakfasts usually are, and how
they play the deuce with one's liver ; well,
for this one I never felt a penny the worse.'
Pecuniarily this might easily have been the
case, as his present to the bride consisted
of an ancient piece of jewellery that had
belonged to her grandmother. The true
value of such things, he observed, lay in
their association.

As to the bridegroom,' as the same gentleman
happily remarked at the marriage-feast,
* I have given him to-day a gift beyond
price, my own beloved niece.' Here he was
affected to tears. ' I have known her, to

borrow the beautiful words of the Service
we have all heard to-day, in sickness and
in health, in prosperity, and — well in circumstances
to which perhaps I may be
permitted to apply the familiar but graphic
expression " ticklish." What I especially
admire her for, next to her goodness and
beauty, and beyond all her many accomplishments,
is the good sense which she
exhibited under those circumstances. She
took a view of her pecuniary position
diametrically opposite to that of her
eminent legal adviser (who I am happy to
see here present, Mr. Newcastle), and I
am bound to say not altogether in accordance
with my own. But not a spark
of irritation glows in my bosom upon that
account. Without going to the unnecessary
extent of saying *' I was wrong," I confess
that our dear Clare was right. Acting
under a strong sense of duty — which never
misleads us, my friends, though sometimes
it has such an appearance of doing so, as

may well produce hesitation — she withstood
the temptation of asserting her legal
claim to what seemed something more thana
competency, and in point of fact came
down In the world several steps. And now
that the wheel of time has brought about
its revenges, what do we see ? We see our
dear Clare united to an engineer of orreat
promise ; one for whom I myself once
ventured to predict a brilliant future,
though perhaps he may have forgotten the
circumstance — it was when I first saw him
in his professional garb at Coalborough ; a
man of European, or at all events Metropolitan,
reputation, whereas the person to
whom Clare on that occasion surrendered
her rights, and whom from motives of
delicacy I forbear to name, is at this present
moment, as I understand, reduced from
his once proud position to that of custodian
of his own museum at Stokeville. A more
melancholy situation — for I have been in
that museum — it Is impossible for the

imagination to picture. Let us leave the
unhappy theme. I have risen, as you
know, to propose the health of the interesting
young couple whom we see before
us. Forgive me if my feelings prevent
me from appropriately fulfilling my task ; I
have known dear Gerald — I mean Herbert
for only a limited number of years, but I
know enough of him to congratulate our
sweet Clare on her first and only love — ■
that is to say,' explained Mr. Rodenn, a
gleam of recollection suddenly exhibiting
Mr. Percy Fibbert to his mental view, and
filling him with perturbation, ^ that is to
say, her first and only trace love, all others
(to borrow a homely but familiar phrase)
being imitations. I will not detain you
with the fulsome eulogies only too common
on such occasions as the present. I know
all under this roof will join with me from
their hearts in the sentiment I am about to
utter — Curse that cat.'

It was most unfortunate, but just at the

very climax of Mr. Augustus Rodenn's peroration,
and as he drooped his head m
graceful tribute to the virtues he had refrained
from extolling, Fluff, perceiving
the table-land afforded by his bent shoulders,
leapt upon them with this amazing
result. The speech was spoilt, and had
it not been for the immediate application
of a glass of Miss Darrell's unapproachable
curator (a gift from her old pupil Miss
Gurgle, of Guzzle and Gurgle, the great
liqueur purveyors), Mr. Rodenn's temper
would have shared the same fate. As it
was, he soon recovered himself, and presently
bade the young couple farewell with
affectionate enthusiasm, wringing Herbert's
hand in the passage, and imploring him
(fortunately in a whisper, for he addressed
him as ' Dear Percy ') not to forget that he,
Augustus Rodenn, was his uncle as well as
Clare's.

The wedding speech had its consequences
(indeed, what human utterance,

however foolish, can we say has not ?) and
bore fruits.

When Clare came back from her honeymoon,
looking the picture of happiness,
and years younger since that terrible day
at Stokevllle when she found love and
hope had built their home on a quicksand,
she took Nannie into her confidence concerning
her future.

^ You must not be surprised, darling, if
we are less ambitious in our choice of a
house than our means would seem to warrant,
for the fact is Herbert has made a
great sacrifice for my sake

The object was worth It, at all events,
whatever It cost him,' replied the old lady
fondly. ' Why should you take any house ?
Why not live with me ? Oh, Clare, I have
missed you so.'

You old darling. We will take care to
pitch our tent quite close to you ; only It
must be a very tiny one.'

Ah, you have been running him into

extra vag-dances, have you ? Well, you
must have some fault, though I never
foufid it out. You have persuaded him to
keep a carriage and two footmen in
powder.'

Don't laugh, Nannie, it is a very
serious matter. Most husbands would
have refused to do it, and have been very
angry.'

How nice this is,' exclaimed Miss
Darrell. ' The confidence and simplicity
of a bride are certainly very touching.
How much you must know about '^ most
husbands." However, I do believe Herbert
will be above the average, or at all
events be no worse than the rest.'

You wicked woman ! He is ten
thousand times better than any one of
them. Now* listen. Do you recollect
what happened at our wedding breakfast
?'

Of course I do — how your Uncle
Rodenn frightened my poor Fluff.'

I don't mean that — and indeed what I
remembered of it was quite the other way
but what he said that morning about my
common sense. What he meant was that
if I had treated poor Gerald's story as an
Invention — as you all believed it to be —
my estate would have become answerable
for the debts of the firm.'

'Yes, as it happened, the wretches fell
into the pit that they had digged for
another, as the Psalmist says. A consideration
that is exceedingly soothing tome.'


But poor Sir Peter did not dig the pit ;
and think of his having nothing to live
upon but his salary as paid custodian of
his own museum.'

At all events it is a capital appointment
in the way of fitness observed the old
lady implacably. * He knows more about
that museum than anyone else.'

Oh, Nannie, for shame ! In your heart
of hearts you pity him very much, I am

sure. For though he was reckless and
speculative, he did not deserve to be
ruined. And it seems he did pay everything
and satisfied all his creditors.'

Not till they got hold of the money he
had settled on his daughter.'

Well, that went too ; which is another
reason why we should feel very, very sorry
for him. Now, Nannie, I felt all along
that poor Gerald was telling us a falsehood.
Only, for dear papa's sake, I would
not defend myself.'

I know that, of course ; you gave in
very weakly to a couple of scoundrels. It
has all ended fortunately enough ; but I
didn't agree with Mr. Rodenn's eulogies on
your common sense.'

But it has not ended, Nannie. I feel
that all the money I have of my own is,
legally, poor Sir Peter's, and at my request
dear Herbert has made it over to him.
He has given it all up to satisfy his wife's
scruples.'

VOL. III. 61

Bless the man, do you mean to say he
has given away that ten thousand pounds
a second time ?'

A second time ! How a second time !'
- Why, having given it to you first, he
now permits you to give it to somebody
else. That's a second time, isn't it ?
Why, goodness gracious, Clare, do you
mean to say that Herbert has never told
you even yet that that ten thousand pounds
of yours was really his ? That he caused
his own little fortune to be made over to
you, though there seemed at that time no
hope of your ever becoming his wife, in
order that you might not have the ills of
poverty to bear in addition to your other
afflictions? Don't you know that there
was nothing left at all out of your father's
estate when his debts were paid ?'

I know nothing except what Mr.
Oldcastle told me.'

And you trusted a lawyer to tell you
the truth, did you ? There — there — don't

sob like that, or I shall get into a dreadful
scrape with Herbert. Of course I thought
he'd told you himself. He said he would
never do so before marriage ; so I took it
for granted that he intended to make a
clean breast of it afterwards. Husbands
generally have much worse things to
confess. Yes — yes ; he, as you say, is a
perfect angel : anything you like, only
don't cry. What eyelids you'll have. Men
hate red eyelids, and all will be laid at my
door.'

With much difficulty she pacified Clare ;
for the shock of finding how good her
husband had been to her, affected her
almost as much as the shock that wives
sometimes have to bear of another kind
in connection with their husbands' secrets.

Even if she would have had him repent
of his generosity, however (which he would
certainly not have done), it was now too
late. A letter had come from Sir Peter
that very morning acknowledging 

— 2

bert's liberality in very fitting terms. His
misfortunes had humbled him, and this
unexpected generosity had touched his
heart. What pleased Clare most was the
expression of his intention (in answer to
an appeal she had made to him on that
subject) to let bygones be bygones as
respected his daughter, with whom since
her ill-starred marriage he had held no
communication ; while she on her part
was willing enough to leave the boardinghouse
where she had taken up her quarters,
and return to the comfortable home that
her father now had to offer her.

How different had everything turned
out,' as Herbert was wont to say, in talking
of the past, ' to everyone's expectations.
How Sir Peter had toiled and boiled in
accordance with that motto of his, *' For
Cash Only," and swelled with prosperity,
and burst. How poor Mr. Lyster had
fretted himself to fiddle strings, and fought
to the very death with nature herself for

the same end, and in gaining the victory,
as he had fondly imagined, had suffered
defeat. Was it Avorth while for men to lay
their plans for wealth so far in advance,
and to spend all their days in getting, or
to make themselves miserable lest they
should lose it, when, with one turn of Fortune's
wheel, all is topsy-turvy.'

For his part Herbert took what the gods
provided him (and they provided him
abundantly) with thankfulness, apt spent it
prudently, but with no niggard hand. He
was not one of those who deny themselves
and those belonging to them all the pleasures
of life in order on their death-beds to
gloat over a huge balance in their banker's
book. His greatest happiness was in
making his wife happy, and this he enjoyed
continually ; after that came his inventions.
of which there is no need here to speak
particularly; are they not written in the
records of the Patent Office, where they
occupy folios ?

I do believe,' Miss Darrell was wont to
say, 'that Clare Newton is the happiest
wife in England ; but then to be sure,' she
added cautiously, ' one never knows.'

But this was before Clare was a mother ;
after which Miss Darrell withdrew even
that slight reservation.

As to Percy, he had borne his wife's
departure from him with great philosophy,
nor was he likely, since she had no property
of her own, to molest her in the future.
The last news of him was that he had taken
up that profession for which he had always
had so great a predilection, namely, ' the
Turfs

His proceedings there, as Herbert privately
informed Miss Darrell (he never
spoke of him to Clare) in answer to an inquiry
concerning him, were not very satisfactory,
judged even by a Turf standard.

They say, indeed, he has become a
'' Welsher." '

'Dear me!' sighed Miss Darrell, who.

though she had been a schoolmistress, did
not know everything. * How curious ! I
suppose he has changed his nationality to
avoid recognition.'

THE END.

BILLING AND SONS, PRINTERS AND ELKCTKOTYPERS, GUILDFORD.

^^^^:^m

mi

S^P-

1®^^

#/^lN^^.#v.

<S^

%T^*»=^^

f*5

3 0112 084216230
