y.

I

l^-

>i

L I E> RAR.Y

OF THE

UN Diversity

or ILLINOIS


Pack

V.I

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/kitmemory01payn

VOL. I.

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : an

Impossible Story. By Walter Besant. Illustrated by
Fred. Barnard. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

VALENTINA: a Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope.

With a Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A. 2 vols.
post 8vo.

VAL STRANGE a Story of the Primrose Way. By
David Christie Murray, Author of 'Joseph's Coat' &c.

3 vols, crown Svo.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon,

Author of ' Robin Gray ' &c. 3 vols, crown Svo.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy. 3 vols.

crown Svo.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

3 vols, crown Svo.

NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS. By R. Louis Stevenson.

I vol. crown Svo.

CHATTO &> WIND US, PICCADILLY, W.

BY

JAMES Pain

author of • lost sir massinger by proxy high spirits
'under one roof' *a grape from a thorn' etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[A/i rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

yv THE First VOLUME.



Ijf CHAPTER PAGE

fc I. Beneath the Castle Walls . 1

II. A Confidence 18

-^ III. The Knoll 37

IV. The Family Barge 53

^ V. At the Dovecote 75

^ VI. The Searchers 93

^ VII. The ' Tusk ' . . . . • .102

viii. The Two Counsellors . . . . 126

r

^ XL Lucy Deeds 179

J-

«^ IX. An Interrupted Game . . . .152
^ X. In the Boudoir 165

CnAPTF.}? PAGE

XII. * I MEAN TO HAVE JUSTICE ' . . .193

XIII. Kit has a bad Quarter of an Hour. 209

XIV. The Magistrate 226

XY. Foiled §42

XVI. An Unselfish Ally 260

XVII. Hart-leap Hill 281

XVIII. An Appeal 303

CHAPTER I.

BE>T:ATn THE CASTLE W.AXLS.

Between the Paver Trenna and the sea les
(not stands) Trenarvon Castle, built by the
Cornish Constantine (as the last King of
Britain of that line was called) more than
fifteen hundred years ago.

Many a vanished year and age

And tempest s breath and battle's rage

have tried its strength in vain ; and, though
compelled to yield, in that unequal combat
in which stone walls no less than man must

VOL. I. B

at last succumb, it still in a manner keeps
the field. The ancient keep is but ^ a heap of
fragments of an earlier world ; ' the later drawbridge
has disappeared ; the very fosse has lost
its depth and shape, and become a wilderness
of wood and wildflower ; but the stubborn pile
possesses still some of its ancient features, which
to the antiquarian eye at least are recognisable.
It was a fortress yet, and, garrisoned by an undisciplined
but loyal band, held out with pike
and culverin for the King in the Civil War,
wherein it lost all but honour. It was levelled
(with much more) by the Puritans, since which
no banner has waved from its rocky steep, no
watchword echoed from its ruined walls.

But, though its greatness has departed, its
beauty remains. Unlike its once proud masters,
decay, though it has destroyed, has not corrupted
it ; nay, has enhanced its majesty, if not

its beauty. The few grey hairs that palsy stirs
upon the head of age, and which in man we
pitifully call his 'glory,' the trembling limbs
that hardly serve to bear him to the wished-for
grave, have here no parallel. The lichen and
grey moss efface the ravages that time has
wrought upon the crumbling pile ; the ivy
binds its broken ruins together, and hides its
scars, or crowns them with eternal green ; and
in every cleft and crevice through the summer
long, the wild rose and the wall-flower swing
their incense over this shrine of Time, and fill
the air with sweetness.

It is summer now, and there is scarce a
breath of wind to bend the bluebells, or sway
the feathery ferns that nestle in the undergrowth
that clothes Penarvon hill. There is
not a sound save the plaintive cry of the seagull,
as it slides through the cloudless l^lue, and the

blow

mysterious speech of ocean, heard by the
Cornish Constantine, but untranslated still.

Amid such scenes, and in such silence, man
himself is wont to speak but little, and in a
low key ; Nature, with her finger on her lip,
impresses him with a certain awe of her ; at all
events the three young men whom I see in my
mind's eye to-day, reclining on the Castle slopes,
converse only in hushed tones, and at intervals.
The eldest of them to look at (though he is not
really so) is Christopher Garston, commonly
called Kit ' for love and euphony ' ; a tall and
well-made young fellow of some two-and-twenty,
with bright black eyes, and a smile
so pleasant that few men, and no woman,
could, one would think, easily withstand it,
though a physiognomist might pronounce it

too eager.

The otherwise great intelligence of his

expression is curiously interfered with by a
certain look of pleasurable expectation (like
that of a popular actor who is awaiting
bravos '), and if a phrenologist should examine
his head he would probably pronounce the
love of approbation ' to be too strongly
marked ; but this by no means interferes with
his good looks. He is smoking a cigar, but
even the soothing influence of tobacco has no
power to still the restlessness that is habitual to
him. His eyes rove over land and sea, or fix
themselves on his two companions for a minute
or two, and then away again, and his thoughts
are wandering further still.

In this respect he is a great contrast to
Frank Meade, his senior by a year or two, who
lies prone beside him with his eyes fixed on the
sky. His frame is gigantic, he seems born for
force and action ; but not a muscle of him stirs.

The smoke ascends from his huge meerschaum,
so that there must needs be breath in him, but
otherwise he lies with his eyes closed, and quite
motionless, like a dead Hercules. His wide-awake
has fallen off, and the sun plays on his
bronzed face (which is, however, by no means
so dark as Kit's), showing certain deep hues on
his forehead very unusual in a face so young
and comely. His nature is far from morose,
but when he reflects he frowns, and he is much
given to reflection.

The third of this little company (and the
hinge on which it turns) has little in common
with them as to appearance. Although junior
by a year or so to the youngest of his two
friends, and of that blonde and delicate complexion
which is youth's own wear, Mark
Medway looks an older man than either of
them. His height is less, and he is more

slightly built, so that this look of comparative
maturity dwells in his face alone, which is
singularly grave and quiet ; his blue eyes are
half shut, not from indolence, but because he
is near-sighted, and he is reading a book of
ancient date and indifferent type.

It is said that an excellent test of friendship
is the non-necessity for making conversation ;
that when Tom and Bob sit over the fire without
a word, and neither feels called upon to
speak, they are as Damon and Pythias ; on the
other hand, the case is not unknown where this
divine dumbness arises from neither party
having anything to say. In the present
instance, however, the proverb holds good ;
the three young men are quite at home in each
other's society, though Frank and Kit, perhaps,
are rather Demons to Mark's Pythias, than
Damon and Pythias to one another.

Presently, Mark, who is leaning against a
mossy stone, drops this book upon his knee, and
bringing his spectacles down from his forehead
into their proper place, looks round about him,
and with a sigh half tender and half comical,
remarks ' Poor Faust, poor Faust ! '

What is the matter with him ? ' murmurs
the giant.

" My trusty and well-beloved friend," '
quotes Medway (who has a marvellous
memory), ' " the cause why I have invited
you to this place is this ; forasmuch as you
have known me these many years what manner
of life I have lived ; practising all manner

of conjuration " '

•' I say exclaims Meade, opening his large
grey eyes to the uttermost, * we are not going to
stand this, Kit. Why, this is Mark's own autobiography,
which he is inflicting upon us under
pretence of improving our minds; for what is

all his old-world knowledge, his antiquarianism,
his archeology, but a sort of black art ? '

But the book says " conjuration," ' puts in
Kit with gravity, ' and Heaven knows our dear
Mark is no conjuror.'

When you have exhausted yourselves in
base comparisons,' replies the object of these
gibes (who has his Shakespeare, among the
old world ' authors, at his fingers' ends), ' I
will read you some more of it. It will be
better for Eat (Kit is a budding lawyer) than
weaving cobwebs for innocent flies, and for
Frank (Frank assists his father, the doctor, and
is training for the paternal profession) than
reminiscences from which conscience never
permits him to escape, of the victims of vivisection.'


What a flow of words ! How fearfully
eloquent he is ! ' exclaims Meade, with affected
admiration.

The very observation observed Kit,
which was made with respect to Quill — by
Brass — when conversing about my namesake.
Eeally, Mark, I wouldn't stand it.'

'I don't care two pins for either of you,'
returns the student, beaming through his
spectacles at both with affectionate good nature ;
I am only thinking of poor Faust. " Now to
the end (he says to his sorrowing students) that
I might bring my purpose to pass to have the
Devil's aid and furtherance, which I have yet
wanted in my actions, I have promised unto
him at the end and accomplishment of twenty-four
years both body and soul, to do therewith
his pleasure. This dismal day these twenty-four
years are fully expired ; and out of all doubt
this night he will fetch me to whom I have
given myself in recompense for his service, body
and soul, by writing in my proper blood. So,

well-beloved friends and brethren, before that
fatal hour I take my farewell, beseeching you,
if ever I have trespassed against your mind in
anything, that you will heartily forgive me.
And let this my lamentable end " '

Stop, stop,' cried Christopher Garston,
rising to his feet and pacing the green sward
in nervous irritation ; ' I can't stand that.'

The supine giant opened his mouth in
wonder, while his pipe dropped out of it unnoticed
upon the grass. Mark settled his
spectacles upon his nose, and gazed upon his
excited friend in mild surprise.

I am sorry to make such a fool of myself,'
observed Kit presently ; ' but my nervous
centres, as Meade would say, are disorganised
in plain English, I am all to pieces. The
history of Dr. Faustus is one of your best, as I
know it is one of your newest, books, my dear

Mark ; but you are not selecting the most
cheerful passages from it. Head us about his
familiar spirits, whose appearance is so charmingly
described, though they afterwards become,
poor fellows, so much more familiar than
welcome

Very good,' returned Medway, reopening
the volume, and (as only your student can) at
once finding the proper place. 'first entered
Belial in the form of a bear, with curled black
hair to the ground ; his ears standing upright ;
within they were as red as blood, and out of
them hissed flames of fire ; his teeth were at
least a foot long and as white as snow, with a
tail three ells long, having two wings, one
behind each arm." '

'There's word-painting for you,' shouted
Kit, excitedly. ' Beautiful ! '

"lucifer himself'" resumed the reader,

'' sat in the manner of a man, all hairy, but of
brown colour like a squirrel, and his tail turning
upwards on his back as the squirrel's used."
I think he could crack nuts, too, like a sum-el.'

There's no doubt of it,' exclaimed Garston
admiringly. ' A most accomplished creature.
Pray go on.'

"After him came Beelzebub, in curled hair
of a horse-flesh colour ; his head like the head
of a bull, with a mighty pair of horns ; two
long ears down to the ground " '

A pretty touch,' interrupted Kit ; ' the
rabbit ! '

Hush, hush ; let me complete the portrait,'
remonstrated Mark. ' " Out of his wings issued
flames of fire, and his tail was like a cow's." '

If all that was on his passport one would
know him almost anywhere,' mused Eat ; while
the huge Meade shook with inward laughter.

Mark held up his hands for silence and
attention.

'then came Astarte, in the form of a
worm, going upright on his tail, and had no
feet, but a tail like a glowworm ; under his
chaps grew two short hands '"

That's a stroke of genius,' interposed Kit ;
but it annoys our friend here as being a
practical anatomist.'

I really can't stand it,' cried Meade,
spluttering with laughter. ' It is the unction
with which Mark reads that destroys me.
One would think that it was his own composition.'


I wish it was,' observed the student with
simplicity. 'What modern writer could
compass such variety in personal description !
Think of Cannogasta, " white and grey mixed,
exceedingly curled and hairy ; " or Nobis,

with one foot under his throat and the other
at his tail ; " pleasant beast," as the old chronicler
calls him '

Enough, enough,' roared the giant, waking
the echoes with inextinguishable mirth, while
Kit laughed with him fitfully, more, as it seemed,
at the other's enjoyment than from any tendency
to laughter on his own account ; a circumstance
not without significance to one who
knew them, for Meade was a man not easily
moved to mirth, while Garston's high spirits
were proverbial.

Mark Med way watched them both without
the relaxation of a muscle. ' You seem to me,'
he plaintively remarked, ' to miss the beauties
of our author altogether, and only to note what
appears to you ridiculous. The whole narrative,
when viewed in the proper spirit, is most
sorrowful and pathetic. The reflection concerning

how Faust " forgot his soul, and also
thought — the word also is to my mind admirable
that the Devil is not so black as he is painted,
nor Hades so hot as people say," might have
been written yesterday ; and then his lamentable
end ! But if you don't like it, my dear
Kit, why then, of course, we will have no
more of it.'

Well, to say truth, I dont said Garston
frankly ; ' and since we are quite alone, and I
know the thing will go no further, I will tell
you why. The fact is, my friends, the story of
Dr. Faust is a little too personal.'

Personal ! ' gasped Medway.

Meade said nothing, but, raising himself on
his arm, regarded the speaker with surprise not
unmingled with suspicion.

Yes, I know Meade won't believe it,' continued
Kit with peevish gravity. ' He thinks I

am no better than a farceur, I know ; but it
is nevertheless true that when I was a boy of
fourteen — full of imagination and very reckless
— I took a leaf out of the Doctor's book,
and sold myself to the Devil'

<> VOL. T.

CHAPTEE II.

A CONFIDENCE.

The effect produced by Christopher Garston's
starting confession upon his companions was
as considerable as any raconteur has a right
to expect from a familiar audience ; yet its
nature in the two cases was very different.
Med way let his book fall, and regarded the
speaker with a look of tender concern which,
under the circumstances, would have been
ridiculous but for the affection that manifestly
evoked it. Meade, on the other hand, wore an
expression that was grave to austerity ; it was
not that he was shocked at Garston's statement,
but that he did not believe it, and, while averse

to falsehood in material affairs, he had the very
strongest objection to be humbugged in those
in which he felt a far nearer and graver interest,
namely, matters of physiological inquiry. ' I
give you my word of honour,' said Garston,
solemnly, who read the other's incredulity in
his face as plainly as though ' That is false ! '
had been written there, ' that I am telling
you the simple truth. It was that very book
yonder, which I had taken to school from the
library at the Knoll, that put it into my head,
no doubt. At page sixteen you will find the
directions for use, in case you wish to make
the same bargain with the gentleman whom
Faust rather uncivilly (considering that at that
time he knew nothing about him) calls " the
hellish prince of Orient." '

You were not, however, personally introduced
to him ? ' observed Meade, drily.
o2

Well, no,' admitted Kit, ' though really I
sometimes used to think that he had assumed
the appearance of the usher. You recollect
Brabazon, Medway ? *

Mark signified by a gesture of disgust that
he remembered him only too well.

Does he not remind you of the description
of Branches (omitted from your late catalogue
of familiars) " with very short legs like a
hedgehog, the upper side of his body yellow
(think of his waistcoats !) and the lower (think
of his trousers ! ) of various hues .^ " '

But you didn't make the agreement you
speak of, my dear Garston, with Brabazon, did
you ? ' inquired Meade ; ' " you wander from
the point," as the cook said to the eel when
she was skinning him alive.'

For an instant Garston's pleasant face looked
anything but attractive ; his bright black eyes

flashed fire, and his thin lips quivered with
rage. The metaphor of the eel had a personal
application to him which he who uttered it had
been far from intending. Though a very clever
fellow in many ways, Christopher had weaknesses
; and one of them was the desire of display.
He was by nature diplomatic, and even
calculating ; by no means a man given to
neglect his own interests in any way ; but he
could seldom resist the temptation of producing
a sensation. His late extraordinary avowal (a
perfectly truthful one) had been wrung from
him in a moment of nervous excitement, but
the instant it had passed his lips he regretted
it. The only thing to be done (as it immediately
occurred to him) was to treat it
with levity, and an indifference which certainly
was not wholly genuine.

No. I made no agreement with Brabazon,'

lie returned with a careless smile; *lie was
a man (as Med way will tell you) of whom the
phrase " his word was as good as his bond "
could have been applied in anything but a
complimentary sense ; they were both utterly
worthless. I drew the deed myself upon the
lines indicated by the worthy Doctor, only
being very young, and time looking like
eternity to me (as indeed it must have done to
Faustus himself), I made the lease a short one.
At the end of ten years next ensuing, provided
I enjoy them as I wish, and hereupon being
in perfect memory, &c., &c.," and after due
invocation of all the " infernal, middle, and
supreme powers," I signed it, trusting to the
Prince of Orient to perform his own part of
the transaction at his leisure

But you ought to have signed it in red
ink,' suggested Meade ; ' otherwise it was null
and void.'

'And a good thing, too,' put in Mark, speaking
for the first time ; * to my mind the whole
proceeding, however ridiculous, sounds very-uncanny.'


'I pricked my finger and signed it with
my blood, according to precedent,' observed
Garston calmly.

By Jove ! that was thorough, at all events,'
remarked Meade with rising interest. ' The
whole affair, though of course but a boyish
fancy, is really curious. It was not done, as
I gather, for a mere lark, or out of audacity.'

'No, it was not,' said Garston, looking
straight before him as a man does who is
thinking of the past ; and also perhaps because
he did not wish to meet his companions' eyes.

'Do you remember your motive at the
time ? '

I remember I had one.'

There was a pause, during which the distant
wave sighed twice or thrice.

And the precious document ? ' inquired
Meade ; ' did you destroy it, or is it in one of
those tin boxes at Mogadion along with all the
other deeds and assignments ? '

I destroyed it.'

I am glad you did,' ejaculated Med way ina
tone of great relief.

Well, yes,' admitted Christopher, smiling ;
'it would not be a pleasant thing for one's
executor to light upon after one's death. Gad !
how it would astonish some people — old
Penryn, for example.'

'The good Rector would be startled, no
doubt,' said Medway, once more giving way
to mirth ; ' but after a while he would begin
to philosophise about it. " Now here was a
young lawyer," he would say (meaning you.

Kit), " who devoted himself from his very boyhood
to his profession." By-the-bye, Garston,
considering you have plenty of prudence, it
seems to me that ten years was but a short
tether to give yourself. Why, at twenty-four
all would be over with you.'

Just so. I admit my folly. Still my fault
was a professional one : I was a victim to
precedent.'

What strange things come into boys'
minds,' mused Meade, proceeding to light his
neglected pipe.

While thus engaged there flashed over his
head a glance of keen significance between Kit
and Mark. 'That theory of the boy being
father to the man,' continued Meade philosophically,
' seems to me quite untenable. They area
race altogether sui generis

Let us hope so,' exclaimed Kit, fervently.

Just SO ; it would be really frightful if the
natures of some boys I have known should have
developed as they promised to do. At the
period of adolescence, or thereabouts, I believe,
a change for the better takes place in them.
That devilish desire for inflicting pain, for pain's
sake, for example, seems to disappear. Otherwise
half one's schoolfellows, like Tom Hood's
Blythe Carew," would certainly be hung.
Indeed, with such propensities as many exhibit, '
it is strange how very few ever come to utter
grief or public shame.'

It would pain me very much,' observed
Medway, ' if anything of that kind should ever
happen to one of old Ludlow's boys.'

Then let us hope it won't,' said Meade,
good-naturedly ; ' though for my part, I don't
hold myself in any way responsible for some of
my young friends at Christ's Hospital.'

*Ah, we were country bred, and by
comparison innocent,' observed Kit. 'Mark
yonder, for example, was pretty much the
same at school as he is now, a bookworm at
twelve, and in spectacles. Indeed, properly
speaking, Mark never was a boy.'

I should never have been a man had it not
been for you, Kit,' said Medway, gently.

This remark had reference to a certain
occasion years ago in which Garston had saved
Medway 's life.

Kit laughed — it was his answer to most
appeals of a serious kind — and threw a stone
at a passing gull. Meade frowned without
knowing it ; he was rather jealous, though he
never admitted it, even to himself, of Mark's
affection for Kit.

I think the ladies will be expecting us,' he
said, and rose to his feet with something like a

yawn. ' The tide is falling fast, and if we are
going down the river we ought to start.'

The arrangement was to depend on how
long my mother's visitors chose to stay,' observed
Medway. 'If the siege was raised
Maud promised to hoist the flag.'

Then I'll go up to the castle and make a
reconnaissance,' said Meade. He moved away,
towering above the brushwood, was lost in the
tangled fosse, and presently reappeared in the
distance, springing from stone to stone up the
mossy steep.

What a strange tale you have been telling
us, Kit,' said Medway, in a low voice.

It was true.'

No doubt. My wonder is that you never
spoke of it before — that is, to me.'

Well, you must allow I keep very few
secrets from you, old fellow,' returned the other

gently. ' The fact is, I thought it would shock
you.'

Then why have you told it now ? '

'Ah, ask that fool of a gull yonder — there,
I've missed him again, by jingo — why, he came
twice within stone shot. I don't know. An uncontrollable
impulse, as the young gentleman
pleaded the other day who cut his grandmother's
throat ; in my case it is only my own throat
that suffers.'

Nay, it's not so bad as that ; but I think it
was an indiscretion to tell the story before Frank.
He is the best fellow in the world — almost —
but he doesn't know you so well as I do.'

If one is always to hold one's tongue for
fear of being misunderstood by some commonplace
person or other, one might just as well
become a Trappist, and confine oneself to nodding
and winking.'

My dear Kit,' returned Mark, gravely, ' you
know as well as I do that Frank is anything buta
commonplace person — I wish I had half his
wits, not to mention his goodness. That man's
life, you will see, will be devoted to the service
of his fellow creatures.'

Let us hope it won't be sacrificed to them
early,' returned the other demurely, and in a
sanctimonious tone.

'Don't, Kit. I could almost say I don't
like you when you talk like that.'

If you did you wouldn't mean it,' was the
quiet rejoinder.

That's true. I have no friend like you. Kit.
When you are away at college I feel as if half
myself were missing. However, there will be
only one more year of it, and then you will be
settled at Mogadion quite close to us all.'

Kit laughed, but not so lightly as was his
wont.

*If you GOiild have your way, Mark, we
should all live together all our lives, with no
greater distance between us than les between
the Knoll and Mogadion, and after death be
buried in the same churchyard.'

And why not ? '

Why not ? My dear Mark, how can you
ask such a question? Leaving myself out of
the question, do you think it probable that a
man like Frank Meade will be content to vegetate
in an old country town, which the very sea
is leaving as though in contempt for its apathy
and dulness ? '

Perhaps not ; I don't like to think of
Frank's leaving us, but I understand that such
a misfortune is possible. But in your case,
with a sister as well as a father to keep you at
home, you surely do not contemplate deserting
us?'

My sister is dear to me — very dear — as
you know, Mark, though she has not a stronger
hold on me than you have,' returned Kit,
thoughtfully, with eyes fixed on the sea. ' And
yet sometimes I feel an instinct, almost impossible
to resist, to leave this Sleepy Hollow
and plunge into the battle of life, like the boy
in the poem who sees the lights of London in
the distance, and whose

Spirit throbs within him, longs to be before him then,
Underneath the light he looks at, in amongst the throngs of
men.

No, Mark ; our roads in life, believe me, cannot
run long together, side by side, as now.'

They will never be cross-roads, at all
events,' said Medway, tenderly.

Cross-roads ? ' repeated the other, with
energy. ' Heaven forbid ! Why, you and I have
known each other all our lives, and I cannot

call to mind a single quarrel. The tide of
friendship has been always on the flow with
us, yet without a ripple.'

Always,' echoed Mark, with emotion ;
always. It is because you are so dear to me,
Kit, that I would have others hold you dear.
The regard of a man like Meade is worth your
winning, and yet so far from taking any pains

to do so '

'My dear Mark,' interrupted Kit, with a
quick flush. 'You are an excellent authority
on everything that occurred before the Christian
era, but on everyday matters you are fallible.
The famous lines in connection with Dr. Fell
are too modern, I fear, to be familiar with you ;
but they give the reason, or rather the no
reason of affinity and antagonism to a nicety.
The lady who kissed her cow is the very type
and personification of friendship, which goes by
VOL. I. D

favour — " natural selection " only. That is why",
Mark ' — and hero lie turned his smiling face to
his companion — ' you have such a regard forme.
I am not such a born fool as to suppose
it is the reward of merit.'

It was curious to see how Mark's pained and
troubled look gave way and disappeared before
the other's smile, like clouds in sunshine. ' I
wis], nevertheless, Kit,' he said, with mild persistence,
' that you had not told that Faust story
of yours before Meade.'

And so do I — there, I admit it. It is only
with you that I should have no reserves.'

Still, Meade is a man of honour. Kit,'
observed Mark, reprovingly.

Doubtless ; but he is not my friend as you
are, nor ever will be. By-the-bye, when I was
so luifortimatjly frank just now, did not my
confession remind you of an old compact made

between two other high contracting powers —
indeed, I saw it did.'

Yes. That also was an act of boyish folly ;
and audacious, though I hope it had nothing of
profanity.'

The agreement stands, Mark, nevertheless,'
said Garston, with a strange smile ; ' I hold
you to your promise.'

As you please, dear friend,' answered the
other gravely ; ' but the performance may be
beyond your powers and mine.'
It may and it may not.'
A solemn silence fell on both of them, I ill
from the summit of the hill there came a cheerful
shout of ' Mark ! Mark ! ' like the warnincic cry
from sportsmen in September. They looked
up and saw Meade beckoning with his huge
arms.

What a size the fellow is,' muttercvl
D 2

Garston. ' He looks like the Spectre of the
Brocken.'

The flag is flying from the fortress, Mark
continued the cheerful voice ; ' the Castle is-relieve!,
and the garrison are waiting for us.'

CHAPTER III.

THE Knoll.

Though ]\Ieac]e had spoken of the Kiioll as a
castle, it lead been only in a metaphorical sense.
It was as unlike a castle as anything could be,
nor indeed would it have been easy to find its
counterpart in any English dwelling-louse. In
some respects it resembled an Indian bungalow,
being long and low, and having a verandah
running round it. It was, however, by no
means only a summer residence, being so
sheltered and shut in on north and east by
noble trees that it never felt the teeth of even
those mild winters that visit Cornwall. A fall
of snow was unknown at Trenarvon, though in

seasons of exceptional severity it was sprinkled
jiere and there like an iced April shower, and
used to remind Maud Medway, as a chill, of
her birthday cake. Maud is no child now, buta
very beautiful young woman ; tall and graceful,
with such a magnificent harvest of golden
brown hair that old Mr. Penryn, the Eector of
Mogadion, and the greatest scholar in those
parts, calls her 'Ceres'; on state occasions,
when it is arranged in coils like crowns, he has
another name for her, ' the Saxon Princess.'
He is free to call her what he will, for she looks
upon him as a second whither. Her complexion
IS fair as a star, her blue eyes are intelligent as
well as tender ; she has the beauty without
the apathy of the blonde. At the same time it
must be confessed that she has not the liveliness,
nor indeed the wit, of her friend and
present companion, Trenna Garston. Tie two

girls are a great contrast to one another in
appearance. Trenna's complexion, like that of
her brother, is an olive brown, while her hair
and eyes are even of a darker hue than his.
But her slice, though full of intelligence, has
not the same mobility of expression. It is
attractive — indeed it is exceedingly striking —
but ' graver than should be for one so young ;'
the smile that irradiates Kit's countenance so
often is with her a much rarer visitor, though
when it comes it takes the hearts of men by
storm. She was christened Trenna from a
fancy of her mother's, who did not long survive
her birth, after the river that flows past Tree
into Imitation harbour, and in some
respects she resembles it. It does not reflect
much sunlight ; the shadows of rocks and trees
fall upon it for miles ; its course is swift, and
occasionally somewhat reckless. Here and

there it is as deep as ocean. But how lovingly
it winds and clings to its own banks, and how
faithfully, though Trenarvon moor be alive
with streams, and every runlet is a river, does
it keep within its proper channel I

The third person of the little company, to
whose men-folks we have already been introduced,
and who are now upon their way to
join them, is its mistress, Maud's mother. In
her you see what Maud will grow to, and how
she will look a quarter of a century hence.
She will by no means have lost her good looks
by that time ; but they will not of course be
those of youth. Mrs. Medway is calm and
stately, almost to majesty ; but without a touch
of haughtiness. Her eyes are too gentle and
tender, her whole expression too benignant,
to harbour aught of disdain or pride. But
beneath Lier placid smile there can be read,

by those who have the eyes for it, a deep-rooted
sorrow, which I trust her daughter's face
Day never know.

The three ladies are seated in the verandah
looking out upon the lawn, or rather on the
view beyond it. It is one that never palls
upon the eye, or fails to charm it. If the Knoll
were near to Plymouth, or even Falmouth, it
Avould undoubtedly become a show place. It
would have been impossible to keep the tourist,
and especially the landscape-painter, who had
heard of its surpassing beauty, out ; but. as it
was, few strangers came to Mogadion — an
ancient but small and decaying seaport ; and
this Paradise was comparatively unknown.
The trail of that endless serpent, the Excursions,
would otherwise have been over it all.

The place combined a certain look of fairyland
with the loneliness of 'the forest primeval.'

Only it was a tropical forest ; the trees were of
brilliant hues, and of a kind rarely seen in
England : they made a vista that seemed to
reach for miles ; far beneath, the landscape
was broken up into three distances, in which
slept three small lakes, or rather seemed to
sleep ; for in reality they were in rapid motion,
being, in fact, three reaches of the winding
Trenna. Beyond the last you could see, with
a good glass, another sort of forest than that
which surrounded you — the masts of shipping
which marked the harbour of Migration. The
lawn in front of the house ran down so steeply
that only a small flower-bed or tv/o could find
place in it. In the rainy season — and there
was a good deal of rain at Trenarvon — they
Averse periodically washed away, and had to be
built up by Giles the gardener (hence dubbed
by the family, ' Sisyphus ' ) ; but such as they

Averse, tlioy were ablaze with blossom, and made
a foreground admirably in contrast with the
slumbrons scene beyond them.

The garden proper lay to the left, and
amply atoned for its small dimensions by the
rarity as well as the luxuriance of its contents,
The extreme mildness of the climate, combined
with the sheltered character of the place,
admitted of the cultivation of plants that
are seen elsewhere only in hot-houses : the
camellia, for example, was as common as the
rose-tree, and wore a score of blossoms for the
other's one. Xor should we omit to say that,
out of the small space at the owner's command,
a piece of ground had been levelled for lawn
tennis, with a due array of network to the south
and west, since if a ball should have gone
astray that way it would have rolled on, like
the echoes of the poet, ' for ever and for ever.'

It was of this popular game the ladies were
discoursing? at the moment of our introduction
to them.

'For my part I should like tennis even
better than a row on the river,' observed
Maud ; ' but then it is so bad for Mark.'

You mean that not playing tennis is so
bad for Mark,' said Trenna with a sly smile.

Well, yes ; I do. It is difficult to make
him take any exercise, and exercise is so
necessary to hin. As for his taking a racket,
he would as soon take the hand of some strange
young lady — I can't say anything stronger than
that for him in the way of antipathy — and
nothing pleases him better than to see us deep
in the game, which gives him an excuse for
burying himself in his books. Now if we put
him in the big boat, he can hardly sit in the
stern with mamma and see you row, Trenna.'

But I have not the least oLjcclion to take
an oar, if mark is lazy,' observed the yoiinix
lady thus alluded to.

I know that, my dear ; you are a first-rate
oars woman, and are only too well aware of the
fact. Eowiug, I have observed, is your only
vanity ; I suppose it's the feather.'

You should not say clark is lazy, dear
Trenna,' put in that gentleman's mother in a
tone of gentle reproof; 'I only wish he was a
little less diligent.'

Oh, I did not mean lazy in that sense, my
dear Mrs. Med way,' said Trenna with great
gravity ; ' I only put it in a hypothetical way,
remember, but I should have said indolent.'

My poor Mark is not indolent,' sighed Mrs.
Medway, with a shake of her stately head.

The two girls interchanged a furtive smile.
Mark's dehcacv and ailments were the most

favourite topic of his mother's save one — his
perfections. 'Mr. Penryn tells me,' she continued,
' that his learning for his time of life
is something marvellous. Greek and Latin
he mastered with the consummate ease with
which a hunter takes a fence in his stride —
what are you laughing at, Maud ? '

Only at the metaphor, dear mother. At
Mark, of all men, being compared to a hunter.'

The expression was Mr. Penryn's, my dear,
not mine,' continued Mrs. Medway, reprovingly.
lie said Greek and Latin were mere child's
play to your brother, while of archaeology and
antiquities, Which are his favourite studies,
he already knows more than any man in
CornwalL'

Except the Eector himself,' observed Trenna,
with a certain dryness, which to a more observant
ear might have suggested that the
Eector was no favourite with her.

Well, of course, except mr. Penryn,' returned
Mrs. Medway. 'He has had forty years'
start of Mark, remember.'

Of course lie lias,' interposed Maud,
smiling. ' Treuna knovrs that very well, Don't
you see she is only teasing you, my dear
mother ? '

At this Trenna burst out laughing, if a
sound as low and musical as the joy-note of a
bird could be called laughter, and rose and
kissed her hostess.

You are a very naught v girl,' said the
elder lady, returning her embrace affectionately
nevertheless, ' but I do assure you dear Mark's
case is no lauo^hino- matter. I am told, though
not by him, and it is a dead secret, that Mark
is writing a book ; think, my dear, of any one
writing a book at one-and-twenty.'

'What is it about, my dear Mrs. Medway?'

inquired Trenna. ' Not on field sports — not a
'' Handbook on Tennis " ? '

Handbook of fiddlestick,' returned the
elder lady, with indignation. ' Do you suppose
Mark would stoop to anything so puerile ? It
is to be ' — here she sunk her voice — ' a County
History, in quarto.'

Come, that's charming,' exclaimed Trenna,
clapping her little hands ; ' I never know what
to buy upon a journey. What a nice book it
will be to read upon the railway ! '

It will be a nice book to read anywhere'
pursued her hostess, unconscious of the satire.
I have no doubt of that : but think of the
labour and study involved in such an undertaking
! With most people, Mr. Penryn says,
it would take a lifetime.'

Oh, Mr. Penryn himself was your informant,
was he, mamma ? ' cried Maud.

'I didn't mean to let it out, my desire,'
said Mrs. ' Medway, naively, ' but it must
go no further ; it lias been a dead secret all
along.'

And when did you first hear of it yourself,
mamma ? '

'Mr. Penryn told me, my dear, this very

morning.

At this there was another interchange of
smiles between the girls ; but they were tender
smiles, very different from those which are
evoked bv scorn. A mother's weakness for
her boy was not a subject to excite ridicule in
either of them, while jealousy was to Maud an
unknown passion. Besides, it was really true
that Mark studied too much, and was given to
indulge in dreams and phantasies, the result of
old-world reading ; and that Dr. Meade had
recommended change — a thing for which the

VOL. I. E

unconscious subject of his advice had a greater
distaste than even for physical exertion.

With this book on his mind,' continued
Mrs. Medway, ' it is more than ever necessary
that Mark should bestir himself; and I am so
delighted that Frank and Kit enticed him up to
the Castle to-day.'

'You should rather say, mamma, that the
idea of meetings the general's daughters
frightened him from home.'

Yes, it is extra ordinary' how little Mark
cares for ladies' society, unless, indeed, they are
old friends,' said Mrs. Medway, with a mechanical
but thoughtful glance towards Trenna.
But in this case liking had more to do with it
than shyness ; I believe Kit could persuade him
to go anywhere.'

'My brother is so very fond of Mark,' said
'Senna, with a Irish of pleasure, ' that I do

I

assure you I feel sometimes downright jealous
of him.'

Mrs. Medway smiled with gentle pity, as
though she would have said, ' and no wonder.'

Everybody loves Mark,' she observed
simply, ' but Kit best of all. That is why I
like Kit so much.'

' Well, really, mamma,' said Maud, remonstratingly,
' I do hope you like Kit a little for
his own sake.'

I do — I do, my dear ; what made you
think I didn't ? And there's dear Frank, too.'

Yes ; I am sure Mark is most fortunate in
his friends,' said Maud.

Good attracts good,' observed Mrs. Medway,
practically.

And the greater the less,' put in Trenna,
slily.

Just so, my dear. Xo one would think of
E 2

r^~'no n,«n*

comparing — that is, I mean,' said the elder lady,
catching a glance of horror in her daughter's
face, ' all comparisons are odious — why, dear
me,' she exclaimed delightedly, ' there he is ! '

The three young men had made their
appearance simultaneously, but Mrs. Medway
had only eyes for one of them ; or rather, as
mathematicians do with figures in the ninth
and tenth places of decimals, she had ' neglected '
the other two, as being by comparison of no
consequence.

CHAPTER IV.

THE FAMILY BARGE.

The little party had met before at the breakfast
table at the Knoll. Trenna was a temporary
visitor there, and her brother and Frank Meade
had rowed up thither in a skiff from Mogadion
that morning, so there were no formal ' 
vs ' and ' How-d've-do's ' to be exchanged.

Have the general and his aides-de-camp
really gone ? ' inquired Mark, a]:)prehensively.
Kit thought that the hoisting of the flail midst
be a mere russ de gui re, and that we should
find the enemy still in possession of the fortress ;
while Frank opined that the ladies couldn't get

on without us any longer, and had signalled
Come " in desperation.'

What conceit ! ' exclaimed Trenna.

What suspicion of duplicity ! ' added Maud.
That idea of Kit's could never have occurred
to any person of rectitude.'

I am not good, I know,' whimpered Kit,
pitifully. ' I am only beautiful.'

At this there was a roar of laughter, not at
the speaker, but at poor Maud, who, when very
young and under reproof, was reported by
tradition to have made this very observation.
Some foolish nurse had flattered her childish
vanity, and on being taken to task for some
naughtiness she had defended herself in this
illogical manner.

It is a great shame,' said Mrs. Medway, ' to
call to mind Maud's little weaknesses when she
has so long outgrown them.'



Tes,' asserted Kit, with a roguish smile,
when she is no longer beautiful, but accomplished.'


Mark,' cried his sister, with mock vehemence,
' why do you not defend me gains'
this wicked man, instead of grinning at his
impertinences ? '

'Kit would have his joke, my dear, evc:i
upon the scaffold,' said Mark, with his eye's
shut, as his custom was when greatly ticket.

'We shall see,' said Maud with significance.


A hit, a palpable hit ! ' cried Frank,
clapping his hands. 'Maud had you there,
Gars ton.'

'Thank you, Frank; you were always my
friend,' said Maud, gratefully.

" Short, not Codlin," ' quoted Kit. ' Oh,
I know I'm nowhere in comparison with
Meade.'

The speech of course was a playful one ;
still there was a tinge of bitterness in it that
did not escape the ear. If he expected a disclaimer
from the person addressed he was
disappointed, but her fair face flushed from
brow to chin. Trenna, too, flashed a covert
glance at Maud, as if to say, ' Why don't you
speak a word of comfort to poor Kit ? ' and
when there was no reply her brow grew dark
and troubled.

And now,' said Mark, breaking in upon
the silence with pretended enthusiasm., ' where
xirc our i acksts and our tennis-balls ? '

The exclamation vas most opportune, and
touched the spring of mirth in the whole hearty;
for as all were well aware, Mark had no racket,
and never played.

You lazy boy,' cried Maud, indignantly
we are not going to play tennis at all this

afternoon, and you know it ; you gentlemen
are going to row us ladies down the river.'

But Trenna is so fond of rowing,' said
Mark, pathetically, 'and the boat will bo 10
much lighter without me.'

You are going to vous ]\Iark,' said the
young lady thus alluded to, in an authoritative
tone. ' Frank and you are fToiug to row ]airs.
Medway and myself in the family barge, and
Kit will take Maud in the skiff.'

My dear mother,' appealed Mark, plaintively,
' is this young lady mistress of the house,
or are you? Do pray assert yourself.'

My dear boy, I think Trenna is quite
right,' returned Mrs. Medway, gravely. ' The-arrangement
she proposes is just as it should
be.'

As a matter of fact it was the one most
agreeable to all parties, though in pressing it

Trenna had only thought of one person, her
brother. She was devoted to Kit's interests —
nay more (let us not say worse), she was bent
upon promoting the gratification of his wishes,
even when it was not always to his advantage
that they should be fulfilled. To her, though
she was but his sister, Kit was what Mark was
to his mother, the apple of lier eye, and not
to be thwarted or crossed by any obstacle it
was in her power to remove. Some people said
that Trenna spoilt her brother ; but no one
accused Mrs. Medway of spoiling Mark ; they
only said she ' indulged ' him ; but the treatment
adopted in each case was the same. The difference
lay in the subjects of it.

The descent to the river was made through
the garden, and the beautiful wilderness that
lay beneath it. Every one of the party had

been tlicat way scores of times, yet its charms
always evoked ncAv admiration.

Alien I leave your bouse, Mrs. Medway,'
said Kit, as they were crossing the little rustic
bridge above the little pool, from which the
best view in the Knoll grounds was perhaps
to be obtained, 'it always seems to me like
quitting Paradise.'

'And what is the worst part of it,' grumbled
Mark, ' to undergo the curse of labour.'

For the path led to the boathouse.

The barge, as Trenna had called the ]medway's
boat — though, indeed, it was but a light
pair-oar — lay moored there, beside the little
skiff in which the two young men had
come.

The former was got ready first ; sirs. Medway
and Trenna placed themselves on the
cushioned seat, in spite of Mark's last appeal,

Are you sure, my dear Trenna, you would
not prefer to take an oar ? '

Frank, it is needless to say, pulled stroke,
and his friend bow.

We shall overtake you before you round
the Point,' said Kit, as he pushed them off, and
proceeded with deliberate solicitude to arrange
Maud's cushions for her in the skiff.

Don't you be so sure of that,' were Frank's
parting words ; * Mark is a tiger at rowing.'

However Meade miofht have exaggerated
his friend's prowess with the oar, he could
scarcely have exaggerated his own. Though
his weight was of course considerable, his
strength and skill amply compensated for it,
and indeed made but little of the whole freight.

I don't want you to exert yourself, my
dear fellow,' he said to his companion (' I
won't,' interpolated Mark), 'if you will only

keep time and not catch crabs, Kit shall never
come near us.'

It was really a fine sight to see that handsome
giant settle to his work after this exordium.
He never seemed to put forth his full powers.
There was hardly a trace of effort, but every
time his oar blades touched the water (for each
had a pair of sculls) the boat seemed to fly
before them as swiftly as the swallow skims.

I wish I could see ]Mark put his back in it,
axis Mr. Penryn calls it, as Frank does,' murmured
Mrs. Med way to her companion.
On the river every whisper is heard.
Back in it,' echoed Mark, despairingly, ' I
see more of Frank's back than you do ; his
muscles are going like the hammers in the
piano when you lift up the lid. It is most
curious, but no mother could wish her son's
back to be like that, surely. There, he's

broken down at last,' for Meade was overcome
with laughter ; ' phew, that's charming, now
one has time to breathe.'

The tide was still with them, though almost
on the turn, and, though the oars were out of
water, the boat still sped on like an arrow. To
see Frank's smiling face was a treat to anybody,
and, since his mirth had been evoked by her
son's drollery, Mrs. Med way especially enjoyed
it. Trenna, too, seemed to regard it with
greater pleasure than she generally allowed
herself to exhibit.

There's nothing,' says a great writer,
which evokes the admiration of worn. en more
than the manifestation of great physical strength
in one of the other sex ; ' nor is this far from
the truth, for there ' he is rich where side is
poor,' and his ' unlikeliness fits her own ' with
most completeness. It fills her with that sense

of protection which, to the true woman, is after
all one of his chiefs charms, whether lie
herself stand in need of it or not. Tremia
Garston stood in no such need. She possessed
a physical vigour very rare in one of lier sex,
and a spirit of independence rarer. But she
did not withhold her natural tribute of admiration,
and Meade, though he was far from
recognising it for what it was, perceived at
least that Trenna was well pleased. He lead
seldom seen her smile so kindly on him ; had
doubted, indeed, whether she ever did so
smile.

The truth was, Trenna was somewhat
jealous of him upon her brother's account ; she
resented his familiarity with the family at the
Knoll as a sort of infringement of Kit's copyright
of friendship with them; but at this
moment when Kit was where he would be —

filone with Maud— this feeling of antagonism
was in abeyance, and she could regard him
with fairness.

As for Meade, he was no exception to the
rule that there is no occasion when a man is
not prepared to regard a pretty woman, who
shows the slightest kindness for him, with
favour. The situation ard its surroundings —
the calmness of the summer evening, the
monotone of the rushing river, and the beauty
of its full-forged banks — were all propitious to
the tender passion. Frank lead often admired
Trenna before — no anchorite could have done
otherwise, and Frank w\^.s no anchorite — but
never had she looked to him so beautiful ; her
spirituelle face, as it hung dreamily over the
clear stream and was mirrored there, might
have belonged, he fancied, to some Undine ;
her fair form, as it reclined u;:o:i the scarlet

cushion, was the very embodiment of grace.
On ordinary occasions she spoke to him but
rarely ; her attitude towards him was that of
one who keeps an armed truce ; but on this
occasion she conversed with him freely, and
her voice was music in his ears.

Had !the bared her heart he would have
read some things there that would have
astonished him ; but he would have found
inscribed upon it both liking and respect for
him ; for the first time he read the former in
her face. In her words, too, there was liking.
It was not what she said, but the manner in
which she said it, which implied this ; though,
indeed, she might have said the softest tidings,
had she so pleased, with as little reserve as
though they were alone, since, when her son
was present, Mrs. Med way had neither ears
nor eyes for others. It was an afternoon that
VOL. I. F

Meade would not have easily forgotten, even
had there been nothing else — and it was fated
there should be much — to fix it in his memory.

As the river broadened, and they emerged
from its loneliness and comparative quiet into
Mogadion harbour, with its crowd and stir, it
seemed to the young man, though his thews
and sinews had been busy throughout the
voyage, that he was awakening from some
rapturous dream to common life.

Their intention was to take an evenings
meal with Trenna's father, after which the
little party, except Frank and Kit, were to
return by carriage to the Knoll. As the
repast, however, was to be a cold one, there
was no need for punctuality, and at the 
stood Dr. Meade on hospitable
thoughts intent.

My dear Mrs. Med way,' he said, ' I have

just seen Garston, and he will not be home for
half an hour at earliest. A patient of mine
who has not that confidence in my skill which
you have, has sent for him all in a hurry to
make his will, so I have undertaken to be your
host in the meantime.'

Now, my dear Doctor, is it true ? ' replied
Mrs. Medway, doubtfully. ' You know you
once made us lunch with you instead of Mr.
Penryn, under false pretences.'

I beg yom pardon, my dear madam ; I only
took it for granted that the Eector would have
been occupied in the performance of a certain
duty, which, as it turned out, he grossly
neglected. That he should have sent his curate
instead of going in person to marry the mayor's
daughter was so unlike a man with any regard
to his own interests, that I said boldly for him,
as a man should do for an absent friend whom

F 2

he respected, " Penryn is engaged elsewhere
to-day." '

But then he wasn't you know,' argued
Mrs. Medway, ' and it made him exceedingly
angry.'

It did, I allow ; but that arose from the
consciousness of a duty unfulfilled. He was
in reality annoyed with himself, and not with
me, and it did him morally a world of good.
But as to Garston, he is an attorney — begging
Miss Trenna's pardon (to whom I kiss my
hand), but the truth must be told at all hazards
and you may be certain I wouldn't run the
risk of offending Mm. No ; you must really
look in upon us and take a cup of tea. After
such exertions as I see your son has been
taking, my dear Mrs. Medway, some immediate
refreshment is essential to restore his drooping
energies.'

Dr. Meade, it Avill be seen, owns a wag ; he
was also one of that class which are now only
to be found in out-of-the-way country districts
a character.

Rubicund, massive, imperious, he was a man
who held his own, and got his own way more
than many a county magnate. The belief in
his skill was universal, and so deep-seated that
it doubled his professional usefulness. It had
often happened when a drooping patient had
said, ' I shall die,' that this man's confident ' No
you won't ' had done more to save him than his
medicines ; and this masterful spirit, which he
carried into all his actions, made most of them
victories. The Doctor's hand was as open as
his heart, and the poor idolised him ; but his
manner, so far from being of that smooth oleaginous
sort affected by some very successful
members of his profession, was often brusque,

and sometimes tart. This made him, with some
persons, unpopular. It did not suit the fastidious
taste of the Eev. Brooklyn Penryn,
Eector of Mogadion, for example, and would
have hindered his appreciation of the good
Doctor, even if that circumstance of his having
seduced his favourite guests on a certain occasion
from his luncheon table had never
occurred. • As it was, the Eector shrank from
the Doctor's society, and s23oke of him confidentially
as ' The Savage.'

Whether savage or not, he had the rude
virtue of hospitality in perfection. Dr. Meade's
small but comfortable house stood almost for
home ' in the eyes of many a country neighbour
whenever he visited the little seaport.
There was always simple but savoury fare to be
found there at mid-day for all friends round
Mogadion ; ' a knife and fork,' as the host himself

modestly expressed it, for everybody, 'and
a hearty welcome ' The Cote,' or ' Dovecote,'
as it was called, from the pigeons that strutted
about it, inside and out, stood a hundred feet
or so back from the narrow winding roadway
that fancied the high street of Mogadion, and
the old-fashioned garden that occupied the space
between gladdened every passer-by with its
sweetness and beauty.

The box-trees with which it was interspersed
gave it the only formality it possessed, and
though it could boast of none of the rare
floral beauties that made the garden at the
Knoll so attractive, in perfume and splendour it
eclipsed it quite. There was no house opposite
the Cote, which would have commanded an
uninterrupted view of the bay but for the
presence of a shipping quay, where from time
to time vessels of considerable burthen would

receive or discharge cargoes. Even clurini]^
those operations, however, themselves both interesting
and picturesque, the outlook from the
house was by no means shut out, and even
acquired a certain quaintness from the masts
and spars that intersected it.

At the door of the Cote stood Rachel
Deeds, the Doctor's housekeeper, whose smile
and curtsey, unlike the master's welcome
were by no means given to everybody : in the
present case, however, the visitors were received
with all the honour it was in her power to
bestow. Mrs. Medway was great favourite of
hers, and Mrs. Deed's daughter, Lucy, was in
service at the Knoll, as Miss Maud's own
maid.

I know whom you are looking for,
Eachel,' smiled Mrs. Medway, ' but Maud will
be here presently ; she is coming after us in
the skiff Will Mr. Christopher.'

It was curious that up to the mention of
that young gentleman's name old Eachel had
taken no notice of Trenna, whose presence she
now acknowledged, not without a certain stiffness.
Yet her son Abel Deeds was mr. Gars-ton
senior's man-servant, and the young lady
in question was almost as well known to her as
Miss Maud.

But the fact was Mrs. Deeds not only
claimed to have her likes and dislikes, but
showed them. The pleasure that lit up her
face at the sight of her young master was proof
enough of this, and indeed, though the old man
loved his son better than all the world, himself
included, he was less demonstrative of his
affection for him than was his housekeeper.
A nod and a cheerful ' Well, my boy I ' was all
that the Doctor had vouchsafed to Frank on this
occasion, though they had not met before that

day; and Frank's ' How are you, sir? ' in reply,
might have been thought formal by those who
did not know the deep affection that existed
between them. It is not in words, however,
that love and reverence dwell, notwithstanding
that so large a majority of the human race
would persuade us to the contrary.

CHAPTER V.

AT THE DOVECOTE.

Like all worthy professors of his noble calling,
Dr. Meade was the repository of many secrets
some of them confided to him, bnt more of
them guessed. He kncAv where many a patient's
shoe pinched, and had the ' length of their feet,'
while they flattered themselves that, though
prescribing for this and that, the most serious
of their maladies was beyond his ken. He
could read the embarrassments that are the
precursors of ruin in insomnia, and the domestic
quarrels that end in separation in suppressed
gout. Fortunately for his neighbours, with this

quick sight for human ailments, mental and
bodily, he combined a fine sense of honour that
caused him to keep his discoveries to himself.

The Doctor knew of Mrs. Med way this : that
she had become comparatively poor through an
act of self-sacrifice which, though dictated by
principle and indeed by a plain sense of justice,
had been a bitter humiliation to her to put into
effect. Her late husband had been a London
merchant of good position, but whose devotion
to his family had caused him to insure his life
for an amount unusual in one of his circumstances.
Of late years times had not been so
good with his particular business, and the paying
of his premiums had made a serious inroad
into his income. On his death, however, those
he left behind him reaped the fruits of his
prudence and self-denial. Though Mr. Med way
died the possessor of a much smaller fortune

than had been expected, the insurance companies
more than supplied the deficiency, and the widow
and her children were left in affluence. It was
more than a year after her husband's death that
certain suspicions she had always entertained
respecting his end were corroborated by a memorandum
found by her in his own handwriting :
his temperament had been nervous to excess,
and from dwelling upon his commercial losses,
his mind, always inclined to ' speculate for the
fall,' as his City friends termed it, had given way.
Under these circumstances — not in a moment of
depression, but after a long duration of it, which
admitted of certain cunning arrangements by
which he threw all but his wife off the scent
he had committed suicide. The insurance
companies had paid the policies, and, what was
of much more consequence in the widow's eyes,
not a breath of suspicion rested on the dead man.

To return the money would be to asperse the
memory of the man she had loved, and still
loved, better than all the world. But Mrs.
Med way did not hesitate for a moment ; she
made prompt and full restitution, and turning
her back upon London, which had no longer
any pleasurable associations for her, settled in
Cornwall with her children, both at that time
of tender age.

Thither at least it was unlikely that any
story with reference to their father's unhappy
end would follow them. Her own lips, we maybe
sure, would have been ever closed respecting
it, but for her anxiety on her son's account, who,
as she observed, or imagined, began to develop
certain traits of character which had belonged
to his father. He was not, indeed, subject to
depression, but his habits were loo studious, and
his disposition too thoughtful and sedate, for one

SO young. A mother's solicitude must be her
excuse for attaching to these symptoms a too
grave significance. To reveal her fears was to
aggravate a wound that Time had even vet
hardly healed, and to sin against her reverence
for the dead ; but to conceal them might be to
risk the happiness of the living. In seeking Dr.
Meade's advice for Mark she had been compelled
to tell him all, and her confidence had not been
misplaced.

She had found not only a guardian for her
son, but a friend for herself. Under other circumstances
he would have ridiculed her apprehensions,
which, indeed, were at present at all
events sufficiently groundless ; but, as it was, his
respect and admiration for her took off all the
sharpness of his satire. At the most he allowed
himself only a little good-natured raillery, as
when he had spoken of Mark's late exertions at

the oar, of the true nature of which his professional
eye had of course at once informed him.
One member of the Cote household still
remains to be introduced, the cat Gregorius, so
called from its peculiar purr, which was supposed
to resemble chanting. This animal was a magnificent
Angora, about whose well-being it was
whispered the Doctor was as solicitous as about
that of any of his patients. Once he had lost
him, though not by the common lot. Gregorius
had suddenly disappeared, and neither the garden
nor the chimney-corner had known him for
an entire year. Placards were issued ; rewards
were offered ; all that human skill could suggest
was tried in vain to win back the wanderer.
That any one in Mogadion — even the most
wicked of boys — could have wilfully harmed the
Doctor's cat was an idea not to be entertained ;
the Eector's cynical suggestion that he had been

translated to Paradise seemed quite as possible.
At the end of twelve months, Gregorian was
found in his usual chair in the breakfast-room
one morning, chanting a little louder than was
his wont, but otherwise unchanged and unmoved.
In the interval, as it turned out, he had been to
Buenos Ayres and back. A ship at the quay-had
been loading for that port, and Gregorius
had gone on board — it was supposed for rats —
on the day it sailed. She had been out a week,
as the captain told the Doctor apologetically, and
had a fair wind, or he would certainly have
put back when his favourite was discovered to
be a stowaway. As a matter of fact, the precious
creature had never been permitted to set foot
on shore at the end of his voyage; but the
Doctor would declare that Gregorius was full
of information respecting South America, and,
like the Eector — who had had that reputation

TOL. I. G

for forty years — was meditating the publication
of a book.

If Mrs. Medway lead needed any claim
upon her host's regard she would have found
it in the cat's affection for her. Sto sooner
had she taken her seat at the tea-table than
Gregorius was on her lap, tapping her hand
with his velvet paw to remind her that the
clotted cream — recommended by the Doctor
as equal to cod-liver oil — was within her reach,
and that buttered toast can be procured fora
friend, even if one does not care for it for
one's own eating.

'You know what's good,' observed Mrs.
Medway caressingly; 'don't you, Gregory?'

He is indeed an excellent judge of
character,' observed the Doctor. ' He took
a fancy to you, my dear lady, from the
fiis^'

Oil ! but I didn't mean tliat^ I'm sure
said Mrs. Medway.

My dear Frank, do you hear low your
papa is going on with my mamma ? ' inquired
Mark.

I'm used to it,' answered Frank laughing ;
why, bless your heart, that's nothing.'

Yes, but if you or I were to talk like that
to any young person '

It would do YOU a teat deal of brood,
sir,' exclaimed the Doctor. ' Even a Platonic
attachment is better for a young fellow than
nothing.'

My dear Doctor,' interposed ]vii's. Medway,
picturing to herself on the instant her darling
fallen m love, and meditating flight from the
maternal roof, ' I beg you won't put such
notions into Mark's head.'

If they don't come of themselves, my dear

G 2

madam,' said the Doctor, drih^, ' they won't
come at all. They can't be dibbled in like-potatoes.
But they are pretty sure to come
sooner or later ; and upon the whole it is
better to have them early, and get them over.'
As he said these words the Doctor glanced
uneasily from Trenna to his son, as though he
recognised some signs of an attachment there,
which he would have been unwilling to see
grow to maturity.

Trenna's eyes met his own with an expression
so cold and stately that it was almost
contemptuous. Perhaps she thought that
other looks beside his own were fixed upon
her.

Frank, on the other hand, gave no such
evidence of self-consciousness. In the boat he
lead certainly experienced some emotions of
the lover: but the moment of attraction had

apparently passed by, or perhaps his present
surroundings had recalled him to everyday
life and dissolved his day-dream. He seemed,
• indeed, rather amused than concerned ^vith his
father's remarks : but, on the other hand, that
was how he generally received any observations
from the paternal lips, with which he was
unable to sympathise. The Doctor, for
example, was prejudiced and somewhat obstinate
in matters relating to his own profession,
slow to change and averse to novelties even
when they were substantial improvements.
Eut when he pressed these views on Frank,
who was of the new and more scientific school,
the vouni:: man never aro-sued with him, but
smiled — anything but acquiescence. This did
not arise from irreverence, far from it ; but in
matters where principle was concerned he
could not bring himself to yield, so 'lightly

put the question by.' Such a course of conduct
would have been dangerous with some
fathers as provocative of apoplexy ; but the
Doctor, who lost his temper with others rather •
easily, was never tempted to do so with his
son. His sagacity enabled him both to discover
Frank's motive for declining the fray,
and to perceive the independence of character,
or originality of thought, which declined to
win the paternal favour by submission.

Upon the present occasion, however, because
he felt the silence to be a little embarrassing,
Frank was about to make some
humorous defence of First Love, of which his
father had spoken so disparagingly, when he
was interrupted by an exclamation from Mrs.
Med way.

Why, dear me,' she cried, ' there's Host
K umber Two. You see. Doctor, nobody trusts

you with their guests a bit longer than they
are obhgecl to do.'

Mr. Garston gave me the loan of you for
half an hour,' said the Doctor, resolutely ; ' and
for five minutes more you are hie. Xow, my
dear sir, I do hope you have not been cutting
short poor Jones's will, and putting it into plain
English in order to get home to your friends ;
the omission of such a beautiful (and expensive)
word as hereditaments, as you once explained
to me, you know, may be fatal to his heirs.'

What do you mean ? ' inquired the newcomer
with a puzzled air, and the least tinge
of a foreign accent. In appearance he looked
very foreign indeed, swart as a Spaniard (indeed
he came of a Spanish stock) and squat as a
Dutchman, with bright beady eyes, which,
cunning rather than intelligent, and wholly
destitute of spirituality, seemed like cheap

imitations of the brilliant and speaking orbs
of his daughter.

Well, I mean,' resumed the Doctor,
peevishly, ' that since you have got Maud and
Christopher at home, you might have left these
other folks a little longer with me — but there,
I suppose you have not been home, but have
come straight away from Jones.'

I have not come straight away ; I have
just come from home. There is no Maud and
Christopher there ; what is it you mean ? '

Then, good Heavens, where are they ? '
exclaimed Mrs. Medway, starting up and clasping
her hands.

Where are they .^ why, on the river, of
course,' answered the Doctor, gaily, but with a
swift significant glance towards his son — or
rather towards the place where his son had
stood, for Frank had left the room on the

instant, accompanied by Trenna, upon a quest
the speaker understood at once. ' They are
drifting down the river slowly,' he continued
in the same cheerful tone, ' as young people
will do who find themselves in the same boat
together, and imagine they wish it to last for
life.'

'But the tide would have brought them
here without the help of oars by this time,'
exclaimed Mark with a scared look. ' I will
take a boat at once and see what has become
of them.'

Oh no, no ! ' cried his mother in a voice
of agony. 'Is it not enough that Maud, my
darling Maud, may have perished in that
dreadful river ? Let a boat be sent at once ;
but, for Heaven's sake, let others go, Mark,
and not you.'

My dear Mrs. Medway,' said the Doctor

soothingly. ' you are distressing yourself quite

unnecessarily. Christopher swims like a fish,

does he not, Garston ? — and even Maud herself

can swim a little.'

Not in the river ; not in such a tide as

that,' cried Mrs. Med way, wringing her hands.

Eun, Mark — a boat, a boat ; but promise

me '

Mark had rushed to the door ere his mother

had concluded her appeal, but the Doctor's

hand was on his shoulder. ' Stop where you

are for your mother's sake,' he whispered.

Look, look ; there goes the boat,' he added

aloud triumphantly, ' with the best oarsmen in

it in all Mogadion, and the best of coxswains,

albeit she is a woman.'

He pointed to the open window, through

which the same boat in which the party

had arrived, but with Frank at the oar,

and Trenna at the stern, could be seen shooting
across the harbour like a bird. ' Garston, my
man,' he continued cheerfully, for the other
had dropped into a chair with an expression
difficult to translate, but of reflection and
embarrassment rather than of distress, ' you
have a daughter to be proud of.'

But Kit, Kit ! ' observed the lawyer
uneasily.

Kit will be all right, and Maud will be all
right ; if they are on the river Frank will find
them, and if anything — that is, if they have had
a ducking — they will be on land. Eachel,
order the waggonette instantly — at once.'

My carriage,' murmured Mr. Garston.

Nonsense ! your carriage is a fine affair —
and you have a fine coachman who will take a
fine time to put to. Xow here we are, rough
but ready. There, I hear the wheels already.

We will go by the road, we four, so that we
shall be sure to meet our young friends, even if
the boat should miss them.'

Within such a space of time as could only
have been possible in a doctor's household,
used to emergencies and despatch, the waggonette
and pair was at the door ; and at the
words, ' Quick, the Knoll ! ' started at a gallop
with its anxious tenants.

CHAPTEE VI.

THE SEARCHERS.

Mark Iliad been mistaken when he observed
that, even if Kit and [And had suffered their
Hight boat to drift down the stream, it would
have carried them to Mogadion by the time
which lead elapsed since the rest of the party
had reached it. It would have doubtless done
so had the tide continued to ebb, but it was
almost on the turn when they had embarked ;
a circumstance which had not escaped the
notice of Frank, though it tended but little to
decrease his anxiety. However little Kit had
exerted himself, it was certain that the skiff

was overdue ; and, as we have seen, Frank had
not lost a moment in investigating the cause of
its delay. The quickness with which Trenna
had understood his look, and his movement
towards the door when her father's news was
told, had been marvellous ; one would have
almost said that such a tacit appeal could not
have been so instantly understood and acted
upon unless the two had been bound together
by that common sympathy which exists only
in the hearts of those who love one another.
Such an idea, however (even if the time had
been fitting for the entertainment of it), would
never have crossed Prank Meade's mind ; it
was the thought of Kit's being in peril, as
Frank well knew, which had so sharpened
Trenna's quick wits. Her brother was all in
all to her ; and though if Mark, for example,
had been with his sister in Kit's place, Trenna

would have done all she could for them, the
tidings that had just fallen on her ear would
not have driven the blood from her cheeks, and
made her large eyes wild with terror as it had
done.

You must steer, Trenna,' cried Frank, as
they ran down the garden, ' and I will take the
oars ; we shall get on almost as fast that way,
and you \vill be able to keep a good look ^^jt.'

She bowed her head in assent, but at the
same time a shudder ran through her slight
frame.

A good look out for what ? ' was her
dismal thought ; ' not for the boat and its
occupants, for they could hardly be passed by
unnoticed, but for the boat without its occupants,
or perhaps for a pale corpse, whose
hands, no more to be clasped in lies, should

be holding in their last clutch some broken
branch or river weed ! '

Notwithstanding the tumult of her mind
and the haste of her movements, it was noticeable
how deftly she seated herself in the boat
and took the rudder-lines, while Frank on his
part seized the oars with a promptness altogether
distinct from hurry and settled to his
work on the instant. If the lives of the missing
pair were in any way dependent upon human
skill and intelligence, they were fortunate
indeed in those to whom their succour had been
entrusted. Not a word was spoken till the
boat left the harbour and entered the river ;
then ' Keep the midstream,' said Meade, ' and
watch the left bank while I watch the right.'

They thus proceeded for some minutes at
great speed, keeping their eyes on the swirling

stream with its occasional freight of branch and
brier.

What can have happened, Frank ? ' murmured
Trenna, suddenly.

It was the first time she had ever called
him ' Frank ' ; though his mind was full of
Maud at the time he noticed the fact, and set it
down to its true cause ; her anxiety and alarm
were such that she used the first word that
came into her mind, and quite unconsciously.

Heaven knows, Trenna ! ' he answered.
Some accident has probably happened to the
boat ; Kit may have lost an oar. I have known
him do so ; he is not very careful. In that
case they would have had to put to shore.'

Trenna shook her head. ' He would not
have been careless in Maud's company,' washer
significant rejoinder.

Her safety, if it were threatened, would

VOL. I. H

have been his only thought, no doubt,' replied
the other, gently.

Yes, that is the worst of it.'

The worst of it ! '

Did I say that ? What I meant was that
at all hazards to himself he would have striven
to save her. In a stream like this we know
what must come of such Quixotry. Two lives
are lost in place of one.'

The words were uttered with a certain
impatience and indignation, that struck her
companion.

Good Heavens, Trenna ! would you have
had him forsake her, under any circumstances ? '

I would have had him preserve his life,'
she answered fiercely ; ' no woman's life is
worth such a life as Kit's. Oh Kit, dear Kit ! '
To reason with her Frank saw was useless ; he
rowed on in silence till presently the girl

exclaimed with agitation, ' Gently, gently,
there is something yonder.'

He turned round and beheld some object
tossing and swirling in an eddy under a horn of
the left bank. He drew up to it swiftly, and
Trenna put her hand out and dragged it into
the boat. It was a skiff's rudder.

A glance at it was sufficient for Frank, who,
without a word, continued his exertions. One
would have thought that he had already done
all that man and oar could do, but this incident
appeared to incite him to still greater speed.
The boat seemed to fly out of the water rather
than through it, with every stroke.

What is the use, Frank ? ' exclaimed
Trenna, a touch of admiration mingling with
her despair ; ' you are spending strength and
breath in vain. If he — if they are not on land
by this time they must be beyond human aid.'
H 2

The Tusk, the Tusk,' he murmured, and
plied his sculls as before. Then she understood
on what he built his hopes.

The Tusk, so called from its sharp point,
was in mid stream, not far from where they
were ; in dry seasons, when the stream was
low, it formed a small island, and was always
visible during the ebb tide. But after rain,
when the tide had begun to flow, it was submerged,
and to those who were unacquainted
with the navigation of the river was a most
dangerous object. - The weather had been wet
of late, which made the chance a very slender
one, but there was a possibility if the skiff had
gone to pieces there (as was most likely) that
its tenants might have found foothold on the
Tusk itself. Escape from it, unless the
swimmer was both strong and skilful, would
have been impossible, for the stream on both
sides was exceptionally swift and deep.

They were now rounding a corner which
disclosed the reach of the river wherein this
rock was situated, and Trenna was straining her
aching eyes to catch sight of it in vain. She
did not know, as Frank knew, the exact spot
where it was situated. Suddenly he ceased
rowing and uttered a deep sigh.

What is the matter ? Are you hurt ? '
she gasped ; for the moment she thought that
his immense exertions had ruptured a blood-vessel.
He shook his head and pointed to the
water behind her, through which the Tusk was
plainly visible. Indeed, while she looked at it
some lull of the wave bared a few inches of
smooth rock beneath it, which stood up like a
gray gravestone.

Then the rudder strings fell from the girl's
hold and she fainted away.

CHAPTEE VII.

THE 'tusk

The spot from which the voyagers to and from
the Knoll landed and embarked, and on which
the gate of its ' wilderness ' opened, was by no
means an ordinary landing-stage.

There was a fishermen's village, the inmates
of which were on something more than ' visiting
terms ' with the Medway family. Maud and
her mother visited them indeed, but not with
tract in hand, in the patron-mission manner.
The villagers and she were the best of friends,
and the children idolised her. It happened,
therefore, that though the family barge and its

inmates had got off with not much molestation,
Maud and Kit, who were slower in their movements,
became the victims of juvenile enthusiasm.
Every child wanted a word or a paton
the head from Miss Maud, and she was too
good-natured to refuse them. Her companion,
though in general children were not much in
his way (except in the obnoxious sense),
secretly favoured this demonstration, since it
prolonged delay. It was not often that he had
the chance of a tete-astute with Maud Medway,
and he greatly appreciated it.

She could not be said to shun him, but she
did not seek his companionship, which on this
occasion, as it will be remembered, had been
imposed upon her by Trenna. She liked Kit
very well and enjoyed his society ; but she
preferred to enjoy it with others : and the
reason was, though she had never acknowledged

it even to herself, she was afraid of liking him
too much. It is sad, but true, that there are
people whom we like more than we respect,
and better than those whom we respect ; and
this was the case in the present instance. She
admired Kit's comeliness, his intelligence, and
his geniality, but her regard for him was
clouded with a doubt. In the case of words
spoken against the powerful, we are informed
that the birds of the air will carry the matter ;
but what one says and does in an English
country town, whether in reference to the
powerful or otherwise, are seeds caught up by
every wind and carried all over the neighbourhood,
to bear their crop in due or undue
season. If all of us have not our enemies we
have at least our detractors, and the Garston
family was no exception to the rule. The
head of it was unpopular even to a greater

degree than a coimbra attorney is bound to beat
all events, to some folks. The keeping
of a gig was in Thurtell's days a proof of
respectability, but Mr. Garston kept a carriage
and pair, and yet had not succeeded in establishing
that matter beyond dispute. Nobody
quite knew where this money came from, nor
indeed whether he really had any. His professional
practice was small, and exceedingly
sharp. His appearance, as we have seen, was
far fi'om impressive ; his manner towards his
inferiors was harsh, and to those above him in
position too conciliatory. If it had not been
for the attractions of his son and daughter,
Mr. Garston the elder would have had much
difficulty in getting into society at all. None
but very dull or pretentious folks had ever
found fault with Kit's manners — when he
wished to please. Indeed, it was whispered —

and, when a whisper is widespread it is as bad
as anything spoken out — that in certain
quarters he had been found only too irresistible
; and that he had been sent to college
(where he had now been two years) not so
much for learning, which Mr. Garston, senior,
despised, nor for tone and polish (of which the
young man stood in no need), as to keep him
out of mischief. There were rumours also of
his extravagant habits, and of quarrels with
his father in consequence of them, which it
had taken all Trenna's address to heal.

Mark had heard these scandals, and had
disbelieved them, as he would have disbelieved
anything else said to his friend's discredit ; and
as Mark thought, so his mother thought. But
Maud, who thought for herself, had concluded
there could hardly be such volumes of smoke
without a spark or two. She was not the sort

of girl to gossip with her maid, but simple
Lucy Deeds, who stood in no great awe of her
kind young mistress, had now and then spoken
of the ' goings on ' at the White House (as Mr.
Garston's residence was called, where her
brother Abel was in service) in a manner that
was rather alarming.

All this, however, for she was a true woman
(that is, a bit of a hypocrite), you would never
have guessed from her manner when in Kit's
company ; nor, with all his cleverness, did he
guess it. He thought her light indifferent way
with him was nati-al to her, 'and a proof that
she cared little for him. In the case of any
other girl he would have felt piqued at this
and even angry, but in Maud it grieved him,
because he loved her. He often shot an arrow
at her in hopes to hit a soft spot in her heart.

wHcli she turned aside as it were with a wicker
shield.

Are you going to trust me with the tiller
ropes, Kit?' she inquired as she lightly took her
seat in the skiff.

Of course I am,' and as the boat shot from
the shore he added, in a lower tone, ' I would
trust you with anything.'

The sentiment was one which, as we have
said, she could hardly have reciprocated in any
case, but the expression of it, so early on the
voyage, made her almost wish that it was over.

I am not such a good coxswain as Trenna,
remember,' she answered.

You have nothing to guard against except
the Tusk, which is very sharp though often
concealed, like the sting in a lady's speech,'
replied Kit, who was a little annoyed by her
ignoring of his pretty compliment.

You misquote the metaphor,' she answered
gaily ; ' the keenness of the tooth is compared
by Shakespeare to man's ingratitude.'

It was injudicious of her to venture upon the
poets.

To that sarcasm,' he answered, ' since you
are for quotations, I can honestly reply, "Sweet,
it hurts not." I may be worthless, Maud, but I
am not ungrateful.'

I am sure you are not, though indeed I am
not aware that I have ever laid you under any
obligation.'

I am sorry for it,' he answered simply.

Sorry for what ? '

Sorry that you do not know I am under
an obligation to you.'

If he had expected she would reply ' Under
what obligation P ' he was mistaken. There was
a tenderness in his tone which put her more on

her guard than ever. Since she could not
parry him with a joke as usual, she resolved to
adopt the role of sister, which their long friendship
and familiarity permitted her to do.

Eeally, Kit, your modesty overwhelms me.
If it comes to obligation the indebtedness is
ours, not yours. But for you we should not
now have Mark with us, and what would the
Knoll be without Mark ? If anything had
happened to him I do believe I should have
lost my mother also.'

Yes,' he answered thoughtfully, ' they always
remind me of that hne in Circumstance " Two
lives bound up in one in golden ease." I cannot
picture one apart from the other ; while their
confidence in the future as bringing no change
is so touching, and ' — he added after a pause —
so pitiful.'

But change is not necessarily for the worse,'

observed Maud, eager for the security of philosophic
argument.

In their case it can hardly be for the
better,' he answered ; ' that is the one advantage
in being miserable ; one hopes, though one is
generally a fool for hoping, that things must
mend.'

You must know very little about misery,
Kit : to judge by your high spirits you ought
to be the happiest of men.'

He shook his head and dipped the oar blade
lightly in the water. The tide had slackened
and gave them little aid ; their progress was
but slow. ' You are mistaken there, Maud ;
and as to being the happiest of men — good
Heavens ! ' He laughed bitterly, then added
with gratitude, ' Not but that there are possibilities
of such a thing even for me ; I might
be made so.'

Maud felt her colour rising, and strove to
keep it down in vain. ' Oh, as to that,' she
said, ' I believe that the happiness of all of us
rests with ourselves.' The platitude of her remark
still further betrayed her embarrassment,
and she knew it.

In your mother's case, for example ? ' he
answered.

Well, mamma is an exception ; she is not
so much herself as herself and Mark.'

Say, rather, " Mark and herself," ' he
put in, smiling ; ' he is the substance, she the
shadow.'

And yet you, who saved him for her, would
have me think that we are under no obligation.
What a terrible fate, too, was that from which
you delivered him ! Mamma has never had
the courage even to speak of it.'

Yes ; an early death is of itself no great
misfortune, perhaps, for many a man ; but the

manner of it would in his case have been exceptionally
painful — at all events to think of.'

How was it exactly ? '

You must have heard it a hundred times.'

Never from the one person qualified to
tell it.'

Well, we were alone together, Mark and I.
It was the Saturday half-holiday, and we had
gone to the sand-chef, where they find the scythe-stones.
Each man has his burrow there, just
as you see in the silver mines above Mogadion,
but they were taking holiday like ourselves.
In the sheds outside they had left their picks
and shovels, which, as it turned out, was lucky.
Most of the tunnels are safe enough, well
propped with fir stakes ; but in others the
owners are too poor, or too careless, to take
that precaution, or they have sold their stakes
for drink, and chance it. They dig in constant

VOL. I. I

danger. Tt is like living in a house with a roof,
but without walls. Being schoolboys it was, of
course, one of the unsafe ones we chose for our
explorations.'

I always heard,' interposed Maud, ' that
Mark ran in before you could stop him, and
that you followed at the risk of your own life.'

Well, I was older and knew the danger
better ; moreover, I saw that the tunnel in
question had fallen into disuse, a sign of its
being very perilous ; so I ran in after him and
called, " Come out, come out ! " Perhaps, my
voice brought down the sand, in which case
Mark had nothing to thank me for, but at all
events down it came.'

How horrible ! What did it feel like ? '

Like what it was ; we were buried alive.
Mark had turned at my cry, and was coming
towards me, but of course I was nearer to the

adit. The sand was in my mouth, my ears, my
nostrils ; it clung? around me as though it were
taking a cast of every hmb ; but fortunately it
was dry ; if it had been damp I should not
have been here this evening in the cool summer
weather talking to you, Maud.'

Xo, indeed ; but I am thankful to say you
are here. Well, what did you do then ? '

With a great effort, I managed to scramble
through the sand, as one plunges through a
snowdrift, and found myself outside. For the
moment I fancy I must have lost my senses ;
for I don't remember picking up the spade.
Heavens ! how I dug till I saw Mark's arm
sticking out like a dead branch, and then how
I pulled. It makes me hot to think of it
even now.'

On the contrary, it makes me shiver to
listen to you,' cried Maud, excitedly. ' How
1 2

near you must both of you.liave been to
death.'

Mark was certainly near it. His face was
quite white and very wet, as though he had
been dipping it in the river here, and he was
utterly unconscious. I took the sand out of his
mouth, and did what I could to restore animation.
It was not quite what Dr. Meade would
have done, no doubt, but at all events it
answered. After a minute or two he breathed
my name, just "Kit," but it was the most welcome
sound I had ever listened to.'

No wonder Mark is so fond of you,'
said Maud gently ; ' if any one had saved
my life like that I should have been theirs
for ever.'

Then how I wish it lead been your life.'
She had been imprudent, no doubt, in
affording him such an opportunity ; she had

teed ' the ball for him, as a golf-player
would say, and it was no wonder, being quick
and bold, that he had taken advantage of it.
His tone was so tender and so eacfer that it was
impossible to treat his rejoinder as a joke ; or
to reply to it otherwise than as to a serious
aspiration.

One can't have all one wishes,' she
answered gravely, ' and, as Mr. Penr}m said in his
sermon last Sunday, it is often fortunate for us
that we cannot.'

Still there are some things that we can
give to one another if we please,' pleaded
Garston, softly. ' There is, for example, no
wish of yours, dear Maud, which I would not
gratify if it were in my power.'

Then please, Kit, to drop this subject.'

The answer was curt, no doubt ; but Maud
was driven to desperation. She was frightened

for herself, lest she should yield to this bold
wooer, whom she really liked in so many
ways ; and alarm when it becomes despair is a
sort of courage. Christopher Garston was a
very clever fellow, but the reading of a
woman's heart was beyond his powers ; if he
could have read it now he would have disobeyed
Maud's orders, and like the valiant
sea captain, who would not see his admiral's
signals to cease firing, his insubordination
might have won the day. As it was he took
her words in dudgeon, and for reply only plied
his oars with reckless vigour. They flew on
in silence down the wooded reach, till suddenly
there was a sharp crash ; the frail skiff went
to pieces under them in an instant, and they
found themselves in the river.

The cool silver shock ' of the stream
wherein you take your ' header,' and for which

you are prepared, is a very different tiling from
the sensation of sudden shipwreck ; but Kit
had all his wits about him, and his arm around
Maud's waist in a moment, as though he had
been a lover on land. There was ground
beneath his feet, though very little of it, nor
was the stream above his shoulders, but it was
so strong that he could only stand in it by
taking hold of the sharp rock in front of him
that had caused the catastrophe. For the
moment Maud had no distinct impression of
anything, except that she was half drowned,
but she knew that the stream was carrying her
feet from under her, and that Kit's arm alone
sustained her.

Oh, Kit, where is the boat ? '

The boat has gone to pieces, darling, but
you shall be saved.'

His tone was confident, but his mind was

very far from being so. On both sides of
them the current ran swift and deep. The
Tusk itself, on which they had come to grief
had only one jagged tip out of water, and
the tide was rising. It was with great difficulty,
even now, that he could maintain his footing
with such an incumbrance as poor drooping
Maud upon his arm. He looked to left and
right in vain for any sight of aid ; except by
themselves and the fishermen of the village,
who were now at sea, and would not return
till evening, the' river was little used by anyone.
Doubtless she read in his face the fears
that belied his words.

You are a strong swimmer. Kit,' she cried,
with a shiver of terror, ' but you can never get
to land with me.'

I can and I will,' he answered boldly.

N05 no ; that will be to drown us both

she murmured. ' Can I not cling to the rock
till you get help ? '

The Tusk is almost under water now,' he
answered, in quick grave tones, ' and will serve
even to hold on to but a few minutes longer.
We must take our chance. Listen, Maud ! Our
deliverance les more in you* hands than in
mine. If you cling to me, save where I tell
you, we shall both perish, but if you hold by
my braces — have you got them tight .^ — that will
leave my arms free, and you will be supported
by my shoulders. Do not struggle, but trust
to me.'

I do, I will,' she murmured.

Take breath ; keep cool ; have courage.
Mark has told you that I was the best swimmer
of all Ludlow's boys ; and for once he did not
flatter me. Are you ready ? — off ! '

Alone he would have plunged into the

Stream like an otter ; but with his heavy burden,
and doubtful (as he afterwards observed)
whether the cargo would not ' shift,' he had to
use great precaution. He was obliged to forego
all the advantages of an impetus, and to take
the water more like a boat than a man. The
next minute, however, he was battling with the
stream ; his eyes fixed on a little promontory
they had just passed. Every limb and muscle
were doing their uttermost, and his lungs
working like a forcing pump ; but of all that he
was unconscious ; his mind was where his eyes
were. If he could only reach that branch which
swept the water yonder all would be well ; and
he would have given ten years of his life to
grasp it.

Maud behaved to admiration. At first she
was terribly frightened ; the common phrase
only a plank between us and eternity ' was, by

comparison with her case, a synonym for
security. The plank would have made all the
difference in the world to her. Drenched,
breathless, frigid, with some power unseen ever
striving to drag her downwards, none, who have
not known what it is to feel the dark waters of
death closing in upon them, can picture what
she felt ; but Kit's bold words ' I can and I
will ' ever rang in her ears, and Kit's advice,
Do not struggle, trust to me,' were the lessons
her pale dumb hips rehearsed throughout that
awful passage. Three times the wave passed
over her face : once she sank beneath it : it
was plain that Kit had overrated his powers
though not his courage : he never lost heart,
but strength and breath only just sufficed to
accomplish what he had set them to do.

It was well that the long-looked-for branch
hung where it did, since, but for its friendly aid,

it would have been difficult for him, even when
they reached the bank, to climb it.

After they had taken breath, and were
standing in safety, hand in hand, upon the little
promontory, Maud looked back upon the
river.

Oh, Kit, what a risk you ran for my sake,"
exclaimed she, with heartfelt gratitude. ' You
might have saved yourself with ease.'

Myself ! ' he interrupted scornfully.
'What would life have been to me without
you ? But come, you are wet and shivering.
I must take you home at a run, if possible.'

The proposition was welcome to her, since
it precluded further talk ; indeed, save for a
word or two of encouragement, he said no more
to her till they reached the village. So tender
were her feelings towards him, that if he had
put Love's question at that time it would,

without doubt, have had the reply he longed
for ; but, as it was, he had spoken at once too
much and too little. There had been nothing
definite in that ' What would Hfe have been
without you ? ' and certainly nothing binding.
On the other hand, it had been very significant ;
nor was it likely that he had forgotten what
Maud had said not half an hour before, though
with no idea of its application to her own case.
If any one had saved my life I should have
been theirs for ever.'

CHAPTEE VIII.

THE TWO COUNSELLORS.

Meade and Trenna of course had heard the
news of the safety of the missing ones when
they reached the village, while a mounted
messenger from the Knoll had met the carriage
folks on the road with the same glad tidings.
It was received with great delight by all,
but with a difference ; by Mrs. Med way, for
example, with devotional thankfulness, and by
Trenna with a sort of ecstatic rapture.

It would have been hardly an exaggeration
to say that her brother was her divinity, and
where such feelings in respect to kinship are

very powerful the religious instinct is generally
in inverse proportion. Mr. Garston, who had
kept most command over his feelings even when
matters were in doubt, took what the gods had
given him — or at least had not taken away from
him — without much demonstration of gratitude.
To a cynic, who had heard the Mogadion
gossip, it might perhaps have occurred that the
idea of a recommencement of outgoings had
entered into the attorney's mind coincidently
with his son's safety ; and it is certainly curious
how the letters L.S.D. will sometimes, like those
engraved on a shop-window, interfere with the
exhibition from without.

Again, none rejoiced more than Frank
Meade at Maud's safety (as for Kit it is enough
to say that Frank would have risked his own
life for him — as he would have done for anybody
else) ; but it was undoubtedly a painful

thought to him that she owed her safety to
Christopher Garston. He was not jealous of
that young man in the ordinary sense ; indeed,
considering what we know of his late adventures
with Miss Trenna, it would have been
monstrous indeed had he entertained such a
feeling ; he did not even say to himself, ' How
I wish the opportunity of saving Maud Medway
had presented itself to me instead of to that
fellow !' But lie greatly regretted that it had
offered itself to Kit. He felt that the circumstance
would draw the tie of friendship between
him and the family at the Knoll more tightly
than before ; and he had never approved of
that friendship.

As to Mark, the late catastrophe of his
friend and sister, or rather their escape from it,
affected him in a very curious way. He was
thankful beyond measure that they had been

spared to him, for he loved them both, the one
hardly less than the other; it was almost as
difficult for him to imagine how the world
would look to him without Kit in it, as to
picture the Knoll without Maud, and to have
lost sister and friend at one fell stroke would
have prostrated him indeed. But for him, too,
in the circumstances of Maud's rescue, there
was something of bitterness. He did not
grudge Kit his share of it, qua Kit ; indeed,
since he had not rescued her himself he was
glad that it had fallen to his friend's lot to doit
; but it annoyed him to reflect that had he
been in Kit's place Maud would undoubtedly
have perished. What gave him something
worse than annoyance, a sense of inferiority,
was that when the question of help
had arisen, Meade, and not he, had been the
one to fly to the rescue ; and with him —

VOL. I. K

and this was a positive humiliation — had
town Trenna. He, Mark Medway, a man,
had remained behind with his mother, and
gone home like useless baggage in the
waggonette, while Trenna Garston, a girl,
had done her best to save his sister from a
watery grave.

Such self-upbraidings were of course irrational.
To be an indifferent oar and a clumsy
swimmer are neither of them moral offences ;
and it was plain that, with all the good-will in
the world, no person unskilled in rowing and
swimming would in the case in question have
been of any use. Nevertheless, Mark despised
himself for these shortcomings, and brooded
over what had happened in a manner very
unbecoming an antiquary and a philosopher :
and the circumstance seemed in his mother's
eyes to develop that very faculty of despondency

Tvhich above all things she dreaded to
see in him, lest it might be there by inheritance.


Like Job he had his two Comforters in
Frank and Kit, and to do them justice they
showed themselves much more sympathetic
than Ehphaz and Bildad. Their treatment of
his case was indeed altogether different. Atone
time they endeavoured to show that he
was an excellent character, most unnecessarily
and unjustly troubled; and at another they
chaffed him.

One can't do everything, old fellow, you
know,' said Elisha, ' and you who are such a
swell at antiquities cannot be expected to excel
in modern accomplishments. Any fool can
swim and row.'

'I didn't even know in what part of the
river, though I had lived by it almost all my
K 2

days,' murmured Mark, woefully, ' that hateful
Tusk was.'

Why should you ? ' urged Meade (who of
course was Bildad, the second fiddle). ' Is it
not enough to know a Druid stone when you
see it, and even to be able to decipher the old
Cornish description on it ? ' — this was a playful
allusion to a certain case, analogous to the
famous mistake in the ' Antiquary,' where poor
Mark had signally failed. ' Is it not enough, I
say, to be on familiar terms with anything old-world,
without being acquainted with a mere
modern erection like the Tusk — I dare say nota
thousand years old ? '

Then to think of Trenna,' continued Mark,
pacing to and fro impatiently, and without
paying the least regard to the well-meant
banter of his friends, ' to think of a girl like
Trenna.'

If you talk of her in that contemptuous
way,' interrupted Kit, ' I'll tell her.'

Pshaw, I don't mean that ; of course she's
one in a thousand, and as to roving, she has
the pluck and skill of a Grace Darling.'

Come, that's much better,' said Kit,
encouragingly. ' I'll tell her you say she is a
darling.'

But chaff and argument were equally
thrown away upon Mark. He took his uselessness
to heart in what was really a very
strange way, and which might have alarmed
even a less anxious mother than Mrs. Medway.


She had, however, the great advantage of
possessing two counsellors devoted to her
interests, one, as we have said, who knew her
story, and could judge better than most men
whether Mark's present behaviour had any

connection with it ; the other, not in possession
of that secret, but who was thoroughly
acquainted with Mark's character, namely, his
friend and tutor, Mr. Penryn. Having to
choose between the clergyman and the Doctor,
the lady naturally decided on consulting the
former first ; and under pretence of ' shopping '
in Mogadion, she ordered her little carriage
with the Exmoor ponies, one afternoon, while
the young people ' were at lawn tennis (a
phrase which as usual did not include Mark,
who was in his own room), and drove over to
the Rectory.

This was situated on the sea-shore in a little
wooded bay, very picturesque and retired. It
was one of the oldest houses in the place, but
stood altogether outside the town. Indeed, the
town had early deserted both it and the church
(which was beside it) for the larger and more

convenient bay which formed the harbour, a
circumstance which would not have wounded
the feelings of the present incumbent, even if it
had occurred in his time instead of a hundred
years ago. The Eector loved his fellow-creatures
; his grave benevolent face and kind
blue eyes convinced you of the fact at sight ;
but he preferred them at a distance. He was
willing enough to go to them when they
wanted him, but he did not encourage visits.
Xo one ever did him the injustice to call him
a misanthrope ; but his neighbours thought
him a bit of a hermit, and from their point of
view they were right. His world lay in his
books, and when he had done his parish duties,
or had partaken of the hospitalities which he
could not decline without discourtesy, he returned
to his world \\4th eagerness, and plunged
into the vortex of archaeology.

His favourite haunt was an old-fashioned
summer-house in his garden close by the sea,
where, with a book in his hand, and his forefinger
on his cheek, as though he would impose
silence on the Universe, his studies pursued
him. The inversion of the usual expression
suited his case exactly. Whenever he was
alone and comfortably seated, there came into
his brain, summoned, some picture of the
Past, not of his own past, for his life had been
so uneventful as scarce to admit of illustration,
but of the prehistoric time in which, in a sense,
he dwelt. Though an ecclesiastic himself, it is
not too much to say that he felt a more mystic
reverence for the Druidical priesthood than for
any other. To hear the mistletoe spoken of
lightly (as it is apt to be at Christmas-time
by the young and thoughtless) distressed his
feelings, nor did he ever find himself among

the sacred stones, especially when they were
arranged in a circle — which marks a family
burial-place — without baring his grey head as
though in presence of the dead of to-day. If
he had had his way, I believe he would have
made it a sine qua non in all Cabinet Councils
that the Ministers should sit on stones (to which
custom his favourite sect attached the utmost
importance), instead of chairs. He pretended,
indeed, that Science rather than Superstition
dictated this preference ; and even went so far
as to remark on one occasion in Dr. Meade's
presence, that ' it was certainly very curious
how almost all ancient nations assigned a
certain virtue to stones. Sleeping upon them,
for example, the Druids thought, was a cure
for lameness.'

Did they, by Jingo ! ' broke in the Doctor.
I will answer for it that nine out of ten were

made worse by it, and the tenth man crippled
for life.'

And, indeed, unless rheumatism is a modern
invention, it is probable that his view of the
stone couch cure was the correct one. Nothing
made the Doctor so furious as, when he in his
turn was eulogising the remedies of the past at
the expense of those of the present, to liken
him to the Eector.

The antagonism between these two worthies
made the keeping in with both of them a
delicate and difficult task for Mrs. Medway,
and caused her present visit to Mr. Penryn, for
the purpose of taking counsel of him as to
what should be done with Mark, to be made
as secretly and discreetly as though he were
some ancient sibyl. If the Doctor should
come to know of it he would naturally have
thought himself the proper person to whom

she should have applied for consultation and
advice.

Mrs. Medway found the Eeclor in his
bower poring over his books, from which he
ordinarily separated himself to receive people
with the alacrity of a fly fi^om treacle. In the
present case, however, he rose willingly enough,
and offered his visitor a seat which would have
been a low one but for a quarto volume which
reposed upon it.

You here, my dear Mrs. Medway, and
without Mark ! This is, indeed, an honour.'

I wish Mark had been with me,' returned
the old lady, naively. ' The fact is, my dear
LIr. Penryn, it is upon his account that I have
called upon you.'

'That takes the gilt off the gingerbread,'
answered the Eector, smiling ; ' however, that
you have come at all is a thins to be thankful

for. I hope Miss Maud has quite recovered
from the effects of her late adventure.'

Oh, Maud is all right, Mr. Penryn, it is
Mark, poor fellow, who has suffered from it.'

'But he wasn't in it,' argued the Eector,
amused at what he considered this new proof
of the widow's idolatry to her son ; ' however
he may have wept for Maud's misfortune, he
couldn't have got so wet as she did.'

Oh, it isn't that ; he is not sorry for her,
but for himself; that's what makes me so
miserable about him.'

The Eector's eyes had opened pretty wide
already ; his mouth now began to follow their
example.

Oh, indeed,' he gasped, ' it seems a very
bad case.'

It is, Mr. Penryn,' answered the lady,
gravely, ' and may be sadder yet ; ' and then

she told him all about it. How Mark reproached
himself and moped, and had lost his
health and spirits, without any natural explanation
of the matter. ' Frank Meade, who is a
very sensible young fellow, you know, thinks
Mark would be the better for seeing more of
the world.'

Does he r ' grunted the Eector.

Well, you know, for a young man,'
pleaded Mrs. Medway, who knew what the
grunt meant, ' it is not well to be alone, or
what is as good as being alone, to be surrounded
by a parcel of women.'

You think that as good as being alone, do
you ? ' inquired Mr. Penryn, slily.

I say for a young man,' reiterated the
widow. ' It is really abominable of you, j\Ir.
Penryn, when I come here to consult you —
instead of going to Dr. Meade, which perhaps

I should have done — to turn all that I tell you
into ridicule. Mark is really in a state of
mind which gives me serious cause for apprehension.'


I hope not that,' said the Eector, soothingly,
sobered at once by this allusion to his
rival, ' out I can easily believe he is troubled
in mind ; he promised to verify some quotation
in Borlase for me by Monday, which he would
certainly have done had he been himself.
Mark is the very soul of punctuality.'

'He is, indeed,' murmured Mrs. Med way,
unctuously, as though he had been called the
'soul of honour.'

In that respect he might have been a very
Druid,' continued the Eector, reflectively. ' In
order to give weight and importance to their
public assemblies they practised the custom of
cutting to pieces whomsoever came last. This

diminished in time the attendance, but insured
promptness ; perhaps it was the origin of our
present fashionable phrase, " Small and early." '

Perhaps,' assented Mrs. Medway ; ' but
we are wandering from the point as to what
is to be done with Mark. What do you think
of sending him for a few terms to the
University ? '

A few terms ! ' echoed the Eector. ' When
you send a lad to college it is like gathering
the Marshwort (or Famous) — or as Medea
gathered her magical herbs — there must be no
looking behind you ; he must take his degree.'

Oh, but that would take three years,'
expostulated the ^vidow ; ' I could never spare
Mark for three years. I only thought of the
University as a little change for him.'

'The University would feel greatly flattered,
I am sure,' said the Eector, ' to be thus recommended,

like Malvern or Buxton, for a fit of the
blues. Are you aware, my dear madam, that
among the Druids education took no less than
twenty years for its accomplishment, and no
one was eligible for any public employment
without it ? However, perhaps, as you say —
though I shall be very sorry, personally, to lose
him — a few terms at Oxford '

But I thought of sending him to Cambridge,'
put in the widow, ' so that he could be
with his friend Kit, you know. You see no
objection to that, do you?' For the Eector's
face had suddenly become very grave.

'Well, I never thought of Cambridge.
Why, goodness gracious, they would make him
learn mathematics at Cambridge ! '

Do you think that would be bad for him ? '
inquired the widow, apprehensively.

I think it would be a degradation of his

intellect, madam. A man who, being yet a
minor, has corrected the antiquarian Borlase in
more than one particular, should hardly be set
to learn, for example, logarithms.'

I know you are not fond of Kit,' said
Mrs. Medway ; * but you cannot deny that Kit
is fond of Mark.'

The remark seemed altogether devoid of
pertinence, but it brought the colour into the
Eector's wrinkled cheek. It was not after all,
it seemed, the fear of Mark's being taught
mathematics which had led him to suo-crest
Oxford and not Cambridge.

Besides,' continued Mrs. Medway, ' if Kit's
society could have harmed Mark it would have
harmed him long ago, Mr. Penryn.'

I never said Christopher Garston's society
harmed Mark,' said the Eector, ' and I readily
admit that he never meant to harm him.'

VOL. I. L

'Very good, then we may dismiss that
notion altogether. Now, on the other hand,
upon all worldly matters Kit is qualified to
advise Mark.'

No doubt,' said the Eector, in a tone that
implied, ' he has a superfluity of that kind of
knowledge, I don't deny.'

Altogether,' said Mrs. Med way, ' I think
it's the best thing to be done. What do you
say?'

My dear madam, when I see that a lady
has made up her mind I never say anything.
As for me — speaking selfishly — I deplore the
resolution you have come to. I shall miss
Mark more than I can say.'

Of course you will,' rejoined the widow,
simply ; ' but how much more shall I miss
him ? It is only the necessity of the case, you
ny be sure, that compels me to suggest such

a course. I am sincerely glad to find, however,
that it meets with your approval.'

The Eector smiled a little sardonically.

Then we shall have him back,' she added,
consolingly, ' in the vacations just the same as
ever.'

You think so. My dear madam, it was
the custom of the priestesses of Bacchus to
unroof his temple, and to endeavour to restore
it, before sunset, in exactly the same condition
as before. If one of the ladies omitted to
replace a stone in its exact position she was
put to death.'

That must have made them very careful,'
observed the wddow\

No doubt ; but for all that, the temple
was never the same temple. And this will bethe
case with Mark.'

Mrs. Medway laughed at this as she woidd
l2

have laughed at any suggestion of change in
her beloved son, and took her leave well
pleased. If the Eector had not fallen into her
plans with effusion, he had, at all events, made
no serious objection to them.

Flushed with success, she resolved to call
upon the Doctor on her way home, and obtain,
if possible — so superfluous are women in their
wants and ways — another opinion in favour of
her own ideas.

It is but fair, perhaps, to add that she was
a little alarmed lest the Doctor should hear of
her having consulted the Eector from any
other lips but her own. I am afraid she
gave that excellent physician to understand
that Mr. Penryn's opinion had been a more
casual one than it had actually been, while,
on the other hand, she by no means exaggerated
the Eector's sympathy with her

scheme. She knew human nature, or, at all
events, her present companion, better than
to do that.

You see Mr. Penryn is a University man
himself. Doctor ; and he has his fears about
mathematics, and so forth ; in short-that dear
Mark's brain may be overwrought.'

By study at college ! ' returned the Doctor
acidly ; ' you may set your mind at rest as to
that, madam.'

Well now, that is just what I wanted to
hear from you, my dear Dr. Meade. You
know Mark so thoroughly, and yet, as I understand,
you see no objection to his going to
Cambridge more than to Oxford ? '

The Doctor pushed out his lower hp, which
was his manner of expressing contemptuous
indifference.

I see no more objection to Tweedledum

than to Tweedledee,'* was his not very encouraging
reply.

Yes, but at Cambridge, remember, Mark
will have Kit, at all events for a month or two,
to advise him, and see that he does not set
into scrapes.'

'Ah, indeed! Well, I should think Kit,
as you call him, was not without experience
in that way.'

It was curious how both the Eector and
the Doctor, who agreed in nothing else, were
at one upon the subject of Christopher Garston.
Their common prejudice on this matter, however,
made very little impression upon Mrs.
Medway. Kit was her son's bosom friend, and
therefore her friend, and, though she could not
but perceive his unpopularity with her two
counsellors, she ignored it.

Young men will be young men,' she said ;

'I dare say Christopher Garston is not faultless.
But my son Mark, as you know, Doctor, is
very different from the common type.'

'He is different now, madam, because his
bringing up has been different. Nay, I don't
mean to say he is not an excellent good fellow,
and will always remain so, but the simplicity-which
is so attractive to us all will vanish if you
send him elsewhere. Perhaps, however, you
have made up your mind to a change in him.'

Mrs. Medway had made up her mind for
nothing of the sort. It staggered her not a
little that both Dr. Meade and Mr. Penryn
should have warned her that Mark might not
return from college the same Mark she had
sent there : but she had thought out her plan
already with too many tears to be disheartened
anew about it. And the necessity of something
being done with him seemed imperative

CHAPTEE IX.

AN INTERRUPTED GAME.

While Mrs. Medway, like a skilful lawyer
from not too willing witnesses, was collecting
corroboratory evidence of the wisdom of her
own conclusions, her ' young people ' — in
which term she was wont to include Frank
and the Parsons, as though they had been
her own belongings — were prosecuting their
lawn tennis at the Knoll, as though life
depended on their exertions.

When I watch folks at that pastime, who
have any claim to be considered proficient, or,
as the phrase goes, who ' rather fancy themselves

' at it, I sometimes wonder whether any
other occupation in the world was ever pursued
with the like vigour and intensity. One half
such a spirit thrown into business matters
would make a man a millionaire ; or, if it took
him in what may be called ' the other direction
' (towards devotion), would set him up
in good practice as a saint. Frank was not
quite so agile as Kit, but had a longer reach.
Maud was not so quick on her legs as Trenna,
but was more skilful. A better match than
Frank and Trenna, versus Kit and Maud, it was
impossible to imagine.

Mark, with a book in his hand, watched
them dreamily from his window and envied
their enthusiasm, which, at the same time, it
wearied him to witness. Could it be the same
blood, he wondered, that was bounding through
his sister's veins, mounting in roses to her

cheeks, and inspiring her to those feats of grace
and swiftness, as stagnated in his own ? Was
it possible that Frank and Kit, with all that
skill and elan were really the contemporaries
of such an one as himself, buried in books,
living in the past more than in the present, and
without interest in human affairs ? Of all the
players Trenna attracted him the least, and
this too he knew was a proof of his singularity
and isolation. He saw that she was beautiful,
as he saw that the scene beneath him — the
garden, the wilderness, and the sea — were beautiful
; and yet in the pleasure which her beauty
conferred on his own sex, and which in Frank
Meade, for example, aroused the keenest
admiration, and would sometimes fill his face,
like torch applied to torch with an answering
glow, he had no share. Kit's voice was music
to him, but Kit's sister's voice fell on his ear

and touched no responsive chord. Was he
made for friendship, then, and not for love ?
or was he even made for friendship ? Kit and
Frank were attached to him, he knew ; but, as
it seemed to him, without desert. Their affection
for him was as irrational as his mother's
idolatry. He saw himself a dreamer, inanimate
and useless, a mere stick for others'
tendrils.

As a matter of fact, Mark Medway possessed
one of the simplest and sweetest of natures
with which man was ever endowed, and
by this magic attracted his fellow-creatures.
What is still more rare, he combined considerable
learning with great modesty. He had
absolutely no egotism ; the present was his
first attack of self-consciousness, and it was
therefore a severe one. His regrets that he
could neither swim nor row were about as

reasonable as though some devoted missionary
should bewail his incompetency at
five-card cribbage ; but they were genuine
nevertheless.

There are occasions when the student envies
the athlete ; not for his thews and sinews,
indeed, and still less for the feats he accomplishes
with them, but for the succour and
protection they enable him to afford to others ;
and this was one of them.

Mark did not grudge it to Kit that he owed
his sister's life to him, nor was his weight of
obligation to him less than when he had saved
his own ; but in this case there was a certain
sense of humiliation. He had always thought
himself the inferior of both his friends, but the
reflection had never before pained him. How
was it that they appreciated the mere joys of
living —

The leaping from rock up to rock,

The cool silver shock

Of the pool's liyiEg waters,

while to him they were nought, and never had
been ? It was not that he was an old man
before his time, but that he seemed to himself
never to have been a man at all, nor a boy.
How like boys they ran hither and thither with
cunning hand and eye, struck the ball where
they would, and enjoyed their own strength and
skill ! He watched them as some inmate of
the cloister, doubtful of his calling and dissatisfied
with his lot, might watch two worldlings at
their play — and envied them.

As he did so, he saw Lucy, who fulfilled the
duties of parlour-maid as well as of Maud's
handmaid in their simple household, come out
into the tennis-ground with a letter. For a
few moments she stood there unnoticed, not
liking to interfere with the game, but presently

Trenna missed an easy ball. There was a
storm of disapproval from her opponents, who
were critics first and rivals afterwards. Frank
was gallantly about to frame an excuse for
his partner, when she exclaimed, ' There is
Lucy ; there is something the matter.'

Lucy, it was true, was looking towards Kit,
with the letter in her hand, otherwise there was
nothing to account for Trenna's exclamation.
At the time no one thought anything of it ;
but one of the party had afterwards reason to
remember it.

It is for you, Mr. Christopher,' said
Lucy ; ' I was to ask, please, was there any
answer ? '

'For me, is it?' Kit opened the letter,
read it through in a flash, and thrust it into
his pocket. ' I am afraid I must break up
your game,' he said ; ' I am wanted a^ home.'

What's the matter ? Mr. Garston is not
ill, I hope,' said Maud.

No ; the Governor is all right, thank you.
It's a matter of business.'

Here his eye fell on Lucy, a comely,
honest-looking country lass. The concern
in the countenances of the others was visibly
reflected on her face ; anything that touched
the family and their friends touched Lucy.

Tell the messenger,' he began thoughtfully


'Please, sir, it's Abel,' she interposed.
Lor, Miss Trenna, how white you do look ;
shall I get you a glass of water .^ '

Notwithstanding her brother's assurance that
their father was in health, Trenna indeed had
turned deadly pale. To Lucy's proposal, however,
she shook her head, keeping her eyes
fixed on her brother.

Tell Abel,' continued Kit, ' that I will
come home at once. He must walk back, and
I will take the mare.'

I shall go home with you, Kit,' whispered
Trenna, gravely.

What nonsense ! The horse can't carry
double.'

No ; but the skiff can. Otherwise I shall
row down alone.'

Christopher Gars ton bit his lip ; it was
rare indeed for his sister to be so peremptory
with him.

You can do no good,' he said hesitatingly.

I can help to prevent harm,' she answered
meaningly.

It was curious that throughout this conversation,
which the brother and sister held apart,
the former had not even alluded to the nature
of the tidings he had jilt received. A glance

full of significance had flashed between them
when Kit had said, ' I am wanted at home,'
and no farther explanation, it seemed, was
necessary.

My dear Maud,' said Trenna, turning to
her friend, ' I must go back with Kit, though I
hope it will be only for an hour or two. The
waters are troubled at home,' she added, ina
low voice, ^ and the presence of the oil is
necessary.'

Maud was too well acquainted with the state
of domestic affairs at the Grey House, as Mr.
Garston's residence was called, to make any
remonstrance ; but Mark, whom the disturbance
had brought down from his study, objected
strongly, though, characteristically enough, not
so much to the departure of the young lady as
to that of her brother.

Kit had run upstairs to change his clothes,
VOL. I. ^ M

but immediately on his return Mark had tackled
him.

Now you promised us, Kit said he, with
his hand upon the other's shoulder, ' you would
stay with us the whole day. I have seen
nothing of you since luncheon. If it is
only a little breeze with the governor, let it
blow over.'

But this is not a little breeze, Mark,'
answered Kit in a low tone ; ' it's a tornado.'

Good Heavens ! What's the matter .^ Can
/ do anything ? '

Ills tone was eager, and even anxious. It
was impossible to doubt the genuineness of his
sympathy, the tenderness of his regard.

Perhaps it was the thought of the other's
friendship, and of the simplicity with which his
aid was offered, that caused Christopher Garston
to hold out his hand. 'You can do nothing, old

fellow, thank you,' he said. ' Thugs may turnout

better than one expects ; and in that case I

shall come over tomorrow.'
And if not ? '

Well, I shan't see you quite so soon.'
Then I shall come to Mogadion.'
No, Mark ; at least not to the Grey House,

unless you hear from me.'

It was arranged, too, that Trenna's ' things '

should remain at the Knoll in case of her

return.

The same evening there came a messenger

not Abel — with a little note.

'My dear Maud, — I am sorry to say I
cannot leave home till tomorrow. We are in
trouble here ; nothing of much consequence as
concerns ourselves, but something which may
affect others in whom vcu are interested. I

will be with you in the morning ; in the meantime
say nothing of this.

Yours ever,

Trenna Garston.'

It was very difficult to ' say nothing of this

Maud's world was a very small one, and

the phrase ' others iii whom you are interested '

was terribly tantalising. Nevertheless she held

her tongue.

CHAPTER X.

IX THE BOUDOIR.

In the morning Trenna arrived at the Knoll
according to promise ; but it was not the same
Trenna. She looked five years older; her
olive cheeks were pale, and had that drawn,
pinched look which is usually the result of
protracted physical pain. Her eyelids were
swollen from much weeping, and at the sill
of ^trs. medway and her daughter her tears
welled forth anew.

Don't let Mark see me just now,' she said,
an unwonted touch of vanity that went home
to the two women's hearts.

Come up to my boudoir,' said Maud ; ' we
shall there be safe from all intrusion.'

A shiver passed over Trenna. ' That will
be making too much of matters,' she objected ;
'your mother so seldom sits there. Mark
will wonder.'

Mark will wonder ! ' echoed Maud with a
c^host of a lauf^h. ' Mark would not wonder
if we sat on the roof-top like sparrows.'

But the servants ? '

The servants are only Lucy. Lucy is one
of ourselves as far as tale-bearing is concerned,
and indeed, in other respects, she is the most
honest, faithful creature.'

That is true,' assented Trenna gravely.

So they went upstairs to Maud's boudoir ; a
gem of a room hung with water-colours by her
own hand ; one of them in a very pretty oaken
frame carved by Trenna — her only accomplishment

in the way of the fine arts. In a recess
within double doors, also Trenna's handiwork,
stood on an easel a portrait of Maud's father,
very like her brother. ' Mark has the same far-off
look,' she used to say, ' as though he were
in the world, but not of it ; ' a remark she
would never have uttered had she known how
it made her mother tremble. In a corner a
small piano, on the table her favourite books
in pretty bindings, ' not too good for human '
nature's daily ' handling. On the wall a dainty
fishing-rod, innocent of victims as a militiaman's
sword ; above it her racket. Everything in
this little apartment was a birthday gift, and
spoke of love and friendship.

From the window you looked out on dreamland
; garden, and woodland, and the river
winding hundreds of feet beneath it without
sound or motion, and in the distance the blue

sea, from which the summer wind brought a
fresh message with every breath.

Gentle comes the world to those
Who are cast in gentle mould,

was the fit motto, Trenna used to say, to be
written over Maud's boudoir door. Perhaps
the place made a greater impression on herby
reason of its contrast with her own room
at the Grey House, which, but for a present
or two from Kit and Maud herself, was bare
enough. Upon this occasion, however, she
noticed nothing but that the window was open.
May I shut it, Maud ? ' were her first words.
Surely, my dear, if you feel cold.'
I am not cold, but what I have to say is
at present a secret, and not a bird of the air
must carry the matter.'

The three sat down with grave faces, and
Trenna told her tale.

There had been a robbery at the Grey
House ; two hundred pounds in notes had been
taken from Mr. Garston's desk.

It was unnecessary to dilate to her present
audience on the late owner's state of mind ;
they knew him, and could therefore understand
it. But that a robbery should have occurred at
all astounded them.

This is the first time,' exclaimed Mrs.
Medway, ' that ever I heard of a thief in
Mogadion. Is it not possible that your father
has mislaid the notes .^ '

Trenna shook her head, and indeed the
next moment Mrs. Medway admitted to herself
that her suggestion was a feeble one. Mr.
Garston, senior, was liable to forgetfulness
about some things, like other people ; he
habitually omitted to remember a debtor's circumstances
; he would ignore his own promises

(when they were not on paper), and confused
Sundays and week-days deplorably ; but he
was not a man to forget Avherc he had put his
money.

Perhaps the parrot has taken it,' Maud
hazarded.

This bird was by rights a cockatoo, but
answered affably, if you had a sweet biscuit
between your finger and thumb, to the vulgar
appellation ' Poll.' It was extremely fond of
Trenna, over whom it would climb, and croak,
and chuckle in the most engaging manner ; but
even she admitted it had some of the habits
of the magpie.

Poll has no taste for bank-notes,' returned
Trenna confidently ; ' and besides, he never
ventures into papa's room. They cannot have
gone without hands — human hands.'

But, Trenna, by whose hands ? '

'That is just the question. Our servants
are all Mogadion born, and respectably connected.
As I tell my father, neither Joan nor
Mary would know what to do with one five-pound
note, much more with forty.

'Has Mr. Garston the numbers of the
notes ? ' inquired Mrs. Med way.

Xo — yes — indeed, I have the list here,'
and she produced a slip of paper. ' My father
told me to show it to you.'

To me ! ' cried Mrs. Medway. ' Lord bless
me, my dear ; nobody ever pays me a five-pound
note. Quite the contrary. That is to
say, I settle everything by cheque. It is to the
last degree unlikely that one of them should
come my way. Does he wish me to act as a
detective ? '

Mrs. Medway's tone was indignant. She
liked Kit, and she liked Trenna ; but, except

that her son's friends were her friends, her
affections were personal. She was not one of
those feeble folks whose likings are shaped by
vicinity. She was on good terms with all her
neighbours, but she reserved to herself the
right of picking and choosing from her circle
of acquaintances her friends. And Mr.
Garston, senior, was still unpicked on the stem
of acquaintanceship.

'I am very sorry,' continued Trenna
nervously ; ' I was afraid it would distress
you, and Maud also ; but you know how
I am situated. Papa was imperative, and I
had no choice. I was told to give you the
list.'

But what am I to do with it, child? '
inquired Mrs. Medway, regarding the slip of
paper as if it were a county court summons,
or a writ. 'Does he want me to frame and

glaze it, and hang it up in the drawing-room
? '

Oh, pray don't laugh at me ; and, still
more, don't be angry with me, Mrs. Medway.
Things are much worse than anything you can
imagine. Papa thinks — that is, he doesn't
know what to think — that it is Abel.'

Abel ! ' exclaimed both ladies together ;
Abel Deeds ! '

'Yes. I knew you would be shocked,'-
continued Trenna in nervous quivering tones.
I am shocked myself. We are all shocked.'

Abel Deeds never stole those notes,' said
Mrs. Medway, positively. ' They are an honest
family. I have known him from a boy. Do
you suppose that Eachel Deeds can have a
thief for a son ? '

And Lucy, too,' put in Maud ; ' why, it
would break poor Lucy's heart even to think

he could be suspected of such a thing. No,
no, Trenna ; you are wrong.'

I may be ; I am very likely. Good
Heavens! do you suppose I scant it to be
Abel ? '

Here she burst into tears and rocked herself
to and fro. ' I wish I was dead,' she
murmured. ' Oh Maud, Maud ! '

My dear Trenna, pray calm yourself,' said
Maud gently. 'Mamma knows — don't you,
mamma? that it is not your fault; that you
have no alternative. But this comes upon us
so suddenly, and is so shocking. It could
hardly be worse if we ourselves were suspected
of such a thing. Oil, my poor Lucy ! '

'What makes your father suspect Abel,
Trenna?' inquired Mrs. Medway. 'I suppose
he has some grounds for such an
accusation.'

He makes no accusation, sirs. Mechvay ;
that was what I was by all means to say —
because — because '

Because to make a false charge would be
libellous,' suggested Mrs. Medway, in chiilino^
tones.

Xo, no ; it isn't that. Pray bear with me.
He said — my father said — that Maud was to be
careful not to put Lucy on her guard. Not
that Lucy knows anything about it,' she added
hurriedly ; ' only if she knew that Abel was in
peril she might conceal things.'

I am quite sure that Lucy has nothing to
conceal,' said Maud.

Not that she knows of at present, but she
might know of it. The matter stands in this
way. Very thoughtlessly, very foolishly, I
mentioned how you had once shown me
Lucy's savings the other day — the money her

brother gave to her, and which you keep for
her;

You had no business to do that, Trenna,'
said Maud ; ' though to be sure you might
retort that I lead no business to show it to you.
It was only, however, because it gave me such
pleasure to be her banker.'

'I have said that it was thoughtless and
foolish to mention it,' pleaded Trenna ; ' can I
say more ? '

The question is, did you mention it in
connection with this business ? ' observed Mrs.
Medway, gravely. 'If you did so it was
cruel and unkind ; there, there, I see you are
sorry for it, my dear. Let us say no more.'

Sorry for it,' cried Trenna, bitterly. ' Yes,
1 am sorry for it. And yet I must say more.
What papa wishes is that you should see
for yourself, without saying a word about it.

whether any of the missing notes are among
Lucy's savings. You know you told me that
Abel gave her something quite lately.'

I will not do it; said Maud, flatly. ' Mr.
Garston may look for them himself, if he
pleases, but I will not do it.'

'Yet if they are not there, dear Maud,
no harm will be done. And if they are
there '

I will lay my life they are not there,
Trenna.'

My dear Maud, Trenna is right,' put in
Mrs. Medway, gravely. ' She is only doing
her duty, and it is not a pleasant one.'

Trenna threw up her hands, as if in appeal
to High Heaven itself. That she was deeply
moved was certain, and yet there was an occasional
exaggeration in her manner that was
not altogether natural. She had, doubtless,
VOL. I. K

pictured the scene to herself as she came along,
and was, therefore, in some measure, prepared
for it.

Pleasant ! ' she repeated, in a pitiful voice.
Ah, if you could only read my heart.'

If Maud will not look in the box, I will
said Mrs. Med way ; ' only Lucy herself must be
present. Do you agree to that, Trenna .^ '

Yes, yes, to everything. Only let us get
it over.'

Her face was white as the sheet of paper
she held in her hand, and which trembled in
it like a gossamer.

Then I will ring the bell for Lucy,' said
Mrs. Medway.

CHAPTER XL

LUCY DEEDS.

Maud rose and moved to the closed window,
through which she affected to look out ; but c>f
wood and river and crag, and even of the roses
that climbed about the casement, she saw
nothing ; she was picturing to herself a humble
but faithful friend about to suffer an unjust
humiliation. Mrs. Medway kept her seat ; but
her fingers played nervously upon the table,
and her usually serene and placid face showed
great emotion. For a woman she had an exceptionally
strong sense of justice ; but mingled
with it there was all the indignation of a

N 2

woman, which, when the wrong-doing affects
her nearly, no more respects its proper channel
than a stream that has burst its banks. She
was unconsciously regarding Trenna with great
disfavour.

Will you speak to Lucy, or shall I ? ' she
inquired coldly.

'Oh, not I — not I,' cried Trenna, with a
quick gesture of alarm. ' Why need anybody
speak ? Why need she ever know ? '

Because I will have no underhand doings
here,' answered Mrs. Medway.

It was a very cruel speech, and one she
would have never uttered in cold blood. Everyone
knew that matters at the Grey House were
not as they should be ; that its master was a
difficult one to manage ; and that it required a
great deal o: diplomacy on his daughter's part
to keep things straight between him and his
son.

Trenna flushed to her forelieacl, but said
notliincf ; the next moment she turned as white
as though a host, instead of Lucy Deeds, was
standing before her.

If you please, ma'am, did you ring ? ' said
Lucy, addressing her mistress. A bright Httle
creature she was, with one of those honest smiles
which is the index of a wholesome nature ; her
eyes, lively rather than intelligent, were wont to
assume a look of earnest gravity — which was, in-fact,
one of distress and puzzlement — at the
slightest kink in the cable of life.

'Have you any objection to show Bliss
Trenna here the contents of your purse ? '

My purse I ' Astonishment could no further
go than was expressed in Lucy s countenance
; she even forgot to say ' ma'am.' The
next moment, however, with a bright blush and
some little awkwardness she made a dive into
her rocket.

There's a ring in it, Miss ; but it's only one
I boiio-lit last feast time at.Moc^aclion for luck,'
she explained, growing redder than ever, ' and
a dried flower from the Druid Stone, which I
once heard Mr. Penryn say was good for fits ;
and a fourpenny piece with a hole through it,
and that's all. It is but a poor thing, you
see, not a bit like the one Miss Maud gave
me '

That is the one Miss Trenna wants to look
at,' interrupted Mrs. Medway ; ' the one that
holds your savings.'

I am sure she's welcome, ma'am,' said Lucy,
but a little stiffly, and with a glance at her
young mistress Which expressed less satisfaction
than surprise. ' More than half of what it holds
comes from her own house ; for Abel is the best
of brothers, and never puts by a smiling but
what he gives me a sixpence of it.'

\\i\<: tlicK- vvjis a significant silence, broken
c>ijly l>y a lillNt jnonn iron) 'i'n^nna.

Mrn. Midway, who had iuteudcd to have
left her to piimue the rest of flic inquiry, relented
at tins.

'We are curious to «(;rt wluit you have saved,

Lucy, and how many hank noU^.i you havre ;jot.'

Lor, ma'am, I've only s^iA. one;. Abel gave
it me, not a week ago, out of his last wages.
Aji'1 there'll seven pounds in gold besides, is,
there not, Miss Maid ?— and three of them were
his, God bless him — sand fourteen shillings in
silver.'

There must be no false pretence here,' said
M;i.uf|, twining suddenly round. ^Thrtro' h:i3
something happened at the Grey JIouhc, Lucy ;
some bank-notes are missing ; and though we
know folks (as in this ca.'^c) to be as honest as
the day, it is necessary when such things happen

to make the fullest investigation. Mr. Garston
has sent Miss Trenna, for satisfaction's sake, to
compare the numbers of the notes.'

Lor' bless ye, Miss,' said Lucy, her eyes
growing very large and frightened, and filling
with tears, she knew not why, ' I've only got
one note.'

Her simplicity went to her young mistress's
heart. ' If there were fifty, Lucy, I would
swear they were honestly come by.'

Honestly ? Why, Mr. Garston don't think
I stole it, do 'ee ? ' inquired the girl, with a flush
of indignation. ' It's difficult enough, they say,
to pick up a morsel of bread and cheese at the
Grey House, much more bank-notes.'

Lucy, Lucy,' said Mrs Medway, gently.

I ask your pardon, ma'am,' said Lucy,
breathing? hard. ' and likewise Miss Maud's.'

'And / ask youvs^ said Trenna, humbly.

Do not suppose, Lucy, that I can believe anything
ill of you or yours. I am ashamed of
myself, though it is no fault of mine, to have
come on such an errand.'

Lucy felt that she lead been in the wrong to
have thrown out that hint concerning the want
of hospitality in Mr. Garston's servants' hall ;
but she was quite unequal to frame an apology.
The scantiness of her vocabulary, which lies at
the root, by-the-bye, of the strong expressions-used
by the lower classes, and which we are apt
to attribute to a love of coarseness, forbade it ;
but she expressed her penitence in tears.

Come, Lucy,' said Maud, ' no one but
yourself shall touch your money ; let us
see it.'

Lucy opened a drawer in Maud's desk, and
took out the handsome morocco purse which
her young mistress had given her by way of

strong box, and displayed its contents ; the
little hoard of years contributed by love and
toil

'This is the bank-note, Miss Trenna, that
my brother gave me last week.'

But Trenna shook her head in sign that she
would not touch it. Her limbs shook too, and
her face was ghastly pale.

Maud took out the note, and unfolded it.

I call you all to witness,' she said, ' that
the number is 28882 ; you will remember it by
the three eights and two two's — but you had
better write it down. What is the matter?
Good Heavens ! I had forgotten the slip.'

Trenna was staring at the paper with its
rows of figures as though a viper had curled
itself round her fingers. Maud, who leant over
her shoulder, was staring at it too with incredulity
and horror mingled in her countenance.

Is it there ? ' inquired Mrs. Med way, with
a silent movement of her hips.

It is there,' was her daughter's diiml>
reply. There was a painful silence, broken
only by a rosebud without tapping importunately
against the pane.

I don't understand it. Miss Maud,' exclaimed
Lucy, pitifully. ' Is there anything
wrong with Abel's note ? '

She looked from one to the other in distressed
amazement ; their silence had not the
eloquence which it would have had for any one
of trained intelligence. ' It is not — it surely
isn't — one of those that has been stolen? '

It is one of those that are missing,' said
Maud, gently. * But the list may not be correct
; m any case, we are all quite certain that

Abel has done nothing wrong Avhat are you

doing, Lucy ? '

The girl had suddenly emptied the contents
of the purse upon the table.

Please to throw it all away, Miss, or give
it to some rich person as doesn't want it. It's
that way as all poor people's money ought to go.
They has no business to make it, nor to spend
it, nor to keep it. They was born to work and
not to save ; and when they has been worked
out there is the workhouse for them. I've had
pleasure, I own it, in putting this little money
together, for I thought it might be useful to
mother in her old age, or perhaps to Abel his-self
if he fell ill and was out of place — but
I see now it was all wrong, and worse than
useless.'

Oh Lucy, Lucy, do not be so bitter,' cried
Maud, imploringly. ' You have cut poor Miss
Trenna, you see ' — who indeed was sobbing and
trembling like a chidden child — ' to the very
heart.'

*Miss Trenna is a young lady,' continued
Lucy coldly, ' and ought to know better than
to make herself miserable about poor people.
If it was her brother now as was accused of a
misdeed — not a mere trifle such as breaking a
poor girl's heart, but of something again the law
she would know where to go for help and
advice. Them as makes the law, or lives by it,
would hold him harmless. But for such as
Abel, as is as free from blame as any here, who '
shall prove it ? God help him — God help his
poor mother.'

She laid her face in her rough honest hands,
and burst into tears.

Lucy, Lucy dear,' said Maud gently, and
with her arm stealing round the poor girl's
waist, ' you are distressing us all without cause.
Abel, as you say, is as innocent of this crime, if
a crime indeed has been committed, as mamma

or I. But you make a great mistake in
.supposing that lie is without friends. However
ill matters may look for him they will not look
ill in our eyes ; and we shall stand by him. If
the worst comes to the worst — I mean if there
should be a trial — mamma will see he has the
best of counsel. If I thought otherwise, I have
money of my own which could never be spent
in a better cause. I am not one to desert old
friends.'

Lucy knows that, don't you, Lucy ? ' says
Mrs. Medway, cheerfully. ' Why, if there was
neither Miss Maud nor I to do it, my son Mark
would see Abel righted.'

'God bless him, God bless Mr. Mark!'
sobbed Lucy. ' I was wrong to say the poor
had no friends.'

Moreover,' continued Mrs. Medway, ' you
must remember that Abel has no enemies. Mr.

Garston is only seeking his own, and accuses
nobody. And as for Mr. Christoplier and Miss
Trenna, I am sure no one will be more pleased
than they when the day comes, as it will come,
which shall clear up this unfortunate matter

The speaker looked at Trenna as if expecting
her to say something on her own account ;
but she looked in vain. Trenna had risen from
her seat and taken Maud's vacated place at the
window, where she stood with her back to the
others.

I don't want any one but them as knows
him and believes in him to take Abel's part,'
said Lucy sturdily. ' If you please, ma'am, I
must go to Mogadion and see mother.'

Dear me, but is that necessary .^ ' inquired
Mrs. Medway in hesitating tones ; ' I mean that
your mother should be told. What do you say,
Trenna ? '

Trenna, thus appealed to, turned a pale
pained face towards her hostess, and answered
in a sad laborious way, that would have been
mechanical but for its weariness and distress, ' I
fear so ; it can be but a matter of time. Eachel
must know it sooner or later.'

But Lucy, holding her apron to her eyes
with both her hands, like blank Despair, had
already found her way to the door.

CHAPTEE XII.

'I Mean TO HAVE JUSTICE.'

Ix the country, politics, except at election times,
and public matters generally, do not much
move men's minds ; literature attracts but slight
attention, and science less ; but, on the other
hand, local affairs create an excitement wlhcli
to the dwellers in town is inconceivable. If an
inhabitant of Soho is murdered, and afterwards
cut in pieces for the convenience of secret interment,
the circumstance affects Bayswater no
more than if it had happened in Liverpool;
whereas, in country places, the effect of all incidents
depends on nearness, like the shock of a

VOL. I.

clap of thunder. In Mogadion, where there
were no murders, and no one had been cut up
since the days of the Druids, the rumour of a
theft of two hundred pounds was certain to
make a great noise.

The Medwayss foresaw this, and where very
willing that Lucy should betake herself to Dr.
Meade's, lest the news in some sort of connection
-with Abel should reach his mother's ears by
another channel. Mark himself, whose kindness
of heart the girl had not exaggerated when she
had called him the friend of the poor, insisted
on driving her over to Mogadion. She would
thereby reach her destination more quickly
than on foot, while the fact of her being in his
company would show low the family at the
Knoll sympathised with her and hers.

It did not strike him that it might also place
him in a position of apparent antagonism to

Abel's prosecutor, for such, when the story of
the bank-notes came to be told, Mr. Garston
would certainly become. Indeed, in his simplicity
and tenderness he took it for granted
that Mr. Garston, like everybody else, would
be distressed to the last degree by the recent
discovery, and be chiefly concerned with the
problem of how to account for it consistently
with Abel's innocence.

'I shall drop Lucy at the Dovecote, and
go straight to Kit at once,' he said to Trenua,
who with ]airs. Medway and Maud had come to
the front door, as their manner was on the occasion
of all domestic excuses, to see him off.
Trenna did not reply in words, but a sorrowful
nod and a grateful smile acknowledged his
forethought.

Next to Lucy, indeed, clark pitied Kit,
whom he knew the news he brought with him

would place in an embarrassing position. Old
Garston was hard to hold where any question
of gain was concerned ; he strained in the leash
after his six-and-eightpences, so that his feelings
on the occasion of such a loss as the present
could be probably only paralleled by the sentiments
of the tigress robbed of her young.

It was a great relief to Mark that when
he dropped Lucy at Dr. Meade's, according to
promise, neither the Doctor nor Frank were
visible, and especially that old Eachel did not
make her appearance in the little garden. His
mind misgave him that their indignation at what
had happened would not be confined to the
Master of the Grey House, but would extend
to all its inmates, however innocent ; and, until
he had seen Kit, and heard what he had to say,
it would be difficult to defend him. Trenna's
mention of Lucy's saving?, which to an outsider,

and considering its result, would have seemed
very sagacious and conducive to the ends of
justice, would, in the eyes of Abel's friends,
appear most unfortunate, not to say mischievous ;
for the finding of the note would not shake
their faith in the lad one whit, as Mark could
well understand, since it did not shake his
own.

Indeed, when Abel himself answered this
ring at the Grey House gate, and, with simple
freedom, inquired after the health of the ladies
at the Knoll, he could hardly refrain from
taking his hand and assuring; him of his unshaken
faith in his integrity.

A more faithful, honest creature than Abel
Deeds it was difficult to inane. He had not

o

the personal attractions of his sister, nor the
rugged intelligence of old Eachel ; but he had
a smile, the dryness of which bespoke him no

fool, and a kindliness of expression, which is
the best substitute for comeliness, whether inman
or woman.

Master was in,' he said ; ' and he believed
Mr. Christopher was with him in the parlour.'

This was a small and not very comfortable
apartment, but preferred by the lawyer to
either drawing-room or dining-room, and which,
in consequence of its being used for the reception
of his clients, was known as ' the cobweb.'
The walls were ornamented with a ground plan
of the Grey House (including a particular
sketch of the drainage), and a picture of the
sloop ' Alicante ' in the act of going to pieces
on Penarvon Point. The late Mr. Garston and
his little boy had been cast ashore from her ;
providentially saved ' said the written record
beneath the drawing, though, as to that, opinion
was divided ; and finding Mogadion to his

liking, had established himself there, in ^vhat
capacity it was never quite understood. Though
beginning with nothing but the clothes he stood
in — and not much of them — he was supposed
to have made a Hvehhood by money-lending,
and it was certain that he had left something
behind him which had prospered considerably
in his son's hands.

The present owner of the Grey House had
married a native of Mogadion with a small
fortune of her own, and that most admirable
complement of it, no relations ; but she had
died in giving birth to Christopher, and her
decease severed the only tie that bound her
husband to his neighbours, with whom he had
never succeeded in assimilating himself. Though
he had no prejudices of his own to stand in the
way of social success, with no class or creed
was Mr. Garston popular ; and in the domestic

disputes which occasionally arose between him
and his children, or rather between him and
his son (on whose side Trenna never failed to
enlist herself), the public feeling was always in
favour of the juniors ; a state of things which
had been of no small advantage to Christopher,,
of whom it was said, whenever he committed
any peccadillo, ' Who can wonder at it, poor
lad, with such a father ! '

It may easily be imagined, therefore, with
what feelings Mark Medway, Kit's sworn friend,
regarded the alien attorney, who had certainly
never appeared to him in a less favourable light
than on the present occasion. His face, as it
strove in vain to frame a smile of welcome, was
distorted with suppressed passion ; his dusky
cheeks were of that livid hue which an old scar
assumes when struck with the hand ; and his

beady eyes wore a sullen glow like a furnace
that has recently been ' banked up.'

He came forward with outstretched hand,
while Kit stood behind him, smiling cynically,
as though to assure the visitor that all the
parental wrath of which he might be the
witness was a matter of small moment, and
especially a thing in which he himself had no
share.

Well — well — what news do you bridge
the Knoll ? ' was the attorney's impatient
greeting.

My mother and sister are quite well ' (the
attorney's eyes flashed out a look of contemptuous
scorn : it was evidently with an
effort he restrained himself from an ebullition
of temper) ; ' but they are naturally much distressed
at what has happened.'

'And what lias happened? Come to the
point, sir. I suppose they are not in distress
for my sake. It is not tliexj who have lost
two hundred pounds ! '

Nevertheless, Mr. Garston, I hope you will
believe that they are sorry you have lost it.
What, however, of course pains them most is,
that any suspicion should attach to your Abel,
our Lucy's brother.'

No suspicion does attach to him,' put in
Christopher earnestly. 'Every one knows '

Hold your tongue, sir,' broke in the
attorney. ' Let Mr. Medway tell his story.'

The vulgarity of the man's nature did not
permit him to perceive that he was calling
Mark Mr. Medway, because somebody (though
presumably not Mark) had stolen his money ;
but Christopher's face not only indicated that
he perceived it, but was full of distressed
apology.

My story is very short, Mr. Garston, and,
I am soit to say, not wholly satisfactory,'
hesitated Mark. ' That some unfortunate
mistake lies at the bottom of this affair we feel
assured, but the fact is that the bank-note in
Lucy's purse of which* Trenna spoke to you is
identical '

I am glad to hear it. I am most sincerely
glad to hear it,' interrupted Mr. Garston.

The unexpectedness of the exclamation, and',
still more, a certain tone of relief in which it
was uttered, fairly took Mark's breath away.
He was dumb. The astonishment in his face,
however, could hardly escape the attorney's
notice.

You are surprised that I am glad,' he said,
in a manner that by comparison with his late
behaviour was almost didactic ; 'yet surely it is
better to have detected the real culprit than to
suspect innocent people.'

'But Abel is no culprit, Mr. Garston, of
that I am quite convinced,' answered Mark,
quickly.

Conviction is matter for a jury,' replied the
other, in the same grave tones, but mingled
with a touch of scorn.* 'If Lucy Deeds received
a note from her brother Abel which was
stolen from my desk, Abel Deeds will have to
account for its possession, and I must confess,
as a lawyer, it strikes me there is some prima
facie evidence against him. I presume, by-the-bye,
the purse was opened in the presence of
witnesses,' he broke off, ' and that the number
of the note was taken down in writing.'

I believe — I am not sure,' returned Mark,
reluctantly.

Now, my good young sir, I hope there is
to be no attempt on the part of your folks at
home to shield this young man,' put in the

attorney with sudden vehemence. ' I allow no
claims of friendship nor acquaintanceship where
justice has to be done.'

My mother knows her duty, sir,' said
Mark, gravely,

No doubt — no doubt — and I hope she is
prepared to do it. It is very easy to be tenderhearted
and sympathetic, and all the rest of
it, in these cases, when one is not the actual
sufferer. But I mean to have my money back
out of somebody, I can tell you.'

Mr. Garston was known beforehand to be a
Tartar, so that there was no occasion to scratch
him ; but now that he vias scratched he was
certainly exhibiting the characteristics of his
native race in great perfection.

If it is merely the money, sir, sooner than
see an innocent person humbled and an honest
family disgrace!, I will myself be the 'somebody

" out of whom you say you will have it
said Mark, hotly.

Eh, what — pooh, pooh — you haven't got
it,' said the attorney, incredulously ; ' no — no,
I mean to have justice. If I can't get the notes,
the thief shall pay for them with his skin.'

I have not the least objection to that, Mr.
Garston, but I will take care that it is not
Abel's skin, who is as honest a man as ' — he
was about to say ' yourself,' but in his indignation
he thought that parallel insufficient — so
ended with ' as Kit yonder.'

Upon my word,' said Kit, thus indirectly
appealed to, ' I think you are going much too
fast, father.'

That is what you have been doing, sir,
these last three years,' returned the attorney,
epigrammatically. ' But that is not my way.
Do you suppose I don't know my own business ?

Here's one of my own notes found in the purse
of my groom's sister, and admitted to have been
given to her by the-man himself. However, I
am wasting words, and j\Ii\ Penryn, who is the
nearest magistrate, will soon settle that matter.'

Good Heavens, Mr. Garston, you don't
think of taking out a warrant, surely ? ' exclaimed
Mark, with agitation.

'Don't I.^ In four and twenty hours I'll
have that scoundrel in jail ; ' and with that the
attorney marched out of the room, slamming
the door behind him.

The next moment, and while Mark still
stood in shocked amazement staring at his
friend, he heard the attorney calling ' Abel !
Abel ! ' (as though he was the most faithful of
retainers) ' saddle the mare.'

But ]\ii\ Penryn will havre to grant the
warrant, Kit ? '

Upon the Governor's word ? Not if I
know him. He must have a sworn information,
and there must be a journey to the Knoll for
that.'

Will my poor mother have to give it
him?'

Perhaps. But not in a hurry, you may be
certain. Moreover, she may find arguments of
her own to move the prosecutor. Wait and
see how things turn out. And in the meantime
let us have a word with Abel.'

But on going into the stable-yard they found
it vacant. The attorney, not without several
ejaculations, which before a justice of the
peace would have cost him five shillings apiece,
had had to saddle the mare himself. Abel
Deeds, who from his silence and alacrity Kit
had christened 'Deeds not words,' had justified
his title. He had taken himself ofl'.

CHAPTER XIII.

KIT HAS A BAD QUARTER OF AX HOUR.

The telephone is, no doubt, a modern institution,
but in country districts something of the
kind (or else it's magic) has been in vogue for
centuries. Local news (for an event like the
Battle of Waterloo or other world-cataclysm
soften escapes notice) flies like wild-fire, and
(from decomposition or other cause which
prevents its keeping) especially bad news.
Unlike telegraphic communications, however,
instead of the tidings being confined to the
sender and receiver, it oozes out in the course
of transit ; the rushes murmur it, the fir trees
VOL. T. P

AvLisper it ; and every one knows that the
parson has kissed the Squire's wife before (like
the wicked woman in the Scriptures) she has
wiped her hips as if nothing had happened.
The messenger whom Eachel Deeds had
despatched to the Grey House for her son
(which was the cause of his absence) might
have been another Masse, and borne the Fiery
Cross, or been ' Humour full of tongues,' in sofar
as dissemination of his tidings was concerned
; and such tidings ! It is here that the
local telephone duties all the inventions of
science ; it has a perfervid imagination, and,
as was observed of Mr. Oliver Goldsmith,
improves whatever it touches.' It is for only
a very few yards that the echo of the parson's
kiss is ' heard ; but beyond the immediate
neighbourhood of the Eectory, or wherever it
happened, it expands into a divorce case ; and

before the bounds of the parish are reached,
the gnihy pair have fled the country.

As Mark and Kit Walked down together,
through the town, they were stared at —
especially Kit — as though they had risen from
the dead. It was not true then, said the
gossips one to another, that Abel Deeds had
murdered everybody at the Grey House, but
only the old man. However, even that was
something, ' though Master Christopher did
seem to take it most uncommon cool.'

And ' if Mr. Garston was really dead, what
a thing it would be for Mr, Tenant,' who
was the other Mogadion attorney.

Unconscious of the disappointment they
thus inflicted on the public mind, the two
young men repaired to the Dovecote. Kit
himself had proposed it, and Mark was delighted
at the suggestion, since the presence of

p 2

his friend, under such circumstances, beneath
the Doctor's roof, would show that Kit for his
part had no suspicion of AbeL Mark knew
that he had none, but he was solicitous that
Prank and the rest should be convinced that
Mr. Gars ton and Mr. Garston's son were not atone
in this matter.

Quick as Kit had been in taking this step,
it seemed, to judge by the Doctor's face, who
received them at his own door, that he had
been none too soon in doing so.

Before crossing my threshold, Mr. Christopher,'
he said gravely, ' I must put the
same question that was addressed to young
Lochinvar : " Do you come here for peace or
for war ? " '

For peace, Dr. Meade, 1 do assure you,'
was the young man's earnest reply ; ' I am as
convinced there has been some unfortunate

mistake about Abel Deeds in this matter as
you yourself can be.'

As to the •' unfortunate mistake," ' returned
the Doctor, grimly, ' I will only say at
present, that when this poor fellow's innocence
shall have been established, the misfortune, as
v/ell as the mistake, will be Mr. Garston's.
The reputation of honest folks is not to betaken
away with impunity because other folks
mislay their money.'

The antithesis between 'honest folks' and
other folks ' was only too obvious, but
Christoplier Gars ton passed it over with a
smile.

I am afraid it is true, sir, that my father
has lost his temper, as well as his money, but
that is no reason why we should follow his
example. For the moment he is a good deal
put out — for two hundred pounds is a large

sum to miss from one's desk — but I am not
aware that he has done anything actionable


Actionable ! ' repeated the Doctor, scornfully.
' I am not speaking of the law, but of
common justice and good feeling.'

I beg your pardon. I thought you were
hinting, when you said " With impunity," at an
action for libel.'

Tut, tut,' said the Doctor, growing very
red ; ' I don't bark till I can bite, I do assure
you. Well, Frank, hoar is she ? '

Oh, she's all right for the present,' said
Frank, who now entered the room. ' You
have done our poor Michael a bad turn this
morning, Garston.'

He did not offer his hand to Kit, but regarded
him with cold disfavour.

Upon my word,' cried Mark, ' you are

both treating Kit exceedingly ill. He is not
responsible for his father's action in any way,
and regrets it as much as you do.'

A great deal more,' put in Kit, quietly ;
inasmuch as I am to blame in the matter. I
did remind Trenna of the purse with Lucy's
savings in it, because I knew my father would
sooner or later come to hear of it ; and I
wished Abel to be exonerated at once. Unfortunately,
as I understand, one of the missing
notes has been found in it. Xo doubt that
fact can be explained ; but, in the meantime,
is it altogether unreasonable that my father
should wish to make some inquiry as to how it
came there ? He has gone to the Knoll to doit,
and that — so far as I am aware — is the
extent of his offence up to this date.'

The young man's tone and manner were
the perfection of quiet remonstrance, while his

logic was incontrovertible. The Doctor looked
at this son with some dismay.

Upon my word, Frank,' the look seemed
to say, ' I am afraid I have been going a little
too far.'

If you had seen our poor Eachel,
Garston, as I have seen her,' observed Frank
stiffly and with a manner that spoke of enforced
apology, 'you would make allowance
for any warmth my father may have exhibited.'

Pray don't speak of that,' said Kit. ' His
indignation, to my mind, only did him honour.
At the same time, you must allow that the
circumstances are such as to excuse some suspicion.
The notes are certainly missing '

Missing, they may be, Mr. Christopher
Garston ; but them as can hide can find.'

At the door of the parlour, which was
open, stood Eachel Deeds. Her face was

white with rage, white even by contrast with
her white hair, which, instead of its ordinary
neatness, hung over it rafx^ied and dishevelled.

My good Eachel,' said Kit, with one of
his pleasant smiles, 'you can't suppose my
father is a magpie.'

His raillery was ilhtimed but not ill-placed,
if, indeed, his object was to stem the tide of
the old woman's indignation. The lower
orders in the south have little or no humour,
and the introduction of it in serious matters is
unintelligible to them. She stood staring at
him fiercely, but with a dazed expression,
which changed into one of trust and affection
as she turned to her young master. ' Mr.
Frank,' she said, ' you tell him what we think ;
this gentleman is too clever for a poor old
woman, as he has proved himself to be for
many a young one.'

If Christopher Garston had been in doubt
of his being on hostile soil, this speech would
have opened his eyes very effectually. It was
one of those unfortunate utterances — such as
children often use to our embarrassment and
dismay — which betray whole volumes which
ought to be under lock and key.

If " Mr. Frank " will tell you how this
matter really stands said Kit, with the red in
his cheek and scorn in his tone, ' instead of
favouring me with his or your opinion upon
me or mine, he will be doing you a service.'

Thus appealed to, and without taking
notice of an accusation which he would
perhaps have had some difficulty in explaining
away, Frank stated the facts exactly as they
had occurred. ' It is but fair to say, Eachel,'
he added with an effort that evidently cost him
something, ' that Mr. Christopher Garston has

expressed his regret that any suspicion should
have fallen upon your son, whom he believes
to be wholly blameless in this matter.'

'Believes? You need not tell me that
exclaimed the old woman bitterly ; ' and his
father knows it too. Folks needn't be honest
people themselves to know when other people
is honest. Abel — come here, Abel.'

Abel appeared, flushed and downcast, the
very picture of guilt to the eyes that only use
the borrowed glasses of convention and routine.
His broad good-natured face was bedewed
with apprehension of he knew not what, like
an ox at the first sight of the pole-axe

Abel, speak out, and for thy mother's
sake tell how you came by that note as was
found in Lucy's purse ; my son ain't clever like
some folks,' added Eachel with a glance at
Christopher, ' but he's pure.'

And indeed if ' pure ' means ' simple,'
with which word it is often conjoined, Abel
was a very lily of the valley.

Master gave it me himself,' said Abel. ' It
was a part of my quarter's wages, and the best
on it too, I promise you.'

'Tien the whole affair lies in a nutshell,'
observed Mark cheerfully. ' Mr. Garston
being a man of business takes the numbers
of his notes and '

There he stopped, perceiving that his
remark had been an unfortunate one. For the
moment he had forgotten that the lost note
had been identified, and that it might be the
object of the defence to show that Mr. Garston
had not made a memorandum of the number
at the time he received it, but had trusted to
his memory, which had failed him.

There was ten shillings in silver besides,'

continued Abel by way of final contribution to
the investigation, 'and I gave five on it to
Jennie to buy a parasol with.'

And a fool's trick too, my lad,' observed
this mother reprovingly, ' for she spoilt it the
next day by putting it up in the downpour,
drat her. But then, gentlemen, Abel can
never refuse Jennie naught, who is a sensible
girl at bottom for all her wanting to be in the
fashion ; and you mustn't think him wasteful.
He's a good son and a good brother and a
food man, let them as knows nothing of goodness
' (and again she cast a glance of defiance
at Christopher) ' tell what lies they will of
him.'

Kit answered only by a good-natured smile,
which, though it failed to mollify his assailant,
convinced the spectators at least of his forbearance
and kindly feeling. The lily indeed

was SO touch eel by it that lie observed, ' I have
nowt to say against Mr. Christopher, mother,
nor against Miss Trenna neither ; and I don't
believe they hangs by master in this business a
bit more than they does in any other.'

This frank expression of the result of Abel's
experience of the state of domestic affairs at
the Grey House was received in silence ; the
Doctor and his son looked embarrassed as
having been in some sort the inviters of so
much plain speaking; Kit smiled but bit his
lip, and Mark was downright angry at the
scant courtesy with which, as he conceived, his
friend had been treated throughout the interview.


It appears to me,' he said, ' that whatever
wrong Mr. Garston may have done an
innocent man in thought — for at present it
has sone no further — others have committed

the same error. It would really seem that we
lived in the old barbarous days, when the
members of a man's family were all held
answerable for his personal misdoings.'

'- The accused himself has stood up for me,
however,' said Kit smiling.

A lesson to us all,' said Mark, with
significance ; ' I honour him for it. and shall
certainly not be less resolved in consequence
to see him righted ; but in my opinion he
is not the only one who needs to make
apology.'

My dear Mark,' said Frank with earnestness,
'it is impossible to affect to misunderstand
your meaning, but if you suppose for a moment
that we hold Christopher responsible for Mr.
Garston's suspicions '

Why don't you call him Kit then as you
used to do ? ' broke in Mark impatiently. ' I

don't blame Encliel, no one could blame a
mother.'

Hush, hush,' said the Doctor, rising with
dignity. ' There is no need for more, Mark ;
Kit, give me your hand. We are partisans
here, I admit it ; but we want no quarrel with
our neighbours ; like ourselves I am persuaded
that all you wish is to see justice done.'

Christoplier, Christoplier,' cried an angry
voice without, ' come here, I want you.'

Through the open window they saw the
attorney, who had reined his mare in, at the
garden gate ; she was covered with foam, and
lier heaving sides showed the mark of his spurs.

What is the matter nov, I wonder ? '
exclaimed Kit, as' he took up his hat with the
weary air of a man forced into action against
his will; ' stay here, Mark, till I let you know
what has happened.'

But Mark liacl already followed him bareheaded
into the harden.

Not you, not ijou^ cried the attorney ashe
caught sight of him : ' I want my son
Christopher, and no one else.'

XJpon a hint so very plain Mark had no
alternative of course but to act ; so he returned
into the house while Kit stood by his father's
stirrup listening to the story, which, with many
an impassioned expletive and gesture, the old
man poured into his ear.

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE XIV.

THE MAGISTRATE.

Why Mr. Garston should have had his say out
immediately under the Dovecote windows can
only be accounted for by his being so choke
full of it that to carry it any further without
spilling it was an impossibility. Otherwise he
might just as well have pulled up a few yards
further on, and not have exposed himself so
directly to the enemy's fire. For, though
Eachel and her son had withdrawn, and the
regis of Mark's friendship protected Kit from
the animadversions of the rest, the spectacle of
the swarthy attorney breathing forth fire and

fury (as was evident) into his son's ear was a
temptation to them to express their views of
him.

Upon my life,' observed the Doctor, ' I
believe the man has fomid out his mistake
already, and is pitching into Christopher as a
relief to his feelings.'

He hasn't found Ms money,' put in Frank,
drily, ' or he would not be in such a passion.'

If he was as careful of himself as of his
coin, he wouldn't do it,' observed the Doctor.
A man of his habit of body, and especially in
this hot weather, should not allow himself such
violent delights.'

Poor Kit,' sighed Mark, compassionately ;
what a thing it must be to have such a father !
I wonder what has happened up at the
Knoll. Perhaps my mother and Maud
together may have persuaded him to acquit his

q2

first victim, and now with redoubled energy lie
is casting about for another.'

He does not give me the impression
observed Frank, critically, ' of having been
subjected recently to female influence.'

Come, his eloquence is exhausted at last,'
cried Mark, who was standing with the others
at the window, watching the colloquy between
father and son. 'Now Kit will come back
and tell us all about it.'

Not he,' said the Doctor, I am afraid
with some touch of malicious satisfaction : ' he
is walking away, by the old gentleman's side,
like a captive tied to the saddle bow. It's a
case of needs must.'

Where the Devil rides,' added Frank,
grimly ; ' I wonder where on earth they're
going to ? They have taken the turning to
the Eectory.'

Mark uttered a deep sigh, for he guessed
their errand, which the others did not. And
he guessed right.

The attorney and his son moved on in
silence ; the latter had made his protest in
reply to the declaration of the other's intentions,
and it had been swept away by a whirlwind
of wrath. The story that he had told to
him will be related presently. Even though
Mr. Garston had eased his mind of its load of
indignation, there were still some dregs in the
phial ; some droppings after the thunder storm .
I will have this sifted to the bottom,' he
muttered fiercely, 'though it should cost me
my fortune.'

Christopher Garston shrugged his shoulders.
^ You used to tell , me, father, that there was
nothing so foolish as to throw good money
after bad.'

What do you mean, sir ? ' exclaimed the
attorney, stopping his horse, and facing round
upon the speaker. ' Why should the money
be bad — by which I suppose you mean
lost irrevocably? You don't suppose the
fellow could have made away with it in a
week. Every one is not a spendthrift like
yourself.'

I am sorry I put in a word, sir,' was the
young man's reply, which, if tone has any
significance, implied that argument is thrown
away in the case of a gentleman who has lost
his temper ; ' what I meant was that even
supposing that Abel is guilty '

Supposing ! Who supposes it ? It is
certain

Very good ; even so, he has powerful
friends. You know the law better than I do,
but that circumstance has some weight, I

believe. Moreover, Mark offered to pay the
money.'

Hush it up ! ' exclaimed the attorney,
slapping his sturdy thigh, 'I will see them
d — d first. But I am glad you reminded
me of Mark's osier. That's a point.'

It was in reply to your remark that you
would get the money out of somebody,'
observed Kit, with a look that seemed to say
and that is a point on the other side.'

'He's taken himself off already, but I'll
have him before night,' pursued the attorney
vindictively. 'I have given notice at the
station, and they have telegraphed down the
line.'

That was a little precipitate, I think.'

Do you ? ' replied the other, in a voice
like the snap of a clasp knife.

Considering, I mean,' continued the

young man coolly, ' that Abel is at the present
moment at the Dovecote with his mother and
sister.'

So miicli the better : I shall know where
to lay my hands upon him. He's getting up
his case, no doubt ; backing it with a perjury
or two from the women. They weill have to
swear pretty hard to swear away the number
off a five-pound note.

They had by this time reached the Eectory
gate, which lay back on its hinges in the usual
hospitable fashion ; on the lawn within stood
the Eector himself, who, attracted by the
sound of hoofs, was looking with curiosity
towards them, shading his eyes from the
sun, from which his close-fitting scull cap
offered no protection, by means of an open
book.

Halloo ! What's this, Mr. Garston ? The

idea of you and your son reviving the old
system of ride and tie. The objection to it, in
these days, is that when the rider leaves his
horse there is a possibility of some one else
walking off with it, instead of the proper
person.'

You may say that, sir,' said the attorney
with energy. ' In these days you have to hold
your hat on with both hands to keep it for
your own, and then you get your pockets
picked.'

As Mr. Garston thus epitomised the
morality of the day he threw himself off his
steed.

'If you will be good enough to let your
man give my mare a feed of corn, I shall be
obliged to you, Mr. Penryn, for she has more
work before her, and it will save time.'

Certainly, by all means,' said the Eector,

wondering in bis mind why the attorney came
to the Eectory for corn when his own stalls
were not a mile away ; ' Jem, take Mr.
Garston's horse and feed him. Will you take
anything yourself?' he continued; 'we have
refreshments for man and beast : you are old
enough to remember the old formula.'

I am come here on a matter of business,'
said the attorney in a tone of some severity ;
the lightness of the Sector's tone, under
which he always fancied lay some contempt for
himself, jarred upon him under the present
circumstances even more than usual.

Very good,' returned the other, in total
ignorance, of course, of his visitor's mission,
and resenting his manner; 'there is no occasion
to be so very serious even if you have.
Business is not thunder, nor men milk, that we
should all turn sour at the sound of it.'

To tins conceit the attorney answered
nothing ; if a devout wish that he had a bill of
sale upon the Eector's furniture in his pocket,
and had been empowered to put in the broker's
man, flashed across his mind, he dismissed it
instantly ; he felt that he had already made a
false start, and must direct all his energies to
the uncongenial task of conciliation.

I hate to trouble men of letters, Mr.
Penryn, with any mere common sense — I mean
commonplace — matter, which is necessarily
out of their hue. If there had been any other
magistrate '

'Pray make no apologies, Mr. Garston,'
interrupted the other, ' of course I am at the
disposal of justice, though I am very sorry she
wants me. Nothing has gone wrong among
our Mogadion people, I do hope ? '

'Merely a theft of two hundred pounds.'

Good Heavens ! On Avhoni and by
whom ? '

On me, by my servant, Abel Deeds. He
took the money out of my desk.'

Unless you saw him do it with your own
eyes, Mr. Garston,' observed the Eector gravely,
I shall be hard to persuade of that.'

'A magistrate is not a juryman, Mr.
Penryn,' replied the other curtly ; ' but, as it
happens, it is not a case of credibility at all, but
one of proof, as you shall hear.'

And in a few words he told him the facts
with which wee are acquainted.

The Eector's face grew grave and sad.

'You have seen this missing note yourself,
have you, Mr. Garston ? '

No, I have not, but Mrs. Medway has,
and Miss Maud and my daughter have.'

Then one of them should be here. I cannot

issue a warrant upon hearsay — upon any
mere unsupported assertion . Why did you not
bring your daughter with you ? '

Trenna was not in the house when I
called at the Knoll,' returned the attorney with
suppressed passion, ' they had got her out of
the way on purpose. And neither Mrs.
Medway nor her daughter would afford me any
information. It is a conspiracy, nothing less, to
defeat the ends of justice.'

I will not permit you to apply such words
as those to any friend of mine said the Eector
sharply.

His face, however, exhibited dismay as well
as indignation ; it was not, he felt, impossible
that, in her zeal for Abel and her mistrust of
his accuser, Mrs. Medway might have allowed
herself to indulge in a little obstruction.

I am come here for a warrant against Abel

Deeds, who has robbed me of a large sum of
money. He has already fled from my service.
If you refuse on my personal application to
grant a warrant against him, and he escapes
from justice, you will be held responsible.
You know the law, sir.'

Now this, as the attorney rightly conceived,
was one of the few things which the Eector,
although a magistrate, did not know. It was
the first time — so honest was the community
among which he lived — that he had ever been
applied to upon any matter of the sort, and
though he had punctually attended to his
duties at petty sessions, they had in no way
enlightened him as to the present proceeding.

It seems to me incredible,' he hesitated,
from what I know of Mrs. Medway, that she
should fail in any duty, public or private.
Upon what ground did she refuse to let you seethe
note ? '

'Upon no ground whatever. I was met
with a flat denial.'

The Eector bit his hips and looked about
him indecisively ; his eyes fell on Christopher,
who, behind his father's portly form, nodded
encouragement.

Were you present, Mr. Christopher ? '

No, sir, but my father told me all about
it

Well, what did he say as to Airs. Medway's
refusal to show him the note — pardon me, Mr.
Garston ' — for the attorney was about to speak
' but I am, officially, the master here. I
wish to hear what your son has to say.'

My father said that Mrs. Medway had declined
to take any step m the matter — even so
much as to show him the note — without advice
from either yourself or Dr. Meade.'

Just so ; that comes to the same thing,'
observed the attorney indifferently.

'Not exactly, Mr. Garston. If you had
quoted Mrs. Medway's words I should have
known how to act ; and since your mare looks
tired I shall be happy to offer you a seat in my
pony chaise. If you like to accompany us to
the Knoll, Christopher, there is room for you
also.*

The Eector was not wont to be so gracious
to the young man, whom of late years indeed
he had rarely addressed without the preface of
'Mr,' but his frank conduct on this occasion
had pleased him ; and perhaps he was not unwilling
to have a third party, even if it were
Mr. Garston's son, to avert a tete-astute with Mr.
Garston.

The proposition was by no means received
with rapture by Kit himself; he expressed his
thanks as the attorney did, but looked at the
proffered vehicle when it came round in a way

that the proverb teaches us we should not look
at a gift horse, and by inference a lent chaise ;
while so far from 'jumping at it,' he climbed
on to the perch behind (leaving the front seat
to his elders) with the inertia and deprecation
of a mounting bird. It was evident in fiict
that Mr. Christopher was in two minds, as the
phrase goes, whether he would go at all.

The journey was not much enhanced bv
conversation, and indeed each of the three persons
had subject for thought enough fully to
employ him ; Mr. Penryn was thinking of poor
Abel, as to whom his magisterial mind could
not but acknowledge things looked black ; Mr.
Garston, of his two hundred pounds deficit ;
while Kit, to judge by the extreme seriousness
and even anxiety of his expression, would have
been pronounced, by his enemies at least, to
have been thinking of his own affairs.
VOL. I. K

CHAPTEE XV.

FOILED.

On ordinary occasions when the Eector paid a
visit to the Knoll, the old servant, Michael,
received him with respectful inquiries after his
honour's health, and immediately ushered him
into the presence of his mistress or her
daughter, whether they were in the house or
garden ; when ' My dear Mr. Penryn, how glad
we are to see you,' was his unfailing welcome.
But to-day, though Michael paid him all due
reverence, his companionship with the attorney
seemed to stiffen the old man into stone. ' He
would see,' he said, in answer to the usual

inquiries, but he did not know whether his
mistress was at home ; and when this assurance
had been given, he ushered the party into the
empty drawing-room with the sort of ceremony
used by Mr. Crossbones the undertaker in
Mogadion when, at some great country obsequies,
he would murmur, ' Your hat, if you
please, Mr. Penryn,' previously to encircling it
with a weeper.

The room was as pretty as ever ; the
fountain in the conservatory on which it opened
kept the ball alive ' as usual on the top of its
ever-falling column ; the birds in the little
aviary had not lost a note, but to two at least
of the party the room wore an air quite different
from that to which they had been
accustomed. And when Mrs. Medway came
sailing in with unwonted dignity, and a
certain umbrage in her manner, like that of a
r. 2

ruffled swan, matters looked more strangely
still.

I am glad you are come, Mr. Penryn,' she
said gravely, as she took the Eector's hand,
and am not sorry you brought Mr. Garston
with you; as for Kit, he is always welcome
here.'

It was clear that the speaker thought a
rupture with the attorney was inevitable — nay,
even deemed that it had already occurred — and
was taking an early opportunity of announcing
that the offence of the father was not to be
visited upon his children ; but her speech,
though intended to be so far conciliatory, as
it turned out was unfortunate. It gave an
opportunity to the attorney to observe afterwards
that ' the woman ' showed from the
first that she had no expectation of his speaking
2^ to her attain.

I conclude,' continued Mrs. Medway,
addressing the Eector, ' that Mr. Garston has
acquainted YOU with the unhappy circumstances
which caused him to pay us a visit this morning.
He came here for the note which he alleges to
have been stolen from him by our Lucy's
brother — a man you have known, Mr.
Penryn, from a child, and whose family you
know to be as honest as any in Mogadion. I
declined, for Abel's sake, I own, to show him
that note, except under advice from those in
idiom I had confidence. I am sorry that my
refusal shoidd have offended him, but beyond
that, in the way of apology, I cannot go.'

you have forgotten to mention that you
put my daughter — my own daughter — out of
the way, Madam,' observed ]mr. Gammon, in a
voice trembling with passion, ' so that I was
unable to obtain information from any source.'

Put her out of the way ? ' repeated the
Eector, smiling. ' Come, come, Mr. Garston,
Mrs. Medway did not surely take such strong
measures as all that. The young lady is
alive and well, even if in captivity, I have no
doubt. She merely happened to go out for a
walk just as your horse's hoofs announced your
coming.'

Mrs. Medway nodded corroboratively. but
with all the gravity of a mandarin.

Well, well, that is not worse,' pursued
the Eector, ' than things I have known to
take place when I have been on the
Bench. A witness acting on the suggestion
even of his legal adviser does sometimes
take a walk at a time which is inconvenient
for the prosecution. Nevertheless, I candidly
confess that Mrs. Medway should
have shown you the note. However, we

can see it now — it's just where it was, I
suppose P '

But the thief himself may not be where
he was observed the attorney acidly.

Abel Deeds was at the Dovecote less than
an hour ago,' remarked Christopher, quietly.

'At the Dovecote? Why, I understood
you to say, Mr. Garston, that he had runaway,'
exclaimed the Eector, indignantly.

I said he had run away from my service,'
answered the attorney, sullenly. ' It is not my
business to ask where he is gone at present. I
am not one to bark till I can bite.'

If Mr. Gaston had really been, as his
favourite metaphor suggested, of the canine
race, and an inferior specimen of it, Mrs.
Medway could scarcely have regarded him
with more disdain.

I suppose, Mr. Penryn, you wish to see

this note ? ' she said, ignoring the attorney
altogether.

'Well, yes, if you will be so good,' returned
the Eector, with an air, it must be
confessed, not very suitable to a judicial investigation.
One would have thought that he
had been asked to look at some specimen of
Druidical remains, the genuineness of which he
doubted, but in which, out of regard for their
possessor, he was compelled to feign an interest.

His hostess led the way to the boudoir, and
pointed to the drawer which was the repository
of Lucy's little treasure. ' Here is the key,'
she said, producing it, ^ and that is all, thank
Heaven,' she added with significance, ' that I
have to do with the matter.'

I hope nobody else has had to do with it ;
I mean has had the opportunity of meddling
with the note,' observed the attorney.

The key has not left my possession, sir,'
answered Mrs. Medway, haughtily, ' since the
drawer was opened in your daughter's presence.'


Mr. Penryn took the key and took out the
purse. ' There is the note. Mr. Garston, it is
for you to identify it.'

The attorney took a seat, spread out the
note deliberately before him on the table, and
said, ' Ah, that will do.'

The tone in which he spoke was triumphant ;
and a licking of the lips which accompanied
the words reminded his hearers of certain
tenants of the Zoological Gardens.

You have a memorandum of the number
of the missing note, I conclude.' observed the
Eector.

I have,' said the attorney, and he produced
a slip the duplicate of which Trenna had

brought with her. ' Here we have it, 28828.
Eh ! What ! Why, there's something wrong
here. This note is 28882.'

That is clear enough,' said the Eector.

There is something else clear enough,'
answered the attorney, speaking through his
teeth, and turning to that very unpleasant
colour which the showman who has no white
gloves assures you looks the same as white.
I warn you, Mrs. Medway, I am not a man
to be trifled with.'

What the deuce do you mean, sir ? ' exclaimed
the Eector, indignantly. ' If you
think because I am a clergyman that you
can insult a lady in my presence, you make
a great mistake.'

I beg you will let Mr, Garston have his
say,' said Mrs. Medway, with calm contempt.

You will find it is not only " say," but

do," ma'am,' continued the attorney, with
vehemence ; ' there is a conspiracy here ; this
is not the note my daughter saw.'

It is the note, sir,' insisted Lies. Medway,
the very same. I locked the drawer with
my own hands. I have not the memorandum
here ; but my daughter, Maud, has
got it. Maud, Maud ' ! she cried, opening
the door, ' come here, and bring Trenna with
you.'

As they were in the next room awaiting
events, there was no delay in the production of
the two young ladies.

Maud, indeed, had proposed to bear her
mother company in this second reception of
her unwelcome guest, which, it was evident,
would be an unpleasant ordeal, but Mrs.
Medway had declined her offer. ' It is much
better,' she said, ' that you should not be

mixed up in the matter if it can be avoided,
my dear.' It now appeared, however, that
Maud was to be mixed up in it. The sudden
summons had made her heart ' go but had
not deprived her of her courage, and of at
least the external appearance of calmness.
Trenna, on the other hand, was very pale and
tremulous. She fixed her eyes upon her
father from the first, and never withdrew
them, save when directed to do so, throughout
the painful interview that followed. Not a
single salutation was exchanged on either side.
The expression on Mr. Garston's face too
clearly expressed ' business ' to admit of that.
'Maud, my dear,' said Mrs. Medway, gently,
where is the memorandum you took of Lucy's
note ? '

With steady hand Maud produced her
card case. ' Here it is, mamma. I wrote it,

as you know, in Trenna's presence on the back
of this card.'

One moment,' interrupted the attorney :
do you remember the number ? '

I think so ; but I decline to state it from
recollection. It had, however, three eights
and two twos in it, because mamma called our
attention to that fact.'

She did, did she ? ' said the attorney, with
a sneer. ' That was a very convenient coincidence.
What do you say, Trenna ? '

The number was 28882, papa.'

There ! ' said Mrs. Medway, triumphantly.

Oh, yes ! I see it is written on the
card plainly enough,' continued the attorney.
She has, no doubt, had every opportunity
while under this roof of refreshing her
memory.'

Indeed, papa, I have never looked at the

card since,' returned Trenna, simply. * It
made me miserable enough to think of it.'

Then you are quite sure that the number
on the note corresponded with that upon the
slip?'

Oh, yes ! I am afraid, at least, that there
can be no mistake upon that point. Here is
the slip with the number of lost notes, and
here is the number with the cross which I put
against it, 28828.'

But the number of Lucy's note is 28882,'
said Mrs. Medway. ' It is very curious ! '

V — very,' interposed the attorney, sardonically.
' One would almost think there
was magic in it.'

I didn't look at the slip myself,' said Mrs.
Medway, taking no notice of this sarcasm, and
addressing herself to the Eector, ' both Maud
and Trenna being so positive about the number

being there, and of course it was no pleasure
for me to see it ; but if a mistake has been
made, I am sure it will be a cause of thankfulness
to all of us.'

'People sometimes make mistakes for
which they have cause to be anything but
thankful,' observed the attorney, menacingly.
'There are mistakes, and there are misdemeanours.'


'Xo doubt,' put in the Eector, quietly.
There are also misprisions of felony, and
homicide by misadventure, and all sorts of
misses, with which the matter in hand has
nothing to do. It is clear to me now that
the error has arisen through the coincidence
in the numbers, which \\\ both cases were
composed of the same figures, though indifferent
order.'

That was it, no doubt,' said Mrs. Medway.

'I remember calling the girls' attention to
there being three eights and two twos in it.'

Just so,' said Mr. Penryn, with the smiling
complacency of one who has solved a double
acrostic, and is awaiting the congratulations
of his fellow competitors : ' the young ladies
were flurried and frightened, and naturally
took one number for the other. I am sure,
when he comes to reflect upon the matter, that
Mr. Garston himself will be as convinced of
the fact as I am, and I hope I may add, as
well pleased.'

To this sanguine speech the attorney only
vouchsafed a contemptuous puff* by way of
reply. 'Come here, Trenna,' he said, 'and
look me in the face while you answer me ' (a
quite unnecessary injunction, by-the-bye, for,
as we have said, the young lady had hitherto
looked nowhere else) ; ' you are not such a

fool, I know, as to have mistaken one number
for another ; a figure in your eyes has as
much significance as a letter. Now, tell me
was that note you see lying there — No. 28828
the same that you saw taken out of Lucy
Deeds' purse yonder ? '

I have not the least doubt in the world
that it was, father,' returned the girl, with a
white face, but in unflinching tones.

You dare to tell me that, do you ? Then
you now assert that the number on the note
did not correspond with the number on the
sip, though this very morning you asserted
the contrary .^ '

I thought it did, father ; I suppose, as
Mr. Penryn says ' — here her voice trembled
for the first time — ' that I was deceived by
the coincidence of the figures.'

You lie,' answered the attorney, sternly.

VOL. I. s

Come, come, Mr. Garston,' put in the
Eector, ' that is not a word to be used before
ladies.'

'It is the truth,' said the attorney, with
quiet significance : ' look at her.'

Pale as ashes, and trembling with suppressed
emotion, Trenna gazed upon her fatherlike
a bird fascinated by a serpent.

And now,' said he, ' I should like a word
or two with Miss Maud.'

Then you won't have it,' said the Eector,
sharply. ' Between yourself and your
daughter I had no right to interfere ; but to
Miss Medway, here, you shall not put an insulting
question, or rather a question which,
when she has replied to it, however truthfully,
may suggest an insult.'

So you deny me the right of examination,
do you, Mr. Penryn? You think it decent,

magistrate though you are, to take sides in this
matter? Well, well, I will find means to
make the young lady speak. There is justice
to be got in other places if not in Mogadion ; '
and with that ]mr. Garston put his hat on — as
if to show that he was not in a court of justice
just at present — and marched out of the room.

He'll have to walk, that's a comfort,'
murmured the Eector, complacently ; ' if he
takes my chaise I'll prosecute Iii for felony.'

How shocking it all is ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Medway, throwing up her hands. ' I am so
sorry for you, dear Trenna, and for you. Kit.'

Oh, never mind us,' said Kit, cheerfully ;
the governor's a little put out at having taken
a shot at the wrong man, but hell come round,
won't he, Trenna .? '

But Trenna had covered her face with her
hands, and answered nothings

1

CHAPTEE XVI.

AN UNSELFISH ALLY,

Whatever was to be urged against Mr.
Garston of Mogadion, it must be said of him
that he was as good as his word — whenever he
threatened anybody. In most cases his shrewd
eye to the main chance kept his temper under
control, but there were occasions when the
Spanish blood in his veins got the mastery of
him, and impelled him to do things that were
not remunerative. His prosecution — most
people called it his persecution — of Abel Deeds
was a case in point. That he had strong
suspicions to go upon in the first instance it

must be admitted, but they were not proofs,
and when he attempted to collect evidence we
have seen that it eluded him. In his own
mind, it is true, he was well convinced that
the Medway family (probably in collusion
with his own daughter) were in a conspiracy
to shield his offending servant. But that was
"no excuse — as a lawyer — for his ofoino' straightaway
from the Knoll to Mr. Trelawney, the
nearest magistrate, and obtaining from him, on
his own sworn information, a warrant against
Abel Deeds.

The immediate consequence of this was the
appearance at the Dovecote — more phenomenal
than that of a blue-bottle fly at Christmas
— of a policeman. It was a visit of a very
different nature from that of one of the
Metropolitan brigade with his starched manner,
his ' shibboleth ' of ' wanted,' and that incontrovertible

logic in his pocket which closes
with a snap ; for it Alas simply Bob Ellis,
whom Dr. Meade had brought into the world
and vaccinated, a protege of old Rachel, and a
personal friend and former playmate of the
accused himself. Nothing could be more
apologetic than his manner (for indeed his
presence under the Doctor's roof on such an
errand seemed to him little less than sacrilege),
or accommodating than his behaviour. 'Business
was business,' he said in a tone which
quite corroborated the Eector's view of that
occupation, ' but he know'd his place as well as
his duty ' — which I am afraid was a euphemism
for offering if desirable to keep the
strictest watch at the front door, while Abel
made his escape through the back garden.

On the other hand Bob's visit, since it was
known to all Mogadion, was more detrimental

to Abel's character than if he had been wanted
by the whole Metropolitan Brigade from A to Z.

All the town will knows he has been took
up,' sobbed the unhappy Eachel. ' To think
that it should ever be cast up against a sou of
mine that he was a jail-bird ! '

That it never shall be,' said the Doctor
stoutly : ' I'll take Abel over with me to Mr.
Trelawney, and be bail for him myself —
which accordingly he did. Whereby Mr.
Garston's threat that the offender should pass
that night in the Roundhouse — as the Moga-
dion dungeon was called — failed of its accomplishment.


This, as we have said, was the immediate
effect of the attorney's hasty action ; but the
more remote consequences were much more
serious and extensive in their sphere of action.
A feud arose between Mr. Garston and certain

of his neighbours, with whom we are acquainted,
which was never healed. The cataclysms
that rend asunder country friendships
are often very small affairs. A game-law
decision erring on the score of mercy at the
petty sessions ; a speech at election time ; the
question of whether a horse has three legs
or four argued between buyer and seller ; a
disinclination for afternoon church : any one of
these may have the effect of a social earthquake
and convulse a provincial community
with anything but mirth.

The flag of discussion may be but of the
size of a pocket handkerchief, but, once raised,
and the spirit of partisanship evoked, the whole
parish becomes a camp, and the very Vestry a
battle-field.

Mogadion was a peaceful spot, but, as we
have said, it had more than one attorney ; and

even while Dr. Meade was on his way to the
magistrate, his son had walked down the
street, and stopping at a small door with an
immense brass plate — like a cuirass on a
Middlesex militiaman — with ' Mr. Texxaxt,
Solicitor,' engraved upon it, had instructed
that gentleman to commence an action for
slander upon Abel Deeds' behalf, against ]Vii
Garston.

Under other circumstances, this proceeding
would have troubled the rival attorney not a
little; for, just as a parson is the most impatient
of listeners to a homily from one of his own
cloth, so the man of law exceedingly resents
writ, summons, or notice, directed against his
own learned person ; but, for the present, Mr.
Garston was too full of the sense of personal
wrong to feel anything but wrath at this procedure,
which only caused him to consult with

greater diligence the enactments against ' Conspiracy,'
with the hope of carrying fire and
sword into the household at the Knoll.

His first act was to send for Trenna, who
had, of course, no choice but to obey his
summons, and a very unpleasant quarter of an
hour did that young lady pass under his cross-examination.
She stuck, however, to her
story, suggesting that the key of the mystery
must needs lie in the coincidence of the figures,
which, as being the Eector's own explanation
of the matter, by no means rendered it more
acceptable to her father. He reiterated the
obnoxious word he had already applied to her,
accused her of being a traitress and a renegade,
and finished with the most violent maledictions
against her late hostess and her
daughter, whom he announced it to be his firm
intention to place in the criminal dock.

To the invectives against herself Trenna
answered nothing ; she sat with pale face and
lips compressed, like one in the pillory to
whom dead cats and cabbage stalks were no
worse things than were to be expected; only
at times, when a stone struck her — when he
called her 'traitress,' for example — she shivered
a little, and murmured, 'Xot that, not that,'
beneath her breath. "Alien he spoke of the
Medwayss, however, she did essay to moderate
the rancour of his tongue.

You are wrong, father, you are wrong,'
lie pleaded ; ' they are good, kind, honest
people.'

Good, kind,' he reiterated scornfully ;
yes, of course, it is easy to be good and kind
when it costs one nothing ; and especially to
forgive injuries which are committed against
some one else. As for honest, they are not.

It is as bad to shield a thief as to he one, and
that Mrs. Medway and her daughter, or you
have put another note in that purse instead of
the stolen one is positively certain. I'll sift the
matter, however, if it costs me my fortune, to
the very bottom

It may cost you more than that,' cried
Trenna, desperately.

More than my fortune ! What do you
mean, mrl? To be sure I have no money
to throw away, thanks to your spendthrift
brother. But — ' here he paused, and,
attracted by some expression in her face,
rose from his chair, with fear as well as
fury in his eyes, and seized her waist —
what is it, Trenna ? What do you mean, I
say?'

'Nothing but what I said, father,' she
answered quickly. ' What is fortune compared

with a good name? If you push this
matter to extremity you will make enemies for
us of everybody. And we are not so flush of
friends.'

Friends ! I want no friends. I want my
money, and I want revenge ; and I will have
them both.'

If any one who saw him at that moment,
just when he said ' revenge,' had had a doubt
of Mr. Garston's origin, it would have been set
at rest. Relentless, swart, resentful, he looked
every inch a Spaniard.

Papa, when are the Assizes ? ' inquired
Trenna, after a long pause.

The Assizes ? Ay, there will be something
seen then in the newspapers, such as was
never seen before. Among the " Fashionable
Departures " you will read " From the Knoll,
Mo^adion, to Dartmoor Prison " '

I asked ivlien they would be, father
interrupted Trenna.

What is that to you ? Next month.'

And in the meantime are we — that is, Kit
and I — to be strangers to the Medwayss ? '

No, why should you ? Their quarrel is
with me, and not with mine.'

This reply surprised the girl more than it
pleased her. She knew her father too well to
suppose the reason given for the continuance of
her intimacy at the Knoll to be the true one,
even had he not termed her ' traitress ; ' he
wished, by permitting things to go on as usual,
to lull suspicion. If he suffered her to come
and go between the two houses as before, the
Medwayss would never dream of his intentions.
That her conjecture was correct she felt convinced,
when the attorney added in gentler
tones, ' Nor do I wish to cut off your connection

with the Dovecote folks. They harboured
Abel Deeds, 'tis true, but while they thought
him innocent it was at worst but an unneighbourly
act. He is in the Roundhouse
now, and no more need be 'said about it.'

In the Roundhouse ! ' cried Trenna, clasping
her hands in horror.

Y<3S ; and will only leave it for the gaol,
where lie will have better company perhaps
than he expected. • All these things however
are matters for a judge and jury, and in noway
concern a young lady like yourself. You
need make no change in your habits upon my
account ; and what I say in that respect — as
you may tell him if you please — applies to
your brother also.'

Here the attorney took down from their
shelf a bundle of legal documents, bound
together with red tape, and, having blown the

dust from them, proceeded to bury himself in
their contents like a parchment worm, an
action which Trenna rightly took to be an
order of release.

On the gravel sweep outside, Kit was
walking to and fro awaiting her.

Well, my poor Trenna,' he said, embracing
her affectionately, ' you have borne the
burden and heat of the day, but now I do
hope it's over.'

'No, Kit, no,' she answered sorrowfully.
Papa is resolved not only to get his rights but
to punish Mrs. Medway.'

Tut, tut, this world is not the House of
Commons that everything can be done by
Resolution. In law he has not a leg to stand
upon, either as regards our friends at the
Knoll, or Abel. He will find all that out
as soon as his temper cools, and drop the
business.'

Trenna shook her head. ' I never saw hin
half so bad as this, Kit. And, what is worse
than all, he tells me that he has just put poor
Abel in prison, \yhen he told me that I
thought I should have died of shame.'

What a tender heart you have, dear
Trenna, as indeed I have good cause to know,'
he said caressingly ; ' as a matter of fact, however,
Abel is no more in prison than you are.
Dr. Meade has bailed him.'

But he will have to go to prison after
all.'

Not he ; he will just stay out on bail till the
Assizes, and then the governor will withdraw
from the prosecution. He will not throw good
money after bad, you may depend on't.'

Oh, Kit, do you really think that that will
be the end of it all.^ How thankful we ought
to be. Do you mean to say that being consol.

I. T

winced of Abel's guilt, but unable to prove it,
papa will do nothing farther ? '

soothing. He has nothing to go upon but
the note in Lucy's purse. If he had not been
so infernally precipitate, the whole thing would
now be over.'

And what is it that is not over ? '
Well, Dr. Meade has instructed that fellow
Tennant to commence an action for libel on
behalf of Abel ; the governor has laid himself
open to it, no doubt ; and the question is
whether or no, if the thing comes on for trial,
the whole affair will have to be gone into. The
Doctor is not a man who can be ignored in anyway.'


'This seems to me worse than all,' murmured
Trenna, despairingly.

It is deuced bad, no doubt, and it must be
stopped somehow. I suppose all communications

^vill have to be suspended between our
house and the Dovecote ; or rather they will
have to be carried on under the rose.'

'Xo; papa said he had no objection to
you and me taking our own line, just as
usual.'

Kit smiled sardonically. ' He thinks to
catch a Weasel asleep, does he ? Well, so much
the better for us.'

Frank will surely stand our friend,' said
Trenna, earnestly. ' He knows disposition so
well.'

That will make no difference, my dear
Trenna, as regards his feud with the Governor.
The Doctor and his son are a sentimental couple
in their way, and will move Heaven and earth
for Michael's sake, to whitewash Abel. As forme
I am no favourite of Frank's ; and any
appeal from me would do as much harm as
T 2

good ; indeed, under the circumstance, Trenna,"
he added significantly, ' more harm. And yet
it is a sine qua non that they should abandon
these proceedings.'

But if you can't persuade them, Kit ? '

Then you must try. Of course, it will be
disagreeable to you ; exceedingly disagreeable ;
worse than anything you have gone through
already, perhaps. I don't gloze it over to
myself, I do assure you.'

I will do whatever is necessary, Kit,' she
answered quietly, ' and that les within my
])ower.'^

That is answered like yourself, my brave
one,' he replied, with his hand upon her
shoulder ; ' as to your power, it is resistless in
that quarter. The one thing I like in that great
solid stolid creature Frank is the admiration
which you have excited in him. You have

only to say " don't," and — provided you have
not forbidden him to bow before your shrine —
he will obey you.'

Frank Meade is an honest gentleman,
Kit, and I don't like to hear you turn him
into ridicule,' answered Trenna, coldly.

I was only ridiculing Ms pretensions, my
darling,' returned the other gently. ' It would
be a little too much if that scientific stiffened
pig should seriously aspire to my
Trenna.'

It would be a great deal too much,' she
answered bitterly. ' Oh, Kit, Kit, with all
your cleverness, and with all your loveableness,
how I have wished, how I have prayed '

That must have been a long time ago,'
interrupted Kit, laughing, ' when you had your
eyes bandaged like a child at blind man's
buff.'

Perhaps so,' she answered sorrowfully ;
but I was happier before you took off the
handkerchief ; and Frank and Mark are happier
men than you.'

Doubtless ; that is easily explained ; they
are richer men, and have more comfortable
homes. Frank, indeed,' he added after a
pause, ' will have no great fortune, nor will he
ever make one. He is eminently a groundling ;
unfit for a high flight. I should be very, very
sorry to see you throw yourself away upon
Frank Meade, Trenna.'

You need not fear. Kit,' she answered
with a grave smile. ' I am not free to marry.
I have some one to look after — and who takes
a great deal of looking after — whom I cannot
forsake.'

'You are a dear unselfish creature,' he
answered lovingly. 'But that some one will

soon be out of leading strings, and in a position
to repay you all he owes you. His debt is so
enormous that T could hardly paint his prospects
more brightly; yes, Trenna, I shall be a
rich man, and soon. I have already rubbed
shoulders with men who have made money
rapidly, and in all that constitutes capacity of
that sort have found myself their superior ; I
hold the key of one fortune already in my
hand ; and with that achieved — with that to
begin with — like an Archimedes who has found
his standpoint, I will roll the world to your
feet.' He spoke with the force and fervors if
not of an enthusiast, at least of a man who
believes in himself.

But in the meantime, my dear Kit, there
are the Assizes.'

That's true,' he answered ruefully ; then
tickled by the contrast of this commonplace

fact with the splendour of his day-dream he
burst into a laugh. ' To get the Governor out
of his difficulties must be the first step, and
it rests with you, my faithful Trenna, to accomplish
it.'

I will do my best,' she sighed, ' at whatever
cost.'

Of the latter sentence Christopher Garston
took no note, though a fleeting frown betrayed
that he had heard it ; to the former he
answered lightly, with a pat on her burning
cheek, 'If you do half your best you will
succeed, Trenna.'

CHAPTEE XVII.

HART-LEAP HILL.

The suggestion of Mr. Garston that his Yoiiiig
people should mix with the Measles and
Medwayss upon the old footing, as if nothing
had happened to make him count them as
enemies, met with no obstruction. The impression
Kit had produced at the Dovecote on
the morning of his last visit had been distinctly
favourable to him ; and though their opinion
of his character remained perhaps much the
same, both the Doctor and his son felt that,
in the matter of the alleged robbery, they had
done him wrong in placing him in the same

condemnation as his father. A word or two
dropped by Trenna on this point even produced
in Frank a feeling of remorse ; and
in his endeavour to express regret he had
perhaps never shown himself more friendly to
her brother than at this very time, when, acting
on the Doctor's instructions, Mr. Tennant
was sharpening his weapons for an onslaught
upon the master of Grey House. Mr. Garston's
remark, in short, that the whole affair was a
matter for judge and jury, seemed to be accepted
in its literal sense, and all parties concerned
agreed to leave it exclusively to their
decision.

At the Knoll, so far from suffering for the
offence of their father, Christopher Garston and
sister were received with even a warmer
welcome than before. In the case of the
former, in particular, it seemed that Mark

could not do enough to express his unabated
affection and complete understanding of his
friend's position. Good taste of course prevented
his inveighing against Mr. Garston's
obstinacy (to which they attributed the attorney's
persistent belief in Abel's guilt in the
face of facts), and a natural delicacy prevented
his ever alluding to him. What he principally
spoke of to Kit now, instead of discussing such
matters as had previously formed the staple
of their conversation, and some of which —
antiquities and county history, for example —
Kit was wont to throw himself into for his
friend's sake rather than his own, was the
coming term at Cambridge, for it had been
quite decided that Mark was to return with
Kit to college. He looked forward to it, of
course, as most young men of spirit do, with
pleasure ; but what perhaps pleased him most

was the reflection that it would afford him a
still more frequent and closer intimacy with
Kit himself.

Never was the phrase ' there is a friend
that ticket closer than a brother' more
applicable than in Mark's case, and it would
have been untrue and unfair to Kit to say that
the attachment was not reciprocated. The
difference lay not so much in the fact that
the one had many other things to think of
besides friendship, and the other very few, but
that what occupied Kit's mind could not always
be confided to his friend, nor indeed to any one
else ; whereas Mark bared his very soul to the
eyes of Kit. Kit knew as well as Mark himself
how the latter loved his mother and Maud ;
how he looked on Trenna as a second sister ;
with what affection he regarded Frank (for he
showed this without a suspicion of the jealousy

it excited in the other's breast) ; and the high
regard in which he held Mr. Penryn and the
Doctor. Mark's world was very small — piteously
small as some would think ; in this he
was almost like a child ; but there was recompence
in it, as Kit himself was well aware.

Life, like a dome of many-coloured glass,
Stains the white radiance of Eternity j

and the more one sees of Life, in its conventional
sense, the more it is apt to stain
our own humanity. Thanks to his somewhat
exceptional circumstances, aided by
good principles and a fine disposition, Mark
Medway was almost stainless — a qualification,
as I once heard a clergyman (and not an Irish
one either) observe from the pulpit, to be made
in the case of ' nine hundred and ninety-nine
women out of a thousand, and a still greater
proportion of men.'

It is but seldom that those whose regard
for their own belongings is so strongly developed
have much affection for outsiders, butin
this respect Mark was an exception. His
two friends were as dear to him as though
they had been of his own blood, while one of
them — Christopher Garston — was a friend, and
something more. Except that both Mark and
he were grown men, and each possessed of a
mature and vigorous intelligence (albeit of a
widely different kind), the attachment between
them resembled that of a small boy and the
Cock of the School.' Every one has witnessed
some example of it, and not a few have experienced
it. The love of Smith minimus for
Brown major is the idyll of scholastic life.
Only by the time Smith had become Smith
major himself, the illusion commonly vanishes,
and when they both meet afterwards on the

boards of real life Brown as often as not plays
an inferior part, and Smith wonders to himself
how he could have ever taken such a mere
'super' for his hero. In Mark's eyes, on the
contrary, Kit still kept his pre-eminence,

and, so far as wit and genial grace could
earn it, deserved it. In Lamartine's best
poem {' The Buonaparte ') he speculates,
while admitting the' failings of that 'Scourge
of God,' whether genius itself may not bea
vhtue ; and, when one considers from
outside certain highly attractive personages
of one's own acquaintance, one is almost
tempted to agree with him. Poor Kit — sofar
as we know — had nothing of the Napoleon
about him, but it must be confessed that
he had won his way into Mark's affections
without the aid of virtue ; and there must
have been something, one would think, besides

alloy in a magnet that had thus attracted a
heart as true as steel.

Just now, when his own home was less
agreeable to Christopher even than usual, and
when his father — having schemes on hand of
which his son could only express disapproval
showed no great desire for his presence,
the two young men were thrown together a
great deal.

On one occasion the young people — that is
to say, Trenna, Maud, and Frank, as well as
their two selves — organised a picnic to Polite
Point! Mrs. Medway was indisposed, and
unable at the last minute to accompany them,
but among such old friends a clir.perone.was
not indispensable, so that they drove thither
alone. The whole five were as merry as
children at a school feast, and, having arrived
at their destination, betook themselves to
various diversions.

Frank, Who had brought his geological
hammer, chipped the rocks ; he was one of
those enviable persons who derive a satisfaction
from recognising the ' marks of an upheaval '
invisible to the unlearned eye, and ' the action
of fire ' where there is not so much as an
ember.

Mark discoursed upon the probable use and
intention of rocking stones — of which there was
a splendid specimen in the locality — and Kit
provoked him by remarks on ' the cradles of
the human race,' and other suggestions not
wholly of a scientific kind. He ridiculed
Pliny's remarks upon rocking-stones : ' Lay one
finger on it and it will sUr, but thrust it
with your whole body and it will not move ; '
and when Mark quoted Ptolemy Depiction,
'It can only be raised with the stalk of the
asphodel,' he profanely offered to effect a

VOL. I. u

similar miracle with his umbrella. Yet all the
time Kit never angered Mark, but the contrary ;
such a winning way he had with him (where
men liked him to begin with), and such a
manner of disagreeing as was more agreeable
than other men's assent.

The two girls having laid out the lunch
upon the promontory, whence the wind very
superfluously carried their salt into the sea,
applied themselves, the one to sketching in
water-colours, the other to Art criticism in rose.
At their mid-day meal the little party reunited
with the punctuality of clockwork. At picnics
people are always punctual ; the fresh air
quickens their appetites, and there is a secret
apprehension that there may be nothing left
for a late comer. It is the absence of this
wholesome fear, joined to natural selfishness
and egotism, that makes folks late for ordinary

dinner parties. It is at once the easiest way
of showing themselves fashionable and attracting
attention to the fact ; and then the stretches
have had afternoon tea and are not hungry.

To persons of middle age and mature intelligence
a meal in the open air is a serious
mistake. The absence of chairs, though the
Romans put up with it, is a serious inconvenience
to the stout-made Briton ; but in youth
he can eat anyhow.

That picnic on Polwith Point, with the
blue sea hundreds of feet beneath them, the
stately ships passing on their noiseless way so
close, as it seemed, in the clear air, that one
could toss a biscuit on to their decks, and with
the sea-gulls wheeling and whining above their
heads, was something to be remembered. How
little we think, amid such scenes and company,
that the day's glad doings are being impressed
iron

the retina of the mind, to be reproduced
perhaps to our misery, that a time may come
when, through cruel contrast, every present
pleasure shall inflict a pang, and Joy, mixed
with vain Regret, become Despair !

As exercise had been recommended by the
faculty for Mark (who, being a wise as well
as a learned man, detested it), it had been
secretly arranged between his mother and Kit
that the latter should return home with him on
foot. The plot was easier to carry out than
most conspiracies, for Kit had only to express a
determination to walk home alone to secure
Mark, though not, it is true, without protest.
So Frank, nothing unwilling, was left in charge
of the young ladies and the w^aggonette.

The vehicle, with two strong horses, lead
come from the livery stables at Mogadion, for
Mrs. Medway — and small blame to her — did

not approve of her pet ponies being taken to
Polwith. The road was a rough one even in
summer, lying partly over, the breezy moor,
partly among those deep-sunk Cornish lanes
which bring home to one the practicability of
the flying leap taken by Commodore Trunnion
over the head of the waggoner.

Oh, Frank,' cried Trenna, as they bowled
along the moor, ' let us go back by Hart-Leap
Hill ' (she had been in better spirits throughout
the day than usual, and made her appeal with
heightened colour and sparkling eyes) ; ' the
view from the top this evening will be so
glorious.'

The view ? ' hesitated Frank, turning
round in remonstrance, and not displeased that
there was need of it ; it was pleasant to him to
have the excuse of arguing with the earnest
beauty. ' But think of the road ! It is almost

as steep as the side of a house, and, what is
worse, as narrow as the utter. Gin a body
meet a body '

'For shame, sir. Maud, just speak to
Frank;

Nothing woukl give me greater pleasure,'
said Frank the audacious, assuming an attitude
of rapt attention. For Maud, with her fair face
aglow with pleasure and the breeze, was likewise
a charming spectacle. Her expression, if
not so thoughtful as that of her friend, was
even more animated.

Speak to him ! That I never shall demean
myself by doing again unless he takes us up
Hart-Leap Hill,' she said.

There, sir,' said Trenna, triumphantly.

But my dear girls '

What impudence ! ' they exclaimed, both
together.

Well, " girls " then. You can't be grown
women to propose such a scheme. The hill is
a good half-mile long, and if so much as a gig
should be coming down it' — with one accord
they turned their backs upon him in contemptuous
silence, and gazed with affected interest
upon the two black specks on the horizon, to
which Mark and Kit had been by this time
reduced. ' Well, since you have set your
minds upon it,' he continued, ' I'll chance it '

'The golden opportunity of obliging two
young ladies this gentleman calls " chance," '
observed Trenna severely. ' I wonder what
he calls good fortune.'

I should call it good fortune if we get up
Hart-leap Hill without meeting anything,'
laughed Frank in great good humour. He
had never before seen Trenna in so gay a
mood ; the high spirits of youth are contagious,

and as to Maud, the moorland brook beside
them had no ripple more fresh than her
laughter, no sparkle more bright than her
smile.

Now they dip into the valley and rattle
through the quaint old village, with its
perched cottages, and its high peaked bridge
where the squire's house stands, as it has stood
for centuries, and where the vicarage sleeps
beneath the shadow of the antique tower ; and
now they turn short to Westwood and are lost
in the depths of Hart-TiCap Lane. The ascent
is straight, and so precipitous that one wonders
it is ever used by wheels ; but its steepness
does not impress you so much as its profundity
— the manner in which the roadway is
sunk in the surrounding soil. It resembles a
cutting on a railway, or rather, since the sides
are perpendicular, a tunnel with the top off;

only, instead of bricks, the walls are bright with
wild flowers and greenery, and surmounted by
huge trees, whose roots threaten a high-seated
driver with the same fate as befell Absalom
from the branches. Neither space nor turn in
the long vista affords room for so much asa
mule to pass them, nor is there a gateway
on either side through which the wafjcjonette

O CO

can be driven to leave the road clear for the
descent of any other vehicle. As they breast
the hill and get more involved in the depths of
the lane, the two girls seem more and more
to enjoy the situation ; while their guardian
Frank (such is often the portion of our sex
when the other is at high jinks) was straining
eye and ear in the direction of the hilltop,
where the appearance of another vehicle
would mean illimitable obstruction ; they would
become like two pellets in a popgun without a

ramrod to push them out. They toil on till
they are presently within a hundred yards of
the summit. 'Whatever vehicle comes now,'
thinks the charioteer, ' the driver will sec us
and pull up and wait.'

Maud was in the act of expressing a feigned
regret that there had been no adventure, when
suddenly there fell upon their ears a noise Hke
thunder, and on the top of the hill there flashed
clean out against the sky a waggon and horses
at full gallop, and without a driver! What
had put the animals to flight, there was no time
to conjecture ; it was not in the power of the
frightened creatures to stop themselves, even
had they been so minded. The steeds in the
waggonette looked up in mild surprise at the
approaching portent, and gently shook their
heads as though it was a problem beyond them,
why horses, not being urged by mau, should

come at that pace. But the humans — Frank
and the girls — beheld a ghastly charioteer upon
the driving seat which they could not see. De
Quince has painted for us Death on wheels in
his stage-coach adventure, but the peril in the
present instance was far greater than that
which he portrays, by reason of the extreme
narrowness of the road. There was only one
way of escape possible.

Jump ! jump ! ' cried Trenna, and suiting
the action to the word, she sprang from the
seat of the waggonette at a branch above her,
swung for a moment seeking for a footing, and
then alighted in safety on the top of the bank.
She had the htheness of an athlete, and not a
little of his strength ; a keen eye and a steady
hand. But with Maud it was very different.
The roar and rumble of the approaching
vehicle, hardly visible in the whirlwind of

dust created by its rapid progress ; the clatter
of the galloping cart-horses ; above all, the extreme
imminence of the peril — for the waggon
was now within a few yards of them, though
their own horses had stopped — had paralysed
her physical powers. She had climbed mechanically
upon the seat at Trenna's cry, but
there she stood, dumb and still as a statue,
staring at the approaching doom with terrified
eyes.

'Jump! jump!' reiterated Trenna, in an
agony ; but the poor girl was panic-stricken
and powerless to move a limb. It is the fashion,
especially among those who despise the healing
art, to talk of Nature as the Restorer ; ' leave
all to Nature,' 'let Nature have her way,'
&c., &c., as though Nature had never the fancy
to kill and not to save ; nay. there are times
(when she is ' put out ' ) when Nature is as a

ravening she-wolf, and would rend the gentlest,
limb from limb.

Since Fate would not spare her, and Maud
could not help herself, it seemed that no human
power could help her, for though Frank was
strong, even for a Cornish man (who are for
strength the Anas of our isle), lie was not a
giant ; nor was Maud one of those fairy-like
maidens with whom a man can lightly leap
across a brook, and hardly know that he is
carrying weight with him. She was a young
woman of ' magnificent proportions,' and ^so^
feet nine in her stockings. And yet wee maybe
sure that Mr. Frank Meade had no more
idea of leaving her to Nature's kind intentions
than an experimental physician. To step from
the driving seat on to the waggonette and throw
his left arm round Maud's waist was the work
of an instant ; then hugging her to his breast,

well filled with a fresh store of breath, he leapt
not at the branch, but at the bank itself. It
was the feat of a Titan, but he accomplished it ;
and not only that, but, though he fell, of course,
he contrived the fall with such adroitness that
he took the ground first, so that she never
touched it, nor felt an ounce of him above her.
As they fell together there was a crash and roar
beneath them, that told of the catastrophe they
had escaped by a hair's breadth.

CHAPTEE XYITI.

AX Appeal.

Ix a very few minutes there arrived help
from the farm upon the hill, whence the runaway
waggon had started ; the poor horses,
grievously wounded by the encounter, were led
away, but both vehicles, shattered by the shock
which had, indeed, reduced the waggonette
almost to watchword — were left where they
were. Frank and the girls had perforce to
continue their journey on foot, which they did
in unwonted silence. In the presence of Trenna,
Maud could hardly express the gratitude she
owed to her preserver ; but her tone and manner

made it sufficiently manifest. She had
always liked Frank, but, as she had hitherto
imagined, more for her brother s sake than for
his own. She had been no whit afraid of him,
as she was of Kit, but had admired him less.
The coolness, however, he had shown in the
recent catastrophe, his gallantry, and not least,
perhaps, the extraordinary strength and agility
he had exhibited, filled her with quite new ideas
of him. In her eyes he had suddenly become
a hero. She had never been surprised at
Mark's attachment to him, but she now wondered
for the first time why Kit was preferred
so much before him.

Was it because Trenna made a shrewd guess
at what was passing through her friend's mind,
and resented it upon her brother's account, or
was it for some other reason, that she felt
displeased ? She had no right to be jealous ;

indeed, if she had shown the same inability to
save herself as Maud had done, Frank would
doubtless have made the same exertions on her
behalf; but jealousy does not go ' by rights.'
She had certainly felt a pang — not of envy exactly,
but of regret, or grudge — when she saw
]her friend in Frank Meade's arms. And after
that agreeable experience, I think Frank himself
regarded Maud with somewhat different
feelings. At all events he felt an attraction to
lier such as all kindly natures do feel towards
those to whom they have done a service. And
at this Trenna made no guess, because she was
certain of it, and the conviction afforded her
anything but pleasure.

When Maud had been seen safely home it
was found that Mrs. Medway had thought an
evening drive might do her good, and had gone
out with the ponies ; and instead of waiting for

VOL. I. X

the return of the carriage Trenna persisted on
pursuing her way home on foot, and of course
Frank accompanied her. It was the first time
they had been alone together since they had
rowed up the river in search of the missing
boat ; and much had happened in the meantime.
At first they talked of their late adventure,
to which topic — though he was far from
egotistic — the young man would have been
well content to stick, for he had a presentiment
that Trenna might introduce the subject
of Abel Deeds, from which they had hitherto
abstained by tacit consent. Nor did his suspicions
prove groundless.

I want to say a few words to you,' said
Trenna, suddenly, and with great earnestness,
about this business at the Assizes.'-

We had much better leave that matter to
settle itself, Trenna,' was the other's quiet replj^

Your father has taken his own way, for which
you are in no wise responsible ; let the Law
decide it. I cannot argue with you upon the
rights and wrongs of the question, for very
obvious reasons

I don't want to argue upon them, Frank
I am well persuaded that you are in the right
and that papa is in the wrong. It is not that
at all ; what I am about to ask of you is a
personal favour.'

'My dear Trenna,' he said gently, but
with great gravity, ' whatever you wish me todo,
as regards myself or you, you may look
upon as done ; I think, indeed, I should have
the foresight to understand your wishes, even
if unexpressed, as I most certainly should have
the desire to fulfil them. But this business of
Abel Deeds is not my affair at all ; it is a
matter of simple justice. The man, in my

*x 2

father's opinion, has been grievously wronged,
and he is bound, for our old Eachel's sake, to
see him righted. Mr. Garston denies that he
has been wronged — intends, indeed, if possible,
to wrong him still further. It is clearly our
duty, if the lad is innocent, to defend him ; if
otherwise, the Law will punish him, and your
father will be justified.'

'But you do not only defend Abel, you
attack my father.'

'Pray don't say "you," Trenna ; do not
mix me up personally, and without necessity,
in this unhappy matter. That I sympathise
with Abel is most true, but you must know
you cannot help knowing — what regret and
pain it gives me to be obliged to take action
in such a matter, and thereby to place myself
in apparent antagonism with one so dear and
near to you.'

'Apparent?' she echoed bitterly 'You
call an action for libel an apparent antagonism
? '

We had no choice but to bring it, Trenna.
If you compel me to speak plainly, Mr.
Garston's obstinacy has forced that course
upon us. I am afraid it will be necessary to
place both Mrs. Medway and Mark in the
witness-box. Can you imagine that anything
so painful and embarrassing was of our
seeking ? '

I know, Frank, my father is in the wrong,'
returned Trenna, softly ; * I acknowledge that
if the case is to rest on its merits it must needs
be given against him. I am pleading with you
for myself.'

'Yourself? Jay, Trenna, I cannot allow
you to put the thing that way. What we have
all striven to do from the very first is to eliminate

you and Kit from the whole business ; there is
not one of us but understands that you have
nothing whatever to do with it, but are as
much the victims of circumstances as Abel
himself

'Put yourself in my place, Frank,' she
answered quickly. 'Suppose my father were
your father.'

Here Trenna, notwithstanding her sagacity,
made a mistake. We can go a great way with
our friends — with a very dear friend often
farther than we ought to go ; but when they
make demands upon our sympathy for tlieiv
friends (especially if we don't like them) our
ardour cools. The very phrase ' suppose my
father were your father 'was objectionable to
Frank ; he could sot picture, even for the sake
of argument, the grim proprietor of the Grey
House standing to him in the relation of a

parent in place of the kindly Doctor, with his
scorn of baseness and of greed.

K I thought my own father in the wrong,'
he answered, though with a keen sense of the
insufficiency of the reply, ' I should not side
with him

Nor do I side with my father,' answered
Trenna, quickly ; ' but yet I have some sense
of proportion. Let Abel be righted by all
means, but not in this Quixotic manner. It
is surely not worth while to carry fire and
sword into a friend's house to right a stableboy.
Let him be exculpated, let him be compensated,
by all means — if you will give us
time. Kit and I will do that ; but do not for
his sake persecute us who have done him on
wrong. Our home was not so happy a one
before, Frank, that it needed such a Nemesis
as you have brought upon it, I do assure you.'

'Oh Trenna, Trenna,' pleaded the young
man, deeply moved, for he knew that what she
hinted at was likely enough to be the case, or in
other words that Mr. Garston, despoiled of his
property, and disappointed in his scheme of
vengeance, must be a terrible house companion
; ' every word you say pains me to the
core. But what would you have me do ? '

'I would have you drop this action
against my father. I ask it not for his sake,
but for my own. We have known each
other for years, Frank. It is the first favour
I have ever asked of you. You will not
refuse mc'

She placed her arm within his own and,
gently pressing it, looked up at him with
pleading eyes in which the tears were visible.
The strong man trembled at her touch, and
melted at her tone.

I would give all I have to serve you, dear
Trenna,' he answered earnestly, ' but '

Ay, " but," ' she answered bitterly. 'There
would be no " buts " if Maud were in my
place

It was a bold stroke, and one which would
never have entered her mind to use but for
what had happened that day ; and indeed,
save for that, her words would have beaten
the air. As it was, Frank's cheek turned
scarlet.

There is no woman living whom I would
more gladly please than you, Trenna ; I had
hoped you had known that.'

His voice was so tender, his tone so earnest,
that it was impossible to doubt the genuineness
of his speech. Trenna herself was far from
doubting it; though at the moment she would
have given much to have been less credulous.

She had drawn a bow somewhat at a venture,
and the arrow, in one sense, had gone home ;
but in another it had overshot its mark. Her
aim had been to attain a certain object, but by
no means to draw forth an avowal of affection.
The effect upon her was very curious. She
turned pale and trembled, and, gently withdrawing
her arm from that of her companion,
walked on in silence. Little did the young
man guess what thoughts were occupying Trenna
Garston's mind. She was definitely choosing
for herself one of two roads in life, or rather
between that path that one must tread alone,
or that wider way which admits of two abreast.
She had never seen a man except Frank Meade
of whom she had admitted to herself, ' I could
be his wife,' and yet she had never seriously
pictured herself in that relation to him. She
might or might not have done so under certain

circumstances, but matters had been precipitated.
She was like one who having been on
his guard for years against a particular temptation
suddenly finds himself face to face with it.
For the moment she forgot the object of her
walk (for she had seized the opportunity of
being alone with her present companion with
a certain well-defined purpose), and allowed
herself a day-dream. Then with a deep sigh,
which betokened that she had come to herself,
and certain stern realities, she answered
calmly : —

'You are very good to me, Frank, and
always have been. Whatever happens I shall
always feel that.'

Good to you ! On the contrary, you have
been good to me. For in your view, as regards
all show of kindliness, I am well aware there
has been an obstacle.'

He referred to her brother, whose jealousy
of him in respect to Trenna had not escaped
his notice. A pained smile flitted across her
face, in sign that she understood him.

But, nevertheless,' he continued, ' and as
you say, whatever happens, nothing will alter
my affection and respect for you, Trenna.'

She hung her head with a little piteous
moan that went to the young man's heart.

Good Heavens, Trenna ! Can you conceive
it possible,' he cried, ' that anything that
has occurred lately — I mean concerning this
miserable robbery — can affect you ? Whatever
decision may be arrived at next week at the
Assizes will, at the worst, only prove your
father or mine in the wrong. I can understand
that matters are very unpleasant for you
at home. Heaven knows that I would mend
them if I could.'

You can withdraw from the prosecution.'

For the moment it here struck Frank
Meade that she looked, or rather spoke, like
her father's child. The same short swift
retort ; the seizure on the salient point ; and
the practical object pressed with more opportuneness
than delicacy, brought the keen
attorney to his mind in spite of himself.

Surely not with honour, Trenna,' he answered
gently, * nor even with justice ? '

You talk like a book, Frank, and not like
a man. Everything in this world, whatever it
may be in the next, is a matter of comparison,
nor is it the question, How much good shall
we do by this or that course of action?
but, How little evils Is it wise to benefit
one fellow-creature if by so doing we entail
unhappiness on half a dozen others, or ruin
on one other ? '

'My dear Trenna/ lie answered, smiling,
you are pleading against yourself. It is only
poor Abel who in this case is threatened with
ruin. On your side — that is, Mr. Garston's —
the worst that can happen is defeat and annoyance.
If your father will apologise and offer
some compensation, perhaps even at this
eleventh hour this unpleasant matter can
be arranged. Come — here we are at your
journey's end — let us have tomorrow some
message of peace from the Grey House ; and
I will do my best — my very best — to carry
out your wishes.'

They were standing on the hilltop above
Mogadion. Immediately below them was her
father's house ; they could see the attorney
walking on his lawn with head depressed and
his hands behind him.

And that's all you can do for me .^ '

Do not say that, Trenna ; for there is
nothing I would not do for you.'

She sighed and held out her hand. ' I will
not trouble you to go any farther — nay, I had
rather not. Here our ways part.'

She only spoke the literal truth, for the
road at this point forked ; but her tone seemed
to give her words a deeper meaning.

You are not angry with me, Trenna ? '
'Xo ; I am not angry. Good-bye.'
The tone in which she spoke was again
significant, and seemed to breathe a longer farewell
than her words implied. And so they
parted : Frank to walk slowly to the Dovecote,
turning over in his mind what he should say
to his father to induce him to meet the attorney
half-way ; for the Doctor was very bitter
against him. 'Since the man wants law he
shall have it,' he had said, with an expletive

such as he rarely used ; but which, when he
did use it, meant something. It seemed to
Frank that, unless overtures should first be
made from the enemy's camp, there was no
hope of peace.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Tenedos : Printed) BY

SPOXTisTYOooK Asu CO new-street s::nABa

ikSO TAULIAilG^'T STREET

^3,

■■■^>-<'^?iv*'

^

»

5**!*

We

^

v^^rui-t/

d

^

SI*

5?

.iiS^^

L;«^P^iw^i»CS ^^

'M^m^

'^SjV

^

P^0^

P^^€^

r^"

f^?f

I

:rs^A^

."^

/4

&;^^yj

^p'

Zi

mf^-

~m;

p»tp^^^^

<^

i^

dtJ^^^

(fk life-nea ff^-j. ^s^-^^r^s^iai^

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/kitnieniory02payn

VOL. Ili



ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : an

Impossible Story. By Walter Besant. Illustrated by
Fred. Barnard. 3 vols, crown 8vo.

VALENTINA : a Sketch, By Eleanor C. Price.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope.

With a Frontispiece by J. E, Millais, R.A. 2 vols,
post 8vo.

VAL STRANGE : a Story of the Primrose Way. By
David Christie Murray, Author of ' Joseph's Coat * &c.

3 vols, crown Svo.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon.

Author of ' Robin Gray ' &c. 3 vols, crown Svo.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy. 3 vols.

crown Svo.

By J. S. Winter.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS.

3 vols, crown Svo.

NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS. ByR. Louis Stevenson.

I vol. crown Svo.

CHATTO &- WIN BUS, PICCADILLY, W.

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF ' LOST SIR Massinger BY PROXY HIGH SPIRITS
UNDER ONE ROOF ' ' A GRAPE FROM A THORN ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

3!^onboit
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[An rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME,

CHAPTER

XIX. Confession

XX. Humiliation . . • •

XXI. Rachel's Muddle

XXII. Tennis under Difficulties .

XXIII. The Wheel of Time .

XXIV. A Change in Mark
XXV. The Physician is in vain .

XXVI. Coming Home . - • •

XXVII. Easily offended . . • •

XXVIII. Mark's Correspondent .

XXIX. Between Friends

PAGE










118
138
155
171

CHAPTER PAGE

XXX. An Arrangement in Pink and

White 188

XXXI. The Speculation , . . . 202

XXXII. Cast out 221

XXXIII. The Exodus . . . . , 242

Xxxi. The Beginning of Fears , . 263

XXXV. Cook's Creek . . , , . 284

Xxxii. Trenna's Appeal . . . .305

\

i

CHAPTEE XIX.

Confession.

Resolution,' say the philosophers, ad justly,
conquers all things,' but then one must be
very careful in the definition of that virtue.
It is dangerously akin to obstinacy, a weapon
which conquers nothing, and brings him
f who wields it to great grief. I have noticed
that when an exceptionally brutal person is put
on his trial for manslaughter he is always
described by the reporters as ' a determined '
ruffian.

- VOL. II. B

Treason doth never prosper. What's the reason ?
When it doth prosper none dare call it treason ;

and similarly, when Obstinacy carries its point,
one never hears of it by that name. Mr.
Garston, senior, of Mogadion, attorney-at-law,
had hitherto had the credit of possessing great
resolution ; and even to this moment in the
affair of Abel Deeds he was determined enough.
He had nailed his colours to the mast in the
most obtrusive manner, when it rather behoved
him, if he had not the wisdom to strike them,
to wear them under his clothes like a flannel
shirt. He was as sure he was right as ever —
that is, as steadfast in the conviction that the
folks at the Knoll had substituted another note
for the stolen one in Lucy's purse ; but he had
begun to have secret misgivings as to his being
able to prove it. Juries were such fools that it
was likely as not that they would believe a

widow of means, and an attractive young lady,
her daughter, on their oaths in spite of the
strongest circumstances of suspicion ; and especially
when sentiment, as in this case, was
imported into the matter. There would be
sympathy with the widow's desire to shield
Abel, who had heretofore borne an unblemished
character, and whose family, in their humble
walk of life, had always been respected. Mr.
Garston despised sentiment, and had no great
confidence in hereditary respectability ; but
unhappily the case was not to be tried in
the Central Criminal Court, where things are
estimated at their true value, but ' not a
hundred miles,' nor fifty, from Mogadion itself.
He was almost certain that he should lose his
cause through local prejudice ; but he had no
intention of withdrawing from the case on that
account. Thanks to that jewel of the English

B 2

law, the privilege of cross-examination, he
would at all events, he said to himself, make
it a very unpleasant day for the Medwayss.
This, I repeat, was what Mr. Garston said to
himself, but in his secret heart he would have
been glad enough to withdraw from the prosecution,
if no action for libel had been instituted
against him. As it was, he was like a
bear tied to the stake, and — as regarded his
present temper — a bear with a very sore head.

When his daughter joined him on the lawn
a few minutes after she had parted from Frank
Meade, he only gave her a surly nod, though
it was the first time he had seen her that day,
for Kit and she had started very early on their
expedition. ' Well, so you've come home at
last ? ' he said.

'I had a narrow escape, papa,' she answered
gravely, ' of not coming home at all.'

Then she told him what had happened, and
how nearly Maud, and perhaps Frank himself,
had met with a terrible end.

Naught never comes to harm,' was the
attorney's unsympathetic reply ; and then, dismissing
the subject as a wholly uninteresting
one, he inquired sharply, ' Where is Christopher
? '

We left him at Polwith with Mark ; they

preferred to walk back together.'

A good excuse for not coming home to
work, no doubt,' replied the attorney ; ' I don't
believe he knows the way to the office.'

I thought it was agreed, papa,' answered
Trenna gently, 'that while Kit was at the
University, during the holidays '

Holidays ! ' broke in the attorney angrily,
'he has nothing else but holidays. An idle
vagabond, a spendthrift, and a ne'er-do-well,

I am sometimes tempted to wonder whether he
is a son of mine.'

'We are all tempted to do wrong things
at times, papa '

'What do you mean? Have you taken to
preaching ? That is what comes of being with
those Med ways ; they are hypocrites and liars.'

You cannot surely think Mark a hypocrite,
papa.'

I don't know about Mark. He may not
have any occasion to be one ; and, besides, he
is too great a fool. I was speaking of his
womankind ; you hear no good from them, I'll
warrant : only abuse of your father.'

They have never uttered one word in
your disparagement, papa ; have never even
alluded to the unpleasantness about Abel.'

Cunning, cunning,' returned the attorney,
bitterly. ' And the Meade have been equally

silent, no doubt ? Not a word from Mr. Frank
about his father's insolent conduct towards
me, eh ? '

It was easy to read in his frowning but
eager face that Mr. Garston would have been
well pleased to hear something from that quarter.

Frank and I did speak of the action for
libel as we came along,' she answered.

Oh, you did, did you? I hope he spoke
to you about it, and not you to him.'

I don't know about that, papa, but it
seems his father is very resolute. I don't
think it will ever be withdrawn unless Abel's
character is cleared in some way.'

They want an apology, do they ? Curse
their impudence. They will ask for compensation
next.'

Frank hinted that that would be necessary,
papa.'

Did he ? Perhaps he expressed a wish
for my house and grounds? He is just as
likely to get them. Compensation for the
wounded feelings of a stable help ! An
apology to my own man-servant, who has
robbed me ! '

'He has not robbed you, papa.'

Then who has done it ? The maids 1
You? Kit? Or have I not been robbed at
all? Is it a delusion on my part? Did I
imagine that I had forty five-pound notes in
my desk when in fact they were only forty
sheets of notepaper? What infernal nonsense
you talk, girl ! Who can it be if it isn't
Abel ? '

Though be spoke in a sufficiently contemptuous
tone, it was noticeable that there
was apprehension in it. It almost seemed
that in running over the impossible alternatives

as respected the robbery, he had come
upon some possible one that had given him
pause, if not turned his suspicions into a wholly
different channel.

I don't say who it is, papa ; I only say,
what everybody else is saying in Mogadion,
that your fixed idea — like most fixed ideas — •
is a mistaken one ; that, whoever took those
notes, it is not Abel Deeds. You cannot,
therefore, expect Abel, or rather those who
are his friends, to come to you cap in hand.
You are not the Queen, that a free pardon must
be asked of you for an innocent man.'

He is not innocent, he is a thief.'

That is your view. But I am taking the
view of those who think otherwise.'

That's what you always do ; there is
nothing new in that,' answered the attorney,
harshly.

Oh, papa, papa ! ' she pleaded vehemently,
do not be hard with me. I have done my
best for you and for all of us. I beseech you,
I implore you, to give way in this matter while
there is yet time.'

He gazed at her in amazement at this
sudden outburst, and again that same look of
apprehension crossed his dusky features which
they had worn before.

Time ! Pooh, there is time enough. As
to giving way, that is not to be thought of ;
but you may tell those friends of yours this
much : Let them drop their action and then
I on my part will drop mine ; that is to say,
I will drop the prosecution ; but mind — it
is they who must make the first advance. I
am not going to acknowledge myself in the
wrong.'

It was a great step gained, as Trenna felt,

that her father should even hint at peace. But
it was a step that could lead to nothing if he
persisted in that last proviso. That he would
be firm on that — that is, to hold out no hand
of compromise unless invited to do so — she
was convinced, unless indeed she could stimulate
those vague alarms which she was well
aware she had excited. And, bold as she was,
she shrank from stimulating them. He waited
for a moment as if for her reply to his alternative,
but when she did not speak he turned
upon his heel and walked moodily into the
house.

Notwithstanding her long walk, Trenna
was in no mood for rest, but began to pace
the lengthening shadows of the lawn, waiting
for her brother's arrival. There was scarce
a breath of air, not even sufficient to bring to
her ear the murmur of the sea. The silence of

evening was falling ; the only sound she heard
was the monotonous cry of the cockatoo from
her little parlour on the ground floor, 'Kit,
Kit, Kit is a pretty fellow

Presently the gate swung on its hinge, and
there was a crunch of quick footsteps on the
gravel. But they were not Kit's footsteps.
They were heavier, firmer, and, to her anxious
ear, seemed to betoken a messenger of weighty
tidings.

'Frank! What is it? Has your father
consented?' she inquired eagerly, but in a
hushed voice, as soon as she recognised the
visitor.

Yes — ^no. That is to say, the whole affair
has taken a different turn. Can I have a few
words with your father ? '

Hush ! No. At least papa is engaged.'
She pointed to his room, which was lighted

up, and through the windows of which the
attorney could be seen at work among his
parchments.

Please to speak to me first, if you don't
mind.'

With her fingers on her lips, which had
suddenly grown very pale, she led the way up
the stone steps into her own little sitting-room
on the opposite side of the passage to the
room used by the attorney, and fit one of the
two gas-jets, which were all the chandelier
could boast of. As a boudoir, the room was
bare enough ; nor were there even such evidences
of a girl's tenancy as Trenna might
easily have given it. It seemed as though, not
having the power to furnish it as she would have
done, she had made no efibrt in that direction
at all. The walls were hung with portraits —
for the most part ill-executed silhouettes. One

of them, as Frank's quick eye noticed, had
under it the words ' Gonzalez Gisarto/ and
was, as he rightly guessed, a likeness of
Trenna's grandfather, whose name had been
anglicised to Garston. From the ceiling was
suspended the huge cage of the cockatoo,
which, swinging head downwards from its
perch, regarded the intruder with a curiosity
which for the moment stilled its piercing cries.
On the table were a few books and a either,
an instrument in which the attorney took
great pleasure, and the only one on which his
daughter played. Perhaps its Spanish origin
endeared it to him, but if its subtle harmonies
called up any association with fatherland, Mr.
Garston possessed more imagination than he
was credited with ; the general view was that
he had made a present of the instrument to
his daughter on her coming of age, as being

the cheapest substitute for a piano procurable.


Trenna motioned her visitor to a chair at
the table, and seated herself on a little sofa
which stood in shadow.

I little expected to see you so soon again
she said in cold and measured tones, very different
from those in which she had addressed
him an hour ago. ' I have spoken to my
father in the meantime, and he is certainly
more disposed for peace. But that he will
never make the first advance I am only too
well convinced.

Just so,' he answered gravely. ' But circumstances,
as I am here to tell you, Trenna,
have changed. Something has come to our
knowledge which renders it impossible for anyone
to continue to believe in Abel's guilt ; that
it wil convince even Mr. Garston, I am certain ;

and to say truth, Trenna' — here he hesitated
' it is more adapted for his ear than yours.'

Nevertheless, let me hear it, whatever it
is,' she answered ; ' I must hear it.'

One of the stolen notes, then, has been
stopped at Plymouth. It is not the one supposed
to have been in Lucy's purse, but corresponds
with another number on the list.
This has been traced '

Good Heavens ! To whom .^ '

To the possession of a young woman.
She is not in custody at present, but it is
known who she is. Her character — there is
no need, however, to go into that ; it is sufficient
to say that it is impossible, absolutely out
of the question, that she could have received
that note from Abel Deeds.'

Does she come from Oration ? '

Yes, I grieve to say she does — I beg
your pardon, I did not catch what you said.'

Trenna had only spoken to herself, and
beneath her breath, two words, 'What madness
! '

1 did not speak,' she murmured ; ' I was
only thinking.'

If they were but thoughts they were
terrible ones, to judge from her pale, drawn
face, and the way in which her long white
hands clutched one another ; but of this her
companion saw nothing.

By this discovery,' continued the youncr
man gravely, ' the ground is, as it were, cutaway
from your father's feet, as I shall be able
to show him. He will have no alternative but
to drop the prosecution and take measures for
compensating the man he has wronged by his

VOL II. C

suspicions ; in which case, of course, the action
for libel will not proceed.'

Trenna shook her head ; she would have
spoken if she could, but her tongue refused its
office.

You are saying to yourself,' pursued the
other cheerfully, ' that you know your father
better than I do ; that he is not to be easily
persuaded to own himself in the wrong. You
forget, however, that he is also a lawyer, and
a man of the world. You may take my word
for it that I shall convince him.'

It isn't that — it isn't that,' she murmured
plaintively. ' Oh, if I could but trust you,
Frank ! or rather, if you would but have trust
in me.'

Trust you ; of course I trust you, Trenna,'
he replied in amazement.

Then take my word for this, Frank, that

what you propose to tell my father will do
harm instead of good. Harm ! Nay, it will
riiin us.'

Ruin you ? How can our showing that
it was impossible for Abel Deeds to have stolen
those notes affect you or yours, Trenna ? '

It will — it must,' she answered eagerly ;
you say you trust me, then believe my word.
If you really have any regard for me, giant
me the favour I asked of you an hour ago.
Say nothing of what has come to your knowledge
about the note ; but withdraw your
action against my father.'

'But, my dear Trenna, it is impossible —
more impossible now than ever. Abel's innocence
is established. Your father must needs
look in other quarter? for the guilty party.'

That is just it,' she answered hoarsely.
In that case he will find what ne seeks.

G 2

And why, in Heaven's name, should he
not?'

Because — because,' she stammered, with
her hand stretched out before her, as though
to mark the gulf between them, ' his daughter
wis the thief ! Frank Meade, it was / who
stole those notes ! '

CHAPTEE XX.

HUMILIATION.'

For the moment Frank was dumb. The little
room whirled round with him : like the parrot,
only by no means with its adaptability for inversion,
he seemed to be standing on his head.
Those terrible words, ' Frank Meade, it was /
who stole those notes,' rang in his ears again
and again, with the importunity of a church
bell. Trenna, crouching in the shadowed
corner, was hardly visible to him, yet her very
attitude suggested remorse, misery, and humiliation.
It was that, indeed, which corroborated
her words more than anything else,

though he found himself calling to mind a
sentence she had spoken to him on her way-home
that evening in the course of her appeal
to him to drop the prosecution. ' I ask it not
for my father's sake, but for my own.' But
what were even both these things compared
with his experience and knowledge of the girl,
which seemed to assert, trumpet-tongued, that
her nature could never have stooped to such a
crime? As though she had read what was
passing in his mind, she once more addressed
him : ' I asked you a while ago whether you
would trust me, a question never to be put
again. But at least, for once, believe me.'

That you stole those notes ? That Trenna
Garston is a thief? Never.'

I cannot help your disbelief,' she answered,
and far less can I blame you for it. Of the
two alternatives, '' thief" or "har," you naturally

choose the least obnoxious. Still, whatever
you think of me, nay, whatever I think
of myself, I am still human. Certain feelings
still ching to me ; you will understand that
discussion upon this point is painful to me.'

Scarcely less painful to you than to me,
Trenna,' he answered gently. ' Since my
incredulity distresses you I will express it no
further ; if I believed you I could hardly keep
silence : it would be difficult to give up all
faith in human nature without a protest.'

Be so good as to remember that all this
time you are torturing me, Mr. Meade. When
a criminal has confessed and has been found
guilty, even the judge spares him ; he forbears
to add to the poignancy of his suffering by any
observations.*

Heaven forbid that I should be your
judge, Trenna ! '

But you are my judge. Judge, jury, and
executioner all in one. That is, you will be so if
you tell my father what you propose to tell him.'

What would you have me do ? What
would you have me tell him ? '

Say that you have come here as a neighbour
and a friend to offer to put a stop to all
proceedings at the Assizes, if he undertakes todo
the like.'

But he will never apologise to Abel.'

Then you must invent an apology. Otherwise
I must take the consequences. You would
hardly like to see me m the felon s dock, even
though I deserve it.'

« Oh, Trenna ! '

'Then there is the compensation. My
father will never give one shilling. I must
ask you of your mercy to settle that for me

till I have the money to repay you. After all,
you see,' she added with a haggard smile, ' I
have to say " trust me." '

Of course, of course,' he answered with a
sweep of his hand ; ' the money matters nothing.
To me, indeed,' he murmured wearily, ' nothing
now seems to matter.'

Then how must things seem to me ? '

Her question was unanswerable, but it was
uttered in a tone of such despair that it wrung
his heart.

For me,' she went on more calmly, ' there
is nevertheless the reflection that things might

c o

be even worse. It is from that extremity of
wretchedness that I beseech you to keep me.
Protect me from the consequences of my crime.
Be silent about it to others.'

I will ; I will. Be sure of that,' he

answered earnestly. ' It is not a thing to
speak about '

Nor, you would add, to think about,' she
put in, perceiving him to hesitate. ' That
above all is to be avoided. I must ask you
to address me as usual before others ; that is
necessary for my secret, but be assured that
will not compromise you in my eyes ; I
shall understand the loathing and abhorrence
with which you regard me just as if you expressed
it.'

It was only an hour ago, or so, that I
said nothing would alter my respect and affection
for you, Trenna,' he answered tenderly.
The mind moves quickly, but not the heart —
it was from the heart I spoke. Supposing what
you have told me to be true — and the truth
as it stands on your bare statement, without
excuse— I should at worst but pity you. As it

is, and still supposing it, since you so desire it,
I perceive (though you say nothing about them)
palliation, extenuation, nay, I had almost said
justification. I will never believe that for

yourself alone — for your own sake '

Frank Meade, if you have one tenth part
of that pity you say you feel for me, I beseech
you to forbear.' She had risen, and stood supporting
herself by one hand against the angle
of the wall, while with the other she made an
impassioned gesture for silence. ' For the sake
of old times — times buried under foot for ever
and for the sake of those pure souls we love,
and among whom perhaps you once reckoned
Trenna Garston, I pray you be silent. I
have much to bear, and must keep hearts whole.
You have promised me your help, and there is
no time to spare, if you would save me. Go to
my father.'

One moment, Trenna. Is this sad secret
your own and mine, or is it shared by any one
else ? '

Kit, Kit, Kit is a pretty fellow,' shrieked
the parrot.

Trenna was silent, and Frank, moved
perhaps by the suggestion of the bird, repeated
his question in another form.

Does Kit, for instance, know of this ? '

No one knows what I have told you tonight,'
she answered steadily ; ' no one dreams
of it ; no one guesses it.'

I am glad to hear it, Trenna, and glad
you told me. If I had thought your brother
knew I should have felt hardly towards him,
and done him an injustice. I ought to have
been sure he did not know No one with such
a secret on his soul, unless he were without a
heart, could be so blithe and gay as he.'

Her pale face grew a shade paler, and there
was' that twitching of her nostrils which betokens,
in nervous natures, impatience and
annoyance, but these signs he could not see ; he
only saw her hand stretched out before her. He
took it as a sign of parting, and held out his
own to meet it, but she drew hers sharply back.

'No, no,' she murmured, 'before others that
hypocrisy may still be necessary, but not when
we are alone.'

Then he understood that she had been only
pointing in the direction of her father's room ;
and, with a deep sigh, he took up his hat and
left her. As he closed the door behind him he
heard a wailing cry, ' Kit, Kit,' and stopped a
moment. Then again came the shriek of the
parrot, ' Kit is a pretty fellow.' But it was not
the bird he felt convinced that had cried ' Kit,
Kit.'

If it was Trenna the words had a sad significance.
In her agony of shame and sorrow
the poor girl was making a wild appeal for help
whence, by her own showing, no help could
come ; since Kit did not know, and would
never be told, of her trouble. The picture
Frank made of her in his own mind, alone, and
weighed down by remorse and despair, almost
drew the tears into his eyes.

If he could have seen her, he would have
wept indeed. On all the ' painful earth ' there
did not, at that moment, breathe a more
miserable woman ; for in the act of bidding him
that shameful farewell she had felt for the first
moment that she loved him. With head bowed
down, and hands tightly clenched before her,
she was contemplating her own ruined life. If
circumstances should be henceforth favourable,

if the public shame was spared her, she might
again mix with her fellow-creatures as before ;
nay — though under false pretences — she might
still retain their affection and respect ; but to
him whose regard she valued most of all she
was become a moral leper. Comfort was out
of the question for her ; even the torpor of
despair was denied her, since she was still a
prey to anxiety. Even now, as she had said,
matters might still be worse ; it was quite
possible, notwithstanding the humiliation and
self-abasement she had undergone, that it might
all be in vain, if Frank should fail to effect a
settlement with her father. The voices in the
next room would now and then attract her
attention, but for the most part she neither
heard nor saw (save with her inward eyes), nor
moved, but crouched up in her corner, waited

for the moment in which she should know
her fate. And all this weary time the bird
above her head, scrambling from wire to wire
and swinging from its perch in air, or swaying
upon it with flirt and flutter, screeched out its
spluttering cry, ' Kit is a pretty fellow — Kit is a
very pretty fellow.'

Presently her father's door opened, and the
voices grew more distinct.

Well, I am glad Dr. Meade has come to
his right senses,' she heard him say, in harsh
metallic tones, but which, to her ear at least,
who knew him so well, had satisfaction in them.
I am very sorry the thing has occurred, you
may say that but as for compensation — well,
well, you have waived that matter, so we will
say no more.'

Good night, sir.'

Good night, Mr. Frank. Take care of the

steps, it is plaguy dark, but to judge by the
sunset we shall have a fine day tomorrow.'

The night was so still that every footfall of
the young man, loud on the gravel and soft on
the lawn, was audible ; when the garden gate
was closed upon him, Trenna could even hear
her father rubbing his hands, an action he
always indulged in when in good humour.
Then there was a deep sigh, followed by a
chuckle of satisfaction — the attorney's substitute
for devotional gratitude — a hesitating step in
the passage, which chilled Trenna to the
marrow, and then, to her intense relief, once
more the closing of his own door.

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE XXI.
Rachel's muddle.

The revelation of a baseness in a girl we
respect is as the backsliding of the righteous ; it
opens probabilities where the Impossible once
stopped the way, and makes one distrustful of
human nature. That Trenna Garston should
have acknowledged herself to be a thief upset
all the theories which Frank Meade had formed
of girls, and indeed of his fellow-creatures
generally. He had a general idea that women
were impulsive, and that some of them allowed
their feelings — in matters where the other sex
were concerned — to carry them to great extremities

; but that an apparently well-principled
young lady should stoop to commit a sordid
crime had been hitherto beyond the range of
his imagination. He had entertained a respect
as well as a tender regard for Trenna, but he
would have been less astonished and shocked
than he was at present if he had heard that she
had run away with a black man.

He had told her indeed that he could not
believe, even though he heard it from her own
hips, that she had stolen her father's bank-notes ;
but when he came to think of the matter he
did believe it. Of two wholly improbable
things — namely, that Trenna Garston was a
thief, or that Trenna Garston, being in her
sane mind, had falsely accused herself of being
so — he chose the less improbable. In the
former case there was at least a motive ; she
might have been in want of the money : in
r 2

the latter there was absolutely none. But
he was staggered and stunned by it as from
a blow with a ludo-eon. When he left the
Grey House he did not go straight home, but
took a lonely road that led to the sea-share,
and paced the sand in great perturbation of
mind. This was quite a new state of things
with him. His nature was philosophic, his
studies were scientific, his views and habits
were practical. In the presence of physical
calamity he was prompt but never hurried ; no
emergency, however sudden or serious, caused
him to lose his head. Under all circumstances
he had hitherto been master of himself, if not
of the situation ; but the present case lay
altogether out of his experience. Nor were
bis natural good sense and judgment at his
command as usual, by reason of the intensity
of his feelings. So overcome he was with

wonder and distress of mind that the mere
practical difficulties that lay in his way concerning
the stoppage of the action for libel,
and the satisfaction of Abel's wounded feelings,
for the moment failed to strike him. Yet they
were by no means insignificant. He had
found it easy enough to persuade Mr. Garston
to drop proceedings, which was the very thing
the attorney secretly wished to do ; but he had
not succeeded in obtaining either apology or
compensation. The former he would therefore
have to invent, and find the latter out of
his own pocket. For Trenna's sake it would
be necessary to draw very largely upon his
imagination ; and bitterly did he regret the
precipitancy with which he had undertaken the
cause of the innocent, and set lance in rest
against the oppressor.

In the end he had to make use of Trenna

herself to extricate him from the difficulty — a
course he adopted with less unwillingness than
would be supposed at the first glance, since
upon reflection he felt that it was the best one
for her own interests ; since, though it drew
attention to her, it would necessarily remove
suspicion from the neighbourhood of the actual
truth.

Frank represented to his father that Mr.
Garston, being proud and obstinate, was willing
enough to pursue his plans to the bitter end,
even though with the certainty of defeat.

I am glad of it,' said the Doctor. ' That's
good news. We'll trounce him.'

No doubt,' rejoined Frank ; * but in so
doing we shall in our turn bring the innocent
to grief. Even as it is the Grey House is as a
Gehenna to his poor daughter.'

Ah, I see,' returned the old man, with

melancholy significance. ' My dear Frank, you
are not as other sons are to their father ; you
have never given rae hitherto the least cause
for annoyance ; but upon my life, if you are
seriously thinking of making that young
woman your wife you will go far to restore
the average.'

Here Frank faltered a moment, not as to
the sense of what he should reply, but as to the
form. As a lover he had done with Trenna ;
the confession which had gone nigh to kill her
had cited Mm but his hesitation was of the
greatest help to the object he had in view.
The Doctor apprehended an avowal of his son's
affection for the attorney's daughter, and had
that look on his face which a man wears when
he expects the worst.

I pity Trenna Garston very much,' returned
Frank, earnestly, ' but it is not that pity, father

I give you my honour — which is akin to
love.'

Thank Heaven for that answered the
other, with a sigh that told of a weight removed.
' Nothing else matters a dump, then.'

Which indeed proved to be the case ; nay,
the Doctor was so grateful to his son for not
having involved himself with Trenna that he
felt a tender commiseration for the girl upon
her own account, and chimed in with all his
plans for the mitigation of her troubles.

If the old hunks repents of his obstinacy,
and will afford solid satisfaction to Abel, I don't
see why you and I should trouble ourselves
about the matter farther. It is certainly very
pleasant to have Garston keeping at arm's
length, and to know he is not going to speak
through his nose to you when one meets him ;
but, as you say, it is hard on the girl. Well,

you've only to smooth over old Eachel a bit,
and the thing is done.'

It was not money, as Frank was well aware,
that was requisite for this smoothing process.
There were many mothers, in a much higher
position than Eachel Deeds, who in such a case
would have been willing enough to put their
family pride in their pockets if a liberal supply
of something else had been placed in the same
receptacle. But Eachel was too consumed with
anger on her son's account to think of greed.
She wanted Mr. Garston's blood rather than his
money, only she did not express herself so
melodramatically. ' What I do desire, Mr.
Frank,' she naively confessed, when that young
gentleman ' interviewed ' her the next morning,
is to see that old villain's nose brought down
to the grindstone.'

Mr. Garston's nose was a very larcre one, so

we will charitably hope that she only intended
to reduce it to ordinary limits ; but the tone in
which she spoke was relentless enough. ' It is
there already, my good Eachel,' returned Frank,
soothingly ; ' he is as sorry as he can be that
he made any charge against Abel. If he had
not gone off his head through rage at the loss
of his money he could never have made such a
mistake.'

Then let him go to ' Sizes and lose some
more, for that's what t'other lawyer tells me he
is sure to do.'

No doubt, but there's a way of punishing
him worse than that, Eachel. Nothing hurts
him, as you say, like having to pay money.
Now, besides having to own himself in the
wrong, which practically he has already done,
I mean to make him pay Abel a good round
sum in the way of compensation.'

Old Eachel shook her head. 'No money
can repay my Abel for the loss of his good
name. No, no ! what I want to see is that old
villain in the box, and Counsellor Trelawny
asking him questions.'

But think of his poor children, Eachel.'

Did he think of mine when he sent the
policeman for Abel ? '

But you know the Bible tells us that we
should return good for evil.'

Well, since you have asked me, Mr.
Frank,' said Eachel, doggedly, ' I had rather
the matter went to the 'Sizes.'

She was a good woman, but this was a case
where she evidently preferred the Law to the
Gospel.

'It will distress poor Maud to the last
degree,' said Frank, as if to himself.

What has Miss Maud to do with it ? ' put

in the old woman sharply. ' She does not
care how lawyer Garston is harried by the
counsellor.'

Certainly not ; but Mr. Garston's counsellor
will be harrying A^r, remember. Think how
your own Lucy dreads the Assize day, though
what she says will be for her brother's sake.
Miss Maud, it is true, would have gone through
anything for Abel, had it been necessary ; but
when all this can be settled — and satisfactorily
settled — out of court, it is hard indeed that
she should be subjected to such an ordeal.'

And the young hypocrite walked to the
window and gazed out on the kitchen garden
as if to conceal his feelings.

You are fond of Miss Maud, are you,
Master Frank .^ ' inquired Eachel naively.

Under other circumstances Frank would
have answered that all the family at the Knoll

were dear to him, Maud included ; but, as it
was, he only replied softly, ' Yes, Eachel.'

God bless you both,' replied the old
woman in trembling tones, and applying to her
eyes a duster ; ' a good lass and a good lad, if
ever there was a good one of either gender.
For her sake and for yours, then. Master Frank,
as concerns lawyer Garston, you may just do
what you will with the old devil.'

That Eachel's consent had been thus obtained
inter false pretences was incontestable ;
but Frank eased his conscience by the consideration
that she had by rights no voice in the
matter, and that, where there is no law to be
appealed to, extraordinary methods of procedure
are justifiable. It is true he had done
nothing but look out of window, and say ' Yes,
Eachel ' ; but looks and words have their
consequences.

That very morning Maud drove over to
Mogadion on some household business, and
called at the Dovecote. The Doctor and his
son were both out ; but Eachel, as usual, asked
her to step in and wait a bit.

I can't wait,' she said ; ' for Mr. Christopher
and his sister are coming to lawn tennis, and
we hope — please to tell him — that Mr. Frank
will join us.'

Master Frank will come, no fear,' said the
old woman, nodding and smiling.

I hope so, indeed,' replied Maud, simply,
for we shall have but little more tennis.
Mark and Mr. Christopher are going to
college together, you know, in a few weeks ;
and then there are those dreadful Assizes.
Lucy looks forward to them with as much
horror as 1 do.'

What ! haven't you heard that it's all over ;

that lawyer Garston has given in, and is to pay
the Corporation ? '

The Corporation ! Dear me, why ? '
Because of the wrong he has done Abel.'
Oh, I see — compensation. That is good
news. You can't think, Eachel, how happy
you make me.'

Dear heart, I'm glad of it. You're not
happier than you made me — leastways, than
Master Frank did — when he told me you know

what '

When he told you I know what ? '
Nay, nay ; if it's a secret, dearie, I can
keep it. But when he comes to me this
morning, begging me to spare the old lawyer
for your sake, it was but putting two and two
together to guess how the land lay. And it's
not only that Master Frank is as good as gold,
but that you might have done much worse.

dearie. For whatever Mr. Mark may think of
Mr. Christopher, there's but one opinion about
him in all Mogadion.'

Maud blushed from brow to chin, but she
said nothing. When old women are in a
muddle as to the relations between their fellow-creatures,
it is not always easy to set them
right ; and Maud by no means desired to enter
into explanations with Eachel Deeds. She
could of course have put matters straight by a
curt denial ; but as regards Frank Meade, she
was obliged to confess to herself that she could
not be quite so curt to-day as she could have
been yesterday, before he had saved her life in
the narrow lane. And as for Kit, though her
feelings regarding him had altered of late in
the other direction, and rather cooled, yet had
not he also saved her life, and thereby retained
her as his counsel for ever against all the gossip

of Mogadion ? She wished therefore to express
no opinion regarding either of those young
gentlemen, and especially no explanation of her
own position in respect to them. It would
indeed have been difficult for her to have given
it, for she was not sure about it herself. Of
course old Eachel had made some mistake
about Frank's feelings towards her, but the fact
that he had implored her to stop that Assize
case for her (Maud's) sake was certainly not
displeasing to her.

That it teas stopped, by whatsoever means,
gave her the keenest satisfaction and relief of
mind. She had dreaded the ordeal of cross-examination
a great deal more than Frank
himself could have possibly supposed, and with
good reason, for in her own mind, and notwithstanding
all that had been said by those
about her, she was only too well convinced
VOL. II. B

that the number of the note in Lucy's purse
lead been identical with that upon Mr.
Garston's hist ; she had seen it there with her
own eyes as it lay in Trenna's hand, and had
felt far too much interest in the matter to be
mistaken. By what means the substitution
had been effected in the meantime she could
not guess ; but that substitution there had been
she was certain.

Of Abel's innocence she was as positive as
ever, but not more so than that Mr. Garston
senior had good reasons for his suspicions.
Hitherto she had kept this fact locked up in
her own mind ; but on her oath and in the
witness-box it must certainly have come outwith
such possible consequences as she had not
hind the courage to contemplate.

TENNIS UNDER DIFFICULTIES.

When Frank Meade received from Rachel
Maud's pressing invitation to play tennis at
the Knoll that afternoon, he could hardly
believe his ears. For how was the party of
four to be made up ? Was it possible that,
after Trenna Garston's confession to him, he
should meet her there, racket in hand, alert
and bright as usual ? Or was Mark for once
to be pressed into the service? Even he
himself, knowing what he knew, had no heart
for the game, though it was ordinarily the only
amusement in which he took pleasure. At the

e2

same time he had no hesitation in obeying
Maud's summons, and even had a secret satisfaction
in the thought that she had left it in
person. That she had not said a word to
Each el about her narrow escape of the previous
day surprised him, as well it might ; she was
usually far from secretive, and he was, of
course, unaware of what the old woman had
said to her respecting himself, and which for
the moment had set a seal on her lips as regarded
any obligation she was under to him.

It was Trenna, however, and not Maud,
who at present was the subject of Frank's
thoughts. The old days he felt were over in
which the Medwayss, and the Parsons, and
himself were wont to meet almost as members
of one family ; and there was no room in his
breast for the contemplation of any new
relations. The blow that had put an end to

the beginnings of love as regarded Trenna had
put out of his mind, at the same time, those
tender emotions which had been awakened
only yesterday with respect to Maud. His
whole soul was still consumed with pity and
amazement. On his way to the Knoll he went
over that last night's interview again and
again, without the least alleviation of his
perplexity and distress. A proud girl, a brave
girl, and yet to be a thief ! This was of itself
an inexplicable anomaly ; but that it should be
Trenna Garston, whom he had known from
infancy, and whom Maud had known and
loved, and believed to be as pure and guiltless
as herself, that was incredible. And yet the
thing was so, for he had Trenna's own word
for it.

Mr. Garston was a coarse and grasping
man, and probably a bad father, but Trenna

had had no such bringing up as could have led
naturally to such a catastrophe as this ; and
Kit again, her brother, was doubtless not the
best of examples, but though, as we know, he
was not a great favourite of Frank's, he at once
acquitted him of having in any way conduced
to his sister's crime ; indeed, what Frank
chiefly admired in him was his love for Trenchant
the appreciation he invariably displayed of
her devotion to his interests.

That she had told the truth, when she
told him that her brother knew nothing of
her delinquency, he could well believe. The
confession of it to her beloved Kit would have
been more painful to her even than it had been
to him.

Here, as he stood on the top of the hill and
looked down on the Nook itself, a light genial
laugh was borne from the garden on the

autumn wind, that would have carried conviction
with it upon this point had he needed it,
for it came from Kit himself ; and how could
Kit have laughed like that had he been
conscious of his sister's shame?

The little party were on the lawn awaiting
Frank's arrival, as usual, to commence their
game, and among them Trenna herself. He
instinctively averted his eyes from her to spare
her what of embarrassment he could ; but the
one fleeting glance they cast on her seemed,
like a flash of lightning, to have revealed all.
She did not return his look, but he felt that
she had seen him. She stood motionless as a
statue, and as pale, with her racket in hand,
and her gaze fixed on the ground.

Why so late, sir ? ' cried Maud.

Mr. Frank, you are a truant,' smiled her
mother.

He must have known that we had drawn
for sides,' suggested Kit, ' and, having the
weakest, was in no hurry to be beaten.'

As Trenna had drawn him, and was an
excellent player, while Frank himself was the
best of the four, this was somewhat audacious.

'Fever mind, we will do our best,' said
Trenna, holding out her hand with a smile that
vanished as quickly as it came. What it cost
her to frame it he dared not think ; even in
his own case the muscles of his lips seemed
to refuse their office, as though they had been
frozen. Her hand lay in his like a piece of
ice, and though he pressed it eagerly to assure
her he hardly knew of what, but at least of his
loyalty and desire to help her, he met with no
response. Her misery was too great, as he
well understood, to admit even of sympathy ;
and yet she had to show a bold front to the

world and to hide the heartache. To the eyes
of others there was little to be seen amiss with
her. Only she did not play at tennis so well
as usual.

Of all the ordeals to which the miserable
are subject there is none more painful than to
have to take part in an amusement in which
others delight, while they themselves are in
mental anguish. Smiles may be compelled,
even the jest may be forced despite the aching
breast, but to press thought and limb into the
service of a trivial game, and to affect an
interest in it, is positive torture. Even Frank
played much below his usual ' form,' while his
partner, in spite of all her efforts, made ' faults '
even in her ' service.'

Why, Trenna, what is the matter with
you ? You can't serve,' exclaimed Maud.

That is because she is born to rule ' cried

Mark, who was lazily watching them from a
garden seat.

Very witty, but not quite new,' returned
Maud, breathless from a rapid ' volley ' : 'the
same thing, I read in some society journal, was
said of the Prince of Wales.'

Then it ought not to have been,' cried
Kit, striking in as usual for his friend, ' since
the Prince's motto is Ici Dien.'

To Frank, Kit's wit and high spirits seemed
discordant and out of place to the last degree,
though, indeed, on the assumption that he
knew nothing of his sister's crime, it would
have been unreasonable indeed to resent them.
As a matter of fact Kit was as bright as usual,
nay, even brighter; the folks at the Knoll
were in better spirits than they had been wont
to be of late, through the collapse of the case
against Abel Deeds (the apprehension of what

might have come of it having given them all,
perhaps, more annoyance than they had confessed
to), and this circumstance drew Kit out
(an effect the merriment of others always has
upon jokers) and made him more buoyant —
and like a boy — than ever.

It was not Trenna's custom to contribute to
any outburst of mirth, and therefore her silence
was not remarked upon, but now and again a
weary and pained look came into her eyes
(or Frank imagined it to do so) after some
fit of general hilarity, that was inexpressibly
touching.

How can ye pipe, ye Httle birds (it seemed
to say), and I so weary — full of care.'

It also struck Frank that Kit's manner to
him was more cordial than usual, but this
might easily have arisen from the circumstance
of his approaching departure for college, and a

natural desire to part friends. He certainly did
not keep so jealous a watch over his sister ashe
was wont to do in reference to him, and this
gave Frank the opportunity of a word or two
with Trenna alone.

It was just before supper time, when, as the
young folks were strolling in the garden, Frank
found himself alone with her upon the little
rustic bridge that spanned the waterfall. The
others were close by, but the noise of the
falling waters enabled them to converse unheard.


One moment, Mr. Meade,' gasped Trenna,
I cannot thank you now — nor ever — for the
service you have done me — as you deserve. If
anything one hears of Divine Justice is true,
God will reward you for it.'

I require no reward, Trenna ; it is reward
enough, and an immense satisfaction and relief

to me, to be able to assure you that all is safely
settled.'

I do believe that is what you feel,' she
answered, with intense emotion. ' You are
goodness itself. You smile, as well you may ;
it is true I can hardly be a judge of goodness.'

Good Heavens, Trenna ! you cannot suppose
I was thinking anything of the kind.
Pray, pray believe that I feel the same regard
for you, the same desire to shield you from
sorrow, that I ever did.'

I know — I know you, at least, still pity
me. That is something. But do not show it,
I beseech you. It is all I can do to play my
part.'

You do so bravely. One could never
guess what you are suffering.'

Yes, I suffer, that is true, but it is only
my desert. Do you see that stone that holds

its head so high above the water? If you
could look below it you would see that its heart
is riven. That is my case.'

Poor girl, poor girl ! '

Hush, hush ! For Heaven's sake, no pity !
What I want to say to you, while I can, is
about the compensation to Abel. How much
will it be ? '

It has not been settled. Perhaps fifty
pounds. Now listen. You have done me the
honour to repose your confidence in me '

Honour ! ' she echoed bitterly. ' You
must think me honourable indeed ! '

I think — I am sure, Trenna,' he answered
gently, ' that you have been, to a very great
extent, the victim of circumstances. If you
imagine I feel contempt for you you are very
much mistaken. Now, as to this money, you
must permit me to pay it myself. Every

shilling of your own will be bespoken for a
long time to come.'

Bespoken ! what for ? '

Frank stared at her in dumb amazement.
Was it possible she did not understand what
for? 'What I mean, Trenna, is that, of
course, you will replace every farthing of
the— the '

To be sure, of the stolen money,' she
answered, with a shiver. ' On the other hand,
papa can wait, and Abel's claim is pressing.'

'It will be my business to settle that matter.
Do not let it burthen your mind by a feather's
weight.'

I cannot — no, no, I cannot — take your
money, Mr. Meade.'

Do you suppose, then, I can take your
father's in repayment? Forgive me, but you
compel me to use plain words. If you choose,

in after years, to decline to be under even so
small an obligation to so old a friend, and supposing
you are in a position to do so, then you
can discharge it. The money is nothing ; my
only difficulty will be in representing it as
coming from Mr. Garston. But I have thought
over all that, and it shall be done — great
Heavens ! what would you do ? '

She had moved swiftly to a spot on the
bridge where the railing had been torn away ;
below it was a swirling pool, fathoms deep ;
the strongest swimmer, had he plunged in it,
would have been beaten to pieces against the
stones before he reached the bottom. He had
caught her by the wrist with iron grip only
just in time.

Let me die,' she murmured sullenly.

No, Trenna, I will not let you die. You
have been weak, but that is no reason why you

should be wicked. You have wronged your
father, but it is possible to make reparation. If
you died it would not be possible, and besides,
you would break his heart.'

She smiled a crooked smile, and shook her
head.

For Heaven's sake, calm yourself, Trenna,'
continued Frank, with tender earnestness ;
think of the shame that would overtake your
memory if you were to put an end to yourself ;
the reason for such a monstrous act must then
be disclosed — no effort of mine could prevent
it. Think of your brother who loves you so.'

True, true,' she murmured, her eyes,
which had been fixed and hard, as in one
convulsed, filling with tears. ' I should have
done more harm than good. I was wrong to
think of it.

You were very wrong, Trenna. Think of

VOL. II. p

the sorrow you would have brought upon so
many hearts. See, there is Maud calling to us.'

They could not hear Maud call on account
of the noise of the waterfall, which drowned all
distant sounds ; but Frank could see her waving
her handkerchief.

It was not the least painful part of this
terrible scene that it was taking place in a spot
meant for pleasure, and within a few yards of
gay companions who were almost witnesses of
what was enacted.

Before we go, Trenna, you must give me
your sacred word that you will not contemplate
again such an act as that of which I have been
just a witness ; otherwise, I shall have no alternative
but to put your brother on his guard.'

My word ? What value can my word
have in your eyes ? ' she answered bitterly.
Nevertheless, since you ask for it I give it you.

I will not attempt my life again. I have no
right to escape my punishment that way.'

Nay, you have no right rather to put
yourself out of the pale of penitence and
redemption. I alone, as you have told me, am
aware of your misconduct ; make reparation as
soon as you can (this is the last time I shall
speak on that subject unless you ask me), and
in the meantime your secret is safe.'

No, no, it is not safe. God, who brings
all things to light, will make it manifest some
day. Then I shall have suffered in vain.'

The phrase not a little puzzled Frank, and
indeed, as he acutely felt, the whole situation
was as much beyond his powers as his experience
; he gave some vague reply about no
suffering being ' thrown away,' and offered her
his arm to leave the bridge, for she was trembling
excessively.

F 2

No, no, they are watching us, and will
wonder why I wanted help,' she answered
quickly, ' Don't look at me, don't speak tome,
and they will notice nothing.'

By the time they had rejoined their companions
the girl's air and manner were as quiet
and composed as usual.

We really thought,' laughed Maud, ' that

after your shameful beating at tennis you were

both going to drown yourselves in the Need

Pool.'

I did propose it,' said Trenna, ' but Mr.

Meade insisted on my taking the first plunge ;

and I had no confidence in his carrying out the

contract. It is later than I thought, Kit. I

must go home.'

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE WHEEL OF TIME.

There are two blows which are fatal to friendship
(though not to love), the one from the
hand of absence, the other from that of wrong.
In the former case death is gradual, in the
latter immediate.

If we discover, for example, that our friend
has committed an act of meanness, it is necessarily
all over with him as regards his relation
to ourselves ; we may forgive him — it is easy
to forgive ; but we cannot press his hand
again, for he is not, as the phrase goes, ' the
man we took him for : ' it has been a case of

mistaken identity all along. We may still
have a kindness for him, and the sincerest
pity ; but all sympathy is over. This was
Frank Meade's case as regarded Trenna Garston.
As a friend she was dead to him. The
old Trenna Garston, in her strength and purity,
and with the devotion (by no means free from
trial) to her only brother, had no longer any
existence ; in her place was an inscrutable
being in whom he still felt an interest (indeed,
as a student of human nature, a very deep
interest), but whom he could no longer even
admire. Her very beauty was almost repellent
to him ; and he was but two-and-twenty !
Her crime was not the only thing that had
created this unnatural state of things ; it was
the way in which she appeared to contemplate
it.

It would have been as easy to him to

forget that as to forget that answer of hers,
'What for? 'when he had hinted that every
shilling of hers would be bespoken for sometime
to come. She had not even a sense of
the imperative necessity of restitution. In
Frank's eyes her proper course would have
been to go to her father and confess all :
Father, I have sinned against Heaven and
before thee, and am no more worthy to be
called thy daughter.' But as to this, he admitted
there might be excuse for her ; it flitted
across his mind, as such humorous notions
will do even on the most supreme occasions,
that notwithstanding her offence, or even
because of it, she might not be so very unworthy
of such a parent. But at all events
her behaviour since her wrong-doing had not
in any way redeemed her in Frank's eyes, but
rather the contrary. He was by no means a

hard man, but his sense of right was strict and
well-defined. Perhaps the circumstance which
had disgusted him most in her was the flippant
explanation she had given to Maud of the intention
of suicide that had been laughingly
imputed to her : ' I had no confidence in Mr.
Meade's carrying out the contract.' He did
not reflect that there is nothing more difficult
to which to make reply than a truth spoken
in jest, especially in the hearing of one who
knows it to be a truth ; nor did he understand
what Kit could have told him, that when the
heart is heavy and the soul is sick, a sportive
answer is not seldom that which lies readiest
to the tongue.

The result of it all was that though from
time to time Frank gave Trenna Garston the
opportunity of speaking to him upon a certain
matter, if she wished to do so, in a general way

the young man shunned her society. Indeed
he never met her except at the Medwayss,
where, on the other hand, she was almost
always to be found.

The changing leaf had invested the Knoll
with new beauties ; lapped in the serenity of
autumn, it looked forth over its sheltered lawns
and walks, and met the distant gaze of winter
without fear, but the inner life of the place was
sadly altered. Kit's breezy laugh no longer
awoke the echoes ; he had returned to college,
as had been agreed upon, and had taken Mark
with him. Even in a large family, if it be a
united one, the departure of one of its members
has socially a serious effect upon it ;
imagine then the gap made in this little household
by the absence of its idol ! Kit too was
almost one of themselves, and in some respects
even more missed. With him, the life of the

house, so far as its brightness and gaiety went,
had departed.

Yet, strange to say, to one of its tenants at
least his absence was almost a relief. For a
few days after Maud's escape from that river
wreck she had held herself, as it were, at Christopher
Gaston's disposal ; gratitude, familiar
association, and something which if it was not
love might easily have ripened into it, would
have combined together to make her his own,
had he sought her hand. But he did not do
this ; he had contented himself with that indirect
avowal of his affections with which weare
already acquainted. To Maud, who in
those days watched him narrowly, it seemed
that he had something on his mind which oppressed
it ; that his gaiety was forced, and that
on one occasion, at least, he had exhibited signs
of nervous apprehension. Whatever was the

cause of his silence, she was secretly grateful
for it ; for though, if at that time he had asked
her to be his wife it is probable she would have
accepted him, it would have been in part on
compulsion, or rather as the discharge of an
obligation. At all events, the regard she honestly
entertained for him would have required
to be strengthened by certain considerations in
order to take the form and complexion of love ;
a state of affairs among young ladies by no
means unprecedented or even uncommon.

As time went on these considerations lost
something of their force ; she was not one to
forget an obligation of any kind, but she began
to doubt whether her position was so precisely
identical with ' salvage ' as she had on the first
flush of gratitude been inclined to consider.
Kit had saved her life, and at great risk to his
own, no doubt, but was it not an exaggeration

of gratitude to consider herself his property inconsequence
? Indeed, if such logic was incontestable,
what did she owe to Frank Meade, to
whose lot it had fallen to do her the like service
? For Frank, though she had no such
admiration for him as for Kit, she had certainly
more respect ; and she was not one whit afraid
of him. It had not of old escaped her notice
that he had occasionally showed signs of an
attachment to Trenna ; and it had struck her
what a good husband he would make for her,
or for any girl. He was always the same ; not
given indeed to exuberance of spirits, but
always cheerful, kind, and unselfish. A few
weeks ago it would have seriously disappointed
her — for she loved her friend, and was very
desirous to see her happily settled in life, and
freed from her present domestic shackles — to
have observed, as she now did, a certain coolness

between Trenna and Frank. The former
had never encouraged him, but she now appeared
to avoid him ; a course of conduct which
was having its natural effect. This was so very
marked that Maud had ventured to remonstrate
with her friend.

Why do you snub Frank so, Trenna ? '

'Snub him? Snub Mr. Meade?' she
answered, with a sort of amazed horror.

Nay, if you don't mean to do so, your
behaviour certainly gives one — and I am sure
gives }dm — that impression. Now Mark is
gone, I think we owe it to Frank to make
things as pleasant as possible ; and he is so
good and kind.'

The best and kindest of men,' was the
unexpected reply. Trenna's voice was firm
enough, but her eyes were tender and even
tearful.

Well, upon my word ! Your way of
letting him know what you think of him is
certainly a peculiar one. He really doesn't
understand it, and I positively feel it my duty
to enlighten him.'

Maud, Maud, I beseech you not to jest
upon this subject. Once for all, if there were
not another man in the whole world save Mr.
Meade I could not marry him.'

But why ? '

Nay, do not ask me that. If you love
me, Maud, you will never do so ; you will
never speak to me on that topic again. Mr.
Meade and I are nothing to one another, and
never can be. Let that suffice you.'

Of course Maud did not push her inquiries
farther. She had heard enough, if not to
satisfy her curiosity, at least to occupy her
thoughts for some time to come. The conclusion

she came to was that Kit's over-mastering
influence had put an end to all Frank's
attraction, if attraction he had ever had, for
Trenna.

What violent antipathies Kit had, and what
an indomitable will ! What a dangerous man,
something even whispered to her, to whom to
intrust one's happiness for life !

It was an immense relief to her that
Trenna no longer, as of old, took opportunities
of singing her brother's praises. At one time
Maud had had lier suspicions that Kit had
enlisted his sister as his advocate, to plead his
cause for him with herself ; but if so, she had
now thrown up her brief.

From Mark, at Cambridge, there came
pages of eulogium on his friend, which Mrs.
Medway would sometimes read aloud to the
two girls ; but from Trenna, though she

showed herself sensible of her hostess's
kindness in so doing, they elicited no response.
She spoke of her brother with her usual affection,
but as to his merits, upon which she used
to be so eloquent, she was dumb.

What was also noteworthy in Maud's
feelings, though she herself was unaware of its
significance, these laudatory epistles about Kit
found but a faint echo in her mind. When
love has really got possession of us, all praise
of the beloved object is welcome ; we revel in
it, as a poet delights in the praise of his own
verses ; and we find no fault in the manner of
its bestowal, even when laid on with a trowel,
as Mark Medway laid it on in Kit's case. But
Maud only smiled at her brother's exaggerated
phrases, and was even inclined to think him a
little infatuated about Kit.

She did not tell Frank Meade that; and.

indeed, it would have been quite unnecessary ;
she was well aware what Frank had always
thought of her brother's friend ; and under
present circumstances as she pictured them
(i.e. with Trenna sundered from him by Kit's
machinations), he was not likely to take a more
favourable \'iew of his character.

Frank never volunteered a remark against
Kit ; in his eyes the absent were as the dead ;
but he agreed with Maud when she had expressed
the opinion that it was a pity Mark
was so completely under his influence. It
would counteract in some degree the very
benefit which it was supposed he would derive
from college life, the effect of change. In
going with Kit he had taken, as Maud observed,
his home-atmosphere with him.

Well, at all events, a familiar atmosphere,'
Frank had replied.

VOL. II. G

He did not choose to identify Christopher
Garston with the tenants of the Knoll ; indeed,
notwithstanding what he knew of her, he was
less displeased to see Trenna Garston made
one of the family at the Knoll than her
brother. In those days Frank naturally took
his place there, and, since Trenna and he
avoided one another, was thrown into much
more familiar relations with Maud than had
been the case before.

The more she saw of him the more she
liked and respected him. Hitherto Kit's wit
and brilliancy had thrown the other's more
solid merits into the shade ; his character had
now for the first time a fair field in which
to show itself. She had known him to be
honourable, unselfish, kind, and sensible ; but
she had not appreciated his mental qualities.
Without being a prig, his thoughts were graver

than those entertained by most men of his age ;
this was also, indeed, the case with Mark, but
Mark lived in the Past, almost as much as Mr.
Penryn. Frank's interests were in the Present
and the Future ; in human life and human
nature, and above all in his profession.

And as there is no calling so interesting to
him that follows it as that of the surgeon, so
there is none that can be made so interesting
to others, by one who knows how to talk of it
without ' talking shop.'

It is doubtful whether Othello as a Healer
would have made himself quite so agreeable to
Desdemona as he did in his capacity of a
Slayer ; stories of breaking bones would have
been probably more to her taste than any
narratives of mending them ; she was, I am
afraid, one of those young women who love
the ' dear darling military.' But Maud was of
G 2

a higher class. The troubles and catastrophes
of human life awakened her sympathies ; and
this was especially the case, of course, if they
took place near home.

It happened, for example, that a sailor fell
from the mainmast of a ship in Mogadion
harbour, and fractured his skull. Dr. Meade
had done his best for him, and at once — for
the accident had happened opposite his very
door — but the case seemed irremediable, and
it was a very sad one. The poor fellow was
a native of the place, who had returned from
a long voyage that very day, and was to have
been married to the girl of his choice in a few
weeks. She had been counting the hours after
his vessel had been telegraphed as having
passed the Lizard, had beheld the first ' gleam
glittering on the sail that brought her love up
from the under world,' and then the next news

of him was that he had been killed in harbour.
He was not killed, but lay without sense or
motion, and so would lay — said the doctors in
counsel — till the breath, which was all that
remained to him of Life, had fled. Science
had done what it could for him, and in vain.
Maud knew the girl, as she knew most of her
poorer neighbours, and her heart bled for her,
as well it might. She was with her lover day
and night, but her ministrations where more
like those which are paid to a corpse then to
a sick man, and hardly of more use. ' If he
could only know me before he died,' was her
one pitiful cry ; but the doors of sense where
shut.

When all hope seemed gone, Frank Meade
proposed to his father that a certain experiment
should be tried ; it had occurred or
course to his seniors of the profession, but had

been rejected on account of some peculiarities
in the case. ' If we trepan him,' Doctor
Meade himself had said, ' we shall kill the man
at once.' His son thought differently, and got
leave to try his hand, which indeed was a very
skilful one, and the experiment succeeded. It
was judged to be a miracle of healing, by
which Frank Meade brought his patient back
to Love and Life. Next to the girl, for whom
this man had been rescued as if from the grave
mouth, this cure most delighted Maud. She
learnt from it, for the first time, what immense
possibilities of good lie in the hand of man,
and to revere him who utilise them. Frank
was modest enough in his recital of the matter,
but if Kit could have been aware of its effect
on Maud he would have said something epigrammatic,
and (as generally happens in epigrams)
unjust, about 'trepanning.' She had

certainly never admired any human being as
she now admired the yoimg surgeon ; she did
not — perhaps she dared not — praise him with
her own hips, but she told him what Agnes
Floyd (the sailor's sweetheart) had said about
him, which made him blush to the ears.
Everybody congratulated Frank except Trenna,
which distressed him, because he knew the
reason ; she thought herself too far fallen in
his sight to have aught to do, or say, with any
deed of good.

Strangely enough this incident, which had
drawn Maud so nearly towards the young
surgeon, was in the end the means of separating
them ; it made such a noise in the provincial
medical world that the echo of it reached
London, and resulted in an invitation to Frank
from the authorities of a certain hospital. The
opening was too ' promising ' to be declined,

and to the old Doctor's grief (and pride) his
son left Mogadion to try his fortune in town.
At Christmas he was to return for a few days,
when Mark and Kit would also be at home for
the vacation. But in the meantime gloom and
silence fell upon the Knoll indeed.

A CHANGE IN MARK.

The reasons for sending our sous to college areas
numerous as the excuses for ' liquorice up '
and as fanciful If the young man is wellborn
and well provided for in this world's
goods, his parents justly think that it is expedient
for him to make friends of his own
rank on the threshold of life, who may last
him even to its close ; which is the case of one
in ten. Or if his wealth has been recently
made for him, Heaven knows how, and his
belongings ' are the reverse of ' poor and
honest,' it is natural enough that they should
wish him to mingle early with real gentlefolks

and acquire their manners, and, if possible,
their tone ; which is the case of one in fifty.
If the young man is poor and the idea is that
he should distinguish himself and gain scholarship
and fellowship, it is an intelligible one
enough, only, considering the odds against
either event (and far less the double one)
coming off, the parents who entertain it must
be of an uncommonly sanguine disposition ;
but supposing their offspring shows no great
capability or desire for study of the classics or
mathematics (which is the case of seven lads
out of eight), they must needs have other aims.
He does not want polish like the nous homo
he can't afford to waste his time like the nati
consumer e f rug es ; and no one but a madman,
or a College Fellow, will venture to assert that
the University education which such a one is
likely to get will fit him for any calling whatsoever.

Then why do his parents pinch themselves
to send him to college ? I think, if
the truth were told, and making allowance for
the superstition as regards the advantage of
a college education, that they do it with the
vague hope of his making friendships which
will be of material advantage to his future —
a circumstance which takes place in real life
about as often as the blossoming of the aloe.

This last was at all events the reason why
Mr. Garston of Mogadion had sent his son to
college. As for manner, there was no man in
all Cambridge (except the Public Orator, whose
raison d'etre it Alas to be distinguished in that
way) who could hold a candle to Christopher
Garston for address and grace ; and as for
tone,' young men of his individuality and force
of character so far from being impressed by
their contemporaries leave their mark on them.

Of all places under Heaven, the University
(because it is a shifting population every three
years renewed) is the one least likely to keep a
man's memory green ; yet Christopher Garston
was remembered there for many a year after
his departure from that transitory scene.

There was no record of him among the
notabihties in the college annals ; he did not
o^ain — or indeed strive for — so much as a declamation
prize. His name was unknown in that
other branch of University distinction which
so ludicrously asserts itself (and is still more
ludicrously believed in) side by side with University
honours — the river. He was not a
good oar,' nor even a ' good bat.' As he
was wont to say in his characteristic way,
There is nothing wooden about me.' Nor was
he a ' fast man ' in the ordinary sense. He did
not hunt with the Drag, nor indulge in any of

the lavish dissipations which purchase fame at
college cheaper, after all, than it can be got in
the world beyond it. And yet when Mark
Med way went up to St. Boniface he found
Christopher Garston the best-known man of his
year, and by very far the most popular.

He was no toper, but he was the life of a
wine party; he was no scholar, but he enlivened
the studies of the unlearned as the most graphic
of lecturers failed to do, and suggested emendations
such as certainly had never entered into
the mind even of that ingenious personage the
German commentator.'

At the Union he was facile princeps ; a
bright and brilliant speaker who never hesitated
between an epigram and his principles, while
as a companion his attractions were so highly
thought of that to be seen walking arm in arm
with him was a reputation.

For it was well understood that the one
thing Christopher Garston would not endure
for an hour was to be bored. For much of his
friend's peculiar greatness Mark was prepared.
He thought it nothing strange that the man
whose attractions had captivated him from boyhood
should have taken others' hearts by storm
and held them ; but what did strike him as remarkable
was the genius for economy that his
friend Kit exhibited. The manner in which he
contrived to live (as Kit too assured him, and
with truth, without incurring debt) was marvellous,
considering the very moderate income
allowed him by his father. He occupied one
of the best sets of rooms in college, and had
furnished them with taste and elegance without
apparently the least regard to expense ; while
when he entertained his friends, which was not
seldom, it was in a fashion that fell little short

of splendour. Kit's explanation of how all this
was done was satisfactory enough, so far as it
went. 'The secret is,' he said, 'that I pay
ready money for everything ; ' but it did not
seem to go far enough back. Like the argument
in favour of the development theory, the
weak point was at the beginning ; and ' Where
did he get the ready money ? ' was the question
that even Mark could not help occasionally asking
himself. As he began, however, to appreciate
his friend's eminence, this little problem
ceased to trouble Mark ; so much more amazing
than Kit's making a little money go a great
way seemed the reputation he, an unknown lad
from Mogadion, had made for himself in the
University world.

What a proud man your father would be,
Kit, if he knew what the men thought of you
here ! ' Mark had observed admiringly.

I hope he will be content to take your
word for it, and not come up to see for himself,'
returned Kit, laughing.

But why not ? ' inquired the other, who
knew that Mr. Garston, senior, entertained no
expectation of Kit's taking honours, and had
no illusions, as so many fathers have, to be dispelled
as to his son's hard reading, &c. &c.
Why shouldn't your father come and see you ? '

Well, you see, no fellow wants his popularity
to be put to so severe a strain,' was Kit's
cynical reply. ' Seriously, my dear Mark,' he
added, perceiving his friend look grave (for
there were occasions when Kit's sentiments
shocked Mark not a little, though he made allowance
for most things in him, and deprecated
his being tried by an ordinary standard), ' seriously
the governor would not understand my
position here at all. He believes that I am

ingratiating myself with all the " hat fellow
commoners " ' — the nobility were so called in
Cambridge in those days — ' and looking out
for law business among sucking millionaires ;
whereas, as a matter of fact, I am enjoying myself.
Now if, on the other hand, you could
persuade your mother and Maud to come, we
could make it very pleasant for them.'

'And Trenna,' suggested Mark; 'that indeed
would be very jolly. How delighted she
would be to see you such a favourite ! '

Yes ; she would be able to tell my detractors
in Mogadion that, like Miss Snevelhcci's
papa in the neighbourhood of the stage door,
I am appreciated here' answered Kit, with his
pleasant smile. ' But, unfortunately, the Governor
would never spare her. No, I shall take my
degree next term, and then comb the high stool
in my father's office with nobody but yourself,

VOL. II. H

my dear fellow, to witness to my former greatness.'


As to Kit's being comfortable in that elevated
position, even Mark had his doubts about
it; though he did not understand how very
high a horse for the last three years his friend
had been riding, or how incompatible that
equestrian style is with that of lofty sedentariness.
Even as matters stood. Kit's mode of life did
not admit of a very close companionship with
Mark, though they continued the best of friends.
With the majority of Kit's acquaintances, Mark
found himself out of his element ; his own
habits, though far from being unsociable, were
retired ; his delight was to ensconce himself in
some snug corner of the college library, and
there to surround himself with old-world books
such as no one else ever took down. As to the
ordinary studies of the place, he took little

interest in them, though what was necessary to
be read he dutifully perused. He could have
done the very moderate amount of work required
of him — though, as Kit observed, dull
folks might have to take their coats off to do it
with one hand tied behind him.

Thus it happened that Mark, like Kit, had
a good deal of time on hand to dispose of as he
pleased, or as circumstances led him to use it.
He took long walks in the neighbourhood of
the University, sometimes with this alter ego.,
sometimes with a more grave companion, sometimes
alone. Cambridge was a new world to
the hitherto sequestered young student, and,
though he still differed much from the majority
of his contemporaries, it had its effects upon
him. At first, for example, it seemed to have
completely fulfilled the object for which he was
sent to college. His depression of spirits dish

2

appeared, and he took quite an unexpected interest
in all around him. There was even a
]period when he exhibited a strange excitement
and exultation, which would certainly not have
escaped Kit's notice had he been less wrapped
up in his own pursuits and pleasures. And
then again, as the term drew near its end, he
became melancholy and distrait.

'What kind of place is Cambridge in the
vacation ? ' Mark asked of his friend one day.

Oh, dull enough. The place is deserted,
or rather seems inhabited by a set of sham
undergraduates, parodies of the originals. The
gyps go about in their masters' clothes.'

Still I should think the experience would
be interesting, if only from the contrasts

'It may be for twenty-four hours, but
think of the men that are left, and who would
form your sole society ! The mathematicians

who are in for Honours, and whose only relaxation
is a two hours' constitutional alone
the Baddingly Eoad ; men who have a red
mark on their foreheads from the wet handkerchief
they wear there to keep them awake
o' nights. But, I have noticed, you like the
Baddingly Eoad yourself.'

Well, yes ; I think it is one of the nicest
walks about here.'

Perhaps,' replied Kit, indulging in a slight
yawn, for even with Mark he was susceptible
to boredom ; ' for my part they all seem very
much alike, flat (certainly flat), stale, and unprofitable.
How different from the glorious
ups and downs of Mogadion.'

True ; I like them, however, very well in
their way. As to staying up in the vacation,
by-the-bye, I suppose unless one is a scholar
there is a difficulty in getting leave to do it.'

Well, one must at least have the reputation
of being a reading man. I don't think
my tutor would let me do it, for example. He
would be afraid, with so much idle time on
my hands, of my getting into mischief. Dear
old Tottles (such was the familiar manner in
which the young gentlemen at St. Boniface
spoke of their tutor, Mr. Gotham) thinks we
ought all to be tied to our mother's apron
strings.*

Tottles is a very good, kind fellow,
though.'

No doubt ; but not exactly a man of the
world. What strikes me as so curious in the
Dons here is that they seem to know nothing
beyond the four walls of their colleges, except
what they read in books. And such books !
They forget what they knew of the outside
world when they were undergraduates.'

I am not quite sure,' observed Mark, on
whose ear this criticism had apparently fallen
unheeded, ' but I am inclined to think I shall
go in for the Moral Science Tripos.'

Very good. Why not ? It will be an
unexpected pleasure to your mother to hear
of your going in for anything except Ruins
and Druids. Only it will be time enough to
think of the Tripos two years hence.'

Yes, but not to read for it — your friend
Braithwaite, by-the-bye, is great at Mora
Science, is he not ? '

Great ? I don't know about his being
great at anything. Why should he be, my
dear boy, when he will have twenty thousand
a year of his own ? That is a man worth cultivating
; not because of his wealth, but of his
opportunities. When he has taken his degree
he will be his father's partner. By Jingo ! If

I had but a tenth part of his chances, at five-and-twenty
years of age at most, I should bethe
richest man in England.'

That is an unfortunate date to fix upon,
my dear fellow,' said Mark, smiling, ' if you
remember what you told us under the walls of
Penarvon.'

True ; I had forgotten my little compact
with Beelzebub. As an attorney in embryo,
however, I am inclined to think that will not
hold good, since it was made when I was a
minor.'

At this notion they both laughed ; it was
significant of the change which a couple of
months at Cambridge had wrought in Medway
that the matter which had something of
seriousness for him at the time of its revelation
now only awoke his mirth.

The topic of staying up during the vacation

was pursued no further, and it might easily
have escaped Garston's memory that Mark
had ever mooted it, but for something that
took place a few days later.

Braithwaite, dropping in at his rooms to
lunch, chanced to mention that he had just
met Medway at their tutor's.

I had no idea,' he said, ' that your antiquarian
friend stooped to anything so modern
and trifling as the Moral Sciences. It seems
he is going in for the Tripos.'

The Tripos ? Why, this is only his first
term.'

Just so, that is exactly what Tottles told
him. Medway wanted leave to stay up here
for the vacation. " It is impossible, my dear
sir, that I can give a freshman leave to stay up
for any such purpose." '

Kit laughed with his companion at Mark's

simplicity, but when Braithwaite left him his
face grew grave enough.

Wants to stay up alone here to read the Moral
Sciences, does he ? ' was his muttered soliloquy.
So, so, my dear Mark ; this must really be
looked to.' Then, in unconscious imitation of
another sagacious student of human nature, he
added thoughtfully, ' I wonder who she is ? '

CHAPTER XXV.

THE PHYSICIAN IS IN VAIN.

Not a word did Christopher Garston say of
what he had heard of Mark's rejected application
; but for the last few days that remained
of the term he kept a watchful eye on him,
and noticed that the road to Baddingly was
a more favourite walk with him than ever.
Moreover, that he walked thither alone. Kit
himself also paid more than one visit to that
secluded village, and made certain inquiries,
the effect of which upon him was that similar
to laughing gas. It evoked paroxysms of
merriment in which, however, he only in '
dulled in solitude ; while, on the other hand,

as if suffering from reaction, he sometimes
became intensely melancholy.

This last state of mind was now become
very uncommon with Christopher Garston ;
but it had not always been so. For years,
when alone, he had been subject to fits of
depression, of which only one human being
beside himself had been cognisant. But of late
these had become more and more unfrequent.
He was ' getting over them,' which, as he said
to himself, was ' a good sign,' though he never
said of what. He was not much given to
mental introspection, but contented himself
with keeping his eyes uncommonly wide open
to all external objects, including his fellow-creatures.
His powers of observation had,
indeed, through long practice, become very
keen and (within certain limits) accurate.
And he now concentrated them — in all kindliness,

it should be added, and good faith—
upon the unconscious Mark.

He had learnt from Trenna that Mark had
not a little scared his folks at home by hinting
at the possibility of his not returning to the
Knoll for the Christmas vacation, or at all
events for the first part of it. ' Of course they
know nothing about such matters,' wrote
Trenna ; * nor, indeed, do I. But is it possible
that the preparations for the Tripos can be
already so pressing ? '

The tears rolled down Kit's cheeks ashe
read this reference to the exigencies of
Moral Science.

'He has so frightened his mother and
Maud,' Trenna went on to say, ' that they will
be grateful if he comes at all ; but do persuade
him to delay his return as little as possible.
And oh. Kit, do not yourself delay. It is

touching to see how mother and sister pine to
see their daring back ; but the Knoll, even
without him, is still a happy home ; while
mine, dear Kit, you know what mine is. What
then must it be without you f '

Kit sighed and murmured, ' What indeed !
Poor Trenna ! '

Yet he wrote to her as follows : ' You
may set the minds of our friends at the Knoll
at ease, my darling. Mark will come home all
right. But it is possible there may be a
few days' delay. If I also am a little behind
time I know you will forgive it, since — this
is between ourselves — it will be for Mark's
advantage. I will tell you all about it when we
meet. There is nothing serious amiss, but he
wants what the Governor calls " a little looking
after " ' — a phrase Mr. Garston was accustomed
to use with reference to persons he suspected

(and he suspected most people) of peculation.
From this sou will gather that I shall come
with Mark, and, in fact, be his shadow till I
drop him safely at his ovum door. I was not
at all sm-prised to hear of Meade's success
with his Mogadion patient, nor, I do assure
you, was I displeased. He has no doubt
some amiable qualities, and behaved uncommonly
well in the matter of putting a stop
to the libel case. I am glad to hear he
has gone to London, where he will find scope
for his talents, which are — in his own line
considerable. But indeed, indeed, he was
never worthy of my daring Trenna, though in
her modesty she may at one time have
imagined so. If ever I migrate to London
which, as we agreed, is a very possible contingency,
I think I shall find Braithwaite useful.
I have a scheme in my head, of which I have

ventured to drop a hint to him, which looks
very promising. What is brightest in it is
that it gives me hopes of placing my darling
Trenna — and that in no distant future— in a
position, I don't say suitable to her deserts, for
in that case she would sit " with a crown
of gold on a throne," like Tennyson's Merman
—but one which would befit her.'

To Mark, Christopher proposed that they
should at the end of the vacation delay their
return home for a few days, to which the other
eagerly acceded. Kit's next suggestion, however,
namely, that they should spend the time
in question in London, seemed by no means so
welcome. ' I had much rather stay up here,'
he said. Even when Kit pointed out that to
stay at Cambridge when the other men ' went
down' without permission was a breach of
discipline, Mark, though ordinarily most amenable

to authority, appeared very willing to
risk it.' It was only when the other pressed
the London project as a favour to himself that
he consented.

Kit's influence over him was indeed almost
without limit. Had their positions been reversed,
and the Baddingly Eoad had had its
attractions for Christopher Garston, it is certain
no persuasion of Mark's would have placed his
feet upon the road to London ; while as for the
authorities, I am afraid Kit had but little regard
for them. His bump of reverence was but
small. On the other hand, Kit would have
done anything for his friend — even to some
self-sacrifice — in the way of friendship. Although
he affected depression of spirits and the
need of a little excitement — ' I am a peg too
low, Mark, and want a lark,' was his mode of
putting it — he had not proposed this glimpse of

VOL. II. I

Soudan life upon his own account at all, but
solely for his friend's benefit.

Kit had had many such glimpses, and had
often heard the chimes at midnight in the
neighbourhood of Pall Mall, when his father
imagined him to have been within sound of
those of Great St. Mary. There were indeed
few young men of his age who had sown so
plentiful a crop of wild oats as Master Christopher.
But young as he was his mind had
already become in some respects mature, and
fixed upon serious matters ; if not on sowing
good grain, at all events on reaping a substantial
harvest. His notion was that a little
London dissipation was the very panacea for
Mark's present state of mind, and the thing
most likely to sweep away any sentimental
nonsense it might be harbouring in connection
with the Baddingly Road. If he was wrong.

it was a mistake that his elders and betters
have fallen into before him as regards their
young people. Indeed these little excursions
to London, which may almost be said to be a
part of the University course, are looked upon
with no disfavour by many a Paterfamilias.
Only second to the national superstition concerning
the benefits of ' roughing it ' is the idea
that it does no harm to young men that they
should have their opportunities of sowing their
wild oats. But it is sometimes fatal to good
husbandry ; indeed the poet goes further, and
warns us lest this

Divine Philosophy

Should push beyond her maryland W

Procuress to the Lords of Hell.

The British Paterfamilias is, however, not
poetical, but, on the whole, philosophical.

Nevertheless any more deplorable failure, so
I 2

far as Mark was concerned, than that expedition
of pleasure, was never planned. Our
British notions of 'a lark' are, it is true,
various and peculiar. A very common one is
that it consists in pointing a gun (which you
believe to be unloaded) for fun at your sister,
and blowing her brains out ; but the lark of
Christopher Garston and Mark Med way had
no fun in it. Mark was in the worst of spirits,
and yawned at everything. Kit took him to
the Cider Cellars (at that date in their prime),
to ' The Judge and Jury,' and to all sorts of
entertainments which begin when you and 1,
honest reader, have been for hours asleep in
our respective and respectable beds. Mark's
behaviour, even in scenes of attractive dissipation,
was, as Kit afterwards described it,

As though you had taken sour John Knox
To the hamlet at Paris, Vienna, and Munich,

Fastened him into a front row hox,

And danced off the ballet in trousers and tunic.

Of course he was out of his element, but
making allowances for the fact that Mark was
engaged in compiling a History of Cornwall,
and had a theory of his own about the religion
of the Druids, he was still young, and might
reasonably be supposed to be susceptible to
the smile of beauty. He paid no more attention
to it, however, than he would have paid
to a cricket-match.

Then Kit shook his head, justly concluding
that matters were much more serious with his
friend than he had had any idea of, and took
him home to his mother.

CHAPTER Xxvi

COMING HOME.

The poet has told us, and in all good faith,
that ' There is no place like home ; ' but it is
possible he made that observation in a double
sense ; for the word ' Hke ' may signify ' so bad
as.' There was certainly no place (or very
fe^v' places) calling itself a home which in
this sense was like the Grey House. This was a
circumstance, however, by no means known
at Cambridge, where Mr, Garston's modest
dwelling-house at Mogadion had been described,
by one who was in the best position

to do SO, as a palatial residence inhabited by a
county family of distinction. Indeed, one of
the few reasons which had rather indisposed
Christopher Garston to welcome his friend's
coming to college was the apprehension that
his account of matters at home might not
be quite identical with his own. For though
Kit's mind, as we have said, was maturing
rapidly, he had a weakness or two still left, and
one of these Y\'as a tendency to boastfulness.
It is bred in the bone in some men. They
would have us believe that they are spoil
children of Fortune in all things ; that their
speculations on the Stock Exchange are always
successful ; and that when they have forgotten
their umbrellas it never rains. Nay — what
with ordinary mortals is unprecedented — I
have even known them acknowledge that they
habitually win at whist.

As it happened, Christopher Garston's
fancy sketches of the state of things at Moga-
dion did not suffer by contrast with that more
literal version which might have been expected
from his friend. Med way was reticent about
]his home affairs, and his college friends — who,
moreover, were not Kit's friends — evinced
110 curiosity to become acquainted with them.
In this matter" there is between the 
and the schoolboy a marked distinct
10 a. The schoolboy is often solicitous to show
that his father keeps more horses, and is altogether
a greater personage than other boys'
fathers ; the undergraduate has a noble contempt
for such comparisons, and wishes on the
whole that his father would keep less horses
and make up the difference to him in his
allowance. Kit's boastfulness was the only
thing about him which bored his friends,

though it must be owned that here and there
it did him some service.

Mr. Robert Braithwaite, for example,
would not perhaps have been quite so intimate
with him had he suspected he was the somewhat
scapegrace son of a country attorney, and
(especially) that Kit had attached himself to
him as the man above all others likely to be
of use to him in after life. As it was, he took
Christopher Garston for a young gentleman of
sufficient means, and with such a remarkable
talent for business affairs that he mentioned
him more than once in his letters to his father,
the City magnate. Of this fact Kit had made
himself acquainted, and in the scheme at which
he had hinted to Trenna it formed no insignificant
item. He was returning home, indeed,
with higher hopes respecting his future than
he had ventured to entertain before ; but, at

the same time, as he drew near the Grey
House his heart was heavy within him. How
very, very different, he reflected, was the
reality that awaited him from the picture he
had drawn for other eyes. His father, as he
was well aware, was estranged from him ; if,
indeed, that could be called estrangement
which was the gradual separation caused by
annoyance and disappointment at his own
conduct in one whose feelings towards him
had never been those of a parent. Mr.
Garston, senior, was a hard man, who, when
his son had earned his praise, had been silent,
but when he merited his rebuke had administered
it with severity. Such men are common
enough, and when they find their offspring
undutiful inveigh against them as being devoid
of natural affection ; a proof that they themselves
are no believers in heredity. But Mr.

Garston was not only hard as an oak brand],
but as crooked. His ways were devious, his
morality of a low order, and backed by sordid
saws (' Heaven helps those who help themselves,'
' Beware of being found out,' &c. &c.),
which uttered by one in domestic authority are
apt to be laid to heart by young people quite
as readily (to say the least of it) as a Scripture
text on a bedroom wall.

Prom his father's hand Kit expected little or
nothing ; and without any such expectation he
knew that the hopes he entertained of winning
Maud Medway for a wife were, for the present,
hopeless. He could not go to her and offer
himself as a husband without a penny. But
he had played his part with her as a lover, and,
as he flattered himself, successfully. Without
having absolutely engaged herself to him, he was
sure that she was cognisant of his feelings towards

her, and to some extent at least reciprocated
them. If only circumstances were propitious,
he felt that, with Mark's affection and Mrs.
Medway's good wishes to back him, Maud
would become his wife. He had no rival, nor
was he likely to have any ; for of Frank
Meade he had never had any fears in this
respect. Maud had never shown any tenderness
for Frank ; indeed, her woman's eye
must have long since discovered that he had a
weakness for Trenna ; and though Kit was well
resolved that nothing should ever come of that.,
the circumstance strengthened his own position.
Maud would wait for him, and, as he
fondly hoped, this need not be for long.

But, in the meantime !

How he grudged the days he must still pass
under yonder roof, looking so grim and bare
through the leafless trees. A dark and loveless

home, indeed, save for its one sweet tenant,
Trenna ! It must not be concluded that the
young man's thoughts were of himself alone ;
far from it. He thought of his sister with deep
and passionate affection, and even of her fate
apart from his own. What a life she must
have had of it during those last few months,
while he had been at college out of sight of the
disagreeable scenes, out of hearing of the disagreeable
things, which must often have met
her eyes and ears. How much doubtless she
had undergone, and for his sake, and yet how
patient, how docile, how uncomplaining she
had been ! What a gentle, as well as stedfast,
guardian angel 1

She was waiting for him, as he knew she
would be, straining her eyes from the hall
porch to catch the first sight of him as the fly
drove through the gate ; and, if unselfishness

can hallow love, hers indeed was sacred. They
embraced affectionately, but even as they did
so, he whispered warily with a glance at his
father's door, ' Is he at home ? ' and she
answered, 'No, not just now,' with a sigh of
relief, or rather of reprieve, and led him into
her own little room. Then she put him from
her at arm's length, and, regarding him more as
though she had been an affianced bride than a
sister, exclaimed, ' How well and bright you
look, Kit ! Thank Heaven for that.'

I am afraid, my darling, you have little
else to be thankful for,' he answered tenderly,
pushing the rich masses of raven hair from her
brow, and regarding in his turn her comely but
careworn face. ' You have had a bad time of
it, I fear, Trenna.'

'Don't speak of it, at least not just yet,'

she murmured. ' I can't bear it ; you left all
well at Cambridge ? '

'- Oh yes, Mark is well enough in health ;
I brought him with me.'

I was not thinking of Mark. "What is
Mark to me ? I mean as regards your
own affau's. There is nothing new amiss, I
trust.'

No, daring, nothing > So far from that I
trust things are in train to make amends for
all my errors and misdoings.'

When things went wrong with him,
through his own fault. Kit was wont to call
them, as Beau Brummell's valet called his
master's spoilt cravats, ' our failures,' but the
present occasion was a supreme one, and
seemed to demand a higher flight of morality.

I hope, Kit, there is no danger about

your plan,' Trenna answered, apprehensively ;
we have had enough of risks.'

No, no danger, dear, and indeed no risk tome.
It is a bold stroke that I am contemplating,
no doubt, but, " Faint heart never won
fair lady." '

It is not — oh Kit,' she faltered ; ' I hope it
has nothing to do with Maud ? '

Certainly not. What made you think of
her ? — the proverb misled you. No, I cannot
afford to think of Maud just yet.'

His sister's lips moved. What they would
have uttered had she given them leave was
Neither now, nor ever ;' but she would not
vex him with opposition at such a moment.
Moreover, it was her own conviction, from what
she had seen between Frank and Maud of late,
that Kit's chance was over in that quarter.

It was certainly from no association of ideas

in Christoplier Garston's mind that he continued,
' And how about Frank Meade ? '

Trenna turned scarlet, as though he had
read her thoughts. Kit, on the other hand,
attributed her change of colour to another
reason.

I hope there is an end to that folly,
Trenna,' he said, frowning.

There was no folly,' she answered vehemently
; then, with exceeding bitterness, she
added, ' but if you mean, " is all chance of my
becoming the wife of an honest man at an
end?" I answer "Yes." My lot in life, as
you well know, is thrown in with yours.'

A heavy frown passed over Kit's face ; it
was with difficulty that he restrained a burst of
passion. He answered, however, in tones even
more gentle and persuasive than usual, ' Thrown
in, dear Trenna, but not thrown away. A

VOL. II. K

time will come — and soon — when you will not
regret having been the good genius of Kit
Gars ton.' .

She shook her head and smiled sadly.
Your intercessor and defender if you like
she answered ; ' but not good.'

Nor a genius, perhaps,' he answered
laughing. ' Well, well ; we will not quarrel
about terms. Let it suffice that no brother
ever owed to sister what I owe to you. My
whole life will be too short to repay it.'

Then she clung to him and sobbed and
cried as though her heart would break, though
not with sorrow only, while he clasped her
to his breast, and looked over her shoulder
thoughtfully into the dark past aod distant
future.

You paid the compensation money I sent
you to Meade, I conclude, though you did

not mention it, of course, in any of your

letters ? '

Yes

How did he take it ? It was a delicate

operation such as I could have trusted to no

hand but yours.'

He asked no questions, except whether 1
was sure it did not inconvenience me, as, if
so, there was no sort of hurry about the
repayment. He behaved throughout with a
delicacy and generosity such as I shall never
forget to my dying day.'

He did, did he ? Well, that is one thing
well over, at all events — thanks to you. He
has kept his own counsel, I presume ; as to the
other matter — the note at Plymouth, I mean — >
you have no suspicion of the Governor's having
heard of that ? '

'No. He has, however, been cultivating
K 2

relations with Mr. Tennant, who had Dr.
Meade's instructions for the libel case.'

'And whom he swore he never would
speak to again,' said Kit with a sneer. ' Well,
he will learn nothing there if Frank is to be
trusted.'

Frank is to be trusted above all men. But
there must be others cognisant of — of — the
matter in question.'

No doubt, no doubt,' answered Kit, biting
his lip.

Father has not hinted of his loss for
weeks,' observed Trenna, after a pause.

That's bad,' mused Kit, ' for any one maybe
sure he has not forgotten it. And I suppose
you have had to listen to a good many
jeremiads concerning my unworthy self.'

Your father has not mentioned your name
for weeks, Kit.'

Indeed. That's the worst news of all,
Trenna. If he is silent — is not abusive — there
must be mischief brewing.'

'Indeed, I fear so,' she answered.

Wel, well, we can only wait and hope for
the best ; there is no use making ourselves
wretched about it,' for Trenna's face was full of
fear. ' There, there, let us talk of something
else. I was going to tell you of this scheme of
mine. You know Cook's Creek ? '

Yes ; the place where the tin mine was,'
she answered with a pretence of interest,

Where the tin mine is you should say.
The metal is there still, safe enough. The
mine was yielding largely when the works
were stopped, because the expense of the
machinery swallowed the profits of the yield.
It was a rich mine even in the times of the
Phoenicians. Borlase says of it '

Are you quoting from a prospectus ? '
interrupted Trenna, quietly.

'Well, upon my life you are a sharp
girl. You've guessed it ; though at present
it's only an idea in my own mind. I have
been thinking a good deal about it, and
1 am quite convinced there's money in that
mine.'

You mean there would be put in Trenna^
gravely, ' if you could persuade people to sink
it there,'

Not at all ; I would only persuade them
to sink a shaft, and then they would find the
till. They would have to find the tin in one
sense of course to begin with,' said Kit with a
droll look, ' but in the end I am quite sure
they would be amply recompensed.'

I don't think you would persuade other
people to be " quite sure," ' replied Trenna,

drily ; ' at least nobody who knows Cook's
Creek.'

Just so,' replied Kit, with an inexpressibly
comical air. ' There is no profit, as has been
long admitted, to be got out of one's own
country. The folks about here are wholly
without enterprise.'

You mean that they have had too many
enterprises,' observed Trenna. Her manner
had entirely altered. One would never have
recognised her as the same girl who but a few
moments ago had succumbed to her feelings.
What had been wax was iron. Or was it the
difference only between iron hot and iron
cold ?

Well, perhaps so ; let us say that after so
many underground ventures they have become
as blind as moles — even to their own interests.
For my part I shall make no effort to enlighten

them. I shall appeal to the intelligent public ;
people who live a long way from Mogadion.'

And do you think,' said Trenna, in the
same cynical tone, ' that an intelligent public
will believe in a mine the expenses of working
which swallow up its profits ? '

They did swallow them, my dear, but thats
no reason why they should continue to do
so. Science has altered .the conditions, and
given us better machinery at a cheaper rate.
Yes, as you were about to observe, that is the
prospectus again ; and a very good prospectus
too.'

For Trenna's air was not only incredulous,
but disdainful. ' If I were you I would say
nothing in it about the Phoenicians,' she said
quietly.

Why not ? I thought the allusion rather
a trump card ; why not the Phoenicians .^ '

Well, because, if I may say so without
offence — they, like the mines, have been
worked out.'

There's something in that, my girl ; I'll
think about it. And just think over the
matter yourself, will you? Your suggestions
are always worth having. We must have
something — I mean in the prospectus — to
remove the thing from the domain of mere
speculation. Hush ! there's the Governor's
footstep ; not one word of this, remember, to
any living soul, my daring ; I'll go out and
meet him.'

CHAPTEE Xxiii.

EASILY OFFENDED.

There are some men who are never at a loss
how to meet the greeting of other people ina
conciliatory spirit ; who will not see chill
offence, though it is as obvious as an iceberg ;
and who can turn the sharpest thrust of
cynicism and dislike aside with a light reply.
But even to such masters of themselves, when
after a long absence from the paternal roof
their father extends but a single finger to meet
their filial grasp, the situation is embarrassing ;
and when the words ' Umph, so you've come
back,' are added, there is little left in the way

of awkwardness to make the situation complete.
In the case of Mr. Garston, senior,
moreover, there was an appropriate garnish
even to this cold fare. His face was as hard
as a stone as he turned it on his son, and
gloomy ^vith suspicion.

Yes ; I arrived an hour ago, father,'
answered Kit, cheerfully, ' and brought Mark
with me.'

Here ? ' and from under his thunderous
brows the eyes of the speaker seemed to flash
fire.

Oh no ; I dropped him at the Knoll.'

Then again was uttered that ' Umph,' as
significant in the British mouth as the Indian
Ugh,' and the attorney turned his back upon
his son and walked moodily into the house.

The next moment his study door was
closed and locked behind him.

Pretty,' murmured Kit, as he stood
thoughtfully outside it, ' very pretty.'

Then he turned into his sister's room, who
stood on the threshold anxiously awaiting
him.

What did he say to you ? ' she whispered
eagerly.

He said " Umph, " ' and with an exact
imitation of his father's tone and manner Kit
projected his forefinger. ' I may be the
Prodigal, but there the parallel ends ; there
was not a vestige of the fatted calf.'

Oh, Kit, how can you ? ' she pleaded. * I
believe you would jest on your death-bed.'

But not on yours, Trenna, not on yours,'
he answered, with tender pathos. ' I hold one
thing sacred yet. I hold it here,' and he
clasped her in his arms.

Do you think he suspects ? ' she whispered,

returning his embrace with hot and
trembling hands.

He knows.'

Great Heavens ! Oh no, no, no, Kit. If
he had known he would have been worse than
that;

The deuce he would ! Then he roust
have ver' fine capabilities in the way of
making himself disagreeable. Oh yes, he
knows well enough, Trenna.'

Then why did he not speak ? '

Because he has not yet the proof.'

But suppose he does get it ? '

Let us hope he will not. If you are rio-ht
about Meade he never wil. And even if he
does, I look upon the worst as over, since he
knows the worst. He may have more to say,
but he has no more to feel. His wrath will
fizzle away like a damp squib ; there will he

no display of fireworks. It is like the talk I
have just had with him, or rather — for he said
nothing — the mere meeting with him ; the idea
of it was as bad as the thing itself, but the ice
is broken and it's over.'

Are you quite sure ? '

Yes, Trenna. I know him down to his
boots. The worst is over. If what you fear
comes to pass — if the proof comes— why then
I shall have to go. But I mean to go in any
case.'

What ! To leave home, Kit ? '

No,' he answered vehemently, ' for there
is no home, nor ever was, save that you were
in it ; but to leave this dog-hole for a real
home made for myself and for you, Trenna.
Then for the first time you and I will know
what it is to be happy.'

She smiled. It was a smile full of love.

but scarcely of happiness, or even of the expectation
of it. ' You will do your very best
for me, dear Kit,' she said, ' I know.'

Does Meade come home for Christmas ? '
he inquired presently.

Oh yes ; the Doctor is looking forward toit
with such delight and pride as — as — is only
natural.'

She had not meant to end her sentence that
way. Something in Kit's face had caused her
to reconsider her words. She knew that he
was thinking of the difference between his
welcome home and what that of Frank
would be.

Poor old Eachel,' she went on hurriedly,
is in as great a state of excitement about it asher
master. She has quite got over her trouble
about Abel, I am glad to say.'

And where is Abel .^ '

Still at the Dovecote. The Doctor has
found, or pretended to find, some sort of employment
for him. What is very curious, your
father made him an offer to return here at increased
wages. He did not accept it, but the
proposal has given great satisfaction, as it
affords proof positive '

Of how little they know the Governor,'
put in Kit, with a sneer. ' Why, that is the
very thing he would do if he still had doubts.'

He has no doubts, however, as to Abel
now.'

I suppose not,' replied Kit, thoughtfully,
and yet it is clear he hates the Medwayss as.
much as ever. It's a bad look-out all round,
Trenna, but that attempt to get hold of Abel is
the worst of it all in my opinion. That is your
opinion too, though you don't like to say it.
You wish to give me heart and hope and not

to depress me. Is it not so, my darling, my
mother and sister in one ? '

She did not reply, but regarded him with
ineffable love and tenderness ; if she had
spoken she would have utterly broken do^vn ;
her nature was one of those which can resist
misfortune and endure misery, but which are
wax to the impress of affection.

Well, well, there is nothing to be gained
by croaking, and for my part I have nothing to
ask of fortune in this matter but a little time.
I should like to keep in with the Governor fora
few months longer, I confess, so that I might
take my degree.*

Your degree ? Why, I thought you used
to laugh at the notion of any advantage to be
derived from that.'

So I did, and so I do, Trenna. It would
never have earned me a sixpence even if it

VOL. II.

should have been a good one, which • of course
is now out of the question.

Into learned rags I've rent my plush and satin,

And now am fit to beg — in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin,

is as true a saying as ever, but the taking my
degree would give me an excuse which the
Governor would admit (if he remains open to
reason at all) for spending another term at
Cambridge; and I should like you to see
Cambridge.'

She turned lier eyes upon him with a quick
intelligent look of inquiry, such as one sees ina
singing bird or a pet spaniel.

I think I can imagine Cambridge,' she
said quietly.

The place, of course ; but not the people.
It is a picturesque sort of life enough, and
quite peculiar to itself. I should like, too, to
hear your opinion upon Braithwaite.'

'And to hear Braithwaite's opinion upon
me,' she answered, smiling.

I should certainly like to hear it, Trenna,
since I am sure it would be a favourable one.
A very nice fellow, taking him altogether, is
Robert Braithwaite.'

But, I gather from your tone, with drawbacks?'


Nay, scarcely that ; but he is inclined, for
one thing, to ■ be suspicious. I should have
liked him to know me, as the phrase goes,
at home ; but that, alas ! is impossible. On
the other hand, wherever you are is my
home, and if he saw your fondness for me
perhaps he would imagine that I was worthy
of it.'

If this remark was not genuine, Christopher
Garston's true calling was the stage ; but there
was no reason to doubt its ndweiL

Nobody can help being fond of you, dear
Kit,' sbe said softly.

Why don't you say, " Nobody that knows
me," ' he answered bitterly ; ' that is the usual
expression.' Then, seeing her pained look, he
added quickly, ' you indeed know me, and are
fond of me ; that is true. Perhaps, therefore,
I am not utterly worthless. That is the best I
can say of myself; but others, who see you
and what you are to me, will think differently.
And I do think you will like Braithwaite. He
is good-looking, and has a sufficiency of brains,
though not, as he imagines, a superfluity of
them. He will one day be very rich : what tome,
however, is of more consequence, he will
have great influence in the world of commerce ;
and I think he has a high opinion of my capabilities
that way. I amused him immensely
the other day by suggesting how a good deal

of money might be made even at Cambridge
by a little conspiracy among the criminal
classes. Suppose one or two rogues should put
their heads and club their money together, and
send up — among them — a young thief to the
University. Of course they must select one of
good address and manners, but he would really
have great chances ; he needn't trouble himself
to read for honor's, indeed that would prevent
his joining the best set. There would be very
pretty pickings for him throughout his career,
and then he might make a great cows at last —
carry off all the college plate, for instance.
Braithwaite thought it a capital notion.'

Then Mr. Braithwaite, I presume, is a
gentleman with a considerable sense of
humour 1 '

Well, no ; the fact was he was a little
shocked. I had to explain that it was a joke.

What you should have done, Kit, was
to shape the story differently, and show-how
the " tone " of the University had by
degrees so worked for good with your
young scoundrel that he abjured his old
habits and evil intentions, took to reading,
gained a fellowship, and lived honestly ever
afterwards in defiance of his backers and
guardians.'

Admirable, my dear Trenna, as a moral

lesson or to adorn a tale, but where it fails is

as a financial speculation. That was the point,

you see, I wished to impress upon Braithwaite,

and I did impress it.'

As a sample of your business capacities,
my dear Kit, however, I think it was a rather
injudicious selection — that is, to outsiders ;
when Braithwaite jils^ for example, comes to
instance it to Braithwaite 'perez by way of

recommendation of you, don't you think it
would have '

Smacked of a want of principle ? ' he put
in. ' Well, if he took it au series ; but there
is a great deal of humour in the Stock
Exchange. The old gentleman has more of
it, I fancy, than his son. But Braithwaite is
a very good fellow, good-looking, intelligent,
rich '

You said all that before,' interrupted
Trenna, drily. 'My dear Kit,' she added, in
an altered voice, at the same time laying her
hand affectionately upon his arm, ' I wish well
to all your schemes, and will help you in them
by all means within my power. But there is
one idea you have in your mind which you
must dismiss at once and for ever. I can
never become your friend Braithwaite's wife.'

Why not ? Or rather, how do you

know ? ' he asked. He spoke in his usual airy
tone, and even with his Hight laugh, but his
brow had darkened, showing that she had
guessed his scheme aright, and was crossing it.

'I know it because I know myself. Kit,
only too well. Pray do not press it either now
nor hereafter. It will only give me pain.'

He moved to the window, and began to
whistle softly, a sure sign that he was discomposed
or disappointed.

Dear Kit,' said Trenna, following him, ' I
am sorry to have vexed you, but it is better
that we should understand one another on this
point once for all. I shall never marry.'

'' Nobody asked you, miss, he said,
nobody asked you, my pretty maid," ' he
replied, drumming the tune with his fingers
on the window-pane.

And I hope nobody will ask me, but least

of all you, Kit,' she answered gravely. ' I will
help you all I can, as I have done,' she added
significantly ; ' but there is a point beyond
which I cannot go even for your sake.'

Very well, Trenua, be it so,' he said ; * I
think I will go up to my room and unpack.'

He kissed her, or rather put his lips coldly
to her forehead, and left the room. She stood
gazing at the closed door with a pitiful look.
She knew that she had offended him — for to
cross him was to offend him — but also that he
had no right to be offended ; it was very, very
hard upon her, and hard in him.

Foolish is the man,' says the proverb,
'who puts all his eggs in a single basket.'
This is what Trenna Garston had done ; all her
hopes of happiness were bound up in one
human being ; beyond him all was cold and
darkness.

Kit is a pretty fellow ! Kit is a very
pretty fellow ! ' said the parrot, in a tone that
was far from eulogistic. He shouldered himself
towards her, and put his beak out for a
loving bite. It was not human sympathy, but
still it was sympathy. She opened his cage,
and the gorgeous creature fluttered out to her
and climbed up to her face, and chattered and
snoozled against it.

My pretty bird, my pretty bird,' she
moaned.

Kit's a pretty fellow. Kit's a pretty fellow,'
said the parrot, as if in remonstrance.

Yes, but there is nobody but you. Poll,
who loves me always, always nor will there
ever be.'

And the tears rolled slowly down her cheeks.

CHAPTEE XXVIII.

make's correspondent.

Kit had spoken with bitterness of the welcome,
so different from his own, which he knew was
waiting Frank Meade at the Dovecote ; but he
might have instanced even with more reason
the Christmas greeting that was in store for
Mark at the Knoll. For what is a father's
pride in his son, no matter what reason there
may be for it, as compared with that of a
mother, whether there be reason or no ? Xor
was the devotion of an ancient retainer, however
faithful, such as Each el Deeds, to be compared
with that of a sister like Maud.

The three young men, Kit, Frank, and
Mark, deed, though you might ' cover them
with a handkerchief,' as the phrase goes, as
regards propinquity, and though they were
in the same plane of social life, were in very
different positions as regard their own homes ;
while the time was coming, and very near at
hand, when the several relations to the world
at large should be still more diverse. Frank
had already tried his wings, and successfully.
Kit, as we know, was preparing for flight,
though his goal was less assured. Mark alone
bade fair to remain in the maternal nest
surrounded by the old home influences. But
what was so dreadful, or what seemed so to
his mother, Mark himself was changed. The
prophecy ]mr. Penryn had made to her, when
she went to consult him about her son's going
to Cambridge, had proved correct. Mark was

not the same Mark he had been before. He
was just as ' good ' (so poor Mrs. Medway
expressed it), just as kind, just as affectionate
to her and his sister as ever, but he was not
the same. She had sent him from her, not
without many a pang, because he had seemed
to mope and pine, but his spirits had far from
benefited by the change, and, whereas he had
formerly moped over Borlase and his own
projected County History, he had now lost his
interest even in them, and pined as much as
ever — for nothing.

It had always been with effort that he had
thrown himself into such matters as usually
engage the mind of youth ; even the schemes
of amusement that had been devised for him
he had entered into without relish, and for the
sake of those who proposed them rather than
for his own ; but whither the silken threads of

home influence had hitherto been sufficient to
lead him, he could not now be dragged by cart
ropes. Society, which had been always uncongenial
to him, was now become abhorrent.
And, after one visit to the Eectory and another
to the Dovecote, he seemed to have had enough
even of his old friends. It was Mr. Penryn's
opinion that Euclid had done it. ' One never
knows,' he explained to Mrs. Medway, ' how
early mathematics begin to warp the human
mind.' The Doctor, on the other hand,
assured that good lady it was ' liver ' ; that
beer at breakfast which young men took at
Cambridge was ' fatal,' and would account for
any amount of torpor.

But though Mark was distrait and more
self-involved than ever, he was not torpid. A
student and a thinker, he had always been

disinclined for physical exertion, but now he
took long walks alone.

You are sure he is alone,' said the Doctor,
slily.

Oh dear me, yes,' returned Mrs. Medway,
confidently. ' I wish it was as you suggest. If
it were even one of the General's daughters
(though none of them are quite what I should
wish for Mark), or Miss Refuses (though Mark
says there is nothing in her), or indeed anybody
'

I don't think that would do, ray dear Mrs.
Medway,' put in the Doctor, smiling, ' in the
case of such a paragon as your son.'

Well, of course, she must be a good girl
and a lady ; indeed, I can trust to Mark himself
for that ; but I confess I should like to see him
with some object.'

An object ! '

Now don't tease, Doctor ; you know very
well what I mean. It was bad enough when
Mark buried himself in his books ; but now he
does nothing, nothing and is just as melancholy
as ever. You know how, under the circumstances
(here the widow dropped her voice),
this must needs alarm and trouble me.'

Stay, nay,' said the old Doctor, patting heron
the shoulder encouragingly, ' there is nothing
to be alarmed about in what you tell me. If
Mark was a girl, indeed '

Here he stopped, but his tone implied clearly
enough that in that case there would have been
no reason to be astonished at anything.

Of course,' answered Mrs. Medway, ' but
then Mark is not a girl.'

Just so ; one is certain of one's facts sofar,'
said the Doctor, drily. ' Well, my advice
is to find out what he is thinking about.'

But I can't ask lira that, Dr. Meade, or at
least if I did he would not tell me.'

'Probably not, but you can ask his friend.
If this change has taken place in lira, it must
have happened at Cambridge. Perhaps — since
he exhibits such unusual walking powers — he
has outrun the constable.'

Mark in debt ? Impossible ! '

To be sure. If he owed anything you
would pay it. I forgot what a mother he had.
But whatever it is, depend upon it Kit Garston
knows it.'

I am not so sure of that. Mark is not so
devoted even to Kit as he was.'

That may be because Kit knows it.'

I am sure Mark has done nothing to be
ashamed of — nothing, that is, which he wishes
to conceal from his mother,' said Mrs. Medway.

'My dear madam, that observation is not

VOL. II. M

like your usual good sense. He has done
nothing disgraceful, no doubt ; but there are
some things a young man does not wish to tell
his mother.'

You don't know my Mark, doctor,' replied
the lady, confidently.

Perhaps not. I have, I flatter myself,
more than a bowing acquaintance with human
nature, but then Mark, as you say, is an angel.
Well, at all events, if there is anything not
quite angelic about him, Kit will have found
it out. Ask Kit.'

Accordingly Mrs. Medway approached the
subject with the young gentleman in question,
with much unnecessary caution ; for Kit knew
what it was all about at her first word.

No,' he said, ' upon his honour Mark had
confided to him no secret, nothing that could
in any way account for his reticence and
depression.'

But you could find out if you pleased.'
said Mrs. Medway. She used the expression in
its conventional sense, but fortunately perhaps
for her views Kit thought more seriously of it.
He imagined it to have been wrung from herby
irritation.

If it will please you, Mrs. Medway,' he
answered impressively, ' I will do my best to
find it out. Otherwise my friend's secrets are
his own till he chooses to speak of them.'

A reply which made all the impression on
her which he intended it to do. It showed him
to be a man devoted to his friend in the best
way ; jealous of his own high privileges, but
ready to sacrifice them to his friend's interests.

I can't understand why Mark walks so,'
observed Mrs. Medway, thoughtfully.

You speak of him as if he were a ghost,'
replied Kit, smiling. ' I'll find out why he does
X 2

it, and I think I can lay him. But, if I do,
you must promise this, my dear Mrs. Medway :
never to ask me how it was done.'

Indeed, my dear Kit, if it is only done
if my son is restored to me as he
once was — I shall have no room in my
heart for curiosity, it will be too full of
gratitude.'

An observation that was very pleasant
hearing to her young friend, for if what he suspected
was what was wrong with Mark, it was
necessary that he should keep the remedy he
proposed to apply to it a secret : and again,
it was very satisfactory to Kit to be able
to lay Mrs. Medway, of whose good offices
he might one day stand in need, under a new
obligation.

The task he had undertaken did not seem to
him quite so difficult, I fear, as he had led his

hostess to believe ; but it had its difficulties,
and even its dancers, and that too as regarded
Kit himself. In the first place he felt that the
course he was about to pursue would strain the
bond of friendship between him and Mark to
the uttermost, and if it snapped — but he dared
not think of that ; too much would have to ^o
with it. He loved Mark for his own sake ; and
then with Mark was bound up Maud. The
whole surroundings of the Knoll indeed were
dear to him ; even its pure and wholesome atmosphere
was enjoyable to him (for, alas I it was
not so pure with him elsewhere) ; to be expelled
from it by whatever means would be, as
it seemed to him, to leave Eden for its antipodes.
When labouring under depression poor Kit had
sometimes called the Knoll, in his letters to
Trenna, ' the Oasis.'

There was one thins which made the task

intrusted to him by Mrs. Medway not unwelcome
; it gave him an excuse for discovering
what in his own opinion ought to have been
voluntarily revealed to him. His attachment
to Mark was such that he resented his having
kept his secret from him ; or perhaps his amour
propre was wounded by that fact : at all events
he was jealous of whatever had caused a certain
intermittence in the offices of friendship between
them. He had noticed the change in Mark as
keenly as his mother had done, and could make
a much shrewder guess at the reason of it.
But before he went to Mark himself it was
necessary to make certain. The goal of all
those solitary walks which his friend indulged
in was, he well knew, Mogadion ; and their
object the Post Office. On the next occasion
"Kit watched for him, saw Mark come whistling
up the village street (it made Kit grin to hear

him whistle, an accomplishment hitherto undeveloped
in the student of Borlase), and with
a furtive look to left and right enter Mrs.
Carthew's shop, in whose window were exhibited
a picturesque arrangement of toy
bicycles and rocking-horses in close proximity
(though not in connection) with notices of the
despatches of Her Majesty's mails.

Mark remained within for a moment or
two, then reappeared, and as he passed the
letter-box dropped a note, into it with an
elaborate pretence of indifference that would
have aroused the suspicion of a Moses Primrose.


The whole proceeding tickled its unseen
spectator exceedingly. ' The man was never
born less fitted for plots and stratagems than
you, my poor Mark,' he murmured ; then
dropped a letter himself into the box and

entered the shop as Mark had done. Mis.
Carthew, standing behind the counter, looked
at Kit pleasantly enough, for he was a
favourite with her, as he was with all people
with whom he was not brought into antagonism.


Why, you've only just missed your friend
Mr. Medway,' said she ; ' he was here not half
a minute ago.'

What, on foot ! Why, how comes that
about ? '

Well, indeed, sir, Mr. Mark has become
quite a pedestrian since he went to college ; he
comes over here most days for some answers
to his advertisement, as he tells me, about a
tutor.'

There was a touch of significance about
Mrs. Carthew's ' as he tells me ' which did not
escape Mr. Christopher Garston.

Indeed ! A tutor ? I am glad to hear
he is so studiously inclined.'

Well, I don't know how many tutors he
may want, sir, but the fact is only one has
answered him ; for all the replies are in the
same handwriting.'

Oh, that's it, is it,' said Kit, laughing.
But we mustn't tell tales out of school, Mrs.
Car the w.'

Xot I, sir ; I'm the last one to do such a
thing ; indeed I shouldn't be fit for my place
if it was otherwise. But then you're such a
friend of Mr. Mark's.'

Just so ; there is no harm done. By-the-bye,
I believe I've made a stupid mistake by
which a great deal of harm may be done.
I've a horrible suspicion that I dropped a
letter into your box just now without directing
it. Would you mind letting me look ? '

Lor bless you, sir, not I ; there's nothing
against that in the regulations as I knows on ! '
With that she pulled out the drawer in which
the few letters from ' our Mogadion correspondents
' had been slowly accumulating, and
there sure enough was Mr. Christopher
Garston's blank envelope. While Mrs. Car-the
fetched him pen and ink there was ample
time for him to run his eye over the other
directions, and one of them in Mark's somewhat
cramped and scholarly but very legible
hand at once attracted it.

Miss Finch, Green Street, Baddingly,' was
the superscription.

Charge XXIX.

BETWEEN Friends.

" Miss Finch," ' mused Kit, when he found
himself again in the villas street. ' " Miss
Finch, Green Street ; " there is certainly a birdlike
and Arcadian touch about that. But it is
rather Burlington Arcadian. The simplicity,
I am afraid, is quite on the other side. There
was never such an innocent as Mark since the
world was made. In the eye of the law lie
may no longer be an infant ; but, as Mr.
Bumble said, " the law is a lass." No ; body-snatching
one has heard of, and baby-farming

one knows of, but Lydia has invented the
composite offence of baby-snatching. I suppose
she conjectured there was no time to be
lost, but she has been as quick in catching him
as though he had been a fly — so,' and he imitated
with a sweep of his hand the process
used by small boys for securing that insect.
Poor Lydia ! one is sorry to put a spoke in
her wheel, especially since she has an uphill
road to travel ; but it must be done. To
think that this has all happened to Mark — for
something must have happened, and something
serious too — within less than three months !
That is what comes of taking the measles late
in life ; for my part, I am thankful to say I
had them at fifteen.'

Kit smiled and shook his head like one who
is tickled with a reminiscence. ' It was a very
slight attack ; but, however slight, it makes

oue safe for the rest of one's days — or nearly
so.' Here he looked grave enough ; his
thoughts had flown far from that early experience,
and had projected themselves into the
future. ' I must be patient. To be precipitate
might be to lose all. As long as Trenna is
here to look after my interests T feel secure.
She knows where my heart is set, and would
give me warning if the least danger threatened
my happiness. When she said the other night,
"I trust it has nothing to do with ]laud," it
was because she feared I had some underhand
scheme in my mind. She ought to have
known me better. And yet, ought she ? How
difficult it is to keep one's mind free from
cant ! ' He was by this time in the country,
having taken the road to the Knoll as Mark
had done before him. He had a stick in his
hand, with which he switched the wintry rime

from the leafless hedge, as is the wont of the
wayside moralist. ' Yes, on the whole she
ought. She should know where I draw the
line.'

Then he fell to. whistling like a bird — not
for want of thought, but to drown it. Vain
endeavour ! The incident of the morning had
opened the floodgates of memory, and it rolled
on, wave overwhelming wave, without goal or
channel. Still there was a central thought to
which, however often he might escape from it,
his mind would always revert. ' I have done
her no harm, and meant her none,' he would
then mutter to himself; 'thanks to me, she is
wiser than she was, yes, and better ; for wiser
is better. I did not urge her to do it, though
she did it for my sake ; the idea entered into
her own mind on a sudden, like an inspiration,
as she called it. Well, why not .^ It was an

inspiration. A sacred one, too, Heaven knows,
if self-sacrifice is a sacred thing. She saved
me from ruin ; I shall never forget that —
never, never. On the whole and in the end it
was better for A^r, too ; but that she did not
know, and does not even now believe. The
dear girl hankers after him yet. To me that
is amazing ; but then woman's love is always
amazing. If it comes to that, what have I
myself done to deserve it ? The worst of it is
that it has set her against Braithwaite. But
she will help me even there. I cannot do
without her, neither in that matter nor iii anything
else. Great Heaven ! if it were not for
her, what would become of me .^ The parsons
talk of life hanging on a thread. Why, everything
hangs on a thread ! We weave and
weave and think our cobweb complete, then
comes a single hailstone, or even a puff of

wind, and all's gone. Bah ! one must take
one's chance.'

Here he waved his stick and increased his
pace, as though he would have left Black Care
itself behind him. Presently the Nook chimneys
came in sight : ' If her home was such as
this,' he continued, in reply to the same importunate
thought, ' it would be cruelty to
transplant her. But in leaving the old man
she will lose nothing. It is plain that her love
for me has changed what little regard he ever
had for her to indifference, if not to absolute
dislike. The ties of nature are often like a
sailor's knot ; compact and fast enough to look
at, yet pull but one end of it — one's own end
and the whole thing comes away in a trice.
If I could but leave her here while I made my
way in the world, and a place for her in it ! —
that would be well indeed ; here she would be

happy as every oae else is. For poor Mark
only thinks himself unhappy not knowing
what it is to be so. The idea of a man's
making himself miserable about Lyddy Finch !
Yet Mark was not the only one, nor his lordship
either, who has succumbed to the charms
of that fair enslaver. The " toils of the sorceress,"
as his lady mother called them ; as
though her son had been a canary bird, or a
milk-white hind at worst, whereas — for all his
youth — he was much less like Hyperion than
the Satyr. ^Vhat a world of lies we live in !
Halloo, Mark,' he had caught sight of his friend
in the garden beneath, ' how are you ? '

All right. Kit ; how are you ? Not that
I need ask you since you have walked over
from Mogadion.'

It would do you a deal of good, old fellow,
if you did the same.'

VOL. [T. N

Too far, my dear boy, too far was
Mark's audacious reply, but his voice trembled
a little as he uttered it.

The man who invented the phrase ' as easy
as lying ' was an expert, and made no allowance
for beginners.

Let me smoke a pipe in your own room,
Mark, I want to talk to you,' said Kit, thinking
it best to have the matter out and over at

once

To talk to me ! Good Heavens, what
about ? ' said Mark, with the air of the frog
who had swallowed the egg and could not
imagine why the duck should come to him of
all creatures living to make inquiries.

Kit held his tongue till they reached
Mark's sanctum, where he took a chair, ht his
pipe, and observed quietly after a puff or two —

Well, old fellow, it's about Lydia Finch.'

Mark's cheeks turned crimson, and, in a
tone which he had certainly never used to hi?
friend before, he inquired peremptorily, ' And
what has Miss Lydia Finch 'to do with you ? '

Oh, nothing,' answered Kit, with a significant
stress on the word that he could not
avoid making for the life of him, and which
would have tried the gravity of any indifferent
spectator with a turn for the humorous ;
except of course that anything which concerns
you, my dear fellow, must needs affect me
nearly.'

I am sure of that. Kit, quite sure,' answered
the other hastily ; ' but there are
matters in which even friendship can have no
share, and you must forgive me for saying
that this is one of them.'

I understand all that, believe me ; I have
hitherto respected your secret (which has long
V 2

been known to me) for that very reason ; but
I am acting under orders, and have no choice.
It was your mother herself who asked me to
speak with you.'

My mother ! ' Mark exclaimed with uncontrollable
excitement. ' Gracious Heavens I
you don't mean to say my mother knows about
Lydia?'

Hush, hush. Pray sit down and be quiet,
there's a good fellow. Why shouldn't she
know, if there's nothing to be ashamed of ? '

Ashamed of ? Who dares to say that
of Lydia? She's as pure and good a girl
as '

Just so,' put in the other quietly (for
Mark had hesitated, he scarce himself knew
why, in the act of saying ' as Maud or your
own sister Trenna '). 'As pure and good a
girl as ever kept a milliner's establishment.

But still the fact remains that she does preside
over an emporium of that nature.'

Well, and what harm is there in that ? '
observed Mark, sharply.

None whatever. She occupies a most
respectable position in her station of life ; a
very different one, however, from that which
your mother occupies.'

Of all the people in this world, Garston,
you are the very last,' observed Mark bitterly,
who have any right to play the role of Mrs.
Grundy.'

Kit looked and laughed assent. It was a
proof of his self-command, for, in truth, he
was wounded by the other's tone. It did not
escape his attention that Mark had called him
Garston,' instead of ' Kit,' for the first time
for many a year ; and that this change should
have been brought about (even though it

should be but temporary) by a few weeks'
acquaintance with a Baddingiy milliner, did
not dispose Kit favourably towards that young
person.

What you say of me is very true, Mark,'
he answered quietly ; ' but then my character
is not the matter in question.'

Nor is anybody's character, so far as I
know,' answered Mark, stiffly.

Certainly not. We were speaking of
social position. Of course that's all rubbish.
The difference between the Countess and the
counter-keeper is not even skin-deep — it's only
clothes deep. There is nobody who will go
farther than I with you in contempt for such
conventions. Nay, if the counter-keeper hasa
hundred thousand pounds she becomes a
Countess, and nobody holds up his hands in
horror. Blood and money are, in fact, convertible

terms, and money is dross ; so that
all the logic of society is a reductio ad absurdum'


Of course ; of course. I thought I could
not be mistaken in my dear old Kit,' said Mark,
effusively. ' I had half a mind to tell you all
about it myself, for I never doubted your
sympathy. But, somehow '

Yes ? ' Kit's ' Yes ' was not, it must be
admitted, so much encouraging as it was
interrogative. There was a flavour of dryness
about it that disconcerted poor Mark exceedingly.


Well, somehow, you know, you are so
fond of turning things into ridicule, and I
thought you might laugh at me. And I do
assure you, Kit, to me this is no laughing
matter.'

Kit nodded gravely enough ; he was quite

agreed with his friend by this time upon that
point.

'But, now I am assured that you agree
with me,' continued the other cheerfully, ' that
no girl, provided she is pure and good, is disqualified
by her mere position from being one's
wife — in fact, that you are prepared to listen
to reason — why, I don't mind discussing the
subject.'

Very good, Mark. May I ask how you

first became acquainted with Lyd this

young lady ? '

By what was very literally a most
fortunate accident. She was driving with her
uncle one afternoon in the Baddingly Eoad and
I was walking alone there, and the horse took
fright at something '

You ? '

'No, not me,' pursued Mark with the
greatest gravity : ' a milestone ; and she was

thrown out of the — the gig, almost into my
very arms.'

It was not a gig,' thought Kit ; ' it wanted
the respectability of a gig ; it was a taxed cart,
I'll bet a shilling.' — ' Well ; she was not hurt,
I hope ? '

No ; only a good deal shaken.'

" To be well shaken, and then taken,"
says the prescription,' observed Kit, gaily, ' and
you followed it ? '

'I mean to follow it,' answered Mark,
frowning in removal of this levity. ' I will
take her for better or worse for my life long,
so help me Heaven ! '

What a world it would be if one could do
what one liked in it ! ' observed. Kit, thoughtfully
; ' and especially if one had no female
relatives.'

What do you mean ? '

Well, no mother and sister, for instance.'

Of course there are difficulties to be
overcome,' sighed Mark; 'prejudices to be
smoothed away ; hearts, to me tender enough,
but which will need to be softened as regards my
darling. Oh, Kit ! she is so kind and gentle,
so pure, and so fair. To look at her is to love
her. I cannot believe that my mother and
dear Maud could hold out against her long.
If she does not take their hearts by storm as
she took mine (I own it), it will be only a
question of time. They will yield to the
importunity of her virtues and her graces.
But if they do not, I shall marry her all the
same. We shall need but little to live upon,
and we shall live near here. Then, after a
while, it is impossible but that there should be
reconcilement between us and my dear ones
here at home. I think I shall take old Neville's
cottage.'

What dreams ! ' answered Kit, softly.
My dear Mark, how I envy you. I have not
dreamt like that myself since I was sixteen.'

They are dreams that will be realities.
No human being shall prevent their fulfilment.'

Kit shook his head.

I know of course, what you are thinking,'
said Mark. ' You believe that duty, or what
passes for duty, will conquer love. That is
because you do not understand what love is.'

Nay, Mark ; there you wrong me. I do
understand. I can even believe that in your
exceptional position, with a mother who doats
upon you, and whom you might persuade that
your happiness was bound up in this ill-assorted
marriage, that it might possibly take
place.'

And who but my mother will prevent it ? '

^/wiU.'

Chapter XXX.

AN ARRANGEMENT IN PINK AND WHITE.

Kit had not exaggerated to himself the danger
of his standing between Mark and his beloved
object when he said that it would strain the
bond of friendship between them to the uttermost.
To judge by Mark's face when he
heard that ' / will ' from the lips of Kit, you
would have thought the bond was broken.

You will ? You will prevent my marrying
the girl of my choice, even though my
mother should consent? You must be mad,
Garston.'

No, my dear Mark, I am only the friend
of a madman, or rather, let me say, of one
who is suffering from an attack of temporary
aberration. Listen ! '

I will listen to nothing that suggests my
breaking my word — my written word — to
Lydia.'

Good Heavens ! Have you promised
marriage to her in writing ? Why, Mark, you
are of age.'

That matters nothing. I would in no
case have broken my word ? My word ?
Nay, my oath, for have I not just sworn to
marry her ? '

'' Your oath had a qualification. You said
just now that no girl who was pure and good
was disqualified from being your wife.'

Garston, how dare you ! If we are ever
to speak to one another again, I warn you to

say no word against my Lydia. I love you as
no man ever loved another, I do believe ; but
there are things one can never pardon.'

I am quite aware of it ; I am aware, too,
as regards Love and Friendship, that when it
comes to jostling the weakest doesn't go to the
wall, but is pushed into the gutter. There let
Friendship lie ; but nevertheless I must tell the
truth.'

I am not afraid of the truth.'

I take that for granted, Mark ; nor can I
believe, since you are a just man, that you will
discard me from your heart for telling it. I
am not worth much, but never in my whole
life have I gratuitously inflicted harm on any
man ; how much less, then, would I inflict it
on you ? You believe that, surely ? '

I believe that ; but I give you fair warning
that I will not believe your word, nor the

word of any man, if it has aught of ill to say of
Lydia.'

I expected nothing less," Mark. What are
words, however honest, compared with the
spells of an enchantress ? What are words of
a lifelong friend as against the wile and the
smile of a pretty girl one has known, or whom
one flatters oneself one has known, for a few
weeks at farthest ? However, I will give you
proof.'

I will believe no proofs. I know how
facts can be distorted to suit the views of an
advocate ; nay, how circumstances themselves
can so fall out as to impute guilt to the most
guileless. The case of Abel Deeds is an
example.'

The pitying smile which had played about
Kit's lips at each new proof of the other's
confidence here faded from his face. ' I have

something stronger than fact and circumstance
to urge, Mark. Suppose I placed in your hands
a letter, written by this girl herself, admitting
not only a previous passion, but that the subject
or the author of it was supplying her with her
present means of livelihood ; that, in a word,
she is the pensioned, cast-off mistress of another
man ? '

'Then I should say it was a base and wicked
forgery.'

But if the girl herself confessed it to be
her own handwriting, and that these allegations
were true ? '

Then I should believe it and it would
break my heart.'

My poor Mark, my poor dear Mark ! '

For a moment there was silence between
them.

I do not want your pity,' exclaimed Mark,
with sudden vehemence, and rising from his

seat, ' I want nothing but the truth. Give me
this letter — the letter that you dare to say Lydia
wrote.'

Kit produced a folded note from his breast
pocket. ' You know her handwriting, I conclude
? '

Every stroke of it. Do not fancy you will
deceive me.'

Kit handed him the letter. ' Is it likely
I should try to deceive you, Mark ? Is it
probable that I should have taken the wicked
pains to forge this poor girl's hand when a
word from her would expose the fraud — a
word, however, she will never speak, believe
me.'

Mark ran his eye over the note, and,
staggering back into his chair, covered his face
with his hands.

The apprehension that was most im-vol.

II. o

mediately present to Kit's mind was that Mark
would inquire how the letter had come into his
possession ; and though he had an answer to it,
and a very conclusive one, it was such as would
hardly have l^een agreeable to the inquirer.

But to Mark, prostrated by this terrible and
unexpected blow, no such question fortunately
suggested itself. The wreck of his hopes was
too complete and overwhelming to admit of his
giving a thought to details. One question only
he asked, in a voice half suffocated with passion,
and with a wolfish look in his mild eyes that
betrayed ' the wild beast of force ' which,
however unsuspected, has its lair within the
heart of every man. ' And who was the
tanned villain to whom this letter was
addressed ? '

You must pardon me, Mark, if I refuse to
tell you. You can obtain his name, of course.

if you choose to ask it, of the writer herself.
But this much it is fair to say, that he was no
villain. Miss Finch did not fall into his arms
out of a gig, but in a less mvo hungary fashion
I have said that there was a previous lover.'

Mark groaned.

This man will never believe in woman
again,' thought Kit to himself. And in one
sense he was right. There are some men
and many women who, having discovered
the object of their affection is unworthy of
them, never place them elsewhere. Like the
subject bee whom the queen bee deigns to
honour with her regard, they never enter the
lists of love again. They cannot, like him,
disappear in the viewless fields of air, and be
never more beheld of mortal eye, but they
henceforth retreat into themselves, so far as
love is concerned, and are dead to it.


Oh ! Kit, Kit, what shall I do ? ' moaned
Mark, after a long silence.

I should send her that letter — no, a copy
of it — with these words written within the envelope
that contains it: "This is the reason
why' I will never see you again." She weill not
answer that, for there can be no answer to it,
and then you will be free.'

Free ! ' Never was more of bitterness
concentrated in a monosyllable than lay in that
word.

Do you forgive me, Mark ? ' whispered Kit
gently, and taking his friend's unresponsive
hand in his. ' Do you remember that I was
but as the surgeon, whose knife cuts to the
bone indeed, but only to heal ? '

Yes, yes ; but there is one that I will
never forgive, never, never — the vile, remorseless

villain who robbed that poor girl of her
innocence.'

Eemember, Mark, how much worse it
would have been had I not spoken continued
Kit, without taking notice of this last outburst.
Suppose you had married the girl, and found
all this out afterwards ? '

Mark shuddered from head to foot.

How would it have been then with your
poor mother, and with Maud? If you have
lost, or seem to have lost much, think how
much more you have escaped, and be thankful.'


To see Mr. Christopher Marston, in his
entirely novel part of mentor, dispensing these
grave and philosophic observations instead of
his usual fireworks, was a remarkable spectacle,
He compared himself afterwards, not inaptly,

to a professor of legerdemain who evolves from
this interior, or appears to do so, an endless
succession of ribbons, in this case with moral
reflections engraved on them — phylacteries.

Is it necessary, supposing all is as you
assert it to be,' said poor Mark, clinging to his
last straw, ' that my mother should know of
this ? '

Certainly not. She will be too glad to
feel that you are her own again to be curious
as to how she regained you. Indeed, knowing
that this interview could have but one end, I
extracted a promise from her that she should
ask no questions

That was kid and thoughtful of you, Kit,'
returned the other, grasping his hand. 'Let
me, in my turn, exact a promise from you
that this subject is henceforward a sealed one
between us.'

Unless you yourself revert to it, Mark, it
assuredly shall be so answered Kit, earnestly.

He made this proviso in order to keep himself
informed as to the conclusion of the matter,
though he was pretty confident what it would
be. ffiss Lydia Finch was not, as we may
conclude, free fi^om the frailties of her sex; butin
one respect, he was aware she was exceptionally
reasonable. She knew how to accept the
logic of facts and to submit to them. The
matter, in short, resolved itself into a mere
episode in Mark Medway's life, though one that
shaped its whole future current. Once only
did he again revert to it in his friend's
presence.

Kit,' he said a few days afterwards,
pointing to a heap of feathery ashes in his
fireplace, ' you long ago preserved my life,
and now you have saved my honour.'

Whereby Kit knew that Miss Finch had
sent Mark all his letters back, and that he had
burnt them. ' It was like burning bank-notes,
I reckon,' said Eat, significantly.

Well, of course, I sent her a cheque. That
was the least costly part of the transaction,'
sighed Mark.

One can't be lapped in soft Lydian airs for
nothing,' was Kit's characteristic reflection ; but
all he said was, ' I can well believe that, dear
fellow

Mrs. Medway kept her promise as regarded
asking no questions, though the temptation will
be admitted by all daughters of Eve to have
been well-nigh irresistible ; but Kit was careful
to let her know that the peril had been great
and imminent from which her son had escaped.
Her gratitude to his preserver was unbounded ;
and he felt that he could rely upon her goodwill

almost as much as on that of Mark
himself.

It was well for him ; for, indeed, a time was
coming in which Christopher Garston would
stand in need of friends.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE SPECULATION.

It was nothing that, out of the three young
men with whose fortunes we are concerned,
two of them should have loved not wisely, for
such mistakes are common enough. What was
strange about it was the immense difference
between their respective errors, and the consequences
of them. Lydia Finch had disappeared
from Mark's horizon as completely as though
she had been swallowed up by a quicksand ;
but no one but himself knew how much had
gone with her. To a man of his temperament
a week was sufficient in which to fall over head

and ears in love, but a lifetime did not suffice
to dry him. His studies had been grave from
boyhood ; he had never dropped into that classical
literature which turns more young gentlemen's
minds into an amatory direction than the
grave advocates of our public school system
have any idea of; and he had been brought up
in seclusion, out of the way of the temptation of
bright eyes and pretty faces. Trenna, indeed,
was lovely, but he had always looked upon her
as on a sister, a feeling which she had encouraged
and reciprocated. He knew little
more of the other sex than the young monk in
the Levant, to whom the picture of a female
saint in his refectory stood for all womankind.
Mark had found out that women and female
saints were not identical ; and the discovery had
been terrible to him, for he had been a devotee.
Under such circumstances, meaner and more

egotistic natures are wont to turn sceptics altogether
; but Mark, who had in his sister a living
proof of the union of purity with female youth
and beauty, lost not a little of his belief in it,
but only meekly acknowledged to himself that
he was no judge of such things, and had better
confine himself in future to Borlase, and affairs
that had stood the test of a century or two.

Frank Meade had loved not wisely also, but
not ' too well.' He had not fallen down at the
feet of his goddess in an ecstasy, but only in
moderate admiration ; and, on perceiving they
were of clay, had got up again not much the
worse for the experience. Indeed, I doubt
whether he had ever been seriously in love with
Trenna Garston at all. He had had a penchant
for her, no doubt, and opportunity, as we know,
had well-nigh hurried him into a declaration ;
but though his affections had almost literally been

knocked on the head — so sudden and violent
had been the blow that had fallen on them —
they were really not much hurt, and at all
events remained quite serviceable for another
object. On the other hand his sometime enslaver
was not ' lost to sight,' and he still entertained
the tenderest interest and compassion for
her ; but they never spoke together when alone,
carefully shunned all possible chance of such
companionship, and found it difficult to keep
up a show of the old familiarity before others.
Mrs. Medwayhad even taken Trenna to task in
Frank's presence for not joining with the rest
in their congratulations upon his prospects of
professional success in London, or even upon
his return.

Mr. Meade knows what I feel about them
and him,' Trenna had answered quietly, ' and
does not need the assurance of my good will.'

Indeed, I am well persuaded that I am in
possession of it,' was Frank's reply. And both
statements were strictly accurate. The stiffness
with which they were delivered, however, could
hardly escape feminine notice ; Mrs. Medway's
conviction was that Frank and Trenna were in
love with one another, but had some reason of
their own, not difficult to guess (for Kit's disinclination
for the match could be predicated), for
concealing the matter for the present, while
Maud, whose own heart supplied her with
better information on that point, thought she
detected some private quarrel.

As for Maud herself, she had grown more
quiet and grave than she had wont to be, and
avoided Kit's society — unless in company with

others almost as much as Trenna did that of

Frank. Strange to say Kit was far from resenting
this ; nay, it even pleased him, for he

thought he saw in it the old mistrust of her
powers to resist him. He was the last man in
the world to entertain a feeling of jealousy, for.
truth to say, as regarded the other sex, he
thought himself well nigh irresistible. At the
same time, without the means of livelihood, or
even a profession by which to obtain it, he felt
that any open declaration of love for Maud
would meet with serious obstacles from quarters
independent of the fair one herself. But though
he bided his time, he was not idle. If the
Mogadion postmistress found a falling-off in that
hail of correspondence between Mr. Mark Medway
and those advertising tutors who certainly
were not writing masters, and Avhose caligraphies
were so much alike, she discovered a great increase
in the letters for Mr. Christopher Garston.
The addresses were anything but feminine in
style, and their post-marks were mostly ' London

Eg.' Even in Christmas week they knew no
cessation, and it was noticed at the Knoll that
Kit did not throw himself into the festivities of
that season as of yore, nor make it the pretext
for the exhibition of those high spirits of his
which up till now had never failed him. Even
now, indeed, there were life and wit in him for
two men, which by contrast with Mark's depression
and Frank's modest gravity shone brightly
enough ; but he could no longer with fairness
bo twitted by the title Mr. Penryn had .once
given him, from no very good-will (on the occasion
of his upsetting with roars of laughter some
theory of the Sector's upon Monoliths), of our
tumultuous young friend.'

At the Grey House Christmas was held in
no especial respect of any sort, yet there were
necessarily holidays which had the effect, as Kit
expressed it, of ^ letting his father loose,' so that

there was even more grumbling and snapping
than usual; to escape which Trenna and he
often fled to the Knoll. On Christmas Eve
there was quite a large party there, including
Frank and his father and the Eector ; nay, even
Mr. Garston the elder had been bidden to the
feast. He had not been to the house since that
terrible day when he had come to investigate
poor Lucy's five-pound note, and Mrs. Medway
had written him quite a touching letter alluding
to the sacred season, and expressing a wish that
bygones might be bygones between them ; to
which he had not even had the courtesy to
make reply.

I am very sorry for it,' was the Doctor's
professional observation ; ' for what with your
Christmas fare and that old fellow's bilious
company, you would certainly have all had
indigestion.'

VOL. II. p

'As no material advantage of that sort
would have accrued to me said the Eector, ' I
must be excused for saying that I shall endeavour
to survive the disappointment. I have a
great respect for the ancient Egyptians, but their
custom of having skeletons and skulls at supper
I have never approved of; give me a boned
turkey and a boar's head.'

The very things you are going to have,'
said Mrs. Med way, laughing, for the latter
dainty, as it happened, had arrived from Cambridge
that morning, a present from Kit. Nor
was holly wanting to the walls, nor to the
ceiling mistletoe, concerning which Kit complained
that being hung from the chandelier
it was useless for practical purposes, since a
sensitive individual like himself could hardly
mount on the table to take advantage of it,
however he might be tempted so to do by

more audacious young persons of the opposite
sex — a remark which the Eector inveighed
against as little less than sacrilegious, considering
the reverence due to mistletoe, and the
qualities attributed to it by an ancient priesthood.


We were talking of antiquities before
supper,' said mr. Penryn when the ladies had
withdrawn. 'Antiquity, I understand, is about
to be outraged in this neighbourhood by some
enterprise in connection with Cook's Creek, a
place that has not felt the shock of a pickaxe
for these thousand years.'

I am not so sure about that,' said the
Doctor. ' I think I remember my father
speaking of some abortive attempt to work
for tin there.'

The Eector shook his head.

My father was an older man than you are,
Penryn/

He must have been if he remembers the
circumstance of which you speak, my good sir,
for it took place in the time of the Phoenicians.
What strikes me as very remarkable is that
there is no mention of them in the account of
this new speculation ; I never saw the prospectus
of a Cornish mine before without a
reference to the Phoenicians. I am almost
inclined to think from that that there must
be something in it.'

In the mine ? ' ejaculated the Doctor, contemptuously,


Of course not ; I mean in the enterprise.
Some clever fellow must be behind it pulling
the wires. One of his puppets is no less a
person than Captain Cook, " Cook's Creek,"
says the prospectus, " so called after the voyager

with' whose distinguished name the locality is
inseparably connected." '

'Good Heavens,' exclaimed the Doctor,
laughing, ' is that really in print ? '

Certainly. Here it is in my London paper
of yesterday,' and he produced the journal in
question. ' That is one of the great wonders
of the metropolitan press, that it not only
acquaints you with all that takes place at the
antipodes, but opens your eyes to the most
interesting matters that he undreamt-of, or unattended
to, at your very doors. So far, for
example, from knowing that this neighbourhood
was hallowed by association with Captain
Cook, I had always thought he was a Yorkshire
man.'

So he was,' answered the Doctor, ' nor do
I believe that even his passion for discovery
ever led him to that out-of-the-way and stony

spot which bears his name. It always reminds
me of the place where somebody stuck up on a
board, "the end of the world ; still unfinished."
'

Cook's Creek,' observed Mark, with the
mechanical confidence of a guide who is
addressing a party of excursionists, ' is so called
from a shipbuilder of the same name, who in
the beginning of the last century constructed
a vessel in that locality too big to get out of it.'

And which, like the First Lord of the
Admiralty in the play,' laughed Kit, ' never
went to sea. " There go the ships," the neighbours
used to say of it, " and there is that
Leviathan." '

That is not in my history,' said Mark. ' I
have carefully avoided hearsay. But it is quite
true that the ship was broken up, and the
timbers sold for other purposes.'

'Wliat Mr. Penryn tells us,' remarked
Frank, '• explains what has put old Grueby into
such good temper. He told us yesterday with
a smile — which is a thing one as little expects
to see on him as a tiara — that he had sold his
land to a London company. I thought it was
for building purposes, but since it includes
Cook's Creek I have no doubt it is to work
this mine.'

But perhaps there is tin there,' observed
Mark, always ready to say a good word for
his beloved county. ' The Phoenicians '

No, no,' cried the Eector, vehemently,
spare us the Phoenicians, clark. Even the
London company has stopped short of the
Phoenicians.'

Xot another woke,' chimed in the Doctor,
about those hateful people, who are to my o^d
age what the Greeks were to my childhood.

It is as difficult to keep them out of the talk of
a Cornishman as ventilators out of that of your
unitarian.*

The Doctor had a very pretty contempt for
those devotees of Hygeia who ascribe fever to
a bit of flue, and under pretence of a bracing
atmosphere pierce your house in all directions
till it becomes a mere cullender full of
draughts.

Mark laughed good-humouredly, and promised
not to irritate the public v\rith the
Phoenicians until his book came out.

Quite right, Mark ; then you won't annoy
many people,' said the Doctor, slily.

The least unhappiness to the fewest
number should be our aim in life,' observed
Kit with gravity.

This may seem rather rough on Mark, in
whose eyes this magnum opus of a County

History of his loomed larger vice Liss Lydia
Finch superseded) than ever; but it was not
really so. He knew these satirists were his
well-wishers, and that the friendship in which
love and good-will cannot take the shape of
raillery is hardly worthy of the name.

Do you know who is the purchaser of this
Golconda?' inquired the Eector of Frank
Meade.

Some Londoner ; Martin, I think old
Grueby called him. He pointed him out tome
in the street the other day, and told me
he was staying at the Crown.*

'Did he look bona Fide? I mean like a
swindler, or the other thing .^' inquired the
Doctor.

'Well, really, sir, I didn't notice much
about him, except that he had a fur collar to
his coat.*

And a very good index too cried the
Eector ; ' he is evidently a capitalist.'

In the general laugh that succeeded this
modest sally Mark Medway alone took no
share.

A fur collar to his coat, you say,
Frank? Well, then, I saw him yesterday in
Mogadion : and, what is more, I am certain
I have seen him before, though where and
under what circumstances I cannot call to
mind.'

But, my dear Mark, you have not been
to so many places,' urged Frank. ' Do try and
remember. It was not at Mogadion, of course ;
and, as to Cambridge, that is too recent an
experience.'

No, no,' interrupted Mark, with his hand
fo his forehead ; ' it was somewhere a long
while ago. Nor was he a mere chance

acquaintance. At some time or other I feel
confident I saw a good deal of him.'

Then it must have been when you were at
school,' suggested Frank.

To be sure. I have it,' exclaimed Mark.
It was one of our ushers — you remember him,
Kit — old Brabazon.'

It may have been like him,' returned Kit,
but it can hardly be the man himself ; indeed
it's out of the question, for this gentleman's
name, it seems, is Martin.'

'Perhaps he has changed his name for
money,' observed the Eector. ' Eemember his
fur collar.'

I am afraid poor old Brabazon is scarcely
likely to have come in for property that way,'
returned Kit, laucrhino-

I really think it was Brabazon,' persisted
Mark,

Well, as he's staying at the Crown, my
dear fellow, you have only to look in thereafter
church tomorrow to make sure.'

And Mark did look in ; but, as it happened,
Mr. Martin had left Mogadion for London
rather unexpectedly that very morning.

CHAPTEE XXXII.

CAST OUT.

It is commonly complained, though by those
perhaps who prefer form and dogma to spirit,
that Christianity is losing its hold in England ;
there is one verse in Sacred Writ, however,
which certainly has a wider acceptance among
us than ever ; the one in which formalists are
contemptuously spoken of. ' I am ashamed of
you ; ye observe days and months and times
and years.' The observation of these things
in London at least unquestionably grows faint.
Of late years for example there has been, to
use a phrase less sacred than profane, a ' dead

set ' against them. Family gatherings at that
season are now in disfavour ; it is urged that,
so far from causing reconciliation, they exacerbate
the feelings ; that the forgiveness of
injuries is not expedited by the meeting with
those who have offended , us, but the reverse ;
that, at the best, the gathering together of
heterogeneous social elements only bound by
the tie of relationship, tends to boredom. Butin
the country, and especially in the more out-of-the-way
parts of it, the old order has not
changed.

In Mogadion, for example, Christmas-tide
was still kept in the ancient fashion. Old
enemies shook hands together as they met in
the street, and wished one another, with the
lips at all events, a merry Christmas ; mere
acquaintances interchanged ' the compliments
of the season ; * families congregated together ;

and even cousins, for one clay at least, found
themselves not so far ' removed ' as usual.
Everybody dined early and well, and, until
indigestion supervened in consequence, the
most incongruous natures kept their tempers
with one another. ' Friendships made in wine '
were renewed, and enmities were drowned in
it.

It was not so, however, at the Grey House.
Christmas, as we have said, was not treated
there with much respect ; it is probable that
Gonzalez Guisarto himself (the founder of the
house) had not 'held with it,' or had even
objected to the forgiveness of injuries upon
principle; and his descendant John Garston
stuck, so far, to the family hues. His neighbours
where wont to privately say of him that
he was an unprincipled man, who believed in
nothing. But in this they erred. Like many

men who are so designated he did not prefer
wrong to right, or say 'Evil, be thou my
good ^ ; he was guided by no principles whatever,
but solely by self-interest ; and he did
believe most confidently in himself. Friendship
was not ' a dream ' to him, for he had never
dreamt of such a thing, and he only loved his
own as some animals love theirs, who endure
their offspring so long as they behave themselves
to their liking and rend and tear them
when they offend them. He had a terrible
temper, inherited perhaps from his forefathers,
and nurtured and fomented in the heats of
Spain ; but circumstances had suppressed it.
An attorney who flies in a passion at everything
which crosses him can scarcely pursue
his profession ; and the necessity for concealing
it had driven his temper home, as a cold
strikes to the liver. A man dangerous to his

fellow-creatures, but especially to those belonging
to him, and to himself. His anger
was not of the ruby red, which being kindled
bursts into a flame and dies away ; it burnt
within at a white heat, and when the embers
of the heart it thus consumed were cold they
turned to Mace.

There is a notion in shallow minds that
where self-interest is the mainspring of life, it
has no other spring. It was the argument of
those of our fellow-countrymen who were so
base as to applaud the principle of Slavery
in the American Civil War, that the cases of
cruelty instanced by Mrs. Beecher Stowe and
others must needs be untrue, since, in the case
of even the vilest of owners, they would be
withheld from motives of self-interest from
maiming and destroying what was their own
property — the Slave. As though the lust of

VOL. II. Q

cruelty can b^ restrained by the consideration
of prudence more than any other lust, or as
though man under the influence of vehement
rage can suffer any future benefit to weigh for
an instant against his full indulgence of it. It
is true that when Mr. Garston was himself, he
never lost sight of the main chance ; but an
this Christmas J Jay of which we speak he was
not himself. A fact had come to his knowledge,
for certain, that he had long suspected and
brooded over, and it had changed his blood to
flame, and his heart to steel.

When he came down to the breakfast-table
in the morning, where Trenna awaited him,
one glance at his bloodshot eyes and livid face
was sufficient to tell her what had happened.
If she had been a clairvoyant and could have
seen the letter which he gripped in the pocket
of his shooting-jacket, and read its contents.

she could not have been better informed of the
true state of the case. And he knew that she
knew.

Where is your brother ? ' he inquired
hoarsely, pointing to his vacant place.

I do not know, father ? '

That is a lie.'

She neither answered nor looked at him.
A red spot on each of her cheeks alone betrayed
that she had heard him. The dumb
reproof moved him far more than words could
have done, for words he Avould have repaid in
kind and with interest ; but to keep silence in
his turn, such was the frenzy of his mind, was
impossible.

You do know where your brother is gone,

Trenna,' he continued, in a tone that conveyed

not so much a reiteration of the charge as

an apologetic explanation of the language in

q2

which it had been couched ; ' and you knew
that he was going before he went. His portmanteau
was packed last night, and he made
every preparation for departure with your
assistance.'

I do not deny that, father.'

You must acknowledge, too, that you are
cognisant of the reasons for his flight. You
guessed that this morning the proofs would
arrive of your brother's guilt, and that it rests
with me either to wash my hands of him forever,
or to send him to gaol.'

Trenna bowed her head ; her fingers were
playing with a teaspoon, while her mind was
on the rack ; yet, cruel as were the old man's
words, they gave her comfort ; there was still,
it seemed, an alternative in her brother's fate,
and there might have been none. Without
being at all like Brutus, Mr. Garston was just

the man to have sacrificed his own son to
Justice ; and had the thing been possible it is
likely enough that on the spur of the moment
he would have done so. But Kit, in accordance
with that advice often given by his father
to clients under similar circumstances, had for
the present ' withdrawn himself from the jurisdiction
of the Coiu:t.'

How long is it, girl,' continued the old
man, sternly, ' since you have known of your
brother's infamy ?~ '

She did not answer, but her eyes flashed
fire, and twice she struck the table with her
closed hand.

Answer me. When did you know he had
taken the notes ? '

From the very first.'

How was it arranged that suspicion should
be averted from him to Abel Deeds ? '

'• I will tell you nothing, father, unless you
promise that what I say shall never be used
against him.'

You wish to shield him, do you ? ' The
suppressed fury of the speaker's tone was
terrible to listen to.

Trenna trembled in every limb, but she
answered firmly, 'I do.'

'Let it be so. What you say shall not
harm him. He will come to be hanged,
but he shall spin his own rope. So much
I promise you on condition that you tell
me the whole truth, and on that condition
only. Were the Medwayss concerned
ill this conspiracy to defeat the ends of
justice? '

It was curious how in the midst of his hate
and rage he used the conventional terms to
which he was accustomed.

'The Med ways! Good Heavens ! Of course
not.'

Pray pardon me for the suggestion,' was
the sneering reply. ' When one's own flesh
and blood turns thief it is apt to make one suspicious
of the world in general. They played
into your brother's hands in a marvellous way
if it were mere accident. Why did they lie
about the note ? '

They did not he.'

'- Be so good as to explain the matter.'

We heard that you had missed the notes
when we were at the Knoll. Kit ran upstairs
and took the number of Lucy's note, which he
knew to be in Maud's purse. When you gave
me the list of the stolen notes I made a
duplicate of it with one exception.'

You made it. You ? '

Yes, /. I put the number of Lucy's note

in the second list and read it to them. I knew
it would not hurt Abel; they had too great a
confidence in his honesty for that

'I see ; you only wished to act against your
father ? '

I did it to save his son.'

There was a long silence ; the attorney
stood with his back to the fire, frowning so
heavily that his shaggy brows formed a penthouse
over his fierce eyes. Trenna sat at the
table slowly turning an empty plate.

I am still in the dark,' said the attorney.
I am not used to these thievish tricks, though
I can see the cunning hand that played them.
What was the object of all this \ '

To avert suspicion from Christopher, and
to make the Med ways Abel's partisans. When
our object was accomplished '

Bis object ! Why say yours ? '

Because it was mine also. When our
object was accomplished I tore up the second
list : as it happened, the numbers of the two
notes differed only in a single figure, and it was
easy to persuade the Medwayss that their eyes
and ears had been deceived.'

And you dare to tell me this ? — you yourself
being an accessory both before and after
the act ? '

I tell you because you bade me tell you
the truth. I did it, willingly, to save my
brother. We knew that you would believe
anything to the disadvantage of the Medwayss.'

I see ; you made a study of your father's
character, it seems ; not altogether a complete
one, perhaps. There may be something in it
which you have left out of your calculations.'

His tone had been harsh and sneering all
along, but as he said these words it had a

peculiar bitterness ; as though his heart was
gall indeed, and he spoke out of the abundance
of it.

Since I was wrong throughout in this
matter,' he continued after a pause, 'and others
were, like yourself, persuaded of it, though for
very different reasons, how was it that the
action commenced against me for slander on
behalf of Abel Deeds was stopped ? '

Here Trenna looked up for the first time,
and in a tremulous appealing voice cried, ' Do
not ask me that, father. Frank Meade gave
you his reasons with his own lips ; let that
suffice.'

You said you would tell me the whole
truth,' he answered sternly.

Yes ; all that had to do with Kit. This
has nothing to do with him. I beseech you to
spare me.'

I see ; it is a girl's secret,' tie replied with
a sneer ; ' you lied to this young man as you
have hed to me ; you promised to be his wife
if he would persuade Abel to withdraw his
action. And now, as I hear, you avoid the
man. Your brother is as false as hell, and
you are worthy of him.'

A shiver passed over Trenna's face, and her
hips slightly moved. She was saying to herself,
Let him think so ; I have deserved it.'

I have the bank-note in my pocket,' resumed
the old man, ' which was supposed to
be in the purse of Lucy Deeds, but which your
brother ' — it was observable that he never
spoke of the offender as his son— ' stole from
me with the rest. It is in my power to send
him to gaol for that ; but he will go there
sooner or later without my help. I will keep
my word to you, never fear.'

Trenna drew a long breath of relief; but
she answered earnestly, 'I felt sure of that,
father.'

Ay, and you may be sure also that I will
keep my word in another matter, of which I
am about to speak. As they will be the
last words I shall ever speak to you, unless
you undertake to be guided by them, I
would recommend you to listen to them
attentively. Do you hear me .^ ' he added,
with a sudden burst of temper, for there was
something in her face which told him — and
told him truly — that her thoughts were faraway.
Nevertheless she heard him and she
said so.

'Then also heed he answered sternly.
Again he paused, probably to shape his
thoughts in less vehement and scornful fashion
than they presented themselves to him, for

when he spoke again it was in a tone of great
gravity and resolve.

Eemember this girl. From this moment
I have only one child in the world — yourself.
It remains with you to decide whether I have
any child.'

Would you cast off your own son ? ' asked
Trenna, rising to her feet and confronting him.

'My son? Ay, as I would cast off an
adder to drop in the flame. A spendthrift, a
thief, an outcast: why should I do otherwise?
Has he ever been a son to me ? '

Have you ever been a father to him ? ' she
put in quickly. ' What have you done for him?
What have you given him ? '

Money, money ! Again and again I have
supped him with the means of enjoyment —
which with him means profligacy — much more
money than he deserved.'

If you have given him your money,
father,' she answered pleadingly, ' you never
gave him your love.'

Pshaw ! I gave him a home.'

^ A home ? No, father, you never gave
him that. This house has never been a home.'

And you dare to tell me that ? '

You told me to tell the truth just now ; I
am obeying your orders,'

Beware lest you disobey me in other
things. I am not here to bandy words with
you, or to waste time in discussing a JSTe'er-do-
well. Your brother is dead to me, and must
be dead to mine.' Once more he paused, then
continued in a tone that was by contrast
gentle and persuasive. ' Trenna, I am a far
wealthier man than you imagine me to be ;
not what is called by these English " rich," but
what would be held to be so elsewhere. I

possess enough to live upon in the country of
my fathers by myself in luxury ; with you, in
comfort. Will you share my home there ? '

'What? And leave my brother penniless
? '

He will be penniless at all events.'
Yes ; but not friendless while I live.'
'Perhaps not. You may starve together,
of course, till he tires of you. You know how
fit he is to bear adversity ; with what honesty
he resists temptation ; how careful he is of
those who have served his turn, and are no
longer useful to him.'

If I do go, father, if I give Kit up,' she
answered, with a distressful moan, like some
dumb animal in pain, ' will you settle something
on him, something he cannot spend, but
which will keep him from want ? '

I will not give him a sixpence. Yes, I

will he added savagely, ' give him this five-pound
note ' — here he flung it on the table —
if he attempts to change it he will go to
Newgate ; the number is stopped at the bank ;
not one sixpence in any other shape shall he
have from me, so help me Heaven.'

Then may Heaven forgive you, father, for
I never will.'

Tush ; keep your heroics for the stage —
you may have to take to that, or worse, to
earn your victuals. Do you accept my offer ordo
you not ? There is but one proviso. You
are never to hold any communication with this
reprobate by word or letter ; never to breathe
his name. On one side lies your duty, and as
it happens your interest also, your father, and
a life of comfort ; on the other your brother,
with beggary and shame. You will take your
choice.'

'I have already taken it, father: I will
never desert Kit.'

Then that is settled. Do not trouble
yourself to mention the word " father " in
future ; it is one of those exceptional cases
in which siurplusage is an error. And now
since this house — which has never been " a
home," it seems — cannot contain us both, you
will be so good as to quit it at your earliest convenience.
I will have your things sent after you
to any address you may be pleased to leave with
the servant. I will never see your face acrain.'

He had left the room and closed the door
with his last words. Trenna stood listening
with white face while his footsteps died away
on his way to the upper floor, alone, and in
silence except for the Christmas bells which
pealed without for church, ' Peace and Goodwill
to All Mankind.'

VOL. II. E

CHAPTER Xxxii

THE EXODUS,

Trenna's first act was to place the five-point
note that lay crumpled on the table in her own
purse ; not for its value, for, as her father truly
said, it had none ; but lest the sight of it
should, when she had gone, excite him to do
what he had promised not to do. That was
the one point which she had gained where so
much had been lost. Kit was not to be
punished by the law. Her possession of the
note went far to secure this if her father had
no other proof of his son's delinquency. She
knew how he had obtained it, and even what
it had cost him. Her brother had been

betrayed by one whom he had himself betrayed
; but who had had so much of pity
left for him as to send him a word of warning.
He had found it only just in time on his return
from the Knoll on the previous night. If Kit
had been at home that morning to feed his
father's fury by his presence, to what lengths
misrht it not have racked !

Even as matters were, they were bad
enough. She had expected nothing less than
that her father would have cast him off; but
that she should share in his condemnation was
an unlooked-for misfortune. It had been her
intention to leave the Grey House sooner or
later, and to throw in her lot with her brother.
Kit was all in all to her. Her father had long
been as naught to her compared with him, and
was now less than naught since he had declared
himself his enemy. For Kit's sake she fancied
R 2

she could have endured her home a little
longer, as she had done when he was away at
Cambridge ; but it is certain she could not have
listened with patience to the reproaches her
father would have heaped on him ; nor, as we
have seen, could she play the hypocrite even for
an hour, as regarded her loyalty to her brother.
For loyalty is independent of the unworthiness
of the object, and may cling to a Tarquin or a
Stuart.

Her father's passion had precipitated matters,
and left her no choice but flight. But whither
should she go ? She had said with truth that
she did not know where her brother was. It
had been arranged that he should privately let
her know his address in London (whither he
had departed by first train that morning), so
soon as he should secure lodgings ; but in the
meantime she was homeless. That the Med-ways

would give her the shelter of their roof,
indeed, she felt assured ; but had it been possible
she would have preferred to go anywhere else ;
for how could she escape inquiry and explanation
? There was, however, no alternative.
The Med ways were, fortunately, cognisant of
the bad terms on which Kit and her father
lived. She would only have to represent the
matter as a culmination of the quarrel between
them, and (what indeed was true) that m
espousing her brother's part she had shared his
punishment. Neither Mrs. Medway nor Maud
would press for details ; they were too delicate
in feeling to do so, however great might be
their curiosity to learn the actual facts. Whatever
representation she might make, she felt
tolerably confident that it would not be contradicted
by her father. His promise not to
prosecute, indeed, seemed to include a promise

of silence on this matter, and, above all, his
manner had convinced her that, alike for
good and ill, he had washed his hands (ashe
expressed it) equally of her brother and
of herself, and if it were possible would never
ac^ain breathe the name of either of them. Sofar
she felt comforted, while another result of her
present position gave her a satisfaction the full
extent of which she scarcely admitted to herself.
In a very short time she would be reunited
to her brother ; as soon as he had a roof
to offer her she knew he would welcome her toit
; and while she was with him, as she flattered
herself, she would keep him straight. It was
true, as we know, that she had not hitherto done
so ; that, indeed, he had acted very crookedly ;
but that was without her cognisance. Extreme
necessity and apprehension, as he had persuaded
her, had driven him to one desperate and dishonest
act; but in acknowledgment of the

escape which he owed to her, and for which
she had paid so heavy a price, he had solemnly
promised not only that he would never so offend
again, but never undertake any matter of importance
without consulting her.

From her conduct in the past, and even
from the manner in which she had received
the news of her brother's connection with the
Mining Company at Cook's Creek, it maybe
imagined that Trenna's o^vn views of right
and wrong were far from what they should
be. This, however, was not the case ;
her conduct in every relation of Use, save
one (and where that erred it was affected by
the same evil influence), was blameless ; but,
as regarded all that Kit was connected
with, her moral vision became distorted ;
she did not, indeed, as the phrase goes, ' see
through his spectacles,' but her infatuation for
him was such that, where his interests were

concerned, she had forgiveness for his faults,
and an apology even for his sins. Whoever
doubts these things disputes that everyday
miracle, a woman's love. Moreover, poor
Trenna had been 'caught by her trainer,
young.' From her earliest years she had been
under the influence of one stronger than
herself, a ad who had used his power, not
indeed lovingly, but without scruple. The
law itself admits the weakness of womankind,
in holding the wife guiltless of offences she has
committed at her husband's instigation. And
what is the mere true lover's knot of marriage
that can be severed by a judge's order, as
compared with the triple steel of voluntary
devotion ?

Trenna had heard her father's door above-stairs
closed and locked, and rightly judged
mat he would remain in his own room until

she had left the house. Her hasty preparations
for departure were accordingly carried
out under no nervous apprehension of meeting
him again. They were simple enough, for her
wardrobe was limited ; nor, save a few presents
from Maud and Kit, were there any of those
trivial fond records ' of affection to be parked
up which go so far to make whatever roof may
shelter us a home. In her own little room the
sharpest pang that parting could inflict awaited
her in the person of poor Poll. She had not
forgotten to bring him his customary lump of
sugar, but the talk with her father had delayed
her, and the royal bull was in dudgeon. He
sat sulkily on his perch, ruffling his splendid
plumes, and croaking ' Kit, Kit I Kit, Kit ! '
like a death watch. The words had a meaning
for her that they had not for him, and she
sighed heavily.

Who will tend you when I am gone, poor
Poll ? '

Kit, Kit ! '

No, not Kit,' she answered gently, ' he is
gone to '

Oh, the Devil ! ' exclaimed the parrot. He
had dropped the sugar through the bars of his
cage, and was only expressing his chagrin in
the terms his young master had taught him ;
but the appositeness of the ejaculation drew a
faint smile from Trenna.

If Kit were here,' she murmured, ' how
he would have laughed at that. He always
laughed at everything, poor boy. There can
be no real harm in so light a heart. As
Tennyson says : —

These flashes on the surface are not he.
He has a solid hase of temperament ;
But as the water lily starts and slides
Upon the level in little puffs of wind,
Though anchored to the bottom, such is he.'

Then she sighed again, perceiving, perhaps,
that the parallel between the subject of her
reflections and a lily was not a very close one.

Kiss me, kiss me, kiss me ! ' croaked
the parrot, with fretful impatience. Trenna
pressed her soft cheek against the bars of the
cage, and the bird bit it daintily, ' not for
spite, but love.' Then down the girl's cheek
the tears fell fast for the first time.

You shall go with me. Poll,' she whispered
softly ; ' so long as Trenna has a crust you
shall share it with her. There is no one to tend
you here for my sake — not one ! Not one ! '

This was a bitter truth, for since Abel was
gone there was not even loving service at the
Grey House. The maid Susan had no regard
for her young mistress ; Trenna had been kind
to her in vain, and suspected, with reason, that
she had been won over by bribes from her

father to be a spy on her and Kit. When her
arrangements were concluded she rang the
bell, and ordered a fly to be sent for from
the Crown inn.

Why, it's Christmas Day,' said Susan ;
the folks will be all in church.'

'To be sure; I had forgotten that,' said
Trenna, wearily.

It isn't every house where one day is
the same as another,' put in the handmaid,
impudently.

Do as I bid you, immediately,' exclaimed
Trenna. ' There will be somebody at the inn
probably the ostler.'

The girl was cowed at once ; she had never
heard her mistress speak in such a tone before.

But, please Miss, I durst not do it without
master's leave.'

Then ask his leave.'

She heard the girl go upstairs, and, after a
colloquy with her father through the closed
door, go down to the kitchen, whereby she
knew he had given his consent. The squabble,
insignificant and contemptuous as it was, had
roused her spirit and done her good. Before
the folks had come out of church and chapel,
the fly from the Crown was at the door, and
all her luggage, including the parrot in his
cage, was placed in it. Then, without a word
of farewell, she took her seat. She did not
even look up at her father's window ; indeed,
it would have been superfluous, for she had
heard his blind drawn down with a jerk as she
emerged from the front room. If he had been
lying dead in yonder room their parting, she
knew, could not have been more complete and
final. As she drove through the deserted
street the sense of her abandonment and desolation

grew intense ; but she showed no signs
of weakness. Friends, as she bitterly said to
herself, she had none in Mogadion ; but it was
well that it had so happened that neither
acquaintances nor neighbours were witnesses
of her departure.

The road that led to the Knoll was never a
frequented one, and she congratulated herself
that on this day of all days it was unlikely that
she should meet on it any one she knew. In
this idea, however, she was mistaken. They
had scarcely emerged from the little town
when the clatter of a horse's hoofs was heard
on the frost-bound road. She lay back in the
fly as they drew near, in hopes that the rider,
whoever he was, would pass her without
recognition, but, greatly to her chagrin, the
vehicle, no doubt from some sign from the
person in question, pulled up at her approach.

Why, Miss Trenna,' exclaimed the newcomer,
cheerfully, ' whither away so early ? '
Then, coming close up to the window, he
added in earnest tones, ' I see you have your
luggage with you ; I hope nothing is the
matter ? '

'I am leaving home. Doctor,' she answered
curtly.

What ? For good ? '

I don't know as to that ; but certainly forever.
I don't want any noise to be made
about it, if you please.'

But, Miss Trenna, pray, pray reflect. It is
a terrible step to take.'

I have been forced to take it.'

Forced ? And by your father ? He is no
friend of mine, as you know, but sooner than
such a thing should happen — you don't know,
my dear young lady, what may come of it — I

will appeal to him myself — I will do anything.'


Thank you, thank you,' she murmured
hurriedly — the tears were very near her eyes,
and she trembled for her own self-control —
but nothing you can do can be of any use. I
am going to live with Kit.'

'But — forgive me, as an old friend, or if
you will not believe that, as a true and well-wisher
— has your brother a home to offer you ?
And even if he has, think of the consequences
of breaking with your father so completely.
You do not know what a hard stepfather the
world is. I beseech you to consider it.'

I have considered, and though what has
happened is not of my choosing, I do not
repent it. For the present I am taking shelter
at the Knoll.'

Quite right, you will be safe there. And
in the meantime what can I do for you ? '

'Promise me one thing.'

That is granted already.'

'That you will not attempt to intercede
with my father ; nothing can come of it save
harm ; ask your son and he will tell you so.'

Good Heavens ! What has Frank to do
with it ? I am sure he has done nothing
wrong ; he has never caused me a moment's
anxiety in my life ; the best of sons.'

No doubt, but you on your part have
been the best of fathers.'

She thought she detected disparagement of
her brother in the Doctor's remark, and even
in that terrible moment could not resist putting
in her plea for him. ' It is good fathers
who make good sons.'

Action and reaction, eh ? ' he answered,
smiHng, ' That is a disputed point. As to
this sad business, my dear young lady, I don't

VOL. II. s

know what to say, since you have stopped the
only way that seemed open to me. In return
for my promise, however, you must give me
yours that you will do nothing rashly, or without
consultation with your friends. Your
father, of course, is bound to make provision
for you eventually. By gad, he shall do that,
or I'll make Mogadion too hot for him,' inter
pointed the Doctor. 'But just at first there
may be money difficulties ; pray remember you
have friends, not fair-weather ones, at the
Dovecote ; and '

Thanks, thanks, I do, I will ; pray let me
go on,' pleaded Trenna, who had utterly
broken down.

The Doctor drew off, hat in hand, at once,
and signed to the driver to proceed.

The girl-was sobbing like a child;
harshness she could bear, but kindness and

sympathy — weapons to which she was unaccustomed
— had been too much for her. She
had kept her wits at first ; had fortunately hit
upon referring the good Doctor to his son, in
whose hands her secret (or rather her brother's)
was safe, and who, at the same time, would
convince him of the futility of interceding with
her father ; but having thus provided for Kit's
safety, her heart had melted like wax. And
now this unexpected friend with his unlooked-for
promise of aid was gone, thoughts of the
What-might-have-been pierced through and
through her. How happy would be the lot
of any girl who should find her home at the
Dovecote! What a husband would Frank
make ! — what a father-in-law the good Doctor !
Fine weather friends? No, they were friends
indeed, though after what had passed between
her and Frank they could never be her friends.

s2

Within the next hour, perhaps, though Frank
would never betray her, he might be compelled
to say something which would turn his father's
heart away from her, and make him regret his
own generous instincts. Why, oh why, was
Fate so cruel to her? Was she indeed the
sport of Fate, or the scapegoat accepted by a
higher power ? There was a verse in the Bible —
one which had been used by Est to the discredit
of the sacred volume — 'He will have mercy
upon whom He will have mercy, and whom
He will He hardened.' Had she really thus
been singled out as the object of the Creator's
wrath ? What had she done ? How had she
deserved it ? Why had this tremendous gulf
been fixed between her, and her whom she bad
pictured to herself as Frank Meade's bride ?
Nay, between herself and the very girl to the
shelter of whose roof she was hastening? How

was it that in Maud's case there was the
loving mother and the happy home, and all
things working together, as it seemed, for
good and happiness, while in hers were exile
and disgrace ? Even the poor passion of grief
was denied her. It behoved her to dry her
eyes, and smooth her hair, and school her
speech for the servant that was about to receive
her at the Knoll, and to whom it would
be necessary to give some sort of explanation
for the appearance of so unexpected a visitor.
And indeed, ' I have come to stay a few weeks
with your mistress, John,' which was the sentence
she fixed on, did not wholly account to
that amazed retainer for the arrival on Christmas
morning of Miss Trenna Garston and her
luggage.

He spoke of the matter in private to the
driver as he handed out the parrot as being a

rum go a remark which that observant bird,
rendered more impressionable than ever by
unaccustomed travel, at once added to his repertory
of ejaculations, and adopted as his own.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

THE BEGINNING OF FEARS.

Although Trenna had reckoned, from the
necessity of the case, without her host, as
regarded her reception by Mrs. Medway, her
welcome at the Knoll in no respect fell short
of her expectations ; while as to Maud, ' It is
an ill wind, indeed, my dear Trenna,' she said,
that blows nobody good ; ' by which she
implied that the breeze between her friend and
her father had conferred the greatest possible
benefit on herself. The first thought, however,
both of mother and daughter, was to effect a
reconciliation between ]Mr. Garston and his

child, and it would have been difficult to
convince them that the exile of their guest
from her home was really irrevocable, had not
Frank Meade added his testimony to that of
Trenna's. He accomplished this with considerable
skill, and a delicacy of touch worthy of his
professional reputation, so that Trenna not only
felt herself secure, but was freed from all the
embarrassments of cross-examination.

On the other hand, as Frank was, of
course, acting on her behalf only, and in
ignorance of the actual state of the case, the
subject of Kit was by no means a forbidden
one. There were questions enough as to what
he was doing with himself in London, and with
what hopes and prospects, not put to his sister
from mere curiosity, we may be sure, but in
the most helpful and friendly spirit, yet by no
means easy to answer.

Trenna told tliera that Kit had some
scheme of his own, which was at present undeveloped,
but in which his friend mr. Braith-
waite, whose father had great influence in the
City, had promised to assist him. It was
something connected with mines, she thought.

Not the mine at Cook's Creek, I do hope,'
put in Mark, smiling : at which Trenna smiled
too, though the random shaft had pierced to
her very heart. Would the affection, she
wondered, of even Mark remain unchanged
when he came to learn the truth? She was
gnawed with anxiety on Kit's account, from
whose letters she gathered that there were
great initial difficulties m the matter in hand,
though he was hopeful that the thing would be
soon 'floated,' as he called it, when all would
be well ; but in the meantime she knew he
must be terribly pinched for money, and

feared, in spite of his repeated assurances to
the contrary, that he might adopt some
desperate measure to fill his purse. He had
absolutely forbidden her to speak of his
pecuniary difficulties to anybody. It was
above all things necessary, he said, that no
want of money should be manifest in the
promoters of the scheme in question, though
Mark's purse, as she well knew, would have
been placed at his friend's disposal at once —
indeed, he had offered it unasked — and Mrs.
Medway's gratitude to Kit was too warm and
recent to permit her to deny him anything
in reason. It was a matter of secret self-congratulation
to her that Kit was not going to
take his degree, for there was now no cause for
her son's return to Cambridge. He had been
rescued, thanks to Kit, from the very depths,
and was now her own asrain ; but it was a

great relief to her to reflect that he was not
again to be exposed to temptation. She was
no longer an advocate for University education,
which was, it seemed, more comprehensive
than she had any idea of.

From what Trenna could gather from her
brother's letters, it appeared that he had been
received by Mr. Braithwaite senior graciously
enough, but that he had not been able to make
such way with him as he had expected. The
good looks, gaiety, and agreeable manners that
go far to ingratiate a young man with his
contemporaries have not much influence with
elderly gentlemen in the City ; while to impress
them with an undergraduate's capacities for
business is as difficult as for an inhabitant of
the Great Sahara to establish a reputation
among mariners for swimming.

It was Trenna's conviction that Kit had

contrived to become the proprietor of Cook's
Creek, but where the money came from for
the advertisements, which, as she was informed,
were now constantly appearing in the newspapers
in connection with that enterprise, she
could not conceive ; for it seemed that Mr.
Braithwaite was not finding it, but held himself
aloof from the undertaking till it should
take some more mature and promising shape.
There was no fear of her wearing out her
welcome among her kind friends at the Knoll,
but she reproached herself for the very
comforts she enjoyed there. How different,
she often reflected with a sigh, must be her
present luxurious lot to that of poor Kit, whom
she pictured to herself in some miserable
lodging, pinched for the mere necessaries of
life, and rarely, perhaps, getting a good meal
save at Mr. Braithwaite's table. She knew.

too, how lie resented privation, and how ill
it agreed with him. There are some folks
to whom adversity is a positive benefit, and
absolutely necessary to the discipline of their
minds ; who in prosperity wax fat and kick,
and require, as it were, to be broken to harness
by reverses. But there are others who, so far
from being spoilt by the gifts of fortune, reflect
her smile on all who come near them. One of
the wisest as well as one of the wittiest of men,
and who never shrank from telling the truth,
no matter how opposed it was to conventional
ideas, affirms that he was ' a better and happier
man for every guinea he acquired.' They
softened his heart and opened his hand ; his
nature expanded under the sunshine of good-fortune
like a flower. We do not hear that
when things went ill with him he became
reckless and desperate ; but this is a result at

least as common as to be ' disciplined ' by the
frowns of Fate.

Nothing could make Christopher Garston
morose ; nor was he easily depressed by misfortune.
• But he was very impatient of it, and
found it difficult to keep a conscience upon
small means.

These considerations, which she did not
blink, even to herself, caused Trenna great
anxiety of mind. Her brother's letters alarmed
her, for she felt, though they were far from
rose-coloured, that they represented his affairs
in a better light than he himself regarded
them. When he did not write she was still
more perturbed in mind — she knew not what
evil his silence concealed, nor what catastrophe
a day might bring forth.

What had become of her father she knew
not. It was rumoured that he had discharged

his servants and left Mogadion. The Grey
House was shut up. She had seen with her
own eyes its banded windows, and marked
that air of desolation which so soon falls on a
habitation that has lost its tenants. She had
never looked for hope or help from that
quarter, but this outward and visible sign of
estrangement and desertion appalled her.

Weeks passed by, and every time ]airs.
Medway asked her what was the news from
Kit she found it more difficult to answer her.
Presently that lady received a letter from
Frank Meade, the contents of which, as Trenna
easily guessed, were intended for her eyes at
least as much as for those of their recipient.
Frank had returned to town after the Christmas
holidays, and was hard at work. He
delighted in his profession, and, besides, had a
motive for his exertion known only to himself.

though not unsuspected by at least one other
person. Trenna, indeed, was well convinced,
by this time, that he had resolved to win Maud
Med way for his wife. The knowledge of it
was hard for her to bear, but it had no bitterness.
Such a prize could now never have
fallen to her own lot ; Fortune's wheel had
nothing but blanks for her ; but she was not
one to play the dog in the manger. In this
matter she made, as it were, a double self-sacrifice.
Nothing, in many ways, would have
been more welcome to her than that Kit should
become Maud's husband. But though, as we
have seen, she was ready at all hazards to
advance his interests in other directions, she
had here drawn the line. She did not grudge
him the wreck of her own happiness, but she
was resolute to prevent that of her friend
splitting on the same rock.

As a brother, Kit had many defects, but
Trenna was content with him — her love for him
was such that it condoned all his faults ; but
it was not blind to them ; and she could not
conceal from herself that, after what had
happened (so she softly put it to herself when
thinking of his crime), he could not be a fitting
husband for Maud Med way. He might hold
a different opinion himself; and she readily
acquitted him of having any sordid aims with
respect to Maud ; but, entertaining, as she did.
the conviction in question, it would, she felt,
be a poor return for the lifelong kindness she
had received from her friends at the Knoll to
play into Kit's hands in this matter. That he
rarely lost sight of an object till he had accomplished
it, she was well aware ; nor did his
silence on the point of late at all persuade her
that he had given it up. Nay, there were some

VOL. II. T

things in Frank's letter which (though it had
no such meaning for others) made her suspect
that Kit had it still in his mind. The reference
to him in the communication to Mrs. Med way-was
as follows : —

I met Garston in the street the other day,
and had a long talk with him. He was looking
a little thin and pale, I thought, but was in
excellent spirits. He seemed almost certain of
getting a good post in the new Mining Company
probably that of London manager, with also
a share of the contingent profits. He spoke of
these last very hopefully, though it appears that
Cook's Creek is really to be the scene of the
Company's operations. The old mine, he tells
me, has been closely surveyed and examined
by an expert, whose report is very favourable,
though it will be necessary to expend a considerable
sum before any material result can

be looked for. He said, in his bright way, that,
though he was beginning as '* an adventurer," he
would very soon be one of the richest men in
Cornwall ; and, when he next comes to Moga-
dion, expects to be greeted with an address from
the Corporation, at the very least, in acknowledgment
of the money that his enterprise will
bring into the town. He bade me assure his
old friends at the Knoll, however, that, no
matter how great a capitalist he may become,
he will always be amiable to them ; and I am
bound to add that, so far as I can see, he has
suffered no change in that respect.'

Between the hues in this little budget of
news Trenna read many things. First, that
Frank had made the best of his meeting with
her brother to cheer her ; secondly, that he was
breaking to the Medwayss, as gently as he could
that the enterprise in which Kit was involved
T 2

was really the mine at Cook's Creek, which
everyone at Mogadion believed to be worthless ;
thirdly, that Kit had by no means such hopes
of success as he had boasted to Frank, since he
had not ventured to confide them to herself;
and, fourthly, that if fortune should favour him,
his first act would be to come down in person,
and proclaim the fact.

On the rest of the household at the Knoll
the news from Kit had precisely the effect which
he had intended it to have. They were rejoiced
to hear of his high spirits and great expectations,
and at once became converts to his
views — as regarded at least, the possibility of
Cook's Creek turning out an El Dorado. Kit
was far too clever to be taken in by a mere
bubble : he had means of informing himself of
the facts of the case which Mr. Penryn and the
Doctor — who pooh-poohed the matter as contemptuously

as ever — certainly did not possess ;
and that the Creek had been bought for hard
cash was decidedly a proof that there was something
there besides stones and a hole in the
middle of them. Mark himself became at once
a partisan of the enterprise — somewhat to the
Eector's alarm, who feared that his affection
for his friend might induce him to give the
scheme material assistance.

Kit, my dear Mr. Penryn,' contended his
old pupil, ' although energetic, is by no means
imprudent, and is the very last man to sink his
money in a quicksand.'

At all events, he has no temptation to do
so,' was the Eector's dry rejoinder : ' for he has
none to sink.'

He has his time and talents, which are
equally valuable,' answered Mark, indignantly.

'Still, when one has sunk them there are

more where they came from : with one's money
it is not so. You may take my word for it,
Mark, that any responsible connection with
that Cook's Creek enterprise in the case of a
man of means will spell Eiiin.'

If I had ten thousand pounds of my own
I would advance it cheerfully to further Christopher
Garston's interests, in this or any other
way,' answered Mark, vehemently ; ' and if I
lost it I should still consider myself his debtor.'

Then I am glad you have not ten thousand
pounds, and that your mother is too wise and
too right-minded to give you ten thousand
pence for any such object,' returned the Eector.

Nothing more was said between them, but
Mark felt that he had been nearer the brmk of
a quarrel with his old tutor than he had ever
been in his life. The effect of the Eector's remonstrance,
or rather of the imprudent terms

in which it had been couched, was to cause
Mark to write to Kit, at once offering him all
the aid that lay in his power, both in purse and
person.

To this Kit replied in terms of reciprocal
affection. ' Your letter gave me infinite pleasure
; it is not what one's friends can do for us
that gives us such pleasure in them, but the
conviction of their willingness to serve us
Pecuniary help I do not need, dear Mark,
though I may make some use of the personal
influence you so kindly offer ; but encouragement
such as your letter gives me is most
welcome. I am coming down in a day or two
to Mogadion, but, as it will be on business, I
cannot accept — that is, as a lodger — th
hospitality of the Knoll, but must make the
Crown my head quarters. Until then, and forever
afterwards, I am your affectionate friend.'

The same post brought a letter from Kit to
Trenna, written in exuberant spirits and inclosing
the prospectus of the new Company, ' now
complete, save that it wants the name of a local
magnate or two. You will observe how it differs
from that which afforded Mr. Penryn so
much amusement.' And, indeed, there was now
quite a long list of directors, among which, underlined
with red ink to drave her special attention
to it, was the names Braithwaite Brothers,
Lombard Street. Moreover, there was some information
concerning the mine itself, which had
not appeared in the previous draft, or, as Kit
termed it, the pilot balloon.

'Operations have already commenced at
Cook's Creek.

The report of the local engineer is all that

can be desired. It has been found practicable

o utilise some of the old machinery, which has

greatly reduced the original estimate of the
working expenses. The first output may be
confidently looked for in a few weeks.'

It was this part of the prospectus — which
she folded up and put aside without speaking
of it — thai most attracted Trenua's attention.
As it happened, Mrs. Medway and Maud were
going to lunch that day at General Munden's,
an expedition which she had declined to join,
upon the ground of indisposition — she was ' indisposed,'
indeed, for any such visiting — so that,
supposing she could get rid of Mark, which
would hardly be difficult, she would have almost
the whole day to herself.

No sooner was the pony-carriage that conveyed
the two ladies out of sight than Trenna
equipped herself for the walk she had in her
mind : it was of considerable length, and she
would lose her lunch by starting so early. She

stepped into the dining-room on her way out
to make a depredation on the biscuit-tin. She
did not see that Mark was sitting there behind
the fire-screen, and his unexpected observation,
Eat, but don't pocket,' filled her with such
confusion as to give her the appearance of one
convicted of an actual crime.

Who would have thought of seeing you
here ? ' she ejaculated.

That is what all criminals say when the
policeman detects them in flagrante delicto returned
Mark. ' I am here on guard ; but if I
once set to work at my books I should forget you.
My instructions are to make myself agreeable
to Miss Trenna Garston, and on no account tolet
her mope or leave the house without my
company. I've given myself a holiday from
my magnum opus for that very purpose.'

But I am going a long walk, Mark : much
too long for your taste.'

Never mind ; if I walk till I drop I shall
walk with you. I am not going to neglect the
History for mere enjoyment at the fireside.
Come on.'

It was plain that Mark had nerved himself
for self-sacrifice : and when for once in a way
a man does that, he doesn't like to be disappointed.
Trenna hesitated a moment, then
answered gravely, as if to some question in her
own mind rather than to her companion,
Perhaps it will be better so. Let us go together,
then, to Cook's Creek.'

CHAPTEE XXXV.
cook's creek.

Ir sometimes happens, although a woman maybe
young and fair, agreeable to a man in many
ways, and enjoying his esteem and regard, that
that man says to himself, when thinking of her,
Now if there were not another woman in the
world I could never marry that woman.'

I doubt whether, under the same circumstances,
a woman ever goes quite so far as
respects one of the other sex ; but a similar
feeling is nevertheless experienced. She
regards him readily enough as a friend, and
even as a brother, but carefully abstains from

picturing him to herself as a lover. Without
being at all repugnant to one another, there
may be something, in short, wanting in man or
woman, whether it is of earthly or Dive,
without which there can be no mutual flame.
However warm may be the friendship between
them — indeed, the greater the friendship,
strange to say, the stronger is this feeling of
recoil — it is never transmuted into the least
atom of love.

Thus it was with Mark Medway and
Trenna Garston. Thrown together early in
life, they had, as children, regarded one
another as brother and sister, and subsequent
familiarity had only strengthened them in that
relation. Mark, indeed, had only looked atone
woman in his life ^vith eyes of love, and
of that, as we know, he had bitterly repented ;
and though Trenna was dear to him on her

own account, she was dearer to him as Kit's
sister, who, in his absence, as was just now the
case, reminded him in her every glance and
motion of his beloved friend. If Trenna, on
the other hand, had been compelled to reveal
what she thought of Mark, she would have
confessed she liked him best as the staunch
ally and admirer of her brother. She knew
him, indeed, to be good and honest and kind,
which was a sufficient passport to her affections
: but he was too much of a dreamer to
suit her woman's fancy. There was not
enough stuff in him to make her ideal of what
a man should be.

Under these circumstances, there was not
the least danger in the way of flirtation in the
fact of these two young people being left alone
together, or in their undertaking in each other's
company the long and lonely walk which lay

before them. For, as Dr. Meade had said,
Cook's Creek was a very out-of-the-way spot,
approached by roads leading nowhere else,
save to a few homesteads, and passing over
desolate wolds and moors. It was more
practicable in water than in summer, for the
frost made the morasses passable, and the
blasts dried and withered the rank grasses, but
anything more dreary and lonesome than the
landscape in its February garb it was difficult
to imagine. It did not rain, but the sky was
heavy and dull, and the chi wind had ' built
up everywhere an under-roof of doleful grey.
Here and there, in some spot even more unfrequented
than the rest of the way, they put
up a solitary snipe, but otherwise, above,
around, beneath them, there was no sign of
life.

There are not many distractions hereabouts

to tempt Kit's miners from their work,'
observed Mark, as they climbed the last treeless
hill that lay between them and their journey's
end. They had talked at intervals on many
subjects on their way, and of course of Kit, but,
as if by mutual consent, the topic of the mine
had up to this moment been avoided. They
both had their doubts of it : Trenna had even a
secret doubt of its existence. They were like
two doctors called in to consult together on
some precarious case, and, travelling in company,
prudently refrain from speaking on the matter
in hand till they have seen the patient.

It had not been Trenna's intention to ask
Mark's opinion on Kit's new venture. He had
volunteered and even insisted on bearing her
company to the scene of its operations, and
must now needs have his say. On the whole
she was triad of it, for it would give her

an opportunity such as she could scarcely have
hoped for of giving him her views on the
matter.

As regarded her own fortunes in the future,
Kit was welcome to take his own way in the
world, with whatever consequences it might be
fraught ; but she was resolutely determined
that no member of that loving household at the
Knoll should suffer through his recklessness or
imprudence.

That ' Kit's miners ' in her companion's
remarks jarred upon her : it seemed to imply
that the whole enterprise owed its being to her
brother, which, though it was only too likely
that it did, she was ill pleased should be taken
for granted.

'You must remember, Mark, that Kit is
less master than man here,' she answered, reprovingly.
' It requires capital to start an

VOL. II. u

undertaking of this kind, and he has no knowledge
of mining matters. He must needs, there -
fore, be in the hands of others. It would be
hard indeed to hold him responsible should the
affair be a failure.'

Let us hope, however, it will not be a
failure,' replied Mark, cheerfully. ' Here weare
at the top of the hill. Now, whereabouts
is the mine, I wonder ? '

If he expected to see chimneys and storehouses,
and the whole landscape before him a
human ant-hill of bustle and handiwork, he
must have wondered very much.

Beneath them a valley of considerable
extent sloped down to the sea. On one side of
it had stood a wood, but this had been cut down
(perhaps to make the ship that had never gone
to sea), save a few large stumps looking like
gigantic toadstools. The earth appeared to

produce nothing but large stones, which grew
very fine and large indeed when it neared the
beach. In the midst of them, after much
searching, the eye fell upon a little hut, from
the chimney of which smoke was issuing. This
was the office of the Cook's Creek ^linins^
Company : a large black speck beside it was
the mine.

There doesn't seem to be much going on,*
observed Mark ; ' perhaps it's the dinner-hour.'

Trenna answered nothing : that one glance
from the hill top had been enough for her.
The Cook's Creek ]whine was ' a sham and a
delusion,' and only too probably ' a snare.' It
bore failure upon the face of it, if that can be
called failure which resulted from so impotent
an attempt at success.

Perhaps the workmen are in the mine,'
suggested Mark.

r 2

Perhaps,' she answered, wearily. ' Let us
go down to it.'

In her secret heart she began to doubt
whether there was a mine — whether the hole
was deep enough to conceal any workmen.
Was it possible that a mere prospectus, however
glowing, with such material as this to
work upon, or to pretend to work upon, could
deceive anybody? Certainly not, if any intending
subscriber to the undertaking should
come to look at his proposed investment with
his own eyes. But would they come to look
at it ? She remembered that it was pointed out
as being among the superior attractions of the
mine that it was not in South America, as other
mines were in which the public were only too
often induced to sink their hard-earned gains,
but in their native land, open to the investigation
of every one. ' We court investigation,'

I

said the prospectus. But how uuhkely it was
that the invitation would be accepted ! The
place was nine miles from Mogadion, and
totally unknown to the majority of its inhabitants
; it was three hundred miles from London,
where the greater part of its ' adventurers '
resided. For one that would take the journey
to the mme a hundred Avould take the printed
representations on trust. To the agricultural
eye the spot was worthless ; but to the commercial
eye — or to that not uncommon variety
of it that looks to profits without regard to
principle — the situation had its advantages. It
was admirably adapted for the proceedings of
a bubble company.

As they drew near to the hut a man in
broadcloth emerged from it, smoking a cigar.
He was a tall, stout, vulgar-looking fellow,
with black whiskers, which met in a ' Xewo^ate

frill ' under his chin. He took off his hat, in
compliment, presumably, to Trenna's presence,
with an exaggerated bow, as they drew near.

I beg pardon,' he said, in a pompous
voice, addressing Mark, ' but you are doubtless
unaware that you are trespassing. This is the
property of the Cook's Creek Mining Company,
of which I am the humble representative.'

'The engineer?' inquired Mark, with a
smile he could not suppress at the idea of the
right of way through such a wilderness being
disputed.

No : the local agent. My name is
Archibald Martin — at your service.'

Dear me ! if you had not told me that,'
said Mark, simply, ' I could have sworn your
name was Brabazon. T seem to remember you
quite well at Ludlow's.'

I never was at Ludlow in my life, Mr.

Med way : there must be some mistake. Perhaps
you have made another in coming to the
Creek for shares ; that is altogether irregular :
your application must be made in writing to
the Directors in Lombard Street.'

We had no intention of that kind, I assure
you,' answered Mark, drily ; ' our motive, I
must confess, was mere curiosity. We wished
to see the works.'

'At present that is impossible,' returned
the agent. ' Everything is just now in embryo
: the plant has not yet come down from
London.'

Trenna, who, thanks to her brother, was
not altogether ignorant of slang terms, thought
to herself, ' There I disagree with you. If Kit
was here, and an independent witness, he
would be the first to recognise " the plant "
from London.'

I am sorry our visit lias been paid so
early,' said Mark, civilly : ' but we have come
a long distance. I hope you will let us see
what there is to be seen.'

I dare not do it, sir,' exclaimed the agent,
throwing up a pair of large fat hands adorned
with rings : ' it is contrary to orders. Any investigation
of the works in their present unfinished
state would give you a most unfavourable
and false impression.'

'There is something in that,' admitted
Mark, who was by no means anxious to spy
out the nakedness of the land. Since Kit was
concerned in the undertaking he was unwilling
to be convinced of its worthlessness : it was
characteristic of him to prefer to hope for the
best rather than to learn the worst.

Perhaps if you knew my name, Mr.
Martin,' said Trenna, quietly, 'you would

reconsider your decision. I am Miss Garston,
sister to Mr. Christopher Garston, who is connected
with the mine, I believe.'

Indeed ! ' The agent looked at her with
great curiosity. ' So you are the Miss Trenna
of whom I have often heard my friend Garston
speak.'

Mark turned crimson with anger : first, that
he should speak of Kit as his friend ; secondly,
that he should have addressed Kit's sister so
familiarly. Of this, however, Mr. Martin perceived
nothing : his eyes were riveted upon
Trenna. ' To be sure,' he continued, ' you areas
like Christopher Garston as one pea is like
another. I ought to have known you for his
sister at first sight.' Notwithstanding his
recognition of her, however, he still hesitated
to comply with her request. Trenna guessed
the reason ; he was wondering whether she

possessed her brother's confidence — whether it
would be safe to show her the poor beginnings
of the Cook's Creek venture.

'My brother has no secrets from me, Mr.
Martin,' she said, smiling. ' Mr. Med way,
here, is his intimate friend; we are both
Cornish bred, and do not expect to see in a
new mine all the appurtenances of the Great
Devon Consols or the Botallack.'

'Well, well, if you must, you must,' returned
the agent ; ' but it's like showing you
a clock without the works : there are really no
works. A few men are performing the mere
preliminary operations — that is all.'

He led the way to the back of the hut,
where a great hole was gaping ; it was sunk to
the depth of about thirty feet or so, where it
became filled up with rubbish. ' All that has
to come out, of course. It will be done in a

few days, as soon as the machinery arrives.
The lodes are known to be very rich. The
eyes " of the mine have never been picked out.'
Trenna knew that this was the technical
expression for the lodes left in a mine to
furnish a steady supply of ore dien other parts
of it should prove unproductive ; but Mr.
Martin, she observed, used the phrase as her
parrot would have done : he was evidently
proud of the possession of it. ' We have the
eyes to begin with, till we get our ordinary
output, which, it is estimated, will be enormous,'
he went on. Trenna nodded, but added to
herself, ' This is no miner. How could Kit be
so foolish as to send such a man down here —
with a velvet waistcoat and a gold chain, too
to play his part so ill ? ' Then she reflected,
with a sinking of the heart, that this man's
very ignorance might under some circumstances

be his recommendation. Perhaps he believed
in the mine, which certainly no man with any
pretence to be a genuine ' adventurer ' would
have done. He went on, with great fluency
and a plausible manner, to dilate upon the
prospects of the undertaking. ' We have not
got our staff yet, nor even our men. Those
fellows yonder are marking out the site for the
reverberatory furnace.' He pointed to two
men, with a spade and a wheelbarrow with
but one leg. Trenna wondered whether that
was ' the old machinery ' the utilisation of
which had so greatly ' decreased the estimate
of working expenses.' The men could hardly
dig the stones lay so thick in Cook's Creek,
but between every other stroke had to use
their pickaxes. ' The reverberatory furnace,
as you are doubtless aware,' continued Mr.
Martin, speaking like a popular lecturer, ' is

necessary for the deposition of the tin. Cook's
Creek Mine is nominally a tin mine, but is also
extraordinarily rich in copper ore. The two
are commonly found in close juxtaposition, as
I will presently show you. The space to the
left will be occupied by an engine of one-thousand
horse power. The ladders used in the
old workings will be dispensed with and their
place supplied by ascending rods. That is,
briefly, what is to take place. Our first output
is confidently looked for in the course of a
few weeks.'

Mr. Martin had evidently here come to the
end of his tether, and was falling back on the
prospectus.

It is all very interesting,' said Mark, not
knowing what else to say, and feeling exquisitely
uncomfortable. He felt that there
was something wrong, and trembled for Kit,

who, he feared, had rashly connected himself
with an enterprise about which, with all his
cleverness, he must needs be technically
ignorant. He knew nothing about such
matters himself, but he felt it would be his
duty to warn Kit. He was about to turn
homeward with a sigh when Mr. Martin
beckoned them into the office, and cautiously
closed the door behind them.

Now, look here,' he said, addressing himself
to Mark, ' I would not show these things
to everybody, but only to one like you, who
are an intimate friend of Mr. Garston.' He
pointed to a deal table, on which were various
specimens of metal. 'That is our black tin,
and that is our white. Here, you see, are great
nuggets of tin and copper in conjunction.
Now, you would scarcely believe that within
these last few days, and with the very imper-feet

— urn — machinery we at present possess,
we have already extracted what you see here.
Eyes " indeed ! They would make some
people open their eyes and mouths too, if they
could only see them. We don't want the
shares to run up too quickly to a premium.
Slow and sure," that's our motto. I don't
want to boast, but this time next year, as sure
as my name is Archibald Martin, the Cook's
Creek Mine shares ^vill be higher than any in
Great Britain.'

Let us hope so, at all events,' replied
Mark, in as cheerful a tone as he could muster.
His gaze was fixed upon the ground, but
Trenna, looking at the agent with fixed, incredulous
eyes, beheld him, to her horror and
disgust, wink at her. It was not an amorous
wink — under the circumstances she would
almost have preferred it to have been so : it

was the sort of wink which one rogue may be
supposed to give another in the presence of
some yokel on whom they are together playing
off some trick. It said, as plainly as an eye
could speak, ' If all fools were like this fool,
the Cook's Creek Mine would be a fortune to
you and me

CHAPTEE Xxxii.
teenj^a's appeal.

Mr. Archibald Martins although he was held
by his admirers to be a sharp fellow, acknowledged
even by his enemies to possess some
cunning, and thought by himself to be an exceedingly
clever man, was, as we are aware, by
no means correct in his reckoning when he set
down Mark Medway as a fool. He was not
even right in imagining that he had imposed
upon him as respected the flourishing condition
of the affairs of the Cook's Creek Mining
Company, though there were circumstances —
quite beyond Mr. Martin's comprehension —

VOL. II. X

which prompted Mark to think of them as well
as he could. To have imagined that there was
fraud in the matter was impossible for him,
since that would have reflected upon Kit ; but so
much of suspicion had been aroused as moved
him — as Trenna and he climbed in silence, and
with desponding steps, that stony hill together —
to dwell upon their late companion rather than
upon the mine itself.

That gentleman with the rings and watch-chain,'
he presently remarked, * does not
impress me favourably, Trenna.'

Nor me,' was the grave rejoinder.
I cannot dispossess myself of the impression
that I have known him before, when he was
not so gorgeously decorated.'

He certainly knew you Mark, for he
addressed you as " Mr. Medway " before I
mentioned your name.'

To be sure, so he did ; I didn't notice that.
I might, however, have been pointed out to
him in Mogadion.'

Trenna shook her head. ' No ; I observed
him narrowly, and I saw it was a sip of
the tongue, of which he repented the next
moment. His pretence, too, of taking your
at Ludlow's " for '' at Ludlow " was ingenious,
but it was a failure. Who was this Mr.
Brabazon ? '

An usher at the school. Not a very
respectable person, I am sorry to say. Kit — for
I was too young to be a judge of that — used
to tell me as much. It was a great piece of
impertinence in him, if he really is Brabazon,
to call dear Kit his friend.'

Misery, that is to say, poverty,' observed
Trenna, gravely, ' makes us familiar ^\'ith
persons as well as things, for whom we have

x2

little liking. That fellow would not have dared
to talk as he did ' — to wirik as he did was what
she was saying to herself, for the humiliation of
the man's having tacitly made a confidante of
her, and against Mark, of all men, had wounded
her to the quick — ' unless he had some hold on
Kit.'

Hold on him ! ' answered Mark, quickly,
and coming to a full stop. 'What do you mean,
Trenna? I am quite sure that Kit has never
done anything to be ashamed of or which he
fears another should speak about. The dear
old fellow has his faults, perhaps ' — that
perhaps ' was quite touching : he seemed to
apologise for admitting that his friend was
human — ' but they are all on the surface.'

That is true,' acquiesced Trenna. ' His
frank speech and natural manner often cause
people to misjudge him.'

Of course they do,' replied Mark, enthusiastically.
' He carries his heart on his sleeve ;
that is why, though they are far from being
days, the Doctor and Mr. Penryn have never
appreciated him. The idea of Kit's having a
secret belonging to him is preposterous : he
would tell it to the first person he met, or, if he
met nobody, to the parrot.'

Still, my dear Mark, he may have secrets
which are not his own, and which this man
shares with him. We are quite certain that
it is not friendship that has drawn them
together.'

Secrets ! What secrets ? '

Well, you must not suppose that I wish to
say anything against dear Kit, but these speculations
are so different from ordinary schemes.
Every device is used to inflate them : things
are put forward to enhance their value to the

public which ought not to have that effect at
all.'

Yes, yes,' admitted Mark, striking the
pebbles impatiently with his stick.

And what is worse, things are kept back.
When a man finds himself committed to a
scheme of this sort he scarcely knows where to
stop as regards keeping silence.'

I understand that,' said Mark. ' There is
a certain esprit de corps which makes a partisan
of him. He doesn't see what is objectionable,
as an outsider does, or he takes rose-coloured
views of it. It is wrong In one sense, but to
some extent he is driven to it — noblesse oblige'

Trenna looked at him with softened eyes.
It moved her to hear this man, himself the very
soul of honour, and who would, on the very
instant of detecting it, have proclaimed from
the house-tops the falsehood of any scheme

with which he had been himself connected,
thus making excuses beforehand for the possible
frailty of his friend.

Just so, dear Mark. There are, of course,
degrees of wrong-doing — of (emission and commission.
When that man yonder, for example,
affirmed that before the year was out the shares
of his mine would be at as high a premium
as those of any in Great Britain, he told a
gratuitous and superfluous falsehood.'

Nay, he said he was as sure of it as that
his name was Archibald Martin, that was all,'
observed Mark, slily. The remark was more
characteristic of Kit than of himself; but the
fact was, as Trenna guessed, that Mark just
now preferred not to be serious, in order to
escape from certain considerations which,
though he affected to treat them lightly, gavin
him grave discomfort and concern.

My dear Mark,' she rejoined earnestly,
you cannot suppose that this topic is welcome
to me ; in any other case but yours, indeed, I
should say that it must needs be much more
painful to me than to you, but you love Kit so
dearly that I am not even sure of that. It is
solely for your sake, and for the sake of those
dear to you (though hardly less dear to me),
that I pursue it. There is no knovsring to what
lengths this esprit de corps, as you charitably
term it, of dear Kit's may lead him. It is
possible he may have persuaded himself that
this scheme is a sound one : a staff to trust to
instead of a sharp reed that will wound the
hand of any one who leans on it ; and, if so
convinced, he may use his wondrous powers of
persuasion to convince others. I entreat you
not to listen to him, charm he never so wisely.
Mark, Mark ' — here she seized his wrist, and

confronted him with entreating eyes — ' I
implore it ! '

My dear Trenna, do not fear,' he answered,
smiling. ' The risk has been run — if there were
any risk — and is over. It is not a week ago
smce I offered him all the assistance — not
much, goodness knows ! — which I could give
him in this very enterprise ; and he refused it ! '

Thank Heaven, thank Heaven for that ! '
exclaimed Trenna, earnestly.

It is quite right to be thankful for even
the smallest mercies,' said Mark, coldly. ' But
really, to hear you talk, Trenna, and if I didn't
know both him and you, one would think
your brother was a robber ! '

Trenna turned deadly pale. It was so
terrible to her to hear such loving trust misplaced
that she shrank from the contradiction
that was expected of her.

If he were,' she said quickly, and with a
forced smile, ' he would rob all the world round
before he robbed you. No, Mark, of course
he would never designedly injure you or yours.
But he might do so unfeignedly, and even
under the impression that he was doing you a
benefit. There is something in the Bible
against being surety even for a friend ; I used
to know it once.'

Nous avons change tout cela put in Mark,
still highly displeased. 'I have heard all
about that from Kit, and it is the only matter
on which he and I ever had any serious disagreement.


Leave thou thy sister, when she prays,
Her early Heaven, her happy views,
Nor thou with shadowed hint confuse
A life that leads melodious days,

is good advice in my opinion,'

It may be so,' she answered, with a sigh,
'though my days. Heaven knows, could
hardly have been called " melodious." But we
wander from the point. I say that when
Solomon wrote against suretyship he had had
no experience of an unlimited company, or he
would have expressed himself even more
strongly. I know little of these things, but I
know that. You say you had not much to
offer him. I tell you that to risk a hundred
pounds in such an enterprise as that of Cook's
Creek would be as disastrous as to risk ten
thousand.'

My dear Trenna, you must be the writer
of the " City " article in the Mogadion Gazette,'
returned Mark, smiling. ' You talk like a
book— the " Ready Reckoned." '

Mark, Mark,' she cried, wringing her

hands in piteous entreaty, ' for the sake of all
you hold dear on earth do not treat this matter
lightly!'

But, my dear Trenna,' he answered gently,
'have I not already told you that Kit has
refused my aid ?

'Then promise me you will not offer it
again.'

Very good : I do promise it.'

And that if he asks you for pecuniary
help — notwithstanding that he has already
declined it — promise me also that you will
deny him.'

Nay, that is too much : My purse is my
friend's, and so far as it will stretch '

I mean, of course,' she interrupted, ' as far
as regards this particular purpose. You may
give him all you have and get off cheaply in
comparison with putting your name on paper

in connection with this scheme. Promise me,
upon your word and honour, that you will
never do that.'

'Eeally, Trenna,' he hesitated, 'you are
very hard on me, and harder still on Kit.'

Promise me See, there is the pony-carriage
with your mother and Maud — promise
before they come up ; if you do not, so sure as
I am a living woman I will appeal to them to
save you from yourself and them from you.
Promise me, I say.'

The earnestness and fervour in her face
were amazing to witness ; it was plain enough
that if he refused her she would keep her
word.

Well, well, then ; I do promise it, Trenna.
I will have no hand in this mine either literally
or metaphorically ; though I do think you are
very hard on Kit. I don't mean that, of

course,' he added hastily, for, to his alarm and
astonishment, she had burst into a passion of
tears. ' Don't be angry with me, Trenna ; you
can't suppose that I don't know you love him.'
'I am not angry with you, Mark,' she
sobbed : ' I am more thankful to you than
words can say ; and as to Kit, the day will
come when, looking on those dear ones yonder,
you will bless me for having been so " hard
upon him," and when Kit will bless me too.'

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME,

tendon : f Hinted BY

BPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Squab

AND Parliament Street

'^J^

.w.^;.-?imiw*''

3 0112 08421632

^,v^

^ ^ \

rV

V \

1^^ T-^^ U >■

A^"X5^"

J

fess

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/kitmemory03payn

VOL. Ill,

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : an

Impossible Story. By Walter Besant. Illustrated by
Fred. Barnard, 3 vols, crown 8vo.

VALENTINA : a Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope.

With a Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A, 2 vols.
post 8vo.

VAL STRANGE : a Story of the Primrose Way. By
David Christie Murray, Author of 'Joseph's Coat' &c.

3 vols, crown 8vo.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon,

Author of ' Robin Gray ' &c. 3 vols, crown Svo.

GIDEON FLEYCE. By Henry W. Lucy. 3 vols.

crown Svo.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter.

3 vols, crown Svo.

NEW ARABIAN NIGHTS. By R. Louis Stevenson.

I vol. crown Svo.

CHATTO &> W INDUS, PICCADILLY, W.

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF ' LOST SIR Massinger ' ' BY PROXY ' ' HIGH SPIRITS
'Under ONE roof' 'a GRAPE FROM A THORN* ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

bonbon
CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[AH rights reservedness

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Square

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

01'

THE T H I E D VOLUME.

XXXVII. At the Crown? . , - . 1

XXXVIII. An Audacious Proposition . . 18

XXXIX, Tenantless 33

XL. Bad News 49

XLL A Check. . . , . . 66

XLII. An Ally 91

XLIII, Mrs. Med way sees her Mistake , 100

XLIV. The Worst. . . , . . 112

XLV. Not to be convinced . . .135

Xlvi The Subpoena 159

XLVII. Advisers 184

LJI. Mrs. Morton 277

CHAPTEE Xxxvi,

AT TSE CEOWX.

Peo^iptxess and energy will do much in this
world, more perhaps than any other two
practical virtues, but it is piteous to reflect how
often they are wasted. We may put our
shoulders to the wheel on the instant, and keep
at it ; we may not leave a stone unturned for
the attainment of the desired object ; yet it
falls like ripe fruit into the lap of some one else
who has hardly troubled himself to hold out
his hand for it. What is less disappointing, but

VOL. III. B

equally flouts poor human endeavour, our object
is sometimes attained by quite other methods.

None but Trenna herself knew what she
suffered in saying what she did to Mark
Med way, to persuade him to have nothing todo
with her brother's venture ; that he should
have pronounced her 'hard on Kit' was a proof
how vehemently she had pleaded against her
own instincts ; indeed, while she did so, a still,
small voice which was not that of conscience —
conscience was ' retained on the other side ' —
never ceased to whisper to her, ' Disloyal, disloyal
! ' She almost felt like an informer who
betrays his confederate, though not for gain.
It was by a desperate effort that she had
persuaded herself to play the part she had
done ; it was only by a dead lift that she had
overcome Mark's objections, and made him
promise to steer clear of Cook's Creek ; yet, as

it turned out, she might have spared all her
pains. If heat and force can ever be spent in
vain, so it was in her case.

The next day Kit came down to Mogadion
to the Crown, where, under pretence of
business preventing his going to the Knoll that
evening, he got Mark to dine with him.

Why, how gay you look, Kit ! ' were his
friend's first words. And indeed Kit's appearance
had undergone a considerable change.
He had been wont to be very careless in his
attire ; whereas he was now dressed in the
height of fashion, with a small but costly pin in
his scarf and sparkling rings on his fingers.
Yet he did not look at all like Mr. Archibald
Martin : he was a man whom even finery
could not vulgarise.

I am glad you think so, my dear Mark,'
he answered, with a smile brighter than his

jewels ; ' I am, indeed, an Embodied Success —
the living image of Prosperity ; and I am very
willing to appear so. *' If the manager is so
flourishing the mine must flourish " is the
deduction I wish the good folks hereabouts
to make.'

Mark's face fell at these words. ' Of course
you have been to Cook's Creek, and think it
all rubbish,' Kit continued. ' True, all that is
to be seen there is rubbish, but not what is
underneath it. My conviction is that it will bethe
greatest success of any mine in the West of
England.'

Mark thought of Brabazon, with his 'assure
as my name is Archibald Martin,' and
gave an involuntary sigh.

'I see that is not your view, my dear
Mark. Very good, time will show. In the
meantime let us dine.'

Kit was not only gay but in boisterous
spirits ; but to Mark's thinking they were not
his old spirits. He was altered in other ways
besides his attire : his face had a more mature
expression ; his air and tone, though still
natural and eager, were more those of a man
of the world than of one in this ' hot youth,'
and for Kit's sake, though not for his own
for there was nothing wanting in the
way of cordiality and affection — Mark felt
that he preferred, as painters say, his 'early
manner.'

The dinner-table was set forth with the
best that the inn could furnish, but Mark
noticed that his friend drank nothing but
champagne. He drank a great deal of it, and
never ceased to talk. He spoke of their old
school-days, of Mark's mother and Maud, of
Trenna, of the Eector, and the Doctor. His

very omission to speak of Frank caused Mark,
perhaps, to allude to him.

'Meade wrote to us that he had seen you
in London the other day.'

Ah ! you mean some weeks ago. I was
rather depressed just then, and I dare say gave
him that impression. Things were not going
so well as they do now

Indeed, he took a very cheerful view, Kit,
and wrote of you most kindly

That was very good of him. He probably
did so out of pity. Nothing amuses me more
than the commiseration which your plodder so
often exhibits towards men of impulse and
energy. Nobody is so astonished as he when
they achieve success.'

My dear Kit ! '

'Oh, I am not angry, Mark, I do assure
you ! but to be patronised by Frank Meade is a

little too much. I have not a word to say
against him, mind. Indeed, since he is your
friend, he would be safe from my shafts in any
case ; but I confess his praises weary me. He
has always been thrown at my head, and held
up to me as a good example. The fact is,
there is no more comparison between us than
between a dog and a fish. We are not in the
same plane.'

Quite true, Kit : you are both, however,
excellent fellows, each in your own way.'

Thank you,' said Eat, drily ; it was plain
he was deeply offended.

I hope I have not annoyed you, Kit, by
mentioning you and Frank together ; I did not,
of course, imply equality as regards my own
affection. You know that I have no friend on
earth like you : one whom I love so much, or
would do so much to serve.'

Here Mark stopped and coloured. Suppose
that Kit should put him to the test by asking
him to do the very thing that he had promised
Trenna not to do !

I do believe it, Mark ; forgive my
petulance: I am a very woman for jealousy.
Perhaps, too, prosperity has spoilt me a little.
You know I have never been accustomed
to it.'

Nevertheless, my dear fellow,' said Mark,
smiling, ' while contributing so much to the
enjoyment of others, you have also enjoyed
yourself pretty well, I think. It is something,
surely, to be the favourite of every one.'

A plaything to be cast aside when it ceases
to amuse. No, Mark, I prefer my present role
that of the favourite of fortune. Six months
ago — nay, one month — I could never have
supposed it possible that I should occupy a

position of such emolument and trust as I hold
at present.'

There is none so pleased as I, Kit, to hear
you say so.'

I am sure of that, Mark. The Braithwaites
have behaved admirably to me ; the old gentleman
was coy at first, but I have overcome his
objections, and he now sees how judicious was
my advice ; the shares of the mine are already
nearly at par. This was a little tribute of
acknowledgment the directors gave me.'

Kit took from his pocket a small shagreen
box containing a diamond ring, and placed it in
Mark's hand. It was a most splendid jewel, a
rose diamond — that is to say, a hemisphere
covered with facets — of large size and an intense
brilliancy.

Good Heavens, Kit ! Why, this must have
cost a fortune.'

I had not the delicacy to inquire how
much,' answered Kit, smiling, 'but I fancy
that the price must have run to four figures.
That is only an earnest, however, of what the
Board will do for me if I succeed in furthering
'their interests. Money is plentiful enough with
us; your offer of pecuniary help, if, through
being so like yourself it had not reminded me
of our life-long friendship, would have amused
me ; but of good names, and especially of good
local names, we are still in need. That is, in
fact, the chief reason of my presence here.'

Kit had risen from his seat, the dinner
being concluded, and was pacing the room
rapidly with a cigar in his mouth. Mark,
smoking his huge meerschaum pipe, leant back
in his chair, with his eyes fixed on his own
boots. 'Now, now,' he thought to himself.
Kit is surely about to ask me to allow my

name to be set down as one of his local committee.
Trenna entreated me to keep her
intervention a secret from him, and upon
what ground can I possibly refuse the dear
fellow?'

As to you, Mark,' Kit continued, after a
long pause, ' I remember, of course, that you
were so good as to say that not only your
purse but your name was at our disposal :
there could be no sort of harm, but, on the
contrary, great opportunities of profit, in your
joining the directorate; but there would
certainly be some degree of risk ; and risk I
would never ask you to incur on my account.
Nay, don't tempt me,' for Mark had been about
to speak, ' about that I am determined. To
drag a friend into any commercial venture is
worse than to compel a relative to employ one
professionally. But though I don't wish for

your vote, I hope you will have no objection to
give us your interest.'

*I don't quite understand,' murmured
Mark ; but secretly he had a strong suspicion
that this proposition was worse than the other.

'Well, you can do us good in this way
without compromising yourself in the least.
You are a man whom everybody likes and
respects. If any one asks you about the mine
you may say with truth that for your part you
know nothing about it ; but that persons of
whose intelligence you have a good opinion
have spoken to you of its prospects in the
highest terms. Now, there's your friend the
General, for example. The three hundred a
year which is given to every one on the Committee
of Direction is a bait which, as I happen
to know, is attracting him. If he applies to
you, just say a good word for us,'

You mean for the Cook's Creek Mining
Company ? ' inquired Mark, looking up in great
confusion.

Well, yes, of course ; I venture to flatter
myself that you Twould speak favourably of me
individually, but, then, I don't want to appear
in the matter, because to an outsider — one who
does not know me as you do — I must needs
appear an interested party. Now, the General's
name, though he is as poor as a rat, would
be a tower of strength to us ; for the public at
large will not know that he is poor, whereas
those who run may read — for his address will
be printed big enough — that he lives at Moat
Park, Mogadion. There is nothing like a local
magnate.'

My dear Kit, I can't do it,' said Mark,
simply. ' The fact is — pray forgive me for
speaking so plainly — I don't believe in

the mine. You see, I've seen it,' he added
naively.

I don't ask you to believe in it ; I only
ask you to say you believe in those connected
with it.'

In Mr. Brabazon, for instance ? ' answered
Mark, in desperation. 'My dear Kit, I can't
do it.'

'Brabazon!' echoed Kit, with a light laugh;
« so you have run that cunning fox to earth,
have you ? And he imagined himself to be so
cunning! You thought it odd, no doubt, to
find him under a new name, and employed
in such very different work to that he was
accustomed to at old Ludlow's. Well, so it
was odd. But he had reasons of his own — ^^^
hundred of them — for changing his name. An
uncle — one Mr. Martin — left a thousand
pounds between him and his sister ; and as to

his change of calling, ushership is no inheritance,
or even a livelihood. We give him five
pounds a week and his expenses, and he thinks
himself in clover.'

I don't like him. Kit, and never did. I
remember the time when you warned me
against him as being an unprincipled fellow.'

'I was a purist then, my dear Mark. I
now know we must take men as we find them.'
'But one need not make friends of such
people,' answered Mark, gravely. 'The man
spoke of you with a familiarity which, I must
say, annoyed me exceedingly.'

He did, did he ? ' said Kit, with a quick
frown ; ' that is like his impudence. He is a
deuced impudent fellow, but he is a very
serviceable instrument, and that is all the
Company has to consider. Now let us have
done with Cook's Creek. If it were full of

gold, instead of 'tin, it would not pay me for
one jarring note in our friendship. We will
agree to differ upon that matter till time shows
which of us is right

Then, without another allusion to the topic,
nor (which was a great relief to Mark) to the
General, the two friends fell to talking of old
times. Even in this it was curious to see from
what a different standpoint each regarded the
life which they had left behind them. Mark
recalled it with enthusiasm ; dwelt with delight
on this and that adventure ; spoke of this and
that companion with kindness and fervour,
and became, as it were, a boy again. Kit, on
the other hand, regarded his past not merely asa
something from which he had cut his cable and
parted, but ah extra — as though it had been
the life of another man. He spoke of even
his own part in that played-out drama with

cynicism, and of the play itself as if it had not
been worth the footlights. Only, when Mark
alluded to such incidents as illustrated their
boyish friendship, and proved (as many did)
how closely they had been knit together, his eyes
softened, his lips wore their brightest smile, and
across his keen and eager features there flashed
for an instant, like a reflection across a mirror,
a likeness of the boy.

They parted at a late hour, with a long and
earnest hand-shake. ' To-morrow you will seeme
at the Knoll,' said Kit. 'My love to Trenchant
your dear mother, and ' — there was a
moment's hesitation; he had never sent his
love to her before — * and to Maud.'

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XXXVIII.

kl AUDACIOUS PROPOSITION.

Mark was far too loyal a friend, and, indeed,
iu any case, had too kind a heart to mention
to others the doubts he had expressed to Kit
respecting the Cook's Creek affair. But he
told his people at the Knoll in what high spirits
Kit himself was about it, and in particular how
highly the Company thought of his services,
with a most glowing description of the diamond
ring. To Trenna's private questioning he
replied, with truth, that in his opinion her
brother had a genuine belief in the success of
the mine.

It was on Trenna's lips to say, ' Ah, how
little you know him ! ' but she had already gone
far enough in decrying Kit, if not too far.
Indeed, when Mark told her that her brother
had not only made no demand on his purse, but
had declined, upon the ground of ' risk,' even
to ask him for the loan of his name as a contribution
to the new enterprise, her conscience
pricked her. ' I ought to have known, whatever
were his own illusions,' she said, ' that Kit
would never have led you into danger.'

About the General and Llr. Brabazon
Mark said nothing, even to Trenna, so that
she was really somewhat reassured, while ]airs.
Medway received Kit with the most cordial
congratulations, as one who was taking fortune
at the flood

It is such a pleasure to us all to see you
c2

back again, dear Kit,' said Maud, ' and especially
under such prosperous circumstances.'

To other ears that phrase ' to us all ' would
have sounded ill as regarded his prospects as a
suitor, but Kit had an immense reliance upon
his own powers of persuasion, nor did he sufficiently
estimate the effect of absence upon
personal influence ; while as to any rival he
was ignorant of his existence. He imagined
Maud to be just as he left her on that day of
her rescue from the river — a curious mistake
for a man of such intelligence to make, but
scarcely to be wondered at when, every day,
we see folks, otherwise clever enough, but who
give way to fits of passion, expecting to see
others as pliant and amenable as usual within
five minutes of their having been anathematised
and ' flown at.'

To be welcomed by so many lovuig hearts,

after his lonely life in London, seemed to them
to touch Kit to the quick, but the sense of contrast
in other respects was stronger, perhaps,
than they imagined. The Medwayss, indeed,
had a notion, which he did not discourage, that
most of his time had been spent with the
Braithwaites, in scenes of great wealth and
luxury, concerning which Maud would rally
him, pretending that this and that which had
once contented him at the Knoll now palled
upon his pampered taste ; whereas the fact was
he was so full of thought that matters which
had formerly given him pleasure were now unnoticed.
And this, too, if he had not been so
self-confident, would have aroused his doubts of
her, for it is not the manner of young ladies,
when welcoming after long absence the man
they love, to indulge in raillery. He took it,
however, all in good part save once when Maud

referred to the diamond ring which, in addition
to the ' purse of ten thousand sequins
as she termed his salary, the genii of the mine
had bestowed on him.

That ring is a private affair,' he said,
which Mark should have told you nothing
about.'

But you'll show it to us,' said Maud (again
using the plural where, had she loved him, she
would have used the singular); but he had
declined to do so, and even with some abruptness.


Why did you not show Maud the ring ? '
inquired Trenna of her brother, when they
were alone together,

Because it would have been a breach of
confidence,' he answered curtly ; ' I ought not
to have shown it to Mark.'

But he said it was such a very handsome

ring urged Trenna, with some anxiety. ' Was
it a douceur from the Directors, or what?'

Well, not exactly ; it was by way of
secret service money ; you shall see it, of
course, but I don't want any fuss made about
it.' But he never showed Trenna the ring.

In other respects he talked to her about
the Cook's Creek enterprise with great apparent
frankness.

As you have seen the mine,' he said, ' of
course you don't believe in it, and it is plain
that even Mark does not. I can't help that.
It is neither you nor he whom we wish to
convince. Our engineer reports well of it ; it
certainly used to be a good mine, and his
notion is that it was never properly worked.
It's a chance, of course, but in my opinion
it's a good chance. Men Uke Braithwaite don't
put their money into a stocking, much more

into a hole in the ground. The shares are
steadily rising. Still, what we are in want of
is local support. It has rather a " fishy " look
when among all the names of the subscribers
to the undertaking there is nobody who lives
within a hundred miles of the place. There is
nothing really in it, for, as no one is a hero to
his valet' de-chambre so no place is held in
much esteem by its next-door neighbour, but if
possible this hiatus must be filled up. As
Mark positively declines to use his influence, I
have no means of getting at the old General.'

Did you ask Mark to invite the General ? '
inquired Trenna, with a horror ia her tone
which showed that all her brother's eloquence
had failed to paint the Cook's Creek enterprise
in rose colour.

Yes ; did he not tell you so ? '

Not a word.'

^ Nor about Brabazon neither ? '

She shook her head. ' I know about that,'
she said gravely.

What a noble fellow Mark is,' mused Kit.

Yes, indeed ; but why with a friend like
him, and therefore knowing what a friend
should be, do you make a friend of Brabazon ?
He is a man who presumes upon it, I do assure
you.'

What, to you ? ' cried Kit, starting to his
feet.

'Yes, to me, 'He chose to take it for
granted that I was in league with you and
him, acquainted with all the intrigues and
deceptions you are compelled to practise.'

Oh, that was all, was it ; that's his way.
He's a coarse vulgar brute, but not ill-meaning.
And now to speak of another subject, though
hardly a more pleasant one. Is it really true

that our father that was has left Mogadion
for good and all ? '

I believe so, though no one knows exactly.
The day after I left him '

'You mean the day after he turned you
out of doors put in Kit, drily.

Well, the day after that, he was never, for
certain, seen again. There was a report that
he was met at Plymouth, but I could never
bring it home to any particular person. But it
is positive that he discharged his servants on
the same day that he discharged me, and
passed the next night in the Grey House by
himself. In the morning the place was found
shut up, the doors locked, and the shutters
closed, and so things have remained ever
since.'

'It's curious,' observed Kit, thoughtfully.
My own impression is that he has put that

notion of which he spoke into execution, and
gone to spend the rest of his days in Spain ;
in that case the house is ours, or can be treated
as such, till the lease is up, which will be a
twelvemonth hence. On the other hand the
whole thing may be a trap.'

A trap ? What for ? ' inquired Trenna,
nervously.

'To catch your humble servant. Having
passed his word to you not to molest me concerning
a certain matter, he may have repented
of his clemency. " I'll not prosecute the dog,"
he may have said to himself (and I can imagine
him saying it), " for that, but if he puts himself
in my power again I will pay off old scores."
K I took advantage, for instance, of his apparently
having left the Grey House for good
to dispose of the furniture, he might be down
upon me like a shot

Oh, Kit, what a horrid notion I '

Gad, he's quite capable of it — quite as
capable, I should say, as of leaving his furniture
— though, to be sure, it's not worth much
to rack and ruin, instead of selling it for
what it would fetch.'

I think you are mistaken there,' said
Trenna, gravely. ' If you had seen him, as I
saw him, that dreadful Christmas morning, you
would be convinced that profit and loss are not
in his mind. Such ideas were overmastered
and obliterated by stronger emotions.'

He must have been moved indeed, then,'
remarked Kit, sardonically.

He was moved. Never did I see a human
being so overcome with passion. It was a
terrible sight. Kit,' she added with a shiver,
and a terrible time.'

'No doubt, no doubt, my darling,' he

answered caressingly ; ' and you endured it for
my sake. I shall never forget that. Still, as
it has been undergone, one may as well get
what good one can out of it.'

You shall never sell that furniture. Kit,'
exclaimed Trenna, vehemently.

The furniture ? Pooh, rubbish ! Do you
suppose I am in want of a beggarly hundred
pounds ? '

I did not understand you had so much
money in hand,' said Trenna, regarding him
very earnestly. ' You only spoke of your
salary and your expectations, and I don't
suppose you would like to sell that beautiful
ring ?'

The ring ! Of course not,' he answered
impatiently. ' Why the deuce do you keep
harping on the ring? I don't know about
having " so much money " ; but I have plenty

to go on with till next pay day. At all events,
you need not fear my running the risk of
putting my head in the tiger's mouth for the
sake of a few sticks and carpets. On the
other hand, if the Governor has really cleared
out, the circumstance may be of the greatest use
to me.' Here he paused, as if in thought;
then added, ' What do you say to coming with
me this afternoon and taking a look at the old
place ? '

You don't mean inside-^ Kit ? ' answered
Trenna, in horrified accents.

Of course I do. You don't suppose he's
there, do you ? '

No ; at least, I am not sure. Oh, Kit,
will it be safe ? '

Safe I He can't bite one if he is there,
and there can surely be no harm in a son's
looking over his father's house.'

But he is no longer our father. He said
so, and he meant it.'

^ No doubt ; but nobody but ourselves will
believe that. We were the only people who
had the pleasure of his intimate acquaintance,
you see.'

Oh, Kit, how can you jest on such a
matter ? Is no subject sacred to you ? '

Sacred ! Do you call the man who has disowned
his own flesh and blood sacred ? Bah ! '

But the horror of it, the terror of it, Kit !
You have not suffered what I have suffered.
You didn't see him, you didn't hear him.'

That's true ; no doubt it was very unpleasant.
Well, you shan't be frightened, my
daring, even by a shadow. I'll go to the Grey
House by myself I shall start early this afternoon
while the light lasts.'

Very good. If you must, 3'ou must, and

it's better to get it over. But you shall not go
alone, Kit ; I will go with you.'

'I should, of course, prefer that, if you
don't mind,' he answered gently ; ' because it
is better there should be a witness.'

What for ? ' inquired Trenna, nervously.
'What of?'

Well, of my breaking into the house, of
course ; though there will be no difficulty in
that way.' She did not seem to hear him ; her
face was very pale, her eyes were full of a
vague fear. ' What time will you be going ? '
Immediately after lunch.'
Lunch ? ' It seemed amazing that he
should talk of such a thing as lunch with such
a visit in prospect.

Well, in other words, at half past one.
Will that suit you?'
I will be ready.'

CHAPTEE Xxxi.

Tenantless.

Although, as Kit had argued, there could
be nothing at the Grey House ' to bite ' them,
there was certainly something repellent, if not
menacing, in the aspect of their former home,
as the brother and sister beheld it on that
wintry day. It had never been an attractive
house, even in life — that is, when it had human
tenants — but in death it looked forbidding,
and even ghastly. Every one knows the
verses in which the Laureate has typified a
corpse by an empty house —
VOL. in. D

All within is dark and night,
In the windows is no light,
Nor any murmur at the door,
So frequent on its hinge before.
Close the door, the shutter close,

Or through the windows we shall set

The nakedness and vacancy
Of the dark, deserted house.

The windows and doors of the Grey House
had been closed by the hand of the owner ; and
by that act, it would seem, he had forbidden
others to enter, yet these two were come to spy
out its nakedness. Trenna trembled as the
garden gate clattered behind them, and they
crossed the lawn, strewn with sticks and leaves,
to the front door.

Is it really necessary to go in, Kit? ' she

whispered ; ^ you know best, but '

I do, my darling,' he put in quickly ; ' it
is absolutely necessary that I should see with
my own eyes that he is gone.'

She answered nothing, but what her pale

face and frightened eyes said was, ' But suppose
you should see with your own eyes that he is
not gone ? '

In physical dangers, and in the face of
moral difficulties, Trenna had the courage of a
lion ; but there was to her mind something of
sacrilege in what they were about to do. It
was just possible, too, she thought, that on the
morrow of that dreadful day of parting her
father's resolution to leave England might have
failed him ; that he might have given way to
reflections on his own desolate and forlorn condition,
and, finding himself in that melancholy
house alone, he might there and then have put
an end to his existence. As they stood under
his blinded window she whispered to her
brother her fears of what he might have
done.

I don't think it's at all likely, Tren,' he

d2

answered gravely. 'But, even so, it is better
to know the truth.'

Then she understood that the same idea had
actually been in her brother's mind that had
been in her own ; nay, was there still. He, like
her, thought it possible that somewhere in that
dark, deserted house might lie, or hang

The apprehension was so terrible that she
did not trust herself to dwell on it, but hurriedly
inquired of Kit whether the blacksmith
had not better be sent for to help them get
into the house.

No, no,' he said ; ' let us wash our dirty
linen at home, if we can. Just now it would
be ruin to me to have paragraphs in the paper
about my private affairs.'

But if — if anything has happened '

There will then, perhaps, be some other
way out of it,' he interrupted drily.

Wliat lie meant was, as she well understood,
that if her father was dead and had died
intestate, he would be his hek, and therefore
independent of consequences. Trenna herself
had no love for her parent ; it was impossible
she should have it, but she could not forget the
tie of blood ; she shuddered at her brother's
cold repudiation of it.

The place is fast enough,' he said, trying
the door with his. shoulder.

Great Heavens ! do not ring the bell,' she
cried ; for he was groping with his hand
among the branches of the withered creeper.
The notion of the bell echoing through the
deserted house, with none to answer it except,
perhaps, the dead, appalled her.

Pshaw ! I am looking for the key,' he
answered contemptuously. Then she remembered
that, when Kit or her father were out at

night, it sometimes used to be left in that
place of concealment, in order that they might
let themselves in. How long ago, and faraway,
such incidents, and the life that contained
them, seemed to be !

No, the key is gone ; I cannot see into
the hall for something across the keyhole.'

What, what ? ' ejaculated Trenna, whose
nerves were thoroughly disorganised.

Well, I suppose a cobweb. There is
nothing to be done here.'

'Then we must go back, I suppose,' said
Trenna, in a tone which was meant to be one of
disappointment, but which savoured unmistakably
of relief.

There are other ways of entering a house
than by the door,' he answered ; ' anS I think
I know one in this case.*

He walked round to the pantry window,

which, to all appearance, was strongly barred
by iron uprights shaped like javelins. Three
of these he shook lightly ; each of them in time
yielded, and passing them through the holes in
the bar that formed their cross support he laid
them on the margin of the flower-bed that
skirted the wall. There was now room enough
to pass through the bars, and it only remained
to open the window, which, as it happened,
was unbolted.

Trenna expressed no surprise at this operation,
and, indeed, her thoughts were too much
occupied to feel it ; but on Kit's lips was a
grim smile. How often had he let himself outby
that very way at night and let himself in
again, and no one within doors been any the
wiser. He was a man of business now, and
the remembrance of the follies of his youth
only evoked his contempt. It was seldom.

indeed, he reflected, such peccadilloes bring
anything but repentance, yet they were not
without their use in the present emergency.

Having effected an entrance for himself
through the pantry, he passed through the
kitchen, empty and cold, and, unbolting the
back door, admitted his sister.

It is strange how suddenly all the inanimate
things that minister to man decay when the
man is gone ; even his memory with his fellow-creatures
survives them. Though everything
on which Trenna set eyes was of course
familiar to her, they had already suffered
change. There was green on the walls and
grey on the floors, for where there was no
damp there was dust. Nothing had been
removed, save in her own sitting-room, where
the family portraits of the Gisartos had been
taken down, probably for transport to their

native land. Having cast off his descendants,
Mr. Garston, senior, had transferred his affections
to his ancestors, who were not in a
position to give him trouble. Tn their places
were black spaces, themselves looking like
pictures in the Rembrandt style, with the wallpaper
for their frames. On the ceiling was the
hook from which her bird's cage used to hang
the only object which had the slightest
association of pleasure or attachment for her.
If Poll had been dead instead of at the Knoll
(with nuts at discretion — though he had not
much of that — and in the highest feather) the
spectacle would have brought tears into her ^
eyes. If she had not taken him away with
her, it was her belief that he would have been
left to starve to death.

In the hall hung a coat or two, retaining
some ghastly similitude to the human form, but

with naught but the moth in them ; and on the
floor lay a great heap of letters which had
been thrust through the box and left by the
postman. Kit noticed that his father's hat and
umbrella were gone.

In the study, as the clients' room was
called, the spiders, with a fine sense of the
fitness of things, had spun their webs everywhere
— on the tin boxes with the dummy
deeds in them ; on the very chair-back on
which the lawyer used to lean, and across his
desk and drawers. But instead of the usual
litter of papers everything had been carefully
» put away. The clock upon the mantelpiece
pointed in silence to midnight or noonday.

All these things were plain enough, for Kit
had flung back the shutters and let the wintry
light in ; but there was no brightness anywhere.
The dust did not rise, for there was no

air ; but hand and foot left their marks in it
wherever they felL The absence of any such
traces save their own showed that the place
had remained inviolate

It is plain that he has gone,' said Trenna,
unconscious of the hushed and awe-struck
tones in which she spoke ; ' is it worth while to
go upstairs ? '

I shall go,' returned Kit, firmly ; ' perhaps
you had better wait down here.'

The same idea, though moving them very
differently, was in both their minds. The
tenant of the Grey House — or what was left
of him — might possibly be in his own room.

Wait here ? I dare not,' murmured
Trenna. ' No ; I will go with you.' Her
brother's resolution terrified her almost as
much as its possible result. How marvellous
it seemed that this bright and genial creature

should have such stern stuffing him. Was it
the courage of desperation, and if so, whither,
under circumstances not more terrible, but
more perilous, might it not lead him?
Hitherto, with all her admiration of him,
she had thought him mainly swayed by
impulse.

After the first flight of stairs — so severely
economical had been the state of things at the
Grey House — there was no carpet, and their
footsteps on the naked wood awoke the dreary
echoes. Kit stopped at his father's door and
tried it. It was locked. ' Stand back, dear,'
he said gently, and with a blow from his fist
against the panel he drove it in. There was a
noise of something falling inside the room,
which made the girl's blood run cold. ' It is
only some damp plaster from the ceiling,' said
Kit, encouragingly ; he was looking through

the hole the crash had made. ' There is
nothing here.'

Another, and another blow, which reverberated
through the house like pistol shots,
and then the door gave way. The room was
empty like the rest, though the drawn-down
blind and the blank silence seemed to suggest
the presence of Death. The bed was made ; it
was probable that its former tenant had not
used it dining that last night of his sojourn.
There were two candles on the table burnt
very low, but they had not guttered down ;
they had been blown out. In the grate and
under it was a profusion of paper ashes.
Preparations for departure,' said Kit, pointing
them out with his finger. ' He has burnt his
boats, and will not return.'

Trenna made a sign of acquiescence ; she
could not speak. Her mind was too highly

wrought. If that had been there which she
had half expected to see, she said to herself,
It would have killed me.' She used to think,
notwithstanding his acknowledged superiority
over her in other respects, that she had more
command over her feelings than her brother
had. She did not think so now. The very
atmosphere of the room seemed almost to stifle
her, and she said so.

It is very musty,' he answered quietly ;
I will light a cigar.' He lit one, and then
went on with his investigations. ' There is
nothing more to be seen or to be found out,'
he observed presently. ' The bird is flown and
the nest deserted ; let us go.'

Trenna went downstairs with him nothing
loth.

I cannot understand,' she said, ' why he
made such a mystery of his departure.' It

was noticeable that they now spoke of their
father, whenever it was possible, in the third
person. ' ]\j[r. Eaikes (the owner of the Grey
House) has, I hear, never had a word from
him as to giving up the lease.'

I understand it very well,' said Kit : ' he
wished to make us as uncomfortable as possible
to the very last. I am very glad we came,
and have seen how matters stand with our own
eyes. As it happens, he has done me a good
turn by taking himself off.'

They had reached the kitchen, and having
taken the key from the back door Kit let
himself and his sister out, and locked it behind
them. ' Now I am Christopher Garston, Esq.,
of the Grey House, Mogadion,' he said.

Good Heavens ! what do you mean, Kit ?
You are surely not going to live in that hateful
house ? '

Not I. But since he has left it for good
and all, there is no harm in my using it for my
private address. It will look very well in the
prospectus. We can do without the General
now. What the Company wanted was a good
local name to put on the Board of Directors.
And now they have got it ; and I shall add
300/. a year to my income.'

CHAPTEE XL.

BAD NEWS.

Kit dro^je back to the Knoll, after his visit to
the empty house, in the highest spirits.
Nothing, as he assured Trenna, could have
turned out better than the result of their
expedition. ' I am a made man now so far as
the Company is concerned, and, what pleases
me more than all, it is to the Governor I am
indebted for it. To think that he put 300/.
a year in his son's pocket without its costing
him a sixpence should rejoice his parental
heart.'

Trenna answered only with a sigh and a

VOL. III. E

shiver. The sense of impending calamity was
heavy upon her. Now that her father was
gone she had a dread of him, and of the consequences
of his enmity, which she had never
felt while under the same roof with him.

My darling Trenna, that visit to the Grey
House has shaken your nerves,' said Kit,
tenderly ; ' you want change of air and change
of scene. As soon as I get back to London I
shall look out for a suitable home for you, and
then you shall come and live with me. That
was always your dream, you know.'

It was true that it had been so, but now
that he spoke of its being realised it had no
longer the charms for her that it had possessed
in imagination. Not that she loved him lessor
had any idea of having a home apart from
him, but that that which he proposed to offer
her would, she felt, be different from the one

she had pictured to herself. Her views had
not been ambitious : for herself, indeed, she
would have required very little, and though
Kit, she knew, would not have been satisfied
with that, she had hoped he would have been
content with some day of small things, till his
talents had gained their reward in due season.
She wanted ' peace and quietness.' Having
sowed his wild oats — which included the
commission of one perilous crime — she had
imagined that her daring Kit would have
settled down ' to some legitimate calling, at
which he would work diligently every day,
while in social life he would remain as ever the
favourite of all who knew him ; that she would
keep his house and minister to his needs, and
find the greatest pleasure in the contemplation
of his prosperity. His present position, as he
himself described it, with an income already

e2

LIBRARY ^

UNlVtRSlTf ^ ^V^.^N"^

sufficient and soon to be augmented by 300/.
a year, was far above her expectations in one
way, but far below them in another. The
society of his fine friends would, she perceived,
be not to her taste ; for — how different from
those at the Knoll ! — they were fine-weather
friends. If the mine failed they would desert
him, and doubtless blame him for its failure.
She did not want to see Kit in splendour, butin
security.

Where you are I shall be pleased to be.
Kit,' she answered quietly, 'and, indeed, I feel
I have trespassed on the hospitality of our dear
friends here long enough, and that I ought to
be making m}^ own living, or helping you — if I
can help you — to make yours.'

You can help me very much, Trenna,' Kit
answered gravely. ' There is nothing that
gives more confidence to a man of business ina

large way than to know that the belongings
of those who are assisting him in his schemes
are of a high class ; it is almost as good as
their having money of their own to lose — " a
stake in the country." '

But perhaps your friend, Mr. Braithwaite,
may not estimate me as you do, dear Kit.'

Pooh, pooh, the man is not a fool, though
his mind has run to scrip and share ; you will
represent to him 5,000/. worth of stock at the
very least.'

'I hope you will see the interest of it,' she
answered, smiling.

The worst of it is,' said Kit, thoughtfully,
the old man has neither wife nor daughter ;
and at first I am afraid there will be very
little female society for you. When once the
opportunity offers I have no fears, but in the
meantime you will have to make your own

way. I am afraid you will find London dull
till you come to know people.'

I don't want any one but you, Kit. Of
course I shall feel parting with dear Maud, but
that will not be for ever, let us hope.'

'Not for long,' answered Kit, gravely.
That is a matter on which I want to have a
few words with you. Before I leave the Knoll
I mean to ask Maud to be my wife.'

Kit, that would be sheer madness ! '

For the moment she had forgotten that he
knew nothing of the attachment that had
sprung up between Maud and Frank Meade,
which she was quite convinced Kit had no
power to shake, whatever might have been the
case some months ago. The confidence of her
tone perhaps raised some suspicion in her
brother's mind, for he flushed to his forehead.

'Madness!' he echoed, 'I do not understand

you, Trenna. Maud has heard me ask
that very question — though I admit not in so
many words — and certainly did not doubt my
sanity. Moreover, when I last hinted at this
very thing, I was in a far less prosperous condition
; indeed, it was my means alone, or
rather the want of them, that prevented my
speaking out. She knew, however, what I
meant, and did not reprove, far less reject me.
Yet now I am my own master, and half way
on the road to fortune, you talk of " madness "
as though I had no chance with her.'

In my opinion, my dear brother, you have
no chance.'

Why not ? Maud is still herself, and if I
am changed it is for the better. Why not ? '

Trenna was silent. She dared not say that
Maud was not what he had left her, since that
would have involved the mention of Frank

Meade. She could not bear, even from Kit, to
hear him spoken of with antagonism, or, still
worse, contempt.

You may have great expectations, Kit
she said at last, ' but you have nothing sure.
To me you are all in a^l ; I am ready to take
all risks with you ; to endure adversity, to
skate with you over very thin ice indeed. But
look into your own heart and answer truly, is
Maud fit for that?'

That is for her to judge,' he answered ; ' I
shall tell her all.'

No, Kit, not all.'

He turned upon her with fury in his eyes ;
but it was only for an instant. The remembrance
of her devotion stayed the torrent on
his lips.

Not all, of course, Trenna,' he answered in
low tones. ' Why should I speak to her of what

is over and gone ? Do you suppose that any
man speaks to the girl lie loves of all bis past ?
I have sinned, and I have suffered. Let that
suffice. Is a man to go on all-fours all his life
because he has tripped once or twice ? '

Once or twice ! I wish he had said
once," ' thought Trenna to herself. ' Is it
possible that he has got into trouble again .^ '

As to my future,' he continued, ' I shall
lay it all before her. I have nothing to conceal.
Even now I can maintain her in the
same luxury and comfort to which she has
been accustomed ; and in a few years I shall
have a large fortune amply sufficient for her, and
you, and me. You will forgive me,' he added,
with a tender smile, * for putting claud first,
Trenna ? '

I will forgive you if she becomes your
wife, Kit. I will endeavour, though it will be

very hard, to give up the first place in your
affections to the woman you may choose for
your bride.'

I have chosen ; none but Maud will content
me. When I have set my heart upon a thing
I am not easily moved from it, as you know.
I had hoped to have your assistance, Trenna,
in this matter ; but there, it seems, I was mistaken.'


You have my good wishes, Kit.'
Tut, tut ! ' he put in impatiently, ' say that
I have your prayers at once. I prefer deeds to
words.'

You are not angry with me. Kit ? '
No, no. I never can be that. Of your
good word I may be surely certain ? ' His tone
nevertheless was one of inquiry. His intuition
was so keen that he read his sister's very
heart in this matter, and felt that, while

content to trust in him herself, she trembled
for her friend.

' You may be very certain, Kit, that I shall
never breathe one word in your disparagement.'


That's well,' he answered cheerfully, and
kissed her. ' You are my providence, Trenchant
like the hunter I will be satisfied, since if
you are not for me you will not at least be for
the bear — see, there is the old Doctor driving
away from the Knoll ' (for they had come insight
of the gates), ' there can be surely nothing
the matter since we left it.'

There was nothing the matter at the Knoll,
but Doctor Meade had brought sad news which
had touched the little household nearly. His
son Frank had been taken ill in London, and
that so seriously that it was a question whether
his father should not go up to him. What

added, if it were possible, to the interest excited
by this intelligence, was that his illness had
been contracted in the exercise of his profession.
In endeavouring to relieve a little child suffering
from some disorder of the throat, for which an
operation had been necessary, the young man
had placed his lips to the wound, and was now
himself prostrated by the same complaint.
With true womanly kindness Mrs. Medway had
at once offered to go and nurse him.

I can get ready in half an hour,' she had
said to his father, ' and will accompany you to
London this very day, if you think my services
would be of any assistance.'

The good Doctor had been deeply moved
by this proposal.

Frank must be ill, indeed,' he said, ' if the
news of such an offer does not do him good.
I thank you from the bottom of my heart, both

on his behalf and my own. But where he is,
in his own hospital, there will be no lack of
excellent nurses. If he recovers ' — here the
Doctor's voice grew very husky — ' I shall send
for him home, for he will need recruiting,
and then you shall be as kind to him as you
please.'

Is the disease so very serious, then, even
to a grown person ? ' (for the child had died).

The Doctor nodded, and shut his lips
together.

The tears rolled silently down Mrs.
Medway's cheeks.

'Poor Frank, dear Frank,' said Mark, softly;
'may God spare him to you, Doctor, even from
a hero's death ! Is it not just what we should
all have expected of him, Maud ? '

There was no reply, though her white lips
moved a little.

Give her air,' cried the Doctor, decisively,
his personal affliction forgotten in a moment in
his professional instincts. ' Mark, fetch a glass
of wine.'

The breeze through the opened window,
assisted by her own efforts to recover herself,
revived the girl at once ; but it was plain she
had been on the very brink of a fainting fit.

'I had no idea your Maud was so impressionable,'
was all that the Doctor remarked
upon the matter to Mrs. Medway, and, indeed,
all he thought about it ; but to the mother's
eye the circumstance had more significance.
Young ladies have the faculty of producing
tears of sympathy in any quantity and on the
shortest notice ; but white Mps and (especially)
the inability to use them is a more serious
symptom.

Maud was so upset,' as Mark explained to

Kit and Trenna on their arrival, by this news
about ' dear old Frank,' that she had retired to
her own room. It was thought only natural
that Trenna should repair thither to comfort
her ; but in truth Trenna herself was glad of
the excuse to escape from the public eye. That
old folly of hers (as she denounced it to herself)
in relation to Frank Meade had not been so
utterly stamped out, but that this news of his
misfortune agitated her exceedingly.

The man, then, whom I revere most of all
men,' she thought to herself bitterly, ' is about
to die in the conviction that I am a thief.'

Her creed as to the future prevented her
even from believing that he would have clearer
insight in another world. Her distress of mind
was such that she did not dare present herself
at once to Maud, but diverged, on her way upto
her room, into the boudoir in order to sit

there a few moments to collect herself. The
place was unhappily chosen, inasmuch as it was
the scene of the interview with poor Lucy concerning
the lost bank-note, in which she herself
had played so false a part, and the recollection
of it pierced her heart.

What a vile and worthless wretch I am,'
murmured the unhappy Trenna, as she stood
before the pier-glass rubbing her cheeks and
lips with her handkerchief to bring back their
colour, which had fled from them. ' Even unsuspecting
Maud would read guilt in this telltale
face. Perhaps he is thinking of her now
as he lies upon his death-bed, and in the contemplation
of her innocence and simplicity finds
his chief comfort. If he thinks of me it is at
best with contemptuous pity. Yet wdiat have
I done save for my brother's sake ? '

She clasped her hands passionately together,

and looked upwards half mecliamGally, or in
imitation of a familiar action perhaps that had
fallen into disuse. ' No,' she said, stamping her
foot upon the ground, ' Kit is right ; there is
no Heaven for there is no justice.'

Then smoothing her hair with her hands,
and with a glance that seemed to satisfy her at
the cold set face in the mirror, she turned from
it abruptly and went into her friend's room.

VOL. III.

CHAPTEE XLI.

A CHECK.

In the little drawing-room below stairs Kit was
listening to the details of Frank's misfortune
from Mark and Mrs. Medway with secret
impatience. It would have been false to say
that the news did not interest him, and an exaggeration
to say that it pleased him. He was
too good-natured a man to wish any one harm
who had not deliberately wronged him ; but, if
he had not been a sceptic about such matters, he
would have felt glad (as many Christians do feel
under such similar circumstances) to know that
certain person was in Heaven. He had no

idea that Frank was his rival in Maud's affections;
he thought too lightly of him and too
much of himself to admit such a suspicion, but
he did think that his friends at the Knoll made
too much of Frank, and that the fact of their
doing so was in some sort a depreciation of
him. For Meade had some strong points in
which he himself was deficient. He was plodding,
diligent, moral, a dutiful son, and, as Kit
summed him up in a couple of contemptuous
words, ' eminently respectable ' ; that he had
talents, too, was certain, but in Kit's view they
were of a humdrum sort. If, as he expressed
it, Meade ever did set fire to the Thames,
it would be by a very slow process of
combustion indeed.

He was thus appraising Frank in his own
mind — a circumstance which gave him every
appearance of serious concern — while the

f2

Doctor's account of his seizure and illness was
being poured into his ears.

I knew you would feel this bad news, Kit,
as much as any of us,' said Mrs. Med way. The
remark perhaps was a little too ingenuous, and
suggested, in contradiction to its verbal protest,
that the speaker had, with woman's keenness,
detected that the two young men had not been
always en rapport with one another.

Of course he feels it, mother,' exclaimed
Mark, with half-conscious irritation ; ' who
could help feeling it, and least of all dear Kit ?
It is not only that Frank is an old friend, but
the circumstances of the case are so profoundly
touching. He has run the risk of sacrificing
his life for an unknown fellow-creature, a
friendless child. It is noble. It is magnificent.'


Kit nodded. 'One has hardly heard of

such a thing,' he said, ' since the days of Queen
Eleanor.'

My dear Kit, how strangely you put
things,' said ]airs. Medway, reprovingly. It
seemed to her that the historical parallel held
a joke in it.

But it is so,' urged Kit with a grave face.
It is true that in the Queen's case there was no
danger, though it is charitable to suppose she
did not know it. Now Meade, being a doctor
himself, must have fully estimated his own
peril.'

Quite true,' assented Mark with approbation.
' If Frank survives, which I pray
Heaven he may, he wil be a noble type of the
most noble of professions.'

No doubt it is a little given to extremes,
however,' observed Kit. 'At one end, to which
Meade belongs of course, we have the Queen

Eleanor in bree — that is in broadcloth, and at
the other end the Vivisectionists, of whom I
will only say that universal benevolence is not
their leading feature.'

Cruel wretches — brutes ! ' exclaimed Mrs.
Medway with a shudder.

You compliment them, mother,' observed
Mark, who shrunk from the infliction of pain
on his fellow-creatures quite as much as toy
woman could do.

I cordially agree with you,' said Kit.
But I remember — it shows what esprit de
corps can do — that Frank himself used to make
some sort of defence or excuse '

No, no,' said Mark, eagerly ; ' he was
always most urgent on the employment of
anaesthetics in all cases.'

By medical students ? ' inquired Kit,

with a cynical smile, and a look towards Mrs.
Medway.

Oh, pray don't let us argue the matter —
at least not now,' pleaded that lady earnestly.
It is quite true that dear Frank and I did not
quite agree about it'; he had naturally greater
confidence in the humanity of all members
of his profession, however young, than I
had.'

Naturally,' assented Kit, and no more was
said on the subject. If he had not absolutely
chilled the enthusiasm on Frank's account, he
had checked it ; and at aU events released himself
from smother sufferings as a listener to the
eulogies pronounced upon him. Kit had a
complacent conviction that he had succeeded
in a neat stroke of diplomacy (indeed, had Fate
permitted of it, he would have been a valuable

addition to the Foreign Office), and his success
gave him courage for another essay in the same
way, not, however, so unpremeditated. Notwithstanding
the news of the morning, he
determined to open his heart to Maud that
very day.

This is one of the errors, notwithstanding all
that has been written on ' opportunity,' in which
the cleverest people are apt to fall. They have
such confidence in their own powers that they
launch their bark notwithstanding that the
stream is manifestly against them, rather than
wait an hour for the flow of the tide. Indeed,
there are some natures, and those of a high
order, which cannot brook delay where there
are obstacles to be overcome, and which prefer
to attack them at once, though at an obvious
disadvantage.

Until Trenna had spoken to him on the

subject a few hours before, Kit had not dreamt
of opposition from Maud, at least of an active
kind ; at the very worst he expected to be referred
to ' mamma,' and with Mark's help he
flattered himself that that would be equivalent
to an acceptance.

His suspicions, however, had now been
aroused ; not alone by Trenna's words, but by
the manner, in which Maud had taken Frank's
misfortune to heart, and he burnt to resolve
them.

Under pretence of seeking his sister he
found his way to the boudoir, where Trenna
joined him.

Can I see Maud for a few minutes ? ' he
said, with a peremptoriness which she knew
too well to oppose. ' Be so good as to ask
her.'

Trenna sighed, and withdrew without a

word. Then returned with ' Maud is far
from well. She is not equal to any excitement
'

'Why should she be excited?' he interrupted
impatiently. ' What have you been
telling her about me ? '

Not one word, Kit. If she has any suspicion
in her mind of what you wish to say to
her, it is not I who put it there. She says,
Tell Kit, if he does not mind, perhaps tomorrow
" '

Perhaps tomorrow I shall not be here,'
he answered curtly.

Oh, Kit, what do you mean ? You are not
going away from us so soon ? '

That depends on Maud.'

Trenna flushed up, and the tears came into
her eyes.

'My darling, forgive me,' he whispered

fondly. 'You are first with me, and always
will be ; but I have set my heart on winning
this girl.'

Trenna shook her head. ' You will never
win her.'

That remains to be seen,' he answered.
At all events I will know the worst.'

Trenna's heart was torn this way and that ;
she yearned to tell him, ' to-day is your worst
chance.' On the other hand, for Maud's sake,
it was well that her answer should be given
when there could be no doubt of its nature.
As to herself. Kit's words had hurt her but fora
moment. That ' You are first with me, and
always will be,' had been balm, and healed the
wound. She did not even say to herself, ' I
shall be first with him whether he will or no,
for Maud will never wed him.' She knew she
would be first in any case.

You will not be hard on her, Kit, whatever
happens,' she pleaded.

Eemember what she has led me to think,'
was his quiet reply ; ' in no case, however, will
I be hard upon her.' And in this he spoke
truly. To those he loved he was in manner
always tender ; if he said an angry word to
them he repented of his wrath as soon as it was
uttered. ' A very affectionate scoundrel ' was
the epithet applied to him long afterwards
by one of our dramatis personae, who was no
friend of his, but who could see the bright side
of him.

Summoned by Trenna, Maud came in
lone ; her face was pale, and her beautiful
eyes looked softer even than they were wont to
be, from the traces of many tears ; she held
out her hand to Kit quite frankly.

We are all in great trouble to-day,' she said.

Yes, indeed. I would not have been so
importunate to see you but that it is my last
chance. It is possible that I may be going
back to London tomorrow.'

To London ! '

There was nowhere else he could be expected
to go, yet her interest was plainly
awakened by the place, and not by the fact of
his departure.

You will see poor Frank, then. Oh, is it
not sad. Kit ! '

It is very sad. He is young and strong,
however, and there is every hope that he will
get over it.'

His father did not say so.'

Well, no ; a father always fears the worst
at least most fathers. Frank has been more
fortunate than I,' he added, with a smile, ' in
his choice of a parent. Maud, dear,' here he

drew his chair close beside her, ' listen to me.
I am a man who ha not had a fair chance of
starting in the race of Life ; but I am coming
to the front at last. Of course it pleases me to
find it so, but not for my own sake.'

I am sure of that. Kit,' was her quiet reply.
Trenna has often told me that you are as
devoted to her as she is to you.' .

And so I trust I am,' he answered
modestly. 'Nevertheless, the chief object of
my life, and the spur of all my exertions, is
not Trenna. To her, and therefore to me, sofar
as she is concerned, it would not much
matter whether I became a rich man or not.
You may say, perhaps, that that also does not
much matter to the girl I have in my mind,
and who has not a sordid idea in her
composition. But as a poor man I could
never have asked her to be my wife. Maud,

dear Maud, you know that I forbore to do so ,
and the cause.'

Maud's face was crimson, and her voice
faltered as she replied, ' If you speak of me,
Kit '

He smiled, and patted her hand caressingly.
There is no " if" in the case,' he put in softly.

Indeed, Kit, but there is. You have
fallen into a grievous error. What you hint at
is impossible.'

You mean that what I did hint at was
impossible,' he returned gravely ; ' but it is not
so now. In a few months I can provide you
with a home, which, though not so beautiful
as this, will be only in that one respect less
worthy of you. I can now support you as my
wife in the same comfort which you have
always enjoyed ; yet it will be only my first
step on the road to fortune.'

No, Kit, no, it is not that,' she answered.
Money, if it were millions, would make no
difference.'

Then where is the obstacle ? ' he asked,
with no amazement, and even with a smile of
confidence.

'I do not love you. Kit — that is,' she
stammered, for his face had grown black as
night, ' not well enough to be your wife.
You will always be to me as a brother,
but '

Was it as a brother I spoke to you that
day upon the river ? ' he broke in in earnest
tones ; ' was it as a sister that you answered
me ? As we came up together to this house
after the accident was it as a brother and
sister ? '

You had just saved my life.'

He waved his hand impatiently. 'Pray

put that aside ; I should have saved any
woman's life as readily

Still, you saved mine, and I shall never
forget it.'

'Good. Then you must have a memory
for other things. Do you recollect the words
I spoke to you on that occasion ? ' She bowed
her head.

Then is it passible you could have mistaken
their meaning ? It is true I did not say
Will you marry me ? " but I did say — that is,
you understood my words to imply — " I love
you, and only wait till I am in a position to
declare my lover"' Come Maud, the truth, the
truth?'

No, I did not understand that ? '

What did you understand ? '

I thought you entertained some affection
for me — nay, an affection much beyond my
VOL. III. G

poor deserts, but that you also doubted of its
being returned ; and that having placed me
under the deepest obligation you hesitated
from motives of generosity to press your suit.'

But if I had done so you would have
granted it ? '

I cannot say : I am not sure. But I am
quite sure now. I cannot be your wife.'

What have I done then in the meantime
to make you less favourably disposed towards
me than you were then .^ '

Nothing, nothing.'

Then what has altered you .^ '

Nothing.'

He smiled incredulously. ' These,' he said,
are contradictions indeed. I was a struggling
man without even expectations ; now I am on
the high road to Fortune ; what change there
is in me is therefore for the better. And you,

Maud, were then what you are now. The
alteration, then, must be within yourself.'

I do not know — except that I cannot be
your wife.'

Pardon me, but you do know. You love
another man ? '

The statement, though it was made decisively
enough, was put in the form a question,
and to reply to it was most difficult as
well as embarrassing to the unhappy Maud.
It is easy,' one often hears it said, ' to tell the
truth ; ' and still oftener, ' It is always right to
tell the truth.' There are cases, however, to
which even the last dogma does not apply.
When a would-be assassin inquires the whereabouts
of his intended victim, for example, and
when silence would betray his place of concealment,
it has been decided by the moralists
that a lie is not only excusable but meritorious.

g2

To a selfish man it would be easy enough in
such a case to tell the truth ; for in so doing,
as he flatters himself, he loses all responsibility,
and leaves the blood of the slain on the soul of
the murderer ; but it would not be right.

If Frank Meade had offered his hand to
Maud, she would have had no hesitation, notwithstanding
the terror with which Kit inspired
lier, in replying to his question. But Frank
had not done so. She was not sure — at least
not quite sure — so she reasoned in that awful
moment — that he intended to do so. And
was it to be expected under such circumstances
that a modest and delicate-minded girl should
confess to an attachment which might not be
returned ? Nevertheless, there was something
in a direct denial which seemed to her treasonable
to Frank himself.

You have no right, Kit,' she answered

quietly but firmly, ' to jut to me any such a
question.'

No right ? ^\^lat ! when I have loved you
for years, and when you have known it at
least for months ? No right, when I have
again and again all but asked you to be my
wife without reproof? Xo right, when on the
answer you are about to give me will depend
not only my hopes of happiness, but my faith
in woman ? Look into your own heart, Maud,
and ask it if I have no right.'

In her heart of hearts she answered to herself
he had a right. It was true she had never
encouraged his addresses, but it was also true,
as he had said, that she had never reproved
them. Her fear of him, though vague, had
been too intense. It was only when he had
been very pertinacious, as in that morning on
the river, that she had ventured to parry his

advances; nay, an hour later, after the accident,
she had not even attempted to parry
them. It was not unnatural, therefore, that
he should have taken her silence for consent.


'I think you have a right,' she answered
slowly ; ' but it would be cruel to me and
disappointing to yourself to exercise it.'

Nevertheless I must needs do so,' was his
quiet reply. * I again ask of you have you
engaged yourself to another man .^ '

And I answer, on my word, sir, that I
have not.'

'That is well,' he answered in a tone of
intense relief. ' I felt that it must be so. You
are too honest, too honourable '

Whatever I am,' she interrupted in her
turn, ' it can make no difference as to that
other matter. Do not let us quarrel, Kit ; weare

too old friends for that ; but it is useless to
deceive yourself.'

I understand,' he put in gently. ' You
had it in you* mind to say you loved another
in order to relieve yourself of an embarrassment,
but that inveterate habit of telling the
truth was too much for you. Dear Maud,
believe me, I am not angry because you
hesitate to accept my offer. After all, what
have you got to trust to with respect to these
expectations of mine but my bare word. And
my word is not like your word,' he added
naively.

As I told you before, Kit, had you millions
it would not alter my determination on this
matter.'

So you say. If you were a less truthful
woman I should believe you because I should
still think, despite your protestations, that you.

loved another man ; but as you have told me
that is not so, my case cannot be hopeless, for
I am conscious of having done nothing to
lower me in your eyes, since you used so
patiently to listen to my pleading. I will not
now importune you further; I could not bring
myself to inflict the least pain upon you whatever
advantage I might derive from it, but a
time will come — it must, it shall come — when
you will admit in words what you have often
tacitly acknowledged

Never, never,' she interrupted earnestly.

Never is a long day,' he answered smiling.
What I have set my heart on, Maud, I have
rarely failed in attaining, and I have set my
heart — for years — on you.'

He rose, kissed her on the forehead, and
left the room without a word. Maud was
dreadfully agitated ; all her old fears of him—

not, indeed, the old fear that he would be too
strong for hei*, and compel her to marry him
in spite of herself — that she felt was beyond his
powers — but her apprehensions of the force
and vehemence of his character, of the passion
that had led him into scrapes, and might lead
him to acts of desperation, recurred to her
mind. What he had said about his resolution
to attain his object was, she knew, quite true,
and he had seemed to set his soul on it in that
burning kiss. If anything were to happen to
Frank, how terrible, she thought, would this
man become to her with his unavailing but
confident importunities. Her terror of him
must have been great indeed since it conjured
up such a picture ; for the idea of Frank
Meade dead was a possibility so freighted with
wretchedness that she had put it away from
her mind with horror. How heartless she had

been to speak of love to another man while
Frank lay ill, and perhaps dying! How
wicked of her to have disguised the truth ;
how disloyal not to have acknowledged, at
whatever cost to herself, that Frank was all
in all to her !

CHAPTER XLH.

AX ALLY.

On his way downstairs Kit found Trenna
awaiting him, and they went into the little
drawing-room together.

I knew how it would be, daring,' she
whispered tenderly ; ' but don't be cast down :
don't take it to heart.'

I am not cast down,' he said, returning
her embrace. ' Why should I be ? '

What ? Has she not rejected you ? '

She has not accepted me. I am disappointed,
of course ; but it is only a question of

time. Do you think I am one to be cast down
by the caprice of a woman ? '

But oh, Kit, arp you not deceiving yourself
? Are you sure it was caprice ? '

'What else could it be? She loved me
once, as I have told you. I have her own
assurance that she loves no one else. She will
be my wife, Trenna, as sure as you are my
sister. You thought me too confident, however,
and you are right. I ought first to have
secured Mark's good word ; had I done so, the
matter would have been settled by this time.
As it is I am on probation.'

Trenna stared at him in amazement, not
knowing what to think. She was aware of his
sanguine disposition, and how the Wish was
father to the Expectation with him ; but, on
the other hand (though it had never been confided
to her), she was in possession of Maud's

secret. How, therefore, unless Maud had
deceived him — which was the very last thing
to be believed — could Kit speak of himself as
on probation ?

What would have distressed her, indeed,
but for the promise that she should join him
almost immediately, was his announcement
that he should return to town the next
morning. ' I cannot stay down here,' he
explained ; ' I grudge every moment that is
not spent in establishing myself in my proper
position.'

From which she guessed that his hope lay,
as respected Maud, in his social advancement.
The statement was not flattering to her amour
propre ; it was hard, after all her sacrifices, that
another should be the mainspring of her
brother's actions ; but her love for him was as
absolute and unselfish as that of a mother for

her boy. It was also easier, perhaps, to forgive
him, since she knew he was basing his
expectations on false grounds; for what did
Maud care for social success? Instead of
anger Trenna felt pity for him ; when the time
came in which he should acknowledge his
illusion, it would be her welcome task to
comfort and console him. She looked forward
with the greatest satisfaction to taking her
place as the mistress of his house ; but even
that was not a source of selfish pleasure ; she
was anxious and apprehensive about that
future which he painted in such brilliant
colours ; and she wished to be by his side
to defend him from every enemy — nay, even
from himself.

Mark, on the other hand, was distressed
and outraged at the news of his friend's
departure.

What ? Are you leaving us again, Kit,
after two days ? It is not friendly — it is not
kind.'

It is kindness to myself, Mark ; or rather
it would be cruel to ask me to remain, as I am
at present situated.'

And then he told him for the first time of
his love for Maud, and how his wooing had
sped. Mark's astonishment was unbounded.
He had never suspected his friend's attachment
to his sister. Marriage and giving in marriage
where matters which (with one notable exception)
had never entered his thoughts. His
ways were as methodical and old-fashioned as
those of Mr. Penryn himself. He had seen no
reason why the little household at the Knoll
and their Mogadion friends should not jog on
together as they had always done. He had
never wanted to marry Kit's sister. However,

since this unlooked-for disturbance of social
relations had taken place, he declared himself
at once upon Kit's side. It was impossible, he
averred, that Maud could find a better husband
; and of course it would give him
personally nothing but pleasure to find himself
bound to Kit — though closer to him he could
never be — by this new tie. He pictured the
young couple living under the same roof with
him, so that he would never lose the companionship
of his old friend. ' I only regret,'
he said, settling his spectacles on his nose, with
a sly smile, ' the marriage present which I
should most like to give you will hardly be
ready in time unless you postpone the happy
day for a year or two.'

He was thinking, of course, of his County
History.

Kit reminded him that he had already

hinted there was a little hitch ; that Maud, in
short, had not yet accepted him.

'Oh, but I'll speak to Maud,' said Mark, ' I'll
make that all right, bless you. Only you must
not leave us in such a hurry.'

He seemed to think that if Maud really
understood that her conduct was shortening
Kit's visit it was impossible she could persist
in it.

Kit smiled, as well he might, at his friend's
affectionate simplicity.

No, don't do that, old fellow ; at least, not
just yet. If you mention the matter to any one,
say a word or two for me to you: mother.'

I am sure my mother would be delighted
to have you for a son-in-law.'

I hope so ; but tell her what I have told
you about my prospects. It is only natural —
and, indeed, ric^ht — that she should have

VOL. III. H

some grounds for confidence in my ability to
support dear Maud in the position she has
always occupied

Just so ; the less change that takes place
amongst us the better,' said Mark, then added,
almost fretfully, ' But your presence here is such
a pleasure to us, Kit, why should you go ? '

On Mark's side, at least, the parting between
the two young men was more like the separation
of lovers. It was vain to assure him that
they would soon meet again ; it gave him as
little comfort as the schoolboy torn from home
derives from the well-worn remark that ' the
vacation will soon come round again.'

It was hard for mere outsiders to understand
Mark Medway's excessive attachment to Kit
Garston, and still harder for Kit's detractors.
Mr. Penryn used to quote Falstaff's explanation
of the mystery : ' The fellow must certainly

have given him potions.' But the fact was, all
that was wanting, and wanted, in Mark's nature
Kit supplied ; his society had a charm for him
which he sought in vain in the companionship
of others ; it encouraged Ambition and extinguished
Despondency. He owed him two great
debts, for he had saved his Life and preserved
his Honour. He admired his talents above
measure. Moreover, he was well convinced —
and in this, too, he made no error, save, perhaps,
in degree — that his affection for his friend
was reciprocated. Under these circumstances,
it was no wonder that even Mark's mother had
sometimes said to her son betwixt a sigh and a
smile, ' I am really almost jealous of Kit.'

H2

CHAPTER XLIII.

MRS. MEDWAY SEES HER MISTAKE.

To all at the Knoll, save one, Kit's departure
was a serious disappointment, for it had been
understood that he would have stayed at
Mogadion for some weeks ' on business. '
Trenna alone was aware that the chief object
of his coming had been accomplished in his
having secured a local name for the list of
subscribers and a good address for the
Cook's Creek scheme. Even Mrs. Med way,
who had arrived at that time of life when
one's world begins to narrow itself to one's
own home and belongings, felt his loss keenly,
though it is true as much on her son's account

as on her own. Mark Lad grown grave and
silent of late montis, though not actually
despondent as he had been before, and he was
another creature,' as his mother phrased it,
when Kit was with him.

Kit was quite right (notwithstanding the
proverb that says, ' If you want a thing done
well, do it yourself ' ) to leave to Mark the task
of pleading for him with his mother. Everything
from Mark's lips had force with her ; even
what was unwelcome to her ears became grateful
; but on the whole his present tidings were
not unwelcome. Her chief objection to Christopher
Garston as a son-in-law (for she had
considered the matter hypothetically more than
once, as mothers will do) had always been that
he had no means. No one laid stress on wealth
as necessary to happiness less than did Mrs.
Medway ; she had herself once possessed it, and

given it up, for conscience' sake, with no keen
regret ; but comfort and competence she did
value. Her Maud of course had had no experience
of narrow means ; of the struggle to keep
up appearances ; of the thought that must needs
be given to shillings and sixpences ; of the cutting
and contriving to make both ends meet ;
and she would have been very unwilling to
expose her to them. On the other hand, she
knew the stuff of which her daughter was made,
and would have given her to any worthy man
who had won her heart, on easy terms as respected
income. She had a high opinion of
Kit's talents, and especially of his knowledge of
mankind ; she thought, notwithstanding that
she had heard rumours of his being a little wild,
that he had a good heart ; and indeed she had
a notion (often entertained by women) that his
very wildness was a proof of an affectionate

disposition. He had now, it seemed, settled
down to work, and, though possessing Httle nt
present, it was certain (for Mark had told her so)
that he had excellent expectations. The men
of business with whom he was connected evidently
appreciated him. The diamond ring,
on the value of which her son had descanted
with a triumph which he would certainly not
have exhibited had it been his own, convinced
her of this more than all that Kit had said about
his prosperity. That a Board of Directors
should have bestowed such a token of their
regard upon a subordinate, and on such a short
experience of his services, showed that they
rated them highly indeed. To Mr. Penryn and
others who expressed incredulity as to Kit's
prospects, she always instanced the diamond
ring as an argument against them.

Perhaps it's paste,' said Mr. Penryn, in his

quiet cynical way. 'Why not? What it
would lose in value it would gain in significance
as coming from the promoters of the
Cook's Creek scheme.'

But she knew it was not paste, for Mark
had seen it, and handled it, and pronounced
it the finest jewel he had ever seen. Indeed,
considering how Kit had resented his sister's
reference to the ring on a recent occasion, it
would perhaps have annoyed him to know
how much it was talked about, and how greatly
it outweighed their admiration of the thing it
typified — namely, the prospects of the mine
itself— in the minds of his old neighbours.

For her part, however, Mrs. Medway was
well convinced that Kit was on the highway
to fortune, and that being so, was, on the
whole, by no means ill-disposed to advance
his interests with her daughter. She dreaded

separation from Maud, and no other alliance
could hold forth such good hopes of retaining
her. The friendship that subsisted between
Kit and her son, the affection of Trenna for
Maud, the associations that linked both Kit
and Trenna to the Knoll, all promised a lifelong
intimacy. As to what Mark had told her
of Maud's disinclination to become Kit's wife at
present, she attached but small importance toit.
She understood it, indeed, to be a mere
temporary objection, and thought it arose from
the inopportuneness of the time. She had no
suspicion of Maud's love for Frank (her ideas
in that respect having always taken another
direction), but she knew that she had a great
regard for him, and could easily conceive that,
while he was lyinir on ^\'hat midst be his
death-bed. Kit's declaration had been unwelcome.
Her daughter was not one to indulge in

schemes of happiness for herself while anyone
she loved was in pain and peril : on
the other hand, Mrs. Medway did not blame
Kit, but made allowance for the selfishness
that belonged to all young men (save her own
Mark), and to the fact of Kit's being suddenly
thrown together with Maud after a long and
unwonted separation. When, therefore, Mrs.
Medway began to sound her daughter's feelings
with respect to Christopher Garston she did it
with the result of a foregone conclusion.

Poor Kit went away from us, it seemed tome,
very disconsolate, my dear.'

Indeed ? He struck me as being in very
good spirits about his affairs.'

Well, yes, as to his financial prospects,
they no doubt are very much better than he
could have looked for ; that he should have
achieved such a position in so short a time is

little short of marvellous ; but in other respects
he was certainly cast down.'

I am sorry for that.' There was little
pity in the tone in which the reply was uttered.
The face of the speaker was cold, almost
defiant. She sat with her hands clasped,
looking resolutely into the fire, so as to avoid
her mother's gaze.

My daring,' said Lies. Medway, tenderly,
will you not be frank with me ? I had hoped
that you would never have a secret which I
might not share.'

A secret, mother ? ' exclaimed the young
girl, blushing from brow to chin ; ' what
secret ? '

Well, has not Kit proposed to you, and
have you not rejected him ? '

That is quite true,' said Maud, in a tone
that was almost cheerful, so great was her

sense of relief; ' but I did not know it wa a
secret. I thought, indeed, you had come to
talk about it.'

Her manner was so little like that of a
young lady referring to her own possible
engagement that Mrs. Med way began to mistrust
her previous convictions. To find one's
sagacity at fault is annoying to every one ;
even a mother possesses some amour propre.

You know, I suppose,' she said, ' that the
result of his interview with you is that Kit has
left the house ? '

I did not know it, but I concluded as
much. It was no use his staying here so far
as I was concerned, and after what has passed
his doing so would of course have been embarrassing
to both of us.'

But he gave Mark to understand that he
was by no means without hope.'

Then he must be very sanguine — no, I
don't mean that, clear mother,' said Maud,
discarding her cold and measured tones ; ' I
don't wish to be hard on Kit. If I am cruel,
as the song says, it is only to be kind ; but the
fact is, I can never love Christopher Garston,
never, never, never'

Mrs. Medway regarded her daughter with
curious eyes for a moment or two, then
inquired gravely, 'You have no reason to
dislike him, Maud, have you ? '

Xo. I have never dished him until
to-day, and then only because he wanted me
to like him otherwise than as a sister.'

'I see.'

And she did see ; her ear had detected in
that reply that her daughter's heart held the
image of another man ; she recognised the
original, of course, at once. Who could it be

but Frank Meade ? A man perhaps upon his
death-bed, a man at best doomed to be an
incurable invalid.

She uttered an involuntary sigh.

You are not angry with me, mother,
because I can never marry Christopher
Garston ? '

Angry, my darling ? Certainly not.' Like
Kit, she thought to herself, ' Never is a long
day. If poor Frank dies, Kit will perhaps still
have his way. But in the meantime, and in
any case, there would be trouble for poor
Maud.

I see it distresses you, dear mother ; I am
so very sorry,' said Maud, her eyes filling with
tears.

No, darling, it does not distress me ; at
least, not on my own account.'

I know what you are thinking about,'

observed Maud, with a fond smile. ' You are
thinking what a blow this will be for Mark,
who has set his heart upon having Kit for his
brother-in-law.'

Mrs. Medway inclined her head assenting.
She was very willing that her melancholy
forebodings should be put down to Mark's
account. It did not strike her as being rather
liard that Maud should have supposed she
could be thinking of any one but Maud herself.
Her only thought was to save her daughter
pain.

When Eve was turned out of Paradise she
was not a mother ; afterwards, to make amends
for the punishment inflicted on the human race,
she was dowered with maternal love, but the
Giver was so bounteous that instead of its
being a counterpoise to original sin it outweighs
it.

CHAPTEE XLIV

THE West.

The next day better news arrived of Frank.
The crisis was over ; and though complete
restoration to health was not to be looked for
(such was the good Doctor's report, delivered
in a voice which strove to be firm in vain), he
was pronounced to be out of danger. In most
men's lives at one point or another there is a
place where two roads meet, and a guide-post
with these two inscriptions on it, 'To Life,'
To Death ; ' but even when poor humanity is
so fortunate as to take the former road it sometimes
happens that he treads it with another

step than that by which his fellows knew him.
The vigour and elasticity of his step is gone,
and though fears are not in the way, as in the
case of the aged, with whom ' the grasshopper
is a burden,' it behoves him for the rest of his
days to take heed to his going. It was the
opinion of the faculty that Frank Meade would
never again be the man he was, and that
certain objects on which he had set his heart
in connection with his profession would have
to be abandoned. For one thing, it was pronounced
that he must give up life in London,
and return to his native air as soon as he had
gathered strength to do so.

^ There is at least this comfort,' said Mrs.
Medway to the poor Doctor, ' we shall have
dear Frank amongst us acrain.'

Yes, madam,' was the grave rejoinder ;
or at least what remains of him.'

A^OL III I

But Maud was filled with gratitude to the
Giver of all good for the bare life. As to
Frank's being other than himself, she knew
that was impossible ; he would always be the
same man ' to her.

Such is the way of women when they love
us. The fallen cheek, the haggard eye, the
shrunken limbs, are but so many additional
reasons for their devotion ; old age does not
wither us in their eyes, nor disease offend
them. ' Tender and true ' is their constant
motto, though we do our best and worst to
change it.

As for the others at the Knoll, they felt as
friends in such cases always do feel. They
hoped the Doctor's apprehensions would prove
unfounded, while they welcomed what was
good in his news. They regretted that Frank's
ambition should be thus nipped in the bud, but

their sorrow was greatly mitigated in the
circumstance that he was about to return to
them.

What greatly added to the general satisfaction
was a note that came from Kit in a few
days addressed to his sister. He spoke of his
reception by his business friends in London as
being everything that could be wished. ' They
have as great confidence in me as in the scheme
itself, the shares in which are, as you will see
by the accompanying newspaper, already at
par. I am at present only a provisional
director, since no one can be placed on the
Board unless he is in possession of a certain
number of shares, a difficulty which, however.
I hope to surmount. I am going to Paris on a
special mission in a day or two, and on my
return the house which I have fixed on as our
residence will be set in order and ready for

I 2

your reception. How happy we shall be
together, my darling ! My dear love to Mark
and Maud and Mrs. Medway.'

Maud was hardly less pleased with this
despatch than were her mother and Mark,
Now that Frank was safe, she could afford to
bestow her sympathies elsewhere, nor did she
resent that phrase of his ' dear love,' since it
was applied to the rest, and could, therefore,
Jive only a general significance. She felt that
she had a regard for Kit almost as great and
genuine as her admiration for his talents, and
cordially congratulated Trenna on these good
tidings. Mark was in the seventh heaven of
happiness at his friend's success, and defended
him from what Mrs. Medway good-humouredly
described as his want of gallantry iii putting
Mark's name before that of herself and her
daughter.

It is one of the few things we learn at
college, dear mother, that the masculine is
more worthy than the feminine, and, therefore,
comes first.'

To which that lady had rejoined, with no
less truth than wit, that no man need ever goto
college to learn that much.

The only person, strange to say, in whom
Kit's letter did not inspire confidence, and put
in good spirits concerning him, was Trenna
herself.

There were certain things in his letter which
troubled her, passages in which she alone read
something between the lines.

No one can be placed on the board of
directors who does not possess a certain
amount of shares ' (' in other words,' thought
she, ' the money to buy them '), 'a difficulty
which, however, I hope to siu-mount.' How

could he possibly surmount it, save by finding
the money ? And how was he to find it ? Of
course it was possible that his friend Braith-
waite might advance the necessary funds ; but,
if so, he would surely have given some hint of
it. He was always very frank with her, unless
he had something to conceal, and of which he
knew she would disapprove. The statement,
too, that he was going to Paris ' on a special
mission ' filled her with vague apprehensions.
Why to Paris on business connected with a
mine in Cornwall? And, again, why was he
silent en the nature of the mission ?

Even the newspaper, with the shares of the
Company quoted at par, gave her tremors as
she called to mind what the Company's property
looked like, and what sort of an agent represented
its local interests ; while the name of
Christopher Garston, Esq., the Grey House,

Mogadion,' under the heading ' Provincial
Directors ' in the long advertisement of the
mine, revived her old presentiments, and filled
her with alarm. Why had she not fled with
him when he left his father's house ? What
good had she done by remaining there?
From what temptations, from what perils,
might she not have preserved him had she been
by his side to advise and restrain him ?

With every day that passed by without
news of him Trenna's fears increased. She
wrote to his address in town, and her letter
was returned to her, marked by the landlady,
Left the house.' She wrote to the London
office of the mine, and received no reply.
She had almost ventured upon addressing
herself to Mr. Braithwaite, but the fear of her
brother's wrath restrained her. She knew not
what mischief such a proceeding might do him.

The same consideration restrained her from
communicating her fears to her friends at the
Knoll. It was possible that after all there was
nothing amiss. Kit might be even preparing a
surprise for her — some brilliant piece of good
fortune. And then to have to acknowledge
that she had doubted of him, and had expressed
her doubts in a quarter too where he wished
above all to inspire confidence — ' No,' she said,
he would never forgive me.'

How marvellously are some human lives
bound up in one another I Not merely
dependent, or intertwined, for every branch is
of the family tree, and can have no separate
existence ; but there are some natures actually
contained in others, as the kernel in the shell.
It is not too much to say that in those days of
suspense and terror Trenna Garston lost consciousness
of her own identity, and became ina

manner Kit himself. As weeks went by, and
still without a word from him, her efforts
(Heaven alone knew what they cost her) to
account to others for his silence began to lose
their efficacy.

There must be something wrong,' said
Mark. ' I shall run up to town.'

No, no,' she pleaded ; ' Kit has some
reason for his silence ; he is sure to write tome
in due course.' If anything was wrong —
that is, shamefully wrong — she felt, putting
herself in Kit's place, that Mark should bethe
last to know it. Little as Kit valued
the world's judgment, the good opinion of
his friends at the Knoll was of paramount
importance to him.

But Mark's suspicions once aroused were
difficult to allay. ' I will give him another
week,' he said ; ' then if he still keeps silence,

nothing shall prevent me from seeing him with
ray own eyes. I am sure some misfortune has
happened to the dear fellow.'

So was Trenna by this time, quite sure ;
she was prepared for the worst. She did not
think he was dead (for that would not be the
worst), but she respected what she knew
would be his wishes as we respect those of a
dead man.

When the time which Mark had assigned
for the limit of his patience had almost expired
there came the long-looked-for letter.

My dearest Trenna, — Since I last wrote
I have had quite a series of ludicrous misfortunes.
I know how my silence must have
alarmed you ; but to have written about them
would have given you pain. In a fortnight all
will be well. But in the meantime it will bea
comfort to have you with me ; you will come.

I know, by tomorrow's express, and alone.
This last proviso is absolutely necessary. I
date from Braithwaite's house, who will communicate
my present address to you.

Always your' loving

Kit.'

Not a word of explanation ! Not a word
about the mine ! And his very address to be
communicated to her at second-hand !

Good Heavens ! what can it all mean ? '
said Mark, to whom she was obliged to show
the letter ; if he had not seen Kit's own words
forbidding him to accompany Trenna, no arguments
of hers, she knew, could have prevented
him from going with her to him.

Trenna could only shake her head ; she
knew, indeed, no more than Mark what had
happened to her brother ; but she could make
a better guess.

Her clothes were already packed — they
had been so for days in expectation of some
such sudden summons ; but she fled to her
own room on pretence of packing them to
escape the inquiries, the condolences, the
apprehensions of her hostess and of Maud.
To the latter she felt a positive repugnance
which, at the same time, she knew to be
unreasonable ; it was possible that Maud's
rejection of her brother had driven him to
some act of desperation ; at all events she had
spurned him from her when he was on the
brink of calamity. She shrank even from Mrs.
Medway, because, when the worst should be
known, Mrs. Medway might shrink from Kit.
But Mark — Mark, whose cheek had turned
pale, in whose eyes ' the man's rare tears ' had
stood as he read his friend's letter — Mark
would stand by him to the last.

My dear, remember that you have friends
here,' said Mrs. Medway as she tenderly
embraced her parting guest, ' who will spare
nothing for you and yours, and who may be
depended upon whatever happens.'

Say everything kind to Kit for me, my
daring,' whispered Maud, as she hugged
Trenna to her bosom.

But for her, these words had a false ring in
them. Not that she disbelieved their sincerity,
but because she felt that they were spoken in
ignorance. If Kit had given way to some
great temptation (as she put it to herself) a
second time, would the friendship of these two
women survive the shock .^ Would it have
survived his first offence, had that ever been
brought home to him P But as to Mark, he
would be true to Kit through blame and shame.

He was in the pony-carriage waiting for

her at the door, for he would allow no servant
to drive her to the station.

You must write to me tomorrow, Trenchant
tell me all,' were his first words as they
drove away.

I must do what is best for Kit,' she
answered gravely.

But how is it possible that he could wish
to keep me in the dark ? '

I do not know, Mark : I know no more
than you do ; but you have read his letter.
He said it was necessary that I should go to
him alone. The matter — whatever it is that is
the matter — is a private one.'

But to hide it from me., Trenna ! ' said
Mark, reproachfully. ' I have always shared
his joys, then why not his sorrows ? Think of
what I shall suffer, Trenna, sitting here powerless
to help him, and imagining every misfortune

that can happen to man save the loss
of honour.'

There was a long silence. Mark's last
words had frozen her speech and chilled her
very blood. She was quite prepared for the
absence of all suspicion in Mark as regarded
his friend's conduct ; but this expression of
confidence in his integrity, which she herself was,
alas ! so far from sharing, appalled her. Fond
as Mark was of Kit, would his affection for him
endure as hers did, should he become convinced
of the unworthiness of the object? An
old story she had read somewhere flitted across
her mind of a man who had been accused of
some terrible crime, and who was visited by
two friends in prison. One of them said, ' My
friend, however strong the proofs may be
against you, I could never believe you guilty
of this offence ; ' the other said, ' Whether you

are guilty or not, you are still my friend.'
This latter she now thought must surely have
been a woman.

The carriage drew up before the Bank in
Mogadion.

Why are you stopping here, Mark ? '

To change a cheque.'

Not for me, I hope, Mark ? '

Yes ; you must take a hundred pounds
with you. I can. send what more you have
occasion for. You don't know what may be
wanted.'

But, Mark '

Good Heavens ! What is money .^ ' he
interrupted vehemently. 'I am amazed at
you, Trenna : suppose he wants it ? '

'Then I will write for it. That I promise
you. But I have enough for my own
expenses.'

Kit had provided her with funds for the
very purpose of taking her to town. An hour
ago perhaps she would have accepted Mark's
offer. But now she felt that she might be
obtaining the money under false pretences ;
that phrase, ' save the loss of honour,' still rang
in her ears ; it was not Kit, but the man he
had taken Kit to be, to whom he was proffering
his assistance.

Mark sighed, and said no more ; he knew
it was useless to argue with Trenna. They
parted at the station with a prolonged handshaking,
and looks that spoke more than words.

As the train was moving slowly out of the
station, and Mark walking by its side, ' You
will take care of my poor Polly,' said Trenna,
with trembling lips.

Surely, surely, everything that is dear —
to you a^l Kit — is dear to me.'

VOL. III. K

It was strange that at such a moment she
should have spoken of the bird, but the fact
was the idea presented itself to her like a
bequest that suddenly occurs to a dying man ;
she had a presentiment that henceforth the
Knoll would know her and hers no more.
There was a tunnel just without the little town,
and as the train entered it she seemed to be
entering her tomb. On the other side of it she
became a new woman ; all weakness had
passed away ; resolute, devoted, unyielding,
she was prepared to act and to suffer. Had she
been possessed of less determination of character
her case would have been piteous.
They only to whom it has been allotted to take
a long journey, summoned by some misfortune
of the extent of which they are ignorant, can
picture what she suffered during that day's
travel.

It was dark when she reached London.
She took a cab, and drove straight to the
house where Mr. Braithwaite the elder Heed : it
was in Portman Square. As the door opened
and she was ushered into the hall — looking so
huge and sepulchral by contrast ^vith the little
vestibule at the Knoll — a chill ran through her
blood, her limbs trembled, and her face seemed
to straighten and grow rigid. On one side of
the hall was a half-opened door, giving ingress
to some well-lighted apartment, from which
came the clatter of knives and forks and the
tumult of conversation. She shrank back from
it in alarm, for something told her that Kit
was not there, nor in any such scene of social
enjoyment.

This way, Miss,' said the footman, ushering
her into a small room on the opposite side
of the hall. 'My master will be with you
K 2

immediately.' At the same time there was a
cessation of the noise in the dining-room. She
heard some one say in a voice half jocular, half
sympathetic, ' I don't envy you your office,
Braithwaite.'

There was a heavy step over the tiled
floor, and the master of the house presented
himself to her — a big, burly man, with
shaggy eyebrows and a heavy face. With one
hand he was playing nervously with a gold
chain which hung across his white waistcoat ;
the other he held out to her — not unkindly.
Sit down, Miss Garston.'

I had rather stand,' she murmured. She
felt that if she allowed herself the least relaxation
she must needs break down.

'■ I am very sorry about your brother,' he
said ; he has pained us all, and of course has

done great mischief to us. But we wish him
no harm — believe me.'

What has he done, sir ? '

Good Heavens ! is it possible he has not
told you .^ '

He has told me nothing ; only that I was
to call here to learn his address.'

You mean the address of the lodgings
that have been taken for you,' he answered
with a strange look. ' I have seen to that
myself; a most respectable woman, my own
tenant, has orders to take every care of you :
she lives in Ludgate Hill. That is the
number'' And he gave her a card.

And my brother ? '

Roberts,' cried the old gentleman in a
loud voice, ' bring a glass of wine here at once
sport wine — the thirty-four port.'

The wine was brought, and Mr. Braithwaite
held it out to her. She shook her head.

Where is he ? ' she murmured.

My poor girl ! You will see him tomorrow
morning. I have arranged all that for
you with the Governor. You will be quite
close to him.'

Where — where is he ? '

He is in Newgate Prison.'

CHAPTEE XLV.

NOT TO BE Convinced.

There are two ways of living out of the world
while one is still of it. The one is to be bedridden
; the other is to be in prison. As in
health we rarely dream of the one case, so in
honour we hardly think of the other. But one
man's life overlaps that of his fellows without
dovetailing, and the affairs of others become
our own, whether we will or no. It would
have seemed incredible that to that innocent
household at the Knoll the subject of crime
should ever become familiar. Yet it came to
pass that, though little was talked about it (for

the topic was too painful), little else was
thought about for weeks and months by every
member of the family ; and with one of them
Time the Healer brought no ' surcease of
pain.'

On the morning after Trenna's departure
Dr. Meade dropped in upon his professional
rounds, and met Mark at the entrance-gate.

I have good news from town, my lad,
this morning,' cried the visitor cheerfully.

Thank Heaven for that,' answered Mark,
with brightening face. ' What is it .^ '

Well, they say we shall have him down
here in a week at farthest.'

Indeed ! ' exclaimed Mark, wondering why
in that case Kit had sent for Trenna. But who
are " they " ? '

'Well, the doctors, of course. Mogadion
air will no doubt be his best specific, and they

predict he will be fit to travel — if he keeps
his present rate of progress — by this day week.
But you must expect to see the poor lad
changed, Mark.'

He will be the same to us, and more welcome
than ever,' answered Mark, kindly ; but
his heart reproached him for the duplicity of
his hips. What he said, indeed, was true
enough ; but his mind was so fill of Kit
that up to that moment he had not given a
thought to Frank, or suspected that it was he
of whom the other spoke.

You will tell your mother and Maud, as
I have no time to stop,' continued the Doctor ;
and I am sure Trenna will be as pleased as
either of them.'

Trenna had become a favourite with the
Doctor since his interview with her on her
exodus from the Grey House ; and, it may be

added, since he had become convinced that his
son had no matrimonial intentions in that
quarter.

Mark was so sick with disappointment that
he suffered the Doctor to go upon his way without
the information that Trenna had left the
Knoll. Hardly had his fast-trotting cob trotted
away than the Eector drove up to the door.
His face was sad, and the tone was very grave
in which he asked the old servant whether Mark
was at home.

I wish to see him,' he said, ' in private.'

He was at once ushered into the diningroom.


You have news of Kit,' cried Mark, directly
he saw his face ; ' bad news ? '

Well, yes. Were you expecting any ? '

I was.'

Thank Heaven ! It will not, then, be such

a blow to you as I expected. Where is poor
Trenna ? '

She is gone to join lier brother.'

• Impossible ! '

What do you mean .^ Do you suppose she
would not join him, whatever was the matter?
Do you suppose / shall not join him ? What
is the matter .^ Are you dumb ? '

Then he does not know, after all,' muttered
the Eector. ' Well, it is a long story, Mark, as
well as a very, very sad one. I read it this
morning in the paper here. It may not be
true, you know. Let us hope it is not ;
but '

Mark had snatched the newspaper from the
Eector's hand, and his eye had caught the fatal
heading, * Committal of Christopher Garston, a
City Hector, to Newgate for Felony.'

It is false,' he cried ; ' false as hell.'

The expression coming from such a mouth
as Mark's had tenfold its intensity.

'Hush, hush,' said his old tutor, reprovingly.


But Mark did not hear him. He pulled out
his watch, and thrust it back again into his
pocket. 1 The express has gone ; there are
twelve hours lost,' he cried despairingly.

It is quite as well, Mark, that you have
some time to think before you act,' observed
the Eector, gravely.

What ? You think him guilty,' answered
the other vehemently. 'You were always
ready to think badly of him. That is because
you do not know Christopher Garston. He
has not been your friend, as he has been mine.
You do not owe your life, your honour, to him
as I do. As for wrong-doing, Kit is incapable
of it. I would rather believe it of myself ; the

thing is monstrous. Yet what must the dear
fellow be suffering ? My poor dear Kit ! '

*You had better read what is said about
him, Mark — nay, what is proved about him.'

What do I care what knaves may swear
and fools may write ? Let them puff* against
him ; Kit '* stands four-square to every wind
that blows"'

Still, you have not read it.'

With an exclamation of disgust and contempt
Mark held the newspaper at arm's
length before him, and read as follows : —

On Tuesday last Christopher Garston,
Manager of the Cook's Creek Mining Company,
and a provisional director of it, was charged
at the Guildhall with stealing property of great
value from Mr. Flesker, the well-known jeweller
of Lombard Street. The prosecutor stated that
in November last the prisoner had called in a

carriage in company with a lady, and lead some
conversation with him on the subject of precious
stones. He had selected a diamond of great
beauty and rarity, to which also an historical
value was attached, being, as was supposed,
one of Les Houses Mazarine, once belonging
to the crown of France. It weighed no less
than seventeen carats, and the sum at which he
(Mr. Flesker) offered it for sale was 2,000/.
The prisoner said that it was beyond his means,
and contented himself with purchasing a few
trifling articles which he requested to be sent
to him to the care of Mr. Braithwaite, a well-known
merchant in the City, but residing in
Portman Square. The mention of Mr. Braith-
waite's name would have been in itself sufficient
to do away with all suspicion, but the prisoner's
manners impressed the prosecutor so favourably ;
the lady, of middle age, but very fashionably

attired, who accompanied him, appeared so
respectable ; and the carriage in which they
came was so well appointed ; that in fact no suspicion
entered into his mind. The lady herself
took little interest in the purchases, but gave
her attention to a handsome camilla which
happened to be standing in a china jar in the
prosecutor's window. Before leaving the shop
the prisoner asked once again to see the
diamond, and on Mr. Flesker opening the
drawer, into which, as he felt confident, he had
placed it after its previous examination, he found
that the jewel was missing. Nothing could
exceed the anxiety and chagrin evinced by the
two visitors. They assisted in the search with
the utmost apparent concern, and on its
proving fruitless the prisoner thus expressed
himself: "You will be good enough, Mr.
Flesker, to send to the office in the City of

which I am manager, and where Mr. Braith-
waite will be found, to prove my identity, and
in the meantime I insist upon this lady and
myself being searched in order to satisfy your
own mind."

His wishes were accordingly complied
with. Mr. Lesser himself thoroughly searched
the prisoner, while the housekeeper performed
the same office for the lady : but the diamond
was not in the possession of either of them. A
clerk from Mr. Braithwaite's presently arrived,
who proved that Mr. Garston was the person
he had represented himself to be, and all suspicion
of the prisoner was removed from Mr.
Flesker's mind.

The next day the prisoner came again,
alone, to inquire whether the missing jewel had
been discovered. He expressed the deepest
sorrow for what had happened, and spoke of the

lady, a dear old friend, as being seriously indisposed
on account of what lead happened. " It
is very hard upon her," he said, " who came
here at my request, and for whom jewels have
no attraction. She would rather have a
camilla such as that than the finest diamond
in the world, and, if you have no objection, I
should like to buy it for her." The prosecutor
stated that flower was not for sale, but
since the lady had fallen in love with it, and
was undergoing such unmerited suffering, he
was very willing that she should have it. The
prisoner objected that he could accept no
favour of Mr. Flesker while he was labouring;
under such a calamity as the loss of the diamond,
which, moreover, must seem connected
in some way with his own previous visit, but in
the end he took the flower with the china jar
in which it stood. But it was now the theory

VOL. III. L

of the prosecution that, as the prisoner's accomplice,
this woman had contrived to steal the
diamond, and to place it, while pretending to
admire the camellia, in the mould of the pot,
so that she had eventually become possessed
of the stolen ]property by the prosecutor's own
act.

For a long time, however, the whole
affair was shrouded in mystery, till early in
the present month, when the missing diamond
once more made its appearance under the following
circumstances : —

An elderly stout man, an Englishman,
called at the shop of M. Baine, a jeweller, in
the Eue Vivian, Paris, and took from his scarf
a small gold pin, with a very handsome
diamond, which he offered for sale. The
poorness of the setting — for the pin itself
was almost valueless, m comparison with the

richness of the gem — attracted the jeweller's
attention.

" You wish to have this reset, I suppose,"
he observed.

" On the contrary," returned the stranger,
I wish to sell it, if I can do so at a good
figure. It was an heirloom in my family, and
I do not know its exact value, but I am told it
is worth a great deal of money."

To this M. Baine assented. " Indeed it is
worth so much that I cannot tell you its value
off-hand," he said ; " moreover, I have very
few customers for such a jewel."

'What passed through his mind was that the
stranger hardly seemed of a rank to have become
possessed of such a" diamond by inheritance,
and that at all events he should not feel justified
in bidding for it without further inquiries.

" In that case," said the stranger, " you
L 2

had better keep the pin for a few days, when I
will call again and hear how much you are
prepared to give for it ; I shall not, however,
part with it under 1,400Z."

'Whereupon he departed, leaving the pin
behind him, and giving his address as " Mr.
Shaw," lodging at the Hotel de Suisse, which
was in the neighbourhood.

Every jeweller of repute keeps a ledger,
m which is set down a description of any jewel
of note which has fallen into bad hands — they
are almost as difficult, indeed, to pass as are
stolen notes, of which the numbers are posted
at every Bank — and M. Baine had a book of this
description. At the first glance at the diamond
he had his suspicion that he had seen it described
in the book in question, and further investigation
of it convinced him of the fact. Its
weight and appearance coincided exactly with

the description of the jewel stolen from Lombard
Street during the previous November. He
accordingly telegraphed at once to Mr. Flesker,
who came to Paris the next day, identified the
diamond as his property, and put himself in
connection with the French police ; from that
time a detective was always on the watch at M.
Baine's establishment ; he remained in a back
room in company with Mr. Flesker, awaiting
the reappearance of Mr. Shaw. This room
had a glass door which looked into the shop.
In a week after the ring had been left in the
jeweller's hands, an Englishman — the prisoner,
Christopher Garston — called, requesting to look
at some large diamonds. He was shown the
one in question, and expressed a wish to purchase
it. The sum which M. Baine had
decided to ask for it was 1,500/. ; this the
prisoner undertook to give. Upon being told

that the owner had left the jewel on sale, he
left his name and address, and promised he
would return on the morrow to complete the
purchase, supposing that the terms should be
agreeable to Mr. Shaw. On leaving the shop
he was arrested at the instance of Mr. Flesker,
who had recognised him through the glass door.
'What had happened was just what the
police had anticipated. They were convinced,
since Shaw had failed to sell the diamond in
the first instance, that some confederate of his
would call and bid for it, and, having done
so, Shaw would calculate upon getting the
money minus M. Baine's commission. There
would have been no reason why the jeweller
should hesitate, since, even if the intending
purchaser should break his promise, the jewel
would remain in his possession, while the price
he had paid for it was far below its value.

There would have been a difficulty, under the
French law, in arresting the prisoner as a confederate,
but for Mr. Flesker's identification of
him with the man vvho had been connected
with the original disappearance of the diamond.
As soon as he was in custody, however, many
corroborative circumstances came to h^ht. In
the first place, Shaw was missing ; he had left
his hotel that very morning and had not returned
for his luggage ; it was, therefore,
reasonably argued that he had been aware of
Garston's visit to the jeweller, and was cognisant
had possibly been even a witness — of his capture.
The landlord of the Hotel de Suisse proved
that Garston had visited Shaw on several
occasions. The name that Garston had given
was a false one, under which he was residing in
very splendid apartments at the Grand Hotel.
Under these circumstances a warrant lead been

procured and the prisoner taken to London.
What was especially dwelt upon by the prosecution
was the nature and appearance of the
diamond, which it was impossible that any one
acquainted with such matters, as the prisoner
by his own admission was proved to be, could
mistake. Yet, when M. Baine had offered it to
him for sale, he had made no sign of recognition
of it, and put questions that would seem to
imply an utter ignorance of its peculiarities.
Then, again, it was shown that the prisoner
when he went to Paris was short of money ;
had certainly not one thousand five hundred
pounds in his possession, nor anything approaching
to that sum, and that he was in especial
need of one thousand pounds for the purpose of
purchasing certain shares in the Cook's Creek
Mine, the proprietorship of which would qualify
him as a Director of the Company. The

evidence on this part of the matter had been
obtained with difficulty, and was damaging to
the interests of the Mine itself. The Company,
on the whole, had stuck by their manager ; Mr.
Braithwaite, in particular, had expressed his
fullest confidence in the prisoner's innocence,
and had even offered to become his bail.

But such was the mass of testimony against
him, and so serious the offence with which he
was charged, that bail had been refused.'

Such, in brief, was the narrative which
Mark Medway read in the paper before him ;
but it scarcely produced a more distinct impression
upon his brain than some evil dream
leaves on the waking sense. As in that case,
too, the latest impression was the strongest.
Mark found himself repeating aloud the last
words of the report. ' The prisoner, who was
undefended, maintained a resolute demeanour,

and when asked whether he had anything to
say in answer to the charge, observed smihngiy
that " it seemed useless for the present to say
anything ; but that he had never had possession
of Mr. Flesker's diamond, save when
that gentleman had himself placed it in his
hand." '

What a frightful mistake I What a
terrible position for poor dear Kit ! ' ejaculated
Mark, looking at the Eector with horror-struck
eyes.

A terrible position, indeed,' assented Mr.
Penryn.

It could be hardly worse if he were
guilty,' continued the young man, striding up
and down the room excitedly. ' Only conceive
what a proud spirit like his must have suffered !
And yet he would not pain us by one word of
it ; it was only at the very last he sent for

Trenna, and even then he did not reveal the
truth.'

Just so,' said the Eector, naively. ' It
would have spared you all a great shock, and
been better for everybody, if he had been more
open.'

But what was there to be open about ? '
inquired Mark, indignantly. ' The whole affair
is a series of unfortunate coincidences. Kit
never had the diamond in his possession, save
for an instant when j\ir. Flesker himself
placed it in his hands. Those are his very
words.'

He had a diamond in his possession,'
observed the Eector, quietly, ' of a very peculiar
kind and of great value ; you told me so yourself.'


Certainly,' admitted Mark with vehemence.
I have seen it. It was given to him by the

Board of Management of his Company.
Though they had not known him so long as
other people I could mention, they were better
judges of his character, and had the fullest
confidence in his integrity.'

Heaven grant that it may not have been
misplaced,' said the Eector, fervently.

I haVe not the slightest apprehension of
that kind,' was the cold reply ; ' any suggestion
to the contrary, born of malice and ill-nature,
is most offensive to me, nor under this roof, at
all events, will I permit it to be uttered.'

Mark, Mark, you mistake me altogether,'
returned the Eector, with heightened colour.
Heaven knows that neither malice nor ill-nature
are actuating me. I am as desirous that
Christopher Garston may prove himself innocent
of this disgraceful charge as you can be. But
what are the facts ? '

I do not wish to discuss them, ]mr.
Penryn,' said Mark, coldly. ' I will not hear, I
will not know, the man who would distort
them to my friend's prejudice.'

'Distort them — why,, bless my soul! — but
here is your mother.'

That lady had entered the room, attracted
by her son's loud tones, and was gazing from
one to the other of the two actors in this little
drama in stupefied amazement.

My dear Mrs. Medway, I must ask you to
judge between me and Mark. I will not plead
my own cause, but simply refer you to that
newspaper. I am not Christopher Garston's
accuser, but it surely justifies me '

Mark snatched the paper, and tore it in a
dozen pieces. ' My mother's mind shall not be
poisoned by any such lies,' he exclaimed. ' If
this was my own house, Mr. Penryn, I should

ask you to leave it ; as it is my mother's, not
mine. I can only take the next best course open
to me.'

Whereupon he walked out of the room,
closing the door behind him.

CHAPTEE Xlvi

THE SUBPffiXA.

Mr. Penryn, though a divine, was human, and
poor Mark's injudicious advocacy of his friend's
interests did not certainly induce the Eector to
take a more favourable view of Kit's position.
He stated his opinion upon that matter to Lies.
Medway without any of the doubts and aspirations
he had previously employed in the way
of mitigation ; and having pieced together the
fragments of the newspaper, arranged them on
the table, and bade that lady use her own
reason. It was as though the judge's summing
should precede the evidence, and was

certainly not a fair way of putting the case ;
but then, when we are angry, few of us are
fair.

Mrs. Medway, thus manipulated, began by
asserting that Kit's guilt was incredible and
impossible, then took the lower ground of ' she
would never have thought it,' and eventually
assented to the general proposition that ' people
are not committed to Newgate, without bail,
for nothing.'

In her mother's heart she resented the long
intimacy of this guilt-smirched man (for such
he already was, whatever happened) with her
dear ones, and especially his late attempt
(which now seemed both desperate and
audacious) to win her daughter's love. But
nevertheless she felt great distress and pity
for the young fellow.

It may be a mistake, Mr. Penryn,' she

pleaded, ' after all, you know, and he was so
pleasant and charming that we all loved him.
Nor was it only that,' she added, when the
Eector pursed his lips and shook his head (as
though he would have said, ' it was the
serpent's beauty, and not the fruit, which
tempted Eve '), ' but he has laid us under the
greatest obligations.'

To be sure. I remember he saved Maud
from drowning. That was certainly a feather
in his cap. Xo one denies his courage, however.
Indeed, throughout this affair' (here he
pointed to the newspaper) ' we find Danton's —
was it Danton's ? — advice in practice, Vaudace,
et Vaudace, et toujours VaudaceJ

It is strange when a man is down how his
very virtues are quoted to his disadvantage ;
but that was not the reflection which occurred
to ]airs. Med way.

VOL. III. M

There was another matter, she said, equally
to Kit's credit (she was thinking of Mark's love
affair), and in which he had done her and hers
the greatest service.

Oh, indeed,' said the Eector, who was sofar
gone in partisanship by this time that if he
had had the facts before him he would probably
have suggested that Kit had wanted to marry
Miss Finch himself.

No doubt Christopher Garston had his
good points. Otherwise he would not have
obtained such influence — an influence I have
always deprecated — over your son.'

This thrust, which was intended for a body
blow, had not altogether the effect intended
upon its object.

To be sure ; that of itself is a certificate of
Kit's good principle ; he must be right in the
main. It is therefore impossible — however
black things look against him '

Look against Mm ! He is committed to
Newgate.'

Great Heavens — yes — I had forgotten —
poor dear Trenna ! ' Here, to the Eector's
amazement, Mi's. Medway burst ito tears.

Self-reproach had suddenly seized her, for
the truth was, in her excitement upon Kit's
account, and on that of her son, the fact of
Trenna's having gone to join her brother had
for the moment escaped her memory. 'She
left us yesterday, thinking he was in lodgings
somewhere ; think of that unhappy girl alone
in London.'

'Alone, and her brother in gaol! ' exclaimed
the Eector. 'This is indeed terrible news. Do
you know her address ? '

Mrs. Medway nodded ; speechless with excitement,
but by no means stupefied, she was
ransacking her desk for a telegraph form.
ii

What are you going to do ? ' he inquired.

I shall let her know, of course, that help
and friends are coming at once — tomorrow.'

Quite right — a noble woman. Be so good
as to say that if my presence can be of the
least service to her — she used to despise us
poor parsons, but we are not so unmindful of
our duties as she imagines — I will come to her
willingly, gladly.'

I am sure you would, Mr. Penryn ; but
Mark will of course accompany myself and
Maud. Nothing would keep him here with
Kit in trouble elsewhere.'

Just so ; but why not wait for the second
post? No time will be lost by doing that,
since Trenna will be sure to write.'

This reasonable suggestion was adopted,
and in the meantime Mrs. Medway and her
daughter began to make their preparations for

departure. Mark had already communicated
to his sister what had happened, accompanied
by many vehement invectives against the witnesses,
the magistrates, and the law itself. ' Of
course,' he ended, ' I shall go to town by the
next express.'

'And of course mamma and I will go
with you, Mark,' was Maud's reply. ' Your
thoughts are engrossed by Kit, as well they
may be, poor fellow ; but we must not forget
that dear Trenna has not a friend in
London.'

Quite true ; my mother will go, of course
but you '

And why not /? ' put in the girl, indignantly.
' I should be ashamed to stay herein
comfort, while Trenna is in distress and her
brother in danger.'

You are thinking of Trenna more than of

poor Kit, though,' sighed Mark, reproachfully.
He had been distressed and pained by Maud's
rejection of his friend, which had been communicated
to him by his mother, and, now that
Kit was in such great and unmerited trouble,
the recollection of it was wormwood.

You do me wrong, Mark,' said Maud, with
dignity. ' I would do anything to serve the
man who saved my life, and who is my
brother's friend ; and I can serve him best by
serving Trenna.'

Mark was touched, and thanked her. Still it
was little better than instinct in a nature such as
Maud's to stand by a wronged and innocent man ;
what he would have preferred to hear from her
lips was an avowal of her love, which he well
knew would be the greatest solace and pledge
of loyalty he could convey to Kit. If he had
suspected Maud's attachment to Frank Meade,

he would certainly have attributed her willingness
to go to town to another cause to that
which in truth animated her. His affection for
Kit was such that he was not at present in a
condition to judge any one whose interests or
prejudices were in any way opposed to him ;
and so bitterly did he resent the want of faith
expressed by his old friend and tutor in Kit's
integrity, that he would not go downstairs till
the Eector had left the house.

By'the evening's post, as i\Ir. Penryn had
anticipated, there arrived a letter from Trenna :
the fact of its being addressed to Mark aroused
no surprise, for though, under ordinary circumstances,
she might have been expected to have
written to her late hostess, or to Maud, the
condition of affairs, and Mark's known affection
for her brother, sufficiently explained her
choice. The contents of the letter, however,

though marked ' Private and confidential,' were
evidently intended for the whole family, and
filled them with the utmost amazement and
alarm.

Care of Mrs. Tindal, Ludgate Hill.

My dear Mark, — I send you a newspaper,
which will relate the great calamity which has
befallen my dearest brother, without explaining
or accounting for it. Neither can I here explain
it, but must needs trust to your great
love and knowledge of him to form a just
conclusion. I must trust to them likewise for
something more.

I know that your first thought on learning
where he is, and in what strait, will prompt
your coming to town ; and it is just possible
that the kind hearts of your dear mother and
sister may prompt them too, for my sake, if

not for his, to adopt a similar course. It maybe
presumption in me to anticipate this, but I
am compelled to presuppose such a contingency
since it is absolutely necessary and essential
to Ms interests that you do not do so. I
have seen him and talked to him ; we were
watched by his gaolers, but not overheard, and
I know the secrets of his heart. If he saw
you, Mark, it would be his destruction. When
he is once again a free man, and able to take
your hand in the old way, he will be blest
indeed ; but at present he is wholly unequal to
such an interview. His great comfort is to
picture you in the old home, and under the old
circumstances ; to think of your being within
the shadow of his present abode, or near it,
would be terrible to him. He adjures you, and
I entreat you, to spare him that pang. As for
myself, I require no companionship, and least

of all that of your dear ones. I could not bear
it. My heart is ftiUy occupied, and I need
not say my thoughts. Kit has a solicitor and
counsel. He bids me say that in a fortnight
he confidently hopes to cleanse his good name
in the eyes of all whose good opinion is worth
having ; but in the meantime it is all important
that his brain should be kept clear. He
feels that if once he gave way to feeling he
could not be answerable for his senses. I do
not know whether I make myself intelligible ;
but what I would say, if I knew how, is something
that would keep you all at the Knoll.
For Heaven's sake do not come hither ! It is
only a fortnight — less than a fortnight — to wait.
Then, his innocence established, he will fly to
the arms of him who is dearer to him than any
brother. But if — here ensued a mass of blots
and erasures — * if it should happen otherwise, if

through a most unhappy conjunction of circumstances
(some, alas ! owing to his own folly and
imprudence) he should fail in proving his innocence,
be assured he will not disgrace you by
reminding the world of your ancient friendship
for him. What have I written ? I know not.
You must make allowance for my troubled
mind. Only one thing comes uppermost in
it — because Kit impressed it upon me with
such force — that you are not to come ; that
you are none of you to come. I shall see him
every day. My whole life seems passed outside
my body, but I believe I am well cared for.
Nobody, thank Heaven, is kind — kindness I
could not endure ; but there is no lack of
service. We have money enough. Do not
think me ungrateful, my dear ones, when I say
I do not wish to hear from you. I must keep
strong and vigilant up to the day of the trial.

I need not say, " do not speak of all this to

others." It will be, I know, a subject far too

painful to you for discussion. I am afraid that

from your kind and faithful hearts the though

of us will never be absent. No words are

necessary to assure me of that ; and above all

do not come.

Your affectionate,

Trenna Garston.'

This hurried scrawl, blotted with tears, was
so different from her usual clerkly hand that
it could only be recognised here and there as
Trenna's own. Wherever she impressed upon
her friends the inadvisability of their joining
her it was legible and distinct enough, and
therein it typified her thoughts, which, vague
and troubled on all other matters, seemed, on
that point, to be firm and unwavering. The
effect upon Mark's hearers, for he read the

letter to His mother and Maud aloud, as well as
their tears and ejaculations of pity would permit
him, was most painful and perplexing. As to
himself, his heart seemed to stand still with
horror and amazement, for the one thing — save
that astounding veto, which stood up bare and
clear as a rock amid those wandering words
was the possibility that Kit might fail to
prove his innocence.

Of that innocence Maud doubted no more
than Mark himself, and her mother only a little
less. The misery of the young man's position
appealing to the latter's tender heart naturally
affected her judgment, which, indeed, had been
altogether in his savoir* till overborne by the
Sector's arguments ; much of their weight had
been due to his personal pressure, and, being
removed, her mind sprang back like a bent
sapling to its old position. At the same time

she could make all allowance for those on whom
the bisect of the newspaper report was overwhelming.
She wished above all things that
Kit's good name should be established ; but
Mark's behaviour to Mr. Penryn had much distressed
her, and she was loth to lose so old a
friend on a matter which was, after all, one
of opinion,

You and /, my dear Mark,' she said (with
so much stretching of the actual facts as proclaimed
her woman), ' are of course convinced
of dear Kit's integrity, but, while standing by
him to the uttermost, it is only common
charity, I think, to make allowance for
the views of those by whom he was less
known.'

Mr. Penryn, mother,' answered Mark,
coldly, ' if you mean him, knew Kit well
enough, and common charity (since you have

invoked it) should have taught any man, far
more a clerg}aiian, to express himself with less
rancour.'

I am sure, dear Mark, Mr. Penryn did not
intend to be rancorous.'

'Then he was so without intending it,
which looks worse for his heart.'

Now to think how prejudice may distort
the dearest and the kindest ! ' sighed Mrs.
Medway. 'I could tell you something about
Mr. Penryn — but there, I suppose it's
no use.'

She waited in hopes he would inquire what
were the mitigating circumstances in the
Rector's crime, but Mark kept an obstinate
silence. He was only interested in one man,
and in one crime.

I can only say,' she continued, ' that Mr.
Penryn offered to go to town himself, if by so

doing he could be of the least comfort to
poor Kit.'

^ Mr. Penryn offered to go to town ! ' exclaimed
Mark, quickly. ' Why did you not tell
me that, mother ? '

'Because, my dear Mark, you snap one's
nose off so. You are not yourself since this
terrible news came.'

If Mr. Penryn offered to go to town to
serve Kit,' reiterated Mark, ' I am sorry I said
what I did to him.'

'There is my own boy again,' exclaimed
Mrs, Medway, rapturously. ' The next time
the Eector calls, I know that you will take his
hand as usual.'

She privately resolved that the Eector
should call the very next day, and, indeed, at
once wrote to him to that effect. Notwithstanding
the sympathy which she had described

him as having shown for Kit, she did not
forget to remind him of the peril in which the
young man stood. ' It almost drives Mark
wild to think of it,' she wrote, ' which must be
his excuse for having been so abrupt in his
manner to you to-day.'

(' Abrupt in his manner ! ' cried the
Eector.)

He was not himself,' continued the lady's
letter.

(perhaps not,' muttered Mr. Penryn, sardonically,
' and the other man that he became
nearly kicked me out of the house')

But, nevertheless, his heart was touched by
his old friend's appeal, and he drove over to
the Knoll the next morning. As it happened
he fell in with Dr. Meade, bound for the
same destination. The news of Kit's arrest
was by this time on every tongue, and he

VOL. III. N

guessed what distress and alarm it would arouse
in the Med ways.

'I shall go up to town tomorrow,' said
the Doctor. ' It will be quite as well to bring
Prank down with me, instead of letting him
come alone, and that will give me the opportunity
of seeing after poor Trenna. It is
terrible to think what that unhappy girl must
be suffering.'

But the Medwayss themselves are going,'
said the Eector. ' Mrs. Medway told me so.'

Indeed ! '

Why, surely you are not surprised at that,
Meade ? '

The Doctor did not reply, and by that time
they had reached the Knoll. Both visitors
received a hearty welcome. In the Eector's
case Mark felt he had something to make up
in the way of friendliness ; while the Doctor's

announcement (which he made at once) of
his intention to go to London ' to kill two
birds with one stone,' as he called it, but in
truth, as they well understood, mainly out
of care for Trenna, turned all hearts towards
him.

It will not alter my intention, since I have
made up my mind to do it,' he said, ' but I hear
you are going up yourselves. " In the multitude
of counsellors there is wisdom." '

There was a little pause, and then Maud
observed : ' The fact is, we are not going. We
have had a letter from Trenna, and she does
not wish it.'

Does not wish it ! ' ejaculated the Eector.
Why not ? '

'Well, the reason is obvious enough, I
should think,' said Mark, courtly. ' She requires
all her fortitude and judgment, and shrinks
n 2

from any show of tenderness. The letter is
marked " Private," but that is the sense of it.'

Nothing more was said upon that head ;
indeed Mark's manner forbade it. But when
the two visitors had taken their leave, and
once more found themselves alone together,
the Sector's amazement burst forth in a
flood.

What can Trenna mean, Meade, by not
wishing the Med ways to come up to her ? I
should have thought in such a crisis she would
have absolutely yearned for kindness and
sympathy.'

It is not she that does not want them,'
replied the other, confidently ; 'it is her
wretched brother.'

And why not ? '

Well, I think I know why not. I maybe
wrong, of course, and therefore will give

no reasons, but if Lawyer Garston were' here
he would enlighten you, I think, upon that
matter. As for us, in my opinion we can
only do one thing for this unhappy young
fellow;

What is it ? I am sure I will do it withall
my heart,' said the Eector, earnestly.

Hold our tongues,' answered the Doctor,
sententiously. ' The less we talk about Kit
Garston within the next ten days the better
it will be for him.'

Six hours afterwards the following mysterious
circumstance took place. As the shades
of evening were falling a strange gentleman
in black called at the Knoll, and inquired if
Mark Medway was within. Upon receiving
from the servant an answer in the affirmative,
he observed : * Well, there is no particular
necessity that I should see him ; but mind you

give him this, because it is very particular
With that he vanished, not indeed in a flame
of fire, but with equal celerity.

The arrival of this missive agitated Mark
exceedingly — everything that happened now
moved on one hinge, and the Unknown had by
this time become a thing to be dreaded — and
it was ?one time before he could even comprehend
the nature of its contents. They were
precise, however, and formal enough. Excommunication
consisted of an oblong slip of
paper ; on one side the name of a City
solicitor, on the other certain printed matter : —

'Victoria, by the Grace of God, of the
United Kingdom, to Mark Medway and John
Doe, and to every one of them, greeting. We
command you and every of you that, laying
aside all excuses and pretences whatsoever,
you and every of you personally be and appear

before our Justices of Oyer and Terminer and
Gaol Delivery at the Sessions to be holden for
the jurisdiction of the Central Criminal Court
at Justice Hall in the Old Bailey on Monday,
the tenth day of March, by nine of the clock
in the forenoon of the same day, there to
testify the truth, and give evidence according
to the best of your knowledge on our behalf
against Christopher Garston, upon an indictment
for felony.'

In plain English (which was a very different
matter), Mark Medway had received a
subpoena to attend Kit's trial on behalf of the
prosecution.

CHAPTEE XLVII.

ADVISERS.

There is something in the jargon of the law,
independent of its subtleties and pretences, its
juggling and delays, which is peculiarly offensive
to the man of culture. Its polities and
repetitions, the purpose of which he knows,
whatever excuses may be made for themis,
at bottom greed, disgust him. Its rank
undergrowth of verbiage excites his scorn, but
also exhales a certain unwholesomeness like
the matted mangroves of the tropics. His
walk of life is apart from such things, and he
shuns them with contempt, indeed, but also

with a certain sense of fear. He has an
exaggerated notion of the power of the law
for harm, even in the case of an innocent
man.

Under any circumstances, therefore, the
receipt of a subpoena would have perturbed
Mark Medway exceedingly; but as the
matter stood, to find himself retained, as it
were, on the other side, against his beloved
friend, and he in peril of what was dearer to
him than life itself, drove him to the verge of
distraction. As soon as he understood the
full nature of the calamity that had befallen
him, a special messenger was despatched for
both the Doctor and Mr. Penryn, with a few
lines from Mrs. Medway (for Mark was quite
unequal to composing a concise statement) to
tell them what had occurred and to entreat
their presence. They had both, as we know,

been at the Knoll already that day, but Mrs.
Medway was well assured they would not
hesitate to obey her summons. Indeed, in
the Doctor's case, since he was to leave for
London on the next morning, it was essential
that he should know what had happened before
his departure.

It was far into the night, however, before
the wheels of the Mogadion fly, which the
pair had chartered between them, gladdened
the anxious ears of the family at the Knoll.
The Doctor had been out when the messenger
had called, and Mr. Penryn had had to wait
for him at the Dovecote for hours. Even
when he came they had had some talk together,
the result of which was that they had
paid a visit to Mr. Tennant, the lawyer, on
their way. It was characteristic of the two
men that, in the time of trouble, such as they

knew this would be to their friends at the
Knoll, their mutual antagonism was forgotten.
Their only thought was how to mitigate the
common calamity, though, as it happened,
they took different views as to how it was to
be met. Kind, easy-going ]mr. Penryn, who
accepted in rather a broad sense the Scriptural
view that the criminal law was for evildoers
of the baser class, and not for the
annoyance of educated and well-born persons,
was for shirking the disagreeableness of the
situation ; while the Doctor, who had a more
robust sense of justice, was for taking the bull
by the horns, and their difference of opinion
had suggested their call upon the attorney, who
had strengthened the one in his view of the
matter by his approval, and the other by his
opposition.

How good and kind this is of you,' cried

Mark, holding his hands out to both of them,
that to the Rector with especial warmth, in
silent confession of having misjudged him.

'Pooh, pooh,' said Mr. Penryn, 'a friend
should show himself friendly, or what is the
good of him ? '

As for me,' said the Doctor, ' I am used
to night work, and, putting sorrow for sickness,
I look upon this as a professional visit. A
subpoena is no doubt a troublesome complaint,
and rather catching, but you mustn't all look
as if the plague had broken out.'

Indeed the appearance of Mrs. Medway
and her daughter, as well as of Mark himself,
was most deplorable. The two former had evidently
been weeping bitterly, while there was
something in Mark's face which to the Doctor's
eye was much more significant of ill than
tears. What was also symptomatic of Mark's

condition was his feverish impatience. Though
ordinarily phlegmatic and averse to motion,
he now paced the room as a ship-captain walks
his deck, nor throughout the discussion that
ensued, though he took part in it by fits and
starts, did he once take a seat like the rest.
Whenever there was a pause he could be
heard muttering to himself, ' There to testify
the truth and give evidence according to your
knowledge,' as though it were a spell.

After all,' said the Doctor, when the
matter had been talked over in that earnest
but desultory style which belongs to feeling
rather than logic, ' it cannot be difficult fora
man like you, Mark, to tell the truth.'

The truth ! ' echoed Mark, impatiently.
'I have nothing to tell. They know that I
have nothing. It is a trap to catch poor Kit,
and they have set me to do it. Then the

horror of it ! Even to appear to be against dear
Kit. I can never do it.'

'If I were you I shouldn't attempt to doit,'
said the Eector, disdainfully.

But how is Mark to help it, my dear Mr.
Penryn ? ' inquired Mrs. Medway.

Merely by paying forfeit. What does
the thing say ? ' (thus he spoke of the missive
of his Lady the Queen). ' Here it is : " And this
you or any of you — (why not every of you,
by-the by, like the other rubbish ?) — are not
to omit under the penalty of one hundred
pounds to be levied on the goods and chattels,
lands and tenements of such of you as shall
fail therein." Well, let them levy. Take
yourself out of the jurisdiction of the Court '
(a phrase that the Eector had had suggested
to him, one may conclude, by somebody else) —
and don't come back to it till it's all over.

What is a hundred pounds to you in comparison
with all this worry and annoyance ? '

For an instant Mark's face lit up with joy,
but the next moment all was dark again.

'But would that be good for Kit?' he
murmured.

The point is, what is your duty ? ' observed
the Doctor, drily.

One may be an honest man and yet not
Marcus Junius Brutus,' observed the Eector.

Mark stood still, and gazed from one to
the other in distressful doubt. The allusion
to his classical namesake, it was evident, had
been thrown away upon him.

What I asked you,' he said reproachfully,
was what will be best for Kit .^ '

I answer,' reeked the Doctor, ' to do your
duty. Do you think it will help Kit with the
fury to hear that a subpcBnaed witness for the

prosecution has fled the country ? They will
think — and naturally think — that his evidence
was the most important and the most
damaging of all.'

The question is,' observed the Eector, ina
low voice, ' what Mark has to say about the
matter.'

*I have nothing to say,' said Mark,
vehemently. 'Nothing, that is, but what is
to Kit's credit. How dare they summons me
to speak against dear Kit ? I could speak for
him, and never be weary of it ; but against
him ? What can I have to say ? '

The women sobbed, ' What, indeed ? ' but
the two men sat silent.

'It is a matter for your own decision,
Mark,' said the Doctor, presently ; ' but if you
know nothing to Kit's disadvantage in this
matter, it is clear your evidence cannot hurt

him ; whereas to shrink from your duty would
expose you to very grave reflections.'

Expose me ! ' interrupted the young man,
scornfully. ' How can you talk of me with
Kit standing yonder in the felon's dock ? ' And
with a trembling hand he pointed before him
into vacancy as though he beheld him there.

Then I will say what I have already said,'
continued the Doctor, earnestly ; ' that your
absence will prejudice the public mind against
him.'

'Against him, against him,' echoed Mark,
resuming his feverish walk ; ' to appear in the
witness-box against him — think of that ! '

It might well be imagined that in Mark's
condition of mind all logical persuasion would
have been without effect, but this was not so.
When the torrent of his feelings had subsided
a little, the arguments which had been thrown

VOL. III.

into it, as it were, and been apparently carried
away, showed their grim heads above the
stream. Upon the whole, he judged the last
advice — namely, to obey the subpoena — to bethe
better of the two ; though perhaps if he had
known how much the consideration of his own
(Mark's) reputation had weighed with the
Doctor in giving it, he would have been of the
contrary opinion. It weighed also with Mr.
Penryn, we may be sure ; but his own more
sympathetic temperament appreciated more
fully what Mark would suffer in the public
ordeal. Nor had this escaped the Doctor, to
whose professional eye, indeed, Mark's state of
mind was very far from satisfactory. He would
not have been so urgent, perhaps, for his young
friend's sticking to his guns, but that he saw
daylight ahead — and out of darkness. If Mark
should break down either physically or mentally

— a contingency he confidently expected —
he had a panacea in store for all their troubles.
A subpoena is a very serious thing; but it is
overridden by a medical certificate.



CHAPTEE XLVIII.
mark's difficulty

Dk. Meade had a large heart, and it had a
corner in it for Christopher Garston and his
perilous case, notwithstanding that, as we know,
he had no high opinion of his morals ; but
charity began at home with him, as with most
of us, and in the troubles that ensued his main
care was for Mark Medway, lest, under pressure
of them, his brain should give way and he should
follow in his father's steps.

It is with Mark, and not with Kit, that
we also ourselves are mainly concerned.

Prison life has its attractions — for the outsider

— no doubt ; but one day of it is as a
thousand. No slight part of the offender's
doom is the iron monotony of his existence ; it
is as mechanical as that of the caf:^ed bullfinch
who draws water at the word of command,
but, alas ! does not sing. We talk of equality
of punishment, but it is probable that during
this terrible time no murderer in Newgate
gaol suffered worse than Christopher Garston.
Every day he saw his sister in the glass room ;
no other friendly face could he be induced to
see. The stone walls that surrounded him were
not stiffer, nor stronger, than the pride within
him. It might be, he grimly said, that in a
week's time he would be cut off from all human
society; and he prepared to go into training
for that contingency. As to his guilt or innocence,
he never alluded to the subject to Trenna
at all ; that was a matter, he said, for his solicitor.

This silence, of course, was dreadfully significant,
but the solicitor talked to her with a
certain frankness (which, however, always
stopped short of candour), and had hopes.
The circumstances were ' most unfortunate,' he
said, in some respects, but, after all, the possession
of the diamond had never been brought
home to his client.

At her own request, she also saw her brother's
leading counsel. In speech, he was more
reticent than the gentleman representing ' the
lower branch of the profession,' but so tender
and pitiful in his manner that she gathered from
him at once, if not the worst, at least that Kit
was standing in extreme peril.

At Trenna's lodgings, in Ludgate Hill, there
was from the date of her arrival to the day of the
trial but one other visitor, and he only admitted
after repeated solicitations — namely. Dr. Meade.

She received him with a formality that
almost amounted to antagonism ; but he
understood what underlay it.

I am come here, neither to pity nor condole
with you, Trenna,' he said, ' but simply to
ask one question : What can I do for you ? '

Her lips moved once or twice before she
could reply, then answered, ' soothing, nothing,'
in a tone of one past hope as well as help.

I never saw Trenna look so beautiful as on
that occasion,' the Doctor used to say, ' but it
was the beauty of a face in sculpture. One
might fancy it keeping watch over a tomb.'
She said, indeed, but little, but her face and
manner had more significance than any words.
He spoke to her of the family at the Knoll,
and how greatly they desired to be with her.

Not now, not now,' she repU^d. ' Hereafter
— perhaps.'

Wherefrom he gathered, and gathered
rightly, that if Kit should be acquitted, things
might be with her once more as of old, but, if
otherwise, she was steadily determined to cast
in her lot with him as far as might be, and to
be as dead to what had once been life as he
must needs be.

Then he told her, as he felt bound to do,
that Mark had been subpoenaed for the prosecution.


Her face turned deadly pale ; she drew a
long breath that seemed to give her intense
pain, and murmured something he could not
catch.

There is, I need not say, no help for it,
Trenna, but Mark is in despair ; he has nothing,
of course, to say against Kit ; he has no conception
why he has been summoned ; but the
idea of it — the horror of even seeming to take
part against him *

I understand she said, and closed her eyes
and bowed her head. It was evidently the
worst of news to her.

Does this come upon you with surprise,
dear Trenna ? ' he inquired gently.

Xot on me. ' Mr. Burton, her brother's
solicitor, had, it seemed, led her to expect so
much. ' But Kit, poor Kit ! Oh, can nothing
be done, Doctor ? '

He knew what she meant as though she
had expressed it in every detail.

jVIr. Penryn and the rest of us have looked
at it from all points of view,' he answered
gravely. ' We wish to act for the best, you
may be sure.'

Kit will not think so,' was her unexpected
rejoinder. ' Oh, Doctor, this is what he
feared.'

So I concluded, my poor girl,' replied the

Other gently But, on the other hand, is it
not the lesser of two evils — I mean that Mark
should come? Would not his absence bethought
worse of than any evidence he must
needs give ? '

That is Mr. Burton's view.'

And surely he must know best, Trenna.'

Kit does not think so. Oh, Doctor, how
can I tell him ? ' She pushed the masses of
black hair from her forehead and rocked
herself to and fro, murmuring, ' Bad news —
bad news.'

Even to the Doctor, used as he was to
scenes of sorrow and despair, it was a terrible
interview.

Presently she put out both hands, as if to
thrust him from her. ' Leave me, leave me,'
she moaned.

'No, dear Trenna; not like that,' he

pleaded. ' Eemember the old times. You
have friends still who love you dearly, and will
love you still, whatever happens. For the first
time 1 told my poor lad to-day, who has been
at the point of death, what — what had taken
place. He is the shadow of his former self,
and can hardly move or speak, yet he tried to
rise, and whispered, " I must go to Trenna " ;
then, when I told him that was impossible, he
bade me tell you, with his dear love, that he
knew all.'

Did he say that ? ' she cried, clasping her
trembling hands. ' Did he say that ? '

He did indeed.'

The expression of her face amazed him : it
was that of passionate thankfulness, and was to
him altogether inexplicable.

Tell him, tell him,' she went on, ' that I

wish him all that he deserves. No more he
needs to have.'

You must tell him that yourself,' said the
Doctor, smiling ; ' he wants a tonic'

She shook her head. ' I shall never see him
more,' she said ; ' never, never.' And with a
movement of her hand towards the door, so
earnest and imploring that he could not but
obey it, she burst into a passion of tears.

Leaving his address with the landlady, a
solid, demure Scotchman, in case of need,
the Doctor returned to his son. Frank listened
to his account of his late interview with rapt
attention.

Father,' he said, ' I am sorry to have
brought you so far for my sake ; but I cannot
return to Mogadion till this is over.'

Do you mean the trial, Frank ? '

'Yes.'

The Doctor paced the room, his brow
knitted, not with disappointment, but in
thought. The reflection that his son would
suffer from anxiety if removed from town more
than he would benefit from change, no doubt
crossed his mind, but he was a man of too
large sympathies to think only of his own flesh
and blood.

You are right,' he said ; ' when all is over
Trenna may feel differently towards her old
friends. We must give the poor girl another
chance.'

Then he wrote to Mrs. Medway, telling her
what had passed, and the determination he had
arrived at to stay with his son. ' At the same
time,' he added, ' should your dear Mark give
you cause for anxiety, a telegram from you
will bring me to the Ejioll at once. My own
impression is that things had better take their

course. But in case of any unlooked-for
excitement manifesting itself, which would
suggest mischief as regards his coming to town,
I should have no hesitation, from what I
know of him, in placing on it my professional
veto

This was so broad a hint that in case of
need Mrs. Medway could hardly fail to take
it ; yet she made no sign. Receiving no
answer to his letter, and feeling some disquiet,
the Doctor wrote again. Then Mrs. Medway
replied.

Mark has shown no " excitement," nor
given us any such cause for anxiety as to induce
me to take the course you so thoughtfully suggested.
I did not write to you because I was
in doubt what to say. Of course it would
have been a comfort to us if you had been
here, but not being so, I cannot say there was

need to send for you. He has been very-silent,
and more solitary in his habits than
usual. Of course the thing is on his mind ;
I fear, indeed, it is never absent from it ; but
he never speaks of it, and has forbidden us todo
so. He passes hours alone in his study,
with poor Trenna's bird, and when he joins us
brings it into the room with him. He likes to
hear it chatter about " Tren " and Kit.

To-day, however, it distressed him sadly.
We were all at breakfast together, Maud and
I making conversation about something or
another, from which, as you may guess, our
hearts were far away, when the bird began to
croak of its old master : " Fie, fie. Kit," it
said ; " Tut, tut, tut, tut, tut ; Kit's a pretty
fellow ! Poor Tren ! Poor Tren ! "

Eeally it was as though a human being
had been complaining of him. Yor should

have seen poor Mark's face, or, rather, I
am glad you did not see it. I thought he
would have killed the bird. At last Maud
snatched up a shawl, and threw it over the
cage, which, as usual, reduced its tenant to
silence. Since then Mark lias not asked for
the bird, and we have put it out of his sight
and hearing.

We are all coming up to town on
Saturday, to the Eden Hotel. How many in
party we shall be, on our return, Heaven
knows ; Mark counts confidently on Kit and
Trenna ; and as to the latter, even in case of
the worst, no doubt it will be so. For where
else is she to go ? My heart bleeds for her
almost as much as for poor Kit. How
infinitely heavier is her cross to bear than mine.
And yet I tremble for my own poor boy.
What an ordeal is before him ! That he would

give his life to save his friend I am well convinced
; but can he save him ? Mr. Pennant
all the neighbours hereabouts seem to
think that things will so hard with him.
Eemember, Doctor, he had no mother, and a
father such as he would have been better
without. God help us all ! When you come
to see us at the hotel do not hint a word
about the medical certificate ; Mark's mind is
set upon going into Court.'

This letter disturbed the Doctor even
worse than the writer's silence had done —
which, indeed, its last sentence explained.
Mrs. Medway had evidently communicated his
proposition to her son, and had been forbidden
to accept it.

On the Saturday the party from the Knoll
arrived in town, and on the next day the
Doctor dined with them. Mark ate nothings
VOL. III. r

spoke very little, and that with evident effort ;
and looked deadly pale. He had had no
communication of any sort from the solicitors
for the prosecution, and seemed to expect
none : ' I have nothing to say,' he said, ' they
know I have nothing to say. It was a subpoena
at random.'

As he seemed to have persuaded himself of
this the Doctor made no attempt to argue the
question, though his own opinion was quite
different. There was some talk about his son,
to whom the whole party had paid a visit that
morning at the Doctor's lodgings, to which he
had been removed; but with Mark and his
mother the coming event of the morrow threw
its shadow on everything and monopolised
their thoughts, while Maud's heart was too full
for speech. To see Frank again in Hfe, though
with so little of it, had been the cause of

intense thankfulness to her ; but in view of
what was hannover Kit and Trenna she
would have felt it winked to rejoice. She had
written to the latter a most moving letter,
entreating her to receive her ; but on calling
at her lodgings with her mother they had
been denied. Mark, it was understood, though
he did not speak of it, had made a similar
appeal to Kit, in vain.

Late on Sunday night, however, long after
the Doctor had taken his leave, a note was left
for Mark which threw him into the utmost
agitation. Its contents were but a couple of
lines written in a well-known hand.

Eemember ! I once saved you from a
living tomb ; burn this at once.'

The deduction was obvious enough. By
the memory of what he had done for him in
boyhood. Kit adjured him to do him the like
p 2

service now. But how was he to effect it?
In the affairs of the world Mark was as a child,
and of legal matters he knew nothing. Why
had not Kit explained to him what he wished
him to do ? Why had he declined to speak
with him, and at this last moment sent him a
riddle ? He lay awake all night thinking of its
solution, yet it was a riddle that almost anyone
could have guessed but Mark himself.
The difficulty in his case was an initial one ;
and lay in the form in which he himself put
the question, ' How am I to save this innocent
mans'

CHAPTER XLEK.

IX THE WITNESS BOX.

A Peculiarity of the law of England, which no
doubt adds to its terrors to persons of imagination,
is the quietness with which it goes about its
work. Until the judge in his wig and gown is
actually beheld upon the bench there is nothing
ostentatious about it. Its eye may be upon
the individual, for example, whose evidence is
necessary to its operations, but it is as invisible
as that of Providence itself. To all appearance
and indeed in fact — on that long-looked-for
morning which was to decide the fate of his
friend, Mark Medway was a free man ; it lay

with himself to go to ' the Justice Hall at the
Old Bailey ' to bear witness in the case, or not
to go. The Prosecution, beyond serving him
with the subpoena, had not communicated with
him. The Defence had not communicated with
him. He had received no word of menace
from the one, or advice from the other. It is
possible that both sides had their own reasons
for leaving him so entirely to himself, but the
effect upon his mind was deleterious ; it was
not unhinged, but it shifted this way and that,
like a ship without a rudder, with every eddy
of thought. He was even in doubt at this last
moment as to whether he should appear in
Court or not. The idea of the line did not
weigh one feather with him ; nor would it have
done so had it been ten times the amount.
But might not Kit's appeal, so vague and yet
so instant, point to absence as the course he

wished him to adopt ? Yet if that had been so
why had he not written to that effect outright ?

There might have been danger in so saying, of
course ; but the fact that he had written ' Burn
this at once ' upon the slip of paper showed
that danger had been already incurred. Upon
the oriole Mark resolved to attend.

In utter ignorance of the usual course of
proceeding, he had arranged to go with Dr.
Meade (who had procured an order of
admission for two to the body of the Court), as
though he had been a mere spectator. Neither
Mrs. Medway nor Maud had the courage to
put in an appearance, but held themselves in
readiness to drive to Ludgate Hill immediately

on the conclusion of the trial. They understood,
of course, that Trenna's veto only held
good while matters were in duhio. If things
went well she would have their heartfelt congratulations

; they would welcome Kit as one
snatched from the burning but without a doubt
of the verdict that should proclaim his innocence
; if things went ill — ^a contingency that
made them sick to think of — there were loving
hearts and helpful hands and a home for herat
the Knoll through the dark years to come,
or, if need be, for life.

A crowded Court, the shuffling of feet,
the opening of doors, a buzz of many tongues,
the entrance of the Judge — and silence. All
these things fell on Mark's ear and eye
unheeded ; he saw and heard them, but they
were like the actions of a dream. The charge
to the Grand Jury was to him the merest tissue
of words, for Christopher Garston's name
had no place in it ; there were persons more
important to be spoken of — murderers. Kit
was alluded to, though Mark knew it not.

under * certain cases of felony of the usual

kind,' which would ' also demand their

attention.' Mark's gaze was riveted on the

dock, in which every moment he expected —

with unspeakable horror — to see his friend

appear. Presently, among the cases in which

the Grand Jury were announced to have found

true bills ' was that of Christopher Garston.

Mark started and trembled as the name was

pronounced. ' That is nothing,' whispered the

Doctor, comfortingly : ' no one could have

expected otherwise. It is the other Jury' —

yonder — with whom his fate lies.'

Mark cast one glance in the direction
indicated ; the men in the box, except that
there were twelve of them, were no more
to him than so many nine-pins ; the mere
mechanism of Fate had no attraction for him ;
his mind was keeping room for a single image ;

his eyes, with the constancy of the needle to
the pole, reverted once more to the dock.

A pickpocket, suave and genteel (until
conviction, when he broke out) ; a burglar,
scowling and truculent ; a woman, shrill and
confident, accused of the manufacture of base
coin ; and then Kit himself. The contrast
between his appearance and that of his predecessors
drew every eye on him ; handsome
as ever, though a trifle pale, with the same
bright look on his face as Mark had seen there
a thousand times. Quiet, but alert, he looked,
if not an innocent man, very unlike one's ideas
of a guilty one. His gaze flashed round the
Court like a sunbeam, till it rested on Mark,
who mechanically stretched out his hands.

Be calm — don't speak,' whispered the
Doctor, warningly. ' It may do him harm.'

The next moment was heard the strident

official voice calling upon the prisoner to plead

Guilty ' or ' Xot Guilty,' in the name of our

Sovereign Lady the Queen. The words had

the same strange effect on Mark as the jargon

of the subpoena had had. They sounded weird

to him, as well as menacing, like the rattling

of unseen chains. But on Kit himself they

had no such impression ; they even seemed to

arouse in him the same feeling of ridicule which

they would, without doubt, have evoked under

ordinary circumstances. But his face became

grave and earnest enough ere they had died

away, and in a quiet, musical voice, which was,

nevertheless, heard all over the Court, he

entered his plea of ' Not Guilty.'

To Mark he had given but one look, and
it was not repeated ; nor did it need to be.
Never was glance of mortal more significant of
confidence and affection — nay, it had a certain

tender assurance in it, as though, aware of the
anguish of his soul, it would have bidden him
be of good comfort. The prisoner's face was
now turned on the counsel for the prosecution,
to whose address he seemed to listen with rapt
attention, interrupted occasionally by a fleeting
smile. Mark heard it likewise, of course, but
the tumult of his feelings prevented him from
pursuing it in proper sequence, far more from
comprehending the gist of it. His eyes were
fixed on Kit ; his mind wandered to Trenarvon
Castle and the river ; then back to his schooltime,
when Kit and he were boys together —
Kit, his own familiar friend, between whom and
the man the counsel was painting so blackly
there was the same sort of connection that
things have in a nightmare, no more.

Presently the witnesses began to be called.
First came comparatively unimportant ones,

and then Mr. Flesker, the jeweller, an earnest,
excitable gentleman, who had certainly lost
something very valuable, whoever had taken
it. Mark saw the man reflected, as it were, in
Kit's face, and felt that he was speaking the
truth. ' His facts were correct enough ; where
he failed was in his deduction. The idea of
Kit, Mark's Kit, the mean whom he had
known from childhood, who had preserved his
life and his honour, the sunshine of the

Knoll, the Suddenly his dream was

broken in upon by a shouting of his own name.
Every tongue in the Court (so it seemed) was
calling to him, the Doctor's kind, earnest voice
among them at his elbow.

My dear lad, they are calling you. You
must go up into the witness-box.'

Great Heavens ! What shall I say ? '
Not that Mark had any intention, nor

would even have been persuaded, to say anything
save the truth, but that he felt
bewildered. He went up into the box with no
less shame and pain than if it had been the
pillory, only in his case the spectators were of
no account. There was but one man in all
that concourse on whom his thoughts were
fixed, and on him he gazed with piteous
deprecation.

Be so kind as to give me your attention,
Mr. Medway,' said the counsel in dulcet tones.
Mark was his own witness, to be treated
tenderly, and encouraged. When this learned
gentleman was not engaged in brow-beating
he devoted his attention to lubrication, and
in both accomplishments was highly distinguished.


You know the prisoner at the bar, I
believe ? '

Yes, indeed.'

'For long?'

For years — indeed, for almost his life.'

You are old friends, in short ? '

- Oh yes. We have never been otherwise.'

Just so ; I do not for a moment impute
any interested motive ; but the prisoner is
under considerable obligations to you — social
obligations — is he not ? '

None that I know of ; none, I hope, that
he feels.'

Well, well ; so be it ' (smiling) ; ' at all
events, the obligation was not the other way? '

You are ' mistaken ; 1 am under the
greatest obligations to him — obligations I can
never forget.'

Indeed ! Would you mind mentioning
one of them ? '

He saved my life.'

Here Mark looked toward the dock, and
Kit's eye met his own. Their places seemed
to have become transposed — it was the prisoner
who gave hope and comfort to the witness ;
nay, his smile, tender as a woman's, seemed to
apologise for his having been the nn willing
cause of the other's painful position.

It will soon bb over, my dear Mark,' it
seemed to say, ' but in the meantime how I
grieve for your distress of mind.'

'And, besides saving your life,' continued
the counsel, blandly, 'what other obligations
did the prisoner confer upon you ? '

Mark turned crimson. * Many others,' he
answered.

Just so.' Under that ' Just so ' lay an
armoury of insults, had it been his cue to use
them ; but for his present purpose things were
going like oil. ' Just so ; there were other

obligations which it is unnecessary to particularise.
None of them had the least connection
with the matter on hand ? '

Mark shook his head.

You were fast friends, then, and had no
secrets from one another ? '

I have no secrets from Christopher
Garston — none,' replied Mark, gravely, with a
look at his friend that seemed to say, ' Would
you could see my heart.'

I must once more request — nay, insist —
Mi. Medway, upon your giving your undivided
attention to me,' observed the counsel for the
prosecution. Up to this time he had been
willing enough that Mark's attachment for the
prisoner should be made manifest to the jury :
but it now became of great importance that
no communication — even so much as could
be conveyed by a glance of the eye — should

VOL. III. Q

pass between the dock and the witness
box.

Being so confidential with one another,
the prisoner no doubt informed you of his
relations with the Cook's Creek Company ? '
He spoke of them generally — not in detail
Well, come. What did he say of them ? '
On the whole, he expressed himself hopefully
about the prospects of the mine.'
And as to his own prospects ? '
They, of course, depended on the success
of the mine.'

No doubt ; but what did he say of his
own position as the salaried manager? He
boasted, I believe, of having the confidence of
the directors ? Was it not so .^ '

He did not boast of it. He stated what
was the fact — that his exertions on their behalf
had been appreciated.'

she also, I understand, spoke of a certain
acknowledgment which they had made
him?'

He did.'

Xow, mr. Medway, be so good as to turn
towards the jury while I ask you this question :
Of what did that acknowledgment consist ? '

It was a diamond ring.'

Are you quite certain it was not a scarf
pin?'

I am positively certain.'

There was a pause.

Would you be able to recognise the
diamond ring ? '

I think so.'

And the diamond ? '

If I recognise the ring it would be by the
diamond.'

Can you describe it ? '

q2

Not scientifically ; but it was what I
believe is called a rose, a hemisphere covered
with small facets.'

Is this the diamond ' (one was here
produced and handed to the witness) 'which
was shown to you by the prisoner as having
been presented to him by the board of
directors ? '

It was a crucial moment, and almost everyone
in Court was aware of it, except Mark
Medway himself. He had the utmost confidence
in his friend's innocence, and could not
understand how speaking the truth could harm
him ; it never entered into his mind that Kit
could have told him a he ; far less that out
of his natural vanity and boastfulness he had
invented the whole story of the directors'
gratitude to him, and their acknowledgment of
his services ; indeed, it was not till long, very

long afterwards, that certain circumstances
came to his recollection which suggested this ;
in particular, how reticent, after that first
mention of it, Kit had become about the ring,
and how he had dished its being made a topic
of conversation. Moreover, the gem being out
of its setting did not connect itself to Mark's
mind with a scarf pin at all : it was only
associated with a ring. Again, thanks to the
emotions that contended within him, and
blunted his sense of what was going on around
him, he had not followed, as the more dispassionate
jury had done, the course of the
case, as stated by the prosecution. It was as
strong as a cable, save in one place, where it
was packthread. The actual possession of the
stolen property had never been brought home
to the prisoner ; and this was the very point to
which the counsel for the prosecution was now

leading the unconscious Mark. There were
two ways, it was afterwards said, by which it
was possible, if he had been alive to the situation,
that Mark Medway might have saved his
friend. One by perjury and the other by
evasion. He might have sworn point blank
that the diamond was not the diamond that
Christopher Garston had shown him at the
Crown in Mogadion ; or he might have declared
himself, as a person unacquainted with
such matters, quite unable to identify the
stone. It was to this latter course that Kit's
written appeal without doubt had pointed ; for
as to the former he must have known that he
could never have induced Mark to do even for
him what he would certainly not have hesitated
to do for Mark had their places been reversed ;
but probably he did think that Mark would
have stretched a point, and confessed his inability

to offer any opinion upon the matter;
Wliat Mark would have replied had he understood
the importance of the question and Kit's
danger, it is difficult to say. ^\^aat Mark did
reply on having the jewel placed in his hands
was this : ' To the best of my knowledge and
belief this is the diamond that was shown meat
the inn in Mogadion.'

^ And that diamond, gentlemen of the jury,'
observed the counsel for the prosecution in
clear, sonorous, and slightly triumphant tones,
is, as I shall prove to you, the very diamond
stolen from Mr. Flesker's shop.'

Mark glanced with horror and affright at
the dock. Kit did not return his look, but,
with his hands clenching the rail beneath, was
gazing straight before him, with a face that
might have been marble, save for the eyes,
which were the homes of shattered hopes and

mute despair. If his pale lips had cried, ' No
more of this ; I am guilty ! ' he could not have
more convinced those who beheld him of his
guilt and of his doom.

At that moment, however, public attention
was diverted from him by ' an incident ' — there
were outcries for ' water ' and ' a doctor
Mark Med way had fallen down in the witness
box, and was carried out in a dead faint.

CHAPTEE L.
dark: days.

Days and even weeks elapsed before Mark
Medway recovered consciousness after that
mental shock. He lay at his London hotel, at
first in a high fever, during which he raved
perpetually of Kit, and afterwards in a state of
utter prostration. The first word he spoke oncoming
to himself was the name of his unhappy
friend.

Kit — what happened — the verdict ? '
They were obliged to tell him, for evasion
only aggravated his anxiety. The word
Guilty ' excited him alarmingly.

Not guilty he exclaimed, in an agitated
whisper. ' No, no ; Kit was never guilty.'

He had been convicted, however, and
sentenced to ten years' penal servitude.

Ten years,' muttered Mark, with the dew
0:1 his brow. ' A living tomb ; and it was I
who sent him there.'

It was in vain to reason with him ; indeed,
to point out the plain fact that no telling of
the truth could have consigned an innocent
man to prison would have been dangerous to
the patient's very life. It was better to leave
him to self-reproach than to excite his indignation.


His next inquiry was for Trenna ; and
here, again, they had bad news for him. Notwithstanding
her son's illness, Mrs. Medway
had left his bedside and driven to Ludgate Hill
within a few minutes of the issue of the trial

being known, but Trenna had already left her
lodofincrs, and was prone no one knew whither.
They would have obtained the information
from Kit's own lips, but the convict denied
himself to all. He was resolved to meet no
familiar face, xin application to his solicitor,
indeed, gave them the assurance that Trenna
was in health, and in no want of funds ; but it
was plain that she had taken the same resolve
as her brother, and Mrs. Medway and Maud
could do no more than address the most loving
of letters, with a renewed offer of every
material aid.

The two persons who had made so large a
portion of their home life had cut themselves
off from it — one of necessity, the other by her
own act — and the Knoll was to know them no
more.

To Mrs, Medway herself this was a serious

blow, and to Maud a most distressing one ;
but to Mark it was well-nigh destruction. His
affections, diffused among very few persons,
had been mainly concentrated upon Kit, and
they were not only crushed but, as it were,
mutilated. To have lost his friend by death
would have been a wound which time would
have healed. What had happened to him was
infinitely worse than death, and it had occurred
nothing could get this out of his mind —
through Mark's own act. ' Eemember, I have
saved you from a living tomb,' were words
that never ceased to ring in his ears ; yet,
when the moment arrived to remember them,
he had not done so. The question, ' How
could he have acted otherwise ? ' was put to
him again and again. Of course he had no
answer to it ; but he was beyond the reach
of logic. To his morbid mind, it was his

own voice which had pronounced Kit's sentence.


After some time, the whole party, including
the Doctor and his son, returned home. Frank
had pleaded with his father to remain in town
with the Medwayss ; and, indeed, Maud's
society seemed to have as beneficial an effect
upon his health as his native air could have
had. The Doctor's professional eye soon perceived
this, and it enabled him to guess the
cause, of which he had hitherto had no suspicion.
The talk of the young people, indeed,
was not of love ; the circumstances — Mark so
weak and shattered, and his nearest friend in
gaol — were too distressing for that. But Frank
lived in Love's atmosphere, and drew life and
vigour from every breath of it. His Herculean
strength was gone, never to return, but he was
convalescent, and would in time, it was confidently

predicted, be able to pursue his profession
at Mogadion, though not among the murk
and smoke of London. His dream of ambition
was over ; but as bright a reality — or so he
flattered himself — remained for him.

There are few things more satisfactory to
the human mind than the sense of recovery
from physical illness, and since in addition
it was that period of the year when the whole
earth seems growing convalescent in sympathy
with us, and when a young man's fancy is
said most naturally 'to turn to thoughts of
love,' it is no wonder that Frank Medway
was in a frame of mind to be envied. He
deeply regretted, and was still more deeply
shocked at, what had happened to Kit; but
there was a reason which forbade him to pity
him as others did, far less to entertain, as
was the case with Mark, an unaltered opinion

of his merits. It was now abundantly clear
to him that the crime for which Christopher
Garston was paying so terrible a penalty was
not his first ; and what Frank could not forgive
him was that of that first crime he had
permitted his sister to bear the burden. That
Trenna should have stolen those bank-notes
from her father had always been an inexplicable
mystery to Frank ; but he had believed
her own statement that she had done so. He
was now certain, and had told her so, as we
know, by his father's mouth, that she was
innocent of that offence, and he was filled
with anger against the man who had caused
him to impute it to her.

It was Frank alone who thoroughly understood
why Trenna lead refused all offers of
assistance from her old friends, and declined
to come near them. Her devotion to her

brother was as great as ever ; indeed, since
it had existed when she was conscious of his
former criminality. there was no reason whit
should now have suffered change, and he
could easily believe that to dwell among those
who had loved him, and who, with one exception,
must needs be convinced of his guilt,
was an impossibility for her. Thus it happened
that while Frank's kind heart bled for Trenna,
it did not so keenly concern itself for Kit.
He was a man too who, though he had
great command over himself, was ill-fitted
to simulate feelings which he did not entertain
; and not to praise, far more not to pity,
Kit, was in Mark's eyes an offence of the
gravest kind. The friendship of the two young
men was not indeed sundered on account of
this, for it takes two to make a quarrel, but
it became one-sided, and more and more

difficult to sustain — it flew, as it were, 011
one wing. Frank, who had Httle to do for
the present but to get well, was now a constant
visitor at the Knoll, and instead of passing
his time where it would naturally have been
most pleasant to pass it, in Maud's company,
he devoted himself to the task of raising her
brother from his settled melancholy ; but with
what small success under such circumstances
it may be guessed. At last the thin ice broke
under them both.

In the months of spring the charming little
place looked at its best, and one day, as the
two young men were walking together in the
garden, Frank made some remark upon its
excessive beauty.

You enjoy it, do you?' was Mark's abrupt,
almost savage reply; 'I hate it.' Then sud-vol.
III. K

deny he began to repeat in a pathetic voice
the exquisite lines —

I wake I rise, from end to end
Of all the landscape underneath
I find no place that does not breathe

Some gracious memory of my friend.

'There are the trees and the flowers as of old,
but they have no longer any charms for me ;
there is the river and the wilderness, but their
glory is gone. " for the touch of a vanished
hand ! " I keep saying to myself, " and the
sound of a voice that is still." '

You miss him, of course, dear Mark ; but
is it reasonable to permit his loss to embitter
your whole life ? '

His loss ? ' was the grave reply. ' Do you
think, then, I am indulging a mere selfish
melancholy ? Would that I lead lost him.
Do you know what he is doing now while weare
walking in the sunshine, through the grass

and under the trees ? He is in the prison yard
taking his exercise between two felons, always
at the same distance from him. and watched
by warders. He is in prison garb ; his home
is a cell, bare of all comfort ; he is put to
menial tasks. He \nll never smile again. He
speaks to me, sometimes, but not in the voice
I know.'

Speaks to you, my dear fellow ? How
can Kit speak to you ? '

'He does,' answered Mark, in a hoarse
whisper. 'His spirit speaks, and always to
reproach me.'

Then it is a lying spirit I ' observed Frank,
boldly. He was indignant at the hold which
this unworthy object of Mark's friendship had
obtained over his mind, and apprehensive of the
consequences of it. ' What have you to reproach
yourself with ? You only did your duty.'
E 2

My duty ! ' echoed the other, bitterly.
You might say as much of the jury that
condemned him.'

Then Frank made a mistake. His father
had particularly enjoined upon him that the
topic of Christopher Garston was to be
avoided in Mark's presence, and above all
that no argument should be entered into
with him upon the subject of the trial; and
now there ensued an argument. Frank
defended the jury and their verdict. Mark
was furious.

You will say next,' he exclaimed, ' that
Kit was guilty.'

To this Frank made no reply. His silence
was fatal, and dissolved the friendship of a
lifetime.

The young man still continued his visits
to the family, but from henceforth, so far as

Mark was concerned, they were paid on
sufferance.

By this time Frank and Maud were pledged
to one another, and, of course, with Mrs.
Medway's consent ; but it was very awkward,
under such circumstances, to communicate the
fact to Mark. As it was to be a twelvemonth's
engagement, however, there was no need for
precipitation. This was fortunate, for on one
occasion, when Mark and his mother chanced
to be talking of Maud, he gave her to understand
that, in his opinion, his sister ought to
consider herself as a sort of bride of Heaven,
Kit himself being the representative of that
celestial region. 'After what has happened,'
he said, ' it is impossible, I admit, that she can
ever become Kit's wife, but she will hardly
forget that but for this calamity she would
have been so.'

Indeed, indeed, you are mistaken, Mark,'
urged Mrs. Medway. ' You surely remember
that she rejected him ? '

Mark allowed that there had been a postponement
of some kind, but insisted on his own
view, that 'the remorseless iron hour' which
had ' made cypress of her orange flower ' was
that in which Kit's unjust sentence had been
pronounced. 'I cannot understand,' he said,
a girl of delicate feeling even thinking, under
such circumstances, of marrying another man.'

Mark must be mad,' thought poor Mrs.
Medway; but, as Dr. Meade pointed out to
her, it was not madness to be dominated by
one idea. ' Mark will be right enough,' he
said, ' if only the actual state of the case, and
the true character of Mr. Christopher Garston,
can be brought home to him.'

The Doctor was very bitter against Kit, for

he greatly desired his son's union with Maud,
to which these morbid feelings of her brother
were the only hindrance.

He never will be persuaded of Christopher
Garston's guilt,' sobbed Mrs. Medway, ' nor be
brought to listen to reason ; ' she might have
added, ' nor to unreason either,' for the poor
parrot had to be kept in the attic lest he
should express sentiments adverse to his
former master.

Never is a long day,' answered the Doctor,
drily ; but in the meantime it was evidently
quite useless to attempt to obtain Mark's
consent to the young people's marriage.

He kept himself informed of every detail
regarding his imprisoned friend ; and presently
news came that Kit had broken down in
health, and had been removed in the early
summer from ]\iillbank to Dartmoor, under

medical direction, nine months before the
usual time.

This made Mark more restless than ever —
not only from anxiety on account of Kit, but
from the consciousness of his own comparative
nearness to his unfortunate friend. He would
gaze in the direction of the prison — but forty
miles or so away — and murmur to himself,
Buried alive ! Buried alive ! ' till his poor
mother thought him crazed. Instead of
devoting himself to his books, as of old, he
took long solitary walks, which were the source
of great distress of mind to her until he
returned from them, weary and haggard
enough, but in safety.

It was characteristic of Frank Meade that,
though he without doubt had it in his power
to shatter Mark's belief in his friend by a
revelation of the facts of the bank-note robbery,

he kept them to himself, because he had passed
his word to Trenna so to do.

It was understood that she had migrated
from London to some village on Dartmoor,
in the neighbourhood of the prison — a piece
of information obtained from the gaol chaplain,
who happened to be a college friend of XLr.
Penryn's. At that gentleman's request, he
wrote of Kit with great particularity. He
described his conduct as excellent ; he had
obtained as many good ' marks ' as possible
during his term of servitude, and would undoubtedly
leave the prison considerably before
the expiration of his sentence — if he should
live to do so. But he was suffering from a
kind of atrophy. His food, such as it was,
did not nourish him, and he had been placed
in the infirmary. The chaplain had expressed
to him Mark's intense desire for an interview,

which could have been accomplished had the
prisoner wished for it, but Kit, as before, had
steadily refused to see him.

'It is no wonder,' sighed the unhappy
Mark ; ' it is I who have imprisoned him, and,
when he dies, his death will be at my door.'

But the chaplain's view was that it was no
animosity against his old friend which actuated
Kit, but a certain stubborn pride. This was
also the opinion entertained by Frank and
Maud.

Poor Kit, in his halcyon days, had nicknamed
Mark the Dreamer, Frank the Worker,
and himself (as one who meant to take life
lightly and in the humorous vein) the Player.
He had even sketched out their various parts
in the Drama of the Future ; but the reality,
alas ! especially in his own case, had fallen
sadly short of his ideal. His natural vanity

(which had been as much the cause of his
ruin as his graver faults) had led him to
anticipate great things for himself, to be
achieved in an easy way. And to what an
impotent and shameful conclusion had it all
come! When we consider, too, that he
probably believed (whatever Trenna might do)
that the family at the Knoll had been by this
time put in possession of the story of his
abstraction of his father's notes, including his
laying the blame (however temporarily) upon
Abel Deeds, it is not surprising that Kit
preferred to wear his chain unseen, and let the
iron eat into his soul without his old friends'
condolences or forgiveness. That he suspected
Frank of having exposed him was pretty
certain from what the chaplain wrote of Kit's
feelings towards the young doctor ; though, on
the other hand, it might have arisen from

jealousy, since he had spoken of Frank's engagement
with Maud — of which he had by
some means obtained information — with exceeding
bitterness.

This last part of the chaplain's communication
was carefully withheld from Mark ; nor,
indeed, could the whole letter have been read
to him in any case, since the guilt of the
prisoner was throughout it taken for granted.

Thus at the Knoll, where peace and unanimity
were wont to reign, matters were
now far from being in a satisfactory state ; and
presently an incident took place so amazing
and unlooked for as baffled calculation, and
which caused even those who had taken the
most sanguine view of affairs to despond, if
not to despair.

CHAPTEE LI.

GHOST OR Iso GHOST?

Ox a certain September evening Mark Medway
was returning home later than his wont from
one of his solitary walks. He had been visiting
a favourite haunt, the ruins of Trenarvon
Castle, where we first met him with his two
friends; it was but a few years ago, but
change has been busy with him and them.

Frank Meade indeed, save as respects his
health, is little altered, nor is his present
position in life different from what it might
reasonably be expected to be ; he assists his
father in his profession, and has a practice on

his own account that is increasing ; while as to
his relations with Mark they would be as
friendly as ever, and with a nearer bond, if
Mark himself would but permit it.

But Mark is another man. His clear-cut
attractive face has grown thin aud haggard ;
his quiet scholar-like look has changed to one
of suspicion and unrest ; there is something in
his eyes which makes Dr. Meade look grave
when Mrs. Med way, to whom he still speaks
with cheerfulness and hope, is not at hand. He
and she alone know how Mark's father came
by his end.

And Kit, poor Kit, whose light laugh used
to ring through yonder copse, and his smile
enhance the sunshine, where are his gibes and
his merriment now ? It is of Kit, we may be
sure, that Mark is thinking, as he paces sentry-ike
beneath the deserted rampart. Here it

was that he had told that curious incident of
his boyhood, how in jest he had sold himself
to the foul fiend, and here had reminded Frank
how they two had agreed to meet together
once again even though Death should have
divided them.

The moon was rising and silverinor the
waste of waters with its cold gleam, but not a
ship was in sight. Mark remembered that he
had been told in the town that day that a
certain vessel bound for Eio, which had lain in
the harbour for some days at the quay that
fronted the Dovecote, was to sail with the tide
that night ; the tide was due, and what little
wind there was was fair for the ship ; but she
still delayed. Mark was watching for her with
that dreamy interest which sometimes arises
respecting some extraneous object, when the
mind is otherwise deeply preoccupied; or

perhaps it was through some instinct of
association with Kit himself, who had been
wont to take delight in such occurrences. Not
only had all human affairs had their attraction
for him, but everything that had life and
motion. And now by a malignant and unjust
destiny, reflected Mark, he was shut out from
them all !

There are times, ' when our light is low,'
wherein ' the riddle of the painful earth ' grows
suddenly importunate, and the spirit, like a
caged bird, dashes itself in despair against the
unseen but adamantine wall that surrounds us
all ; and such a time had come on Mark. The
question, ' Can such things be, and Heaven be
just?' was harassing his very soul. A deep
gig}i — which is all that ever comes of it — at last
broke from his heart, and with a gesture with
both hands (that pitiful sign of vain expostulation

with Fate which is made only by the mad
and the miserable) he ran down through the
copse and took the road towards home.

In a few hundred yards his way diverged
from the main road, but before he quitted it,
this happened. He belied a figure rapidly
advancing towards bim on the turf by the
wayside, and apparently bound for Mogadion.
The form was familiar to him, but its face was
bowed as if in thought. As it came on with
noiseless tread, a sudden chill ran through his
veins, and he suddenly cried out in an agony
of distress and terror, ' Kit, Kit ! '

The figure stopped, and looked at him
intently. Though pale and thin, with hollow
cheeks and hollow eyes that shone like fire, it
was indeed Kit himself.

Merciful Heaven ! ' cried Mark, clasping
his hands, ' it is he ! '

VOL. III. s

He would have embraced him, but the other
motioned him back with a quick movement of
the hand.

Are you so angry with me, Kit? ' exclaimed
Mark, despairingly.

The other shook his head.

Have you escaped ? '

Yes — from the grave,' was the solemn
rejoinder. ' Remember my promise. I have
kept my word.'

Mark's blood was frozen with terror; yet
his exceeding love to some extent conquered
fear. 'Is there anything — oh, Kit, even
yet '

You can do nothing for me.'

Too late, too late,' moaned the unhappy
Mark.

'I am forbidden to speak of any such
thing,' continued the other ; ' take only this

word of warning. Beware of Frank Meade ;
let him never be Maud's husband. Farewell.'

The speaker pointed to the horizon, and
Mark's eyes mechanically followed the direction
indicated. When he looked again the
figure was gone. It had disappeared in an
instant. The grass on which it had stood
bordered the copse, and it was just possible
that it had plunged into its depths ; but if soit
was with the quickness and silence of a wood
snake. Nothing was to be seen save the misty
road and the moonlit sea.

There is one argument (among many
others) which has always convinced me that
every individual, of whose character I have the
means of judging, is lying when he tells me
that he has seen a ghost, namely, the very
slight impression that the supposed spectacle
has made upon him. The gulf between the



living and the dead is so tremendous, and the
desire, or at least the curiosity, to have it
bridged is so extreme, that if that engineering
feat had been ever accomplished, the spectator
would never have enough to say about it ; or,
if unwilling or forbidden to speak, would
never cease to think of it. Such an experience,
even though it happened to the most
thoughtless and giddy-pated of men (who are
our chief ghost-seers), would make an impression
which no time could erase, and which
would stand out in strong relief as compared
with all their other life experiences whatsoever.
It has been urged, indeed, by those who have
admitted this much, that if a man should be
haunted, i.e. should see a ghost pretty often,
custom would make a commonplace even of
that ; and as a parallel instance the old belief
in an eternity of physical torment has been

adduced. It was found possible, they say, by
persons who believed that nineteen twentieths of
the whole world, including their own personal
acquaintances, would perish in eternal fire, to
get so used to the idea as to eat, sleep, and
enjoy themselves in spite of it ; but in such
a case the word 'belief is very elastic, and
at the most means a heartless credulity. The
passive acceptance of a dogma, however revolting
to reason and humanity, is a very different
thing from the conviction born of personal
experience. A glance at the Gehenna which
Calvin believed himself to believe in would
have turned even his stomach for ever ; and he
who once saw a ghost — an actual denizen of
the other world — would not, like those who
believe, or pretend to believe, they have done
so, enter it into his commonplace book
among other ' remarkable events,' such as

snow in May, or the birth of a calf with two
heads.

And thus it happened in this case. Mark
Medway, being firmly convinced that his friend
had left the Unseen World to speak with him,
did not treat the matter as a visit from a
person of distinction to be boasted of to his
friends, or to be related, in moments of confidence,
as an interesting circumstance. He
went home in a state of awe as great as ever
arose from human experience, and with a
tendency, while obeying the injunctions of the
dead man, to keep his interview with him a
solemn secret. His air and manner on reaching
the Knoll, however, were so strange and
distrait, and caused his mother such distress
of mind, that an explanation was absolutely
necessary. What he had to say only increased
her agitation, though the alarm she exhibited

was by no means due to the cause to which he
assigned it. Ghosts had no terrors for her ; '
but she trembled for her son's reason. She
had been warned not to oppose his convictions;
but one argument, as powerful as it was simple,
she did venture to advance.

But, my dear Mark, Kit is not dead.'

Mark shook his head. 'I would,' he
sighed, ' that I could think so.'

'But if he is not, my dear Mark,' she
persisted, ' I suppose you will allow that you
cannot have seen his ghost.'

It was really not much to ask in the way
of admission, yet it aroused Mark's indignation.
It seemed to him a sort of blasphemy to
conceive of that mysterious presence, the
recollection of which still shook his very soul,
as being still in the flesh.

The first thing in the morning Mrs. Medway

sent for both her counsellors, and they brought
the strangest news with them.

Christopher Garston was really dead. The
Eector had received a letter that morning from
the gaol chaplain announcing the prisoner's
decease some days ago. 'I should have
written before,' he said, ' but Miss Garston
especially requested me not to do so till after
the funeral. The attendance of any of his
friends would, I am sure, have distressed her
exceedingly. She was, of course, the sole
mourner, and, indeed, under the circumstances,
I cannot myself deplore the poor fellow's death.
He had been ailing for a long time, growing
weaker and thinner, but the end came somewhat
unexpectedly ; he died in the infirmary in
the night, and almost before the doctor could
be summoned. At Miss Garston*s request he
was laid in the churchyard at Marston, at

which village she has been residing for these
last three months. She left her lodgings
immediately after the ceremony, but whither
she has gone I have been unable to discover.
It is possible, now that this sad page in her
history is closed, that she may seek her old
friends and yours. Heaven grant it maybe
so ! '

This is indeed terrible news,' gasped Mrs.
Medway. ' Do you think that that really
happened about which I wrote to you?'

That Mark saw the ghost ? ' exclaimed the
Eector. ' Well, upon my word, Mrs. Medway,
you are a most disappointing woman. I have
always held you up as a pattern of commonsense.'


But how do you explain it ? '

'Very easily. Mark heard this news, by
some means, before we did. With his mind

greatly excited by it he visits an old haunt of
his dead friend, and imagines he sees him. It
is the simplest case of spectral illusion.'

'Bit, as I wrote to you, he tells me that the
figure. spoke to him — warned him against dear
Frank's engagement with Maud.'

I had rather not say what I think about
that,' said the Doctor, with the colour in his
cheek.

On the contrary,' said the Eector, ' I think .
that part of the story is as easy of explanation
as the rest of it. Your son has Kit in his mind
not to say on the brain — and thinks he saw
him ; he has also Kit's objection to Frank's
marriage in his mind, and he thinks he hears
him.'

That's it,' assented the Doctor, cheerfully.
He had already recovered from his little fit of
spleen, and acknowledged to himself that the

idea which had momentarily occurred to him,
that Mark had invented Kit's warning against
Frank to suit his own views, was untenable.
Of course,' he continued, ' this affair will make
matters worse for the present; your son will be
even more wrapped up in his dead friend than
when he was alive, but, since he is dead, this
glamour cannot last for ever. I believe in Dr.
Time.'

Scarcely any one else among Mark's friends
had the same belief in that eminent practitioner.
Day after day went by without
weakening in the least Mark's impression of
that awful interview in the Castle Eoad, as the
highway that ran beneath the old ruin was
called, and what the apparition had said to
him was as gospel in his eyes. He seemed
more determined, so far as in him lay, to
oppose his sister's union with Frank Meade

than ever. The Knoll was his mother's house,
not his own, so Mark could not close its doors
against him: but he showed plainly enough
that the young man's visits were distasteful to
him. Frank behaved with the utmost patience
and gentleness ; but it was out of the question
that he could make himself acceptable to Mark
since the way to the heart of his old friend was
barred. Frank pitied him, and indeed pitied
Kit, for his nature was not such a one as can
pursue the dead with even righteous indignation
; but he could not but resent the effect of
his jealousy and ill-will towards him on Mark.
He never dwelt on Kit's errors. The tomb
was his asylum, but if Kit had been alive, and
a free man, he would have told him what he
thought of him in terms which would have
been highly actionable. As to Trenna, Frank
was as desirous as Maud herself to discover the

place of her concealment, and, if possible, to
persuade her to return to her old friends. In
addition to the natural compassion he felt for
her lonely condition, it seemed to him that he
owed her reparation for the wrong he had
done her in thought of old. His inquiries
about her were unceasing, and in the London
newspapers he had inserted many dexterously
worded advertisements, the joint composition
of himself and Maud, which, while appealing
to no eye but Trenna's, could not have
failed, had she lighted on them, to attract her
attention.

His solicitude on Trenna's account was no
secret, however, in Mogadion, and at last he
got news of her. Exactly a month after the
announcement of Kit's death had been received
at the Knoll, Abel Deeds, who was now in
service with a local banker in the neighbourhood,

by whom he was highly valued, called
at the Dovecote one night, and made a private
and confidential statement to ' Mr. Frank.'

He said that on that day month he had
been sent on an errand which had detained
him late, and that on returning home he had
met, on the moonlit road, a young sailor
coming towards Mogadion. The stranger, on
catching sight of him, had crossed the road as
if to avoid him, but Abel's pipe had gone out,
and he had no matches, and being, like most
men of his phlegmatic temperament, an inveterate
smoker, he was not going to miss this
excellent chance of remedying his calamity;
for what sailor does not smoke tobacco and
carry lights ?

He therefore hailed the young man, who,
probably not understanding what he wanted,
answered, ' Good night, my man.' The words

were inapposite enough, but the tone in which
they were uttered was so very peculiar that
Abel stopped the lad. * .

I asked you,' he said, ' if you had a light
about you. You answer me more like a girl
than a boy. One would think,' he added,
referring to the season of local histrionic, ' it
was mumming time '

Thank Heaven, it is Abel Deeds,' interrupted
the other with a quick gasp of gratitude.
And then, to Abel's immense amazement
and alarm, he recognised in the sailor lad
his young mistress of Grey House.

She told him she was going to embark that
night for South America, in order to evade
certain importunate creditors, and that it was
of the utmost importance that the disguise
should be maintained, of which her unexpected
meeting with him had compelled the disclosure.

It was quite unnecessary to appeal to him, by
the remembrance of her former kindnesses to
him, to assist her in her present plight. Abel
Deeds, though not of the gilded-armour-and
embroidered-banner style of chivalry, was the
very soul of it, and, moreover, looked upon an
importunate creditor very much as a mediaeval
knight might have done upon a Saracen defending
his native soil. He not only willingly
promised to keep silence on the adventure of
the night, but insisted on turning back and
seeing Trenna in safety to her destination,
which was the vessel moored just opposite the
Doctor's house.

Four weeks had been the period she had
imposed upon the faithful Abel as the limit to
his silence, and, as may be imagined, he had
been greedily impatient for the hour when he
was at liberty to tell his tale to ' Mr. Frank.'

The story was strange enough, albeit undoubtedly
true, but what struck Frank as most
noteworthy was the date of the occurrence.
Abel had met Trenna on the same evening
on which Mark had had his fancied interview
with her brother. The question which now
occurred to Frank's mind was, had that interview
been ' fancy ' ? He had never believed
in Kit's ghost, but now he began to disbelieve
in his having been in a position to be a ghost
at all. If he was not dead. Kit had escaped
by Trenna's connivance, and what was more
likely than that the brother and sister should
have both come down, though separately, in
order to avoid suspicion, to a small and out-of-the-way
port like Mogadion in order to leave
the country ? That there was the most urgent
necessity for secrecy was evident from the fact
of Trenna's disguise. However desirous of

VOL. III. T

avoiding recognition from her old friends, she
would never have put on male attire for any
such purpose. While, on the other hand, if
she had wished to go abroad upon her own
account, she would scarcely have selected
Mogadion as the place of departure. Again, it
would have been curious that she should have
selected Eio, where she had no belongings nor
any known attraction, for her future home ;
whereas, if Kit had accompanied her, it was
explicable enough, since, once in South
America, the convict would be safe. How
they had known of the ship's being in the
harbour, how they had made arrangements for
their passage, or where they had procured the
necessary funds, remained, of course, and
might ever remain, a matter of conjecture.
But Trenna's devotion and Kit's cleverness
would account for a good deal.

What was the chief puzzle, however, was
how the authorities at Dartmoor had been
deceived, if they had been deceived, as to Kit's
decease ; and this point, at all events, Frank
Meade was resolved to unravel. The more he
thought of the whole matter, the more he was
convinced that Kit was in the land of the
living, and, not being dead, it was natural that
he sometimes thought of him with exceeding
bitterness. On one occasion he even said to
himself, in reference to that confession of Kit's
under the Castle rocks, ' He has not yet come
to the end of his tether. The foul fiend was
not to have him ]per agreement for the next
year or so.'

He was immensely interested in the whole
question for its own sake, but his main and
ulterior object was of course to open Mark's
eyes. If he could prove Kit to be alive, that

t2

warning from the dead ' would not only lose
its efficacy, but must needs partake of the
nature of an imposture, and, if Mark could
be convinced that Kit had deceived him, the
whole fabric of his influence over him would
topple to its fall.

For the present, however, Frank enjoined
silence upon Abel Deeds, and kept the entire
matter locked up in his own heart. If once he
gave expression to his suspicions they would
fly far and wide, he knew, like thistle-down,
and it was essential that Mark should hear
nothing of them till they should take the
shape of conviction. One person, indeed, Mr.
Penryn, on account of his connection with the
gaol chaplain, Frank was compelled to take
into his confidence, but it was necessary that
his revelation, even to the Eector, should be
delayed a little for a certain reason.

CHAPTER UI.

MRS. MORTON.

Among the patients that Mr. Frank Meade,
F.E.C.S., had of his own, chanced to be one
Mrs. Morton, whose husband had taken a
house for a few weeks in the neighbourhood
of Mogadion, though at the distance of some
miles from it. This lady was a very pretty
and interesting bride, and it was a great
annoyance to Mr. Morton, who knew the
neighbourhood, that the place he had fixed
upon without consulting her, and as ' a surprise '
for their honeymoon, in the midst of so many

charming walks and drives, should have been
a comparative failure from her inability to
enjoy them. She had sprained her ankle on
the first day of her arrival, and had never left
the house. The case was curious, for though
she professed herself to be in some pain, and
quite unable to move, there were no external
symptoms of any mischief Mr. Morton, who
was much her senior, and passionately devoted
to her, was greatly concerned about this ailment ;
and Frank had promised him, though the patient
expressed herself so strongly opposed to it,
that if the matter was not set right by a
certain date he would call in another opinion,
and in the meantime would pay the patient a
daily visit. A sprained ankle is a small thing
and Mrs. Morton's ankle was a very small
thing — but there were circumstances in the
case which, independent of the youth and

beauty of the sufferer, and even of her confidence
in his professional skill, made it a very
interesting one to her medical adviser. Upon
his first being called in to Mrs. Morton he was
struck by a very extraordinary resemblance
she bore to the Httle girl whose life, as has been
mentioned, he had in vain attempted to save in
the London hospital, and to whom, in fact, he
had sacrificed his health. The child in question,
however, being of humble rank, and very
unlikely to be connected with a lady of his
new patient's social position, he had endeavoured
to dismiss the matter from his
mind as being a mere coincidence. Nevertheless,
the more he saw of Mrs. Morton the more
the resemblance grew upon him, and on one
occasion, when they happened to be alone
together, he ventured to allude to the subject.
I once had a little patient at my hospital in

London he said, ' of whom you remind me
exceedingly.'

What ! ' she cried, ' is it possible that you
are the Mr. Meade who attended "little Alice"?
(So she had been called in the ward, where
she was a great favourite, and by that name
mentioned in the papers, for the case had been
quite a cause celebre in the medical world.)

It was I who attended her,' he answered
modestly, ' though as it turned out, poor child,
to very little purpose.'

But with consequences to yourself, as I
understood,' she put in, in a trembling voice,
of a very serious kind.'

'Oh, I am getting better of all that,' he
answered, smiling.

But she did not seem to hear him. The
colour had fled from her face, and she ha
become extremely agitated.

Mr. Meade,' she said, ' that was my sister !
You may well look astonished. It strikes
you, no doubt, as strange that any relation
of mine should have been so poor and so
neglected.'

Here the tears came into her eyes ; and it
was with eager haste that the young doctor
began to utter some commonplaces about an
hospital being the very best place, whether for
rich or poor, for a patient to receive care and
attention.

She waved her hand impatiently as if to
dismiss such arguments. ' I was poor myself
at that time,' she said. 'Up to the day my
good husband married me I was quite a poor
girl. I am not ashamed of that!

She hesitated. The young doctor's face was
an expressive one, though he had learnt in
the practice of his profession to school it. She

read in it the deduction he had drawn, and
the colour flew to her cheeks.

And whatever I may have been,' she
added with vehemence, ' I have no secrets from
my husband.'

'Indeed, madam,' said Frank, earnestly,
I have never supposed it.'

No ; you do good to your fellow-creatures ;
you are not a man who presupposes evil of
all womankind,' she continued rapidly ; ' and
you are a gentleman, I am sure. Though my
husband knows my former humble position,
and everything connected with it, I have —
being a woman,' here she smiled like an angel,
some foolish pride. I do not wish others to
know my past.'

No human being will hear one word of
it through me, madam.'

I do not fear it. If I did, I should still

not regret having made you the confession. I
owed it to you for my dead sister's sake.'

The young doctor made haste to dismiss
the subject. There was no further allusion toit
on either side, but from henceforth he took
a great interest in his patient, while she, on her
part, seemed to reciprocate it, since she talked
to him unreservedly upon his own position and
prospects, and even drew from him, with
womanly touch, how matters stood with him
in connection with Maud, and friends at the
Knoll. This last information made her look
so unaccountably grave that, if Frank had
been ever so little of a coxcomb, he might
have flattered himself that she was jealous of
his intended. But the attachment between the
young doctor and his patient, though it was
very genuine, was quite Platonic. What was
curious, and exhibited a power of the emotions

over the muscles not generally admitted, as
soon as Mrs. Morton understood that Frank
wanted to get away to Dartmoor (for he
actually made her the repository of that dead
secret), her ankle began to grow stronger,
and he found himself able to undertake the
expedition at an earlier date than he had
fixed for it.

His first step was to reveal what Abel
Deeds had told him to the Eector, who at
once expressed his conviction that there was
something amiss in that story of Kit's death
and burial. ' My opinion of Christopher Garston,
as you know, Frank, was never a good
one. With all his cleverness and good looks,
that man was morally a " Clafhorer." '

That sounds very bad,' said Frank, who
was under the disadvantage of not understanding
the old Cornish tongue.

" Clas homer " means " leper, " explained
the Eector ; ' that young man was a very bad
lot, and I shall not be surprised at anything
that comes out against him.'

Instead of going his usual round among his
patients, Frank started the next morning with
Mr. Penryn for the convict prison.

In no habitable part of Great Britain,'
writes one who had good reason for his statement,
having himself ' worked out his time "
there, ' is the severity of winter felt more than
at Dartmoor. Vain is thought nothing of, as it
mostly rains or drizzles, but the thick fogs soak
through everything.' Though the winter had
not set in when Frank and the Eector visited
the place, the fogs had. They had a weird
and desolate drive from the railway station
over the moor, where the mist lay so thick
that they came upon the picket of the civil

guard, armed with rifle and bayonet, who forma
cordon round the gaol, before the gloomy
pile itself loomed up before them. 'What
a place,' was the secret thought of both of
them, 'for a man of Christopher Garston's
temperament to have been immured, and
what desperate plan would he not have been
capable of adopting to escape from it ? '

The gaol chaplain received them with
cordiality, and showed them over the dread
domain. They saw the cell in which Kit had
been confined, with its narrow window of
rough glass, through which but a strip of dull
sky was visible ; its rude flat table, its narrow
shelf and dreary fittings — a melancholy cage,
indeed, for such a song-bird. Then they were
introduced to the infirmary, where he had
occupied a double-bedded room. His companion
had been a brother of one of the

warders, himself employed in the prison, but
admitted as a patient by favour, who had
died within a day or two of Kit himself. The
warder had since left the prison, and there was
none to speak with much personal knowledge
of Kit's last hours. The chaplain had not been
called in to him, as he had died suddenly in
the night, and the doctor who had attended
him was a stranger, who had acted as the
locum tenens oi the ordinary surgeon, who had
been away upon his holiday.

This information all tended to confirm the
visitors' suspicions, which, when they had heard
all he had to say, they communicated to their
host, the chaplain. That gentleman, though
by no means staggered by their story — he was
in the habit of receiving such amazing revelations
from the members of his tainted flock
that a mild surprise was the most of which his

nature was now capable — thought it of sufficient
importance to lay before the Governor, to
whom they were in consequence introduced.
He listened to their narrative with great politeness,
but with a somewhat amused expression
of countenance. There were not many subjects
open to humorous treatment at Dartmoor, but
any notion that ' our system ' could be in fault,
or that the authorities could be deceived, was
always a good joke.

Prisoners sometimes expired, he allowed, at
Dartmoor before their sentences did, but none
ever left the place alive before the proper
time. Such an incident was contrary to experience,
common-sense, and even possibility.
However, since the ' system ' had been impugned,
it was necessary to establish its
infallibility. His position invested him with
special powers ; he could have a convict's body

exhumed without application to the Home
Secretary. If the remains of 18,422 (the
number which had sufficed poor Kit for name
while an inmate of the prison) should be found
where they were supposed to be, and identified,
he concluded that Mr. Penryn and his young
friend would acknowledge their suspicions to
be unfounded ; but to that end they must
accept his hospitality for the night.

To this, of course, they consented ; and the
next morning, accompanied by certain officials,
all repaired to the little churchyard. A small
headstone, ordered by Trenna, was being prepared
by the village stone-mason for her
brother's grave, but at present it lay bare and
naked enough, without even the tiu-f upon it.
It was but the work of a few minutes to dig
down through the soft earth to the deal coffin,
to open which as little time sufficed. Its con-vol.

III. u

tents, instead of ' the house not built with
hands ' which ought to have been found there,
were the materials for an actual dwelling-house
— bricks and plaster. The general
amazement was pretty considerable, but that
of the Governor bordered on the sublime.

Why, goodness gracious ! ' he exclaimed.
Our whole system has broken down ! '

And so it had. On a searching inquiry,
the facts of Kit's escape — which it is fair (to
the system) to add had been greatly aided by
circumstances — were as follows : The warder
of the infirmary had been bribed. When his
brother died he had called in the locum tenens
of the prison surgeon, who knew none of its
inmates, and to whom the deceased was described
as Christopher Garston, in whose name
the certificate of death was duly made out.
For the interment, a coffin and certain brickbats

were at once provided, but the body was retained
to play another part. The regular
prison surgeon, who was to return next day
to his duties, of course made no difficulty in
giving a certificate of death in the name of
the warder's brother ; while No. 18,422 was
already struck off the prison roll.

Though not easy, it therefore became not
impossible to smuggle Kit out of the gaol ;
and, without doubt, this had been effected.
Where the money had come from to accomplish
all these objects no one knew ; but that money
had done it, aided by assistance from without,
was certain. It is possible that the Cook's
Creek Mine, though it did not turn out satisfactorily
to the shareholders, had been worked
to a profit by its enterprising originator ; or
perhaps some dealer in the precious metals,
less fortunate than Mr. Flesker (who did get

tri

back his diamond), had contributed to Kit's
private stores. The Eio ship had been an
ordinary trader, the captain of which had been
induced by certain golden arguments to take
two brothers as passengers in heu of part of
his freight.

All this was in time made as clear as daylight
to every one but the person whom it was
most important to convince. The belief of a
lifetime was not to be shaken by a fact or two,
adduced, also, by persons who had a personal
interest in their acceptance. Does a mother
believe in her darling's guilt because the world
does so, or a miserable minority of it — say
twelve — have happened to convict him .^ And
Mark's love for Kit, if not equal to that of a
mother for her offspring, surpassed that of
brother for brother. The sense, too, of loving
service done, always strong in grateful hearts.

no doubt helped to close his ears against the
voice of reason. Lastly, he clung to the belief
that Kit's affection for him had, in truth, survived
death itself; and that, no matter what
story might be devised to take from him that
comfort, he had, indeed, beheld his old friend
in the spirit, and listened to his voice from
beyond the grave.

Mr. Penryn, indeed, took another view of
the position. If, he said, we find so many
persons who pretend to believe that they have
seen a ghost, still sticking to their story, in the
teeth both of arguments and ridicule, how
much more was it to be expected that a man
who really believed he had seen one should
refuse to be convinced to the contrary ?

But the Eector had no matrimonial intentions
to which Mark's scepticism presented the
only obstacle, and could therefore afford to be

philosophic ; while Mr. Frank Meade could
not. That his marriage would take place,
notwithstanding Mark's continued opposition,
was probable enough ; but, in that case, it
would be a very different affair from what both
Maud and himself had pictured. As matters
stood, its accomplishment bade fair to breakup
the little household at the Knoll altogether.


The circumstances, so every way painful
sind peculiar, were, of course, kept to themes
elves as much as possible ; but Mrs. Morton
vas one of the few persons to whom Frank
unreservedly confided them. It is difficult fora
man to decline the proffered sympathy of a
pretty and interesting young woman in any
case, but the tie of her dead sister bound her
and Frank together far closer than any new-made
friendship could have done. Moreover,

the period of Mrs. Morton's sojourn in the
neighbourhood of Moo^adion was coming to an
end, and the sense of parting, perhaps, drew
her nearer to him. She was no longer* his
patient, though, strange to say, the recovery
of her health did not result in those walks
abroad to which her husband looked forward ;
but on the day before her departure he came
to pay her a farewell visit.

This proved to be the occasion of a very
strange communication, and also of a revolution
of a surprising nature in his own affairs.

Mr. Meade,' she said, ' if this were not the
last time we were to meet — in all probability
for ever — perhaps I should hesitate to do w^iat
I am about to do, even for your sake. It will
cost me something, but it will cost me less
than if you knew what it cost me. Therefore,
I must beg of you — no matter what surprise

you may feel at what I have to say to you —
that you will ask me no questions.'

Frank's surprise was certainly very considerable,
but he bowed respectful acquiescence.


Here is a letter,' she went on, ' which,
without saying one more word than is necessary
to account for your possession of it, I authorise
you to give to the person to whom it is addressed.'


He took the letter, which, to his amazement,
he saw was addressed to Mark Medway.

'But, my dear madam,' he remonstrated,
if this, as I venture to conclude, has any
reference to myself or my own affairs, I must
needs say that in Mark's present state of
mind '

She put up her hand to stop him. ' You
are about to say, no doubt, that any interposition

on the part of a stranger on your behalf
cannot possibly affect ]mr. Medway except for
ill. You are mistaken there ; it will affect him
and your own interests vqtj much, and for
good. It may be necessary, perhaps, to state '
here her voice faltered, and the tears came
suddenly into her eyes — ' that I am not
altogether a stranger to your friend. To ask
more of me in the way of explanation would
be a breach of the promise you have tacitly
given me.'

Then I will say no more, madam, but will
gratefully do your bidding,' said Frank, gently.
Even if nothing should come of it, I shall
never forget your generous intention.'

And while the memory of my little sister
abides with me, Mr. Meade, I shall never forget
you and what you did for her. It is curious,'
she added, with a faint smile, ' but though you

will reap the benefit of it, you will never know
what I have done for you.'

In a few minutes afterwards Frank had
taken his leave and turned his horse's head
(well did that steed know his road by this time)
to the Knoll. Upon the way, as it happened,
he met Mark, taking one of his solitary walks.
He would, perhaps, have passed the other without
speaking to him — so far had the gulf
widened between them — had not Frank
stopped him to give him Mrs. Morton's letter.

Mark looked at the superscription, started,
turned very red, and then asked shortly, ' Who
gave you this ? '

The writer,' answered Frank, quietly.
Instinct, or perhaps mere curiosity, prompted
him to check his horse, and remain where he
was. It was possible, moreover, that some
answer might be intrusted to him. Mark

became at once too intensely absorbed in the
contents of the letter to know whether the
other had gone on or still stood there. ' Dear
Mr. Medway,' it ran, ' I little thought that I
should ever give you the pain of once more
receiving any communication from my hand.
It is not for my own sake that I address you, but
for yom-s ; to save you from the persistence ina
great wrong to one of the best and worthiest
of men, and to open your eyes, since no one

else can do it, as regards ' (here there was

an erasure ; was it possible she had written
'the worst,' and that some tender remembrance
of the past had caused her to blot it out ?)
as regards another man. In your last letter
to me, full of unmerited gentleness and forbearance
towards myself, you expressed yourself
with the utmost bitterness and indignation
against a certain person, but for whom, as you

imagined, I might have been worthy of your
love. Against that person (think of what it
costs me to write all this, and then judge
whether aught of it can be less than truth
itself), against that person I may have wrongs
to urge, but not the wrong you imputed to
him. Instead of his name put that of
Christopher Garston, and the indignation you
have expressed will be just. My lot is a
happy one, blessed beyond all hope or merit,
as the bearer of this note will tell you ; but it
is no thanks to Christopher Garston, by whom
my young life was cankered in the bud, that I
am not a sinner and a castaway. If I ever
read your heart aright I am sure of these two
things — first, that after reading this, written, as
it seems to me, with my life's blood, you will
destroy it ; secondly, that you will take to your
heart the man who gives it you, and keep him

there to fill the place from which these words
of mine will have cast out an unworthy tenant.
I am giving you terrible pain, I know, for I
can feel for you. There was a time, Heaven
knows, when Christopher Garston was all in all
to me.'

There was nothing more — not even a
signature.

Mark looked up with a sigh that seemed to
come from his very soul, and saw Frank standing
near, his bridle under his arm, and his horse
cropping the grass.

Who is she ? '

The words were simple enough, but the
tone in which they were uttered conveyed
another meaning. Frank understood at once
that what the other meant was, ' Who is she
now ? '

When he had told him all he knew of her,

Mark asked, with the red in his cheek, whether
she had been long in her present place of
residence.

Three months. She has had a sprained
ankle, which confined her to the house,' he
answered, replying to the other's thought,
Why have I not seen her ? '

The explanation of poor Mrs. Morton's
complaint was now plain enough. She had
had her reasons for keeping within doors.
She leaves this neighbourhood tomorrow,'
continued Frank, significantly.

Mark sighed again, but this time there was
relief, as well as regret, in it.

Better so,' he murmured. Then he held
out his hand. 'Frank, I have been very
wrong.'

Say wronged, Mark,' was the grave rejoinder.


Hush, hush ; you will forgive me, I know,
but do not let your generosity stop there. I
thought horn dead. He is dead to me now ;
let him be dead to you, and, being so, speak no
ill of him.'

I never will, Mark. Let us forget him.'
'Forget him? That I can never do. Poor
Kit : poor Kit.'

And for the first time in his Hfe Frank
beheld his friend in tears.

And both men kept their words. From
that day Christopher Garston was but a
memory.

It was understood at the Knoll that there
were no questions to be asked concerning Mark's
change of opinion. The ladies were too glad
to find that it had changed to be curious as to the
means whereby the alteration had been brought
about. Scarcely Frank himself was more impatient

for his marriage-day than Mark now
became to witness it. It seemed that he could
never do enough in the way of friendship and
brotherly love to make up for his recent
antagonism.

In time — though it took a long time — Mark
resumed his old ways and work ; and it is
thought not impossible that by the time he is a
great-uncle he will be in a position to publish
the first volume of his county history. The
parallel there ceases, for the work being in
quarto, the phrase ' Welcome, little stranger,'
would be not altogether appropriate to its
appearance. From this delicate allusion it will
have been manifest that Frank and Maud were
duly united. How their wedding-day, though
long fixed, should have been known so faraway
they could never discover ; it was only
one more mystery added to many in connection
with the persons concerned ; but on that very

morning the last missive Maud Medway
received in her maiden name was a telegram
from Valparaiso.

x\ll happiness attend you both. We areas
you would wish us to be. Farewell.
Trexjsa.'

From which it was gathered (I trust
rightly) that in another clime, and under other
circumstances, Kit is leading a new life, and
doing well.

THE E^'D.

LOSDOS : Petted BY

6FOTT1SWOODE A>-D CO New-street SQCARB

And PAKLIAilEXT STREET

VOL. III.

CHATTO & Winds's
List of Books.

*«* For NOVELS, see pp. 19-25.
Beautifully bound in a novel style, small 4to, 165.

THE LADY OF THE LAKE. By Sir Walter

Scott. With numerous fine Illustrations. ^

The Lady of the Lake " has been chosen as a subject for illustration, not only foy
its picturesque features, which invite in an unusual degree the sympathetic treatment
of the artist, but also for the romantic personal interest which the story inspires, and
which gives it a close hold on the affections of all readers. So thorough is the verisimilitude
of the poem, and so accurate are its descriptions of scenery, that the
events which it describes are accepted as absolute history in the region where the
scene is laid ; and no true Highlander looks with tolerance on anyone who ventures
to doubt their actual occurrence. It has happened, therefore, that the romantic poem
in which the genius of Scott has united and harmonised the legends of Loch Katrine
aid the Trosachs has become the best Handbook to the Scottish Lake-region. It is
believed that the present Illustrated Edition will be a welcome souvenir to thousands
e>f travellers who have visited that beautiful region.

In order to secure accuracy as well as freshness of treatment, the Publishers commissioned
Mr. A. V. S. Anthony, under whose supervision this Edition has been
executed, to visit the Scottish Highlands and make sketches on the spot. Nearly
every scene of the poem was personally visited and sketched by him, and these
Sketches have afforded the basis ef the landscapes offered in this book. These landscapes,
for obvious reasons, depict the Scenery as it is at the present time ; while the
Costumes, Weapons, and other accessories of the figure-pieces are of the period ef the
action of the poem, being carefully studied from contemporary pictures and descriptions,
or from later authoritative works.

Crow-n 8vo, Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations, cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of,

From the Earliest Times. Illustrated by Anecdotes, Curious Specimens,
and Notices of Successful Advertisers. By Henry Sampson.

Allen (Grant), Works by:

'ife Evolutionist at Large. By Grant Allen. Crown Svo, cloth
♦ extra, 6s.

Vignettes from Nature. By Grant Allen. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 6s.
One of the best specimens of popular scientific exposition that we have ever
had the good fortune to fall in with"— Leads Mercury.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with 639 Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook of.

From the German of A. Rosengarten, by W. Collett-Sandars,

Artemus Ward:

Artemus Ward's Works : The Works of Charles Farmer Browne,
better known as Artemus Ward, Crown 8vo, with Portrait and Facsimile,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the Mormons. With 32 Illustrations.
Edited, with Preface, by Edward P. Kingston. 6^.

Ashton (John), Works by :

A History of the Chap-Books of the Eighteenth Century. By

John Ashton. With nearly 400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile of
the originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
Social Life in the Reign of Queen Anne. Taken (rem Original
Sources. By John Ashton. With nearly One Hundred Illustrations.
Two Vols., demy Svo, cloth ext ra, 285. ^ [In preparation ^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London ;

Together with Lists of Bankers from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.

Barley (Rev. C. W.), Works by:

English Surnames ; Their Sources and Significations, By the Rev.

C. W. Barley, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature. By the Rev. C. W. Bards-ley,

M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs of.

By Henry Morley. New Edition, with One Hundred Illustrations.
Imperial 4to, cloth extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per volume.

Beautiful Pictures by British Artists :

A Gathering of Favourites from our Picture Galleries. In Two Series.
All engraved on Steel in the highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney Armytage, M.A.

Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 75. 6^.

Bernstein's As Pretty as Seven,

And other German Stories. Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers Grimm, and 100 Illustrations

by RiCHTER.

One Shilling Monthly, Illustrated.

Belgravia for 1882.

A New Serial Story, entitled " All Sorts and Conditions of Men,"
by Walter Besant, was begun in the January Number, which
Number contained also the First Chapters of " The Admiral's
Ward," by Mrs. Alexander ; and the First of a Series of Papers
About Yorkshire," by Mrs. Macquoid, Illustrated by Thomas R.
Macquoid.— In the August Number was begun a New Story by
WiLKiE Collins, entitled " Heart and Science"— In January,
1883, will be begun a New Serial Novel by Justin McCarthy,
entitled " Maid of Athens," with I illustrations by Fred. Barnard .

Belgravia Annual.

With Stories by Walter Besant, Julian Hawthorne, F. W.
Robinson, Dutton Cook, Justin H. McCarthy, J. Arbuthnot
Wilson, Henry W. Lucy, James Payn, and others. Demy Svo.
with Illustrations, is. [/n November,

Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform in size for binding.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks:

Academy Notes. 1875. With 40 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1876. With 107 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1877. With 143 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1878. With 150 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1879. With 146 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1880. With 126 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1881. With 128 Illustrations, is.
Academy Notes, 1882. With 130 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes,' 1878. With 68 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1879. With 60 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1880. With 56 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1881. With 74 Illustrations, is.
Grosvenor Notes, 1882. With 74 Illustrations, is.
Pictures at the Paris Exhibition, 1878. 80 Illustrations, is.
Pictures at South Kensington. V.'i^h 70 Illustrations, is.
The English Pictures at the National Gallery, ini Illusts, is.
The Old Masters at the National Gallery. 128 Illusts. is. 6d.
Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete in One Volume, with nearly

600 Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.
Grosvenor Notes, 1877-1882. A Complete Catalogue of Exhibitions
at the Grosvenor Gallery since the Commencement. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 6s.
A Complete Illustrated Catalogue to the National Gallery.

With Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242 Illusts. Demy Svo, cloth limp, 3s.

UNIFORM WITH "ACADEMY NOTES."

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1878. 117 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1879. 125 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1880. 114 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1881. 104 Illustrations, is.

Royal Scottish Academy Notes, 1882. 114 Illustrations, is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1878. 95 Illusts. is.'

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1880. 120 Illusts. is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1881. 108 Illusts, is.

Glasgow Institute of Fine Arts Notes, 1882. 102 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1878. 112 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool, 1879. 100 Illusts. is.

Walker Art Gallery Notes, Liverpool. 1880. 100 Illusts. is.

Royal Manchester Institution Notes, 1878. 88 Illustrations, is.

Society of Artists Notes. Birmingham. 1878. 95 Illusts. is.
Children of the Great City. By F. W. Lawson. is.

Folio, half-bound boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Blake (William) :

Etchings from his Works. By W. B. Scott. With descriptive 

Illuminated Cover, crown 4to, 65.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language and Legends.

By W. J. Gordon. Illust. in Colours by Viola Boughton. [Shortly.

This sumptuous and elegant Birthday Book is the first in which our floral
treasures have been laid tinder really effective contribution. It has been produced at
immense cost, and in it we have one of the most accurate and beautiful Masterpieces
of Chromo-lithography yet issued from the press. Within its sixty-fotir fully-coloured
pages, each lithographed in fourteen printing, we have a noble Series of lovely Bon-quell,
depicting in all their wealth of grace and beauty the most famous of our field
and garden jewels ; as a different flower is taken for every day in the year, there
are no fewer than three hundred and sixty-six separate selections. The legends
and the sentiments ascribed to each of the chosen blossoms have formed the theme of
some fifteen hundred lines of Original Verse, and there is thus given one of the fullest
" Languages of Flowers " in existence, and the only one which is free from duplicates.
An unusual amount of thought and labour has been expended on the work, and the
publishers congratulate themselves that in a literary and artistic sense the result has
been fully commensurate thereto. Such a collection of flowers, so complete and corn-fact,
has never before been offered. Asa Book of Birthdays and Family Records it
is unsurpassed. The addition of the scientific names to the minutely accurate delineations
of plants renders its pages invaluable to the botanist and every lover of leaf and
bloom. The legends which form the burden of its verse will delight the scholar and
archaologist and all students ef song and folk-lore ; while the copious floral meanings,
completer than in any other " language of flowers " yet available, will render it
the constant companion and most treasured gift of a much more numerous section of
the community — the whole world of Sweethearts of the English-speaking nations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Boccaccio's Cameron ;

or, Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated into English, with an Introduction
by Thomas Wright, Esq., M.A., F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.

Bowers' (G.) Hunting Sketches :

Canters in Hampshire. By G. Bowers. I. Gallops from Gorse-borough.
II. Scrambles with Scratch Packs. III. Studies with Stag
Hounds. Oblong 4to, half-bound boards, 21s.

Leaves from a Hunting Journal. By G. Bowers. Coloured ia
facsimile of the originals. Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21s.

■ Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with numerous Illustrations, .7s. 6d. \

Brand's Observations on Popular Antiquities,

chiefly Illustrating the Origin of our Vulgar Customs, Ceremonies, and
Superstitions. With the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.

Brewster (Sir David), Works by:

More Worlds than One : The Creed of the Philosopher and the

Hope of the Christian. By Sir David Brewster. With Plates. Post

8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.
The Martyrs of Science : Lives of Galileo, Tycho Brake, and

Kepler. By Sir David Brewster. With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth.

extra, 4s. 6d.

THE STOTHARD BUNYAN.—Crovm 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 75. 6d. ~

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17 beautiful Steel Plates by Stot-hard,
engraved by Goodwill ; and numerous Woodcuts.

Bret Harte, Works by:

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged and Revised by the
Author. Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and Dramatic Works. With Steel Plate

Portrait, and an Introduction by the Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers-Llxk of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
f — Bohemian Papers — Spanish and American Legends.

Vol. Ill, Tales of the Argonauts — Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories— Condensed Novels, &c.

The Select Works of Bret Harte, in Prose and Poetry'. With
Introductory Essay by J. M. Belle, Portrait of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Gabriel Convoy : A Novel. By Bret Harte. Post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 25,
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other Stories. By Bret Harte,

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. ^d.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, is. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Luck of Roaring Camp, and other Sketches. By Bret

Harte. Post Svo, illustrated boards, 25.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte. Fcap. Svo, picture

cover, IS. ; cloth extra, zs. 6d.
FUp. By Bret Harte, Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth

limp, 25, 6d.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Ballads of Life, Love, and St. Abe and his Seven Wives :

Humour. With a Frontispiece by A Tale of Salt Lake City. With a

Arthur Hughes. Crown Svo, cloth 1 Frontispiece by A. B. Houghton.
extra, 6s. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Selected Poems of Robert Bu , White Rose and Red

canaan. With Frontispiece byTHOS.
Daniel. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Book of Form.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.
Idols and Legends of Inver-bum.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

*** See also Novels, pp. 19 and 21.

A Love Story. Crown Svo, cloth
extra, 6s.

The Hybrid Isles : Wanderings
in the Land of Lome and the Outer
Hebrides, With Frontispiece by W.
Small. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Burton's Anatomy of Melancholy.

A New Edition, Complete, corrected and enriched by Translations of
the Classical Extracts, '
*^* Also an Abridgment in " The Mayfair Library," under the title
Melancholy Anatomise," post Svo, cloth limp, 25. 6d.

Burton (Captain), Works by :

The Book of the Sword : Being a History of the Sword and its
Use in all Countries, from the Earliest Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 25J. [In preparation

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Maps and Frontispiece,
Two Vols,, crown Svo, 21s. [Shortly.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt,' with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Letters and Journals-^^^

With Notices of his Life. By Thomas Moore. A Reprint of the
Original Edition, newly revised, with Twelve full-page Plates.

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 215. - *',

Cameron (Commander) and Captain Burton.

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By Richard
F. Burton and Varney Loveth Cameron. With Frontispiece and
Maps. .-. [In t fie press.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Campbell. — White and Black :

Travels in the United States. By Sir George Campbell, M.P,
Demy Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Caravan Route (The) between Egypt and

Syria. By His Imperial and Royal Highness the Archduke Ludwig
Salvator of Austria. With 23 full-page Illustrations by the Author.

Carlyle (Thomas):

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. By Moncure D.

Conway, M.A. Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.
On the Choice of Books. With a Life of the Author by R. H,

Shepherd. New and Revised Edition, post Svo, cloth extra, Illustrated,

IS. 6d.
The Correspondence of Thomas Carlyle and Ralph Waldo

Emerson, 1834 to 1S72. Edited by Charles Eliot Norton. Two Vols.

crown Svo, cloth extra. Shortly

These letters, extend-king over a period of nearly forty years, were, by the common
consent and direction of the illustrious writers, long since placed in Mr.
Norton's hands with the fullest powers for editing and publication. It is not
too much to claim that the correspondence will be fowtd to form the most valuable
and entertaining work of the kind ever issued. , ^^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Century (A) of Dishonour :

A Sketch of the United States Government's Dealings with some of
the Indian Tribes.

Large 4to, half-bound, profusely Illustrated, 28s.

Chatty and Jackson.— A Treatise on Wood

Engraving ; Historical and Practical. By William Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional Chapter by Henry G.
Born ; and 450 fine Illustrations. A reprint of the last Revised Edition.

Chaucer:

Chaucer for Children : A Golden Key. By Mrs. H. R. Hawes.

With Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous Woodcuts by the Author.

New Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.
Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Demy Svo, cloth

Sip, 2S. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, ys. 6d.

Coleman's Humorous Works :

Broad Grins," " My Nightgown and Slippers, ' and other Humorous
Works, Prose and Poetical, of George Coleman. With Life by G.
B. Blackstone, and Frontispiece by Hogarth.

Post 8%-o, cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Convalescent Cookery :

A Family Handbook. By Catherine Ryan.

Full of sound sense and useful hints." — Saturday Review.

Conway (Moncure D.), Works by:

Demonology and Devil-Lore, By Mixture D, Conway,

M.A. Two Vols., royal Svo, with 65 Illustrations, ossa

Necklace of Stories. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A.

Illustrated by W. J. Hennessy Square Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

The Wandering Jew. By Moncure D. Conway, M.A.« Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections. By Moncure

D. Conway, M.A. With Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
New and Cheaper Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Cook (Button). — Hours with the Players.

- By DUTTON Cook. With a Steel Plate Frontispiece.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d. '

Copyright.— A Handbook of English and

Foreign Copyright in Literary' and Dramatic Works. By Sidney
Ferrol, of the Middle Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law.
Till the time arrives when copyright shall be so simple and so uniform that
it can be generally understood and enjoyed, such a handbook as this will prove of
great value. It is correct as well as concise, and gives just the kind and quantity
of information desired by persons who are ignorant of the subject, and turn to it
for information and guidance"— Athes.'e.v^.

'-^^ Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6^. v

Cornwall. — Popular Romances of the West

of England ; or. The Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions of Void
Cornwall. Collected and Edged by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New
and Revised Edition, with Additions, and Two Steel-plate Illustrations
by George Cruikshank.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13 Portraits, 7s. 6d.

Creasy's Memoirs of Eminent Etonians ;

With Notices of the Early History' of Eton College. By Sir Edward
Creasy, Author of " The Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."

Cro^vn Svo, cloth extra, with Etched Frontispiece, 75. 6^.

Credulity, Past and Present.

By William Jones, F.S.A., Author of " Finger-Ring Lore," &c.
CrowTi Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Crimes and Punishments.

Including a New Translation of Beccaria's " De Delitti e delle Pen,"
By James Anson Farmer.

Cruikshank, George:

The Comic Almanac. Complete in Two Series : The First
from 1835 to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to 1853. A Gathering of the
Best Humour of Thackeray, Hood, Mathew, Albert Smith,
A'Beckett, Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000 Woodcuts and Steel
Engravings by Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth
gilt, two very thick volumes, ys. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By Blanchard Ferrol,

Author of "The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c. With numerous Illustrations
and a List of kis Works. Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d,

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry ;

with Instructions for Tracing Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
MSS., &c. By John E. Russians. Entirely New and Revised
Edition. Illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts and Coloured Plates.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Covenant.— What shall my Son be P

Hints for Parents on the Choice of a Profession or Trade for their
Sons. By Francis Covenant, M.A.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, js. 6d.

Dora.— Memories of our Great Towns.

With Anecdotic Gleanings concerning their Worthies and their
Oddities. By Dr. John Dora, F.S.A. With 38 Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, half-bound, 12s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the Plays, Playwrights, Players,
and Playhouses of the United Kingdom and America, from the
Earliest to the Present Times. By W. Davenport Adams. (Uniform
with Brewer's " Reader's Handbook") [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Dyer.— The Folk-Lore of Plants.

By T. F. Thiselton Dyer, M.A. [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Early English Poets

Edited, with Introductions and Annotations, by Rev. A. B. Groat.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete
Collected Poems. With
Memorial-Introduction and Notes,
Steel Portrait, Index of First
Lines, and Glossarial Index, &c.
Three Vols.

I. Fletcher's (Giles, Bed.) Complete
Poems : Christ's Victoria m
Heaven, Christ's Victoria on
Earth, Christ's Triumph over
Death, and Minor Poems, With
Memorial-Introduction and Notes.
One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms
I. to L. in Verse, and other hitherto
Unpublished MSS., for the
first time Collected and Edited.
With Memorial-Introduction and
Notes. Two Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works, including
all those in " Arcadia." With
Portrait, Memorial-Introduction,
Essay on the Poetry of Sidney,
and Notes. Three Vols.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 65.

Emanuel. — On Diamonds and Precious

Stones ; their History, Value, and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With
numerous Illustrations, Tinted and Plain.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Englishman's House, The :

A Practical Guide to all interested in Selecting or Building a House,
with full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c. By C. J. Richardson.
Third Edition. With nearly 600 Illustrations.

New and Cheaper Edition, cro\\Ti 8vo cloth extra, 6s.

Ewald.— Stories from the State Papers.

By Alex. Charles Ewald, F.S.A., Author of " The Life of Prince
Charles Stuart," &c. With an Autotype Facsimile.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Fairholt.— Tobacco :

Its History and Associations ; with an Account of the Plant and its
Manufacture, and its Modes of Use in all Ages and Countries. By
F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. With Coloured Frontispiece and upwards
of 100 Illustrations by the Author.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Familiar Allusions :

A Handbook of Miscellaneous Information ; including the Names of
Celebrated Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country Seats, Ruins,
Churches, Ships, Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the like.
By William A. Wheeler, Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. • ' ±

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

The Chemical History of a Candle : Lectures delivered before
a Juvenile Audience at the Royal Institution. Edited by William
Crookes, F.C.S. Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations,
45. 6d.

On the Various Forces of Nature, and their Relations to each
other . Lectures delivered before a Juvenile Audience at the Royal
Institution. Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S. Post 8vo, cloth extra,
with numerous Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Finger-Ring Lore:

Historical, Legendary', and Anecdotal. By Wm. Jones, F.S.A. With
Hundreds of Illustrations of Curious Rings of all Ages and Countries.
One of those gossiping books which are as full of amusement as of instruction."
Athenaeum.

New and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

Fitzgerald.— Recreations of a Literary Man ;

or. Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's Working Life. By Percy Fitzgerald.


Gardening Books :

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse : Practical Advice
to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management of the Flower, Fruit, and
Frame Garden. By George Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants we Grow, and How we
Cook Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the
Rent," &c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, zs. 6d.

Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom
and Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo,

illustrated cover, is.; cloth limp, is. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew there. By Francis
George Heath. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

One Shilling Monthly.

Gentleman's Magazine (The) for 1882.

The January Number of this Periodical contained the First Chapters
of a New Serial Story, entitled " Dust," by Julian Hawthorne,
Author of •' Garth," &c. " Science Notes," by W. Mattie
Williams, F.R.A.S., will also be continued monthly. — In January,
1883, will be begun a New Serial Novel by Robert Buchanan,
entitled " The New Abelard."

*^* Now ready, the Volume for January to June, 1882, cloth extra, ■
price 85. 6d ; and Cases for binding, price 25. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Containing Two Complete Novels by R. E. Francisco and the
Author of " Miss Molly." Demy 8vo, illuminated cover, is.

THE RUSKIN GRIMM.— Squeeze 8vo, cl. ex., 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 75. 6d.

German Popular Stories.

Collected by the Brothers Grimm, and Translated by Edgar TayloR'
Edited with an Introduction by John Ruskin. With 22 Illustrations
on Steel by George Cruikshank. Both Series Complete.
^'The illustrations of this volume . . . are of quite sterling and admirable
art, of a class precisely parallel in elevation to the character of the tales which
they illustrate ; and the original etchings, as I have before said tn the Appendix to
my 'Elements of Drawing'' were unrivalled in masterfulness of touch since Rembrandt
sin some qualities of delineation, unrivalled even by him). . . . Tonnage
somewhat enlarged copies of them, looking at them through a magnifying glass,
sand never putting two lines where Cruikshank has put only one, would be an exercise
in decision and severe drawing which would leave afterwards little to be learnt
in schools"— Extract from Introduction by John Ruskin.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Glenny.— A Year's Work in Garden and

Greenhouse : Practical Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to the Management
of the Flower, Fruit, and Frame Garden. By George Glenny.
"yl great deal of valuable information, conveyed in very simple language. The
amateur need not wish for a better guide." — Leeds Mercury.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt and gilt edges, 75. 6d.

Golden Treasury of Thought, The :

An Encyclopaedia of Quotations from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by Theodore Taylor.

Square imo (Tauchnitz size)

Golden Library, The :

Ballad History of England. By

W. C. Bennett.

Bayard Taylors Diversions of

the Echo Club.

B3rron's Don Juan.
Emerson's Letters and Social

Aims.

Godwin's (William) Lives of

the Necromancers. ;
Holmes's Autocrat of the

t Breakfast Table. With an Introduce

tion by G. A. Sala. j

Holmes's Professor at the j

Breakfast Table. I

Hood's Whims and Oddities. \
Complete. With all the original
Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

a Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of

the Alhambra.
Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and

Occupations of Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of Elia. Both
Series Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays : A Tale

for a Chimney Corner, and other
Pieces. With Portrait, and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier.

cloth extra, 2s. per volume.
Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

d' Arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round
Table. Edited by B. Montgomery
Ranking.
Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
Dad.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.


Rochefoucauld's Maxims and
Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.


St. Pierre's Paul and "Virginia.

and The Indian Cottage. Edited,
with Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.

Shelley's Early Poems, and

Queen Mab, with Essay by Leigh
HrNT.

Shelley's Later Poems : Lion
and Cythna, &c.

Shelley's Posthumous Poems,
the Shelley Papers, &c.

Shelley's Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi,
St. Irvine, &c.

White's Natural History of Sel-borne.

Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S.

New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. ed.

Greeks and Romans, The Life of the,

Described flora Antique Monuments. By Ernst Gull and W.
KONER. Translated from the Third German Edition, and Edited by
Dr. F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.
Must Find a place, not only upon the scholar's shelves, but in every well-chosen.

lib rare of art." — Daily News.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation to the History of Mankind.
By Arnold Guyot. With Additions by Professors Agassiz, Pierce,
and Gray ; 12 Maps and Engravings on Steel, some Coloured, and

copious Index.

Crown 8vo, is. ', cloth, is. 6d.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in Health, Weakness,

and Disease. Translated from the German of Dr. J. PiNCUS.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon), Poems by :

Maiden Ecstasy. Small 4to, cloth extra, 85.

New Symbols, Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65.

The Serpent Play. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. Shortly

Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.

With Notices of their Lives and Writings. By Helen and Alice
ZiMMERN. A New Edition.

Medium 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Hall.— Sketches of Irish Character. By Mrs.

S. C. Hall, With numerous Illustrations on Steel and Wood by
Machine, Gilbert, Harvey, and G. Cruikshank.
"raze Irish Sketches of this lady resemble Miss Milord's beautiful English

sketches in ' Our Village,' but they are far more vigorous and picturesque and

bright." — Blackwood's Magazine.

Haweis (Mrs), Works by :

The Art of Dress. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Illustrated by the

Author. Small 8vo, illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6d.
A well-considered attempt to apply canons of good taste to the costumes

of ladies of our time Mrs. Haweis writes frankly and to the

point; she does not mince matters, but boldly remonstrates with her own sex

on the follies they indulge in We may recommend the book to the

ladies whom it concerns." — Athenaeum.

The Art of Beauty. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, gil edges, with Coloured Frontispiece and nearly 100
Illustrations, los. 6d.

The Art of Decoration. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely Illustrated, its. 6d.

*** See also Chaucer, p. 6 0/ this Catalogue.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).— American Humorists.

Including WASHINGTON Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus Ward, Mark Twain, and
Bret Harte. By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A. [Shortly.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Heath (F. G.)— My Garden Wild,

And What I Grew there. By Francis George Heath, Author of

The Fern World," &c.
^' If gardens of wild flowers do not begin at once to spring up over half the little
patches of back yard within fifty-smiles of London it will not be Mr. Heath's fault,
for a more exquisite picture of the felicity of horticulture has seldom been drawn for
us by so charming and graphic a word-painter as the writer of this pleasant little
volume." — Grant Allen, in The Academy.

• SPECIMENS OF MODERN POETS.— Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The Seven against Sense.

A Cap with Seven Bells. •.•;:.
The merits of the book cannot be fairly estimated by means of a fete extracts;
should be read at length to be appreciated properly, and in our opinion its
merits entitle it to be very widely read indeed." — St. James's Gazette.

Cr.Svo, bound in parchment, 8s. ; Large-Paper copies (only 50 printed), 15s.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord Herbert of

Carbury. Edited, with an Introduction, by J. Wharton Collins.

Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 25. 6d.

Holmes.— The Science of Voice Production

and Voice Preservation : A Popular Manual for the Use of Speakers
and Singers. By Gordon Holmes, M.D.
The advice the author gives, corning as it does from one having authority, is
uteri valuable." — Nature.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Hood's (Thomas) Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. Including the Cream of the Comic Annuals.
With Life of the Author, Portrait, and Two Hundred Illustrations.

Square crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

Hood's (Tom) From Nowhere to the North

Pole : A Noah's Archaeological Narrative. With 25 Illustrations by
W. Brandon and E. C. Barnes.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt, js. 6d.

Hook's (Theodore) Choice Humorous Works,

including his Ludicrous Adventures, Bons-mots, Puns and Hoaxes.
With a new Life of the Author, Portraits, Facsimiles and Illustrations.

Tenth Edition, crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s.

Home. — Orion: .^7-,= , :

An Epic Poem, in Three Books. By Richard Hengist Horne.;
With Photographic Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital and Labour,

Historically and Economically considered. Being a History and
Review of the Trade Unions of Great Britain, showing their Origin,'
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George Howell,
This book is an attempt, and on the hole a successful attempt, to place the
work of trade unions in the past, and their objects tn the future, fairly before the
public from the working man's point of view." — Pall Mall Gazette '

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 12s. 6d

Hueff'er.— The Troubadours :

A History of Provencal Life and Literature in the Middle Ages. By

Francis Suffer. ^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Ireland under the Land Act :

Letters to the Standard during the Crisis. Containing the most
recent Information about the State of the Country, the Popular
Leaders, the League, the Working of the Sub-Commissions, &c.
With Leading Cases under the Act, giving the Evidence in full ;
Judicial Dicta, &c. By E. Cant-Wall.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 65.

Janvier.— Practical Keramics for Students.

By Catherine A. Janvier.
Will be found a useful handbook by those who wish to try the manufacture or
decoration of pottery, and may be studied by all who desire to know something of
the ar^."— Morning Post.

A New Edition, crown 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 7s. 6d.

Jennings.— The Rosicrucians :

Their Rites and Mysteries, With Chapters on the Ancient Fire and
Serpent Worshippers. By Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.

Jerrold (Tom), Works by :

The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold. Fcap. 8vo

illustrated cover, is. ; cloth limp, is. 6d
Household Horticulture : A Gossip about Flowers. By Tom and

Jane Jerrold. Illustrated. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Our Kitchen Garden : The Plants we Grow, and How we Cook
Them. By Tom Jerrold, Author of " The Garden that Paid the Rent''
&c. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2S. 6d,
'* The combination of hints on cookery with gardening has been very cleverly
carried out, and the result is an interesting and highly instructive little work, Mr,
Jerrold is correct in saying that English people do not make half the use of vegetables
they might ; and by showing how easily they can be grown, and so obtained
fresh, he is doing a great deal to make them more popular." — Daily Chronicle.

Two Vols. 8vo, with 52 Illustrations and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 14s.

Josephus, The Complete Works of.

Translated by Whiston. Containing both " The Antiquities of the
Jews " and " The Wars of the Jews."

Small 8vo, cloth, full gilt, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 6s.

Kavanagh.— The Pearl Fountain,

And other Fairy Stories. By Bridget and Julia Kavanagh,
With Thirty Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith. • -
"Genuine new fairy stories of the old type, some of them as delightful as the
best of Grimm's ' German Popular Stories.' For the most part the stories

are downright, thorough-going fairy stories of the most admirable kind

Mr. Moyr Smith's illustrations, too, are admirable." — Spectator,

Square 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 65.

Knight (The) and the Dwarf.

By Charles Mills. With Illustrations by Thomas Lindsay.
';;.■• Crown 8vo, illustrated boards, with numerous Plates, 2s. 6d.

Lace (Old Point), and How to Copy and

Imitate it. By Daisy Warehouse Hawkins. With 17 Illustrations
by the Author,

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights: Commonly called, in England,
"The Arabian Nights' Entertainments." A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by Edward William Lane. Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on Wood, from Original Designs by
William Harvey. A New Edition, from a Copy annotated by the
Translator, edited by his Nephew, Edward Stanley Poole. With a
Preface by Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra
ys. 6d. each.

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages: Stories from " The Thousand
and One Nights." By Edward Wi-lliam Lane, Author of "The
Modern Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley Lane-Poole. Crown 8vo
cloth extra, 6s, [/» the press

Lamb (Charles) :

Mary and Charles Lamb: Their Poems, Letters, and Remains.
With Reminiscences and Notes by W. Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles of the Title-pages of the rare
First Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ics. 6d.
Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose and Verse, reprinted from the
Original Editions, with many Pieces hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H. Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay on Roast Pig." Crown 8yo, cloth
extra, ys. 6d.
*' A complete edition of Lamb's writings, in prose and verse, has hong been
"wanted, and is now supplied. The editor appears to hate taken great pains to
bring together Lamb's scattered contributions, and his collection contains a
number of pieces which are now reproduced for the first time since their original
appearance in various old periodicals." — Saturday Review.

Poetry for Children, and Prince Doris. By Charles Lamb.
Carefully Reprinted from unique copies. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 55.
The quaint and delightful little book, over the recovery of which all the
hearts of his lovers are yet warm with rejoicing." — A. C. Swinburne.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lares and Penates;

Or, The Background of Life. • By Florence Caddy.
'' The whole book is well worth reading, for it is full of practical suggestions.
We hope nobody will be deterred from taking up a book which teaches a good deal
about sweetening poor lives as well as giving grace to wealthy ones." — Graphic.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Life in London ;

or, The History)' of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian Tom. With the
whole of Cruikshank's Illustrations, in Colours, after the Originals.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lights on the Way :

Some Tales within a Tale. By the late J H. Alexander, Bea.
Edited, with an Explanatory Note, by H. A. Page, Author of
"Thoreau: A Study."

Longfellow :

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works. Including " Outre Mer,"
Mj-perion," " Kavanagh," "The Poets and Poetry of Europe," and
Driftwood." With Portrait and Illustrations by Valentine Bromley.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 75. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully Reprinted from the
Original Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences in a.

By A Sane Patient.

The story is clever and interesting, sad beyond measure though the subject
•be. There is no personal bitterness, and no violence or anger. Whatever may
have been the evidence for our author's madness when he was consigned to an
asylum, nothing can be clearer than his sanity when he wrote this book; it is
bright, calm, and to ffte/>oi»f."— Spectator.

Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page Plates, cloth boards, i8s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

^ Translated into English Spenserian Verse by ROBERT French DuFF.

McCarthy (Justin), Works by:

History of Oiir Own Times, from the Accession of Queen Victoria

to the General Election of 1880. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.

Four Vols., demy 8vo, cloth extra, 125. each. — Also a POPULAR

Edition, in Four Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 65. each.

Criticism is disarmed before a composition which provokes little but approval.

This is a really good book on a really interesting subject, and words piled oit

words could say no more for it y — Saturday Review-j.^a- -^

History of the Four Georges. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.

Four Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s. each. [In preparation**

For Mr. McCarthy's Novels, see pp. 22, 24. ' - '^'^-i'-^^^i:

Small crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

MacDonald (George.— The Princess and

Curdle. By George MacDonald, LL.D. With 11 Illustrations
by James Allen.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Machine Gallery (The) of Illustrious Literary

Characters : 85 fine Portraits, with Descriptive Text, Anecdotal and
Biographical, by William Bates, Bea. [In preparation.

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by :

In the Ardennes. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With 50 fine

Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.
Pictures and Legends from Normandy and Brittany. By

Katharine S. Macquoid. With numerous Illustrations by Thomas R.

Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, its. 6d.
Through Normandy, By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

90 Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Square 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
Through Brittany. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With

numerous Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid. Sq. Svo, cloth extra, ys. 64.
About Yorkshire. By Katharine S. Macquoid. With about

70 Illustrations by Thomas R. Macquoid, Engraved by Swain. Square

8vo, cloth extra, its. 6d. [In preparation.

The pleasant companionship which Mrs. Macquoid offers, while wandering
from one point of interest to another, seems to throw a renewed charm
around each oft-depicted scene." — Morning Post.

Mallock (W. H.), Works by :

Is Life Worth Living ? By William Harrel Mallock.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
The New BepubUc ; or, Culture, Faith, and Philosophy in an

English Country House. By W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6rf.
The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism on an Island. By

W. H. Mallock. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
Poems. By W. H. Mallock. Small 4to, bound in parchment, Ss*
A Romance of the Nineteenth Century. By W. H. Mallock.

Second Edition, with a Preface. Two Vols., crown Svo, 31s.

Handsomely printed in facsimile, price 5s.

Magna Charta.

An exact Facsimile of the Original Document in the British Museum,
printed on fine plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2 feet wide, with the
Arms and Seals emblazoned in Gold and Colours.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain. Revised and Corrected
throughout by the Author. With Life, Portrait, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer. By Mark Twain. With 100
Illustrations. Small 8vo, cloth extra, js. 6d. Cheap Edition, illust.bds., 25-

A Pleasure Trip on the Continent of Europe : The Innocents
Abroad, and The New Pilgrim's Progress. By M.\rk Twain. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 25.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches. By Mark Twain.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 25.

The Prince and the Pauper. By Mark Twain. With nearly
200 Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or. The New Pilgrim's Progress i
Being some Account of the Steamship " Quaker City's " Pleasure Excursion
to Europe and the Holy Land. With 234 Illustrations. By
Mark Twain. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents at Home; and Roughing It. By Mark Twain.
With 200 Illustrations by F. A. Eraser. Crown Svo, cloth extra, ~s. 6d.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c. By :spark Twain. Crown

Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
Mississippi Sketches. By Mark Twain. With al^out 300 Original
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [/;» preparation.

A Tramp Abroad. By Mark Twain. With 314 Illustrations
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
The fun and tenderness of the conception, of-ivhich no living man but
Mark Twain is capable, its grace and fantasy and slyness, the wonderful
feeling for animals that is manifest in every line, make of all this episode of
Jim Baker and his jays a piece of u'ork that is not only delightful as mere
reading, but also of a high degree of merit as literature. . . . The book is
full of good things, and contains passages and episodes that are equal to the
funniest of those that have gone before." — Athens um.

Small Svo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 25. 6d.

Miller.— Physiology for the Young ;

Or, The House of Life : Human Physiology', with its application to
the Preservation of Health. For use in Classes and Popular Reading,
With numerous Illustrations. By Mrs. F. Fenwick Miller.
"An admirable introduction to a subject tvhich all who value health and enjoy
life should have at their fingers' ends"— Echo.

Milton (J. L.), Works by :

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise Set of Rules for the
Management of the Skin; with Directions for Diet, Wines, Soaps, Baths,
cc. By J. L. Milton, Senior Surgeon to St. John's Hospital. Small
Svo, IS. ; cloth extra, is. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin. Small 8vo, is. ; cloth extra
is.6d.

Post 8vo, cloth limp,

Mayfair Library, The :

The New Republic, By W. H.

Mallock.

Time New Paul and Virginia.

By W. H. Mallock.
The True History of Joshua

- Davidson. By E. Lynn Linton.
Old Stories Re-told. By Walter

■» Thornbury.

Thoreau: His Life and Aims.

tr By H. A. Page.

By Stream and Sea. By Wile
Liar Senior.

Jeiix dee sprit. Edited by Henry
- S. Leigh.
Juliana. .By the Hon. Hugh

• Rowley.

More Juliana. By the Hon.

Hugh Rowley.
Puck on Pegasus. '^ By H.

Cholmondeley-Pennell.
The Speeches of Charles
■ Dickens. .-■'

Muses of Mayfair, Edited by

- H. Cholmondeley-Pennell. .-
Astronomy as a Fine Art. By

Brilliant-Savarin. - t-'•
The Philosophy of Hands
writing. Don Felix de Salamanca.
Curiosities of Criticism. . By
^ Henry J. Jennings. -■-^'^
Literary Frivolities, Fancies,

Follies, Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.
Poetical Ingenuities andEccen-
,. atrocities. Selected and Edited by
^"- W. T. Dobson.
Pence and Palette. By Robert

Kempt. - - - ,

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by

W. Davenport Adams.

2s. 6d. par volume.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert,
First Series. Containing:
.The Wicked World — Pygmalion an((J
Galatea— Charity —The Princess—
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing :
Broken Hearts — Engaged— Sweethearts
— Dan'l Bruce — Gretchen —
Tom Cobb— The Sorcerer— H.M.S.
Pinafore — The Pirates of Penzance.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry

S. Leigh.

The Book of Clerical Anecdotes.
By Jacob Haywood.
The Agony Column of *' The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introductions Alice Clay.

The Cupboard Papers. By

Fin-Bec.

Pastimes and Players. By

Robert Macgregor.
Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations

by H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise : A

Popular Abridgment of " Burton's

Anatomy of Melancholy."
Quips and Quiddities. Selected
by w. Davenport Adams.
Leaves from a Naturalist's

note-Book. ByDr.ANDREwWiLSON.

The Autocrat of the .
By O. WendellHolmes.
Illustrated by J. Gordon Thomson.

Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour
and Curiosities of the Law and
Men of Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

With Stories. By E. L. Linton.

Largest, bound in buckram, 21s.

Moncrieff.— The Abdication; or,Time Tries All.

An Historical Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff. With Seven
Etchings by John Petrie, R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J. Mac
Whiter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter, R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham.

^if's V Square 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, ys.Od.

North Italian Folk.

By Mrs. Commons Carr. Illustrate]; by Randolph Caldecott.

A delightful book, 'of a kind which is far too rare. If anyone wants to really
now the North Italian folk tve can honestly advise him to omit the journey, and
read Mrs. Cares pages instead. . . Description with Mrs. Carr is a real gift.
It is rarely that a book is so happily iWwsfra^ctf."— Contemporary Review,

^ . — .

New Novels :

ALL SORTS AND CONDITIONS OF MEN : An Impossible

Story. By Walter Besant. Illust. by Fred. Barnard. 3 volsci. 8vo.
VAIiENTINA: A Sketch. By Eleanor C. Price. 2 vols., cr. 8vo.
KEPT IN THE DARK. By Anthony Trollope. With a

Frontispiece by J. E. Millais, R.A. 2 vols., post 8vo, 135. [Ocf. 20.

VAL STRANGE : A Story of the Primrose Way. By David

Christie Murray. 3 vols., crown 8vo. • , Shortly.

REGIMENTAL LEGENDS. By J. S. Winter, Author of

Cavalry Life," &c. 3 vols., crown 8vo. Shortly.

THE GOLDEN SHAFT. By Charles Gibbon, Author of

Robin Gray," &c. 3 vols., crown 8vo. Shortly.

A NEW NOVEL BY OUIDA is now in preparation, in 3 vols.,

crown 8vo.
FOXGLOVE MANOR. By Robert Buchanan, Author of " God

and the Man," &c. 3 vols., crown 8vo. shortly.

DUST: A Story. By Julian Hawthorne, Author of "Garth,"

Sebastian Strokes** &c. 3 vols., crown 8vo. [shortly

A NEW NOVEL by WILKIE COLLINS is now in preparation,

in 3 vols., crown 8vo.
WOMEN ARE STRANGE, and other Stories. By F. W.

Robinson, Author of " Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols. [Shortly.
A NEW COLLECTION of STORIES by CHARLES READS
is now in preparation, in 3 vols., crown 8vo. .-,

Post 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 5s.

Number Nip (Stories about),

The Spirit of the Giant Mountains. Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J. Moyr Smith.

O'Shaughnessy (Arthur), Works by :

Songs of a Worker. By Arthur 0'Sh.\ughnessy. " Fcap.

8vo, cloth extra, ~s. Gd, ., . x-u. . ^ ■ .- - i-tv ,

Music and Moonlight.' By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Fcap.

8vo, cloth extra, js. 6rf. .' - , ■ ;-' :. >> ;.

Lays of France. By Arthur O'Shaughnessy. Crown 8vo

cloth extra, its. 6^. . ■ '

Crown 8vo, red cloth extra, 5s. each.

Ouida's Novels.— Library Edition.

Held in Bondage, , Pascal.

Stratford. l Two Little Wooden Shoes,

Chances, Signa.

Under Two Flags. | In a Winter City.

Italia. ! Ariadne.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage. | Friendship.

Tricotrin. Moths.

Puck. Pipistrello.

Fore Farine. i A Village Commune.

A Dog of Flanders. ■ In Maremma.

*«* Also a Cheap Edition of all but the last, post 8vo, illustrated,
boards, 2S. each. .:."*- .^.-i-^,^ 4—, ^ — ^\

OUIDA's NEW STORIES.— Sq. Svo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges, 75. 6d,,

BIM5I; Stories for Children. By Ouida.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits, price 6s. per Vol.

Old Dramatists The :

sen Jonson's Works.

With Notes Critical and Explanatory,
and a Biographical Memoir 13-y William
GiFFORD. Edited by Colonel
Cunningham. Three Vols.

Chapman's Works.

Complete in Three Vols. Vol. I. contains
the Plays complete, including
the doubtful ones; Vol. II. the
Poems and Minor Translations, with
an Introductory Essay by Algerian

Charles Swinburne ; Vol. III. the
Translations of the Iliad and
Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works.

Including hie Translations. Edited,
with Notes and Introduction, by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.
Massinger's Plays.
From the Text of William Gifford.
Edited by Col. Cunningham. One
Vol.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, is. 6d.

Parliamentary Procedure, A Popular Handbook
of. By Henry W. Lucy.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Payn.— Some Private Views :

Being Essays contributed to The Nineteenth Century and to The
Times. By James Payn, Author of " Lost Sir Massingberd," &c.
*** For Mr. Payn's Novels, see pp. 22, 24, 25.

Two Vols. 8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, los. 6d.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious Men.

Translated from the Greek, with Notes Critical and Historical, and a
Life of Plutarch, by John and William Langhorne.

Proctor (R. A.), Works by:

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps for Every Night in the Year,
^ Drawings of the Constellations, &c. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
1 Familiar Science Studies. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy. By Richard A. Proctor.

t Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pleasant Ways in Science. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Rough Ways made Smooth : A Series of Familiar Essays on

Scientific Subjects. By R. A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Our Place among Infinities : A Series of Essays contrasting our

Little Abode in Space and Time with the Infinities Around us. By

Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

,The Expanse of Heaven: A Series of Essays on the Wonders
of the Firmament. By Richard A. Proctor. Crown 8vo, cloth, 6s.

Saturn and its System. By Richard A. Proctor. New and Revised
Edition, with 13 Steel Plates, demy 8vo, cloth extra, los. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Its Plan and Purpose. By Richard A.
Proctor. With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. immediately,

Mysteries of Time and Space. By Richard A. Proctor.
With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Wages and Wants of Science Workers. Crown 8vo, is. 6d.

Mr. Proctor, of all writers of our time, best conforms to Matthew Arnold's conception
of a man of culture, in that he strives to humanise knowledge and divest it
of whatever is harsh, crude, or technical, and so makes it a source of happiness and
brightness for fl^^"— Westminster Review, .

Library Edition's, many Illustrated, crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Piccadilly Novels, The.

Popular mariti h^ tuft SScs't fM^v^.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-Money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft.
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Helena.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Chid of Nature.
God and the Man.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonio.
Base.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
The Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mrs ?
The New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the Lady.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Kobe.

BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia.

• BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.

Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympian
Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.

The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
In Love and War.
What will the World Say ?
For the King. -
La Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow,
In Pastures Green.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.

Garth.

Juice Question.

Sebastian Stroke.

BY MRS ALFRED HUNT.
Thomicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket,

BY JEAN Angelo.

Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun.

Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGS LEY.
Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.

Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family's
My Love ! '.

Piccadilly Novels — continued.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p. j

The Watergate Neighbours. I

My Enemy's Daughter. |

Linley Rochford. j

A Fair Saxon. I

Dear Lady Disdain. j

Miss Misanthrope. I

Donna Quixote. i

The Comet of a Season. j

BY AGNES Macdonald. i

Quaker Cousins. |

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID. \
Lost Rose, j

The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame !
"Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Mindless.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
Joseph's Coat.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.

^ Whiteladies.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massingberd.
The Best of Husbands.
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Walter's Word
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirit-s.
From Exile.
Carlton's Year.
A Confidential Agent.
From Exile.

BY CHARLES READE, D.C.L. r
It is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Washington.
Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play. '

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in His Place.
A Terrible Temptation.
The Wandering Heir.
A Simpleton.
A Woman-hater. *
Reading.

BY MRS. J. H. Liddell,

Her Mother's Darling. ■;

BY JOHN SAUNDERS.

Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

BY BERTHA THOMAS.
Proud Maisie.
Cressida.
The Violin-Player.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPS.
The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY T. A. TROLLOPE.
Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY SARAH Tatler.

What She Came Through.
The Bride's Pass.

BY J. S.
Cavalry Life.

WINTER.

NEW VOLUMES OF THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.
A Grape from a Thorn. By James Payn. Illustrated by W. Smaller
Frau Frohmann. By Anthony Trollope. With Frontispiece by,

H. French.
For Cash Only. By James Payn.
Prince Saroni's Wife. By Julian Hawthorne.
The Prince of Wales's Garden-party. By INlrs. J. H. Riddell.^ J
Coals of Fire, By D. Christie Murray. Illustrated by Arthur"

Hopkins, G. L. Seymour, and D. T. White.

Hearts of Gold. By William Cycles.



Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2S. each.

Popular Novels, Cheap Editions of.

[WiLKiF. CoLLiNs's NovELS and BESANxand Rice's Novels may also be had
in cloth limp at 2s. 6d. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, for Library Editions']

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The FeUah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Confidences.
Carr of Carrion.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.

Maid, Wife, or Widow ?

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.

Ready-money Mortify.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Cela's Arbour.

The Monks of Helena.

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

The Ten Years' Tenant.

BY Shelley BEAUCHAMP.

Grantly Grange.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes.
Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Gabriel Convoy.
Flip.

BY MRS. BURNETT.
Surly Tim.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
JuMet's Guardian.

BY M ACL A REN COBBAN.

The Cure of Souls.

BY C. Allusion COLLINS.
The Bar Sinister.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.
Antonio.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.

The Queen of Hearts.

My Miscellanies.

The Woman in White.

The Moonstone.

Man and Wife.

Poor Miss Finch.

Miss or Mrs. ?

The New Magdalen.

The Frozen Deep.

The Law and the Lady.

The Two Destinies.

The Haunted Hotel.

Fallen Leaves.

Jezebel's Daughter.

BY DUTTON COOK.

Leo.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards,
A Point of Honour.
Archie Lovell.

BY M. BET HAM-EDWARDS.

Felicia.

BY EDWARD EGGLESTON.

Roxy.

BY PERCY FITZGERALD.
Polly.

Bella Donna.
Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.

BY ALBANY DE FONBLANQUE,
Filthy Lucre.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia.
Queen Cophetua.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
What will the World Say?
In Honour Bound,
The Dead Heart.
In Love and War.
For the King.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Popular Novels — continued.

BY yates GREENWOOD.
Dick Temple,

BY ANDREW HALLIBAY.
Every-day Papers.

BY LADY DUFFUS HARDY.

Paul ■W3niter's Sacrifice.

BY THOMAS HARDY.

Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.
Eliice Question.

BY TOM HOOD.

A Golden Heart.

BY VICTOR HUGO.

The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.

Thomicroft's Model.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.

Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jtm.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.

The Queen of Connaught,
The Dark Cobden.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.

Number Seventeen.
Oakshott Castle.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Wel Lost.
Under vsrhich Lords
With a Silken Thread.

BY JUSTIN McCarthy, m.p.
The Watergate Neighbours.
Dear Lady Disdain.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford.
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.

BY AGNES Macdonald.

Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye.
Lost Rose.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT,
Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.
Mr. Dorilhon.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT,

Whiteladies.

BY OUIDA.
Held in Bondage.
Stratford.
Chances.

Under Two Flags.
Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.
Tricotrin
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.
Pascal.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.
Signa.

In a Winter City.
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massingberd.
A Perfect Treasure.
Bentinck's Tutor.
Murphy's Master.
A County Family.
At Her Mercy.
A Woman's Vengeance.
Cecil's Tryst.
The Clyfifards of Clyffe:
The Family Scapegrace.
The Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Gwendolen's Harvest.
Humorous Stories. <
Like Father, Like Son,
A Marine Residence, i
Married Beneath Him.-
Mirk Abbey. -



Popular Novels — continued.

James Payn — continued.
Not Wooed, but "Won.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.
The Best of Husbands.
Walters Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her.
Less Black than we're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
A Confidential Agent.
Carlton's Year.

BY EDGAR A. POE.

The Mystery of Marie Roget.

BY CHARLES READE, Deceit

is Never Too Late to Mend.
Hard Cash.
Peg Wellington.
Christie Johnston.
Griffith Gaunt.
The Double Marriage.
Love Me Little, Love Me Long.
Foul Play.

The Cloister and the Hearth.
The Course of True Love.
The Autobiography of a Thief.
Put Yourself in his Place.

BY GEORGE AUGUSTUS SALA.
Gaslight and Daylight.

BY JOHN Saunders.
Bound to the Wheel.
Guy Waterman.
One Against the World.
The Lion in the Path.

BY ARTHUR Sketches.

A Match in the Dark.

BY WALTER THORN BURY.

Tales for the Marines.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.

The Way we Live Now.
The American Senator.

BY T. ADOLPHUS TROLLOPE

Diamond Cut Diamond.

BY MARK TWAIN.

A Pleasure Trip in Europe.

Tom Sawyer.

An Idle Excursion.

BY LADY Woods

Sabina.

BY EDMUND YATES
Castaway.
Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.

ANONYMOUS.
BY MRS. J. H. RID DELL. ! paul Ferrol.
Her Mother's Darling. ■ Why P. Ferrol Killed his Wife.

Fcap. 8vo, picture covers, 15. each.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. By Bret Harte.
The Twins of Table Mountain. By Bret Harte.
Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds. By Julian Hawthorne.
Kathleen Mavourneen. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowliest'*
Lindsay's Luck. By the Author of " That Lass o' Lowrie's."
Pretty Polly Pemberton. By the Author of " That Lass o' Louvre's."
Trooping with Crows. By Mrs. Pirkis.
The Professor's Wife. By Leonard Graham.
A Double Bond. By Linda Villars.
Esther's Glove. By R. E. Francisco.
The Garden that Paid the Rent. By Tom Jerrold.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Portrait and Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Poe's Choice Prose and Poetical Works.

With Baudelaire's Essay on his Life and Writings.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or, A Dictionary of Dress— Regal,
Ecclesiastical, Civil, and Military— from the Earliest Period in England
to the Reign of George the Third. Including Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a General History of the Costumes of the
Principal Countries of Europe. By J. R. Planche, Somerset Herald.
Two Vols, demy 4to, half morocco, profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts, £7 7s. The Volumes may also be had
separately (each complete in itself) at £3 I3S- each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General History of Costume in Europe.

The Pursuivant of Arms ; or, Heraldry Founded upon Facts. By
J. R. Planches. With Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Songs and Poems, from 8 19 to 1879. By J. R. Planche. Edited,
with an Introduction, by his Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown 8vo
cloth extra, 6s. ^^

Small 8vo, cloth extra, with 130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.

Prince of Argolis, The :

A Story of the Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moor Smith. ^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works.

Faithfully Translated from the French, with variorum Notes, an(3
numerous characteristic Illustrations by Gu stave Do re.

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations, and a beautifully
executed Chart of the various Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.

By J. Rambosson, Laureate of the Institute of France. Translated!
by C. B. Pitman. Profusely Illustrated.

Entirely New Edition, Revised, crown Svo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra, 7s. 6d^

Reader's Handbook (The) of Allusions, References,
Plots, and Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer. Third Edition,
revised throughout, with a New Appendix, containing a Complete
English Bibliography, ^

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Richardson. — A Ministry of Health, and

other Papers. By Benjamin Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. By Alfred Rimmer. ' With over s&

Illustrations by the Author. Square Svo, cloth extra, gilt, los, 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and Harrow. By Alfred Rimmer. With

50 Illustrations by the Author. Square 8vo, cloth gilt, los, 6d. Also an
Edition de Luxe, in 4to (only a limited number printed), with the Illusts.
beautifully printed on China paper, half-bound boards, edges uncut, 42s. ,
About England with Dickens. With Illustrations by Alfred
Rimmer and C. A. Vanderhoof. Sq. Svo, cl. gilt, los. 6d. [In preparation,

■■ Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Robinson.— The Poets' Birds -

By Phil. Robinson, Author of " Noah's Ark'' &c. [ In there's.

Handsomely printed, price 55.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The ;

or, A List of the Principal Warriors who came over from Normandy
with William the Conqueror, and Settled in this Country, a.d. 1066-7.
With the principal Arms emblazoned in Gold and Colours. "^

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely Illustrated, 4s. 6d. each.

Secret Out " Series, The :

Tke Pyrotechnist's Treasury; Magician's Own Booker.

Complete Art of Making Fire Performances with Cups and Balls,

works. By Thomas Kentish. With Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All

numerous Illustrations. from actual Experience. Edited by

The Art of Amusing : ^^'- H. Cremer. 200 illustrations.

A Collection of Graceful Arts.Games, Magic No Mystery :
Tricks, Puzzles, and Charades. By Tricks with Cards, Dice, Balls, &c.,

Frank Belle. 300 Illustrations. wilfully descriptive Directions; the

TTo-nVv Pflnlr-o- • ' '' Art of Secret Writing ; Training of

^f^^-J^^^^- ,, ^.^ ,, Performing Animals, &c. Coloured

\ very Easy Tricks, \ very Difficult Frontispiece and many Illustrations.

Tricks, White Magic, Sleight of Hand. , 01 ^ >^ x

Edited by W. H. Cremer. 200 lusts. The Secret Out : . , ^ ,

One Thousand Tricks with Cards,

The Merry Circle : and other Recreations ; with Enter

Book of New Intellectual Games training Experiments in Drawing-and

Amusements. By Clara Bel , room or " White Magic." By W, H.

LEW. Many Illustrations. 1 Cremer. 300 Engravings.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

Senior.— Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

An Angler's Sketches in Tasmania and New Zealand. By William
Senior (" Red-Spinner "J, Author of " By Stream and Sea." ,.

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare. — Mr. William Shakespeare's
Comedies, Histories, and Tragedies. Published according to the true
Original Copies. London, Printed by Isaac Ragged and Ed. Blunt.
1623.— A Reproduction of the extremely rare original, in reduced facsimile
by a photographic, process— ensuring the strictest accuracy in every
detail. Small Svo, half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully printed in red
and black, in small but very clear type. With engraved facsimile of
Droeshout's Portrait. Post Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6rf.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales from Shakespeare. By
Charles and Mary Lamb. With numerous Illustrations, coloured and
plain, by J. Moyr Smith. Crown 4to, cloth gilt, 6s. — -

The Handbook of Shakespeare Music. Being an Account of
350 Pieces of Music, set to Words taken from the Plays and Poems of
Shakespeare, the compositions ranging from the Elizabethan Age to the
present Time. By Alfred Rosse, 410, half-roxburgh, 7s. ■ ^,

A study of Shakespeare. By Algerian Charles Swinburne.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 8s. .,. , ,.-:•- -

Cro\\'u8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including his Dramatic Writings, printed
from the Original Editions, his Works in Prose and Poetry; Translations,
Speeches, Jc^kes. Puns. &c. With a Collection of Sheridaniana.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with lOO Illustrations, ys. 6d.

Signboards :

Their History. With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns and Remarkable
Characters. By Jacob Haywood and John Camden Rotten.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Slang Dictionary, The :

L Etymological, Historical, and Anecdotal.

Exquisitely printed in miniature, cloth extra, gilt edges, 2S. 6d.

Smoker's Text-book, The.

By J. Homer, F.R.S.L.

Demy 8vo, cloth extra. Illustrated, 14s.

South-West, The New:

Travelling Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico, Arizona, and
Northern Mexico. By Ernst VON Hesse-Wartegg. With 100
fine Illustrations and 3 Maps. [In preparation .

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Spalding.—Elizabethan Demonology :

An Essay in Illustration of the Belief in the Existence of Devils, and
the Powers possessed by them. By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.

Crown 4to, with Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 6s.

Spenser for Children.

By M. H. Tory. With Illustrations by Walter J. Morgan.
A New Edition, small crown Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Staunton.— Laws and Practice of Chess ;

Together with an Analysis of the Openings, and a Treatise on End
Games. By Howard Staunton. Edited by Robert B. World.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gs.

Seaman.— Victorian Poets :

- Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence Seaman.

Stevenson (R. Louis), Works by :

Familiar Studies of Men and Books. By R.*Louis Stevenson.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s. •"

New Arabian NigMs. By R. Louis Stevenson." Two Vols.*

post Svo, Is. , •' , •<»

We must place the 'New Arabian Nights' very high indeed, almost hors concours,
among the fiction of the present day"— Pais Mall Gazette, ^r-.— . ^.

Two Vols. , crown Svo, with numerous Portraits and Illustrations, 24s. *

Strain.— Twenty Years of a Publisher's

Life. By Alexander Strain. [In preparation.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Struts's Sports and Pastimes of the People of

England ; including the Rural and Domestic Recreations, May
Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions, Pageants, and Pompous'
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period to the Present Time. With 140
Illustrations. Edited by William Hone.

Crown 8%-o, with a Map of Suburban London, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes (The) of London :

A Residential Guide to Favourite London Localities, their Society,
Celebrities, and Associations. With Notes on their Rental, Rates,
and House Accommodation. .

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works,

In Prose and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait, and Facsimiles of the
Maps in the Original Edition of " Tulliver's Travels."

Swinburne's (Algerian C.) Works :

The Queen Mother and Rosa George Chapman :

mona. Fcap. Svo, 5s. An Essay. Crown Svo, 7s.

Atlanta in Corydon. \ Songs of Two Nations. '

A New Edition. Crown Svo, 6s. i Crown Svo, 6s.

Chastened.
A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 7s.

Poems and Ballads.

First Series. Fcap. Svo, gs. Also
in crown Svo, at same price.

Poems and Ballads.

Second Series. Fcap. Svo, 9S. Also i Crown Svo, Cs

Essays and Studies.

Crown Svo, Is.

Erechtheus :

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 6s.

Note of an English Republican

on the Muscovite Crusade. Svo, is.

A Note on Charlotte Bronze

in crown Svo, at same price

A study of Shakespeare.

Notes on Poems and Reviews. I Crown Svo, Ss

Songs of the Springtide.

Svo, IS.

William Blake : j Crown Svo, 6s.
A Critical Essay. With Facsimile Studies in Song.
Paintings. Demy Svo, i6s. Crown Svo, 7s.

Songs before Sunrise. 1 Mary Stuart :

Crown Svo, io.y. 6d. | ^ Tragedy. Crown Svo, 8s.

Bothwell : ! Tristan of Lioness, and other

A Tragedy. Crown Svo, 12s. cii. \ Poems. Crown Svo, 9s. -. —

ISIedium Svo, cloth extra, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours,

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search of Consolation, and in Search
of a Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's droll page Illustrations
in Colours, and a Life of the Author by J. C. Rotten. —^^ — '•

Four Vols, small Svo, cloth boards, 305.

Taine's History of English Literature.

Translated by Henry WkS Lain.
*** Also a Popular Edition, in Two Vols, crown Svo, cloth extra, 155.

^ i . .^

Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated, 6s.

Tales of Old Thule.

Collected and Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.

One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical Dramas:

Chancery," " Jeanne Dare," " 'Twixt Axe and Crown," " The Fool's
Revenge," " Arkwright's Wife," " Anne Boleyn," " Plot and Passion."
*^(.* The Plays may also fee had separately, at Is. each.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous Illustrations, 75. 6d.

Thackeray ana :

Notes and Anecdotes. Illustrated by a profusion of Stretches oy
William Makepeace Thackeray, depicting Humorous Incidents
in his School-life, and Favourite Characters in the books of his everyday
reading. With Coloured Frontispiece and Hundreds of Wood
Engravings, facsimile from Mr. Thackeray's Original Drawings.

Crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle of Indolence.

With a Biographical and Critical Introduction by Allan Cunningham,
and over 50 fine Illustrations on Steel and Wood. -]

Thombury (Walter), Works by:

Haunted London, By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition,
Edited by Edward Walford, M.A., with numerous Illustrations by
F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

The Life and Correspondence of J. M. "W. Turner. Founded
upon Letters and Papers furnished by his Friends and fellow Academicians.
By Walter Thornbury. A New Edition, considerably Enlarged.
With numerous Illustrations in Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. .

Timbs (John), Works by:

Clubs and Club Life in London. With Anecdotes of its Famous
Coffee-houses, Hostelries, and Taverns. By John Timbs, F.S.A. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra, ys. 6d. ^r «-^i

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities : Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and Fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of Letters,
&c. By John Timbs, F.S.A. With nearly 50 illustrations. Crown Svo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. > ^^rv^ . .^u^:,: -. - — .;
1 . . ■ ai

Demy Svo, cloth extra, 14s.

torrent.— The Marquess Wellesley,

Architect of Empire. An Historic Portrait. Forming Vol. I. of Proconsul
and Tribune: Wellesley and O'Connell: Historic
Portraits. By W. M. ToRRENS, M.P. In Two Vols. . r •. ;

\' Two Vols., crown Svo, cloth extra, with Map and Ground-Plans, 145. '""

.Wolcott.— Church Work and Life in English

\ Minsters ; and the English Student's Monastic. By the Rev.
\ Mckenzie E. C^Walcott, Bed.



The Twenty-third Annual Edition, for 1883, cloth, full gilt, 50s. -

Walford.— The County Families of the United

Kingdom. By Edward Walford, M.A. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education, &c., of more than 12,000
distinguished Heads of Families, their Heirs Apparent or Presumptive,
the Offices they hold or have held, their Town and Country
Addresses, Clubs, &c. [/n the press.

Large crown Svo, cloth antique, with Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Walton and Cotton's Complete Angler ;

or. The Contemplative Man's Recreation ; being a Discourse of Rivers,
Fishponds, Fish and Fishing, written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or Grayling in a clear Stream, by
Charles Cotton. With Original Memoirs and Notes by Sir Harris
Nicholas, and 61 Copperplate Illustrations.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. per volume.

Wanderer's Library, The :

Seven Generations of Execu-

Merrier England in the Olden
Time. By George Daniel. With
Illustrations by RoBT. Cruikshank.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

The "Wilds of London . By
James Greenwood. :'* <!=■

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings ;

Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Handley. With Illusts.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers.
By Thomas Frost.

The Life and Adventures of a

Cheap Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Handley.

The Story of the London Parks.

Ey Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

Low-life Deeps. An Account
of the Strange Fish to be found there.
By James Greenwood.

tones : Memoirs of the Samson
Family (i6S3 to 1847). Edited by
■ Henry Samson.

The World Behind the Scenes:

By Percy Fitzgerald.
London Characters. By Henry

Mathew. Illustrated. ■

The Genial Showman: Life

and Adventures of Artemus Ward.
By E. P. Kingston. Frontispiece.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or.
Life among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Summer Cruising in the South
Seas. By Charles Warren Standard.
Illust. by Wallis Mackay.

Savage Life. .^ By Frederick

Boyle. J.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport

and Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.
Tunis : The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations,

Carefully printed on paper to imitate the Original, 22 in. by 14 in., 2s. U

Warrant to Execute Charles I.

An exact Facsimile of this important Document, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures of the Regicides, and corresponding Seals.

Beautifully printed on paper to imitate the Original i\IS., price 2s.

Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of Scots.

An exact Facsimile, including the Signature of Queen Elizabeth, and
a Facsimile of the Great Seal.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery and Porcelain
; or. History of those Arts from the Earliest Period. By Fodder
M. Westropp. With numerous Illustrations, and a List of Marks.

Seventh Edition. Square 8vo, is.

Whistler v, Ruskin : Art and Art Critics.

By J. A. Macneill Whistler.

Williams (Mattieuu), Works by

Science in Short Chapters. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. By W. Mattieuu Williams,

F.R.A.S., F.C.S. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Wilson (Dr. Andrew), Works by :

Chapters on Evolution : A Popular History of the Darwinian and

Allied Theories of Development. By Andrew Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E.

Crown 8vo, doth extra, with 259 Illustrations, 75. 6d.

leaves from a Naturalist's Note-book. By Andrew Wilson,

Ph.D., F.R.S.E. (A Volume of "The Mayfair Library") Post 8vo

cloth limp, 2S. 6d.

Leisure - Time Studies, chiefly Biological. By Andrew

Wilson, Ph.D., F.R.S.E. Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with

Illustrations, 6s. ,

"It is well when we can take up the work of a really qualified investigator, •

who in the intervals of his more senons professional labours sets himself to impart

'knowledge in such a simple and elementary form as may attract and instruct,

with no danger of misleading the tyro in natural science. Such a work is this

little volume, made up of essays and addresses written and delivered by Dr.

Andrew Wilson, lecturer and examiner in Science at Edinburgh and Glasgow,

at leisure intervals in a busy professional life. . . . Dr. Wilson's pages teem

with matter stimulating to a healthy love of science and a reverence for the.

truths of nature."—SAT\jRDAY Review.

Small 8vo, cloth extra, Illustrated, 65.

Wooing (The) of the Water Witch :

A Northern Oddity. By Evan Daldorne. Illust. by J. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, half bound, 125. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases :

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and Out-of-the-way Matters. By
Believer Edwards.

Wright (Thomas), Works by :

Caricature History of the Georges. (The House of Hanover.)
With 400 Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides, Window Pictures,
&c. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

History of Caricature and of the Grotesque in Art, Literatures
and Painting. By Thomas Wright, F.S.A. Profusely Illustrated
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra, ys. 6d.

J. OGDEN AND CO,, PRINTERS, I72, ST. JOHN STREET, E.C,

ff

m

i^

^m^m^i^i^^^^^

^m

^'it'l^

^?^^.

rife

'^^^S^SkQ

t^
