f££S

<c-

f/tY/i- A ^

THE CANON'S WARD

VOL. I.

3 vols.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. By Walter Besant.

3 vols.

THE LAND-LEAGUERS. By Anthony Trollope.

3 vols.

ANNAN WATER. By Robert Buchanan. 3 vols.
THE FOREIGNERS. By E. C. Price. 3 vols.
IONE. By E. Lynn Linton. 3 vols.
BEATRIX RANDOLPH. By Julian Hawthorne.

2 vols.

THE CANON'S WARD. By James Payn. 3 vols.
FRESCOES : Dramatic Sketches. By Ouida. i vol.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/canonsward01payn

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF 'BY PROXY ' ' HIGH SPIRITS' ' KIT : A MEMORY' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. I.

WITH A PORTRAIT OF THE AUTHOR

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY


[All rights reserved]

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

v, i

TO

JOHN K. Robinson

K

THIS BOOK

IS

CORDIALLY DEDICATED

0»

OF

THE First VOLUME.

CHAPTER P AGE

i. the cronies 1

ii. the scholar . . . . . . 21

iii. general homage . 39

iv. russian morals 55

v. stranded . 73

vi. importunate 92

vii. aunt maria's headache . . . .110

viii. in pursuit 129

ix. the waiting-maid 146

x. visitor number two 163

xi. two girls 174

xii. a turn for business 207

xiii. the canon puts his foot down . . 223

xiv. a little scolding 236

xv. a tryst 252

xvi. sad news 268

xvii. breaking it 288

CHAPTER I.

THE CRONIES.

What ' the High ' is to Oxford men, picturesque,
unique, unapproachable, ' the Backs ?
the river gardens at the backs of their
colleges — are to Cambridge men. There is
beauty all along the river from St. John's to
Corpus ; i linked sweetness ' — for do not the
bridges join the gardens? — 'long drawn out.'
It may be a personal partiality, but I venture
to think that immediately in front of Trinity
College the beauty of ' the Backs ' culminates.
There — to my eyes — the stream is broader
(it has ' a feeder ' through which a tiny
shallop may be pushed beneath the lime-vol.

I. b

boughs) ; there — to my ears — ' the frequent
pulse ' of oars is more musical than elsewhere
; the bridges have a more graceful
curve. The tender greensward ; the fragrant
overhanging lime-walk like a cathedral aisle
in leaf ; a picture glazed, alas ! with tears, for
those with whom, like me, 'tis winter time,
while when they saw it last, long years ago,
'twas May with them from head to heel.'

It is c The May ' now (as the May term is
called), and ' the Backs' are at their best,
though not their brightest, for dewy eve is
about to fall. The sky-colours above tree
and turret are like a herald's garb, the herald
of the summer ; the bells of old St. Mary are
clashing overhead, but mellowed by distance ;
the tinkle of the college bell is calling
the white-robed students, flitting ghostlike
through arch and corridor, to prayer, or at all
events to chapel. Upon the water lingers yet
a fairy fleet, and the light dip of the feathered
oar, full on the stream, and sharp beneath the

bridge, falls dreamily on the ear. To the
actors in such a scene, its glories are less
visible than to the eye of memory. AYe are
none of us fully aware of our happiness while
it is with us, and Youth is as unconscious of
it as is the flower of its blossom. It is Age
alone which admires — and regrets.

At the open window above the college
archway, a middle-aged man, his hair just
tinged with grey, but with intellectual features
that still retain traces of physical beauty,
is regarding this fair landscape with feelings
that are unshared by those he looks upon,
and whose presence enlivens it. His thoughts
are grave, though they are gladdened by its
beauty. The grass is as green as when he
trod it thirty years ago, and the fragrance of
the lime-walk has lost none of its sweetness,
yet how much is gone that was there before !
All is crowded with life, yet how great is the
gap that Death and Change have made !

A light hand, though it belongs to a man

b 2

of six feet high, is laid upon the dreamer's
shoulders, and he looks up in the face of an
old friend. It is Mayors, the tutor, with
whom he had been at college, and who had
remained at work there while he himself had
taken a college living, given it up through ill
health, been made a Canon of the neighbouring
cathedral, and finally had come back
to Cambridge to ' reside.'

Why, Aldrecl, you are musing ! ' exclaimed
the new-comer, in bantering but not
unmusical tones. i Are you regretting that
you have not once more an undergraduate's
gown upon your shoulders ? Such thoughts
never come into my head, because, I suppose,
I have other things to do. The hand of least
employment has the daintier sense. A thousand
pardons — I forgot the Concordance.'

I was thinking of my boy,' said the
Canon, gently.

To be sure,' returned the other, his voice
changing at once to one of sympathy. ' He

would be just the age for coming up ; and
you would have liked to have him here, of
course. The lads would interest one no doubt
if one had a son amongst them ; as it is, I
think Trinity would be the most delightful
place in the world if it wasn't for the
lads.'

A pigeon-pie without the pigeon,' remarked
the Canon, smiling ; ' tough beef and
hard eggs — though not so tough and not so
hard as some of you would make yourselves
out to be.'

Ah, you have forgotten what it is to bea
tutor,' returned the other ; ' what one
suffers from those who bring up their offspring
to us days before the term begins — the
"Early Fathers" and the mothers — as to a
dry-nurse, each with their tale of intelligent
precocity and budding genius ; likewise from
the young gentlemen themselves, so full of
promise, who take to spirits and the female
retailers of spirits, and are sent down — after

a brief but voluptuous career — in their second
year.'

They are not all like that, however, if
I remember rightly.'

i Oh, no ; there are your romantic young
gentlemen, who know Shelley by heart, and
even your own Milton, and who would perhaps
get their fellowships, only that the day
before they take their degree they marry
their beaker's daughter.'

• And are there now no students ? ' inquired
the Canon, giving way to the other's
humour.

1 Certainly, one or two ; and those from
the tutor's point of view are the worst
of all. They mostly take to mathematics ;
wear wet towels round their heads all night,
and eventually get brain fever, and drown
themselves in the river yonder : you have
no idea how my time is taken up with
Inquests.'

Still, I wish my boy were here, Manors

sighed the Canon, ' and that you were his
tutor.'

■ And I wish it, too, Aldred, with all my
heart. Still, it is my firm conviction that a
boy of character knows what is best for himself
; for ninety-nine lads out of a hundred
it is all one : " soldier, sailor, tinker, tailor,
gentleman, apothecary, ploughboy, thief ; "
they are as fit for one calling as another ; but
your Robert, he is the hundredth. He has
views of his own, or so it seemed to me when
I saw him at the Rectory ; he will distinguish
himself in whatever profession he hasa
mind for.'

The colour rose to the Canon's cheek ; to
have his boy praised was the greatest pleasure
life had left for him.

But a soldier, Mayors ; and in India ! '

Well, a soldier is better, at all events,
than any other of the professions I mentioned.
You wouldn't make him a sailor, I
suppose, serving in a gun-boat in the Tropics,

without half the necessary amount of cubic
feet of air to breathe in ; nor yet a young
gentleman at large, which means, in the end,
the Insolvent Court. And as to India, just
think how your Indian enjoys getting home! '

Ah, if he ever does,' returned the Canon,
mournfully.

Why shouldn't he? What's to prevent
him? He's not the boy to take to brandy
pawnee. A few years '

Five, at least, Mayors,' put in the other,
mournfully ; ' and the lad's ambitious ; if
there's an opening he will make for it.'

And make his mark there,' added the
Tutor, cheerfully. ' Why one would really
think that the boy had been sentenced to
penal servitude. You ought to be ashamed
of yourself, Aldred. Have you not your
sister to take care of you and look to your
comforts ; I wish / had a sister. The way
in which I am robbed right and left by my
beaker is something incredible ; I order

everything in in duplicate, and I don't mind
her taking things out of one cupboard ; but
they are both emptied simultaneously.'

1 Why don't you lock one cupboard ? '

i I do, with a Branch ; but Branch is a
false god.'

You are just as you used to be, Mayors,'
returned the Canon, laughing ; ' never satisfied.
Before you took the best degree in
your year, it might have been excusable, but
now — Tutor of your College, a man said to
know more about Plato '

Said to know ! ' broke in Mayors, with
irritation ; ' confound you, I do know more
about Plato than any man alive.'

Just think of that,' said the Canon, slily.
1 On such a pinnacle, and yet not satisfied.'

1 Where is the comfort of a pinnacle ? '
retorted the Tutor, peevishly. ' Give me a
Canon's stall. For you to grumble is indeed
ingratitude to fortune. You've your rooms
here — the best in the College. Your house

on the Trumpington Road kept for you by
a devoted sister, and ornamented by the
presence of the most charming of wards.
Satisfied indeed ! It is my belief that if you
married your ward, you wouldn't be quite
content even then.'

I am quite sure I shouldn't,' said the
Canon, laughing outright ; i and I don't
think Sophy would be quite content either.
That's another thorn in my lot, Mayors ; my
responsibility as regards that girl.'

A crumpled leaf in your bed of roses,
you mean, Aldred ; I wish I had such a
thorn. How charmingly she makes your
coffee for you ! How neatly she catalogues
your library ! '

I believe that is your notion of a wife's
perfection, Mayors. If so, why don't you
propose to Sophy. You shall have her
guardian's full consent, I promise you ; now
do, do. 1

The Rev. Henry Mayors, tutor of Trinity

College, and the terror of German commentators,
blushed like a girl. Perhaps it was
knowing so much about Plato that rendered
the notion of marriage alarming to him, or
perhaps the Canon had unconsciously touched
some secret chord in his friend's breast. He
saw his advantage — it was cruel of him, but
he did not know how cruel — and pushed it
home.

If you are shy about it, my dear Mayors,'
he continued, • I'll speak to Sophy myself.
Only you must make up your mind, You
see if she asks you } you will hardly like to
refuse a lady.'

I I don't think a lady — or at all events so
young a lady — would quite appreciate a jest
of that kind,' said Mr. Mayors, gravely, and
still very red.

That shows how little you know about
her, my dear friend,' said the Canon, drily;
she would enjoy it immensely.'

It was not only that, being a widower, he

was more ' at ease in Zion,' as regarded the
fair sex, than his celibate friend, and spoke
with a certain cynical lightness ; he had in
view a particular case.

'Between ourselves, my dear fellow,' he
continued ( ' for it is a matter which I should
certainly not speak about to any one but an
old friend like you), our dear little Sophy is
a source of great anxiety to us.'

1 You don't seem to feel it so, my dear
Aldred,' observed the other, with sympathetic
interest ; ' at all events in her company.'

I would not let her know that I feel it
for worlds ; both my sister and I greatly
enjoy her companionship, she is so naive and
engaging ; but I can't help wishing the old
Queen's Counsel had not fixed upon me for
her guardian. I have not a word to say
against the dear little maid, mind ; but she's
flighty — not to say flirty. At Portsmouth,
where she last came from, it did not signify,
I suppose ; soldiers and sailors are not apt

to take young ladies au series, because they
mean nothing themselves ; but with undergraduates
it is different.'

The Tutor frowned. ' But why do you
ask undergraduates — that is, such as you
have any reason to disapprove of — to your
house ? '

1 My dear fellow, Sophy asks them, not I ;
or rather she is the magnet that attracts
them. They meet her at tennis parties, balls,
and what not, and then ask leave to call.'

Then I should not give them leave.'

'But they call in order to request the
permission ; and as I am always away from
home, my silence is taken for consent. Sophy-welcomes
them, and my sister has not the
heart to say " You mustn't come, sir." You
see, it's very hard for the poor girl, shut
up all day with Maria or an old fellow like
me.'

You're not a particularly old fellow,'
observed the Tutor, with an air of irritation,

rather than of one who pays a compliment.
A man is only as old as he feels.'

Quite true ; age, however, is a matter of
comparison, and in this place of all others
the contrast stands out most strongly. We
call these young fellows "boys," and they
call us — well, I'm sure I don't know what
they call us, but " fogies," at the very least.
Not, my dear fellow, that you look like a
fogy ' (for the other had drawn himself up,
looking more like a major, and a drum-major
too, than a college tutor) ; ' but you know
what boys are. Well, girls are like them in
their judgment on these matters, only worse.'

Mr. Mayors answered nothing, but played
a tattoo with his fingers on the thrown-back
window-pane.

Yes,' continued the Canon, sadly ; ' it is
impossible to conceal from myself that dear
little Sophy (though I do believe she is fond
of him) finds her old guardian a bit of a
bore, and infinitely prefers the society of a

'5

young gentleman such as Mr. Herbert Perry,
for instance.'

Perry ? Who's Perry ? ' inquired the
Tutor.

Well, he's a Trinity man in his third
year ; he is not on your " side," but, of
course, you know him. He won the sculls
last year.'

A boating man ! Oh, yes, I remember ;
a great hulking fellow, with a brown beard
and a fresh complexion.'

1 An excessively handsome man ! '

Indeed ! I should rather call him a fine
animal.'

1 He is an animal, I am sorry to say, that
Sophy admires very much,' returned the
Canon, drily. ' I don't like him myself, nor
is it altogether my prejudice. I have heard
things about him — not very bad things — but
things not to his credit. There is a theory
that your athlete is generally a person of
good moral character.'

The Tutor smiled contemptuously.

1 Just so. Well, this young man is said
to be no better than he should be, and also
very reckless.'

But have you no authority over your
ward ? '

Authority? I can't "gate" her or
fine " her ; to be sure I could " rusticate "
her, but that would be very inconvenient.'

No doubt,' said the Tutor, with an air of
conviction ; ' it would be too much to expect
that you should leave Cambridge on her
account.'

I did leave it for a month or two last
winter, and took Sophy to London. I need
not go into painful details, Mayors ; but the
fact is that course did not produce the effect
I intended. The man followed us there, and
I have reason to believe that Sophy gave him
some encouragement. She knows, however,
that my views are fixed as regards that
matter. She shall never have my consent to

marry him while I have power to forbid it —
that is, until she comes of age ; but in the
meantime what am I to do ? '

Forbid him your house.'

The effect of which would be, that she
would see him out of the house ; a flirtation
is bad enough, but a clandestine flirtation is
far worse. The last appeal, however, as I
have said, lies with me. There is still a
twelvemonth to run before she becomes her
own mistress, and I am in hopes she will
tire of the man before that time.'

And then ? '

• Well, then she will please herself. She
has twenty thousand pounds of her own,
though strictly tied up ; so that she will
have plenty of suitors, no doubt. In any
case — even supposing, that is, her penchant
for Mr. Perry dies out — I have no great confidence
in her judgment ; nothing would
please me more than to see her transfer her
affections to some worthy fellow (I should

VOL. I. C

not look for money in him so much as good
promise) who would make her happy ; but I
confess I should be as much surprised as
pleased. The dream of my life used to be
that Sophy and my Robert — but there,' concluded
the speaker, with a weary sigh, ' that's
over, and much else with it.'

That would have been a convenient
arrangement, no doubt,' said the Tutor, in a
tone less consoling than perfunctory ; his
sympathy seemed to have somehow faded
out. ' I suppose the ladies will be here tomorrow
evening ? '

1 For the procession on the Backs ? — yes,
certainly. You will come, of course ? ' The
Tutor nodded. ' You will not mind my
asking a few young fellows, for Sophy's
sake ? The more she sees the better she will
be able to strike an average, and perceive
how much beneath it is Mr. Perry.'
He will not be here, I do hope.'
My dear friend, he will be on the river,

of course. Do you not know that he is
stroke of your own boat ? '

1 My boat ! ' exclaimed the Tutor, contemptuously.
' Good Heavens ! '

1 Well, I mean the Third Trinity : you
were an Eton man yourself, were you not ?
You have no idea what interest we take in
aquatics up at the Laurels. I believe I could
tell you the place of every boat on the
river.'

Could you ? I could just as soon go
through the catalogue of the Kings of Israel.
Oh, yes ; I'll come with pleasure — but I
must go now, for I have some work todo
to-night ; ' and he took up his college
cap.

And so have I,' said the Canon.

Is it possible ? ' laughed the Tutor, ashe
left the room. But when the door had
closed upon him he grew grave enough.
Even into the deep solitudes and silent cells

c 2

of a collegiate life human nature now and
then intrudes ; and with the man who
knew more about Plato than anybody, all
was not lettered ease and contented celibacy.


THE Scholar.

My work Canon Aldred was wont to observe
in his pleasant way, ' like topmost
Tartarus, takes the morning ; ' but, as Mr.
Mayors had hinted, it was not a severe description
of labour, and could be done at anytime.
He was just now engaged upon a new
edition of his favourite poet, Milton, including
a Concordance ; and, like all men who have
little to do, thought it a matter not only of
vast importance, but of pressing necessity.
It did not strike him that for what people had
done without for a few centuries, such as a
concordance to Milton, they could very well
wait a little longer, and in order to expedite

matters he employed an assistant. It must
be confessed that, had he not done so the
great work would have progressed but
slowly, for the Canon was dilatory and a
dilettante. When Nature said ' Dream ' — a
remark which, if one is inclined to listen to it,
she repeats pretty often — he let Nature have
her way. He would sit for hours with his
book before him, with his head propped on
his hand, one upright finger pressed upon his
cheek, and with his thoughts a hundred miles
away ; indeed much further, for they were with
his boy in India.

He had everything about him suitable to
intellectual activity ; every description of notebook,
piles of volumes of reference ; a desk
with a sea of papers on it, and a noble harbour
for his knees beneath it. But a large tin of
Latakia tobacco stood beside him, which, though
it may stimulate the imagination, is hardly a
spur to toil ; and a huge meerschaum pipe,
which required a pretty constant hand to it, or

it would have pulled his teeth out. The tender
solicitude he bestowed upon the bowl was
touching : it was swathed in wash-leather, but
from time to time he carefully undid its covering,
and gazed upon its deepening colour
with paternal pride ; then he would rise
from his seat, and nursing it in his plump
white hand, would take it round the room
with him, as though it was a baby. There
were so many objects to attract his attention
on these occasions — a book to be set right on
its shelf, a picture to be straightened on the
wall, the flowers with which Sophy always
supplied his college-chambers to be sniffed at
(though never rearranged, that would have
been audacity indeed) — that these promenades
took up a considerable time.

There was one object that was as certain
to bring him to a halt as is a partridge to
stop a pointer. On a little table stood a
glass case, and within it, on a velvet cushion,
a lock of hair. Pipe in hand, he is leaning

over it now, and softly murmurs to himself
:—

It lies before me there, and my own breath
Might stir its outer threads as though beside
The living head I stood in honoured pride,
Talking of lovely things, that conquer death.
Perhaps he pressed it once, or underneath
Ran his five fingers, when he leant blank eyed,
And saw in fancy Adam and his bride,
With their rich locks.

This lock, I need hardly say, was from the
head of the Canon's literary idol, Milton ;
but there was scarcely anything on which his
eye lit which did not suggest some poetical
quotation : and when there was nothing to
suggest them they suggested themselves.
Though without any ear for music, he had a
voice exquisitely modulated, and gave exactly
the right expression to every word. He was
no scholar, like his friend the Tutor, but a
man of very various reading, who valued
literature for what it was worth, and not (as
is generally the case with scholars) for the
name of the author. He had many fine

things in his head with which few others
were acquainted, and would ' croon ' them (as
the poor ' Shepherd ' used to term it) to
himself, for the gratification of his inward
ear.

As he passes by the open window in this
tour around his chamber, he once more looks
out of it. The dusk of eve has fallen ; the
river has lost its fairy fleet ; and only one or
two figures are still threading the lime-walk.
Something in the scene suggests an old-world
time and tune : —

Masters of Colleges have no common graces,
And they that have fellowships have but common places,
And those that scholars are, they must have handsome faces.
Alas ! poor scholar, whither wilt thou go ?

That must have been a strange way to
preferment,' he muses. ' A handsome face ! '
Then, as a step comes up the echoing stair
outside his chambers, ' My poor Adair,' he
adds, ' would have had small chance in those
days.'

There is a modest knock at the inner door
(for the outer, of course, was open), and his
own gentle voice replies, ' Come in.' The
new-comer was a young man of twenty-two
or so ; and since he was a scholar of his
College, it was clear, as the other had just
said, that he owed it to his learning, and not
to his looks. He was tall and thin — of a leanness,
indeed, that almost approached emaciation.
He had dark hair, the length and
straightness of which made him appear even
more lantern-jawed than he really was. His
face, so far from having the hue of youth,
though it was not unhealthy-looking, was
destitute of colour. His teeth, however, were
good ; and his black eyes, though somewhat
downcast, very clear and bright.

'I fear I am rather late, Canon,' he said,
in a voice as soft as a woman's, and with a
deep respect that had yet no touch of sycophancy
; ' but I had not kept my chapels,
and '

c Don't mention it, my dear lad, put in
the other, with a friendly smile. ' The
Church has the first call on all of us. I
hardly think, however, that that phrase,
keeping your chapels " conveys the full
feeling of ecclesiastical devotion with which
you are, no doubt, possessed. Have you
done the B's yet ? '

Yes, sir.' The young man drew from
under his gown some MSS., and put them
into the other's hand.

That's well, my lad ; how neatly you do
everything ! How I envy you that gift of
deftness ! When it comes to me (this with a
whimsical smile), it will not be of the fingers.
At my own christening, I do believe the
Fairy Disorder was left altogether out of the
Programme, and revenged herself by never

leaving me since. Well, and how do

£3

y

on

like it?'

Very much, sir. It is, in the first place,
a very great pleasure to find myself useful

to you in any way ; and, after all, nothing
but care and accuracy are required in the
matter.'

Nay, I didn't mean the Concordance,'
said the Canon, smiling. i I meant the poet
himself. I gathered from what you said that
you have had hitherto but a bowing acquaintance
with him.'

That is true. You see I have not had
much time for reading such things.'

Such things ! ' echoed the Canon. ' And
now you have read it ? '

Well, sir, there seem to be a great many
B's in " Paradise Lost." '

There are, are there ? ' returned the other
with an amused look. c And as for the
poetry, I suppose you agree with the famous
Johnson that there is " a good deal of assertion
in it, and very little proof ? "

Indeed, sir, I find no proof at all. And
how unequally he has divided the thing. In
the Eighth Book there are not 640 lines,

while in the Tenth there are no less than
1,104.'

The Canon looked at his young companion
with that sort of gentle pity with
which a kind-hearted person regards a blind
man.

What was the book you liked best when
you were quite a boy ? ' he inquired, after a
long pause.

Euclid, sir.'

1 You will be Senior Wrangler, my good
fellow, as sure as your name's Adair,' ejaculated
the Canon. His tone had something of
warning and even menace in it, as though he
had said, ' If you don't take care, young man,
you will go straight to the devil ; ' but the
speaker was quite unconscious of it : he intended
what he said for a compliment, and the
other took it as such.

1 It is a pleasure to hear you say so, sir,'
he replied, with a quick flush ; i but if my
success depends on my name being Adair, I

shall not be a Wrangler at all. My name is
or was — Burke.'

1 Then why did you change it ? ' inquired
the Canon, with mild surprise. He knew it
was not for the usual reason — an inheritance
for Adair was a sizar, and far from rich.

To please a patron, Sir Charles Adair.'

The bitterness of the young man's tone
was excessive ; if you could have seen his
eyes, which, however, were bent down, you
would have read in them more than bitterness
hate. The Canon's handsome face softened
like a girl's. ' A patron,' he said ; ' a patron
may, however, be also a friend.'

c This one is not, or rather was not,' replied
the young man, curtly. c I have done
with him, or, as I should perhaps put it, he
has done with me.'

And have you no other friend ? ' inquired
the Canon, gently.

No friend but you, sir. My parents are
dead ; they left me nothing but a name, and

that ' — here he uttered a sharp sigh, as it
seemed involuntarily — ' has been taken away
from me.'

Your present name, however, will one
day be known irrespectively of him who gave
it you,' said the Canon, encouragingly. ' I
hear from your tutor that great things are
expected of you. You will achieve reputation
— fame.'

And independence,' added the young
man, vehemently.

1 No doubt of it. To a young man of
character' (the Canon was thinking of his own
son) ' dependence is thraldom. Nature herself
points out to him his way in the world. But
I gathered from what you said that you and
your patron had parted company.'

So we have. What I have now to sain
is a competence.'

Oh, I see ! That sort of independence,'
returned the other drily.

The young man looked amazed ; then as

one who, having lost his way, hits suddenly
on what he believes to be the right track, he
answered eagerly, ' Do not think me mercenary,
sir ! You do not know what poverty is.'

6 Quite true, quite true,' said the Canon,
touched by the other's tone. ' I am no judge
in such a case as yours.'

Moreover, it is my earnest desire to free
myself from the sense of an obligation that
has become intolerable.'

1 Ah, you want to pay this too generous
gentleman the money back that he has expended
on you.'

The scholar bowed his head assenting :
if his intention was to have made a favourable
impression on his companion he had certainly
succeeded ; there was no need for him to speak.

May I ask without impertinence — indeed,
I have a reason for it — the cause of quarrel
between you and Sir Charles ? '

It is only natural that you should do so,
sir,' answered the young man gravely. ; If I

do not answer your question you must not
imagine that I am ashamed to do so. I am
not afraid of any inquiry ; but here he turned
scarlet, ' it was a private matter.'

1 That means there was a lady in the case,
I suppose,' said the Canon, smiling.
Yes, sir ; I was very ill-treated.'
1 And not by her, I dare say,' smiled the
Canon. ' Well, my lad, we cannot all get
what we want in this world, and as often as
not it is better for us that we should not. I
cannot say,' he continued in a changed tone,
how pleased I am with your assistance in my
present work. You seem to me to be the very
helpmate I have been looking for. I was
verifying what you had done only last night,
and did not detect a single error. I do not
think that the remuneration we agreed upon
is a sufficient recompense for such care and
accuracy. I propose to double it.'
Oh, sir, you are too generous.'
1 Tchut, tchut ! the benefit is mutual ;

VOL. I. D

THE CANON'S WARD.

you may be sure I keep the whole matter
secret, as before. Nor need I add that what
you have just confided to me about your own
affairs will go no further.'

He spoke so rapidly that it was impossible
for the other to interpose a word of thanks,
but his face glowed with pleasure.

By-the-bye, you are not in the boats, are
you?'

Oh, no, sir.' The words were spoken
with a cold smile, which might have almost
been translated, ' How should I be, since I
have neither time nor money for such things ? '

Then you must join us here tomorrow
night. We shall have a little party to seethe
procession — my sister and my ward —
I think I hear them this moment on the
staircase ; they often come to fetch me
home.'

While he was yet speaking the door
opened, and two ladies entered the room.
The elder, a tall woman of about five-and-forty,

very thin and angular, but with an air
of singular refinement and delicacy ; the
younger, a slight, fairy like little creature, exquisitely
pretty, and with a face that sparkled
with expression ; her hair was golden, and
her eyes were hazel. But it was not at once
that you noticed any such detail ; her other
charms were lost in her brightness.

My dear guardian,' she exclaimed, ' weare
late, I know, but do not scold Aunt Maria,

it was all my fault ; for after chapel '

Here she stopped, catching sight of the young
scholar.

A friend of mine, Mr. Adair, my dear
Maria.' There was something in the tone of
her brother's introduction which caused Miss
Aldred to graciously hold out her hand instead
of bowing.

Mr. Adair, my ward, Miss Gilbert.'
The girl inclined herself stiffly towards
him with what was very literally scant courtesy
— and while looking straight in his face

D 2

contrived to convey the impression that she
was unconscious of his presence. Notwithstanding
all which signs and tokens, ' I have
had the pleasure of meeting Miss Gilbert
before,' said Mr. John Adair, and at the same
time stepped forward and held out his hand
to her.

The delicate pink faded from Miss Sophy's
cheek in a moment, leaving it all lily ; it was
evidently an unexpected rejoinder ; but she
took the proffered hand frankly enough, and
in her bright musical voice replied, ' I beg you
a thousand pardons. I remember you now
quite well. We met at the Bachelors' Ball,
I think.'

Well, I am surprised, Adair,' said the
Canon. 'I should have thought a ball-room was
the very last place you would have been found
in. However, I am glad to find you are not
such a stranger as I thought you were. It is
hardly necessary to say you will not forget
your engagement for tomorrow night ; a

man who can do cube roots in his head
should never forget anything.'

You over-estimate my memory, sir
said the scholar, smiling ; ' but ' (here he
glanced at the young lady) ' I rarely forget
what I wish to remember.'

• I hope you don't repeat all you remember,'
said Miss Sophy, lightly, ' or an evening
with you and my dear guardian would be a
little trying.'

It was a flippant speech for a young girl,
but it was generally admitted that Miss Sophy
was flippant. The Canon, whose habits of
quotation had been thus sarcastically alluded
to, only smiled and shook his head.

1 You need not be afraid of my repeating
anything, Miss Gilbert,' said the young
scholar, gravely ; and, backing to the door,
he bowed, and left the room.

1 You've frightened that young man very
much, Sophy,' remarked her guardian, reprovingly
; 'he is a mathematician, and takes

everything seriously, even your pert little
jokes.'

I'm so sorry,' replied the girl, with a
pretence of penitence ; and running up to her
guardian, she gave him an affectionate kiss.

You could never have guessed from her
manner what was the actual fact — that, so far
from frightening Mr. John Adair, that gentleman
had frightened her to the verge of a
faint in 2: fit.

GENERAL HOMAGE.

Canon Altered was a man of mark in Cambridge,
and the more so since his ways were
not Cambridge ways. As a University man,
he had not much distinguished himself: his
friends said he could easily have done so had
he not wasted his mental energies in so many
directions ; but others had their doubts of
this. We often hear it said of notorious
swindlers that if they had shown in some
honest calling one-half of the ability they
displayed in embezzlement, or some other
branch of the criminal sciences, they could
have earned a competence, or even wealth ;
but this is only one of those platitudes which

commonplace people make use of under the
impression that they are saying something
philosophic. The remark is of a piece with
that which describes a first-rate whist-player
as a mathematician spoilt. The truth is,
many men have natural gifts, for particular
things, which are nevertheless only small
things ; they are very good in the back
streams of intelligence, but the main stream is
too strong for them, and in reality they exhibit
their sagacity in keeping out of it.
Some men, again, do many things well, but
still not very well. If they were women, they
would draw and paint and play the piano,
and even read Dante (not with very much
pleasure) in the original ; and they would be
called ' accomplished.' An accomplished man,
however, is not a desirable person ; whereas
the folks I have in my mind are generally
very agreeable. Their sympathies, though
not deep, are wide ; they have neither cant
nor caste ; they see the Beautiful and the

True, but without attempting to define
them, and they are almost always good-natured.


Canon Aldred was all this, and more.
He was kind-hearted to a fault ; confiding to
the verge of weakness ; and a gentleman to
the core. Though not wealthy, he had some
private property which, with the Canonry,
gave him a considerable income, and he spent
it generously. He was not an Amphytrion,
because he had not the means for it, but he
entertained his friends with a hospitality the
graciousness of which atoned for any lack of
splendour ; and his friends were of various
kinds. Some of them were now staying at
Cambridge, drawn thither, as much by the
attraction of his presence as by those of the
place itself, great as they are during the May
term.

There was Professor Pelski, of Moscow,
though not ' late ' of Moscow ; he had had to
fly for his life from Russia on account of his

political opinions more than thirty years ago,
and during that time had been hand and
glove with half the Revolutionists of Europe.

There was Mr. Flit ; the most special of
special correspondents, whose vacations could
never be called i long,' since they only lasted
while England was not at war with this or
that savage tribe or country ; at the first beat
of the drum he was off, with his note-book
and metallic pencil, to Timbuctoo or Terra
del Fuego, but in the meantime mingled in
society as though privation had never driven
him to eat anything worse than his boots.

There was also just now in Cambridge Mr.
Flukerr, the great Eastern financier ; the Canon
had met him in Egypt when engaged in one
of his most successful ' operations ' upon the
Khedive, and found him much to his taste.
Mr. Flukerr' s experiences had all the charm
of novelty for him, and with characteristic
modesty he felt a considerable respect for this
man who had made his mark — which was,

however, a pretty big hole for the reception of
other people's property — in a world of which
he himself knew nothing. And Mr. Flukerr,
to whom the respect of a fellow creature was
an unaccustomed treat, reciprocated the other's
liking.

All these gentlemen had received invitations
to view the ' procession ' from the
Canon's rooms ; but it did not include any
suggestion that they should attend the
College chapel. He had asked them to do
that upon another occasion, thinking that the
peculiarity of the scene might have an attraction
for them ; but ' the vespers,' as Mr. Flit
entitled them, had not, so far as these gentlemen
were concerned, been a success. As
guests of the Canon they had all occupied
prominent places in the stalls, but without a
due understanding of the sublimity or responsibilities
of that exalted position. It was
probably the first time that Mr. Flukerr had
been to a place of worship since his baptism

(if lie ever had been baptised ; for there were
persons ready and willing to affirm that he had
not only no right to the surname he bore, but
to even a Christian name). The service had
seemed not a little tedious to him, and he had
not scrupled to show it as demonstratively as
the pins, and rings, and watch-chain of which
it was his habit to make particular display,

Mr. Flit, on the other hand, who on
principle never suffered himself to be bored
by anything, had been too much at home in
the sacred edifice, and not only at anthem
time (wherein some little license is allowed to
wandering thought), but during the more
devotional portions of the proceedings, had
been seen, to the great amusement of the
undergraduates, to take copious notes, including
a very graphic sketch of the Vice-master.


As to Professor Pelski (who was not only
a philosopher himself but took every one else
to be so), he had not scrupled to address

aloud to his neighbour, the junior Dean himself
(a person he rightly judged likely to be
cognisant of such matters), questions respecting
the date and foundation of the chapel ;
the carving by Grinding Gibbons, and other
matters of information which seemed to him
more interesting than what was going on.

The college authorities, in short, had been
rather scandalised by the Canon's friends, and
had made a remonstrance to him in private
against the future admittance to Divine service
of individuals who, although of European
celebrity, the Master had not hesitated to
term ' outlandish persons. 7 The Canon had
expressed his sorrow, with the confident
assurance that his friends were not likely to
come to chapel again ; but it was not the first
time that the latitude of his views had met
with discouragement.

During the last winter but one he had
asked three Parsee students, who had just
joined the University, to dine with him at his

residence, ' The Laurels.' It had seemed to
him, notwithstanding some objections urged
by his sister, an act of Christian charity to
give these high-hatted aliens a Christmas
dinner, a view which Sophy had enthusiastically
supported (young gentlemen guests were
rare during the vacations, and even copper-coloured
ones were better than none) ; but
the affair had turned out a sad fiasco. The
host had waited and waited, but the guests
had never arrived. After half an hour the
Canon and the ladies sat down. ' It was
most extraordinary,' he said ; for the young
men (persons of high rank in their own land)
had accepted his invitation — so far as satisfaction
can be expressed by symbols — with the
greatest effusion.

1 Black people,' suggested Miss Maria,
with characteristic charity, ' were probably
like white people, only, as it were, more so ;
persons of rank in England came generally
late for dinner ; persons of rank in Persia

took a still higher line, perhaps, and did not
come at all.'

If the guests as you expected was black,
sir,' interposed Barclay the butler, who had
been listening to this conversation with much
uneasiness, ' I am afraid I have made a bit of
a mistake. Three black individuals did call
half an hour ago or so and asked for you byname,
but knowing Miss Aldred's dislike to
that kind of entertainment I sent 'em away.'

He had thought they were nigger minstrels.


Notwithstanding which disappointing experience,
the Canon was as universally philanthropic
and as unexceptionally hospitable as
heretofore.

At his rooms on procession night, besides
the distinguished guests already enumerated,
was a goodly sprinkling of Fellows of Colleges,
each with some individuality of his
own, or, as his more commonplace companions
were apt to term it, ' a crochet. 7

Under these circumstances it may seem somewhat
strange that Miss Aldred and Miss Gilbert
were the only ladies ; but, by the nature
of the case, the male sex at Cambridge is
greatly in excess of the female : on occasions
like the present almost every ' don ' who had
rooms commanding the view had his own lady
visitors ; and, lastly, it was not Sophy's
custom (to please whom the little party had
been given) to welcome casual guests of her
own sex, and especially of her own age, very
warmly. She was very fond of admiration,
and the truth is, ladies did not admire her so
much as gentlemen did, and if they had, she
would not have cared, perhaps, quite so much
for it. We all know what men think of ' a
ladies' man,' and ladies, on their parts, do not
take very kindly to ladies who monopolise the
attention of gentlemen. Men adored Sophy
Gilbert. A little beauty goes a great way
with them, and if, in addition, there is a
marked kindness towards themselves it goes

much further ; and Sophy was very pretty,
and very expressed with every one of them.
She was not a flirt ; for a flirt is an artificial
production full of wiles and stratagems —
warm, when warmth seems necessary to bring
on the flower of Love, and cold when that
eccentric plant seems to require the contrary
treatment to produce the same result ; fall of
airs and graces that can be put on or off at a
moment's notice ; prompt with her tears or
with her smiles, significant, yet utterly meaningless.
It is my fixed opinion that no intelligent
man has been deceived by a flirt for
more than twenty-four hours, and much less
been what is termed 'jilted.' Xow, when
Sophy smiled she meant it ; if she didn't
mean much, her manner, however tender, was
genuine, though, so to speak, very transferable
; she was kind, but naturally kind.

Masters of Colleges unbent before her,
and quoted what she knew were compliments,
though they were in Latin ; tutors retained

vol. 1. E

her hand almost as long as though it had
been that of some young nobleman just entrusted
to their educational care ; grave professors
paid her as much attention as though
she was the subject of the morrow's lecture.
The undergraduates raved about her. When
she came to chapel every one felt glad that
they were conforming to college regulations,
and had not played truant. Their eyes did
not roam about as usual, but were concentrated
upon one point — the stall in which she
sat. The anthem was interlarded with eulogies
upon her.

Tompkins, the great orator of the Union,
and famous for his original sallies, declared
that it was a liberal education to look at her.
Many gay young gentlemen whose fate would
have otherwise been doubtful, were said to
have lost their degrees because of her ; and
Jones, who was Senior Wrangler, always protested
that he had lost the Smith's Prize on
account of the recollection of her charming

face suddenly flashing between him and a
problem.

With the less serious minded, ' the boys
that crashed the glass and beat the floor she
was a standing toast. To have the entree to
1 The Laurels ' was a privilege more desired
by the undergraduate world than to win a
declamation prize, or a cup on the river. And
yet there were people who wondered why
Sophy Gilbert was ' not more popular than
she was with girls of her own age in Cambridge.'


Professor Pelski, who might have been
her grandfather, was a very open admirer of
Sophy's. ' My dear young lady,' he said, in
his broken English, as she held out her hand
to him and gaily inquired after his rheumatism,
' I was very bad when I came ; but the
sight of you " makes," as your Wordsworth
says, " an old man young." When I look on
your ward, Canon, I declare it almost makes
me forget to think of Liberty ! '

E 2

LIBRARY

City OF ILLINOIS

'You exchange the general for the particular,
eh ? ' said the Canon ; ' instead of
Liberty, you think of a special license.'

Really, William, you ought to be
ashamed of yourself,' exclaimed Miss Maria,
reprovingly.

What does he mean ? ' inquired the
Professor.

Mr. Flit was equally well received, and
not only paid the young lady some pretty
conrplhnents, but went so far as to compare
her favourably, in his own mind, with a certain
fair Circassian who had once pursued
him for twenty miles over the mountain with
rifle and yataghan ; but who, in his own
account of the affair — which was a well-worn
topic — had anything but hostile intentions.

Mr. Flukerr, who was not eloquent with
ladies, contented himself with a few commonplaces
; and while regarding her with distant
looks of admiration, jingled the sovereigns in

his pocket as if lie would have liked to buy
her.

Mr. Mayors, too, sat apart ; for though
much more a man of the world (as, indeed,
he-might easily have been) than his host, he
had not his extensive human sympathies, and
did not much relish the companionship of
persons who had never so much as heard of
the Stagyrite, or might have even imagined it
was a species of beetle. He confined his attentions
for the present to Miss Maria, as
being near the rose (for did not Miss Sophy
always call her aunt ?) if not the rose herself.


The younger fellows, who had at first
modestly hung around the door (like the
people who have been asked to join a dinner-party
after dinner — or, as it is euphemistically
termed, are 'received in the evening 7 ),
gradually clustered about the window at
which Sophy sat, like bees about a flower.

As the Canon afterwards remarked, with a
smile that robbed the observation of its satire,
My rooms were only on the first floor, but
Sophy was in the seventh heaven

CHAPTER IY.

RUSSIAN MORALS.

Presently there is a sound of cheering and
the distant dip of oars, and Sophy, with a
little blush, cried ' Here they come ! '

i Now, I should like to know all about
this,' inquired Professor Pelski, in his queer
English. ' What is it, this procession ? '

At the conclusion of the races,' explained
Sophy, ' the boats come up the river in the
order of their places, and assemble together
opposite King's College, yonder.'

Third Trinity is head of the river,' observed
a shy young fellow as a supplement to
this information.

Third Trinity ; then there is more than

one Trinity ? ' exclaimed the Professor. ' I
shall never get to the bottom of this.'

Trinity has three boats, sir continued
the shy young man ; ' the Third Trinity is a
club composed of Eton men.'

i Eaten men ? This is worse and
worse.'

Men that have been brought up at Eton
College, sir.'

i Ha, ha ; I have it now ; Eton scholars.
Good : it's a nice boat ; but very thin and
rickety. What a beetle, lee tie man they have
got to steer them ; and how he bob his head
into that buff, big one.'

Stroke is a heavy fellow for his place, 9
observes Mr. Flit, who has the advantage of
an opera-glass. He likes to see everything
thoroughly, and thinks the procession may
make a ' par ' in his paper in the dead season.
Why the deuce does he wear flowers in his
straw hat ? It isn't May Day.'

It is the custom on procession night explains

the young gentleman who had undertaken
the post of chorus.

They are very powerful young men,' continued
the Professor, admiringly. He has
borrowed the glass from Mr. Flit. i In my
own country we do not develop ' [he pronounced
it devil up] ' the physique except at
billiards. Mr. Stroke is particularly handsome.'


His name is not Stroke,' recommenced
the chorus ; ' that is the term given '

Why he is taking off his hat and waving
to us ! ' exclaimed the Professor, excitedly.

They are all doing it,' says Sophy,
gently.

1 Xo, no ; but he —-just take the glass and
look at him — who is it ? '

The moment was an embarrassing one for
the young lady. She knew perfectly well
who was waving his hat to her, and had her
own reasons for not being grateful for the
attention. This circumstance, which, thanks

to the assistance science afforded to the eyesight,
had attracted the observation of the
Professor, seemed to have escaped the rest of
the company. She took the glass, but purposely
turned it on the wrong boat. i I have
not the pleasure of the gentleman's acquaintance,'
she said, indifferently.

It is Mr. Perry whom the Professor
means,' said a quiet voice behind her.

She did not look round, but she recognised
the voice as that of the young scholar whom
she had met the previous day. Her face
turned crimson, but she said nothing.

1 That is " pink Perry " who won the
sculls,' remarked the chorus, emboldened by
his previous successes, and conscious of the
possession of peculiar information. ' He
is the greatest athlete in the University,
can drain a pewter without drawing a
single breath, and pick up coins with his
toes.'

It strikes me that the gentleman is not

so much an athlete as an acrobat observed
the Canon, drily.

As for the rest, they kept a terrible
silence ; the shy young fellow wished himself
dumb or dead ; every one stared out of the
window at the individual to whom had been
attributed these great physical gifts.

The boats were now crowded together,
and one had nut off from the shore, bearing a
hospitable youth with a huge flagon of claret-cup
for the refreshment of his aquatic friends.
He offered it to 'pink Perry' (so called from
his ruddy complexion) who, before drinking,
cast that sort of glance up at the Canon's
windows which vulgar landsmen use when
they say ' I looks toward you.'

1 What spirits he has ! ' exclaimed the
Professor, waving his hand with enthusiasm ;
the whole affair began to have the charm for
him of a political demonstration.

Spirits indeed ! ' murmured the special
correspondent, contemptuously : ' he is very,

very drunk ; that's what's the matter with that
young man.'

Mr. Flukerr was wondering in his mind
whether he should make a good impression by
throwing a handful of sovereigns among the
crowd beneath, but fortunately decided in the
negative.

Presently, to Sophy's intense relief, the
procession moved on towards King's College,
whence the cheering and the tumult came
mellowed by distance. She was sorry that
she had ever come to see the triumph of the
Third Trinity. To most people in the room,
it was true, nothing seemed to have happened
that was very serious. It was not unusual
on such occasions for the hero of the hour to
be a little ' excited ; ' and though it had not
been ' good form ' in Mr. Perry to pay such
marked attention to the Canon's guests, his
libation, to most eyes, seemed to have had no
particular object. Sophy, however, knew
better ; and was well aware that her guardian

and Aunt Maria, and at least one other member
of the company, knew better also — namely,
that her health had been drunk in a very
demonstrative manner in public by Mr.
Herbert Perry. How could he, could he, do
so, knowing how unpopular he was with her
folk at home !

In crediting him with such recklessness,
however, she did him wrong ; for the fact
was, Mr. Perry was not quite conscious of his
own audacity. He was not, as Mr. Flit had
concluded, ' very, very drunk,' but he had
taken, that afternoon, as much champagne as
was good even for the stroke oar of the
leading boat on the river, and more than was
good for a young gentleman ' on his promotion,'
anxious to do away with certain
prejudices entertained against him by the
guardians of his beloved object.

Sophy knew by the Canon's manner that
he was greatly annoyed, and when they
adjourned into another apartment for refreshments,

she became aware that Mr. Mayors,
who took her in, was annoyed also. His
manner had been always something more than
polite to her, and now there was a certain
stiffness in it, as though he suspected her of
having encouraged the attentions which had
evidently scandalised him.

It was characteristic of the young lady
that, far from resenting this as an impertinence,
or as not his business, she took it
as a compliment ; it proved indeed that it
was his business, or, in other words, that the
Tutor took a personal interest in her ; and
there were very few men under such circumstances,
whom, being angry with her, she
could not have pacified. If Miss Sophy did
not understand Plato she understood people
who did understand him, and in five minutes,
thanks to her pleasant way with him (which
indeed was as natural to her as its song to the
nightingale), Mr. Mayors had quite acquitted
her of any connivance at Mr. Perry's misdoings.

She would have got on with him
even better if Mr. Adair had not taken his
seat on the other side of her ; she did not
know that the Canon had kindly motioned
him into it (wishing to remove any sense of
inferiority that might have arisen from the
consciousness of his being the only undergraduate
present), and she thought his propinquity
an intrusion, which nevertheless, for
reasons of her own, she dared not resent.
Though he spoke very little, it struck her that
he listened with unnecessary attention to
what she said to others ; a compliment that
for once by no means pleased her ; indeed, it
gave her a sense of discomfort, and even
oppression. Fortunately, she was not called
upon to talk very much, ' the guests of the
evening,' as those not members of the
University might naturally be considered,
taking the lion's share of the conversation.

It was a joke amongst his college friends
against the Canon, who knew everybody,

including some foreigners of very ' advanced
opinions,' that he used to remark in his quiet
way in the combination room, i There will bea
rising in Hungary about the middle of
June,' or ' They will shoot at the Czar again
in August ' (as though he were game) ; and
now that one of these queer friends of his, a
real, live Revolutionist, had come in propria
persona, there was more than one of the company
desirous to draw him out.

On two topics in particular — Liberty and
Patriotism — Professor Pelski was by no
means a badger as regards any unwillingness
to be ' drawn,' but, on the contrary, only
required to be set going.

I will tell you a story of two brothers,'
he said, 'illustrative of the state of things
under the Tyrant Alexander, and as they at
present exist in the city — let us say of
Cracow : I dare not tell you the real names of
either places or people.'

He can't pronounce them,' muttered Mr.

Flit to Mr. Flukerr ; ' that's his real difficulty ;
no Russian and still less any Polish name can
be pronounced : I know both countries well
If you will allow me, gentlemen,' continued
the Professor (who had often lectured
upon his country's wrongs, and already conceived
himself upon his legs in the company of
a couple of candles and a glass of water ; his
English at once became less broken, the
English of the platform), ' I will call the two
brothers John and James.'

Why not X and Y ? ' suggested the
Canon ; ' there are so few things, we flatter
ourselves, unknown at Cambridge that they
are sufficiently indicated by those letters.'

Very good. X and Y, then, were two
brothers, Poles, but very different in their
character.'

The Canon smiled. He was thinking to
himself, ' eye have a proverb to that effect,
as far asunder as the Poles." '

X was a patriot — revolutionist, if you

VOL. I. F

will ; and I need not add, since he was not
in prison, an exile. Y was a quiet, wealthy-fellow,
who took no part in politics, and lived
at home. He felt, however, a desire for a
holiday, and asked permission of his friend
the Military Governor to take one in foreign
parts.

" Good ! " he said. " You may go ; but
no further west than Ostend. Such are the
conditions of your permission, remember."

Now after a little, Y found Ostend uncommonly
dull, and wrote across to X, who
was in England, saying, " Do you think it
would be safe for me to come across and look
at you ? " X wrote back to say, " Quite safe,
if you come under a feigned name. If you
decide on that, I will meet you at Dover.' 7
And he did so.

1 Y had no political aspirations, but from
the necessity of the case he became acquainted
with his brother's friends, who were all lovers
of Freedom. After a pleasant stay in London,

finding that he had still time to spare, Y ran
over to Paris, and, still furnished with introductions
from his brother, enjoyed himself
there also ; and then returned for the last
few days of his holiday to Ostend, whence he
went back on the appointed day to Cracow.

On the very day after his arrival the
Military Governor sent for him. He was, as
I have said, a friend of his ; he had often
entertained him at dinner, and knew his
foibles ; but he was a martinet in politics, and
poor Y's heart sank to his boots at the
thoughts of the approaching interview. The
General received him in a very different
manner from that with which he had parted
with him ; his face was stern, and his tone
severe and distant.

'so, sir," he said, " you have returned
from your holiday."

Y rubbed his hands and smiled feebly.

" You didn't break your word — your
solemn promise to his Imperial Majesty

F 2

by going further west than Ostend, of
course? "

Poor Yj who was not a courageous man,
murmured something that the other took fora
negation : " That's strange," rejoined the
General, grimly, " because in this report here,"
and he turned over an official document, " I
find that you left Ostend for England under
a feigned name. On the 15th of last month
you landed at Dover, where that villanous
revolutionist, your brother, met you. i\ T ot
content with this act of falsehood and disobedience,
you made the acquaintance of that
firebrand Mazzini, and were introduced in the
House of Commons to that devil Palmerston.
Even this was not sufficient, but you must
needs cross to Paris, where you consorted
with the most inveterate enemies of his
Imperial Majesty. How do you account for
all this?"

" General," said poor Y, " the meeting
with those people you mention was purely

accidental, but I have done very wrong. The
fact is, I was induced to go to London with
the intention of making the acquaintance of
your national painter, Ruskin, three of whose
unrivalled works you yourself possess, and
whom I understood to be residing in that
capital. My object was to purchase a picture
from him, that my house might boast at least
one ornament similar to those you possess,
and which I am sure must be worth 6,000
roubles apiece at the very least. But Ruskin
was ill, and had no picture to sell, so that, as
often happens, I transgressed to no purpose."

" I think my pictures are worth more
than 6,000 roubles apiece," said the General,
thoughtfully.

< " I would give 7,000 for them," said Y,
eagerly.

1 " You shall have them at that price," said
the Governor. " By-the-bye, when you went
to London, notwithstanding your promise to
the contrary given to me as the representative

of his Imperial Majesty, did you see any fine
horses ? "

i " Many, General ; but none, I think, equal
to the pair you are in the habit of driving."

'•'And what do you think they are
worth? " inquired the General.

" Eight thousand roubles at the very
least."

'perhaps you would give 9,000 for
them ? "

" With pleasure," said Y ; and he never
spoke a truer word. He had expended
21,000 roubles for three daubs of pictures, and
9,000 for two very indifferent nags ; but there
was no further danger of his going to Siberia.
Such is the way,' observed the Professor in
conclusion, 'in which justice is administered
in my unfortunate country. What is your
view ? '

As his eyes chanced to light upon Mr.
Flukerr, that eminent financier thought himself
called upon to make a suggestion.

1 It is just possible,' he said, 'that X gave
the information to the Governor, and went
halves in the — the — operation.'

What ! betray his brother ! ' exclaimed
the Professor, throwing up his hands in
horror.

I didn't say he did it,' returned Mr.
Flukerr, apologetically ; ' but human nature
is human nature, you know.'

A titter ran round the table.

1 Setting aside the morals of the question,'
remarked Mr. Mayors, 'the Governor might,
after all, have done worse, for he might have
sent the man to Siberia.'

The moral of the case, as far as the
Governor was concerned,' said Adair, ' seems
to be that when you have got somebody's
secret, you should make the most out of it
you can.'

He spoke in a low voice, like one who
makes a reflection rather than an observation ;
but Sophy heard him, and the blood fled from

her cheeks. She began to hate this young
man, whom she had only seen the previous
evening in her uncle's room — and on one
other occasion.

CHAPTER Y.

STRANDED.

It is the instinct of most persons when they
stand in fear of a fellow-creature to avoid his
society as much as is consistent with the concealment
of their dislike ; but though Sophy
Gilbert was stricken with a great fear of John
Adair, she adopted the contrary course.
Without any sudden withdrawal of her attention
to Mr. Mayors she dexterously transferred
it to her other neighbour, and laid herself
out to please him. In a man's case this
would have been impossible ; to most women
it would have been difficult ; but to Sophy it
was comparatively easy. Youth and Beauty
were on her side ; but, powerful auxiliaries

though they were, they would hardly have
served her turn with him she had to deal
with had she possessed them only. Fortunately
for her — or, as it seemed to her for the
present, for who can tell whether that which
looks like luck to-day may not turn out to be
disaster tomorrow? — she had, as we have
said (not the art, for it was nature with her,
but), the gift of pleasing.

To please John Adair, however, was not
the light task she had found it to be with
other young men. There were certain initial
difficulties to surmount. To gaze up in his
sharp hatchet face, while his keen suspicious
eyes were riveted upon her own, and then to
be winsome, and even playful, was a trial to
what in a more mature and less attractive
girl would have been termed her ' temper.'
She felt that he had a prejudice against her,
and guessed the reason. On the occasion
when she had first met him, she had been
witness to the wounding of his amour propre ;

nay, had even been indirectly the cause of it ;
and Mr. John Adair, though there were some
who thought him wanting in delicacy of mind,
as regarded other people, was. extremely sensitive
to any slight to his own proper person.

What had happened to him on the occasion
in question had been somewhat more
than a slight. Moreover, he had not forgotten
that on the previous evening Miss
Sophy Gilbert had made an attempt to ignore
his acquaintance. We have seen how promptly
he had prevented her doing so ; but, though
conscious of his success in that little matter,
he was by no means satisfied with it. He
still felt that he owed her something, and was
resolved to pay her out — that is to say, he
had been so resolved until she began to make
herself agreeable to him. Then his hostile
intentions gradually vanished away.

At first he despised himself for such
weakness (for he was fully conscious of it),
and, calling to mind the indignity he had

suffered through her, fortified himself against
her with its remembrance ; but presently this
wormwood lost its bitterness ; he reflected
that what had happened had not been her
fault, though it had occurred in her presence,
and finally persuaded himself not only that
she regretted it as much as he did (which
was the fact), but regretted it on his account.
It may be imagined perhaps that to have
worked this revolution Miss Sophy must have
talked divinely ; but this was not so ; she
could talk very well, or, at all events, very
agreeably, but on this occasion she did
nothing of the kind ; she listened to him
divinely.

As a rule, this young man was reticent;
not from any cautiousness of disposition — far
from it, he was audacious even to recklessness,
though, indeed, he had not much to lose — but
from the circumstances of his position. He
had come up to the University a sizar, a proof
of his not having a superabundance of this

world's goods, and what he had had been
given to him (as he himself bitterly expressed
it) out of charity. He had been adopted by
a wealthy baronet, Sir Charles Adair, and,
but for certain proceedings of his own, would
have been better provided for : nor had he
quarrelled with his patron, or found much
fault with his own position, till he had forfeited
his favour. Having lost it, however,
he was in no mood to caress the hand that had
fed him, or, in truth, any hand. Instead of
blaming himself for what had happened, he
blamed the world at large, which to his eyes
had regarded him with scorn as a dependent,
and still so regarded him as a poor man.
What above all things moved him was the
contempt of women, to which, as worshippers
of rank and position, he deemed himself especially
subject. Under these circumstances,
it is not surprising that in society he was
retiring, and at heart morose.

He had, indeed, accepted the Canon's invitation

willingly enough, partly for the opportunity
it afforded him of becoming acquainted
with his superiors in social position,
and of asserting his own, but chiefly with the
object of humiliating the girl who, as he
thought, had humiliated Mm. It had been
his intention to say little and to hear much,
but, as it happened, the very contrary had
taken place ; and he found himself talking to
the object of his previous dislike and rancour
with an eloquence which (though he had a
very good opinion of his own wits) astonished
himself.

He had not, of course, much small talk at
his command, for small talk, like the mincemeat
of yesterday's joint, is mostly composed
of something that has recently been presented
to our attention ; and of what happened in
society he knew next to nothing ; his topic
was chiefly that which, when two persons
converse, has an unfailing interest for at least
one of the parties — self ; and in this case it

seemed to have an equal interest for the other.
He drew a pathetic picture of his early youth,
in which imagination was not wanting ; he
painted his natural disposition and talents in
rainbow hues, and the state of dependence in
which he had been plunged in the colours of
eclipse ; he described not only his aspirations,
but the confidence which he felt in their
realisation. The young lady saw him, he
would have had her infer, in a chrysalis state,
but in a very little while she would behold
him in a very different condition ; the wand
of his own genius (chiefly, however, mathematical)
would presently effect a marvellous
transformation.

Sophy, though far from a hypocrite, possessed
in a high degree that gift of her sex
which enables them to affect an interest in
matters that they do not care one halfpenny
about ; and which no man could listen to
under the same circumstances without exhibiting
some sign of boredom. He spoke of

his prospects in the coming tripos, and her
pretty face seemed to glow with excitement ;
he discoursed of his college experiences, and
from the rapt attention with which she listened
to him, one would have thought he was speaking
of her last partner or her first ball. She
was, in truth, far from being charmed, and
thought him a very egotistic young man ;
but his talk was not altogether disagreeable
to her, since she saw through it the admiration
she had excited in him ; a thing always
agreeable to her, and to which, in the present
case, there was added a sense of triumph :
she had manufactured a friend out of an
enemy.

It was curious to contrast the young
scholar's crude views of University affairs
with those of the Canon, who was explaining
them for the edification of his non collegiate
guests. He had a very happy way of making
dull things pleasant, and of stating facts
without producing that impression of weariness

which in most cases is so inseparable
from the receipt of information. Through
both the merits and the defects of his intellect
he had no great sympathy with collegiate
training, but he was loyal to the core, and
when speaking of it to outsiders was not quite
so candid as when arguing with his friend
Mayors upon the same topic ; he gave it as
much rose-colour as the paint-box of his conscience
would permit. Being well aware that
what is conventionally urged against the
system is the narrowness of its aims, he especially
combated that theory, and dwelt upon
the variety of callings to which a classical
education adapts itself. He gave one illustration
in particular which especially delighted
Mr. Flit.

i At one of our college meetings,' he said,
we had an application from a non-resident
Fellow for his yearly dividend in advance,
upon the ground that he had recently been
appointed chief of a certain savage tribe, and

VOL. I. g

had just declared war against a neighbouring
island.'

1 Where was the island ? ' inquired Mr.
Flit, who wanted to know the details of
everything, not necessarily for immediate
publication, but for his note-book.

I don't know the latitude, my dear sir,
though there always is a latitude in these
stories,' said the Canon, smiling ; ' but I
think we may conclude it was not in the
Pacific'

For the moment Mr. Flit was offended ;
he murmured something inarticulate to the
effect that he was not a man to be treated
with raillery, and that he had disembowelled
the Khan of Khiva for a less impertinence ;
the fact was, that, thanks to the claret cup,
he was inclined to be a little quarrelsome.
After a few more applications to it, however,
his nature, which was a very genial one, began to
assert itself ; and he overflowed with anecdote.
The gentleman who surveyed mankind from

China to Peru was not to be compared, as
regards opportunity, with Mr. Flit. He was,
or had been, equally at home in the Arctic
Circle or in the Torrid Zone. The Canon,
very willing to make amends to his guest,
beo*o;ecl him to relate what he considered to
be his most interesting experience.

This was a proposition to which Mr. Flit
was far too wise to accede. To tell his best
story would be to open the door of competition
much wider than suited his purpose.
The very suggestion of it put him on his
guard at once.

One of the most amusing things I ever
heard of,' he said, ' was told me by a friend
of mine, a special, attached to a Cossack
regiment in the Turco-russian war. They
entered a Bulgarian village one afternoon,
when there was hardly light enough left for
looting. In expectation of the arrival of
their deliverers, the natives who had anything
to lose had already hidden it. One man,

G 2

however, was seen by a Cossack to bury
something in his garden with great precaution.
As soon as it was dark, the Cossack
dug it up with his spear, and brought it to
the guard-room in triumph. It was a huge
earthenware pot, carefully sealed up, which
he confidently believed to be full of coin. To
the disappointment of himself and his comrades,
it proved to contain only yellow lard.
Since their boots were in a terrible state from
long travel, this, however, was not to be despised
; and the whole regiment greased themselves
with the compound to their great
content. In the morning the commander of
the Cossacks made them a little speech. He
said (with his tongue in his cheek) that his
Imperial Majesty the Czar had strictly forbidden
looting, and was sorry to find that
this regulation had been disregarded. The
men protested — with truth, though without
mentioning the cause of the omission — that
they had not stolen a kopeck. " If you have

not taken money," returned the commander,
"you have taken money's worth. The headman
of the village complains that he has lost
1,200 roubles, which he had invested in ajar
of attar of roses."

The regiment, indeed, might have been
smelt for six leagues away ; but so very
little sense of smell has the Russian soldier,
that neither they nor their commander had
noticed it.'

It is quite true,' remarked Professor
Pelski, gloomily, ' they have no scent except
for the blood of a patriot. I could tell you
such things — oh ! such things — about my beloved
country.'

He looked so very much as if he was
about to clo it, that the Canon felt some
diversion was necessary to save the company
from a condensed history of Poland.

I should think you, Mr, Flukerr,' he said,
1 might give us a story or two out of the
chronicles of the haute finance almost as

curious as even those of a special correspondent's
notebook ? '

1 Story ! God bless you, I have none to
tell, sir,' exclaimed Mr. Flukerr, quite ignorant
that he was making use of a quotation.
6 There was, however, a very funny thing
came under my notice the other day. You
know Bob Trip of course, our Bob Trip
of the Stock Exchange — everybody's Bob
Trip ? '

The Canon nodded cheerily, as who shall
say, ' Who does not know Bob Trip must
himself be unknown.'

Bob is a risky fellow, very ; and some
years ago got bitten in a tin-mine.'

1 Bitten in a tin-mine ? ' murmured the
Professor to himself ; he was wondering
what sort of animals had their clans in localities
of that kind, but was unwilling to
interrupt.

" Charley," said Bob to me one day,

what do you think I've done with those
confounded mine shares ? "

< " Not sold them ! " said I. " I'll
warrant."

" No," said he ; " come up and see."
So he took me to his dressing-room and
pointed to the walls of it, which he had
papered from the top to bottom with the
shares he held in the " Lostwithem Mining
Company."

i f { I have done this," he said, " to remind
me every morning of my life what a fool I
made of myself with that mine, and to be a
caution to me against going into anything of
a speculative nature as long as I live."

i Last week I heard that Bob had made
himself director of a gold-mine in South
America ; which, after his promises of amendment
in that way, surprised me very much.
So, happening to pass by his house, I called.

" Master is in his dressing-room," said
the man.

What, at this time o' day ?"

He passes most of his time there now,

sir," said he, grinning.

So I went up, and found Bob on his
knees, with a penknife and a bucket of hot
water.

'what are you at?" said I.

" Well, I am trying to get these coupons
off the wall. Depend upon it, my good
fellow, there's nothing like mines for investment,
if you will only have a little patience.
The ' Lostwithem ' has declared a dividend."
'

This story of the haute finance was received
with rapture, and tickled Sophy, who had
some sense of humour, as much as the rest.

Adair, however, as if jealous of the interest
it had excited in her, murmured, grudgingly,
It is extraordinary how any matter that has
reference to money gains the public ear. I
suppose, to most men, there is no subject so
attractive.'

'I don't know about "most men"' returned
Sophy, gravely ; ' but I can answer
for my kind guardian yonder, that it is a
subject that interests him least of all. I
believe he neither knows nor cares anything
about it.'

But then, you see, he is very rich, and
does not need to care,' returned Adair.

Indeed, he is not rich ; far from it.'

Yet he is very liberal ; that is, I mean,'
stammered the young man, ' he has the reputation
of being so.'

1 Then report for once speaks true,' said
Sophy, with animation. ' I did not know,
however, that he was so spoken of, for he
is a man that never talks of his own good
deeds.'

Adair gave a secret sigh of relief ; he had
feared that the Canon might have told his
ward something of his relations with himself,
which, he thought, would cause her to despise
him. A revolution had taken place within

him as regarded this young lady. He felt
that he would much rather win her good
opinion than own his influence over her to
fear.

Immersed in thoughts which, though they
had come upon him so unexpectedly, were not
the less monopolising, he suddenly heard himself
addressed by name.

The Canon had leant across towards his
sister, and whispering to her, ' I remain hereof
course, to entertain my guests : but if you
and Sophy intend to be at the ball to-night,
it is time you went to dress.'

1 Let me have the pleasure of seeing you
home, Miss Gilbert,' said Mr. Mayors, in a
low tone.

But before Sophy could reply to his invitation,
which had reached only her own ears,
the Canon added : ' Mayors, I know you will
be good enough to escort my sister. Mr.
Adair, perhaps you will do the same kind
office for your neighbour, Miss Gilbert.'

Adair jumped up, delighted. The Canon
had not been displeased to see his ward and
Adair ' get on ' so well together, since the
contrast, he thought, between his society and
that of his bete noire, Mr. Herbert Perry,
could not but strike her favourably, and, sofar,
have a good effect. He had, of course, no
other motive than to pay the young scholar a
compliment : but the proposal, chiming in as
it did with the young man's dreams, seemed
to the latter to have a deeper significance.

As Sophy" laid her finger-tips upon his
arm the blood rushed to his pale cheeks ; his
eyes glowed with pleasure. If she had the
least curiosity on the subject (which she had
not), she would have been surprised to note
that he looked almost handsome. One would
have said that, for the moment at all events,
that little idyll of which Adair had hinted to
the Canon — his love affair under Sir Charles's
roof — had been forgotten, and that the object
of it had retired, compulsorily, in Sophy's
favour.

CHAPTER VI.

IMPORTUNATE.

I suppose there is nothing about which so
much care is taken that, on the whole, is apt
to go so wrong, as the disposal of heiresses in
marriage. In their solicitude to shut the door
against adventurers, parents and guardians
open it to even less desirable swains — i hoary-heads
' with coronets, or dull clowns stuffed
with bank-notes, which as often as not take to
themselves wing's. The matrimonial market
is almost as limited for heiresses as that of
Royalty ; and, what is more, from self-respect
quite as much as from fear of the Court of
Chancery, the honest young man in particular
avoids them as ' a thing forbid.'

Sophy Gilbert had the very great misfortune

of never having known a mother's care
she had lost her when she was but five
years old ; her father, a barrister in considerable
practice, saw but little of her, but indulged
her in every whim. She was left by
necessity very much to the care of hirelings,
and what in her case was not less unfortunate,
to herself. She was accomplished and clever ;
her nature was affectionate and gentle, but it
had never been strengthened by precept or
example. Even as a child her love of admiration
was prodigious : she was very precocious
in her ideas. It was told of her that,
having received a toy ring when of very
tender years, she declined to have it put
upon a certain finger because that made it
an engaged ring.'

She read books of her own choice, and
that choice was not judicious. When she was
seventeen her father died, and left her to the
care, as he expressed it, 'of the best of friends
and the most honourable of men, William

Aldrecl.' So far as honour and kindness were
concerned lie could not, indeed, have hit upon
a better guardian for her ; but in other respects
he could scarcely have selected a worse.
How a man of business, . like Mr. Gilbert,
could have dreamt of selecting such a person
for a trustee, was marvellous to those who
are not acquainted with the testamentary
eccentricities of men of business.

What was worse, however, than Canon
Aldred's ignorance of affairs, was his ignorance
of the ways of women and of the character
of his ward. Except that she was a
charmingly pretty and still more charmingly
affectionate girl, he knew absolutely nothing
about her. If ever a young lady wanted a
tight rein and a curb, it was Miss Sophy
Gilbert ; and the Canon essayed to guide her
with a loose rein and a snaffle. It was true
that there was his sister Maria, whom his
dead friend had doubtless looked to as a
second mother for her. Nor was that lady



wanting in any office of affection and solicitude
; but she had been brought up in a very
different school from that in which young
ladies of even that day — now some time ago
were educated. Notwithstanding her comparatively
mature years, she had not learnt all
that they knew. Suspicion of all kinds was
foreign to her character : suspicion of those
she loved was impossible to it. An upright
woman, with a certain grace as well as dignity
; not without some social pride of her
own, but with a much keener sense of the
respect and esteem in which i my brother the
Canon ' was universally held ; a courteous
dispenser of hospitality ; an excellent manager
of a household within certain limits —
she was, nevertheless, quite unequal to the
duties, thus unexpectedly imposed upon her,
of controlling and directing a young girl's
mind. She was quite as indulgent to Sophy
as her brother was ; and, indeed, since the girl
was her only companion, it was but natural

that she should do all she could to make life
pleasant to her and keep her in good humour.

On the other hand, there were matters on
which the Canon could be resolute enough.
His sense of duty, as often happens with men
of his stamp, was not so sensitive as his sense
of honour, but when it was touched he was
adamant.

He had a natural dislike to dissipation,
and though very charitable in his own views,
was amazed to see that a man like Herbert
Perry should have attractions for his ward.
For the reason he had given Mr. Mayors, he
had not forbidden the young man his house ;
but it was absolutely certain that under no
circumstances would the Canon give his consent
to her union with such a person. There
are men who tread the earth with such an
airy step that one can hardly imagine them
putting their foot down ' in the sense of
resolute opposition ; but Sophy's guardian
was one of this kind, and she knew it.

Thanks to the enthusiasm of our boating
friends,' said Miss Maria to Mr. Mayors as
the two ladies left the Canon's rooms with
their separate escorts, ' I have a slight headache,
and I think a walk will do me good.
As it is such a beautiful night, what do you
say to going home by the Backs? '

This entailed a considerable circuit, the
prospect of which, in Miss Maria's company,
was certainly less alluring to the Tutor than
it would have been had Miss Sophy been
committed to his charge ; but he signified
at once a polite assent.

Their road lay through the lime-walk,
almost deserted now, for the great throng of
undergraduates had gone away with the boats
or to array themselves for the ' Procession
Ball.' The more mature couple led the way ;
the young people followed at a distance, which
Adair endeavoured, by slow walking, to make
as considerable as he could.

The spring was everywhere, even in his
vol. 1. H

views of his own chances. It was, perhaps,
the first time in his life that he had felt it so ;
as a dependent, his emotions had been kept
under control, nor was it his nature to encourage
them. His system was also not so
familiar with claret cup as that of his late
companions, and what he had drunk, perhaps,
tended to his exhilaration. This dissatisfied-minded
young recluse seemed to himself,
in short (notwithstanding his mathematical
training, which should have shown it to be

CI'

impossible), to be walking on air.

He was in Paradise : and Sophy, who
guessed the fact, did not choose to let him
know that it was a fool's Paradise.

As they passed through the gates opposite
' the Roundabout ' — a solitary wilderness
used by the Trinity fellows only — Adair felt
her arm tremble within his own.

1 You need never fear, clear Miss Gilbert,'
he whispered, significantly, with a
glance at the spot in question, ' that I will



ever reveal what I accidentally witnessed
yonder.'

There were two replies open to Sophy.
She might have said, and with truth, ' You
saw nothing of which I have any reason to
be ashamed, no matter what ideas you may
entertain to the contrary, or however well
founded they may appear to you.' But this
course would have necessitated an explanation
it was impossible to give, and which if she
had given would (she felt) have once more
made an enemy of her companion. The other
course was to have accepted with thanks his
promise of silence, and this again she dared
not take. To admit a confidence of this kind
between them was only less dangerous than
the other alternative ; it would be an encouragement
to him of which she feared he
would take advantage. She had already
come to the conclusion not only that Mr.
John Adair was not a gentleman to be trusted
in any delicate matter, but that he was not a

H 2

gentleman at all. His calling her ' dear Miss
Gilbert ' upon so short an acquaintance struck
her (as indeed it was) as an audacious impertinence
; yet she was so much in his
power that she dared not show the least trace
of indignation. An unpleasant position for
even a man to be in, but for a young lady a
deplorable one indeed.

She answered nothing.

I suppose you are going to the ball tonight
? ' he continued.

The question was a very simple one, but
she connected it at once (as he had intended
her to do) with the incident to which he had
already alluded. The blood rushed to her
very temples, but the tone of her reply was
studiously indifferent.

1 Did you not hear my guardian say so ? '

No ; I heard nothing of what he or anyone
else was saying ; I was only thinking of
you.'

'It is a pity that you had not something

better to think about,' said Sophy,
pettishly.

She regretted it the next moment, not
because it was such a reply as a maid servant
might have given to her military cousin, but
from the opportunity which she felt it would
afford him of paying a compliment.

It would be difficult,' he said, with a
smile, ' to think of anybody b better than yourself,
Miss Gilbert.'

Both the smile and the words made her
blood run cold ; the one because there were
reasons why, to have aroused the affections of
this man was more dangerous even than to
have become his enemy ; the other, because,
though uttered without any meaning in particular,
they seemed to her to convey the
bitterest sarcasm. Just at that moment it
was difficult for her to imagine any one worse
than herself. Xot that she was really bad ina
moral sense. I will never admit that of
Sophy ; but she had been guilty of such

weakness that (now that her punishment was
beginning) it seemed wickedness. We are
all inclined to blame ourselves for our follies,
not in proportion to their gravity, but to the
amount of inconvenience they entail upon us :
from this point of view it was no wonder that
poor Sophy appeared to herself a criminal.

Why, oh why ! did Aunt Maria and Mr.
Mayors move so slowly, and loiter on the
bridge ? What on earth was there to admire
in Queen's College ! Would that hateful
walk with this unpleasant and importunate
young man never come to an end ?

Sophy was generally mistress of herself
and of her wits, but the peril in which she
stood had paralysed her ready tongue ; her
presence of mind was gone ; she had no
nerve for those light replies which men
thought so agreeable, and women so frivolous.
To answer her companion seriously, and as she
felt was fitting — that is, with grave reproof —
was beyond her courage. His threats she knew

would be more dangerous now — if she moved
him to threaten — than they had been at first.
Yet to be silent was to encourage him.

She felt like one who, in a dark night,
has wandered to the edge of a precipice and
dares not go back or forwards, or scarce stir
a finger, but must wait motionless for the
dawn. Oh to be safe at home in her own
little chamber, praying Heaven to forgive
her for her folly and disobedience ; and (especially)
to shield her from the consequences
of them !

You are very silent just now,' observed
the young man, after a long pause, ' but I daresay
you will have a good deal to say an hour
or so hence, with some favoured partner.'

His tone, she marked, was already
changed ; her reticence had angered him.

When I go to a ball,' she said, with an
effort at sprightliness, ' I assure you it is not
to talk ; I like dancing for dancing's sake,
and give myself up to it like a child.'

1 1 should hardly have thought you such
an "ingenue" ' was the dry response; 'but,
then, I have never seen you at a ball.'

There was something in the adverb, or
rather in the stress he laid upon it, that, like
a bullet, seemed to strike her very heart and
still its beatings. Suddenly withdrawing her
lingers from his arm, she exclaimed, ' That is
the third time, Mr. Adair, you have thought
proper to hint at an incident which, though
if you knew all you would know that I had
no cause to be ashamed of, you must certainly
perceive to be disagreeable and even painful
to me. If you were more accustomed to the
usages of good society you would see that
such conduct is unbecoming a gentleman ; if
you ever venture to allude to that subject
again you will only have yourself to thank
for anything disagreeable that may happen to
you.'

Am I to consider that your words imply
a threat, Miss Gilbert ? '

He had stopped also ; it was upon the
bridge, however, where the other couple had
delayed, so that even had they looked back
the circumstance would have attracted no
surprise. His pale face was white with suppressed
passion ; his keen eyes blazed with it.
The sight of them convinced her that what
had tended to impress the incident referred to
upon this man's mind was the humiliation he
had suffered upon that occasion. In her
passionate indignation she had, in truth, intended
to suggest that that humiliation might
be repeated ; nay, that even chastisement
might follow in case he continued his persecution
; but she now perceived that she had
gone too far. He was a coward in one sense,
for who but a coward would have so behaved
to her ? But he was not a man to be
frightened.

Yes,' she answered, in firm but gentler
tones, ' I did imply a threat. If you ever
speak to me upon that subject again, they

will be the last words that will ever pass
between us. It is possible that such a
menace will have no force with you, but it
will certainly be put into effect. '

For the moment it was evident he had his
suspicions ; but the pained and resolute expression
which she threw into her pretty face
disarmed them.

■ The threat of such a punishment is a
deterrent indeed he said, gravely. ' I have
already promised you to keep silence upon the
matter in question to others, and that promise
will henceforth include yourself ; and now I
trust we are friends again.'

Sophy felt very far from friendly, but she
moved her head in token of assent, and took
once more his proffered arm.

They had reached Trumpington Street,
and were nearing her home before she spoke
again,

As we have made up our quarrels, Miss
Gilbert, may I hope that you will give me a

dance or two at the ball this evening ? I do not
ask for the first waltz, 7 he added, hastily, perceiving
the look of amazement and even alarm
that came into her face ; ' it is only too probable
that the first one may be bespoken by
another. I know too well how eagerly yon
are sought after as a partner ; you are not
annoyed at the request, I hope. One dance
really does not seem much to ask.'

I am not annoyed,' said Sophy, mustering
a smile, ' but I am certainly astonished at such
a request from such a quarter. My guardian
said you were the very last man, Mr. Adair,
likely to be seen at a ball.'

I know ; I heard him,' returned the young
man, quietly. ' Still I mean to go to this
ball.'

It was on Sophy's rash lips to say, • I do
not dance round dances.' But the consequences
of her rash and reckless conduct in
another and more serious matter were fortunately
too present with her to admit of that.

i If my aunt's headache, to which she is
a martyr,' said Sophy, with a drop in her
voice, ' permits of her chaperoning me to the
ball at all, I shall be very happy to dance
with you, Mr. Adair.'

How differently the same phrase may be
used by different lips ! ' said the young man,
thoughtfully. ' When you say you shall be
very happy " to dance with me, you only
mean "you don't care if you do ; " but when
say "I shall be very happy to dance with
you " — and, indeed, your promise has already
made me so — that is the simple truth.'

They were now at the gate of ' The Laurels.'

• I cannot invite you gentlemen to come
in,' said Aunt Maria, as she shook hands with
Mr. Mayors, 'because we have to dress for
the ball.'

I wish I was a ball-going man,' said the
Tutor, gallantly. The observation was made
to Miss Maria, but it was uttered as he shook
hands with Miss Sophy.

w Good-bye, or rather an revoir said the
young scholar, under his breath.

Miss Sophy Gilbert was not unconscious
(though the fact occupied but little of her
attention) that she had twenty thousand
pounds of her own ; but she would have
given the half of it, as she graciously echoed
his i au revoir could she have been assured
that she should neither see nor hear of Mr.
Adair again.

CHAPTER VII.

AUNT Maria's HEADACHE.

It is generally understood that, among the
higher classes at least, man is the Worker
and woman the Player. Except in the rare
cases of his helpmate being an author or an
artist, he is doubtless the breadwinner and
general provider ; but woman also has her
work to do, often quite as hard work as is
done ' in the City,' or in ' the dusky purlieus
of the law,' and much more continuous. The
Lawyer, when he mounts his cob, may leave
black care behind him ; the Merchant, when
he sits clown to his afternoon rubber, may
forget his anxieties ; but their spouses have
no such relaxations, and have the objects of

their solicitude always under their eye. Some
of them are so ill-advised as to make their
husbands sharers of their own proper burden,
and, when he comes home to his well-earned
meal, to vex him with stories of this or that
gone amiss which it is not in his power to
remedy. But, as a general rule, women keep
their domestic troubles to themselves, and
because they do not speak of them men are
apt to underrate their importance. Yet, what
is the management of a staff of clerks, with
even a forger or two among them, compared
with the control of a band of wild boys or
giddy girls, such as are often as the ' apple of
our eye ' to us ? What is the presentiment
of evil in business affairs, compared with the
possibilities of wrong-doing in Jack or Jane,
of which the mother's prescient heart has
given her only too sure a warning ? To
wait, to watch, to speak, and to act (but only
at the proper time) ; to be vigilant against
those who, though no adversaries, have the

power to wound beyond any foeman's blow,
these things fall to the lot of women.

It is true that Miss Maria was no mother ;
but the responsibilities of her position, as
regards Sophy, were the same as though she
had been her child, while her difficulties were
even greater than she was aware of. The
Canon knew little or nothing of this. His
sister, who understood him thoroughly, spared
him all such troubles, as though she had been
his wife. He had his edition of Milton and his
Concordance to think about ; he had a large
correspondence with sympathising friends ;
and he imagined himself to be a man ' full of
affairs,' who had quite the average share of
troubles. Save for the absence of his son,
however, they were but crumpled rose-leaves.
The very breath of Heaven, thanks to his
sister's care, was not suffered to visit him
too roughly.

At this very moment, when the cigars
have been produced at his pleasant Trinity

rooms (for under the influence of the genial
weed the talk grows deeper and wider, and
carries the thought with it), and while his
part is but to encourage guests who need no
spur, Miss Maria has another and less agreeable
task before her. The girl who calls her
aunt, and whom she loves more dearly far
than most women love their nieces, is alone
with her in the drawing-room for a few
minutes, previously to their going upstairs to
dress for the ball.

Sophy, I have a word or two to say to
you.'

Yes, Aunt Maria.'

She looked up with such a sweet smile of
simplicity and assent that it almost put to
flight Aunt Maria's intended 'probation.'

Whatever imprudence the girl commits,'

she says to herself, l she has certainly no

thought of wrongdoing, nor can I think her

capable of duplicity. If she were conscious

vol. 1. 1

of having done anything seriously amiss she
would certainly look frightened.'

There was not a flaw in this logic, only
the logician did not understand how very
much more frightened Sophy had been during
the last half hour than she was now. When
one has had a loaded pistol close to one's
ear for a little, the production of one that is
not loaded can be borne with comparative
equanimity.

What has happened to-night, Sophy, has
distressed me, and I am sure my dear brother
also, exceedingly.'

Sophy's musical eyes expressed a mild
surprise.

Is it possible that you can be unaware
of what happened on the river ? That that
very forward young man, Mr. Perry, had the
bad taste to drink your health in public,
under our very windows ? '

And was that such very bad taste, Aunt
Maria ? ' inquired the young girl, demurely.

Pray, pray, Sophy, do not treat this
matter with lightness. It was most infamous
taste. It would have been bad taste, even if
he had been engaged to you, which, as you
well know, can never, never happen.'

Sophy smiled ; it was a very different
smile from her former one ; it had confidence
in it, but also sadness.

Well, at all events for a very long time
to come,' continued Aunt Maria, ' there is no
possibility of your marrying him ; should
you ever do so it will be in direct antagonism
both to myself and your guardian, and I
don't think we have deserved of you to have
I do not say our wishes only, but our most
serious convictions — set at nought.'

i You have deserved nothing of me but
love and gratitude,' said Sophy, with the
tears in her eyes. ' Whatever happens, I
shall never forget how much I owe you.'

And yet you propose to repay us with
disobedience ? ' observed Aunt Maria, drily

1 2

Then, as if unable to maintain so stern a
tone, even for a moment, she answered gently,
It is not for our sakes, Sophy, as you well
know ; but for your own, that we are so
strenuous upon this point. When you come
of age you will be independent of us, and
can do as you like ; there are many persons
who under the same circumstances would be
glad enough to get rid of such a responsibility
as you must needs be to us. But when
you leave us, you will still be in our hearts ;
your future will affect us as much as your
present does at this hour, only we shall no
longer have the power to shape it. Even
now, if your guardian knew as much as I do
how often Mr. Perry comes here, how often
you make excuses for meeting him elsewhere
it would make him miserable. And yet it
is not for his sake, but for your own, that I
entreat you to give up this man.'

Sophy, huddled upon the sofa, with her
little hands hiding her pretty face, answered
only by her sobs.

It is better for you to cry now, my dear,'
continued Aunt Maria, with a tender tremor
nevertheless in her own voice, ' than when
things are past crying for. I heard to-night
some talk of Mr. Perry, which those who
uttered it little thought had aoy personal
interest for me. He is a man of bad temper,
as well as of bad habits ; not a favourite even
with those who know him best, and onions:
whom he has gained some pre-eminence ; he
is a " good oar," it seems, and that is all ;
a poor recommendation for a partner in
life. I own he is very handsome, but you
will not think him so when he frowns at you.
Such men soon get tired of their pretty playthings.
Indeed, I have noticed that of late
weeks his manner to yourself is not what it
used to be; he takes less trouble to please
you, perhaps because he feels sure of you. I
earnestly trust that he has as yet no ground
for such confidence.'

Sophy moaned.

i You are not engaged to him ? ' put in the
other quickly.

No, Aunt Maria, no,' murmured the
girl.

Then part from him, I beseech you,
while there is yet time. People have already
begun to talk of you. If you don't believe
me, ask Henny Helford ; she will tell you the
truth, and give you good advice besides. It
is most painful to me to speak like this ; but,
Sophy, it is better so than that my brother
should speak to you. I doubt whether I am
right in concealing your conduct from him ;
but I know that it would vex him so. He
is the kindest of men, but his noble heart
revolts at anything like duplicity or underhand
doings.'

4 Don't tell him — oh! don't tell him,'
pleaded Sophy, earnestly.

i Well, then, for this once, and trusting to
see signs of amendment in your behaviour, I
won't,' replied Aunt Maria.

She said this with quite a magnanimous
air ; but the fact was, she had nothing very
definite to tell, only certain small misdoings
on Sophy's part, which, feeling herself to
blame for having permitted, she was not very
anxious to reveal.

4 1 don't wish to speak of my own troubles
in the matter,' she continued, after a pause ;
but I can't say what I suffered this evening
when I saw Mr. Perry with that great flagon
in his hand leering at us, like somebody
wicked in the heathen mythology. He had
had too much to drink already ; and that's
the truth, Sophy. And then to think that
he will be at the ball to-night, most probably
intoxicated. Xow, Sophy, do promise me
that you will not dance with that man.'

I will promise you that, Aunt Maria,'
was the unexpected reply ; ' for I shall not goto
the ball at all.'

But, my dear, that will look extremely
odd : indeed it may be said that you were

afraid to meet Mr. Perry, which will be
worse than anything.'

I am not at all afraid of meeting Mr.
Perry said Sophy, quietly, i but I had
rather not go.'

But so many people will be expecting
us, my dear ! What excuse can you possibly
make ? '

None at all,' said Sophy, mustering up
a little smile. ' It is you who must be the
excuse, Aunt Maria. You said you had a
headache, you know, when you left my
guardian's rooms.'

But it's gone now,' exclaimed Aunt
Maria, simply.

I can bring it back in half a minute,'
cried Sophy ; and, springing from the sofa,
she sat down at the piano and thundered the
March from 'Thalia,' which made Aunt
Maria, who detested loud music of any kind,
put her hands to her ears, and very literally
sue for peace.

You have really given me a headache
now,' she cried, 'you naughty girl ! '

That is because you are so dreadfully
conscientious, dear Aunt Maria ; it is the
reward of truth. Nor is it a mere selfish
advantage ; for now I, who have no headache,
can honestly say that you have got one.'
Then, dropping her light tone, she flew to
the other's side, and murmured caressingly,
I am so sorry, darling Auntie ; but it will
soon go off, and we will both stay at home
together, and have a cosy evening, won't
we ?'

At that moment there was a ring at the
door bell.

Sophy turned pale ; it is not only the
wicked who 'flee when no man pursued,'
but also the wilful and the weak.

Xo man was pursuing her, as it turned
out ; but the girl thought one might be. It
was an intense relief when the servant announced
Miss Helford.

Henrietta, called for love and euphony,
Henny, Helford was Sophy's dearest friend,
and a near neighbour. She had come in by
appointment, though, in Sophy's distress and
perturbation of mind, the latter had clean
forgotten it. The arrival of this visitor,
pure, sincere, and thoroughly to be relied
upon, seemed to her like an intervention of
Providence. As more than one of her fellow-creatures
had had cause to remark, the very
look of Henny Helford in time of trouble
was a consolation ; but at all times it was
very pleasing. She was fair like her friend,
but there the resemblance ended ; she was
not pretty in the ordinary sense of the word ;
her features were not regular enough to conform
to any standard of good looks ; she was
only winning.

Without the vivacity of Sophy, she had
the loveliness which is the result of sympathy
with the hopes of others ; although not gifted
with the large and somewhat vague aspirations

which actuate some of her sex in these
days, everything had interest for her that
concerned those she knew. Without being
florid, she had a fresh complexion, that spoke
of health and early hours ; and, without
being masculine, she was tall and of a noble
figure. In a metaphor culled from his books,
the Canon used to describe his ward as a
duodecimo and her friend as a crown octavo.
He even warned the latter that he looked to
see her in another edition — a quarto. It was
possible, indeed, that — in the fulness of time
Henny's charms would become matronly ;
but at present she was not a whit too plump.
Her binding (to pursue the image) was by no
means so brilliant as that of her duodecimo
ally. Always sedate in her attire, she was just
now still in mourning for her elder brother,
who had died some months ago, leaving an
orphan child, her constant care, behind him.
You will be glad to hear " Stevie " is

better she said, after she had kissed her
friends.

The doctor thinks he will get over it,
does he ? ' said Miss Altered, slily. She
knew the child had only a malady incident to
childhood — the chickens.

With care,' returned the unconscious
Henny ; ' he gives us hopes that the child
will be himself again by the end of the week.
I should have come before, Sophy, only I
waited till the little darling was asleep. But
you are late yourself. I expected to see you
attired for conquest.'

Here Aunt Maria slipped out of the room.
She was a consenting party to the little fraud
Sophy and she had planned together, but she
did not wish to sanction it by her presence
while it was being explained to a third party.

I am afraid you will be disappointed,
Henny,' said Sophy, with an indifferent
smile, or rather with an indifferent attempt at

a smile ; l but the fact is, we are not going to
the ball.'

Xot going to the ball ! Xot going to
the Procession Ball ? ' repeated Henny, in a
tone of the most utter incredulity. ' Why,
how comes that ?'

To have answered the question as Henny
would have answered it — that is, with exactness
truth — would have been difficult indeed.
Yet, as generally happens, it would have
been better for the person addressed to have
spoken the truth and the whole truth. She
could not, she well knew, have had a better
adviser ; nor, from one point of view, a
better confidante.

But as our very weaknesses are often a
recommendation to the confidence of our
fellow creatures, so a too severely moral
nature as often repels it. Sophy gazed in
her companion's questioning face with pitiful
yearning : girl as she was, she would have
given years of her young life to have thrown

herself into the other's arms and have sobbed
out the whole history of her troubles. But
she felt she could no more have shared with
her the secret of that wish than she could
have proposed to her to smother ' Stevie.'

Aunt Maria has a headache,' said Sophy,
in a tone that had far too much of sorrow for
so slight a misfortune.

What a pity ! I am sure it must be bad
indeed for your aunt to inflict such a disappointment
on you.'

It is no disappointment,' said Sophy,
passionately, her feelings for the moment
overcoming all considerations of prudence.
I am glad I am not going.' The outburst
did her good, but even while she gave reins
to it, she saw its danger.

The truth is, Henny ' — a phrase which
too often precedes the explosion of an especially
large ' cracker ' — ' though you may
consider them still a treat, for my part, I am
getting rather tired of balls.'

Tired of balls ! You tired of balls ! '
ejaculated Henny, aghast. It was as though
a moderate Mussulman had just heard one
of the truest of believers abjure the faith.
Why, what will you be tired of next ? Not
me, I hope ! '

No, Henny, not you,' returned Sophy,
bitterly. ' I have not so many friends that
I can afford to lose one, and the best of them.'

Why, Sophy, what's the matter ? '

Henny fell on her knees, and put her arm
about the other's waist ; her face she could
not see, for Sophy had hidden it in her hands,
but she knew what was going on behind them.
Don't cry, don't cry, my darling. I promised
mamma I would only be gone for a few
moments, thinking you were going to the
ball ; but if I can be of any good, if you
want to talk with me, Sophy, I'll just run
back and tell her not to sit up for me.'

1 No, Henny, no,' sobbed the other ; ' I'd
rather be alone to-night. I'm a little overdone,

that's all ; and sleep will do me more
good than anything.'

There are few things to be compared with
that admirable invention, sleep ; but on this
occasion it would have been better for Sophy
if she had tried another remedy — the counsel
of a true friend.

Henny did not believe that mere fatigue
was at the bottom of Sophy's indisposition,
but she thought that solitude and reflection
were what she needed. Perhaps she had had
a tiff with her lover. Henny had a lover
herself, though she had never had a tiff with
him, and understood that such a catastrophe
would be a subject not to be talked about
even with the most intimate of friends, but
to be repented of by oneself. She rose to her
feet at once, and, imprinting a silent kiss on
Sophy's forehead, moved softly and sorrowfully
out of the room.

CHAPTER VIII.

IN PURSUIT.

If Miss Sophy Gilbert had begun to hate
balls, there were a good many young people
in Cambridge that night who were of a
different opinion ; they had only just begun
to love them. The town-hall, in which the
Entertainment of the evening was held, was
crammed with guests. About ten o'clock it had
come on to rain heavily ; but that circumstance
had no effect upon the attendance of the
ladies. It was one of the few entertainments
of the like kind where every girl, no matter
how plain, was sure of plenty of partners,
and of young partners. The male sex was

VOL. I. K

considerably in excess of the female, and they
were almost without exception dancing men.

There was, however, one young man who
scarcely came under that category ; and who,
though he meant to dance that night, for
the present seemed content to stand by the
ball-room door, and to scan with unobtrusive
glance whosoever entered it. His anxiety
was not easily to be accounted for, since he
appeared to know nobody. At last, however,
appeared one who seemed no stranger to him,
though Adair made no sign of recognition ;
on the contrary, he drew himself up in the
corner he had selected, and watched him
furtively but with great attention.

The new comer was a magnificently handsome
young man, very tall and broad-shouldered,
with curly light-brown hair ; and
but for a soft brown beard, and a look in his
eyes that suggested imperiousness of disposition,
might have sat — or stood — for anxious.
Except for his frame, however, there

was little of Greek about him, and certainly
none in his head. His complexion was not
only fresh but flushed ; and as he carelessly
nodded to his male acquaintances, who were
numerous enough, they now and then nudged
one another and shrugged their shoulders.
None of them ventured, however, to tell him
what was in their thoughts ; for Herbert
Perry was not a man to whom even the most
intimate friend could with prudence have
hinted that after a boating supper it is injudicious
for some people to come to a ball.
His glance roved with bold inquiry from one
young lady to another ; and as they revolted
in the mazy dance before him, his disappointed
expectations seemed to give way to anger.
He stood at the opposite corner of the room
to that in which Adair (his watcher) had
taken his stand, stroking his beard and
frowning heavily. Adair, though he was
disappointed too, seemed to derive great
pleasure from his discomfiture.

K 2

1 She is not coining, my young friend,' he
scornfully murmured to himself ; ' and, even
if she does come, it is a wet night, and there
will be no wandering with her in the Roundabout.'


Once only their eyes met. On Perry's
part recognition was not immediate ; his perceptions,
never very quick, were dulled with
his recent potations ; but under the other's
continued gaze, memory awoke within him.
His face blazed with wrath, and he stepped
forward as if about to cross the room ; then,
as Adair withdrew his glance, with a pretence
of indifference, and fixed it upon some other
object, his anger seemed to give place to contempt.
He muttered to himself, ' The man is
a cur ; it will be time to throttle him if he
ventures to give tongue.'

If he thought that Adair was a coward,
Mr. Perry's judgment was even less acute than
usual. The former had actually had it in his

mind by that long-continued stare at his rival
to goad him on to quarrel. If he could have
induced Perry to disgrace himself in public,
he would have cheerfully run the personal
risk to which it would have undoubtedly
exposed him. As the night wore on, the
other grew more impatient ; once or twice he
passed into the refreshment-room, from which
he emerged with heightened colour, only again
to scan in vain the countenances of the dancers
for her he sought. At last, with a smothered
oath, he left his place, and, shouldering his
way without much courtesy through the
throng, reached the outer hall. A wind had
arisen and was driving the rain in sheets
through the deserted town.

Will you have a fly, Mr. Perry ?' inquired
one of the ticket porters who knew
him.

1 Curse your flies ! ' was the curt rejoinder,
as in his thin patent boots and evening dress

he stepped into the streets, with nothing but
his cap and gown to shield him from the
storm.

1 That's a queer devil observed the custodian
of the hats and coats to the ticket
porter.

Aye ! but a good plucked one,' observed
the other, admiringly.

The eulogium was correct in more than
one sense, for Mr. Herbert Perry had been
far from successful in his University examinations
; but it was curious, considering the rudeness
with which the man had been treated, he
should have been eulogistic at all. The fact
is, however, that if a certain class of society
(and not a small one) chose their own kings,
it would be for the same reason that they
were chosen in the earliest ages — namely, for
their thews and sinews. They admire a man
as we admire an ironclad, in proportion to his
powers of self-defence, and quite independent
of whether the thing to be defended — such as

his life — is valuable or otherwise. Though
Mr. Herbert Perry had a rough tongue, and
was not very free with his shillings, it is
probable that if the Cambridge townsfolk had
had to choose a representative from the undergraduates
he would have stood at the top of
the poll.

Scarcely had he left the hall, and ere the
attendant had closed the door against the
driving rain, a second young gentleman from
the ball-room demanded his cap and gown,
and, snatching them from the attendant's
hand, followed on the other's heels.

1 There's another in a hurry!' ejaculated
the custodian. ' Blest if he too ain't gone and
left his great-coat behind him.'

1 Why, yes,' replied the porter, peering
out into the storm, \ and to see the way in
which he is cutting after Mr. Perry yonder,
one would think he was his lady-love. They
don't look much of a muchness neither, do
they ? I should say that second one never

feathered an oar or doubled his fist in his
life.'

1 A mugger, that's what he is said the
other, contemptuously ; ' a mugger ' — a comprehensive
term understood to include all
persons with an ambition for University distinction.


Though Adair had pursued his rival (for
such it was clear, whether with good reason
or not, he considered him to be) with such
precipitancy, it was only to make sure that
he did not escape him at the outset. Directly
he caught sight of him striding rapidly in the
direction, as he had anticipated, of Trumping-ton
Street, he slackened his pace, contenting
himself with keeping him in view. He was
wet through, but, though that was a somewhat
novel experience for one of his indoor
habits, it affected him not the least. The
wind blew ' shrill, chill ' in his face, and cut
through his thin garments to the bone ; but
of that, too, he was unconscious. The one

thought in his mind was, c Will she come to
meet him, and where ? ' That any assignation
could have been made between these two
seemed indeed most unlikely, or Perry would
not have been so disappointed (as he undoubtedly
had been) at not seeing Miss
Gilbert at the ball ; but it was possible —
for anything seemed possible to the young
scholar's jealous soul — that they had some
means of meeting whenever they pleased. If
so, he was resolved to find it out. That, he
had persuaded himself, was his sole motive ;
but if he could have examined his heart he
could perhaps have found another.

Mr. John Adair, as we know, had already
had a ' love affair ' — which indeed was a very
fitting name for it — for it had not been all
emotion and disinterestedness. If the Canon
had known more about it, he would not have
alluded to it — or abstained from alluding toit
— with such an excess of delicacy. When
he had said to the young scholar, ' We cannot

get all we want in this world,' he had taken
it for granted that Adair had lost his patron's
favour by fixing his boyish affections upon
some young lady too highly placed ; and his
guess had been a shrewd one. The lady in
question bad been, indeed, the sister of Sir
Charles Adair. Where the Canon's mistake
lay was in supposing that the scholar had
been ill-treated. The ill-behaviour, notwithstanding
that Adair had protested that he
had ' done nothing to be ashamed of,' was
all the other way. Miss Adair was his
senior by ten years, and, the truth was, had
had no other attraction for him than the
possession of an independent fortune. His
motives had been suspected, or rather detected,
and his connection with his patron abruptly
broken off in consequence. Such was
the romance, or the first volume of it, of Mr.
John Adair.

It is fair to say, however, that, as regards
Sophy Gilbert, matters were very different

with him. She was the first woman for
whom he had entertained a genuine passion ;
and he had lost his heart and almost his head
to her. The recklessness of his present conduct
— so different from his usual caution
and forethought — was proof of it. His only
chance in life, as he well knew, lay in University
distinction, and he was imperilling it
upon her account. To be mixed up with any
scandal in connection with the ward of Canon
Aldred would probably be his ruin. With
whatever imprudence the young lady had
behaved, it was not his business to discover
it, and any attempt to do so would naturally
be bitterly resented by all parties. He had
undertaken the post of detective of his own
free will, nor could he pretend that he had
done so upon other than personal grounds.
He was no minister of public justice. If he
looked at the matter from a moral point of
view at all, it was of a specific kind ; he had,
perhaps, a vague idea that he was doing his

best to prevent this girl from marrying a man
utterly unworthy of her, and with whom she
could not be happy ; he had also ventured to
picture her — but this was purely an imaginary
case — united to a more eligible swain,
averse to claret-cup and attached to the study
of the higher mathematics. But all these
thoughts were forgotten in his present purpose
— to track his rival's footsteps and discover
where they led.

As to what should be the bearing of a
young gentleman bound upon a clandestine
interview with his beloved object there maybe
different opinions ; but Mr. Herbert
Perry's manner was certainly unlike anything
one would have expected under such
circumstances. At first he indulged inc

v

very

bad language, snatches of which were borne
upon the wind to the ears of his pursuer ;
whereas it is surely usual to husband one's
oaths for the presence of the young lady, and
even then to use only those of fealty and

devotion. Instead of cautiously keeping under
the shadow of the houses, he took the middle
of the pavement, and that with the swagger
of a dragoon in spurs. So far from looking
like an evildoer, his air gave the impression
of one who suffers under a vehement sense
of wrong, and who is resolved to take the
remedy into his own hands. Even when the
wind and rain had cooled him a little, and
these symptoms of indignation disappeared,
there was nothing in his behaviour to suggest
passion or secrecy. Once indeed he suddenly
vanished from the eyes of his pursuer, who
himself kept far aloof, and as much out of
sight as possible, in case the other should
look behind him ; but in a moment or two
he emerged from his concealment more conspicuous
even than before ; he had only taken
advantage of a doorway to light up a huge
cigar. It was long past the hour for gate-shutting
; but on that night no proctors were
to be found, since an extension of hours had

been granted to all who intended to be at the
Procession Ball ; those officials themselves
indeed were well content to keep within doors
in such weather, and, except a policeman or
two, not a soul was stirring in the nickering
and wind-swept street.

By the time they were clear of the houses
it had ceased raining, but the wind had risen
still higher. It was weather indeed such as
has been described by the most realistic of
poets : —

It was a wild night out of doors,
The wind was mad upon the moors,
And came into the rocking town,
Stabling all things up and down.

And scarcely was it less mad among the new-fledged
woods and shrubberies which now
fringed the road. It seemed as though the
Prince of the Powers of the Air — magnificent
but gruesome title! — was making triumphal
progress. The shrieks and yells of the unseen
element were very uncanny, and might
have aroused, one would have thought, the
most stagnant imagination. Mr. Herbert

Perry, however, had none. Elemental nature
had no voice for him. Neither sky nor star
had ever hallowed his thoughts ; and if he
loved the earth, it was for its grosser pleasures.
His music was not that of the
spheres ; he liked the ' tongs and the bones,'
and they sufficed him. Yet, physically, what
a splendid fellow he was ! Possessed of such
manly beauty as might have been termed
glorious, if beauty can be glorious without a
soul.

Suddenly the moon came out and shone
upon his face. The traces of anger and of
wine had vanished from it, and a certain
necessity for caution, which he had now
begun to experience, gave it an expression of
thoughtfulness. As his pursuer shrank into
the hedge to avoid the effulgence, his own
keen face, full of intelligence but also of
stealth and hate, looked very poor beside it.
It was the case of Hyperion to a satyr ; and
Adair felt the contrast. It was no wonder,

he confessed to himself, between his teeth,
that the fancy of a foolish girl, ignorant of the
higher mathematics, should have been taken
by such a man.

And there was no doubt that it had been
so. As he had all along suspected, his rival
was going to the ' Laurels,' where she would
probably give him a secret interview ; it
should not, however, if he could help it, bean
unseen one. Perry had stopped, and for
the first time looked suspiciously behind him.
Then he left the road and passed through the
gate that opened upon the gravel sweep before
the house. The moon was now obscured
again, and Adair, emerging from the hedge,
followed close upon his footsteps. In his
haste and excitement the gate which the other
had opened and closed behind him with caution
was torn from his less powerful fingers
by the wind, and clanged behind him.

He had but just time to throw himself
upon the ground among the shrubs, when

Perry, attracted by the noise, ran back to the
spot. Had he found him, there would probably
have been murder done ; though not
necessarily by the stronger man. Prone ashe
was, on the wet earth, Adair contrived to
take out a well sharpened knife, with which
he had deftly mended many a pen in examinations,
and open it. He was not a man to
submit to chastisement, however well deserved.
The other, however, after a brief
examination, appeared to ascribe the matter to
accident. He had not, it seemed, shut the
gate, as he had intended to do ; and, cursing
his own carelessness in not having done so,
he passed on.

vol. 1.

CHAPTER IX.

THE WAITING-maid.

The Canon, as Perry was perhaps aware, was
sleeping in chambers that night ; he was a
wise man, who loved his rest, and did not
wish to run the risk of having it destroyed
during the small hours by the ladies' return
from the ball. His friends were probably
still around him, discoursing of every subject
under heaven, or even higher, for thought
was free in those symposiums ; or perhaps
they had left him, and over his last pipe he
was musing alone upon his beloved Milton or
his absent son. What, in any case, he was
certainly not dreaming of, was that two
undergraduates were in his garden, and had

been but two minutes ago within an inch or
so — for it had been little more — of killing one
another for the love of his ward. It is that
inch or so, however, which saves us everyday
from all sorts of catastrophes, of which
we never guess, nor are ever told.

Perry glanced up at the windows ; those
of the sitting-rooms were dark, but a light
still glimmered in the top story. He moved
rapidly to the back of the house, and took a
similar observation of it : all that side was
dark. Perry uttered his usual exclamation
of disappointment, a noun of three syllables,
generally understood to be the copyright of
divines. He was evidently puzzled what todo.
After a moment's reflection, however, he
mounted some iron steps that led from the
garden to the drawing-room balcony, and
also to a door which gave egress to some
smaller chamber, probably a lady's boudoir ;
and, taking a half-crown from his pocket,
struck with it the brass around the keyhole

l 2

twice. Amid the roaring of the wind, the
blow was unheard without, but inside the
house the noise was probably distinct enough,
especially to ears that were accustomed to
such a signal. There was a considerable
delay, during which Perry stood with one ear
at the keyhole, and his foot on the step, prepared
for instant flight, should the expected
footstep sound unfamiliar to him. Adair
crouched down beneath him, shadowed by a
laurel-bush, and watched his every motion, asa
cat of tender years watches a rat of dangerous
dimensions.

For a wonder, Perry showed no - trace of
impatience (which convinced the other that
he had been used to wait under similar circumstances),
and remained in that statuesque
but somewhat strained position till his signal
was answered. A bolt was quietly withdrawn,
the door softly opened, and after a
word or two — as it seemed by the tone — of
objection on the part of the person within,

the young man was admitted. The incident
itself was as strange as a story out of the
Arabian X rights ' ; but to Adair, to whom
romance was unknown, even by hearsay, it
was simply amazing. He had disbelief
enough of his own to answer for, evil
imaginings, and thoughts devoid of charity ;
but he was not one of those gilded youths
littered in scarlet, who are not ashamed to be
sceptical of the virtue of that sex to which
then* mothers belong ; his origin had been
too low to admit of his being suckled in such
a creed. He had already had ample evidence
that Sophy Gilbert was fond, foolish, and
weak almost to recklessness of reputation
with respect to this unworthy suitor of hers,
but that had by no means prepared him for
the spectacle to which he had just been a
witness. Had he been a man of higher
moral character he would have been shocked ;
but his amazement partook rather of that
kind of surprise with which one hears of

some legal acquaintance, never very particular
in his professional proceedings, having
been struck off the rolls : we knew he was
rather shady, but had never thought that of
him. This reflection, however, lasted only
for a minute, and was succeeded by a very
different feeling — jealousy. It was as though
a great wave of evil passions had swept over
his soul, and drenched it with envy, hatred,
and malice. He gazed upon the house which
held the pair he hated, as Satan in another
garden is described, by our Canon's favourite
poet, 'with hellish rancour imminent,' to
have sought the bower of a more guiltless
couple. His suspicions were not, perhaps,
unwarrantable ; but he had certainly no
ground for anger ; to him, at all events,
Sophy Gilbert owed neither love nor loyalty ;
and yet, if a wish of his at that moment
could have killed her, she would have been a
dead woman.

Marvellous indeed are the ways of Fate

with man. How often she sports with his
fiercest passions, and arouses them, as it
seems, in mere wantonness and derision ! If
the poor rage-rocked wretch could have
looked into that boudoir chamber, from the
door of which he never removed his eyes
even for an instant, he would have perceived
that all these vehement emotions of his were
a waste of mental tissue. His suspicions had
been unjust and his deductions untrue.
When that door had opened to Mr. Perry's
signal, it was at the touch of a female hand
indeed, but it was not Sophy's.

This woman was much taller, had a somewhat
coarse complexion, and wore a cap on
her head of that description which is termed
fly-away,' much affected by ladies-maids.
She was good-looking, and even ,
but her eyes were rather too small for
her face, and had a cunning look, which, in one
in her position, suggested intrigue. On the present
occasion, however, the expression of her

face on catching sight of her midnight visitor,
was one of mingled alarm and anger. She
made, indeed (though this was doubtless buta
feint), as though she would have closed the
half opened door in his face, had he not thrust
in his strong fingers and prevented it.

You must be mad, Mr. Perry, to come
here at such an hour as this ! ' she exclaimed,
indignantly.

6 Why did not your mistress come to the
ball ? ' he inquired, sternly, and without
taking the least notice of her indignation.

And what is that to you, sir ? I mean,'
she added, alarmed by the heavy frown that
gathered on his brow, ' what was there in her
not going that can excuse your coming here ?
You have no right '

I have a right,' he interrupted, with distinctness.
' Let me in.' And ignoring the
resistance of her well-knit and far from delicate
arm, as though it were a cobweb, he pushed
his way in, and closed the door behind him.

And now, Miss Jeannette Perkins, where is
your mistress ? '

"Where everybody but a poor lady's maid
is, or ought to be, at this time night — asleep
in her bed.'

She is not a very early bird in general,'
observed the young man, incredulously, ' and
especially on ball-nights. Why didn't she goto
the ball ? '

That is the second time you have asked
that question, Mr. Perry, though there's no
one so fit to answer it as yourself. How
could she go after what happened this evening
? '

I did not hear of anything having happened,'
returned the young man sullenly.

Ah, then, / did ! What I heard was,
that while my mistress was sitting at a window
of the Canon's rooms, and the procession was
a passing, a young gentleman, as ought to
have known better, stood up in a boat and
drank her health out of a quart pot.'

- 1 didn't stand up,' remarked Mr. Perry,
indignantly.

• Maybe because you couldn't,' was the
sharp rejoinder. ' Indeed, nobody who was
in his right senses could possibly have put
such a disgrace upon a young lady.'

I didn't mean to do anything of that
kind, of course ! ' said the other, exchanging
his injured tone for one of apology.

I suppose you thought it was paying hera
compliment. Her friends, however, did not
think so, at all events ; and they took care
that she should run no risk of another such
being paid her the same evening. And that's
why my poor dear young lady was 'not at the
ball this evening.'

She could have gone if she chose, for all
that, I'll bet a shilling,' returned the young
fellow, sulkily.

Don't you be so free with your money,
Mr. Perry — though it's very seldom you need
any warning upon that score, I must say.

She has bad such a talking to from Miss Aldred
that her head is like to split : and then there's
the thought of what the Canon will say to her
about it, all over again, in the morning. Ball,
indeed ! The poor thing is fitter for her
coffin ; her pretty eyes all swollen with tears,
and with saying to herself, as she is doing this
very moment, " How could be, could he do
so r

Why you just told me she was asleep.'
1 Well, and if I did, it was not of my own
free wil. Her first words when I went to
tell her that I heard your knock at the door
was, " It can't be Herbert, Jeannette. He
would never do anything so rash — so mad."
And when I told her that I was sure it was
you, for you were mad enough for anything,
Then don't tell him how ill I am," she said,
or he will never forgive himself for the trouble
he has caused me." '

'It seems to me there has been a great
deal of fuss about nothing,' said Mr. Perry,

contemptuously ; but at the same time he
twisted his beard very tight, which Miss Jeannette
Perkins knew to be a sign of discomfort
with him.

'Nothing to you, of course, Mr. Perry.
That's just what I told my mistress. " Whatever
trouble befalls you, Miss," I said, " Mr.
Perry will be able to bear it very bravely, so
long as he doesn't share it." However, if you
drive her to desperation, I am glad to think
that you will share it. She is getting near
that, I promise you. " Anything, anything,"
the poor young lady sometimes says to me,
must be better than this." '

Better than what ? ' inquired the young
man, stolidly.

" Better than what ? " That's a pretty
question for one to put who is the cause of all
her misery ! Well, better than living a life of
hypocrisy, which is made next to impossible
by the goings on of the very person who has
rendered it necessary, Better than deceiving

those who really love her for the sake of a
man who only loves himself, and is bent only
on pleasing himself, no matter though it risks
her reputation.'

Mr. Perry uttered an exclamation of contempt.


A woman's reputation, of course,' continued
Miss Perkins, ' is of no consequence in
your eyes. I was a fool to mention it. I
should have been wiser to remind you that the
little game you are now playing may lose not
only her, but her fortune also. Her guardian
has the sole control over it till she comes of
age, remember ; can't you hide your hand for
even twelve months, and play the part of a
gentleman ? You aunt an habitual drunkard,
I suppose, that you must " break out " every
week or so in this fashion.'

I'd speak a little louder if I were you ! '
said Perry, gnawing at his beard.

I w r ould if I dared,' was the prompt reply.
I would say what I think of you at the top

of ray voice at noonday in the middle of Trumping
ton Street if I had my way. But I know
that if Miss Aldred heard me, and suspected
your presence, it would be the ruin of my
young mistress, aye, and your ruin too, as you
will see clearly enough tomorrow morning.
To come here at this time of night, drunk ! '

1 You lie — I am not drunk.'

Then your conduct is even worse ; to
come here at this time of night in your sober
senses, with a reckless disregard of all consequences
to my dear young mistress, is most
vile and abominable.'

'I wanted to know why she was not at
the ball.'

Well, now you do know — go.'

And Miss Jeanne te — though the name
given to her at the baptismal font had in fact
been Susan, which suited better perhaps with
her patronymic, Perkins — pointed to the door
with a dramatic gesture worthy of a French
melodrama. Her vigorous onslaught had

been too muck for Mr. Perry : men of his
class can seldom stand against a woman's
righteous indignation, unless she happens to
be his wife. He had come to the ' Laurels '
under a vague sense of ill-treatment, he was
indignant at Sophy's absence from the ball,
and wanted to know the ' reason why,' partly
perhaps because he suspected the reason ; he
knew that he had earned her reproaches by
drinking her health on the river, and therefore
wished to establish a grievance on his
own account. But Jeannette had routed him.
He took up his battered college cap, and,
muttering a grudging apology about ' not
knowing it was quite so late,' and an ungracious
hope that the young lady's head would
not be so bad but that she could be seen the
next day, he passed out into the night.

With a swift hand Jeannette locked the door
behind him, and stood listening for his heavy
step upon the iron stairs.

i Thank Heaven, that's over ! ' she exclaimed,

with a great sigh of relief. ' Drat
the man, I wish he was drownded ! '

The aspiration was a pretty strong one,
but there was little doubt of its genuineness.
Her eyes had still the fire of indignation
in them, her cheeks were still flushed with
it ; her bosom still palpitated with it, quite
as much as with her late passionate eloquence.
' How Miss Sophy can stand it,'
she went on, ' amazes me. It would wear me
to skin and bone. And to think that there
must be twelve months of it, and that much
worse things may happen in twelve months,
and at the end of them she will be his for life !
I wouldn't be in her shoes, no, not for all her
money, which — if she gets it at all, poor soul
will be his. If I were in her place the
service would never suspect me, and I'd poison
him. And yet, when he don't actually kick
over the traces, as he has done to-day, how
mighty cool she takes it ! she'd a gone to the
ball to-night — if it hadn't been for that other

young fellow — as sure as fate, aye, and have
enjoyed herself too, and danced like a queen
of the May. She'd dance on the brink of a
precipice. For my part, I can think of nothing
so horrid as running the risk of losing one's
character, when one has done nothing to
deserve it. No one can say that / ever played
into Mr. Herbert Perry's hands ; a close-fisted
fellow, which is a thing I despise ; but there's
nothing I so much regret as having listened
to Miss Sophy's entreaties (as though I hadn't
known what a fool every girl is when she is in

love), and for her sake oh, Jemimaram,

if he hasn't come back again ! '

The interjection was caused by the same
sharp tapping on the door-lock without, that
had already summoned Jeannette from her
duties about her young mistress. She had
little doubt that she had heard aright, but she
was very willing to believe herself deceived,
The wind was still roaring and raging, and it
was just possible that what she had just heard

VOL. I. m

was but the swinging of-the iron gate of the
balcony. Surely, surely, after that piece of
her mind had been given him, and apparently
with such excellent effect, Mr. Herbert Perry
could not desire admittance a second time.
Yet, as she listened with painful intentness,
with her ear at the keyhole, there came again
the well-known summons. ' It is him, drat
him ! ' she murmured ; and with the same
precautions as before, but rendered more
difficult by the angry trembling of her limbs,
she opened the door a little space, when, without
making it any wider, to her horror and
amazement there slipped in, like a serpent,
the attenuated frame of Mr. John Adair.

CHAPTER X.

VISITOR NUMBER TWO.

The apparition of a total and unexpected
stranger, under the circumstances we have
just described, would have been alarming
enough to any young woman ; while the
appearance of the intruder himself — limp,
bedraggled, livid — was not calculated to restore
confidence. One side of him was
covered with mud (where he had lain on the
ground, pending Mr. Perry's investigation of
the garden gate) ; the other in sodden evening
clothes, was hardly more respectably
attired ; his sole protection against the wild
weather an undergraduate's gown, tied round
his neck like a shawl — the only thing that
could be said to the advantage of the

M 2

young man was that he did not look like
a gay Lothario. Not for a moment, however,
did Miss Perkins imagine him to be a vulgar
thief or burglar. The undergraduate's gown,
for which she had as quick an eye as an
undergraduate for a petticoat, reassured her
upon that point at once ; she staggered back
in alarm, indeed, but it was not of a physical
kind. Her feelings were similar to those of
the gay mousquetaire, who, perceiving his
beloved object and the ghost of her twin
sister, whom he had betrayed, tending his
sick bed together, exclaimed ' Voila deux ! '
and went off in a fit. She felt that there
was a second lover, though in the likeness of
a drowned rat, come after her young mistress.
Nay, after a few moments' reflection, though
she had never so much as set eyes on him
before, she even guessed who he was. It
must be admitted, however, that even her
natural acuteness could not have arrived at
this conclusion without assistance. She was

Sophy's confidante — a safer one in some
respects, and a ranch more dangerous one
in others, than Henny Helford would have
made — and she already knew all about Mr.
John Adair. Her countenance, however, expressed
nothing but unmitigated amazement.

The intruder, too, was hardly less surprised,
and from the same cause. He had
counted upon being confronted with a
familiar face, and lo! he found himself in
the presence of a stranger.

Being a woman, and a ready one, Miss
Perkins was the first to speak.

1 Who on earth are you, sir ? ' she inquired
; l and what are you come here about ? '

I am a friend of Canon Aldred's,' he
said ; ' and as I was coming home from the
ball I saw a man slip into your garden. Perceiving
by the light yonder ' — he pointed to
the candle — ' that some of the family were
still up, I thought it my duty to give you
warning of it.'

An ordinary British maidservant, under
like circumstances, would have grasped with
gratitude at the means thus suggested of
explaining matters ; but Jeannette was much
too sharp to fall into such an error. It
flashed upon her in a moment that the newcomer
could not have made use of the same
signal as his predecessor, had he not witnessed
it ; and, therefore, that all concealment
as to that incident was useless. Moreover,
here was an unexpected opportunity of doing
a good turn to her young mistress, whom she
knew had reason to stand in fear of this
gentleman.

My master should be greatly obliged to
you, sir,' she said, hesitatingly. ' But the
fact is, the person you saw is no burglar, as
you suppose. I have just seen him myself,
for he had the impudence to force his way in,
though I did my best to prevent him : he is
a friend of the family — though, as you may
well say, after such conduct, hardly deserves

to remain so ; he is not quite master of his
own actions to-night, having been, I suppose,
at the ball supper. If it got to be known, I
am terrified to think what would happen : I
don't mean to him, for he would have only
himself to thank for it ; but the Canon, I'm
sure, would be so dreadfully distressed.'

And your young mistress, Miss Gilbert,
also, perhaps ? ' suggested Adair, drily.

i Iso doubt, and Miss Aldred likewise.
There is nothing like your gentleman blackguard
for doing mischief in a house.'

"Wet as he was, a glow came into the
cheeks of Mr. John Adair, and touched his
trembling ears.

There is a general notion, set going, I
am inclined to think, by the scoundrels themselves,
that persons who behave in a rascally
manner are unaware of it, or at all events
that they gloze it over in their own minds, so
that their conduct looks much more respectable
; it is just possible that it may be so, when

rascality has become the rule and not the
exception of their lives, but in a general way
every one is conscious of the commission of a
baseness, and no more likes to be reminded
of it than of any other unpleasant fact.

I have heard of a gentleman farmer and
of a gentleman jockey,' returned the young
man with a forced smile ; ' but a gentleman
blackguard, my good girl, is a contradiction
in terms.'

k Well, I never heard him called by that
name, sir,' returned Jeannette, simply ; ' but
there's plenty of them about. You would
never believe it, but that young man had the
impudence to call here, to-night, without the
least thought of the scandal that might come
of it, merely to inquire why my young mistress
was not at the ball to-night — as though
it was any business of his.'

- Impudent scoundrel ! ' ejaculated Mr.
Adair, indignantly. ' And why didn't your
young mistress go to the ball ? '

Well, surely there was reason enough, as
you must very well know.' Adair's face
darkened in a moment. He had all along
suspected that it was the fear of meeting him,
or rather of being under his surveillance,
while she was in Perry's company, that had
kept her away from the town-hall ; and the
supposition, as we know, was correct.

I know of no reason,' he answered,
sharply. ' It ought to have been a very
good one, for only a few hours ago Miss
Gilbert, with her own lips, promised me a
dance. It was a great disappointment to
merit

naturally must have been,' admitted
Jeannette, a light craft that could put about
at a moment's notice. ' I am sure she is very
sorry that it has so happened ; but after Mr.
Perry's conduct on the river — which I took
for granted you had heard of — and for fear
that he should misbehave himself again '

But Miss Gilbert knew all that when she

promised to dance with me,' interrupted
Adair.

And so did Miss Aldred know, only she
had not told my mistress when she spoke to
you, because she had had no opportunity of
telling her, that nothing would induce her tolet
her go to the ball. This is only between
ourselves, sir, if you please,' added the girl,
earnestly ; ' for what Miss Aldred gave out
was that she had a headache and did not feel
equal to going to the ball herself.'

I did hear her say she had a headache,'
observed Adair, greatly mollified. ' Then it
was not your mistress's fault — that is, it was
not of her own will — that she stopped at
home ? '

Certainly not, sir ; she has a better
opinion of Mr. Perry perhaps than some of us
have, and very likely did not think it possible
that he would so offend again ; but she is a
young lady of spirit, and if she was once
persuaded that Mr. Perry, or any other gentleman,

was presuming upon any kindness she
had shown him, or taking advantage of some
fancied hold of her in any other way, she
would go to her guardian at once, no matter
what annoyance it cost her, and my master
would know how to deal with him.'

No doubt, no doubt,' said Adair, with
the red on his cheeks, but in as careless a
tone as he could assume ; ' still, in the matter
of Mr. Perry's unseasonable call, I understood
you to say that Miss Gilbert did not
wish the Canon to know about it.'

She does not know about it herself, sir,
as yet,' returned Miss Perkins, tartly ; i but
it doesn't need a ghost from the grave, I
should think, to know that no young lady
wants to be made the talk of the town. I
should have thought every gentleman who
was a gentleman understood that.'

c I understand it perfectly well, my good
girl ; and I think I understand you, 1 said
Adair, smiling, as he drew his purse from his

pocket. ' I should like your young mistress
to know I had looked in, in case I might be
of any use ; but of course no one else shall
know. Be so good as to give her my compliments,
and say I shall do myself the
honour of calling tomorrow.'

Oh, thank you, sir.'

It was not Mr. Adair's polite promise that
had thus excited Miss Perkins' gratitude, but
the coin he had dropped into her hand, and
which her nice sense of touch immediately
informed her was a sovereign. ' Would you
like an umbrella, sir ? If you don't mind a
gingham, I'll lend you mine.'

Declining this generous offer with a smile,
and chucking the damsel under the chin
(from a notion that that course of conduct
was under the circumstances expected of him,
rather than from any amatory impulse), Mr.
Adair let himself out.

He's as wet as a frog,' observed Miss
Perkins, rubbing her chin with her frilled

apron, as she locked the door behind him.
1 hope that poor young man won't die of a
cold. I had no idea when I first set eyes on
him that he was such a good sort. One
should never judge men, as men do women,
by their looks. " Handsome is as handsome
does," is my motto. Now, there's Mr.
Perry ; one would imagine to look at him
that to do him ever so slight a service would
be gold in any one's pocket ; and yet a
meaner man never stepped. To think that
the very day he was married on the sly that
he only gave half a sovereign to his wife's
own maid ! Bah ! I hate such husbands ! '

CHAPTER XL

TWO GIRLS.

i My dear Henny, what on earth takes you
out so early? ' exclaimed Mrs. Helford to her
daughter on the morning after the ball niodit.
The question was put with reproachful
severity, as though Henny was committing
an act of desertion, and her bonnet and shawl
were the Queen's uniform about to be unlawfully
disposed of in defiance of the statute.

If you want me, dear mamma, I will
stay ; but I thought I would just look in at
the " Laurels " to inquire after Miss Aldred.
Her head was so bad last night, you remember,
that she was unable to chaperone Sophy to
the ball.'

You will do as you please, my dear, of
course ; but, in my opinion, charity should
begin at home. 7

And the widow sighed, like some Cassandra
who perceives the catastrophe to which
all things are hastening, but is powerless to
control the course of events.

Mrs. Helford was a lady of mature years,
but of a tall and massive frame, to which her
mourning weeds were quite unable to impart
their usual impression of helplessness and
desolation. She was a widow of course,
though her bereavement was by no means a
recent one ; but she was too plump for the
part. She had also another excuse for the
melancholy tone and air which was habitual
to her : she had lost her only son, Henny's
elder brother. I say c excuse, 7 for as a matter
of fact it could hardly have been what old
Burton calls ' a cause ' for melancholy.
Richard Helford had been c a mauvais sujet ?
from his cradle ; and after a dissipated youth

had married early and ill. His mother, who
doted on her spendthrift son, had had her
means greatly crippled by his extravagance,
and, had he lived, would probably have been
ruined by him. But when he died, leaving
an orphan child to her care, he received not
only forgiveness from her but canonization.
To hear her speak of her Richard you would
have imagined him to be the embodiment of
all the virtues, and that his death had been a
national loss instead of a happy release for
every one connected with him.

Although Henny's nature was too truthful
to admit of her joining in this false
worship, she showed no sign of scepticism.
Not a thought ever entered her mind to the
prejudice of the ne'er-do-well who had squandered
so much of what might have been hers,
and had left no memory of a kindness to her
in word or deed behind him. She simply
transferred the love that might have been his
to his little boy, of whom she was the tutor

and the slave. Her mother was well aware
of this, and, because her grandchild was only
beloved upon his own account, resented it.
i Henny never loved my poor dead Richard,'
she would say to herself, and felt a sort of
grudge against her daughter in consequence.
As she had really no fault to find with her,
however, she was compelled to confine herself
to vague generalities of reprobation, such as
Charity begins at home.' Her daughter was
as affectionate as she was dutiful, but this
attitude on her mother's part kept the girl at
arm's length. She had no confidences with
her mother, though she had no secrets from
her. When Frederic Iron gained his fellowship
and offered his hand and heart to her,
Mrs. Helford had had very cold congratulations
to offer. She did not absolutely disapprove
— indeed there was no ground for
absolute disapproval — but poor Henny could
not but contrast her conduct with what it had
been when her brother Richard had announced
vol. 1. N

his intention of marrying the barmaid. In
that case (though it was from fear, perhaps,
as much as love, for the young man was a
Tartar) she had been ready enough to make
the best of the matter ; the girl, after all, was
virtuous ; the society of dear Richard was an
education for anybody, and would doubtless
make a lady of her in time ; he might have
done worse ; he would now settle clown
(which he did like a ship) ; in short, there
was scarcely any opposition. But Mr.
Frederic Iron was much too young ; his
fellowship was of no use to him, since he lost
it by marriage ; the Bar was a most uncertain
profession, &c, &c.

But, dear mamma, 7 Henny would interpose
at this point, l Frederick will be a solicitor.'


Quite as uncertain, my dear, and not so
desirable ; the lower branch of the profession.
It is not as if you were an heiress and independent
of fortune.'

Some girls would not have scrupled to
hint that they would have been independent
but for circumstances over which the mother
had had control, but had not exercised it.
But Henny only sighed, and listened in
patience.

In the end, she had been grudgingly permitted
to engage herself to the man of her
choice. But she could not talk of him to her
mother as a daughter wishes to talk on such
a subject. In one particular Mrs. Helford
had certainly found nothing to complain of.
1 1 only hope, Henny,' she had somewhat ungraciously
observed, ' that this new attraction
will not cause you to neglect poor Stevie.'
So far from doing so, it had, if possible, drawn
the bonds of her affection for the child still
closer. She was resolved that he at least
should never lack a loving; confidante ; and
all his little secrets were her own.

On the road of love and duty, indeed,
Henny Helford was a constant traveller ; and,

N 2

no matter bow rough it may be, it is rarely
an unpleasant one. Xor was it in her case,
truth to say, so rough as it looked. Her
mother's affection for her was deep and firm
enough under the mud, and even more genuine,
perhaps, than her more demonstrative regard
for her dead boy. In the latter case, it was
not that she ' did protest too much,' but that
she found protestation necessary to still certain
misgivings and even self-reproaches in
respect to. him ; and I think her daughter
guessed something of this, and forgave her the
more readily. At all events, notwithstanding
that she passed her life in what may have
seemed to young ladies of spirit a dull round,
Henny Helford was a happy girl, and there
was a young lady of spirit next door who
would have given ter ears, and her earrings
too, to change places with her.

You will not be gone long at all events,
I do hope,' said Mrs. Helford, perceiving that
Henny had not laid down her bonnet and

shawl on the first summons to surrender.
i You must not forget Stevie's lessons.'

As Henny taught and heard them everyday
with the same regularity with which she
said her prayers, it was not very likely that
she would forget them. But the fact was,
Mrs. Helford was one of those women who
share with some domestic animals the same
repugnance to be left alone. Pet dogs will
trot to the door directly they find themselves
in solitude, and sniff and sob under it till
some friendly human being comes to relieve
their ennui ; and cats will leave the hearth-rug
and take up their quarters, for the same
reason, on the very threshold, at the risk of
being knocked over by the next incomer.
The widow, of course, didn't do that ; but,
having no resources of her own except fancy
needlework, she craved for company. Conversation
she did not desire ; she could supply
talk in any quantity ; but she wanted a listener,
to whom she could pour out her woes —

23ast, present, and to come — like tears out of
a tea-pot. I have sometimes thought if such
people could have a telephone fitted up for
them in which they could discourse their full,
with replies from the other end provided at
long intervals by contract, human life would
go on more smoothly for many of us.

It may be inquired, since this lady was
really devoted to her grandchild, why the
little boy was not sent for to relieve guard in
her daughter's absence. But the fact was
that Stevie's remarks when she was alone
with him rather disconcerted Mrs. Helford.
Though legitimate enough, he was a child of
nature, and embarrassed his grandmother by
his plain speaking. He was thin and small
as a shrimp, with a head ever so much too
large for him, so that he looked like a note of
admiration ; but his character was by no
means in consonance with his appearance in
that respect. He was always rubbing the gilt
off some gingerbread theory which other

children swallow without inquiry. He had
endeared himself, I am afraid, to the Canonby
his scepticism, quite as much as by any
charm of childhood. The divine had quoted
to him the Miltonic account of the eating of
the Forbidden Fruit as a lesson against
greediness.

Such delight till then, as seemed in fruit she never tasted.

*****

Greedily she engorged without restraint.

This view of our first parent at meals
delighted Stevie, but he was incredulous as
to the cause of the catastrophe that ' brought
death into the world and all our woe.'

He thought the motive too inadequate.
It couldn't have been an apple,' he said.
It must have been a peach.'

Adam's confession, too, was not received
by Stevie with the approval with which the
poet would appear to regard it.

This woman whom thou modest to be my help,

*****

She gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

6 1 think that Mr. Adam was a 
was Stevie's comment after reflection.

The Canon rubbed his chin, and shook
with silent mirth. ' A remarkable child,' he
murmured ; of course Milton was right. But
here was another view of the matter, as it
appeared to a young gentleman of seven, four
thousand years afterwards ; ' a very remarkable
child.'

And if Stevie did not spare the father of
all mankind, it was not to be expected that
his more immediate relatives should escape
his criticism. It was no wonder that Mrs.
Helford, with her artificial ways and fictitious
regrets, was rather afraid of the child. He
would suddenly look u}3 from his toys when
he was alone with her, and, in the gravest
and most serious of tones, inquire, ' Why are
you always so melancholy, grand mamma ? '

I am not melancholy, my child, or at
least I hope I don't appear to be so ; I always
try to be cheerful.'

This remark, as was his wont, the child
turned over in his mind as a cow chews the
cud, and then replied —

i Then I wish you would try to be melancholy,
grandmamma.'

The favourite topic of Mrs. Helford, her
lost Richard, was closed to her in her grandson's
company. She did not venture to discourse
upon his father to this plain-speaking
child, to whom no subject was safe from
investigation, and who had so pitiless a habit
of eliciting truth.

Therefore it was that Stevie was not sent
for to keep his grandmother company on this
occasion, but remained, to his own great content,
in his nursery, playing with the great
Noah's Ark ' Uncle' Fred had just sent him
from town. As his bath was handy, it
naturally struck him to try the ark's powers
of notation, and when with its shifting cargo
it instantly turned bottom upwards, exclaimed,

' Now I wonder how Mr. Noah got
over that. 7

Unconscious of this new outbreak of
scepticism on the part of her little favourite,
Henny took her way to the ' Laurels.' Her
mission as we know, was a very simple one,
and to many clever folks will doubtless appear
contemptible. Who ever dreams of going
to inquire after anybody's headache ? Well,
some people do, and these are the very last in
the world to expect any one to do the same in
their case. They do not forget that their
friend had a sore throat on Thursday, or complained
of the toothache on Wednesday,
though the sufferer himself may have forgotten
all about it. For my part (and especially
when it is my health that is asked
after), I admire this tender solicitude. The
matter, indeed, may not be so important as
the price of stocks ; but such inquiries are
characteristic when one considers how many
dear friends of one's own may be dead and

buried for all that our own personal interest
in them has informed us to the contrary.

It must be confessed, however (for she
was but woman), that Henny had some other
motive for her visit beside kind inquiries after
Miss Aldred's head. She had had a letter
from i dear Fred ■ that morning, of which she
had not spoken to a human being ; and what
is Love without a sympathiser ? What is
the very best thing that ever occurred to us
in all our lives if we have not a soul to whom
to tell it ? And though, as has been hinted,
there was little reciprocity on Sophy's part,
Henny made a confidante of Sophy. She was
by no means displeased, then, to find upon
inquiry not only that Miss Aldred had no
headache, ' leastways,' as Mr. Barclay ' had
heard on,' but had gone out, and that Miss
Sophy was alone in her boudoir.

This was a little cosy room adjoining her
bedroom, and by no means to be confounded
with that downstairs apartment, the door of

which moved to the i open sesame ' of a think
against its keyhole. It was lined with books,
and would undoubtedly have been the sanctum
of the master of the house had he not
been better provided for in that way in college.
As it was, it had a piano in it, a
fernery, no aroma of tobacco, a prevailing
neatness, and other signs of female occupation
and supremacy. As Henny tripped upstairs
unannounced, she could hear the piano,
which, on the other hand, prevented Sophy
from hearing her friend's gentle knock at the
door. There was a song going on, too : so
sweet and pathetic that Henny would not
have interrupted it on any account, but stood,
with her hand on the open door, gazing with
affectionate admiration on the performer.
Sophy was in her dressing-gown, like a
pretty flower in a pink jar, and in a low
melodious voice, laden with feeling, was addressing
the instrument itself, as a worshipper
an idol.

Oh, friend, whom glad or grave, we seek

Heaven-holding shrine,
I ope thee, touch thee, hear thee speak,

And peace is mine.
No fairy casket full of bliss

Outvalues thee.
Love only wakened with a kiss,

More sweet may be.

Here she stopped, and sighed. The recollection
of a vanished pleasure, or the shattered
illusion of one, seemed to overcome her.
During the first lines of the next verse her
voice had a mechanical rinp\ as though she
was still thinking; of what had gone before.

To thee when our full hearts o'erflow,

In griefs or joys,
Unspeakable emotions owe

A fitting voice.

And then again, at the conclusion, her heart
went once more with her voice.

Mirth flies to thee, and Love's unrest,

And memory dear,
And sorrow, with her tightened breast,

Comes for a tear.

Here the singer herself burst into tears,

and flung herself forward on the keys in a
perfect paroxysm of woe.

Alarmed and distressed beyond measure,
Henny had still presence of mind to withdraw
from the room, pulling the door softly
behind her. Whatever was the cause of her
friend's wretchedness, it was clear that she
could wish no one to be a witness to it. But
what could be the cause ? Sophy was mistress
of her own actions, and, to all practical
purposes, of her own fortune ; beloved
by her guardian and her adopted aunt, a
favourite wherever she went, and apparently
without a wish ungratified. It was true that
in Henny' s eyes she had made a mistake in
encouraging the advances of Mr. Perry, but
there was nothing serious in them as yet.
She had not compromised herself with him
in any way ; and even already, as Henny
thought, she had noticed the young man was
not so importunate as he had been. "Was it
possible that any rejection of his attentions

could have produced this outburst of feeling ?
If so, while pitying her friend from the
bottom of her heart, Henny felt that her behaviour
in the matter in question was by no
means to be regretted. Sympathetic as she
was, she had never imagined these two young
people on the same footing as that on which
Frederic Iron and herself stood. That they
were not actually engaged she had felt almost
certain ; but perhaps she had been mistaken,
and Sophy was now bewailing an estrangement,
which all those who loved her would
agree was for her good. But though Henny
could not prevent this consolatory reflection
occurring to her, her heart was full of the
tenderest compassion. What had happened
(if it had happened) was none the less hard,
she knew, for poor Sophy, in the meantime.

After a minute or two, during which she
heard the piano gently closed, Henny knocked
again, and was admitted.

The traces of tears upon Sophy's face,

as they embraced, were distinct enough, to
Henny's eyes, but she ignored them.

I came to inquire after your aunt, my
dear,' she said cheerfully ; ' but as I hear she
has gone out, I hope her headache has departed.
7

I did not know she had had a headache,'
said Sophy, with averted eyes.

Why, my dear, I thought that was
the reason you didn't go to the ball last
night ? '

1 To be sure, so it was ; I had forgotten.'
Henny was amazed at her coolness ; she
had no experience of that philosophic calm
with which those who live a life of duplicity
are enabled to meet all minor embarrassments.
Then, as if to make up for her want
of solicitude in one direction by a show of it
in another, Sophy inquired after Stevie.

Oh, he is much better to-day, and in] the
seventh heaven of happiness. Frederic has
sent him a Noah's Ark.'

And I hope you had something too,' said
Sophy, smiling.

Yes, indeed. Such a nice long letter ! '

What, and no present ? That would
have made me very jealous of Stevie ! '

What do I want with presents ? ' said
Henny, simply ; i what can be nicer than to
hear from him ? To see the very words his
hand has written, to feel the very thoughts
he describes in them ? It is the one thing
that makes his absence endurable. I often
wonder what people who loved one another,
and were separated, did before the post-office
was invented.'

i Well, they did without it, I suppose,'
said Sophy, drily. 'Just as poor people who
can't read or write have to do now.'

1 How I pity them ! ' said Henny, softly.
That must be to be poor indeed.'

I hope you may never lose your illusions,
my dear. It is quite refreshing to hear
you talk.'

vol. 1. o

Illusions ! If you really mean what
you say, Sophy returned the other, earnestly,
' it is clear to me that you have never
known what love is.'

Have I not ? ' smiled Sophy, bitterly
and with effort, as an Indian smiles at the
stake. i Well, perhaps you are right ; while
it lasted, however, it really did seem like
love.'

While it lasted ! Nay, that proves my
case at once urged Henny. ' You can never
have loved truly. " Love is love for evermore."
'

How can you talk so foolishly, Henny ? '
returned Sophy, with irritation. ' What experience
can you have of that ? You have
been engaged to Mr. Iron for six months.
Now, supposing you fell in love with him at
first '

I did not interrupted Henny.

'Very good ! We will say he "grew
upon you," like the taste for truffles or

caviare. That makes your term of true love
even shorter. Doubtless, you thought it
wrong to love him till he had declared himself.
Your devotion was " ready laid " for
that, like a housemaid's fire.'

'Well, perhaps it was something of that
kind,' said Henny, blushing furiously ;
though I don't thank you for the comparison.
You really seem to take a pleasure,
Sophy, in ridiculing what it seems to me a
girl should hold as something sacred.'

1 1 hope not ; still, it was said by a great
philosopher that no one can have any true
faith who cannot afford to laugh at it. If
you don't see its weak points you are in a
fool's paradise. And as to love, you must
admit that there are contingencies : for instance,
people sometimes get tired of one
another.'

I could never get tired of Frederic'

Well, I won't be so rude as to say that
he could ever tire of you ; but still, there



surely are cases where such a thing happens
where the man has mistaken a passing
fancy for a life's devotion ; or has even no
capacity for love except his passing fancy.
How are girls like you and me to know what
men are ? '

If a man be a good brother and a good
son, if he is gentle and generous, if children
take to him '

My dear Henny, you are thinking of
your Frederic,' broke in Sophy, with irritation.
- It is most natural that you should be
always thinking of him, but it is not argument.
And all that you know even of him
does not prove that he will make a good
husband. Moreover, how few girls have
such opportunities of judging of a man's character
? They know he dances well, and is a
good partner at lawn-tennis ; they think that
he looks like a Greek god : his smile, his
tender speech, intoxicates them. They think
he will be their slave for ever.'

I don't call that love,' said Henny, firmly;
< I call that folly.'

And you are very right ; but it is often
put to the same test as love. They marry
him.'

Then I pity them.'

i Yes ; but not as they pity themselves,'
returned the other, quickly. ' To find their
Greek god has clay feet ; that his speech
is sometimes thick with wine ; that he
can frown as well as smile ; and that in
place of a slave they have got a tyrant — that
is what some girls discover when it is too
late.'

Well, well ; to be forewarned is to be
forearmed,' said Henny, smiling. ' You must
be mad indeed, my dear Sophy, if, with this
picture in your mind of such a possible future,
you ever make a mistake of that kind.'

'True ; I must be mad, indeed,' said
Sophy.

She spoke with a gravity that, upon the

whole, gave comfort to her companion. The
great fault she found with Sophy was that
she treated all subjects in the same light way;
not like Stevie, from ignorance, or the absence
of a sense of proportion, but from aversion to
serious thoughts of any kind, which she
stigmatised generally as the i doldrums.' It
was evident, however, that she was not without
her reflections concerning matrimony. As
for the cynicism of her tone, Henny was inclined
to ascribe it to* some dissatisfaction at
Mr. Perry's conduct, aroused tardily enough,
and which was certainly not to be regretted.
She had not heard of what had happened on
the river the previous evening ; but she knew
the young man was unpopular, and deservedly
so, with Sophy's people.

You will be glad to hear, Sophy, she
continued, after a little pause, ' that Frederic
is to be taken into partnership with Mr.
Whetstone.'

I am glad, Henny,' said Sophy, with a

cordial kiss. ' That is good news, indeed.
Then yours will not be such a very long
engagement ? '

It will not be a short one, Sophy ; dear
mamma, you see, is so loth to part with me,
and Fred must live in London. I shouldn't
wonder if an heiress like yourself, with so
many attractions too, better than all the
money in the world, were married first, after
all.'

Sophy smiled, and murmured ' Who can
tell ? ' with an indifferent air. If Henny had
not been lost in rapture at the prospect, however
distant, of her own happiness, she could
not but have noticed the depression of her
companion.

Even when we do marry,' she went on
gaily, ' we shall perhaps only have that
terrible " three hundred a year," which the
papers all tell us is madness for a young
couple to begin housekeeping upon ; but
Frederic says it all depends upon whether

there is method in the madness ; and he has
the highest confidence in my domestic
economy. It is, of course, a very small
sum.'

What does it matter? ' cried Sophy, vehemently.
' If you really love one another,
that is better than thousands a year — and
miv.h more rare.'

Well, so / think, of course ; though I
confess I am as much surprised as delighted
at finding you take the same view. There
will be no visits to Paris nor even to the seaside
for us, you know ; and very little gaiety
even at home. I should be quite content even
were that to last for ever ; but Frederic says,
as to the three hundred a year question, that
if a man starts with that and never wins anything
more for himself, it is obvious that
nature intended him for the lowest rung of
the social ladder ; whereas men of diligence
and ability are sure to win their way in the
world. Of course we shall never be rich, like

you ; but, perhaps, in time we may make
some pleasant little nest for ourselves ; and,
oh ! my dear Sophy, how charming it will be
to welcome you to it ! Think of each of us
having a Fred of our own — only yours, perhaps,
will be a Sir Frederick, or even a Lord
Frederick — to talk about ; and what a pleasure
it will be to look back upon these old
days, not regretfully, you know, but with
sober content ! '

You have happy dreams, dear Henny,'
said Sophy, slowly.

1 Dreams ! Well, perhaps they are ! still
I live in them, just as much as in present
realities. I sometimes think you would be
happier than you are if you had another
string to your bow, as it were, if you added
the delight of looking forward to the pleasures
of to-day, which you say are enough for you.
On the other hand, you enjoy yourself so
thoroughly that perhaps your real, though
indeed it would be very difficult,' put in

Henny with a blush, ' would surpass my
ideal.'

My ideal is on those shelves said Sophy,
quietly, pointing to the books around her ;
they consisted chiefly of works which people
who read travels on weekdays, and sermons
on Sundays, are wont to describe somewhat
superciliously as 'light literature.' She was
a girl of intelligence and imagination, and
read a good many novels. ' When I want to
be romantic I turn on the Lefanu tap.'

I don't deny the quality of it,' answered
Henny, with a smile, ' but I must confess it
is rather too strong drink for me. I was kept
awake for nights by those dreadful stories
you lent me — " In a Glass darkly ; " their attraction
is immense, but then I don't want
to have my blood curdled. The only real
pleasure I derive from such books is the same
one feels on awaking from a nightmare, and
feeling that it isn't true. The things he describes
are not everyday matters ; if there was

a mystery hanging over the " Firs " ' (so Mrs.
Helford's house was called), ' or a skeleton in
the cupboard at the Canon's rooms at the
college, or if you yourself were carrying
about with you some secret too terrible for
utterance, why, life would be unendurable.'

It would not be worth living, at all
events,' assented Sophy, with a shudder.

My dear Sophy, are you sure you are
quite well?' inquired Henny, with solicitude.
Up to this moment Sophy had been standing
with her back to the window, but she had
unconsciously moved into the light, and it revealed
a face very white and worn, with dark
rings round the eyes.

I have had a bad night, Henny, that's
all. Perhaps in spite of what I told you
yesterday,' she added with a forced smile, ' I
was a wee bit disappointed at not going to
the ball.'

I wish you would see Dr. Newton ; he
promised to pay his farewell visit to Stevieto-

day. Now, when lie comes, do let me send
him in to look at yon.'

No, thank you, I don't believe in doctors
; besides, I shall be all right tomorrow.'

'Well, I shall come and see, and if you
are not, I shall bring him in myself. I must
go back now, dear, because I promised mamma
not to stay long, and in the meantime do not
terrify yourself with melodrama. It is quite
out of your line, which is that of a charming
little fairy in an extravaganza. God bless
you, my darling ! '

If you ask Him, perhaps He may,' was the
unexpected reply. ' Do you ever pray forme,
Henny? '

Pray for you, why of course I do, just as
I pray for mamma and for dear little Stevie.
Why clo you ask such a question ? '

I don't know, I'm sure,' said Sophy,
lightly, and as if repenting of her late access
of gravity. ' I suppose it was that story of
my guardian's about his beaker that put it

into my mind ; she told him the other day
that she always prayed for him on account of
his kindness to her. " That's very good of
you, Mrs. Baldwin," he said. " Lor bless you,
sir! not at all," she answered; "it aunt a
morsel o' trouble to put your name in along
with the rest, while I'm about it."

The Canon is really too bad, Sophy,'
exclaimed Henny, unable to repress a smile.
I don't think he has any idea how he shocks
people sometimes. And yet he is such a kind,
good man ; he always endeavours to do the
very best for everybody. I am sure you must
feel that even when you are not quite at ease
with him.'

I feel it more then than at any other
time,' said Sophy, gently.

The two girls embraced one another affectionately.
Henny thought she had never seen
her friend so dutifully inclined and reasonable.
If she did have her little troubles they would
be soon over, and if they involved giving Mr.

Perry his cone, it would be a matter of
sincere congratulation. They were not over
yet, however, or had still left regrets behind
them ; for as Henny let herself out of the
front door of the ' Laurels ' as was her custom,
she once more heard the plaintive notes of
Sophy's piano, and pictured to herself that
woful little face as she had seen it, singing —

And sorrow with her tightened breast,
Comes for a tear.

CHAPTER XII.

A TURN FOR BUSINESS.

Well, Adair, how are you this morning?
None the worse, I hope, for our little symposium
of yesterday — though, by-the-bye, you
left us early, like a true knight, to be the
ladies' escort.'

It was the Canon who was speaking,
though without paying much attention to the
person addressed. Adair had looked in, after
lecture, as usual, to have a word with him
about the Concordance, but found him otherwise
engaged.

A large book, with clasp and key, was laying
open before him on the desk ; and the
Canon, in his dressing-gown, with pen in

hand and knitted brow, was conning its contents.


You find me at very uncongenial work,
my lad,' he went on, ' poring over debts and
credits. The sight of this ledger has brought
those lines of Keetts into my head : —

"Why were they proud ?
Because red-lined accounts are richer than the songs of Grecian
years ?

They haunt these " brought forwards " like a
ghost, and I can't ' get them out of it ; and
even at my best I am but a sorry accountant.'
1 Can I help you in any way,? '
You may try, if you like, while I put my
coat on. The fact is, the money is not mine,
or I should not trouble about a deficit
of twenty pounds, extending over Heaven
knows how long. It's a mortgage of my
ward's, at five per cent., and I can't make the
income from it what it should be. One can't
rob the orphan, you see — or, at least, / can't ;
so I suppose I shall have to make the loss

good out of my own money. There are, or
should be, six half-yearly entries of it ; and
all I know about them is that they don't
tally,' and with that the Canon withdrew
into his bed-chamber.

To thread the intricacies of a balance-sheet
while a gentleman is putting his coat
on, requires not so much l a head for business '
as very rapid powers of calculation and a
keen eye for figures. These John Adair
possessed in a very high degree, and he went
at his work at once, with the vigour of a
navvy at a barrow. In five minutes he put
his finger on the error — which, indeed, was
no very difficult task for him, though it had
puzzled the worshipper of Milton almost as
much as it would have puzzled his blind idol.
The problem done, one would have imagined
that its elucidator would have closed the
book, as it was of a private nature ; on the
contrary, Mr. John Adair (keeping his ears
very attentive for the opening of the Canon's

vol. 1. p

bedroom door), ran his eyes with diligence
and despatch through its opening lines —
Statement of account of moneys in trust for
my ward Sophia Gilbert, etc., etc' — whereby
he made the discovery that that young lady
would not have less than 20,000^. of her
own ; or, rather, that that amount was
settled upon her. The young man had what
is called ' a turn for figures,' but figures had
never interested him so much before. He
had known, or guessed, that Sophy was well
dowered ; though, to do him justice, no such
knowledge was needed to fan his flame ; but
the precise information he had just received
was certainly of an encouraging nature.

Still in the labyrinth, I conclude ? '
exclaimed the Canon, reappearing in full
costume, though it was not the perfection of
neatness. The art of tying a white cravat
was unknown to him, and he had found difficulties
even in a shoe-string.

t Well, sir, I trust I have found the clue.'

What, in ten minutes ? Good, venturous
youth,

I love thy courage much, and bold emprise,

but the thing is impossible.'

Where your mistake by, sir, continued
the young man, quietly, ' was in the different
rates paid for the mortgages. There must
have been some proviso whereby the interest
was made four per cent, if paid when due, and
five per cent, if any delay occurred in the
payment.'

Why, this is magic, my lad,' cried the
Canon, admiringly. ' How on .earth did you
find this out ?

By hoary Nereus' wrinkled look,
And the Carpathian wizard's hook,
By scaly Triton's winding shell,
And old soothsaying Glaucus' spell ?

or by natural instinct ? It's quite true there
was such a proviso in the mortgage, though I
myself had clean forgotten it.'

I believe, as you say, sir, I have some

natural instinct for mathematical errors,' said
Adair, modestly.

This might be true, but it was not the
whole truth. It had been a part of the young
man's duties while in the service of his patron
to assist him in his business matters, and
such a proviso in a mortgage-deed is by no
means uncommon.

But to the Canon it looked like an extempore
conjuring feat accomplished by an
amateur. Though little like the rest of the
world in many things, he resembled them in
this — that the exhibition of a talent he did
not himself possess impressed him out of all
proportion to its merit. This it is which lies
at the root of the inexplicable desire for information
among dull people. For knowledge
for its own sake they care nothing ; but
the opportunity of exciting the admiration of
those more ignorant even than themselves, by
a display of it — if it is but how Tel-el-Kebir
is pronounced in its own country — is seized

upon with avidity. The pre-eminence of our
public schools is founded upon it ; and
should they cease to teach Greek, they will
lose the confidence of their patrons and cease
to excite the envy of the public. The Canon,
who knew something of Greek, but nothing
of mortgages, beheld in his young friend a
sort of genius in his way, a man born for
affairs.

It is most extraordinary,' he resumed,
1 how men's gifts differ. That you should
so easily quell the might of these " hellish
charms " woven by some lawyer, " whose bare
wand can unthread my joints and crumble
all my sinews," astounds me. My poor friend
Gilbert ought to have made you his trustee
(only you were in petticoats at the time),
instead of me.'

Nay, sir, I should think you were the
very man for such a post,' returned Adair.
A man of probity and honour, who knows
little of business matters, and would therefore

never move in them without legal advice, is
made for a trustee.'

Granting the probity, which I hope I
possess — a very just observation, young man.
There is one thing to be said,' added the
Canon, smiling. ' However little I know of
business matters, I know more than my
ward. She has a banking account of her
own, you must know ; and the other day,
when I reproved her because she had overdrawn
her account, replied, " But that is impossible,
guardian, since I have still three
cheques left in my cheque-book."

Adair laughed with the speaker, but
observed, gravely enough, that it was neither
natural nor desirable that young ladies should
give their attention to money matters when
they had friends and advisers.

The Law be praised,' said the Canon,
earnestly, ' my poor Sophy's money can never
slip out of her own hands.'

To judge by his tone and face, you

would have imagined that there would otherwise
have been some danger of its slipping
through them, and getting into other hands ;
then " apropos des bottes " as it seemed, he
added : —

I Did you hear whether there was a full
attendance at the ball last night ? '

I I was there myself, sir,' said the young
man, gravely.

1 You ? Oh, I forgot. My ward said
yesterday, by-the-bye, that she had met you
at another ball ; I should have thought
dancing would have been the last sort of
amusement to have attracted you ; but I
suppose it's the figures.' The Canon was by
no means in a joking humour, but it was not
in his nature to smother a witticism.

i I conclude,' he went on with unruffled
gravity, ' that all the world and his wife, or
at least his daughters, were there.'

The room was very crowded, though
chiefly with men, sir.'

Um ! All the boating men were thereof
course ? '

1 1 should think so ; I have not much
acquaintance with them, however, but there
were one or two I recognised.'

Mr. Perry, I suppose, was there,' said the
Canon, pretending to look among his MSS.
for something he had mislaid. ' The fact is,'
he went on, in explanation, since Adair maintained
a silence that under the circumstances
was a little embarrassing, ' though I know very
little of the young man myself, he visits at
the "Laurels " occasionally, and I am afraid is
inclined to presume upon it. He behaved
last night on the river in a very demonstrative,
not to say offensive, way ; you noticed it no
doubt yourself ? '

I saw that he looked towards your windows,
sir, as he drank his claret cup ; but it
is probable he only meant to pay you a compliment.
Upon such an occasion it is allowable

for the captain of the boats to be a little
excited.'

At all events, I hope for the sake of his
family — the young man behaved himself at
the ball ? '

Adair kept silence, and shifted his eyes
uneasily, like one who is inclined to shirk
cross-examination.

If anything happened, Adair,' said the
Canon, earnestly, ' I will thank you to tell it
me, for it may be necessary to forbid that
young man my house. You naturally object,
and I respect you for it, to tell tales against a
fellow student ; but this is a matter which
concerns me nearly, and of which I have no
other means of informing myself.'

Nothing at all happened, sir, I do assure
you,' said the other, gently ; ' indeed, Mr.
Perry did not dance at all.'

There was a hint of concealment in the
young man's tone which did not escape his
companion.

1 Not dance ? Is it possible you mean he
was too drunk to dance ? '

I should be sorry to say that, sir ; but
between ourselves, and since you compel me
to speak out, it is my impression that he was
in liquor. On the other hand, it is quite
possible that I may be mistaken. I am not
in a fast set myself, and what may seem to
some men mere hilarity '

1 Pooh ! every one knows whether a man
is drunk or sober,' put in the Canon, moving
with quick strides about the room.

Indeed, sir, I would not have you
imagine that Mr. Perry exposed himself to
public reproach ; nor, indeed, did he stay
long at the ball ; but after an hour or so
went away, as it seemed to me — though
it is true I have had the misfortune to
incur his displeasure — in rather an ill
humour.'

1 trust that while he remained, being in
the condition you mention,' said the Canon,

uneasily, ' lie did not venture to speak to my
sister or Miss Gilbert.'

He did not, sir. Neither of your ladies
was at the ball.'

Sophy not at the ball,' exclaimed the
Canon. ' Why, how was that ? '

The young man smiled, and slightly
shrugged his shoulders.

To be sure. How should you know ? '

I am not in the ladies' confidence,' said
Adair ; ' but, if I might hazard a guess, I
think the reason may have been some slight
indisposition of Miss Aldred's. I heard her
say, as we were going home last night, that
she had a headache.'

Very likely ! there is doubtless not much
the matter ; nevertheless, I must go home and
see about it,' said the Canon, nervously.

I hope you will find all well, sir

With regard to what we have been talking
about,' added Adair, with hesitation, 1 1 trust
you will consider the matter as confidential.

It was much against my inclination, as you
will bear me witness, that I said anything to
Mr. Perry's disparagement ; but if it were
known to the ladies, it would naturally prejudice
them against me.'

I will take care that it is not known,
and that it shall do nothing of the kind,'
replied the Canon, warmly. i In my opinion,
your behaviour has clone you great credit,
Adair. I am greatly obliged to you also for
unravelling these accounts. Our Concordance
must stand over for this morning.' The
Canon had put on his hat and gown, and had
his hand on the door, when he suddenly
turned round and said, ' If you have no better
engagement for this evening, and will come
and dine at the " Laurels," we shall be quite
alone.'

I shall do so with great pleasure, sir,'
said Adair, with a light in his eye that was a
greater compliment to his inviter than the
most laboured acknowledgments.

Poor young fellow,' mused the Canon, as
lie fluttered home in the May breeze ; ' dines
out deuced seldom, I dare say. A glass of
good Neville will bring some colour into his
cheeks Then, as if the mention of the wine
had suggested the observation, he added, 6 It
is clear to me that that fellow Perry was as
drunk as a lord last night : what a mercy it
was Sophy didn't go, since she could hardly
have refused to dance with him had he asked
her ! It was no doubt because she was not
there that he went off in the sulks. It is
high time I should put my foot down as
regards that matter. How can Sophy encourage
such a fellow ? I believe girls choose
their lovers as, when they were children, they
chose their dolls — for their looks and their
movable eyes. I dare say because Adair is
not good-looking she will be barely civil to
him ; yet he is one in a thousand ; so intelligent,
so observant — I can't think how
that clause in the mortgage could have

escaped my recollection — and withal so modest.
If he had but a little money — though, indeed,
with those talents of his he cannot fail to
make it — I could wish Sophy no better luck
than to choose such a young fellow.'

THE Canon PUTS HIS FOOT DOWN.

So, my dear Maria, you were not at the ball
last night, I hear,' said the Canon, as he entered
the drawing-room where his sister was
sitting alone. 'I can't say, under the circumstances,
I am sorry, except for the cause. I
hope your head is better.'

That is what everybody is saying this
morning,' smiled Miss Aldred, a little uneasily.
She didn't like that expression,
1 under the circumstances,' beneath which she
shrewdly suspected lay some reference to Mr.
Perry, concerning w T hom, as we know, she
had promised Sophy to make no revelation.
1 Henny has been here this morning to inquire

about it ; and I overheard her mother — to
whom I was not at home, for I am tired today,
and her conversation is a little trying —
asking Barclay " How's her head ? " as if I
was a ship. 7

4 Still, I suppose you had really a headache
last night, since it prevented your escorting
Sophy to the ball — unless, indeed, it was
merely an excuse and you had some more
valid reason.'

Well, I had a headache, William. I think
it was the cheering on the river. But the fact
is, Sophy herself did not seem much inclined
to go, so we agreed to give it up.'

Aunt Maria felt that this was not a successful
speech ; but she was a little alarmed
at her brother's manner, as well as at the
guess he had made at the actual condition of
affairs. It was very unusual with him to
take interest in their domestic proceedings, or
to question any arrangements she made for
herself and Sophy.

And why did she not want to go ? ' persisted
the Canon. ' She is generally fond
enough of balls.'

1 My dear brother, if you knew as much of
girls as I do' (he did very nearly), 'you would
understand that they are as full of their
fancies as you wise men are of your great
thoughts. The things they like to-day they
dislike tomorrow, and for the same reason
that made little Stevie, next door, throw all
his toys into the dust-hole — because he was
tired of them.'

Then, I hope Sophy is tired of her rag
doll, Mr. Herbert Perry, and doesn't want to
play with him any more.'

A startling speech from the lips of anyone
; but from those of the Canon like thunder
out of a blue sky. It was lucky for Miss
Aldred that his indignation supplied him
with a fine flow of words, during which she
was able to collect her thoughts ; or, in her
alarm — since concealment was now out of the

vol. 1. Q

question — she might have told him more than
was necessary.

I shouldn't complain,' continued her
brother, ' if Sophy had fallen in love with
some curled darling — such as one sees in the
hairdressers' windows — but the man she is
encouraging is not only a fool, but a vicious
fool ; perhaps even a scamp, or a scoundrel.
Of course you noticed, what everybody else
noticed, last evening, how he drank her health
in public — conduct which " nothing can excuse,"
as the phrase goes, but Drink. It is
no excuse in my eyes, however, but rather an
asforravation. Moreover, it cannot be said
that it was a temporary exhibition. I hear,
on the best authority, that he went to the ball
in a state of liquor. That is why I said
that I was not sorry you did not go. And I
shall be still better pleased to hear that the
reason of Sophy's absence was the apprehension
of meeting him, after what had taken
place at my rooms.'

I really and truly believe it was answered
Aunt Maria. ' I did not mean to say
anything about it to you, because I promised
Sophy not to do so ; but that is what, on the
whole, I gathered from her. I don't think
she has any such fancy for him as she had ;
and if she is ashamed of him, of course that is
a great point gained ; only I entreat you to
be careful in what you say to her. Opposition
is the soil on which this sort of love
affair thrives best

That's all very well in plays, Maria ; butin
real life it does not do to trust to a girl's
having her eyes opened to her lover's unworthiness
by his own misdoings. Upon one
thing I shall tell Sophy I have made up my
mind ; Mr. Perry never crosses my threshold
again.'

As to that matter, you will, of course,
do as you please, William,' answered Aunt
Maria. ' The master of the house is at liberty
to choose his guests ; though, on the other

q 2

hand, Sophy may insist on seeing her own
friends elsewhere. But I don't think it will
do for you to speak to Sophy yourself about
the matter — at least, not now. She is not ina
fit state for it. She rose late, and I did not
see her till after I had come in from the town,
when I was quite shocked at her appearance.
If she had gone to the ball, and not gone to
bed again, she could not look more weary and
woebegone. Henny Belford, who called on
her in my absence, was so alarmed by her
appearance that she insisted on bringing in
Dr. Newton after he had paid his visit to
Stevie.'

A very good plan ; Newton's opinion is
worth having. What did he say ? '

Well, for once, it seemed that he hardly
knew what to say. I had a long talk with
him after he had seen the dear girl ; but he
himself said very little. That she is out of
sorts, nervous, and depressed is, however,
very certain.'

But she was quite well yesterday ; indeed,
until that impudent lad misbehaved
himself on the river, she seen ted in the
highest spirits.'

That is no index to a girl's mind,' observed
Miss Aldrecl, sagely ; ' and whether
the incident you speak of caused the change
or not, she is very different now. " Has she
had any shock ? " inquired the Doctor. Well,
of course, I answered " No." " No disappointment
in the way of a love affair ? " And
to that I answered " No." I thought it injudicious
to admit that things had ever gone
that length between Mr. Perry and Sophy.
Then he said, " That's curious," and passed
his hand across his mouth, as he always does,
you know, when he is puzzled.

"She's not herself," he said ; " she's overwrought
somehow."

" Perhaps," said I, " it's the books she
reads ; she is a great novel reader."

"Pooh! I'm speaking of her brain," he

said. " Novels won't hurt lier. If she has
any mental trouble, they will mitigate it ; I
always read novels myself when I'm in love,
and then it blows over somehow."

How like Xewton ! ' smiled the Canon.
A moral Falstaff — only fatter. Then had he
no advice to offer as to Sophy? '

Yes ; but it was, unfortunately, quite
impracticable. " If she was my daughter,"
he said, " and money was no object in respect
to her future, I should select some nice quiet
young fellow, throw him very much in her
company, and forbid her to encourage his
attentions ; then directly they were engaged
he should marry her. She has had too much
gaiety and dissipation, and has lived without
an object in life. She has been her own
mistress in one way, yet without any responsibilities
; a spoilt child, in short. Now,
when the least check comes in a life of this
kind — and something of that sort has happened
I feel certain — its importance is exact



grated and the whole world seems out of
joint. The girl is a good girl, but my advice
as regards her is what is given to a male rake,
1 Let her marry and settle.' In his case the
partner is but too often made a sacrifice ; but
I am sure Miss Sophy will make an admirable
wife to any man whom she really respects ;
flirts always do." '

The whole philosophy of a girl's life
in a nutshell,' observed the Canon, smiling.
Very cheap at half a guinea.'

'Just so,' assented Aunt Maria, drily;
but it's a prescription one can't get made up
at any chemist's. That is always the way
with doctors. Good port for the poor, and
the South of France for the invalid devoted
to her own family in Bayswater.'

Still, Maria, what if — to pursue your
own metaphor — we can get this man Perry
thrown into the dust-bin, and provide a new
and less dangerous toy for Sophy ? Cambridge
is quite an emporium in that way

i They like, however, to choose their own
toys,' sighed Aunt Maria, moved perhaps by
some far off reminiscence of her own of a toy
beyond her means, or which had been bespoken
by another.

There is a young man coming here to
dine to-night,' observed the Canon, thoughtfully,
' who in some respects would answer
to the Doctor's prescription. But he is a
poor man ; I don't say without expectations,
for he has that sort of talent which never fails
to succeed in life, bit without any hope of
inheritance — I mean he is of no family.'

Miss Aldred shook her head. ' I confess
I believe in blood, William.'

I know, my dear,' he answered drily ;
1 you think it is the great specific for the
social fabric, like the King of Dahomey, who
cements his palaces with it. Still, even the
house of Hapsburg was begun with the merest
mortar. However, you shall judge for yourself.
In the meantime you must give Sophy

to understand that under this roof, at all
events, she will never see Mr. Perry again,
and that if she sees him elsewhere it will be
in direct opposition to my wishes.'

The intervention of Canon Aldred in matters
of his own house had the rarity of a
miracle, but also the force. His laws, when
he did go in for law-making, were as those of
the Modes and Persians ; and Aunt Maria
was well aware that no pleading on her parton
behalf of Mr. Herbert Perry, would either
defer, or mitigate, his sentence of perpetual
exile.

She bowed her head and pursed her lips,
the former in obedience to her brother's ukase,
the latter in silent protest against it ; took
up her needlework — a sign that she was
not coming back in a hurry — and left the
room.

She had no sympathy with the offender,
but her heart was full of pity for Sophy,
and she thought it inconsiderate of William,

though ' very like a man,' to insist upon such
violent measures while the poor girl was
ailing and in no condition for such imperious
restraint. On the other hand, she was well
convinced not only that the Canon was acting
for Sophy's good, but that it teas for her
good ; and in the coming struggle — for struggle
she foresaw was awaiting her — was fully
resolved to support the views of authority.
Still she shrank from the conflict, and it was
the desire to ' get it over,' that prompted her
to such immediate action. A drop of water
will wear away even a stone, and Aunt
Maria's heart was by no means a stone, and
much more pervious to drops of water. She
anticipated tears and prayers, and her kind
old chin fairly ' blubbered ' with the thought of
the pain she was about to inflict upon her
favourite. In her own youth she had never
suffered her thoughts to stray in any direction
save where the hand-post of duty and
obedience pointed ; but in the charity of her

heart she was now reflecting that girls would
be girls, and that, after all, poor Sophy's
crime was a very venial one.

There are many such gentle souls in the
world whom, because perhaps they are stiff,
and old, and angular, we pass by in scorn,
but whom the angels, I am inclined to think,
regard in a very different fashion.

CHAPTER Xii.

A LITTLE SCOLDING.

Unconscious of her aunt's step upon the
stair, Sophy sits alone, with a letter in her
hand. It has just reached her, but not by
the post ; for she has other ways of communicating
with the outer world.

Dear S.,' — it ran, — ' Your absence last
evening disappointed me immensely. I hope
you really had a bad headache — I mean that
it was bond fide and not a russe' (Mr. Perry's
education had been classical, and did not include
spelling, or the modern languages).
The truth is, I have had enough of this sort
of thing, and am getting tired of it. For all
that I see of you, we might as well be like

your friend next door and her fascinating
young lawyer in town. Moreover, something
has occurred that makes it necessary to hurry
matters, and about which I must talk to you
at once. I shall drop in at the usual time today,
unless I see or hear anything to the contrary
; but it will be much better if I can
have a word with you elsewhere — say, at the
old mill. If I don't see you I shall wait for a
line in Green Street up to four o'clock. That
young dried herring, Adair, was at the ball
last night, by-the-bye, looking, I thought,
deuced nasty. That he suspects something,
I'm pretty certain ; but he didn't suspect how
very nearly I was ringing Ms neck. Only a
small matter, you will say ; but still, another
reason why the present state of things must
be put an end to. Oh re voir.

Yours, H. P.'



It is scarcely in nature that a young lady
should regard with displeasure the impatience

of her lover, even though the inconvenience
of its display should be ever so obvious ; but
Sophy's little brow had such a frown on it as
suggested a padlock on a miniature, or a
grenadier keeping guard over a jewel-box.
Her blue eyes were wild and tearless ; her
delicate features were haggard with anger and
fear. ' A selfish, heartless letter,' she said to
herself; 'a cruel letter.' Then, looking up
in her trouble and perplexity, she caught
sight of her own face in the glass. ' You
fool ! ' she exclaimed, apostrophising it with
sullen bitterness. ' You mad and wicked
fool!'

There was a knock at the door, and she
thrust the letter hastily into her bosom, as
Miss Aldred entered the room.

Come, my dear, I am glad to see you
have a little colour in your cheeks,' said Aunt
Maria, kindly. 'I hope that means you feel
better.'

I never thought there was much the

matter with me,' said Sophy, with a little
hysterical laugh. ' But, of course, the doctor
had to find out something. I suppose he said
"the heart ; " they always say "the heart,"
because nobody can get at it and prove them
to be in the wrong.'

I hope it's not so bad as that,' returned
Aunt Maria, with some significance. ' If you
are really better and can bear it, I have a
word or two to say to you, Sophia.'

To have one's Christian name abbreviated
to ' Tommy,' for Sir Thomas, for instance —
by those who have no right to take such a
liberty, is very annoying ; but it only implies
impudence, not displeasure, on the part of the
offender. When, on the contrary, the Thomas
is given at full length by those who are wont
to call us Tommy, it is a sign that there is
mischief brewing. The speaker had probably
something serious to say, and not pleasant.
Sophy had never been called Sophia by Miss
Aldred but once : when, little more than a

child, she had set fire to her frock in dropping
kisses ' of sealing-wax on an envelope she
had directed to some juvenile admirer ; and it
would scarcely have surprised her more had
she been addressed as Iphigenia. She knew,
however, in an instant what her visitor had
come about — the subject that had just now
been occupying her own mind, and, to say
truth, was never absent from it, save when
she found herself in company. Then indeed,
thanks, as her enemies would say, to that
desire of admiration from the other sex which
was as sweet to her as cream to a cat, she
forgot it.

It would have been fairer to ascribe it to
the superficial character of a nature which, hi
other respects, was by no means contemptible.
Her disposition was affectionate and trustful,
generous and forgiving. Of her own free will
she would have harmed no living thing ; but
she was as impressionable as the river sand,
and as impulsive as the wind that sweeps it.

It was pitiable that one so unfit for the
storms of life should at its very outset have
rashly dared the illimitable ocean, far. from
port and home, yet hardly conscious of the
doom that threatened her. In the trough of
the sea, indeed, with hardly a star of hope
visible to her, she was miserable and terrified
enough ; but when on the crest of the wave,
lifted for a moment into the sunshine, she forgot
the depths that menaced destruction to
her. She saw them yawning now, and sat in
affrighted silence, ready to catch at any spar,
or straw, or floating weed ; hopeless of safety,
but eager for delay and respite. The terror
in the girl's nice, though the other little
guessed what cause she had for fear, alarmed
Aunt Maria in her turn.

You may be sure, dear girl, that I am
not come here to threaten or frighten you,'
she said, gently. ' I am not, I hope, a very
terrible personage, save to Johnnie ' (the disobedient
and plate-breaking page, with whom

vol. 1. n

she was wont to wage that unsatisfactory sort
of war which takes place between regulars
and guerillas); 'while to yourself I can never
be anything more severe than your counsellor
for good. I may say, indeed, quite as much
for the Canon, your guardian. He can no
more be unkind than he can be unjust. But,
being a man, and knowing better than we
women do what men are, he thinks more
seriously of certain matters because he foresees
the seriousness of their possible consequences.
To some girls, for example, a
flirtation even with an undesirable young
man, may seem a trifling thing enough. She
goes on thoughtlessly, step by step, till she
finds herself entangled — even compromised ;
and while she only thinks of the present, and
its passing pleasure, her whole future life may
suffer for it. I promised you last night,
though somewhat unwillingly, after what took
place at the procession, that I would say nothing
to your guardian of the frequency of

Mr. Perry's visits here ; and I kept my promise.
I trusted, and still trust, to your own
good sense to put a stop to them of your own
motion. But the Canon has spoken on the
subject without any invitation on my part,
and matters have been precipitated. He is
very much annoyed, and even alarmed.'

I am so sorry,' moaned Sophy. She satin
her chair as if she had been thrown there,
all huddled up in a heap, with one hand a
little raised, as if she would have warded off
some physical blow.

Of that I am quite certain, my dear' (and
indeed it was clear enough), ' and I am something
more than sorry. I do not blame you
in the matter one whit more than I blame
myself. If you have been wilful, I have been
weak ; though I have never encouraged any
goings on between you and Mr. Perry, I have
too much ignored the matter and kept silence
about it.'

For my sake put in Sophy, tenderly.

b2

Not altogether, my dear. When I look
back on what has happened, I feel that I have
sometimes neglected my duty, because it was
unpleasant to perform it, and to save myself
pain. I ought long ago to have told your
guardian that this young man was paying
you marked attentions, and, in particular,
that they continued, when you were away
from home, in town.'

Here Sophy hid her face, which had suddenly
grown scarlet.

I do not wish,' continued Aunt Maria,
looking at her very fixedly, ' to reproach you
with what is past and gone, Sophy ; but your
proceedings during that period were not what
they should have been, I fear. Even so far
as they came under my observation, they dissatisfied
me, and I felt called upon, as you
remember, to say something concerning them
though I did not say all — to my brother.
It would have been better perhaps if I had
been more frank. Still it was partly, at all

events, to shield you from what I then thought
to be his uncalled-for displeasure, and I have
some right perhaps to look for a little gratitude
from you in consequence. I shall find
it, you say?' (Sophy's lips had murmured
something to that effect.) ' Very good. All
I ask of you, then, is to pay the debt you owe
into your own account. No return for anything
I have done for you can, I assure
you, be more agreeable to me than that you
should act wisely and for your own good
in this matter. It is a more serious affair
than you yourself perhaps have any idea of,
and I tremble to think of the consequences
that may follow a contrary course of conduct.
You have hitherto only seen one side of your
guardian's character; it is indeed good all
round, but though so tender and lenient to
the erring, it is not so to — forgive me, but I
only use his own expression — scamps and
scoundrels. He is as suspicious of evil-doers
as he is charitable and trustful to the rest of

his fellow creatures. And it is certain that
Mr. Herbert Perry has found his way into
his black books. It is not without reason
that he has got there, be assured of that,
Sophy, though I do not wish to distress you
with the disgraceful details ; but the point is,
that there he is. Your guardian's prejudices,
especially when they are well founded, are as
fixed as his attachments ; and in this case I
am very certain nothing will move him. I
am to say from him that Mr. Herbert Perry is
never to cross the threshold of this house again.
If you meet him elsewhere, or hold any communication
with him, it v\ill be in direct disobedience
to your guardian's wishes — are you
listening to what I say, Sophy ? '

I have heard every word,' answered the
girl, in a half choked whisper, though, as her
companion noticed with some surprise, she
was not in tears. ' I will do my best, my
very best, I promise you.'

1 My darling, there is only way of doing
your best,' returned Aunt Maria. ' I beg, I
entreat of you, not to attempt to play fast and
loose in the matter. Duplicity, or deception,
are things my brother would never, never
forgive.'

Sophy shuddered ; she was thinking of
what was done, not of what she was about
to do.

Sit down at once, Sophy, like a good,
dear girl, and write to this unhappy young
man — since I suppose you must write to him
the simple truth. It is not as if you were
giving him up of your own free will — though
I hope you are doing that also. There is no
change of mind to plead, but simply one of
circumstances. Your guardian has forbidden
you to hold any further communication with
him, and you have no alternative but to obey.
You have only to write that.'

Only that ! A crooked smile played upon

poor Sophy's lips. Then, after a long pause,
she once more murmured, ' I will do my
best.'

This time Aunt Maria found no fault with
that expression, but pushed a little writing-table
to her companion's side, and set pen and
paper before her. She had the sense to see
that the time for talk was over, and also that
the girl should not be left to herself to think.

Shall I be in your way if I wait till you
have written your note ? '

Sophy shook her head, and with a trembling
hand set down a sentence or two, and
placed it in an envelope.

1 Quite right, my dear ; the shorter the
better,' said Aunt Maria, approvingly. ' You
will promise me to send it, Sophy. It had
better be posted at once.'

Yes, Jeannette shall take it.'

Aunt Maria stooped and kissed the girl
affectionately. ' The surgeon's knife is keen,'
she said, ' but there is health in its use. God

bless you, my darling ; you will be better now
that this weight is off your mind and, with
another kiss, she left her.

Poor Sophy did not look like one who has
had a weight taken off her mind. She rose
wearily from her chair, and, passing into the
opposite room, placed a large oblong card in
the window that looked upon the road. Such
a sign in London houses means that the
delivery-cart, or the fustian, is to call. In her
case it meant something quite different. To
certain eyes which would presently catch
sight of it, from the other side of the way,
it would signify, ' My guardian is at home ;
you must not call.'

Then she rang for her maid.

Jeannette, you must take this note to
Green Street.'

I do hope, Miss Sophy, that you are not
going to do anything rash,' answered the girl
hesitatingly.

Rash ! what should put that into your

head ? I shall want you to walk out with
me this afternoon, at four o'clock.'

But not to meet Mr. Perry, surely ? '

1 Yes, it must be done,' said Sophy,
changing her light tone for one of hitter
gravity.

But consider ; you are both known so
well, and it will be broad daylight.'

Never mind ; it will be, I trust, for the
last time.'

That's what you always say,' urged the
waiting-maid ; ' but yet it happens again
and again. The pitcher will go too often
to the well, Miss Sophy ; indeed, indeed it
will.'

There will be no one to blame but myself,
even if it does, Jeannette,' answered
Sophy, with a sigh; 'here is the answer to
his letter. Just leave it.'

It ran as follows : —

Dear H., — I cannot answer your note

in writing, nor answer it as you wish at
all. Something very serious has happened.
I will meet you behind the mill at five
o'clock.'

CHAPTER XV.

A TRYST.

Beside the pleasant mill at Trumpington,'
says Wordsworth, ' we laughed with Chaucer
in the hawthorn shade ; ' but it was with no
expectation of merriment that Miss Sophia
Gilbert, accompanied by her faithful waiting-maid
Jeannette, took her way thither that
May afternoon. The first time she had
visited the place was at a little picnic during
the long vacation, with Aunt Maria and a
few friends ; and there by accident she had
first met with Herbert Perry. He had found
his way there from the river as aimlessly as
the Babingtdnia pestifera got into the river
not, indeed, through a fountain-tube, but

almost as much by land as by water, carrying
his canoe as Bruce did his vessels on Loch
Fine ; indeed, he had appeared to the astonished
picnickers as a headless visitant, or
rather as a tortoise, with a pair of shapely
human legs ; and when, having crossed the
neck of land, he dropped the boat he carried
on his head, and disclosed the handsomest
face in Cambridge, it made no slight sensation.


In that strange manner had Sophy l met
her fate,' as girls term in jest what is sometimes
pitiless earnest. Afterwards, from
tender association, perhaps, the spot had
been a testing-place for the two young
people. Behind the mill, and upon a certain
green peninsula between two streams, all
was secluded enough ; but they took care to
arrive thither by different routes. On the
present occasion the young man had come by
the water-way, which was not the quickest.
None who saw him paddling up the stream

from the river, or toilsomely bearing his boat
along where navigation was impossible, could
have imagined that he was on his way to an
assignation. The ' River God,' as she used
to call him, when, indeed, a certain divinity
had seemed to hedge him round, was behind
his time — a circumstance in itself significant
of much (of old he had been willing enough
to wait for her) ; and, in the meanwhile,
mistress and maid walked up and down in
silence, hidden by the ' hawthorn shade.'
Sophy knew nothing of its poetical associations
; if she had done so, she might have
bitterly reflected that in all the generations
since old Chaucer's time there could hardly
have been such a tryst in that fair place as
hers. Lover false and maid undone, there
might have been ; scenes of repentance and
despair ; but the circumstances, however woful,
must have been different. Six months
ago she had adored the man of whom she
was the clandestine wife ; and now — now — she

hardly dared say to herself what she thought
of him ; with what abhorrence she looked forward
to a future which must be linked with
his ; with what apprehension and dismay she
pictured the immediate consequence of his
obstinacy and rashness, should he persist in
his present behaviour. Yet it was curious
that she felt more angry with herself, for
her folly, than with him for his cruelty ; and
as every now and then she stepped by the
water's side and gazed on her own image, she
murmured, as before, ' You fool ; you mad
and wicked fool ! '

She had reached the end of the peninsula,
and was about to turn, when the silver beat
of a paddle struck upon the ear ; in that very
time and place it had once been music to her,
but now she shivered at the sounds though
it were a passing bell.

He is coming,' said Jeannette, in a warning
voice.

As if she did not know that ; as if she

did not see, though her face was still averted,
the little boat gliding swiftly up the stream,
impelled by those sinewy arms, and the
shapely head with its crisp brown locks, and
the form that had once been as Apollo's to
her eyes, but was now odious as Apollyon's.

The canoe shot noiselessly to the bank,
and he stepped out to meet her with a fleeting
smile.

Well,' he said, ' I am come, and with all
the caution that an Indian uses in one of
Cooper's novels ; but I tell you fairly that I
am tired of all this shying and shirking, and
mean to put an end to it.'

She had held out her hand, but he had
taken no notice of it ; his face was flushed,
not with the exercise he had taken, for such
feats were feather weights with him ; but, as
she was well aware, with aimer.

If we are going to talk,' he said, looking
towards Jeannette, ' though nothing you can
say will make any difference, I promise you,

there had better be no listeners.' At this
broad hint the worthy maid retired a few
paces, not without a contemptuous 'sniff, and
left the young people to their colloquy.

Well, what is it, Sophy ? You say
something serious has happened. You can't
mean to say that the Governor has heard of
my visit last night. If so that slut yonder
has betrayed us.'

i She has not betrayed us, Herbert ; I
wish every one was as faithful and true as
Jeannette ; nor do I know that my guardian
has discovered that frightful imprudence of
yours ; but he has found out something you
have done — I dare say equally rash — and has
forbidden you the house.'

Has he, begad ? ' returned the young
man, with a contemptuous sneer. ' We'll
see about that ; so that's all, is it ? '

No, it is not all. I am forbidden after
to-day to hold any communication with you
whatever.

vol. 1. s

1 On pain of the Canon's high displeasure,
I suppose ? That may affect some chorister
boy in his cathedral, but not me. Now I tell
you what I mean to do. Perhaps tomorrow,
perhaps the next day, but at all events before
the term is over, I mean to claim you as my
wife.'

Then you will ruin us both.'

1 Speak for yourself, Sophy ! As for me,
I know my own business better than you can
tell me. You talk as if you had no belongings
but your guardian. You have a
father-in-law, though he is not aware of the
fact, who is my father ; and quite as queer a
fish to deal with as the Canon can be. Just
because I am ne* much of a reader, he is
dissatisfied with my " career " — so he calls
it — at the University, and since, as he says,
I don't seem inclined to do any good here —
i.e. take my degree — he has announced his
intention of taking my name off the college
books. Here's his letter, received this morning;

very amusing under the circumstances.
An opening has occurred, it seems, in the
Bush, and I am to be sent off to Australia to
till it. A likely joke — though from one point
of view it is at least as serious as anything
you have told me.'

But, my dear Herbert, 7 pleaded Sophy,
laying her hand on his arm, ' why should you
not go to Australia — just for the twelvemonths
that must elapse before our marriage
is made public ? By complying with your
father's wishes you will help to make matters
easy for us. By waiting a little longer we
shall not have cause to fear opposition. And
then consider the safety of such an arrangement,
how much better than all these risks
and dangers. We can write to one another,
you know ; and think how delightful it will
be to feel that the time is getting less and
less, every month and every week, to the
period when we shall meet without fear, never
to part again.'

He shook her hand off with angry vehemence
and laughed derisively. ' That is a
very pretty proposition, upon my soul ; what
tenderness and affection it exhibits ; and how
very like what the conduct of a newly-married
wife should be ! I have no doubt you would
bear the twelve months' separation with great
philosophy ; and not without some trust in
the " chapter of accidents," whereby it might
easily happen that I should be lost at sea, or
shot at the gold-diggings ; and Miss Sophia
Gilbert could find another husband more to
her mind.'

How can you be so unkind and talk of
such horrid things, Herbert ? Of course, I
should be very miserable while you were
away ; but — er '

Ah ! you may well say " but — er," ' interrupted
the young man, with a sneer. 'It's
butter " indeed. You know how to lay it
on with a trowel ; but it is quite wasted on
me, I do assure you. Try it on the Canon,

with whom it may be of use. You have
deceived him long enough with palaver, now
you'll have to undeceive him with palaver.'

And if I was, as you say, to undeceive
him,' returned Sophy, very white and quiet,
what do you suppose would happen ? '

1 Well, there would be a row, of course ;
but he would say, like a wise man, " There's
no use in crying over spilt milk." Perhaps
I am not the sort of man he would have
chosen for you. He would have preferred
some bookish sneak like Adair, or some old
fogey like Mayors ; but, since we are married,
he will have to make the best of it, and give
us an allowance till you come of age.'

That, I am well convinced, he never will,'
said Sophy, firmly.

And what does it matter if he doesn't ?
I can borrow money on your expectations for
twelve months.'

1 have no expectations, Herbert ; that is,
I mean, I shall have none if you insist on

acting in this mad way. I am entirely dependent
upon my guardian. If I marry
while under age, without his consent, my
fortune is forfeited. It goes into other
hands.'

I don't believe a word of it.'
Thank you ; it is true, nevertheless.'
If it were true, it would only show how
thoroughly well your people must have understood
you, and what a slippery fish you
always were ; but it is most unlikely. I can
find the truth out for myself, however, by
going up to Doctors' Commons, and looking
at your father's will. You are changing
colour, I see ; your story is false. You had
better not send me on a fool's errand to town,
young woman ! '

Herbert, Herbert ! listen to me,' cried
the girl, passionately. ' You don't know my
guardian. If he ever finds out I have deceived
him, he will never forgive me. And
if I am not quite correct as to the '

Ha, ha ! ' he put in. 'I thought so.
Now for another.'

I say I am quite certain that the will
leaves a great deal to his discretion. He can
make us a handsome allowance when I come
of age, or a poor one ; he can advance us
money, or withhold it. Go up to Doctors'
Commons, if you doubt me ; and you will
hncl it is so. You don't know your danger.'

Nor do you know yours, Sophy. Suppose
for a moment that I accede to this
Australian scheme — than which nothing is
farther from my intention — and if, when you
were left behind in England, things should
be said to your disadvantage. That man
Adair, for example, knows enough ; and, if
I were not here to wring his neck, might use
his knowledge to take away your character.
That would be very awkward — I mean for
you.'

The register of our marriage is in St.
Anne's Church,' said Sophy, slowly.

You'd refer to that, would you ? Upon
my life, you take things very coolly,' returned
the other, grimly.

She was not cool at all, but only desperate.

He had fathomed her hopes with great
accuracy, when he spoke of the ' chapter of
accidents ' to which a voyage to Australia
would expose him : above all things, it would
give her time : her nature was of that
thoughtless and impulsive sort to which a
respite seems well-nigh equal to a pardon. If
she could only get rid of this dead weight of
apprehension for a month or two, she felt that
she could breathe freely and be almost herself
again.

The contingency of which you speak
she said, ' would, at all events, place me in
no worse position than your rashness and
impatience place me now. Oh, Herbert, I
have given up everything for you ! You
promised me, upon your word of honour, to
keep our marriage secret until I came of age.'

Her voice was so piteous, and her pretty
face so appealing, that even the selfish heart
of Herbert Perry was touched ; unhappily,
however, they also revived the cold embers of
his love.

But, Sophy, dear, you seem to forget
that you and I are one. Is it nothing to you
that I am separated from you, and only now
and then have a chance of getting a word
with you, even like this ? And now you say
that you are forbidden even to see me at all.'

The argument had force in it, and there
had been a time when it would have succeeded
with her ; but now she could not even
bring herself to say, ' And do I not suffer
too ? ' In her heart of hearts she loathed
and feared him.

It is only for twelve months,' she said.

Only for twelve months,' he answered,
angrily. ' A pretty thing for a girl to say,
even to her lover. But for a wife to her
husband — well, for certain, that is not my

view, at all events. I shall write to my father
and tell him how matters stand, and then let
the old folks fight it out between them. And
so, good evening to you.'

He had turned from her with fierce abruptness,
and, stepping into his canoe, was
out of arm-reach, or she would have clung to
him in one last agonised appeal.

Oh, Herby, Herby ! ' she exclaimed,
using for the first time the endearing name
by which she had been wont to call him,
c you have pledged your word to me.'

My word ! and did you not break your
word when we met at St. Anne's, after promising
Aunt Maria that you would never seeme
save in her company? '

A most cowardly and cruel speech, for
what she had done had been for love of him.
It was upon the tip of her tongue to say so ;
but perhaps she knew what his scoffing retort
would be — that it was for love of her that he
was about to break his word ; or perhaps,

despairing though she was, her pride restrained
her. At all events, she answered
nothing ; but with a sinking heart watched
the light shallop disappear behind the alders.
Her maid ran up to her, perceiving by her
face that she was greatly agitated.

He will do nothing to please me, Jeannette,
7 she murmured.

i I dare say not, Miss Sophia. I never
had but one opinion of him. His heart is
like the stone in yonder mill. For my part,
I wish he was drownded. 7

CHAPTER XVI.

SAD NEWS.

Upon the whole, however we men may complain
of the hardness of our lives, Man's lotis
free from the catastrophes to which that of
Woman is liable. So long as he stops short
of the infringement of the criminal law, things
are rarely so desperate with him as they
become with the other sex when they ' stoop
to folly.' He may stoop low, and live to
stoop again, but she, never. She only too
literally ' falls to rise no more.' Sophy
Gilbert, or to give her her proper title, Sophy
Perry, of course, was in no such terrible
plight as that. Tragedies infinitely graver
were impending, swords of Damocles infinitely

sharper threatening to fall on housefuls
of her own sex, though not indeed of her own
rank in life ; but her situation, if not tragic,
was grave enough. What made it more
serious was, that she was so singularly unfitted
to bear it. It is a common circumstance,
but one that fills us with the saddest
forebodings for man's future, that the weak
and fragile are too often marked out for misfortune.
Why does Fate choose the frailest,
as the schoolboy bully selects his victim, for
persecution ? If, as some tell us, she is paramount,
and there is no more merciful power to
overrule her, matters are bad with us indeed.

To some young ladies, had they been in
Sophy's position, it may have seemed a not
very difficult task, though an unpleasant one,
to make confession of the weakness that had
led them into it. ' I was in love with Mr.
Herbert Perry, dear guardian ; and since I
knew I should not obtain your consent to our
union, we married without it.'

But Sophy knew that the Canon, with all
his kindness, was not a man to be mollified
where duplicity and double dealing were concerned
; he had always treated her with so
much trust and affection, and she had shown
herself so utterly unworthy of trust. Against
Miss Aldred her transgression was still graver,
for the very liberty Aunt Maria had allowed
her, contrary to her own better judgment, she
had clandestinely abused. Once let her be
discovered, and all confidence — and, it was
only too likely, all affection too — would be
withdrawn from her ; and beside the Canon
and his sister there were few who loved her.
Yet, hard as all this was, there were worse
features in the case. If Mr. Herbert Perry
had been an eligible suitor, forgiveness, after
a time, at all events, might have been looked
for ; but he was no favourite of Aunt Maria's,
and in the Canon's eyes he was, as we know,
utterly worthless as well as objectionable.
Worse than all, she had by this time, notwithstanding

her lack of opportunities, found
this out for herself. She knew him to be
coarse, selfish, and wrapped up in his own
pleasure ; and if his coltish nature broke
through such a gilded pale as at present surrounded
him — a husband of a few months,
bound by every tie of honour and even of
self-interest to behave himself with decency
and circumspection — what was to be looked
for when these restraints should be removed
from him, and she became his indeed ? A
bitter task to plead for pardon, when, even if
granted, it must needs be followed by life-long
punishment !

It is not to be supposed that, because she
had been so rash and wilful, Sophy did not
shrink from the pain of exposure, as much as
though she had been the most prudent and
retiring of her sex. She foresaw only too
plainly how the finger of public scorn would
point, not only at her, but at them whose
trust she had betrayed. This, then, was the

end of all her ' innocent flirtations,' the result
of her ' having her own way and being permitted
to indulge in harmless gaieties without
restraint — a clandestine marriage. Nor when
that was known would the scoffing cease.
She was not in the position of those who,
having committed an error, can make the
best of it or conceal its consequences. It was,
as we have seen already, no secret between
her and her only confidante that her union, if
it could be called such, with Mr. Herbert
Perry was bitterly repented of. Jeannette,
though she had given way to her young
mistress's solicitations in that matter, had
always been opposed to it ; yet even from her
Sophy could not conceal her chagrin and
repentance. ' His heart is like a millstone ;
for my part, I wish he was drownded,' had
been Jeannette' s exclamation when she had
said i He will do nothing to please me ; ' and
Sophy did not reprove her for it. His heart
was hard ; otherwise how could he have made

light of her unhappy position, and, with cruel
irony, bid her undeceive her guardian, as she
had long deceived him, ' by palaver ' ? The
advice, however, notwithstanding the form in
which it was conveyed, was good. Before
the blow fell on her, which she knew would
shatter so much, it behoved her to do her best
to conciliate the Canon and turn his heart towards
her. Perhaps if she were to please him
very much, an opportunity might offer itself
to confess all and implore his forgiveness before
necessity compelled her to do so. When,
therefore, on reaching home, Miss Aldred
informed her that her brother had asked a
friend that evening, and hoped she would feel
herself well enough to come down to dinner,
she answered cheerfully in the affirmative.

And when Aunt Maria, noticing how unlike
herself she looked, observed, ' But not if
it would distress you, darling,' she replied,
It can never distress me to please the
Canon.'

vol. 1. T

The Canon was really pleased ; for, under
the circumstances, he had felt that, so far
as Sophy's company was concerned, he had
invited Adair to the ' Laurels ' in vain. His
mind being set at rest on this point, this wily
man bethought him of asking Mr. Mayors
likewise. Not that he feared, as some men
of his years would have done, a tete-astute with
the young scholar after dinner. His mind
was of that sort which accommodates itself
to all ages and conditions cf men ; while in
Adair's case, even if the talk should languish
upon other topics, there was a common subject,
Milton, for them to fall back upon. He
asked the Tutor purely for Sophy's sake, since
his presence would leave the young people
more to themselves. It did not enter his
head that the student and exponent of Plato
could find any attraction in his ward, and
took his ready acceptance of his invitation, at
such short notice, as a personal compliment.
When his sister suggested that Henny Hel-ford

should be asked, to make the little party
complete, he replied, 'No, no ; five is company
and six is none,' with such decision
that Aunt Maria acquiesced at once, in dumb
amaze ; and not until she had applied herself
to that arithmetical problem, in the privacy
of her own room, free from all disturbing: influences,
did she arrive at its solution.

Perhaps the translation in the sacred
volume was wrong, she admitted, for the
Canon often told her such was the case ;
but, otherwise, ' Why, bless the man,' washer
reflection, i does not Scripture itself tellus,
" How vain is the net spread in sight of
any bird," and how much more in that of a
young woman ? '

Nor did she over-estimate, at all events
in the case in question, the sagacity of the
intended victim. Directly Sophy heard Mr.
Adair's name announced (for her aunt had
not divulged the name of the expected guest),
she guessed in an instant for what cause the

T 2

Canon had invited him. Young ladies of her
description have their mind very full of lovers
and love-making. I have a suspicion (which
has, however, long ceased to put me upon my
best behaviour) that they look upon every
young gentleman who is introduced to them
as a possible husband. In Sophy's case, this
was, of course, out of the question, nor did
she indeed credit her guardian with having
introduced Adair with any definite matrimonial
intentions ; what she did think — and
her thought was not far from the mark — was
that Adair was asked by way of foil to Mr.
Perry ; and as an example of the sort of
man to which the Canon wished to draw her
favourable attention.

Hitherto, my dear girl,' he seemed to
her to say, ' you have shown a preference for
cheap fancy goods, which will neither wash
nor wear ; allow me to show you a specimen
of a stouter fabric, warranted to last your
lifetime.'

It was, as we have said, Sophy's fixed
resolve to please the Canon, and, without
much thought beyond it, she welcomed Mr.
John Adair with a graciousness beyond hi,,
hopes. It did not strike her that, in case she
showed signs of encouraging his attentions,
the displeasure of her guardian would be all
the greater when he came to know the real
state of affairs. It was not her nature — when
the consideration was not forced upon her —
to think of the morrow ; and, moreover, it is
possible that her husband's evil behaviour
caused her to regard, with less disfavour
than heretofore, the man he had described
as a ' dried herring.' He was certainly thin,
thinner in his suit of evening clothes than
usual, and still thinner by comparison with
Mr. Mayors, who not only towered above him,
but appeared on either side of him, giving the
young scholar, for the moment, the remarkable
appearance of having four arms. But
when one looked at the latter's keen face

and speaking eyes, one forgot that he was
thin, as men forgot it in Paganini's playing.
Mr. Mayors certainly did not remark that he
was so thin, but (with regret and envy) that
he was so young. From the Canon's note he
had gathered that he was to be the only guest
that evening, and he was by no means pleased
to find that the same young gentleman who
had monopolised so much of Miss Sophy's
conversation the previous evening had been
also invited. In other matters he w r as by no
means diffident ; it was not likely to be the
case with a gentleman who had been reported
to say of himself, ' I'm not a conceited man,
but I believe I know everything but botany ; '
but in affairs of the heart he felt that he was
a freshman, though (unhappily) not in his
first year.

After his salutations, he confined his attentions
to Miss Aldred, not because she
was his hostess and it was his duty, but
from sheer bashfulness and ignorance of what

a young lady like Miss Sophy would expect
him to say. Adair, on the other hand, was
by no means bashful, and entered at once into
conversation with her. There was not, however
— and this impressed her favourably
the least trace of familiarity (such as he
had shown before), or the consciousness of
being in possession of any secret of hers, in
his tone or manner. The folding-doors between
the drawing-room and the smaller
apartment — with which, as she must have
been well aware, he had gained entrance the
preceding night — were open ; but not a look
escaped him to remind her of any previous
occurrence, and Ashen she presently took him
into it to show him a portrait of the Canon,
and they were alone together, he remarked
upon the apartment as though he were beholding
it for the first time. Perhaps it
would have been wiser if Sophy had not
accepted the position thus offered to her so
readily as she did, since, in chiming in with

this agnostic manner of his, she was, in
fact, making herself not only his confidante
but his confederate. The road, however, was
smoother this way, and it was her wont to
take the smoothest road.

I It was a very gay ball, I hear,' said she.

I I believe so.'

1 But were you not there yourself ? '

I was there for a little while, but ' (here
his voice dropped) ' I was disappointed of my
dance, you know.'

How foolish ! as if there were not fifty
other young ladies to dance with ! '

I only cared to dance with the one
that was not there. When you did not
come I was assured some misfortune had
taken place '

The house burnt down, eh? ' she put in,
smiling.

1 Yes ; something of that kind ; and so I
walked up here to see for myself.'

After all, then, consideration for her

position had not kept him silent. His very-phrase,
' to see for myself,' seemed to have
a selfish touch in it. Perhaps young men
were all alike, egotistic, heartless, cruel.

It was very bad weather, was it not? '

I don't know,' he answered, softly ; ' I
was not thinking of the weather.'

The tenderness of his tone was such that
she could hardly ignore it ; under other circumstances
it would undoubtedly have pleased
her, as all such incense did ; as it was, no
harm could come of it, if Herbert put his
resolve of writing to his father into effect
(when she thought of that her very heart
stood still, but for to-night she had shut it
out of her thoughts), and in the meantime
she would be pleasing the Canon by being
civil to the young man.

So she only smiled, and murmured,
1 Indeed.'

Then Barclay, the butler, came to the
rescue with his battle cry, ' Dinner is served,'

and Adair offered his arm and took her in.
Mr. Mayors sat opposite to them. His duty
to his neighbour and his hostess compelled
him to converse with Miss Aldred, but his
eyes often strayed over the way to Sophy.
What on earth could she find to say, he
wondered, to that uninteresting youth devoted
to the higher mathematics, and what could
have induced Aldred to ask such a fellow to
dinner? It was not an Egyptian feast, that
a skeleton should be any attraction to it.

Adair was speaking with approval of the
walks about Cambridge, with which, as a
reading man, he was very conversant from
frequent ' constitutional.'

The Canon quoted a line from ' In Memoriam
' concerning the ' level flats and added
something caustic of his own with respect
to intellectual eminence which, he remarked,
loomed against the horizon in that locality
somewhat larger than it looked elsewhere.
Of this latter taunt the Tutor, generally eager

enough for combat on that ground, took no
notice, but inveighed against the local scenery.
Xo one but a mathematician, he said, could
see anything to admire in a plain crossed by
straight lines. Some people, however, could
find grandeur even in the Grogmagogs ; had
Miss Gilbert ever heard the story of the freshman
and the deaf professor in connection with
that range of mountains ? As Sophy had not
heard it the Tutor proceeded, to narrate it.
It was a fine old stock story such as enjoys a
perpetual youth in the University atmosphere,
and blooms (very unlike the aloe) a hundred
times every October term, when new ears
come up to hear it ; only on this occasion
Mr. Mayors dropped a little tarragon over it.

The professor gave a dinner party,' he
said, ' at which many eminent persons were
present. With more good nature than good
judgment, he included among his guests one
solitary and very shy undergraduate ; the unfortunate
youth, feeling bound to say something

to his host, hazarded the remark that
the Gogmagogs were very high hills. The
professor requested him to repeat the observation
; and, still unable to catch it, told his
servant to fetch his ear-trumpet. The appearance
of that unhappy youth while waiting
for the ear-trumpet, and vainly endeavouring
to think of some observation more worthy
of the occasion and the instrument than the
Gogmagogs are very high hills," I shall not
easily forget.'

Poor boy,' said Sophy, plaintively ; ' and
then what happened ? '

Well, nothing more, except that the
professor listened to the young gentleman's
remarks amid the profoundest silence, and
laid down his trumpet with an "Ugh!" which
Mr. Fenimore Cooper describes as "so significant
in the mouth of a red Indian."

I think the walk to Chesterton is one of
the pleasantness,' continued Adair, resuming
his conversation with Sophy, as if it had

suffered no solution of continuity whatever,
1 and then home by Trumpington Mill.'

Sophy felt the blood rush to her forehead,
and was about to stammer out some commonplace,
when a note was placed by the butler
in the Tutor's hand, with a whispered 'The
bearer waits, if you please, sir.'

While the Canon was saying ' Nothing the
matter, I hope, Mayors ? ' and Miss Aldred,
expressing the same sentiment by her anxious
looks, ' I shall be staying up during the long
vacation,' went on Adair, in a lower tone,
and I hope you will allow me sometimes to
point out to you — and to Miss Aldred, of
course — what is most worth seeing in the
neighbourhood. '

It will give us great pleasure,' she said,
I'm sure.'

It was a bold reply ; was it possible that
Mr. Mayors had heard it, since he threw such
a quick, serious glance across at her, and

looked so grave ? He had read the note, and
was putting it carefully into his pocket.

Tell the messenger, Barclay,' he said,
'that I shall be in my rooms in twenty
minutes.'

i Must you leave us so soon ? ' inquired
the hostess, sympathetically.

4 Why, yes, I am sorry to say I must ; it
is a piece of rather pressing college business.
Prater (the other Tutor) is away this week,
so I have his " side " to look after as well as
my own

Miss Aldred, with womanly tact, at once
perceived that something serious, but which
was not to be disclosed, at all events to ladies'
ears, had happened, and gave Sophy that
mystic nod which is the blue-peter of the
female fleet : the signal for sailing out of the
room. As the door closed behind them, Mr.
Mayors, with his hand upon his chair,
observed with emotion, ' A sad calamity has
taken place, Aldred.'

Not, I trust, of a private nature ? ' exclaimed
the Canon.

1 As regards myself, no ; but, from something
that dropped from you the other day, I
am afraid it may affect you somewhat. Mr.
Herbert Perry was, I believe, an occasional
visitor at the " Laurels." He is drowned. His
body has just been found in the river.'

CHAPTER Evil

BREAKING IT.

The news of death, especially if it be
sudden and violent, will sober a drunken man ;
even those who ' play at the game whose
moves are death ' — seasoned old soldiers — feel
some shock when a comrade is snatched away
from them by other than professional means
shot, shell, or steel. In civil life, for the
moment, it creates a stir with which no other
catastrophe — bankruptcy, an elopement, or
even being; raised to the Peerage — can Compare.
No man is so lethargic, or so immersed
in greed or pleasure, but that at those terrible
tidings a secret door is opened in his own
soul, and he looks forth, if it is but for an

instant, upon the dark unfathomed void that
is awaiting him also. When the awful
summons has been served upon one in youth
and strength its effect upon the by-sanders is
still greater.

In the present case Mr. Mayors was, as
was natural, the least moved of all those
present. The dead man was personally unknown
to him. He could only call to remembrance
the tall handsome young fellow
that had stood up (from various causes, with
some difficulty) in the boat only last evening
to drink Miss Gilbert's health, and was now
nerveless, bloodless, breathless. Not for one
instant did it enter into his mind that, since
the unworthy object of her affection was removed,
the girl for whom he had himself
begun to entertain ' the low beginnings ' of
love had been rendered more accessible to
him.

Nor, at all events for the present, did it
occur to the Canon to congratulate himself

vol. 1. u

upon a trouble ended — a domestic knot thus
opportunely severed by the hand of Fate.

Poor fellow, poor fellow ! ' he murmured,
softly.

These men were both, by nature, gentlemen.


Adair, too, was not unmoved. Death was
no more familiar to him than to the other
two, but he felt less of horror. There was
something in his heart, though not in his
voice, that smacked of hesitating satisfaction
as he inquired, ' Are you quite sure of this,
Mr. Mayors ? '

Only too sure.'

How did it happen ? ' inquired the Canon.
How could it have happened ? ' Meaning that
to the dead man water had been as his natural
element. If the misfortune had been less
tremendous he would have said, ' Why, he
could swim like a fish ! ' In catastrophes we
do not use metaphors or commonplaces.

He was rowing up some branch of the

river where boats are forbidden, and was
caught by the chain across the stream. I must
go and see the poor lad, I suppose added
the Tutor, with melancholy apprehension, for
his organisation was delicate, or rather his
mode of life had made it so, ' and then
telegraph to his father.'

A terrible task,' observed the Canon.
Good Heavens ! if it had been my boy.'

You would have had less to regret, in
many ways,' sighed the Tutor, rising.

Adair rose also. It was clear that the
absence of strangers would be desirable. ' I
deeply regret, Adair,' said the Canon, ' that
your first evening at " The Laurels " should
be thus associated with calamity. The next
time you come let us hope there will be more
of allegro and less of II Penseroso. Poor
young man, poor young man ! '

Adair and Mr. Mayors walked away together
; the distance between Tutor and
student, and that wider gulf caused by natural

TJ 2

antagonism, bridged over for the time by
what had happened. When the palace of the
French King was flooded by the mob, ' the
grand entries,' we read, ' were graciously
accorded' by his Majesty to even untitled
loyalists.

Did you know this unfortunate young
fellow, Mr. Adair ? '

Slightly, sir.'

He was not a reading man, I understands


By no means ; no, sir,' was the dry
reply.

A little fast ? A great pity. Still,,
let us hope there was nothing seriously
amiss.'

Unhappily, the recollection of his late
enemy, as he strode back to the gate of ' The
Laurels ' the previous night, and caused him
to cower among the leaves, here occurred to
Adair.

There is no harm in hoping, sir,' he

answered coldly ; ' but the truth is, Perry
was a bad lot.'

Mr. Mayors glanced at his companion
scornfully. He seemed to recognise in him,
for the first time, the rival not of himself but
of the dead man.

Truth is a fine thing,' he said ; ' still, it
is a pity that you neglect the classics, since, at
the very outset, they teach us to be charitable
to those who have gone over to the majority.'

Not a word more passed between them till
their stiff good-night at the corner of Green
Street, when Mr. Mayors betook himself to
the dead man's rooms, whence he presently
issued, with a white face and a smothered
aspiration that Mr. Prater would stop up to
look after his own pupils.

At ' The Laurels ' the matter, unhappily,
could not be so easily dismissed. It was a
great relief to the Canon's mind to find, upon
returning to the drawing-room, that Sophy
had retired to her own room upon plea of

indisposition ; and, indeed, so soon as the
excitement of society was lacking, and
her mind reverted to her own affairs, the poor
girl had found the effort of sustaining
domestic conversation with Aunt Maria
beyond her powers.

Miss Aldrecl, though no philosopher,
possessed, as her brother nattered himself,
much too well-balanced a mind to be ' upset '
by the intelligence he had to communicate ;
she would bear it (he foresaw) like a
Christian, and was, in fact, just the sort of
person to break the news to poor Sophy
instead of himself.

So far, however, from bearing with
dignity the decree of Fate as regarded Mr.
Herbert Perry, Miss Aldred received the
Canon's news with such a flood of tears and
wringing of hands as he had never seen out of
a stage play.

Even his stiff, ' I am altogether disappointed
in you, Maria,' which he threw at

lier like cold water, to ' bring her to ' (though
in his heart he was very sorry for her),
altogether failed of its intent. She was
beyond the reach of such simple remedies.

It was not alone the sudden shock that
had thus overwhelmed her ; her conscience
reproached her for having encouraged this
unhappy young man (or, at all events, not
discouraged him) ; and thereby exposed poor
Sophy to those bitter regrets which would, no
doubt, be henceforth her portion. The Canon,
of course, knew nothing of this, and was fairly
appalled by this failure of his calculations.

If you allow yourself to be thus overcome
in my presence, Maria (which I should have
thought would have had some restraining influence
over you), how can I trust you to
carry this sad news to poor Sophy ? '

Miss Aldred sobbed and shook her head.
It was plain that she had no intention of
carrying anything of the kind.

1 But, Maria, you must surely perceive

that this painful duty can only be performed
by one of your own sex. As for me, it would
be most unbecoming and — dear me — indelicate.
It would be also most injudicious,
since the fact of my undertaking such a task
would exaggerate its importance — would presuppose,
I mean, certain feelings in poor
Sophy which it is essential should be ignored.'

But all these fine words and varnished
phrases were quite lost on Aunt Maria.

I couldn't do it, my dear brother,' she
sobbed, ' to save my life.'

Then who, in Heaven's name, is to doit?'


Here there was a gentle knock at the door,
and the question was answered for them by
the entrance of Henny Helford.

The girl, who was in bonnet and shawl,
had a pale face, but not a frightened one.

'I have heard the news,' she said, in
earnest, pitiful tones ; ' and came in quickly
by the back way, in case I might be of any use

to dear Sophy. Oh, Miss Aldred, how does
she bear it ? '

• My dear, she has not yet been told,'
answered the other, eagerly ; ' that is just
what the Canon and I are talking about. We
think that if a dear friend, and one of her own
age, like you, could be induced to undertake
such a mission, it would be very much the
better for — for all of us.'

If you think that, of course I'll do it,'
said Henny, simply.

You are a good, kind girl,' said the
Canon, shaking her by the hand. ' Of course,
this poor young fellow could never have been
more to Sophy than an acquaintance ; but
still, there was a certain intimacy. It will bea
shock, no doubt, to her, and a very painful
task to you.'

Pray do not think of that,' said Henny.
If my case were hers, I am sure she would do
her best for me ; though, indeed, if it were
Frederick ' — her eyes filled with tears at the

mere thought of such an overwhelming
calamity — ' I think no human being could
comfort me.'

1 The case you suppose, however, and
Sophy's are vastly different,' observed the
Canon, decisively. ' Mr. Perry's death can
only affect my ward, I trust, as that of any
other young man with whom she was on
friendly terms. Still, I am not the less
obliged to you for your kind offer, Henny.
You heard how it happened, I conclude ? '

Yes, poor fellow — the chain,' sighed
Henny.

1 And you will be sure to say how sorry
we are,' put in Aunt Maria, earnestly. 'It is
so unfortunate that only to-day I was obliged
to speak to the poor child about him ; when if
we had waited ' — and she looked at her
brother reproachfully.

We can only do what seems to us to bethe
best at the time,' returned the Canon,
with a shade of irritation. ' If we could look

into the future we should all behave differently,
no doubt ; but so far as my resolution
with regard to this unhappy young man
was concerned, I have nothing to repent of —
nothing ; and there's an end of it.'

And such, alas ! must necessarily be our
reflections in such cases. A little time is
given to sentimental commiseration ; then
common sense asserts itself ; and eventually
it is made clear that, after all, the private
calamity is a substantial public benefit. It is
what happens in the case of all who, upon the
whole, have done evil rather than good — have
decreased rather than increased the sum of
human happiness. Their death is ' a happy
release ; ' however we gloze it over, it is well
that they are gone.

Sophy had gone to her own room ; but
not, as she had given out, with the intention
of retiring to rest. Sleep, as she well knew,
was far from her eyes. She had but exchanged
her attire for a dressing-gown ; and,

seated in an arm-chair and with a book in
her hand (not for study, but as a blind to
whomsoever might intrude upon her solitude),
had given herself over to meditation — fear.

Henny's quiet knock she had taken for
that of her maid, and she did not even lookup
at her entrance, but sat staring straight
before her, with haggard face and anxious
eyes, the very picture of regret and despair.

Is it possible,' thought Henny, gazing at
her in hushed amaze, ' that she already knows
what has taken place ? '

The silence aroused Sophy from her evil
dreams. ' Good heavens ! you here, Henny ? '
she exclaimed. ' There is nothing wrong at
home, I trust ? '

No, darling, not at my home,' she
answered, with grave significance.

Sophy trembled from head to foot. Had
this cruel man, then, already betrayed her ? or
allowed her secret to escape him in his cups ?
Was the Canon so vehement in his indignation



that lie had not permitted Aunt Maria to
speak with her, but had sent for Henny
Helford to break to her some harsh, irrevocable
decree ?

Some very bad news has come to-night,'
continued Henny, ' concerning Mr. Herbert
Perry.'

What news could it be ? Had he openly
proclaimed that he was her husband, and been
set down as a boastful and malignant liar ?
She could not bring her thoughts to bear on
him save in some relation, more or less
offensive, to herself.

As he was boating on the river this afternoon,
Sophy, a terrible accident happened

Don't look so strange, my darling,' for

Sophy's face had exhibited, first a wild
surprise, and then an expression which Henny
could not translate at all — one of unutterable
relief. ' Calm yourself, and strive to bear it
like a good, brave girl.'

Is he dead, Henny ? '

Only four words ; but in their tones expressing
as much anxiety as the human voice
can convey.

Alas, dear, yes ! He is drowned ! '

Sophy fell back in her chair, with her eyes
closed. Henny thought she had fainted, and
flew to the window to give her air.

It was fortunate, for if she had returned
to her place by her friend's side, Sophy's
smothered ejaculation of ' Thank Heaven !
could hardly have escaped her ears.

Enfranchisement is a blessed thing, no
matter by what means it is obtained — whether
by manumission, or the death of the taskmaster.
The air that Sophy breathed was the
air of freedom : those only can understand its
sweetness who have been deprived of it.

Darling, darling Sophy, try to bear it,'
whispered Henny, fervently.

I will ; I do.' Then, in low tones which
she strove to clothe in sorrow and strip of
eagerness, ' When did it happen ? '

The form of inquiry was strange enough,
the more natural question being obviously,
How did it happen ? ' But Henny set it
down to her friend's confusion and distress of
mind. As a matter of fact, Sophy had expressed
the real point of her anxiety clearly
enough.

He was rowing on the river, poor fellow,
up some back stream where there was a chain
across ; after chapel.'

Sophy groaned. The first part of Henny' s
reply had comforted her companion ; she
knew that the obstacle in question existed on
the stream that led from Trumpington Mill,
and she took it for granted that the unhappy
young man had perished on his return home
from their interview early in the afternoon ;
there could have been no time for him to have
reached home and written that letter to his
father which he had threatened her with ;
but Henny' s concluding words had filled her
anew with apprehension ; if the catastrophe

took place after chapel there had been time.
If that evidence of her marriage existed, it
would be impossible to suppress it. A life of
misery and thraldom was, indeed, no longer
before her ; but shameful exposure was — it
was but too likely — awaiting her. It may
have been a small thing to think of, side by
side with such an awful catastrophe ; but
the one had happened and the other had
not, and might be remedied. Under the
influence of terror, the weak are scarcely less
heartless than the cruel. There was, however,
one advantage in this new cause for
alarm. It filled poor Sophy with all the
melancholy which her companion expected to
find in her from another cause ; there was no
longer any need for hypocrisy. Her distress
was such, indeed, that Henny began to feel
that it was aggravated by her presence ; and,
with her usual simplicity and straightforwardness,
presently inquired if this was the case.
I came here to comfort you, my darling ;

but, if, now that I have fulfilled my sad
errand, you feel that you would rather be
alone, do not hesitate to say so.'

1 If you don't mind, if you would not be
hurt, dear Henny, I think I would,' was the
whispered rejoinder.

And your Aunt Maria ; you would,
perhaps, rather not see her to-night ? While
a wound is tender, one shrinks from even the
kindest touch.'

True, darling, true,' answered Sophy,
eagerly ; ' how well you understand me ! I
had rather be quite alone.'

Henny rose at once, and the girls embraced
one another affectionately. Sophy
dearly loved her friend. Nor must it be supposed
that she had no scruples in deceiving
her ; her conscience reproached her very
keenly, notwithstanding that, in truth, she
had no alternative in the matter. It is
not the least among the many drawbacks
attaching to a course of duplicity, that it

vol. 1. x

forbids us to be open even with those from
whom we would fain have no secrets : when
we once leave the plateau of plain dealing, it is
impossible to reascend at pleasure ; a road has
first to be made to it with toil and trouble,
and by the work of our own hands.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

LONDON : PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CHATTO & WlNDUS's

List of Books.

About. — The Fellah : An Egyptian
Novel. By Edmund About.
Translated by Sir Sandal Roberts.
Posts, illustrated boards, 2s. ; cloth
lime, 2s. 6d.

Adams (W. Davenport), Works

by:

A Dictionary of the Drama. Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the
Present Times. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.
Davenport Adams. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Quips and Quiddities. Selected by
W. Davenport Adams. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Advertising, A History of, from

the Earliest Times. Illustrated by
Anecdotes, Curious Specimens, and
Notices of Successful Advertisers. By
Henry Sampson. Crown 8vo, with
Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
cloth gilt, 7s. 6d.

Agony Column (The) of "The

Times," from 1800 to 1870. Edited,
with an Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Aide (Hamilton), Works by:

Carr of Carrion. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Confidences. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2r

Alexander (Mrs.).— Maid, Wife,

or Widow ? A Romance. By Mrs.
Alexander. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 38. 6tL

Allen (Grant), Works by:

Colin Clout's Calendar. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.
The Evolutionist at Large. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
Vignettes from Nature. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 6s.

Architectural Styles, A Handbook

of. Translated from the German

Of A. ROSENGARTEN, by W. CoLLETT-

Sanders. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, with
639 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Art (The) of Amusing: A Collection

of Graceful Arts, Games, Tricks,
Puzzles, and Charades. By Frank
Belleww. With 300 Illustrations. Cr.
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Artemus Ward :

Artemus Ward's Works: The Works
of Charles Farmer Browne, better
known as Artemus Ward. With
Portrait and Facsimile. Crown 8vo t
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Artemus Ward's Lecture on the
Mormons. With 32 Illustrations-edited,
with Preface, by Edward P-
Kingston. Crowa 8vo, 6d.

The Genial Showman: Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By
Edward P. Kingston. With a
Frontispiece. Crown 8ve, cloth est**
3s. 6d. ^

Ashton (John), Works by :

A History of the Chap-Books of the
Eighteenth Century. With nearly
400 Illustrations, engraved in facsimile
of the originals. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Social Life in the Reign of Queen
Anne. Taken from Original Sources.
With nearly One Hundred Illustrations.
New and cheaper Edition,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Humour, Wit, and Satire of the
Seventeenth Century. With nearly
100 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 73. 6d.

Balzac's " Comedie Humaine "

and its Author. With Translations by
H. H. Walker. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.

Bankers, A Handbook of London;
together with Lists of Bankers
from 1677. By F. G. Hilton Price.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Barley (Rev. C.W.), Works by :

English Surnames: Their Sources
and Significations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Curiosities of Puritan Nomenclature.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Bartholomew Fair, Memoirs

of. By Henry Morley. A New Edition,
with One Hundred Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Beauchamp. — Grantly

Grange: A Novel. By Shelley
Beauchamp. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Beautiful Pictures by British

Artists : A Gathering of Favourites
from our Picture Galleries. In Two
Series. All engraved on Steel in the
highest style of Art. Edited, with
Notices of the Artists, by Sydney
Armytage, M.A. Imperial 4to, cloth
extra, gilt and gilt edges, 21s. per Vol.

Bernstein. — As Pretty as

Seven, and other German Stories.
Collected by Ludwig Bernstein.
With Additional Tales by the Brothers
Grimm, and 100 Lusts. by Richter.
Small 4to, green and gold, 6s. 6d. :
gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Beerbohm. — Wanderings in

Patagonia; or, Life among the Ostrich
Hunters. By Julius Beerbohm. With
Illusts. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Belgravia for 1883. One

Shilling Monthly, Illustrated—" P,1aid
of Athens," Justin McCarthy's New
Serial Story, Illustrated by Fred.
Barnard, was begun in the January
Number of Belgravia, which Number
contained also the First Portion of a
Story in Three Parts, by Ouida, entitled
" Frescoes ; " the continuation of
Wilkie Collins's Novel, " Heart and
Science ; " a further instalment of Mrs.
Alexander's Novel, "The Admiral's
Ward ; " and other Matters of Interest.
*x* Now ready, the Volume for July
to October, 1883, cloth extra, gilt edges,
7s. 6d.; Cases for binding Vols., 2s. each.

Belgravia Annual : Christmas,

1883. With Stones by James Payn,
F. W. Robinson, Dutton Cook, J.
Arbuthnot Wilson, and others.
Demy 8vo, with Illustrations, Is.

[In preparation.

Bennett (W.C.,LL.D.),Works by :

A Ballad History of England. Post

8vo, cloth limp, 2s.
Songs for Sailors. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s.

Besant (Walter) and James

Rice, Novels by. Each in post 8vo,
illust. boards, 2s. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
or crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Ready-money Mortify.

With Harp and Crown.

This Son of Vulcan.

My Little Girl.

The Case of Mr. Craft.

The Golden Butterfly.

By Celia's Arbour.

The Monks of Thelema. .

'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.

The Seamy Side.

1 he Ten Years' Tenant.

The Chaplain of the Fleet.

Besant (Walter), Novels by:

All Sorts and Conditions of Men:
An Impossible Story. With Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Crowa
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6£.

The Captains' Room, &c. With
Frontispiece by E. J. Wheeler.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

All in a Garden Fair. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, 313. 6d. [Shortly.

Birthday Books: —

The Starry Heavens : A Poetical
Birthday Book. Square 8vo, handsomely
bound in cloth, 2s. 6d.

Birthday Flowers: Their Language
and Legends. By W. J. Gordon.
Beautifully Illustrated in Colours by
Viola Boughton. In illuminated
cover, crown 4to, 6s.

The Lowell Birthday Book. With
Illusts., small 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Blackburn's (Henry) Art Handbooks.
Demy 8vo, Illustrated, uniform
in size for binding.

Academy Notes, separate years, from
1875 to 1882, each Is.

Academy Notes, 1883. With Illustrations.
Is.

Academy Notes, 1875-79. Complete
in One Volume, with nearly coo
Illustrations in Facsimile. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877. 6d.

Grosvenor Notes, separate years, from
1878 to 1882, each Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1883. With Illustrations.
Is.

Grosvenor Notes, 1877-82. With
upwards of 300 Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth limp, 6s.

Pictures at South Kensington. With
70 Illustrations. Is.

The English Pictures at the National
Gallery. 114 Illustrations. Is.

The Old Masters at the Nation.
Gallery. 128 Illustrations. Is. 6d.

A Complete Illustrated Catalogue
to the National Gallery. With
Notes by H. Blackburn, and 242
Illusts. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 3s.

The Paris Salon, 1883. With over
300 Illustrations. Edited by F. G.
Dumas. (English Edition.) Demy
8vo, 3s.

At the Paris Salon. Sixteen large
Plates, printed in facsimile of the
Artists' Drawings, in two tints. Edited
by F. G. Dumas. Large folio, Is.

The Art Annual, 1882-3. Edited by
F: G. Dumas. Demy 8vo, 3s. 6d.

The Art Annual, 1883-4. Edited by
F. G. Dumas. With 300 full-page
Illustrations. Demy 8vo, 5s.

Blake (William) : Etchings from
his Works. By W. B. Scott. With
descriptive Text. Folio, half-bound
boards, India Proofs, 21s.

Boccaccio's Cameron ; or,

Ten Days' Entertainment. Translated
into English, with an Introduction by
Thomas Wright, F.S.A. With Portrait,
and Stothard's beautiful Copperplates.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Bowers'(G.) Hunting Sketches:

Canters in Hampshire. Oblong 4to,

half-bound boards, 21s.
Leaves from a Hunting Journal.

Coloured in facsimile of the originals.
Oblong 4to, half-bound, 21s.

Boyle (Frederick), Works by:

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Savage Life. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated bds., 2s.

Brand's Observations on Popular
Antiquities, chiefly Illustrating
the Origin of our Vulgar Customs,
Ceremonies, and Superstitions. With
the Additions of Sir Henry Ellis.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with
numerous Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Bret Harte, Works by :

Bret Harte's Collected Works. Arranged
and Revised by the Author.
Complete in Five Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. each.
Vol. I. Complete Poetical and
Dramatic Works. With Steel
Plate Portrait, and an Introduction
by the Author.
Vol. II. Earlier Papers— Lock of
Roaring Camp, and other Sketches
—Bohemian Papers — Spanish
and American Legends.
Vol. III. Tales of the Argonauts

Eastern Sketches.
Vol. IV. Gabriel Convoy.
Vol. V. Stories — Condensed
Novels, &c.
The Select Works of Bret Harte, in
Prose and Poetry. With Introductory
Essay by J. M. Belleww, Portrait
of the Author, and 50 Illustrations.
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Gabriel Cbnroy: A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.
An Heiress of Red Dog, and other
Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,
2S. ; cloth limp, 2s. 6d.
The Twins of Table Mountain. Fear.
8vo, picture cover, Is. ; crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Luck of Roaring Camp, and
other Sketches. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Jeff Briggs's Love Story. Fcap 8vo,
picture cover, Is. ; cloth extra, 2e. 6d.
Flip. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Brewer (Rev. Dr), Works by :

The Reader's Handbook Allusions,
References, Plots, and Stories.

Third Edition, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.
A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [In preparation.

Buchanan's (Robert) Works :

Ballads of Life, Love, and Humour.

With a Frontispiece by Arthur
Hughes. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Selected Poems of Robert Buchanan.
With Frontispiece by T. Daniel.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Undertones. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s.

London Poems. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 63.

The Book of Form. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

White Rose and Red: A Love Story.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Idylls and Legends of Inverburn.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

St. Abe and his Seven Wives : A Tale
of Salt Lake City. With a Frontispiece
by A. B. Houghton. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

The Hybrid Isles: Wanderings in the
Land of Lome and the Outer Hebrides.
With Frontispiece by W.
Small. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

A Poet's Sketch-book: Selections
from the Prose Writings of Robert
Buchanan. Crown 8vo, cl. extra, 6s.

Robert Buchanan's Complete Poetical
Works. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d. [In preparation.

The Shadow of the Sword : A Romance.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Child of Nature : A Romance. Mia
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

God and the Man : A Romance. With
Illustrations by Fred. Barnard.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Martyrdom of Madeline: A
Romance. With a Frontispiece by
A. W. Cooper. Crown 8vo, cloth
**tra, 3s. 6d.

Lmvm Me for Ever. With a Frontispiece
by P. Macnab. Crown 8vo,
clcta extra, 3s. 6d.

Anna Water: A Romance. Three
Vols., cr. 8vo, 31s. Gd. [Immediately.

Brewster(SirDavid),Works by:

More Worlds than One: The Creed
of the Philosopher and the Hope of
the Christian. With Plates. Post
8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

The Martyrs of Science: Lives of
Galileo, Tycho Brahe, and Kepler.
With Portraits. Post 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Letters on Natural Magic. A New
Edition, with numerous Illustrations,
and Chapters on the Being and
Faculties of Man, and Additional
Phenomena of Natural Magic, by J. A.
Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Brilliant-Savarin — Gastronomy

as a Fine Art. By Brilliant-Savarin.
Translated by R. E. Anderson, M.A.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Browning. — The Pied Piper of

Hamelin. By Robert Browning.
Illust. by George Carline. Large
4to, ilium, cover, Is. [In preparation.

Burnett (Mrs), Novels by:

Surly Tim, and other Stories. Post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Kathleen Mavourneer*- Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.
Lindsay's Luck. Fcap. 8vo, picture

cover, Is.
Pretty Polly Pemberton. Fcap. 8vo,

picture cover, Is.

Burton (Robert):
The Anatomy of Melancholy. A

New Edition, complete, corrected
and enriched by Translations of the
Classical Extracts. Demy 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.
Melancholy Anatomise: Being an
Abridgment, for popular use, of Burton's
Anatomy of Melancholy.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Burton (Captain), Works by:

To the Gold Coast for Gold : A Personal
Narrative. By Richard F. Burton
and Varney Lovett Cameron.
With Maps and Frontispiece. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 21s. .

The Book of the Sword: Being
History of the Sword and its Use in
all Countries, from the Earliest
Times. By Richard F. Burton.
With over 400 Illustrations. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 32s. [In preparation.

Bunyan's Pilgrim's Progress.

Edited by Rev. T. Scott. With 17
Steel Plates by Stothard, engraved
by Goodwill, and numerous Woodcuts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron (Lord) :

Byron's Letters and Journals. With
Notices of his Life. By Thomas
Moore. A Reprint of the Original
Edition, newly revised, with Twelve
full-page Plates. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Byron's Don Juan. Complete in One
Vol., post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Cameron (Commander) and

Captain Burton.— To the Gold Coast
for Gold : A Personal Narrative. By
Richard F. Burton and Varney
Lovett Cameron. With Frontispiece
and Maps. Two Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 21s.

Cameron (Mrs. H. Lovett),

Novels by:

Juliet's Guardian. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Deceivers Ever. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra,
8s. 6d.

Campbell.— White and Black:

Travels in the United States. By Sir
1'Jeorge Campbell, M.P. Demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 14s.

Carlyle (Thomas) :

Thomas Carlyle : Letters and Recollections.
By Concur D. Conway,
M.A. Crown Hvo, cloth extra,
with Illustrations, 6s.

On the Choice of Books. By Thomas
Carlyle. With a Life of the Author
by R. H. Shepherd. New and Revised
Edition, post 8vo, cloth extra,
Illustrated, Is. 6d.

The Correspondence of Thomas
Carlyle and Ralph Waldo Emerson,
1834 to 1872. Edited by Charles
Eliot Norton. With Portraits. Two
Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra, 24s.

Century (A) of Dishonour: A

Sketch of the United States Government's
Dealings with some of the
Indian Tribes. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Chapman's (George) Works :

Vol. I. contains the Plays complete,
including the doubtful ones. Vol. II.,
the Poems and Minor Translations,
with an Introductory Essay by Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Vol. III.,
the Translations of the Iliad and Odyssey.
Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. each.

Chatter Jackson. —A Treatise

on Wood Engraving, Historical and
Practical. By Wm. Andrew Chatty
and John Jackson. With an Additional
Chapter by Henry G. John ;
and 450 fine Illustrations. A Reprint
of the last Revised Edition, Large
4to, half-bound, 28s.

Chaucer :

Chaucer for Children : A Golden
Key. By Mrs. H. R. Haweis. With
Eight Coloured Pictures and numerous
Woodcuts by the Author.
New Ed., small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. By Mrs. H. R.
Haweis. Demy 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cobban —The Cure of Souls :

A Story. By J. Maclaren Cobban.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Collins (C. Allston).— The Bar

Sinister: A Story. By C. Allusion
Collins. Post 8vo, illustrated boards,

Collins (Mortimer & Frances).

Novels by :

Sweet and Twenty Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Frances. Post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Blacksmith and Scholar. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Village Comedy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

You Play Me False. Post Svo, illust.
boards, 2s.; cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Collins (Mortimer), Novels by :

Sweet Anne Page. Post 8vo, illustrated
beards, 2s. ; crown Svo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Transmigration. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.

From Midnight to Midnight. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown
Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

A Fight with Fortune. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Coleman's Humorous Works:

Broad Grins'' " My Nightgown and
Slippers," and other Humorous Works,
Prose and Poetical, of George Col-man.
With Life by G. B. Blackstone.
and Frontispiece by HoGABTfT. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gik, 7s. 6d

Collins (Wilkie), Novels by.

Each post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s;
cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ; or crown 8vo,
cloth extra, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Antonio. Illust. by A. Concave.

Basil. Illustrated by Sir John Gilbert
and J. Mahoney.

Hide and Seek. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and J. Mahoney.

The Dead Secret. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

Queen of Hearts. Illustrated by Sir
John Gilbert and A. Concave.

My Miscellanies. With Illustrations
by A. Concave, and a Steel-plate
Portrait of Wilkie Collins.

The Woman in White. With Illustrations
by Sir John Gilbert and

F. A. Fraser.

The Moonstone. With Illustrations

by G. Du MAURiERand F. A. Fraser.

Man and Wife. Illust. by W. Small.

Poor Miss Finch. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and Edward
Hughes.

Miss or Mrs. P With Illustrations by

S. L. Fildes and Henry Woods.
The New Magdalen. Illustrated by
« G. Du Maurier and C. S. Rants.
The Frozen Deep. Illustrated by

G. Du Maurier and J. Mahoney.
The Law and the Lady. Illustrated

by S. L. Fildes and Sydney Hall.
The Two Destinies.
The Haunted Hotel. Illustrated by

Arthur Hopkins.
The Fallen Leaves.
Jezebel's Daughter.
The Black Robe.

Heart and Science: A Story of the
Present Time. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. [In preparation.

Convalescent Cookery: A

Family Handbook. By Catherine
Ryan. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Conway (Concur D.), Works

by:
Demonology and Devil-Lore. Two

Vols., royal 8vo, with 65 lusts., 28s.

A Necklace of Stories. Illustrated
by W. J. Hennessy. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Wandering Jew. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Thomas Carlyle: Letters and Recollections.
With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Cook (Dutton), Works by:

Hours with the Players. With a
Steel Plate Frontispiece. New and
Cheaper Edit., cr. 8vo, cloth extracts.

Nights at the Play: A View of the
English Stage. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Leo: A Novel. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Paul Foster's Daughter. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Copyright.— A Handbook of

English and Foreign Copyright in
Literary and Dramatic Works. By
Sidney Ferrol, of the Middle
Temple, Esq., Barrister-at-law. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Cornwall.— Popular Romances

of the West of England ; or, The

Rolls, Traditions, and Superstitions
of Old Cornwall. Collected and Edited
by Robert Hunt, F.R.S. New and
Revised Edition, with Additions, and
Two Steel-plate Illustrations by
George Cruikshank. Crown 8vo,
cl ot h extra a, 7s . 6d.

Creasy.— Memoirs of Eminent

Etonians: with Notices of the Early
History of Eton College. By Sir
Edward Creasy, Author of " The
Fifteen Decisive Battles of the World."
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 13
Portraits, 7a. 6d.

Cruikshank (George):

The Comic Almanac. Complete in

Two Series : The First from 1835
to 1843 ; the Second from 1844 to
1853. A Gathering of the Best
Humour of Thackeray, Hood, May-hew,
Albert Smith, A'Beckett,
Robert Brough, &c. With 2,000
Woodcuts and Steel Engravings by
Cruikshank, Line, Handel's, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, two very thick
volumes, 7s. 6d. each.

The Life of George Cruikshank. By
Blanchard Ferrol, Author ot
"The Life of Napoleon Iii," &c.
With 84 Illustrations. New and
Cheaper Edition, enlarged, with ,
and ? very carefully
compiled Bibliography. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Robinson Crusoe. A choicely-printed
Edition, with 37 Woodcuts and Two
Steel Plates, by George Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
100 Large Paper copies, carefully
printed on hand-made paper, with
India proofs of the Illustration*,
price 36s. [In preparation.

Cumming.— In the Hebrides.

By C. F. Gordon Cumming, Author
of " At Home in Fiji." With Autotype
Facsimile and Illustrations. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 8s. 6d.

Russians.— Handbook of Heraldry;
with Instructions for Tracing
Pedigrees and Deciphering Ancient
Miss., &c. By John E. Russians.
Entirely New and Revised Edition,
illustrated with over 400 Woodcuts
and Coloured Plates. Crown 8vo,
c) Th extra, 7s. 6d.

Cycles.— Hearts of Gold : A

Novel. By William Cycles. Crown
8vq, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Daniel. — Merrier England in

the Olden Time. By George Daniel.
With Illustrations by Root. Cruik-
shank. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 61.

Daudet.— Port Salvation ; or,

The Evangelist. By Alphonse
Daudet. Translated by C. Harry
Seltzer. New and Cheaper Edition.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s.6d. [Shortly.

Covenant. — What shall my

Son be ? Hints for Parents on the
Choice of a Profession or Trade for
their Sons. By Francis Covenant,
M.A. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete

Poetical Works, including Psalms I.
to L. in Verse, and other hitherto Unpublished
MSS., for the first time
Collected and Edited, with Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev.
A. B. Grosart, D.D. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth boards, 12s.

De Maistre.— A Journey Round

My Room. By Xavier de Maistre.
Translated by Henry Attwell. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Derwent (Leith), Novels by:
Our Lady of Tears. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Circe's Lovers. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [/;: preparation.

Dickens (Charles), Novels by :

Post Evo, illustrated boards, 23. each.
Sketches by Boz.
The Pickwick Papers.
Oliver Twist.
Nicholas nickleby.

Dickens (Charles continued —
The Speeches of Charles Dickens.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Speeches of Charles Dickens,

1841-1870. With a New Bibliography,
revised and enlarged. Edited and
Prefaced by Richard Herne Shepherd.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

About England with Dickens. By

Alfred Rimmer. With 57 Illustrations
by C. A. Vanderhouf, Alfred
Rimmer, and others. Sq. 8vo, cloth
extra, 10s. 6d.

Dictionaries:

A Dictionary of Miracles: Imitative,
Realistic, and Dogmatic. By the
Rev. E. C. Brew r, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. [Preparing.

A Dictionary of the Drama: Being
a comprehensive Guide to the Plays,
Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and America,
from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport Adams.
A thick volume, crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information ; including
the Names of Celebrate; d
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Count iy
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Shi s,
Streets, Clubs, Natural Curiosity s,
and the like. By Wm. A. Wheels r
and Charles G. Wheeler. Den y
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Reader's Handbook of Allusions,
References, Plots, ard
Stories. By the Rev. E. C. Brew? r,
LL.D. Third Edition, revised
throughout, with a New Append x,
containing a Complete English P b-
biography. Crown 8vo, 1,400 pag s,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men. With

Historical and Explanatory Notes.
By Samuel A. Bent, M.A. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Slang Dictionary: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. 6d.

Words, Facts, and Phrases: A Dictionary
ot Curious, Quaint, and 
Matters. By Eliezkr
Edwards. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d.

Dobson (W. T.), Works by :
Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d.
Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Dora. — Memories of our

Great Towns; with Anecdotic Gleanings
concerning their Worthies and
their Oddities. By Dr. John Dora,
Fas A. With 38 Illustrations. New
and Cheaper Edition, crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Drama, A Dictionary of the.

Being a comprehensive Guide to the
Plays, Playwrights, Players, and Playhouses
of the United Kingdom and
America, from the Earliest to the Present
Times. By W. Davenport
Adams. (Uniform with Brewer's
Reader's Handbook") Crown 8vo,
half-bound, 12s. 6d. [In preparation.

Dramatists, The Old. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, with Vignette Portraits,
6s. per Vol.

Ben Jonson's Works. With Notes
Critical and Explanatory, and a Biographical
Memoir by Wm. Gifford.
Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols.

Chapman's Works. Complete in
Three Vols. Vol. I. contains the
Plays complete, including the doubtful
ones; Vol. II., the Poems and
Minor Translations, with an Introductory
Essay by Algerian Chas.
Swinburne ; Vol. III., the Translations
of the Iliad and Odyssey.

Marlowe's Works. Including his
Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
One Vol.

Massinger's Plays. From the Text of
William Gifford. Edited by Col.
Cunningham. One Vol.

Dyer. — The Folk-lore of

Plants. By T. F. Thiselton Dyer,

M.A. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

[In preparation.

Edwards, Bethany Felicia:

A Novel. By M. Bentham-Edwards.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ;
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Edwards (Mrs. A.), Novels by:

A Point of Honour. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Archie Lovell. Post 8vo, Must, bds.,
2s. ; crown 8vo. cloth extra. 3*. 6d.

Early English Poets. Edited,

with Introductions and Annotations,
by Rev. A. B.Grosart, D.D. Crown
6vo, cloth boards, 6s. per Volume.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete
Poems. One Vol.

Davies' (Sir John) Complete
Poetical Works. Two Vols.

Herrick's robert) Complete Collected
Poems. Three Vols.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete
Poetical Works. Three Vols.

Herbert(Lord) of Carbury's Poems.

Edited, with Introduction, by J,
Wharton Collins. Crown 8VO,
parchment, 8s.

Eggleston.— Roxy: A Novel. By
Edward Eggleston. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s. ; cr 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Emanuel.— On Diamonds and

Precious Stones : their History, Value,
and Properties ; with Simple Tests for
ascertaining their Reality. By Harry
Emanuel, F.R.G.S. With numerous
Illustrations, tinted and plain. Crown
8vo , cloth ex tr a, gilt , 6s.

Englishman's House, The : A

Practical Guide to all interested in
Selecting or Building a House, with
full Estimates of Cost, Quantities, &c.
By C. J. Richardson. Third Edition.
With nearly 600 Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cl both extra, 7 s. 6d.

Ewald (Alex. Charles, F.S.A.),

Works by:
Stories from the State Papers

With an Autotype Facsimile. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Life and Times of Prince
Charles Stuart, Count of Albany,
commonly called the Young Pretender.
From the State Papers and
other Sources. New and Cheaper
Edition, with a Portrait, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Eyes, The. — How to Use our

Eyes, and How to Preserve Them. By
John Browning, F.R.A.S., &c. With
37 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, Is.; cloth,

13.J :

Fairport.— Tobacco: Its History
and Associations ; with an Account
of the Plant and its Manufacture,
and its Modes of Use in all
Ages and Countries. By F. W. Fair-holt,
Fas. A. With Coloured Frontispiece
and upwards of 100 Illustrations
by the Author. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6s.

Familiar Allusions: A Handbook
of Miscellaneous Information;
including the Names of Celebrated
Statues, Paintings, Palaces, Country
Seats, Ruins, Churches, Ships, Streets,
Clubs, Natural Curiosities, and the
like. By William A. Wheeler,
Author of " Noted Names of Fiction ; "
and Charles G. Wheeler. Demy
8vo, cloth extra, 78. 6d.

Faraday (Michael), Works by :

The Chemical History of a Candle :
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

On the Various Forces of Nature,
and their Relations to each other:
Lectures delivered before a Juvenile
Audience at the Royal Institution.
Edited by William Crookes, F.C.S.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, with numerous
Illustrations, 4s. 6d.

Fin-Bee — The Cupboard

Papers : Observations on the Art of
Living and Dining. By Fin-Bec. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Fitzgerald (Percy), Works by :

The Recreations of a Literary Man ;
or, Does Writing Pay ? With Recollections
of some Literary Men,
and a View of a Literary Man's
Working Life. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 6fi.

The World Behind the Scenes.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bella Donna.
Never Forgotten.
The Second Mrs. Tillotson.
Polly.
Seventy-five Brooke Street.

Fletcher's (Giles, B.D.) Complete

Poems : Christ's Victorie in
Heaven, Christ's Victorie on Earth,
Christ's Triumph over Death, and
Minor Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes, by the Rev. A.
B. Grosart, D.D. Crown 8vo, cloth
boards, 6s.

Fonblanque. — Filthy Lucre : A

Novel. By Albany j»e Fonblanque.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Francisco (R. E.), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s. each.

Olympia.

Queen Cophetua.

One b y One.

Esther's Glove. Fcap. 8vo, picture
cover, Is.

French Literature, History of.

By Henry Van Laun. Complete in
3 V vols., d em y 8vo, cl. b ds., 7s. 6d. e each.

Frost (Thomas), Works by :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Circus Life and Circus Celebrities.
The Lives of the Conjurers.
The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs.

Fry. — Royal Guide to the London
Charities, 1883-4. By Herbert
Fry. Showing, in alphabetical order,
their Name, Date of Foundation, Address,
Objects, Annual Income, Chief
Officials, &e. Published Annually.
Crown 8vo, cloth, Is 6d.

Gardening Books:

A Year's Work in Garden and Greenhouse:
Practical Advice to Amateur
Gardeners as to the Management of
the Flower.Fruit, and Frame Garden.
By George Glenny. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d. *i

Our Kitchen Garden The Plants we
Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol, Author of "The
Garden that Paid the Rent," &c.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

The Garden that Paid the Rent.
By Tom Ferrol. Fcap. 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is.; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

My Garden Wild, and What I Grew
there. By Francis George Heath.
Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 5s. ; gilt edges, 6s.

Gentleman's Magazine (The)

for 1883. One Shifting Monthly.
"The New Abelard," Robert Buchanan's
New Serial Story, was begun
in the January Number. "Science
Notes," by W. Mattie Williams,
F.R.A.S., is also continued monthly.
*i* Now ready, the Volume for January

to June, 1883, cloth extra, price 8s. 6d. ;

Cases for binding, 2s. each.

Gentleman's Annual (The).

Christmas, 1883. Containing Two
Complete Novels by Percy fitzgerald
and Mrs. Alexander. Demy
8vo, illuminated cover, is. [Preparing.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Garrett.— The Capet Girls: A

Novel. By Edward Garrett. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. ; crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

German Popular Stories. Collected
by the Brothers Grimm, and
Translated by Edgar Taylor. Edited,
with an Introduction, by John Ruskin.
With 22 Illustrations on Steel by
George Cruikshank. Square 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s. 6d. ; gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gibbon (Charles), Novels by:

Each in crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.;
or post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Robin Gray.

For Lack of Gold.

What will the World Say?

In Honour Bound.

In Love and War.

For the King.

Queen of the Meadow.

In Pastures Green.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
The Dead Heart.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Flower of the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

Fancy-free. Three Vols., crown
8vo, 31s. 6d. [In the press.

Gilbert (William), Novels by :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dr. Austin's Guests.
The Wizard of the Mountain.
James Duke, Costermonger.

Gilbert (W. S.), Original Plays

by : In Two Series, each complete in
itself, price 2s. 6d. each. First Series
contains The Wicked World— Pygmalion
and Galatea — Charity — The
Princess— The Palace of Truth— Trial
by Jury. The Second Series contains
Broken Hearts — Engaged —
Sweethearts— Gretchen— Dan'l Bruce
—Tom Cobb— H. Mss. Pinafore— The
Sorcerer — The Pirates of Penzance.

Glenny. — A Year's Work in

Garden and Greenhouse: Practical
Advice to Amateur Gardeners as to
the Management of the Flower, Fruit,
and Frame Garden. By George
Glenny. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Godwin.— Lives of the Necromancers.
By William Godwin.
Post Svo, cl ot h limp, 2s .

Golden Library, The:

Square imo (Tauchnitz size), cloth
limp, 2s. per volume.

Bayard Taylor's Diversions of the
Echo Club.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Ballad History
of England.

Bennett's (Dr. W. C.) Songs for
Sailors.

Byron's Don Juan.

Godwin's (William) Lives of the
Necromancers.

Holmes's Autocrat of the Breakfast
Table. With an Introduction
by G. A. Sala.

Holmes's ? lessor at the Breakfast
Table

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
All the original Illustrations.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of a
Traveller.

Irving's (Washington) Tales of the
Alhambra.

Jesse's (Edward) Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life.

Lamb's Essays of E!ia. Both Series
Complete in One Vol.

Leigh Hunt's Essays: A Tale for a
Chimney Corner, and other Pieces.
With Portrait, and Introduction by
Edmund Oilier.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort
arthur: The Stories of King
Arthur and of the Knights of the
Round Table. Edited by B. montgomery
Ranking.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A New
Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes.byT.M'CRiE.D.D.

Pope's Poetical Works. Complete.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and Moral
Reflections. With Notes, and Introductory
Essay by Sainte-veuve.
St. Pierre's Paul and Virginia, and
The Indian Cottage. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke.
Shelley's Early Poems, and Queen
Mab. With Essay by Leigh Hunt.
Shelley's Later Poems: Lion and

Cythna, &c.
Shelley's Posthumous Poems, the

Shelley Papers, &c.
Shelley's Prose Works, including A
Refutation of Deism, Zastrozzi, St.
Irvine, &c.
White's Natural History of Sel-borne.
Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L^S.

n

Golden Treasury of Thought,

The: An Encyclopaedia of Quotations
from Writers of all Times and
Countries. Selected and Edited by
Theodore Taylor. Crown Svo, cloth
gilt and gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Gordon Cumming. — In the

Hebrides. By C. F. Gordon Cumming,
Author of " At Home in Fiji." With
Autotype Facsimile and numerous
full-page Illustrations. Demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 8s. G^

Graham. — The Professor's

Wife : A Story. By Leonard Graham.
Fcap. 8vo, picture cover, Is. ; cloth
extra, 2s. 6d.

Greeks and Romans, The Life

of the, Described from Antique Monuments.
By Ernst Gull and W.
Koner. Translated from the Third
German Edition, and Edited by Dr.
F. Suffer. With 545 Illustrations.
New and Cheaper Edition, demy 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Greenwood (James), Works by:
The Wilds of London. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Low-life Deeps : An Account of the

Strange Fish to be Found There.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Dick Temple: A Novel. Post 8vo,

illustrated boards, 2s.

Guyot.— The Earth and Manor,

Physical Geography in its relation
to the History of Mankind. By
Arnold Guyot. With Additions by
Professors Agassiz, Pierce, and Gray;
12 Maps and Engravings on Steel,
some Coloured, and copious Index.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 4s. 6d.

Hair (The) : Its Treatment in
Health, Weakness, and Disease.
Translated from the German of Dr. J.
Picus. Crown 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Hake (Dr. Thomas Gordon),

Poems by :
Maiden Ecstasy. Small 410, cloth

extra, 8s.
New Symbols. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 6s.
Legends of the Morrow. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 63.
The Serpent Play. Crown Svo, cloth

extra, 63.

Half-hours with Foreign Novelists.
With Notices of their Lives
and Writings. By Helen and Alice
Simmer. A New Edition. Two Vols.,
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.

Hall. — Sketches of Irish Character.
By Mrs. S. C. Hall. With
numerous Illustrations on Steel and
Wood by Machine, Gilbert, Harvey,
and G. Cruikshank. Medium 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt, 7s. 6d.

Holiday.— Everyday Papers.

By Andrew Holiday. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Handwriting, The Philosophy

of. With over 100 Facsimiles and Explanatory
Text. By Don Felix de
Salamanca. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Hanky-Panky: A Collection of
Very EasyTricks.Very Difficult Tricks,
White Magic, Sleight of Hand, &c.
Edited by W. H. Cremer. With 200
Illustrations. Crown Svo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Hardy (Lady Duffus). — Paul

Winter's Sacrifice: A Story. By
Lady Duffus Hardy. Post 8vo, illust.
boards, 2s.

Hardy (Thomas.— Under the
Greenwood Tree. By Thomas Hardy,
Author of " Far from the Madding
Crowd." Crown Svo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Haweis (Mrs. H. R.), Works by :

The Art of Dress. With numerous
Illustrations. Small 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

The Art of Beauty. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with Coloured Frontispiece and Illustrations,
6s.

The Art of Decoration. Square Svo,
handsomely bound and profusely
Illustrated, 10s. 6d.

Chaucer for Children: A Golden
Key. With Eight Coloured Pictures
and numerous Woodcuts. New
Edition, small 4to, cloth extra, 6s.

Chaucer for Schools. Demy Svo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Haweis (Rev. H. R.).— American

Humorists. Including Washington
Irving, Oliver Wendell Holmes,
James Russell Lowell, Artemus
Ward, Mark Twain, and Bret Harte.
By the Rev. H. R. Haweis, M.A.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 6s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Hawthorne (Julian), Novels by.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each;
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

Garth.

Ellice Question.

Sebastian Stroke.

Mrs. Gainsborough's Diamonds.

Fcap. 8vo, illustrated cover, Is. ;

cloth extra, 2s. 6d.
Prince Saroni's Wife. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Dust: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3a. 6d.
Fortune's Fool. Three Vols., crown

Svo, 31s. 6d.

Hesse Wartegg (Chevalier

Ernst von), Works by :

Tunis: The Land and the People.
With 22 Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The New South-West: Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New Mexico,
Arizona, and Northern Mexico.
With hoo fine Illustrations and 3
Maps. Demy 8vo, cloth extra,
143. [In preparation.

Heath (F. G.). — My Garden

Wild, and What I Grew There. By
Francis George Heath, Author oi
The Fern World," &c. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. ; cloth gilt, and gilt
edges, 6s.

Helps (Sir Arthur), Works by :

Animals and their Masters. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Social Pressure. Post Svo, cloth limp.
2s. 6d.

Ivan de Biron : A Novel. Crown 8vo,
^ cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Heptalogia (The) ; or, The

Seven against Sense. A Cap with
Seven Bells. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Herbert.— The Poems of Lord

Herbert of Carbury. Edited, with
an Introduction, by J. Wharton
Collins. Crown Svo, bound in parchment,
8s.

Herrick's (Robert) Hesperides,

Noble Numbers, and Complete Collected
Poems. With Memorial-introduction
and Notes by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D., Steel Portrait, Inde
of First Lines, and Glossarial Index.
&c. Three Vols., crown 8vo, cloth
boards, 18s.

Hindley (Charles), Works by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings : Including
the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with
Taverns, Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c
With Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

Holmes(OliverWendell),Works

by:

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table
Illustrated by J. Gordon
Thomson. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s. 6d. ; another Edition in smaller
type, with an Introduction by G. A.
Sala. Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s.

The Professor at the Breakfast-table
; with the Story of Iris. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Holmes. — The Science of

Voice Production and Voice Preservation:
A Popular Manual for the
Use of Speakers and Singers. By
Gordon Holmes, M.D. Crown 8vo,
cloth limp, with Illustrations, 2s. 6d.

Hood (Thomas):

Hood's Choice Works, in Prose and
Verse. Including the Cream ol the
Comic Annuals. With Life of the
Author, Portrait, and 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 63.

Hood's Whims and Oddities. Complete.
With all the original Illustrations.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Hood (Tom), Works by:

From Nowhere to the North Pole:
A Noah's Arka^olog; :al Narrative.
With 25 Illustration, by W. Brun-ton
and E. C. Ba kes. Square
crown Svo, cloth extra, gilt edges, 6s.

A Golden Heart: A Novel. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Hooks (Theodore) Choice Humorous
Works, including his Ludicrous
Adventures.Bons Mots, Puns and
Hoaxes. With a New Life of the
Author, Portraits, Facsimiles, and
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
gilt, 7s. 6d.

Home.— Orion : An Epic Poem,
in Three Books. By Richard Hengist
Horne. With Photographic
Portrait from a Medallion by Summers.
Tenth Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s.

Howell.— Conflicts of Capital

and Labour, Historically and Economically
considered : Being a History
and Review of the Trade Unions
of Great Britain, showing their Origin,
Progress, Constitution, and Objects, in
their Political, Social, Economical,
and Industrial Aspects. By George
Howell. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Hugo. — The Hunchback of

Notre Dame. By Victor Hugo.
Post Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Hunt.— Essays by Leigh Hunt.

A Tale for a Chimney Corner, and
other Pieces. With Portrait and Introduction
by Edmund Oilier. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 23.

Hunt (Mrs. Alfred), Novels by:
Thornlcroft's Model. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
The Leaden Casket. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.
Self-condemned. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.

Angelo.— Fated to be Free : A

Novel. By Jean Angelo. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Irving (Henry). — The Paradox

of Acting. Translated, with Annotations,
from Diderot's " Le Paradoxe
sur le Comedies," by Walter berries
Pollock. With a Preface by
Henry Irving. Crown 8vo, in parchment,
4s. 6d.

Irving (Washington), Works by:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. each.
Tales of a Traveller.
Tales of the Alhambra.

James. — Confidence: A Novel.

By Henry James, Jun. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2 s.

Janvier. — Practical Keramics

for Students. By Catherine A.
Janvier. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jay (Harriet), Novels by. Each

crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; or post
8vo, illustrated boards, 23.
The Dark Colleen.
Th e Que en of C onnaug ht.

Jefferies. — Nature near London.
By Richard Jefferies, Author
of "The Gamekeeper at Home''
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Jennings (H. J.).— Curiosities

of Criticism. By Henry J. Jennings.
Post Svo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Jennings (Hargrave). — The

Rosicruclans: Their Rites and Mysteries.
With Chapters on the Ancient
Fire and Serpent Worshippers. By
Hargrave Jennings. With Five full-page
Plates and upwards of 300 Illustrations.
A New Edition, crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Ferrol (Tom), Works by:

The Garden that Paid the Rent.

By Tom Ferrol. Fcap. 8vo, illustrated
cover, Is. ; cloth limp, Is. 6d.

Household Horticulture: A Gossip
about Flowers. By Tom and Jane
Ferrol. Illustrated. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Our Kitchen Garden: The Plants
we Grow, and How we Cook Them.
By Tom Ferrol. Post Svo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Jesse.— Scenes and Occupations
of a Country Life. By Edward
Jesse. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Jones (William, F.S.A.), Works

by : 4

Finger-Ring Lore: Historical, Legendary,
and Anecdotal. With over
200 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Credulity, Past and Present; including
the Sea and Seamen, Miners,
Talismans, Word and Letter Divination,
Exorcising and Blessing of
Animals, Birds, Eggs, Luck, &c.
With an Etched Frontispiece. Crown
Svo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Crowns and Coronations : A History
of Regalia in all Times and Countries.
With One Hundred Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s.6d.

Jonson's (Ben) Works. With

Notes Critical and Explanatory, and
a Biographical Memoir by William
Gifford. Edited by Colonel Cunningham.
Three Vols., crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 18s. ; or separately, 6s. per
Volume. *

Joseph us,The Com pleteWorks

of. Translated by Whiston. Containing
both " The Antiquities of the
Jews" and "The Wars of the Jews."
Two Vols., 8vo, with 52 Illustrations
and Maps, cloth extra, gilt, 148.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Kavanagh.— The Pearl Fountain,
and other Fairy Stories. By
Bridget and Julia Kavanagh. With
Thirty Illustrations by J. M®yr Smith.
Small 8vo, cloth gilt, 6s.

Kempt.— Pencil and Palette:

Chapters on Art and Artists. By
Robert Kempt. Post 8vo, cloth lime,
2s. 64.

Kingsley (Henry), Novels by:

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6(1. ;
or post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Oakshott Castle.
Number Seventeen.

Lamb (Charles):

Mary and Charles Lamb : Their
Poems, Letters, and Remains. With
Reminiscences and Notes by W.
Carew Hazlitt. With Hancock's
Portrait of the Essayist, Facsimiles
of the Title-pages of the rare First
Editions of Lamb's and Coleridge's
Works, and numerous Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Lamb's Complete Works, in Prose
and Verse, reprinted from the Original
Editions, with many Pieces
hitherto unpublished. Edited, with
Notes and Introduction, by R. H.
Shepherd. With Two Portraits and
Facsimile of a Page of the " Essay
on Roast Pig'' Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

The Essays of Elia. Complete Edition.
Post 8vo, cloth extra, 2s.

Poetry for Children, and Prince
Doris. By Charles Lamb. Carefully
Reprinted from unique copies.
Small Svo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lares and Penates ; or, The

Background of Life. By Florence
Caddy. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

The Thousand and One Nights:

commonly called, in England, " The
Arabian Nights' Entertainments."
A New Translation from
the Arabic, with copious Notes, by
Edward William Lane Illustrated
by many hundred Engravings on
Wood, from Original Designs by
Wm. Harvey. A New Edition, from
a Copy annotated by the Translator,
edited by his Nephew, Edward
Stanley Poole. With a Preface by
Stanley Lane-Poole. Three Vols.,
demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. each.

Lane's Arabian Nights, &c. :

Arabian Society in the Middle Ages:
Studies from " The Thousand and
One Nights." By Edward William
Lane, Author of " The Modern
Egyptians," &c. Edited by Stanley
Lane-Poole. Crown Svo, cloth extra,

i atwood (Jacob), Works by:

The Story of the London Parks

With Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d.
Clerical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.
Forensic Anecdotes Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.
Theatrical Anecdotes. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

Leigh (Henry S.), Works by: •

Carols of Cockayne. With numerous

Illustrations. Post 8vo, cloth limp,

2s. 6d.
Jeux esprit. Collected and Edited

by Henry S. Leigh. Post 8vo, cloth

him » 2s. 6d.

Life in London ; or, The History
of Jerry Hawthorn and Corinthian
Tom. With the whole of Crutk-
shank's Illustrations, in Colours, after
the Originals. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Linton (E. Lynn), Works by:

Witch Stories. Post Svo, cloth limp,

2s. 6d.
The True Story of Joshua Davidson.

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s cl each ; post
Svo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lor J ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! "

lone. Three Vols., crown 8vo, 31s. 6d.
[Shortly.

Locks and Keys. — On the Development
and D distribution of Primitive
Locks and Keys. By Lieut-Gen.
Pitt-Rivers, F.R.S. With numerous
Illustrations. Demy 4to, half Roxburgh,
16s.



Longfellow:

Longfellow's Complete Prose Works.
Including " Outre Mer," " Hyperion,"
" Kavanagh," " The Poets and
Poetry of Europe," and " Driftwood."
With Portrait and Illustrations by
Valentine Bromley. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Longfellow's Poetical Works. Carefully
Reprinted from the Original
Editions. With numerous fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown
8vo, clot h extra , 7s. 6d

Lucy.— Gideon Fleece: A Novel.

Bv Henry W. Lucy.
cloth extra, 3s. 61

Crown Svo,

Lunatic Asylum, My Experiences
in a. By A Sane Patient.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Lusiad (The) of Camoens.

Translated into English Spenserian
Verse by Robert French Duff.
Demy 8vo, with Fourteen full-page
Plates, cloth boards^JSs^

McCarthy (Justin, M.P.),Works

by:

A History of Our Own Times, from
the Accession of Que§xi Victoria to
the General Election of 1880. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. — Also a Popular Edition, in
Four Vols, crown Svo, cloth extra,
6s each.

A Short History of Our Own Times.
One Volume, crown 8vo, cloth extra,
6s. [Shortly.

History of the Four Georges. Four
Vols, demy 8vo, cloth extra, 12s.
each. [In preparation.

Cro. Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each
post svo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Dear Lady Disdain.
The Waterdale Neighbours.
My Enemy's Daughter.
A Fair Saxon.
Linley Rochford
Miss Misanthrope.
Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Maid of Athens. With 13 Illustrations
by F. Barnard. 3 vols., crown
8vo, 31s. 6d. [Shortly.

McCarthy (Justin H.), Works

by:

Serapis, and other Poems. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

An Outline of the History of Ireland,
from the Earliest Times to the Present
Day. Cr. 8vo, Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

MacDonald (George, LL.D.),

Works by :

The Princess and Curdle. With n
Illustrations by James Allen. Small
crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Gutta-Percha Willie, the Wording
Genius. With 9 Illustrations by
Arthur Hughes. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Paul Faber, Surgeon. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Millais. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo.
illustrated boards, 2s.

Thomas Wingfold, Curate. Witn-.
Frontispiece by C. J. Staniland.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Macdonald.— Quaker Cousins:

A Novel. By Agnes Macdonald.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra. 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boar ds, 2s.

Macgregor. — Pastimes and 1

Players. Notes on Popular Games.
By Robert Macgregor. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Machine Portrait-Gallery (The)

of Illustrious Literary Characters;,

with Memoirs— Biographical, Critical,
Bibliographical, and Anecdotal— illustrative
Of the Literature of the former
half of the Present Century. By
William Bates, Bea. With 85 Portraits
printed on an India Tint. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. §

Macquoid (Mrs), Works by.

In the Ardennes. With 50 fine Illustrations
by Thomas R. Macquoid.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

Pictures and Legends from Normandy
and Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by Thomas R"
Macquoib. Square 8vo, cloth gilt,
10s. 6d.

Through Normandy. With 90 Illustrations
by T. R. Macquoid. Square
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d

Through Brittany. With numerous
Illustrations by T. R. Macquoid.
Square 8vo, cloth extra, 73. 6d.

About Yorkshire. With 67 Illustrations
by T. R. Ma^ouoid, Engraved
by Swain. Square 8vo, cloth extra,
10s. 6d.

The Evil Eye, and other Stories'.
Crown Svo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Lost Rose, and other Stories. Crown
8vo, cloth extra . 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 23.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Mackay. — Interludes and Undertones:
Poems of the End of Life.
£7 Charles Mackay, LL.D. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [In the press.

Magician's Own Book (The) :

Performances with Cups and Balls,
Eggs, Hats, Handkerchiefs, &c. All
from actual Experience. Edited by
W. H. Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magic No Mystery: Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing ; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Magna Charta. An exact Facsimile
of the Original in the British
Museum, printed on fine plate paper,
3 feet by 2 feet, with Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

Matlock (W. H.), Works by:

The New Republic ; or, Culture, Faith
and Philosophy in an English Country
House. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. ;
Cheap Edition, illustrated boards, 2s.

The New Paul and Virginia ; or, Positivism
on an Island. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Poems. Small 410, bound in parchment,
8s.

Is Life worth Living? Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mallory's (Sir Thomas) Mort

arthur : The Stories of King Arthur
and of the Knights of the Round Table.
Edited by B. Montgomery Ranking.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Marlowe's Works. Including

his Translations. Edited, with Notes
and Introduction, by Col. Cunningham.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Marryat (Florence), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra ds. 6d. each ; or,
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Open ! Sesame!
Written in Fire.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.

Mark Twain, Works by:

The Choice Works of Mark Twain.
Revised and Corrected throughout by
the Author. With Life, Portrait, and
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Adventures of Tom Sawyer.
With 100 Illustrations. Small 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition,
illust rated boards, 2s.

An Idle Excursion, and other Sketches.
Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

The Prince and the Pauper. With
nearly 200 Illustrations. Crov»n8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Innocents Abroad ; or, The New
Pilgrim's Progress : Being some Account
of the Steamship " Quaker
City's " Pleasure Excursion to
Europe and the Holy Land. With
234 Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d. Cheap Edition (under
the title of" Mark Twain's Pleasure
Trip), post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

A Tramp Abroad. With 314 Illustrations.
Grown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Stolen White Elephant, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Life on the Mississippi. With about
300 Original Illustrations. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Massinger's Plays. From the
Text of William Gifford. Edited
by Col. Cunningham. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

Mathew. — London Characters

and the Humorous Side of London
Life. By Henry Mathew. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Mayfair Library, The:

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. per \ volume.
A Journey Round My Room. By

Xavier de Maistre. Translated

by Henry Attwell.
Latter-day Lyrics. Edited by W.

Davenport Adams.
Quips and Quiddities. Selected by

W. Davenport Adams.
The Agony Column of "The Times,"

from 1800 to 1870. Edited, with an

Introduction, by Alice Clay.
Balzac's "Comedie Humaine"and

its Author. With Translations by

H. H. Walker.
Melancholy Anatomise : A Popular

Abridgment of " Burton's Anatomy

of Melancholy."
Gastronomy as a Fine Art. Ey

Brilliant-Savarin.



Mayfair Library, continued—

The Speeches of Charles Dickens.

Literary Frivolities, Fancies, Follies,
and Frolics. By W. T. Dobson.

Poetical Ingenuities and Eccentricities.
Selected and Edited by W. T.
Dobson.

The Cupboard Papers. By Fin-Bec.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
First Series. Containing: The
Wicked World — Pygmalion and
Galatea — Charity — The Princess —
The Palace of Truth— Trial by Jury.

Original Plays by W. S. Gilbert.
Second Series. Containing: Broken
Hearts — Engaged — Sweethearts —
Gretchen— Dan! Bruce — Tom Cobb
H.M.S. Pinafore — The Sorcerer
The Pirates ot Penzance.

Animals and their Masters. By Sir
Arthur Helps.

Social Pressure. By Sir Arthur
Helps.

Curiosities of Criticism. By Henry
J. Jennings.

The Autocrat of the Breakfast-table.
By Oliver Wendell Holmes. Illustrated
by J. Gordon Thomson.

Pencil and Palette. By Robert
Kempt.

Clerical Anecdotes. By Jacob Lar-wood.


Forensic Anecdotes; or, Humour and
Curiosities of the Law and Men of
Law. By Jacob Haywood.

Theatrical Anecdotes. By Jacob
Haywood.

Carols of Cockayne. By Henry S.
Leigh.

Jeux esprit. Edited by Henry S.
Leigh.

True History of Joshua Davidson.
By E.' Lynn Linton.

Witch Stories. By E. Lynn Linton.

Pastimes and Players. By Robert
Macgregor.

The New Paul and Virginia.
W. H. Matlock.

By

The New Republic. By W. H. Mal-lock.


Muses of Mayfair. Edited by H.
Cholmondeley-Pennell.

Thoreau : His Life and Aims. By
H. A. Page.

Puck on Pegasus. By H. Cholmonde-
ley-penned.

Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh Rowley.

More Puniana. By the Hon. Hugh
Rowley.

The Philosophy of Handwriting. By
Don Felix de Salamanca,

Mayfair Library, continued—
By Stream and Sea. By William

Senior.
Old Stories Retold. By Walter

Thornbury.
Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.

By Dr. Andrew W wilson.

Medicine, Family.— One Thousand
Medical Maxims and Surgical
Hints, for Infancy, Adult Life, Middle
Age, and Old Age. By N. E. Davies,
Licentiate of the Royal College of
Physicians of London. Crown 8vo,
Is. ; cloth, Is. 6d.

Merry Circle (The) : A Book of

New Intellectual Games and Amusements.
By Clara Belleww. With
numerous Illustrations. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 4s. 6d.

Middlemost (Jean), Novels by:

Touch and Go. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Mr. Dorillion. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Miller. — Physiology for the

Young: or, The House of Life: Human
Physiology, with its application
to the Preservation of Health. For
use in Classes and Popular Reading.
With numerous Illustrations By Mrs.
F. Fenwick Miller. Small 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Milton (J. L.), Works by:

The Hygiene of the Skin. A Concise
Set of Rules for the Management ot
the Skin ; with Directions for Diet,
Wines, Soaps, Baths, &c. Small 8vo,
Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Bath in Diseases of the Skin.
Small 8vo, Is. ; cloth extra, Is. 6d.

The Laws of Life, and their Relation
to Diseases of the Skin. Small 8vo,
Is. ; cloth extra a. Is. 6d.

Moncrieff. — The Abdication;

or, Time Tries All. An Historical
Drama. By W. D. Scott-Moncrieff.
With Seven Etchings by John Petrie,
R.A., W. Q. Richardson, R.A., J.
MacWhirter, A.R.A., Colin Hunter,
R. Macbeth, and Tom Graham. Large
4to, bo und in buckram, 21s.

Murray (D. Christie), Novels
by:

A Life's Atonement. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated

boards, 2s.
Joseph's Coat. With Illustrations by

F. Barnard. Crown 8vo,clcth extra,

3s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

D. C Murray's Novels, continued —
Coals of Fire. With Illustrations by

Arthur Hopkins and others. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
A Model Father, and other Stories.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post

8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Val Strange : A Story of the Primrose

Way. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
Hearts. New and Cheaper Edition.

Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. [Shortly.
By the Gate of the Sea. Two Vols.,

post 8vo, 12s.
The Way of the World. Three Vols.,

crown Svo, 31s. 6d. [Shortly.

North Italian Folk. By Mrs.
Coins Carr. Must, by Randolph
Caldecott. Sq. 8vo, cloth extracts. 6d.

Number Nip (Stories about),

the Spirit of the Giant Mountains.
Retold for Children by Walter
Grahame. With Illustrations by J.
Moyr Smith. Post 8vo, cloth extra', 6s.

Oliphant. — Whiteladies: A

Novel. With Illustrations by Arthur
Hopkins and Henry Woods. Crown
-' 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Reilly.— Phoebe's Fortunes :

A Novel. With Illustrations by Henry
Tuck. Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

O'Shaughnessy (Artis), Works

by:
Songs of a Worker. Fcap. 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
Music and Moonlight. Fcap. 8vo,

cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Lays of France. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 10s. 6d.

Ouida, Novels by. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 5s. each ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s. each.

Held in Bondage.

Stratford.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castlemaine's Gage.

Tricotrin.

Puck.

Folle Farine.

A Dog of Flanders.

Pascal.

Two Little Wooden Shoes.

Ouida's Novels, continued-signa.


In a Winter City
Ariadne.
Friendship.
Moths.
Pipistrello.
A Village Commune.

In Maremma. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 5s.
Bimbi : Stories for Children. Square

8vo, cloth gilt, cinnamon edges,7s.6d.
Wands: A Novel. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 5s. [Shortly.

Wisdom, Wit, and Pathos. Selected

from the Works of Ouida, by F.

Sydney Morris. Small crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 5s. [In the press.

Page (H. A.), Works by s

Thoreau : His Life and Aims : A Study.
With a Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Lights on the Way : Some Tales within
a Tale. By the late J. H. Alexander,
Bea. Edited by H. A. Page.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pascal's Provincial Letters. A

New Translation, with Historical Introduction
and Notes, by T. M'Crie,
D.D. Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Paul Ferrolll :

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Paul Ferrolll : A Novel.
Why Paul Ferrolll Killed His Wife.

Payn (James), Novels by :

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; or
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Lost Sir Massinger.

The Best of Husbands.

Walter's Word.

Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.

What He Cost Her.

Less Black than We're Painted

By Proxy.

Under One Roof.

High Spirits.

Carlyon's Year.

A Confidential Agent

Some Private Views.

From Exile.



James Payn's Novels, continued-post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
A Perfect Treasure.
Bentinck's Tutor.
Murphy's Master.
A County Family.
At Her Mercy.
A Woman's Vengeance
Cecil's Tryst.
The Clyffards of Clyffe.
The Family Scapegrace.
The Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Gwendolen's Harvest.
Humorous Stories.
Like Father, Like Son.
A Marine Residence.
Married Beneath Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but Won.
Two Hundred Pounds Reward.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
A Grape from a Thorn. With Illustrations
by W. Small.
For Cash Only. | Kit: A Memory.

Penned (H. Cholmondeley),

Works by: Post 8vo, cloth limp,

23. 61. each.
Puck on Pegasus. With Illustrations.
The Muses of Mayfair. Vers de

Societe, Selected and Edited by H.

C. Penned.

Phelps.— Beyond the Gates.

By Elizabeth Stuart Phelps,
Author of " The Gates Ajar." Most
8vo,cloth l ; mp, 2S. 6d Published by
special arrangement with the Author,
and Copyright in England and its
Dependencies. [Shortly.

Planche (J. R.), Works by:

The Encyclopaedia of Costume ; or,
A Dictionary of Dress — Regal, Ecclesiastical,
Civil, and Military— from
the Earliest Period in England to the
Reign of George the Third. Including
Notices of Contemporaneous
Fashions on the Continent, and a
General History of the Costumes of
the Principal Countries of Europe.
Two Vols., demy 4to, half morocco,
profusely Illustrated with Coloured
and Plain Plates and Woodcuts,
£7 7s. The Vols, may also be had
separately (each complete in itself)
at £3 13s. 6d. each : Vol. I. The
Dictionary. Vol. II. A General
History of Costume in Europe.

Planche's Works, continued—
The Pursuivant of Arms; or, Heraldry
Founded upon Facts. With
Coloured Frontispiece and 200 Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
Songs and Poems, from 1819 to 1879.
Edited, with an Introduction, by his
Daughter, Mrs. Backwardness. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 63.

Pirkis.— Trooping with Crows :

A Story. By Catherine Pirkis. Fcap.
8vo, pic ture cover, Is.

Play-time: Sayings and Doings
of Babylon. By Edward Stanford.
Large 4to, handsomely printed in
Colours, 5s.

Plutarch's Lives of Illustrious

Men. Translated from the Greek,
with Notes Critical and Historical, and
a Life of Plutarch, by John and
William Langhorne. Two Vols.,
8vo, cloth extra, with Portraits, 10s. 6d.

Poe (Edgar Allan:—

The Choice Works, in Prose and
Poetry, of Edgar Allan Poe. With
an Introductory Essay by Charles
Baudelaire, Portrait and Facsimiles.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

The Mystery of Marie Roget, and
other Stories. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Popes Poetical Works. Complete
in One Volume. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s.

Price (E. C), Novels by:

Valentine: A Sketch. With a Frontispiece
by Hal Ludlow. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

The Foreigners. Three Vols, crown
8vo, 31s. 6d. [Shortly.

Proctor (Rich. A.), Works by ;

Flowers of the Sky. With 55 Illustrations.
Small crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 4s. 6d.

Easy Star Lessons. With Star Maps
for Every Night in the Year, Drawings
of the Constellations, &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Familiar Science Studies. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Myths and Marvels of Astronomy.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Pleasant Ways in Science. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Rough Ways made Smooth : A
Series of Familiar Essays on scientific
Subjects. Cr. 8vo, cloth extracts.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

R. A. Proctor's Works, continued—

Our Place among Infinities: A Series
of Essays contrasting our Little
Abode in Space and Time with the
Infinities Around us. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 6s.

The Expanse of Heaven : A Series
of Essays on the Wonders of the
Firmament. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Saturn and its System. New and
Revised Edition, with 13 Steel Plates.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 10s. 6d.

The Great Pyramid : Observatory,
Tomb, and Temple. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6S.

Mysteries of Time and Space. With
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Wages and Wants of Science
Workers. Crown 8vo, Is. 6d.

Pyrotechnist's Treasury (The);

or, Complete Art of Making Fireworks.
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
4s. 6d.

Rabelais' Works. Faithfully

Translated from the French, with
variorum Notes, and numerous characteristic
Illustrations by Gustave
Dore. Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Rambosson.— Popular Astronomy.
By J. Rambosson, Laureate
of the Institute of France. Translated
by C. B. Pitman. Crown 8vo,
cloth gilt, with numerous Illustrations,
and a beautifully executed Chart of
Spectra, 7s. 6d.

Reader's Handbook (The) of

Allusions, References, Plots, and
Stories. By the Rev. Dr. Brewer.
Third Editkn, revised throughout,
with a New Appendix, containing a
Complete English Bibliography.
Crown 8vo, 1,400 pages, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Reade (Charles, D.C.L.), Novels

by. Each post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.; or crown 8vo, cloth
extra, Illustrated, 3s. 6d.

Peg Washington. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A. R.A.

Christie Johnston. Illustrated by
William Small.

jt is Never Too Late to Mend. Illustrated
by G. J. Pin well.

The Course of True Love Never did
run Smooth. Illustrated by Helen
Paterson.

Charles Reade's Novels, continued —

The Autobiography of a Thief; Jack
of all trades; and James Lambert.
Illustrated by Matt Stretch.

Love me Little, Love me Long. Illustrated
by M. Ellen Edwards.

The Double Marriage. Illustrated
by Sir John Gilbert, R.A., and
Charles Keene.

The Cloister and the Hearth. Illustrated
by Charles Keene.

Hard Cash. Illustrated by F. W.
Lawson.

Griffith Gaunt. Illustrated by S. L.
Fildes, A.R.A., and Wm. Small.

Foul Play. Illustrated by George
Du Maurier.

Put Yourself in His Place. Illustrated
by Robert Barnes.

A Terrible Temptation. Illustrated
by Edward Hughes and A. W.
Cooper.

The Wandering Heir. Illustrated
by Helen Paterson, S. L. Fildes,
A. R.A. .Charles Green, and Henry
Woods, Aera.

A Simpleton. Illustrated by Kate
Crawford.

A Woman-hater. Illustrated by
Thos. Coulter.

Reading. With a Steel Plate Portrait
of Charles Reade.

A New Collection of Stories. In
Three Vols., crown 8vo. [Preparing.

Richardson. — A Ministry of

Health, and other Papers. By Benjamin
Ward Richardson, M.D., &c.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

Liddell (Mrs. J. H.), Novels by:

Her Mother's Darling. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

The Prince of Wales's Garden Party,
and other Stories. With a Frontispiece
by M. Ellen Edwards. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. Gd.

Rimmer (Alfred), Works by :

Our Old Country Towns. By Alfred
Rimmer. With over 50 Illustrations
by the Author. Square 8vo, cloth
extra, gilt, 10s. 6d.

Rambles Round Eton and harrow.
By Alfred Rimmer. With 50 Illustrations
by the Author. Square 8vo,
cloth gilt, 10s. 6d.

About England with Dickens. With
58 Illustrations by Alfred Rimmer
and C. A.Vanderhoof. Square 8vo,
cloth gilt, 10s. cl

Robinson (F. W.), Novels by :

Women are Strange. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.
The Hands of Justice. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Robinson (Phil), Works by:

The Poets' Birds. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d.
The Poets' Beasts. Crown 8vo, cloth

extra, 7s. 6d. [i n preparation,

Robinson Crusoe : A beautiful

reproduction of Major's Edition, with
37 Woodcuts and Two Steel Plates by
George Cruikshank, choicely printed.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d. hoo
Large-Paper copies, printed on hand-made
paper, with India proofs of the
Illustrations, price 36s.

Rochefoucauld's Maxims and

Moral Reflections. With Notes, and
an Introductory Essay by Sainte-veuve.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Roll of Battle Abbey, The; or,

A List of the Principal Warriors who
came over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in
this Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Handsomely printed,
price 5s.

Rowley (Hon. Hugh), Works by :

Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d. each.
Puniana: Riddles and Jokes. With

numerous Illustrations.
More Puniana. Profusely Illustrated.

Russell (Clark.— Round the

Galley-Fire. By W. Clark Russell,
Author of "The Wreck of the
Grosvenor." Cr. 8vo, c loth extra, 6s.

Sala.— Gaslight and Daylight.

By George Augustus Sala. Post
£vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Sanson. — Seven Generations

of Executioners: Memoirs of the
Sanson Family (16S8 to 1847). Edited
by Henry Sanson. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

Saunders (John), Novels by:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d each ; or
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Bound to the Wheel.
One Against the World.
Guy Waterman.
The Lion in the Path.
The Two Dreamers.

Science Gossip: An Illustrated
Medium of Interchange and Gossip
for Students and Lovers of Nature.
Edited by J. E. Taylor, Ph.D., F.L.S.,
F.G.S. Monthly, price 4d ; Annual
Subscription 5s. (including Postage).
Vols. I. to XIV. may be had
at 7s. 6d. each; and Vols. XV. to
XVIII. (1882), at 5s. each. Among the
subjects included in its pages will be
found : Aquaria, Bees, Beetles, Birds,
Butterflies, Ferns, Fish, Flies, Fossils,
Fungi, Geology, Lichens, Microscopes,
Mosses, Moths, Reptiles, Seaweeds,
Spiders, Telescopes, Wild Flowers,
Worms, &c.

Secret Out" Series, The :

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, profusely
Illustrated, 4s. 6d. each.

The Secret Out: One Thousand
Tricks with Cards, and other Recreations
; with Entertaining Experiments
in Drawing-room or " White
Magic." By W. H. Cremer. 300
Engravings.

The Pyrotechnist's Treasury; or,
Complete Art of Making Fireworks
By Thomas Kentish. With numerous
Illustrations.

The Art of Amusing: A Collection of
Graceful Arts.Games.Tricks.Puzzles,
and Charades. By Frank Belleww,
With 300 Illustrations.

Hanky-Panky: Very Easy Tricks,
Very Difficult Tricks, White Magic,
Sleight of Hand. Edited by W. H.
Cremer. With 200 Illustrations.

The Merry Circle: A Book of New
Intellectual Games and Amusements,
By Clara Belleww. With many
Illustrations.

Magician's Own Book: Performances
with Cups and Balls, Eggs, Hats,
Handkerchiefs, &c. All from actual
Experience. Edited by W. H. Cramer.
200 Illustrations.

Magic No Mystery: Tricks with
Cards, Dice, Balls, &c, with fully
descriptive Directions; the Art of
Secret Writing; Training of Performing
Animals, &c. With Coloured
Frontispiece and many Illustrations.


Senior (William), Works by :

Travel and Trout in the Antipodes.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
By Stream and Sea. Post 8vo, cloth

limp, 2s. 6d.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Shakespeare :

The First Folio Shakespeare.— Mr.

William Shakespeare's Comedies,
Histories, and Tragedies. Published
according to the true Original Copies.
London, Printed by Isaac Haggard
and Ed. Blunt. 1623.— A Reproduction
of the extremely rare original,
in reduced facsimile, by a photographic
process— ensuring the strictest
accuracy in every detail. Small 8vo,
half-roxburgh, 7s. 6d.

The Vanstone Shakespeare. Beautifully
printed in red and black, in
small but very clear type. With
engraved facsimile of Droeshout's
Portrait. Post 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Shakespeare for Children: Tales
from Shakespeare. By Charles
and Mary Lamb. With numerous
Illustrations, coloured and plain, by
J. Moyr Smith. Crown 410, cloth
gilt, 6s.

The Handbook of shakespeare
Music. Being an Account of 350
Pieces of Music, set to Words taken
from the Plays and Poems of Shakespeare,
the compositions ranging
from the Elizabethan Age to the
Present Time. By Alfred Rosse.
4to, half-roxburgh, 7s. • *

A Study of Shakespeare. By Alger-non
Charles Swinburne. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 83. , > ,.

Shelley's Complete Works, in

Four Vols., post 8vo, cloth limp, 8s. ;
or separately, 2s. each. Vol. I. contains
his Early Poems, Queen Mab,
&c, with an Introduction by Leigh
Hunt; Vol. II., his Later Poems,
Lion and Cythna, &c. ; Vol. III.,
Posthumous Poems, the Shelley Papers,
&c. ; Vol. IV., his Prose Works, including
A Refutation of Deism, Zas-
trozzi, St. Irvine, &c.

Sheridan's Complete Works,

with Life and Anecdotes. Including
his Dramatic Writings, printed from
the Original Editions, his Works in
Prose and Poetry, Translations,
Speeches, Jokes, Puns, &c. With a
Collection of Sheridaniana. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, gilt, with 10 full-page
Tinted Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Short Sayings of Great Men.

With Historical and Explanatory
Notes by Samuel A. Bent, M.A.
Demy 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Sidney's (Sir Philip) Complete

Poetical Works, including all those in
"Arcadia." With Portrait, Memorial-introduction,
Essay on the Poetry of
Sidney, and Notes, by the Rev. A. B.
Grosart, D.D. Three Vols., crown
8vo, cloth boards, 18s.

Signboards: Their History.
With Anecdotes of Famous Taverns
and Remarkable Characters. By
Jacob Haywood and John Camden
Rotten. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
with 100 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Sketches. — A Match in the

Dark. By Arthur Sketches. Post
8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Slang Dictionary, The: Etymological,
Historical, and Anecdotal.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, gilt, 6s. 6d.

Smith (J. Moyr), Works by : q.

The Prince of Argolis: A Story of trie
Old Greek Fairy Time. By J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, with
130 Illustrations, 3s. 6d.

Tales of Old Thule. Collected and
Illustrated by J. Moyr Smith.
Crown 8vo, cloth gilt, profusely Illustrated,
6s. ,

The Wooing of the Water Witch:
A Northern Oddity. By Evan Dal-corne.
Illustrated by J. Moyr
Smith. Small 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.

South-West, The New : Travelling
Sketches from Kansas, New

Mexico, Arizona, and Northern Mexico.

By Ernst von Hesse-Wartegg.

With 100 fine Illustrations and 3 Maps.

8vo, cloth extra, 14s. [In preparation.

Spalding.-Elizabethan Demonology

: An Essay in Illustration of
the Belief in the Existence of Devils,
and the Powers possessed by Them.
By T. Alfred Spalding, LL.B.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 5s.

Speight. — The Mysteries of

Heron Dyke. By T. W. Speight.
With a Frontispiece by M. Ellen
Edwards. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. ; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Spenser for Children. * By M.

H. Tory. With Illustrations by
Walter J. Morgan. Crown 410, with
Coloured Illustrations, cloth gilt, 63. "



Staunton.— Laws and Practice

of Chess; Together with an Analysis
of the Openings, and a Treatise on
End Games. By Howard Staunton.
Edited by Robert B. World. A
New Edition, small crown Svo, clothe
x t ra , 5s.

Seaman. — Victorian Poets :

Critical Essays. By Edmund Clarence
Seaman: Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 9s.

Sterndale.— The Afghan Knife:

A Novel. By Robert Armytage Stern-dale.
F.R.G.S. Cr. 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d.; post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.

Stevenson (Louis), Works by :

Familiar Studies of Men and Books.

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 6s.
New Arabian Nights. New and

Cheaper Edit. Cr.Svo, cloth extra, 6s.
The Silvered Squatters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [In the pres*

St. John. — A Levantine FamKy.

By Bayle St. John. Post Svo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Standard. — Summer Cruising

in the South Seas. By Charles
Warren Standard. Illustrated by
Wallis Mackay. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 3s. 6d.

St. Pierre. — Paul and Virginia,

and The Indian Cottage. By Bernardin
de St. Pierre. Edited, with
Life, by the Rev. E. Clarke. Post
8vo, cloth limp, 2s.

Strain. — Twenty Years of a

Publisher's Life. By Alexander
Strain. Two Vols., crown 8vo,
with numerous Portraits and Illustrations,
24s. [In preparation.

Struts Sports and Pastimes
of the People of England; including
the Rural and Domestic Recreations,
May Games, Mummers, Shows, Processions,
Pageants, and Pompous
Spectacles, from the Earliest Period
to the Present Time. With 140 Illustrations.
Edited by William Hone.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Suburban Homes - (The) of

London : A Residential Guide to
Favourite London Localities, their
Society, Celebrities, and Associations.
With Notes on their Rental, Rates, and
House Accommodation. With a Map
of Suburban London. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swift's Choice Works, in Prose
and Verse. With Memoir, Portrait,
and Facsimiles of the Maps is the
Original Edition of " Tulliver's
Travels." Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Swinburne (Algerian C),

Works by:

The Queen Mother and Rosamond.

Fcap. Svo, 5s.
Atlanta in Corydon. Crown 8vo, 6s.
Chastened. A Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

7S.
Poems and Ballads. First Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Also in crown 8vo,

at same price.
Poems and Ballads. Second Series.

Fcap. 8vo, 9s. Also ia crown 8vo, at

same price.
Notes on Poems and Reviews. 8vo,

Is.
William Blake: A Critical Essay.

With Facsimile Paintings. Demy

8vo, 16s.
Songs before Sunrise. Crown Svo,

10s. 6d.
Bothwell: A Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

12s. 6d.
George Chapman : An Essay. Crown

8vo, 7S.
Songs of Two Nations. Crown Svo,

6s.
Essays and Studies. Crown 8vo,

12s.
Erechtheus: A Tragedy. Crown 8vo,

6s.
Note of an English Republican on

the Muscovite Crusade. 8vo, is.
A Note on Charlotte Bronze. Crowa

8vo, 6s.
A Study of Shakespeare. Crown

8vo, 8s.
Songs of the Springtide. Crown

8vo, 6s.
Studies in Song. Crown Svo, 7s.
Mary Stuart : A Tragedy. Crown

8vo, 8s.
Tristan of Lioness, and other

Poems. Crown 8vo, 9s.
A Century of Roundels. Small 4to,

cloth extra, 8s.

Syntax's (Dr.) Three Tours:

In Search of the Picturesque, in Search
of Consolation, and in Search of a
Wife. With the whole of Rowlandson's
droll page Illustrations in Colours
and a Life of the Author by J. C.
Rotten. Medium 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. cl

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Taine's History of English

Literature. Translated by Henry
Van Laun. Four Vols., small 8vo,
cloth boards, SOs. — Popular Edition,
in Two Vols., crown 8vo, cloth extra,
15s.

Taylor's (Bayard) Diversions

of the Echo Club: Burlesques of
Modern Writers. Post 8vo, cloth limp,
2s.

Taylor's (Tom) Historical

Dramas: ' Chancery," "Jeanne
Dare," 'twixt Axe and Crown,"
"The Fool's Revenge," " Arkwright's
Wife," "Anne Boleyn'' "Plot and
Passion'' One Vol., crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

*** The Plays may also be had separately,
at Is. each.

Thackerayana: Notes and Anecdotes.
Illustrated by Hundreds of
Sketches by William Makepeace
Thackeray, depicting Humorous
Incidents in his School-life, and
Favourite Characters in the books of
his every-day reading. With Coloured
Frontispiece. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Thomas (Bertha), Novels by :

Each crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. ; or
post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s.
Cressida.
Proud Maisie.
The Violin-Player.

Thomson's Seasons and Castle

of Indolence. With a Biographical
and Critical Introduction by Allan
Cunningham, and over 50 fine Illustrations
on Steel and Wood. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, gilt edges, 7s. 6d.

Thornbury (Walter), Works

by:

Haunted London. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. cl

The Life and Correspondence of
J. M. W. Turner. Founded upon
Letters and Papers furnished by his
Friends and fellow Academicians.
With numerous Illustrations in
Colours, facsimile from Turner's
Original Drawings. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, 7s. 6d.

Old Stories Re-told. Post 8vo, cloth
limp, 2s. 6d.

Tales for the Marines. Post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Times (John), Works by:

The History of Clubs and Club Lisa
in London. With Anecdotes of its
Famous Coffee-houses, Hostelries,
and Taverns. With numerous Illustrations.
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

English Eccentrics and Eccentricities:
Stories of Wealth and
Fashion, Delusions, Impostures, and
fanatic Missions, Strange Sights
and Sporting Scenes, Eccentric
Artists, Theatrical Folks, Men of
Letters, &c. With nearly 50 Illusts.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Torrens. — The Marquess

Wellesley, Architect of Empire. An
Historic Portrait. By W. M. Torrens,
M.P. Dem y 8vo, cloth extra, 14s.

Trollope (Anthony), Novels by:

The Way We Live Now. With Illustrations.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra,
3s. 6d. post 8vo, illust. boards, 2s.

The American Senator. Cr 8vo, cl.
extra, 3s. 6d ; post 8vo, illust. bds., 2s.

Kept in the Dark. With a Frontispiece
by J. E. Mills, R.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Frau Frohmann, &c. With Frontispiece.
Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Marion Fay. Cr. 8vo, cl. extra, 3s. 6d.

Mr. Scarborough's Family. Crowa
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

The Land - Leaguers. Three Vols.,
crown 8vo, 31s. 6d. [S shortly.

Trollope(FrancesE.),Worksby:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.
Like Ships upon the Sea.
Mabel's Progress.

Ann e Furze ss.

Trollope (T. A.).— Diamond Cut

Diamond, and other Stories. By
Thomas Adolphus Trollope. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d.; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

Tatler (Sarah), Novels by:

What She Came Through. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6&. ; post 8vo,
illustrated boards, 2s.

The Bride's Pass. With a Frontispiece
by P. MacNab. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Van Laun.— History of French

Literature. By Henry Van Laun.
Complete in Three Vols., demy 8vo,
cloth boards, 7s. 6d. each.

Villars. — A Double Bond: A

Story. By Linda Villars. Fcap.
8vo, picture cover, Is.



Walcott.— Church Work and

Life In English Minsters; and the
English Student's Monastic. By the
Rev. Mckenzie E. C. Walcott, B.D.
Two Vols., crown 8V0, cloth extra,
with Map and Ground-Plans, 14s.

Walford (Edw., M.A.),Works by :

The County Families of the United
Kingdom. Containing Notices of
the Descent, Birth, Marriage, Education,
&c, of more than 12,000 distinguished
Heads of Families, their
Heirs Apparent or Presumptive, the
Offices they hold or have held, their
Town and Country Addresses, Clubs,
&c. The Twenty-third Annual Edition,
for 1883, cloth, full gilt, 50s.

The Shilling Peerage (1883). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
House of Lords, Dates of Creation,
Lists of Scotch and Irish Peers,
Addresses, &c. 32010, cloth, Is.
Published annually.

The Shilling Baronetage (1883).
Containing an Alphabetical List of
the Baronets of the United Kingdom,
Short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 32010,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling Knightage (1883). Containing
an Alphabetical List of the
Knights of the United Kingdom,
short Biographical Notices, Dates
of Creation, Addresses, &c. 321110,
cloth, Is. Published annually.

The Shilling House of Commons
(1883). Containing a List of all the
Members of the British Parliament,
their Town and Country Addresses,
&c. 32mo, cloth, Is. Published
annually.

The Complete Peerage, Baronetage,
Knightage, and House of
Commons (1883). In One Volume,
royal 32010, cloth extra, gilt edges,
5s. Published annually.
Haunted London. By Walter

Thornbury. Edited by Edward
Walford, M.A. With Illustrations
by F. W. Fairholt, F.S.A. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.

Walton andCotton'sComplete

Angler; or, The Contemplative Man's
Recreation ; being a Discourse of
Rivers, Fishponds, Fish and Fishing,
written by Izaak Walton ; and Instructions
how to Angle for a Trout or
Grayling in a clear Stream, by Charles
Cotton. With Original Memoirs and
Netee by Sir Harris Nicholas, and
61 Copperplate Illustrations. Large
crown 8vo, cloth antique, 7s. cl

Wanderer's Library, The:

Crown 8vo, cloth extra, 3s. 6d. each.

Wanderings in Patagonia; or, Life
among the Ostrich Hunters. By
Julius Beerbohm. Illustrated.

Camp Notes: Stories of Sport and
Adventure in Asia, Africa, and
America. By Frederick Boyle.

Savage Life. By Frederick Boyle.

Merrier England in the Olden Time.
By George Daniel. With Illustrations
by Root. Cruikshank.

Circus Life and Circus Celebrities*
By Thomas Frost.

The Lives of the Conjurers. By
Thomas Frost.

The Old Showmen and the Old
London Fairs. By Thomas Frost.

Low-life Deeps. An Account of the
Strange Fish to be found there. By
James Greenwood.

The Wilds of London. By James
Greenwood.

Tunis The Land and the People.
By the Chevalier de .
With 22 Illustrations.

The Life and Adventures of a Cheap
Jack. By One of the Fraternity.
Edited by Charles Hindley.

The World Behind the Scenes. By
Percy Fitzgerald.

Tavern Anecdotes and Sayings
Including the Origin of Signs, and
Reminiscences connected with Taverns,
Coffee Houses, Clubs, &c.
By Charles Hindley. With Illusts.

The Genial Showman : Life and Adventures
of Artemus Ward. By E. P.
Kingston. With a Frontispiece.

The Story of the London Parks.
By Jacob Haywood. With Illusts.

London Characters. By Henry May-hew.
Illustrated.

Seven Generations Executioners:
Memoirs of the Sanson Family
(1688 to 1847). Edged by Henry
Sanson.

Summer Cruising In the South
Seas. By Charles Warren Standard.
Illust. by Wallis Mackay.

Warner. — A Roundabout Journey.
By Charles Dudley Warner,
Author of " My Summer in a Garden."
Cr. 8vo, cloth extra, 6s. [In preparation.

Warrants, &c. :—

Warrant to Execute Charles I. An
exact Facsimile, with the Fifty-nine
Signatures, and corresponding Seals.
Carefully printed on paper to imitate
the Original, 22 in. by 14 in. Price 2s.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Warrants, &c., continued—
Warrant to Execute Mary Queen of
Scots. An exact Facsimile, including
the Signature of Queen Elizabeth,
and a Facsimile of the Great
Seal. Beautifully printed on paper
to imitate the Original MS. Price 2s.

Magna Charta. An Exact Facsimile
of the Original Document in the
British Museum, printed on fine
plate paper, nearly 3 feet long by 2
feet wide, with the Arms and Seals
emblazoned in Gold and Colours.
Price 5s.

The Roll of Battle Abbey; or, A List
of the Principal Warriors who came
over from Normandy with William
the Conqueror, and Settled in this
Country, a.d. 1066-7. With the
principal Arms emblazoned in Gold
and Colours. Price 5s.

Westropp.— Handbook of Pottery
and Porcelain ; or, History of
those Arts from the Earliest Period.
By Fodder M. Westropp. With numerous
Illustrations, and a List of
Marks. Crown 8vo, cloth limp, 4s. 6d.

Whistler* v. Ruskin : Art and

Art Critics. By J. A. Macneill
Whistler. Seventh Edition, square
8vo, Is.

White's Natural History of

Melbourne. Edited, with Additions, by
Thomas Brown, F.L.S. Post 8vo,
cloth limp, 2s.

Wilson (Dp. Andrew, F.R.S.E.),

Works by:
Chapters on Evolution: A Popular
History of the Darwinian and
Allied Theories of Development.
Second Edition. Crown 8vo, cloth
extra, with 259 Illustrations, 7s. 6d.

Leaves from a Naturalist's Notebook.
Post 8vo, cloth limp, 2s. 6d.

Leisure-Time Studies, chiefly Biological.
Second Ed tion. Crown 8vo,
cloth extra, with Illustrations, 6s.

Williams (W. Mattie, F.R.A.S.),

Works by :
Science in Short Chapters. Crown

8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
A Simple Treatise on Heat. Crown

8vo, cloth limp, with Illustrations,

2s. 6d.

Wilson (C.E.).— Persian Wit and

Humour: Being the Sixth Book of
the Samaritan of Jamie, Translated
for the first time from the Original
Persian into English Prose and Verse.
With Notes by C. E. Wilson, Mer. Ass
Assistant Librarian Royal Academy
of Arts. Crown 8vo, parchment binding,
4s.

Winter (J. S.), Stories by:

Cavalry Life. Crown 8vo, cloth extra,

3s. 6d.
Regimental Legends. Crown 8vo,

cloth extra, 3s. 6d.

Wood.— Sabina: A Novel. By
Lady Wood. Post 8vo, illustrated
boards, 2s.

Words, Facts, and Phrases:

A Dictionary of Curious, Quaint, and
Out-of-the-way Matters. By Believer
Edwards. Crown 8vo, half-bound,
12s. 6d.

Wright (Thomas), Works by:

Caricature History of the Georges.

(The House of Hanover.) With 400
Pictures, Caricatures, Squibs, Broadsides,
Window Pictures, &c. Crown
8vo, cloth extra, 7s. 6d.
History of Caricature and of the
Grotesque in Art, Literature,
Sculpture, and Painting. Profusely
Illustrated by F. W. Fairholt,
F.S.A. Large post 8vo, cloth extra,
7s. 6d.

Yates (Edmund), Novels by:

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.
Castaway.
The Forlorn Hope.
Land at Last.



NOVELS BY THE BEST AUTHORS.

NEW NOVELS at every Library.

All In a Garden Fair. By Walter
Besant. Three Vols. [Shortly.

Anna Water. By Robert Buchanan.
Three Vols. [Shortly.

Fancy-free, &c. By Charles Gibbon.
Three Vols. [Shortly.

Fortune's Fool. By Julian Hawthorne.
Three Vols.

lone. By E. Lynn Linton. Three
Vols. [Shortly.

The Way of the World. By D. Christie
Murray. Three Vols. [Shortly.

The Foreigners. By E. C. Price.
Three Vols. [Shortly.

Maid of Athens. By Justin Mccarthy,
M.P. With 12 Illustrations
by Fred. Barnard. Three Vols.

[Shortly.

By the Gate of the Sea. By David
Christie Murray. Two Vols., post
8vo, 128.

The Canon's Ward. By James Payn.
Three Vols. [Jan., 1884.

A New Collection of Stories by

Charles Reade is now in preparation,
in Three Vols.

The Land-Leaguers. By Anthony
Trollope. Three Vols. [Shortly.

THE PICCADILLY NOVELS.

Popular Stories by the Best Authors,
crown 8vo, cloth

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Craft,
This Son of Vulcan.
With Harp and Crown.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Thelema.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY WALTER BESANT.
All Sorts and Conditions of Men.
The Captains' Room.

BY ROBERT BUCHANAN.
A Child of Nature.
God and the Man.
The Shadow of the Sword.
The Martyrdom of Madeline
Love Me for Ever.

BY MRS. H. Loveth CAMERON.
Deceivers Ever.
Juliet's Guardian.

Library Editions, many Illustrated,
extra, 3s. 6d. each.

BY MORTIMER COLLINS.
Sweet Anne Page.
Transmigration.
From Midnight to Midnight.

MORTIMER & FRANCES COLLINS.
Blacksmith and Scholar.
The Village Comedy.
You Play me False.

BY WILKIE COLLINS.

Antonio.
Basil.

Hide and Seek.
The Dead Secret.
Queen of Hearts.
My Miscellanies.
Woman in White.
The Moonstone.
Man and Wife.
Poor Miss Finch.
Miss or Mss ¥

New Magdalen.
The Frozen Deep.
The Law and the

Lady.
TheTwo Destin lies
Haunted Hotel
The Fallen Leaves
Jezebel'sDaughter
The Black Robe.
Heart and Science

BY DUTTON COOK.
Paul Foster's Daughter.

BY WILLIAM Cycles.
Hearts of Gold.

BY J. LEITH DERWENT.
Our Lady of Tears.
Circe's Lovers.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY M. Bentham-EDWARDS.
Felicia.

BY MRS. ANNIE Edwards.
Archie Lovell.

BY R. E. Francisco.
Olympia. | Queen Cophetua.

One by One.

BY EDWARD GARRETT.
The Capet Girls.

BY CHARLES GIBBON.
Robin Gray.
For Lack of Gold.
Jn Love and War.
What will the World Say?
For the King.
In Honour Bound.
Queen of the Meadow.
In Pastures Green.
The Flower ®f the Forest.
A Heart's Problem.
The Braes of Yarrow.
The Golden Shaft.
Of High Degree.

BY THOMAS HARDY.
Under the Greenwood Tree.

BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.
Prince Saroni's Wife.
Dust.

BY SIR A. HELPS.
Evan de Biron.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thornicroft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.
Self-condemned.

BY JEAN Angelo.
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jun.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Queen of Connaught.
The Dark Colleen.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Number Seventeen.
Cakshott Castle,

Piccadilly Novels, continued —
BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
My Love ! "

BY HENRY W. LUCY.
Gideon Fleece.

by justin McCarthy, m.p.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

Linley Rochford. | A Fair Saxon.

Dear Lady Disdain.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

The Comet of a Season.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD, LL.D.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
Lost Rose. | The Evil Eye.

BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame ! | Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go.

BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
Life's Atonement, i Coals of Fire.

Joseph's Coat.
A Model Father.

Val Strange.
Hearts.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY JAMES Pain.

Lost Sir massinger.


Best of Husbands
Fallen Fortunes.
Halves.

Walter's Word.
What He Cost Her
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.

High Spirits.
Under O.-ie Roof.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
From Exile.
A Grape from s

Thorn.
For Cash Only.
Krt : A Memory.



CHEAP EDITIONS OF POPULAR NOVELS.

Post 8vo, illustrated boards, 2s. each.

(Wilkie Columns's Novels and Besant and Rice's Novels may also be had in
cloth limp a& 2s. 6d. See, too, the Piccadilly Novels, for Library Editions']

BY Edmund ABOUT.
The Fellah.

BY HAMILTON AIDE.
Carr of Carrion. | Confidences.

BY MRS. ALEXANDER.
Maid, Wife, or Widow ?
BY Shelley. BEAUCHAMP.
Grantly Grange.

BY W. BESANT & JAMES RICE.
Ready-money Mortify.
With Harp and Crown.
This Son of Vulcan.
My Little Girl.
The Case of Mr. Luoraft.

By Besant and Rice— continued.
The Golden Butterfly.
By Celia's Arbour.
The Monks of Thelema.
'Twas in Trafalgar's Bay.
The Seamy Side.
The Ten Years' Tenant.
The Chaplain of the Fleet.

BY FREDERICK BOYLE.
Camp Notes. | Savage Life.

BY Bred HARTE.
An Heiress of Red Dog.
Gabriel Convoy.
The Luck of Roaring Camp.
Flip.

BOOKS PUBLISHED BY



,HEAP Popular Novels, continued—
BY JULIAN HAWTHORNE.
Garth.

Ellice Question.
Sebastian Stroke.

BY SIR ARTHUR HELPS.
Ivan de Biron.

BY TOM HOOD.
A Golden Heart.

BY VICTOR HUGO.
The Hunchback of Notre Dame.

BY MRS. ALFRED HUNT.
Thorn croft's Model.
The Leaden Casket.

BY JEAN INGE LOW.
Fated to be Free.

BY HENRY JAMES, Jim.
Confidence.

BY Harriet JAY.
The Dark Colleen.
The Queen of Connaught.

BY HENRY KINGSLEY.
Oakshott Castle.
Number Seventeen.

BY E. LYNN LINTON.
Patricia Kimball.
The Atonement of Learn Dundas.
The World Well Lost.
Under which Lord ?
With a Silken Thread.
The Rebel of the Family.
"My Love!"

by justin McCarthy, m.p.

Dear Lady Disdain.

The Waterdale Neighbours.

My Enemy's Daughter.

A Fair Saxon.

Linley Rochford.

Miss Misanthrope.

Donna Quixote.

BY GEORGE MACDONALD.
Paul Faber, Surgeon.
Thomas Wingfold, Curate.

BY MRS. Macdonald.
Quaker Cousins.

BY KATHARINE S. MACQUOID.
The Evil Eye. | Lost Rose.

BY W. H. Matlock.
The New Republic.

Cheap Popular Novels, continued—
BY FLORENCE MARRY AT.
Open ! Sesame !
A Harvest of Wild Oats.
A Little Stepson.
Fighting the Air.
Written in Fire.

BY JEAN Middlemost.
Touch and Go. | Mr. Dorilliofl.
BY D. CHRISTIE MURRAY.
A Life's Atonement.
A Model Father.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
Whiteladies.

BY MRS. ROBERT Reilly.
Phoebe's Fortunes.

BY OUIDA.
Library Editions of Ouida's Novels
may be had in crown 8vo, cloth extra, at

5s. each

Held in Bondage.

Strath more.

Chances.

Under Two Flags.

Italia.

Cecil Castle-maine.


Tricotrin.
Puck.

Folle Farine.
A Dog of Flanders.

BY JAMES Pain.
Lost Sir Massing Gwendolen's Har

Pascal.

TwoLittleWooden
Shoes.

Signa.

In a Winter City.

Ariadne.

Friendship.

Motive.

Pi past relic

A Village Commune.


bert.

A Perfect Treasure.


Bentinck's Tutor.

Murphy's Master.

A County Family.

At Her Mercy.

A Woman's Vengeance.


Cecil's Tryst.
Clyffardsof Clyffe
The Family Scapegrace.

Foster Brothers.
Found Dead.
Best of Husbands
Walter's Word.
Halves.

Fallen Fortunes.
What He Cost Her
Humorous Stories

vest.
Like Father, Like

Son.
A Marine Residence.

Married Beneath

Him.
Mirk Abbey.
Not Wooed, but

Won.
£200 Reward.
Less Black than

We're Painted.
By Proxy.
Under One Roof.
High Spirits.
Carlyon's Year.
A Confidential

Agent.
Some Private

Views.
From Exile.

m

3 0112 084216198

OF THE
University
or ILLINOIS

82.3

V

*®1



4^^ ^ <^<-^

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/canonsward02payn

VOL. II.

3 vols.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. By Walter Besant.

3 vols.

THE LAND-LEAGUERS, By Anthony Trollope.

3 vols.

ANNAN WATER. By Robert Buchanan. 3 vols.
THE FOREIGNERS. By E. C. Price. 3 vols.

BEATRIX RANDOLPH. By Julian Hawthorne.

2 vols.

THE CANON'S WARD, By James Payn. 3 vols.
FRESCOES : Dramatic Sketches. By OuiDA. i vol.

CHATTO & WIxVDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF bY PROXY HIGH SPIRITS KIT: A MEMORY ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. IL

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY



[AH rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE Second VOLUME.

CHAPTER Xviii.

A Terrible Errand.

The instant that Sophy found herself alone
she flew to the bell which summoned her
waiting-maid.

Jeannette, come here, I want you ! ' she
cried, in a hoarse whisper. ' You know what
has happened, of course ? '

Yes, indeed, Miss : it's an awful thing to
have chanced to anybody. I can't say I'm
so sorry as I should wish to be ; but I daresay,
notwithstanding all that's come and gone,
you feel it ; one's husband is one's husband.'

Hush, hush ! I am not safe yet, Jenny.'

Good heavens ! ' The waiting-maid

VOL. II.

s

turned pale as ashes ; one would have almost
thought she anticipated what her mistress was
going to say.

No, not safe. When poor Herbert left
me at the mill, this afternoon, he informed me
it was his fixed intention to write to his
father and tell him all.'

Oh, indeed ! ' Jeannette strove to throw
some interest into her tone, but the words fell
flat. It would have been plain to any one not
wrapt in other matters that the girl had expected
a much more serious communication.

Do you not see,' continued Sophy, impatiently,
' that such a letter would be as
ruinous to me as though he had told the
Canon ? '

It would have been if it had been written ;
but the poor young gentleman never got home
to write it.'

He did, he did answered Sophy, with
intense excitement. ' Henny tells me that
what took place happened this evening, not

this afternoon. He went out on the water a
second time, and in the meanwhile that letter
may have been written.'

Let us hope for the best, Miss ; perhaps
it was not written.'

I have had enough of hope and fear,'
replied Sophy, wildly. ' Oh, Jeannette, help
me now, and I shall never forget it.'

I will do anything in the world for you,
dear mistress. But what can I do ? If the
letter 's gone '

But it has not gone,' put in Sophy,
eagerly. ' It may have been written, but it
could not have been in time for the post. If
it was written at all, it will still be lying in
poor Herbert's room. Jeannette, you must
get that letter.'

Oh, Miss Sophy, but I cannot, and I dare
not.'

A picture had presented itself to her coarse
but ready imagination, from which she shrank
with horror, albeit she was a bold m.v\.

o

R 2

Yet, Jeannette, you have done more than
this for me,' pleaded her mistress, ' and with a
willing mind. You have done wrong for
my sake, even though you disapproved of it,
and you cannot disapprove of this. If the
letter gets to its destination my secret is out.
It will be almost as bad for me as it seemed
to have been yesterday.'

^ Nay, it will not be so bad as that, Miss.'

In saying those words there was no intention
in Jeannette' s mind to minimise the
calamity of which her 3^0 hang mistress stood in
fear, and thereby excuse herself from the task
suggested to her ; she spoke them with extreme
naturalness and naivete ; nothing in
her opinion could be so bad, or nearly so
bad, as the future that had so lately seemed
to present itself to her young mistress — the
being mated with Herbert Perry for life.

At all events, it will be a terrible misfortune,'
pleaded Sophy ; ^ it will lose me my
aunt's affection, and my guardian's regard ;

my name will become a by word ; I could
never survive it. On the other hand, if you
will but do me this great service, the last I
shall ever ask of you that may not be known
to the whole world, nothing need be revealed ;
all will be well with me as it was before.
Think, oh think of that.'

I do think of it, Miss ; it seems too
good to be true, don't it ? To get out of
such a hole as this without even the trace of
mud about you.'

You speak as if I had disgraced myself,
Jeannette I ' exclaimed Sophy, vehemently.
How dare you ? '

Oh, I don't mean nothing disagreeable,
Miss Sophy. You were married safe enough,
worse luck to it. And thanks be to goodness
you are a widow.'

But the letter, Jeannette,' moaned her
young mistress ; ' the letter. I've thought of
a plan to get possession of it.'

Independent of me, I hope, Miss ; leastways,

I couldn't go into his room to get it,
that's flat.'

It will not be where you think it is,'
said Sophy, ghastly pale, and speaking in
hushed tones ; ' it will be in his sitting-room,
on his writing-table, near the window. You
know his landlady, Mrs. Aylett? '

Yes, I know her ; to be sure, we can get
at it through her. Perhaps for a ten-pound
note she may be induced to let us have the
letter, and to hold her tongue.'

No, no. What ! another one to share
my secret, and to keep me under her thumb
for life ! You must be mad to think of it.
We must give her money, of course, but not
as a bribe. Now listen to me. It is a
shocking thing, but it must be done. You
must take these flowers — you may say they
came from my Aunt Maria, or even from
myself ; there will be no harm in that.'

What, to put them on him ! No, Miss,
I couldn't do it, not to save my life. I always

feared him, but I fear him now ten thousand
times as much. Xot if you gave me a
hundred pounds I couldn't do it.'

Xo one wants you to do it,' said Sophy,
earnestly. ' Give them to Mrs. Aylett, she
will do it ; and while she is about it, you
will be left alone in the sitting-room. While
you have the chance, lose not a moment ; the
letter will be in the desk or in the blotting
if it has been written at all.'

Very good. Miss ; for your sake I will
do my best. I will go to Green Street the
very first thing tomorrow morning.'

To-night I to-night I ' exclaimed her
mistress, wringing her little hands. ' Tomorrow
it will be too late. To-day. nothing
will be touched ; it always is so when there
is to be an inquest.'

Sophy's reading of sensational novels had
not been labour lost in this case.

'I'd rather lose my thimble first. Miss
Sophy, than venture on such a thing,' replied

the girl. ' Yet for your sake I'll try it*
Give rae the flowers.'

Good Jeannette, dear Jeannette, you are
the best of friends ; think how I shall count
the moments till you come back again.'

Then Sophy took the flowers, and, notwithstanding
the need for haste, with neat-handed
skill and taste arranged them, and
gave them to her maid ; for woman's fingers
are not as those of men, but will deftly work
when the heart is sick with sorrow and heavy
with trouble, and devise things of beauty for
the tomb as if they were for the altar.

For a few minutes after Jeannette' s departure
her young mistress sat sick at heart,
and already tremulous with expectation of
her return ; then suddenly she rose, and went
to her desk. It had for the first time occurred
to her that therein also lay proof of her
clandestine relations with the dead man ;
which, though indeed they did not hint of
marriage, were significant enough of the

affection that had once existed between them.
She had not hitherto destroyed them, partly
because her husband, if he was bent on disclosure,
stood in no need of them to prove
his case ; and partly perhaps from woman's
vanity. Though the man had been dead to
her, and fear had usurped love's place long
before he had met his death, he had been her
lover once. Here were protestations of passions,
pleas for haste, and assurances of
eternal affection, some true, some false, but
all breathing an incense which had at one
time been very grateful to her. They had
none of them passed though the post — for in
those days he had been very cautious — but
had been conveyed to her by his own hand,
under circumstances wherein confidential
speech had been impossible. As they had
met, or parted company, at balls, or during
some morning call, the hand, which was now
cold and nerveless, had thrust them into her
too willing palm.

If such evidence as this had escaped her
attention, might there not be other such inexistence
which could one day be brought to
light ? Upon consideration, she felt confident
that such was not the case. Gifts he had .
had from her ; but such as he might have
received, and probably had received, from
other girls (a reflection that gave her comfort
rather than pain), but no letters. She had
never been so reckless as to write to him,
either before or since their marriage. The
witnesses of that ceremony, mere officials in
one of the City churches, arid Jeannette herself,
were now the only repositories of her
secret. If Herbert had not put his threat of
writing to his father into effect, or if that
letter could be secured, she would be safe.
But would it be secured ? It was ten o'clock
when Jeannette had departed on her errand,
and the sudden sound of the quarter, brought
upon the wings of the north wind from some
college clock, had but just died away. How

terrible was this . time of waiting I Books, to
which she had hitherto been indebted, when
alone, for many hours of forgetfulness and
comparative ease, had now no power to enchain
her attention : her eyes, her ears, her
every sense (though she knew that at least
an hour must elapse before her messenger's
return) were on the watch.

The letters of the dead man were in her
hand, and she was about to put them into
the empty grate, previous to setting fire to
them, when a sudden impulse — or the attraction
of repulsion — prompted her to read
them. She sat down and took them out oneby
one from the india rubber band that held
them together, and, as it happened, in their
inverse order as to date. There were one or
two written after their marriage, appointing
time and place for their clandestine meetings ;
but even these were not fi-ee from reproaches
and expressions of disappointment, as well
as impatience — even threats. ' I give you

fair warning he wrote, ' that I am getting
tired of this hide-and-seek existence.' There
were references of a disrespectful kind to her
guardian, and then there came an opinion,
bluntly enough expressed, that she might
play her cards ' in such a manner as to ' get
on the blind side of him,' and confess all
without much hurt. ' It was all very well
for her,' he said, ' to enjoy herself at balls
and parties, just as though she were her own
mistress,' and ' condescend ' to see him when
she had a mind ; but it was not so pleasant
to him, who was short of money, worried by
duns, taken to task by the ' governor ' about
his degree ; he was treated, in short, like a
schoolboy, and was pretty well determined to
put an end to it and assert himself The Canon
might not make them a very handsome
allowance just at first, perhaps ; but he
(Herbert) wanted to be his own master. In
reply, apparently, to some remonstrance of
hers, where she reminded him of his solemn

promise to keep matters secret until she came
of age, he hinted that ' all things were fair
(lies included) in love or war.' Harsh
letters these — cruel letters, which she burned
one by one, with set lips and a frowning
brow. Presently she came against one
written on the eve of their secret marriage.
This was couched in very different terms — it
breathed not only affection, but promises of
eternal love and fidelity. The paper trembled
in her hand as Sophy read it, He had procured,
he said, ' a special license,' and fulfilled
the legal conditions by living in the
same parish for so many days. She remarked
how at the time she had smiled over his bad
spelling, and resolved to undertake the task
of improving him in this particular. He
had then seemed ready enough to submit
himself to her wishes ; to sit at her feet,
and generally to be guided by her in social
and domestic matters. But instead of a
pupil she had found him to be a master ;

obstinate of temper, intolerant of the least
interference or suggestion, impracticable,
churlish, vain. Still, remembering what he
had been, or had seemed to be, she destroyed
this memento with a sigh.

There remained the letters of the lover.
In them was no trace of ill-humour — all was
sunshine with no shadow. He had seemed
to be like some young Greek god stooping
from the clouds to woo her, and not only to
woo but to worship. When she had first
read those fervent words of admiration and
devotion, she had felt herself more than
mortal, though, in fact, she had been only
too human. What promises, what protestations,
what passion ! It is not necessary to
spell correctly to use the language of love
with eloquence. Even now, when it was all
falsified, and those vows had been proved to
be but dicer's oaths, it carried her away with
it. For the moment, as she read, the past
returned to her. Once more she was a young

girl, without experience of the world, full of
tender dreams ; the man of her choice had
declared himself : he was the handsomest of
created beings, and one of the best, though
(as is always the "case) there was a want of
appreciation of him in some quarters. It was
only, however, necessary to know him (as she
did) to love him. AVhat a future had seemed
to lay before her !

At the remembrance of all these things

o

Sophy's heart melted within her, and she
burst into tears — not because the man we
knew was dead, but another man, whom, to
say truth, no one but herself had known, and
because all the hopes and joys of her life had
perished with him. As she sat with bowed
head over the grey, ghostly ashes of these
letters, Jeannette came softly into the room.
Tier face was deadly pale, and her head
moved from side to side, but not m negation ;
it was only that trembling motion which,
when their nerves are hio-hlv wrought, some

women, otherwise self-possessed, are unable
to repress.

You have found it ? ' cried Sophy,
starting to her feet.

Yes, I have found it. And when you
have done thanking Heaven, Miss Sophy ' (for
her mistress had broken out into the most
passionate expressions of devotional gratitude),
' you may consider a little what / have
gone through to get it., There it is. It was
terrible to have to hold it in my hand ; but it
is what you wanted, I hope.'

Yes, yes,' murmured Sophy, gazing at
the letter, the envelope of which was unfastened,
with eager, heated eyes. ' This is
his father's address. I have no doubt it is
what I wanted ; but would you mind making
sure, Jeannette ? I — I hardly like to read it.'

It was not the notion of infringing a
private right (since she had, indeed, become
possessed of the thing by so doing) that
caused her to feel this scruple ; but a certain

tenderness for the dead man himself, which,
now that all danger was over, began for the
first time to stir within her. She did not
wish to have any new cause of dislike or
dread against him, such as the contents of
this missive were almost sure to prove.

Head it ! ' exclaimed Jeannette. ' I
wouldn't read it if you gave me fifty pound.
Is it not enough that you made me steal it,
with him lying dead and cold — there, there, I
didn't mean to cast it up against you, Miss
Sophy,' put in the girl, frightened at her mistress's
look of horror ; ' it was not quite so
bad as you are thinking, after all.'

There was silence between the two women
for a moment or two.

Would you mind telling me all that
happened ? ' said Sophy, gently.

Did she iliind ! As if the one real guerdon
of such an enterprise had not been the right
and privilege of narrating it ! As if the sole
thought which had lately buoyed her up in

VOL. II. C

a sea of superstitious terror had not been the
reflection that she would hereafter pose before
an audience (limited though it must needs be
to one person) as the heroine of a melodrama!

She told her story with a solemn face and
in a gru3som9 tons, which, as she flattered
herself, enhanced its horror.

I let myself out quietly, Miss Sophy, by
the back door, and hurried down the street
to do sour bidding. It seemed to me as if
every one I met must needs know what I was
bent upon, and nobody can tell the shivers
that seized hold upon me as I neared my
journey's end. When I got to the house in
Green Street the blinds were down ; and
somehow that reminded me so of what lay
within it, that you might have knocked me
down with a feather. However, I rang the
bell, which was answered by Mrs. Aylett
herself. Perhaps she found it company, poor
woman, to attend to the door ; and, anyway,
she seemed very pleased to see me. She told

me how it had all happened, of course, and how
he had been brought on a stretcher, with his
beautiful face covered up, which gave her
such a turn, she said, as she thought she
should never get over to her dying day.
There was nobody had been to see him,
though many had called to hear if the news
was true ; and Mr. Mayors, the Tutor, had
just been and seemed frightened almost to
death, though there was nothing now to
frighten anybody she said, for he looked as
comely as could be with his fine limbs showing
through the sheet, poor fellow, anil would
I like to see him. " Xo," said I, thanking her
kindly, " I wouldn't like that, if it was ever
so ; but I had brought some flowers from my
mistress, who had known the poor young
gentleman."

" Oh, yes," she said, •• she knew that,"
and in such a meaning tone that it almost
made my heart stop ; '" but I must not suppose,"
she went on, '" that you were the only

one, for that there would be many a sore
young heart in Cambridge, by reason of the
news that day." '

Mrs. Aylett said that, did she ? ' inquired
Sophy, in a low, cold tone.

She said so. Miss Sophy ; but, bless you,
there's no need to fash yourself upon that
account : young men are all alike, it's my
belief, except that some is worse than others ;
and, besides, Mrs. Aylett is one of those
people as like to make a mountain out of a
mole-hill. No one else, she allowed, had
thought of sending him any flowers, which
was not only kind and tender, but a deal
better plan, she said, than putting them on a
coffin — wreaths that might have cost a guinea
or more, perhaps — only to be buried in the
damp cold earth, and to be of use to nobody ;
she would take care that those should be upon
his breast above the coverlet, where his dead
e3'es might rest upon 'em. Don't ye cry,
Miss Sophy ; don't ye cry ; it's better for you

as matters are, and better, may be, for him,
for it's my belief he would never, never have
come to any good had he lived to the age
of Methuselah. Then, calling to mind my
errand, I said that it was your T^^sh that I
should bear witness to the flowers being
placed where you would have them, only that
I dared not venture into the room ; and Mrs.
Aylett, saying that could easily be contrived,
beckoned me to follow her upstairs. Xow,
as you remember, Miss, poor Mr. Perry's
rooms communicate with one another by
folding doors, but there is a step or two
between them, so that one cannot pass from
one to another in a moment.'

Sophy bowed her head and trembled. She
remembered it very well.

Then when Mrs. Aylett left me in the
sitting-room I lost not an instant, but ran up
straightway to his writing-table, as you had
enjoined on me, and the very first thing I
saw, leaning up against the upper portion of

the desk, as if waiting to be posted, was that
letter, directed to his father. I thrust it in
my pocket in a flash, and was ready for the
landlady when she came out, close by the
folding door, with the money you had given
me for her. She took it, though not very
willingly, saying that she did not need a
present for doing what was nothing but a
pleasure to her, though a sad one ; and then
I came home with my heart beating pit-a-pat,
with the letter in my bosom, feeling like
lead.'

Sophy rose with grateful looks and kissed
the girl. ' Until you brought this to me,
Jeannette,' she said, ' my heart was lead.
Though this sad matter is now over, and all
belonging to it ' — here she put the closed
letter into the flame of the candle, and held
it till it was utterly destroyed — ' I shall never
forget the service you have done for me —
never, never ; but we will talk of that tomorrow.
It is getting late, and you must

be tired enough after all you have sone

o

you nave g(

through.'

Very good, Miss Sophy returned the
other, lingering at the door ; ' are you sura
you would not like me to sleep in your
room to-night ? '

No, thank you, Jeannette,' answered
her mistress, simply, so buried in her own
thoughts that she could not perceive what
could be plainly read in Jeannette' s frightened
face, that the waiting-maid was saying two
words for herself and one for her mistress.

How diverse and opposite, within the
space of a few moments, are the emotions of a
human soul I How sudden are its changes
from apprehension to self-complacency, and
how, in a flash (like the ten thousand faces
on a race course), its outlook on existence
alters from dark to light ! Left once more by
herself, Sophy seemed a different being from
that watcher in the night of a few seconds
ago. A weight had been removed from her,

the absence of which gave an unutterable
sense of relief : she felt a new creature,
blessed beyond all hope or expectation ; and
yet, unhappy girl, she dared not thank God
for it. She was confident that all was now
secure ; that her old life was over and done
away with, and that a new one was about to
dawn, in which, taught by bitter experience,
she would avoid all quicksands.

Whereas, alas ! it was only one chapter of
the old life that had closed. There is no Need
Sea in which by any incantation known toman
the Ghost of Folly and Falsehood can be
laid at rest.

CHAPTER XIX.

FREEDOM.

Between the deathbed tint the charnel a
battle often arises concerning the departed,
like the buzzing of flies over garbage. His
virtues are magnified, his ^dces are exaggerated
; he is ' made more of in every way
than when he was in life. In the case of a
man of loose life, and who has omitted to
make himself popular, we can believe nothing
of what is said, though from the very extravagance
of it some truth may be gathered.
Mr. Herbert Perry's memory suffered Hke the
rest, and a little more, as a young gentleman
who combines vice with economy, in my
opinion, deserves to suffer. Miss Jeannette

had showed her knowledge of human nature
assisted, no doubt, by her sensitiveness to
the omission of wails to discreet waiting-maids
— when she had said that the man, if he
had lived to the age of Methuselah, would
never have come to any good. Still there is
something in youth and beauty cut off in
their prime that is deplorable.

In an undergraduate community the circumstance,
as is natural, makes a stronger
impression than elsewhere. Death then, it is
made plain to them, does not confine itself to
the aged and the ailing, and not only knocks
at the door of old and young alike, but enters
most discourteously without knocking. That
a man who could fell a bargeman at a blow,
and pull a boat round against two men,
should be caught by the leg and drowned by
a weed or a river chain (for there were doubts
which had done it) seemed amazing. Cambridge
preachers, we may be sure, were in no
want of a topic for their next Sunday's discourse.

' Here to-day and gone to-sorrow ; '
flesh was grass, and, above all (think of it,
young men), thus liable to be cut down while
it was yet green. Summoned into the presence
of his Creator without a moment's time
for repentance for the sins of his youth. As
if the Almighty Disposer of all human events
should not take that into account, and make
allowance for an omission that it is not inhuman
power to remedy !

The regret for the fatal occurrence was,
truth to say, much more abstract than particular.
Mrs. Aylett shed a genuine tear or
two for her handsome lodger, to whose merits
his untimely end drew her attention, perhaps
for the first time ; but shed many more from
respect, as it were, to the unities — necessities
of dramatic narration. The occurrence was
literally meat and drink to her — for it made
her a welcome guest in the household of many
of her class — and indirectly clothing, since
she possessed herself of many unconsidered

trifles belonging to the deceased, in the first
instance as mementoes, but which, when time
began to heal her tender wound, she disposed
of to advantage. No doubt Mr. Perry, senior,
mourned his son, regretted (very unreasonably)
the stiffness of tone of that last letter
suggesting Australia to the prodigal, so soon
to sail for a much more distant and populous
colony, whence no news comes either by post
or wire. But if he did mourn, and without
hope, his sorrow was mitigated by subsequent
circumstances, when his son's bills came in,
which they did with somewhat indecorous
haste, as is apt to happen when a dead debtor
is under age. That the gravest of his
emotions were not of a very sentimental
character may be gathered from the fact
that the young man's furniture and personal
effects were not sent home, but disposed
of by private contract to a dealer in the
town.

Among the young man's own companions,

beyond a ' poor fellow ' or a malediction on
the practice of putting chains on rivers (unheard
of since Xerxes' time), there were few
expressions of real regret. Except as a first-rate
oar, the young man had not been popular,
and the sense of loss evoked by his death
mainly arose from (esprit de corps ; as when
Front de Boeuf was slain his friends only
remarked, ' a giant limb lopped off Prince
John's enterprise,' so it was generally observed
of Herbert Perry, ' it will be a great disadvantage
to our boat at Putne}" next year ' in
connection with the University race.

His funeral, however, was largely attended.
Almost all the boating men showed, so far,
some respect for their departed chieftain. Mr.
Mayors, too, was there, still acting as deputy
to the truant Mr. Prater, and the Canon himself,
a yet more unwilling mourner. Such
ceremonies were hateful to him ; but since the
young man had been an occasional visitor at
The Laurels,' and belonged to his own college,

SO much of respect seemed due to his memory.
This was the more to the Canon's credit,
because his presence might have been disagreeably
attributed to a nearer tie, the name
of the dead man having been coupled in some
quarters with that of Sophy.

Upon the whole, however, it was agreed
that that matter had been at most but a
passing flirtation ; the Canon spoke of it as
such himself, and was much more inclined
than Miss Aldred — whose nerves had received
a considerable shock — to ignore it. He
wished things to go on at home ' as if nothing
had happened,' and thought his sister not
only injudicious, but foolishly sentimental, in
making: so much of it as she did. In this
view he was greatly corroborated by the
behaviour of Sophy herself; who, though
exhibiting becoming seriousness, seemed by
no means cast down. Indeed, were it not
much more easy to feign melancholy than
satisfaction, she might have been placed in a

difficult position ; for, put the case to herself
as she would (and she made some meritorious
efforts to feel herself bereaved), it
was not to be denied that a crowning mercy
had been vouchsafed to her. After having all
but made shipwreck of her young life, she
found herself in port again, ready to start
upon a new voyage, and this time with certain
rocks and quicksands very plainly marked
out upon her chart. It is shocking to say so,
but as a matter of fact it happens probably to
one person out of every six to have good cause
to rejoice in the death of a fellow creature. He
has done us harm, he will do us more harm,
and his demise is not only a material benefit,
but release from tyranny and despotism.
Why should we not rejoice ? Xot of course
openly, because that would be indecent and
offensive, but in our private chamber. It
would be horrible, indeed, to feel pleasure in
any misfortune happening to him ; in his
pecuniary' ruin, or in the failure of his health

or mental faculties, but why should death bea
misfortune to him ? If, notwithstanding
his ill-behaviour to ourselves, he is a tolerably
good fellow at bottom (which, however,
we don't believe for an instant), why should
we deplore his removal to a higher and better
sphere ? While, on the other hand, if he is a
bad man, who has never lifted finger to help
his fellow-creatures with their burdens, but
has rather added to their weight, how much
better is it that this subtracted of the sum
of human happiness should be wiped off the
slate ! He boasted, with reason, that he had
his way here, no matter at what cost to others ;
why, therefore, should we not congratulate
ourselves that a spirit so masterful for evil
has gone elsewhere, where he will find his
match ; or, for aught we care — for we wish
him no harm — be appreciated. The cheapest
form of charity that has yet been discovered
is, no doubt, to speak with approval of a dead
scoundrel ; but to deplore his death, however

decorous it may sound, is an hypocrisy that
imposes upon no one.

No ; Herbert Perry had under false pretences
won from Sophy her first love, had
had at his mercy (only to abuse the trust)
her fair fame, and had been about to exact
from her a sacrifice which he had pledged his
word not to claim — and that she should keep
his memory green, or mourn over his untimely
fate, was a little too much to expect.
It pleased the Canon to find that Sophy did
not shut herself up and decline to see people.
He had thought it not unlikely that, after the
manner of her sex, she would have made as
much as possible out of what had occurred,
and have ' posed ' as one bereaved and a
victim of fate. He thought she took a most
sensible view of things, at the same time
congratulating himself that his apprehensions
respecting her attachment to ]mr. Perry had
proved groundless. It was now clear to him
that there had been nothing serious between

VOL. II. D

the two young people. His sister, who knew
better, was not so pleased. Now the ' poor
young man ' was dead she forgot what was
detrimental in him, and felt only pity for his
sad end. She could have easily forgiven the
girl for having indulged in even passionate
grief, though it might have caused some
domestic inconvenience : she thought her
philosophic behaviour a little heartless (while
admitting that it was for the best), and was,
on the whole, ' disappointed ' in Sophy.

One thing, however, she did set down to
that young lady's credit. Although she had
apparently forgotten her old lover with something
of undue haste and ease, she exhibited
no desire to encourage a new one. After a
week or so the Canon had proposed to bring
Adair home with him again, for a quiet
dinner, and had deputed his sister to sound
Sophy as to whether such an arrangement
would be agreeable to her, when the girl had
positively declined to be present ; the reason

of her refusal, it was understood, was the
association of Adair's last visit with the
recent catastrophe : and it was no small satisfaction
to Miss Aldred that Sophy had withstood
what had been always an attraction to
her {i.e. a young man's company) from so
sentimental a consideration. Sophy's real
reason was that Adair was associated with her
humiliation. He had no longer, it is true,
any power to harm her ; but she did not forget
that when he had had the power he had
shown a disposition to take undue advantage
of it. There had been something in his
manner that suggested that she was under
his thumb, and this could only have arisen,
of course, from a suspicion of her relations
with the dead man. She had not forgotten
that walk home with him (though it seemed
so long ago) from the Canon's rooms, and his
allusions to that interview she had been so
indiscreet as to give her husband in the
"" Roundabout,' when she was supposed to be

D 2

at a ball, of which the young scholar had
been an accidental witness. Awhile exposure
had threatened her from a more serious
quarter, Adair's possession of this fact had
not loomed so large among her perils ; but
now that no material harm had come, or
could come of it, she confessed to herself how
wrong her conduct must have seemed to him.
Indeed, in one view, since it was now impossible
to clear herself by saying ' Herbert
Perry was my lawful husband,' the incident,
so far as Adair was concerned, had a more
unfortunate significance than ever.

Nor was a young gentleman so audacious,
and so little given to delicacy, likely to give
up the hold upon her which chance had
given him. As compared with her former
case, she was beyond the reach of his malice,
but she was not in a position to defy him,
and her best chance of keeping on good terms
with him, as it seemed to Sophy, was to keep
him at a distance. She was not absolutely

afraid of him — she was afraid of nothing now
but it would be necessary to be very
guarded with him, and to use any artifice to
explain away his suspicions ; and, to do
Sophy justice, she was resolved to have done
with artifice. Circumstances — as we are
wont to term the consequences of our own
folly — had compelled her of late to throw dustin
the eyes of those about her ; but it was
not the amusement to her which it is to some
people. What she longed for was to breathe
freely in clear air, and it grieved lier very
much that it was still necessary to play a
part with those about her.

With the Canon, as we know, she had
succeeded ; but with Aunt Maria she had
only had a very moderate degree of success ;
while with Henny Helford she had a secret
consciousness that she had made something
very like a failure. Henny could not understand
the philosophy with which her friend
bore the loss of her lover. She had never

compared Herbert Perry with her own
Frederic, had never even admitted that Sophy
was really ' wrapped-up ' in the young manor
thought of him seriously as a possible husband
; but there had certainly been tender passages
between the two young people. He had
not been ' the summer pilot of an empty heart
unto the shores of nothing as other young
men, Henny had reason to believe, had been,
before him ; and something seemed due to his
memory beyond a squeezed-out tear or two
and a respiration, which, if it was a sigh at
all, sounded like a sigh of relief. Henny
could understand that the breaking of Sophy's
engagement might, on the whole, be a source
of real satisfaction to her, as it undoubtedly
was to her friends ; but the catastrophe which
had caused it might surely have evoked some
natural sorrow. It was not, of course,
desirable, and could not be expected, that
Sophy should put on mourning ; but she
might have worn for a few weeks, as regarded.

manner, a decent garb of melancholy. She
did so when in company ; but when Henny
alone was present, she decidedly wore colours.
Xow and then, indeed, when there was any
mention of the dead man's name, she became
grave enough (like some conventional
mourner at a funeral, who breaks off his
story at the chapel door) ; but, on the whole,
Sophy's behaviour — though Henny kept her
thoughts upon the subject to herself — not a
little scandalised her young Mend.

What was curious, however, Sophy's health
did not improve with her spirits ; which caused
certain wise and ingenious persons, such as
abound everywhere, to observe that it was
easy to see that the apparent cheerfulness,
which did Miss Gilbert so much credit under
the circumstances, was purchased at a high
price. It was Jeannette's impression — who,
it is needless to say, did not share m this
opinion — that her young mistress wanted
exercise ; and, indeed, it was many days since

she bad left the house, or extended her walk
beyond the garden.

I am quite sure. Miss,' she said — for she
always called her ' Miss,' to Sophy's great
content — ^ that one of your old " constitutional
" would do you a great deal of good

I am very well as I am, thank you,' she
replied ; ' and I cannot say that I take any
pleasure now in walking about Cambridge.'

Jeannette smiled a little contemptuously ;
she knew that the associations to which
Sophy alluded were not of a nature to evoke
much regret.

It isn't. Miss, as if you were liable to
meet folks,' she went on. ' I am sure the
town looks as if the plague was in it ; all
the young men are gone down for the long
vacation.'

Not all of them,' returned Sophy, with
quiet significance.

^ Um — well, of course, you will do as you
please. Miss ; but the young gentleman can't

Bite you ; and I must say your being so set
.upon keeping out of his way must look to
iii very much as if you were afraid of him.'

I am not afraid of him, Jeannette ; I'm
riot the least afraid of him, nor of any one
else, thank Heaven.'

Still, I wouldn't be uncivil to him, if
I was you, Miss.'

I am not uncivil. What incivility is
there in my keeping with doors when I am
;not inclined to go out ? I like my home, and
am happy in it ; I love the liberty that I had
lost and have regained ; and I will never
aofain run the risk of cosmos it — at all events,
.to the person you have in your mid.'

Oh, lud! Miss, I didn't mean that. One
may be reasonably kind to a young man, I
tope, without intending to marry him.'

Xo doubt, but the person in question is,
in my opinion, a dangerous one to deal with ;
if you give him an inch he takes an ell, and
.any attempt to conciliate him only convinces

him that you are in his power. Now, I am
not in his power, and never intend to be.'

Very good, Miss. I am sure I hope you
never may be.'

^ May be ? How can I be ? What do
you mean ? '

^ Nothing, Miss, nothing ; only it's never
well to be positively certain about anything ;
and especially as my poor old grandmother
used to say, who had seen better days, though
she died in the works, " Don't boast." '

TO A SON IX INDIA.

Notwithstanding that time-honoured quotation
concerning a ' touch of nature ' — always
used, by-the-by, m a totally different sense
from that intended by him who wrote it — the
men and women one meets with are, to judge
by then behaviour, by no means enamoured
of naturalness. The great majority of them
may, indeed, be divided into two classes —
the one, generally known as 'gushes,' who
exaggerate then feelings ; and the other, the
capsule,' who conceal them. The former,
of course, afford the greatest amusement, and
therein may claim a debt of gratitude from
their fellow-creatures ; but the latter, who

hold them in particular contempt, are not a
whit more sensible, though less ludicrous.

I met a widower the other day truly sorry
for his loss, who expressed to me his thankfulness
to some Power or another that he had
never throughout his recent bereavement
given way to ' sentiment ' even for a moment.
^ What I was always saying to myself,' observed
the poor fellow, ' when I felt the tears
coming, was, " Now this is sentiment ; " and
that enabled me to suppress them.' I did
not reply, as truth would have suggested,
The more fool you ! ' But I could not help
feeling a contempt mingling with my pity for
him. If he had let Nature have her way,
-and not attempted a role entirely unfitted for
him (that of the North American Indian), he
.would have borne his misfortunes far more
easily.

Even those soldiers who (in the good old
time), being cut to pieces by the cat-o'-nine-tails,
made it a point of honour not to cry

out, had a bit of leather in their mouths to
chew ; and whenever there is repression there
is leather, or something equally unwholesome.
It is, indeed, contemptible and unmanly to
whine and howl about one's private calamities
before the crowd ; but if one is so fortunate
as to possess a loving friend, to close one's
heart against his sympathy in time of trouble
is an act of weakness, none the less foolish
because we flatter ourselves it is a proof of
strength and wisdom. To a very few men
stoicism is as natural as silence to a rat in a
trap, but the majority of our Stoics are merely
capsule. They are not. of course. Gushes,
effervescent, without moral restraint or expression
; or being thus unnaturally checked,
they would burst like a champagne bottle
unrelieved of its ' tisanne ; ' but they have
their fair share of human emotion, and conceal
it from mistaken ideas of what is becoming.
This was the case with Canon Aldred.
He loved his sister, had an affectionate regard

for his ward, and entertained the kindliest
feelings (which were duly reciprocated) for
troops of friends ; but his heart was with his
boy in India, and of him he rarely spoke to
any one. To have manifested, even to his
nearest and dearest (save one), his devotion
to his only son would have seemed to him a
weakness. He deemed paternal love, ' like
faith and prayers, the privates t of men's
affairs,' and had scarcely exhibited it even to
its object while it was still with him. But
now his Robert was so many hundred miles
away, in a dangerous climate, and bound to be
there so long, he could no longer afford to conceal
his affection from him. There were too
many chances on both sides against their ever
meeting in this world to admit of reticence ;
and he was not so positively certain, perhaps,
as a divine should be of their meeting in the
next. At all events, should Heaven grant
that precious boon, it would be strange and
sad indeed if it should then be necessary to

inform his son for the first time how much
he had loved him — a thing that will have to
be done, perchance, by a good many undemonstrative
persons.

As the Canon sat alone in his college
rooms, with his chin m his left hand and a
pen in his right, and with that large thin
notepaper before him, on which we send our
winged thoughts afar, he thinks of these
things. A poem of a modern but well-nigh
forgotten writer steals into his mind, dealing;
with matters after death, when the soul is asa
hand withdrawing from a glove, and he
who speaks is dead and mourned, or mis-mounted,
by those he has left behind him.

Dear hearts, they have all come,
And think me dead — me, who so know I'm living.
The vilest creature in this fleshly room.
That was my darling boy's — that kiss.

And at those words this man of reticence and
philosophic calm, conceiving to himself his
Robert's last adieu, let fall some tears ; for,
amazing as it may seem, though of mature

years and a Canon, he was a person of the-liveliest
imagination.

By his side were two letters, to which (as
though he had not known every word of
them by heart 1) he more than once referred ashe
wrote on. They were the only ones he had
received from his son since his departure, and
dear to him as that sacred memento from
dead Milton's head : bright, chatty impressions
of a first acquaintance with a strange
land. What was a marvel, indeed, considering
that they came from India, there were na
complaints in them. When things were not
rose colour, they afforded an opportunity, not
for grumbling, but for a sly touch of humour.
From these graphic touches you might have
guessed the writer's character, to which
knowledge you were, moreover, assisted by a
portrait done by a native artist. If not very
successful as a work of art, it served to recall
every lineament to the father's eye ; while
just so much of novelty was added by the

attire, suitable to the climate, as gave piquancy
to the likeness. ' So this is my Indian
Robert, is it ? ' was the Canon's remark,
murmured with the coo of a pigeon, followed
by a secret reflection that the boy looked even
a finer fellow abroad than he had looked at
home.

The picture, indeed, represented as wholesome,
hearty a young fellow as parent's eye
could wish to look upon ; a bigger, broader
figure than the Canon ; with keener eyes and
a more resolute mouth, but with something
of his father's kindliness in the expression,
which became his young face well. Bro^\Ti
speaking eyes, brown curling hair, and cheeks
already embroiled by the Eastern sun, the
whole set ofi* by very light-coloured apparel,
gave an expression of acclimatisation that
augured well for his physical health ; while,
on the other hand, that there was no alien
change in his disposition was clear from the
tone of his letters. Though lively they were

VOL. II. E

singularly simple, and breathed a filial affection
so tender that they might very well have
been addressed to a mother instead of a
father. He spoke of his expenses, his pursuits,
his amusements, and even his love-affairs,
with the greatest frankness. ' Pray
tell Aunt Maria,' he wrote, ' that she is quite
right about the percentage of sun strokes ; out
of every ten Europeans about nine fall victims
to it ; in the native tongue it is termed'
brandy pawnee. Sophy, too, has proved
only too true a prophetess as regards the
other calamity. Her name is Alma Treherne,
the daughter of a fire-eating Colonel. He
has a good Government appointment, so that
she is altogether out of my reach ; but she
leans down from the heavens and smiles upon
me a little. She is faultless, save in one
respect, which time ^N'ill remedy : she is but
seventeen. I need not tell you, alas ! not to
take this communication too seriously. It is
I know, but a dream ; but you used to say

that at my time of life there is no harm in
dreaming. To-morrow I start for the Hills,
a thousand miles away. When I come back
she Tall doubtless, as Prayed sinsfs. be " Mrs.
Something Rogers." Yet I don't think that
'ein my heart's most secret cell there will have
been any other lodgers." There — I hear you
saying, " What nonsense I " as you fix your
glasses more tightly on your dear nose ; but
you know, father, it was agreed between u&
that we should tell each other everything.'

The Canon did not say ' What nonsense ! '
and took his glasses off his nose to mpe them
with his handkerchief. He was not angry
nth Miss Alma Treherne ; far from it ; he
thought her a young lady of good taste
to have been captivated (so he translated
Robert's statement of the circumstance)
with his darling boy ; and only grudged
her her opportunities. What would he not
have given, what would he not give now, for
one clasp of the hand of his absent son!!

E 2

There was much more of narrative and chitchat,
but the piece de resistance of his epistolary
fare (though it did not appear there had
been much resistance) was that allusion to
the young lady. The Canon proceeded to
answer his son's letter with reciprocal warmth
and frankness.

Oh pen, beyond all magic of wig, that
can waft love and gentleness to the ends of
the earth, and grave our thoughts at home
upon hearts ten thousand miles away ! It is
the nearest approach, save telegraphy, that
has yet been discovered to that much-deliberated
attribute of being in two places at once.
While the Canon wrote his home news, his
eyes were in India watching that sunburnt
young fellow reading it : and when the other
should come to read it, his leal young heart
would have fled home to the kind scribe. It
was a long epistle, which was, of itself, a
proof of the Canon's affection, for lie was a
man who rarely spoke or wrote at length ;

what he had to say he expressed concisely,
though often humorously, and never paid his
hearers the bad compliment of taking them
for a common jury. Tt will be sufficient for
our purpose to quote a sentence or two.

What you say about Miss Theme, my
dear boy, I need scarcely tell you, especially
interested me. It is a dream (as you admit
yourself) from which you will awaken not
one whit the worse. It is as natural for a
young man to turn his thoughts, in honour,
to a fair woman as for a flower to turn to
the sun : and perhaps the earlier the better.
Even if nothing comes of it (as is likely to
happen in this case), his heart is the better
and the wiser for such an experience. If he
has a good heart to begin with, he will wish
her well and not ill, though circumstances
may award her to another. From what you
tell me of the fire-eating Colonel, I should
doubt your taking to him as a father-in-law,
while I am afraid (which is of more consequence)

that your prospects would hardly
recommend you as a suitor for his daughter's
hand. I am a very selfish ease-loving old
fellow, you know, and have not much to
spare you. Though I will do my best when
the time comes, I cannot promise any great
increase of your allowance. One must look
:ahead in these things ; and remember that
two young people in the bonds of matrimony,
if I may borrow the language of the Board
of Directors of my Insurance Company,
have power to add to their number." My
policy will be of no use to you, but rather
the reverse, till after my death ; and, as you
know, what I have is chiefly income, which
the necessity of my position compels me to
spend pretty freely. That you will make
your own way in the path you have chosen I
feel well convinced ; but your shoulders must
be free at starting. Travels with a knapsack
must be made en garcon. You will not think
ene cruel, dear boy ; but deem me rather only*'

cruel to be kind," in these words of wamin^r.
In all things you will have my sympathy, my
confidence, and my help as far as it can be
stretched. Oh, feeble are these words to express
the love I bear you ! If Fate were
"kinder, how eagerly would I say, " Come
home, my Robert, and bring your Alma with

you."

The cup of life in this respect, as in so
many others, is dealt to us in different measures.
In Sophy's case, for example, if only
she could find a suitable match (I thought of
one at one time, you remember, but you
differed from me), I should like to see her
settled in life as soon as maybe. There has
been already a little something — one can
hardly call it an attachment — between her
and a young gentleman at this college, which
has been broken ofi^ in a very sad and sudden
manner by his untimely death. It is clear tome,
fi:om the dear girl's behaviour, that it
never had any real root, which is, so far, a

source of satisfaction both to your aunt and
myself. But I am not easy in my mind
about her, and should be greatly pleased tO'
be quit of my responsibilities, could it be
done with happiness to herself. There is a
young man here who has greatly taken my
fancy. He has neither birth nor fortune to
recommend him ; as to the former, indeed, I
doubt whether he is even legitimate, which ina
woman's eyes is a sad blot (they never can
understand, till it is too late, the immense
advantage of having no connections by marriage)
; but as to the latter, I am much
mistaken if his brains, which are abundant
and of the practical sort, do not soon supply
him with income. There would, of course,
be many objections to such a match ; but the
fact is I was put (unreasonably as it turns-out)
in such a state of trepidation concerning
the other young gentleman (now in Paradise),
that I am still tremulous about the
choice Sophy may make when she comes to

be her own mistress, and would rather see her
mated with a man in whom I have confidence,
though otherwise not very eligible,
than trust to her own judgment. However,
nothing happens but the unexpected, and
Sophy may choose the counterpart of yourself,
and thereby console me for your coldness
towards her. I am sorry to say that the dear
girl's health, though she is in excellent
spirits, gives us some cause for uneasiness.

Dr. Xewton ascribes it to a life of idleness
without an object, and says nothing
would be so good for her as to marry some
steady stay-at-home young fellow, to whom
(think of that. Master Robert) he predicts
she would prove the best of wives.

You will be glad to hear (since all that
pleases me pleases you, I know) that the
Concordance goes on bravely. I find Mr
Adair (the young man I have alluded to)
quite invaluable as an assistant, and the more
so since his tastes are mathematical and his

appreciation of the Bard not so intense as to
carry him off his feet. He will rise in life
(or I'm a Dutchman) ; but it will not be to
the Empyrean ; as the American gentleman
replied to his friend when he said it was
fine overhead," " there are, however, very
few people going that way." But I can now
no more ; " the Parting Sun beyond the
earth's green cape and verdant isles Hesperian
sets." In other words, the bell is going for
evening chapel. Adieu, dear boy. " Be
strong, live happy, and love. But, first of
all. Him Whom to love is to obey ; and keep
His great command." '

A characteristic epistle enough ; full of
tenderness and of that sort of humour which
is the disinfectant of coarseness, and concluding
with a quotation from his poetic idol.

CHAPTER XXL

AN OPPORTUNITY.

As the Concordance advanced, the originator
of that great work and his young assistant
saw more and more of one another, and, as
was natural, became more confidential. It
was not unusual with them to pass some hours
of the evenings together, which the scholar,
who had small taste for ' wines ' or other undergraduate
entertainments, was very willing
to spend in that way — not so much (as has
been observed of him) from devotion to the
Bard as to his own interests. In the long
vacation time they were thrown still more
together, and it was the Canon's habit when
he went to chapel to leave his door ' un-sported,'
so that in case of Adair's coming

first from the sacred edifice, or of himself
being detained, the young scholar might enter
his rooms and set to work at once. A door
in college has more significance than a door
elsewhere. At the first sight of it you can.
tell whether the friend you come to visit is at
home to the world or not ; in the former case
it is technically called ' unspotted,' and I am
sorry to say (for in this truthful record one
must needs tell all) that Sophy, carried away
by her high spirits, before she had learnt to
love not wisely but too well, had spoken of
her guardian's usually open door as ' un-sported
from the world.' On the evening
when we found the Canon writing to his son,
Adair came after chapel to his employer's
rooms, and found admittance to them as usual
in his absence.

It was as noble a lodging as Trinity could
boast of, and none, with liberty to open the
huge portfolios and take down the splendid
books (on which, to say truth, the owner

Tied spent what he Ts^as wont to term playfully
a pretty penny,' but was, m fact, more than
his means quite justified) had need to complain
of finding time heavy on his hands.
Adair, however, had seen the Canon's art
treasures more than once, and had already
given them as much of his admiration as he
judged would satisfy their proprietor ; for
himself, neither engravings nor photographs
lead any attractions, while the Canon's love of
"busts and statuettes seemed to him as childish
as any passion for marbles of another kind.
Books he looked upon — as, in truth, do many
men — merely as means to an end. Even for
science he had no taste, but only a ' turn ; *
lie found it more convenient to work in that
groove than in any other. He had put himself
into the mathematical mill to be ground
into a Fellow of his college, just as a docile,
lout not particularly learned, pig might take a
header into a sausage-machine. It was his
^'ont, therefore, when finding himself alone

in his patron's rooms, to waste no time in
improving his mind by art or literature, but
to sit down to his work at once, with that
phlegmatic indifference which is so often mistaken
for duty.

On the present occasion, however, his
attention was diverted. The Canon's habits,
as are those of most men of his class, were
careless, and, unless where his particular hobbies
were concerned, unmethodical. He left
his personal jewellery on his dressing-table
and his money everywhere ; and he never
locked anything up because he was so apt to
lose his keys. In his haste to go to chapel
he had thrust his letter to his son into the
drawer of his desk, but had omitted to close
the drawer, and there it lay. The date and
address upon the top of it showed what it
was at the first glance. A gentleman would
at once have closed the drawer, not to avoid
any temptation of looking at the letter, but
to keep it from prying eyes ; a nervous man,

of weak character, would have done the like
to prevent the suspicion of having himself
taken advantage of such a circumstance. But
there are all sorts of people in the world, and
some of them have an insuperable weakness
for reading other people's letters. Fools doit
from vulgar curiosity (I once caught a
gentleman — a gentleman's gentleman — employed
in endeavouring; to decipher my own
private correspondence ; he night as well
have tackled a Chaldee MS. — for no man
writes so ill as I write — but his interest in
the matter was most absorbed:) ; intelligent
persons, like the First Napoleon, do it with
the intention of gleaning some information
that may be of advantage to them. Mr. John
Adair was of the latter class.

The very best way of thoroughly understanding
a man's character, as we learn from
all biographies, is to peruse his private
letters ; and it was most important to Mr.
Adair to <2:et at the back of the Canon's mind.

He did not hesitate, therefore, for an instant ;
indeed, he had no time to spare, since his
patron might appear at any moment, but sat
down and addressed himself to the interesting
task at once. It was a long letter, and he
could only give a divided attention to it,
because he had to listen for approaching
footsteps ; but the stairs without were uncarpeted,
so that they would give good
warning, and the mind, as we are told, is
^ dual.' It was only necessary to take care
(for autobiography is always attractive) not
to get too much absorbed. At first there was
not the least danger of this occurrence ; the
Canon's expression of affection for his absent
son, his aspirations for their reunion, ' the
trivial fond records ' of parental love only
excited the scholar's contempt ; it was incomprehensible
to him that a grown man
should maunder on so at the risk of having to
pay a double postage fee. But presently he
came upon the part which referred to Sophy ;

how anxious the writer was to find a suitable
match for her as soon as might be, since all
hope of his Robert's union with her was at
an end. 'A pretty thing, deed ! ' was Adair's
reflection. * A guardian wanting to make
his ward his daughter-in-law because she was
an heiress ! ' His sense of propriety was
shocked. Then there was the reference to
Perry, in which adam the Canon's sentiments
and his own were quite at variance.
Whether the attachment in question had had
^ any real root ' or not was a question he
was in no position to decide, since it was
neither a square root nor a cube root ; but as
to there having been only ' a little something *
between them, he was of a very different
opinion.

It was no mere flirtation that had induced
the girl to give Perry a nocturnal meeting
in the College Roundabout, when she was
supposed to be at the ball, or which had
emboldened the man to visit ' The Laurels ' at

VOL. II. F

midnight, of which he himself had been a
witness. That Miss Sophy had fooled her
guardian, and probably Miss Aldred also,
throughout this matter, was now quite evident
; it was clear too, though the Canon
had no suspicion of her, that he had his
apprehensions. ' I am not easy in my mind
about her,' he said ; and then followed a
remark which was full of interest : ' I should
be greatly pleased to be rid of my responsibilities
in this matter, could it be done
with happiness to herself.' Really a very
excellent guardian, whose wishes it behoved
him by all means to further, if only they
could be got to take a particular direction.

Then came some sentences on which his
eyes became positively riveted, so intense
was their interest for him, though he never
for one instant forgot to listen for the approaching
footsteps. Had they come at that
moment he felt that he must obtain possession
of that letter somehow and read to the end of

it, even if lie had to abstract it from Her
Majesty's mail. ' There is a young man here
who has greatly taken my fancy &c. After
all, there is no topic, from Shakespeare to
the musical glasses, that interests the generality
of human beings so much as themselves.
Mr. John Adair was fairly absorbed at last.
So this admirable guardian was actually inclined
to think of him, John Adair, as a
possible son-in-law. His expressions, indeed,
were not so wholly satisfactory as they might
have been; they seemed to go little further
than that Miss Sophy might ' do worse,' but,
upon the whole, there was very much for a
young man with ambition, but no expectations,
to congratulate himself upon. ' A steady stay-at-home
young fellow for a husband,' was
what her guardian himself recommended to
Sophy, and was not that very prescription
close to her hand, labelled ' John Adair,' and
ready to be taken at once ?

At this moment the bedroom door opened

F 2

behind him, and, to his horror and amazement,
he found that he was not alone.

He made no doubt that the person who
stood regarding; him without a word was the
Canon, and yet he did not attempt to stir or
even to move his eyes from the letter spread
before him ; only he saw no more the words
of which it was composed. There was a confused
blur before his eyes and a singing in his
ears, such as (he afterwards thought) might
have been the precursor of some sort of fit.
His ready tongue utterly failed him ; his
thoughts only seemed to paint for him a
picture of self wrought ruin. No explanation
of his conduct was possible ; and he was well
aware that of all the men he knew, or could
know. Canon Aldred was the very last to
forgive the baseness of which he stood con-^
evicted. Nothing would have been left to him
(as he afterwards reflected) but to have defied
his patron ; to have told him all he knew to
the disadvantage of his ward, and to have

demanded hush money. Like a rat without
the means of escape, despair might have
driven him to even that extremity. It was,
after all, not the Canon, but only Mrs.
Murdoch, his beaker, who had been doing
out his bedroom, and seeing the scholar at
her master's desk, not even so much as
turning his head to look at her, imagined
him to be immersed in ' them papers ' (notes
of the divine Milton) about which ' such a
blessed fuss was made, if ever her duster went
nigh 'em.'

Lor, Mr. Adair,' she said, ' how pale
and 'haggard you do look! I never see a
young gent look so, leastways not in a long
vacation.'

The young man gave a ghastly smile,
and drew a long deep breath. Her words,
though devoid of aspirates, were the sweetest
he had yet heard from the lips of woman.

That reminds me,' he said, carelessly
closing the drawer, and drawing his own

MSS. around him, ' that I have never given
you anything towards your annual hoHday,
Mrs. Murdoch. I heard the Canon saying
that it was to be Ipswich this time.'

Thank you kindly, sir,' answered the
good lady, dropping a curtsey, the depth of
which certified to the liberality of the donation.
' Ipswich it is this year, where I goes
to see my Augustus ; it was Norwich last
year, to my niece Jemima. I takes 'em turn
and turn about. I wish you your Fellowship
most heartily,' she added, with a turn of her
elbow as if emptying a drinking-vessel, ' leastways,
unless, as is like enough, you have
some fair young lady in your mind, which is
the best sort of fellowship after all. They
talks of ladies' colleges and what not, but it's
my belief '

What were Mrs. Murdoch's views concerning
the severance of the sexes were never
divulged — which was a pity, for, to judge
by the humorous twinkle in lier eyes, they

should have been worth hearing — for just at
that moment steps were heard upon the
Stan's.

The beaker bustled out with an air of
unceasing occupation, pursued for its own
sake without fee or reward, and the Canon
and Mr. Mayors entered.

Adair, as this custom was when the Canon
brought home a friend with him, at once put
together his papers ; on this occasion he was
very willing to get a^^-ay — to think over the
information he had just acquired, and shape
his course in accordance with it. When a
great stroke of good fortune happens to us,
away from home, we are glad to get back to
our dear ones to unpart it to them. John
Adair's home was, as the phrase goes, ' under
his hat,' or, rather, his college cap, and his
dear ones were in the singular number.

You've been as busy as a bee, I see, as
usual,' said the Canon, approvingly ; ' or,
rather, with the B's.'

Nay, sir, I'm at the C's.'

Indeed ! Well, well, tomorrow morning
we will begin our voyage on them. Good
evening.'

The Tutor and the scholar had interchanged
only a nod of recognition. When
the latter had gone, the Canon broke out
into a eulogy of his young assistant, to which
the other listened with a very incredulous air.

You may say what you like,' said the
Canon, who did not fail to observe this ; ' but
that young man will make his way in the
world.'

I made no observation about him whatever,
that I am aware of,' said the Tutor,
drily. ' As to making his way in the world,
if he fails in it, it will not be, I should say,
for want of pushing ; and if any one falls in
the scramble, he will not show the generosity
of the horse in declining to put his foot on
him.'

^ Upon my word, Mayors, I think you

are the most prejudiced man I ever came
across in all my life.'

It's a great distinction,' said the Tutor.

^ Just because the poor boy knows nothing
of Plato,' continued the Canon, indignantly.

Plato! ' exclaimed the Tutor, roused to
wrath in his turn by this contemptuous
allusion to his idol. * He knows nothing of
anything, so far as I can see. except figures ;
a mere calculating machine : I dare say he
can compile a Concordance.'

This was hitting the Canon in his very
tenderest part — a by-blow at the divine
Milton.

Well, at all events, the few things he
does know he knows thoroughly — as, indeed,
I do myself ; and when I hear the people who
know everything talk of the things that I
know, I sometimes wonder whether they
know anything.'

The Tutor burst into a roar of laughter.

That's extremely good, Aldred ; I

should like to have said that to Wheel.
But you don't mean to tell me that this
young scholar of yours understands one line
of Milton beyond his own reference to it.'

Well, I really think he is getting on
with him. His powers of memory are
something marvellous ; he has got all the
Liber Elegiarum and Silvarum Liber (except
the Greek) by heart. Just think of the
quantities ! '

Yes,' returned the other ; ' and just
think of the mess of the " quantities " that he
would make if he attempted to recite them.'

An observation which did not fail to tickle
the Canon in his turn. For happy thoughts
to him were scrip and share, and strokes of
humour more than cent, per cent., and anger
with his friend so brief a madness that it
resembled summer lightning followed by a
roar. So these two old friends sat down and
lit their pipes, and talked together, heart
bared to heart ; except, indeed, that in the

Tutor's case there was something hidden in
his heart from his fellow, partly from doubt
of what kind of reception it would meet with,
partly because his mind was not made up as
to whether it was really in his heart or not.

CHAPTER XXII.

A DISCOVERY.

If Cambridge in the long vacation does not
quite look as Jeannette said it did, ' as
though the plague was in it,' it looks deserted
enough. Mr. Major's fancy picture of
Paradise, ' a University without the Undergraduates,'
is certainly not an attractive one
save to a college tutor. There are plenty of
young men about ; but, though attired for
the most part in the very selfsame garments
as the alumni of the place, they have not a
collegiate bearing. They are, in fact, Gyps
in their masters' clothes. The silence, where
there was wont to be so much of sound, is
portentous. From the college chapels comes

no more the roar that ^ shakes the Prophets
blazoned on their panes ; ' the air is hushed
upon the river, where a thousand voices used
to strain their throats, a thousand feet, or
rather (not to fall into Macaulay's error),
two thousand, to thunder along the quaking
banks. From the churches the iron hours
are clanged with deafening] violence ; but
between whiles all is mute. On the other
hand, some sounds unheard in the tumult of
the term make themselves audible : the coo
of the pigeons in the courts, the silver leap of
the fountain in the quadrangle, make dreamy-music.


As Adair left the Canon's rooms, his solitary
footstep in the cloisters wakened ghostly
echoes, but no thoughts in consonance with
them. If they touched his fancy at all, it was
to remind him that he was alone in the world,
dependent upon himself, and himself only, for
the shaping of his fortunes. He took the
same road as he had taken with Sophy on

the procession night, and as lie passed the
Roundabout it came into his mind that fortune
might lie closer to his hand than it had
ever done to undergraduate before. To most
men college is but a training-ground to prepare
them for the struggle of life ; but in his
case it was quite possible that he might reach
harbour when others were but setting sail.
Though very deficient in imagination, Adair
was not without ambition, while under a veil
of modesty he concealed a self-confidence
approaching to arrogance. If only he could
have his chance — that is, find himself in
possession of capital — he flattered himself he
could use it, not only to great advantage, but
with a success that could be attained only by
one in a thousand. He had really ' a good
head for figures,' and he imagined himself
to possess a genius for finance, and burnt for
an opportunity to display it. Sophy's twenty
thousand pounds, could he but obtain the use
of it, seemed to him a sufficient fulcrum with

which to move the world and set it rolling to
his feet. The girl, too, was attractive to him
"upon her own account, but by no means such
an object of desire as she had been. His
amour propre was deeply wounded by her
conduct towards him since Herbert Perry's
death. He had a shrewd suspicion that,
although she had compromised herself with the
man in some way, she had not really cared
for him. Her behaviour to himself on the
evening when he had dined at ' The Laurels '
had led him to hope that she was not insensible
to his own merits. Yet, now that his
rival had been removed, so far from o-ivino-
him the slightest sign of encouragement, she
studiously avoided him. He knew this for
certain — for he had a friend at court, procured,
like most court friends, by purchase —
who had told him as much.

This informant was no other than Sophy's
confidante and waiting-maid. Jeannette was
no traitress, but from the first moment that

Adair's gold had touched her palm she had
become his well-wisher ; his contrast (in the
way of open-mindedness) to Perry, and his
obvious dislike of him, had greatly recommended
him to the girl, who said to herself
again and again, ' Now, if it had not been
for that mad marriage of my young mistress,
how much better a husband would
this young man have made her! ' no doubt
she also reflected, ' and how much more
liberal a master would he have been to me ! '
But, to do her justice, this was quite a
secondary consideration. The picture of
Sophy's probable future had filled her with
pity for her mistress ; to be mated with a
clown, and a mean clown, would, she well
understood, be a fate almost intolerable to
her ; and her joy, as we have seen, when
fate had destroyed this tyrant in embryo, she
took little pains to conceal. Her aspiration,
^ I wish he was drownded,' when he had left
them at the mill, filled her with a certain awe

when it became accomplished, and doubtless
increased the horrors of her visit to Green
Street. But she suffered no real remorse inconsequence.
She had disliked the man from
the first ; and though, as has been said, she
had a strong turn for intrigue (not in the
French sense ; she was only like the majority
of her class — a match-maker), she had opposed
Sophy's secret marriage with all her
might. Xow that her young mistress was
once more free, she thought that she could do
better for her, which Adair had also convinced
her would be doing better for herself.
Without, we repeat, having become deserving
of the name of traitress, she had become a
purchased partisan. More than once since
Perry's death Adair had seen her, and quickened
her resolves to aid him. But she had
done her best in vain.

The fact was, the young scholar had
few attractions for Sophy, and she had re-vol.

II. G

seated exceedingly the use he had made of
his knowledge of her relations with Perry.
She knew too well what it was to be under
another's thumb not to recognise, in his
attempt to take advantage of that fact, the
first turn of the screw. Since Perry's death
it was true that Adair had been careful not to
attempt to apply that instrument ; but since
he must have known (though not so well as
she) how little leverage was now left in it,
she did not give him much credit for his
forbearance. There was little doubt in Adair's
mind that she was now purposely avoiding
him ; a circumstance that irritated him exceedingly,
but which he knew not how to
remedy. Until the kite revelation of the
Canon's sentiments towards himself, he had,
indeed, almost begun to despair of any success
with Sophy ; but now hope once more awoke
within him. He would have much preferred
to win her upon his own merits ; but so that
he did win her, even at second hand — ix.

through the influence of a third person — he
would be well content.

Musing deeply upon this matter, as he
only allowed himself to muse when in the
open air — for when in his own rooms his
studies (on which, if he missed this short cut
to fortune, all depended) claimed his undivided
attention — he turned back ito the
town. Many of the shops were shut, not
from the lateness of the hour, but from lack
of their usual customers. And the dim, half-lighted
streets suited well with his thoughtful
humour. In one of them, not a main
thoroughfare, there was a furniture shop, the
contents of which were half displayed upon
the pavement. He paused in that aimless
way which is natural to persons similarly
self-involved, and ran his eye over the various
objects exposed for sale.

In one comer was a little heap of articles
placed by themselves — a small sliding book-holder,
two or three sporting pictures in

o 2

flashy frames, an inkstand and a blotting-pad.


It struck him that he wanted the book-holder,
and he inquired the price of it.

The proprietor, a rough, red-bearded man,
whose eyes shone keen as a ferret's in the
flaring glasses s gas, ran out to him at once,
like a spider who sees a fly in his net.

Well, sir, I don't want to sell it alone,'
he said ; ' the whole lot, you will observe, are
ticketed together at an uncommonly low
figure ; they are just the things to furnish a
young gent's rooms with who wishes to do it
on the cheap.'

And he looked at the young scholar,
whose apparel boasted of neither scarf-pin
nor watch-chain, as though he thought it
probable that he might have a frugal mind.

I am neither a freshman nor a fool, my
man,' returned Adair, by sho means pleased
with the accuracy of the other's diagnosis.
I wouldn't have such pictures at a

gift;

Every man to his taste returned the
shopkeeper, indifferently ; ' they were the
property of a young college gentleman recently
deceased, who held his head up pretty
high, I can tell you. If you're not a freshman,
you must have heard talk enough in
your time of Mr. Perry, of Trinity.'

Oh, those were Mr. Perry's, were
they ? ' said Adair, unable to exclude from
his tone a sudden access of interest.

You knew him. sir. I see. Well, even
as a memento, these little things should have
some attraction for you ; and they're dirt
cheap.'

Adah^ was passing the highly coloured
pictures in review — • The Meet.' ' The Find,'
Full Cry,' &c. Then he took up the
blotting-pad, which was of tartan, uniform
with the inkstand and book-holder, and as he
fluttered the leaves his hand suddenly began
to shake.

All as good as new,' urged the dealer,
The poor young gent was not much of a

reading man, nor yet of a writing man ; a
first-rate oar and a good swimmer — yet he
was drownded.'

I think I'll take the inkstand and the
slider said Adair, ' if, as you say, they will
be cheap.'

And the blotter, too,' said the man ; ^ I
can't spoil the set ; though, as for the pictures,
perhaps I may sell them separate. Let us
say five-ands twenty shillings.'

Very good ; here is my card,' said Adair ;
send them round to my rooms tomorrow
morning ; but as for the blotter — as it happens,
I want a blotter, so I'll just take that
home with me.'

And he tucked the thing under his arm,
where it was hidden in the folds of his college
gown.

Mr. John Adair was not a man to throw
five-and-twenty shillings away for nothing,
though up to this time he had given much
more to Miss Jeannette knee Jenny) Perkins

for next kin to it. He walked away very well
satisfied with his bargain. If it had been a
jewel-case and Trumpington Street a Tiger's
Bay (a favourite haunt of two-legged tigers
in East London) he could not have hugged
it tighter. Mr. Herbert Perry, as the dealer
said, had held his head up pretty high in
Cambridge — m other words, had been a local
celebrity. It was therefore no wonder that,
having found an autograph letter of his in the
blotting-pad, Mr. John Adair should feel a
little triumphant ; his personal acquaintance
(though it had been but slight) with that ill-fated
young gentleman no doubt gave it an
additional interest. Perhaps, in a strictly
legal sense, the letter could be scarcely said
to belong to him, but was the property of the
dead man's literary executors ; but I suppose
no autograph collector was ever hindered
from possessing himself of a MS. by any
delicate scruple of that sort. Again, it might
have been urged that a blotting-book, even

though its proprietor was deceased, was rather
a private matter, and that what was left in it
of personal memoranda should be held as something
sacred. But this consideration could
hardly be expected to weigh much with a
gentleman who had already made free with
his patron's account-book, and still more
recently with his domestic correspondence.
No ; I contend, upon Mr. John Adair's behalf,
that there is neither an autograph collector,
nor a diplomatist, living, who would
not have behaved as he did ; his only doubt in
the matter (as would have happened in their
case) was connected with the document itself.
Was the letter he had discovered genuine ?
It was, in fact, only the fragment of a letter ,
with neither heading nor signature ; and
evidently, from the frequent erasures and
alterations, a rough copy. It was very short,
so that Adair had already made himself
master of its meaning, and, folding it carefully
away, had placed it in his pocket.

What he had read filled liii with amazement.
If it had really been written by Herbert
Perry it was impossible to exaggerate its
probable importance to himself ] and such
was his excitement and impatience that he
was determined to resolve his doubts at once.
He therefore bent his steps to the house in
Green Street where, as he knew, the dead man
had lodged, and rang the bell.

Mrs. Aylett answered it in person. Her
lodger's death had of course left his rooms
upon her hands, and being of economical
habits, she had dismissed her serving-girl, or
^ slavey ' (as such domestics are called in
Cambridge), and superintended all matters of
the house herself. Her face was almost as
lugubrious as when Jeannette had last beheld
it ; but it was not now so much regret for
the dead which touched it with melancholy,
as apprehension on her own account. It was
just possible, after so lamentable an occurrence
had happened under her roof, that she might

have some difficulty in finding another lodger.
Adair, who knew what it was to confront a
problematical future, took in the situation at
a glance.

These are the lodgings, I believe, occupied
by the late Mr. Perry ? '

Yes, sir.'

Are they taken yet for the October term ? '

Why, no, sir, not exactly taken. I have
had several communications about them ;
being central and convenient, they are naturally
much sought after.'

Just so ; I should like to look at them.
It is not for myself, but for a young friend of
mine whose parents have commissioned me
to select rooms for him next term. It is a
little late, I am afraid, to come on such an
errand.'

Not at all, sir, not at all ; pray walk up.
The curtains are drawn, but I will have the
gas lit in a moment. This is the sitting-room'
— she went on, volubly, as she put a

match to the chandelier — ' there is not a more
cheerful one in Cambridge, though I say it
who shouldn't say it.'

It strikes me as a little bare.'

So it does, sir. But a good deal of new
furniture will be coming in. Mr. Perry's
father disposed of all that belonged to the
poor young gentleman to a dealer, which, to
my mind was not a pretty thing to do.'

Nor to mine. 1 hope he left you a
memento or two, however.'

Not a stick, sir ; the least said about
that the better.'

Quite true ; I knew your late lodger
myself, and I fancy his father and he did not
pull very well together. There were debts
and things.'

So there might have been ; but still
one's flesh and blood should go for something.
A father might surely have left something
to his son's landlady.'

The reason seemed a little indirect, but

Adair admitted it with sympathetic fervour.
I am sorry,' he added, ' for both our sakes,
since 1 should have liked to have purchased
some little thing that belonged to poor Perry
if you could have spared it. That's the bedroom,
is it ? Very comfortable, I'm sure ; and
the terms seem reasonable enough. Of course,
I can't say "yes" on behalf of my young
friend, but I will recommend the rooms with
pleasure ; and in case of approval I will let
you know. What is this stuck in the 
? A note of the bumps made on
the river ? '

Yes, sir, a memorandum of poor Mr.
Perry's. You know how wrapped up he was
in boating matters.'

Just so ; it's very characteristic. Perhaps
you would allow me to purchase it.'

^ You can have it with all my heart, sir.
Little he thought, when he jotted down those
few lines, that they would be the last, poor
fellow, he would ever write ; leastways,

except perhaps that letter as was never
found.'

What letter ? '

Well, sir, a letter as he wrote to his
father the very day of his death. It was on
his desk — that I'll swear to ; and Lisa took it
to the post ; at least that's my belief still,
though the o;irl stuck to it as she never
meddled with it. But when I happened to
mention it to his father, the old gentleman
said he never received the letter.'

Could any one else have taken it ? '

Why no, sir ; why should they, except
to post it ? Unless, indeed, it was mere
curiosity, which I should be loth to think of
anybody, though the men as brought the
poor young gentleman home were anything
but well behaved, and spiled the stair carpet
with their wet boots, and wanted gin ad Uhi-
turn because of their sad errand.'

And nobody but those men entered the
room ? '

^ No, sir, nobody ; except, indeed, a
young woman from Canon Aldred's. Miss
Aldred, his sister, had known poor Mr.
Perry, it seems, and sent some flowers. No,
no ; it was Lisa, no doubt. She took the
letter from the desk to put it in the post, and
then dropped it into the kennel, careless
slut ! '

I dare say that was it, Mrs. Aylett.
Here is something in exchange for the memorandum.'


^ Oh, sir, five shillings is too much.'

Not at all. Such things are not to be
estimated by what they will fetch. I wish
you goodnight and a good let!

Thank you, sir, thank you. I wish it
was yourself as was coming to occupy your
poor friend's rooms. I'm sure he will be
pleased up yonder if he is permitted to know
the interest you take in him.'

Adair walked away without reply. Speculations
upon a future state, since they

could never be verified, had generally no interest
for him ; but he did experience a
twinge at those last words of Mrs. Aylett's.
He thought it very unlikely that his purchase
of that memorandum of the ' bumps ' upon
the river would be known to Mr. Perry's
departed spirit ; but if it was known, he felt
that it would by no means afford him satisfaction.


CHAPTER XXIII.

THE EXEAT.'

Adair was a man who had few visitors ; but
as soon as he reached his rooms he ' sported
his oak,' and shut out all possible comers.
The investigation he was about to make was
as delicate as momentous. First, he made sure
that there was nothing more in the blotting-pad
that he had purchased, save the mere
leaves, and also that on them there was no
impress of written words which could throw
any light upon the matter in hand. Then he
compared most carefully the memorandum he
had taken from the dead man's mirror with
the handwriting of the letter found in the
book. Making allowance for the fact that one

was executed with the haste and attention
to telegraphy peculiar to a " rough copy,' and
the other was a list of references, probably
written with some care, he felt confident that
they were by the same hand. As for the contents
of the letter, they were of such importance
to a certain young lady as to account for
her taking any steps to prevent them reaching
the eye of the person for whom it was intended
; and of the step that had been taken
he could make a shrewd o;uess. Although
deficient in imagination, Adair had a logical
mind ; he could follow a chain of reasonings
therefore much more one of facts) link
by link ; and the conclusion he arrived at
was that the letter of which Mrs. Aylett had
spoken (the original of which he now held in
his hand) had been stolen by Jeannette at the
instance of her young mistress. He did not
believe that it was Miss Aldred who had sent
those flowers ; it had been one far nearer to
the dead man than she, though they were sent

VOL. II. H

for anything but sentimental reasons. It had
been all a ruse to get possession of that compromising
letter ; and it had succeeded. Sofar
Sophy's whole proceedings were as plain
to him as if he had been a witness of them.

And those of the dead man were equally
clear. Composition had been a difficult matter
with him ; and it is probable that he had
written more than one copy of so momentous
a communication before he had got it to his
mind. The rest he had no doubt destroyed ;
but this one had escaped his attention and the
search of others. How thankful Miss Sophy
ought to be that it had fallen into such safe
hands as his ! This was the letter : —

'As to your proposition ' (a word poor
Perry had spelt right ^ probably from his loving-acquaintance
with Euclid) ' of my going to
Australia, that is put out of the question,
father, by a circumstance which I am about
to tell you, and which will astonish you very
much. I am a married man. You will at

once exclaim, '^ some barmaid ; " but it is nota
barmaid at all, I do assure you. It is a
young lady of good position, and an Heiress,
She has twenty thousand golden sons. of her
own, or will have when she comes of age,
which will be in less than twelve months.
This is pretty well, I think, for the " disgrace
\o the family." The whole matter is at present
a secret : you will perhaps say, '" that
means a lie ; " but you will only have to lookin
the register of St. Anne's Church when you
are next in the City, and you will find that it is
all right. She is very anxious to keep it quiet
till she attains her majority. I should not
have told you of all this but for your last
letter, which has compelled me to make a clean
breast of it ; and it is quite contrary to my
wife's wishes — think of my having a wife!
how funny it sounds ! — that I do tell you.
She has an uncle on whom she is in some
degree dependent ; and, of course, he will be
awfully riled. It is for you to consider what

is best to be done ; for my part, I shall be
glad when the murder 's out. Under present
circumstances, as you may imagine, it isn't
much of a honeymoon for me. Besides this
uncle, by-the-bye, Sophy (that's her name) has
an aunt ; but she is very fond of her, and,
moreover, has given us such opportunities for
meeting that for her own sake there is little
doubt she will take our side. I think you
will own that I have done pretty well for myself
; and if you could manage to send me
fifty pounds, or even five-and-twenty, which
under present circumstances will of course be
repaid all right, it would be a great convenience.
As to taking my degree, that, of course,
don't matter now one halfpenny ; and I don't
think you'll say any more about Australia,
since I've found the gold diggings at home.'

So they had been married, had they ? '
mused Adair, with a cynical smile, ^ those two
young people.' It was no wonder then that
that dull Adonis had shown so much jealousy

on Miss Sophy's account, and had also been
on so very familiar a footing with her ; that
little excursion in the Roundabout was also
explained, and the young lady's companionship
at such an hour fully justified, for why
should not a wedded pair walk when and
where they pleased ? His own suspicions as
to Miss Sophy's tendency to flirtation were
now shown to be as baseless as they were
injurious, and everything was satisfactorily
cleared up. Yes, upon the whole, as it seemed
to Mr. John Adair, most satisfactorily.

The course which would have suggested
itself to any chivalric, not to say any straightforward
and honourable mind, would have
been to tear this damaging letter up ; and,
since the young lady had contrived to avoid
the disagreeable consequences of indiscretion
thus far, to make her thoroughly secure. But
Adair was not a Bayard. He was a man of
calculation, and as he held the dead man's
blotted manuscript in his hand he seemed, by

the expression of his face, to be weighing it
in some imaginary scale, as though he were
saying to himself, ' Now, what is this worth
to me ? ' There are people, unable, when
the opportunity occurs, to resist the laying a
fellow-creature under an obligation, and who
would have enclosed the letter to the young
person concerned, assuring her of their respect
for her secret and of the pleasure they derived
from placing it in her own hands. This was,
in fact, the idea that now suggested itself to
the young scholar, with this trifling difference,
that instead of sending the original manuscript,
it struck him that it would be the
better plan to send only a copy of it.

But whatever was done he felt must be
done with judgment and mature deliberation,
as being a thing that could not be undone.


For a long time Adair sat before his
writing-table — it was of common deal with
a cloth over it — with his thin chin in his

hands, thinking hard. It was a problem of
a very different kid from those he had been
accustomed to, and the solution was not easy.
In the end, carefully putting away the deadman's
letter, he stepped across the quadrangle
to this tutor's rooms — the truant tutor, Mr.
Prater, who had inconvenienced Mr. Mayors
so much in the matter of Mr. Perry's decease.
The outer door was opeii. and the miner had
a neat little brass knocker, which he gently
raised and tapped with it, as light and sharp
as a woodpecker.

Come in,' said the Tutor, a thin and
rather weakened, but by no means elderly
man, immersed m papers with figures on
them. • Well, Adair, what is it ? ' His
manner was encouraging. but not genial.
Adair was one of the most promising young
men on his • side,' one that would be an
honour to his college in any case, and perhaps
senior wrangler. Mr. Prater was proud of such
a mathematical genius of course, but without

any more personal liking for him than the
proprietor of Chang might have had for his
giant.

I have received news to-night, sir, which
requires my absence for a few days ; a communication
from Haredale College.'

^ I hope you will do nothing with precipitation
in that quarter, Adair,' said the other,
persuasively. ' In a very short time you
will find yourself, I hope, in a very different
position : better able to make your own terms.'

Thank you, sir, I will be very careful ;
but it is necessary that I should have a personal
interview with one of the authorities.
Perhaps you will give me an exeat — say, to
Friday. I shall go by the night train, right
through.'

It is quite unnecessary to be so precise,
Mr. Adair,' observed the Tutor, smiling.
^ You are not like some young gentlemen
upon my side, whose " urgent private affairs "
are sometimes a little problematical. You

have an excellent character to come and go
upon.'

He filled up a printed form, and gave it to
the young man.

Can I do anything more for you ? '
^ Nothing:, sir : I am much obliged.'
Except the Canon (whose regard the
reader may think he had obtained on something
like false pretences) and Jeanne te
(whose good-will had been stimulated by
tips), the Tutor was the only friend the young
man had in the world — a genuine one, it is
true, but whose attachment was untinged
with enthusiasm. In his heart, while pretending
to be indifferent to it, John Adair
resented this isolation, and quite ignored the
fact that with the spade of selfishness he had
himself dug the trench that separated him
from the sympathies of his fellow-creatures.
When a man tells us, 'I am poor. I am unfortunate,'
we pity him ; but when he adds,
^ and I have not a friend in the wide world,'

we know that there is a better (or worse)
reason for that than either his poverty or hi
misfortune.

On returning to his rooms Adair wrote
a few seemingly hurried lines (which were,
however, well conned) to Canon Aldred.
That gentleman was aware that overtures had
been made to him by the authorities of a certain
rising school to become (after he should
have obtained his Fellowship) its mathematical
professor, . and had dissuaded him against
accepting them. He had told him that it
would be putting his light under a bushel,
and be almost tantamount to burying himself
alive. It was not Adair's intention to accept
them, nor had they, I am afraid, been repeated,
as he had led Mr. Prater to conclude ;
his ' urgent private affairs,' though not of
the nature at which that gentleman had slily
hinted, were quite as far from what they were
feigned to be ; but he shrewdly concluded
that this prompt course of conduct would

make the Canon solicitous about his future,
tend to increase his intimacy with him, and
even further certain expectations which had
within the last hour or so taken a more
decided shape. He had now no doubt of the
genuineness of that little scrap of paper as being
the farewell composition of his dead rival ; and
almost none of the truth of what was there
narrated. Still, that naive remark of the
writer, ' The whole matter is at present a
secret ; you tvtII perhaps say *• that means a
lie," ' gave him just a little uneasiness ; and
he was going up to London to take the very
step which Mr. Perry senior had been advised
to do. in order to make certain. Although
circumstances had denied Mr. John Adair
heraldic supporters and a crest, he had a
motto of his own, perhaps suggested by the
doctrine of chances, vdt\\ which he was well
acquainted, * Xo risks.' He made no demonstration
of it ; it was not inscribed on his
banner, like ' Excelsior ! ' nor even on his

(Britannia metal) spoons and forks ; but he
kept it constantly before his eyes and acted on
it. An excellent maxim, too often neglected
by men, and still more so by women ; but
needing, for its completeness, the supplementary
device, ' Honesty is the best policy.'
The latter axiom, from its vulgarity or inconvenience,
Mr. John Adair disregarded, and
took his motto neat.

CHAPTER XXIV.

ON THE BRINK OF CONFESSION.

In the long vacation,' it eras the Canon's
wont to remark, ' we breakfast a little late.'

This was true ; but nevertheless calculated
to give a false impression — namely, that when
it was not the long vacation the Canon breakfasted
early. Like most indolent men, he
was, in fact, a late riser at all times. Miss
Aldred, on the contrary, was up and about
attending to her household affairs almost as
soon as her maids. Sophy followed her
guardian's example, and was always the last
to put in an appearance. For the last few
mornings she had been later than ever ; and,
indeed, now often breakfasted in her own

room. This was the case on the present occasion,
so that the Canon and his sister were
alone.

So Miss Sophy has deserted us again he
said, as he lazily cracked an egg. ^ I can't
think what has come to the young girls of
the present day ; when you were Sophy's age,
Maria, you were as early a bird as you are
now.'

We must make allowance for Sophy
just now, William. She is by no means
well.'

Yet she seemed so much better a few
weeks back,' said the Canon.

That is true ; I don't understand it myself
But it is certain she is now as out of
health, and even more so, than she was awhile
ago, when we called in Dr. Newton.'

Then call him in again. If he did her
good then, why should he not do her good
now ? ' inquired the Canon, with that impatience
of indisposition which a man always

exhibits when he is not himself afflicted with
it, in which case he takes quite another
view.

As Miss Maria kept silence, the Canon
naturally went on to pooh-pooh what he
believed was nothings serious as regarded his
ward, and was certain was an convenience
as regarded himself.

Of course, if the dear girl is not well, she
must be looked to ; but I don't think she
should be permitted to give way to mere fads
and fancies. It would be much better for her,
both now and in the future, if she were to
exert herself a little more ; if she made the
tea, for example, instead of you ; paid the
week's bills, and learnt by experience those
domestic matters which every woman should
know, and every man when he marries expects
(and is in general woefully disappointed) that
she does know. As to Sophy, I am quite
surprised at what you tell me about her, for,
to my mind, she seems in exceptionally high

spirits, which, in view of recent events, I
should hardly have ventured to expect.'


How very unobservant even the cleverest
men are ! ' observed Aunt Maria, with a pitying
smile. ' Is it possible you have not noticed,
William, that those high spirits of which you
speak are a little too high ; that, in fact, they
are forced ? '

'I confess I have not,' was the blunt reply.
I know the difference between fresh asparagus
and forced asparagus ; but when I see a girl
chattering and laughing, and there is no reason
why she shouldn't laugh and chatter, it doesn't
strike me that her emotions are artificial. If
she had been so merry a week or two ago,
when that sad affair of poor Perry's took
place, it might have aroused some suspicion

of that sort ; but now ' and the Canon

finished his sentence by shrugging his
shoulders and throwing out his hands, an
action borrowed from the French, but originally

derived from a frog about to take the
water.

You will be surprised, then, to hear,
William, that on three several occasions,
within as many days, I have come upon Sophy
when she has been plunged in tears ; not only
weeping, but weeping with such force and
passion as I have never seen except in some
supersensitive child like Stevie.'

Poor dear ; why then, of course, we must
send for Dr. Xewton. She's a cup too low,
and wants bracing — probably a tonic'

'Perhaps,' replied Aunt Maria, doubtfully;
but we must also remember that she has been
leading a very different sort of life of late from
that to which she has been accustomed. She
has seen no company, had no excitement, and
has even resolutely declined to go out of
doors.'

That's bad ; people should take plenty of
exercise — that is,' added the Canon, with a
sudden consciousness of the absurdity of this

VOL. II. I

doctrine from a man who never put his foot
to the ground except between Trinity and 'The
Laurels,' ' young people. As to company, it
is not so easy to get it during the long vacation.'


There's Mr. Mayors,' observed Aunt
Maria ; ' why do you never bring him home
with you as you used to do? '

Well, I suppose because we see so much
of one another in College. But what is the
good of asking A?'m, so far as Sophy is concerned
at least ? She thinks him an old fogey
like myself, and he looks upon her probably
as he looks upon an undergraduate upon
somebody else's " side," only a trifle more
ornamental.'

If you think that, William, I can only
say, over again, how very unobservant you
men are. Is it possible you have never remarked
how eager Mr. Mayors is to attract
Sophy's attention, to sit by her, to converse
with her (only the poor man has nothing to

say), and generally to make himself personally
agreeable to her? '

Now, really, my dear Maria, if you have
seen that said the Canon, putting up his
glasses and regarding his sister with gentle
amazement, ' I believe you could see into a
millstone. If you have discovered that Reginald
Mayors — the man who knows more about
Plato than anybody — is in love with a gh4 of
twenty, Xewton (I don't mean the doctor but
Sir Isaac) was nothing to you ; Columbus
was nothing' to you : you are the chief ana
queen of all discoverers.'

• I don't say Mr. Mayors is in love with
Sophy, William — though the fact of her beg
a girl of twenty " would be by no means an
obstacle to such a phenomenon. If you fell in
love yourself it would be with a girl of twenty
if she wasn't seventeen.'

Goodness gracious I ' exclaimed the Canon,
taking out his handkerchief and affecting to
wipe his brow, ' you have certainly "a very

I 2

powerful imagination, though it strikes me as
slightly morbid. You give me the creeps.'

You may laugh at me as much as you
like,' continued Miss Maria, confidently ; 'but
I trust to the evidence of my own eyes, and
they are pretty sharp ones ; and I am quite
sure that Mr. Mayors only requires a little
encouragement to induce him to propose to
your ward. As, of course, she doesn't give it
him, and never will do so, he will probably
never speak ; but you may be well assured
the matter stands as I have stated it.'

Dear me ! Do you think Sophy is aware
of his aspirations, or is it you only who are
endowed with these powers of perception ? '

In love affairs, my dear William, when
the love is, as in this case, on one side, it is
the looker-on who sees most of the game ; yet,
since you ask the question, I am inclined to
believe that Sophy does know that Mr. Mayors
is one of her admirers.'

You don't think she is pining for him,

do you? ' inquired the Canon, drily. ' It is
not that which makes her so out of sorts? '

Of course not. If you turn everything I
say into ridicule, William, it is impossible to
discuss the subject. But I don't think, whatever
is the matter with her, that the doctor
can cure it ; it is more mental than physical ;
besides which, she seems to have the most
steadfast objection to seems the doctor.'

Dear me, how queer ! when ever so little is
the matter with me I fly to Xewton. He gives
me a bread pill, perhaps — always silvered,
though ; I'm particular about that — and, I daresay,
a phial of coloured water ; but it always
does me good.'

Yes, you see, you're a man,' said Aunt
Maria, drily ; ' we women are not so sensible.'


And with that parting shot, the ' little
affair of outposts ' ended. But it had its results.
Aunt Maria's words made a greater
impression on the Canon than he admitted

even to himself. He hung about the house
that morning instead of going to his college
rooms as usual, and, when his sister went out
to market, made a point of waiting for Sophy's
coming down to the drawing-room.

He noticed that she entered it with a pale
face and listless step, and that the one flushed
up and the other changed to a tripping gait,
when she caught sight of him.

What, uncle, you here ! ' she cried : it is
possible but for his previous talk with Aunt
Maria he would have observed nothing unnatural
in her tone ; but, as it was, it reminded
him of that of an actress in a genteel
comedy.

Yes, Sophy, I am here,' he answered,
with tender gravity, ' and mainly upon your
account. Your aunt tells me sad tales of you.
No appetite, no colour, no little jokes such as
you were wont to make ; in short, she says
you're altogether out of sorts. Now, what's
the matter ? '

A question easy enough to put, but often
very difficult to answer.

Nothing that I know of, uncle,' replied
Soj^hy, her cheeks suddenly grown scarlet.
Aunt Maria is so foolishly fond of me that
she exaggerates every Httle ailment.'

In point of fact, then, my dear girl, it is
not that there is nothing the matter nth you,
but that you don't know what is the matter
with you. Xow in such cases there is always
a remedy made and provided ; you must seethe
doctor.'

Indeed, uncle, there is not the least necessity
for that. I hate doctors, and besides,
there is nothing for him to prescribe for.'

What, not when you, who used to be
such a walker, are disinclined for exercise,
don't eat your meat, and have no relish for
society, and take to moping half the day in
your own room? '

But, indeed, uncle, I am very willing to
walk, only it's not very good fun to go outwith

Jeannette, and you know dear Aunt
Maria walks like a walking doll ; she is only
wound up for half a mile or so. Then as to
company, why really,' here she smiled, ' I have
not of late had the chance of plunging into
much dissipation.'

A very proper reproof, my dear ; I'll
engage some nice young man to walk with
you, and ask him to dinner afterwards, then
if you don't get plump and strong the doctor
must be called in.'

So far matters would seem to have been
arranged to their mutual satisfaction, and in
token that it was so the Canon, laying his
hand on her arm, stooped to kiss Sophy's
forehead. As he did so, he perceived, what
had before escaped his notice, that her eyes
were full of tears.

Now some men — husbands especially — are
proof against this feminine weakness ; they
see tears too often, or entertain a shrewd suspicion
that they hold a purpose in them, as

amber holds a fly ; but the Canon, long a
widower, had forgotten these things. The
unaccustomed spectacle filled him with alarm
and pity. ' My dear good gu*l/ he exclaimed,
what can have happened ? If anything has
gone amiss I conjure you to confide in me,
who stand in the place of your dead father ! '

The effect of this speech was amazing
indeed. ' Don't speak to me like that, guardian,
I am not worthy of it,' cried the unhappy
Sophy, throwing herself on her knees
before him. ' I am not good, as you think ;
I am a disobedient, false, fooHsli girl. Don't,
don't speak to me so, for I can't bear it.'

You are not well, my dear ; you are
overwrought and weak.'

Yes, weak and wicked,' she sobbed out
bitterly ; ' an unworthy girl.'

Nay, nay, nay,' said the Canon, soothingly
]^^ not wicked nor unworthy, of that I'm
sure. You will always be our o^ti dear
Sophy.'

I hope so, guardian ; I pray that it maybe
so, yet I fear — I fear — that you may some
day get to despise and loathe me. Oh, tell
me that whatever happens you will not do
that!'

We shall certainly not do that, Sophy.
We shall always love you, and never refuse
you anything in reason, so long as it is for
your own good. Why, who have we got to
love, now that my Kobert is gone, but you?
It is to you we look to comfort us in our old
age, and if we could only see you happily
settled in life — there, there, don't cry, my
darling. Whatever little thing may be the
matter, it will all come right, and I know you
will do your best to please us.'

I will, I will,' she cried, still clinging to
his knees. ^ There is nothing I would not do
to keep your love. Oh, if I only can but
keep it ! '

He raised her up, kissing her tenderly, and
did his best to banish such imaginary and

foolish fears ; and by degrees she became
calmer. But the passion to which she had
been moved was hardly graver though far
more tumultuous than his own emotions.
What sister Maria had told him had received
ample confirmation. He was convinced that
there was something seriously amiss with the
girl, though he attached no practical significance
to her wild and wandering words. One
thing, however, gave him comfort. He had
gathered from what she said that she would
have no objection to follow any course that
he might judge to be beneficial to her ; and he
was quite resolved that she should no longer
shut herself up at home, and live the life of a
recluse. He would make a point of getting
her to meet people ; and while thinking on
that matter it was small wonder that his mind
reverted to John Adair, one of the few persons
of her own age he knew. He did not
think of him seriously as a husband for her,
but he felt it would be better for all parties

(by no means excepting himself) that a gui
so impressionable, and who stood in such
need of ballast, should be mated, and that as
soon as possible, with some one of a different
disposition ; one whom he hoped too, for the
poor man's own sake, whoever he might be,
could stand hysterics, and so on, which did
not suit him (the Canon) by any means.

He had had his supreme moments in life like
the rest of us — such as his examination for his
Fellowship, and the first conception of his new
edition of Milton ; had had his heart wrung
when his wife died, and when he parted from
his only son ; but such an interview as that
which he had just passed through was something
altogether out of his experience. He
was very sorry for Sophy, though he deemed
her grief as imaginary as her apprehensions of
losing the affection of her friends ; but the
most lasting impression left upon his mind
was his own incapacity to deal with her. No
doubt Newton had been right when awhile

ago he had recommended that the girl should
be settled in life, and given other things to
think about, when all these caprices and
megrims would disappear. He would just
look in on Newton as he went into town, and
ask him to keep an eye upon Sophy without
her actually consulting him professionally.
He would ask the doctor to dinner, not alone,
for fear of arousing her suspicions, but with a
few others — Frederic Iron, for example, who
was staying for a week with the Belford.
And in the meantime, there should be always
somebody — Adair or Mayors — to break the
monotony of the evening for her. Adair had
been away since Monday night, much to the
Canon's annoyance ; the chariot wheels of the
Concordance were delayed in consequence, and
besides he missed the young man's society ;
but he was returning to Cambridge that very
day, and should be asked to dine with the
rest.

CHAPTER Xxi.

ENMESHED AGAIN.

In all the sombre records of criminal literature
there is nothing to my mind more interesting
than the following words written in Newgate
prison by a clergyman condemned for murder.
It is now nearly a hundred years ago since
they were penned, but his reflections are as
just as when they were fresh.

How many of my fellow creatures, with
everything to make them otherwise, are miserable
at this moment! It is their hour of
dinner ; the meat is done too little or too
much. The servant has broken something ;
some friend (as the phrase goes) does not
make his appearance, and consequently is not

eye-witness of the unnecessary dishes which
the family pretends to afford, or some friend
drops in unexpectedly, and surprises the family
on short commons.

Ye home-made wretches ! ye ingenious
inventors of ills I • before ye suffer yourselves
to be soured and made miserable for the whole
remainder of the day by some trifle or another,
which does not deserve the name of accident,
look here on me ! Peep through my grate.
Look at my cell. Then go and quarrel with
your wives, your children, or your guests, and
call Almighty God to witness that you of all
men are the most miserable.'

This is a sermon that has lost none of its
force, and Sophy Perry (for such, as we know,
was her true name) could have now preached
it out of her own bitter experience. All that
had gone before in her life, and there had
been much of late of misery and apprehension,
was as nothing compared with the wretchedness
of her present condition; and it was

rendered more poignant by the fact that a
few weeks ago she had thought herself free
from the consequences of her folly. To return
to the case of the poor wretch in the condemned
cell, it was as though he had been
promised, nay, had received, a free pardon,
and now it was annulled, and he was once
more doomed to die upon the morrow. The
words of her dead husband with which he
taunted her at the mill, within a few hours of
his violent end, now rang in her ears.

Suppose this or that should occur when
I was away in Australia, it would be very
awkward, I mean for bijou!

He had said ' awkward ' in his rough way ;
but he might have said ruinous. And yet
it would not have been so ruinous then, as
circumstances stood, as it would be now. For
the first time since her husband's death she
wished that he could be recalled to life.

In her distress and agony of mind, it
seemed amazing to her as it did to the convict

in this cell, that human beings should
worry themselves, and be troubled about ordinary
misfortunes. She envied the kitchen-maid
she met upon the stairs, the very charwoman
that came to help in the scullery —
nay. the very beggar woman that called for
broken meat, and, above all, she envied Henny
H el ford ; Ilcnny, whose lover had come down
from town to see her, and whose existence, in
its atmosphere of truth and love, seemed to be
that of an angel. '" Oh, liar and fool that I
was ! ' was now her bitter crv ; and well mio-ht
she have added, * nay, that I a/??.'

There had been a moment, when she felt
her guardian's loving hand laid upon her
shoulder, and his fatherly lips upon her forehead,
in which she had almost told him all :
but false shame had restrained her. Like some
embezzling clerk, who has an opportunity of
making' a clean breast of it to a kind and considerate
employer, she might have relieved her
mind of its terrible burden, and found pardon

VOL. II. K

and safety ; but she had preferred to go on
concealing her delinquencies by fresh frauds.
She had not only been on her knees, but in
her heart had felt the most genuine penitence
for her duplicity, yet she had suffered that
opportune moment to escape, and deliberately
chosen the same path of secrecy and deception
that had already led her to so sad a pass.
If the Erring would only be persuaded that
every slip and fall should be treated as a wise
merchant treats a bad debt — if they would
confess it and forget it, and start free, instead
of sending their good money after bad — how
much happier would be this world of ours !

It was now three days ago since she had
received a certain letter, with a northern postmark,
to the following effect : —

Dear Miss Gilbert, — My reason for addressing
you you will find in the enclosed
rough draft of a letter, which I have reason to
believe never reached its destination. I came

upon it by accident this morning in a 
bought at second-hand, belonging
to a member of my college, lately deceased ;
and I lose not a moment in sitting you in
possession of it. In all human probability,
no eye but my own has ever seen it. I need
not tell you that I know hoar to keep the
secrets of those I respect ; and when you
have destroyed it, you may regard it as never
having existed. I am detained here upon
business for a few days, but on my return to
Cambridge shall hope to have the pleasure of
seeing you. — Yours most faithfully,

^ John Adair.'

The enclosure was the rough copy of her
husband's letter to his father, which she had
destroyed without reading it, but the original
of which she recognised at once. A
mercenary, coarse communication enough, announcing
his union to her without the pretence
of any gratification in it, save for the

K 2

fortune it conferred upon him, and which his
greedy fingers were evidently eager to clutch.
If she had had any illusion still left concerning
him — the least hope that his love for her
might have been reawakened — this would
have been quite sufficient to dispel them : but
she had had none. His words humiliated her,
but had no power to give her pain. What
shocked her, terrified her, and had dragged
her down from that height of fancied security
to the lowest depth was that other letter,
which ever since its receipt she had carried
about in her bosom, where it lay like an asp
Adair's letter. It was not only that it
showed all her precautions had been useless,
and that the secret she had striven to keep
with such pains and loss of self-respect was
no more her own; but the terms of his communication
were also terrible. Between those
quiet matter-of-fact lines she read — only too
clearly — a fixed intention. He had reminded
her of his ability to keep a secret (with reference,

doubtless, to his having seen her with
Mr. Perry when she was supposed to be at
the ball); and she remembered how unmercifully
he had used his knowledge, or rather
how he had only been restrained from using
it, by her pretence of kindness for him.
Above all, the calculating coolness with which
he had written, ' On my return to Cambridge,
I shall hope to have the pleasure of seeing
you,' appalled her ; for she knew he felt that
she dared not deny herself to him. From
henceforth she would be at this num's beck
and call, as she had been at the other's. She
had thought herself a free woman ; Jut she
had, in fact, only exchanged masters.

And yet she had not dared to tell the
Canon ! A year ago she would have cut the
knot of such a trouble at any sacrifice ; but
the practice of deceit, like that of any other
vice, soon becomes habitual : not only do the
moral objections to it disappear, but it seems
the most natural course to follow. An honest

nature is like a steam-ship which goes straight
to its object ; but when it adopts shifty ways
the fires are put out, and it becomes a sailing-vessel
of the most indifferent kind, the sport
of every wind and tide.

Poor Sophy had, indeed, her comforter,
and one of a more cheery sort than those
whom Job had, in her waiting-maid. Jeannette
did not remind her how she had once
warned her young mistress ' not to boast,'
nor, under pretence of sympathy, did she
expatiate upon her misery, as it is the habit
of her class to do. She took a practical
view.

Well, Miss So23hy ' (she always ignored
the fact of her mistress's marriage even when
they were alone), ' things look bad, no doubt;
but they might be much worse.'

Worse,' murmured the unhappy girl, like
an echo from some tottering ruin ; ' how
could they be worse ? '

Well, ma'am, you might have been so

situated that you must have told the Canon,
or got somebody to marry you offhand to
save your character.'

With a flush and a shiver like one in a
fever, poor Sophy moaned acquiescence. Untoward
fate had certainly shown some mercy
to her in that one particular ; but the stress
Jeannette had placed upon the word 'offhand
' disquieted her. It seemed to suggest
that marriage at some time or another, though
not perhaps immediately, was the only way
out of the difficulty even now.

Don't talk of marriage,' she exclaimed,
with bitterness. ' I will never, never marry
again.'

Never is a long day. Miss Sophy,' said
Jeannette, cheerfully. ' One says the same
when people dies. " We shall never, never
forget them ; " yet, somehow, one gets over
it.'

I hate men,' continued Sophy, fiercely —
a cowardly, fiilse, greedy race.'

They're all that, Miss, no doubt ; yet
life would be dull without 'em.'

I don't mind dulness ; I desire it. Oh,'
she moaned, as if in physical pain, ' oh, for
my last year of life again ! '

Why, bless me. Miss Sophy, one would
think you were on your death-bed ! If you
did have it back you would be sure to do
something foolish ; it's only natural. What's
the good of crying over spilt milk. Wipe it
up, and start afresh. What is it that makes
you so harsh with this Mr. Adair ? He
couldn't help finding Mr. Perry's letter ; and,
having found it, what was the poor young-man
to do ? If he had said he had torn it up
you wouldn't have believed him.'

No, not upon his oath I wouldn't,' was
the energetic reply.

Well, there it is, you see ; hit high, hit
low, he can't please you.' (It was an unfortunate
metaphor under the circumstances ;
but, like a good many other folk. Miss Jeannette

Perkins used quotations as they came to
hand, without much regard to their meaning.)
^ He has sent you the original document,
which, if he had Wished to frighten you with
anything, he could have kept and held over
you. There's many a one as would have
done tliat^ you may depend upon it.'

• I dare say,' sighed the unhappy Sophy.
Her faith in male nature was at its lowest ;
to lier mind all men were tyrants, and all
women, who were not wise and prudent, their
slaves. Still, this last view of the matter did
give her a little comfort. It was really something
in i^dair's favour that he had given up
the compromising MS.

By-the-bye, I do hope, Miss Sophy, as
you have burnt the thing.'

Why should I burn it ? ' she answered,
desperately ; ' what is the use of taking precautions
? What has resulted from them m
my case ? What has come of all my falsehoods
and deceits, and theft — for I have even

stooped to that — why nothing, except exposure.'


As to theft, Miss Sophy returned the
waiting maid, earnestly, ' if you mean the
taking Mr. Perry's letter, that was my work,
not yours, and I am quite ready to bear the
responsibility of it : I didn't like the job at the
time, but there was no actual harm in it. A
dead man's letter, about a matter that can
never take place, can be scarcely considered
property. And as to exposure, you must
permit me to say that you are rather ungrateful
to hint at such a thing ; for nothing of the
kind has happened. A certain gentleman has
by an unfortunate circumstance been admitted
into your confidence, that's all.'

To judge by poor Sophy's face, that
all ' appeared to comprehend a good deal ;
but she only shook her head, and answered
nothing. In her heart of hearts she already
felt herself in the toils. She knew that Adair
had formed an attachment for her, and so far

she did not blame him ; but he had also made
use of means to press his suit which a man of
generous feeling would have disdained to use.
Xow that he had obtained a greater power
over her, was it likely that he would hesitate
to use that ? This, however, was taking the
best view of his character — namely, that
though resolved to have no scruples in attaining
his object, he had really a fondness for
her. On the other hand, he was poor, and
perhaps some report of her being possessed of
a fortune had been her attraction for him from
the first. With that wretched letter of her
late husband's in his mind, it was now impossible
he could be ignorant of her position, and
even if the idea of personal aggrandisement
had not hitherto occurred to him, it would do
so for the future. In any case, she would bethe
easier prize.

Love from its eminence
Torn by harsh evidence,

had assumed tlnH shape to poor Sophy's mind

even thus early ; nor can we say, alas ! that
imagination had played her false.

As to Mr. Adair's writing that he hopes
to have the pleasure of seems you, Miss
Sophy,' continued the waiting-maid, ' what
crime is there ia that ? It is surely a natural
thing enough for any young man to say.'

1 will not see him alone,' cried Sophy,
excitedly. ' Of course, if he comes as a guest
I shall be civil to him, as to any one else. But
I will give him no interview ; I will not see
him alone.'

Certainly not ; why should you ? That
would be indeed making too much of the
matter — he will see that for himself ; of course
he will come if he has an invitation from your
guardian, but, you may take my word for it,
he will not attempt to call.'

CHAPTER Xxii.

THE ABIGAIL.

It is so much the fashion nowadays to paint
men piebald, each one with so much of vice
and so much of virtue, and with about equal
parts of each, that the simple old dividing
lines of good and bad run some risk of being-lost
sight of altogether. Compared with this
plan, I am inclined to think the ancient custom
of separating the sheep from the goats to bo
truer to nature. When a brute occasionally
shows himself human, we are too much inclined
to talk about redeeming qualities,
whereas the redemption is often only so much
of personal insurance as his own prudence
dictates to prevent his being hanged off li and

like a mad dog. It is my fixed conviction
that society at large is quite ignorant of the
utter villainy and heartlessness of some even
of its own ornaments, and that there are a
vast number of people outside Newgate quite
as bad as those who are inside.

But Jeannette Perkins was really piebald ;
or rather, since she was smooth, oleaginous
and fit for domestic use — let us say streaky,
like bacon. She had a kind heart, and even
an honest one, but she had no disinclination
to underhand proceedings; if she had been
the mother of a grown-up family of daughters
she would have been a managing woman, a
match-maker ; as it was, she was an intriguer.
She was loyal, yet not impervious to a bribe.
The news of her ill success with her young
mistress as regards recommending Adair to
her favourable consideration had been conveyed
to him from time to time, though not
without difficulty. She was much too prudent
to commit herself on paper, and it was

by no means easy to get speech with the young
scholar unobserved. The authorities in a
University town, notwithstanding the influence
doubtless exercised by the teaching of
Plato, think it advisable to discourage personal
communication between those In statu
pupillari and domestic servants of the feminine
gender. But Adair and Jeannette, from
whose minds nothing was further than any
idea of flirtation, did, nevertheless, have an
occasional meeting-place in a retired thoroughfare
— in the long vacation almost utterly
deserted — leading to the river. Athens she
had anything to communicate to him, she
repaired thither at a certain appointed hour,
at which he was always there in waiting for
her. They met there on the evening of
Adair's return from Haredale College.

You have news,' he said, directly he
caught sight of her face. Jeannette's countenance,
always expressive, was now full of significance;
but to a close observer there was

anxiety behind it. A physiognomist, who was
not also a sanguine lover, might have had
doubts as to her news being good news.
You have persuaded Miss Sophy to come out
of her shell ? ' he added, eagerly.

Something has persuaded her,' she answered,
gravely. Then he knew that Sophy
had confided in her (about which he had been
by no means certain), and felt himself at
liberty to speak plainly. For the moment,
however, he thought it judicious to ignore
this. ' What a good girl you are ! ' he exclaimed,
with enthusiasm. The word ' good '
is an elastic one ; it is even used in the City to
express solvency : and it was certainly not the
moral qualities of the young woman that
Adair had in his mind when he pronounced
this eulogium.

I have done my best,' she returned, demurely.
' When you have got your foot
inside " The Laurels " your success must
depend upon yourself, remember.'

I shall achieve it.' returned the young
man, confidently ; ' it is always the first step
that is the most difficult, though for sometime,
perhaps, I shall be in need of your helping
hand.'

His tone was not only one of reflection but
one of calculation, or so it seemed to the
girl's suspicious ear.

That is as much as to say,' she replied,
drily, ' that as soon as you have reached the
top of the tree, you Avill kick down the ladder
by which you climbed to it.'

You arc very much mistaken, Jeannette,'
he put in, hastily. ^ You will not have seen
the last of my sovereigns, if you mean that ;
it is always well to have a friend at court
'beside the queen herself: her Majesty may
perhaps, require a little management,' and he
smiled in a manner that to Jeannette' s mind
-was more significant than assuring.

Xow Heaven forgive me,' ran her
thoughts, 'if I am helping my dear mistress

VOL. II. L

out of the frying-jean into the fire. I confess
I don't like that look of his. If he turns
out as bad a bargain as the other it will be the
worse for her, for he has more brains to work
mischief with. However, beggars can't be
choosers. It is not a question of more fish in
the sea ; one must be content with tlm fish,
whether it's a skate or a salmon.'

^ As to success being easy even now, Mr.
Adair,' she returned aloud, ' if I were in your
place I should not be so certain. You know
better than me which way you have hitherto
gone to work ; but I would recommend you
to be careful.'

^ I really don't understand you, my good
girl.'

And perhaps you don't quite understand
my mistress. She is one to be led, and not
drove.'

Drove ? How could I drive her ? One
would think I had the whip-hand of her, as
you have.'

[47

Jeannette shrank back from him with a
frown. His tone was almost menacing. She
did not like that expression of her being
whip-hand ; ' it once more suggested to her
that this man might turn out a tyrant like the
other. Adair imagined that she was annoyed
upon her own account.

I don't mean that you abuse your influence
over your young mistress, Jeannette. but
only that you have great influence.'

It was not gained by bullying her, Mr.
Adair, and by getting at her secrets (though
I know them), and holding them over her
like a whip over a dog.'

I hope not, indeed,' answered the other,
but with a flush on his pale face ; ' that could
scarcely be the pray for a maid to secure the
affections of her mistress.'

And it is still less the way, let me tell
you, Mr. Adair, for a lover to secure the
affections of a young lady. Sooner than put
up with that, if she took my advice, she will

L 2

make any sacrifice. I should like to see the
man, lover or husband, who would bully me ?
I'd throw the teapot over him when the
water was on the bile

Adair dropped his eyelids and stroked his
budding moustache. ' You are altogether
on the wrong tack, Jeanne te,' he answered,
quietly. ' I never attempted to coerce your
young mistress in any way ; you yourself
must acknowledge how studiously I have forborne
to inflict my presence on her since —
ahem ! — since her recent bereavement.'

Yes, yes, you know all about that, of
course, sir ; you've great cards to play ; but
for all that you may lose the game ; and if
you do you'll deserve to lose it. Moreover,
let me say this, while there's yet time. Even
if you do win, you will know what an advantage
you had to start with. You can never
say that you sat down to play on equal terms.
I think she likes you a little, quite as much
as, under the circumstances, you ought to

expect, or, for all I know, deserve. Improve
your position with her, if you can. She's a
dear, sweet girl ; and, no matter what has
come and gone, worth any man's love. But,
even if you win her, don't look for too much ;
whatever steps you take will now be taken
with your eyes open — very wide. You will
have no right at any future time to turn
round on her and say, " You never loved me ;
you married me out of necessity ! " '

I hope I shall never think that,' said
Adair, gently ; ' or, if I did think so, that I
should be too much of a gentleman to say so.
I shall always remember, even if I am so
fortunate as to recommend myself to Miss
Sophy, that I have had a predecessor in her
affections — for before she found out what a
dull clown he was, I can easily imagine that
she may have liked him ; so that there will
be as little chance of illusion on my part as
of pretence of affection on hers.'

I am glad to hear you say so,' was the

girl's quiet reply ; ' and I hope, for both your
sakes, you will keep your word.'

Then there was silence for awhile. Jeannette,
whose passion — raised as much by her
misgivings respecting the part she herself
was taking in the matter as by her distrust of
Adair — had by no means subsided, was wondering
whether it might be judicious or not
to give him a bit more of her mind. Adair,
upon whom her warnings had had no more
effect (except that they angered him) than a
lesson upon economy read to a spendthrift,
was considering his next step — a visit to ' The
Laurels.' He had hitherto studiously avoided
calling there, for a Machiavellian reason of
his own ; he had thought that his abstinence
in that respect would impress Sophy with the
idea that he wished to spare her feelings, and
at the same time remind her that he was cognisant
of her intimate relations with Perry.
By this means, he flattered himself he had at
once exhibited his sagacity and generosity.

One drawback to this ingenious behaviour,
however, was that he had suffered so long a
time to elapse that it was difficult to reopen
communications. He had a vaoaie notion
that it was usual to call at a house where one
has been entertained, but that it ought to be
done the next day, and not, as would now bethe
case, a fortnight afterwards. Such Alas
his embarrassment, and also his high opinion
of Jeannette's intelligence, that he resolved to
lay his difficulties before her.

'' And what reason would you suggest, my
good girl, for my calling at " The Laurels "? '

^ I should have thought you were the last
young gentleman in the world to be in want
of a reason for anything,' returned Jeannette,
naively ; ' but, as it happens, you must not
call at all. My mistress won't see you and
that's flat.'

Not see me ? Why you told me yourself
that she had resolved to come out of her
shell.'

Yes : but you are to remain in yours.
Come when you're asked, but don't force
yourself upon her ; and she will have no
private interview ; on that she's fixed. So
you are not to call.'

But if I'm not to call, and not to be
invited '

But you will be invited. Master has
some friends to dinner tomorrow, and you
will be one of them.'

Adair's eyes grew bright at once.

But will it not be very awkward to meet
Mrs. — I mean Miss Sophy — for the first time,
after what has happened bet wee :i us — that is
the letter I sent to her — in company ? '

It may be very awkward for some, but
not for her ; or, at least, the other way would
be a deal awkward. Xo, that's how it's to
be ; it's the best I can do for you, Mr.
Adair.'

And very well you have done it, Jeannette.'
Here he pressed a couple of coins

into ber hand, which chinked very pleasantly.
It was the first time she had heard it ; for,
like the cymbals, it takes two of them to
make music. ' I am a poor man now, but on
the day I marry your mistress 1 will give you
fifty pounds.'

You are very kind, sir,' said Jeannette,
demurely, as she dropped a curtsey and took
her leave.

As she did so, she wiped her mouth,
mechanically, with the back of her hand.

Lawks ! what a thing habit is,' was her
mental reflection. ' Xow, I suppose nineteen
young gentlemen out of twenty in his position
would have done it, and yet it never so
much as crossed his mind a moment. Xot
that 1 want his kisses — bah ! but it's not to
his credit. He's a cold-blooded one, he is,
that's certain. He " parts " freely — that I
will say — which the other one, though he was
ready enough to kiss, only I wouldn't let him
no, not for nothing, young gentleman —

would never part. Kissing and parting
should always go together. If I could only
think better of the man I should be happier
in my mind. Fifty pounds is a big lump fora
poor girl like me ; but not for five hundred
pounds would I do Miss Sophy so ill a turn
as to help her to a scoundrelly husband. Mr.
Adair would win her, no doubt, without my
help ; for he's masterful enough for anything,
and, moreover, there's no other way out of it
for her. She knows that well enough, though
she pretends not to know it ; but, still, I
could stop it, and if I felt sure he was a bad
lot I looidcl stop it. I'd go straight to the
Canon. But I'm not sure about him, I have
only my doubts.' Here she took out her
purse and dropped the two sovereigns which
she had slipped in her glove into it. Again
the golden music caught her ear. ' After all,'
she mused, ' there's nothing actually against
Mr. Adair ; and if they ain't downright bad
ones, I expect one husband is about the same

as another. If he does turn out a bad one
and alludes Miss Sophy, then — as I had half
a mid to tell him just now — let him lookout
for squalls. I don't mean lier squalls,
poor dear — he'll have to settle with Jenny
Perkins. I am glad I didn't utter that threat,
because now, in case of the worst, he will
think I'm on his side, and not on hers. He
has a great belief in money, and thinks it
will buy everybody, body and soul, but it
will not buy Jenny Perkins — no not millions
of it — to turn against her mistress. I say
again, Mr. John Adair, if you mean mischief,
you had need look out for squalls.'

CHAPTER XXVII.

A LITTLE DINNER PARTY.

The guest of the evening at the Canon's
promised little dinner party was, of course,
Mr. Frederic Iron. He was a visitor — that
is to say, though himself a Fellow of his
college, he had left Cambridge for London, and
he was the betrothed of Henny Helford. An
engaged young man is always an object of
interest to the other sex — even if they are
themselves provided with a husband, or not
in want of one ; which latter case was, of
course. Aunt Maria's. Though he has made
his success with the object of his suit he is
still on his trial with them and they are all
curious to see him, and especially to discover

what she sees in him. Mr. Iron, it is true,
was well known to Aunt Maria, but not in
the capacity of an engaged man. There were,
therefore, many new points of interest about
him. He was of medium height, and only
moderately good-looking, if judged by any
aesthetic standard ; but he had a bright, pleasant
face ; he appeared even younger than he
was, from the absence of whisker on his
cheek, and from the profusion of short curly
hair, without any parting, upon his head.
He had a crisp, alert look, very becoming ina
young solicitor, because suggestive of
promptness as well as sagacity. He had been
prompt enough in securing Henny, but had
too much consideration for her filial feelings

o

to insist on an immediate union, to which her
mother was so strongly opposed ; but there
was something in his keen eye which forbad
the idea that he was a man to be sacrificed to
a mother-in-law beyond reasonable limits.
His tone to Mrs. Helford was studiously

gentle and respectful, but when she attempted
to snub him, as she sometimes did, it became
humorously incisive. To a stranger, such as
Adair, his manner was cordial, yet not such
as could be described as winning. There
was a certain reticence about it commonly
seen only in older men, which seemed to
convey, ' I have no doubt you are an excellent
fellow, but I have no guarantee of it ;
and, therefore, you must consider these friendly
advances as being without prejudice. It maybe
my unpleasant duty some day to indict
you for felony at the Old Bailey.'

With the Canon and Mr. Mayors (upon
whose ' side ' he had been) he was an old
favourite ; but he had on this occasion a certain
novelty even for them. As for Henny,
though he was no novelty for her, it was a
pretty sight to see how he monopolised her
attention. His words (which, indeed, were
well chosen enough) could not have seemed
of more importance to her if she had been

his client, and had had to pay for them.
Sophy, too, like the rest, gave her outward
regards to the young solicitor, as was naturally
expected of her ; but her whole soul was, in
fact, given up, though far from voluntarily,
to the retiring young scholar whom she met
now for the second time only, under her
guardian's roof, with the conventional smile
of welcome. It has been said that young
women regard all marriageable men as possible
husbands, but certainly few ever looked
upon a comparative stranger with that contingency
so plainly before her (though she
did her best to shut her eyes to it) as poor
Sophy. She rarely looked towards him, yet
he was always present to her mental vision ;
if she did look, it seemed, if his slice was
averted, that it had but just been turned elsewhere
; that when she was not looking he
kept his gaze fixed on her, and her alone ;
and if their eyes met, it was to flash asunder
with a laboured and fruitless pretence at indifference

to one another. It fell, of necessity,
to Adair's lot to take her into dinner, since
their elders paired together, and to have
separated the affianced lovers would have
been an oiitrao:e. She sat between him and
Mr. Mayors, just as she had done at the
Canon's rooms on the procession night ; but
with what different feelings! In one short
month how all had altered with her, and how
amazing was the change in her relations with
him ! A reflection which she Alas well aware
must be present to his mind also.

She found it almost impossible to converse
with him in her usual tone ; and he was careful
not to force his talk upon-her. To the
rest it seemed that these young people were
not getting on ' with one another very well ;
but in every word of Adair's, and in his
manner — even in the way in which he passed
the salt to her — she saw, or thought she saw,
a studious demonstration of forbearance which
certainly pleased her. In his whole behaviour,

SO far from conveying a hint of his possessing
any advantage over her, there was a respectful
gentleness, which, to say truth, had been
wanting on the previous occasion. He had
then been somewhat solicitous to assert his
personal independence as well as unwilling tolet
her forget what he knew about her ; but
now he was so modestly silent, that the kindhearted
Canon felt quite distressed for this
protege and drew him into prominence in
spite of himself.

I do hope, Adair,' said he, in a pause
in the conversation, ' that you are quite at
liberty to throw these Haredale people over,
if it suits you to do so. — Don't you think,
Mayors, that it would be very foolish in a
young man of Adair's expectations to commit
himself to a scholastic calling so early ? '

Most people are the best judges of what
they themselves are fit for,' said the Tutor,
indifferently. ' Besides, it depends upon
what aims a man has in life.'

VOL. JI. M

Well, naturally, Adair's aim is to put
money in his pocket ; and also (which, of
course, is the attraction in this case) to do it
as soon as possible.'

Then my advice to Adair,' observed Mr.
Mayors, ' is to marry a rich widow.'

Every one laughed except Henny, who
very properly exclaimed, ^ For shame, Mr.
Mayors ! ' But two of the faces round the
table reddened with anything but mirth.
One has heard in a lifetime of dinners a
good many things lightly said — truths spoken
in jest — over the social board, the memory of
some of which puts one in a cold perspiration
whenever we recall them ; but for two of his
audience Mr. Major's dry cynical remark
(though he did not know it) capped them
all. Finding it well received, he went on
(as a sleep-walker among precipices wanders
on from steep to steeper) to improve
upon it.

But why reprove me, Miss Helford ? I

did not say an old widow. Why shouldn't
she be well jointured, and yet be young? '

As the young scholar only answered these
sallies by an embarrassed smile, the Canon
good-naturedly came to his rescue. ' There
are no widows in Cambridge, however, answering
to that description, eh, my lad ? '

In his passionate annoyance Adair flung
out his hand mechanically under the table,
and, as ill-luck would have it, it met Sophy's
hand. She knew, of course, that the movement
was unintentional ; but if it had been
taken for a mutual confidence, that contact
could hardly have been more significant. It
seemed to establish an understandings with
him, beyond the power of mere words to
effect.

I have always heard,' observed Miss
Aldred, following on the same side as her
brother, ' that it is always dangerous to
marry a widow because of the unpleasant
comparisons which she may make.'

M 2

For my part,' sighed Mrs. Helford, with
her most lachrymose air, ' I cannot imagine
how any woman can marry twice.'

That's a pretty compliment to the male
sex, upon my word,' laughed the Canon.
What do you say, Henny ? Dip " far into
the future, far as human eye can reach," and
give us your opinion,'

I object to that,' said Iron ; ' first on
principle, because no opinion ought to be
given for nothing ; and, secondly, on personal
grounds. These post-nuptial, not to
say post-mortem arrangements '

^ Now, Frederic, don't be horrid,' interrupted
Henny. 'Really, Canon, I am quite
astonished at your permitting such a shocking
conversation.'

It was all Mr. Mayors, my dear
Henny ; he's a tutor of his College, and
now you know what sort of advice he gives
to the young men who are placed under
his sway. I dare say he gave it to Iron,

only be disregarded it, as young men generally
do.'

I am quite in the hands of the company
observed Adair, speaking for the first time.
If any one has a widow to recommend, and
will recommend me, I am sure I should be
very grateful. There's a house at Haredale
College, sir, at my disposal ' (here he turned to
the Canon), ' which is certainly not intended
for a bachelor.'

Don't you take that place if there are
ten houses — a whole terrace,' exclaimed the
Canon, emphatically. ' You will be throwing
yourself away there, Adair. You ought to
embrace the law, or, still better, commerce.'

The widow may still be combined,' murmured
the incorrigible Frederic.

Miss Aldred drew herself up a little
stiffly.

What sort of a place is Haredale College,
Mr. Adair ? ' she inquired.

A huge and not very picturesque establishment

on the north-west coast, Madam.
If you took Addenbrook Hospital and set it
down by the sea without a tree or a shop
within a mile of it, it would look very like
the place. The patients, however — I mean
the pupils — are very numerous.'

^ A society confined to schoolmasters and
boys must be awful,' observed Mr. Mayors.

Yes ; much worse than one comprised
of tutors and young men, I should imagine,'
said the Canon, drily.

That's very hard upon me, Miss Gilbert,
don't you think ? ' said Mr. Mayors, dropping
his voice as he addressed his fair neighbour.


I don't think my guardian could be hard
on anybody, much less on you,' returned
Sophy, in the same low tone. ' You must be
well aware what a great favourite you are
with him.'

I did not know I was a favourite with
anybody.'

Tliut must be your humility, Mr.
Mayors,' was the gracious reply. She didn't
mean anything by it, but her voice was so
gentle — it was poor Sophy's way; just as it
is some women's way to be curt and pert —
that her companion might well have taken it
for tenderness.

'It is a virtue with which few people
credit me,' replied the Tutor (and he never
spoke truer words in his life) ; ' yet there
are occasions like the present ' — here he
heaved a little sigh — ' when I have felt
humble enough.'

This college of yours must be in a very
out-of-the-way part of the world, Adair,'
observed the host. ' How long does it take
you to get there ? '

I went down on Tuesday morning, sir,
and arrived the same day.'

But you didn't go by a very early train,
I think ? ' observed Mr. Iron.

It was one of those unexpected observations

which, without having anything of
importance in them, arouse attention. The
conversation, which had become general, suddenly
ceased.

Not very early. I went by the ten
o'clock express.'

That's very curious,' returned Iron.
I could have made affidavit that I saw you
having lunch in the City at one o'clock last
Tuesday. I have been trying to remember,
ever since I had the pleasure of being introduced
to you this evening, where it was I
had met you before ; and I was convinced, at
last, it was at the Cornish Coffee House.'

I know no more of the coffee-house you
speak of than of Cornwall,' returned Adair,
smiling.

Dear me, how strange ! Then it must
have been your double. He was taking an
American drink. I can see it now, thrown
from glass to glass in the deftest way, mint
julep — at the bar.'

I know it,' exclaimed the Canon, ' It is
alluded to in '• Comus " ' : —

This cordial julep here
That flames and dances in its crystal hounds
With spirits of balm and fragrant syrups mixed.

Amid the mirth produced by this classical
quotation, the ladies withdrew, and the grief
for their loss was immediately mitigated by
tobacco.

Under the influence of that enchanting
weed, and the sense of freedom (for though a
most gallant gentleman, female society always
embarrassed him), Mr. Mayors was wont to
exhibit considerable eloquence, not wholly
disconnected, if he was opposed, with combativeness
; but on this occasion he kept
silence. He had something; to think about,
of which he had never thought seriously
before. Notwithstanding; the disadvantage
of his years, he had come to the conclusion
that Miss Sophy was not entirely indifferent

to him. Without being a wealthy man, he
had a competence sufficient to marry upon,
without waiting for a college living ; and
never had he seen a young lady so attractive
to him as the Canon's ward.

Mr. Iron, on the contrary, was full of
talk ; and, without reverting to his impression
of having met Adair elsewhere, the association
of ideas suggested to him as a topic,
alibis. The subject when well treated possesses
considerable interest ; and he had not
been so long at his new trade as to lose sight
of those salient points which make legal
matters interesting to the outsider. His host,
at all events, was vastly amused ; which is a
great point gained for any guest. It is better
to please the King than all the Royal family.
Adair, too, seemed interested, and threw ina
question or two ; but, in truth, both the
teller and the topic were distasteful to him.
His lips moved, for the most part, without

utterance, and what they privately remarked
was, ^ I wish this meddling fellow had been
drowned, like the other one.'

In the drawing-room Mr. Iron devoted
himself to his fiancee. Alibis became the
very last thing likely to enter into his mind.
Mr. Mayors, missing by half a second the
opportunity of turning Sophy's music for herat
the piano, resigned himself to the society
of his hostess, who, so far from being
piqued at his inattention to her remarks,
pitied him from the bottom of her heart.
Mrs. Helford button-holed the Canon, and,
to his great disgust, began to compare the
disreputable ' darling ' who had spent her
money and half broken her heart to his own
Kobert.

We two. Canon, have each lost the prop
of our lives — you by absence, I by death.
That should always be a bond of sympathy
between us.'

The Canon was not so well acquainted with
the mother's peculiarities as with the history
of her prodigal son ; and the only excuse he
found it possible to make for her was that
she must have exceeded her usual allowance
of wine at dinner. Adair, standing beside
Sophy at the piano, and occasionally leaning
over her when she came to the end of a page,
had no cause to find fault with Fortune.
There is something in music, as even the
most unmusical must allow, that fosters the
gentler emotions ; and there are very few
songs that have not some touch of tenderness
in them — a hint of secret sorrow, or the
veiled expression of a hope. Everything
Sophy sang had a meaning in it for both of
them, beyond what the tune conveyed, or the
intention of the singer ; and once or twice
he ventured to throw in a whispered word or
two of his own, which made still more clear
what needed no interpreter. The performance

concluded with a favourite song of the
Canon's : —

Forget tbce! if to dream by night, and think on thee by day,
If all the worship deep and wild a lover's heart can pay,
If that is to forget thee, then indeed art thou forgot.

And when every one else exclaimed, ' How
charming ! ' or ^ How sweet ! ' Adair murmured
in her burning ears, * How true ! '

CHAPTER XXVIII.

DIFFERENT OPINIONS.

From the moment on which Sophy received
the young scholar's letter, with its all-important
enclosure, or, at all events, from that
in which the interview with her guardian
had been concluded, without her having
had the courage to confess her secret to
him, I think she had a pretty certain conviction
that Adair would become her husband.
It was evidently his intention to
win her, and his force of will, she was
well aware, was infinitely stronger than her
own. She had refused to acknowledge his
victory even to herself, and had fought
against her own apprehensions, but with the
consciousness that she was fighting against

fate. Jeannette, very wisely for the object
she had in view, had not laid so much stress
upon the necessity of the union as upon
its convenience and advantages. Mr. Adair
might not he, perhaps, so passionately in love
with her mistress as another young gentleman
had once been ; but from what had happened
in that case, passion, it would seem, went a
very little way towards ensuring happiness in
married life. A resolute affection fixed upon
its object, but never giving way to vehemence
and impetuosity, might be better calculated
to last. Her money might be some attraction
to him ; but he had certainly shown a fondness
for her before he came to learn that she
had money, or, at all events, had any certain
knowledge of the amount of it. And was it
not better to trust one's money to a young
fellow (even if he has none of his own) with
a turn for figures, and therefore presumably
for getting it and keeping it, than to someone
perhaps a little better provided with this

world's goods, but also (as was likely to bethe
case) with a more decided turn for spending
it ? In a word, though Mr. John Adair
might not be an eligible husband, he could in
no sense, with his habits of diligence and
talents, be termed a ' detrimental.' And in
her heart Sophy had accepted him — or, rather,
accepted her own position — before the date of
the Canon's dinner party.

It was some time afterwards before she
allowed Adair to conclude as much, but her
silence on that occasion (though indeed it
would have been difficult for her to speak
even if she had wished — nay, she did irish,
if she had ventured — to defy him) he had
rightly enough taken for something very like
consent. So far as Sophy was concerned, he
had, in fact, very good reason to congratulate
himself on the result of the evening's entertainment.
His behaviour J he felt sure, had
also recommended him to the Canon and Miss
Aldred ; but he was equally sure that he had

failed in making a good impression upon Mr.
Frederic Iron, and, as a consequence, upon
Miss Henny Helford. This last was a serious
misfortune ; he knew that Henny was Sophy's
bosom friend, and though he had little knowledge
of social life, his natural intelligence informed
him that it was most important to win
her over to his cause. As it happened, things
had ozone so well that he flattered himself he
should have no need of her good offices ; but
he would have liked to have been able to
count on them, and as soon as this detestable
young solicitor had betaken himself off to his
legal web he resolved to do his best to undo
whatever harm he mio^ht have done him,
and to make himself as agreeable to Henny
as possible.

Whether Mr. Adair was correct in his
judgment may be gathered from the various
opinions expressed about him when the little
dinner party lead broken up. In spite of
Burns's dictum the o^ift of seeing ourselves

VOL TT. N

as others see us is not so very rare ; it is
not common, I admit ; perhaps least common
among the class whom we call self-conscious.
Their egotism causes them to give too great
weight to their actions, and therefore to the
impression produced by them. But your
social reprobate, who is anxious not to betaken
for what he is, is very keen to perceive
what sort of reflection he makes in the minds
of others ; which is the true reason why goodmen.
are disliked by bad men.

The more I see of that young fellow
Adair the more I like him, Maria,' observed
the Canon to his sister, when Sophy had
wished them good-night and they were left
alone in the drawing-room.

It IS quite unnecessary to tell me that,
my dear William,' was that lady's quiet reply.
Every one can see that he is a great favourite
of yours ; and if he didn't highly estimate
your good-will, and reciprocate it, he would
be a very ungrateful young man.'

*I don't know that he owes anything very
particular to me, my dear. I've asked him to
dinner twice — which, considering how very
temperate he is in his drinking, cannot have
placed upon his shoulders any great weight of
obligation, say a pound sterling.'

What nonsense you talk, brother ! Think
of your position — a man of European reputation,
and a Canon of your cathedral ! '

'It isn't my cathedral, Maria,' he answered,
quietly ; ' and I hope you are not going to do
such an injustice to your intelligence as to
take a Canon for a very important personage.
It is only a question of time ; in twenty years,
if I am not much mistaken, that young fellow
will make a better position for himself — at all
events, as - far as money goes — than mine.
Let him once get his foot on the commercial
ladder, and he is bound to climb to the top
of it. I never knew so young a man with so
clear a head, and with such a talent at once
for calculation and for business ; and then his

N 2

habits are so regular ; his tutor speaks of him
in the highest terms.'

I don't think Mr. Mayors likes him.'
Mayors is not his tutor, and knows nothing
about him. Moreover, though a most
excellent fellow, Mayors has made a groove
for himself, just as a hare squats in her form,
and nothing; ever startles him out of it.
He has an absolute antipathy to young
people

Anne Maria smiled in such a very superior
way that the Canon could hardly ignore it.

What, you think it is only young men
that he despises, and not young women ?
You still think he is pining for Sophy ? '

I am quite sure he has fallen in love
with her. I had very little doubt of it, as
I told you ; but this behaviour last night convinced
me.'

Well, it struck uie that after dinner he
devoted himself rather conspicuously to you.,
my dear.'

^ The unfortunate man couldn't help it.
Mr. Adair was too quick for him in offering
his services to Sophy at the piano. But his
ears and eyes were given to her, not me.'

What on earth could she do with them ? '
exclaimed the Canon, comically ; 'or even his
hand, if he was to offer her that ? '

You will soon have an opportunity for
judging ; mark my words, he'll propose for
her within the month.'

If he does it at all, I think he is right to
be prompt,' observed the Canon, drily. 'Asa
bridegroom, flavors has no time to lose.'

In my opinion Sophy might do worse,'
observed Aunt Maria, gravely.

Doubtless ; but, unlike Mayors, she has
plenty of time before her : and she may do
Bitter. Of course there may be cases to the
contrary ; but, on the whole, I am against
much disparity of age in marriage, even
where the disadvantage is with the man.
Why, in ten years' time, Mayors, for example,

will be an old man and Sopliy a young
woman.'

I disagree with you there ; a woman
ages with so much greater rapidity than a
man. When two young people marry, in ten
years the husband is still, as it were, seaworthy,
while the wife is a wreck.'

Still if there is anything good in him he
does not desert her ; he stands by the wreck.
The memory of the years they have lived
together, of their mutual joys and sorrows,
hallows her for him.'

She sometimes becomes so sacred that he
never goes near her,' returned Aunt Maria,
grimly. ' She is a shrine resorted to on special
occasions — birthdays and the like — but he
seeks his everyday society elsewhere.'

You are painting a very selfish, ungrateful
man, Maria,' said the Canon, gravely.

^ Most men are selfish, William ; many
are ungrateful. I know very well of whom
you are thinking ; one, to do you justice, of

wlioiri yon seldom think ; you are thinking
of yourself. It is true you have nothing to
reproach yourself with as regards your married
life. The best of husbands.'

Xo, no, no,' said the Canon, vehemently.
It was not so. Don't speak of it.' He
moved to the other side of the room to conceal
his agitation ; she had never before seen
him so moved.

One must judge from one's own experience,
Maria,' he said, presently.

Old age and youth cannot live together;
One is fall of pleasure, one is full of pain.

There was really only a few hours, as
one gathers from Milton, between Adam's age
and Eve's.'

What did Milton know about it? ' said
Aunt Maria, scornfully.

Good heavens ! AVho else should
know? '

A man who had three wives ! ' ejaculated
the lady.

That only makes his knowledge about
matrimony more to be relied upon,' urged the
Canon. ' He wrote in the highest term of
your sex, my dear. '' My late espoused
saint," he calls one of his wives. What
charms he must have seen in her ! '

The gentleman was blind and the lady
was dead,' observed Aunt Maria, cynically.
^ You are too good for this world, my dear
William, too trustful, and, for all your wisdom,
as simple as a child. If you are really
thinking: of Mr. Adair as a husband for
Sophy, I confess I don't approve your
choice.'

• Such a thing never entered into my
head,' exclaimed the Canon, stoutly ; ' that is
ahem — except as a mere remote contingency.'


^ Then I saw it through a telescope,
William, for there it is.' There was silence
between them for a moment or two. ' The
women are witches,' was the thought that

flashed through the Canon's bran and
coloured his cheeks.

And why don't you like Mr. John
Adair ? ' he inquired presently with hesitation.
' Is it because he is poor, or that he is
not an Adonis ? '

I didn't say I didn't like him, William ;
I only observed that I didn't approve of your
choice of him as Sophy's husband. If Sophy
chooses him for herself I shall have nothing;
to say against him, except that she might
have done better. But don't throw him at
her head.'

Throw him at her head! ' ejaculated the
Canon.

I mean, don't let her see (as / have
seen) that it is your wish she should take
him. She will marry early, no doubt ; and,
as we have been told on good authority, so
much the better. But give others a fair
chance.'

Others ! I can see without a telescope

whom you have got in your head, my dear
Maria. " Mayors on the Brain " is a capital
name for a scientific treatise, but, as regards
the patient, it is, in my opinion, a sign of
monomania.'

To which Aunt Maria deigned no other
reply than that female shibboleth, ' We shall
see.'

The three guests from next door had also
their opinion to offer as regarded Mr. John
Adair. Mrs. Helford described him as a very
well-behaved young man, ' a young man who
could never say anything which could bring a
blush to a lady's cheek ' (a palpable hit at
Henny's Frederic, and his allusions to the
possible combinations of a widow with other
callings) ; ' a young man who did not monopolise
conversation, modest but evidently
very sensible.' She even hinted, not obscurely,
to Henny in private, that he was the
sort of young man who, had she been in her
position, she would have been very willing to

see become her suitor, as not being of so
masterful a disposition as some young men
she could have mentioned (had not delicacy
of feeling forbidden it), and as more likely to
make home happy. She concluded by stating
that she thought Mr. Adair ' a decided
acquisition,' and had asked him to call at ' The
Laburnums.'

I tell you what will happen,' said
Frederic, when he found himself alone with
his intended, after judgment upon the young
scholar had been thus pronounced by her
mother, 'you will have a step-father before
you get a husband.'

Oh, Frederic, how can you be so
silly?'

It is not I who am so silly, my darling ;
in my opinion such a contingency is quite on
the cards. He has been recommended to
look out for a widow, and has evidently recommended
himself to one. That young
man will be my papa.'

In spite of the consciousness that such
remarks were highly disrespectful, Henny
could not help laughing outright at them.
It was the one thing to be deplored in her
dear Frederic that he wa j must a little wanting
in reverence sometimes, and so exceedingly
amusing that he caused others to share his
crime.

Thank Heaven, she has only a limited
income,' continued the joker, gravely, ' and
will therefore afford less temptation.'

Jut, seriously, my dear Fred,' and
Henny looked serious enough as she put the
question, ' do you think Mr. Adair is a designing
person? '

I don't say designing, because that maybe
actionable, my love ; but I will confine myself
to agreeing with the Canon, that he has
marvellous powers of calculation. He
doesn't know much," that excellent gentleman
also informed me, "but what he does
know he knows thoroughly ; " and here is one

xMvust of which I am sure he has a most keen
perception — namely, on which side his bread
is buttered.'

You must not be hard upon him, Fred,'
pleaded the girl ; ' remember, he has no means,
and is without social position.'

Born of poor but dishonest parents,'
quoted Fred, cynically.

Nobody says that,' she answered, gravely;
and even if it were true it would not be his
fault. I believe you are prejudiced against
him just because mamma has such a strong
feeling in his favour.'

That didn't prejudice me against you
my darling,' he answered, tenderly. ' However,
I confess I don't like the man. I don't
want to be uncharitable. There are some
cases where the temptation to tell a lie is very
great, and I don't know how strong it may
have been in this case ; but, as a general rule,
I don't like liars, and this man told me a deliberate
falsehood.'

A falsehood, Frederic ? What about ? '

He said he did not lunch at the Cornish
Coffee-House last Tuesday. Now, I saw horn
there with my own eyes as distinctly as I see
you now.'

But, surely, it might have been a case of
mistaken identity.'

No, Henny, no ; there is not another
man like Mr. Adair — so keen-eyed, and
hatchet-faced, and dark. Cruikshank's picture
of Simon Renard resembled him. But
still I should know him from Simon Renard.
No; he had some reason for concealing the
fact that he was in the City last Tuesday.
Let us hope it was a good one ; but there
he was.'

I heard all that passed,' said Henny,
earnestly ; ' though, it is true, I paid no
particular attention to the matter; and the
impression on my mind was that Mr. Adair
was telling the simple truth. When you
remarked that he could not have started early

for the North, he answered, " Xo, not very
early; I went by the ten o'clock express."
That struck me, considering that it was obvious
that you were disproving his statement,
as a most temperate and convincing reply.'

^ Quite true, my darling ; the remark does
great credit to your intelligence. But the
better the reply, supposing it was untrue, the
worse for the young man's character, since it
shows he is a cool hand — used to deception.'


^ But what possible reason could he have
for deceit ? What obj action could any one at
the table have to his beg in the City, even if
he was there, instead of in the train, on Tuesday
morning? '

Ah ! that is beyond me ; but if I had
him in the Witness-box, and had retained
Badger against him, with instructions
to cross-examine, it would not be beyond
Badger.'

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE tutor's proposal.

The little dinner party at the Canon's had all
the effect that he had intended it to produce,
and more. It not only brought Sophy ^ out
of her shell,' but Mr. Mayors out of his. He.
called at ' The Laurels ' no less than three
times within the next fortnight, on the transparent
pretext of wishing to see the Canon
(known to be glued to the Concordance in his
college rooms), and though he didn't say anything
particular to Sophy or anybody else,
looked (as Miss Aldred privately assured her
brother) ' volumes.' Nor, although he showed
no unseemly haste to make sure of the victory
he had gained, did Mr. John Adair let the

grass ofrow under bis feet. He left his card
the day after the entertainment (which a book
on etiquette had informed him was the proper
course to pursue), and did not come in. It
seemed sufficient for him to have satisfied
himself that the two ladies were in good
health. But on the following Monday, when
Mr. Frederic Iron bad left for London, he
dropped in after luncheon time. He found
both Aunt Maria and Sophy rather melancholy
about little Stevie, who was very delicate, and
had again succumbed to some malady ; the
circumstance rather gratified him than otherwise,
since he was able to adopt a graver tone
than he could otherwise have well put on,
while it afforded a topic for the younger lady to
converse with him upon without embarrassment.
He felt that this was an important point
gained, and was not at all disappointed that
for the present he was not given an opportunity
of seeing her alone. Without ever
having read the story of ' Beauty and the

VOL. II. o

Beast he recognised the advantage of gradual
familiarity with an object of apprehension.
He did not conceal from himself for a moment
that Sophy was secretly afraid of him. Even
with the power that his knowledge of her
secret gave him, he understood his task was
to be no easy one ; that he had to raise not
only a dead weight of indifference, but to remove
a certain sense of oppression which his
previous conduct had produced. Jeannette's
warning words had in this matter been very
seasonable, and he had laid them to heart.
From henceforth he dropped no syllable to
Sophy that could have suggested mastery, or
that she was in any way under his thumb.
By this judicious course of treatment, joined
to a manner of great but respectful tenderness,
Adair succeeded in inducing in her a feeling of
acquiescence; she began to contemplate the
prospect of becoming his wife without a
shudder, and even flattered herself that it was
not a case of compulsion.

A circumstance took place in a few weeks
which shook ' the low beginnings ' of this
pleasant faith to its foundations.

By this time Adair was a constant, nay,
almost a daily, visitor at ' The Laurels ; ' he
had become so much at home there that
Miss Aldred, whom he treated with studied
deference, began to look upon him less asher
brother's protege than as a friend of the
family.

The continued illness of their little neighbour
had been a source of great anxiety to the
kind old lady, and put marriage and giving
in marriage so out of her mind that she had
almost forgotten to think of the young man
as a possible suitor for Sophy's hand.

On a certain afternoon that young lady
had seen from her window Adair coming
towards the house as usual, and when the
door-bell rang, had gone down to receive
him in the drawing-room. It had become a
thing of course for her to do so, wl en, as was

o2

generally the case at that hour, Aunt Maria
was not at home. She was exceedingly
surprised therefore, when, instead of Mr.
Adair, the butler announced Mr. Mayors.
He wore a graver look than usual, and for
the moment it struck her that something was
amiss with the Canon, which the Tutor had
come to tell her.

You have no bad news, I hope, Mr.
Mayors,' she said, with a little flutter at her
heart.

I hope not,' he answered, smiling. ' Is
it so very strange. Miss Sophy, that I should
pay you a visit ? '

^ It is not a favour we are accustomed
to very frequently,' she answered, smiling.
^ You are like an order of merit, Mr. Mayors,
of which we are very proud, but which is not
put on save upon high days and holidays.'

And then only worn on the outside,'
observed the Tutor, significantly.

Nay, next the heart-said Sophy, laughing

; ' at least she added, quickly perceiving
by the other's face that her compliment had
been taken au series, and gone further than
she had intended, ' I believe orders arc worn
on the left hand, are they not ? '

Here the countenance of the Tutor, which
had been lit up with evident pleasure, became
grave again even to depression. As a man
who knew everything except botany, he could
doubtless have told her on which side medals
were worn, but that point remained unsolved.

I have ventured to come here. Miss
Sophy,' he said, with some hesitation, and ina
much lower tone than Alas his wont, ' at an
hour when I had reason to believe you would
be found alone, to say a few words upon my
own account.'

She bowed, but remained silent ; it
would not have been easy for her to speak,
even had she been so minded. It was not,
as we know, the first time, nor, to say
truth, the seconding the third, that Miss

Sophy Gilbert had seen a man at her feet ;
but this man, her instinct told her, was of a
very different kind from those she had been
accustomed to see in that position. There
was a difference in years, but to that, strange
to say, she was for the moment oblivious ;
the distinction which she recognised was one
of character.

You have hitherto known me, Miss
Sophy, only as your guardian's friend ; it
is quite possible that you have never thought
of me as an independent entity at all, or if at
all, as a mere fogey — a college don.'

That is a subject,' said Sophy, quietly,
but with a tremor in her tone that betrayed
not a little emotion, for his unwonted modesty,
or rather the feeling: which she well knew
dictated it, had touched her — ' that is a subject
upon which I am quite unqualified to
speak. I am as ignorant as those who would,
perhaps, apply to you the epithets you mention
; but I am not so stupid as to think

with them. My guardian has, however, often
told me that you are a very learned and distinguished
gentleman, and I believe him.'

Mr. Mayors waved his hand as though he
would have put that by as nothing.

^ The knowledge which I may possess,' he
said, contemptuously, but in a tone, nevertheless,
which implied a consciousness of possessing:
it, ' avails me nothings on the errand on
which I am come to-day. My reputation,
such as it is, is, I feel, since it presupposes
mature years, by no means a recommendation
to me ; and yet I am not so very old as the
judgment of youth, like your own, may have
decided. I don't look quite a patriarch, I
hope. Miss Sophy ? ' he added, with a forced
smile.

Indeed, Mr. Mayors, you do not.'

Nor did he. It was not only that the
grey beard and white head was wanting ; but
the look with which he regarded her, though
benevolent enough, was by no means patriarchal.

If A ant Maria had seen it, indeed,
lie would certainly have plumed herself upon
her sagacity, and exclaimed, ' Now, didn't I
say he was in love with her?' And Miss
Sophy was at least as good a judge of the
tender passion as the more mature lady.
Perhaps she had corroborated his disclaimer
with too much alacrity, for once more that
look of pleasure and of hope came into his
eyes ; but she felt a sincere pity for this
honest gentleman — a pity, too, that was akin
to tenderness, if not to love. And it was
not in her nature to conceal her feelings :
except upon compulsion, she was always
frank.

^My life hitherto,' he went on, has been
passed in pursuits with which it is impossible
that a young woman can sympathise ; but,
unlike most men similarly placed, I am not
wedded to them. I could give them up without
regret : and I think I am not too old to
assimilate myself to new conditions. The

very way in which I express myself is, I
am well aware, unsuitable to the subject on
which I would speak. I throw myself upon
your charity to excuse all that ; to make
allowance also for many other things. I
am a very humble suitor, Miss Sophy, buta
genuine one. My heart is sound but not
hard, I hope ; yet you are the first woman
that has ever made an impression on it. For
that reason, perhaps, your image has struck
the deeper into it. I have hitherto lived for
myself alone. When I am in your presence
the very thought of self vanishes ; it seems tome
that the highest happiness would be to
live with you.'

Though the Tutor's style was somewhat
high-flown, and, as he himself had said, unequitable
to a declaration of love, it was not
unsuitable to him ; on the contrary, it became
him, while his manner had the earnestness
and simplicity of a child. It was plain he
was deeply moved. Nor was Sophy's demeanour

by any means stoical. She felt for
him with all her heart — and she felt for
herself too. Young as she was, she had
learnt by bitter experience how short-lived
is passion without esteem ; and while conscious
of her own unworthiness, she felt that
this man esteemed her. The time of day-dreams
and illusions had for her been prematurely
cut short. She no longer yearned
for love; she wanted affection, quiet, and
.safety. This man would, she felt, be kind and
loyal to her at all times : a man of honour,
and a true gentleman — not of the conventional
kind. Such an alliance would, without
doubt, have the approval of her guardian and
Aunt Maria ; it would bring her once more
into the fold of their affection, from which she
had only not been driven forth because she
had deceived them. Such a prospect might
not be dazzling, but it offered repose, comfort,
and even happiness. Something in her eyes
(it was a tear) betrayed her thoughts, and

filled her companion with high expectation.


Is it possible, dear Sophy,' he exclaimed,
with trembling joy, ' that, in spite of all
that is to be said against me, you are not
altogether indifferent to me ? '

He had made a movement towards her,
but she stretched out her hand, with the palm
downwards, to prevent it.

^ That I am not indifferent to you, Mr.
Mayors, unless respect, esteem, and even
affectionate regard be indifference, is quite
true, but I can never marry you.'

You think that now,' he pleaded. * I have
taken you too much by surprise ; you are
astonished at my presumption, no doubt ;
and no wonder.'

No, no,' she answered, earnestly ; ' there
is no presumption. The unworthiness is on
my side, not on yours. But — do not argue
it — do not press it — (for she saw that he was
about to speak). I am engaged to another.'

Engaged ! Engaged to be married ? '
Yes. It was not my intention to make
it known — that is, yet awhile. But you have
a right to know it. I have promised Mr.
Adair to marry him.'

Mr. Mayors did not, I think, dislike young
men so much as he pretended to do ; if he
did, he often took a strange way of shoving
it — by assisting them when it was necessary,
not only by his advice and influence, but by
his purse ; but there was one young man
whoDi at that moment he certainly did dislike
with genuine vehemence. His instinct
seemed to tell him that the young scholar
could never be the man of this girl's choice :
that Sophy should love him appeared an impossibility.
He could as easily have imagined
her becoming enamoured of the square root
of minus one : it was incredible. But not
only did he feel Adair to be unfit for her ; he
was also very unfavourably impressed with
the young man's character. He suspected

he had learnt the length of the Canon's foot,
and was taking advantage of that formation.
He thought him an adventurer, a schemer.
And his own sophy — or rather the Sophy he
would have made his own if she would have
permitted it — was going to marry this charlatan
of the fisher mathematics !

Is this quite fixed, Miss Gilbert ? ' he
asked, in low despondent tones. ' Can
nothing alter it ? '

Nothing.' She sighed heavily, as though
she would have added, ' I sincerely regret to
say.' But when he looked up with quick
inquiring gaze, as if to ask what that sigh
meant, she repeated with decision, ' Nothing.'

'I am very, very sorry,' he murmured,
softly.

And so am I,' she answered ; * that is,'
she put in quickly, ' sorry, if you feel it so
much, for your disappointment. There is
no woman in the world who might not be
proud of an offer from such a one as you. Mr.

Mayors ; and I am very proud, very sensible
of the honour you would have conferred
upon me. We shall always be friends, I
know.'

Friends ! Oh, yes, it can never be otherwise,'
he replied, pathetically. ^ My heart will
be in your keeping always, though you will
not know it. Friends ! Well, I hope you
may never want a friend ; but if you do — a
friend in need — if I am alive you will know
where to find one. Good-bye, Miss Sophy ;
pray, pray do not suffer yourself to be so
moved upon my account' — for the girl was
crying bitterly. ' If I had thought it would
have distressed you so, I would never have
spoken.'

'- 1 believe it,' she murmured, and held out
her little hand, which he raised reverently to
his lips. Then without once looking back at
her, he left the room and let himself out at
the front door. Two Trinity men met him in
Trumpington Street on his way home, and

raised their caps. For once in his Use, he
took no notice of their salutation.

^ How old Mayors is getting to look ! ' said
one of these young gentlemen.

In any case forty-five would have seemed
an age to him ; but his observation was correct
enough. Mr. Mayors was getting to
look old ; but the change, as it sometimes
does, had taken place very suddenly with him
within, indeed, the last twenty minutes. If
he could have seen what was taking place at
^ The Laurels ' he would have looked older still.

Sophy, locked in her own room, had
thrown herself upon her little bed in a
paroxysm of tears. She did not, indeed, feel
desolate and forlorn as he did. Her heart
was not in his keeping, as he had described
his own to be in hers ; their respective feelings
were in each case the reverse of what
from their relative ages they might have been
expected to be. SojDhy felt that she had lost

a man who loved her, and would have made
her happy — one whom she would have willingly,
nay, thankfully, have married, had she
dared. Her cruel fate had reserved her for
another, in whom, alas! however she strove
to persuade herself to the contrary, she had
no such confidence. She was like one who
walks with open eyes, but spellbound, into
a pitfall.

CHAPTER

LITTLE PITCHERS HAVE LONG Ears.

When Sophy had seen Adah' comme up
towards the gate of ' The Laurels,' she naturally
took it for granted that he was comme in ;
but the fact was he had caught sight of Mr.
Mayors going up the gravel sweep to make
his call, and though Adair little guessed his
errand, he felt no inclination to follow in his
wake. * Two are company, three are none,'
is a proverb pretty generally accepted ; but
when one of the party is a tutor of his
college, and another a scholar of the same,
the truth of the saying is borne in upon the
scholar with particular significance. Adair,
however, was always averse to lose any of

VOL. II. p

this valuable time ; and, finding himself in
the neighbourhood, he thought it a good
opportunity to call at ' The Laburnums ' to
inquire after little Stevie. The visitation of
the sick, juvenile or otherwise, was not much
in his line, nor could he, by the utmost
stretch of charity, be said to be fond of children
; but he had no objection to a character
for philanthropy if it was to be got cheap,
while it was of especial importance to him to
conciliate the Belford. He knew he would
have a prejudice to remove in the case of at
least one of the inmates of ' The Laburnums,'
and though he was not a man to shrink from
anything unpleasant where to face it was
essential to his interests, this knowledge had
deterred him from making any advances
hitherto ; to-day, however, circumstances lead
put the thing in his way, Moreover, he had
brought a bouquet, nominally for Miss
Aldred, but in reality intended for Sophy,
and a third destination for it now suggested
itself to ]]im ; he would pretend that he had

brought it to adorn the sick room of the little
invalid. Though, as we have said, by no
means close-fisted when it was his interest to
be otherwise, Mr. John Adair had a frugal
mind, and made even a bouquet go as far as
possible. Still the bouquet — very large — was
a little embarrassing ; he didn't dare leave it
in the hall, lest some officious hand should
stick it m a glass vase and appropriate it for
general ornamentation ; nor could he, when
introduced into the drawing-room hold it in
his hand like a floral emblem when paying
his good mornings to the ladies ; he therefore
kept it in his hat, from which it protruded as
from a flower pot ^ and gave the undesired
impression that he was about to perform a
conjuring trick for their amusement.

The servant tells me, Mrs. Helford,' he
observed with emotion, ^ that your dear little
grandson is better. I should hardly have
ventured to intrude my presence on you if it
were not for that assuring intelligencer

2

^ Yes, lie is better, thank you,' returned
the widow, graciously ; ' my daughter was
just telling me that he has sunk into a
refreshing sleep.'

I suppose,' said Adair, emboldened by
this information (which seemed to secure him
from all consequences of so rash a suggestion),
' that the dear little soul does not care
to see strangers ? '

On the contrary, he likes new faces,'
replied the widow. ^ Now that he is getting
better, nothing pleases him better
than to hold receptions in his apartment. I
am sure my daughter, who is mistress of
the ceremonies, will be happy to introduce
you.'

are you fond of children, Mr. Adair?'
inquired Henny, naively.

Indeed, I hope so. Latter says, you
know, '' Avoid that man who dislikes the
laugh of a child." '

Our poor Stevie,' said Henny, ' has not

been laughing much, I am sorry to say, just
lately.'

Adair felt that his little quotation had
somehow missed fire. His chagrin, however,
enabled him all the better to adopt a tone
more befitting the seriousness of the occasion.


True — too true,' he sighed. ' None buta
mother, or at least a grandmother, or an
aunt, can understand these matters — I mean
what it is to miss the smile from a child's
lips, and to see the print of pain there in its
stead.'

Yes, yes,' said Mrs. Helford, ' I am sure
you feel for us. It was only because you
thought you would be in the way during our
trouble, as I was telling my daughter only
yesterday, that you did not call.'

They have been discussing me, then,'
said Adair to himself, and, as it seemed, not
altogether favourably, since he had needed a
defender.

^ That, indeed, was the sole reason, Mrs.
Helford. I had not forgotten your kind invitation,
you may be sure Then he turned
to Henny.

Mr. Iron has left Cambridge, I understand.
I had hoped to have had the pleasure
of seeing him before he left, but somehow we
didn't meet.'

As Iron had arranged their visits to the
Canon's rooms with the express intention of
avoiding Adair, the truthful Henny could
hardly say that her Frederic reciprocated this
friendly feeling.

^ His time was very short,' she answered.

Pere, as conversation languished, the
visitor thought it a good opportunity for
producing his bouquet.

What beautiful flowers,' exclaimed Henny;
but you don't mean to say they are for us ? '

It is not every young man, I am sure,'
cried the widow, parenthetically, ' who thinks
of paying us such graceful attention,' and she

cast a side glance at her daughter, which
seemed to say, ' I know a young solicitor in
whose practice the matter of bouquets is
altogether wanting.'

Oh, it is nothing worth speaking of,'
murmured Adair; 'but since there was illness

in the house, I thought a few flowers '

here he stammered and hesitated ; he felt that
he had introduced the thing in terms that
suggested a sanitary precaution, or an antidote.
But it is the thought which is so charming,'
said Mrs. Helford, who had already produced
a vase, and was taking the flowers out
of their fastenings.

As she had thus appropriated them as an
ornament for her drawing-room, Adair could
hardly explain that they were meant for other
purposes ; while, at the same time, he felt the
absurdity of bringing the widow such a
present, and how it would be set down by his
enemies as an attempt to secure her good
gi-aces.

As for Henny, she was half amused and
half ashamed, having, probably, a prevision of
the fun that Mr. Frederic Iron would make
of it when he came to hear of what had
happened.

It was clear to Adair that though he had
pleased the widow he lead failed in his more
important object of making a good impression
upon her daughter. What had seemed a few
minutes ago to be such a happy thought had
turned out, in short, rather a ludicrous fiasco.

We are very quiet people, you know,
Mr. Adair,' pursued the hostess, ' and don't
give dinner parties ; but perhaps you will
come to tea with us some evening, and we
will try and get some clever people like yourself
— perhaps Mr. Mayors — to meet you.'

Adair stammered his thanks. He was
overwhelmed, not only with the charming
prospect of this entertainment, but by the consciousness
that Miss Helford was agitated by
inward mirth.

What a muddle-headed old woman this
was, and what a fool he was, himself, to have
blundered into her good graces in so absurd a
fashion ! His senses seemed absolutely deserting
him ; he forgot altogether the little scheme
of conciliation that he had concocted, and was
only bent upon getting out of the house without
further disaster.

Mrs. Helford began to talk to him of the
coming examinations (which, even with the
ladies, in a university town, is a topic of conversation,
if not of interest). ' "We all know
who is going to be senior wrangler this year.
Do we not ? ' she observed, archly.

^ Indeed ! ' he said. He had some idea it
was some sort of riddle this dreadful old
person was asking. ' I am sure I can't
guess.'

Now, I like that,' she said. She seemed,
indeed, to like whatever he said ; for which
he didn't feel at all inclined to thank her.
Modesty,' here again she glowered significantly

at Henny, 'is so rare among young
men of the present day, and when it doesn't
exist, there can be, to my mind, no true
merit.'

By the pained look which passed over
his younger companion's face, Adair felt that
he was getting another knock-down blow.
Had this girl, then, such a prejudice against
him that she even wanted him to fail in the
mathematical tripos! So far as Sophy was
concerned, he was, as we are aware, b}^ this
time secure. But there was no knowing what
effect antagonistic forces from without might
still have upon his engagement. He had only
the Canon upon his side— and Jeannette — for
certain ; Miss Aldred was but a doubtful
ally. That Henny was hostile to him he now
felt sure. When he thought how he had gone
out of his way to win her good word, and
all for nothing, he felt almost out of his
mind with vexation. Hardly knowing what
he was about, he snatched up his hat and

muttered something about reading and his
private tutor.

Quite right,' observed Mrs. Helford, approvingly,
' never neglect sour studies. You
must not forget your promise to take tea with
us ; tea stimulates the intellectual faculties,
or I wouldn't ask you.'

He looked so distressed and worried when
he took his leave that Henny felt real pity for
him : as the drawing-room bell remained
unanswered, she even went out into the little
hall with him. Here, then, was an opportunity
for saying something pleasant and
plausible to her out of hearing of that marplot,
her mother. But to Adair the chance
had come too late, and he was unable to
collect his faculties. As he stood on the
doorstep, with her hand lightly held in his,
he could think of nothing else to say than
How is little Stevie? '

Anything more ludicrous than such an
inquiry, considering the supposed object of

his call, and the whole previous conversation,
it would be difficult to imagine ; but the fact
was he had forgotten everything except his
failure.

^ Stevie ! ' she said, withdrawing her hand
from his with some abruptness ; ' why, I
thought you came on purpose to inquire
about him ? '

So I did,' he said ; and, indeed, so he
had done. Then, with some presence of mind
induced by the urgency of the occasion, he
added, ' The fact is, my dear Miss Helford, I
am reading very hard. I can hardly recollect
anything, except my problems, two minutes
together.'

It Yv^as really a fine stroke of ingenuity,
and so far it deserved to succeed. Unhappily
for Mr. Adair, problems in Henny's mind
did not hold so important a place as they
mio;ht have done : if kindness and unselfishness
had been ' subjects ' in the Senate House
she would have taken honours, but even the

highest mathematics were in her opinion mere
simple addition as compared with little Stevie's
state of health.

You must be reading hard, indeed,' she
answered coldly ; ' I think a little too hard,
Mr. Adair — — Good morning.'

She did not actually tip him down the
steps, but the door closed uncommonly close
behind him. This was fortunate, for it prevented
her from hearing an ejaculation which
the extremity of the young man's chagrin
forced from his lips ; and which, if it did not
actually express the situation, was not wanting
in vehemence. It would have been
pardonable enough, considering the weakness
of human nature, if Henny Helford had gone
back to her mother with a revised version of
this incident, and the pertinent inquiry,
^ What do you think of your precious 'protege
now'' But it was a curious characteristic of
hers, whenever she felt indignation against a
fellow creature, to lock it in her own heart.

not to nurse it and keep it warm, but to prevent
t]]e fire spreading and doing the offending
person an injury. Instead of returning
to the drawing-room therefore (which was the
way to temptation), she went straight upstairs
to the child's sick-room, where it was
impossible ' to let angry passions rise.'

Little Stevie had awakened from his sleep,
and was sitting up in bed, with a sliding table
before him, engaged in destroying Sebastopol
with cannon ; he was still very weak, and
could only direct an ineffectual and languid
fire (of dried peas) upon the fortifications.
The mimic performance bade fair to rival the
original in duration ; but, for all that, it was
plain that the invalid had made progress.
He was an original little fellow, with everything
in miniature about him except his eyes,
which were larger than a grown man's, and
had about ten times the ordinary amount of
expression in them.

Where have you been, Henny, dear? '

Down in the drawing-room, love.'

What did you go there for and leave me? '

inquired this despot.

^ Yell, you were asleep, my darling, and I

have been helping grand mamma to entertain

visitors.'

What visitors ? '
Mr. Adah-.'

Why do you call him visitors ? He's
not Mr. Adair.'

Quite right, Stevie. I ought to have
said a visitor.'

Assuaged by this tribute to his superior
sagacity and knowledge of the English lane
Stevie ceased to be severe. He aimed
a shot at the Mamelon, missed it, and, smoking
back upon his pillow, exchanged warfare
for the tender emotions.

Dearest Henny, do you love Mr. Adair ? '
he inquired.

Xo, Stevie, certainly not. Why do you
ask such an extraordinary question ? '

But you love Freddy, don't you ? '

I hope so,' said Henny, blushing even in
the presence of so tiny an auditor.

When Freddy was staying in Cambridge,
he used to come and call ; and now Mr. Adair
comes and calls,' said Stevie, with the air of
one who entrenches himself in a strong
logical position.

^ But Mr. Adair came to call on grand-mamma.'


What did he do that for ? ' demanded
Stevie, naively. ' She's not pretty.'

^ What has that to do with it, Stevie ? —
though, indeed, she is very nice-looking for
her age. You love her dearly, I am sure,
though she does not happen to be young.'

^ Oh, Mr. Adair loves lie)\ does he ! I
see.'

This ridiculous statement, associating
itself as it did with Frederic's fun about her-having
the young scholar for a father-in-law,
almost upset Henny's gravity.

You don't understand these matters, my
dear she answered. ' Mr. Adan^ came here
out of politeness, and also, as he said' (she
could not help putting a little stress on the
'said), 'to inquire after our little invalid.
That's you, you know.'

What is it ? ' inquired Stevie, with
awakening interest. ' Xo more soldiers, I
hope ; I'm sick of soldiers. Is it a picture-book,
a barking dog, or a windmill that goes
round and round and round ? '

Mr. Adair did not bring any toy for you,
Stevie ; you must not always think of getting
presents from everybody.'

I don't believe Mr. Adair came to call
on grand mamma,' said Stevie, resolutely. 'J
don't believe he came to inquire after me.
I am not contradicting you, Henny — I know
it's rude to contradict — because you can't be
sure of what he came for. You can only
have guessed at it ; now my guess is different.'


VOL. II. Q

To this ultimatum, as argument with
Stevie was impossible, and, moreover, forbidden
by the doctor, Henny made no reply ;
but busied herself in putting the bed to
rights and making the child comfortable.

A woman may marry two husbands,'
observed the irrepressible one presently.
Mrs. Carver ' (the charwoman) ' told me she
had had two, and asked me to make the third,
only I wouldn't.'

What has that to do with Mr. Adair,
you silly child ? '

Well, perhaps Mr. Adair and Fred both
want to marry you.'

Mrs. Carver's first husband must have
died before she married her second,' explained
Henny, preferring to discuss the general
question rather than the case in point.

'I see ; then, if I am right, Mr. Adair
wishes Fred was dead.'

My dear Stevie, you are talking great
nonsense, and, what is worse, very wicked
nonsense. Let me tell you once and for all —

for you chatter so to Mrs. Carver and everybody
you come across, that there is no knowing
what mischief you may make — that there
is no question of Mr. Adair being in love
with anybody. He has made a call, it is
true, but he does not call on me as Fred used
to do. I don't receive him alone, but only
when o;randmamma is at home. That makes
all the difference.'

I see, I've got it all now,' said Stevie.
I understand what Mrs. Carver was driving
at the other day when she was talking to
nurse, and thought I was fast asleep. If you
had received Mr. Adair " times and times " (as
Mrs. Carver said) when grand mamma was
known to be out of doors, that would show
that you were m love with him.'

I don't know about that, Stevie,' said
Henny, smiling in spite of herself ; ' but it
would show that I ought to be, and I suppose
that I should be engaged to marry him
instead of Frederic'

Q 2

^ Very , well, then, I'll tell you a secret,
Henny,' said Stevie, beckoning her close, so
as to whisper in her ear, ' I don't know, as
you say, whether she's in love with him or
not, but Sophy is engaged to be married to
Mr. Adair.'

CHAPTER XXXI.

CONSENT.

Within a few minutes of her reception of
Stevie's news, yet not before Adair had paid
a flying visit to ' The Laurels ' — in which,
without saying a word of Mr. Mayor's offer,
Sophy had suggested that the time was ripe
for speaking to the Canon — Henny was in
Sophy's boudoir. She could hardly give
credence to her own ears, though, strange to
say, the possibility of the child's being mistaken
had never even crossed her mind. His
intuition and apprehension of the slightest
hint were marvellous ; and, though the means
through which he had obtained his information
were humble, Henny well understood
that it was not on that account to be mistrusted.

Mrs. Carver's services were often
engaged by Miss Aldred, and from members
of that lady's establishment she might well
have learnt matters that were unknown to its
head. The knowledge which servants possess
of what is ' going on ' above stairs is only too
comprehensive ; they may be assured of many
things that have never taken place, but they
do know what has happened.

^ My dearest Sophy,' said hinny, gravely,
is this true which a little bird has told me '
(she did not say what a very callow bird it
was) ' about you and Mr. Adair ? '

Yes, dear.'

The answer was distinct and decisive
enough, but there was no joy in its assurance.
How very different was its tone, as Henny
could not but reflect, from that in which she
herself had announced to her friend her own
engagement to Mr. Iron !

^ Then I suppose, my darling, I may congratulate
you,' said Henny. ^ I only hesitate

to do so she said, conscious of some shortcoming
in her tone, ' because you may not
like my knowing of it. Oh, Sophy, why
didn't you tell me ? '

Mr. Adair — I mean John — wished it to
be kept secret a little longer ' (this was scarcely
true ; it was Sophy herself who had counselled
delay) ; ' but I don't mind your knowing
it, darling. There is nothing covert — or, or —
underhand about the matter.'

^ Underhand ! I should think not. I'm sure
my Sophy would do nothing of that kind.'

Sophy smiled and shivered.

Mr. Adair is such a favourite of the
Canon's that it is certain to please him,'
continued Henny. ' What a clever husband
you will have, Sophy I At one time I used
to be quite afraid of Frederic for that very
reason. Those lines of the '* In Memoriam "
used always to be confining into my head —

He reads the secret of the star,

He threads the labyrinth of the mid ;

and, of course, Mr. Adair knows more about
the stars than even Frederic. But what
does it matter, as I have found out, how clever
men may be as compared with us poor women,
if they only really love us ? '

^ No, I suppose it doesn't matter much,'
murmured Sophy.

It doesn't matter at all, my dear. No
man wants a fool for a wife, of course.
Though she may not understand half he
understands, she must understand him and
be able to sympathise with him. But as for
knowing Greek, and Algebra, and things,
Frederic tells me (and I believe him) that
he loves me all the better because I know
nothing about them. He says such women
are admirable on platforms and most useful
on boards ; but for domestic life he prefers a
little ignoramus like myself. Not that I am
comparing my small wits with yours, dear,'
said Henny, with a sudden flush. ' They are
not to be mentioned in the same breath, I

know. Only Mr. Adair is such a very great
mathematician that I thought you might be a
Httle afraid of him.'

Again Sophy smiled and shivered. Henny
had inadvertently struck a very tender chord,
though it was not of Mr. Adair's mathematics
that her friend stood in fear.

And when is it to be, my darling ? '
inquired Henny, after a little pause.

Xot till Mr. Adair has taken his degree.'


I suppose not, indeed. Why that means
that it may be within six months. Dear me,'
sighed Henny, ' how nice it must be to be
rich ! That saying about the course of truelove
never running smooth does not apply to
such as you. It is not only that you have
only to wish to have your desire gratified,
but, "Hey, Presto!" it is done upon the
instant. Oh, Sophy, you ought to be a very
happy girl.'

Ought I ? ' answered Sophy, wearily.

^ Then if I am not so, I suppose it is because
I never am what I ought to be.'

^ But you are happy, are you not, dearest ? '
inquired Henny, with affectionate earnestness.

Oh, yes ; at all events quite as happy as
I deserve to be.'

^ If that is really so, I should be well
satisfied,' said Henny, still more tenderly.
But, Sophy, is it not rather soon — I don't
mean your marriage, but your engagement.
That is ' — here she hesitated.

^ You mean rather soon after the other,'
put in Sophy, gravely.

Oh, no, I didn't mean that,' said Henny,
turning crimson. ^ I was sure all along that
there was nothing serious — it was only that
you tried to persuade yourself that there was
in the former matter. I should not have
dreamt of alluding to such a thing. When I
said soon I meant quickly. You have known
Mr. Adair such a very little time, you see.'

^ That's true, quite true,' assented Sophy,

slowly. ' Yet I think I know liitn pretty
well.'

Henny was silent. Her friend's manner,
joined to the opinion she had formed for herself
of this new suitor, alarmed her ; she
knew by experience that expostulation was
of little use with Sophy, and to hint her
doubts of Mr. Adair, since things had gone
so far, could only do harm and no good.

One cannot expect, you know,' continued
Sophy, with a smile, ' that all young-men
can come up to the standard of your
Frederic'

Of course not,' said Henny, naively.

Mr. Adair, I am well aware, is not so
handsome as Mr. Iron is ; he has not such
a lively wit, and therefore does not shine to
such advantage in society. But my guardian
thinks he has some solid qualities, and such
as are calculated to make him a good husband.'


Henny Helford stared at her friend in

silence. To her it would have appeared
strange enough if any girl had spoken to her
of the qualifications of her future husband ina
similar strain, but that Sophy, the most
impulsive of all girls she had ever known,
should take so cold and practical a view of
the matter — as though she had accepted this
man upon the faith of the Canon's recommendation
rather than from any convictions of
her own — was simply amazing.

However, it was clear that the thing was
settled, and beyond criticism : nothing remained,
therefore, but to make the best of it.

In answer to other inquiries, Sophy informed
her that Mr. Adair's intentions with
respect to an educational calling had been
definitely given up. His plan was to endeavour
to obtain some situation in London, in
an actuary's office or elsewhere, where his
peculiar gifts might be utilised.

His marriage will be a great waste, of
course,' observed Sophy, calmly, ' considering

that he would be quite certain of his Fellowship.'


And this again Henny thought was not
only a strange thing for an expectant bride
to say, but also one quite out of accord with
her friend's character. A great change had
certainly taken place in it, or she had utterly
misjudged it from the first. The real truth
did not strike her ; namely, that some of these
ideas — especially the last one — were not her
own.

And when is your guardian to be informed
of your engagement, my darling, since
at present, as I understand, he is in ignorance
of it?'

Well, as it happens, Mr. Adair is going
to speak with him this very day.'

I am glad of that. I mean I am glad
that it is not to be kept a secret from him,'
said Henny. ^ You feel sure of his consent, I
suppose ? '

Quite sure,' said Sophy. Her tone was
quiet, almost to coldness, but very decisive.

Except some rather conventional congratulations
and some most earnest and genuine
wishes for her friend's future happiness, there
was really nothing more for Henny to say.

Sophy had good grounds for her conviction
that the Canon would offer no opposition.
Adair had laid his plans with too great skill
to fear anything of the kind ; but he omitted
no precaution to ensure success. Nothing
could be more modest and apparently diffident
than the terms in which he made confession
of having fallen in love with the Canon's
ward. He acknowledged that his having
done so was an act open to censure ; he could
even imagine — considering the disparity of
means between himself and Miss Gilbert
that it might be considered a breach
of hospitality. If that was the view entertained
by his patron, sooner than lose his
good opinion he was prepared — though at a

sacrifice of happiness which no one could
estimate but himself — to give up all pretensions
to the young lady's hand. He confessed
that he had reason to believe that his affection
was reciprocated, but notwithstanding that,
and supposing, in case of the Canon's objecting
to the match, that she preferred to obey
the voice of authority rather than that of love,
he would then bow to her decision and never
trouble her with importunity or appeal.

Perhaps it was not altogether unnecessary
that Adair adopted a course so judicious and
conciliatory, for, though the Canon had
already pictured to himself the young man
as Sophy's suitor, the idea had been almost
confined to the regions of imagination : when
it had escaped from them and been put into
formal shape, as in his conversation with his
sister, its reception had not been favourable,
and it had seemed less satisfactory to himself ;
and, now that it started up suddenly before
him full grown, like Minerva, it gave him a

considerable shock. It is all very well for a
kind, thoughtful man, independent of conventionality,
to advance (in fancy) humble
merit to high places ; but when humble merit
advances itself without assistance, and then
demands his sanction to the transaction, he
is sometimes apt to think the step a little
audacious.

If, as I gather from what you say,
Adair,' was the Canon's grave reply, you
have already spoken to my ward upon this
subject, I confess I think you have done
wrong. It was to me, and not to her, that
you should have addressed yourself.'

There was a pause which Adair purposely
prolonged, though he had, in truth, long prepared
his reply. Then he answered, humbly,

^ As to that, sir, I have not a word of
excuse to offer. I might plead, perhaps, some
extenuating circumstances ; but I do not do
so. I was wrong.'

This was a sagacious reply ; for what it

implied was that Adair had only so addressed
himself upon receiving such encouragement
as few young men could be expected to withstand
; but as for putting in that plea, not
even wild horses should have torn it from
him. The Canon, with Sophy's behaviour to
Herbert Perry in his mind, fell into this trap
at once. He was vexed and bit his lip ; but
where such complete submission was made,
contention was impossible.

Your communication has taken me very
much by surprise,' he said : ' I cannot say
that it gives me — ahem — unmixed satisfaction.'


It would be, indeed, surprising if it did,
sir,' was Adair's rejoinder. ' I am well aware
that what I have said must seem presumptuous,
indeed, even audacious.'

^ Nay, nay,' put in the Canon, touched by
his young favourite's humility. ' I don't say
that. The absence of Fortune and Family is,
of course, a serious drawback ; but Blood and

VOL. II. R

Money are not everything. As to the latter,
you have the material within yon, if I am not
much mistaken, by which nowadays fortunes
are made ; and I believe you to be a man of
sterling merit. My ward has some money
of her own, which will be always hers ; no
one else can touch it. So far her fortune is
secured. And you are not a man to sit with
your hands before you and live on your wife's
income.'

I should be ashamed, indeed, to do that,
sir. It is very difficult for a person in my
position to excuse without accusing himself ;
but I should like you to feel that Miss
Gilbert's fortune has formed no part of her
attraction for me.'

^ I am glad to hear it, and I believe it,'
said the Canon, earnestly. ' In case of your
engagement being a short one — and, upon the
whole, I should prefer a short engagement —
you will be giving up something not inconsiderable,
yourself. You will only gain your

Fellowship, in fact, to lose it ; that is 250/. a
year or so.'

I hope I shall be able to make 250/. a
year, sir, by my own exertions,' answered
Adair, with a smile of confidence.

Xo doubt, no doubt ; still, as a matter
of fact, you would give up that much.'

The Canon was not replying to his young
friend so much as to certain other persons
not present, to whom he felt it would be
necessary to advance ' extenuating circumstances
; ' not only to take this young man's
side, but to present the view of the matter as
been from his standpoint.

So far as the mere money is concerned,'
he went on, ' you may be considered as the
working partner, who, though he brings no
capital to the concern, contributes the brains.'

This was a dangerous metaphor, because
it suggested that Adair, under certain circumstances,
might have the use of the capital ;
but the Canon was unaware of the significance

E 2

of his own speech, and though it struck
Adair, he took no notice of it.

^ Of course, there will be a great deal of
consideration — yes — and consultation,' he resumed
; 'and even if I take my ward's wishes
in this matter for granted, Mr. Adair, I can
say nothing for certain respecting this proposal
at present.'

Indeed, sir, I feel very grateful that you
should take the matter into consideration at
all,' returned the young man, gravely. ' It
is quite as much as I could have dared to
hope for. But as to consulting others, I trust
entirely, next to Miss Gilbert's regard for me,
to your own view of my character ; it may be
much too kind a one — indeed, I feel it to be
so ; but the truth is, sir, I have not the
qualities that win popularity, and elsewhere
I can scarcely look for favour. Poverty and
friendlessness are passports to your good-will ;
that is not, however, the case with the world
at large, sir, but far otherwise.*

You shall have fair play, Adair, you
may be sure of that,' said the Canon, assuringly.
' I shall not be persuaded to do
you the least injustice.'

There was another prolonged pause.
Adair, convinced that he had obtained his
end, was unwilling to break ground in any
direction. The more, too, he left his companion
to his own reflections, the more likely
he felt he would be to regard the matter as a
fait accompli.

In case this marriage should take place,'
continued the Canon, thoughtfully, ' I suppose
you young people would be rather in a
hurry. I have myself said that I am averse
to any long engagement, but there must be
nothing to distract the mind, such as a honeymoon,
before the Tripos. You must take
your degree, you know, since your position
in the examinations will form your future
credentials.'

I quite understand that, sir,' returned

the young man, quietly. ' Moreover, I should
like to win my spurs — to distinguish myself
in the only way that for the present lies in
my power — for — for — Sophy's sake.'

That is well said,' observed the Canon,
gently.

There is another reason also, which you
may he sure, sir, would prevent any precipitation
in this matter,' continued Adair,
earnestly. ' I should not dream of deserting
my colours as regards the Concordance. That
must be finished before everything.'

To a worldly wise man this argumentum
ad hominem would have been too transparent ;
but the Canon, who had the intelligence of
twenty ordinary men, was deficient in mere
sharpness. His nature (where he liked people)
was confiding in the extreme ; and to
suspect them of self-interest, especially when
their actions suggested self-sacrifice, would
have seemed to him a baseness.

Thank you, Adair,' he said. ^ It is not

every man who, under such circumstances,
would have given a thought to another's
convenience. I should certainly like to see
our work complete before you enter into .that
state ' (here he smiled, as he always did when
a pleasantry was impending) ' which I hope,
for both your sakes, will be a complete
Concordance.'

It was a bold stroke of Mr. John Adair's ;
but it succeeded, and gave the coup-disgrace
to any lingering objections which may still
have existed in his companion's mind. ' A
man who had such consideration for the
interests of his friend ' (for the Canon never
thought of himself as a patron) ' would surely,'
was his reflection, ' make a tender and unselfish
husband. It would be a great thing
to have settled Sophy in life, and mated with
a man who possessed the one thing she
wanted — ballast. It was also very satisfactory
to feel that the Concordance was
provided for.'

Though the Canon had thus made up his
mind, it was not free from quaint as respected
the opposition which his consent to
Adair's offer was likely to meet with. He
expected some epigrammatic disapprobation
from Mr. Mayors, and a word or two of quiet
but decided condemnation from his sister.
But in this, as it turned out, he was agreeably
disappointed. Sophy herself, it was true, did
not exhibit much enthusiasm when he informed
her that her lover's prayer was
granted. She was very far from being unmoved,
but her feelings seemed to take a
retrospective direction.

She threw herself upon her guardian's
neck, and poured out her very heart m gratitude
for his long continued kindness to her.
It would have seemed to a less unegotistic
nature that she grieved more at parting from
so true and tried a friend than she rejoiced
at the happiness that was awaiting her.
There \A^as no doubt, however, of her having

plighted faith with the young scholar ; and,
on the whole, the Canon was not displeased
that she displayed no raptures at the prospect
before her. Such subdued bliss, he philosophically
concluded, was more likely to last.

Mr. Mayors received the intelligence without
one word of criticism or comment. It
was not, as his friend was well aware, an
example of silence giving consent ; but it was
something that he forbore to speak his mind.
He seemed to be quite prepared for the news
and to bow to the inevitable. All he said
was, ' I hope with all my heart that Miss
Sophy may be happy.'

Miss Aldred exhibited considerably more
surprise, but also abstained from any expression
of opinion.

You know, William,' she observed,
gravely, ' where I wished her choice to fall ;
but since she has made her own election, I
have not a word to say against it.'

Her private thoughts were, however, a

little different. Though she had no suspicion
of the actual state of the case, she had misgivings
that matters had gone further between
Sophy and the late Mr. Herbert Perry than
they had appeared to have done ; and the
transference of that young lady's affections to
Mr. John Adair seemed to her to be indecorously
rapid. ' I am afraid,' she sighed to
herself, ' that our poor Sophy has not much
heart.'

Unhappily, she was mistaken ; whatever
her faults, Sophy had a very tender one ; and
it is those who have tender hearts who give
the real hostages to Fortune, and, tied to her
stake like some poor beast for baiting, have to
endure her sharpest scourge.

CHAPTER XXXII.

AFTER FIVE YEARS.

A POET, who got a pension for it (and not
unreservedly), once described the changes
wrought in human life by ten years. In a
lustrum even — five years — there is often
change enough (as may well happen ^\hen
the events of half an hour may divert the
whole current of our being). Within that
space the boy becomes a man, the girl a
matron, the man of middle life joins the
seniors, the senior totters on the verge of the
tomb. In five years the shortest term of
penal servitude expires, and one becomes
once again a fi'ee man ; in five years, with
exceptional good fortune, a marrying man

may have four honeymoon (I know one who
had three during that period, and spent them
all in the Isle of Wight). In five years about
one-fifth of the human race leaves this world
for good, or at all events, for good and
all. Within this period, now supposed to
have passed, the personages of our little drama
have partaken of the common lot. The
Canon, though as bright and hale as ever, is
grown grey. Miss Aldred wears a 'pince nez
on her dear nose. Mr. Mayors is very much
aged, which the Canon affects to resent extremely.
He says it is not fair to him, since
those who consult the Cambridge calendar,
and find the Tutor and he are contemporaries,
draw the false deduction that he himself must
be getting on in years. He feels, on the
contrary, more youthful than ever, since
Robert is coming home from India.

Since we saw him last, indeed, he has had
little to age him. None of those body blows
which Fate so often administers to us just

as we are growing weak and unfit for combat
with her, and which, as it were, ' double us
up,' so that we walk with a stoop for the
brief remainder of our days. Kay, the blindfold
lady has shown him favour. The Aldred
edition of stilton has been, if not a financial
success, • very well received by the critics,'
and the Concordance has even paid its own
expenses. What can a man of letters (who
is not a literary man by profession, his one
eye bent on fame and the other on the main
chance) look for more? The Canon is more
than satisfied. He has large-paper copies of
each work with imcut edges. The Milton is
dedicated to his old college chum. Reginald
Mayors. The Concordance contains a handsome
acknowledgment of the invaluable
assistance rendered to him by ' his young
friend John Adair, scholar of Trinity and
second wrangler of his year.'

Adair, though he had always Xo. 1 in his
view, was obliged to yield that place in the

Tripos to another, and thereby disappointed
one genuine friend and a great many backers.
The Canon always felt that his Concordance
had something to do with his failure in this
matter, which was sufficient in itself to place
him under an obligation to the young man for
life. On the other hand, it might well have
been that the thoughts of his approaching
marriage diverted Adair's mind from the
study of those high mathematics which demand
an undivided allegiance. However,
next to being senior wrangler is to be second
wrangler ; and though such academic distinctions
have not so much weight with the
world at large as in educational circles, they
have still a material value. At all events,
aided no doubt by the Canon's influence,
Adair obtained a certain situation in London
in the office of a leading actuary, which only
a great university reputation could have
secured for one so young. The position did
not prove to be permanent, but the reasons

which caused him to remove elsewhere seemed
amply sufficient. He threw in his lot with a
firm of rising stockbrokers, thereby acquiring
a small share of its profits, and within the
last year or two he had been made a partner
in the concern. There had been some
liabilities and difficulties in the last arrangement,
but they had been surmounted, by
what means will be presently disclosed.

Upon the whole, the Canon had no reason
to regret his ward's alliance with so able and
diligent a man of business as Adair had
proved himself to be. The young man had
always treated him with the same respect and
esteem which he had shoAvn as his assistant
and amanuensis, and indeed, of late, with an
effusive demonstration of regard that seemed
somewhat foreign to his character, but which
a certain exceptional kindness on the other's
part had not unreasonably evoked. In appearance
Adair had changed but little ; he
had never looked juvenile, and now seemed
no older than in his college days ; his thoughtful

face wore a still keener and more shrewd
expression, and his manner upon occasions
was more masterful than it had wont to be,
but that was all. Sophy, on the other hand,
was much altered. She was still sweetly pretty
to the eye that looks beyond the merest externals,
even prettier than she had been ; but
the sprightliness which had once formed her
most striking charm had fled. She had a
trouble of which every one knew, sufficient to
account for this. The only offspring of her
marriage, a little child now four years old.
was an invalid and a cripple. It was a girl,
but her pet name (the only one she was known
by) was Willie. She had been named Wilhelmina,
the nearest feminine approach to the
Canon's William, in spite of his own remonstrance
against so outlandish a choice. It
was impossible to refuse his consent to his
ward's entreaties — she made them upon the
first occasion of his coming to see her after she
became a matron ; a more charming and tender
spectacle, he thought, had never met his

eye than this young mother, pale, and frail asa
lily, with that bud of a baby beside her.

My dearest guardian, if your name were
Maher-Shalal-Hash-baz,' she said, with a touch
of her old manner, * I should call her ]\[aher-
Shalal-Hash-baz after you. How can it be
otherwise ? Whom should I wish her to
remind me of so much as your dear self ? '

Of course it had been open to him to
reply, ' Well, your husband, for instance.'
But that was an argument which, even if he
had been inclined to argue the matter, Avould,
perhaps, hardly have occurred to him. To
say the truth, it would hardly have suggested
itself to anybody that babies were (at all
events in the usual sense) much in Adair's
way. To so calculating a mind — I do not say
so mathematical a one, for I have known
mathematicians who disregard nothing; because
of its smallness, and who are the tenderest
of human souls — a baby formed only
a fractional portion of humanity, and did not

VOL. II. 8

represent an integer at all. Adair, like many
a better man, did not even profess to care for
such very small deer. He looked upon them
as persons careful of their time regard a
shrimp — not worth the trouble it entails upon
the consumer ; though in his case the case
was of course reversed ; he was the producer.
This paternal indifference prompted well-meaning
folk to comfort Sophy with the
assurance that when Willie became a little
bigger her husband would make up for all
previous shortcomings in the way of affection
to her ; a prophecy which she received in
total silence.

Jeannette, who was still in attendance
upon her mistress, was by no means so sanguine
as these comforters. ' He takes no
more notice of it,' she once angrily exclaimed
in Sophy's hearing, ' than if it had been somebody
else's.' And to this, too, though it was
clear that when she said ^ somebody ' she
Disant a particular person, Sophy answered
not one syllable.

Another great change in her was that
there was ' no murmur at the door so constant
on its hinge before.' All her lively
talk had ceased. Even when that sad accident
took place which crippled her child in
all human probability for life, and at the
same time made it too likely that that life
would be a brief one, she had said but little,
and murmured not at all. Perhaps she
thought it but a righteous judgment upon
her, poor soul, for certain sins of hers. And
yet (so she thought, and so Jeannette said)
it might have l^cen prevented. Although
it has been shown that Mr. John Adair could
be liberal enough upon occasion, the occasions
were all in connection with his personal interests
: in matters outside them, he practised
a rigid economy. His domestic expenditure,
except where it came immediately' under the
public eye, was conducted on the most provident
principles. The wages lie considered
ample for the nursemaid of his only child

s 2

were not such as to cause any very brisk
competition even in that overstocked market,
and resulted in the appointment of one who
was almost a child herself. Sophy and Jeannette,
it is true, were in constant attendance
upon little Willie (who was to her mother all
that now could be considered gain on earth, and
well-nigh made up for all her loss) ; but sometimes
it was necessary to entrust the little
treasure to this hireling. And the hireling
had dropped her. What was worse, she did
not think it worth while to mention the fact ;
and when it was found out the mischief had
gone too far for mending. Jeannette afterwards
expressed her opinion that, beside the
limb of the poor child, there took place on
that occasion another breakage — its mother's
heart.

At all events, Sophy's life from that moment
was passed on ' a broken Having.' She
never reproached her husband, for when
remonstrance is unavailing, reproach is vain

indeed, while to others she kept silence on
that matter — as on all the rest. Jeannette,
too, though so free-tongued to her mistress,
said nothing against her master without doors,
for her mistress' sake. He believed the ofirl
to be his ally ; for, indeed, had she not been
subsidised, purchased ? Her talent for intrigue
had wrought mischief enough, as she

vJ CD ZD )

was by this time well aware, and all the
reparation she could make, to her whom she
truly loved and had so unwittingly harmed,
was to use that talent in her service. Xo one
outside its walls knew what went on in that
pleasant house in Albany Street, where nice
little dinners were given (for the kitchen
expenses were by no means conducted upon
the same lines as those of the nursery), and
agreeable company not seldom visited, and
where especially everything was couleur de rose
when the Canon and Miss Aldred came up to
town to stay with the young people.

There was one sin of which the master of

that house could never be accused — namely,
that of idleness ! He was a diligent worker ;
and, though of excellent business habits, he
never worked in a groove. His fault, indeed,
lay in the other direction ; he was a schemer,
and a bold one, and his schemes absorbed
him.

It was a great mitigation to Sophy's married
life that she saw but little of her
husband. To the readers of this history who
have been admitted behind the scenes it would
be superfluous indeed to say that she did not
love him. She had never loved him even at
the best — that is to say, when she had seen
but little of him ; and it was not likely that
love had grown from knowledge. A great
poet has described in his youth the good
effect of offspring in bringing husband and
wife together who have otherwise nothing in
common ; had he been more mature, I sometimes
doubt whether he would have taken
that view. I have noticed in such cases that

all the pent-lip love of one or the other has
passed into the tiny channels thus opened toit,
without over-flow : the bed of the stream
remains dry. At all events, sphere the children
touch the heart of one only of the
parents, these are thereby by no means drawn
nearer to one another ; on the contrary, the
one resents the other's indifference to their
common offspring, and the other is jealous of
the new-born love that was denied to himself.
The reflection ' half is his and half is mine '
never occurred to Sophy as she clasped her
fragile darling to her heart. AVillie was God's
gift to her. not her husband's, who not only
did not prize, but had maimed it. It is
thought in ceram well-meaning ]put unintelligent
circles, that high spirits with the
young should be discouraged ; that a lively
wit savours of irreligion ; and that the world
stands less in need of smiles than tears.
These good folk would have been gratified by
the alteration in • airy, fairy ' Sophy, who

had certainly been reformed in that respect, if
not converted.

Yet it gave Henny Helford — who was
good, too, in her way, though not goody-goody
— the heartache. Not a word did Sophy
drop to her of those domestic troubles at
which we ourselves have only guessed ; but
she read them in her face, her eyes, her form,
as no others — not even Aunt Maria — read
them. Henny' s own sky, though it had
plenty of sunshine, was not an unclouded
blue. She had been wedded to her Frederic
for three years, but no child had blessed their
union. It is one of the many stumbling-blocks
in the way of the optimist to see a
wife like Henny, whose very knees, one might
say, were made for children to cling to, without
offspring. An eminent conversationalist
living by himself is a deplorable spectacle,
but that is only a waste of power ; he might,
too, be living with persons who didn't appreciate

him. But when one considers the heaps
of women who have children they don't want,
and don't know what to do with, Henny's
case seems very hard. Frederic was getting
on in his profession, so that a l)aby more or
less would have been no strain upon* his
resources, and, as these increased, it was
interesting to remark how much he was approved
of even by those who lead not been
hasty in their appreciation — as, for example,
by his mother-in-law. Mrs. Helford had
always been made welcome to her son-in-law's
house ; but at first it could scarcely be said
that she had laid herself out to make herself
agreeable there. She had thrown out little
hints of the results of too lavish expenditure,
which had only annoyed her host because
they lightened Henny ; but as soon as she
clearly perceived there was no reason for them
she frankly acknowledged the advantage of
being thoroughly comfortable on a safe basis,

and had even a secret consciousness that it
was better than being ruined by the best of
sons. Stevie was by this time at school,
having quite got rid of his ailments, and
showing no sign of his early delicacy, so that
the old lady (as we may now venture to call
her) was glad enough to exchange her solitary
home for that of her son-in-law, though she
still kept up her house at Cambridge ' to receive
the dear boy when he came home from
the holidays ' (which he always spent with
his aunt), and ' to give dearest Henny a
change ' which she seldom took. In the long
vacation, Iron, like other lawyers (except
that he carried his wife with him), fled across
the Channel for a thorough change, and returned
to his modest residence in Maidaa Yale
with a thankful heart, and the conviction
that there was no place worth living in but
England. Such was, in brief, the changed
condition of the personages of our little

drama, wrought by five years ; upon the
whole, not very momentous ones ; but fated
to be succeeded by more eventful days — an
adjective which, though apparently neutral,
too seldom, alas ! auteurs sunshine.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

THE SHADOW OF TROUBLE.

Now that Sophy was gone, the Canon spent
less of his time in his college rooms and
more of it at home than had been his wont,
out of consideration for his sister. Aunt
Maria felt the absence of her young companion
very much, notwithstanding that she
had been so long accustomed to it. If she
could have been certain that Sophy was
happy in her married life, this would doubtless
have been less the case ; but she had her
suspicions, though she did not communicate
them to others, that this was not so. To her
brother she would not have revealed them
upon any account, as she well knew they

would have filled him with remorse for the
part he had taken in the matter ; he had
favoured Adair, and favoured him still,
though their intercourse of late had been
interrupted. Like thousands of other good
women, it was Miss Aldred's constant endeavour
to make life easy to the man to
whom she was devoted. Only a woman can
understand what a sacrifice it was of her own
feelings and impulses thus to keep silence ;
but she kept it. She walked a good deal,
read a good deal, and played Russian Patience
a good deal — using only six parcels of cards
to get her four suits, or sometimes a seventh,
when no human eye was watching her.

On a certain water evening the Canon
was sitting with her as usual — but not, as
usual, at his books. The day's newspaper,
too, lay rejected upon his knee ; he was reading,
for the third or fourth time, a letter that
had come that afternoon from his darling boy.
He was coming home, though not immediately

; and, strange to say, the delay lay at
the Canon's door. Robert did not wish to
leave India till he had got a reply to this very
letter, which, among other matters, put a
question of great importance to himself.

It is now five years ago, my dear father,
as you will perhaps recollect, since I mentioned
to yon the name of Alma Treherne.
From a boy, as I then was, with my foot on
the first rung of the ladder of promotion,
such a communication must have seemed wild
and premature indeed ; but you replied to it,
like yourself, with patience and kindness.
You did not laugh at me, nor even discourage
me, but left matters to time. I have
written to you upon the same subject so
often, that in the case of any one else I should
have felt that I must be growing tedious ;
but after five years I find myself loving Alma
more than ever. During that space of time she
has declined many much better offers for my
sake, and doubtless many better men ; but

none who loved lier as I do, for that (as it
seems to nie) is impossible. My position, as
regards finances, is much improved by my having
obtained the adjutant, but not sufficiently
so to obtain the General's consent to our
marriage. Neither of us blame him ; life in
India is different from life at home. The notion
of living comfortably upon a moderate income
is entertained by very few people, and by no
one in the Brigadier's position. He asks me
bluntly enough, though not with personal
disfavour, what are my expectations, and
especially what sort of allowance my father
can make me. To this, of course, I can oiye
no answer, and must wait your reply. I
cannot say how it distresses mo to make such
an application to you. I am aware that you
have many expenses, and little to spare ; buta
little, with what I have of my own, will now
suffice. If I thought I should be in any way
cripple you, or depriving you of a single
comfort, or even the means of gratifying

your own generous and benevolent disposition,
I should feel I was procuring my own
happiness at too great a price. It will be
only waiting a little longer till my prospects
have improved, as they must needs do ; for
I am sure of Alma, and Alma is sure of me.
You will not, I am sure, imagine, when I say
that my return to England will depend on
your reply, that I am suggesting that as a
reason for your acceding to my request. I
know how much you wish to see me, by my
own vehement desire to see you ; but I am
not base enough, I hope, to make use of your
affection for me as a lever to gain my own
ends. I am quite certain you will help me if
you can, but if you cannot (which is quite
possible), I shall be content to shake the
pagoda-tree till I have got rupees enough to
satisfy the General, when I shall bring Alma
home, to find another father in your dear self
There was much more to the same effect ;
the whole letter was full of love and confidence

and filial consideration. It would have
gladdened any father's heart : but that of the
Canon fairly leapt for joy, not only from the
consciousness of his Robert's worth, but of
his own ability to ensure the young fellow's
happiness. Without going into details with
respect to his own finances, he was quite confident
that he should be able to allow his son
an annual income which would considerably
exceed the young man's modest expectations,
and also to satisfy the General as regarded his
future son-in law's prospects. It has been
often said that there is no real happiness in
wealth, which, in the case of vast riches, is
doubtless true enough ; but the possession of
an income, with a surplus that admits of our
giving happiness to others, is nevertheless a
very pleasant thing. If the surplus is small,
and it is rather a squeeze to spare it, the
feelings of the giver (though to some persons
this will seem incredible) are still more to be
envied. As the Canon, looking straight be-vol.

II. T

fore him, saw his way to depriving himself
of certain pleasures so as to produce the
requisite funds for his son, a smile stole over
his face, like the evening sun upon an autumn
landscape.

Aunt Maria, looking up from her cards,
perceived it. ' I believe, my dear William,'
she said, slily, ^ that you have read that letter
of Robert's seven times.'

I believe, my dear Maria,' was the
Canon's quiet retort, ^ that you have taken
eight packs to do that game.'

No, William, only seven ; I confess to
seven.'

If you confess to seven, you must have
had nine ' -n

1 did nothing of the kind, sir ; moreover,
I managed for the last time with only six.'

That was when I was not looking, which
accounts for the statement.'

^ You are very rude, sir ; you will not
be fit to speak to when your Robert comes

home, since the very thought of it renders
you so audacious ; I shall get Alma, however,
on my side, against you loth. I mean to
teach her bezique.'

^ Poor girl,' murmured the Canon, pitifully.


To this impertinence Aunt Maria made no
rejoinder, and the Canon, putting his son's
letter in his breast-pocket next his heart, took
up the newspaper from his knees.

Up to this time brother and sister had
had no secrets from each other, unless that
somewhat imprudent laxity on Aunt Maria's
part in the matter of Herbert Perry could
be called so. She thoroughly understood her
brother's devotion to his son, and appreciated
it ; she was not a whit jealous, and thought
it only natural she should be Xo. 2 in the
Canon's mind, and his Robert Xo. 1. Like
many others of her sex, she had very little
of Xo. 1 in her composition. Her brother's
tastes and occupations were not in her line ;

T 2

but if she did not sympathise with them, she
respected them. And he, on his part, recognised
her many virtues, and loved her with
that love which so rarely lives to be old —
the love which children bear to one another
who

At one dear knee have proffered vows,
One lesson at one look have learnt.

After all the changes and chances of half a
century, Maria was the same to him as when
they went hand in hand to their dame's school
together.

They had talked over Robert's letter and
agreed what was to be done as to certain
retrenchments (not of a very serious kind,
however), and if the lad had been her own
son instead of being only her nephew, Aunt
Maria could not have been more eager for
sacrifice. Barclay, the butler, was to go, for
one thing, and be succeeded by a parlour-maid
; a circumstance, though she lead some
domestic pride about her, Which the lady of
the house only grieved for upon Barclay's

account, and probably (since he was sure of
a good place elsewhere) much more than
Barclay.

I linger over the quiet and unruffled
happiness of this mature couple, because
there is trouble in store for them. Oh, why,
one asks (but despairing of reply), is Black
Care suffered to perch uj^on dovecotes such
as this, while the hawk's nest (full of the
bones of the innocent) and the vulture's
filthy lair remain so often unshadowed by
his presence ? If there is no future wherein
such things are remedied, the Atheist's sneer,
There is a little mismanagement somewhere,'
is justified indeed.

As the Canon ran his eye down the paper
(with particular attention to the publisher's
column, where a new edition of ' Aldred's
Concordance of Milton ' was conspicuous), it
suddenly lit upon something which compelled
an ejaculation.

My dear William ! what is the matter ? '

exclaimed Aunt Maria, alarmed, for to her
ear there had been vexation and even apprehension
in her brother's tone.

I've got the pins and needles,' said the
Canon, stretching out his leg and rubbing it.
It was a lie ; but the Recording Angel, so far
from putting it down (as in a certain case we
wot of) on the debit side of the account, and
erasing it with a tear, put it down to the
Canons credit ; for that lie could do no one
any harm, and was uttered to save a fellow-creature
pain.

You've quite put me out,' said Aunt
Maria, with irritation. ' I really must have
one packet more.'

Then there was a silence, broken only by
the fall of the cards.

Not a sheet of the newspaper was turned
over ; the Canon's gaze was fixed upon a
single item — it was amongst the advertisements
— which he read again and again, but
always with a keener pang.

What that advertisement really meant to
the poor Canon, if he could have foreseen the
end of it, was a personal catastrophe ; to use
a vulgar but expressive phrase, it 'spelt ruin.'
But at the moment (and for long afterwards)
he did not connect the matter with himself at
all ; it annoyed and alarmed him very much,
but solely on account of others who were dear
to him, and whom alone it seemed to menace.
Most men under such circumstances would
have behaved with more philosophy : the
Devil showed his knowledge of mankind in
general when, after afflicting Job without
much effect by proxy — that is, only in the
persons of his belongings — he observed ' Skin
for skin, let me touch himself, and then we
shall see what he thinks of the fitness of
things.' The Devil, however, like many
other folk, generalises upon insufficient data ;
he knows next to nothing of good people,
and had not even a bowing acquaintance with
our friend the Canon.

After the first shock was over, 'I must
keep this sorrow from poor Maria,' was this
good fellow's main idea, and this, through all
his subsequent reflections, he kept steadily in
view. They were very sombre reflections,
full of vague doubts and fears, and (this
alone was certain) of keen disappointment.
He had been deceived in one he respected ;
one also, it would have seemed to most men,
whom he had favoured and assisted, and who
had made a scurvy return, indeed, for all his
^ benefits ; but upon that part of the matter he
laid no stress.

If Frederic Iron had happened to be at
The Laburnums ' he would have dropped in
next door and conferred with him ; but it
was winter time, and the young lawyer was
in town making honey (with a good deal of
wax in it) in the legal line. Mr. Mayors,
indeed, was in college, a firm and trusty
friend, well qualified to be an adviser upon
most matters ; but there was a reason which

forbad the Canon to consult him in this particular
instance. He was not sure (though
indeed he might have been) that the other
would be able to resist the temptation of
saying, ' This is just what I expected all
along.' At all events, his own apprehensions
would only have derived corroboration from
that source, and what he needed was comfort
ij\ to have them allayed.

It was necessary, therefore, that the Canon
should go to the fountain-head whence these
bitter waters came, and learn the worst at
once ; only a pretext was necessary to throw
dust in the eyes of Aunt Maria. He was a
very bad hand at duplicity ; that idea of ^ the
pins and needles ' had been but a mere happy
aspiration. What excuse could he hit upon
to get away from home without suspicion ?
Presently the evening post came in with a
circular about somebody's goods which had to
be disposed of (so it was stated, and in print
too) at an alarming sacrifice. He perused it

with a great pretence of attention, and then,
thrusting it into his pocket beside Robert's
precious missive, exclaimed, " Well, that is a
nuisance. I am afraid I shall have to run upto
town tomorrow to see Adair.'

Dear me ! and such very bad weather for
travelling, my dear brother. Why shouldn't
Mr. Adair come here ; I suppose it's his business
? '

Oh, yes, it's his business,' returned the
Canon, nursing this spark of truth ; ' it isn't
my business ; but still I am comparatively an
idle man ' (he always used that word ' comparatively'
in connection with his freedom
from toil ; he had a notion that he worked
rather hard), ^ and Adair is a very busy one.
I am afraid I must go. If I go by the
express I can get back by dinner-time.'

Upon my word, William, I hope Mr.
Adair is conscious of the trouble he gives you
with his affairs, and is grateful for all your
kind assistance to him.'

Well, I suppose he knows it's for Sophy's
sake, my dear,' returned the Canon, grimly.

Then I hope he pays his debt of gratitude
to Sophy. I am sometimes rather
inclined to doubt it.'

Adair was not a favourite with Aunt
Maria, as her brother knew ; nevertheless,
her tone, when taken in connection with that
private matter he had in his mind, made the;
Canon uneasy.

I hope, my dear, that you do not mean
to suggest,' he said, ' that Adair and his wife
do not get on happily together ? '

I don't go so far as to say that ; she has
never uttered a word of complaint to me, but
I don't think he treats her with confidence.
His mind seems to be always occupied, so
that there is no room in it for his wife and
child.'

I suppose he has a great deal to think
about.' '

Very likely ; but he should think

about his affairs at his office, not bring them
home with him. It would be excusable,
perhaps, in the case of a person immersed in
speculation; but with a steady business, such
as he is concerned with, it is monstrous
that he should come back silent and sullen,
as if he had the cares of the world on his
shoulders.'

But how do you know all that, if Sophy
has not told you? '

Well, she has never dropped one single
word to suggest the contrary — never spoken,
that is, as a young wife who shares her husband's
confidence always does speak of him to
her own belongings. You and I, of course,
never see the seamy side of Mr. Adair ; he
takes care when we are with him to be upon
his best behaviour ; but there are others who
have better opportunities of judging, who give
anything but a good report of him. I think
it positively monstrous, William,' concluded
Aunt Maria, energetically, ' that a man in

your position, and at your time of life, should
be summoned up to town in such weather
as this, with snow on the ground, to dance
attendance upon Mr. John Adair.'

This last outburst comforted the Canon
somewhat ; it seemed to supply the key to
much of Aunt Maria's enmity against Sophy's
husband. Still her invectives increased his
uneasiness with regard to the matter he had
in hand.

As a rule, he slept the sleep of the just ;
but that night he had very little slumber,
and awoke unrefreshed, to shave and dress
by candle-light, which was obnoxious to a
man of his habits. The general impression
of inconvenience and being ^\xt about was
quite overwhelmed, however, by more serious
considerations.

The long cheerless journey in the train
(except when he took out Robert's letter and
read it again, which always acted as a cordial)
was a very miserable business. Every crumpled

rose-leaf to a man of his habit of life
appears a thorn. Nor were things better
with him when he found himself in the damp
cab at the terminus. Having gone up with
the intention of seeing Adair the first thing, it
would have been very natural, one would have
thought, for him to have driven straight to
his office, but it was not natural to the Canon.
He didn't like offices ; perhaps, too, he somewhat
distrusted his own command of himself.
He felt that he should be less likely to quarrel
with his former protege under the same roof
with Sophy than in his City haunt. At all
events, he drove to Albany Street, a very
unexpected visitor.

CHAPTER Xxxi.

AN UNEXPECTED VISITOR.

As places of business are closed to clients
after office hours, so in private houses, unless
they belong to persons who can afford to keep
many servants, there are no arrangements for
the reception of visitors until the usual time
for callers. ' The man ' is cleaning plate, ^ the
boy ' is grinding the knives at the machine ;
and one of the maids (if she is good-natured)
will answer the door for such gentry. Thus
it happened that the Canon, issuing, bag m
hand, from his damp cab, was admitted by
the amazed Jeannette.

Lor, sir ! ' she said, with a warmth of
welcome to her old master that thawed all the

proprieties, and briskly wiping her right hand
with her apron, for she knew that he would
shake it, ' who would have thought that it
was you ? '

Well, I suppose no one : it's out of
canonical hours, I know. Still, I suppose I
shall be admitted.'

Dear heart, how glad my poor mistress
will be to see you ! ' was Jeannette's reply.

That word ' poor ' slipped from her lips
by accident — her astonishment at the sight of
the unexpected visitor was too great to admit
of any choice of expressions, but it did not
escape the Canon's ear. The door of a sitting-room
on one side of the little hall stood open,
and he mechanically entered it, Jeannette as
mechanically following him.

^ Is anything the matter? ' he inquired, ina
hoarse, hushed voice.

No, sir ; no,' she answered (at once
made conscious, by his tone, of her indiscretion).
'' Things are going on much as usual ;

Miss Sophy, that was, is not strong, but she
keeps up, considering.'

Considering what ? '

Well, the state of the poor child, sir ;
she is very delicate, and at best, I fear, will bea
cripple for life.'

That is sad, indeed,' said the Canon ; but
there was a sort of relief in his tone, for lie-had
thought — only that Jeannette had changed
front just in time to put the suspicion to
flight — that she was referring to other matters
not so patent as Willie's state of health.

You see, sir, my mistress frets a bit, of
course. She has the poor child always before
her eyes, even when she is away from hers
which hardly ever happens.'

But is it worse ? ' inquired the Canon
using the neuter for the instant, because he
was a man first and scholar afterwards.

Xo, sir ; not to say worse, but no better
and, in my mind, never will be. Good
heavens, if she was to die I ' murmured Jean-vol.

II. u

nette, wringing Her hands, ' I believe my
mistress would die too.'

Poor thing, poor soul ; and even now she
must be very lonesome ! '

Except Miss Henny, as was, sir, who is
an angel, she sees no one.'

But that is not right ; she should encourage
the visits of cheerful folk. She must
have a weary time of it all day till her
husband comes home.'

Jeannette did not reply to this. It was
on the tip of her tongue to say, in that loyal
and friendly presence, ' It would be much
better if he never came home.' But, woman
though she was, she withstood the temptation
like a man. It would have been dangerous to
be so candid with one himself so frank, and
who might have quoted her to others. Still,
her very silence, under the circumstances,
was, to the Canon's eyes, only too significant.
^ What time does Mr. Adair usually come
home? ' he said, pulling out his watch.

Only just before dinner-time, between
half-past six and seven — that is, when he does
come home.'

A shadow fell upon the Canon's face. ' He
does not often even dine with her, then,' was
his reflection. • I'll stay here to-night,' he
murmured, thinking; aloud. ' I am o^lad I
brought my bag on the chance, and before I
forget it I'll telegraph to Maria. Have you
any telegraph forms in the house ? '

^ Forms ! why bless you, sir, fifty. Mr.
Adair is always telegraphing. We've all
sorts, but of course you want an English one,'
and she hurried out to get one.

What did this mean, that her master was
always telegraphic, and on all sorts of
forms ? That he might do so from his office
was natural enough, but from home ? The
Canon's forebodings grew darker and darker.

You'll pardon my freedom, sir,' said
Jeannette, returning, ' but if you have any
bad news I hope you won't tell it to my

u 2

mistress. She has enough to bear already
with the poor child's illness.'

I have no bad news, my girl. What
should put that into your head ? '

Well, sir, I fancied you looked rather
down," and it is so important, the doctor
told me, my mistress should be kept up. He
gives her tonics and things ; but then he
might just as well bring her a penny whistle ;
better, because it would amuse the child.'

Little Willie has plenty of toys, I hope? ^
said the Canon, writing his telegram, ' Detained
till tomorrow by business,' &c.

She has some as Mrs. Triton gives her,
but Mr. Adair doesn't hold much with toys,
and my mistress has little money of her own
to spend on such things, as you are doubtless
aware.'

Jeannette could not resist that little fling,
and it was safe to indulge in it. Not only
herself, but every one in the house knew that
her master was ' mean ' in money matters.

I am not aware of anything of the kind,'
said the Canon, forgetting prudence, and even
the proprieties, in this vehement indignation.
^ Whatever money your master has,' he was
about to say, ' is your mistress's,' but he
altered it just in time to, ' is your mistress's
also ; man and wife are one.'

So they say, sir,' was the quiet rejoinder.
I'll see that your telegram goes myself, sir,'
she added in another tone. ' Will you please
come upstairs to the drawing-room ? the sight
of you will do my mistress more good than
all the tonics in the world !

I wish I could feel equally sure of that,'
thought the Canon, with a sigh, as he reflected
on the reason which had brought him up to
town. ' I am afraid I bring but cold comfort.'
He was thankful, however, that he had been
thus forewarned by Jeannette, and determined
within himself to let fall no hint of his
apprehensions to her mistress.

A drawing - room well furnished but

without a fire in it in winter time is like a
dandy without brains ; two minutes of it is
more than enough ; if one's mission is melancholy,
its effect is particularly depressing. 'I
am all for show says the lace ; ' I am all for
shine,' says the gilt; 'a jolly good fire made
of all these gewgaws, and an arm-chair that
one could sit in would be infinitely preferable
to them,' says the face of the visitor in the
looking-glass. There was warmth enough,
however, in Sophy's reception for him, for
she came flying into the room with her arms
extended, ' My dear, dear guardian ! ' she
exclaimed, 'you are more welcome than
words can say,' and she remained locked in
his embrace for more than the usual time
allowed for such transports. The Canon did
not dare release himself, for he felt that she
was weeping passionately on his breast, and
the sight of a woman's tears, as we know,
was terrible to him. He patted her little
head encouragingly, but that seemed only to

make her worse ; the very floodgates of her
heart seemed to have been set wide.

^ It is so foolish of me,' she presently-sobbed,
' and so wicked of me ; but I cannot,
cannot help it. It seems so long since I have
seen you, guardian ; and you were always so
good to me.'

Pooh, pooh ! Good to you, little woman !
Why, of course I was good to you, as you
call it. And I hope everybody else is good
to you.'

She answered nothing, but her sobbing
ceased at once : her thoughts seemed to have
been turned into another channel.

I have come up all of a sudden upon a
little business matter to see your husband,'
he continued ; ' perhaps you will give me a
bit of dinner and a bed.'

^ Oh, yes, oh, yes ; I am so very glad.'

That's well. I am charged with all
sorts of loving messages from your Aunt
Maria, but have forgotten every one of them.

I only know she envied me the sight of
you.'

Dear heart, kind heart ! ' murmured poor
Sophy.

To the Canon's ear it sounded like the
cooing of a wounded dove.

And now about the child, Sophy. How
is little Willie? No worse, at all events, I
trust?'

^ I think not — I trust not. You shall see
her at once. There is a fire in her room,
which there should have been here. I quite
forgot how cold you must be in my rapture at
seeing you, and also how hungry. It is only
twenty minutes, however, to luncheon-time.'

Sophy led him up into a back room in
which there were two beds. The child was
sitting on Jeannette's lap, looking at a ;
but, on seeing her mother,
struggled down. As she ran across the
nursery floor she fell. Sophy picked her up
and covered her with kisses.

Little Willie sometimes forgets her
crutch said Jeannette, in explanation ; *but
we should be thankful that she gets about at
all.

Does the child sleep by herself in that
big bed ? ' inquired the Canon of Jeannette,
in a tone which Sophy, engaged in soothing
the child's cries, could not overhear.

Xo, sir ; her mother sleeps there with
her, and I in the other bed.'

Does the poor little thing, then, require
so much attendance ? '

Jeannette shook her head ; the expression
of her face spoke volumes.

'A rneiv^d et thoro muttered the Canon.

The truth was that, when the child first
met with her accident, her cries used to awake
her mother at night, and consequently her
father. As Mr. John Adair valued this sleep,
as an investment, very highly, he did not
wish to part with any portion of it.

If you are so anxious about that child,

you had better sleep in the room with it he
observed, sullenly; and Sophy had taken
him at his word. Only, when little Willie's
pains had ceased to be acute, she still kept to
her quarters in the nursery.

Willie was mentally very precocious,
though not in the same line as her great
friend and patron, Stevie. She was even
brighter at her spelling than he had been, but
had none of his naivete and high spirits.
She did not concern herself with the government
of the universe, or detect anomalies in
it; if she had prejudices she concealed them ;
but nothing within her limited range escaped
her notice. She worshipped her mother, and
while being hugged to her bosom was the
recipient of many a whispered confidence,
which she understood much better than
Sophy imagined, or she would never have
breathed them. An elfin child — without the
elfin mischief — who, burdened with an exceptional
trouble, had a premature intelligence

which, when not kept in abeyance by physical
pain, enabled her to bear and even make
light of it. ' A most reasonable little patient,'
said the doctor, since she never declined what
Alas unsavoury, when once she had foimd it
benefited her ; a ' converted gutter child,' as
Frederic Iron called her, somewhat to his
wife's indignation, because she had the intelligence
of the street Arab without his tricks ;
and to all eyes the quaintest little creature.
Though not unlike her mother in feature,
AVillie differed wholly from her in expression.
Sophy had always had something of the
beauty du diable ; Willie had an angel face full
of life and motion, though (like one of those
transposed photographs which tickled the
public taste a year or two ago) it was set on
a crippled body.

After luncheon the Canon proposed a walk
to the Irtons', much more for his companion's
sake (since he knew that Frederic would be
in his city quarters) than his own ; the sun

had come out brightly, and he thought the
fresh ah' would do Sophy good. It seemed
to do so, or perhaps the touch of the Canon's
arm and his talk of old times brightened
her face.

I suppose,' he said, ' on fine mornings
you sometimes walk part of the way with
your husband to the City.'

The sunshine faded out of her eyes at
once.

^ No ; he always takes a cab.'

But is not that rather expensive ? I
should have thought, with his prudent habits,
that an omnibus would have served his
turn.'

He says that that would be false
economy ; that time is money to a busy
man ; and, indeed, he does not seem to have
one hour unoccupied.'

Um ! In my opinion that's rather overdoing
it,' said the Canon, with the air of a
man who has tried that system and discovered

its evils. ' It is not the mere hours by which
work is measured, but what is done in them.
If a man takes up a book or a newspaper, or
whistles and goes to the window half a dozen
times, I don't call that doing business.'

I don't think my husband ever takes up
a book at the office, or whistles,' observed
Sophy.

Then it's ten to one he does something
worse — I mean fritters away his time still
more absurdly.' said the Canon, with irritation.
' It is my experience that the men who
are really busiest have the most leisure for
everything. Nine hours at the office, you
say. It's positively ridiculous that a man
should keep at stockbroking for nine hours.
I suppose he snatches an hour or two for
luncheon ? '

I don't know,' answered Sophy.
Never. thought the Canon, with grave
concern, had he met a young wife who knew
less about her husband's ways than this one.

Henny received both her visitors with
exceeding warmth, but, as one of them did
not fail to observe (for just now the Canon
had eyes for everything in connection with
his ward), she evinced quite as much surprise
at seeing Sophy as himself.

Mrs. Helford, indeed, who, as usual, was
staying with her daughter, exclaimed cheerily,
Well, this is an honour, Sophy ; but I
suppose, if the truth were told, we are indebted
for it to your guardian.'

While she was engaging her young friend
in conversation, the Canon took the opportunity
of asking Henny whether she saw
much of Sophy.

I am sorry to say,' she answered, gravely,
^ very little. Stevie sees most of her, because
when he is here for the holidays he makes a
point of going to cheer up little Willie. But
it is not my fault. Canon, I do assure you.
I go to Albany Street as often as I dare.'

What do you mean by " dare" ?'

Well, to tell the honest truth, Mr. Adair
and Frederic are not very fond of one another,
and though, of course, dear Sophy always
makes me welcome, my visits are not encouraged
by her husband. She herself has
not been here for months — though not, I am
sure, because she has not wished to come.'

Dear me,' said the Canon, ' that is very
unfortunate for poor Sophy.'

And for me, I do assure you. There is
nothing; that Fred and I would not do for
her.'

This takes me altogether by surprise,'
said the Canon, disconsolately. ' I am come
up here on a matter of business connected
with Adair, but on which I should like to
have had your husband's opinion, and I had
almost thought of taking the responsibility of
asking him to dine to-night in Albany Street,
but it seems that that would be reckoning
without my host.'

It would, indeed,' said Henny, emphatically.

' I could not ask Frederic to do-such
a thing. His best advice, however, and
I need not say his assistance in every way,
will, of course, be at your service.'

Just so. It is possible I shall look in
upon him tomorrow morning upon my way
back to Cambridge. Will he be at his office ? '

I am quite sure he will, when he learns
what I have to tell him. I should ask you
to wait for him now ; but, unfortunately, he
cannot be home to-day till close upon seven
o'clock. Some dreadful client from the
country has cut me off an hour of his
society.'

The Canon could not help reflecting with
a sigh how different was Henny's tone in
speaking of her husband to that of Sophy,
and how cognisant she seemed to be of all
his movements. The strained relations, however,
between the two men did not much
surprise him. Iron had never taken to
Adair ; had it not been so the Canon would,

perhaps, have consulted the solicitor in the
first place upon the matter in hand ; but it
seemed to him disloyalty to Adair to speak
to one who was unfriendly to him about
his affairs before, at least, he had given an
opportunity for explanation ; there was also
perhaps, some sense of humiliation, for any
such application to Iron would have been a
tacit confession that he himself had suspicions
of the man whom he had always upheld and
stuck by. On the whole that visit to Maidaa
Yale had by no means set his mind at ease
as to the business on which he had come upto
town — but the contrary.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

LOSIjON : Printed BY

6P0TTISW00DE A>"D CO., New-street Socage

A>"D PARHASIEXT STREET

VOL. IL

\^^

1^

m^



LW/^i

'Dunois-URBANA

u.

%

r

rt: ^ ^^^^

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/canonsward03payn

VOL. III.

MAID OF ATHENS. By Justin McCarthy, M.P.

3 vols.

ALL IN A GARDEN FAIR. By Walter Besant.

3 vols.

THE LAND-LEAGUERS. By Anthony Trollope.

3 vols.

ANNAN WATER. By Robert Buchanan. 3 vols.
THE FOREIGNERS. By E. C. Price. 3 vols.
lONE. By E. Lynn Linton. 3 vols.
BEATRIX RANDOLPH. By Julian Hawthorne.

2 vols.

THE CANON'S WARD. By James Payn. 3 vols.
FRESCOES : Dramatic Sketches. By Ouida i vol.

CHATTO & WINDUS, Piccadilly, W.

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF ' BY PROXY ' ' HIGH SPIRITS ' ' KIT : A MEMORY ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES
VOL. III.

CHATTO & WINDUS, PICCADILLY

[Ali rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street SQUARE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER.

XXXV. UNMASKED

XXXVI. THE THUNDERBOLT .

XXXVII. RESIGNATION .

XXXVIII. IN CONSULTATION

XXXIX. THE REVELATION

XL. THE WITNESS

XLI. JEANNETTE CONFESSES

XLII. ROBERT

XLIII. ON THE TRAIL

XLIV. HOME AGAIN

XLV. ILL IN COLLEGE

xLvi. sophy's letter

XLVII. THE LAST INTERVIEW

XLVIII. ABANDONED

XLIX. THE FLIGHT .

L. THE CONFEDERATES .

LI. Willie's will

LII. IN PORT .

PAGE










1-28

IGl



22S





UNMASKED.

On their return to Albany Street, the Canon
and Sophy sat talking over old times so late,
expecting every moment Adair's arrival, that
when he did come, his visitor had perforce
retired to his own room to prepare for dinner.
It was the habit of the master of the house
to come in at the last moment, though that
circumstance did not mitigate his indignation
in case the meat was overdone. Adair
looked worn and irritated, which, however;
was by no means unusual with him.

What is it now ? ' he exclaimed, fretfully
when Sophy came into his room. It was

- VOL. III. B

plain, by the surprise in his tone, that she did
not often intrude upon his privacy.

The Canon arrived this morning,' she
answered, sententiously. ' He dines, and is
going to sleep here to-night.'

The devil he is ! ' was the hospitable
rejoinder. ' What on earth brings Mm ujd to
town ? '

I don't know. Some little matter of
business, he said.'

Tut! What does he know of business?
He had much better stop in college, with his
musty old Milton.'

This was a little ungrateful, considering
what Milton had done for the speaker, and
also sardonic ; for if Milton, considered from
the point of age, was musty, the other objects
of study affected by the Canon should have
been in an advanced state of decomposition.

I couldn't tell him that,' answered
Sophy, ' though I was well aware you didn't
want to see him.'

And I don't want replied her husband
(his English grammar was not on a par with
his mathematical acquirements). ' Why does
he come poking and prying about our house?
Perhaps he'll do it one day once too often.'

What do you mean, John? Surely you
would never let him see, of all men, that he
was not welcome.'

Oh, he's welcome enough; as long as he
behaves himself I don't want to quarrel with
him,' was the dogged reply. ' But I '11 have
no interference in my affairs, if that's what

he's after. Shut the door, will you,

because there's a draught.'

Sophy closed the door, as requested, but
left herself on the other side of it. Remonstrance
with lier husband at any time she knew
to be futile ; when he was put out, as was
just now obviously the case, it was dangerous.
She had long known that he had lost all
regard for the Canon ; but up to this moment
he had never spoken of him with absolute

B 2

antipathy. What could he mean by that
phrase, * Perhaps he will come here one day
once too often ? ' Was it his mention to
break with her guardian altogether? She
would then be friendless and isolated indeed.
As regarded Adair himself, his words had no
power to harm her. He was her husband
only in name. She knew him thoroughly for
what he was. Her illusions about him had
not been destroyed, because she had never
had any ; but all hope of even that moderate
degree of happiness to which she had ventured
to look forward in their married life was over.
She was weak, as we are well aware ; but
she was not a fool. Whatever happened of
evil to her at his hands was borne without
murmuring. ' It is my punishment,' she
would wearily say to herself, ' and I have
deserved it.' AYhat chances she had had, and
how she had missed them all! How the
pleasure of her youth had turned to dust and
ashes ! Her charms, her wealth, the love of

kind and honest hearts, how they had all
been flung away by her own reckless hands !
That there was some new trouble in store
for her was certain, though she could not
guess its nature.

Adair received his guest with that mixture
of warmth and deep respect which he always
threw into his tone when the Canon came
to Albany Street ; but, to Sophy's eye, there
was more effort in it than usual. She noticed,
too, that her guardian's manner was unusual
stiff and guarded. It was always difficult
to the Canon to conceal his feelings ; but the
remembrance that the other was his host enabled
him to do so to some extent.

The dinner passed off without a hitch ;
the topic of conversation was chiefly Cambridge,
in which there were few discords.
The influence of good wine, as was its wont,
operated upon the Canon favourably. When
sophy left them, and the cigars were produced,
he was certainly disposed to take a more

sanguine view of things. Thoucrli he belfast
at once upon the matter that had brought
him up to town — it had, indeed, been fizzing
and seething in his brain for so many hours
that it was impossible longer to suppress it —
it was without heat ; his tone was quiet and
conciliatory.

I am come here, Adair, upon rather an
unpleasant errand — a matter concerning yourself,
but which I earnestly hope you mil be
able to explain to my satisfaction.'

I hope so, indeed,' replied the other.
His lips smiled, but his brow had darkened ;.
his face had a resolute yet apprehensive look,
such as a man might wear about to be attacked
by more than one assailant, but who has his
back to the wall.

It is only an advertisement in a newspaper,
but it has given me great distress of
mind. I do not wish to recall a certain event
which happened two years ago, or more ; you
cannot have forgotten it.'

Indeed I have not, sir,' put in Adair ^

quietly. ' I well recollect your generous
conduct on that occasion to me and mine.'

^ At all events, I showed very great trust
and confidence in you, which you assured me
would not be misplaced. You gave me your
word, also, that under no circumstances
would you ever embark in any undertaking
which even the most prudent person could
call speculating. In this advertisement ' — he
had taken the paper from his pocket, and
pointed at the place — ^ I see your name published
as the director of the Susco Railway
Company, in South America.'

True : but in British Guiana, you will
allow me to add,' said Adair, suavely.

Good heavens ! what has that to do with
it?'

'Well, if you were a man of business.
Canon,' said Adair, smiling, ' I could show
you that it had a good deal to do with it.
ret me say, however, generally, that an investment
in that country would be as safe as

in the debenture stocks of any English railway
; indeed, it is English. But, as it happens,
I have not even invested in it. For certain
reasons which, perhaps, you could not easily
understand, but which are very valid and
reflect no little credit upon my position in the
City, it has been worth the company's while
to put me on its direction, and also to pay me
handsomely for the use of my name.'

That explanation is not satisfactory to
ipse, Adair,' said the Canon, firmly. ' It is
true I am not a man of business ; but I know
enough of such matters to be convinced that
it wouldn't be worth the while of any safe and
stable company to do anything of the kind.'

Adair shruo^sred his shoulders, and smiled
a pitying smile.

^ Really, Canon, I scarcely know what to
say. I could give chapter and verse for
everything I have stated about this Susco
project ; but it is a long business, and if you
will not take my word '

I have taken your word already, Adair ;
your solemn promise, in return, I must need
say, for a very great favour, that you would
never have anything to do with Speculation —
that is. Risk. Do you mean to tell me there
is no risk in your being a director of the
Susco Railway Company? '

Not one atom, not a scintilla, I pledge
you my word of honour.'

The Canon was staggered by the other's
earnestness and emphasis.

Well, of course, I cannot imagine for one
moment that you are deceiving me. I must
needs believe you. But still I do not like it.
I must ask you to withdraw your name at
once from the official list, and to give up all
connection with the undertaking.'

Very good, sir,' returned Adair, frankly.
Since nothing else will satisfy you, I will do
so. I shall lose two hundred pounds a year by
it ; but I need not say I would make a much
greater personal sacrifice to meet your wishes.'

'It is not, you know, on my own account,'
said the Canon greatly mollified, ' that
I demand this of you. It is nothing to me
whether you risk your money or not.'

A sneer passed over the face of his companion
as these words were uttered. He
played with his wine-glass, and muttered a
noiseless something in a menacing tone.

If you yourself were alone concerned in
the matter I should say nothing,' continued
the Canon. ' A bachelor may do what he
likes with his money ; if he makes a slip he
can pick himself up again. But there is
Sophy to be looked after, and little Willie. I
will have no risks.'

I have never had to do with anything but
the safest speculations, sir,' said Adair.

Pardon me, but that is a contradiction in
terms, my friend. A speculation cannot be
safe. However, as you have passed your
word to withdraw from this one, and — if I
understand you aright — to enter upon no

others (Adair inclined his head), ' let us say no
more about it. — This port is very good, Adair,
and reminds me of our Trinity cellar.'

The matter for the present seemed settled;
things were tided over, and the boat of friendship,
which had been in grave danger, was
got afloat again.

But it had been done, as it were, with a
dead lift ; there was no margin. Moreover,
the reconciliation was not really genuine on
either side. Though Adair had given way to
the other's wishes, or had appeared to do so,
he secretly resented his interference exceedingly.
Malefactors of all degrees have been
found to make a clean breast of their crimes
save in one instance. No one, it is said, has
ever owned himself to be ungrateful. Mr.
John Adair was no exception to this general
rule ; but in his heart of hearts he knew that
he was an ingrate, and hated the Canon as
such men do hate the benefactors whom they
have wronged.

On the other hand, the Canon was not
quite honest when he had said, ' Let us say
no more about it,' for the words implied that
silence was to be preserved on all hands, and
not only between those two, whereas he was
firmly resolved to make a confidant of
Frederic Iron on the morrow. He would be
able to tell him whether the Susco Railway
Company was what Adair had represented it
to be, a respectable undertaking, or (as he
still strongly suspected it to be) a bubble
concern.

In the meantime he behaved to his host
with such friendliness as was possible, addressing
himself, however, for the most part to
Sophy, and listening to her stories of the
wondrous intelligence of little Willie with
relief as well as interest. Making allowance
for maternal exasperation, the child seemed to
be a very Malkin for premature sagacity. It
seemed amazing that in such a father (for no
one could deny to him the possession of great

intellectual gifts) such a daughter seemed to
excite so little sympathy.

The Canon was so indiscreet as to rally
him, though very good-naturedly, upon this
circumstance ; upon which Adair remarked,
in a very different tone, that ' he had something
else to think of than infant prodigies '
an observation that did him more harm,
and evoked more suspicion in the Canon's
mind, perhaps, than all that had gone before.

It was with eyes more than half opened to
the true character of his former protege., and
with an impression of the domestic relations
between his ward and her husband which
gave him infinite pain, that he took his leave
next morning as if for the railway station. As
soon as he reached Oxford Street, however,
he put his head out of the cab window and
bade the driver take him to Bedford Row.

The young solicitor gave him a hearty
welcome.

I only wish it was my house,' he said,

^ instead of my office, that this pleasure might
be shared by Henny. Now, Canon ' (here he
assumed the legal manner), ' what can. I do for
you? '

Well, it isn't settlements ; I am not
going to be married again,' said the Canon,
characteristically hiding his anxiety with a
joke. ' I am not even come for legal advice,
but merely for your opinion as a man of
business. A certain friend of mine is connected
with the Susco Railway Company, in
British Guiana. What do you think of it as
an investment? '

For yourself ? '

I don't say that. Put it as generally as
you please.'

Well ; such things are not much in our
way,' was the quiet reply. ' Our clients'
investments ' (he looked up at the yellow tin
boxes that ornamented the office walls) ' are
not, as a rule, in British Guiana securities ;
but I do happen to know something about

the Susco. If I had not a shilling in the
world I would perhaps accept fifty shares of
such a company, as a gift, provided they were
fully paid up ; but not a hundred, because
that would put me on the direction.'

And why not? '

Because my name would be then made
use of, and might induce ignorant persons to
invest in the undertaking, which is, in my
opinion, thoroughly unsound.'

Do you mean to say it's a bubble company?
'

That is a strong expression, and suggestive
of fraud. Let us call it a balloon company
— it is all in the air.'

My dear Iron, you alarm me more than
I can say. John Adair, Sophy's husband, is
a director of it.'

Iron shrugged his shoulders. ' That
that should be a matter cf regret to you,
Canon, I can easily believe ; but surely it is
not one of surprise.'

It has shocked and surprised me beyond
measure. You don't mean to tell me that it
is Adair's practice to mix himself up with
such undertakings? '

My dear Canon,' returned Iron, gravely,
4t is quite contrary to my custom to interfere,
unless I am professionally consulted, in other
people's affairs. Moreover, Mr. Adair and I
are not on very good terms. I would therefore
much prefer you to go elsewhere for information
about him.'

But I am here to consult you professionally.
I wish, for Sophy's sake, to know the
whole truth. Tell me all ; it will be the
truest kindness.'

I can only speak from hearsay,' returned
Iron, after a moment's pause ; ' but it is a
matter of common report — and has been for
these many months — that Adair is a great
speculator. That he has a finger in almost
every new-made pie, and some of them, I am
sorry to say, dirt pies. He is a man of great

ability but of overweening conceit : one, in
my opinion, who would never be content
with the moderate profits of a legitimate
business. It must be admitted that he has
peculiar advantages in the fact of his money
being settled on his wife ; that fe always a
great temptation to such men to gamble.
Ruin can never touch him, he has always his
wife's principal to fall back on, no creditor can
claim it, and that will assure him a certain
income. These companies are unaware of
that. He is known to be a partner in a respectable
firm and to live in good style, and it
is worth their while to purchase his name.
That is the long and short of it.'

The Canon grew not only grave but grey;
he looked ten years older than he had done
^^^ minutes before.

Adair assured me with his own lips last
night that he was connected with no undertaking
except the Susco Railway, which,
moreover, lie stated to be a perfectly safe con-vol.

III. c

cern ; " as safe as any English railway debenture
stock," were his very words. Did he
deceive me wilfully, or is it possible he was
deceiving himself ? '

If you compel me to give you a categorical
reply,' returned Iron, with evident reluctance,
' the latter supposition is impossible.'

He lied to me ? '

Undoubtedly he did.'

That is enough,' sighed the Canon, rising
slowly from his seat. All vigour seemed to
have gone out of him. He looked a broken
man.

I do hope, my dear Canon,' said Iron,
gently, 'that you will not take this matter
too much to heart. Mrs. Adair is, of course,
quite ignorant, and therefore innocent, of her
husband's proceedings ; and, thank Heaven,
into whatsoever hole he falls he cannot drag
her and the child after him. The law, so far
as material matters are concerned, has made
them safe.'



The Canon answered nothing ; his sad
and lustreless eyes seemed to be looking into
some Inferno of the future. ' Deceived, deceived
! ' he murmured.

Now, my very dear sir, I do entreat you
not to let that annoy you,' urged the solicitor,
earnestly. ' You have lived out of the world,,
but if you had lived in it you would know
that to be deceived is man's normal state. His
only remedy is to consult a respectable
solicitor, and he is not to be found in every
street. Whatever the law can do for you in
this matter (if you will trust me) shall be
done, and with a will, I assure you. But it
can do nothing (except in breach of promise
of marriage cases) to assuage the feelings.
What amazes me is that you should allow
yourself to be wounded by the duplicity of
this man. What else could be expected of
him? Did I not assure you on the very first
day I met him that he told me a most distinct
and wilful lie about his being in a certain

c 2

place in the City (I've got a note of it) on a
particular Tuesday morning ? That, of course,
was not his first lie, nor was it likely to be
his last.'

If Mr. Frederic Iron flattered himself that
it was an abstract love of truth, or hatred of
falsehood, that caused him to be so vehemently
antagonistic to Mr. John Adair, he was mistaken
: what Hemiy had told her husband of
Adair's conduct at home — his roughness to
Sophy, and indifference to his child — was
really what fed the flame of his indignation.
In business matters no private considerations
have any place, but they affect them just as
strongly as if they had ; it is only that the
lever is not in sight.

To the young lawyer's philosophic view of
matters the Canon had replied nothing ; to
judge by his sad preoccupied face, it is doubtful
whether he even heard it.

I don't think I can come up here again
just yet, Iron,' lie murmured, as they shook

hands ; ^ I may want you to come down tome
at Cambridge ; you will oblige me so far
I know, if necessary.'

^ And much further, my dear Canon,' returned
Iron, warmly. ' At any hour of the
day or night, you may depend on my attending
to your summons.'

He saw his visitor into his cab, and again
the Canon shook hands with him ; not because
he had forgotten he had already done
so, but as if to assure himself that here was a
man apt in affairs, yet of a kindly nature, on
whom he could rely.

As the vehicle rolled away, Iron looked
after it with troubled looks. ' What can be the
matter with the dear old fellow ? ' he thought
to himself. ' It is something much more
than ^s^hat he has told me, I'm convinced
He surely never could — no, no, that is impossible.
Human folly is as deep as plummet
can sound, but it has its limits.'

He was wrong ; it is unfathomable.

CHAPTER Xxxii.

THE Thunderbolt.

Sad as had been the thoughts of Canon
Aldrecl on his way up to town, they were
almost pleasant ones in comparison with those
which consumed him on his return journey.
In the former case he was not so preoccupied
as to]^have been oblivious to the inconveniences
of travel. He had felt the cold, he had been
conscious of the annoyance and trouble to
whi ;h he had been put. But none of these
things moved him now. A fellow-passenger,
shivering in the other corner of the carriage,
inquired of him whether he had any reason
for keeping the window down. He had not
even known that it was down, or that he was

travelling thirty miles an hour m the teeth of
an east wind.

And, as he felt no personal discomfort, so
was he unconscious of any misfortune that his
conduct might brig upon himself. His
misery was caused by remorse for what his
weakness — his culpable weakness — had
brought on others. He would have been
wretched enough had they been strangers,
but they were very dear to him ; persons
who had been committed to his safe keeping
by the dead, whose trust he had abused ; and
his agony was none the less because he had
never dreamt of harming them. He was
suffering, in fact, as Sophy suffered, from the
effects of his own wilfulness (for he had acted
upon his own impulse without asking the
advice of any man) and weakness and folly.
He had done, indeed, the very thing which
Frederic Iron, with all his knowledge of the
world, had said to himself that no man would
be fool enough to do. Xo fatal consequences

need of necessity, indeed, ]proceed from it r
the one thing that comforted him was the
hope that they would not do so : but they
might do it. It was not necessary to say anything
about it yet ; it might even never be
necessary ; but he felt that it would never be
absent from his thoughts — never, never. How
should he meet his sister with such a weight
upon his mind and not let her perceive it?
He had a letter in his pocket from her, received
in answer to his telegram, full of disappointment
at his stay in town, tender apprehensions
for his health, anxious love and
messages for Sophy and the child. Such
letters as kind folk write, full of groundless
though not fictitious grief, when there is really
nothing the matter. It was only too probable
that A ant Maria would soon have cause to
grieve, indeed.

He resolved to tell her something of the
unpleasant impression he had got of the
position of the little household in Albany-street;

that would account for his bad spirits,
and at the same time be a humiliation to himself.
His punishment, as he remorsefully
thought, could not begin too soon, though,
alas ! he had not the remotest notion of the
possible extent of it. Then, so soon as he
had once made his arrangements for warding
wolf the immediate trouble, he grew a little
calmer, as often happens when we get our
heads above the sea of calamity even for a
moment : there now seemed a ray of hope.
After all, matters might not be so bad as Iron
had suggested ; and, since his own out-spoken
words had not apparently been without their
effect upon Adair, who can tell what a letter
of urgent remonstrance and appeal might not
effect ? He would write such a letter to him
that very night. No one could say he had
not the right to do it. And he would not
mince matters ; upon that he was determined.
"While carefully avoiding anything
like offensive language, this young man

should be told what he thought of him — no,
not that, for that would make a breach
indeed — but what he thought of his conduct.

My dear William, what has happened? '
were Aunt Maria's first words. ' I am sure it
must be something very serious ; how pale
and fagged you look ! '

Nothing has happened, my dear Maria ;
but I am certainly tired, and, to say truth, I
have been worried as well.'

About business ! Now what a pity it is
you should ever meddle with business ! Why
don't you get some sensible — that is, I mean,
not a sensitive scholarly person like yourself
to do all that sort of thing for you ; Mr.
Iron, for example ; it would save you a world
of trouble, and money too, I believe, in the
long run.'

The observation was full of truth, though
the speaker did not know how true it was.
The poet's remark, ' we are wiser than we
.know,' would have fitted her to perfection.

The Canon winced as the random shaft struck
hin.

It is not exactly business which has
annoyed me : I am sorry to say I found
domestic matters in Albany Street not at all
satisfactory.'

^ Is little Willie worse?' put in Miss
Aldred, anxiously.

It is not little Willie, though the poor
child is no better. Sophy isn't happy in her
married life, Maria, and that's the long and
short of it. I am very, very much disappointed
in Adair.'

There was silence for a little while ; the
Canon expected at least some expression of
surprise, or perhaps (which would have been
worse) not of surprise ; some feminine ejaculation
of ' who can wonder ? ' or just what I
expected.'

But all Aunt Maria said was, and that
very gently, ' I am very sorry, William ; I
am sure you acted for the best.'

Nothing: was further from lier tliouo^hts
than to reproach him. She tended to console
hmi. Yet this speech wounded him
even more cruelly than the other had done.
It took the part he had taken in Sophy's
marriage so entirely for granted. The remark
was only natural, nor could the fact be
gainsaid ; but it is one thing to accuse one •
self and another to have one's offences presupposed
by another.

It has turned out far from well,' he
answered, gloomily ; 'he is an indifferent
husband and a careless father, and she is nota
happy wife.'

Poor Sophy, poor Sophy ! ' murmured
Aunt ]varia, tenderly. ' Well, well, it's no
use crying over spilt milk. We must pretend,
for her sake, not to see it, and we must
not quarrel with her husband. It would add
bitterness to her cup, indeed, should she
thereby be estranged from us.'

The Canon looked at his sister with



affectionate admiration. He lead not given
her credit for such sagacity. If he had told
her Sophy had been already cut off from
Henny's society through Adair's dislike of
Iron, he would not have been astonished ;
but this prescience staggered him. As a
matter of fact, no superhuman wisdom, but
Aunt Maria's ill opinion of Adair, had suggested
this sage advice. ' The man is brute
enough for anything,' was the thought that
was passing through her mind.

True ; we must take care of that,' he
said.

Thank goodness,' observed Aunt Maria,
^ it is only necessary to be barely civil to him.
Self-interest is his god, and since you have
some command of her money, that will always
keep him on good terms with us. How
dreadfully pale you do look, William ! How
stupid I am to be asking you all these questions,
when it is clear you are ready to faint
for want of food ! '

And she bustled out to get him a glass of
wine, and to hasten the preparations for his
luncheon.

Of the wine he indeed stood in need, but
the food he found it difficult to partake of ;
and as soon as the meal was over he went to
his college rooms. He craved to be alone,
for when we are in trouble the tenderest
companionship, where confidence cannot be
reposed, is irksome ; and there was also the
letter to be written to Adair before the post
went out. He had proposed to himself to
write to his son upon that day, but with this
weight on his mind that was not to bethought
of It almost seemed to him — the
idea was a flash of despair, however, rather
than an actual apprehension — that he never
could write to Robert now as he had intended
to do ; that he never could have the spirit for
it ; he had had enough of bringing young
folks together into the bonds of matrimony.

The Canon had the pen of a ready writer,

but it was over two hours before he had
composed his communication to his satisfaction.
It was embarrassing' even to begin :
that ' My dear Adair ' stuck in his throat ;
the man was no longer ' dear ' to him ; and
embarrassing to end. How could he sign
himself ' Yours sincerely ' even, without telling
a lie? But his chief difficulty lay, of
course, in the contents. He had helped
many a fellow creature along the rough path
of life, but this was the first time he had
ever reminded one of what he had done for
him ; ever appealed to his sense of gratitude
In this case he felt compelled to do so, and,
indeed, he had done for Adair more than
most men do even for their dearest friend ; ' I
have rot only helped you to the utmost of
my ability,' ran one pregnant sentence, ' but
even as we say here, ultra .vires beyond what
the law in its strictness would perhaps have
justified me in doing. It is surely not much
to ask of you some prudence in retui^.' He

stated, tliouo'li without divino' the name of
his informant, what he had heard of his
speculative undertakings ; but he abstained
from reminding him that in every such instance
he had broken his pledged word. He
spoke plainly, in short, but carefully avoided
giving any personal offence. His fingers
itched to write something of Adair's behaviour
at home, but he withstood the temptation.
.

In conclusion, he reminded him, with a
pathetic ignorance which should have touched
the correspondent's heart (only he had none)
more than all the rest, that he could have no
personal interest in the matter on hand whatever,
but was merely actuated by his love
for Sophy and her child. ' If I have unwittingly
said anything that pains you, forgive
it, Adair, for their sake.'

It is one of the most hateful necessities of
human life, that good and honourable men
often feel themselves obliged, for the sake of

others, to use the language of conciliation to
scoundrels ; it is never of the faintest use.
They might just as well speak the truth —
Sirrah, you are a vile hound ' (and, oh, the
rapture of telling them so!) — at once; but
for the moment it seems to be of use.

When he had finished that letter, the
poor Canon got up and rubbed his knees ; he
had a sensation of having been walking on
all-fours ; his brow was damp with the dew
of humiliation.

^ There, I've done it,' he sighed ; ^ I've
held out the olive-branch to the brute ; even
the hippopotamus is graminivorous, so let us.
hope he'll take it.'

All things invite
To peaceful counsels, and the settled state
Of order, how in safety best we may
Compose our present evils, with regard
Of what we are and where, dismissing quite
All thoughts of war.

The words occurred to him quite naturally,,
and not till he had uttered them did it occur
to him from whom he was quoting. It was-vol.

III. D

part of the speech of Mammon to the fallen
angels.

Gad, if I had thought a little more (jf
Mammon in this business,' mused the Canon,
ruefully, ' it would have been better for
Sophy.' He posted his letter to Adair with
his own hand, so that no mishap should
occur to that, and then, not wishing to return
home early, yet finding no restfulness, as of
old, amongst his books and pictures, and
feeling, for obvious reasons, disinclined to
seek the society of his friend Mayors, he took
a solitary walk in the Roundabout. This
was the very spot, as we know, in which
Sophy had been so imprudent as to give a
meeting to her first husband ; a circumstance
from which she could, not indirectly, trace all
her misfortunes. It is not only our pleasant
vices which scourge us ; but sometimes even
our indiscretions. Little guessed the Canon
of how the train for her marriage with Adair
(for which he blamed himself as the sole
cause) had been laid there.

It was winter now, but the place was full
of evergreens and well sheltered : it was not
old, yet it had seen many generations of
scholars and students. They had been wont
to walk there sometimes in company, but for
the most part alone ; the young ones (just
come into their fellowships as into a kingdom,
and proud of their privilege of being there)
full of hope, revolving each their scheme of
classical and mathematical ambition ; the old
ones (who had seen its folly) taking a constitutional
and getting up an appetite for ' Hall.'
The Canon had belonged in his time to both
parties, without quite sharing the feelings of
either. His thoughts strayed down the vista
of departed years without much regret for
them. ' I have almost got to the end of
my tether,' was his reflection ; ' and, but for
Maria (who would miss me, I fear), I don't
care how soon I reach it.' The trouble which
he had, as he felt, brought upon poor Sophy
depressed him and made him very unlike

himself. He felt, as indeed he looked, much
older than he had done forty-eight hours ago.
He flattered himself that he was nearing his
rest, whereas (if he had but known it) he
was about to begin life again under changed
conditions. All that he now beheld he would
see again, but they would never awake in
him the same emotions. He would have
other things to think about.

At present the idea had not so much as
crossed him that it might be so. As far as
his own affairs were concerned, he did not
even see the cloud in the sky of the size of a
man's hand ; there was no warning. Indeed,
what happened did not take place on the
morrow, nor on the day after. It is generally
so, when Fate overwhelms a man : she is
sure of him, and is in no hurry.

There was no answer from Albany Street
for three days. This silence irritated the
Canon exceedingly, as well it might. That
Adair should take no notice of such a letter

as he had written to hmi was nothing less
than an insult. He had been requested to
address his reply to college, not to ' The
laurels,' so that his correspondent might not
be taken by surprise, and led into showing
more feeling before Aunt Maria than was
judicious. On the fourth morning, as the
Canon eagerly ran his eye over the letters
lying at his room (literary correspondence
chiefly, with ingenious suggestions as to
Milton's meaning, which, if correct, would
have gone much further than was intended,
and put him side by side in the category
with the mad poets), it lit upon a legal document.
It was enclosed, of course, but the
handwriting on the long blue envelope proclaimed
it as a communication from Themis.
^ There were her very c's, her m's, and her
t's ; and so makes she her great C's.'

What the deuce is this? ' he murmured,
partly because he hated law, partly because
he was annoyed at not getting the letter he

expected, and tore it open. The contents of
it were as follow : —

Sir, — We are instructed, on behalf of
Wilhelmina Adair, the infant daughter of
Mr. John Adair, of Albany Street, London,
to apply to you as one of the trustees of
Mrs. John Adair's marriage settlements, dated
June 14, 18 — , for a statement of the property
subject to the trusts of such settlement at the
date thereof, and of what such trust property
now consists.

We are informed that the sum of fifteen
thousand pounds has been paid out of the
trust property by you to Mr. and Mrs. John
Adair.

According to our view of the trusts of
the settlement, such payment ought not to
have been made ; and our instructions are
to see that the trust property is protected for
the benefit of our client, the said Wilhelmina
Adair. We must ask you to let us have the
information required in the course of this

week ; and will be obliged if you will put
us into communication with your solicitors,
as, if we are compelled to take proceedings to
protect the trust property, we do not wish to
trouble you personally in the matter.
We are, sir, your obedient servants,

Sine & Steele.'

The Canon stared at these words, boldly
written and very legible though they were, as
though they were some Belshazzar warning
felt in his heart that they boded rum ;,
but he required an interpreter to get at their
meaning. As his heated eyes reversed the
document, its own words, ' we shall be obliged
if you will put us into communication with
your solicitor,' suggested to him the very-person
of whom he stood in need. Hardly
knowing what he was doing, yet afraid to
trust another with such an errand, he put on
his hat and gown and hurried to the telegraph
office, where he ^^ rote this message : —

From Canon Aldred, Trinity College, to
Frederic Iron.

Can you come to me by next train ?
Most urgent ; reply jDaid.'

Then he tottered back to his rooms, and
sported the door.

Half an hour — an hour — he spent the
time he knew not how ; but not in thinking :
on the contrary, in trying not to think. All
that he dared suffer his mind to dwell upon,
lest it should leave hiui altogether, was,
When shall I hear from Iron ? '

At last relief came to him ; there were
steps on the stairs, and a careless whistle.
(Little do those telegraph boys know what
messengers of Doom they are ; the postman,
by comparison, is a mere valentine purveyor.)
The yellow envelope was dropped through
the letter slip, and the Canon seized it as
some starving prisoner clutches his daily
dole.

From F. Iron, London, to Canon
Aldred, Trinity College.

I shall be at your college rooms at five
o'clock.'

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

Resignation.

With the majority of men, when a great
misfortune happens to them through the baseness
of a fellow-creature, it is the private
wound — the personal catastrophe — which they
feel the most ; but with nobler and simpler
natures it is the baseness itself which most
affects them. It is a revelation to them of a
depth of infamy in human nature of which
they have never guessed, and they start back
from it aghast. It seems as though all their
lives they had been walking on the brink of
a chasm overgrown with brushwood, or even
flowers, so that the existence of it had never
been suspected. When it is suddenly revealed,
the hideous suspicion strikes them that

the whole world may be full of such
hidden fissures, that no path is safe, no
friendship to be trusted. This philosophic
state of mind arises in reality from a certain
sort of philosophy (much accepted in these
late years) which takes it for granted that,
though there may be such things as ' good '
and ' bad,' they shade ois and mingle with
one another by almost imperceptible gradations
; and especially that there is ' a great
deal of good in everybody,' notwithstanding
what seems pretty strong evidence to the contrary.
Even if folk don't go to that length
in their fatuous charity, they will assert with
confidence, ' You may depend upon it that no
man is quite a brute.' That is, of course,
true ; but there are men much more unfeeling,
much more selfish, and much more worthless
than any four-legged creature. More cruel
than the tiger, more brutal than the bull, and
(ten times) falser than the fox. Xo one can
doubt this who has had any really large

experience of life. The experience of most
people is very limited, and they take their
views at secondhand ; and, again, an experience
may be great, and even varied, without
dipping deep. It is astonishing how little
those who have been in smooth waters all
their lives (and have had no natural inclination
to dive) know of the real nature of their
fellow creatures.

The Canon prided himself, and not without
reason, on being a judge of character : he
could detect a weakness with great facility ;
he could hit off the various traits in this acquaintances
with much accuracy and humour ;
he could even, with opportunity, recognise a
Scamp ; but he was totally ignorant of the
genus Scoundrel. For the first time in his
life, he had suddenly been brought face to face
with a villain, and it shocked and horrified
him, as though a traveller in a forest accustomed
only to meet with marmosets and
monkeys should suddenly be confronted with

a gorilla. He had been a great student, but
never, even in his reading, had he come across
such an example of utter depravity as was
now presented to him in the flesh. Ingratitude
of the deepest dye, falsehood unimaginable,
fraud of the vilest sort, were only a few
of the components of it ; it was a mixture
from which the Devil himself might have
turned away, as being a little too strong for
his stomach.

It was no wonder, then, that the Canon
shrank from it. Alone, and with the haunting
recollections of the past to intensify his
disgust, he could not trust himself — urgent-though
it was — to think over the matter on
hand. He shut it from his mind as much as
possible, and busied himself in making such
preparations for his expected visitor as would
facilitate his understanding of the subject
concerning which he had been summoned.

He took from his desk two little packets
of letters, the larger in the handwriting of

Adair, the smaller in that of his wife, and
arranged them on the table in the order of
their dates. As the former fell from his
fingers an expression of disgust passed over
his features as though he were handling perforce
some reptile or loathsome insect : over
Sophy's letters he lingered with a look of
ineffable pity.

She never meant to harm me,' was his
reflection. ' How terribly all this will pain
her, poor girl ! poor girl ! '

Once he took up one of these letters and
made as if he would open it ; but, after an
inward struggle, he put it down again, sighing,
' It will be time enough when Iron
comes.'

He took the book of accounts — those very
accounts in which Adair had made himself so
useful years ago — out of its drawer ; and a
copy (made for him within the last two
months for a special j^^^^pose) of the settlement
of which he was trustee.

Then, with a sigh, he reached down his
favourite volume from its shelf, and for a
time, wrapped in the wondrous Tale of Hell
and Heaven, shut out importunate Care and
gaping Ruin.

The lawyer found him, book in hand, to
all appearance composed enough.

This is so kind of you, my dear Iron,'
was his cordial greeting, 'yet nothing less
than I expected.'

" A friend should show himself friendly," '
returned the other earnestly ; then added,
with a smile, ' it is a bad sign when a lawyer
quotes Scripture, but you must needs understand
that I come as a friend.'

This delicate disclaimer of his visit behoof
a professional one was lost upon his companion,
or we may be sure he would have
combated it.

I believe I never stood in greater need
of one,' was his earnest reply. ' This is the
communication received this moi-ninon which

Chas

caused me to put you to so much inconvenience
; ' and he placed in his hands the
lawyers' letter.

Sine and Steele ! ' exclaimed Iron, glancing:
at the signature ; ' what on earth have
these gentlemen to do with you ? '

You know the firm, then? '

Iron nodded. So far as a gesture could
convey at once assent and dissatisfaction, the
nod conveyed it. He read the letter through
without comment ; then observed, with extreme
gravity, ' Can this be true, Canon ? '

^ Can what be true ? '

That you have paid fifteen thousand away
of Mrs. Adair's trust-money?'

To herself, yes ; at her earnest and repeated
entreaty, in order to make her husband
a partner in his own firm.'

Great heavens ! ' cried Iron, starting
from his chair, ' you must have been stark
staring mad ! '

A red spot came into each of the Canon's

cheeks. ' I see now that it was a very foolish
act,' he answered, gently.

Ten thousand pardons, Canon,' returned
the other, with sincere contrition ; ' any weakness
that involves great risk appears to a
lawyer madness — that is, to a young lawyer.
As experience widens, the thing is too common,
no doubt, to evoke surprise. It is possible,
too, I should have remembered, that
matters may have been left more than is usual
to your discretion. Have you a copy of
Mrs. Adair's settlement? '

The Canon pointed to where it lay.

I am afraid that will not help us much,'
he said, disconsolately. ' I was aware when
I advanced this money that I was exceeding
my powers.'

Iron shook his head ; the gesture was
this time on of pity. 'How could you do
so?' it seemed to say, and not ' How could
you have been such a fool? '

There is not a word in this. I am sorry

VOL. ITT. E

to say said the lawyer presently, tapping the
document with his fingers, ' that authorises
any such use of the trust-money as you have
put it to. I suppose what you did was done
under great pressure.'

^ There are poor Sophy's letters and the
man's,' said the Canon, wearily. ' Judge for
yourself

The lawyer read the former first ; when
he had done with each he folded it up and
replaced it in its envelope with mechanical
precision ; not a word of what was written
escaped him, nor the signification of a word ;
but it produced no more external effect upon
him than if he had been perusing the County
Directory.

And yet Sophy's were very touching
letters. In many of them there was ample
acknowledgment of the affection with which
the Canon had treated her. Allusions to the
past, full of tender feeling, with now and
then, as it seemed, an involuntary pang of

regret. From none of them was absent some
reference to his constant solicitude for her
welfare, and in connection with it the earnest
hope that he would crown his benefits by
advancing to her husband out of her own
money a sufficient sum to enable him to become
a partner in the house with which he
was already connected, but by a less binding
tie.

^ This will put John in his proper place
said one of these letters, ' and enable him to
use more freely the talents with which I know
you credit him, and which are at present
hampered by his subordinate position.'

It was clear that the Canon had made a
fight for it, for besides entreaties there were
arguments pointing out not only the perfect
safety of the arrangements suggested, but the
advantage that must needs flow from it, which
it appeared were so prodigious that ' John
would have no difficulty in repaying in a
few years the whole amount thus so kindly

e2

SSnToMUiHOl

advanced to him, though when even that is
done, it would be impossible indeed for him
ever to escape being your debtor.'

What do you think of those letters ? ' inquired
the Canon, hoarsely, as Iron pushed
Sophy's last letter under the elastic band that
kept them all together.

They remind me of the old Scripture,
with a difference,' answered the lawyer,
gravely. ' The hand is the hand of Jacob,
but the voice is the voice of Esau.'

You think that Adair dictated them? '

No doubt of it. In some of them,
where he saw that her affectionate pleading
would have more force with you than his
specious arguments, he let her write as she
pleased, though always with a tag of his own ;
in others he suggested — nay, insisted upon
every word.'

Do you mean that, in your opinion, there
was actual compulsion, Iron?' inquired the
Canon, frowning.

No doubt there was. I don't mean to
say that he stood over her with a stick ; but
she was no more a free agent than if he had
done so. She was not to blame — I am very
sure you do not think she was to blame ; but
the trail of the serpent is over it all." '

Read his own letters, Iron.'

I will ; though I can guess what they
contain. Protestations of respect, the gratitude
that is the sense of favours to come ; the
most solemn assurance that the money will be
as safe as in the Bank of England, and that
anything in the way of speculation is foreign
to his character and offensive to his principles.'

The young lawyer read them through, ashe
had read the others, but with a contemptuous
lip.

Yes,' he said, ' they are just what I
expected, only stronger. He calls Heaven to
witness to his prudent intentions. I wonder
that didn't excite your suspicions.'

But if it comes to a trial, Iron, and these

letters are read in Court ? They will surely
damn him.'

Damn him ? yes said the lawyer, with
some unction. ' But what will he care for
that ? When a man takes a step of this kind,
do you suppose that he has not long ago
parted with the last rag of self-respect? ^

At the least, he must acknowledge the
debt, however.'

You may sue him, of course, for the
money you have lent him ; but you may be
very sure he has not one penny he can call his
own. I have not the slightest doubt that he
is in debt up to his eyes, and that there is a
bill of sale out upon his furniture. This is the
last throw of the ruined gambler ; and I am
afraid, sir,' added the lawyer, with great
gravity, ' he must need win his stakes.'

The Canon's face grew very pale.

Do you mean to say that I shall have to
refund the money which this man has so

urgently pressed me to advance to him — the
whole fifteen thousand pounds ? '

I very much regret to say. sh*, that, in
my opinion, you will find yourself liable for
the whole amount.'

Then I am a ruined man,' said the Canon,
bitterly.

Iron walked to the window. The leafless
trees and the cold river formed a scene which
in its desolation was in too much harmony with
his reflections. It was terrible to think that
a man like the Canon should thus be stripped
of means in his old age by this ungrateful
hand. He strove to shut out what his companion
was unconsciously ejaculating in a tone
that would have wrung a harder heart than
his. ' My poor dear Robert, your father's
folly has ruined your life. My dear Maria,
your brother has brought your old age to
poverty. And Sophy— poor little Sophy,
whom we used to love so — how it will wring

your heart when you learn what you have
done.'

Such expressions — that is to say, the giving
way to the emotions for which they stood
may be thought to have been signs of weakness
in the poor Canon. They were, at all
events, not signs of selfishness ; nor were
they of long duration. He had a simplicity
of character which has got to be very rare
among us. Use was not second nature with
him, because he required no substitute for the
first ; his wont had always been to be natural-many
persons in his position, albeit both hi
inferiors in morals and intellect, would, without
doubt, have repressed these evidences of
sorrow ; or, if they had given way to them it
would have been at the cost of dignity. With
the Canon this was not the case. Frederic
Iron, who lived to have a considerable experience
of these scenes, which only fall to
the lot of the family lawyer to behold, used to
say that he had never seen a picture so

pathetic. And in two minutes it was allover
; through all that followed no human
eye ever saw any weakness in the Canon.
Indeed, Iron remarked even then an expression
come into his companion's face that spoke
not only of resignation but of a certain sublime
content. His lips still moved, but the
words did not reach the lawyer's ear. This
was, perhaps, fortunate ; otherwise it might
have struck him that among the engines of
the law about to be set in motion against his
unfortunate client there might appropriately
enough be one termed de lunatico inquirendo.
These were the Times he murmured : —

Undoubtedly he will relent and turn
From his displeasure, in whose look serene
When angry most he seems and most severe,
What else but favour, grace, and mercy shine ?

Then rising from his chair, the Canon, observed,
with calm serenity, ' Well, Iron, at
all events we now know the worst. I am in
your hands. Let me know what is best to be
done.'

CHAPTER Xxxviii.

IN CONSULTATION.

A WEEK has passed, uneventfully, so far as
action is concerned ; but bringing great
changes with it. Figuratively, the Canon has
bowed his head to the inevitable ; but, to all
outward seeming, he holds it gallantly. There
are more grey hairs on it than there were ; to
those who behold them and know the reason
of their presence it is only more revered on
that account. He has told Aunt Maria all,
but has looked in vain for the indignant reprobation
that was his due.

I have been your ruin,' he added ; ' my
blind confidence and folly have brought me
from competence to poverty, and have dragged

you down with me. AYe must exchange our
pleasant home for one of a very different kind.
You will have to pmch and spare, to cut and
contrive, to eke out our narrowed means. At
a time of life when you are least fitted for
such a change you will have to occupy yourself
with sordid cares ; and for all this you
will have to thank your natural protector — as
you imagined me to be — myself.'

He had said this leaning with his hand
upon the mantelpiece, and looking down into
her face as she sat in her chair, making a pretence
to work at some small garment for
Sophy's child. Her fingers had trembled a
little as she had listened to him; she answered
nothing till he had quite done. Then she rose
and kissed him on both cheeks.

My dear brother,' she said, softly, ' what
you have said is very true, except the last
few words. I have to thank you, it is true,
for very much ; for a life of ease, of too much
ease, perhaps — the very breath of heaven

has not been suffered to visit my cheek too
roughly ; for a brother's unselfish devotion,
for affectionate forbearance and solicitude —
but not for this. Your goodness and generosity
have been imposed upon, it is true ;
but that is not your fault, but another's
villany. For what has happened I thank
Mr. John Adair alone — not you, dear. One
can scarcely say ' (here she smiled a smile as
sweet as that of the maiden who murmurs
^ Yes' to her first love) ' that we have climbed
the hill together, because the ascent has been
accomplished (with your money, for I never
had any) in a chariot with C- springs ; but
we have always sat side by side, and now we
shall descend it hand in hand. What does it
matter, dear, since we shall soon come to our
journey's end, whether we travel on foot or
not?'

As there is a nobility of nature's own, far
beyond what can be purchased of minister, or
merited from another, so there is a beauty

beyond that of form and feature, or even
which youth itself can bestow — the beauty of
the soul ; and something of that divine comeliness
now shone on Aunt Maria's kindly
face, with its halo of silver grey. For the
moment it seemed to the Canon that the
revelation of such undreamt-of love and
faith was full repayment for all his woes
and worries. He had always esteemed his
sister ; but, as he now confessed to himself,
for these many years he had been entertaining
an angel unawares.

If you have taken me for something even
weaker than I am,' she went on, noting the
Canon's ' hushed amaze,' ^ have a better
opinion of me for the future, my dear ; and
now let us talk no more about our own misfortune,
but do our best, since we cannot
mend it, to bear it.'

The courageous behaviour of Aunt
Maria had all the effect which she hoped
for upon her brother. Mr. Iron, who had

paid more than one flying visit to Cambridge,
and was there at that very time,
was full of admiration at the Canon's
thick ; for, indeed, there was nothing in
his present circumstances to afford either
comfort or encouragement. A reply had been
written to Messrs. Sine & Steele to express
his astonishment and righteous indignation
at their letter, and setting forth in detail
how the money had been borrowed by Mrs.
Adair herself for her husband's use. But the
answer, as Iron had predicted, was cold and
formal enough. They had nothing to do
with ' the parties ' of whom he spoke, they
said, but were acting, on instructions, on
behalf of Wilhelmina Adair, an infant, whose
moneys, as they had reason to believe, had
been misapplied ; and they concluded by
announcing that the Court of Chancery would
be at once applied to for the enforcement of
their claim.

Over this letter the Canon and Iron were
now sitting in consultation in the Canon's

rooms. All hope of defiance or even defence
was over, however, and the conversation had
chiefly turned upon the means to be adopted
for realising the fifteen thousand pounds which
would have to be paid into court. When it
was done the Canon would find himself with
a bare subsistence, that was all.

You think you were quite right in not
having; written to Adair himself? ' said Iron,
tentatively.

^ Right or not,' said the Canon, emphatically,
' nothing should have induced me to
address him ; there are depths of humiliation
to which a man cannot stoop and hold up his
head again.'

Yes ; I felt that I could not advise you
to that step,' answered the lawyer ; ' moreover,
it would have been humiliation in
vain.'

I wonder whether he knows what a
villain he is ? ' mused the Canon.

Certainly ; better even than we know it ;
because this is only one of his knaveries. I

am much mistaken if the man is not steeped
to his lips in them. This is his last lawful
throw. Henceforward, unless he has such
luck as will render it unnecessary, he will
use cogged dice ; he will take to fraud.'

You don't call this using cogged dice ? '
observed the Canon, bitterly.

No, because he has still the law upon his
side, and many examples of the like nature —
precedents, as he would call them — to excuse
him ; I remember a precisely similar case
where the counsel for the unfortunate trustee,
finding all was hopeless, observed to the
Judge — " At all events, my Lud, you will
admit that my client had no ends of his own
to gain, and was actuated by only the most
generous motives in advancing the money."
Certainly," answered the Judge ; " and if it
is any satisfaction to the gentleman, you may
tell him that there are scores of others who
have suffered from misplaced confidence in
their fellow-creatures in the same way." '

'I consider that a very heartless speech
from any one,' exclaimed the Canon, indignantly,
' and a most improper one from a man
in the position of the speaker.'

He was a good Judge, however,' said
Iron, smiling.

Pardon me ; he may have been a good
lawman, as distinguished from a layman, but
he could not have been a good Judge. A
man sitting on the bench of justice ought to
have been ashamed of himself for speaking so
cynically of what was, in fact, a gross miscarriage
of it.'

Well, it was not a pleasant speech, I
must allow ; but he spoke the truth, though
in a somewhat brutal fashion. Few persons
outside our own profession are aware how
many people are going about this world, and
even sitting at their ease in it, who deserve to
be in Newgate. Some people do so to the
end, and die very rich, and, consequently,
respected ; " but the majority come to grief,.

VOL. III. • F

and meet with their just reward, sooner or
later. This Adair, unless I am much mistaken,
will be of the latter class ; he is very
reckless as well as audacious, and when the
pinch comes will stick at nothing. Then we
shall have him.'

I wish for no revenge,' said the Canon,
calmly.

Of course not ; when I said we I meant
the law. Mark my words, that man will
-come into its clutches one day ; he will be a
convict.'

^ My poor Sophy ! ' sighed the Canon.

By-the-by, that is another matter, about
which, though we have discussed it, I have
still some doubt. Though you could not
write to her husband, ought you not to have
written to her ? '

The Canon shook his head.

Xo, Iron ; 1 feel my sister's instinct
was the true one, when she spoke to me on
that point : *' Whatever you do, William, do
not let Sophy know." '

It is unwise to import sentiment into
these matters,' returned Iron ; ' she should
surely know how she has been made a cat's
paw of to injure her best and dearest friend.'

To what end, my dear Iron ? ' replied
the Canon, calmly. ' If she knows, any word
from me would only make her regret more
poignant ; if she does not know, she will bethe
happier in her ignorance. No appeal
from her to her husband would, we are very
sure, be of the slightest use, while it would
undoubtedly widen the breach between them.'

Still, she must know of all this almost
immediately ; as soon as we take proceedings
against him.'

What proceedings ? '

Well, of course, when this money is paid
into court, or even before — indeed, I have
already put matters in train for it — we shall
sue him for the fifteen thousand pounds you
have lent him.'

Good heavens ! I never thought of that,'

F '2

said the Canon, rising from his chair with
great energy. ' Why, on earth, did you not
tell me that we had that remedy ? '

I really could not conceive any one — wh}^,
my dear sir, it's not a question of law, but of
common sense ; you have lent the money — •
though, it is true, you had no legal right todo
so — and this man has borrowed it. Of
course, therefore, he owes it you.'

Then why have we made all this fuss
about the matter ? It seems as plain as
ABC. A has lent money — B's money — ta
C, and can compel C to return it.'

Not if he has not got it,' returned Iron,
grimly. ^ Can you suppose that Adair would
have taken such a step as this if he was not
already a ruined man ? I am firmly persuaded
that he has not a shilling he can call his own,
I have made inquiries, and found, just as I
suspected, that he has even given a bill of sale
for the very furniture in his house.'

^ Then what can be the use of suing him ? '

Well, there is no use ; on the other hand,
to sit down under such an infamous wrongs
as this, with a mere protest addressed to the
man's solicitors, would argue some justification
in the offender. Besides, it is your obvious
duty — as, I confess, it will be my pleasure —
to make things as unpleasant for the rogue as
possible.'

But that must needs involve unpleasantness
for Sophy and the poor child,' answered
the Canon, quickly. ' No, Iron ; if anything
of which I have been robbed could be recovered
by such a process from the man himself, of
course I should not hesitate ; but no material
advantage can, by your own showing, result
from it ; while, on the other hand, it will
inflict injury on the innocent. I must, therefore,
ask you to abstain from any such step.'

I confess this seems to me Quixotic,' said
the lawyer, drily.

It's the ruling passion,' pleaded the
Canon, smiling. * I have been a fool from

the first, you see. How worthy of Cervantes,,
by-the-b}^, this whole afFau^ would have been !
How full of humour ! The idea of poor
innocent Willie being my prosecutor and
persecutor ! '

Yes ; the Setting trust.'

The that ? '

Well,' returned the other, with some
embarrassment, for he was loyal to his profession,
and never gave occasion for the
enemy to blaspheme ' if he could help it,
the fact is we have got no name in law for
the antithesis of a trustee ; there is the reversioner,
indeed, and the tenant for life ; but
they are particular cases ; we have no general
term except the " ce^^tm que trust," a relic of
the Norman French, which we pronounce
setting." '

Do you, indeed ? ' said the Canon,,
grimly ; 'it's quite as like the original, however,
as law is to justice.'

Though Mr. Frederic Iron was thus

compelled to stay the proceedings lie had
initiated, he made it his business to inform
himself very particularly of Mr. John Adair's
affairs. His inquiries convinced him that
these were in a desperate state ; that the man
was over head and ears in debt ; and that his
estate, bankrupt though it was, had become
liable through his various speculations for
enormous sums.

The difference between speculation and
peculation is but a letter ; the partitions that
divide peculation from fraud, and fraud from
crime of all kinds are as low and as easily
overstepped ; and when necessity sharply
urges, they are taken at a bound. The
lawyer's knowledge of this fact, joined, it
must be owned, to his own vehement prejudice
against Adair, caused him to entertain
the keenest apprehensions concerning that
gentleman's future, which disturbed him
greatly upon Sophy's account ; but, for the
present, he kept this to himself. To tell the

Canon would have been to till his cup) of
sorrows to the brim ; and he was draining
that bitter draught so bravely.

His Trinity chambers he, of course, retained
; a college knows nothing of men's
circumstances, but keeps its gate wide open
to all who have the right of entry, and gives
the same welcome to prince and pauper ; but
The Laurels ' was disposed of by private
contract, and its late innate moved into a
little cottage upon Parker's Piece, an open
space where Aunt Maria professed to find
better air and more sunshine. She never lost
her pleasant smile, which she saw reflected
much more often than she could have hoped
for in her brother's face. When it was
clouded she knew that he was thinking of
his boy, and of that sad letter he had had to
write to him, which, if it had not ' made
Cyprus ' of his Alma's ' orange-flower,' must
needs delay their happiness indefinitely.
Sometimes, too, the Canon would fall into

fits of abstraction, which lasted so long as to
compel his sister from sheer anxiety to break
into them with a pretence of cheerfulness.
^ My dear William she would say, ' what are
you thinking about ? '

On one occasion he returned (involuntarily,
we may be sure) a most enigmatic
reply :—

I was thinking of poor little Setting.'

^ And who is Setting ? '

^ Ah ! to be sure. I forgot I had not told
you,' he said. 'It's a pet name that little
Willie goes by.'

CHAPTER XXXIX.

THE Revelation.

Some people find it difficult to keep silence
tinder any circumstances ; but total silence —
just as tipplers say of moderation versus
excess — is much more easy to preserve than
reticence, especially upon a particular subject,
when speech in other respects is free ; and
the same is true, though in a less degree, of
correspondence. To write a letter to one
near and dear to us and not to hint at
the particular topic which is most in our
minds, is a feat in composition. Bluebeard's
castle was not ' a bijou residence,' yet, huge
as it was, he could not trust to Fatima's overlooking
the chamber in which he kept those

trivial, fond records ' of his matrimonial
experience ; and Aunt Maria, in ending her
usual affectionate letters to Sophy, was always
saying to herself, ' I have been most careful,
I am sure, yet, sooner or later, I know I shall
let it out.'

Weeks, however, passed by without any
such catastrophe, the very escape from which
was a fact in itself deplorable, since it showed
how absolutely poor Sophy was cut oiF from
her husband's confidence. That he had not
thought it worth while to inform her that he
had used her as an instrument to effect the
ruin of her friend and guardian was significant
indeed. It was clear that she must
know it one day, however long deferred might
be the date, and yet (leaving excuse and
justification out of the question) he had not
troubled himself even to break the shock to her.

One morning Sophy called on her friend
Henny, with looks, not only sad as usual, but
perturbed.

The child is no worse, I trust ? ' was the
hitter's first anxious inquiry.

Wile had been worse of late ; so much
so that Henny had been a frequent visitor in
Albany Street, notwithstanding that it was
very disagreeable to her to intrude into a house
to the master of which she was not welcome ;
no considerations of a personal nature would
have weighed with her where Love and Duty
were in the other scale, but the reflection
that Mr. Adair was her husband's enemy did
weigh with her. Nevertheless she went, to
comfort Sophy and to tend the child. A
man would have thought of his dignity, and
kept away out of ' self-respect ; ' but Henny
did not think of such things.

Willie is no worse,' returned Sophy,
^ though, I fear, no better. It is not on her
account, poor darling, that I have come today,
but upon another matter that troubles
me only second to it. Oh, Henny, what has
happened to the dear Canon and Aunt Maria? '

Happened to them, my dear ? ' said
Henny, trying to look surprised, and feeling
excessively frightened but not surprised at
all ; for she had expected some such terrible
question any day during the last two months.
They are quite well ; indeed, I heard from
Miss Aldred only yesterday.'

But they have left their house ; so Dr.
Newton tells me. I took your advice and
wrote to him the other day about my darling,
and he says in his letter — after promising in
the kindest way to come up and see her this
very day — that the Canon has taken a house
upon Parker's Piece : one of a row of quite
little cottages. AYhat can be the meaning
of it, and why have 1 heard not one word
about it ? '

lyell, they didn't wish to increase your
troubles, dearest Sophy, by telling you bad
news. The truth is, the Canon has lost a
great deal of money.'

'How?'

A little word, but not so easy to reply to.
Henny had almost all the virtues of her sex,
but she was deficient in strategy. Cynics
have said of women that though some of
them tell tarradiddles with less grace than
others, there is no such thug as a woman
who cannot tell them at all. Perhaps the
exception proved the rule in Henny' s case, for
she could not speak an untruth. When it was
required of her, as in the present case, she
could only turn very pale, and remain mute.

You are hiding something from me,'
exclaimed Sophy, vehemently. ' Have I,
then, lost the confidence of every human
being but my dying child ? Am I quite
alone in the world ? I have deserved it,
Heaven knows,' she added, dropping her
voice ; ' I have deserved everything ; but my
punishment is almost greater than I can
lear.'

Henny' s heart melted within her, as well
it might. Her loving arms were thrown
.about her friend in an instant, and she burst

into tears. But Sophy, though, she returned
her embrace, did so with dry eyes.

I am tired of weeping,' she answered,
bitterly. ' I have shed tears enough for a
lifetime, and there are no more to come. I
want to know the worst — the worst that is
which has happened as yet. The worst I
shall never know till I am in my grave, and
receive the just doom of the wicked ! '

The despair in her voice froze the others
.very blood.

Dear Sophy, don't talk like that ; there
are happy days in store for you yet Heaven
will take pity on you.'

You don't know, Henny,' was the quiet
reply. ' You have never angered Heaven as
I have. Let us not speak of that. Tell me
about my dear guardian ; the truth, the truth ! '

I cannot, and I dare not,' said Henny,
desperately.

You dare not. Then it is something
that concerns my husband. It is he who has

injured the Canon. I have suspected it all
along ; this is the last and worst '

Poor Sophy never finished that sentence ;
perhaps she had been about to say, ' the last
and worst proof of his vileness or perhaps
only, ' the last and worst of my misfortunes
; ' but her emotions, only too well disciplined
as they were, had proved too much
for her. She had fainted.

To a situation of that kind Henny was
fully equal ; and, without sending for assistance,
soon restored her friend — though, as she
sorrowfully reflected, it was doing her small
kindness — to consciousness. Sophy's first
words when she opened her eyes were, ' sow
tell me all.' And Henny had to tell her.

It was done with the tenderest consideration.
She prefaced her task with the Canon's
absolute acquittal of Sophy herself, his certain
conviction of her innocence of any responsibility
in the matter in question ; his knowledge
that she would rather cut her right

hand off than have persuaded him to do anything
that might entail harm upon himself.
He even stretched a point, and denied that
Sophy had persuaded him. His wish to
benefit her and hers had, of course, been at
the root of the transaction ; but he had acted
as he had done because he himself had believed
it to be the best course to adopt. It
was a mere error in judgment. She concluded
lier tale by saying that though the blow to the
Canon had been doubtless a very heavy one,
it had been bravely borne, so that its worst
effects were already over ; and that the reflection
that Sophy was distressing herself with
vain regrets, and perhaps remorse, would only
add to her guardian's troubles. Sophy heard
her to the end without interposing one word ;
but her face, which now and then she hid as
if for very shame, was a picture of agony and
humiliation.

Great Heaven ! ' she cried, at last, clasp -

VOL. HI. G

ing her hands, ' how they must despise and'
loathe me ! '

^ On the contrary, they pity and love you
Sophy

Give me pen and ink, Henny, and let
me write to them ; let me write to them from
here, your house — not from that man's houses
me tell them that I know all, and still
live to know it. Then they will understand
that the fool who has done them this inexpiable
wrong has not escaped her punishment

Sophy, Sophy, remember what I told
you,' pleaded Henny ; ' all that will only add
to their troubles ; for my own sake I entreat
you to be patient. It was especially enjoined
upon me never to speak to you of this.'

^ Speak to me ! How can you speak tome
at all ? ' cried Sophy, bitterly. ' How
could you enter my house as you have done,,
knowing it to be a den of thieves? Your
Stevie is there now ; I left him sitting by m}^
child's pillow. There is contagion there for

him. She is a thief's daughter ; I am a
thief s wife.'

It was terrible to see such fire and feeling,
such humiliation, such remorse and agony,
proceed from so frail and small a creature.
What shocked Henny most was that last
sentence, 'I am a thief's wife.' It was true
of course, but that a wife should confess it —
nay, assert it voluntarily — seemed to her, to
whom the tie that bound her to her husband
was only less sacred than that which linked
her to her God, something monstrous and
unnatural.

'Hush! hush! dear Sophy,' she entreated,
Why should I hush? Why should I not
proclaim him for what he is ? ' continued the
other, vehemently. ' Why did you not mention
the thief when you spoke of his crime?
Because you would not pollute your lips with
his name — the name he has given me — my
name.' Then, perceiving her companion's
pained and frightened looks, she added, with

G 2

passionate tenderness, ' Xo, no, no ; forgive
me, Henny, I know it was to spare me.'

Of course it was to spare you, my darling,'
returned the other, earnestly. ' That
is what we all want to do. You have been
deceived, cajoled, but you have done nothing
wrong.'

Sophy shook her head in vehement denial.

Then if you have, the best reparation
you can make to those who have suffered, the
amends that will be the most welcome to
them, is to forget it all. To behave as though
it had never happened. To feel that your
relations with those you loved, and never
meant to harm, are just as they were before
this misfortune happened. I have been to
blame to tell you of it. Do not let me
suffer for my weakness — for the love that
compelled me to give way to your importunity.'


I will do whatever those I have ruined
wish me to do,' said Sophy, humbly.

You dear, good girl, that news will indeed
please them. There is another thing
which I know they most earnestly desire ;
do not speak with Mr. Adair about this
matter. It can do no good, dear Sophy,
and will only be the cause of a quarrel or
estrangement.'

^ Estrangement ! ' echoed the other, bitterly.
' How little you, who have a husband
who respects and loves you, know the life I
lead ! Respect and love are not for me
AVhat were those lines we used to read together
in the old times, those dead and gone
old times, at Cambridge ? —

Others there are whom these surround,
Smiling they live and call life pleasure,
To me that cup has been dealt in quite another measure.

Estrangement ! Do you suppose, then, except
for the one frail link of my little Willie, that
anything binds me to that man. No ; not a
pack-thread. If that link were to snap, and
life were still left in me, not another hour,

when I had once seen my darling laid in her
restful o^rave, would I remain beneath his
hateful roof. I would starve ; nay, I would
sin first.'

Henny sat aghast at her, shocked at these
terrible sentiments, wretched in the reflection
that the woman who entertained them was
about to return to such a home, and to the
man she must needs call husband. She ransacked
her kind heart in vain for a word of
comfort. There was nothing there but pity
and sorrow.

I must go back now,' said Sophy,
wearily. ' Dr. Newton may come at any
moment. Nothing but my anxiety upon my
dear guardian's account could have induced
me to leave home. I have been used to think
that anxiety was the hardest to bear of all
troubles ; but I was mistaken. Kiss me,
Henny.'

Henny threw her arms about her friend
.and strained her to her heart.

( )h, if 1 could but help you, my darling
if I could but help you ! '

Sophy shook her little head despairingly,
and closed the mouth that once seemed to
have been made for smiles and kisses.

I feel so wicked,' sobbed Henny, to be so
kindly treated, and so loved and spoilt, when
you are suffering such terrible things so
unreservedly.'

No, not that, Henny,' answered Sophy,
gravely. ' Do you remember Hogarth's pictures,
which I persuaded you to look at,
though Aunt Maria had forbidden me to do
so, of the good and bad apprentices? As it
was with them so it is with us. We have
both got our deserts. If I could but feel
that my fate would be a warning to all reckless,
deceitful girls like me, then, I think, I
could bear it; for I have deserved it all.'

I don't believe it,' cried Henny, vehemently.
' All will come right again, some
day, if there is justice in Heaven.'

Henny lifted her sweet eyes as if to
invoke the power of which she spoke ; and
when she turned them again on the place
where her friend had stood. Sophy had gone.

CHAPTER XL.

THE WITNESS.

Man is a selfish animal, but, in comparison
with his father (as Wordsworth calls him),
the boy, he is the embodiment of self-sacrifice
and self-denial. ' Xo boy knows how his
mother loves him,' says a modern writer
who has evidently studied his subject. ' Xo
mother knows how a boy loves himself ; ' and
nobody else knows. His devotion to that
idol is without limit.

It must be admitted, however, that there
are exceptions. Many boys who have not
been to school and learnt the law of the
stronger, are kind and gentle to their sisters
and to girls generally, are not ashamed of

a partiality for that most charming of domestic
pets, the cat ; and are even fond of
children. ' The boy that loves a baby ' (justly
extolled by the author of ' Lilliput Levee')
is, however, a very rare specimen. In this
respect — namely, for the love of his small,
helpless fellow-creatures — Stevie Helford was,
as a schoolboy, almost unique. He had lost
that precocity of intelligence, too often the
companion of disease and the precursor of
death, that had so charmed Aunt Henny, but
his mind was still strangely mature and old-fashioned.
At school, no doubt, in ' form '
if not in ' gloss,' he lost his picturesqueness,
and was commonplace enough ; but in the
holidays he became in many ways himself
again, to the alarm of his grandmother (who,
having suffered from a mad spendthrift, imagined
there was safety in the commonplace),
and to the great content of Aunt Henny and
the delight of Uncle Fred, to whom the boy's
naive but pronounced opinions upon the most

abstruse topics were an unfailing source of
amusement.

It was as natural to Stevie to pass an hour
in little Willie's nursery as it would have
been with most boys to blow themselves up
with fireworks, or out with grenades. He
did not do it because it was right, or because
his aunt wished it (he was not a goody-goody
boy at all), or for ' tips ' or ' sock,' but for the
reason that is, on the whole, more powerful
than any which actuates the human breast —
because he liked it. Fido (Fred's dog) and
he were constant companions, but he never
showed himself so devoted as when Fido fell
ill of an obscure mange and needed tendance.
Again, when Henny's canary was mounting,
it was difficult to persuade him it was not a
malady which care could cure, and that he
could do no good by sitting up with the
bird all night. For which reason, and also
because his Latin was very indifferent
(' Ulpian at the best') Fred insisted upon

it that the boy was cut out for the medical
profession.

Willie had been great favourite of Stevie's
from the first, but after the accident which
crippled her there were no bounds to his devotion.
He would sit by the side of her
little cot, reading to her or talking to her for
hours — nay, what is still more unusual with
those who visit their sick friends, listening to
her. He was not so fond of talking as he
had been, or perhaps he had become more
prudent in the use of his tongue. Uncle
Fred was wont to ruffle his dignity not a
little by quotations from his early speeches,
which he now regretted, as a Minister of State
regrets his utterances on platforms before he
had responsibilities and took office. One of
them, when cast up against him, had all the
effect of a red rag on a bull. The subject of
conversation being the popularity of authors,
he had remarked, with childish gravity, ' I
have observed that the Bible is a great deal

tread ; I think, Fred, it would be a capital
plan if you were to write another Bible.'

Poor little Wilhelmina had no such plans
for the enrichment of her friends. She listened
to all that was said with intense attention
and sagacity ; but her conversation was
mainly confined, like that of Socrates, to
questions (Fred called her technically the
Interrogatory), and some of them were such
questions !

Stevie,' she would ask in a hushed
whisper, as the boy sat with his hand in hers
by her curtained pillow, ' is it right to pray
Heaven to bless wicked people ? '

One might pray to make them better,'
answered Stevie, cautiously.

I have done that, and it's no use,' was
the grave rejoinder.

Then I'd leave the blessing alone, Willie,'
answered her spiritual adviser ; ' that's not
your business.'

Here there was a long pause, during

which some pictures were investigated : you
would have imagined the subject to be
dropped ; but that was not Wilhelmina's
way ; she might let go of it, but only as an
Irishman may allow a bottle of whisky to
escape temporarily from his hands ; her mind
once fixed upon the matter, she was never
satisfied till she got to the bottom of it.

^ It is right to pray Heaven to bless your
parents, is it not, Stevie? '

Of course it is, my dear — that is, when
you have any,' added Stevie, with a sudden
recollection that he was unprovided for in
that respect.

Then if you are to leave the blessing
alone when people are wicked, and a parentis
wicked, you are not to ask Heaven to bless
him? '

The logic was pitiless. Poor Stevie, who
thoroughly understood what she meant, replied,
much embarrassed, ' You should ask
Heaven to make him better.'

Then, with the air of saying ' You are
arguing in a circle, and are confused besides
You have said that before,' said Willie.

The idea of making supplication for Mr.
John Adair had certainly never entered into
Stevie's mind, which was not as yet disciplined
into praying for his enemies. He disliked him
as much as he liked Sophy, and took care to
time his visits to Albany Street so as to
avoid meeting with the master of the house.
If Adair had known he came so often he
might have forbidden his visits ; but, as it
was, he permitted them, because they amused
the child as much as a new toy and cost him
nothing. One day, however, when* Stevie
came as usual, Adair, as it happened, was at
home. A letter had come that morning for
Sophy from Cambridge, but in an unfamiliar
hand ; and this had excited his suspicions.
There was nothing now of novelty that did
not excite his suspicions. A mind ill at ease
with itself and conscious of wrong-doing, is

always more or less in this condition. Even
to the good man chance is a thing to be apprehended,
' how much more then to the wicked
and the sinner? ' When Adair heard from his
wife that Dr. ]Newton had announced his
intention of coming up to town that day, to
see little Willie, his brow grew very dark.

You must have sent for the man,' he
exclaimed, passionately.

^ I told him that Willie was ailing,' was
the quiet reply, ' and that I should be glad of
his opinion upon the case, as an old friend,
and one in whose judgment I had the greatest
confidence.'

If*he is coming as a friend that is another
matter,' returned her husband, contemptuously
(she had anticipated an outburst,
and wondered what restrained it ; she only
knew for certain that it was no consideration
for her feelings) ; ' but as for his opinion I
wouldn't give a shilling for it. What can a
mere country apothecary have to say against

the treatment approved of by such a man as
Dr. Blow? '

It is said that two heads are better than
one,' faltered Sophy ; ' at all events, when
my child's health and perhaps her life '

What threatens her life ? ' broke in the
other, with angry vehemence ; ' there's
nothing more amiss with her than has been
any time these three years. And as for two
heads, madam, let me tell you that in this
house, at least, there is only one head. Never
let me hear of a doctor being sent for again
without my permission.'

To this Sophy answered nothing ; she
never did answer her husband unless compelled
to do so. Upon the whole, she was
thankful that for this once, at least, Dr.
Newton was permitted to come. Had she
asked leave to send for him, she well knew
that it would have been refused ; she knew,
too, that her sending for him would anger her
husband, and his wrath was terrible to her,
VOL. III. H

not only because she feared it, but because
it reminded her of the mad folly which had
placed her in his power.

She noticed, to her great disappointment,
that hie sent off a telegram or two, doubtless
to explain his absence elsewhere, and remained
at home that morning. She foresaw
that there would be difficulty in getting
speech with Dr. Newton alone. What could
it matter to her husband, as she bitterly reflected,
what report should be given of her
child, or by whom, since he was absolutely
indifferent to it?

When Dr. Newton arrived, Adair himself
received him, and with some pretence of
cordiality. He did not meet his gaze directly
— it had never been his custom to look
folk in the face, but of late he gave his profile
to every one, as though he was sitting
for his silhouette — but furtively scanned him
with minuteness. He wished to gather from
his expression whether he knew how he had



wronged the Canon or not ; and the deduction
he drew was that he did know. As a
matter of fact, the doctor did not know. The
Canon had kept his secret from all outsiders,
partly, perhaps, for his own sake (for he was
not one to write himself down an ass, even
though he might have behaved like one), but
chiefly for Sophy's sake. The doctor, however,
had no liking for Mr. John Adair (and
showed it in his honest face) for another
reason.

He had been informed by Miss Aldred
of the accident that had happened to little
Willie, partly in consequence of her father's
ill-judged economy ; he was aware that Sophy
had had money, and that Adair had had none,
and he looked upon him as a mean hound.

Some business called me up to town today,
Mr. Adair,' he said, stiffly, ' and at your
wife's request I have looked in to see your
little girl.'

You are very kind, Dr. Newton ; I am

n2

^ afraid, however, you will say little can be done
for her beyond what we are already doing.'

*At all events, there will be no harm
done. I come here only as an old friend.'

Just so,' said the other, quietly. If the
doctor had meant to give him a dig, it showed
no signs of having penetrated anywhere.
^ You shall see the child at once.'

Sophy and Jeannette were both in the
nursery, and Stevie also. When the boy
heard Mr. Adair's voice upon the stair, he
drew back behind the heavy curtain that
shielded his little friend from the draught
from the window, and remained during the
interview unseen. Curiosity, however, compelled
him to form a peep-hole, through
which he could see what was going on.

Dr. Newton entered, shook hands warmly
with Mrs. Adair, and sat down quickly beside
the patient. He asked a great number of
questions, as to symptoms, treatment, &c.,
and presently for the prescriptions.

This is all very right he said, looking
at one of them ; ' but I hope you are
careful about the proportion of water ; it is a
dangerous medicine by itself.'

Dr. Bagge warned us of that said
Sophy. ' We keep the medicine in the cupboard,
and instead of mixing it every time,
we keep a portion in the bottle here ready
mixed. When it is finished, we mix it again,
so that no mistake can possibly occur through
inadvertence.'

Umph, that's curious,' said the doctor.
^ There are certain symptoms here — the very
ones that have given you anxiety, and not
without cause — which I should have attributed
to an overdose. Who administers the
medicine ? '

Either Jeannette or myself,' said Sophy ;
and I mix it, when it is necessary to do so,
with my own hands.'

Well, you can't be too cautious. The
limb is better — better than I could have

hoped for, considering the nature of the
accident. It is the general health that is
suffering.'

Am I going to die, doctor ? ' inquired
little Willie. ' I should like to know, because
I have got things to do first.'

Bless my soul ! what a strange child,'
exclaimed the doctor, whose practice lay-chiefly
among infants of a larger growth —
undergraduates. ' Why, she reminds me of
what little Stevie Helford used to be. No,
my dear, you are not gong to die ; I hope
you are going to get well and strong.'

Do you think I shall live to be twenty-one
? ' inquired the patient, with great
gravity.

^ Ah, you want to come of age and see the
ox roasted whole in Albany Street, do you ? '
returned the doctor, cheerily. ' Of course
you'll live to be twenty-one — live to be a
hundred and one very likely. What a very
funny child! Well, there is nothing to be

alarmed about ; but the case wants watching.
How often does your medical man come,
Mrs. Adair?'

Not very often,' said Sopliy, firmly, but
avoiding her husband's eye ; ' once in three
weeks, not more.'

That is not enough, in my opinion. The
symptoms I have noticed should be attended
to and checked at once. Have you had any
other opinion — .has any other doctor seen her
beside Doctor Bagge ? '

Here Stevie noticed that Mr. Adair threw
a glance at Jeannette, unperceived by the
other two ; to the boy's quick intelligence it
seemed to say, ' Don't speak.'

No,' said Sophy. ' No one but our own
medical man has seen her.'

Then the doctor rose and left the room
with Sophy, her husband following close
ujDon their heels.

What am I to do ? ' cried Jeannette, despairingly.


^ What is the matter ? ' whispered Stem
looking out from his place of concealment.


Lor, Master Stevie, I cpiite forgot you
were there,' said Jeannette, growing very
white ; ' you gave me quite a turn.'

But what is the matter ? '

The waiting-maid vas too well acquainted
with the importunity of youth to attempt to
evade the question. ' Why, my poor mistress
wanted to have a few words with Dr. Xewton
alone ; and I am afraid that she weill never
get them. Hush ! be quiet, listen.'

The others had gone into the drawing-room
and closed the door. Nothing was
heard save the ticking of the clock upon the
mantelpiece, and the occasional dropping of a
coal from the grate. Fatigued with the doctor's
investigation, and lulled to rest by the
silence, Willie sank into a deep slumber.

Presently there was a gentle knock at the
door. ' My mistress wants you downstairs,

Jeannette said one of the maids. ' Shall 1
stay with the child ? '

No, it is unnecessary ; she is asleep.'
Then, in a hushed whisper, ' Keep where
you are, Master Stevie, unless Willie cries,'
said Jeannette, and noiselessly left the room.

One minute, two minutes, and then there
was a cautious click of the door-handle.
Stevie lay close, with a presentiment of something
about to happen ; to his horror, Adair
stole quietly in. The boy's heart beat fast ;
but fascinated, rather than curious, he kept
his eye at the loophole. What could have
brought the master of the house back to that
room alone ? No affection for the child,
that was certain. He stepped lightly to the
foot of the bed, and gazed earnestly at the
little occupant ; then, having, as it seemed,
convinced himself that she was asleep, he
took up the phial that stood upon the table,
marked well how far it was filled, and
emptied its contents into some vessel he had

brought with him. Next, going on tiptoe to
the cupboard, he took out a bottle, and filled
the phial from it to the same height as before.
Then replacing bottle and phial where he had
found them, he glided noiselessly from the
room. The whole transaction scarcely took
up a minute : it would have been plain to any
person of mature judgment that such dexterity
could only have been acquired by practice.
If but few opportunities had been
afforded him for such proceedings, it was
certain he had lost none.

Stevie stood petrified as he watched all
this, and when it was over began to tremble.
It seemed to him that he had been on the
verge of crying out something horrible —
perhaps ' Murder ! ' — without knowing exactly
why. He did not comprehend what had
occurred, but he felt that if the man had
attempted to give Willie what was now in the
phial he would have rushed out and stopped
him at all hazards. But now his nerve had

left him and almost consciousness itself. The
contemplation of a crime by an innocent
person is almost as shocking as the first commission
of one.

Even when Jeannette returned, the boy
still remained where he was, and without the
power of speech.

^ You may come out now, Master Stevie,'
she said, cheerfully. ' Mr. Adair has gone
away with the doctor, but not before my
mistress had a private word with him ; why
master left us alone together, though it was
only for five minutes, I can't imagine.'

'7 can,' sad Stevie, putting back the
curtain, and disclosing a white face and staring
eyes. ' He left you to come up here.'

Here ! Good heavens ! He didn't do
anything to the child ? '

No ; he left you to do it.'

Then he told her what had happened from
beginning to end.

Jeannette listened, with horrified face. She

took up the phial. The medicine was as
colourless as the water with which it should
have been mixed ; but she took out the cork,
and smelt it.

That would have gone nigh to kill
her she said, solemnly. She poured back
the contents of the phial into the bottle, and,
mixing more medicine with water in the
proper proportions, replaced the phial as
before.

snow, as you love little Willie, Master
Stevie,' she said, earnestly, ' not a word of
this to my mistress or to any one else. I will
answer for it that it shall never occur again ;
but nothing must be done in a hurry. If he
thought we knew of this, my master would
kill us both, and the child, and my mistress
too.'

It is probable that Jeannette did not in
reality apprehend this wholesale slaughter ;
her object was to make sure of the boy's
silence.

But we must do something,' urged Stevie.
He had as great confidence in Jeannette's
sagacity as in her honest intentions ; and
quite believed that any person who could
injure Willie was capable of quadruple assassination.
But he could not see how a
masterly inactivity ' could meet so extreme
a case.

'You must do this, Master Stevie : go
home and ask your aunt to invent some
excuse for getting me to her house this afternoon.
Tell her that I have something very
particular to communicate to Mr. Iron. If
you can't trust me to do what is best,' she
added, noting the boy's hesitating look, ' you
can surely trust your uncle.'

Yes, I can trust Uncle Fred to do what
is right,' said Stevie, naively, ' because I
know he dislikes Mr. Adair, to begin with.'

And do you suppose that I like Mr.
Adair ? ' inquired Jeannette, with a strange
smile.

For an instant there flashed upon Stevie's
mid the remembrance of that significant look
which she had exchanged with her master
when Sophy had been engaged with the
child ; but he put the suspicion from him
loyally.

^ No ; you can never like the man that
would have harmed little Willie,' he said.

These words came hissing through her
clenched teeth —

I hate him ! '

Then the door opened, and Sophy entered.
Her mind was too full of the events of the
morning to take notice of how the boy had
disposed of himself during the late interview.
He had little difficulty in effecting his departure,
since his hostess wanted to confer
with Jeannette about the child ; but not till
he had got clear of the house (which henceforth
became terrible to him) did he begin to
breathe freely.

Cram ' and competitive examinations
burden young gentlemen's wits in these days
pretty considerably ; but never had boy so
much upon his mind as Stevie had as he ran
home that day.

CHAPTER XLL

JEANNETTE CONFESSES.

Jeannette's attendance upon little Willie since
lier illness had been almost incessant. She
was not one of those domestics who grudge
their extra service in time of trouble ; and,
on the other hand, Sophy was not one of
those mistresses who treat their servants as
though they were machines. Though hardly
ever leaving her own threshold, she insisted
that Jeannette should take a certain amount
of open-air exercise every day, and that this
should take as much as possible the form of
relaxation. When a note came from Henny,
shortly after Stevie's visit, inviting Jeannette
to take tea with her maid that afternoon.

Sophy was very glad of the opportunity of
mvinfi: her the treat. She would be left alone
with little Willie for an hour or so, which was
a greater satisfaction to her than ever.
Strange as it may seem, she had, in a fashion,
communicated to the child the terrible news
she had received from Henny. To make her
really understand what had happened with
respect to the Canon was, of course, impossible,
but she had impressed her with the fact that a
grievous wrong had been committed against
this best of friends and benefactors, and that
if it should ever lie in her power to make
amends for it, her first duty, in the eyes of
God and man, would be to do so. It was a
foolish thing enough to tell a child, but then
poor Sophy was not wise. Moreover, she had
no one else to whom she could pour out her
passionate sorrow and remorse for what had
happened save this little confidante, who saw
her mother's tears not as another child might
have done, with mere wonder and awe, but

VOL. III. I

with the keenest desire to staunch them, and
with intense interest in their cause. Though
she had spoken of her father to Stevie, she had
never spoken of him to her mother ; it was a
topic that neither of them discussed, but upon
which they were tacitly agreed. Sophy did
not even tell the child who was the actual
wrongdoer in the Canon's case ; and from
what seemed happy instinct, but which in
reality was reticence born of premature sagacity,
little Willie forbore for once to question
her upon the point.

"While this loving couple were exchanging
their confidences that afternoon, they little
guessed how deeply they were occupying the
thoughts of a certain friend of theirs, who, if
he had made no sign of late of the interest he
had in them, had by no means forgotten them.
He had his own affairs and the affairs of many
clients to think about, for he was a very
rising young solicitor ; but ever and anon
when tidino's reached him of Mr. John Adair's

goings on ' (which they indirectly did) in the
City and elsewhere, he was wont to swear
softly to himself, and make remarks of the
following description : ' You have stolen my
client's money, you scoundrel, in spite of my
teeth — and lost it. You are stealing other
people's money (but that's their look out),
and losing that. As you get deeper and deeper
into the mire, you take it out of that unfortunate
little wife of yours for every failure
of your thievish plans ; the more desperate
are your circumstances, the more miserable
you are resolved, it seems, that she shall be.
Even the innocent child whom you have made
a thief by proxy has suffered from your meanness,
and — well, some day or another you
shall pay for all this, as sure as my name is
Frederic Iron.'

Iron's character was not Quixotic (or he
could never have been ' rising ' in his profession),
but he was swayed, as most men are,
despite much twaddle talked to the contrary,

I 2

by other motives besides self-interest. Though
he had loyally defended the action of ' the
Court ' against the Canon, he had felt that his
client's case was a hard one, and his very
respect for his own calling made him exceedingly
resent its powers having been made use
of to enforce a wrong. His wife, who had
great influence over him, had communicated
to him her own impressions of the tyranny
that prevailed in Albany Street. Despite his
calling, he had not so much patience with
cruelty and meanness as lawyers generally
exhibit (not because they are deficient
in feeling, but because they think it
shows a logical mind). If he had ever been
called to the Bench, he would have taken
what is called, I am given to understand,

in legal circles, ' the d d shame ' view of

matters brought before him, and been a terrorless
to law-breakers than to villains. Nor was
a personal motive wanting for his hostility
to Mr. John Adair ; he had secretly never

forgiven liii the lie which (as he was still
convinced) he had told him on the very first
day he had the honour of making his acquaintance.


Henny had not hesitated to summon her
husband home by telegraph that afternoon ;
he had come, as it was understood, to ' five
o'clock tea ' m the most ordinary and natural
fashion, nor was there anything to excite
comment in Jeannette's being sent for up to
the drawing-room to give an account of how
the little invalid was progressing in Albany
Street.

First, however, Stevie had told his story,
which Uncle Fred transferred to his notebook
word byword as being matter of grave importance
indeed, which might be wanted afterwards
: but this witness, upon Jeannette's appearance,
was directed to withdraw, while
Henny remained in court to watch proceedings.
The waiting-maid at first was very far
from communicative ; she had had some hours

for reflection since the events of the morning,
and her views were not what they had been
when Stevie had left her. That Adair had
altered the child's medicine, and with, of
course, some evil intent, she was well convinced
; but she felt sure, being forewarned,
that this could never occur again ; while to
make a further scandal of the matter would
be to entail she knew not what upon her
unfortunate mistress. Moreover, should her
master ever discover that she was hostile to
him, he would turn her out of doors upon the
instant, when her mistress and the child would
be left without that protection which she alone
knew to be so necessary to them. Like most
persons with a turn for intrigue, she had too
great confidence in her own resources.

Iron saw at once that she had repented of
her offer to make a clean breast of it to him,
and shaped his course accordingly.

What Stevie has stated to me is a matter
so very serious, Jeannette,' he said, gravely,

that it must be gone into, whether we will or
no. An attempt to murder cannot be hushed
up, out of regard to the feelings of anybody,
remember.'

But why should it be murder, sir? ' she
argued. ' For all we know, the doctor may
have altered his opinion, and Mr. Adair have
done what he did by his advice. Besides,
what good could master get by killing the
poor little darling ? — his own flesh and blood,
too.'

'When murder is done, Jeanne te,' returned
the lawyer, coldly, ' it is not only the murderer
who puts his neck in the loop, but the
accessory who is in collusion with him. No
one who knows you could suspect you of
doing little Willie any harm ; but you will
not be known to the Judge and jury who will
try this case. I warn you, that if you are
concealing anything that may throw light on
this matter, you are playing a very dangerous
as well as foolish game.'

I am concealing nothing, sir said
Jeannette, obstinately ; and then, with that
superfluity of assertion so characteristic of her
class, added, ' I never did.'

What, not when you concealed from your
mistress that another physician had seen little
Willie besides Dr. Bagge? '

If you know so much about it, there was
two on 'em,' muttered Jeannette, grudgingly,
but with a sob in her voice. It was not so
much alarm upon her own account that had
thus caused her to break down in her resolution
to keep silence, but perplexity and distress
of mind.

Then why did you, in collusion with
your master, keep this visit secret from your
mistress and Dr. Newton? '

Because I mustn't speak of it,' cried the
wretched Jeannette. ^ Master told me if I
ever breathed one word of it, out of the house
I should go. How do you think my poor
mistress and Willie would get on without me?

What sort of husband and father do you take
Mr. Adair to be that I should let him work
his wicked will upon them? You may call it
collusion ; you may just as well accuse dear
little Willie herself of such a thing, whom I
begged to be silent about this very matter for
her mother's sake ; and she did so, because,
child as she is, she has a deal more sense in
her than some people as are grown up. And,
after all, what did it matter about more doctors
coming? They were kind, honest gentlemen,
and, as I should judge by their manner,
none too fond of master.'

Just so,' said Iron ; ' you were quite
right in supposing there was no harm in them.
Still, I must know who they were.'

I know nothing about them, except that
one called the other Woodruffe : and if ever
master comes to hear that I told you even so
much as that, whatever happens afterwards
will be at your door, not mine, sir.'

He shall never know, Jeannette, be assured

of that. If you will only confide in me
we shall be able to spoil all his schemes, and
make him harmless. But we cannot fight
against him in the dark.'

I know no more, sir, than what I have
told you ; only remember that in dealing with
him you have to do with the wickedest and
most heartless man that ever drew breath,
and one that is as cunning as the Devil.'

You have described the gentleman to a
haue,' said Iron, drily. ' What on earth,' he
added, turning to his wife, ' could have ever
induced Sophy to marry him ? '

Henny held up her hands, and shook lier
head. Though she was so fond of Sophy, the
girl had always been an enigma to her, and
the object of her affection a matter of amazement.
Badly as Adair had turned out, he
had not, in his bachelor state, been more
objectionable to Henny than Mr. Perry had
been.

She married him because she couldn't

help it, Mr. Iron,' said Jeannette, warmly.
Heaven forgive me for the hand I had in it,
but I doubt if I could have stopped it anyhow.
She did it to prevent an exposure.'

Mr. Frederic Iron emitted a low whistle ;
a whistle full of feeling as well as significance,
but still a whistle.

You are wrong, Fred,' said Henny, firmly.
I am quite sure Sophy never misconducted
herself as you suppose. She may have been
weak but never wicked.'

That's just it, ma'am,' said Jeannette, approvingly.
' My mistress was very foolish,
and bitterly, indeed, she has paid for her folly,
but she never went wrong. She had a secret,
which Mr. Adair possessed himself of; and,
rather than it should be known to her friends,
she married him.'

^ And what was the secret ? ' inquired
man and wife together.

^ She had been married before to Mr. Herbert
Perry.'

What ! Sopliy a widow ! ' exclaimed
Henny, in shocked amazement.

Iron expressed no astonishment — it was
beneath the dignity of his profession : but he
murmured, ' What a deuced clever girl ! ' between
his teeth.

But are you quite certain of this,' Jeannette
? ' inquired Henny.

^ I saw them married myself in St. Anne's
Church, in the City ; it was against my will
from first to last. I had nothing to do with
it except holding my tongue. I wish,' she
added with a sigh, ' I could say as much of
her second venture.'

There was a long silence. Henny was
recalling the words Sophy had uttered during
her last visit, the reproaches she had heaped
upon herself, the acknowledgment she had so
passionately made that her sorrows were deserved,
and only her righteous punishment.
sit was no wonder,' she felt, and yet she
pitied her, from her soul she pitied her.

Iron's thoughts flowed in quite another
channel. Was it possible that little Willie
was not Adair's^ child after all ? — a circumstance
which, though it could excuse nothing,
might explain much.

When did the second marriage take place
how soon after she was a widow ? ^ he inquired.


About six months, sir. It was not my
poor mistress's fault that it was so soon : the
Canon hurried it I think, poor man, little
knowing what he was about ; and of course,'
she added, her hatred of her master stings.
ing her into unaccustomed satire, ' Mr. Adair
was very anxious to make sure of her
money.'

Here the clock on the mantelpiece struck
six.

I must be going,' said Jeannette, rising ;
if my master comes back and finds me away
from home — and especially here — he will
suspect something.'

Quite right said Irtoiij approvingly ;
we must contrive to see you again, when
necessary ; but in the meantime we cannot be
too cautious. One moment ; how do you
know that Mr. Adair knew your mistress was
a widow? Did he ever say so in your hearing?


No, but it was very well understood between
them.'

Still you have no evidence that he knew
it?'

He knew it,' said Jeannette, after a moment's
reflection, ' because he read a letter of
Mr. Perry's which spoke of his marriage, and
he enclosed it with a letter of his own to my
mistress.'

^ Is That letter — Adair's letter — in existence
? '

I think it is.'

I will give fifty pounds for a sight of
it.'

I don't want your money, sir,' said

Jeannette, doggedly ; ' I have had enough of
doing underhand things for money.'

But iihis is work for a good end, work
that may possibly be the means of rescuing
your mistress from her slavery, as well as
causing your master to get his deserts.'

^ That would be a sight for sore eyes indeed,'
answered Jeannette, earnestly, mopping
her own with her handkerchief, as she arose
from her chair. ^ You shall have that letter,
sir, if I have to break open missus's desk to
get at it.'

CHAPTER Xlii

ROBERT.

The p. and 0. boat has just arrived at
Southampton. Her deck is crowded by a
motley crowd, but the expression of their
faces is, for the most part, wonderfully similar.
There are some invalids, so ill that even the
thought of ' coming home ' cannot bring back
the vermeil hue of health ' to their bronzed
but shrunken cheeks ; there is a glitter in
their eyes, but it has moisture in it, like the
light of the sundew. And there are others
in mourning, who have been beckoned across
the ocean by the hand of death. The rest are
bright and radiant : some eager to revisit
their own homes, others chiefly to enjoy themselves
after long and enforced abstinence from

pleasure, in ' the village as we term, with
mock sentiment, the metropolis.

There is one exception, however ; a young
man, neither an invalid nor in mourning, but
who wears a grave and preoccupied expression.
He does not scan the faces of those
ashore who have come to meet the boat ; he
has friends, dear ones at home ; but he knows
that no one will be here to welcome him, for
they do not know of his arrival. His fellow-passengers
crowd around him to shake hands
of farewell, for he has made himself popular
on the voyage ; he accepts their civilities and
reciprocates them, but with a somewhat distrait
air ; his mind is far from them. He is glad
when they have streamed away, and he can
follow after them and mix unobserved with
the crowd at the railway station. It is early
spring, and the darkness of evening is already
falling.

^ First class, sir? ' inquires the porter,,
who is looking after his luggage.

VOL. III. K

No ; third class.'

The porter stares, for the young man is
well dressed and has an aristocratic air, and
notwithstanding this discovery he shows him
to his carriage.

I thought so,' murmurs the official, as he
leaves the door with a shilling in his hand ;
^ once a gentleman always a gentleman. Now,
some fools would have said, " There's your
carriage," and taken no further notice of him.
He's out o' luck, that's all, and I hope it
will return to him.'

The subject of this aspiration pulled his
railway rug around him, pushed up his coat-collar,
drew down his travelling cap over his
brows, and prepared himself for silence, if not
for slumber. He was in no mood for talk,
nor, in any case, would the appearance of his
fellow-passengers have invited conversation.
There were but two of them ; one a rough-looking
fellow, but without the wholesomeness
that often accompanies roughness ; the

other with the appearance of having seen
better clays, the remembrance of which he
had made efforts to drown in the usual manner
; they spoke to one another in hoarse
whispers, and seemed to be on intimate terms
what the world at large calls friends, and the
sporting world ' confederates.' Presently one
of them produced a huge spirit flask, which
drew the ties of their amity still closer and
still more loosed their tongues. They had
seemed at first to be suspicious of their silent
companion, but, as he gave no sign of wakefulness,
they soon disregarded him. As appeared
from their talk, they had recently returned
from some distant land, where, though
they had accomplished their errand, they had
encountered some hardships, spent all their
money, and received some slight which had
wounded their amour propre.

What I hate, most of all, in the governor,'
said Xo. 1, in discontented tones, ' is his want
of confidence in a fellow. AVlierever one goes

k2

there is always some one else going, unbeknownst,
to look after one.'

^ That's his kind consideration for our
welfare,' returned No. 2, whose language
showed a much higher type of education than
that of his companion. ' He's so fond of you
he can never trust you out of his sight.'

He don't trust you a bit more than he
does me ; don't think it,' sneered No. 1.
Why, you was searched twice between the
mine and the 'hotel.'

But nothing was found upon me, my
friend ; I left the court without a stain upon

my character, whereas you dear me, I felt

quite ashamed that a pal of mine should have
so bemoaned himself for a few ounces of
silver.'

I am not a ostrich, like some people, as
can s waller silver,' returned the other, angrily.
^ For my part, I wonder you don't jingle as
yon move'*

And a very pleasant music it would make

returned the other. ' Automaton pianos
would be nothing to it ; there is only one
pleasant chink to my ear — that of gold.'

'It's high time we heard it,' grumbled
No. 1. ' The idea of our having' to come home
in the steerage, and now in this 'ere third class,
with the tagrag and bobtail ; ' and he nodded
his head in the direction of their sleeping companion
to illustrate his remark by application.
Fellows as have done what we have done to
our employers' satisfaction.'

It was the euchre, however, to give the
devil his due, which took away our ready
money,' observed No. 2. ' The governor has
behaved square enough.'

And so he ought to do,' answered the
other, angrily. ' For every ten pounds he has
put into our pockets he expects to land a
^ thou ' at the very least.'

That depends upon how the company
stands. Without the help of that swell in the
city the wheels could never have been moved

at all ; and it's my opinion he has not much
money to grease 'em with.'

But he knows where to get it,' observed
No. 1, ' and he won't be so particular how it's
got.'

Got ? who is? ' returned the other, contemptuously
; ' but let me tell you it's not so
easy as Dawson thinks for a swell in the City,
if he has been once blown upon, to raise
12,000Z. anyhow. And Master John Adair's
reputation is not virgin ; no, nor anything
like il — 'um ! '

This inarticulate sound was a note of
warning. The 3'oung gentleman in the
corner had suddenly given a start, which was
perceptible through his wraps. Nor though
he feigned to strike out a limb mechanically as
though it were ^2iYt and parcel of the other
performance, and to breathe heavily, like one
fast bound in slumber, did he succeed m lulling
the once aroused suspicion of his companions.
He overheard, indeed, Xo. 1 anathematising

No. 2 in a muttered tone for being
such a blank fool as to name names in a public
conveyance, and No. 2 defending himself with
the vehement irascibility of a man who
knows he is in the wrong ; but their confidential
communications were over. Only one
other observation passed between them from
which any information could be gathered. As
they neared the end of their journey No. 2
bought a newspaper, and produced from his
pocket a small lantern, by means of which he
contrived to spell out a word or two, though
the chief effect of the light was to illumine
his own countenance in a Rembrandtish and
unattractive fashion.

Well ; what's the noose? ' inquired his
more illiterate companion.

None. There are no quotations yet, of
course.'

Why, I thought they was a laying five
or six to one against the Briar-root filly.'

Tut ! your mind is always feeding on

horseflesh,' returned the other, contemptuously.
I meant there are no quotations of the Ses.,
stupid.'

Not till the train stopped at the ticket
platform did the young gentleman in the
corner begin to awaken, which he did with
much yawning and stretching ; one would
have said that he had either been undergoing
great bodily fatigue of late, or must have been
a very lazy man indeed. Xo sooner had he
parted from his companions, however, and
found himself in a cab, than all trace of sleepiness
vanished. There was an angry light in
his eye, and an angry ring in his voice, as he
exclaimed to himself —

That man again ! How strange that his
cursed name is the first to meet my ear in
England ! What scoundrels those two fellows
looked ! His accomplices, no doubt, in some
scheme of villany. It is too late to get on tonight,
and I can't stop all these hours alone,
eating my heart out with bitter thoughts. No

don't Henny will give me a bit of supper,
and — what I crave for infinitely more — some
news of Cambridge. Her husband is a clever
fellow, by all accounts, and his advice may be
worth having.'

He put his head out of window, and substituted
for the address he had first given to
the cabman that of the Irtons' house in Maidaa
Vale.

It was past eight when the cab drew up
at the door ; he rang the bell, and gave his
card to the servant for Mrs. Iron. Henny
was still in the dining-room, where her husband
was smoking his after-dinner pipe (she
was much too good a wife and wise a woman
to object to the smell of tobacco). She read
the card, jumped up with a cry of pleasure,
and ran into the passage, where Mr. Frederic
Iron heard her exclaim, tumultuously, ' You
dear, good fellow ! ' These words, so distressing
to a husband's ear, were followed by an
unmistakable kiss.

The next moment she reappeared, leading
by the hand a very handsome young man,
looking not so much ashamed of himself as-embarrassed.


I owe yon an apology, Mr. Iron,' he
began, smiling.

^ It's quite out of the question,' said the
lawyer, gravely. * The matter must go to a
jury, who will assess damages.'

why, it's Robert,' cried Henny ; robert
Aldred, from India : I knew he 'd come ;'
and then this extraordinary young person,
who had quite a reputation for self-control,
burst into tears. •

I am very glad to see Robert,' said Iron,
shaking hands with the new comer warmly.
This is indeed friendly of you. You are
come to stay with us, of course.'

Nay, I was going to Cambridge this very
night, but found I was too late ; so I just
looked in.'

Henny was in the passage again in an

instant, giving orders about his luggage being
taken down, and carried to the spare room.

You will have to stay, Aldred,' said
Iron, smiling. ' If I were master here I
would add "and welcome " ; but Henny presides
over the establishment. This sad new
of the Canon has brought you over, I conclude?'


Yes ; I am come on short leave instead
of long ; but I could not leave him to bear his
misfortune alone.'

I have always heard you were a good
fellow, and now I'm sure of it,' exclaimed the
lawyer, approvingly ; ' sit down, and you
shall have some dinner at once.'

In Henny' s house matters were never run
so finely that there was difficulty in suitably
providing for an unexpected guest ; and if
viands were not wanting on the occasion, we
may be sure there was still less lack of conversation.


The three sat far into the night, conferring

and discoursing on many things ; and, as
generally happens when a traveller has come
from the ends of the earth, the first topic of
Robert's talk was upon his latest comparatively
unimportant experience in the railway
carriage.

How odd it was that I should hear of
this Adair so soon; was it not?' he said.

'Well, a good many people are talking
about him, and none to his credit,' replied
Iron. ' I have no doubt, as you suggest,
that the men are engaged in some scheme —
probably a nefarious one — in which he is interested.
I dare say it's no worse than many
another in which he is mixed up. But I'll
just make a note of the expected quotation of
those S.S. shares.'

And don't you think his having to find
12,000^., apparently at some early date, was
rather significant? '

Why, yes. I 've got that down already,'
returned the lawyer, drily. ' It's evident that

he's approaching a crisis — probably a very
dangerous one.'

He can't do my poor father any more
harm ; that's one comfort,' observed Robert,
grimly.

No ; he can't do him any more harm,'
said the lawyer, slowly. Perhaps he was
thinking of the Canon's wrongs, as Robert
was doing ; for both remained silent for a
little while, with compressed lips ; or perhaps
he was thinking, ' Though he can't hurt
your father more, he may hurt others.'

^ It is quite marvellous how well the dear
Canon and Miss Aldred have borne it all,'
observed Henny. * Of course your coming
will be an immense delight and comfort to
them ; but it was not really necessary.'

Alma thought it was,' said Robert,
simply. * So far from combating my resolution
to come home, she said it was my obvious
duty.'

You have got her portrait, of course ? ''

said Henny, gently. ' You must let me see it
before you leave us.'

I have got it here,' answered Kobert,
with a blush ; and he produced it from his
breast-pocket.

At this, Henny's look grew so very
tender that Iron interposed with, ' You
really mustn't kiss him again ; ' which made
them both laugh very heartily. In reality,
Iron had not the least objection to their
kissing ; but he was averse to sentiment, or,
rather, to the display of it.

The photograph presented a charming
face, a little darker than common, thanks to
the Indian sun, but exquisitely feminine ;
though full of gentleness and feeling, it had,
however, a very noticeable expression of resolution,
which Henny remarked upon at once.

Oh, yes ; Alma is not easily subjugated,'
said Robert, smiling. ' When I got the bad
news from home, the General was for breaking
off the engagement. ' " I gave you m^T- permission,"

he said, ''to pay your attentions to
my daughter under certain circumstances,
which no longer exist." But Alma said that
she had given her promise without conditions.
She had a very bad quarter of an hour with
the old General ; but she got her way.'

They generally do,' observed Iron, drily,
^ and they go on getting it, let me tell you,
after marriage.'

Xot in all cases,' said Henny, sorrowfully.

If you think that sigh is on her own
account, Aldred,' interposed Iron, ' you are
very much mistaken.'

I was thinking of poor Sophy, Fred.'

To be sure,' said Iron, growing grave at
once. ' That is a matter which, I think,
Aldred, you should be informed about. I am
acting, or trying to act, as the friend of the
family with respect to certain circumstances,
without any proper authorisation. They are
such as I cannot communicate to the Canon
without casino; him the greatest distress of

miiid, which you will agree with me he ought
to be spared. I should not have shrunk from
the responsibility if you had remained in
India ; but, as you are here. I must ask you
to be our confidant and adviser.'

I shall, I fear, be of very little use in
the latter character,' said Robert, modestly;
^ but if, by sharing the burden of what you
have so kindly taken on your own shoulders,
I can lighten it in any way, pray make use of
me. I am come home to be of use.'

Then Iron narrated all that he had learnt
respecting Sophy's two marriages.

Robert did not interrupt him, but now
and again he could not repress an expression,
of amazement — ' Sophy secretly married ! '
Our little Sophy ! ' ' It is impossible ! '

He was, perhaps, thinking less of Sophy
than of the lengths to which an innocent and
perfect creature like his Alma could possibly
go in the way of deception, and hence his
incredulity. ^

As to the fact of Sophy's first marriage,'
returned Iron, ' there is no room for doubt
about it, though Jeannette has not as yet
been able to put me in possession of Herbert
Perry's letter, or of the letter which accompanied
it from Adair.'

Why should you want that ? ' interrupted
Aldred. ' I can understand the value of
Perry's letter ; but, surely, anything that
Adair asserts, whether by word or in writing,
must be valueless.'

Not necessarily ; they may be admissions,
or they may be corroborated by other evidence.
However, I have made myself independent
of all that. I have been to St.
Anne's Church, and found the entry of
Sophy's first marriage in the register.' Here
it seemed that the young lawyer had intended
to stop. Indeed, he knew so little of Robert,
and his capacity for keeping secrets, that for
prudent reasons he had left out many things
in hm narration — what Stevie had witnessed

VOL. IJI. L

in the child's sick-room in Albany Street, for
example ; but suddenly, as if from an uncontrollable
impulse, he added, ' It was the
dullest thing, that visit to the registry office.'

Droll ! How was that ? '

Well ; when I had found what I wanted
I produced a photograph of our friend Adair.
The man is very peculiar-looking, I must tell
you, keen and hatchet-faced, and blacker than
you are — as black as the Devil — and asked
the clerk whether he had ever seen the
original of it. Yes, he said, he had ; and
taken particular notice of him, because he had
given him half a sovereign instead of his usual
fee. The fellow is a mean hound enough by
nature ; but I suppose his joy at finding that
his information as to Sophy's secret marriage
was correct, and that consequently she was
in his power, was too much for him, and he
had fallen into a lit of generosity. At all
events, not only did the clerk recollect him,
but he had made a note of the date of his

visit. Now, I saw Adair for the first time
that very afternoon in London at some
luncheon rooms, and when I met him at
your father's table, three days afterwards, and
recognised him, he denied that we had ever
met before. He swore that he was in the
country on the day in question ; and everybody
but myself — here Iron cast a triumphant
look at his wife — believed him.'

And my dear Robert,' put in Henny,,
quietly, ' I do believe that that corroboration
of his own astuteness has given Fred almost
as great satisfaction as if he had got your
father's money back.'

But, perhaps, the fact was of importance,'
observed Aldred ; ' I am sure your
husband would not have been so gratified
from mere self-complacency.'

How you men do hang together,' smiled
Henny.

You are an uncommonly sensible young
fellow, Robert,' exclaimed Frederic. ' Excuse

l2

my calling you by your Christian name, but
you seem like an old friend, and I am sure
one who can be trusted. And, since you
have proved yourself so intelligent, I'll tell
you something which otherwise I should not
have confided to you just at present.'

CHAPTER XLIII.

ON THE TRAIL.

^ The law of England, Alfred observed
Iron, puffing slowly at this pipe, ' admirable
as it is in all respects (as yoii are doubtless
aware, though living at so great a distance),
has its peculiarities. It permits a marriage to
be valid if one of the parties concerned is
married under a feigned name, and the other
is not aware of it ; but, for certain good and
wise reasons, it does not permit it if both are
conscious of that inaccuracy. You open
your eyes, my friend (I do not resent it in the
least, one of the great objects of the law is to
open people's eyes), but you now understand,
perhaps, that, next to our being assured of

Sophy's first marriage, it was most important
to know that Adair was aware of the fact
before he became her husband.'

I see the importance answered Robert,
thoughtfully, ' but do not see the ground for
satisfaction ; since if you could have proved
he had not been aware of it, the marriage
would be invalid, and Sophy could at once be
extricated from his clutches.'

True ; but at what a sacrifice. She
would be a mother, and no wife.'

But if the man is such a husband as you
describe,' urged the young fellow, ' and such a
villain as I know him to be, would not any
position be preferable '

Xot in Sophy's view,' interrupted Iron ;
^ not in any woman's view. Ask my wife
here.'

It is the child,' said Henny, gently.
She might bear it for herself, but there is the
€hnd.'

She means that in the case you are supposing,'

explained Iron — ' that is, if the
marriage were annulled — the child would be
rendered illegitimate.'

I see,' said Robert, thoughtfully ; ' but
what I again fail to see is what we have to
congratulate ourselves upon.'

Why, because the fool was married by
banns. It is curious what stupid mistakes
even the cleverest knaves are always making.
Why didn't he marry her at a registry
office ? '

How could he, Fred ? ' put in Henny,
remonstratingly. ' Do you suppose the
Canon would have permitted such a thing ? '

Well, he ought to have made a fight
for it. If he had been aware of his danger he
would have done it ; but his error was — and
it is the most fatal of all errors, my dear
Aldred — he did not consult a lawyer.'

But what difference could it have made
whether Adair was married by banns or not ? '

^ Well, the making a false entry before a

registrar is an offence that can be got over
but to make one after the publication by-banns
is a more serious affair. The law in
that respect is a little peculiar

Peculiar ! Idiotic, I call it exclaimed
the young fellow. ' Dear me, what a queer
profession ! '

How like Its father ! ' murmured the
lawyer. ' He could never get over that
Setting trust.'

But if this scoundrel has committed a
felony,' exclaimed Robert, vehemently, ' why
not try him, and trounce him ? '

Well, in the first place, it is not a felony ;.
and also there is just this difficulty. He has,
without doubt, performed a criminal act, sofar
as connivance goes ; but, unfortunately,
the chief offender, m the eye of the law, would
be the 'party" Who signed herself "Sophy
Gilbert, spinster." '

Good heavens ! she must have been
stark, staring mad! ' ejaculated Robert.

^ Not a bit of it. Having entered upon a
certain most unjustifiable, but by no means
unnatural, course of conduct, she felt herself
compelled to go through with it. One lie
more or less, poor soul, seemed of no great
consequence, and of no greater importance
than another. That is one of the great disadvantages
of habitual deception — one loses
one's sense of proportion. However, though
matters really are as I have described, Adair
knows nothing of it ; and, though we cannot
actually bring him to book, it may be possible
to frighten him. There is a story told (no
doubt by an enemy of the Church) called the
*' Six Curates of Cornerstone." These divines
were shady as to character, and by no means
spotless as to conduct, but the Bishop had a
difficulty in getting rid of them. At last he
hit upon a device — he sent each of them an
anonymous letter, with these words of warning
: " All is discovered ; flee." And the
next day the diocese was clear of the whole

half-dozen. Now we have something more
tangible to go upon than His Lordship had.
We know of one offence that this gentleman
has committed ; and I suspect that he has
done infinitely worse things. A similar warning,
should the necessity arise for it, may
have the like effect. Omne ignotum pro
magnifico ; he may take our hint at this
ecclesiastical peccadillo as referring to some
much more serious matter, and show us a
clean pair of heels at once. It is not a strictly
professional way of going to work, I admit
added the lawyer, with a slight blush,
but '

Oh ! who cares twopence about that ? '
interrupted the young man, contemptuously.

I thought you wouldn't,' said Iron,
drily.

I can't imagine any human being having
scruples in dealing with such a wretch as John
Adair,' said Henny.

I kneiv you wouldn't,' said Fred, composedly.

' Still, permit me to feel a pang of
compunction. Nothing but the reflection
that the Law is intended for the widow and
the orphan — though in this case it is the wife
and child — could reconcile me to such a
course of action ; but it may be the only one
open to us, and in that case, my dear Aldred,
you may be very useful.'

So that is the reason why you have made
me your confidant, is it ? ' said Robert,
smiling.

Well, it's best to be frank, my dear
fellow,' returned the other, a little disconcerted,
but this time without a blush. He
was naturally chary of those proofs of embarrassment,
having but a very few in his
possession altogether ; and the plate, as it
were, having been destroyed.

When the young man had departed, taking
with him the high esteem of both host and
hostess, Henny could not help remarking to
her husband that he had not been so very

frank, after all ; inasmuch as he had never
mentioned to Robert one word of those
terrible suspicions of Adair as regarded his
child.

• I dared not do it,' returned Iron. ^ Not
that I have the least doubt, of course, of
Robert's honour, or his good intentions, but
because I know nothing about his temperament.
I can remember a time, when I was of
this young man's age, had I heard such news,
nothing would have prevented me from going
straight to this scoundrel's house and telling
him what I thought of him. I would have
told him,' exclaimed the lawyer, rising from
his seat and pacing the room, 'if anything
happens to that sick and helpless child, you
shall never come to your natural end — the
gallows. I'll take you by the throat and
squeeze the life out of you, you villain, with
my own hands ! A very injudicious observation,
I admit,' he continued, in apologetic
tones ; ' but of the fruit of wisdom and

prudence Man is not an early bearer. If I
have taken stock of our young friend aright,
he is naturally impulsive ; though lie spoke
so quietly of his father's wrongs, he put, I
noticed, a great restraint upon himself. Moreover,
they are his own wrongs, which a noble
nature (such as he inherits from the Canon)
regards more patiently. But if he knew
about little Willie, if ever there was an excuse
(which of course there never is, my dear) for
taking the law into one's own hands, he would
find it there ; I think he might break out,
and T couldn't blame him ; no, I couldn't
blame him.'

From under her drooping eyes Henny
regarded her husband with intense admiration.
She esteemed him higher for the passionate
indignation that obviously consumed him, than
for the prudence which subdued it and prevented
him from giving it play.

After what you have heard from Dr.
Woodruffe,' she sighed, after a pause, 'there

can be no moral doubt of this man's real intentions,
I suppose ? '

Not a shadow. He is at heart a murderer,
and nothing less. But there would bethe
greatest difficulty in proving it. Stevie's
testimony — the evidence of a nervous boy,
under circumstances, too, so exceptional —
though conclusive to us, is not to be depended
upon in the witness-box. Woodruflfe was
very reticent, as I told you ; and I don't
blame him for it, since I dared not speak out
to Mm, Hitherto matters have not been
ripe.'

But, in the meantime, are you sure, Fred
that there is no danger '

^ There is great danger,' he interrupted
quickly. ' The fear of it is never absent from
my mind ; my responsibility is, I am well
aware, tremendous. Still, until to-night I
have not dared to stir.'

But what have you heard fresh to-night,
Fred ? '



^ The corroboration, as I believe, of our
worst suspicions. That conversation overheard
by Robert in the railway carriage is, in
my opinion, of the last importance. If it is
necessary for Adair to raise such a sum of
money as those men spoke of, and at once, the
end — his end I hope — should be very near.
He must be upon the verge of some desperate
step. I must find out if possible about this
Dawson and the S.S. scheme ; but when I
have once got my threads together, look to
yourself, Mr. John Adair, for as sure as there
is law in England' (which he uttered as though
he were saying 'Justice in Heaven') 'you
will find yourself in Queer street.'

My dear Fred, you quite frighten me,'
exclaimed Henny. ' All this is so terrible,
and yet you almost seem to enjoy it.'

I do enjoy it,' was the frank rejoinder.
I have read that the pursuit of wild animals
is a passion engrafted in human nature ; for
my part — who have never bagged so much asa

rabbit — I bave hitherto disbelieved it ; but
now I feel its truth. I understand the excitement
of that patient nigbt-watcb for the
tyrant of the jungle, the rapture of the
moment when, rifle in band, one marks bim
crouching for bis spring upon the tethered
and helpless heifer, and the vengeful triumph
that fills the bunter's soul when bis bullet
cases to the tiger's brain.'

But the heifer ? ' suggested Henny,
anxiously.

^ Yes ; there is a difference there,' answered
ber husband, sobered in an instant,
^ This human tiger must fall without ibis
victim.'

CHAPTER Xlii.

HOME AGAIN.

It was a subject of wonder to many of the
Canon's acquaintance that on that sudden loss
of fortune caused by ' injudicious speculation '
he had not hidden his head in some out-of-the-way
locality, instead of remaining in a place
where he had been wont to be thought so
highly of. The idea had, indeed, occurred
to himself ; though more upon his sister's
account than his own. He thought it might
be an addition to the stag of poverty for her
to have to bear it among those who knew her
in her prosperous days. A woman, he reflected,
however sensible, is more dependent
upon circumstances than one of the sterner

VOL. III. M

sex, has her little pride of place, and feels, to
some extent, the loss of means as a loss of
dignity. He laid the greater stress on this
because he was conscious of his own personal
leaning the other way. Cambridge was inexpressibly
dear to him, and the thought that
he must quit it had greatly aggravated his
misfortune.

Oh, unexpected stroke (was his reflection), worse than

of Death,
Must I thus leave thee, Paradise ? Thus leave
Thee, native soil ? These happy haunts and shades,
Fit haunt of gods ! where I had hoped to spend,
Quiet if sad, the respite of that day
That must be mortal.

The possession of his college rooms was,
of course, a great attraction to him, but under
the circumstances, as he could not but feel, a
somewhat selfish pleasure. It is probable
that Aunt Maria was not ignorant of her
brother's feelings, for she combated his proposals
for change with arguments that at
once pleased and pacified him. Cambridge,

she averred, was dear to her also. Elsewhere,
in their changed circumstances, she would be
nobody ; but here, at all events with old
friends, she would still occupy her former
position. A sentiment which, as involving a
certain vulgar view of life quite foreign to her
nature, might have awakened suspicions in a
less simple and more unbiased mind than that
of the Canon. As it was, he had accepted
Aunt Maria's choice with thankfulness and
without misgiving.

He had taken a house in Providence
Terrace — which, he said, with his old smile,
ought to show that, notwithstanding the evils
Fate had dealt him, he had ' no bad feeling '
a little row of buildings on Parker's Piece,
an airy space enough to look upon, but
dangerous as a pleasure-ground by reason of
the missiles (ranging from a football to the
small shot used at rounders) always flying
about. It was a very tiny dwelling ; \h^
door opened upon a passage so narrow that

]£ 2

the terDi seemed a misnomer, since no adults
could pass one another in it ; when a visitor
called, the maid had to back to admit him,
unless (which, of course, was not to bethought
of) she lay down and let him walk
over her, like the stag on the precipice in Mr.
Browning's poem. Though little furniture
had been reserved from the sale at ' The
Laurels,' it was more than sufficient for the
new tenement, and was, of necessity, much
too large for it. As compared with their
present surroundings, the old bookcases and
tables were too tall ; the Canon used cheerfully
to call attention to them as indicating
their flood-tide of prosperity, the old high-water
mark ; and, indeed, a place where the
tide is out is no bad metaphor for a household
that has seen better days, except, alas ! that
in the latter case it seldom comes in again.
That the dining-room should be so diminutive
was of small consequence, since the hospitality
that had been exercised at ' The Laurels ' 

longer possible ; but that the room behind,
which was the Canon's study and smoking-room,
should be siich a nutshell, was deplorable.


The accommodation for literature provide!
for the ordinary inhabitant of Providence
Terrace was one shelf below stairs, supplemented
by a book slide in the drawing-room ;
so that the Canon's numerous tomes had to be
piled against the wall, while one especially
lordly volume played the humiliating part of
a footstool. Moreover, the Canon passed
much more of his time at home than had
been his wont ; chiefly from a disinclination
to leave Aunt Maria, but partly, perhaps, from
his greater distance from Trinity. He had
been always averse to exercise, but now all
exertion had become distasteful to him ; the
springs of existence had grown weak. A
new trouble too had of late assailed him in the
illness of his friend Mayors. While spending
a few days in Paris, the tutor had contracted

a fever from which, though he had rallied at
the time, he seemed unable to recover. His
spirits, once so equable, had fled, and given
place to a melancholy which Dr. Newton
(who knew his patient well) held to be one
of his gravest symptoms. Since his friend
had been ailing, the Canon had never failed to
visit him once a day, and always returned
depressed. Fate had given too obvious
proofs of her malice of late to permit of his
being sanguine. Moneyless, childless, he
already saw himself friendless. For, though
many held him dear whose affection he reciprocated,
there is no friend like an old
friend. When such a one is about to depart
upon the Unknown Road, we are wont to feel
that it is time for us, too, to be going — that
we have been overstaying our welcome. Even
Milton failed to be the solace that he had
been to the Canon. He could not always
dissociate those sublime poems from the man,
who, through their means, had become connected

with himself. The trail of the serpent
was over them all.

One morning the Canon was sitting, as
usual, in his little study, a book on the swing
desk before him, but not at the reading angle.
He kept one always open, lest Aunt Maria
should look in and suspect him of the very
vice he was at that moment indulging in —
Reverie. A great student of human nature
has taught us how blessed a thing is Memory,
even to the unfortunate ; but it is no less
true that ' a sorrow's crown of sorrows is
remembering happier things.' An old man
deep in thought is always a pathetic spectacle,
and, but too often, a discouraging one.

While the Canon thinks — and sighs — there
is presently a sharp ring at the bell. Visitors
are few in these days, and he neither expects
nor des-es any. The little maid, who is a
survival of the old household at ' The
Laurels,' is aware of that fact, and deals
diplomatically with all comers.

'' Miss Aldred is at home,' she answers ;
which implies that the master of the house is
not without going so far as to affirm it. On
the present occasion, however, this subterfuge
is denied her, as Miss Aldred happens to be without
doors. So to the strange young man whoso
confidently demands speech with her master
she replies that he is 'particularly engaged.'

Still, I think, if he knew who I was he
would see me,' said the visitor, gravely. ' I
am his son.'

You're never that, sir ! ' cries the maid.

^ I really am,' returned the young man,
smiling at her undisguised amazement.

Why, sir, he don't expect you no more
than the Queen. He was a talking of you at
dinner only last night — not that I listens to
the gentlefolks' talk ; but, with potatoes in
one hand and the saucebox in the other, to
stop one's ears is difficult. He's always
talking about you, but not a word 'as he
dropped about your coming home.'

Where is he ? ' inquired the young man,
in a hushed voice.

In his study ; the second door on the
right, sir.'

Is he pretty well ? To see me so unexpectedly
will not hurt him ? '

Lor bless you, no sir, not it ! It will do
him a world of good.'

The little maid knows nothing of ' shocks
to the system,' and cannot understand that
the sight of so handsome a young gentleman
can be deleterious to anybody.

Don't announce me,' he says, softly. ' I
will announce myself And he knocks gently
at the study door.

The Canon settles the swing desk before
him, and begins to be absorbed in the open
book. He has his back to the door, and takes
it for granted that the new-comer is his
sister.

You are come back very soon, my dear,
are you not ? '

I can scarcely say that,' answers a voice
which, though its tones are hushed and gentle,
electrifies him. ' I have been away for more
than five years.'

Robert ? My boy — my dear, dear
boy!'

For some moments the poor Canon (for
all his ' culture ' ) can only reiterate those few
words with their one variation, ' My boy,'
and ' My dear boy.' He hugs him, he kisses
him, the tears roll down his withered cheeks
without check. Then, suddenly perceiving
that his son is about to betray a similar weakness,
he cries out, ' Don't mind me, Robert.
I was getting an old man ; but you will make
me young again. There is something to live
for now.' Then, in an altered voice, he
added, ' Why is it soli have come back ?
But I need not ask, alas! You have lost
your Alma, thanks to me — and there was
nothing to keep you in India. Can you ever
forgive your father ? '

My dear Dad,' exclaimed Robert, using,
in an outburst of Nature's self, the old childish
term, ' What is there to forgive ? I come
here to comfort you. Alma sent me over
herself; if I hadn't come she would have
thrown me over, which, I do assure you, she
has not done. " Your father is in trouble,"
she said, *' therefore your place is by his side."
Was she not right ? Are you not glad to
have me ? '

Glad ? Was I ever so happy before ?
I, who thought it was impossible — Heaven
forgive me for doubting of its goodness — that
I should ever be happy again.'

For the moment all his misfortunes were
forgotten. The ' days in which he had seen
evil ' had melted away. While looking at his
stalwart son he seemed to derive from him
some of his health and strength, and looked
ten sears younger.

And Aunt Maria ? ' inquired the young
man.

Wonderful,' returned his father. ' You
know what a good soul she always was, but
she has developed into an angel. Not a word
of reproach — nay, of regret — has ever dropped
:&'om her lips. One cannot gauge the goodness
of a good woman, Robert, it is beyond
man's plummet.'

The young man nodded adhesion.

^ Alma is just like that,' he said, simply.

Did you see any one as you came through
London ? ' inquired the Canon presently, with
averted face.

Do you mean Sophy ? No. I saw
Henny and her husband, however, and of
course heard about her. Iron thought it
better that I should not see her for the
present.'

Poor girl, poor girl,' sighed the Canon.
^ You must not think hardly of her, Robert ;
it is I, not she, who am to blame.'

For my part, father, I blame neither of
you. How could you have imagined the

possibility of such villany? How could
honest people be expected to construct such
an ineffable scoundrel as this Adair out of
their own consciousness ? It is a very hard
case for both of you, but I pity Sophy most.'
That is what Mayors says. As for ourselves,
the man has done his worst ; but she
is still in his power. Poor girl, poor girl!
Now tell me, my dear boy, about your Alma,
and those prospects which your unhappy
father has darkened, if not destroyed.

Then Robert told him what he had already
told the Irtons, but at greater length. He
lingered over all that concerned his betrothed,
as though to speak of her brought her nearer
to him ; and the Canon, usually so impatient
of detail, took as tender an interest in it allas
though he had been mother instead of
father.

Yet one things Robert did not tell him,
but reserved for the ear of Aunt Maria.
From his father's letter, written, perhaps ^

with some incoherence, ere he had recovered
from the first effects of the blow fate had
dealt him, he had not been able exactly to
gather to what extent his fortunes had been
reduced ; whether, indeed, he might not find
himself absolutely penniless ; and on receipt
of it he had started for home, taking with him
all his savings — amounting to ^y^ hundred
pounds. Considering that the disbursement
of this sum must needs mean a proportionate
postponement of his happiness, already indefinitely
delayed, it was a sacrifice such as is
seldom offered on the paternal altar.

He will be as pleased,' said Aunt Maria,
laying her hand upon the young man's head
(a gesture that had something of benediction
in it, as well as approval), ' as though it had
been five millions — and indeed more pleased.
But he would never take one farthing of it.
He already reproaches himself with having
robbed you of your birthright ; and do you
suppose '

There is no reason to suppose anything,
dear Aunt Maria,' interrupted the young man.
^ I don't want him to know. Things are not, I
am thankful to say, so bad as I feared they
might be ; but it is plain to me that there are
many comforts wanting here to which both
you and my father have been accustomed
These, at least, can be supplied, and you can
take the credit — and you know you always
prided yourself upon your domestic economy
of having saved the money for them out of
the housekeeping.'

^ That is all very well,' said Aunt Maria,
smiling ; ' but only consider how my credit
would suffer when I did not provide luxuries,
not to mention the suspicions of what I must
have done with the surplus up to the time
when I began to provide them. Moreover,
Robert, I could not be a party to such a proceeding
— feeling as I do in the matter exactly
as my brother feels — upon any account. If
there had been really any such need for help

as you had in your mind, it would have been
forthcoming from at least one quarter ; I
cannot be doing wrong in telling you that
much, though it was proffered in the strictest
confidence. Directly Mr. Mayors heard that
your father had suffered some pecuniary loss
he behaved in the noblest manner.'

I always thought old Mayors was a
trump,' observed Robert, approvingly. ' I
can imagine him coming to the governor, and
saying, " We have shared many things in our
time, from apples upwards (for they were at
school together, you know), and now you
must share my fortune ; " and I can see the
governor shaking his dear old head, because
he could not trust himself to speak.'

Just so, Robert ; and because Mr.
Mayors knew he would shake his head, he
never broached the matter to him at all, but
came straight to me. It was the last day he
was seen out of doors, poor man, for he has
been ill, very ill, ever since ; and never did a
man come on a nobler errand.'

^ " Miss Aldred," he said, "you and I are
old friends, but your brother and I have been
so all our lives ; I know all about him, and
(though that is reason good why I should
love him) it follows that I know his weaknesses.
He is a very proud man, not of his
many excellences, but in that sort of foolish
way in which sensitive people are proud. A
way that robs friendship of its advantage,
and friends of what should be their highest
pleasure. He has lost his money, it seems,
without perhaps quite knowing how, and I
am very certain without knowing how much.
Now, my dear madam, he has heaps of friends
who will offer help, no doubt ; but, having
become poor, he will be ten times prouder
than ever, and will take nothing. You smile
as though you would say, ' And I agree with
him ; ' perhaps you may be right in their case,
lout I am a man who has only one tie in the
world, that of friendship ; and I may almost
add that I am bound by that tie to almost a

VOL. III. N

single object. Now, you must so contrive it
and T am sure it can be done — that your
brother shall think himself much better oiF
than he really is, and I will be his banker
without his knowing it."

Of course, it couldn't be thought of,' continued
Aunt Maria ; ' but it was curious that
Mr. Mayors' proposition was, in fact, precisely
similar to that which you have just suggested
to me yourself, Robert, and (here she smiled")
exhibited the same duplicity of character.'

What is also curious,' answered the
young man, slily, ' is that each of these
ruffians and rascals should have selected you
as the confidant of their nefarious schemes.
Seriously, however, old Mayors must be a right
good fellow. It is so much more to his credit,
too, to show such sympathy, since he has
never moved out of his college shell ; never
knew, I suppose, a serious trouble, never been
in love, nor even in debt.'

Perhaps,' sighed Aunt Maria, softly ;

^ still, should he die, the world, to which he
seems so little to belong, will be the loser.'
Is Mr. Mayors, then, very ill? '
I fear so. Dr. Newton thinks, I am
convinced, worse of him than he tells the
Canon. I wish Mr. Mayors would let us do
something for him ; but he is so peculiar that
it is difficult.

Do you think he would see me ? '
Most certainly. I am sure he would
like to do so. Why not go down to college
this afternoon, instead of your father, since he
will not be able to see both, and brinsr us
word of him ? '

To this Robert willingly agreed : it was a
small thing enough — this visit to inquire after
his father's friend — but in the end, like many
another small thing, it had important results.

N 2

CHAPTER XLV.

ILL IN COLLEGE.

When Aunt Maria said that Mr. Mayors was
^ peculiar ' she was speaking from a good
woman's standpoint. To her it seemed quite
contrary to nature that any human creature
being ill should be attended by hirelings,
when loving service was within his reach. It
was as natural to her to tend the bed of sickness
as for the average man to flee from it ; if
a servant fell ill in her house she exchanged
positions with her at once, and became her
servant. The man who wrote

When pain and anguish wring the brow
A ministering angel thou,

used no hyperbole. When disease has smitten

their dear one, and death is hovering over
him, there is something more than angelic
about women, something that is Divine.
That ' sentiment ' which men attribute to
them so scornfully, at such times disappears ;
the tenderness that lies at the root of it
remains without a trace of weakness. They
are actuated by love unspeakable, which is
nevertheless in complete subjection to duty.
I once saw a mother mixing some sort of
nourishment for her dying child. There was
not the shadow of hope for his life, he had
been ' given over,' it was ' a question of
hours,' and she knew it. But if her soul's
salvation had depended on it (which it did
not, for it was already assured) she could not
have given more attention to the concoction
of that useless meal. She worked at it dry
eyed ; she had never indeed shed a tear, since
it was bad for the darling to see his mother
giving way ; ' but those eyes, ' homes of
silent prayer ' indeed, and of unanswered

prayer, I shall never forget them as they
looked in the performance of that last loving
duty.

Miss Aldred had all the instincts of her
sex for smoothing the couch of sickness, and
her services would have been freely offered to
Mr. Mayors, had there been the slightest hope
of their acceptance. But, as Dr. ]Newton
said, the very idea of such a thing would have
frightened the Tutor ito a fit. The doctor,
his gyp, and Mrs. Murdoch (who had been
transferred to him as having a better gift of
nursing than his own beaker) were surely
sufficient, he would have argued, to look after
any one man, and the suggestion that he
should accept the ministrations of the Canon's
sister, if it had not thrown him into a fever,
would certainly have produced febrile symptoms
or rose-rash.

An old bachelor and scholar, but who had
not even been familiar with female authors
(for the women of Greece and Rome did not
rush into MS. as ours do into print), he

shrank from the notion of being attended by
any one of the softer sex. To Mrs. Murdoch,
indeed, he had no objection, perhaps because
he did not consider her to come under that
category, in which lie was quite mistaken.
It was she who received Robert Aldred at the
Tutor's door, and no sooner heard the young
man's name than she began to wipe her
mouth on her apron.

Why, Master Robert ! I've known you
ever since you were so high. Don't you
remember your father's poor old beaker?'

To have ignored such a relationship would
have been a brutality. He compromised
matters, and held out his hand.

Dear, how pleased the Canon and your
aunt must have been to see you,' she exclaimed,
' all the way from the Indies ! '

She regarded him admiringly, and also
thankfully, as if he had been something rich
and rare imported for her special benefit and
delectation.

And Mr. Mayors ? How is he to-day ? '

The good lady's smile disappeared at once

Poorly, sir, very poorly ; leastways
that's my opinion. When one has been
ordered " a generous diet " — for those were
the doctor's own words — and sticks by choice
to tea and slops, it's contrary to nature, and
a bad sign.'

But he's no worse than he was, I hope.'

^ Perhaps not, sir ; but he's no better.
The clock's a-going, but there's nothing to
keep it so ; the key as ought to wind it up is
mislaid somewhere. I saw it with my own
old Jacob, and I see it with Mr. Mayors ;
only he don't like being talked to, as Jacob
did. He holds up his finger, and thinks, and
thinks ; and he don't speak himself much,
except in dreams. He's asleep now, but it's
near his usual time for waking, if you'd like
to stop."

I will certainly stop, if it will do no
harm.'

Harm ? Lord love you, no, sir ; anyone

as belongs to the Canon will be as
welcome to him as flowers in May. Them
flowers yonder, by-the-by, was sent by your
Aunt Maria yesterday. The sight on 'em
brought the tears into his eyes, which shows
how very, very weak he must be, poor
man ! '

The sitting-room was a large and handsome
one, looking upon Neville's Court. The
door, which communicated with the much
smaller bedroom, stood wide open. Robert
took a chair in front of it, and a book to
while away the time. Mrs. Murdoch sat over
the fire at some distance ofl*, and, instead of
fatiguing her mind with literature, refreshed
it with a little nap. All was quiet, save for
the coo of a pigeon on the stone balustrade
outside the window, and the footfall of some
solitary undergraduate in the cloisters beneath.
The book Robert had taken up was Plutarch's
Lives,' a work of the highest reputation ; but,
notwithstanding its attractions, he had fallen

into a reverie, from which he was suddenly
aroused by the words ' Sophy, Sophy ! ' At
first he thought he must be mistaken, and
that the sound was a part of his own day-dream,
with which, in fact, the name had been
connected ; but, on looking up, his eyes fell
upon the sick man, now broad awake and
staring at him from the bed with stern
suspicion.

'Is your name Adair?' whispered the
Tutor, hoarsely.

No, sir,' said Robert,' rising softly and
approaching the bed. ' My name is Aldred.
I am the son of your old friend the
Canon.'

Why are you so black, then, like the
other?'

It is the Indian sun,' said Robert, smiling.
I was white enough when I wished you
good by, five years ago.'

True ; I remember now,' said the Tutor.
Pray forgive a sick man's fancies. Your
father did not say he was expecting you.'

No ; I came home without giving him
notice.'

Because he was in trouble ? '

Why, yes. It struck me that I might
be, if not of service, at least of some comfort
to him.'

Just so ; a good son,' murmured the
Tutor, looking at the young man wistfully.
sons and daughters — "Blessed is the man
that has his quiver full of them." That is
not a disputed passage.'

This was said in monologue, and by no
means in the Tutor's usual voice — which,
indeed, in health was distinct and somewhat
strident. Robert thought to himself that,
had he met his father's friend under chance
circumstances, he would no more have recognised
him than Mr. Mayors had recognised
himself (Robert). It was not only that the
Tutor had grown grey, nor even that his face
showed the ravages of sickness ; he looked a
broken man.

Alma mater. Alma mater ! ' he continued,

softly. ' Yes, 3'es ! I owe her everything,
and she shall be repaid ; yet, oh ! yet ' — here
his voice dropped to a whisper. ' Where's the
nurse, Kobert?'

^ The poor old soul has fallen asleep, sir.
She knew I was here.'

Quite right ; think of the poor and the
old, and shield them. That will comfort you
some day, when you come to lie as I am. No,
not as I am. There will be children about
your bed, a wife to smooth your pillow ;
loving faces, tender hands ; better so — better
so.'

The sick man's voice was firm, though
very low ; but while he spoke there came into
his face something that caused the young man
to avert his own : tears, large tears, were
rolling silently down the Tutor's cheeks.
There were furrows there, but they had never
been so used before. With some of us they
are river-beds ; in the present case it was
only that water had found a road that way.

There was a long silence, and then the
same name was softly breathed that had
already fallen on the other's ear.

^ Sophy, Sophy ; have you seen her? '

No, sir ; I passed too rapidly through
town ; but I saw the Irtons, who told me a
great deal about her. Not good news, I am
sorry to say.'

Unhappy ? '

Very ; at least I fear so.'

Poor girl, poor girl ! '

It is not only — as you are doubtless
aware, sir — that she has a bad husband ; but,
unfortunately, she has some little knowledge
of the full extent of his baseness, which until
lately has been kept from her.'

^ How was that?'

Then Robert, who thought the question
referred to the means whereby Sophy had
learnt what her husband had done to the
Canon, described them to his companion as
Henny had narrated them to himself.

The Tutor listened with closed eyes ; but
it was plain, by the movement of his brow
and lips, how the narration affected him.

^ Then the poor girl knows at last,' he
murmured, when it was finished. ' What
anguish, what remorse she must be enduring ! '

Indeed, sir, I fear so. It has just struck
me, however, that I have been very indiscreet
in speaking of all this to you. I have been
distressing you — smce Sophy is an old friend
of yours — by telling you the very thing which
I have been enjoined to keep fi:"om my father,
namely, that Sophy is aware of having been
made the instrument of his ruin. His object
throughout has been to spare her that knowledge.'


That is so like him ! ' exclaimed the
Tutor, with a flush on his worn cheek :

A man who bears without abuse
The grand old name of gentleman ;
Defiled by every charlatan,

And soiled with an ignoble use.

Young man, you are a gentleman's son.'

I know it, sir,' answered Robert, simply.
If I cannot imitate him, I hope I shall never
disgrace him.'

No, no, you will not do that. He will
live again in his boy.'

Presently, after another pause : ' You
spoke of ruin, Robert. The exact sum which
the Canon had to pay twice over — one forgets
these things in sickness.'

It was fifteen thousand pounds.'

Just so. And never to have told her.
A true gentleman. Bene natus, bene vestiges — -
no, that's not it '

I don't think you must talk to Mr.
Mayors any more, sir, just now,' interposed
Mrs. Murdoch, awakened from her nap, and
perceiving a necessity for silence.

A smile crept over the sick man's face, as
the mellow twilight falls upon a ruin.

Quite right, quite right. Nurse ; ' then
putting out his wasted hand to Robert. ' Give
m}^ love to my old friend.'

And you will be sure not to tell him
what I have told you, sir whispered the
young man, as he leant over him.

You may trust me, my lad. I am going
where secrets are well kept.'

It was not those mournful words only
which impressed Robert Aldred with a sense
of the gravity of the Tutor's illness. His
whole interview had tended in that direction ;
and he told Aunt Maria as much without
circumlocution.

If it is really so, Robert, it will be a sad
blow to your father,' she answered, gravely ;
but I can hardly think it is so. Mr. Mayors
seems to take such interest in matters — that
is, in college matters.'

• And not only in those,' put in Robert ;
I had no idea he was such a friend of
Sophy's.'

He spoke of her, did he ? ' said Aunt
Maria, with interest.

Yes, indeed ; he seemed wonderfully

wrapped up in lier. He thought it such
an excellent plan — and so like my father to
think of it — that the knowledge of her
husband's baseness should have been kept
from her.'

But you did not tell him of what her
husband had done ? '

Tell him? No. I spoke of it as a matter
of course. You don't mean to say that he
was not aware of it ? '

^ Indeed he wasn't. No one is aware of it
except the Irtons. I am afraid you have
done mischief.'

But how was I to know? I thought in

the case of an old friend like Mr. Mayors '

^ Just so. It was not your fault, dear
boy. But the thing was kept from everybody,
and especially, for a certain reason, from Mr.
Mayors. Did he not seemed surprised and
distressed?'

He was distressed, undoubtedly, but that
seemed only natural. His surprise, as I now

VOL. III. o

understand, he purposely concealed from me.
I am afraid I told him everything.'

Poor man, poor man ! and he loved her
so.'

Loved whom ? Not Sophy ? '

Yes, he proposed to her, and she refused
him. What fools girls are ! ' exclaimed Aunt
Maria. The idea of her rejecting Mr. Mayors
for John Adair ; Hyperion for a Satyr ! '

Don't abuse his personal appearance, my
dear Aunt, because I have just been taken
for him. Mr. Mayors said I was '' black, like
him." '

Yes, Robert ; but your blackness is but
skin deep. That man is black to his heart's
core. Poor Sophy was always — well — susceptible.
There Alas another young man, but
that is no matter now. He had, at all events,
2:ood looks to recommend him. Bat this
fellow '

The one that is like me,' murmured
Robert, plaintively.

I cannot conceive,' continued Aunt Maria,

taking no notice of this interpolation, ^ what
she could have seen in him. Why on earth
did she marry John Adair? '

Robert shook his head. He could have
enlightened Aunt Maria upon that point, but
he very wisely held his tongue. A burnt
child dreads the fire, and he had had enough
of telling family secrets.

o2

CHAPTER XLVI.

SOPHY S LETTER.

The effect of his son's presence on the Canon
was something marvellous. His brightness
and his tenderness worked upon him for good,
as the sunshine and the rains revive the drooping
flower. A sort of Indian summer seemed

o

to have set in with him ; and but for his old
friend's illness I think he would have been as
happy as he had ever been, though not quite
in the old fashion.

You may tell your Alma, Robert,' said
Aunt Maria, ' that her dutiful advice to you
has saved your father's life.' She knew that
way of putting it would please him better
than if she had praised his own unselfishness

in coming to England. ' If you were not
here lie could hardly stand these distressing
visits to dear Mr. Mayors.'

And, indeed, the spectacle of his old friend
and contemporary gradually losing his hold
upon life gave him unspeakable pain. There
was nothing, of course, terrible in such a
man's decease; no haunting fears or distrust
of the All-wise and All-merciful. Indeed, it
would have been curious to those unacquainted
with the turn of thought prevailing
among men of their stamp at Cambridge, that
between these two men — being both clergymen
— the subjects so commonly dwelt upon
under such circumstances were rarely alluded
to. They spoke of old times with which
they were conversant, rather than of the
Unknowable ; of their lifelong (though undemonstrative)
friendship, rather than of their
reunion hereafter ; of their common friends,
alive or dead. Once, however, a something of
bitterness in some remark made by the dying

man suggested the inquiry from his companion,
' You are at peace, I trust, Mayors,
nth all men? '

With all that are worthy of the name of
man was the stern and unexpected reply.
Then, as if regretting his harshness, the
Tutor added, with a smile, ' There is not
much malice and hatred in my heart, Aldred,
I do assure you — nothing, I trust, to be repented
of in that way ; a little envy of
yourself, my friend, that's all.'

How so ? '

Because you have great possessions — a
son, a wife.'

Nay, my poor wife is dead,' said the
Canon, soothingly, as one speaks to a sick
man whose mind has gone astray a little.

^ Yes ; but you have the memory of her.
Believe me, my friend, it is well to have such
memories to dwell upon.'

That was the only hint the Tutor gave of
having suffered loss or disappointment; to

the Canon he never spoke of Sophy. It was
strange that he should have shown less of
reticence to Robert ; but perhaps this youth
and the circumstance of his being; eno-aored
to Alma (of which he was cognisant) had
encouraged the confidence. It is true that
custom is strong even in death, but, also,
thoughts that have been stored up, as in a
locked casket, by men m health, will often in
their last hours find utterance, and that to
ears which least expect them.

There was nothing in the Tutor's manner
to suggest to his old friend any immediate
danger ; on the contrary, there was a certain
contentment in his speech and manner that
bespoke even more than usual the absence of
any pressing anxiety or apprehension ; nor
was there any procrastination in his parting,
such as there is wont to be when we feel that
it may be for the last time. Hour terrible is
the sense of it to the about-to-be-survivor!
How he regrets the hours, the days, the

3^earSj wherein he has voluntarily separated
himself from that dying dear one, and which
in the aggregate, perhaps, would have represented
another existence passed in his company
— a twin life.

The Canon had no foreboding: that he had
beheld his friend for the last time when he
walked home one afternoon with thoughtful
steps that grew unconsciously more free and
buoyant as he neared the little home which
held his new-found treasure.

On his study table, however, was a letter,
the contents of which, for a moment, put even
Robert out of his mind. It was in his ward's
hand writ in o; which in itself argued nothings
strange (for she had never ceased to correspond
with him in a suppressed mechanical
fashion); it had not, as usual, been sent on to
him from ' The Laurels,' but was directed to
his present address. It must have come to
Sophy's knowledge, therefore, that he had
removed to Providence Terrace. Though this

was a piece of information that might have
oozed out any day, he opened the envelope
with no little apprehension that she might
have gleaned still further knowledge, and the
first sentence convinced him that it was so.

Kindest and best of friends, whom I have
robbed and grieved — dear Guardian, whose
care and love I have repaid by falsehood and
ingratitude — pity if you cannot pardon me.
If I came to you in person (which 1 dare not
do. for the sight of your dear face would kill
me ; and my life, otherwise worthless, is
necessary to my child) — I say, if I came into
your presence and grovelled at your feet with
tears and prayers, I could not, believe me,
feel a greater abasement than 1 do as I sit
here and write these shameful words.

Until recently, though fully conscious of
my base behaviour to yon in other respects, I
was not aware of the ruin I had brought upon
you. I thought that I had only lies and
deceit to reproach myself with — transgressions

that have brought their own punishment upon
me, and concerning which I thought, therefore,
that I had some sort of right — as if such
a wretch as I had rights at all ! — to be silent.
But now I know what an irremediable injury
I have done to you and yours, it seems to me
that no suffering in this world can be inflicted
on me commensurate with my offences.
That I was but an unconscious instrument in
the hands of another is no excuse for me, for,
but for my own misdoings, I should never
have fallen into his hand. The history of
them you will find enclosed (there was a paper
in the envelope containing a short narrative of
her first marriage, and the causes which had,
as she thought, compelled her to make the
second), and when you have read it, after the
first sharp pang of anger and regret is over,
one source of sorrow will be dry for ever.
This is one of the reasons why I have written
to you, notwithstanding that it has been
enjoined upon me not to do so. As you, in



your great kindness and consideration for my
feelings, would have hidden from me the real
cause of your ruin, so it was judged by those
who knew of my ill behaviour under your
roof, that it was best to spare you that knowledge
; but my hope is that, though you mays
still pity me (as we pity the worst of criminals),
it will be henceforth impossible for you
to feel pain upon my account.

I cannot ask you to forget me, because every
hour must bring to you some bitter reminder
of the wrong I have done sou, but think of meas
dead, as having died years ago, when sour
Robert was my playfellow. Alas ! what evil
may I not have done to him also — sundered
him, perhaps, from his promised bride, destroyed
his prospects ! It is terrible to think
that not only here at home am I justly condemned
and despised, but that across the
ocean, thousands of miles away, ni}^ name
must needs be held in abhorrence. Oh, if I
could be once again as I was when Robert left

you ! There is nothing, his ! the same with
me now ; even my love for yon, th.onoli it will
cease but with my latest breath, is something
different : I feel unworthy to entertain it. It
seems blasphemy to take your name within
my lips even in my prayers.

• You will wonder, perhaps, wien you
have read the record of my life, that such a
one as I should dare to pray. But then, dear
Guardian, there is little Willie ; when I sit by
her bedside with her thin small hand in mine,
I still seem to have some link with Heaven.
It is scarcely credible, considering her tender
years, but there is nothing her mother can
teach her which my little darling cannot
understand. I say it is scarcely credible, but
she has been made aware that she has been
made the pretext for her godfather's ruin.
She clings to her fragile life, and believes that
she will live to put things right. She has
questioned me a hundred times, and " when I
come of age," she says (which she weill never

live to do, and if she did, it would be too late),
I will pay all their money back to godpapa
and Anne Maria." When Dr. Newton came
to see her, her chief anxiety was to learn
whether she Avoid live to be twenty one. I
suppose the good Doctor thought the dear
child's mind was wandering, but it was as
bright and clear as it is pure. We have no
secrets from one another, Willie and I. I
have told you one of the reasons for my
writing to you, but the chief is after all a
selfish one — to bespeak, should anything
happen to me, your sympathies for my innocent
child. I know you will never visit upon
her, even in your thoughts, the sins of her
rent, but I beseech you to try to love her
for her o^vn sake ; she is as worthy of your
love as her mother has proved herself unworthy.
What higher eulogium, alas ! can
1 pass upon her ? Henny will take care of her,
I know, if permitted to do so. But the law
there is no one, alas ! who *has better cause

to know it than yourself — is hard and cruel.
Dear Guardian, I would rather see Willie dead
at my feet than trust her to the hands in
which the law would place her. I will say no
more upon this matter, for 'that way madness
lies," only if anything should happen which
should sink me still lower in your disesteem,
do not judge me too hastily ; I am in such
straits as you cannot guess.

You will show to Aunt Maria what I
have written ; I do not ask you to plead with
her for me, I trust to that tender heart of
hers, whose trust I have so shamefully abused,
for charity and pardon.

Your Loving and Penitent Ward.'

At first even the contents of this letter,
significant as they were of much, had less
effect upon its recipient than the enclosure
(with its confession of Sophy's previous marriage)
which accompanied it, and from which
he received a shock that for the moment
utterly overwhelmed him. The operation of

moral couching — the opening one's eyes to
what human nature is really capable of — is,
after the age of fifty, a very trying one. To
find oneself so mature, and yet so ignorant,
is painful to one's amour propre. But after all
we may have travelled much, and yet not be
well acquainted with our own country, and
the Canon, who knew " men and cities,"
might well have been excused for not understanding
the character of a young girl, or
the ways of her lovers. Those who plume
themselves most on their knowledge of the
world often know least of those about them,
and while they have the keenest appreciation
of the farce next door, are unaware of the
more serious drama that is being performed
under their own roof.

In the Canon's case, the having been ' made
a fool of was a small thing, however, as compared
with other matters ; nor did it even
enter his thoughts that Aunt Maria must have
played the part of watch-dog very carelessly.

He set down her emotion at this strange sad
news wholly to sorrow, whereas she was
bowed to the earth by self-reproach. But
for her laxity of discipline, as she bitterly reflected,
Sophy could hardly have had the
opportunities of going so far astray. Many
an incident, to which she had at the time paid
little attention, now occurred to her, which
she felt would have excited her suspicions had
she been less careless, or less credulous.

It was a fortunate thing — since in such
cases of catastrophe each recipient of the intelligence
adds fuel to flame — that this revelation
told nothing new to Robert. He was
able to put the story of the past aside, and
give his mind to the present. Sophy's letter
filled him with vague but serious apprehensions,
not so much from what it revealed, but
from its reticence. It seemed to him, having,
perhaps, his Alma in his mind, and the supposition
of what she would have done under
similar circumstances, that the writer's total

silence respecting her husband was something
portentous. She had only once alluded to
him, and that in the most distant way, where
she had spoken of her having been ' an unconscious
instrument in the hands of another ;'
and thus ignoring, as it were, of his very existence
had something eerie about it, which
augured worse than even the speaking of
him as he deserved would have done. That
concluding sentence, ' if anything should
happen to sink me lower (if possible) in
your disesteem, do not judge me too harshly:
I am in such straits as you cannot guess,"
was also terribly significant, and seemed to
hit to hint at some desperate contingency.

All three were aware that Sophy's relations
with her husband were unsatisfactory,
and even more ; but Robert only guessed as
much from the tone in which Iron had
spoken of them (for it will be remembered
that the lawyer did not fully confide in him),
while both the Canon and Aunt Maria were

VOL. II r. p

disposed to minimise what might be amiss
between the young couple. Not, of course,
that by this time they were in any doubt as
to the real character of Mr. John Adair, or
that they underrated the hardship of Sophy's
lot ; but they regarded marriage not only asa
bond, but as an indissoluble bond. In their
eyes, marriage was not made for man so much
as man — and especially woman — was made
for marriage. Whatever inconveniences — nay,
whatever wrongs and wretchedness — might
result from that solemn engagement, they
were to be endured and made the best of.
Under these circumstances, it was quite sufficient
for them, in the way of apprehension, to
imagine that Sophy's vague reference to some
change in her present circumstances might
relate to an intention on her part to separate
from her husband. Her allusion to the cruelty
of the law, which would in such a case give
him over the custody of the child, seemed to
them to corroborate this idea. But to Robert's

ears Sophy's words lead another and much
more serious meaning. He gathered from her
despairing tone, and especially from her appeal
to the Canon on behalf of her child, as of
something extraneous to herself, that she was
contemplating suicide.

There was no need for him to dismiss
from his heart any thought of disappointment,
or delay of happiness, of which she had been
the unwilling cause ; he had long ago forgiven
and forgotten all that ; but no sooner
did this awful apprehension dawn upon him
than the recollection of earlier days, when
Sophy and he had been half lovers, half
playfellows, also awoke within him. A profound
pity for her unhappy lot, a vehement
abhorrence of the man who had turned the
sweetness of that young life to gall, took
possession of his soul. Nothing, however,
was further from his nature ian any indulgence
in heroics ; his reflections found a very
practical vent. He sauntered out that evening

and bouoflit a ' Bradshaw,' and, having; selected
the same train by which his father lead travelled
some few months ago on a scarcely
less painful errand, started for London before
the household were astir the next morning,
leaving a few commonplace lines behind him,
to say that, ' without wishing to make a fuss
about it, it had struck him to see with his own
eyes how things were going on in Albany
Street.'

CHAPTER XLA'II.

THE LAST INTERVIEW.

In the records of old prison life there is a
ghastly story of two lifelong enemies, who,
having been sentenced for their crimes to the
same punishment, find themselves chained
together and fated to pass the remainder of
their existence in each other's company. It
ends comparatively happily, or, at all events,
]better than might have been expected, for the
stronger in a fit of uncontrollable passion
nuu'ders the weaker, and is promptly hanged
for it. In married life, the fetters which unite
the miserable pair who abhor one another are
not so easily loosed. On the other hand, the
bond is not quite so close. If they are poor,

indeed, it is terribly near : to have to share
the same bed and board with one we fear or
despise must be a torture beyond the imagination
of an inquisitor ; this is the chief reason,
no doubt, why murders occur in domestic life
among: the lower orders so much oftener than
among the well-to-do. In the latter case there
is room for man and wife to live, and breathe,
and have their being, apart from one another ;
they are married only in name, and coexistence
is made endurable. I am speaking
of course of sensitive persons. The majority
of mankind, fortunately, are not ' dowered
with the hate of hate, the scorn of scorns,' or
indeed with any very delicate feelings ; to a
great many men one wife is as good as
another (though perhaps not so good as two),
and to a great many women one husband is
as good as another, just as one acquaintance
is as good, to most people, as another. ' Weare
not perfect ourselves, and must not expect
perfection in others,' was a remark once made

to uie by a good woman, with reference to
one Who for his treatment of her deserved the
gallows.

Sophy Adair was not a wife of that kind.
Little as she saw of her husband, she would
have gone mad had it not been for the preoccupation
of her mind with her sick child.
That was the tie that bound her to existence
; everything else prompted her to escape
from it.

For weeks, of late, Adair had been scarcely
ever at home. He breakfasted early by
himself, and left the house only to return toit
after its inmates had retired to rest. Sometimes
he sent a telegram from his office,
Shall bring: a friend this evening; who will
dine alone with me.' Upon the first occasion
Sophy had understood this to mean that,
though her husband did not wish to see herat
table, he meant her to welcome their guest
in the drawing-room. An unpleasant task
enough, yet one which, however, she did not

shrink from ; not from any notion of pleasing
her husband (for such an illusion had long
vanished), nor from any sense of duty, nor
even from fear of him, but from a mere
mechanical impulse on Avhicli she now always
acted, except in matters which concerned her
child.

The guest arrived, a tall, stout, florid
personage, covered with jewellery, and smoking
an immense cigar. lie was a few paces
in advance of his host. ' Hullo! petticoats! '
he exclaimed, not, ' in hushed amaze,' by any
means, but with naive and very undisguised
astonishment.

Adair's thin face, behind him, grew pale
with fury.

That is my Avise, Mr. Dawson. I suppose
my telegram miscarried,' addressing
himself with cold precision to Sophy.

Glad it did. Wanted to keep you dark,
I reckon, from yours truly,' observed the newcomer.
' Your husband is one of them as is

all for business, ma'am. For my part, I like
it mixed.'

The manner of the man was odious, yet
not so had as his expression. The one
suggested coarse vulgarity, the other villainy.

To do Adair justice, he had-not intended
to introduce this man to his wife's society ;
bat that he should have invited such a person
to his own house was significant indeed of the
social depths to which he had sunk. It could
not have been boon companionship that had
caused him to do so, for he had no taste for
it ; it must have been downright necessity.
The very parlour-maid was cognisant that
there was ' something queer ' in her having to
wait on such a guest.

Mr. Dawson's conversational powers (often
in inverse ratio to the personal attractions of
their possessor) seemed to recommend him to
his host, for he came again and again. On
the other hand, things did not always go
smoothly with them. Mr. Dawson's voice

was sometimes pitched in a higher key than
is used for anecdote, and lie was more than
once heard to thump the table with an emphasis
too great for mere appreciation. There
were certainly disagreements, possibly quarrels.
On one occasion a very strange
circumstance came under the notice of the
parlour-maid. Her master had brought a
new friend home, With whom he dined alone,
as usual — a much older and less talkative
gentleman, but in whose voice and manner
there was something, nevertheless, familiar to
her. His behaviour, too, was familiar, for he
chucked her under the chin at parting, exactly
as it had been Mr. Dawson's wont to do ; and
in the performance of this ceremony — which,
according to her own account, she strenuously
resisted — his long white beard came off and
revealed Mr. Dawson himself A wig is a
common ornament enough, but a false beard
hung on by the ears is an unusual addition to
the human countenance, and excites comment.

It was concluded, even by those of his
own household, that Mr. John Adair was
getting into bad company.

One morning, instead of leaving home, as
usual, directly he had swallowed his early
meal, Adair sent for Sophy to the breakfast -
room. She had not seen him for some days,
and even to her eyes (in which there was no
wifely interest) the change in him was very
remarkable. His face was thinner and more
haggard than she had ever seen it ; it looked
pale and anxious, but with a certain determined
ferocity about it, like that of some
hunted wolf that listens for the cry of the
hounds. He had a telegram in his hand
which he had just received, and which he was
turning and twisting nervously. He glanced
up at her white steadfast face as she entered
the room, and then walked to the Window,
keeping his back to her.

How is the child ? ' he said, in hoarse,
quick tones.

Better ; I trust certainly better, though
she gains strength very slowly.'

That's well,' he said, with an unmistakable
sigh of relief ; ' we must leave home
to-day.'

Leave home ! You have surely not the
doctor's sanction for that.'

I have,' he answered positively ; ' and if
I had not, still we must leave home. Please
to give me your best attention, madam, instead
of asking questions or making objections.
Something has gone wrong in the City ; it is
useless to attempt to explain it — women know
nothing of such things — but it has become
necessary for me to go abroad until the thing
has blown over. You need not fear for the
child, for she will travel with the utmost comfort.
Here is some money.' He thrust his
hand into his breast pocket, and pulling out a
great sheaf of bank-notes threw one of them
towards her without looking at it. ^ You
may take an invalid carriage for her, if you
please, but you will go by the two o'clock

train to Gravesend, and wait at the (Treen
Dragon Hotel for my arrival. Jeannette will, of
course, accompany you. Do you understand?'

She did not reply, and lie wheeled round
and confronted her impatiently. His brow
was knit, his features were working convulsively
; he looked anxious, yet furious, like a
gambler who is watching his last stake.

John Adair had never been good-looking ;
but it was curious how every trace of youth
and culture had by this time gone out of him,
leaving only the desperado.

Nor was Sophy, in her turn, less changed.
She was still very comely, but her comeliness
was the last think; about her that would have
struck any observer above the level of the
clown. Her characteristic had been wont to
be her vivacity ; her sprightliness of air and
manner had been so marked as to be a something
peculiar to herself ; all this was gone.
The delicate colour on her cheek, the laughter
in her eyes, even the agile movement of her
fairy limbs, had vanished. Although the mere

ghost of her former self in these respects,
there was, however, a determination in Sophy's
face as it met that of her husband which it
had never possessed in youth, and which the
other shrank from. Ever since she had known
that Adair had made use of her to rob the
Canon, her loathing of him had cast out her
fear of him. He had perceived the change,
but mistaken the cause of it. He thought that
she must long ago have become acquainted
with his behaviour to her guardian. He had
wiped that crime from his own mind with the
ease with which the commercial philosopher
wipes out a bad debt ; he had committed so
many offences since — offences, too, that had so
much more danger in them — that the remembrance
of it had ceased to trouble him. He
attributed Sophy's new-found courage to quite
another cause. His conscience led him to
suppose that, somehow or other, she had become
acquainted with his designs against little
Willie, or, at all events, that she had some
suspicion of them. Face to face with her, he

was almost afraid of her — afraid that she
should suddenly cry aloud, ^ Villain ! you
have been plotting murder against your own
child, and I have found you out Nothing,
indeed, but an extreme and urgent need
could have induced him to talk to her upon
the subject of little Willie at all. But, as it
was essential that they should leave the house,
and the state of the child's health, as he had
foreseen, was her chief objection to that step,
it was necessary to speak upon the topic. His
furious manner — though he was angry enough
was half simulated ; he put it on to intimidate
her, or, perhaps, to hide the trepidation
with which he was himself agitated. He was
no coward, but he had tried and failed to kill
something else besides little Willie — his
conscience.

'Do you understand me, madam?' he
repeated.

Yes,' she answered, firmly ; ' I understand
you very well.'

There was no satire in her tone ; but the

simple tripoli she spoke was a far worse sting
than any satire.

Tien you know that I will be obeyed.
You and Jeannette can pack up all that is
necessary in a couple of hours, I suppose. In
order that there shall be no excuse, however,
you shall have four.'

It shall be as you please.'

This submission was too prompt, too easy,
and it excited his suspicions ; his mind was
like a sentinel who has outstayed his watch
and lost his nerve. Every sound suggested
an alarm, and even the absence of sound. He
thought that she was only promising to obey
him to gain time.

Mind you,' he said, in a menacing voice,
I shall be here myself to see that all is ready.
In the meantime I will order the invalid carriage
for the two o'clock train. Though I
shall not accompany you, I shall be sure to beat
the Green Dragon. You may not see me,
perhaps, to-night, for I shall arrive late — by
water. You need say nothing of that to

anybody ; but I wish to repose confidence in
you.'

Across Sophy's face flitted the distorted
shadow of a smile. He noticed it, and frowned
heavily.

We are man and wife,' he said, ' and must
sink or swim together. Things have gone
badly here, but they will go better elsewhere.
"wye must roost elsewhere, but our nest will be
feathered for us,' and he tapped his breast
pocket exultingly. ' Where we are going the
child will recover more quickly. It is the
very climate which the doctor recommends.'

If he expected her to ask where this salubrious
spot was situated, he was mistaken.

Her manner was anything but indifferent.
It was plain that she was paying attention to
every word he said ; but her face was cold
and stiff" as a stone.

Have you any further commands ? ' she
inquired. Patient Griselda could have said no
more, but her tone jarred on his ear.

VOL. III. Q

You speak like an automaton,' he
answered, angrily. ' No, I have nothing
more to say ; it will be the easier to remember.
At one o'clock I will be here with a
large carriage, so that the child can lie at
length. You will be sure to be ready by that
time.'

'I shall be ready.'

He went out without another word.

If he could have looked into the future — if
he could have known what that very day was
to bring forth — would he have parted from her
thus ? It is difficult to say. But if Sophy
could have foreseen what was to happen, I do
not think her behaviour would have been
different. Things had gone too far with her
in the way of misery, of which this man was
the chief cause, for any retrograde step towards
tenderness or even pity for him. The tremendous
issues of futurity itself were dwarfed
beside the contemplation of her wrongs and
wretchedness. What he had done now was

merely another drop added to that cup of
bitterness which he was always holding to her
lips. As it happened, he had unconsciously
caused it to run over ; that was all. As she
turned to leave the room, she saw the banknote
lying on the table. She picked it up
with a gesture of abhorrence, as though it
were some infectious rag. It was a note for a
hundred pounds. She felt that he had had no
intention of entrusting her with any such sum ;
that he had thrown it at her without thought,
out of his unaccustomed superfluity, as one
might inadvertently, out of a full plate, throw
to a dog meat instead of bone. For an instant
she held it in both hands, with the evident
intention of tearing it in pieces, when suddenly
a reflection occurred to her. ' It is not his,'
she murmured ; ' it is the Canon's.' And
folding it neatly up, she placed it in her purse,
and went upstairs.

Qi^

CHAPTER XLYIIL

ABANDONED.

Though Robert Aldred had announced his
intention of seeing ' with his own eyes how
things were going on in Albany Street he did
not on his arrival in London drive thither
directly. He had as modest a confidence in
his own powers as concerned business matters
as the Canon himself, and it was clear to him
that his influence with Sophy would be much
less than that of his father. He wisely
resolved to take no action without the
approval of Frederic Iron, of whose judgment
he had the very highest opinion, and
therefore drove straight to that gentleman's
office in Bedford Row. Iron received him

with great cordiality, but with a serious air.
To his apologies for troubling him about what
might after all turn out to be of no great
consequence — referring to Sophy's letter to
the Canon — he answered unhesitatingly, ' You
have done quite right.'

Do you really think then that she is on
the brink of some desperate step ? '

On some decisive step she may be,' he
replied, thoughtfully ; ' the desperation will
be the other way — I mean upon her husband's
side.'

But will not that involve her in peril?'

Undoubtedly, if certain precautions had
not been taken. He is like some wild beast
over whom a net has been thrown. It is
scarcely visible to him, and seems slight
enough, but if he attempts to escape, to
struggle '

But if he finds he cannot escape,' interrupted
Robert, apprehensively, ' is there no
fear of his doing mischief to innocent people ;

those who are within his power, and whom
he may confuse, perhaps, with his enemies ?
I am prejudiced, of course, but it seems to me
that this Adair is a sort of man who will stick
at nothing.'

That is so, or rather, I should say, he
has become so. One does not become a
villa, even though one may commit a
villainy, upon a sudden. I have had this
reptile under the microscope for months, and
it is amazing how he has developed in tooth
and claw. He was always that way inclined ;
his face from the first was set as though he
was going to the gallows. Still, if things had
turned out well with him — if luck, that is,
had favoured his speculations, which were
specious and likely-looking enough — it is my
opinion he would never have gone wrong,
except morally (for the man has no principle
whatever). He would have died worth a
plum, the chairman of innumerable companies,
and much respected by the majority of his

fellow-creatures — that is, by all those who
didn't know him. But he met with disasters
from the first, and repaired them with the
nearest means that came to hand, and they
were foul means. Once on that road, the
descent is easy.'

Do you think he has done anything
absolutely criminal? '

^ Certainly. He has been on the verge of
such crimes — or at all events of one crime —
as convince me he must have committed
intermediate ones, without the faintest scruple.
He has become the immediate associate of the
vilest wretches — this man Dawson, for one,
whom your fellow-travellers in the railway
carriage so injudiciously mentioned. What
you overheard on that occasion has been of
great service in our investigations. We have
found out all about the S.S. mine. It is the
notorious San Sobrano silver-mine, concerning
which such revelations have been recently
made. Your two friends had just returned

from South America, on a confidential mission.
They had been "salting" the mine. There
is a warrant out for Dawson's apprehension
upon a much more serious charge — but, as
regards the mine, there is no doubt that Adair
is implicated. He was unable to raise the
money to float it, on which the promoters
depended.'

Here a cab drove rapidly up to the door,
and the office bell rang with violence.

I should not wonder if that was some
news about our friend,' continued Iron, with
his finger raised for silence. ' Clients, unless,
indeed, they are ladies who have suffered
wrong, do not try our bell wires so severely.'


Are you expecting news about him? '

^ Not this morning in particular — but it
must needs come soon.'

A clerk entered with a card in his hand.
He gave it to his employer, who passed it on,
with a significant look, to Aldred.

Good heavens I Iron ; it is the man
himself.'

Yes ; I think I can guess what he has
come about,' returned the lawyer, grimly ;
sit down at yonder desk with a pen in your
hand, and you will hear what the gentleman
has to say for himself — show him in. Mason.'

The next moment Adair was ushered into
the room. He looked pale, as he always did,
but with a difference ; his colour was leaden,
even to his lips. He might have been a
corpse but for his eyes, which, after an angry
glance round the room, fixed themselves like
two burning coals upon the lawyer.

You are not alone,' he said ; ' what 1
have to say to you must be said in private.'

The gentleman yonder is in my confidence,'
returned Iron, coldly. ' If you object
to his presence you can say what you have to
say in writing. I will not see you alone.'

You are afraid, are you? ' sneered
Adair.

Not the least, since I am neither your
wife nor your child

Ah ! your words convince me that I amon
the right track. Since you will have a
witness, so much the worse for you. I am
here to say that you have committed an
infamy.'

Indeed ! I do not confess it, but I admit
that you should be a good judge of what is
infamous.'

Where are my wife and child? ' exclaimed
Adair, passionately. ' They have been lured
away from home by your machinations.
Where are they? '

I cannot tell you ! '

That is a lie. With your witness there,
it is, perhaps, actionable to say so. No
matter, I repeat it again.'

You can do so without fear, sir,'
answered the lawyer, indifferently ; 'one does
not bring civil actions against criminals.'

Criminals ! That is of a piece with your

whole behaviour to me ; you have gone about
defaming my character. Wherever I turn I
find you have been beforehand with your '' Do
not trust him." '

As for instance? Can you give me an
example, Mr. Adair?'

There is Dr. Woodruffe, for one.'

What ! do you dare allude to that transaction?
Then I admit it. I told him something
which caused him to put the insurance
company on their guard. And now, in your
turn, answer me this ; where did you propose
to yourself to get the twelve thousand pounds
requisite for floating the San Sobrano scheme ?'

Adair answered nothing ; his white lips
moved a little, and he moistened them with
his tongue.

Did you not, at a monstrous premium,
insure your sick child's life for that sum ? '

What of that ? ' murmured Adair, hoarsely.
The law had nothing to say against it,
and therefore no one had a right to complain.'

That does not always follow, Mr. Adair.
This gentleman here, whom you have taken
for one of my clerks, may claim to be an
exception to that rule.'

Robert rose, and confronted Adair. ' My
name,' he said, ' is Robert Aldred, the son of
your benefactor whom you have robbed and
ruined. You have marred my future likewise
; yet let me tell you that I do not loathe
you for the wrong you have done to him and
me so much as I despise and detest you for
your cowardice and cruelty to your unhappy
wife.'

Ah, I remember,' said Adair, contemptuously,
' you were one of her old flames. A
pretty sort of connection for her husband to
be schooled by. Of course it would have
been a nice thing to have kept her money in
the family, only she preferred somebody else.'

That was not you, you cur,' said Aldred ;
she married you out of fear.'

You seem to know a great deal about my

dorocstic affairs answered the other, scornfully.


^ We do, interposed Iron, in solemn tones,
^ more, much more, than you have any idea of.
We know, or, at least, / know, not only how
you have treated your wife, but how you have
attempted to treat your child? Do you
remember what happened on the day that Dr.
Newton called to see her?'

^ I remember he did see her.'

Yes, but something else. The thing I
speak of had happened before, no doubt ; but
not often. There were not many opportunities
for it to happen, though you never let one
slip. One offered itself that day ; you made
an excuse to leave your wife and the doctor
below, and returned to the nursery alone.'

Here Adair, who had been standing up
throughout the interview, began to tremble.
He stretched out his hand like one who
gropes in the dark, and placed it on the back
of a chair.

I have no recollection of the circumstance
you mention,' he murmured, huskily.

^ I know some one who can refresh your
memory. When ^^ou entered that room you
made a slight mistake.'

It is possible,' answered the other,
eagerly ; ' the room was darkened ; there
were several bottles on the table.'

Who said anything about bottles ? That
is a most damaging admission on your part.
It was no mistake you made with them
however ; you had done the same thing too
often for that. The mistake you made was
in concluding that there loss nobody in the
room''

A cold sweat broke out on Adair's forehead ;
he swung' from side to side like a drunken
man, and would have fallen to the floor but
for the chair-back, which he clasped convulsively.


Jeannette was below with the rest,' he
murmured, after a long pause.

She was, but there was another person m
the nursery behind the curtain. It is lucky
for you that you are not in the dock at this
moment, for your face would hang you. For
my part, there is nothing that would give me
greater pleasure than to see you there ; but
we are not all like you, we sometimes deny
ourselves a personal gratification for the sake
of others. It is for another's sake, in order
that your innocent child may not have to say
to herself, " My father was a convicted felon,"
that I give you this warning. You are in
danger of the law. To-morrow may be too
late for escape ; you must leave England
to-day.'

Again the dry lips moved, but without
speech ; he bowed his head, however, in token
of acquiescence.

Have you money — money, I mean,
sufficient to take you across the Channel?'

Adair lifted a trembling hand and touched
his breast-pocket.

To be sure,' continued Iron, drily ; ' I
ought to have known that you would have
feathered your own nest in any case — now go.
If you take my advice, you will not return to
Albany Street — there may be people there on
the look-out for you.'

Without a word, without a look — for he
did not raise his eyes from the ground — and
with a fumbling for the handle of the door as
if it were dark and it were hard to find, the
man shambled out.

^ What a despicable hound ! ' exclaimed
Robert. ' It makes me feel humiliated and
unclean even to have been in his company.
How could my dear father have been attracted
to such a person ? '

Five years of greed and fraud change a
man pretty completely, Robert. His ways
were always shifty ; he told me a lie the very
first day I ever set eyes on him, but he was
not then like yonder creature. Where is now
cunning there was then intelligence ; a fellow
who might have been tutor of Trinity, one

day, like dear old Mayors. All the wits in
the world will not keep a man straight who is
born crooked. No, he was not like that, atone
time. I remember Henny herself took
his part against me, at first.'

But what has he done ? How comes it
that you have such a hold upon him ? '

He thinks I can prove something, which,
as a matter of fact, I only know and cannot
prove.'

How abject he looked, Iron ! I never
saw conscious guilt put on so debased a
form.'

You are mistaken there, Kobert ; it is
not the consciousness of guilt, but the fear of
its consequences, which has so paralysed
him. He has got plenty of ill-gotten gains in
that breast-pocket of his, and when he once
ofets abroad and finds himself out of the reach
of punishment, he will lift up his drooping
head again and start afresh on his road to
the Devil.'

VOL. III. R

CHAPTER XLIX.

THE FLIGHT.

When Join Adair left his home and hid that
injunction upon his wife to pack up all that
was necessary for departure within a few
hours, he was not disobeyed. She had been
in readiness for some such emergency for
many days. Even that idea of his of an
invalid carriage for little Willie had been in
some sort anticipated. In less than two hours
after he had left the house everything was prepared
for flight, including arrangements for
the transport of the sick child. There was
haste, but no precipitation, and, above all, no
fear. When Iron said to Adair, ' If you take
my advice you will not return to Albany

Street, there may be people on the look-out
for you he had not spoken less than the truth ;
he referred to people in Sophy's interest. There
had been help within call next door for weeks.
Adair had held his liberty on sufferance, and
would have been arrested on the instant had
despair or fury driven him to menace Sophy
or the child. ' A masterful inactivity ' had,
however, been the policy which had seemed to
Iron better than any other. Sooner or later,
as he had foreseen, it would become necessary
for Adair to leave the country ; and though a
warrant had been taken out against him, at
the lawyer's instigation, it was held in suspense,
since to execute it would have been to
precipitate exposure, and to cover the innocent
with life-long shame. If Sophy had known
of what Stevie had witnessed in her nursery,
it would have been impossible for her to be
patient ; she would not have permitted little
Willie to remain one hour beneath her
husband's roof.

r2

It would have been difficult to persuade
her that the cancelling of the insurances which
had been effected upon the child's life had put
all further attempt upon it out of the question ;
nay, it had rendered little Willie's existence
of the highest consequence to Adair as being
the only asset — though it had hitherto proved
impossible to realise it — except Sophy, which
he possessed.

It is not every absconding bankrupt who
is so solicitous to hamper himself in his flight
with wife and child, but to Adair they were
really very precious. If anything should
happen to either of them the survivor would
be simply invaluable, since, with the exception
of that store he had in his breast-pocket
— which if everybody had had their
rights (a Utopian and optimist phrase, quite
unsuited to practical life) would certainly not
have been there — he would have no other
source of income.

It is difficult, therefore, to underrate the

sense of loss which Mr. John Adah' experienced
when, on coming home at one
o'clock (he had one virtue — he was punctual),
he found both wife and child had flown. He
had a notion at first that they might have
preceded him to the railway station — that
they were ^ not lost, but gone before,' but the
parlour maid assured him to the contrary.
Missus and Miss Willie, with Jeannette, had
gone two hours ago,' as she supposed, to join
him ; she was loud in her admiration of the
vehicle which had conveyed the child away in
an easy and recumbent posture, and apparently
in high spirits. As to their destination,
Jeannette had given out that they were
going to the sea ; ' a rather vague address,
even supposing it was a correct one, and one
which certainly did not satisfy the inquirer.
As a matter of fact, Sophy had no more
knowledge of where they were going than had
the parlour-maid. Jeannette, who had long
been head of the intelligence department as

regards all outside matters, was, now .
From the moment when her
mistress informed her of the injunctions her
husband had laid upon her she took the conduct
of everything into her own hands.

^ Do not take on about it,' she exclaimed,
my dear Miss Sophy ' (in moments of excitement
she always thus addressed her
mistress, notwithstanding that she had been
twice married), ' for this is only what we
have been expecting, or something like it, forever
so long. We will take the dear child
away, safe and sound, a couple of hours before
master returns ; and, if he ever sets his
eyes on either you or her again, I'll forgive
him.'

To anyone who knew Jeannette and the
feelings which animated her with respect to
her employer, this alternative seemed improbable
enough.

But where are we to go, Jeannette,
whither my husband cannot follow ; and

what friends have I — though it is true I have
good friends — who can protect me against the
strong arm of the law ? '

^ As to that matter,' returned the waiting-maid,
confidently, ' I have reason to believe
that master has something to settle with the
law upon his own account ; so that, for once
and away, it will be found on the side of the
weak. While as to friends, you have got one,
Miss Sophy, that loves you as well as I do —
loves you more than you have any idea of,
only, for the present, she doesn't wish her
name known — so let's call her Johnson.'

I have only one woman friend, Jeannette
save dear Aunt Maria, whom I myself have
rendered powerless to help me — and that is
Mrs. Iron. I have done harm enough to
those who love me already, and nothing will
induce me to accept any help which may
bring Henny into trouble. Why, the first
place your master ' (it was very significant
that she should have avoided saying * my

husband' when speaking of Adah^) 'will turn
to look for us will be her house.'

To any question where you and little
Willie are gone, Mr. Iron can, I assure you,
lay his hand upon his heart and honestly say
though, being a lawyer, he would say it,
of course, in any case — that he knows nothing
about it. Don' t trouble your head, my dear
Miss Sophy, about anything but packing
your things.'

Their preparations for departure were proceeding,
indeed, throughout the conversation,
during which Jeannette maintained an air of
confidence that was not without its effect
upon her mistress. Poor Sophy's one idea
was to get away with her child from a miserable
home and a hateful husband, and she was
willing enough, without much questioning, to
entrust her future to such faithful hands. The
vigour and animation which had taken possession
of the waiting-maid — though, to do her
justice, she had always ' kept up ' for Sophy's

sake under all their troubles — were remarkable.
She was like a good soldier, who, tired
of inaction, at last receives the route. Nay,
there was something even bellicose about her,
as though war had been declared ; and, indeed,
the idea of battle was by no means unwelcome
to her. Next to the preservation of
her mistress and little Willie, the thought
nearest to her heart was that it was about to
be permitted to her to pay off old scores with
Mr. John Adair.

She had been in slavery to him for six
long years, and the hour of emancipation and
revenge had come at last. Intrigue was her
delight, she had a natural bent for it (though
straightforward enough in every other direction,
she was a little crooked in that) ; but,
up to this time, her diplomacy, so far from
being successful, had filled her with remorse
and regret. Moreover, she had had no coadjutor,
her mistress had had enough of
deception, and only in one thing had played

into Jeannette's hands. They had agreed
together to conceal the fact that little Willie
had recently taken a decided turn for the
better. As this circumstance, however, for
certain excellent reasons, had been hidden
from Adair, his proposition that the sick child
should be carried from her bed to take a
railway journey had, in Sophy's eyes, lost
none of its brutality. It acted as a spur to
the alacrity with which she prepared to leave
her husband's roof. Such a sense of enfranchisement
and relief took possession of
her as she drove away — her hand fast locked
in little Willie's, who lay stretched at ease by
her side — that for some minutes she forbore
even to speak, like one who is recovering
from some long and acute disorder, and who
finds happiness enough in being quit of pain.
She was content to enjoy her freedom in
silence.

Presently, however, she inquired of Jeannette
whither she was taking her. ' To a

cousin of mine out Hammersmith way,' explained
the waiting-maid. ' Of course it would
not do to stop there, though you would be as
welcome as flowers in May ; master would
soon find out where the invalid carriage
dropped us, but after that I flatter myself the
scent will be cold enough.'

And then are we going on to this good
Mrs. Johnson's ! as you call her? '

Yes ; it's her cottage as has been got
ready for you.'

What care and trouble you must have
taken, Jeannette,' murmured Sophy, gratefully.


So I had need, ma'am,' was the waiting-woman's
reply. The tone, as well as the
words, were significant enough, but Sophy
was too wrapped in her own thoughts to pay
attention to either. The hour in which the
captive breaks his chain is even more critical
than the one in which it first was riveted
on him ; the beginning of a new life, however

preferable it may seem to that which we have
done with, is momentous.

After a long drive, they drew up at a
house in a very modest terrace where Jeannette's
cousin — a homely, matronly woman —
gave them a hearty welcome. Some tea and
refreshments were put before them, of which
Sophy could hardly be persuaded to partake,
so afraid was she of pursuit and capture. In
twenty minutes they were again on their way,
this time in one of those flys peculiar to the
suburbs and country towns. Their way lay
now clear of the streets, among villas and
market gardens. At last they stopped at
a pretty cottage, with bay windows looking
over a well-kept lawn bordered by flower-beds
already redolent of the spring. Little Willie
was enchanted with their colour and perfume.

^ Dear mamma, I should like to live here
all my life,' she whispered, softly.

^ You shall live here as long as you like,
you dear,' said Jeannette.

To Sophy, as to the child, though for a
different reason, the prospect seemed too
altering to be realised. ^ It looks most sweet
and quiet,' she whispered. ' But shall we be
safe, Jeannette? '

Do you see that building yonder, Miss
Sophy, with the ivy round it ; it is only a
stone's throw, and we shall be secure under
its shadow.'

The suburb was one of those highly decorated
ones which are certainly exempt from
the charge of monotony of architecture ; each
house was not only different from the other,
but often distinguished by some startling peculiarity
of its own. Even the churches were
less ecclesiastical-looking than artistic. ' Is it
the church?' inquired Sophy, not without
some doubt in her mind of even the security
of the proximity of the sacred edifice, against
the machinations of her husband.

The church ! Lor bless you, no. Miss.
It's better nor that ; it's the police station.'

It was plain that Jeannette put greater
confidence in the power of the secular arm
than in ecclesiastical authority.

A neat, cheerful woman having the appearance
of a housekeeper received them, and
showed them over the cottage, which was
very prettily furnished ; the nursery arrangements
were exceptionally pleasant and appropriate.
When tired little Willie had been put
to bed, and was lying asleep watched by the two
fond women, Jeannette expressed a hope that
her mistress had found things to her likings.

I dare not say what I think,' said Sophy.
I feel as though I were looking upon something
far too restful and beautiful to last — ■
like sunset in the skies. To whom am I indebted
for this charming haven? in which,
however, it is out of the question, Jeannette,
that we can remain. You don't understand
that in leaving Mr. Adair I have deprived
myself of the means of livelihood.'

I am not so sure of that, Miss Sophy ; at

least, those who know a great deal more
about such matters than me are not so sure.
But, however that may be, don't you fret
yourself about the cost of things. Money
will be provided — at all events for some time
to come — by one whose greatest pleasure will
be to spend it upon you.'

It must be Henny,' murmured Sophy ;
^ dear, generous Henny ! '

Mrs. Iron is as good as gold,' returned
Jeannette, earnestly, ' and her purse will bethe
same as yours, I warrant ; but just at this
moment Mrs. Iron don't even know you're
here.'

^ Then who is it, Jeannette ? '

Sophy's face flushed to her forehead. It
had suddenly struck her that Mr. Mayors washer
unknown benefactor, and then the shame
of having entertained such an unjustifiable
suspicion overwhelmed her. It was probable,
indeed, that the Tutor had forgotten all about
her, or, if he had thought of inquiring, had

heard perhaps, not altogether without complacency,
that the man she had preferred to
him had turned out to be not altogether the
best of husbands.

If I tell you who it is, Miss Sophy, T shall
be doing the very thing the person in question
Mrs. Johnson, as I have called her — wishes
me not to do.'

I am very much obliged to my unknown
friend, whoever she is, Jeannette,' returned
Sophy, resolutely ; ^ but I cannot consent to
be under obligations to a stranger, or, what is
worse, to some one who may be returning tome
good for evil.'

Her mind had reverted to Aunt Maria. It
was highly improbable, of course, that that
lady should possess the means for any such
act of generosity ; but, at all events, as Sophy
was well convinced, the will would not be
wanting to her : when we cannot find what
we search for elsewhere, we look for it in unlikely
places.

Well, Miss Sophy, I will do your bidding
if you will, on your part, listen with patience
to something I have got to say about myself,
and when you have heard it try your best to
forgive me.'

I have nothing, alas ! to forgive any one,
my poor Jeannette; throughout my life things
have been quite the other way.'

^ You have done some foolish things, no
doubt, Miss Sophy,' returned Jeannette,
naively ; ' and grievously have you suffered
for them. Your marriage with Mr. Perry
was, of course, the beginning of it all ; but
still your misfortunes might have been ended
there but for my meddling. But for me you
mio;ht have made a clean breast of it to the
Canon, and at least prevented matters from
going from bad to worse.'

No, Jeannette ; no,' put in her mistress,
mournfully ; 'I had not the courage for it ;
anything seemed easier to me than to tell the
truth.'

VOL. III. s

You were hesitating about it, Miss Sophy,
at all events, and I threw all the weight I had
with you into the wrong scale. I did not know
it was the wrong one, but I ought to have
done, had not my eyes been blinded by the
glitter of gold. Miss Sophy, I was bribed
by Mr. Adair to help him.'

Bribed ! Oh, Jeannette ! '

Yes, Miss Sophy, well you may look at
me like that ; only don't suppose that I was
betraying you. I have thought the matter
over a hundred times since then, and though
I take blame and shame to myself, it was not
so bad as that. I never put wrong into your
head, but I was enticed by Mr. Adair's money
to encourage you in what was not right. You
were always a liberal mistress to me ; Heaven
knows I had not the excuse of want ; but
Mr. Adair was very free-handed, and thinking
it was generosity and not self-interest (as, of
course, it was), I endeavoured to persuade
myself that such a man could never make a
bad husband ; what I was more certain of,

however, was that lie would make a lavish
master. Xor in the last (though generosity
had even less to do with it than before) was I
mistaken. And here, dear, dear Miss Sophy,
lies the bitterest shame of all. I took his
money for years for seeming to be on his side
against your dear self and little Willie. There
was some excuse even for that, for in deceiving
him I was enabled to remain your friend. But
when the sums he gave me — at the very time
he was telling you he had no money — became
larger and larger, my heart sank within me
to think what villainy I might in his eyes be
abetting.'

I don't understand, Jeannette,' said
Sophy, pitifully. ' Perhaps it is only just
that I, who have deceived others so dear and
near to me, should have been myself deceived.
"What could he do, as you say, against us
more than what I know he did ? '

Don't ask, Miss Sophy ; I beseech you,
don't ask. It was not what he did, but whats

2

lie tried to do ; and as I knew, in my heart of
hearts, he gave me the money to hold my
tongue about it. It was bad enough to take
what dear Miss Aldred gave me when you
married, "as a remembrance of my faithful
service under her roof" — mine, who had
thrown dust in her eyes from the very first,
and at last sold her darling to a scoundrel ;
but to take blood money ! '

Blood money ! ' echoed Sophy, aghast
with horror.

Well, it was almost as bad, though I
didn't know how bad ; and when I took it I
had no other idea in my mind. Heaven knows,
than to thwart and hinder him. And I did
stand between him and the little darling, dear
Miss Sophy, and would have laid down my
life sooner than have let him injure a hair of
her sweet head. Thank Heaven! you never
knew of it, and I do beg of you not to seek to
know, at least from my lips. Mrs. Iron, who
knows all, will tell you, perhaps, some day ;

lie does not think that I was so much to
blame. And you have been yourself in straits,
Miss Sophy, when it was difficult to know
what was right.'

Indeed, indeed, I have, Jeannette,' jut in
her mistress. ' I have no right to cast a stone
at any human being for acting crookedly. I
am sure you meant well (which I did not) ;
and if you stood between my child and harm,
I am your debtor for ever.'

Oh, no ! no ! Nothing that I can do.
Miss Sophy, can ever make things that way,'
said Jeannette, vehemently. ' But if— out of
the thought of happier times, and the knowledge
that I have loved you and yours from first to
last, and because you see a miserable creature
on her knees before you — you can forgive
me '

Hush ! hush ! you must not kneel to me,'
interrupted Sophy, greatly agitated. ' If I
have anything to forgive you, of course it is
forgiven.'

^ I thank you for that blessed word, Miss
Sophy,' cried the sobbing girL ' I draw my
breath for the first time freely for the last live
years. While life is in me, I will do my best
to repair the misery I have brought upon you;
I will work for you and little Willie as no
woman ever worked before.'

You dear, faithful creature ! ' said Sophy,
tenderly. ' At present our fortune is in the
clouds, through which, however, let us hope
some streak of sunshine may presently find
its way. But you have not yet told me what
you promised : how is it we are lodged in this
pretty place? Who has made these arrangements
for our comfort? How did we get herewith
such ease and safety? AVho but Henny
could have done it ? '

Mrs. Iron could have done it, Miss
Sophy, no doubt,' returned Jeannette, gently;
but it was so all-important you see, that
neither she nor her husband should know
anything about your whereabouts when Mr.

Adair makes his inquiries of them, as he is
sure to do.'

Sophy cast an involuntary glance at her
sleeping child, and shuddered.

I see, of course, the absolute necessity of
that,' she said ; ' but things do not happen
in this world according to our necessities. If
Henny has not been our guardian angel in
this matter, who can it have been ? Who is
good Mrs. Johnson ? '

There is no guardian angelship and no
sort of goodness about her,' returned the
waiting maid, vehemently. ' All that you
see here are the mere proceeds of her wages
of iniquity. But such as she is, she is Jenny
Perkins.'

CHAPTER L.

THE CONFEDERATES.

When he once found himself abroad and out
of the reach of immediate danger, Iron had
said of John Adair that he would hold up
his head and be himself again. Nor did it
require the air of the Continent to revive him.
Miserable as was his aspect as he slunk away
from Bedford Row, he seemed, like Antaeus,
to gather strength and confidence with every
footfall. He had been in a good many ugly
holes, it was true ; and, what was worse,
Iron was aware, it seemed, that he had been
on the brink of one which, as compared with
the rest, was as the Bottomless Pit itself.
He had suffered a terrible penalty for having

been so near it, the thought of which had
utterly quenched his spirit ; but, on reconsideration,
he now felt assured that there was
no intention on the lawyer's part to pursue
that matter to the bitter end. This might
arise, as Iron had said, from an unwillingness
to disgrace those belonging to him, or
from the difficulty of establishing the charge ;
and, if the latter, the sooner he left England,
and the longer he kept away, the less likely
it was to be brought home to him. Who
the witness of his attempted crime could be,
Adair could make no guess. Perhaps there
had been no witness ; though the suspicion
against him must have been strong indeed to
have induced the invention of such testimony.
But it was evidently resolved by his enemies
(as he termed those whom he had wronged
and ruined) that he should either fly the
country or make acquaintance with the dock
of a criminal court ; and there was no hesitation
on his part which to choose. He had

already been contemplating flight on other
grounds ; and should he be arrested, no
matter on what charge, his seizure would bethe
signal for half a dozen other prosecutions.
He had long been prescient of this evil day,
which nothing but the success of the San
Sobrano scheme (which had come to the
ground with a crash that could not be stifled)
could have staved off, and had made his
arrangements accordingly.

As even a small income can be made to
go a good way if we are deaf to the claims
of others, and spend every penny of it upon
ourselves, so even among the ruins of failure
there is money to be picked up by the unscrupulous
; and Adair, as the lawyer had foreseen,
had feathered his nest pretty completely,
or, in other words had laid his hands upon
everything that could be realised and turned
it into portable property. Whenever he
touched that breast-pocket of his, he experienced
a pleasurable glow which with

some people is the substitute for all generous
emotions — the consciousness of the possession
of capital. For all that had come and
gone, he still had a complacent confidence
in his own natural abilities. Backed by the
experience of the last five years — which,
though acquired at great cost, had nevertheless
been paid for by other people's money —
he felt himself capable of great commercial
enterprises. These, however, would be of a
different kind from those with which he had
hitherto been connected, and which had failed
(as he persuaded himself) by the pusillanimity
and want of enterprise of others. His
own hand and brain should for the future
direct them ; and, in particular, he would
take care to separate himself completely from
these coadjutors, or rather confederates, with
whom perforce he had of late consorted. He
would put them to one more use, and then
have done with them.

It was in company with one of these —

the man Dawson — that he was about to leave
England that very evening ; and by hin all
arrangements had been made for that purpose.
Dawson was not only aware that
Sophy and the child were going with Adair,
but had suggested their doing so. He knew
all their circumstances, and had pointed out
how important it Alas to his future prospects
(in which Mr. Dawson flattered himself he
would have some share) that he should keep
his wife and his daughter (whom he playfully
termed the goose and the gosling with the
golden eggs) under his own eye.

If you once leave your wife,' he naively
said, ' her own people will get round her, and
you will find it difficult to reopen relations
with her ; ' and as her income was paid into
her own hands, this would be obviously inconvenient.


There were certain circumstances which
rendered it injudicious for Adair to be seen
travelling in a railway carriage in the direction

of the sea-coast ; while for Mr. Dawson
such a step would have been still more hazardous.
It had therefore been settled that
Mrs. Adair and the child should journey to
Gravesend alone, while her husband and his
confederate were to drop down the river at
night and join them in the morning. A boat,
manned by a crew Avhom they could trust
(i.e. who were well paid for the job), was to
await them at midnight by the stairs at the
bottom of Miller Street, where Dawson had
some place of business. The two men, though
united by the band of common interest, were
far from being on good terms : their natures
were antipathetic. Dawson was a coarse and
brutal ruffian, whose society could not but
revolt a man of education, however morally
degraded; he enjoyed himself after his fashion,
which Adair never did ; but he was not a
whit less suspicious and cunning. It had
been agreed that they were to meet together
at a water-side tavern in the East of London

that afternoon, to make their final arrangements,
and thither Adah' now bent his
steps.

The rendezvous itself was characteristic
enough of one of the two men ; a rickety
erection with beetle brows (like a villainous
low forehead), its wooden walls bulging on
the river and overhanging, at low tide, mud
and slime ; the haunt of profligate and noisy
sailors. Adair, who though unscrupulous,
was fastidious in his way, surveyed the place,
which he had never entered before, with a
shudder of disgust. As he walked down the
narrow lane of which it formed the termination,
his heart was full of bitterness. The
old houses almost meeting over his head as
they leant forward in age and weakness, made
a shadow above him, which, though there
was no other point of likeness. Heaven knows,
suddenly reminded him of the lime walk at
Trmit}'. Six years ago he had trodden it in
cap and gown ; a man of mark and promise,

with a future before him, and now he had
become the companion of thieves. Without
one pang of remorse, he felt an excessive
repugnance to the thing he had become ; a
pent-up fury raged within him against circumstance,
fate, whatever it was that had
brought him to such a pass. It was not his
own fault, of course ; the knave out of luck
is seldom aware that he has chosen the very
worst profession in the world \ he only knows
that he is ' cursed unfortunate.' What most
excited his wrath was the fact that his own
flesh and blood had deserted him, though
they had in fact only escaped him. Next to
them, he loathed the man to whom it had
become necessary to disclose that humiliating
circumstance.

He found Dawson awaiting him in a
bow-windowed room looking on the river,
smoking a pipe, and drinking hot brandy-and-water.


^ Punctual, as usual, Master Jack,' was

his familiar address. ' That's well ; sit down
and have a glass.'

^ No ; I have neither time nor taste for
drinking. Matters are getting hot for us,
Dawson. For my part, I wish we were
well off.'

It is always safer — which means quicker
to wait for night, when it comes to running.
Besides, the men have their orders, and
could not be got together all in a moment.
What has happened to frighten you ? '

I have reason to believe that there are
people looking for me at home.'

Indeed ! ' said the other, laying down his
pipe and dropping his careless manner. ' I
hope you have got your women folk well
away.'

They are not coming,' said Adair, sullenly
; ' they have fled the house, and I don't
know where they have gone.'

Come, come, Mr. Adair ! ' exclaimed his
companion, menacingly ; ' this will not do.

Miles Dawson is not the man to be made a
cat spa w of.'

I tell you I know no more than you do
where my wife has gone. I wish I did know.
It's more my loss than yours, I suppose.'

If it is your loss ; but how am I to be
certain of that ? You are not so very
straightforward that I should take your bare
word for it. We sink or swim together, my
young friend, mind that. It is very well for
you to have a certain income safely invested
in this country to be drawn upon at your
convenience j but what's to become of me in
the meantime, while our schemes are ripening.
While the grass grows the steed starves ;
and I am not the sort of animal that takes to
starving kindly.'

I have money enough for both of us fora
month or two,' said Adair, with a flush on
his face.

Oh, you have, have you ? ' sneered the
other ; ' in spite of its being so deuced diffi-

VOL. III. T

cult to raise a few pounds ? Well, if I don't
see my way to a thousand pound down, I
don't start to-night, Mr. Adair.'

A thousand pounds ! I wouldn't give
you a thousand pence to save your neck from
the hangman.'

It was not a pleasant observation for one
gentleman to make to another supposed to be
in his confidence ; moreover, it was accompanied
by a tone and manner so obviously
genuine that to explain it away in any ^ parliamentary
sense ' was out of the question.

For an instant a very ugly look indeed
crossed Mr. Dawson's face, which, when the
coarse honhom.ie was out of it, was always
far from prepossessing, but the next moment
he burst out laughing.

Upon my life, Adair,' he said, ' for a
keen, clever fellow, I never saw one so slow
to take a joke as you are. Yoa need hardly
have flown out so, even if an old pal like me
had asked for the money in earnest, whereas
I asked you for nothing of the kind. I said

I should like to see it ; since without the
sinews of war it would be useless to begin
our campaign at all, and we might just as
well stop where we are and take our chance.'

For an instant Adair seemed to hesitate,
then he threw open his coat and pulled out
his bundle of bank-notes.

There is a thousand pounds there, and
more,' he exclaimed, sullenly. ' Xow, look
here, I'm safe till-tomorrow ; but don't let's
have any more cursed nonsense about not
going to-night.'

Certainly not,' returned the other, quietly.
Only there is nothing like being frank and
above-board with friends.'

If this moral axiom was meant as an
encouragement to his companion to go into
figures, it failed of its intent, for Adair rolled
up the notes again, and placed them in his
breast pocket.

At midnight, then, at Miller Street stairs,
the boat will be waiting ? '

'As sure as death, or at least clockwork
was the dry rejoinder. ' As you can't go
home, it seems, why shouldn't we pass the
time together?'

No, I have something to do,' said Adair,
taking up his hat.

Well, don't be late ; but, on the other
hand, it won't do to be much too early. To
be hanging about the stairs before the boat
arrives will excite suspicion.' With that curt,
sidelong nod which is the sign of adieu between
familiars who are not friends, the two
parted. Hardly had the door closed behind
Adair, when Dawson stamped twice upon the
floor, a signal which was promptly answered
by the younger of the two men who had been
passengers in the tram with Robert Aldred.

Quick, follow that fellow, and tell me
where he goes to.'

Within five minutes the emissary returned,
with a long face.

Fool ! has he given you the slip?'

It is not that ; there's some one after
him already.'

Ten thousand devils ! not one of our
people, surely ? '

No such luck, it's a detective. I've seen
his face in Scotland-yard, and, what's more to
the purpose, he's seen mine.'

You white-livered hound ! No matter,
that will do.'

Left to himself, Dawson fell a musing.
'He's safe for to-night, is he? That means
that they are conniving at his flight ; for
Madam's sake they will not arrest him. A
virtuous woman is a crown to her husband.
A thousand pounds? He had five thousand
pounds about him if he had a penny. I
caught the figure on the inside note ; they
were hundred-pounders.'

It was not easy to find a cab in those waterside
regions ; but, when he had done so, Adair
drove to an hotel in Covent Garden — the same
he had put up at when he had come up from

Cambridge to make that little investigation at
St. Anne's — and secured a private sitting-room.
A bedroom he did not need, and to
sit in the coffee-room among strangers would
have been intolerable. He had in reality
nothing to do, for his arrangements for departure
were complete ; but a sense of danger
marvellously increased by the little fortune
he carried with him — warned him to lie close,
as it had disinclined him for his late companion's
society. The time lagged on his
hands like lead ; there were two books upon
the table, and, though he had never taken any
pleasure in reading, he carelessly took up one
of them. It chanced to be a Cambridge
Calendar, left, no doubt, by some undergraduate
who used the house. He turned to
his own name, second on the list of Wranglers.
The sight of it was wormwood to him.
What chances he had flung away ; from how
high a promise he had fallen, and to what a
depth ! He threw the book away with a curse,

and took up the other. It was a Post Office
Directory. He turned to his own address in
Albany Street, and in the City. In the next
edition, he bitterly reflected, they would not
be there — nor anywhere. It was doubtful
whether he would ever dare to set foot in England
again ; yet if Sophy and her child would
not obey his orders, and come out to him, he
would dare ; and then so much the worse for
them. As he idly turned over the leaves he
read a page of ' trades ; • then, half closing the
book, repeated the names in their order, with
only two mistakes. He read it again, and this
time accomplished the feat without an error.
What an amazing memory he possessed, what
grasp of mind, and talent for detail ! It was
impossible, with the funds he had to start
with, that he should fail a second time in
utilising such gifts.

He died, or rather supped, at a late hour,
and at a little before eleven started for the
rendezvous. Bearing in mind the warning

Dawson had given him against being too
early, he went on foot, notwithstanding that
it was raining heavily. There was also a
strong wind blowing. This reminded him of
the night when he dogged the footsteps of
Herbert Parry when they came away from
the ball.

There was another point of resemblance of
which he was unaware ; his own footsteps
were being dogged, and with much greater
cunning ; he had been but an amateur detective,
and this was a professional. Along the
Strand and Fleet Street, and then into the
narrow thoroughfares by the river side, this
man pursued him — save that he always kept
upon the opposite side of the way — like his
own shadow. At the corner of Miller Street
Adair stopped and took out his watch. It
wanted but five minutes to midnight. Then
he turned the corner of the street and made
rapidly for the river. His pursuer, seeing
him pause, had slunk into a gateway, and.

taken unawares by his rapid movement, was
thrown more behind him than he had been
heretofore. When he also turned into the
street, which was of no great length, Adair
had almost reached the bottom of it, when he
suddenly lost sight of him. The detective
hastened his steps, and quickly reached the
very spot, as he imagined, where Adair had
disappeared. It was a large warehouse, with
a huge crane depending from it, and its huge
doors were closed. It was impossible, he felt,
that they could have been opened and shut
within so short a time. Yet the man was
gone. The detective placed a whistle to his
lips and gave a shrill signal, twice repeated.
With three minutes there were two policemen,
with their bell's-eyes, assisting him in
his search. He told them hurriedly what had
happened, and one of them ran on to the river
brink. As he reached it, a light boat, with six
men in her, four of them rowing, and two in
the stern, shot out from under the stairs.

'He has got away, sir said the policeman,
running back to make his report, ' in a ship's
gig down the river.'

I don't believe it,' said the detective.
He never moved a yard beyond this spot,'
and he struck his foot upon the ground. The
sound it gave was dull and hollow. They
were standing on a cellar trap.

CHAPTER LI.

WILLIE S WILL.

Weeks elapsed before the secluded home
which Jeannette had found for her mistress
received any visitor. Security from the pursuit
of her husband was the one aspiration of
her soul, and while that remained in doubt
she was unable to enjoy the full fruition of
her freedom. The quiet of the place and its
environments, the scents and sounds of spring,
the marked improvement which the change
had already effected in little Willie, filled her
with joy and thankfulness ; but from this newfound
happiness, the sense of its transient
character — the possibility of some misfortune
befalling her worse than all that she had heretofore

endured — was never absent. Jeannette
could not be persuaded to speak further of the
peril which had hung over little Willie ; but
although her ignorance of business affairs
prevented her from understanding how her
darling's death could have benefited any
human creature, Sophy knew that her child
had been in danger, and from the hands that
nature itself should have taught to defend her.
Under these circumstances, and looking to
the fact that while Iron and his wife could
conscientiously aver that they were unaware
of her place of concealment, her husband,
even with the law to back him, could scarcely
discover her, she enjoined upon Jeannette an
absolute silence. The two women and the
child were as absolutely cut off from those
who had an interest in them — kindly or otherwise
— as though they were in ' some summer
isle of Eden, where never comes the trader
nor floats the European flag.' Eor utter isolation
there is nothing, indeed, like your

London suburb ; where gentility reigns
supreme, and into which not even the criers
of the 'latest intelligence' think it worth their
while to penetrate. These voluntary exiles
knew nothing of what was going on in the
world, and their dearest hope was that that
ignorance should be reciprocal.

Everything, however — including murder
comes out at last, and Mrs. Johnson, under
which name Jeannette continued to conceal
her identity, received one morning a startling
piece of intelligence through the buttermilk.
He did not tell it her with his lips — the news
was too stale for that — but brought it by
accident, in print, wrapped round a parcel of
the ' best Dorset.' It is a method by which
imaginative literature, alas ! is often conveyed
; but this was a matter of fact. There
had been a time when Jeannette would have
gone straight to her mistress and discoursed
of the sensational incident with infinite gusto :
but the poor waiting-maid had lost her nerve ;

she had no longer any confidence in her own
judgment ; and so far from rejoicing, as of
yore, in handling the ribbons of an intrigue,
could hardly drive a gig as a free agent. She
did, however, take certain steps, the result of
which was that two ladies — the elder in deep
mourning, the younger in that attire which
the milliners describe as one of ^ mitigated
grief,' presented themselves the next morning
at the cottage. At the sight of the former,
Sophy uttered a piteous cry, and ran into her
stretched out arms.

My darling ! ' murmured Aunt Maria
(for she it was); 'welcome, welcome to the
old haven ! '

Into, no ! not that,' sobbed Sophy ; ' I
have no right to it.'

And, indeed, though the well-springs of
love and gratitude were at the full with her,
she had sought the refuge in question only to
hide her face in shame and sorrow.

That is not your Aunt Maria's view,' said

Henny, coming to the assistance of them
both — for, in truth, it was needed — Though
she and I have certainly a bone to pick with
you, dear, for having hidden away fi'om us for
so long. We knew, of course, since Jeannette
was in charge of you, that you must needs be
safe.'

No, no, no ! ' interrupted Sophy, in
affrighted tones ; ' not safe ; that is what
embitters every moment to me. As for me,
I do not deserve to be safe from him, but I
tremble for my innocent child.'

The two visitors exchanged significant
glances.

^ Dismiss that fear from your mind, dear
girl,' said Aunt Maria, assuringly ; ' there are
none but friends about you now, nor will
there ever be.'

Sophy shook her head.

How did you find me out? ' she answered,
vehemently. ' He can do as you did ; he is
cunning and very patient in evil-doing. Once,

when I was quite a child, I lived in the
country ; I saw a poor tired hare running
through a wood, and many minutes afterwards
a slim, cruel stoat following on its track.
That is how it will be with us. Sooner or
later, poor little Willie and I will be overtaken
and devoured.'

But I tell you, dear Sophy, it will not be
so,' urged Henny, confidently. ' Do you
think that I would deceive you in a thing like
that, or speak so positively if I was not quite
sure ? '

No, Henny, I don't think that ; you
believe in what your husband has told you.
He has found out, perhaps, that the law is
upon our side ; and so it may be. But he
doesn't know the man he has to deal with :
what is law to Mm ? He does not even fear
God Himself. A man without natural affection,
and without mercy.'

Hush, hush ! ' said Henny, imploringly.
Again the two women looked at one another ;

they had agreed together, it seemed, upon
some course of action, but were now doubtful
as to its advisability.

Had we not better tell her? ' whispered
Henny, over the still bowed head. But ere
Aunt Maria could nod assent Sophy had
started from her embrace with an affrighted
cry.

Hark ! hark ! ' she cried. ' A man's voice
in Willie's room ; he has found us out, and
has come to murder her.'

Before either of her companions could put
out a hand to restrain her she had rushed
from the room to the upper floor. The others
followed as quickly as they could. Sophy's
ears had not deceived her ; there ivan a man
in the room above, where the child lay, sitting
by the side of the child with a huge picture-book
in his hand, which she was regarding
attentively. An old man in deep mourning,
but with a face of quiet content and exquisite
tenderness. Little Willie and he were

VOL. III. u

obviously on the best of terms, and she was
prattling away in the most confidential and
heartless manner. For once the mother's face
did not turn first to her darling ; she flung
herself at the new comer's knees and burst
into tears.

The Canon caressed her in silence for some
moments. He had no great confidence just
then in his own powers of speech, and when
he used them was careful to avoid too pronounced
a tone of tenderness.

You mustn't give way like that, my dear
Sophy,' he said, reprovingly. ' We shall have
the Court of Chancery down upon us for
frightening the Setting Trust.'

And indeed that important little personage
looked amazed enough at her mother's
emotion. ' I was told to wait below till Aunt
Maria had prepared you for my visit,' he went
on ; ' though why I should have become such
a formidable person to you I'm sure I
can't tell, but I thought in the meantime I

would renew my acquaintance with my
godchild.'

Still Sophy did not speak. She had got
hold of one of the Canon's hands, and, in spite
of his efforts to withdraw it, was kissing it, to
his intense embarrassment.

My dear Sophy,' he went on, ' I am not
the Queen, nor yet the Pope. But if you do
really attribute to me any superiority or
authority I entreat of you to rise, and — dear
me, I am not used to have ladies kneeling tome,
but ' (here was a spasmodic attempt at his
old smile) ' quite the contrary. We have had
a bad time all round ; there's no doubt of
that, and of late weeks,' he added, with a deep
sigh, * the worst of all.'

Good heavens ! what has happened
afresh ? ' cried Sophy, starting to her feet.
You are in mourning, and Aunt Maria is in
mourning too. It is surely not dear Robert ? ^

No, no ; thank God, it is not he,' said
the Canon, earnestly ; ' but we have lost an

old friend — a friend who was dear to all of us,
and to whom you, Sophy, were especially
dear.'

Sophy put back her hair from her eyes, a
familiar gesture, which brought her back to
the Canon's mind more than anything had yet
done, for she was greatly changed. The
expression of her face was that of bewilderment.
For the moment — so little of reciprocity
there is sometimes even in devoted
love — she was unable to recognise the loss of
which he spoke. Then in a trembling voice,
and with a faint flush, she murmured, ' It is
not, I trust, good Mr. Mayors.'

Yes, he has gone from this world to a
better ; but this world would have been a better
world to hiui if things had turned out
differently as regards yourself, Sophy. I was
blind to it, but Aunt Maria was not ; he sent
to her when he was dying, and told her all
about it. His last words were a blessing
upon you ; the dream of his heart was that

you should escape your unhappy fate ; and
his prayer has been answered.'

*Is my husband dead?' inquired Sophy,
in trembling tones.

Yes, don't ask about it just yet ; you
shall know all in time. You are no longer a
bond slave ; yes ' (her eyes had turned to little
Willie with yearning and thankfulness), ' and
your child is safe ; henceforth she will be
yours without fear.'

Once more Sophy fell on her knees, but
this time not to the Canon. There are times
when even to the tenderest hearts the loss of
our dear ones is a source of happy release, and
a cause for thankfulness. A melancholy
gratitude, indeed ; but this was a case
infinitely more deplorable — that of a woman
who recognised Heaven's mercy in the blow
that cut off her husband in the midst of his
sins.

And the past,' said Sophy, solemnly,
taking the child's hand in hers ; ' some reparation

for even the past can now be made. We
have thought a good deal about godpapa and
how he has been treated, have we not,
Willie? '

The Setting Trust, sitting very high up in
her little bed, well propped by pillows, nodded
adhesion. ' I have left godpapa all my
money,' she said.

Good heavens ! what does the dear child
mean? ' inquired the Canon, with a distressed
look.

^ It is quite true,' said Sophy, gravely ;
*my darling and I are both of one mind in
the matter. Her chief anxiety, when Dr.
Newton came to see her, was to know whether
she would live to be twenty-one, because I
told her that she would then be able to repay
you all that you had been robbed of.'

And if I was to die in the meantime,' said
little Willie, ' I should like to leave it to him.'

^ I don't suppose your good husband,
Henny,' said Sophy, smiling, ' would think

very imicli of the validity of the will of a child
of six ; but, at all events, it shows the
intention of the testator." '

With that she produced from her desk the
document in (question, written in a large round
hand.

^ There was no undue influence,' said
Sophy, ' though I admit that I sometimes
steadied her wrist, not that we can't write,'
she added, with maternal pride, ' but because
wee were so very Aveak at the time. Indeed, it
was when we thought that we should never
2:et well and strong; assail that we did it.'

The Canon sat with this juvenile testament
spread out before him, as reverently as
though it had been an original MS. of Milton.
The two women stood looking over his
shoulder making pretence to read it, but their
eyes were too full of tears.

This is the last will and testament of me,
Wilhelmina Adair, spinster,' it ran, in due
legal form, and bequeathed ' all my worldly

goods, of whatever kind, to William Aldred,,
my godpapa.'

And where on earth did AVillie get all
this legal knowledge ? ' inquired the legatee.

Jeannette had a sixpenny book of general
utility,' explained Sophy, 'among the contents
of which was the form of a will. She and I
were the witnesses, but you will please to
observe that the signature is Willie's own.'

I did that all by myself,' remarked the
testator, with complacency ; ' mamma did not
guide my fingers.'

We thought that might invalidate the
bequest,' said Sophy, smiling.

It is worth a good deal more than if it
was valid,' cried the Canon, enthusiastically.
It ought to be in the College library with the
Paradise Lost." '

'Unhappily, however,' sighed Sophy, 'it
is only a proof of good intentions. When I
said that some reparation even for the past
was now rendered possible, I was alluding, my

dear guardian, to the interest of the money
that has been stolen from you ; only a small
portion of it will now be necessary for our
needs, and the rest will, of course, be paid you
as we receive it ; but, as to the principal, I
don't see how it is ever to be refunded.'

You may make yourself quite easy upon
that score, my dear Sophy,' said the Canon,
with tender gravity ; ' for, as a matter of facts
it has been refunded.'

What — what — did the person who-wronged
you of it repay '

Astonishment and incredulity checked
her utterance.

Why, no, my dear,' put in the Canopy
drily ; ' it was not quite that way. The
money came indirectly from your hands. Our
friend Mayors had, in fact, left you a large
sum. His lawyer tells me it had been
originally intended for the College, but that
some time ago — hearing that matters were
not going prosperously with you — he made a

new will. Then quite lately he saw Robert,
and for the first time was made acquainted
with the matters in connection with my
trusteeship — how the money had to be paid
twice over, and so forth.'

Good heavens ! How vile and base he
must have thought me ! ' groaned Sophy.

Quite otherwise, my dear ; he esteemed
you so highly that he at once understood the
sorrow and remorse you were suffering, from
having been made the instrument of my ruin.
He felt that if he left you this money the first
use you would put it to would be to repay
me ; but that under the circumstances you
would not have the power to do so, that your
husband, in short, would have prevented it.
That it would have been like pouring water
into a sieve. He therefore bequeathed the
15,000/. that I had advanced to you to myself,
taking care, however, to explain to Aunt
Maria why it was done. He felt as sure as if
he had consulted your own wishes that such

a disposition of his property would be satisfactory
to you.'

Heaven bless him ! ' murmured Sophy,
gratefully. ' He has lifted a burden from me
which I should otherwise have carried to my
grave.'

That was the very feeling for which he
gave you credit,' put in Aunt Maria, softly.
He read your heart, my dear, though he
could not win it.'

It was never worth his winning, Aunt
Maria,' she answered, bitterly. ' I was not
fit to be the wife of an honest man.'

Nay, nay ! ' said the Canon ; ' if it comes
to honesty I shall have little to say for
myself. Not only has the sum been bequeathed
to me which was evidently intended
for you, but Mayors has left money to my
boy Robert. Myself and family have become
receivers, as it were, of stolen goods, well
knowing them, as Fred would put it, to have
been stolen.'

Tien Robert will be able to marry the
girl of Ills choice ! ' exclaimed Sophy, delightedly.
' He will no longer have reason to
accuse me of having wrecked his happiness.'

If it has been wrecked, it must have
been amply insured,' smiled the Canon, 'to
judge by his face when I last saw him. He
has telegraphed for his Alma, who will be at
The Laurels " in a week's time.'

But I thought you had left " The Laurels "
been driven — elsewhere — all through me.'

Tut, tut ! let bygones be bygones. Money
that makes the mare to go has the same effectif
judiciously administered) upon a tenant.
We have gone back to the old house, Sophy,
and to the old ways ; only one thing is
wanting, we must have our Sophy back in
her old home.'

No, no, that can never be,' she answered,
bitterly. ' She can never be your Sophy
again, the Sophy that you once believed her
to be.'

Well, of course, there will be some difference,
said the Canon, smiling. ^ There's
the Setting Trust to be taken into account.
What does little Willie say to coming down
with mamma to live with godpapa and Aunt
Maria ? '

AVillie will come, only Jeannette must
come too,' said the child, with the air of one
who confers a favour, upon conditions.

^ Come, there's judgment without appeal,'
cried the Canon, exultingly. ' Neither you
nor I, my dear, require Fred Iron to tell us
that the Setting Trust always has everything
her own way.'

Perhaps — in time, dear guardian,' said
Sophy, hesitatingly.

Which was a promise.

CHAPTER Il

m PORT.

When Sophy went down to Cambridge, lie
was in deep mourning ; but the heaviness of
heart within her was caused by the sense of
her own un worthiness, and not by her recent
loss. The notion that the death even of the
worst of husbands is a matter of regret is a
very general one, and is recorded on many
enduring substances — tombstones. But the
truth is that there is no relation in life
which can hold its ground against persistent
wrong doing. That of the dead we should
say nothing but good is an excellent maxim ;
but, unfortunately, it takes too much for
granted — namely, that there is some good to

say about them. Of John Adair it might,
indeed, have been stated that he had an excellent
head ' for figures ; ' but even that
eulogium, since it included the art of falsifying
accounts, was of a doubtful value. For
my own part, I never feel the slightest regret
when offensive persons of my acquaintance
are removed to another sphere (of course T
may be mistaken in my estimate of them ;
but, in that case, it is a consolation to feel
that they are gone where their merits, which
escaped my limited observation, will be appreciated)
; and therefore I cannot blame poor
Sophy that she felt so little sorrow for her
bereavement.

Some distress and pain, however, she did
feel by reason of the manner of his departure.
John Adair, it was generally understood, was
murdered. He Alas found dead under that
cellar flap in Miller Street ; and 'the theory '
of what would have been ' the prosecution,'
had there been anybody to prosecute, was as

follows. Mr. Dawson, as lias been mentioned,
had an establishment in this street, which
-consisted, however, only of certain underground
premises used for storage — probably
of stolen goods. When Adair so indiscreetly
exhibited to him that parcel of bank-notes,
it came into his mind that he would rather go
:abroad with ill-gotten gains than with the
possessor of them, from whose custody he
might (and doubtless would) have had some
difficulty in extracting them. With the aid
of a confederate, he therefore planned a simple
scheme for acquiring them ; the only thing
necessary to the success of which was that
Adair should take the right hand of the
street. There was no reason, indeed, why he
should take the left hand ; but if he had
chanced to cross the road, the scheme would
have been a failure. In that case, Adair
would have simply walked down the river
stairs where the boat was awaiting him ; as
it was, instead of embarking on the Thames,
he crossed the Styx.

Dawson's confederate on the other side of
the way was thought to have given some
signal for the bolt of the cellar trap to be
withdrawn just as Adair stepped upon it,
when, as we know, he suddenly disappeared
from the sight of the detective. At all events,
he was found there dead, and with only a
few shillings in his pocket ; and within five
minutes the boat was hurrying down the
stream with six men in her instead of seven.
I have not a word, of course, of excuse to
offer for Mr. Dawson. His conduct was undoubtedly
reprehensible ; but, on the other
hand, I have not the faintest sympathy for
his victim, dio himself, as we know, would
have sacrificed an innocent life without much
scruple. I must confess, indeed, to experiencing
a certain satisfaction when thoroughpaced
rogues fall out and rid the world of
one another. I fail to be touched with the
burning indignation with which informers
are just now regarded. They seem to me

VOL. HI. X

most useful people. And as for this Mr.
Dawson — who Avill, no doubt, come to be
hanged in time, with all due propriety —
in his rough and ready and, so to speak, extrajudicial
fashion, he certainly made life worth
livings for some honest folks, to whom it had
become well-nigh intolerable.

Sophy was received at ' The Laurels ' with
open arms, but not at all like a returned
Prodigal. Matters were made to go on as
much as possible exactly the same as they
had been used to do ; those half a dozen
years of absence and misery were treated as
though she had been away on a week's visit,
and was now come home again. So many
stitches cannot, however, be dropped in the
web of life without leaving a very ugly hole.
The contrast between what was and what had
been was sharp and clear to her, for all their
care, as a jagged rock against a summer sky.
Bitterest of all were her reflections upon the
what might have been. Even for Sophy's

sake Robert could not conceal his love when
Alma came — a girl dutiful as beautiful, tender
as pure, born for the admiration of all, for
the devotion of one. Xot one spark of
jealousy of her glowed in Sophy's bosom ;
but in her supreme happiness she recognised
all that she herself had so recklessly thrown
away. She did not envy her as the chosen
bride of an honourable and worthy young
fellow — ' all these things had ceased to be '
with her as though she was on her dying
bed, but for the gifts which made her so
precious in his eyes ; some of these, at least,
she had had in her own power to bestow, and
she had flung them into the gutter. Young
as she still was in years, the joys of youth
were already over with her ; it was as though
she belonged to two generations back, and for
the future could only hope to find her happiness
in the happiness of others.

And she did find it in them. In whatever
relation of life she had gone astray, no fault

X 2

^\^as ever found in her as a mother — except
indeed that Mrs. Helford pronounced her to
be too indulgent, a weakness she called Heaven
to Witness she had never given way to in the
case of her own sainted boy. Even if this
charge was true, however, no harm came of it ;
for little Willie not only became in time
strong and well, but a blessing to all about
her. With Henny Iron — who, although she
never bore a child, was a mother to many —
Willie was the chief of all her favourites.
Her affection for the little lassie prompted her,
indeed, to such lengths — such as kidnapping
and deportation to Maidaa Yale — that Sophy
had sometimes to remind her that, after all,
the child was hers, and to threaten to invoke
the protection of the law, through Mr.
Frederic Iron, solicitor ; the fact of Master
Stevie Helford' s services, however, being
retained upon Henny's side made the recapture
of the Infant always difficult. Willie's
admiration of him, which was quite reciprocated,

though m a very different fashion, was
something unique in a young lady of such
very tender years. Mrs. Helford, however,
who, to do her justice, was very fond of
AYilHe, did not think it inexplicable. ' My
dear Henny,' she would say, ' that little dot
of Sophy's is a born flirt, like her mother
before her.'

In no other respect, however, did Willie
show the least sign of heredity ; unless, indeed,
it is maintained by the believers in that
convenient theory that peculiarities of disposition
can be handed down from a godpapa.
In her dislike to figures and her predilection
for poetry she resembled the Canon, who
entertained an extravagant regard for her.

Sophy's past was never alluded to in her
presence, not even by Jeannette ; but the
latter's devotion to her mistress and child (far
beyond what is usually exhibited even by the
most faithful of 'retainers') bespoke the remorse
she felt for such hand as she had had

in it. She too has received a lesson which
renders intrigue and duplicity impossible to
her for the rest of her days.

The Canon and Aunt Maria are as reticent
behind Sophy's back as when her still pretty,
but sad and sobered, face reminds them of the
light that has fled from it. Certain painful
memories can never be dismissed from their
minds, but their gentle natures shrink from
the discussion of them. It is not so, of
course, with the world at large ; and many
hard things are said of Sophy by those to
whom the sight of the bruised reed always
suggests the desire to break it. Her own sex
(with certain exceptions I need not name)
are especially hard upon her.

You may say what you like, ma'am,'
said old Dr. Newton, in reply to one of these
censors ; ' but I maintain that with even an
average husband that girl would have turned
out the best of wives, as she is the best of
mothers.'

The character of Mr. John Adair, we maybe
sure, was handled with still greater freedom ;
but even he had his apologist.

'If he hadn't got into bad hands,' Mrs.
Helford was wont to say (a shibboleth which
the good lady used with reference to most
scoundrels, in unconscious extenuation, perhaps,
of her own sainted offspring) , ' he
would have been an honour to his profession,
whatever it was. I am sure, when I first
knew him, he behaved himself with the
greatest propriety.'

To which her son-in-law would reply, with
an injured air, ' I can only say that the very
first time I met him he told me one of the
most '

At which point Henny would place her
dainty little palm on her husband's lips, and
cut short the well-worn accusation.

Iron always asserts that his wife is the
only woman in the world who has ever sympathised
with Burns' aspiration, that even

auld Horne ' may somehow or other get out
of his difficulties, and find all forgotten and
forgiven ; and, in truth, she is one of the
tenderest souls that ever ' wore earth about
her.'

After Robert's marriage he returned to
India, from whence, at intervals, two baby
boys were forwarded to the care of Grandpa
and Aunt Maria ; it is needless to say that
they were received with rapture, but they
never put little Willie's nose out of joint in
the affections of the Canon.

Boys may come,' he was wont to say, as
bending over some picture-book together, he
mingled his silver with her golden hair, ' and
even girls may come ; but they will never
come between me and the Setting Trust.'

And they never did.

THE END.

Spottiswoode & Co., Printed's, New-street Square, London,

3 0112 084216172
