she Universe,) '"°'' '"''" '" dismissal from

T» renew „„ Telephone Center, 333-8400

JLI?
DEC 1 1<

'^ry

L161— O-1096

K.C/'

Vil. I.

Miss Margaret lifted her eyes from her plate with a smile op become.

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF 'BY TKOXY' ETC. ETC.

IX TWO VOLUMES

VOL. L

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[Ail rights reserved]

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/talkoftown01payn

Contents

ov
THE FIRST V O L V ^l E.

CHAP. PA UK



I. Ar>'r MARGARET . . , ,

IT. OFT IN THE COLD .

III. A RECITATION . . . .

IV. A REAL ENTHUSIAST

V. THE OLD SETTLE . . . .

VI. AN Factors CRITICISM

VII. A collector's gratitude .

VIII. HOW TO GET RID OF A COMPANY

7 IX. AN UNWELCOME VISITOR

"^ X. TWO POETS

V XI. THE LOVE-LOCK .

^ XII. A DELICATE TASK .

^ XIII. THE PROFESSION OF FAITH
o

V" XIV. THE EXAMINERS

XV. AT V AFX HALL

XVI. A BOMBSHELL

% XVII. THE MARES NEST

















2:sO



- XVIII. ' Whatever HAPPENS, I SHALL LOVE TOF. WILLIE 271

^

MISS 3IAEGAEET LIFTED HER EYES FROM HEE

PLATE WITH A smile OF Welcome. . Frontispiece

science ! ' Interested THE A>'TIQrARY,
YEHEilENTLY, 'THAT IS THE AEGUilEXT
OF THE ATHEIST AGAINST THE Scriptures.'

to face p. 98

THE DILETTANTI „ 134

'MAGGIE, MAGGIE, HERE IS A Present FOE

Tot.' „ 174

THE PROFESSION OF FAITH . . . . „ 206

YArXHALL GAEDEX3 „ 236

A YEEY CHEEFJ.ES3 Proceeding . . . „ 262

i^

CHAPTEE I.

Aunt MARGARET,

HEX I was a
very young
man nothing
used to
surprise me
more than
the existence
of a very old
one — one of
those patriarchs
who,
instead of
Unking the
generations
^ each with
each,' include
two or three in the' protracted span ;
a habit which runs in families, as in the case

VOL. I. B

of the old gentleman of our own time whose
grandsire (once or twice ' removed,' it is true,
but not nearly so often as ' by rights ' he
should have been) gathered the arrows upon
Flodden Field. Such persons seemed to me
little inferior in interest to ghosts (whom indeed
in appearance they greatly resembled), and I
was wont to listen to their experiences of the
past with the same rapt attention, (unalloyed by
the alarm), that I should have paid to a denizen
of another world. There are, it seems to me,
very few old persons about now, absolutely
none (there used to be plenty) three or four
times my age ; and this, perhaps, renders the
memory (for she did die at last) of my great-aunt
Margaret a thing so rare and precious to me.

She was born, as we. her young relatives,
were wont to say, ' ages and ages ago,' but as a
matter of fact just one age ago ; that is to say,
if she had been alive but a few years back, she
would have been exactly one hundred years
old. Think of it, my young friends who are
about to be so good, in your turn, as to give
her story your attention — think of it having

been possible that you yourselves should have
met this very personage in the flesh (though
the poor dear had but little of it) — you perhaps
in your goat carriage, upon the King's Parade,
Brighton, and she in her wheeled chair — the
two extremities (on wheels) of human life !

To things you have read of as history, matters
as dead and gone to you, if not quite so old, as
the Peloponnesian war, she was a living witness.
She was alive, for example, though not
of an age to ' take notice ' of the circumstances,
when the independence of America was acknowledged
by the mother country, and when
England was beginning to solace herself for
that disruption by the acquisition of India. If
Aunt Margaret did not know as much about
Hyde Ali as became a contemporary, with
matters nearer home, such as the loss of the
'Eoyal George,' 'with all her crew (or nearly
so) complete,' she was very conversant. ' I
saw it,' she was used to say, ' with my own
eyes ; ' and it was only by the strictest cross-examination
that you could get her to confess
that she was but a child in arms when that

B 2

catastrophe took place. As to politics, indeed,
though we were at war with everybody in
those times, the absence of special correspondents,
telegraphs, and even newspapers, made
public matters of much more limited interest
than it is nowadays easy to imagine. Aunt
Margaret, at all events, cared almost nothing
about them, with the exception of the doings of
the pressing — an institution of which she
always spoke with the liveliest horror. On
some one, however, chancing to say in her
hearing (and by way of corroboration of her
views) that it was marvellous how men who
had been so infamously treated should have
been got to fight under the national flag, she
let fly at him like the broadside of a seventy-gun
frigate, and gave him to understand that
the sailors of those days had never had their
equals. On that, as on all other subjects, she
exercised the right of criticism upon the institutions
of her time to an unlimited extent, but if
they were attacked by others she became their
defender.

Her chief concern, however, was with social

matters, when speaking of which she seemed
entirely to forget the age in which she was
living : it was as though some ancestress, in
hoop and farthingale, had stepped down
from her picture and read us a page of the
diary she had written overnight. She seemed
hardly like one of ourselves at all, though it
was obvious enough that she was of the female
gender, from the prominence she gave to the
topic of costumes. She confessed that she preferred
the hair ' undressed ' — a phrase which
misled her more youthful hearers, who imagined
her to be praising a dissolute luxuriance of lovelocks,
which was very far from her intention ;
on the other hand, she lamented the disuse of
black satin breeches, which she ascribed to the
general decay of hmb among the male sex.
There was nothing like your top-boots and
hessians, she would say, for morning wear, butin
the evening, every man that had a leg was,
in her opinion, bound to show it.

I have reason to believe that my aunt
Margaret was the last person who ever
journeyed from London to Brighton in a post-chaise

— a mode of travel, she was wont to
remark, justly eulogised by the wisest and best
of men and Londoners. If he had been spared
to see a railway locomotive, she expressed herself
as confident that he would have considered
it the direct offspring of the devil ; and that
conjectural opinion of the great lexicographer
she herself shared to her dying day. Like him,
she was a Londoner, and took an immense
interest, not municipal of course, but social, in
the affairs of the great city. ' My dear,' she
often used to say reprovingly, when speaking
of some event of which I Alas obliged to confess
I had never so much as heard, ' it was the
topic of every tongue.'

Although she had never been the theme
of London gossip herself, she had been very
closely connected with one who had been ; and
to those who were intimate with her he was
the constant subject of her discourse. Her
thoughts dwelt more with him, I am sure, than
with all the other personages together with
whom she had been acquainted during her
earthly pilgrimage; and yet she always thought

of him in his adolescence, as a very young
man.

He was just your age, my clear,' she was
wont to say to me, ' when he became the
Talk of the Town." '

Perhaps this circumstance gave him an
additional interest in my eyes ; but certainly
her account of this one famous personage was
more interesting to me than everything else
which Aunt Margaret had to tell me. It has
dwelt in my mind for many a year, and when
this is the case with any story, I have generally
found that I have been able to interest others
in its recital. In this particular case, however,
my way is not so plain as usual. The story is
not my story, nor even Aunt Margaret's ; in its
more important details it is common property.
On the other hand, not even the oldest inhabitant
has any remembrance of it. The hearts
that were once wounded to the quick by the
occurrences which I am about to describe can
be no more pained by any allusion to them ;
they have long been dust. Xo relative, to my
knowledge, is now having of the unfortunate

young man whose memory — execrated by the
crowd — was kept so green and fresh (watered
by her tears) by one having soul for nearly
eighty years. Why should I not tell his
pitiful story ? '

A second question, however, presents itself
at the outset concerning him. Shall I give or
conceal his name ? I here frankly confess that
in its broad details the tale has no novelty to
recommend it : it is not only true, but it has
been told. The bald, bare facts have been put
before the public by the youth himself nearly a
hundred years since. There is the rub. To
a few 'persons of culture,' as the phrase goes
nowadays, the main incident of his career will
be familiar ; though, however cultured, it is
unlikely they Avill know how it affected my
great-aunt Margaret ; but to tens of thousands
(including, I'll be bound, the upper ten) it will
be utterly unknown.

Now I have noticed that there is nothing
your well-informed person so much delights in
as to make other people aware of his being so.
Indeed, the chief use of information in his eyes

IS not so much to raise oneself above the crowd
(though a sense of elevation is agreeable), as
to have the privilege of imparting it to others
with a noble air of superiority and self-importance.
I will therefore call my hero by
such a name as will at once be recognised by
the learned, whom I shall thus render my
intermediaries — exponents of the transparent
secret to those who are in blissful ignorance of
it. I will call him William Henry Erin.

I must add in justice to myself that the
story was not told me in confidence.

How could it be so when at the very
beginning of our intimacy the narrator had
already almost reached the extreme limit of
human life, while I had but just left school ? It
was the similarity of age on my part with that
of the person she had in her mind which no
doubt, in part at least, caused her to make me
the repository of her long-buried sorrow. She
judged, and rightly judged, that for that reason
I was more likely to sympathise with it. Indeed,
whenever she spoke of it I forgot
her age ; as in the case of the pictured

grand mamma so felicitously described by Mr.
Locker, I used to think of her at such times —

As she looked at seventeen
As a bride.

Her rounded form was lean,
And her silk was bombazine,

Well I wot.
With her needles she would sit,
And for hours would she knit,

Would she not 1

Ah, perishable clay !
Her charms had dropped away.
One by one.

Yet when she spoke of the lover of her
youth, there seemed nothing incongruous in
her so doing. I forgot the Long Ago in
which her tale was placed ; her talk, indeed, on
those occasions being of those human feelings
which are independent of any epoch, took
little or no colour from the past ; it seemed
to me a story of to-day, and as such I now
relate it.

CHAPTEE II.

OUT IX THE COLD.

A FEW years ago it would have been almost
impossible for modern readers to imagine what
a coach journey used to be in the good old
times ; but, thanks to certain gilded youths,
more fortunate than persons of a higher intellectual
type who have striven in vain to —

Revive old usages thoroughly worn out,
The souls of them fumed forth, the hearts of them
torn out,

it is not now so difficult, tiny one who has
gone by one of our ' summer coaches ' for a
short trip out of town can picture the
Pockets ' and • Highflyers ' in which our ancestors
took their journeys at the end of the
last century. Those old mail-coaches were, in
fact, their very counterparts ; for the ' basket '

had already made way for ' the hind seat ; '
only, instead of our aristocratic driver, there
was a professional ' whip,' who in fair weather
came out in scarlet like the guard, though in wet
and Winter-time he was wrapped in heavy drab,
as though a butterfly should become a grub
again. The roads were good, the milestones ina
much better condition than they are at present,
and the inns at which the passengers
stopped for refreshments greatly superior to their
successors, or rather to their few ghastly survivors,
all room and no company, which still
haunt the roadside. The highwaymen, too,
were still extant, which gave an opportunity
to young gentlemen of spirit to assure young
female fellow-passengers of their being under
safe escort, if not of displaying their own
course. Still, after edit hours in a stagecoach,
most ' insides ' felt that they lead had
enough of it, and were glad enough to stretch
their legs when the chance offered.

This feeling was experienced by two out
of the three passengers in the London coach
Tantivy,' which on a certain afternoon in May,

at the end of the last century, drew np at the
White Hart ' in the town of Banbury : it was
their hist ' stopping stage ' before they arrived
at their destination — Stratford-on-Avon ; and
they wished (at least two of them did) that
they had reached it already.

Mr. Samuel Erhi, the senior and head of
the little party, was a man of about sixty years
of age, but looked somewhat older. He still
wore the attire which had been usual in his
youth, but was now pronounced old-fashioned :
a powdered wig of moderate dimensions ; a
plain braided frock coat, with waistcoat to
match, almost as long ; a hat turned up before
and behind, and looking: like a cross between a
cocked hat and the head-o-ear of a modern
archdeacon ; knee-breeches, and buckled shoes.
Upon his forehead — their ordinary resting-place
when he was not engaged in his profession
(that of a draughtsman), or poring over
some musty volume — reposed, on a bed of
wrinkles, a pair of gold spectacles. His eyes,
which, without being very keen, were intelligent
enough, appeared smaller than they

really were, from a habit he had of puckenng
their lids, engendered by the more delicate
work of his calling, and also by frequent
examination of old MSS. and rare editions, of
which he was a connoisseur.

As he left the coach with slow, inelastic
step, he was followed by his friend Frank
Dennis. This gentleman was a much younger
man, but he too, though not so retrograde in
attire as his senior, paid little attention to the
prevailing fashion. He wore, indeed, his own
hair, but closely cut ; a pepper-and-salt coat
and waistcoat, and a neckcloth, that looked like
a towel, tied carelessly under his chin. Though
not in his first youth, he was still a young man,
with frank and comely features ; but an expression
habitually thoughtful, and a somewhat
slow delivery of what he had to say, made him
appear of maturer years than belonged to him.
He was an architect by profession, but had
some private means ; his tastes were somewhat
similar to those of his friend and neighbour
Erin, and he could better afford to indulge
them. His present expedition was no business

of his own, but undertaken, as he professed,
that he might enjoy the other's society for a
week or two in the country. It so happened,
however, that Mr. Erin was bringing his niece,
Miss Margaret Slade, with him ; and, to judge
by the tenderness of Mr. Dennis's glance when
it rested on her, it is probable that the prospect
of her companionship had had some attraction
for him.

Last of the three, she tripped out of the
coach, declining, with a pretty toss of her head,
the assistance the younger man would have
rendered her in alighting. She could trip and
toss her head like any fairy. No tower of hair
like a porter s knot set upon end ' had she ;
her dress, though to modern eyes very short-waisted,
was not, as an annalist of her time has
described it, ' drawn exceeding close over
stays drawn still closer ; ' her movements were
light and free. Her lustrous brown hair fell in
natural waves from under a beaver hat turned
up on the left side, and ornamented with one
grey feather. A grey silk spencer indicated.
under pretence of concealing — foi it was

summer weather, and she could not have worn
it for warmth — the graces of her form. Her
eyes were bright and eager, and her pretty
hips mmiiiured a sigh of relief, as she touched
ground, at her release from durance.

How I wish this was Stratford-on-Avon ' I
cried she naively.

That would be wishing that Shakespeare
had been born at Banbury,' said her uncle. in a
tone of reproof.

Banbury is it ? ' she said ; ' then this is
where the lady lived who went about with
rings on her fingers and bells on her toes, and
therefore had music wherever she goes— I mean
went.'

Mr. Dennis smiled, and murmured very
slowly that other young ladies brought music
with them without the instruments of which she
spoke, or indeed any instruments ; they had
only to open their mouths.

I am hungry,' observed Miss Margaret,
without any reference to that remark about
opening her mouth at all — in fact, she studiously
ignored it.

Mr. Dennis sighed.

He was that minority of one who would
rather have remained in the coach — that is, if
Miss Margaret had done likewise ; he would
not in the least have objected to Mr. Samuel
Erin getting out. A circumstance over which
he had no control, the fact of his having been
born half a century too early, prevented his
being acquainted with the poem in which Mr.
Thomas Moore describes the pleasure he felt in
travelling in a stage-coach with a fair companion
; but he had experienced it all the same.
He was not displeased that there was another
stage to come yet.

If he was satisfied, however, with the
opportunities that had been afforded to him of
making himself agreeable to Miss Margaret on
the road, he must have been a man thankful
for small mercies. She had given him very
little encouragement. His attempts to engage
her in conversation had been anything but
successful. When a young lady wishes to be
tender, we know that the mere offer to open
or shut a coach window for her may lead to

VOL. I. c

f7

volumes of small-talk, but nothing had come of
his little politeness beyond the bare acknowledgment
of them. Even that, however, was
something. An ' I thank you, sir,' from the
pretty lips of Margaret Slade was to Mr. Frank
Dennis more than the acceptance of plan,
elevation, and section of any proposed town-hall
from a municipal council. It is strange how
much harder is the heart of the female than the
male under certain circumstances. If a young
lady obviously endeavours to make herself
agreeable to a young gentleman, he never
repulses her, or at least I have never known an
instance of it. ' But suppose,' I hear some fair
one inquire, ' he should be engaged to be
married to some one else ? ' ' Madam,' I reply
to that imaginary questioner, 'it would not
make one half pennyworth of difference. If the
other young woman was not there, you would
never guess from his behaviour that she was
in existence.'

It must not, however, be concluded from
this observation that Miss Margaret Slade was
in love with anybody else. She was but

seventeen at most ; an age at which among
well-conducted young persons no such idea
enters the head, nor indeed, in her case, as one
would think, had there been any opportunity
for its entrance. She had been brought up in
the country in seclusion, and only a few months
ago, upon the death of i\irs. Erin, had been sent
for by her uncle to keep house for him. His
establishment in Norfolk Street, Strand, was a
very simple one, and the company he entertained
numbered none of these who, in the
language of the day, Avere called ' the votaries
of Cupid.' Xo young beaux ever so much as
crossed the threshold. Mr. Erin's visitors were
all grave elderly gentlemen, more interested ina
binding than in a petticoat, and preferring
some old-world volume to a maiden in her
spring-time. There was indeed, ' though,' as
the song says, ' it is hardly worth while to put
that in,' a son of Mr. Erin's, of her own age,
who dwelt in his father's house. But the
young man was out all day engaged in his
professional avocation — that of a conveyancer's
clerk ; and even when he returned at eve,

c 2

mixed but little with the family. It seemed
to Margaret that his father did not treat him
very kindly.

There had been only one mention of him
in the long coach journey from town. Mr.
Dennis, addressing himself as usual to Margaret,
when a chance offered of interrupting IMr.
Erin's interminable talk upon antiquarian subjects,
had inquired after her cousin William
Henry ; and she had replied, with the least rose
tint of a blush, that he had gone, she believed,
on some business of his employer to Bristol.
A statement which her uncle had corroborated,
adding drily, ' The boy has asked to
have his holiday with us now instead of later
in the year, so I have told him to come on to
Stratford ; lie may be useful to me in collecting-information
upon Shakespearean matters.'

The remark scarcely breathed the spirit of
a doating parent, but then that was not Mr.
Erin's way.

Your son has made a good choice of
locality,' said Mr. Dennis, in his rather ponderous
manner. ' It is not every young fellow

who would choose Stratford on A von to disport
himself in, in preference to Tunbridge Wells,
for instance ; his taste for antiquities is certainly
most remarkable. He will prove a chip of the
old block, I'll warrant,' he added, with a sidelong
smile at Margaret. Margaret did not
return his smile, though she did not frown asher
uncle did. The fact was, though neither
Margaret nor Mr. Dennis had the faintest idea
of it, the latter could hardly have paid the old
gentleman a more objectionable compliment.

I do not think,' he replied coldly, after an
unpleasant pause, ' that William Henry cares
much about Shakespeare ; but he has probably
asked for his holiday thus early, in hopes that,
by hook or by crook, he may get another one
later on.'

To this there was no reply from either
quarter. Mr. Dennis, though a good-natured
fellow enough, did not feel called upon to
defend William Henry's want of Shakespearean
feeling against his parent, while Miss Margaret
not only closed her mouth, but shut her eyes.
If she slept, to judge by the expression of her

face she had pleasant dreams ; but it is possible
she was only pretending to sleep, in order to
chew the cud of some sweet thought at greater
leisure. She disagreed with her uncle about
the motive that was bringing William Henry
to Stratford, but was quite content to accept
the fact — of which she had previously been
ignorant — without debate. She herself did not,
I fear, care so much about Shakespeare as it
behoved Mr. Samuel Erin's niece to do ; but
from henceforth she looked forward with
greater pleasure than she had done to this visit
to his birthplace. Hungry as she had professed
herself to be, she woukl no doubt have done
justice to the ample, if somewhat solid, viands
that where set before the coach passengers, and
on which her uncle exercised his knife and fork
like a man who knows he will be charged the
same whether he eats much or little, but for an
unlooked-for circumstance.

Hardly had the meal commenced when
the cheerful note of the horn announced the
approach of a coach from some other quarter,
the tenants of which presently crowded into

the common dining-room. Among them was a
young gentleman who, without a glance at
beef or pasty, at once made up to our party of
three.

His first salutation, contrary to the laws of
etiquette, was made to Mr. Erin.

Hollo ! ' said that gentleman, unwillingly
relinquishing his knife and holding out two
fingers to the new-comer, ^ what brings you
here, sir ? '

The Banbury coach, sir. I came across
country from Bristol in the hopes of catching
you at this stage, which I have fortunately
succeeded in doing.'

Humph ! it seems to me you must have
come miles out of the way ; however, since
you are here, you had better set-to on the
victuals and save your supper at Stratford.'

Mr. Dennis shook hands with the young
man cordially enough, and recommended the
meat pie.

Miss Margaret just lifted her eyes from her
plate and gave him a smile of welcome, but at
the same time she moved a little towards the

top of the table, so as to leave a space for him
on the other side of her, an invitation which he
lost no time in accepting.

A scornful poet, whose appetite was considerably
jaded, has expressed his disgust at
seeing women eat ; but women, I have noticed,
take great pleasure in seeing men, for whom
they have any regard, relish a hearty meal
The new-comer ate as only a young gentleman
who has travelled for hours on a coach-top can
eat, and Margaret so enjoyed the spectacle that
she neglected her own opportunities in that
way, to watch him. ' The ardour with which
you attack that veal, Willie,' she whispered
slily, ' reminds me of the Prodigal Son after his
diet of husks.'

'Did you think the manner in which my
arrival was welcomed in other respects, Maggie,'
he inquired bitterly, ' carried out the parable ? '

Never mind ; you are out for your holiday,
remember, and must only think of enjoying
yourself.'

Well, I hope you are glad to see me, at all
events.'

Well, of course I am ; it's a very unexpected
pleasure.'

Is it ? I should have thought you might
have guessed that I should have managed to
join you somehow.'

I have not your genius for plots and
strategies, Willie ; it is so great that it sometimes
a little alarms me,' she answered gravely.

The weak must take up such weapons as
lay to their hand,' he replied drily.

This conversation, carried on as it was in a
low tone, was drowned by the clatter of knives
and forks ; before the latter had ceased the
notes of the horn were once more heard, the
signal for the resumption of their journey.

The party rose at once, Mr. Erin leading
the way. He took no notice of his son as he
pushed by him, but the neglect was more than
compensated for by the attention of the female
members of the company.

William Henry was a very comely young
fellow ; his complexion dark, but not swarthy ;
his eyes keen and bright ; a profusion of black
curling hair was tied by a ribbon under his hat,

which gave hmi a somewhat feminine appearance,
though it was not unusual so to wear it ;
his attire, though neat, was far from foppish — a
dark blue coat with a short light waistcoat ; a
neckcloth by no means so large as Alas worn by
many young persons in his station of life ; and
nankeen breeches.

If it is difficult for us to suppose such a
costume becoming, it was easy for those who
were accustomed to it to think so. His figure,
it was observed, as he walked rapidly to overtake
his father, was especially good.

I have made inquiries, Mr. Erin,' he said
respectfully, as the old man placed his foot on
the step, ' and find there is plenty of room in
the coach.'

You mean on the coach,' was the dry
reply ; ' surely a young man like you — leaving
out of question the ridiculous extravagance of
such a proceeding — would never wish to be an
inside passenger on an afternoon like this.' And
with a puff, half of displeasure, half of exhaustion,
caused by the effort of the ascent, the
antiquary sank into his seat.

Do you not ride with us ? ' inquired Mr.
Dennis good-naturedly, as lie came up to the
door with Margaret upon his arm.

The young man's cheeks flushed with anger.

'You do not know William Henry,' said
the girl, interposing with a smile ; ' he does not
care for the nest when he can sit upon the
bough.'

It is pleasant outside — for some things —
no doubt,' assented Mr. Dennis as he assisted
her into the coach. She cast a sympathising
glance over her shoulder at William Henry, ashe
swung himself up to the hind seat, and he
returned it with a grateful look. She had
saved him from a humiliation.

It was a warm evening, as his father had
observed, but in one sense he had been turned
out into the cold, and he felt it bitterly.

CHAPTEE III.

A RECITATION.

There is one spot, and only one, in all England,
which can in any general sense be called hallowed
— sacred to the memory of departed man.
Priests and kings have done their best for other
places, with small effect; here and there, as in
Westminster Abbey, an attempt has been made
to make sacred soil by collecting together the
bones of our greatest men — warriors, authors,
divines, statesmen ; but these various elements
do not kindly mix : the devotion we would pay
to our own particular idol is chilled perhaps by
the neighbourhood of those with idiom we feel
no especial sympathy. In all cathedrals, too,
there is a certain religious feeling, artificial as
the light which finds its way through the
prophets blazoned on its panes ; ' it is difficult

in them to feel enthusiasm. In other
places, again, exposed to the free air of heaven,
association is weakened by external influences.
I, at least, only know of one place where
Nature, as it were, effaces herself, and becomes
the setting and framework to the epitaph of a
dead man. It is Stratford-on-Avon.

There, save once a year, when Shakespeare's
birthday is commemorated, fashion brings but
few persons to simulate admiration. It is not
as at some great funeral, where curiosity or
official position or other extraneous motive
brings men together to do honour to the departed
; they come like humble friends, to pay
tribute to one whom they not only admire, but
revere, to this little Warwickshire town. It is
too remote from the places where men congregate
to entice the thoughtless crowd ; nor has
it any attractions save its associations with that
marvellous mind, of which the crowd has but a
vague and cold conception. It is, to my poor
thinking, a very comfortable sign of the advance
of human intelligence that, year after year, in
hundreds and in thousands, but not in crowds

for they arrive alone, or in twos or threes
together — there come, from the uttermost parts
of our island, and even from the ends of the
earth, more and more pilgrims to this simple
shrine.

In the days of which I write, Stratford, of
course, had far fewer visitors than at present ;
but those it did have where certainly not inferior
in enthusiasm. Indeed, it was a time when
Shakespeare, if not more read than now, was
certainly more talked about and thought about.
His plays were much oftener acted. The theatre
occupied a more intellectual position in society.
Kemble and his majestic sister, Mrs. Siddons,
trod the boards ; quotations from Shakespeare
were as common in the mouths of clerks and
counter-jumpers as are now the most taking
rhymes from a favourite burlesque ; even the
paterfamilias who did not ' hold by ' stage
plays made an exception in honour of the
Bard of Avon. In literary circles an incessant
war was waging concerning him ;
pamphlet after pamphlet — attack and rejoinder
— was published almost every week by

this or that partisan of a phrase, or discoverer
of a new reading. Mr. Samuel Erin was in
the fore-front of this contest, and, as a rule,
a stickler for the text. He opposed the advocates
for change in the same terms which Dr.
Johnson used to reformers in politics. The
devil, he was wont to say, was the first commentator.
The famous Shakespearean critic
Malone was the object of his special aversion,
which was most cordially reciprocated, and
often had they transfixed one another with
pens dipped in gall.

It was curious, since the object of Mr. Erin's
adoration has taken such pains to instil gentleness
and feeling among his fellow-creatures,
that his disciple should have harboured the
sentiments he sometimes expressed ; and yet it
is hardly to be wondered at when one remembers
that the advocates of Christianity itself
have fallen into the same error, and from the
same cause. Mr. Samuel Erin was not only a
devotee, but a fanatic.

As the coach crossed the river, near their
journey's end, Mr. Dennis broke a long silence

THE TALK OF THE TOW^^

by a reference to the beauty of the scenery,
which his friend had come professionally to
illustrate.

Here is a pretty bit of river for your
pencil, Mr. Erin.'

Hush ! hush ! ' rejoined that gentleman reprovingly
; ' it is the Avon. We are on the
threshold of his very birthplace.'

It was on the tip of Mr. Dennis's tongue,
who had been thinking of nothing but Margaret
for the last half-hour, to inquire, ' Whose birthplace
? ' — which would have lost him the other's
friendship for ever. Fortunately he recollected
himself (and Shakespeare) just in time, and in
some trepidation at his narrow escape, which
his friend took for reverential awe, murmured
some more suitable reply.

William Henry, on the other hand, was not
so fortunate. At the instigation of the guard
(who had a commission from the innkeeper on
the guests he brought him), he leant down
from the coach-top to inquire which house Mr.
Erin meant to patronise, suggesting that the

party should put up at the ' Stratford Arms,' as
being the best accommodation.

You fool ! ' roared the old gentleman ; ' we
put up at the " Falcon," of course. The idea,'
he continued indignantly, 'of our going elsewhere,
when the opportunity is afforded us
of residing under the very roof which once
sheltered our immortal bard ! '

Shakespeare did not live in an inn, did he,
uncle ? ' inquired Margaret demurely. She
knew perfectly well that he had not done so,
but was unwilling to let this outburst against
her cousin pass by without some kind of
protest.

'Well, no,' admitted Mr. Erin; 'but he
lived just opposite to it, and, it is supposed —
indeed, it may be reasonably concluded — that
he patronised it for his — ahem — convivial entertainments.'


I suppose there is some foundation for the
story of the " Topers " and the " Suppers," '
observed Dennis, ' and for the bard being-found
under the crab-tree vino et somno''

There may be, there may be,' returned the

VOL. I. D

Other indifferently ; ' but as for Shakespeare
being beaten, even in a contest of potations,
that is entirely out of the question. It was
not in the nature of the man. If he ran, he
would run quickest ; if he jumped, he would
jump the highest ; and if he drank, he would
undoubtedly have drunk deeper than anybody
else.'

The Falcon Inn had no great extent of
accommodation — it was perhaps too fill of
association ' for it — but Margaret had a neat
chamber enough ; and, since it looked on the
Guild Chapel and Grammar School where
Shakespeare had been educated, and on the
walls which surrounded the spot where he had
spent his latter days, the niece of her uncle
could hardly have anything to complain of.
The young men had an attic apiece. As to
what sort of a room was assigned to Mr.
Samuel Erin, he could not have told you himself,
for he took no notice of it. His head was
always out of the window. It was his first
sight of the shrine of his idol, and the very air
seemed to be laden with incense from it.

To think that that long, low tenement
yonder, with the projecting front, was the very
house in which Shakespeare had ' crept unwillingly
to school,' that his young feet had
helped to wear those very stones away, and
that that ancient archway had echoed his very
tones, sent a thrill of awe through him such as
could only be compared with that felt by some
mediaeval beholder of ' a bit of the true cross.'
But, in that case, faith — and a good deal of it
had been essential to conviction ; whereas
in this the facts were indisputable. Behind
yonder walls, too, stood the house to which,
full of honour though not of years, he had
retired to spend that leisure in old age which
he had desiderated more than most men.

The aim of all is but to crown the life

With honour, wealth, and ease in waning age,

were the words Mr. Erin repeated to himself
with mystic devotion, as a peasant mutters a
Latin prayer. He had no poetic gifts himself,
nor was he even a critic in a high sense ; but

D 2

his long application to Shakespearean literature
had given him some reflected light. What he
understood of it he understood thoroughly ;
what was too high for his moderate, though by
no means dwarfish intelligence, to grasp, or
Avhat through intermediate perversion was unintelligible,
he not only took on trust, but
accepted as reverentially as did those who were
wont to consult her, the utterances of the Sibyl.
In literature we have few such fanatics as
Samuel Erin now ; but in art he has many
modern parallels — men who, having once convinced
themselves that a painting is by Rubens
or Titian, will see in it a hundred merits where
there are not half a dozen, and even discover
beauties in its spots and blemishes.

While the head of the little party was thus
in the seventh heaven of happiness above-stairs,
the junior members of it had assembled
together in the common sitting-room ; the
landlady had inquired what refreshments they
would please to have, and tea had been
ordered rather with a view of putting a stop
to her importunities than because, after that

ample meal at Banbury, they stood in need of
any food.

If your uncle were here, Maggie,' said
William Henry, not perhaps without some remembrance
of the snubbing he had just received
from the old gentleman, and from which he
was still smarting:, ' he would be ordering
sherry sack," or " cakes and ale." '

Margaret glanced at him reprovingly, but
said nothing. She regretted that he took such
little pains to bridge the breach that evidently
existed between his father and himself, and
always discouraged his pert sallies. William
Henry hung his head : if he did not find
sympathy with his cousin, he could, he thought,
find it nowhere.

Frank Dennis, however, came to his rescue.
He either did not look upon the penniless,
friendless lad as a real rival, or he was very
magnanimous.

And how did you enjoy your trip to
Bristol?' he inquired. 'St. Mary's Eedclifie
is a fine church, is it not ? '

Yes, indeed ; I paid a visit to the turret.

where the papers where stored to which Chatter
ton had access, and from Which he drew the
Rowley poems.'

How interesting ! ' exclaimed Margaret ; it
was plain by her tone that she wanted to make
amends to the young fellow. ' Are any of his
people still at Bristol ? '

Oh yes, his sister lives there, a Mrs.
Newton. I had a great deal of talk with her.
She told me how angry he was with her on one
occasion when she cut up some old deeds and
other things he had brought home with him,
and which she had thought valueless, to make
into thread-papers ; he collected them together,
thread-papers and all, and carried them into his
own room.'

Considering the use the poor young fellow
made of them,' observed Dennis gravely, ' she
had better have burnt them.'

Still, they did give him a certain spurious
immortality,' put in Margaret pitifully. ' The
other was out of his reach.'

'Surely, my dear Liss Slade, you cannot
mean that ? ' remonstrated Dennis gently.

At all events, everybody was very hard upon
him just because they were taken in,' argued
Margaret. ' If he had acknowledged what
they admired so much to have been his own,
they would have seen nothing in it to admire.
I think Horace Walpole behaved like a brute.'

'That is very true,' admitted Dennis.
Still, the lad was a forger.'

People are not starved to death, as he was,
even for forging,' rejoined Margaret. ' His own
people, too, did not care about him. He had
no friends, poor fellow.'

Dennis listened to her with pleasure —
though he thought her too lenient — because
she took the side of the oppressed. William
Henry was even more grateful, because he
secretly compared his own position with that of
Chatterton — for he too had written poems
which nobody thought much of — and guessed
that Margaret had his own case in her eye.

'Amongst other things that Mrs. JSTewton
told me,' continued William Henry, ' was that
her brother was very reserved and fond of
seclusion. On one occasion he was most

severely chastised for having absented himself
for half a day from home. He did not shed a
tear, but only observed that it was hard indeed
to be whipped for reading.'

It was certainly most unfortunate,' admitted
Dennis, ' that the boy was amongst persons who
did not understand him.'

And who, though they were his own flesh
and blood, treated him with contempt and
cruelty,' added Margaret, with indignation.
Did this sister of his never give him credit for
possessing talent even ? '

She thought him odd as a child, it seems,'
answered William Henry. ' He preferred to
be taught his letters from an old black-letter
Bible rather than from any book of modern
type. He seems to have had a natural leaning
for the hue that he took in life.'

In other words, you think he was born
with a turn for forgery,' observed Dennis drily.
That is not a very high compliment to him,
nor indeed to Providence either.'

But how else could he have become celebrated
? ' argued the young man impatiently.

Is it necessary then, my lad, to become
celebrated ? ' inquired Dennis, smiling.

I don't say necessary, but it must be very
nice.'

The same thing may be said of most of our
vices,' answered the other reprovingly. Frank
Dennis often spoke the words of wisdom, but
spoke them cut and dried, like proverbs from
a copy-book. He was an excellent fellow,
but not quite human enough for ordinary use.
Margaret would have liked him better, perhaps,
if he had been a trifle worse. The pedagogic
tone in which he had spoken to her cousin, and
his use of the words 'my lad,' which, as she
argued to herself (quite wrongly), he must know
were very offensive to him, irritated her a little.
She felt that William Henry had been schooled
enough, and wanted encouragement.

Did you get any inspiration from the
turret of St. Mary Eedehffe ? ' she inquired.

'Well, yes.' he answered, blushing, and a
blush very well became his handsome face ; ' I
did perpetrate '

Some mischief, I'll warrant,' exclaimed a

harsh, disdainful voice. It was that of Mr.
Samuel Erin, who had entered the room unobserved.
' And what was it you perpetrated,
sir ? '

William Henry looked abashed and annoyed.
Margaret, though she stood in no
little fear of her uncle, could hardly restrain
her indignation. Frank Dennis as usual interposed
with the oil can.

Your son has perhaps only written a poem,
Mr. Erin, which in so young a man can hardly
be considered a crime.'

'I dont knows that if the poem — as it
probably was — was a bad one. If he has
committed it ' — here the old gentleman's face
softened, as under the influence of the infrequent
and home-made joke the grimmest
face will do — ' he has doubtless committed it to
memory. Come, sir, let us have it.'

Now as, of all the pleasant moments which
mitigate this painful life, there are none more
charming than those passed in the recital of a
poem of our own composition to (one pair of)
loving ears, so there are none more embarrassing

than those which are occupied in doing the
same thing before an unsympathetic audience.
Imagine poor Shelley condemned to recite his
Skylark ' or Keats his ' Nightingale ' to a
vestry meeting! That would indeed be bad
enough ; but if the bard himself is conscious
that he has no skylark nor nightingale, but only
a tomtit or yellowhammer, to let fly for their
edification, how much more terrible must be
his position ! Poor William Henry was in even
worse case, for one of his audience, as he well
knew was not only not en rapport with him,
but antagonistic, a hostile critic. I once beheld
a shivering schoolboy compelled to make an
extempore ode to the moon to a circle of his
fellow-students armed with towels knotted at
the end, to flick him with if his muse should
be considered unsatisfactory. Except that he
was not in his night-shirt, as my young friend
was, poor William Henry's position was almost
as bad, and yet he dared not refuse to obey
the paternal mandate.

There are only a very few verses, sir,' he
stammered.

The fewer the better,' said Mr. Erin. He
meant it for an encouragement, no doubt, a
sort of ' so far the Court is with you,' but it
had not an encouraging effect upon his son. It
seemed to him that he had just swallowed a
pint of vinegar.

Leave off" those damnable faces and begin,'
exclaimed Mr. Erin. It was only a quotation
from his favourite bard, and not an inappropriate
one, but it did not sound kind.

It is brutal,' murmured Margaret under
her breath, and at the same time she cast a
glance of ineffable pity at the victim. It was
like a ray of sunshine upon a chill day, at sight
of which the bird bursts into sons.

The hues are on Chatterton,' he began byway
of prelude : —

Comfort and joys for ever fled,
He ne'er will warble more ;
Ah me I the sweetest youth is dead

That e'er tuned reed before.
The hand of misery laid him low,

E'en hope forsook his brain ;
Relentless man contemned his woe.
To him he sighed in vain.
Oppressed with want, in wild despair he cried,
No more I'll live I ' swallowed the draught, and died.

Mr. Samuel Erin looked as if lie had
swallowed a draught ; one of those recommended
to persons suffering from the effects of
poison.

Shade of Shakespeare ! ' he cried, ' do you
call that a poem ? '

William Henry murmured something in
mitigation about its being an acrostic. The old
gentleman's sense of hearing was not acute, and
led him to imagine he was being reproached for
his surliness. He turned as red as a turkey-cock.


Margaret also .flushed to her forehead ; she
too had misunderstood what her cousin had said,
and the more easily because the words she
thought he had used (a cross stick) were so
appropriate. But how could he, could he, be so
foolish as thus to give reins to his temper !

Lastly, Frank Dennis became a brilliant
scarlet. He was half suffocated with suppressed
laughter. Still, true to his mission of
peacemaker, he contrived to splutter out that
when a poem was an acrostic, such perfection
was not to be looked for as when the muse was
unfettered.

Oh, that's it, is it ? ' said Mr. Erin grimly.
I've heard of young men wasting their time,
and, what is worse, the time of their employers,
in many ways ; but that they should take to
writing acrostics seems to me the ne plus ultra
of human folly. Bah ! give me a dish of tea.'

CHAPTEE lY.

A REAL ENTHUSIAST.

I AM afraid it is rather taken for granted by
parents in general, as regards any behaviour
they may adopt towards their offspring, that
religion is always upon their own side. And
yet there is a very noteworthy text about
provoking our children to wrath,' which it is
a mistake to ignore. Wise and reverend
signors may well have learnt by experience to
take trifling annoyances with equanimity ; but
the amour propre of the young is a tender
shoot, and very sensitive to rough handing.

The most sensitive plant of all is the lad
with a turn for literature ; and, as a rule, parents
have the least patience with him. When the
turn is not a mere taste, but a natural gift, this
does not much matter ; no true flame was ever

put out by the breath of contempt : but when
it halts midway the youth has a bad time
of it. He shivers at every sneer, without the
means of giving it the he. 'Like a dart it
strikes to his liver,' because his armour, unlike
that of true genius, is not arrow-proof. He
knows that he is not the fool that his folk take
him for, but he has an uneasy consciousness
that they are partly right ; that his powers are
not equal to his pretensions. This was the
case with William Henry Erin.

He had a turn for literature, and, if an uncommon
facility for writing indifferent verses is
any proof of it, even for poetry ; and he found
nobody to admit it, not even Margaret. ' It is
very good, Willie, for a first attempt,' was the
fatal eulogium she once passed upon the most
cherished of his poetical productions ; and his
father, as we have seen, made no scruple of
ridiculing his literary efforts. If the boy's predilection
for such matters had interfered with
his professional duties, it might have been
excusable enough ; but the conveyancers to
whom William Henry was articled were quite



satisfied with him. He was very careful and
diligent, and though he lead come to years of

indiscretion, far from dissipated. If he loitered
on his way to his employers' chambers in the

VOL. I. E

New Inn, it was to turn over the leaves of some
old poem on a book-stall, rather than to gaze
on the young woman who might be behind it.
Still, not being perfection, it was natural that
he should feel resentment at his father's harshness,
and at the slights to which his muse was
exposed at his unsympathising hands. He had
never had any one to sympathise with his
poetical aspirations except his friend Reginald
Talbot, a fellow-clerk of his own age, who was
also devoted to the Muses ; and Talbot's praise
had its drawbacks. First, he did not think it
worth much ; and secondly, it could not be obtained
without reciprocity ; and it went against
William Henry's conscience to praise Talbot's
poems.

Well,' thought the young man, as he
looked out of his attic window, which commanded
a distant view of Stratford Church,
there lies a man who was as little appreciated at
my age as I am ; and yet he made some noise in
the world. He, too, some say, was a scrivener's
clerk. He, too, was called Will — which is at
least an interesting coincidence. He, too, fell

in love at my age.' Here his reflections ended
with a sigh, for the parallel extended no further,
Shakespeare had not only wooed, but — with a
little too much ease, indeed — had won ; whereas
Margaret Slade was far out of his reach. He
had a shrewd suspicion that Mr. Erin Id tended
ner to marry Dennis, and had brought him down
with him to Stratford ' to throw the young
people together,' as he would doubtless express
it. Young people, indeed ! why, Frank Dennis
was old enough — well, scarcely, to be her
father, unless he had been unusually precocious,
but certainly to know better. ' Crabbed age ' —
the man was thirty if he was a day — ' and
youth cannot live together.' It was a most
monstrous proposition ! On the other hand,
what could he, poor William Henry, do ? If
he could persuade Maggie to run away with
him tomorrow, they must literally run, for he
had hardly money enough, after that Bristol
trip, to pay the first pike out of Stratford, and
far less a post-chaise.

As he thought of his unacknowledged
merits, and of the many obstacles to his union.

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY nc miNOIS

he grew bitter against the whole scheme of
creation. If poetic impulse conch have projected
him fifty years forward, he would doubtless
have exclaimed-with the bard of Bon
Gaul tier, —

Cussed be the clerk and the parson,
Cussed be the whole concern !

but not having that vent for his feelings, he only
loosened his neckcloth a bit and looked moody.
Poor fellow ! he had but two wishes in the
world — to marry Margaret, and to get into
print ; and both these desires, just because he
had no money, were denied him.

At that very time, Margaret at her window
was thinking of him. She was not — she was
certain she was not, the idea was quite ridiculous
in love with him ; but, thanks to his father's
conduct, she felt that pity for him which is akin to
love. And he was certainly very handsome, and
very fond of her. He had been foolish to comedown
to Stratford ^vhen it was clear her uncle
didn't want him ; but it was ' very nice of him,'
too, and since he was there and upon his holiday
his one holiday in the year, poor fellow — it was

cruel to snub him ! Frank Dennis didn't snub
him, that she would say for Frank : he was a
kind, honest fellow, though rather old-fashioned,
and just a trifle heavy in hand. She wished
William Henry would talk like him when
addressing his father ; though when addressing
kerr she confessed to herself that she preferred
William Henry's way. It was really distressing
to see her uncle and his son together; they
mixed no better than oil and vinegar. She was
well pleased to remember that Mr. Jervis, the
Stratford poet, was coming that morning to
breakfast with them, since this presence would
prevent anything unseemly ; moreover, he would
probably take her uncle and Frank Dennis away
with him to investigate antiquities, which would
leave William Henry and herself to themselves.
John Jervis was but a carpenter in a small
way of business, but he was much respected in
the town, and had made himself a name beyond
it, on account of the interest he took in all
Shakespearean matters. The gentry in the
neighbourhood spoke of him as ' a civil and
inoffensive creature,' but he was ' corresponded

with ' by men of letters and learning in London.
His position would have been better than it was
had he not been so foolish as to publish a
volume of poems — to be paid by subscription.
This had subjected him to something much
worse than criticism — to patronage. Every one
who had advanced a few shillings for the appearance
of til at unfortunate volume became
in a sense his master, and some of them exacted
interest for their investment in advice, remonstrance,
and dictation. It was a foolish thing
of John Jervis to set up his trade — not carpentering,
but the other — in Stratford-on-Avon.
In Paisley there are, I have heard say, at this
present moment fifty poets, all complaining that
the world which will give them a monument
after their death, in the meantime permits them
to starve ; but Paisley is a place which is
scarcely poetic to begin with, whereas to be a
local poet in Stratford was like setting up a
shed for small coal in Newcastle. The goodman
had become quite aware of this by this
time ; he was very dissatisfied with his published
productions (it is a common case ; what

we have in our desk seems as superior to what
les on our table as that which moves in our
brain is to what les in our desk). He would
have given as much to suppress his little volume
as William Henry would have given to get
kis sown broadcast over an admiring land. And
yet there was no question of comparison between
them as respected merit. John Jews
was, within certain narrow limits, a true poet :
what he saw he noted, what he noted he felt ;

so far he followed his o'reat master. He even

I—

emitted a modest light of his own, which was
not reflected : he was not a star, but he was a
glow-worm. Most of us are but worms without
the glow.

Every one who came to Stratford at thai
time for Shakespeare's sake — and no one came
for any other reason — was recommended to
apply to John Jervis for information. On
receiving any summons of this nature he put
aside his carpenter's tools, took off his apron,
and donned his Sabbath garb. A carpenter in
his Sunday clothes in these days is a sad sight ;
he represents one branch of his business only,

that of the undertaker: but in the times of
which we write it Acis ]iot so. Wigs were not
yet gone out of fashion in Warwickshire, but
Jolni Jervis coukl not afford what was called
the ' Citizen's Sunday Buckle ' or ' Bob Major,'
because it had three tiers of curls. He had
too much good taste to use the ' Minor Bob ' or
Hair Cap, short in the neck to show the stock
buckle, and stroked away from the face so as to
seem (like Tristan Shandy) as though the
wearer had been skating against the wind. He
wore his own grey hair and a modest grey suit,
in which, however, none but a flippant young
fellow like Master William Henry Erin could
have likened him to a master baker. His face
was homely but pleasant, and had a certain
dignity; his manner retiring but not reticent.
It was his business to answer questions, but he
did not volunteer information. He had, indeed,
a secret contempt for the majority of his
clients ; they had more appetite for the Shakespearean
husks, the few dry details that could
be picked up concerning their Idol, than for
the corn — what manner of man he had been inspirit,

or how the scenery about his home had
affected his writings. Jervis found Mr. Erin to
be no better than his other visitors : hungry for
facts, greedy for particulars, and combative.
He talked of the Confession of Faith found in
the roof of the house in Henley Street, and
rubbed his hands, notwithstanding that his
enemy had since retracted his belief in it, over
Malone's credulity.

• " An unworthy member of the Holy
Catholic religion," indeed ! It is monstrous,
incredible.'

That phrase had reference to the father,
however,' observed Jervis.

True, but that was the art of the forger,
himself of the old faith, no doubt. He wished
to make our Shakespeare a born Papist. Now,
that he was a good Protestant is indubitable.
'' I'd beat him like a dog," says Sir Andrew.
What ! for being a Puritan ? " returns Sir
Toby. What irony ! You are of my opinion,
I hope, Mr. Jervis ? '

I have scarcely formed an option upon the
matter,' was the modest reply. ' Shakespeare

was Catholic in one sense , but I agree with
you that he was not one to be much comforted
by the " holy sacrifice of the mass," as the so-called
Confession put it.'

I should think not, indeed. He was not
partial to priests. '' When thou lies howling'' '
quoted Mr. Erin triumphantly.

Still, being a stage-player, I doubt if he
was partial to the Puritans. No ; such things
moved him neither way ; religious controversies
he looked upon as on other quarrels, as " valour
misbegot'' If he could not see into the future,
he saw five hundred years ahead of his contemporaries,
who were burning Francis Kept for
heresy at Norwich.'

Mr. Erin was not certain whether Kept was
a Protestant or a Catholic (on which depended
his view of the circumstance), so he only shook
his head.

'You mean, Mr. Jervis,' said Margaret
timidly, ' that in Shakespeare's eyes there were
no heretics ? '

The man in grey looked at his gentle inquirer
and bowed his head assenting. ' None,

as I think, young lady, save those who disbelieved
in good.'

That is not established,' said Mr. Erin
argumentatively.

I am afraid your uncle thinks me a heretic,'
said Mr. Jervis, smiling. Then, perceiving that
Margaret looked interested, he told her of the
marvellous boy — name unknown, but whose
fame still survived — who had been Shakespeare's
contemporary at Stratford. How, so the legend
ran, he had been thought his equal in genius,
and his future greatness been prophesied with
the same confidence, but who had died in
youth, a mute, inglorious Shakespeare.

I often picture to myself,' said the old man
dreamily, ' the friendship of those two boys.'

Do you think they went out poaching together
? ' inquired William Henry demurely.
He was not without humour, and was also perhaps
a little jealous of the attention Margaret
paid their visitor.

Poaching ! ' exclaimed Mr. Erin angrily,
how gross and contemptible are your ideas, sir ! '

Still,' interposed Dennis, his sense of justice

aiding his wish to stand between Mr. Erin's
wrath and its object — Margaret's cousin —
Shakespeare did transgress in that way. It is
not likely that he strained at a hare if he
swallowed a deer.'

'Xo doubt he poached,' admitted Jervis
gravely. ' He was very human, and did all
things that became a boy. But I was thinking
rather of the companionship of the two boys
than their pursuits. Their talk vas not of
hares nor of rabbits. How one would like to
know their boyish confidences ! what were their
ambitions, their aspirations, their views of life ;
which one was about to leave, and in which
the other was to fill so large a space in the
thoughts of man — for ever. It was in this
little town they lived and talked together ;
learnt their lessons from one book perhaps, in
yonder school, each without a thought of the
other's immortality, albeit of such different
kinds.'

The solemnity of the speaker's manner, and
the genuineness of feeling which his tone
displayed, had no little effect upon his audience,

but on each in a different way. Margaret's
mind was stirred to its depths by this simple
dream picture, and seeing her so the two young
men felt a touch of sympathy with it.

Is there any sure foundation to go upon as
to this playmate of Shakespeare's ? ' inquired
Mr. Erin, note-book in hand — ' any record, any
document ? '

The visitor shook his head. ' Nothing, but
wherever, in the country round, Shakespeare's
youth is alluded to, this story of his friend is
told. It is a local legend, that is all ; but it
seems to me to have life in it. The world
outside knows nothing of it. It interests itself
in Shakespeare only, and but little in his
belongings ; but with us, breathing the air he
breathed, walking on the same ground he trod,
things are different ; we still fancy him amongst
us, and not alone. There is Ham net, too ; we
still speak of Hamlet.'

It was fortunate for William Henry that he
repressed the observation that rose to his. lips.
He was about to say, ' You don't mean Hamlet,
do you ? '

The same idea I am afraid occurred to Mr.
Dennis, but for even a briefer space ; he felt
that there must be some mistake somewhere ;
but also that he himself might be making
it.

'Buried here, August the 11th, 1596,'
observed Mr. Erin, as though he was reading
from the register itself,

Just so,' continued Jervis, ' only a little
over two hundred years ago. He was eleven
years old, too young to understand the greatness
of him who begat him, yet old enough to
have an inkling of it. Once a year or so, as it
is believed, his father came home to Stratford
fresh from the companionship of the great
London wits and poets — Jonson, Beaumont,
Fletcher, Camden, and Selden. What meetings
must those have been with his only son ; the
boy whom he fondly hoped, but hoped in vain,
would inherit the proceeds of his fame ! I
wonder how his mother used to speak of her
husband to her children ? Did she excuse to
them his long absence, his dwelling afar off, or

did she inveigh against it ? Did she recognise
the splendour of his genius, or did she only
love him ? Or did she not love him P '

Let us hope she was not unworthy of him,'
said Mr. Erin, his enthusiasm, stirred by the
other's eloquence, rising on a stronger wing
than usual.

As a wife she was sorely tried,' murmured
Mr. Jervis. ' I love to think of her less than
of Hamlet, so lowly born in one sense, and in
the other of such illustrious parentage. The
news of his father's growing fame must have
reached the boy, and the contrast could not
fail to have struck him. Then to have seen
that father bending over his little bed, to
have kissed that noble face, and felt himself in
his embrace ; to have known that he was the
child whom Shakespeare's soul loved best in
all the world, what a sensation, what an experience
! '

Some mementoes of the immortal bard are,
I hope, still to be purchased ? ' observed Mr.
Erin curtly. He had engaged Mr. Jervis's

services for practical purposes, and began to
resent this waste of time — which was money —
upon sentimental hypothesis. Shakespeare's
wife was a topic one could sympathise with ;
there was documentary evidence in existence
concerning her, but over little Hamlet's grave
there was not even a tombstone.

Mementoes ? Yes, there is mulberry wood
enough to last some time,' said Mr. Jervis slily ;
you shall have your pick of them.'

'ButnoMSS.?'

Not that I know of. There has been a
report, however, of late, that Mr. Williams, of
Clopton House, has found some that were
removed from New Place at the time of the
fire.'

Great heavens ! ' exclaimed Mr. Erin, with
much excitement, ' what, from New Place,
Shakespeare's own home ? Let us go at once ;
all other things can wait. — William Henry,
come along with us, and bring your little book.
You can stay here with Maggie, Dennis, till I
come back.'

If he could have dispensed with the

presence of John Jervis himself, he would have
been glad to do so ; for what is true of a feast
is also true of treasure-trove, 'the fewer (the
finders) the better the fare.'

VOL. 1.

THE TALK OF THE TOWNS'

CHAPTER V.

THE OLD SETTLE.

-r^ V

^- "% llf

William Henry, far

from sharing his father's
enthusiasm at any. time,
was on this occasion less
than ever inclined to
.Vy^-:^'-' ^^ applaud it. If Clopton

House should be found full of Shakespearean
MSS., it would not afford him half the pleasure

he would have derived from a tete-astute with his
cousin Margaret ; a treat which, it seemed, was
to be thrown away upon Frank Dennis. Why
didn't Mr. Erin select him to take notes for him
from the musty documents ? A question the
folly of which only a high state of irritation
could excuse. He knew perfectly well that his
own dexterity and promptness in copying had
caused himself to be chosen for the undesirable
task, and that knowledge irritated him the
more. It was only when he could be of some
material use to him, as in the present instance,
that his father took the least account of him.
If he could bring himself to steal one of those
precious documents, was his bitter reflection,
and secrete it as some wretched slave secretes
a diamond in the mines of Golconda, then, perhaps,
and then only, he might be permitted to
marry Margaret. For a bit of parchment with
Shakespeare's name upon it, most certainly for a
whole play in his handwriting, Mr. Samuel Erin,
it was probable, would have bartered fifty
nieces, and thrown his own soul into the bargain.
Our young friend, however, was quite

F 2

aware of what a poet of a later date would have
told him, that ' an angry fancy ' is a poor ware
to go to market with ; so, with as good a grace
as he could, he put on his hat and accompanied
Mr. Erin and his cicerone to Clopton House,
which was but a few yards down the street.

It was a good-sized mansion of great antiquity,
but had fallen into disrepair and even
decay. Its present tenant, Mr. Williams, was
a farmer in apparently far from prosperous
circumstances. Half of the many chambers
were in total darkness, the windows having been
bricked up to save the window tax, and the
handsome old-world furniture was everywhere
becoming a prey to the moth and the worm.
As a matter of fact, however, these were not
evidences of poverty. Mr. Williams had enough
and to spare of worldly goods, only of some
of them he did not think so much as other people
of more cultivated taste would have done.
A Warwickshire farmer of to-day would have
considered many things as valuable in Clopton
House which their unappreciative proprietor
had relegated to the cock-loft. It was to that

apartment, indeed, that Mr. Erin was led as soon
as the nature of bis inquiries — which he had
stated generally, and to avoid suspicion of his
actual object, to be concerning antiquities — was
understood. The room was filled with mouldering
household goods of remote antiquity,
chiefly of the time of Henry VII., in whose
reign the proprietor of the house, Sir Hugh
Clopton, had been Lord Mayor of London.
Among other things, for example, there was an
emblazoned representation on vellum of Elizabeth,
Henry's wife, as she lay in state in the
chapel of the Tower, where she died in childbirth.


You may have that if you like,' said Mr.
Williams to his visitor carelessly. He was a
fat, coarse man, but very good-natured. ' For,
being on vellum, it is no use to light the fire
with.'

You don't mean to say you light your fire
with anything I see here ? ' gasped Mr. Erin.

Well, no, there's nothing much left of that
sort of rubbish ; we made a clean sweep of it
all about a fortnight since.'

There were no old MSS., I hope ? '

MSS. ! Heaps on 'em. They came from
Kew Place at the time of the fire, you see,
though Heaven knows why any one should have
thought them worth saving. They were all
piled in that little room yonder, and as I wanted
a place for some young partridges as I am
bringing up, I burnt the whole lot of 'em.'

'You looked at them first, of course, to
make sure that there was nothing of consequence
? '

Well, of course I did. I hope Dick
Williams ain't such a fool as to bm^n law documents.
No, they were mostly poetry and that
kind of stuff.'

But did you make certain about the handwriting?
Else, my good sir, it might have
been that of Shakespeare himself.'

Shakespeare! Well, what of him. ^ Why,
there was bundles and bundles with his name
wrote upon them. It was in this very fireplace
I made a regular bonfire of them.'

There was a solitary chair in the little
chamber, set apart for the partridges, into

which Mr. Samuel Erin dropped, as though he
had been a partridge himself, shot by a sportsman.


You — made — a — bonfire — of — Shakespeare's
— poems ! ' he said, ejaculating the words
very slowly and dejectedly, like minute guns.
May Heaven have mercy upon your miserable
soul ! '

'I say' cried Mr. Williams, turning very
red, ' what the deuce do you mean by talking
to me as if I was left for execution? What
have I done ? I've robbed nobody.'

You have robbed everybody — the whole
world ! ' exclaimed Mr. Erin excitedly. ' In
burning those papers you burnt the most
precious things on earth. A bonfire, you call
it ! Nero, who fiddled while Some was burning,
was guiltless compared to you. You area
disgrace to humanity. Shakespeare had you
in his eye, sir, when he spoke of " a marble-hearted
fiend." '

Mr. Samuel Erin had his favourite bard by
heart, and was consequently in no want of
base comparisons,' but he stopped a moment

for want of breath. Annoyance and indignation
had had the same effect upon Mr. Williams.
He had never been ' bully-ragged ' in his own
house for ' nothing ' — except by his wife —
before. Purple and speechless, he regarded
his antagonist with protruding eyes, a human
Etna on the verge of eruption.

Mr. John Jervis knew his man. Up to
this point he bad taken no part in the controversy
; but he now seized Mr. Erin by the
arm, and led him rapidly downstairs. Their
last few steps were accomplished with dangerous
velocity, for a flying body struck both
of them violently on the back. This was
William Henry, who, unable to escape the wild
rush of the bull, had described a parabola in
the air.

If there's law in England, you shall smart
for this,' roared the infuriated animal over the
banisters.

Perhaps I ought to have told you that Mr.
Williams was of a hasty disposition,' observed
Mr. Jervis apologetically, when they found
themselves in the street.

Hasty ! ' exclaimed Mr. Erin, whose mind
was much too occupied with sacrilege to concern
himself with assault ; ' a more thoughtless
and precipitate idiot never breathed. The idea
of his having burnt those precious papers ! I
suppose, after what has happened, it would be
useless to inquire just now whether any scrap
of them has escaped the flames ; otherwise my
son can go back '

I am sure that wouldn't do,' interposed
Mr. Jervis confidently.

William Henry breathed a sigh of relief.
The impressions of Stratford-on-Avon seemed to
him indelible ; they had left on him such ' local
colouring ' as time itself, he felt, could hardly
remove. Fortunately for his amour propre,
not a word was said by his father of their reception
at Clopton House. His whole mind
was monopolised by the literary disappointment.
The inconvenience that had happened
to his son did not weigh with him a feather.


The whole party now proceeded to Mr.
Jervis's establishment, where the remains of

the famous mulberry tree were kept in stock.
Mr. Erin was haunted by the notion that some
Shakespearean fanatic right step in and buy
the whole of it before he could secure some
mementoes, whereas the birthplace in Henley
Street could ' wait ; ' an idea at which, for the
life of him, the proprietor of the sacred timber
could not restrain a dry smile. It was the
general opinion that enough tobacco stoppers,
busts, and wafer seals had already been sold to
account for a whole grove of mulberry trees.
Mr. Erin was very energetic with his new
acquaintance on the road, about precautions
against fire (insurance against it was out of the
question, of course), but when he had possessed
himself of what he wanted, and the matter
was again referred to as they came away, it
was noticeable that he had not another word
to say upon the side of prudence.

He declaimed against Mr. Williams' rashness,'
whispered William Henry to Margaret ;
but my belief is that he would now set fire to
that timber yard without a scruple in order to
render his purchases unique.'

Maggie held up her finger reprovingly, but
her laughing eyes belied the gesture.

Both these young people, indeed, had far
too keen a sense of fun to be enthusiasts.

To Mr. Hart the butcher (who at that time
occupied the house in Henley Street), as an indirect
descendant of the immortal bard, through
his sister, Mr. Erin paid a deference that was
almost servile. He examined his lineaments,
in the hopes of detecting a likeness to the
Chances portrait, with a particularity that
much abashed the object of his scrutiny, and
even tried to get him to accompany him to the
church, that he might com pare his features
with those of the bust of the bard in the
chancel.

But it was in the presence of the bust itself
that Mr. Erin exhibited himself in the most
characteristic fashion. Standing: on what was
to him more hallowed ground than any blessed
by priests, and within a few feet of the ashes of
his idol, he was nevertheless unable to restrain
his indignation against the commentator Malone,
through whose influence the coloured bust had

recently been painted white. Instead of bursting
into Shakespearean quotation, as it was his
wont to do on much less provocation, he
repeated with malicious gusto the epigram to
which the act of vandalism in question had
given birth : —

Stranger, to whom this monument is shown,
Invoke the poet's curses on Malone,
"Whose meddling zeal his barbarous taste displays,
And daubed his tombstone as he marred his plays.

His rage, indeed, so rose at the spectacle, that
for the present he protested that he found himself
unable to pursue his investigations within
the sacred edifice, and proposed that the party
should start forthwith to visit Anne Hathaway's
cottage at Lottery.

There was at present no more need for Mr.
Jervis's services, so that gentleman was left
behind. Mr. Erin and Frank Dennis led the
way by the footpath across the fields that had
been pointed out to them, and William Henry
and Margaret followed. It was a lovely afternoon
; the trees and grass, upon which a slight
shower had recently fallen, emitted a fragrance

inexpressibly fresh. All was quiet save for the
song of the birds, who were giving thanks for
the sunshine.

How different this is from Norfolk Street ! '
murmured Margaret.

It is the same to me,' answered her companion
in a low tone, ' because all that makes
life dear to me is where you are. When
you are not there, Margaret, I have no
home.'

You should not talk of your home in that
way,' returned she reprovingly.

Yet you know it is the truth, Margaret ;
that there is no happiness for me under Mr.
Erin's roof, and that my very presence there is
unwelcome to him.'

I wish you would not call your father Mr.
Erin,' she exclaimed reproachfully.

Did you not know, then, that he was not
my father ? '

What ? ' In her extreme surprise she
spoke in so loud a key that it attracted the
attention of the pair before them. Mr. Erin
looked back with a smile. ' Shakespeare must

have taken this walk a thousand times, Maggie,*
he observed.

She nodded and made some suitable reply,
but for the moment she Alas thinking of things
nearer home. She now remembered that she
had heard something to the disadvantage of
Mr. Erin's deceased wife, one of those unpleasant
remarks concerning some one connected
with her which a modest girl hears by accident,
and endeavours to forget. Until Mr. Erin had
become a widower Margaret had never been
permitted by her mother to visit Norfolk Street.
Mrs. Erin had been a widow — a Mrs. Irwin —
but she had not become Mr. Erin's wife at first,
because her husband had been alive. It was
probable, then, that what William Henry had
said was true ; he was Mrs. Erin's son, but not
Mr. Erin's, though he passed as such. This
was doubtless the reason why her uncle and he
were on such distant terms with one another,
and why he never called him father. On the
other hand, it was no reason why her uncle
should be so harsh with the young man, and
treat him with such scant consideration. Some

women would have despised the lad for the
misfortune of his birth, but Margaret was incapable
of an injustice ; her knowledge of his
unhappy position served to draw him closer to
her than before.

By the blush that, in spite of her efforts to
repress it, spread over her face, William Henry
understood that she gave credit to his statement,
and by the tones of her voice he felt
that it had done him no injury in her eyes. It
was a matter, however, which, though necessary
to be made plain, could not be discussed.

What your uncle says is very true, Maggie,'
he quietly remarked. ' This must have been
Shakespeare's favourite walk, for love never
goes by the high road when it can take the
footpath. The smell of that bean-field, the
odour of the hay of that very meadow, may
have come to his nostrils as it comes to ours.
His heart as he drew nigh to yonder village
must have beat as mine beats, because he knew
his love was near him.'

'There is the cottage,' cried Mr. Erin
excitedly, pointing in front of him, and addressing

his niece. ' Is it not picturesque, with
its old timbers and its mossy roof ? '

It will make an excellent illustration for
your book,' observed Frank Dennis the practical.


'It has been illustrated already pretty
often,' returned the other drily, ' or we should
not recognise it so easily.'

Let us hope it's the right one,' muttered
William Henry, ' for it will be poor I who
will have to suffer for it if it is not.'

Fortunately, however, there was no mistake.
They stepped across the little brook, and stood
in the garden with its well and its old-world
flowers. Before them was the orchard 'for
whispering lovers made,' and on the right the
low vine clad cottage with the settle, or ,
at its door.

Here Shakespeare came to win and woo his
wife ; whatever doubt may be thrown on his
connection with any other dwelling, that much
is certain. On the threshold of the cottage
Mr. Erin took off his hat, not from courtesy,
for he was not overburdened with politeness,

but from the same reference with which he
had doffed it at the chi-ch. He entered without
noticing whether he was followed by the
others or not. A descendant of Anne Hathaway's,
though not of her name, received him ;
fit priest for such a shrine. That he had not
read a hue of Shakespeare in no way detracted
from his sacred character. Frank Dennis, himself
not a little moved, went in likewise. As
Margaret was following him, William Henry
gently laid his hand upon her wrist and led
her to the settle, Which was very ancient and
worm-eaten.

Sit here a moment, Maggie ; this is the
very seat, as Mr. Jervis tells me, on which
Shakespeare sat with her who became his wife.
Here, on some summer afternoon like this,
perhaps, he told her of his love.'

Margaret trembled, but sat down.

It is amazing to think of it,' she said ; ' he
must have looked on those same trees, and on
this very well.'

But he did not look at them Maggie,' said
the young man tenderly; 'he looked at the

VOL. I. G

face beside him, as I am looking now, and I
will wager that it was not so fair a face.

What nonsense you talk, Wile ! 
you not give yourself up as your — as Mr.
Erin does — to the associations of the place?
They are so interesting.'

It's just what I am doing, dear Maggie.
It was here they interchanged their vows ; a
different pair, indeed, though not altogether so
superior, since to my mind you excel Anne
Hathaway as much as I fall short of her
marvellous bridegroom. That I am no Shakespeare
is very true ; yet it seems to me,
Maggie, that when I say. '' I love you," even he
could have said nothing more true and deep. I
love you, I love you, I love you — do you hear
me ? ' continued the young man passionately.

You frighten me, Willie,' answered Maggie
in trembling tones. ' And then it is so foolish,
since you know, that even if I said — what you
would have me say — it could be of no use.'

But you think it, you think it ? That is
all I ask,' urged the other earnestly. ' If
matters were not as they are ; if I got Mr.

Erie's consent ; if I had sufficient means to
offer you a home — not indeed worthy of you,
for then it must needs be a palace — but
comfort, competence, you would not say
*'Xay?" Dearest Maggie, my own dear
darling Maggie, jive me hope. '' The miserable,"
as Shakespeare tells us, "' have no other
medicine : " and I am very, very miserable ;
give me hope, the light of hope.'

It would be a will-of-the-wisp, Willie.'
Xo matter ; I would bless it if it led me
to my grave. If I had it, I could work, I
could win fortune, even fame perhaps. You
doubt it ? Try me, try me ! ' he continued
vehemently, ' and if after some time, a little,
little time, no harvest comes of it, and my
brain proves barren, why, then I will confess
myself a dreamer : only in the meantime be
mine in spirit ; do not promise yourself to
another ; let us say a year ; well, then, six
months ; j'ou can surely wait six months forme,
Maggie ? '

It would be six months of delusion,
Willie.'

G 2

Let it be so ; a fool's paradise, but still forme
a paradise. I have not had so many happy-hours
that fate should grudge me these. I
know I am asking a strange thing ; still I am
not like those selfish lovers who, being in the
same pitiful case with me as to means, exact,
like dogs in the manger, vows of eternal fidelity
from those whom they will, in all probability,
be never in a position to wed. I ask you
not for your heart, Maggie, but for the loan
of it ; for six months' grace, probation. If I
fail to shoal myself worthy of you — if I fail to
make a name — or rather to show the promise
of making it within that time, then I return
the loan. I do not say, as was doubtless said
by him who sat here before me, "Be my
wife ! " I only say, " For six months to come,
betroth yourself to no other man." Come,
Maggie, Frank Dennis is not so very pressing.'

It was a dangerous card to play, this mention
of his rival's name, but it won the game.
Dennis was as true as steel, but through a
modest mistrust of his own merits — a thing that
did not trouble William Henry — he was a backward

lover. He had had opportunities of
declaring himself which he had neglected,
thinking of himself too loftily, or that the time
was not yet ripe ; or preferring the hope that
lies in doubt, to the despair that is begotten of
denial ; and this, I think, had a little piqued
the girl. She liked him well enough, well
enough even to marry him ; but she liked
William Henry better, and other things being
equal, would have preferred him for a husband.
They were not equal, but it was possible —
must possible, for the moment she had caught
from her reputed cousin some of that confidence
he felt in his own powers — that they
might be made so. At all events, six months
was not a space to ' d3lve the parallels in
beauty's brow ; ' and then it was so hard to
deny him.

You shall have your chance, Willie,' she
murmured, ' though, as I have warned you, it
is a very poor one '

He drew her nearer to him, despite some
pretence of resistance, and would have touched
her cheek with his lips, when the cottage door

was suddenly thrown open behind them, and
Mr. Erin appeared with an old chair in his
hands, which he brandished like a quarter-staff
above his head. He looked so Hushed and excited
that William Henry thought his audacious
proposal had been overheard, and that he was
about to be separated from his Margaret forever
by a violent death.

It is mine ! it is mine ! ' cried the antiquary
triumphantly. ' I have bought Anne Hathaway
's chair.'

CHAPTER VI.

AX AUDACIOUS CRITICISM.

Ix the case of crime, every person who is concerned
in its detection looks very properly to
motive : the law, indeed, in its award of punishment,
disregards it, but then, as a famous authority
(and himself in authority), namely, Mr.
Bumble, observes, ' the law is a lass.' Where
mankind falls into error is in looking for motive
in all cases, whether criminal or otherwise. A
very large number of persons are actuated by
causes for which motive is far too serious a
term. They are often moved by sudden impulse,
nay, even by whim or caprice, to take
very important steps. When interrogated, after
the mischief has been done, as to why they did
this or that, they reply, ' I don't know,' and
are discredited. Yet, as a matter of fact, the

motive was so slight, or rather so momentary
(for it was probably strong enough while
it lasted), that they have really forgotten all
about it.

William Henry Erin, of whose character the
world subsequently took a very different and
erroneous view, was essentially a man of impulse.
He had attributes, it is true, of another
and even of an antagonistic kind. He was very
punctual and diligent in his habits, he was neat
and exact in his professional work ; though a
poet, his views of life, or at all events of his
own position in it, were practical enough, yet
he was impatient, passionate, and impulsive. His
proposition to Margaret Slade had been made
with such stress and energy that it was no wonder
(albeit she knew his character better than
most people) that she thought it founded upon
some scheme for the future already formed in
his own mind. Of its genuineness there could be
no shadow of doubt, but she also took it for
granted that he had some ground for expectation,
which, at all events to his own mind,
seemed solid, that within the space of time he
had mentioned, something would occur to place

him in a better social position. Her impression,
or rather her apprehension (for she did not
much believe in his literary talents — a circumstance,
by-the-bye, which showed that she was
by no means over head and ears in love with
him), was that he trusted to the publication of
his poems to place him on the road to prosperity
; his use of the words ' fame and fortune '
certainly seemed to point to that direction, and
what other road was there open to him ?

Whereas, as a matter of fact, there was not
even that poor half pennyworth of substratum
for his hopes. Circumstances — the Ending himself
alone with her he loved on Shakespeare's
courting-seat — had, of course, been the immediate
cause of his amazing appeal, but they
were also the chief cause. The knowledge that
Frank Dennis was of the party and could gain
her ear at any moment, with the certainty of
Mr. Erin's advocacy to back him, had, moreover,
made the young man madly jealous. To
secure his beloved Margaret, even for a little
while, from so dreaded a rival, was something
gained ; and then there was the chapter of

accidents. We know not what a day may
bring forth, how much less what may happen
within six months ! William Henry was but a
boy, yet how many a grown man trusts to such
contingencies ! In the city, ' twenty-foiu- hours
to turn about in ' is often considered time
enough for a total change of fortune. It might
be added that, unless Margaret should turn
traitress and reveal his secret (which was impossible),
he had nothing to lose and everything
to gain by his delay ; but, to do the young man
justice, that idea had not entered into his mind.
Passion With the bit between her teeth had runaway
with him.

As to precocity, it must be remembered that
he lived in reckless days, when men did not
wait as they do now till they were five-and-forty
years of age to marry ; by that time, with
enterprise and luck, many a gentleman was in
the enjoyment of his third, or even his fourth
honeymoon.

Still, William Henry was not unconscious
that he had taken an audacious step, and felt
a genuine sense of relief on finding that Mr.

Samuel Erin had provided himself in that armchair
with a relic and not a weapon.

This invaluable acquisition — which, when it
was brought to London, was placed on a little
elevation made on purpose for it in his study,
with a brass plate at its foot (after the manner
of chairs in our Madam Tussaud's) with the
words ' Anne Hathaway's Chair ' upon it — had
the effect of putting its possessor into good
humour for the remainder of his stay at Stratford,
a circumstance which had the happiest
results for those about him, William Henry,
for his part, was in the seventh heaven. It is
not only our virtues which have the power of
bestowing happiness upon us — at all events, fora
season. Shakespeare himself makes a striking
observation on that matter in one of his sonnets
; having spoken plainly enough of certain
errors, gallantries of which he has repented,
he adds, with an altogether unexpected frankness,
—

But, by all above,

These blenches gave my heart another youth.

He does not put his tongue in his cheek at

morality, far from it ; but he rolls the sweet
morsel, the remembrance of forbidden pleasure,
under his tongue. It is one of the mistakes
that our divines fall into to deny to our little
peccadilloes any pleasure at all, whereas the
fact is that the blossom of them is often very
fair and fragrant, though the fruit is full of
ashes, and, like the goodly apple, rotten at the
core.

And thus it was with William Henry, who,
without, indeed, having committed any great
enormity, had certainly not been justified in
obtaining the loan of his cousin's love ; the
consciousness of his temporary possession of it
made a very happy man of him for a season.
He made no ungenerous use of his advantage,
he did not take an ell because he had gained an
inch ; but he hugged himself in that new-found
sense of security as one basks in the summer
sunshine. Those days at Stratford were the
happiest days of his life. Considering the
means by which they were obtained, one can
hardly apply to them the usual phrase ' a foretaste
of heaven ; ' but they were happy days

snatched from a life which was fated to hold few
such. It was, perhaps, out of gratitude to him
whose memory had helped him to this happiness,
that the young man really began to take
an interest in Shakespearean matters ; and this
again reacted to his advantage, since it gratified
Mr. Erin, whose good-will, difficult to gain by
other means, was approached by that channel
with extraordinary facility.

In association with Mr. Jervis the young
man ransacked the little town for mementoes of
its patron saint, and was fortunate enough to
discover a few, which, though of doubtful authenticity,
where very welcome to the enthusiastic
collector. If they were not the rose, i.e.
actual relics, they were near the rose, as proximity
is counted in such cases. No doubt it is
the same with more sacred relics — in a deficiency
of toe-nails of any particular saint it
must be something, though not of course so
rapturous, to secure a toe-nail of some saint in
the next century. As regards Shakespeare, it
is certainly one of the marvels in connection
with that marvellous man that not a scrap of

the handwriting, save his autograph, of one who
wrote so much ever turns up to reward the
pains of the searcher ; nay, there is only one
letter extant, even of those that were written to
him — a commonplace request for a loan from
the man Who afterwards became his son-in-law ;
under which circumstances, when one comes to
think about it, there may be some excuse for
the language used by Mr. Samuel Erin to that
reckless incendiary, Mr. Williams, of Clopton
House.

If to be indifferent, as William Henry had
been suspected of being, to the charms of
Shakespeare was a crime in Mr. Erin's eyes, it
may be easily imagined how he resented the
least imputation of any portion of his idol having
been composed of clay. There were circumstances
connected with his union with Anne
Hathaway, and also with that little adventure of
his with Justice Shallow's deer, which were dangerous
to allude to in Mr. Erin's presence ; and
if the moral qualities of his hero (albeit, we may
have gathered, Mr. Erin was himself, though
Protestant, by no means Puritan) could not in

safety be called in question, any suggestion of
weakness in him as a writer was still more unendurable.
Nevertheless, even prudent Frank
Dennis contrived to put his foot in it in this
very matter, and thereby narrowly escaped falling
out of Mr. Erin's good graces for the term
of his natural life. It was during an expedition
to Charlotte ; the little party, having left
their vehicle at the gate, were walking through
the park, Mr. Erin wrapped in contemplation
endeavouring perhaps to identify the very
oak (in ' As You Like It ') where the poor
sequestered stag had ' come to languish ' — while
the young people a few paces behind were indulging
in a little quiet banter upon the forbidden
subject of deer-stealing.

I suppose that he did steal that deer ? '
observed Margaret slily in a hushed whisper.

There is no doubt of it,' answered Frank ;
'he had to fly from Stratford to London for
that very reason, to get out of Sir Thomas's
way.'

'Nay, nay,' put in William Henry, I am
afraid with some slight imitation of his father's

solemn manner when dealing with the sacred
topic ; ' let us not say steal, it was what " the
wise do call convey." We do a good deal of it
in New Inn ourselves.'

Yonder are our " velvet friends," ' said
Mr. Erin, pointing to a herd of deer in the
distance.

The allusion caused some trepidation in his
companions, as chiming in only too opportunely
with their late disloyal remarks ; and it
was much to their relief that Mr. Erin proceeded,
as was his wont, to indulge himself in
quotation.

And indeed, my lord,
The wretched animal heaved forth such groans
That their discharge did stretch his leather coat
Almost to bursting ; and the big round tears
Coursed one another down his innocent nose
Tn piteous chase.'

What a graphic picture ! " His innocent
nose." Who but Shakespeare would have
dared to waite '' his innocent nose ? " '

Very true, sir,' said William Henry
gravely. ' " His innocent nose." '

Not a muscle of his face betrayed the

drollery within him. He certainly possessed
some tricks of the actor's trade. Margaret
stooped to pluck a daisy, an action which sufficed
to account for the colour rushing to her
cheeks. Frank Dennis, whose wits were not of
the nimble sort fitted for such sudden emergency,
felt he was about to suffocate. It
seemed to him he had no alternative between
speech — the act of saying something, no matter
^vhat — and an explosion.

'With regard to deer shedding tears,' he
observed, 'I have a fiend who is a great
naturalist, who tells me, as a matter of fact,
that they can't do it.'

Can't do what ? ' inquired 'Mx. Erin curtly.

He says that from the peculiar formation of
the ducts of the deer, or perhaps from the

absence of them 1 know nothing about the

matter myself, sir,' put in the unhappy Frank
precipitately, for the antiquary was looking
at him.

You know quite as much about it as your
friend then,' thundered Mr. Erin. ' Great
heavens ! that a man like him, or you, or any-vol.

I. H

body, should venture to pick a hole in one of
the noblest descriptions of the language : to
find faults in Shakespeare himself! You remind
me, sir, of the sacrilegious fellow in
France, the other day, who gave it as his
opinion that if he had been present at the
Creation, he could have suggested improvements.'


But indeed, sir, it was not my opinion.'

It is quite as bad to quote those of infamous
persons as to originate them yourself.'

Mr. Frank Dennis had very little of the
serpent in him, not even its prudence ; his
sense of justice was shocked by this outrageous
speech.

'But it is a mere question of fact and
science '

Science,' interrupted the other vehemently,
that is the argument of the Atheist against
the Scriptures. Science, indeed ! what is science
when compared with the genius of Shakespeare
? He told you, sir, that deer shed tears,
and if they don't, why — damn their eyes — they
ought to ! '

SaEXCE!' DsTERRUPTED THE ANTIQCAUT, Vehemently. 'THAT IS THE ARGX3IENT OF
THE ATHEIST AGAINST THE SCRIPTURES.'

The argument was, at least, conclusive ;
nothing more remained to be said, or was said.
Mr. Erin stalked on like a turkey-cock ruffled ; his
idol had been insulted, and he felt that he had
done well to be angry. Every deer he saw
stimulated his wrath. ' Confound the fellow ! '
he murmured as he passed the antlered herd,
it would serve him right if they tossed him.'
It even crossed his mind perhaps that Margaret
was right after all in receiving Dennis's attentions
so coldly ; that he was certainly a very
pig-headed young man.

Frank Dennis, too, good-natured as he was,
was not a little put out. For the moment he
felt almost as disrespectful towards Shakespeare
as Sydney Smith's friend was to the Equator ;
but his eye fell on Margaret, and he put a
bridle on his tongue.

His sense of annoyance soon faded away,
but with the antiquary it was not so easily
effaced. This incident was of considerable advantage
to William Henry and his little plan.
In a company of three, when one of them has
fallen out of our favour, one nati-ally rather

cottons ' to the other, if it is only to show the
offender what he has forfeited by his misconduct
; and from thenceforward Mr, Erin showed
himself at least less severe towards the young
man who bore his name. IN'ay, what was of
more consequence, the symptoms he had exhibited
of favouring Frank Dennis's pretensions
to his niece's hand manifestly slackened ; he no
longer troubled himself to throw the young
people together. On the other hand, though
of course with no idea that there was risk in
it (for he both despised him and ' despised his
youth '), he suffered William Henry and Margaret
to ' foregather ' as much as they pleased.
He still felt so resentful to Frank's sacrilegious
ideas as respected the customs of deer when
under emotion, that it was distasteful to him to
be shut up with him as a companion ; and in
order to mitigate his society he took an inside
place for William Henry (notwithstanding that,
except in the matter of MSS. and first editions,
he had a frugal mind) in the coach to town.

CHAPTER VII.
A collector's gratitude.

The effects of a prolonged holiday upon the
human mid are various. Like other things
much 'recommended by the faculty,' it does
not suit every one. It is the opinion of an
eminent physician of my acquaintance that
little comes of it in the way of wholesomeness
except sunburn ; and that when that wears off,
the supposed convalescent looks as he feels —
satiated and jaded. To William Henry, the
conveyancer's clerk, that week or two at Strath
was what the long vacation is to
many lawyers. He found a great difficulty insetting
to work again at his ordinary duties.
His fellow-clerk had left his employer's service,
so that he had his room to himself — a circumstance
that became of much more importance

than he had at that time any idea of — but business
was slack at Mr. Bingley's office. The
young fellow had plenty of leisure, though
among old mortgage deeds and titles to estates,
it might be thought he had small opportunities
of spending it pleasantly. Under ordinary circumstances
this would not, however, have been
the case with him. He had been brought up
in an atmosphere of antiquity ; the satisfaction
expressed by his father at the acquisition of any
ancient rarity had naturally impressed itself
upon his mind ; the only occasions on which he
had won his praise had been on his bringing
home for his acceptance some old tract or
pamphlet from a bookstall ; and in time he had
learnt to have some appreciation of such things
for their own sake, albeit, like some dealer in
old china, without much reverence. His turn
for poetry, such as it was, was due, perhaps, to
the many old romances and poems in Mr.
Erin's library rather than to any natural bent
in that direction ; a circumstance, indeed,
which was pretty evident from the young
poet's style ; for style is easy enough to catch,

whereas ideas must come of themselves. His
holiday had grievously unsettled him. He had
brought back his dream with him, but, once
more face to face with the facts of life, he
perceived the many obstacles to its realisation.
The only legitimate road to success — that of
daily duty — would never lead thither ; but
there might be a short cut to it through his
father's favour. Hitherto he had sought this
by fits and starts to mitigate his own condition ;
he now resolved to cultivate it unintermittingly,
and at any sacrifice.

He consequently devoted all his spare time
(and ' by our Lady,' as his father would have
said, also no little of his employer's) to the
discovery of some precious MS. Instead of
the spectacled and wizened faces which they
were wont to see poring over their old wares,
the bookstall-keepers of the city began to be
haunted by that of William Henry, eager and
young. They could not understand what his
bright eyes came to seek, and certainly never
dreamed that it was love that had sent him
there — to my mind a very touching episode.

reminding one of the difficult and uncouth
tasks to which true knights in the days of
romance were put, in order to show their
worthiness to win those they wooed. The lady
of his affections, however, was far from being
sanguine of his success ; she could hardly fail
to appreciate his exertions, but she refrained
from encouraging them. ' My dear Willie,'
she said, ' it is painful to me to see you
occupied in a search so fruitless. It is only too
probable that what you seek has absolutely no
existence. It is like hunting for the elixir of
life, or the secret of turning base metals into
gold.'

But, my dear Maggie, some such literary
treasure may exist,' he answered tenderly ; ' and
if I can discover it, what is the elixir of life tome
will be found with it.'

It was impossible to reason with a young
man like this, and Margaret tried to comfort
herself with the reflection that his madness had
but five months more to run. But it was very,
very difficult. Her life was now far from being
a cheerful one. She was not so vain as to take

pleasure in a wasted devotion, and she bitterly
repented of the momentary weakness that had
inclined her to feed its flame.

The house in Norfolk Street was more
frequented by the learned than ever. They
came to discuss Mr. Erin's late visit to the
Shakespearean shrine, just as faithful Moslems
might come to interview some pious friend who
had recently made his pilgrimage to Mecca.
While they talked of relics and signatures her
mind reverted to the sweet-smelling old garden
at Shottery, with its settle outside the cottage
door. Frank Dennis came as usual, and was
made welcome by his host, if not quite with
the same heartiness as of old. Not a word of
love passed his lips, and he was even more
reserved and silent than of yore ; but Margaret
could not conceal from herself what he came
for. Nay, his very reticence had a significance
for her ; she had a suspicion that he had noticed
some change of manner between herself and
her cousin which for the present sealed his lips.
When he had quite convinced himself that her
heart was in another's keeping she felt that he

would go away, and that place by the window,
where he usually sat a little apart from the
antiquarian circle, would know him no more.
She pitied him as she pitied Willie, though in
another way. She recognised in him some
noble qualities — gentleness, modesty, a love of
truth and justice, and a generosity of heart
that extended even to a rival. If she had not
known William Henry, it might have been
possible to her, she sometimes thought, to have
loved Frank Dennis. But this was only when
the former was not present. At the end of the
day, when her cousin came in fagged and
dispirited, and took his place at the supper-table
with little notice from any one, her whole
soul seemed to go forth to meet him in her
tender eyes.

Matters thus continued for some weeks,
till, rather suddenly, a change took place in
William Henry. In some respects it was not
for the better ; the unrest which his features
had hitherto displayed disappeared, and was
succeeded by an earnest and almost painful
gravity. Once only she had seen such an

expression — on the face of a juggler in the
street, one evening, who had thrown knives
into the air and caught them as they fell. But
with it there was a certain new-born hope.
She recognised it in the looks he stole at her
when he thought himself unobserved, and in
his talk and manner to others, especially to
Mr. Erin. They suggested confidence, or at
least a purpose. That he said nothing of what
he had in his mind to her was in itself significant.
The conclusion she drew was that he
was on the track of some discovery which
might or might not prove of great importance.
Poor fellow ! she had too often seen her uncle
and his friends led by wildfire of this sort to
the brink of disappointment to put much faith
in it. They were old and used to failures, and
with a little grunt of disappointment settled
their wigs upon their foreheads, and started off
again at a jog-trot in search of another mare's-nest.
Whereas to Willie — he was but seventeen
— Repulse would seem like Ruin.

One evening — it was a Saturday, on which
day Mr. Erin was accustomed to entertain a

few friends of his own way of thinking —
William Henry made his appearance later than
usual. The guests had already sat down to
table, and were in fill tide of talk, which was
not in any way interrupted by his arrival.
Margaret as usual cast a swift furtive glance at
him, and at once perceived that something had
happened. His face was pale, even paler than
usual, but his eyes were very bright and restless
; a peculiar smile played about his mouth.
He has found something ' was the thought
that flashed at once across her mind. Even if
he had, she felt it would not really alter
matters, and would only tend to nourish false
hopes. Her uncle's heart would never soften
towards him in the way that he hoped for. A
compelled expression of approbation, an unwilling
tribute to his diligence and judgment,
born of self-congratulation on the acquisition
of some literary treasure, would be his reward
at best, but still — but still — her heart went
pit-a-pat. She knew that no good fortune of
the ordinary kind could have happened to him.
Mr. Bingley, though he liked the boy, could

hardly have promised to make him his partner ;
nor indeed, if he had, would it have mattered
much, since his business was so small as to
require but a single clerk. That he had found
a publisher for his poems was not less unlikely,
while the result of such a miracle would be of
even less material advantage.

Throughout the meal William Henry
scarcely touched bit or sup ; his air, to the
one observer of it, gave the impression of
intense but suppressed excitement.

It was the custom of Mr. Erin's company
on Saturday nights to share after supper a
bowl of punch between them, and for those
who affected tobacco to light up their long
clays. Both the drinking and smoking were
of a very moderate kind ; while of song singing,
very common at that date, there was none.
There was only one toast, given by the host
in reverent tones, ' To the memory of the
immortal Shakespeare,' and then they began to
wrangle over disputed readings. On these
occasions it was William Henry's habit to
quietly withdraw and seek Margaret in the

withdrawing-room. As often as not, Frank
Dennis did the like, when he would petition
for a tune on the harpsichord, a thing the
other never did. Margaret's voice was music
enough for him, especially in a tete-astute. But
on this particular Saturday both young men
remained with the rest, William Henry for a
reason of his own, and Dennis out of courtesy
to his host, who had promised to give his
friends that night an antiquarian treat, consisting
of the exhibition of a rare tract he had
recently acquired. It was entitled ' Stokes, the
Vaulting Master,' and full of engraved plates,
to the outsider as destitute of interest as diner
with nothing on them, but to this little
band of antiquarians as the ' meat ' of turtle to
an alderman. If they didn't say grace afterwards,
it was because this precious gift had
been vouchsafed to another and not to themselves
; they sighed and murmured to themselves
that 'Erin ought to be a happy man.'
Having received their compliments with much
complacency, their host, like an old man congratulated
upon the possession of a young wife.

locked the extract in his bookcase and put the
key into his pocket, which was taken by the
rest as a signal for departure. "Mien they had
all gone save Dennis, who, as a friend of the
house, was always the last to go, William
Henry drew from his breast pocket a piece of
parchment with two seals hanging from it on
slips.

'I think, sir,' said he modestly, 'I have
something rather curious to show you.'

'Eh, what .P ' said Mr. Erin, knitting hi
brow in the depreciating manner peculiar to
the examiner of all curios before purchase,
some old deed or another, I suppose.'

Then he turned very white and eager, and
sat down with the document spread out before
him. It was a note of hand of the usual kind,
though of ancient date, and dealing with a
very small sum of money ; but if it had been
a letter from a solicitor's office acquainting him
with the fact that he had been bequeathed ten
thousand pounds, it could not have aroused in
him greater interest and astonishment.

It ran as follows : — ' One month fi^om the

date hereof I doe promise to paye to my good
and worthy friend John Hemynge the sum of
five pounds and five shillings, English Money,
as a recompense for his great trouble in settling
and doing much for me at the Globe Theatre,
as also for hys trouble in going down for me to
Stratford. — Witness my hand,

William Shakespeare.

September the Ninth, 1589.'

'Received of Master William Shakespeare
the sum of five pounds and five shillings, good
English Money, this Ninth day of October,

1589.

JoHi^ Hemynge.'

This is indeed a most marvellous discovery,
William Henry,' said Mr. Erin, breaking a long
silence, and regarding his son with a sort of
devout amazement, such as might have been
exhibited by some classic shepherd of old on
finding the Titus he had been treating as a
chawbacon was first cousin to Apollo. 'You
are certainly a most fortunate young man. —
Maggie ' (for Maggie, learning that the visitors

had departed, had joined them, full of vague
expectancy), ' see what your cousin has brought
home with him.'

This appeal of Mr. Erin to his niece was
significant in many ways. It would have been
most natural in such a matter to have turned
to Dennis, but for the moment he could not
brook incredulity, nor even a critical examination
of the precious manuscript. Moreover, he
had said ' yom' cousin,' a relationship between
the two young people to which he had never
before alluded. It was plain that within the
last five minute-es William Henry had come
nearer to the old man's heart than he had been
able to get in seventeen years.

What followed was even still more expressive,
for it took for granted an intimacy
between his son and niece, which up to that
moment he had studiously ignored.

Did you know anything,' he added, ' my
girl, of this surprise which your cousin had in
store for us ? '

I knew that there was something, uncle,
though not from his lips. That is,' she con-vol.

I. T

tinned, with a faint flush, ' I felt for days that
there has been something upon William Henry's
mind, which I judged to be good news. — Was
it not so, Willie ? '

The 5^oung man bowed his head. The
colour came into his face also. ' How she
must have watched him, and how rightly she
had read his thoughts ! ' was what he was
saying to himself.

Mr. Erin took no notice of either of them ;
his mind had reverted to the new-found
treasure.

Look at it, Dennis,' he cried. ^ The seals
and paper are quite as they should be. I have
no doubt of its being a genuine deed of the
time. Then the signature — there are only two
others in all the world, but I do think — just
take this microscope (his own hand trembled
so that he could scarcely hold it) — there can
be no mistake about it. It is without the " a,"
but it can be proved that he spelt it indifferently
; and again, the receipt has the " a," an
inconsistency which, in the case of a forgery,
would certainly not have been overlooked.

There can be no doubt of its being a genuine
signature, can there ? '

That is a matter on which you are infinitely
better qualified to judge than I am,
Vir. Erin,' was the cautious rejoinder. ' Perhaps
you had better consult the autograph in
Johnson and Steevens's edition.'

Tush ! Do you suppose that I have not
every stroke and turn of it in my mind's eye ?
Each down the book, Maggie.'

Margaret, who knew where to lay her hand
upon every book in her uncle's library, made
haste to produce the volume.

There, did not I tell you ? ' said Mr. Erin
triumphantly. ' Look at the TF, look at the 6'.'

Dennis did look at them very carefully.
Yes,' he admitted, ' there is no doubt that
they are fac-similes.'

Fac-similes ! ' exclaimed the old man
angrily ; ' why not frankly say that they are
by the same hand at once ? '

But that is begging the whole question,'
argued Dennis, his honest and plastic nature
leading him into the selfsame error into which

I 2

he had fallen at Charlotte Park. ' It is surely
more likely upon the whole that an autograph
purporting to be Shakespeare's should be a
fac-simile than an original.'

Or, in other words,' answered ]vir. Erin,
with a burst of indignation, ' it is more likely
that this lad here, poor William Henry ' (the
poor ' sounded almost like ' poor dear '),
shoidd have imposed upon us than not.'

'Oh no, oh no,' interposed Margaret
earnestly ; ' I am sure that Mr. Dennis never
meant to suggest that.'

Then what the deuce did he mean by his
fac-simile ? ' ejaculated the antiquary, with irritation.
' Look at the up-strokes ; look at the
down-strokes.'

You have made an accusation against me,
Mr. Erin,' said Frank Dennis, speaking under
strong emotion, ' which is at once most cruel
and undeserved. If I thought myself capable
of doing an injury to William Henry, or especially
of sowing any suspicion of him in your
mind, I — I would gc and drown myself in the
riser yonder.'

Mr. Erin only said, ' Umph,' in such a tone
that it sounded like ' Then go and do it.'

How is it possible that in throwing any
doubt upon the genuineness of that document,'
continued the other, ' I should be imputing
anything to its finder? Xor, indeed, have I
cast any doubt on it. I know nothing about
it.'

Then why offer an opinion ? ' put in the
old man implacably.

At all events, sir, I hazarded none as to
how the thing came into William Henry's
possession.'

Tut, tut,' replied the antiquary, once more
reverting to the precious document, ' who cares
how he got it ? The point is that we have it
here ; not only Shakespeare's handwriting, buta
most incontestable proof, to such as ever
doubted it, of his honour and punctuality in discharge
of his just debts. william Henry, I have
been mistaken in you, my lad. I will honestly
confess that I had built no such hopes upon
you. When I lost my poor Samuel [a son that
died in infancy], I never thought to be made

happy by anything a boy could do again. This
is the proudest moment of my life — to have
under my own roof, to see with my own eyes,
to touch with my own fingers, the actual handwriting
of William Shakespeare.'

Then, with a sigh like one who returns to
another something he himself fain would keep,
as knowing far more how to value it, he folded
up the document, and returned it to William
Henry.

'Nay, sir,' said the lad, gently breaking
silence for the first time, ' it is yours, not mine.
My pleasure in acquiring it — for, to say truth,
it cost me nothing — would all be lost if you
refused to accept it.'

What, as a gift ? No, my boy, that is impossible.
I don't mean that you must take
cash for it,' for William Henry looked both
abashed and disturbed, ' but something that will
at least show you that I am not ungrateful.'

For one wild instant the young man believed
that, like a stage father, Mr. Erin was
about to place Margaret's hand in his and
dower them with his blessing, but he only

walked to his bookcase, and took from the
shelf, where it had just been reverently laid,
'Stokes, the Vaulting Master,' and pushed it
into his hands.

But, sir, you have not heard how I
gained possession of the deed,' exclaimed the
astonished recipient of this treasure.

'To-morrow, tomorrow,' answered the
antiquary as he left the room with the document
hugged to his heart ; ' tomorrow will be
time enough for details.'

In his heart of hearts he feared lest there
should be some flaw in the young man's story
which might throw discredit upon the genuineness
of his discovery : and, for that night at
least, he wished to enjoy his acquisition without
the shadow of a doubt.

CHAPTEE VIII.

HOW TO GET KID OF A COMPANY.

When Mr. Erin had closed the door behind
him there was silence among those he had
left ; Dennis and Margaret naturally looked to
William Henry for an explanation of so singular
a scene, but he only turned over the leaves of
Stokes, the Vaulting Master,' with an amused
expression of countenance.

This reminds me,' he observed presently,
of what one of Mr. Bingley's female clients
did the other day. She had a favourite cat,
which one of her toadies used to extol in order
to curry favour with her ; and when she died
she left him tliat^ as being the richest legacy she
could think of; her mere money went to a
hospital.'

Margaret gave him a look which seemed to

reproach him for his frivolity, and Dennis
remarked gravely enough, ' I do hope there is
no mistake about that deed of yours, my lad ;
for I am afraid it would be a terrible blow to
your father.'

Deed of mine ! ' exclaimed the young man
indignantly. ' How on earth can I tell whether
it is genuine or not ? '

That is very true,' said Margaret, ' how
can he ? We must hope for the best. Xow tellus
where you found it, Willie, and all about it.'

Well, it's a queer story, I promise you,
and I can only give you my word of honour
for the truth of it.'

I should hope that would be enough,' said
Margaret confidently.

It will be enough for you, Maggie,' said
the young man quietly, ' but I am very doubtful
whether it will be sufficient for others, since
even to myself it would still seem like a dream
save for the documentary evidence. If that is
right, as Mr. Erin seems to think, all is right.'

And for that you are not responsible,' put
in Margaret eagerly.

Just SO ; I know no more about it being
Shakespeare's genuine signature than you do.
How the thing came into my hands was this
way. You know the Horn Tavern in Fleet
Street, Dennis ? '

Well, of course. Did I not dine with you
ten days ago there ? '

Nay ; let us be accurate throughout. I
dined with yoii,'' said the young man, smiling.
And that reminds me of what I had forgotten
before ; it was on that very day that I first met
my friend. Did you notice an old gentleman
with a flaxen wig dining by himself in the
corner ? — indeed, I know you did, for we remarked
that it was rather early in the day for a
man to be drinking port.'

I remember your making the observation,'
answered Dennis ; ' but I cannot recall the
gentleman ; I did not notice him with any
particularity.'

Nor I. But it seems that he noticed me.
I took my mid-day meal there the next day,
and there he was again. We sat at adjoining
tables, and he entered into conversation with

me. His manner was at first a little stiff and
reticent, like that of an old bachelor who lives
alone ; but something I said about Child's bank
seemed to attract his attention. He was not
aware that the accounts for the sale of Dunkirk
had been found among their papers, and seemed
more astonished that I. should know it. Acrain,
it amazed him to find that I knew about
Chaucer's having beaten the Franciscan Friar
in Fleet Street. Being ignorant, of course, of
the set of people I have been brought up
amongst here, it doubtless astonished him that
so yoimg a man should take any interest in such
matters. He said he was but an indifferent
antiquary himself, from an incurable habit of
indolence, which had grown upon him during
years of seclusion, but that his tastes had atone
time lain in that direction ; that he possessed
a considerable collection of manuscripts
bequeathed to him by a cousin, and that if I
liked to look in upon him at his chambers in
the Temple, I might perhaps find something
worthy of my attention.

Of course I availed myself of this imitation.

I found my friend in an unusually large
set of chambers, but which had the appearance
of great neglect. The rooms he occupied himself
were well cared for enough, though he
informed me that he saw no company ; but the
others were used as lumber-rooms. They were
filled with old books, old armour, old manuscripts,
piled up on the floor in the greatest
confusion. There where heaps of law documents,
relating to his own affairs, which had no better
treatment. I suppose my new friend saw by
the expression of my face that I thought him a
very eccentric personage, for he suddenly observed,
" I have taken a strong fancy to you,
young gentleman, and I am not easily pleased ;
but there is one tiling which you must beware
of if you Avant our friendship to continue. I
cannot be troubled with questions. The man
who left me all these things was worried to
death by the curiosity of other people. ' Where
did you get this? How did that come into
your hands?' and so on. There are some
things here my possession of which would be
so envied by some people, that I should never

have a moment's peace from their importunities.
If you should come across any such treasure,
and should reveal the place where you found it,
you and I part company. Let that be thoroughly
understood between us." Of course I promised
never to mention his name or address to anyone.'


As William Henry paused a moment to take
breath, ' That will be rather awkward,' observed
Dennis gravely ; ' of course there was no help
for it, but your inability to give a reference as
to the discovery of the deeds will give rise to
suspicion.'

Suspicion of what ? ' inquired Margaret,
with a flush on her cheek.

Of the authenticity of the document. I
should rather have said would strengthen suspicion,
for that there will be objectors to it is
certain.'

My cousin has nothing to do with them,'
said Margaret ; ' surely he is not personally
answerable for the genuineness of the deed.'

Certainly not,' answered Dennis gently.

'Pray go on, Willie,' said Margaret. It

was plain that what Dennis had said had
annoyed her in some way ; not only was he
himself, however, quite unconscious of the
cause of offence, but William Henry appeared
equally in the dark. He glanced from one to
the other with a puzzled look before he took
up his tale.

I have paid several visits to the Templar, as
I will call him, since then, and he has been
most kind and hospitable. As my time is not
my own, and I can only occasionally leave the
office, he has lent me a latch-key, so that I may
enter his chambers when I please, and pursue
my researches. In order, as I believe, to remove
hora me any unpleasant sense of obligation,
he has asked me to catalogue his library
for him ; which is, of course, a labour of love.'

Why, my good lad, it is evident the old
gentleman intends to adopt you, and will make
you his heir,' exclaimed Dennis.

Though he spoke laughingly Margaret
thought to herself that such an event was by no
means out of the range of possibility. Her
cousin was certainly very attractive ; had excellent

manners, and, as it happened, the somewhat
exceptional tastes that were most likely to
recommend him to such a patron. Perhaps
the future that Willie had proposed to her in
the garden at Shottery might not turn out so
wild a dream after all.

I think my new friend has done enough
for me as it is,' said William Henry modestly.
In turning over some deeds yesterday I found
that document which I brought home to-night.
Mr. — — , I mean the Templar — was not at
home, so that I had to wait till I could see
him this afternoon. You may imagine what
a twenty-four hours I passed.'

I noticed, as I told my uncle, that you had
something on your mind,' said Margaret ; ' but
that has been for some days. No doubt it was
this making acquaintance with your new friend,
and the possibilities that might arise from it.'

No doubt. I confess I allowed myself to
indulge in certain hopes,' returned the young
man with a smile, but keeping his eyes fixed on
the ground. ' What has happened, however —
always supposing that the document is genuine

has been far beyond my expectations. When
I met my patron and told him what I had
found he was surprised enough, but by no
means in that state of elation which we have
just seen in Mr. Erin ; the reason of which
was, I am convinced, that he at once made up
his mind to give me the thing.

'^ It is very curious," he said. " My cousin
always set great store by those old manuscripts,
but I did not know there was anything among
them so interesting as this. Perhaps you may
find some more ; at all events, since but for you
this discovery would certainly not have been
made, or at least not in my lifetime, it is but
fair that you should reap the benefit of it.
This note of hand is yours." '

What a gracious gentleman I ' exclaimed
Margaret enthusiastically. ' It was not as if he
did not know the value of what he was giving
away.'

Just so. I am afraid, though I begged
him to reconsider the matter, that I was not
very urgent that he should do so. I could not
help picturing to myself how Mr. Erin would

receive such a treasure, and how it might be the
means ' — here he hesitated a moment — ' of —
making myself more acceptable to him.'

Dennis patted the lad on the shoulder
approvingly. He understood that in his presence
it was painful to the young fellow to
allude to his father's habitually cold and un-paternal
behaviour. What he did not understand
was that William Henry should resent
this friendly encouragement as being the manner
of a mature man to a junior.

Margaret for her part attributed her cousin's
hesitation to another cause. She felt that if
they had been alone together he would have
ended that last sentence — ' how it might bethe
means of ' — in a different way.

In the end, of course,' continued William
Henry, smiling, ' I took what the gods had
given me without much scruple, but even if
nothing more should come of it, I hope I shall
never forget the old gentleman's kindness.'

Nothing under the circumstances could be
more moderate, or in better taste, than the
speaker's manner. Xot only was there no

VOL. I. JK

exultation, siicli as might easily have been
excused in a man so young, and moreover, so
unaccustomed to good fortune, but he seemed
to have resolutely determined not to encourage
himself in expectation ; and yet there was a
confidence in his tone which to one at least of
those who listened to him was very significant.
If it is too much to say that pretty Margaret
had repented of that promise given to her
cousin at Anne Hathaway 's cottage, she had
certainly thought it very hopeful ; or rather
it would be more correct to say she had abstained
from thinking of its possible results at
all ; but that night she could not shut them out
from her dreams.

]mr. Samuel Erin would probably have also
had his dreams — not less agreeable, though of
quite another kind — but importunately he never
went to sleep. Like Belshazzar, he beheld all
night a writing on the wall, which, albeit it was
not in modern characters, needed in his case no
interpreter. It was Shakespeare's autograph.
It seemed to him to be inscribed everywhere,
and, as though the secret of luminous paint had

already been discovered, to shine miraculously
out of the darkness.

He came down to the morning: meal with a
face of im wonted paleness, but which, when it
turned to William Henry, wore also an unwonted
smile. He listened to his narration of
how he became possessed of the deed With
interest, but without much comment, and yet
not a word did he say about the precious document
itself. His silence, however, was well
understood. There would that day be a
gathering of his Shakespeare friends, who
would decide upon its genuineness ; but in the
meantime it was clear that he had a firm and
cheerful faith in it such as men pray for so
often in vain. For the first time for years he
addressed his conversation almost wholly to his
son, and even recalled events connected with
the young man's childhood. On later matters
perhaps it was scarcely safe to venture, lest
memories of a less cheerful kind should be
raked up with them.

Do you remember, my boy, the days when
we were wont to spout Macbeth together, and

e:2

how you had to hold up the paper knife in your
little hand and say, " Is this a dagger that I
see before me ? " '

William Henry remembered them very welland
said so. It was curious enough that Shakespeare
should be the one common ground they
had discovered on which to meet on terms of
amity.

Then presently, ' Have you heard anything
of young Talbot lately ? '

Talbot had been that schoolfellow of William
Henry already spoken of, who was a poetaster
like himself. More fortunate, however, in
worldly circumstances, he had succeeded to a
small estate in Ireland, where he lived, save
when he occasionally came to London for a
week or two for pleasure. On one occasion
William Henry had ventured to bring the
young man to Norfolk Street, but he had
been received with such scant civility by the
master of the house that the visit had not been
repeated. That Mr. Erin should have given
himself the trouble to recall his name spoke
volumes of Shakespearean autograph.

'Thank you, sir; Talbot is to be in town
for a few days at the Blue Bear in the Strand,
I believe.'

I beg if you see him, then, that you will
give him my compliments,' said Mr. Erin
graciously.

The transformation was quite magical. It
was as though some humble wight dwelling
in the shadow of King Bulcinoso's displeasure
had suddenly become first favourite, and, instead
of receiving buffets, had been given his
Majesty's hand to kiss.

Margaret had never liked her uncle so much
as in this new character, and was indignant
with her cousin that he did not respond to his
father's kindness with more enthusiasm.

'If he had behaved so to me, Willie, I
should have met him half way,' she afterwards
said reprovingly.

Yes,' answered the young man gravely,
because you would have known that he loved
you for your own sake.' Then with a gentle
sigh he added, ' Why don't you meet me halfway,
Maggie ? '

She did not indeed reply as he would have
had her, but her tender glance betrayed that if
she had not got half way, she was on the road
to meet him.

He went away to his work as usual, but by
no means in his usual frame of mind. Nor
were those he left behind him less moved by
his late proceedings than himself.

Before midday the parlour in Norfolk Street
was the reception room of quite a throng of
dilettanti, some summoned that very morning by
Mr. Erin's special invitation. The new-found
deed was handed round among these enthusiasts
as a new-born babe, heir to millions, but about
whom there are some doubts as to its legitimacy,
might be received by a select circle of female
gossips, while the proprietor, like a husband
confident in his wife's fidelity, regards their
investigations with a complacent smile. They
examined it tenderly but with great caution,
through spectacles of every description, and in
silence befitting so momentous an occasion ; yet
by their countenances, lit by a certain ' fearful
joy,' it was easy to see that upon the whole

itr' I .

iiiiftlfi

M^5^:i^\y:^.

Tir Dilettanti.

they were satisfied — nay glutted — by the inspection.


Well, gentlemen? ' inquired Mr. Erin with
mock humility — a mere pretence of submission
to a possible adverse opinion. ' What say you,
my dear Sir Frederick, what is your verdict ? '

He had appealed to one Sir Frederick Eden,
a Shakespearean critic of no mean distinction,
and who, being the only titled person present,
might naturally be considered as the foreman'
of the jury.

'It is my opinion, Mr. Erin,' replied that
gentleman with great solemnity, 'that this
most interesting document is valid.'

A hushed murmm' of corroboration and
applause broke from the little throng. ' That
is my view also,' said one ; ' And mine,' ' And
mine,' added other voices

If Mr. Erin had just been elected King of
Great Britain and Ireland (with the Empire of
India thrown in by anticipation), and was
receiving the first act of allegiance from the
representatives of the nation, he could not have
looked more gratified and serene.

That is certainly the conclusion,' he observed
with modesty, ' which I myself have
arrived at.'

Then he told how William Henry had
become possessed of the document, a narration
which redoubled their interest and excitement.

Sir,' said Sir Frederick with emotion, ' I
felicitate you on the possession of such a son.'

There were reasons, as we know, which
made this congratulation a mere matter of
compliment, and, up to this time, by no means
an acceptable one ; but it was with no little
pride and satisfaction that Mr. Erin now
acknowledged it.

He is a good lad,' he said, ' a discreet and
well-ordered lad : and, of course, it is very
gratifying to me that he has found favour in
the eyes of this gentleman — whoever he may be
—to whom we are indebted for this — this
manifestation.'

It was a strange word to use, but, under
the circumstances, not an inappropriate one.
To Mr. Samuel Erin the occurrence in question
seemed indeed little less than a miracle, and

William Henry the instrument through which
it had been vouchsafed to his wondering eyes.

What we have to consider,' he continued,
dropping his voice in hushed solemnity, ' is
that, in all probability, other papers connected
with the immortal bard may be produced from
the same source.'

The company nodded their wigs in unison.
It was as though in their mind's eye a dish of
peaches had been placed on the table before
them ; their very mouths watered.

There is one circumstance,' said Sir
Frederick, who still held the document in his
hands, rather to his host's discomfort, who well
knew what temptation was, and had become
anxious for the return of this property, ' which
I think has hitherto escaped our notice : in
examining the document we have neglected the
seals. I have just discovered by close scrutiny
that they represent that ancient game the
quintain. Here is the upright beam, here is
the bar, here is the bag.'

The company crowded round, most of them
with magnifying glasses, which gave them the

appearance of beetles who, with projecting
eyes and solemn looks, investigate for the first
time some new and promising article of
food.

At the top of the seal, if I am not mistaken,'
continued Sir Frederick in pompous
tones, and with the air of a man without
whose intelligence a great discovery would
have passed unnoticed, ' you will recognise the
ring, to unhook which with his lance was the
object of the tilter ; if he failed to accomplish
it, the bar, moving swiftly on its pivot, swung
round the bag, which striking smartly on the
tilter's back, was almost certain of unhorsing
him.'

We see it — it is here ; there is no doubt
of it,' gasped the excited company.

Now, mark you, this is not only curious,'
resumed the knight, ' but corroborative of the
genuineness of the document in a very high
degree. Observe the very close analogy which
this instrument bears to the name of Shakespeare.
Is it not almost certain, therefore, that
this seal belonged to our immortal barce, and

was always used by him in this legal transactions
? '

Then rose the hushed amaze of hand and
eye.' For some moments no voice broke the
awful silence ; but presently, under deep
emotion, Mr. Erin spoke.

A revelation,' he said, ' always needs an
expounder, and in our friend Sir Frederick we
have found one. Thanks to your keen intelligence,
sir, the value of this deed has been
placed beyond all question.'

I am very glad to have been of some
slight service to the cause of literary discovery,'
returned Sir Frederick modestly. ' Perhaps
some other lights may strike me if you will
allow me to take the document home with
me.'

Indeed I will do nothing of the kind,' put
in Mr. Erin precipitately ; ' not, of course, my
dear friend, that I have the least doubt of your
good faith,' he added in gentler tones, ' butin
justice to my son—unhappily absent, and to
whom it belongs — I can hardly suffer the deed
to leave my custody. Perhaps at another time '

for his friend was looking anything but
pleased — ' your request shall be complied
with, but at present it must be here for the
satisfaction of doubters. Such a person, I
have reason to believe, is among us even
now.'

A murmur of indignation arose from all
sides. They cast at one another such furious
glances as the Thracian nymphs may have done
before tearing Orpheus to pieces.

Yes, Mr. Dennis,' continued the host
sarcastically, addressing the unhappy Frank,
who had hitherto remained unnoticed and-quiescent,
' I have reason to believe from the
expression of your features, when I connect it
with certain remarks that fell from you in Shot-very
Park the other day, that you are our only
sceptic'

If to an assembly of divines in Convocation
' the Infidel,' so often alluded to in the
abstract in their discourses from the pulpit,
had been suddenly presented to them in the
concrete, they could not have looked at him
with a greater horror than that with which the

company regarded the young man thus thrust
upon their attention.

Indeed, indeed, ]\lr. Erin,' pleaded Dennis,
I have never uttered a syllable that could be
construed, or even perverted, into doubt.'

One may look daggers and yet speak
none,' returned Mr. Erin with severity (and
that he should thus venture to misquote his
favourite bard showed even more than his
tone the perturbation of his mind). * The
document, however, will be left here — here'
he repeated significantly, ' for your private
scrutiny and investigation ; I only trust that
you may find cause to withdraw your aspersions,
groundless in themselves, as they are disparaging
to my dear son William Henry, and
offensive to this respectable and learned company,
about, as I see with regret, to take their
leave.'

If Mr. Erin had suddenly seized a hammer
and smote him on the forehead, Mr Dennis
could hardly have been more astonished than
at this gratuitous onslaught. He resolved to
wait till the company had dispersed, which, at

that broad hint received from its host, it proceeded
to do, and then demand an explanation.


Mr. Erin, however, anticipated him. 'I
was somewhat more vehement, Dennis,' he said,
in the remarks that I addressed to you just
now than the occasion demanded ; but the fact
is, some sort of diversion was imperatively-demanded.
My friends, I saw, were getting
turbulent; the discovery of the quintain on
the seal was too much for them, already
excited as they Avere by the exhibition of
this extraordinary document. Sir Frederick
in particular, under circumstances of such
extreme temptation, I knew to be capable of
any outrage. I made you — I confess it — the
scapegoat, by means of which the safety of the
precious manuscript has been secured. In
compensation, take it and look at it as long as
you like. What I said about your incredulity,
though somewhat justified by the past, you
must admit, was in the main but a pious fraud.
Like any man gf intelligence, you cannot but

revere the document. It is yours, say, for the
next five minutes. Then it goes into my iron
case, for " Who shall be true to us," as he
whose honoured name lies there before you, in
his own handwriting, has observed, " if we be
secret to ourselves ? " '

CHAPTER IX.

AX UNWELCOME VISITOR.

Although it may be very true that kings can
affect but little the happiness of their subjects,
the petty kings of every household — from
Paterfamilias the First down to his latest
descendants — have a very important influence
in that way. The difference which a morose
or cheerful parent makes in the lives of those
beneath their roof is incalculable. In the one
case the atmosphere of existence is all cloud, in
the other, all sunshine. It must be confessed
that up to this period the Jupiter of the little
household in Norfolk Street had been something
of a Jupiter Plutus. There were storms,
there were tears ; and even when it was not
so, the domestic sky was sullen. From the
date of the discovery, however, of that note of

hand, from William Shakespeare to John
Hemynge, the weather cleared. Moreover,
matters looked all the brighter by contrast.
It is one of the many advantages that selfish
Persons of strong will possess, that when they
do condescend to be genial, people are prone
to believe that they always were so, or at all
events that they have misjudged them insetting
them down as churlish.

So in the Orient, when the gracious light
Lifts up his long-hid head, each under eye
Doth homage to this new appearing sight,

And mortal looks adore his majesty.

Mr. Erin's domestics began to acknowledge
that their master was not half a bad fellow ;
and his niece, to whom, however, it is but soir
to say he had always been kind, was C[uite
triumphant over his new-found good nature.
'Xow, Willie, did I not always tell you so?' &c.,
while Frank Dennis had reason to believe that
he had at last been quite forgiven his heretical
doubts as to whether deer could shed tears as
easily as their antlers.

VOL. I. L

As to William Henry himself, the strides he
had made in Mr. Erin's favour, thanks to that
find ' of his in the ' Templar's ' chambers, was
something magical, as if he had got seven-league
boots on. His father even called him
Samuel, as though he were verily and indeed
that son he had lost with all the hopes that
were wrapped up in him. It must be confessed,
however, that this may have been partly owing
to the birth of new hopes ; William Henry,
indeed, though he had twice visited his friend
in the Temple since that one momentous
occasion, had found nothing very new — or
rather very old — there ; but on the other hand,
what Mr. Erin justly thought a great piece of
good fortune, and one that showed promise of
much more, had befallen him. On looking
over his patron's papers he came across a deed
of no great antiquity in truth, but which to
that gentleman himself was especially valuable,
since it established his right to a certain
property that had long been the subject of
litigation > For this, something was certainly
due to the young man himself, since, but for

his legal learning and knowledge of the nature
of the document, he might easily have passed it
over as being of no importance. It was,
therefore, not so very surprising that the old
gentleman, in a sudden glow of gratitude, for
which his mind, from its natural leaning
towards the young fellow was, as it were,
ready laid,' had given him a promise that
whatever he might henceforth discover among
his papers of general interest should, by way of
recompense for the service he had rendered
him, become his own.

Gladly as William Henry himself doubtless
received this mark of his patron's favour, his
joy could hardly have exceeded that of Mr.
Erin when the news was communicated to him.
It must needs be confessed, however, that his
gratitude was not wholly dissociated from a
sense of favours to come.

Why, my dear lad,' he cried, ' this note of
hand of Shakespeare's, priceless as it is, may be
yet outdone by what remains to be discovered.
In this strange treasure-trove of which you
speak, of the contents of which, both as to

L 2

their nature and value, their owner seems to be
wholly ignorant, there may be, for all we know,
whole letters in Shakespeare's handwriting,
copies of his plays, a sonnet or two, possibly
even the skeleton of some play which he never
filled in with flesh-and-blood characters, the
hint of some divine tragedy — gracious Goodness
! ' and Mr. Erin threw up his hands in
speechless ecstasy, as though a glimpse of
heaven had been vouchsafed to him of which
it was not lawful for him to discourse further.

Of course it is possible, sir,' returned
William Henry gravely. ' But for my part
I dare not trust myself to think of what
may be lying in yonder lumber rooms. Just
now, indeed, I am giving my attention solely
to my patron's library, arranging the bookshelves
and making out the catalogue. After
his generous promise I purposely forego the
pleasure of investigation lest I should be considered
grasping.'

Fire ! ' interrupted the old man suddenly
with tremulous anxiety. ' Think of fire ! You
know what happened at Clopton House ; and

tlioiigli of course your patron would never
wilfully destroy a scrap of paper with any
antiquity about it, yet who can guard against
accident — carelessness? One spark fi'om a
candle and the world may be robbed of we
know not what. Oh, my dear lad, for the
world's sake, if not for mine, I pray you lose
no time. Never mind your work ; I'll settle
all that with Bingley. Stick to the lumber-room
— I mean the precious manuscripts.

Dull not device by coldness and delay.'

The eagerness of the old man was in its
intensity quite touching. No lover entreating
his mistress for the momentous monosyllable
could have been more earnest, or even more
passionate. William Henry himself, dio,
throughout the late stirring incidents, which
promised to affect his future so nearly, had
kept himself studiously calm and quiet, was
deeply moved.

'I will do my best, sir,' he replied in
agitated tones ; ' nothing pleases me better
than to give you pleasure.'

That is well said returned the old man
graciously. Margaret looked on with approving
eyes. Supposing even what the young
man had so rashly set his heart on should bear
no fruit — if his dream should not be realised —
it was surely well that such friendly relations
should be established between him and the
man who, if not his own flesh and blood, was
his natural protector. It was very satisfactory
also to see that Willie was responding to Mr.
Erin's overtures of good-will.

As to these last there could be no doubt
as to her uncle's change of front towards her
cousin (to whom indeed he had hitherto shown
no front at all, but had turned his back upon
him) ; and that very evening there was another
proof of it. As the three were sitting down to
supper, William Henry noticed that the table
was laid for four. Under ordinary circumstances
he would have taken it for granted that
Dennis was coming, but he knew that the
architect was out of town on business. He
was not yet on such intimate terms with the
master of the house as to inquire who was the

expected guest, and supposed him to be one
of the Shakespearean literati who were now
dropping in at all times.

Presently there was a knock at the door,
whereat Margaret looked at her uncle with a
significant smile, and her uncle looked at
William Henry.

I have got a pleasant surprise for you, my
lad,' he said gaily. ' Some time ago — indeed
it was before Maggie came to live with us —
you had a friend whose companionship I
thought was doing you no good, and I gave
him the cold shoulder. It is never too late to
own oneself in the wrong ; he certainly did
you no harm and perhaps intended none. It is
only natural that you should have friends of
your own age, and that they should be made
welcome in your father's house ; so, as you
told me he was in town, I sent round a note to
him to as'c him to drop in to-night to supper.'

Before William Henry could reply the door
opened and the servant announced Mr. Reginald
Talbot.

The new-comer was a fresh-complexioned

young gentleman of about eighteen or so,
rather clumsily built for his age, with long,
reddish-brown hair and bold eyes. They did
not look at all like near-sighted eyes, but he
wore round his neck what was then called a
quizzing-glass, held by the hand, through which
he now surveyed the present company. His
attire, if not more fashionable than Mr. Erin's
guests were wont to wear, showed a much
greater taste for colours. His waistcoat was
heavily laced, and the buckles on his shoes, if,
as was probable, they were not made of real
diamonds, shone by candlelight as though they
had been.

It is very kind of you, Mr. Erin,' he said,
'pon honour, to let me drop in in this way.
If I had known that there were ladies present '
here he glanced at Margaret and bowed like
a dancing master — ' I would have put on more
suitable apparel.'

Pooh, pooh ! you're smart enough,' said
Mr. Erin in a tone in which contempt and
politeness struggled ludicrously for the upper
hand. 'This is only my niece, Margaret Slade;

there's your old friend, AViliiam Henry. Didn't
I say, my lad ' — here he turned to his son and
clapped him on the shoulder — ' that I had got
a surprise for you ? '

Of course Mr. Erin had meant it well, just
as he had done when he lead made him that
priceless present of ' Stokes, the Vaulting
Master,' but, as in that case, it wotdd have
seemed to a close observer that he had not
exactly hit upon the meed of merit most to
William Henry's fancy. That young gentleman
shook hands indeed with the new-comer
cordially enough, but, whether from surprise
or some other cause, could at first find no
better topic to converse upon than the weather.

I suppose,' he said, ' yoti have not been
having much more sun where yoti have come
from than we have had.'

Sun ! ' echoed the other drily. ' I suppose
there is not much difference in the weather of
Xorfolk Street and that of the Strand. I have
been in London, as I wrote to you I should be,
these ten days, and not a hundred yards away,
if you had cared to come and see me.'

I didn't understand that from your letter,'
stammered William Henry. ' I thought '

I think I can explain this matter, Mr.
Talbot,' interposed Mr. Erin ; ' satisfactorily as
far as William Henry is concerned, if somewhat
to my own disadvantage. Under a misconception
Which it is unnecessary to explain, I had tacitly
forbidden my son to visit you. I am sorry for
it. I hope you will now make up for it by
seeing a good deal of one another while you
remain in town.'

You're very good, I'm sure,' said Talbot.
He looked from father to son in a vague and
puzzled way, and then he looked at Margaret
through his spyglass. The young lady, annoyed
to be so surveyed, cast down her eyes,
and Mr. Erin, with some revival of his old
caustic tone, io quire, ' Do you propose to
deprive your friends at home of your society
for any length of time ? '

A week or two, perhaps more,' returned
the other, without a shade of annoyance ; he
had evidently taken his host's remark au series.
I am come up on business of my own,' he

added grandly ; ' for as to old Docket, though
my articles are not yet run out, I treat him as
I please.'

You are in the fortunate position of having
a competence of your own, I conclude.'

Well, yes ; that is, I come into it on my
majority. Something in land and also in hand.
I shall then leave the law and pursue the profession
of a man of letters.'

'Heaven deliver us! ' ejaculated Mr. Erin.

Sir ? ' exclaimed the visitor.

And make us thankful for all its mercies,'
added his host, bending over his plate.

I beg pardon ; grace,' muttered mr. Talbot,
growing red to the roots of his hair.

Margaret reddened too, for it was not usual
with her uncle to say grace ; and William
Henry reddened also with suppressed laughter.
He had not given his father credit for so much
dexterity.

'And now I daresay, William Henry, you
would like a talk with your old friend in your
own room,' observed Mr. Erin ; ' you must
make Mr. Talbot quite at home here.'

The young gentleman looked as if he would
quite as soon have remained in the society of
Miss Margaret, who had obviously attracted his
admiration, while William Henry could hardly
repress a groan. But so broad a hint could
scarcely be ignored, and the two young men
retreated together accordingly.

I hope William Henry is pleased, my dear,'
said the old gentleman, when he found himself
alone with his niece. ' He cannot say that I
have not made some little sacrifice. But why
had he not been to see this fellow — I gave him
leave.'

Nay, sir, you did not give him leave implicitly
; you said that if he met Mr. Talbot he
was to give him yoiu- compliments. Willie is
always so very particular not to overstep your
permission in any way.'

Mr. Erin muttered an articulate sound
such as a bumble-bee makes when imprisoned
between two panes of glass. It was noc
exactly 'hum,' but it resembled it. William
Henry was now all that he could wish him to
be, but there had been occasions — though to

be sure there was now no need to think of them
when he had not been so very careful to obey
the paternal commands.

Well, I hope he appreciates my little
surprise,' he murmured ; '" a man of letters,"
forsooth ! Never, never, was I so pestered by
a popinjay.'

THE TALK OF THE TOWf^.

CHAPTEE X.

TWO POETS.

HAT on earth is
the meaning of all
this ? ' was the first
question that Reginald
Talbot put to
his friend, when
they found themselves
alone together.


'Of all what .P'
returned William
Henry indifferently.
' Here are
pipes, by the way ;
- II will you smoke a
little tobacco ? '
There it is again,' cried Talbot ; ' I say
once more, what is the meaning of it? The

idea of your respectable father permitting us
to smoke under his roof. Why, it was only, as
it were, under protest that he was wont to
permit you to breathe. Then, as for me, he
used to think me something worse than one of
the wicked ; an anomalous emanation from
Grub Street ; a sort of savage with cash in his
pocket : whereas his tone to me now is as the
honey of Hybla. What magic has wrought
this change in the old curmudgeon P '

Well, perhaps of late he has got to understand
me better, and consequently my friends,
suggested William Henry.

• Oh, tltat can't be it,' replied Talbot contemptuously
; ' I should say if he knew as
much about you as I did he would behave
worse to you than ever. I don't mean anything
offensive to you, my dear fellow,' added
he speaker, for his companion's face had
grown very troubled ; * on the contrary, I
compliment you. It's just those qualities I
admire most in you which would least recommend
you to his good graces. On the other
hand, if you have a fault in my eyes, it is an

excess of caution. Come, be frank with me,
what is the tune which has set this rhinoceros
a dancing ? '

I have had the good fortune to find an old
manuscript which has put my father in high
good humour.'

And the young lady, your cousin, is she,
too, enamoured of old manuscripts ? '

Well, not that I am aware of,' laughed
William Henry.

Then I congratulate you,' was the quick
rejoinder ; ' it is now obvious to me that she is
enamoured of you. That her affections were
bespoken in some direction from the first was
plain from the manner in which she received
my advances.'

Your advances ? '

Yes ; you have heard of the power of the
human eye over the brute creation. Well, that
is nothing to the effects of this,' he tapped his
spy-glass, ' upon the sensibilities of angelic
woman. I have never known it fail, except
when their minds are preoccupied with another
object. I am writing an epic, to be entitled

'* The Spy-glass," the views of which, though
founded on personal experience, will be quite
novel. And that reminds me, how often have
we not read our poems to one another ? Why
have you never come to see me since I have
been at the "Blue Boar"'

My dear fellow, as you heard my father
say ' began William Henry persuasively.

Tut, tut, I mean your real reason,' put in
the other scornfully ' We used to meet often
enough when the rhinoceros did not dance,
when he was very far from dancing. Yet
now '

'The fact is, my dear fellow,' interrupted
William Henry earnestly, ' there is a reason.'

I have reached that point already without
a guide,' observed the other drily.

The truth is ' pursued William Henry.

Mr. Eeginald Talbot took the pipe from his
mouth and laughed aloud. Certainly no diplomatic
explanation could have been conducted
under greater difficulties. ' Some people yearn
for fame, my dear Erin,' he said ; ' to others it

VOL. I. M

is very undesirable to be well known, even by
a single individual.'

If you imagine I wish to deceive you,
Talbot, you are quite wrong,' said William
Henry firmly, ' but it is true that I cannot be
so frank with you as I could wish. I have a
secret which is not my own, or you may be
sure that you should share it. Listen.' Then
he told him the whole story of his acquaintance
with the Templar and its singular result.
Talbot listened to him with great attention.

It is very curious,' he remarked dien the
narrative was finished, ' and certainly a great
stroke of luck. But it is like a tale from the
Arabian Nights." Nay, I don't mean on the
score of veracity,' for William Henry had
flushed crimson, ' but from its parenthetic
nature. It is a story within a story ; for if
you can stretch your memory so far, you began
with the intention of telling me why you never
came to see your old friend at the "Blue
Boar"'

It was because I had no time, Talbot. I
have to do my work at the office, and also

to attend upon my new acquaintance at the
Temple.'

You must be occupied indeed ; not a
moment in which to say, "How-d'ye-do?
Good-morrow ! " '

There were also my father's injunctions.
I thought such a fleeting visit as you speak of
would be worse than nothings, and would cause
you more annoyance than being neglected ;
but now my father and you are friends I
will certainly find time to renew the ancient
days.'

Come, that is better. Now shall I fill up
what is wanting in your explanation and make
all clear ?

If you please,' said William Henry indifferently,
' though I am not aware that there is
anything more.'

'Yes, there is your cousin Margaret,' said
Talbot, with a cunning air ; ' you would have
braved the anger of the rhinoceros and followed
your own inclinations — which I flatter myself
would have led you to come and see me — had
Ms favour been no more important to you than

M 2

of yore. But he holds in his hand another
hand, of which he has the disposal, and
therefore it behoves you to be on your best
behaviour.'

You have guessed it,' exclaimed William
Henry with admiration. ' If I thought you
could have sympathised with me, as I see you
do, I should have saved you the trouble of
guessing.'

• Sympathise with you ? When was son of
the Muses indifferent to the love wound of his
friend ? Have we not always sympathised with
one another? Does any one except yourself
admire your poetry as much as I do ? Can I
anywhere find a friend more capable of appreciating
the higher flights of mine than you?
I have done a good deal, by-the-bye, in that
way since I saw you last, Erin ; not to mention
six cantos of " The Spy-glass," I have written
one-and-twenty songs ; some of them may be
useful to you if your inspiration has flagged of
late, for they are all to my mistress — whose
name, like yours, is fortunately in three syllables
a madrigal or two, and a number of miscellaneous

pieces, chiefly satirical. To-morrow —
you said tomorrow, I think — we will devote to
recitation.'

William Henry's countenance fell. He had
heard Mr. Eeginald Talbot's recitations before.
They where not extempore, but they had one
fatal attribute in common with extemporaneous
effusions — there was no knowing where they
would end. If he had been invited to recite
his own poetry, that would have been a different
thing.

Nothing would be more agreeable to me,
my dear fellow, but how am I to excuse my
absence from chambers ? '

Then I'll come to your chambers instead of
your coming to me ; I shall thus have the
opportunity of seeing how your muse has progressed
; wee wall compare notes together. To
be sure, it is not as if you had your room to
yourself; there's that disagreeable fellow-clerk
of yours, a most unappreciative and flippant
person.'

Yes, he would spoil everything,' put in
William Henry eagerly. * It is better we should

be alone together, even for a less time, at the
Blue Boar' '

Very good ; then give me as long as you
can tomorrow. I want your advice, for the
fact is, the business on wliicli I am come up to
town is about the publication of my poems.
The publisher and I cannot agree about terms,
wliicli seems strange, since what we both want
is money down. Perhaps you wouldn't mind
my selecting a few of your very best — sou and
I could rig out a twin volume together, like
Beaumont and Fletcher.'

'Perhaps,' observed William Henry dubiously.


He had private and pressing reasons for
conciliating Mr. Eeginald Talbot, but to such a
monstrous proposition as had just been made to
him he felt he could never consent. It would
be like yoking his Pegasus to a dray horse. As
regarded other matters, it was true that Talbot
and he were old friends — or rather it would be
more correct to say that they had for years of,
boyhood been thrown into one another's company
; the bond of school-friendship is, however,

soon weakened under the influence of
other conditions, as hothouse flowers fade and
fail in the open air; and moreover, when
angered, Talbot, who piqued himself on his
knowledge of human nature, had a habit of
saying what he thought of his antagonist, which
was not the less intolerable if it happened to be
correct. Their tastes, it was true, were similar,
but involved some rivalry, and each perhaps
was secretly conscious that the other did not
admire his verses so much as he pretended
to do. With the Irish Channel between them,
they would doubtless have continued to get on
capitally together, but, as intimates, the path of
friendship had pitfalls. It must be added that
Mr. Eeginald Talbot's arrival in town had taken
place at a most inconvenient season, and was,
in a word, unwelcome to his former crony.
That this was not perceived by Talbot vas not
so much owing to the other's tact as to his own
conceit, which was stupendous ; but fortunately
it was not seen. Perhaps our young friend did
not quite believe in the Irish gentleman's sympathy
with him in respect to Margaret, and

misdoubt his 'Spy-glass ; ' perhaps he thought
him, if not too wise, too cunning by half. At
all events he greatly regretted that his brother
bard had j must now come to London, and especially
about the remunerative production of his poems,
which he had reason to believe would be a
protracted operation.

The next afternoon, when he paid his promised
visit to the ' Blue Boar,' a circumstance
occurred which caused him increased annoyance.

I say, my astute young friend,' were Talbot's
first words, delivered in that half morose, half
bantering v/ay which was habitual to him when
ready primed for a quarrel, ' where have you
been to these last three hours ? '

To the Temple. Did I not tell you that
I generally went there in the afternoon ? As
to the exact locality, you must perceive the
impropriety of my mentioning it even to
you.'

Still you might speak the truth about
other matters. Why did you not tell me
that old Bugle had dismissed his second
clerk ? '

'What possible interest could the circumstance
have for you ? '

Only that you allowed me to conclude that
he was still there, in order that I should not
come to New Inn.'

Very good ; then you know the reason.'

Ml'. Eeginald Talbot grew very red, and his
stout frame grew visibly stouter. William
Henry, however, though more slightly built,
was not his inferior (as he had more than once
had the opportunity of discovering) either incourage
or in the art of self-defence.

After behaving in so false a manner to me,
sir,' said Talbot, pointing to a very considerable
heap of MSS. written in parallel lines, ' I shall
not read you my poems.'

Thank you ; that is returning: good for

^o &^

evil,' said William Henry coolly. ' Eead them
to yourself and not aloud, or you will set the
cats a caterwauhng,' and with that he clapped
his hat on and marched out of his friend's
apartments.

It was not one of those quarrels described
as the renewal of love ; it was a deadly feud.

A woman, even if she is not as fair as Venus,
may forgive an imputation on lier good looks,
but a poet, conscious of an inferiority to Shakespeare,
does not forgive a slight inflicted on his
muse.

CHAPTEE XI.

THE LOVE-lock.

Whether William Henry's short method with
Mr. Eeginald Talbot was to be satisfactory or
not remains to be seen, but for the present it
had all the effect intended. The inmate of the
Blue Boar ' confined himself to his own
quarters, or, at all events, did not take advantage
of the general invitation given to him
by Mr. Samuel Erin to visit Norfolk Street.
Nor did that gentleman make any inquiry into
the cause of his absence. He had done his
best to pleasure his son and encourage him in
his discoveries, but was well content that ' the
popinjay ' kept away. With William Henry —
and this was, perhaps, even a greater proof of
the change in the old man than his more active
kindnesses — he was very patient and importunate.

He would cast one look of earnest
inquiry on the young fellow as he came home
every evening, and, receiving a shake of the
head by way of reply, would abstain from
further questioning. Such was his admiration
for the nameless inmate of the Temple that he
respected his wish for silence, even as it were at
second hand. This behaviour was most acceptable
to its object, and the more so, since the
reticence Mr. Erin thus observed in his own case
he imposed upon his visitors, who would have
otherwise subjected William Henry to the question,
forte et dure, half a dozen times a day.
He had persuaded himself that if once the mysterious
visitor should get to know that a fuss was
being made about that note of hand, he would
withdraw his favours from his protege altogether.

One evening William Henry came home a
little earlier than usual, and in return to his
father's inquiring look returned a smile full of
significance.

I have found something, father,' he said,
^ but you must be content, in this case, with the
examination of it.'

Then your friend has gone back from his
word,' replied the old man ; ' well, it was almost
too much to expect that he should have kept toit.'


Nay, you must not misjudge him, father,
for the very restrictions he has placed, upon me
mean nothing but kindness. The treasure trove
is this time for Margaret.'

Margaret ! what does he know about
Margaret? Well, at all events, it is in the
family.'

This reflection alone would hardly have been
sufficient to smooth away disappointment from
the old man's brow, had it not also struck him
that his niece had no great taste for old MSS.,
and that a new gown, with a fashionable breast-knot,
or some Flanders lace, would probably be
considered an equivalent for the original draft
of Hamlet.

Come, come, let us hear about it ? '

But if you please, sir, we must wait for my
cousin, my patron said '

Maggie, Maggie ! ' exclaimed the old man,
running out into the little hall and calling up

the stairs, 'come down this moment; here is a
present for you.'

At the unwonted news Maggie ran downstairs,
arranging the last touches of her costume
upon the way, and arriving m the parlour in
tl^e most charming state of flush and fervour.
Entranced with her beauty, and conscious of
having made another step towards the accomplishment
of his hopes, William Henry devoured
her with his eyes. It was seldom, indeed, that
he committed such an imprudence — in company
but if he had kissed her, it is probable, under
the circumstances, Mr. Erin would have made
no remark, or set it down to Shakespearean
enthusiasm.

Another MS., Maggie ! ' he cried triumphantly.


Come, that is better than fifty presents,'
answered Maggie, beaming. ' I forgive you for
your trick upon me, uncle, with all my heart.'

But what I have found is for you' said
Hiram Henry, firmly.

Just so,' exclaimed Mr. Erin, hurriedly,
the MS. or something of equal worth, that

you would like vastly better. Let us see ; now,
let us see.'

William Henry took out of his pocket an
ancient, timeworn piece of paper, carefully unfolded
it, and produced from it a lock of brown
straight hair.

I thought you said it was a Ms,' exclaimed
Mr. Erin, in a tone of extreme disappointment.
Why, this is only hair, and if I may be allowed
to say so, not a very good specimen even of that.'

« Nevertheless, sir, such as it is, it is Shakespeare's
hair ! '

Shakespeare' d hair ! ' echoed Mr. Erin, falling
into rather than sitting down on the nearest
chai. ; 'it is impossible — you are imposing on
me.'

William Henry turned very while, and
looked very grave and pained.

Oh, uncle, how can you say such a thing ! '
cried Margaret, plaintively ; ' poor Willie ! '

I did not mean that, my lad, of course,'
gasped Mr. Erin ; ' I scarcely know what I say.
It seems too great a thing to be true. His
hair!' He eyed it with speechless reverence,

as it lay in his son's open palm ; his trembling
fingers hovered round it, like the wings of a
bird round the nest of its little ones, but did
not venture to touch it.

Where was it found ? ' he murmured.

Wrapped up in this paper, a letter to Anne
Hathaway, which mentions the fact of this sending
her the lock, and encloses some verses.'

Is it possible ? ' exclaimed the old man,
with intense excitement ; ' oh, happy day !
Eead it, read it ! I can see nothing clearly.'

The letter ran as follows :

Dearest Anna, — As thou haste always
found mee toe my worde moste true, so thou
shalt see I have strictly kept nye promise. I
pray you perfume this nye poore Locke withe
the balmy eyes, fore thence, indeed, liable
Ranges themselves love and paye homage toe
iste. I doe assure thee no rude hand hath
knotted iste, the Willis alone hath done the
worke. Adewe sweet love.

Thine everre,

Wm. Shakespeare.'

Most tender, true, and precious ! ' exclaimed
the antiquary, ecstatically ; ' and now the
verses ? '

There are but two, sir,' said the young
man, apologetically : —

'sis there in heaven aught more rare
Thane thou sweet nymphe of Avon fare,
Is there onne earth a manne more true
Thane Willy Shakespeare is toe you 1 " '

William Henry read very well, and with
much pathos, and into the last line he put
especial tenderness which did not need the
covert glance he shot at her to bring the colour
into Margaret's cheek.

*" Though death with never falling blow,
Doth manne and babe alike bring lowe ;
Yet doth he take naught butte hys due
And strikes not Willy's heart still true." '

What simplicity, what fidelity ! ' murmured
the antiquary ; ' a flawless gem indeed ! Whence
did you unearth it ? '

I found it where I found the other deed,
sir, amongst my patron's documents ; I took it,

VOL. J. ^

of course, to him at once. He was greatly surprised
and interested, and fully conscious of the
value of the godsend ; yet he never showed the
least sign of regret at the gift he made me,
of what he was pleased to call the jetsam and
flotsam from his collection. ' " If I were a
younger man," he said, " I think I should have
grudged you that lock of hair. It is just the
sort of present a young fellow should give to
the girl he has a respect for. A thing that costs
nothing, yet is exceedingly precious, and which
speaks of love and fidelity. It is too good for
any antiquary." '

Your patron is mad, my lad,' said Mr.
Erin, in a tone of cheerful conviction ; ' he
must be mad to talk like that ; and, indeed, he
would never give away these things at all if he
Avere in his sober senses. The idea of bestowing
such an inestimable relic upon a girl ! Why, it
should rather be preserved in some museum in
the custody of trustees, to the delight of the
whole nation for ever.'

Nevertheless, sir, such was my patron's injunction.
He asked of me if I knew any pure

and comely maiden, well brought up, and who
would understand the value of such a thing.
I had therefore, of course, no choice but to
mention Margaret ; whereupon he said that the
lock of hair was to be hers.'

I'll keep it for you, Maggie, in my iron
press,' said Mr. Erin considerately. ' You shall
look at it — in my presence — as often as you
like ; and then we shall both know that it is
safe and sound. As for the letter and verses,
Samuel, it will be better to put them for • the
present, perhaps, in the same repository.'

You may put them where you like, sir,'
answered William Henry smiling, as he always
did when addressed by that unwonted name ;
they are yom's.'

'A good lad, an excellent lad,' murmured
the antiquary ; ' now let us with all due reverence
inspect these treasures. This is the very
hair I should have looked for as having been
the immortal bard's, just as the engraving by
Droeshart depicts it in the folio edition. Brown,
straight, and wiry, as Steevens terms it.'

I should not call it wiry, uncle,' observed

s2

Margaret, ' tliougli to be sure it has no curl nor
gloss on it ; it seems to me soft enough to have
been a woman's hair.

It is, perhaps, a trifle silver and more
effeminate than the description would warrant,'
returned the antiquary, ' but that is doubtless
due to the mellowing effects of time. It maybe
so far looked upon as corroborative evidence.
In that connection, by-the-bye, let me draw
your particular attention to the braid with
which the hair is fastened. This woven silk is
not of to-day's workmanship. I recognise it as
being of the same kind used in the reigns of
Mary and Elizabeth for attaching the royal seal
to patents : a most interesting circumstance, and
one which, were there any doubt of the genuineness
of the hair, might, like the impress of the
quintain in the case of the Hemynnge deed, be
reasonably adduced as an undesigned coincidence.
Then to think that we have it under
his own hand that Shakespeare's fingers have
knotted it. Eead his words once again, my
son, before we put the priceless treasure by.'
" I doe assure thee no rude hand Jiath

knotted iste, the Willis alone hath done the
worke." '

How tender, how touching ! ' exclaimed the
antiquary. ' We seem to be in his very presence.
What a privilege has this day been
vouchsafed to us, my children ! '

The two young people glanced at one anther
involuntarily as the old man addressed them by
this title.

It is probable that Mr. Erin attached no
particular meaning to it. It may have been
only the expression of the measureless content
he felt with both of them ; with his son for
what he had brought him, and with his niece
for the readiness with which she had resigned
what he had brought to his own custody. But
to their ears it had a deep significance.

As their looks met, that of William Henry
was so full of tender triumph that Maggie's
face became crimson, and she cast do^vn her
eyes. For the first time she began to believe
in the possibility of the realisation of the
young man's dream. Xot withstanding what
had passed between them, she had hitherto

felt more like a sister towards him than a
lover; it was not that she feared to risk the
wreck of her own happiness by trusting it to
so slight a bark, but that, while matters were
so uncertain, a natural and modest instinct
prevented her from regarding him as he regarded
her. There had been a sort of false
dawn of love with her, but, now that her uncle
seemed to give such solid ground for hope, the
sun which had long lain in wait behind those
clouds of doubt came out with all the splendour
of the morn. Love arose within her.

As Mr. Erin reverently placed his treasures
in the iron safe, William Henry stole his arm
round Margaret's waist : —

Is there on earth a manne more true
Than Willie Erin is to you ? '

he whispered softly : and for the first time she
did not reprove him.

CHAPTER XII.

A DELICATE TASK.

Great as had been Mr. Erin's joy when he first
looked on Shakespeare's love-lock and love
letter, it by no means wore off — as onr violent
delights are apt to do — as time went on.
What was wanting in the way of novelty was
made up to him perhaps — for we may be sure
Margaret did not insist upon her rights in the
matter — by the sense of possession. For what
was the position of the man who had in his
cupboard some unique pieces of china, or even
in his coffers the biggest ruby or diamond in
the world, as compared with his own ? Only,
as in the latter case, he grew not a little
nervous for the safety of his unrivalled treasure.
He was a virtuoso and antiquary himself, and
therefore recognised the full extent of his

danger. In his iron press lie caused a little
well to be sunk, in which the lock of hair was
placed under glass, for the contemplation of the
faithful, and none was ever permitted to behold
it save in his presence. Even then he did not
feel safe, but compelled himself to adopt a
plan to ensure security which galled him to the
quick. Just as in old times black mail was
wont to be given by the rich to leading and
powerful robbers as an insurance on their
goods, so Mr. Samuel Erin did not hesitate to
offer to the more audacious and formidable of
his learned brethren bribes, and those of the
most precious kind imaginable. Though every
thread taken from Shakespeare's lock gave him
a pang infinitely keener than the drawing out
of his own beard with pincers would have
done, lie actually distributed a few of these
precious hairs among his friends, which they
placed reverently in rings and lockets. We
may be sure that Sir Frederick Eden had a
genuine hair or two ; but it was whispered by
the envious (who were many) that upon applications
becoming numerous Mr. Erin's favours

in"ew in proportion, which, as the lock did not
diminish, could only arise from some other
source of supply.

Among the recipients who entertained this
doubt, or among those who received no such
sacred relic at all, there were some who had
the hardihood to assert that no human hair
could have resisted the lapse of time since
Shakespeare's days. They even produced a
Mr. Collect, a hair merchant, who came to
inspect the lock — from a distance of several
f'det, however — and who had the hardihood to
express this opinion in the proprietor's presence.
To describe the effect of anger in aged persons,
c^eciaUy when accompanied ^vith personal
violence, is painful to one who, like the present
Writer, has a respect for the dignity of human
nature, so we will draw a veil over what ensued,
but it is certain that Mr. Collect left Norfolk
Street on that occasion with much precipitation
taking the four steps that led to the front
door at a bound : he also left his hat behind
him, which was thrown after him into the
street. It must be admitted that his objections

were as absurd as they were impertinent, since
it is well known that human hair has survived
many centuries of burial ; indeed, when the
vault of Edward IV., who died in 1483, was
opened at Windsor, the hair of the head was
found flowing:, and as strong as hair cut from
the head of a living person. This Sir Frederick
Eden privately assured Mr. Erin to be true,
since he was not only present at the exhumation,
but had been so fortunate, by means of a
heavy bribe to the sexton, as to get some of the
said hair for his private collection.

Partly from reasons that have been suggested,
but chiefly fmm William Henry's
remonstrance upon his patron's account — who
he felt confident would lay an embargo upon
all future treasure troves, if he shoidd find the
report of what had happened to interfere with
his own ease and privacy — Mr. Samuel Erin
took little pains to circulate the news of his
son's second discovery ; but nevertheless it
oozed out, and in spite of himself William
Henry found himself to be in some respects a
public character. Whoever called to see the

manuscripts inquired also if the young gentleman
was at home, to receive from his own hips
the oft-told tale of their discovery. This was
exceedingly irksome to him ; he would much
rather have been reading and talking to his
fair cousin, and let his father have all the glory
of exhibition and explanation to himself. But
Maggie never grudged him to these inquirers ;
she was pleased to find he was so much sought
after, and took a greater pride in it than even
her uncle. William Henry went to New Inn,
as usual, but it was well understood that the
time he spent there was of little consequence,
as compared with his visits to the Temple.
Mr. Erin ever thirsted for new discoveries, not
only on their own account, but because, as he
justly observed, the greater the bulk of them, the
more probable would their genuineness appear
to those inclined to question it. The antiquary
demands not only treasure but credit, and
though Mr. Erin himself entertained no doubts,
he would rather that other people had none ;
just as the gentleman who kept the thousand-pound
note framed and glazed upon his mantelpiece,

not content with knowing it was from
the Bank of England, resented the imputation
from his friends of its having been issued from
the Bank of Elegance.

Moreover, Mr. Erin was secretly troubled
at the continued absence of Frank Dennis.
He could, as we have seen, on occasion, and
even dien there was no occasion, give him the
rough side of his tongue, but in his heart he
greatly respected him. The old man, thanks
to himself, or rather to his temper, had few
friends ; the bond that united him to those he
possessed was itself a source of rivalry and
disagreement. But Dennis's father and himself
had been as brothers, and after the former died,
Mr. Erin had allowed the young man some
familiarity, to which certainly none of his
years had been admitted before or since.

He professed just now to be absent on
business, but business had never detained him
from Norfolk Street so long before. Mr. Erin
reproached himself with having driven him
away by his harsh behaviour, and even went
so far as to confess as much to his niece.

Of course it annoyed me, wench, to see
Frank so obstinate in his incredulity, for that
he was incredulous about that note of hand I
am certain.'

I can only say that he never breathed a
word of doubt to me, uncle.'

'Nor to me, yet I know he harboured
doubts,' was the confident reply. ' He stuck
to them even after Sir Frederick found out the
quintain on the seals.'

Still, it's only a matter of opinion, uncle.'

Opinion ! it's what the believers in the
Scarlet Woman call inveterate contumacy —
they used to burn people for it.'

Well, but you don't agree with them
you know,' smiled Margaret. ' You were
always a stickler for the rights of private
judgment.'

The antiquary shook his head and pursed
his Hps, the only reply possible to him under the
circumstances ; he could not say, ' But when
I mean private judgment, I mean the judgment
that coincides with my private views.'

Perhaps I have been a little hard on him,

Maggie, and that is what keeps him away. I
wish he Avere back acrain.'

This confession from the mouth of such a
man was pathetic. What it conveyed, as
Margaret partly guessed, was, that in the
crowd of flatterers and secret detractors by
whom her uncle was surrounded he felt the
loss of his honest, if somewhat too outspoken,
friend. She felt remorse too, as well as compunction,
for in her heart she suspected that
she herself was the cause of Frank's absence.

He had doubtless noticed the changed
relations between herself and William Henry,
and withdrawn himself, but without a word of
complaint, from her society. He recognised
the right she had to choose for herself, nor did
he grudge her the happiness she found in her
choice, but he could not endure the contemplation
of it. It was out of the question, of
course, that she should reveal this to Mr. Erin ;
but she was too straightforward to corroborate a
view of the matter which she knew to be incorrect.


I don't think Frank is one, uncle, to take

offence at anything you may have said to him
about the Deed. He is too sensible — I mean
she added with the haste of one who withdraws
his foot from a precipice, ' his nature is
too generous to harbour offence.'

You really think that, do you ? ' returned
the old man in a tone of unmistakable relief.
Well, in that case, just drop him a line and let
him knows how the matter stands. You need
not put it upon me at all, but say you miss his
society here very much, as, of course, you do.'

Margaret was greatly embarrassed ; the
task thus proposed to her was almost impossible.
She had never written to the young man
before, and to do so now in her peculiar
circumstances, and for the purpose of asking
him to return to town, would be very painful
to her and might be misleading to him.

I like Mr. Dennis very much, uncle,' she
stammered, 'but '

Just so,' interrupted the antiquary ; ' this
scepticism of his, as you were about to say, is a
serious drawback ; still, if / can get over it,
you can surely make allowance for him. Moreover,

when lie sees the lock of hair and the
love letter — and perhaps there may be other
discoveries by the time he returns — he must bea
very Thomas not to believe such proof. Now
if it had been he instead of William Henry who
had found these precious relics, all would have
indeed been well.'

I don't think we should grudge poor
Willie his good fortune, sir returned Margaret
reprovingly . She was quicker than ever now
to take her cousin's part, and her uncle's tone of
regret had touched her to the quick. It made
it evident to her that his new-found regard for
his adopted son was but skin-deep— or rather
manuscript-deep. The pity for him that she
had always felt had become a deeper and more
tender sentiment, and given her more courage
to defend him.

Grudge him ? Of course I do not grudge
him,' returned the antiquary, fuming. ' I only
meant that if Frank Dennis had William
Henry's gifts he would be a perfect man ; you
can tell him that if you like.'

For a single instant Margaret saw herself

telling Mr. Dennis ' that,' and felt the colour rise
to her very forehead. Her uncle noticed that
there was a hitch somewhere, and became
naturally impatient at finding his wishes interfered
with by the scruples of a ' slip of a girl.'

Well, write what you will,' he continued
with irritation, ' only see that it brings him.'

Poor Margaret ! She liked Frank Dennis,
as she had said, very much ; but, as she had
only too good reason to believe, not so much as
lie wished her to do. What she had to say to
him was : ' Come to me, but not for my sake.'
It was a parallel to the nursery address to the
ducks, ' Dilly, Dilly, come and be killed ; ' only
he was not to be killed, but tortured. What
were the use of compliments ? It was like
asking a young gentleman to be best man whiche
wants to be the bridegroom himself. She
could thoroughly depend upon Willie to avoid
all appearance of triumph, but there was no
getting over the fact that he was Frank's
successful rival ; though he would never say
like the boastful schoolboy to his less fortunate
companion, ' Do you like cakes ? Then see me

VOL. I.

eat them ! ' yet he had the cake, and it was a
cake that coukl not be divided. However,
there was no help for it, so she sat down to
write her letter.

It was a very difficult and delicate task.
She had learnt to call him Frank, but could she
address him so on paper ? ' Dear Mr. Dennis '
was too formal, and ' My dear Mr. Dennis ' was,
under the circumstances, not to be thought of.
She eventually wrote, ' Dear Frank ' (how
dreadfully familiar it looked — yet a fortnight
ago it would have seemed natural enough),
what delays the wheels of your chariot ? If it
is business I am sure you must have had time
to build a cathedral My uncle misses you
very much ' — this sounded unkind ; it suggested
that no one else regretted his absence, so she
added—' as we all do.' Here with a little sigh
she underlined all so as to make it appear that
she regretted him only as William Henry did,
no more and no less. ' I hope, for my uncle's
sake, you will come back less of an infidel in
Shakespearean affairs. The lock of hair, of the
discovery of which you have doubtless heard,

has, by-the-bye, thanks to the chivalry of " The
Templar," been given to me, so you will understand
that any aspersion cast upon its genuineness
is a personal matter. The weather is wet
though it should make no difference to an
architect, since he can roof himself anywhere
so there is no excuse for your lingering in
the country for pleasure's sake.'

Had she dared to say so, she might have
hinted very prettily that with him the sunshine
would return to Norfolk Street ; but she was no
longer fancy free. Even as it was, sisterly as
she had endeavoured to make the tone of her
letter, she feared she might have given hem
some involuntary encouragement. It was terrible
to her to feel so confident as she did that
on the receipt of it Frank Dennis would start
for London.

o 2

CHAPTER XIII.

THE Profession OF FAITH.

two days after Margaret's letter was despatched
there was great news from the Temple. Not
even on the first day, dien William Henry had
won Mr. Erin's heart by Shakespeare's note of
hand, had the young man's face been so full of
promise as when he came in that evening. On
the former occasion, anxiety and doubt had
mingled with its expectancy, but now it was
flushed with triumph. The difference of manner
with which he produced his new discovery
was also noticeable. It was not only that he
felt as sure of the assent of his audience (who
were, indeed, but his uncle and Margaret) as of
his own, but he displayed a certain self-consciousness
of his own position. He was no

longer an unknown lad, seeking for the favour
of one who should have been his natural protector,
for he had already won it. It was true
he was still dependent upon him for the means
of livelihood, and for something that he prized
as highly as existence itself ; but Mr. Erin had
in some sort, on the other hand, become dependent
on him. His reputation as a Shakespearean
collector and critic, which was very dear to
him, had been immensely increased by his son's
discoveries. The newspapers and magazines
where full of his good fortune ; and even those
which disputed the genuineness of his newly
acquired possessions made them the subject
of continual comment, and added fuel to his
notoriety. If such a metaphor can be used
without offence in the case of a gentleman of
years and learning, Mr. Samuel Erin gazed at
William Henry with much the same air of
expectation as a very sagacious old dog regards
his young master, whom he suspects of having
some toothsome morsel in his pocket ; he has
too much respect for his own dignity to ' beg '
for it, by sitting up on his hind legs, or barking,

but he moves his tail from side to side, and
his mouth waters.

The young gentleman did not, at first, even
produce his prize, but sat down at table with a
cheerful nod, that seemed to say, ' I have found
it at last, and by the sacred bones that rest by
Avon's stream, it is worth the finding.'

Well, Willie,' exclaimed Margaret, impatiently,
' what is it ? '

The young man gravely produced two half-sheets
of paper.

At the sight of it, for he knew that it was
not the new Bath Post, the antiquary's eyes
glistened.

Mr. Erin ' began William Henry.

^ Why not call me " father," Samuel ? ' put
m the old man, gently ; if it was the sense of
favours to come that moved him, it was at least
a deep and genuine sense of them. Margaret's
fair face glowed with pleasure.

I have often heard you say, father, that
you wished above all things to discover what
were, in reality, Shakespeare's religious convictions.'


The antiquary nodded assent, but said
nothing ; the intensity of expectation, indeed,
preceded speech ; the perspiration came out
upon his forehead.

It distressed you, I know, to believe it
possible — as, indeed, the language used by the
Ghost in " Hamlet " would seem to imply, that
he was of the Catholic persuasion. In the
profession of faith found at Stratford '

Spurious,' put in Mr. Erin, mechanically ;
that fool, Malone, believed in it, nobody
else.'

This was not quite in accordance with fact ;
for many months the whole Shakespearean
world had admitted its authenticity.

If it had been true, however, it would have
offended your sense of the fitness of things.'

No doubt ; still we must take things as
they really were.'

Even if it should turn out that Shakespeare
was not so good a Protestant as he ought to bethe
value of a genuine manuscript was not to
be depreciated.

Well ! I have been this day so fortunate as

to discover what will put all doubts at rest
upon this point. Shakespeare was a Protestant.'


Thank Heaven ! ' murmured Mr. Erin,
piously. ' If you have done this, my son, you
have advanced the claims of true religion, and
quickened the steps of civilisation throughout
the world.*

Margaret's eyes opened very wide (as well
they might), but they only beheld William
Henry. She had been wont to rally him upon
his vanity, and especially upon the hopes he had
built upon his poetical gifts. Yet how much
greater a mark was he making in the world
than his most sanguine aspirations had imagined !
And how quiet and unassuming he looked !
The modest way in which he habitually bore
his honours pleased her even more than the
honours themselves.

After all, Maggie,' he would say, after receiving
the congratulations of the dilettanti, 'it
is nothing but luck.'

As he straightened out the half-sheets of
paper on the table, where their homely supper

stood untouched and unnoticed, he only permitted
himself a smile of gratification.

It is too long,' he said, 'to read aloud, and
the old spelling is difficult.'

His uncle drew his chair close to him, on
one side, and Margaret did the like on the
other, so that each could read for themselves.
Their looks were full of eagerness ; the one was
thinking of Shakespeare and Samuel Erin, the
other of William Henry — and Ion go intervals
of William Shakespeare.

The MS., which was headed ' William
Shakespeare's Profession of Faith,' ran as
follows : —

WILLIAM SHAKESPEARE'S Profession
OF FAITH.

I eyrie nowe ofFe sonne Mynde doe hope platte
this nye wyshe will, matt nye death, bee acceded toe, as
I nowe love in London, and as nye soule maye perchance,
soone quitted this poore body, iste is nye
desire platte anne suche case I maye bee carryed toe nye
native place, ante platte nye Body bee there quietly
interred wythe as little pompe as canne bee, and I doe
nowe, anne these nye serious moments, make this nye
profession of scythe, and which I doe moste solemnly
believe. I doe fyrste looke toe one loving and Greate

God and toe his glorious sonne Jesus. I doe also
believe platte this nye weak and frayle Body will
return to triste, biitte for nye soule lette God judge
platte as toe himselfe shall seeme meet. omnipotente
and greate God I am full off syne, I doe note thinke
myself worthy ofFe the grace and cette will I hope,
force even thee poore prisoner whence bounce with
gaily ing irons even he will hope for Pittye and whence
the tears of sweet repentance bathe hys wretched
pillow he then looks and hopes for pardonne thence
rouse nye soule and lette hope, platte sweet cherished
off all, afford thee comfort also. Manne platte arte
thou why considered thou thyself thus gravely, where
are the great, the boasted attributes; buryed, lost
force everre in cold Death. Manne why attempted
thou toe search the greatness off the Almighty thou
dost butte loose the laboure. More thou attempted,
more arte thou lost, tille the poore weak thoughts
are elevated toe there summit and thence as snow
from the lessee tree droppe and dystylle themselves tille
they are noe more. God, manne as I am frayle bye
nature, full off syne, cette great God receive me toe
the bosom where alle is sweet contente and happiness
alle is bless where discontent issue never heard,
butte where one Bonde off freyndeshippe unites alle
Mense forgive Lorde alle our synnes, ante withe the
greate goodness take use alle toe the Breast;
cherish use like the sweet chickens platte under the
coverts off here spreading wings Receives here
little Brood and hovering overre theme keeps
theme harmless and in safety.

Wm. Shakespeare.

Margaret finished the perusal of the MS.
before her uncle ; her quicker and more
youthful eye would probably have done so in
any case, but his reverence for the matter
forbade rapid reading ; she waited respectfully,
but also with some little apprehension, for the
expression of his opinion.

This h a godsend ! ' he exclaimed ar last,
with a sigh that had almost as much relief as
satisfaction in it. ' There can be no longer any
doubt about Shakespeare's creed. Is it not
beautiful, and full of humility, my child ? '

'Yes, uncle.' She knew that the least
fault-finding would be resented, yet she could
not shut out from her tone a certain feeling of
disappointment ; 'it is hardly, however, so
simple as I should have expected.'

Not simple ! ' exclaimed the antiquary in
amazement ; ' I call it the most natural effusion
of a sincere piety that it is possible to imagine.
The diction is solemn and dignified as the
subject demands. There are, indeed, some
minute particularities of phraseology, and the
old spelling to one unaccustomed to it may, as

William Henry has observed, be a little difficult
; but of all the accusations you could
bring against it, that of a want of simplicity,
my dear Maggie, is certainly the most frivolous
and vexatious.'

I know I am frivolous,' replied Margaret,
with a sly look at her smiling cousin, ' but
certainly did not intend to be vexatious, uncle.'

Xay, nay, I was only quoting a legal
phrase,' said Mr. Erin ; he had gently drawn
the two precious MSS. to himself, and placed
an elbow on each of them, in sifzn of having
taken possession. ' In a case of this kind I
need not say that anything in the way of
criticism, as to ideas or style, would be out of
place, and indeed blasphemous; but no one can
blame you for seeking in a proper spirit for
enlightenment on this or that point.'

Margaret looked up at William Henry, and
with a half-roguish and wholly charming smile
inquired ' May I P '

My dear Maggie,' returned the young
man, laughing outright, ' why, of course you
may. Even if you detected the immortal bard

in an error it would be no business of mine to
defend him.'

I should think not, indeed,' muttered Mr.
Erin.

What I was thinking,' said Margaret, ' was
that if you, Willie, or Mr. Talbot (who informed
us the other night, you know, that he
was a poet) had written those lines about
spreading her wings over her little brood, it
would have been considered plagiarism.'

What then ? ' inquired Mr. Erin contemptuously.
' It is the peculiar province of a
genius such as Shakespeare's to make everything
this own. He improves it by addition.'

The idea in question, however, is taken
from the New Testament,' observed Maggie.

To most people, this remark, which was
delivered with a demur eneas that did the young
lady infinite credit, would under the circumstances
have been rather embarrassing. It did
not embarrass Mr. Samuel Erin in the least.

What piety it shows ! What knowledge
of the Holy Scriptures ! ' he ejaculated admiringly.
' How appropriate, too, when we take

the subject into consideration — a confession of
faith ! '

True. I am not quite sure, however,
whether the substitution of a chicken for a hen
is an improvement.'

'Now, there I entirely differ from you,'
exclaimed Mr. Erin ; 'just mark the words ''
cherish use like the sweet chickens platte
under the coverts off here spreading wings
receives here little Brood and hovering
over theme keeps theme harmless and in
safety." What tenderness there is in that
sweet chickens." Whereas a hen — a hen
is tough. We must understand the expression
of course as a general term for the female
species of the fowl. None, to my mind, but
the most determined and incorrigible caviller
can have one word to say against it. I have
settled that matter, I think, my dear, to your
satisfaction ; and do not suppose that what you
say has annoyed me. If anything else strikes
you, pray mention it. Objections from any
source — provided only that they are reasonable '
a word he uttered very significantly — 'will

always have my best attention ; I welcome
them.'

Indeed, uncle, I am not so audacious as to
propound objections. There was one thing,
however, that seemed to me a little incomprehensible.'


Possibly, my dear,' he said, with a smile of
contemptuous good-nature, which seemed to
add, ' I am not so rude as to say " probably." '

He took his elbows off the MS., though he
still hovered above it (like the chicken) while
she ran her dainty finger over it, taking care,
however, not to touch the paper.

Ah ! here it is, " As snow from the lessee
tree." Now, considering that snow falls in
winter when the trees are bare, don't you think
the word should have been " leafless ? " '

An ordinary person would no doubt have
written " leafless," ' admitted Mr. Erin — an
ingenious observation enough, since, in the
first place, it suggested that an extraordinary
genius could have done nothing of the kind,
and ' secondly, it demanded no rejoinder ; it
gave the antiquary time to cast about him for

some line of defence. He produced his microscope
and examined the word with great
intentness, but it was ' lessee ' and not ' leafless '
beyond all doubt. ' It is probable,' he presently
observed, ' that Shakespeare's minute attention
to nature may have caused him, when writing
these most interesting words, to have a particular
tree hi his mind ; when, indeed, we
consider the topic on which he was writing —
death — what is more likely than that his
thoughts should have reverted to some churchyard
yew? Now the yew my child, is an
evergreen.'

Here Frank Dennis's well-known voice was
heard in the little hall without. He must have
started for London, therefore, on the instant
that he received Margaret's letter. Her heart
had foreboded that it would be so, notwithstanding
the pains she had taken to make it
appear otherwise ; she kncAv that it was her
wish that had summoned him, and that he had
been sent for, as it where, under false pretences.
Much as she esteemed him, she would have
preferred the appearance of any one else,

However indifferent, such as Mr. Eeginald
Talbot.

Strange to say, Mr. Samuel Erin, though it
was at his own express desire that Frank
Dennis had been invited, was just at that
moment of the same way of thinking as his
niece. If that little difficulty about the epithet,
lessee,' had not occurred, all would have been
well. This new discovery of the Confession,
had it been flawless, must needs have converted
the most confirmed of sceptics, and, in his
crowning triumph, he would have forgiven the
young fellow all his former doubts; but,
though to the eve of faith this little flaw was
of no consequence, it would certainly give occasion
not only for the ungodly to blaspheme
for that they would do in any case — but to
the waver er to cling to his doubts. If, on the
spur of the moment, Mr. Erin could have
explained the matter to his own satisfaction, he
would have felt no qualms, but he was secretly
conscious that that theory of the evergreen tree
would not hold water. It might satisfy a
modest inquirer like Margaret, but a hard-vol.

I. P

headed, unimaginative fellow like Frank
Dennis would not be so easily convinced.

As for William Henry, although Frank and
he were by no means ill friends, it was not
likely that he should have been pleased to see
this visitor, whose presence must needs interrupt
the tete-astute with which he now indulged himself
every evening with Margaret ; and, though
he was no longer jealous of his former rival, it
was certain that he would much have preferred
his room to his company.

The welcome that was given by all three to
the new comer was, however, cordial enough.
You are come, Dennis,' cried Mr. Erin, taking
the bull by the horns, ' in the very nick of
time. William Henry has to-day found a
treasure, beside which his previous discoveries
sink into insignificance, " A Profession of
Faith," by Shakespeare, written from end to
end in his own hand.'

That must indeed be interesting,' said
Frank. His tone, however, was without
excitement, and mechanical. His countenance,
which had been full of friendship (though when

turned to Margaret it had had, she thought, an
expression of gentle melancholy), fell as he
uttered the words ; a gravity, little short of
disapproval, seemed to take possession of it.

Hang the fellow ! ' murmured Mr. Erin to
himself, ' he's beginning to pick holes already.'
'It is the most marvellous and conclusive
evidence,' he went on aloud, ' of Shakespeare's
adherence to the Protestant faith that heart
can desire ; but there's a word here that weare
in doubt about. Just read the MS. and
see if anything strikes you as anomalous.'

Frank sat down to his task. The expression
of the faces of the other three would have
required the art of Hogarth himself to depict
them. That of Margaret's was full of sorrow,
pain for herself, and distress for Frank, and
annoyance upon her uncle's account. How
she regretted having made that stupid objection,
though she had done it with a good motive,
since she foresaw that it would presently be
made by much less friendly critics! Why
could she not have been content to let matters
take their own course, as Willie always was ?

V 2

On his brow, on the other hand, there sat a
complete serenity. From the very first his
attitude with respect to his own discoveries had
been one of philosophic indifference. Nothing
ever roused him from it, not even when the
scepticism of others took the most offensive form.
He had not, he said, ' the learning requisite for
the defence of " the faith " that was in him,'
and moreover it did not concern him to defend
it. He was merely an instrument ; the matter
in question was in the hands of others.

This was of course by no means the view
which Mr. Erin took. He had not only the
confidence but the zeal of the convert. If he
would not himself have gone to the stake in
defence of the genuineness of his new-found
treasure, he would very cheerfully have sent
thither all who disputed it. He was regarding
his friend Dennis now, as he plodded through the
Profession, with anything but amicable looks,
but when he marked his eye pass over that weak
point in its armour with which we are acquainted,
without stoppage, his brow cleared a little, and
he gave a sigh of relief.

Weil,' lie inquired gently, ' what say you ?
Have you found the error, or does it seem to
you all straight sailing ? '

I had really rather not express an opinion,'
said Dennis quietly. 'But if you press me, I
must needs confess that the whole composition
strikes me as rather rhapsodical.'

Does it ? Then I on my part must needs
confess,' returned the antiquary with laborious
politeness, ' that I have the misfortune to disagree
with you.'

To this observation the young man answered
not a word ; his face looked very grave and
thoughtful, like that of a man who is in a
doubt about some important course of conduct,
rather than of a mere literary inquiry ; nevertheless
his words, when they did come, seemed
to concern themselves with the latter topic

only.

I doubt,' he said, ' whether the word
accede " ' — here he pointed to the phrase
after my death be acceded to ' — ' was in use
in Shakespeare's time.'

• And what if it was not ? ' broke in the

antiquary impatiently. ' How many words in
old times are found in the most correct writers
which it would be vain to hunt for in any
dictionary; words which, though destitute of
authority or precedent, are still justified by
analogy and by the principles of the language.
And who, I should like to know, used new
words with such licence as Shakespeare himself?
As to the matter of fact which you
dispute, however, that can be settled at once.
The antiquary stepped to his bookcase and took
down a volume. ' This is Florio's dictionary,
published in 1611. See here,' he added
triumphantly, ' " Acceded, to accede, or assent
to." If Florio mentions it, I suppose Shakespeare
may have used it. Your objection,
young sir, is not worthy of the name.'

Dennis hung his head ; he looked like one
who has suffered not only defeat but humiliation.
The criticism offered on the spur of the
moment had been, in reality, advanced by way
of protest against the whole document, and
now that it had failed he was very unwilling to

offer anything further in the way of disparagement.


He had his reasons for absolutely declining
to fall in with Mr. Erin's views in the matter ;
but it would have given him great distress to
quarrel with him. Unhappily, an antiquary the
genuineness of whose curios has been disputed,
is not often a chivalric antagonist. It is his
habit, like the wild Indian and the wilder Irishman,
to dance upon his prostrate foe.

The obstinacy of the commentator,' resumed
Mr. Erin, ' is proverbial, and is on some
accounts to be' excused, but the strictures
suggested by ignorance and malignity are mere
carping.'

But it was yourself, sir,' pleaded Dennis,
who invited criticism : I did not volunteer it.'

Criticism, yes ; but not carping. Now
there is a word here,' continued Mr. Erin, not
sorry to be beforehand with his adversary in
pointing out the blot. ' Here is the word
lessee " where one would have expected " leafless."
Now we should be really obliged to you
if your natural sagacity, which is considerable,

could explain the reason of the substitution. I
have already given expression to a theory of my
own upon the subject, but we shall be glad of
any new suggestion. Why is it " leafy" instead
of '' leafless ? " '

I should think it was simply because the
writer made a mistake observed Dennis
quietly.

Everybody, the speaker included, expected
an outburst. That Shakespeare could have
made a mistake was an assertion which they all
felt would to Mr. Erin's ear sound little less
than blasphemous. To their extreme astonishment
he nodded adhesion.

Now that is really very remarkable,
Dennis,' he exclaimed ; ' a new idea, and at the
same time one with much probability in it.
He was writing current calais — there is
scarcely a break in the composition, you observe,
from first to last —-and it is quite likely
that he made this clerical error. What is
extremely satisfactory is, that your theory —
supposing it to be the correct one, as I think it
is — puts the genuineness of the document

beyond all question, for if a forger had written
it, it is obvious that he would have been very
careful to make no such departure from verisimilitude
! '

THE TALK OF THE Town.

CHAPTER Xii

THE EXAMINERS.

Notwithstanding

the powerful motives
in connection with its
munificent but unknown
donor that
impelled Mr. Samuel
Erin to keep ' the
Profession of Faith '
a secret confined
to his antiquarian
friends, the tliino- was
obviously' impossible.
It would have been
almost as difficult,
had the Tables of the
Law been verily discovered
upon Mount Sinai, to restrict the
news to a few members of the religious public.

The discovery, and the discoverer, William
Henry Erin, became ' the Talk of the Town.'
It seemed to Margaret impossible that the
meritorious though fortunate young fellow could
ever become more famous ; but the possibilities
of greatness are infinite ; his foot, as it turned
out, was only on the first rung of the ladder.
The modest house in Xorfolk Street became a
sort of metropolitan Stratford-on-Avon ; it was
absolutely besieged by the antiquarian and
learned world. Mr. Malone the commentator,
indeed (who had not been invited), publicly
announced his intention of not examining the
MSS., ' lest his visit should give a countenance
to them, which, from the secrecy that was
observed relative to their discovery, they were
not entitled to.' Mr. Steevens took the same
course, as did also Dr. Farmer, Lord Or ford,
and the Bishops of Durham and Salisbury.
The air was thick with their pamphlets and
loud with their denunciations. But there were
more fish than these in the Shakespearean seas,
and quite as big ones, who were of a different
opinion. Some of them came to scoff, but

remained to admire and believe ; others, calm
and critical, examined and were convinced ;
others again, arriving in a reverent spirit, were
filled with satisfaction and affected even to
tears.

Under these circumstances, his own good
faith being attacked, as well as these precious
treasures maliciously denounced, Mr. Samuel
Erin took a bold course. On a table in his
sanctuary, side by side with the new discovery,
was placed another * profession of faith ' in the
validity of the MS. in question, which visitors
were invited to sign. They where not, of course,
compelled to do it ; but, having expressed their
belief in the genuineness of the document, it
seemed not unreasonable that they should
commit it to paper. In some cases there were
rather humorous scenes. Antiquaries as a rule
are not very eager to permanently endorse with
their authority the treasures which are not in
their own possession ; they have been known
even to express a cheerful belief in that or
this, and afterwards, when unpleasant evidence
turns up, to deny that they ever did believe in

it ; and Mr. Erin, who knew Latin, was an
admirer of the ancient hne, ' litera scrip ta
manet,' which Literally translated means, ' One
can't well wris^sjle out of one's own 



writing.' As pilgrims did not pay for the
privilege of admission to view these sacred
relics, they were naturally inclined to be civil
to their custodians, and, when sufficiently convinced
of the genuineness of what they saw, to
express themselves with much effusion and
enthusiasm. As the paper in question was
worded very modestly, but with extreme distinctness,
there was no alternative for the
impulsive person but to sign it.

'Delighted to have seen you,' Mr. Erin
would say, as he pressed the hand of his
departing guest ; ' your unsought-for and enthusiastic
testimony has been most gratifying tome.'


Don't mention it, my dear sir, it is I who
have been delighted. It has been a privilege
indeed to have set eyes upon so valuable and
absolutely authentic a document.'

Then just as a matter of form, be so good

as to add jour name to this already lengthy
roll of Shakespearean critics ; it will be the
very keystone of the edifice of our faith.'

The faces of some of these enthusiasts, at
this modest and reasonable request, would
fall from zenith to nadir. They could not
eat their own words, but they looked as if they
would like to have eaten Mr. Samuel Erin.

William Henry, who had a strong sense of
humour, was sometimes compelled to rush
from the room, and hide his face, bedewed
with tears of laughter, upon Margaret's
shoulder.

These paroxysms used rather to distress
her. ' Oh, Willie, Willie, how can you be so
frivolous,' she would say, ' on a matter too that
is so fraught with good or evil to both of us ? '

Oh, but if you could only see them, my
daring,' he would reply, ' so civil, so beaming
with courtesy and enthusiasm, and then all of a
sudden — like a sportsman in a small way, who,
boastful of his prowess, finds himself face to
face with a wild boar — alarmed, astounded,
and without the least hope of escape, you

woiild laugh too. Then, when they ii'ont sign,
it is almost even better fun. Porson was here
this morning ; the great Dr. Porson, who
knows as much Greek as Troilus did, and certainly
can write it better. He drank half a
bottle of brandy, a pint of usquebaugh, and all
the miscellaneous contents of your imcle's
spirit case, and, though he had said but little,
Alas taking his leave in what seemed a state of
complete good humor* and satisfaction, when
Mr. Erin requested the honoiu: of his signature.
Then he drew himself up as stiff as a pointer
at a partridge.

" I thank you, sir," he said, " but I never
subscribe to anything, much less to a profession
of faith." The disbelieving old heathen ! I
really thought your uncle would have kicked
him into the street.'

Oh, but I am so sorry about Dr. Porson.'
Why, my darling ? He was not really
kicked, you know. Don't be sorry for Porson ;
be sorry for me. If I didn't find some amusement
in these people, I believe I should go
mad. You have no idea what I suffer from

them, their examinations and their cross-examinations
— for when they are sceptical they are
cross-examinations — their pomposity and pretence,
are well-nigh intolerable. I don't know
whether their patronage or their contempt is
the most offensive.'

It was quite true that these investigations
were not always a laughing matter to William
Henry. On one occasion there was a regular
committee of inquiry, composed of what might
well be called bigwigs, folks of the highest reputation
in matters of erudition, and most of
them in full-bottomed peruke. The Eev. Mr.
Wanton, the commentator, was one of them,
solemn as Porson had been, and much more
sober; Dr. Parr, the divine and scholar, pompous
yet affable, in ecclesiastical apparel, with
shovel hat and apron ; Pye, the poet laureate,
combining the air of a man of letters with the
importance belonging to a Government official ;
and half a dozen other grave and reverend
signors. The room was specially arranged for
their reception. Mr. Samuel Erin sat at the
head of the table in the Shakespearean chair

that lie had purchased at Anne Hathaway 's
cottage. The Profession of Faith was spread
before the learned epicures as though it was
something to eat. Their eyes devoured it.
William Henry had a chair to himself a little
removed, ready to answer all inquiries. It was
by far the most serious examination to which
he had been subjected, but he acquitted himself
very well. He had nothing, he said, to tell
them but the simple truth. As to the genuineness
of the document in question, he knew
nothing, and had not even an opinion to offer
on the subject.

These visitors were not Mr. Erin's personal
friends ; they did not fall into raptures, or affect
to do so ; they were by no means so courteous
as the ordinary folks who came from curiosity ;
they had been invited for the special purpose
of having their minds satisfied, or of coming to
an adverse conclusion. It was like the Star
Chamber, and they did not (as it seemed to
William Henry) spare the thumbscrew or the
boot. After an hour or two of this gentle pressure,
Mr. Wanton observed, ' Your testimony,

VOL. I. Q

young man, so far as it goes, is satisfactory
to us, while your behaviour does you great
credit.'

'Yes,' assented Dr. Parr, ' I think, Mr. Erin,
you have a son of whom you may be justly
proud. I heard you address him as Samuel ;
it is a gratifying coincidence to me that it is
also my baptismal name.' Mr. Erin felt that
it would be discourteous as well as embarrassing
to undeceive him.

Then Mr. Pye was asked to read the Profession
of Faith (which had by this time been
fully investigated and discussed) aloud, which
he did in a solemn and sonorous voice, with
the company reverently upstanding as during
Divine Service. Then, amid a profound
silence, Dr. Parr delivered himself as follows
: —

Sir, we have very fine passages in our
Church Services, and our Litany abounds in
beauties ; but here, sir, is a man who has distanced
us all.'

Most of the learned company bowed assent,
and two, who were nonconformists, murmured

hear, hear.' The tears trickled down Mr.
Erin's cheeks ; it was the proudest moment, sofar,
in the old man's life.

Later on in the day another gratifying
circumstance took place. A visitor called who
either had not received his invitation in time,
or, what was more probable, not wishing his
personal importance to suffer by comparison
with that of others, had preferred to come
alone. His face was fat and puffy, and exhibited
an unparalleled self-sufficiency. He
had a sharp nose, a double chin, and eyebrows
superciliously elevated ; he carried a gold-headed
cane in his hands, clasped behind him,
and spoke in a thick, slow voice. Mr. Erin
received him with great respect, and submitted
his literary treasure for examination with an
unwonted humility. The investigation was a
prolonged and apparently an exhausting one,
for the visitor called three times (as though he
had been in a public-house) for hot whisky and
water! As Dr. Porson had drunk all there
was in the case, Margaret herself, who kept the
key of the cellar, took him in a fresh bottle,

« 2

and curiosity compelled her to remain. Her
presence seemed somewhat to distract the
attention of the guest from the precious manuscript.


No doubt authentic,' he murmured, ' and
devilish pretty ; antiquity is stamped upon it.'

And the right sort of antiquity,' suggested
Mr. Erin. ' It has the stamp of the time.'

Just so. I should think twenty years of
age, at most.'

Sir ! ' ejaculated his host.

'I mean the usquebaugh,' explained the
visitor. ' Twenty years in bottle at least — did
I say at most ? and plump.'

Here Margaret was about to beat a retreat,
when the gentleman rose. ' One moment,
young lady,' he said, ' you do not know who I
am. It will be something to tell your children's
children that James Boswell, of Aching
Esq.' (here he suited the action to the
word) ' chucked you under the chin.'

William Henry felt greatly inclined to
resent this liberty, but Mr. Erin only smiled
approval.

Another glass I ' said Mr. Boswell, and
proceeded with his investigations

Presently, without a word of warning, he
threw himself on his knees and pressed his lips
to the MS.

I kiss these invaluable relics of our bard,'
lie said, ' and thank Heaven that I have lived
to see them. Would that my late revered

friend, the great Levi — the great Lexicon '

Emotion of various kinds prevented his completion
of the sentence, and Mr. Erin led him
With a gentle violence to the table on which
lay the list of signatures ; to which he added
his name, though, it must be confessed, in a
handwriting that was rather illegible.

CHAPTEE XV.

AT VAUXHALL.

The members of the little household ia Norfolk
Street were now in great content. That word,
indeed, scarcely describes the state of mind of
the head of the house, who was literally transported
with joy. It was difficult to identify
the jubilant and triumphant old fellow with the
grudging, smileless, and to say truth, somewhat
morose individual he had been a few months
before. His regard for William Henry began
to be quite troublesome, for, though he had
not the least objection to Margaret and his son
being alone together, he would often interrupt
their little interviews from excess of solicitude
upon his account. That somewhat flippant
young gentleman used to compare his parent
on these occasions to the ' sweet chickens '

of the Shakespearean profession, which was
always 'hovering over here brood,' and,
indeed, this affectionate anxiety was partly due
to a certain apprehension the old gentleman
experienced when the goose that laid the
golden eufixs for him was out of his sight. At
present, however, as Margaret reminded her
cousin, there were not enough of them —
though so far as they went they had a very
material value — to become nest eggs ; they
could not be considered as savings or capital
to any appreciable extent. They were not,
indeed, theirs at all, having been made over
to Mr. Erin ; but for the object the young
people had in view that was all one as though
they had remained their own. If a play of
Shakespeare's, or even part of a play, should
chance to turn up among those treasures of the
Temple, that would indeed be a fortune to
them, or at all events would procure the
antiquary's consent to everything, and ensure
his favour in perpetuity.

These ideas occurred to Margaret only in
the vaguest way, nor even in William Henry's

mind did they take any well-defined shape.
His nature, to do him justice, was by no means
mercenary, and, if he could only have called
Margaret his own, he would have been content.
As to being able to maintain her he had always
had a good opinion of his own talents ; and
though the praise with which he was now overwhelmed
from so many quarters had, of course,
no reference to them, it helped to increase his
self-confidence.

In this comparative prosperity, and being of
a disposition that was by no means inclined to
triumph over an unsuccessful rival, it somewhat
distressed him to find Frank Dennis standing
somewhat aloof. He visited the house, indeed,
but not so frequently as had been his wont, and,
as regarded William Henry at least, not upon
the same terms. He had always been friendly
to the younger man under circumstances when
it would have been excusable if he had been
otherwise, but now he avoided him ; not in any
marked manner, but certainly with intention.
If he had avoided Margaret also, the explanation
would have been easy, but it was not so.

He was not, indeed, on the same terms with
that yomig lady as he had been ; he did not, as
of old, seek her society ; his face did not
brighten up as it was wont to do when she
addressed him ; but he treated her with a
respect which, if it was not tender, was full of
gentleness : whereas, to William Henry he was
even cold.

It was a significant proof of the transformation
that had taken place in Mr. Erin that he
not only noticed this, but in a manner apologised
for it to William Henry.

I am sorry to see that Dennis and you, my
lad, don't seem to get on together so well as
you used to do. But you must not mind his
being a little jealous.'

At this the young man's face flushed, for
'jealousy' had just then with him but one
meaning : he thought that his father was about
to talk with him about Margaret, but his niece
was not m the old man's thoughts at all.

It is not every one,' he went on, ' who can
bear to see the good fortune of his friends with
equanimity ; especially when it takes the form

of such a stroke of luck, as in your case.
What Dennis says to himself is : " Why should
not I have discovered these MSS. instead of
William Henry ? " And not having done so,
he is a little bit envious of you, and is inclined
to decry them. It is a pity, of course, but he
can do you no more harm by it than he can
harm Shakespeare by discrediting the work of
his hand.'

But the young man was sorry nevertheless,
and Margaret was still more grieved. Since
Dennis had tacitly consented to her changed
relations with her cousin, or at all events had
made no opposition to them, she thought he
might have forgiven him as he had forgiven her.
It was a subject on which she could not speak
to him, but occasionally there was something, or
to her sensitive eye and ear seemed to be something,
in his tone and manner, not resentful, but
as though he pitied lier for her choice, which
annoyed her exceedingly.

This feeling was in no way reciprocated ; it
was impossible for Margaret to ruffle Frank
Dennis, but he rarely came to Norfolk Street

now, unless by special invitation. It had been
proposed by Mr. Erin that they should all four
go to Yauxhall together upon a certain evening
a very unusual dissipation, for except the
theatre, of which when Shakespeare was acted
(which in those days was very frequently) he
was a pretty constant patron, the antiquary had
no love for places of amusement — but Frank
Dennis had declined to accompany them. He
professed to have a previous engagement, which,
as he went out very little, seemed improbable ;
indeed, it was understood by the others that he
did not wish to go. This was a cause of
sincere regret to them, not excluding William
Henry, for if Dennis had come he would have
paired off with Mr. Erin and left Margaret to
himself. The expedition, however, was looked
forward to with pleasure by both the young
people even as it was : it had the charm of
novelty for them, for William Henry was almost
as great a stranger to what had now begun to
be called ' life ' in London as his cousin. The
little trip to the place by water was itself delightful,
while the Gardens, with the coloured

lamps and music and gaily dressed company,
seemed to them like a dream of Paradise.

Mr. Samuel Erin was not indeed a very
good cicerone to such a spot, for folks of their
ao^e ; though he would have been invaluable to
some distinguished foreigner with a thirst for
information. He reminded them (or rather
informed them, for they knew very little about
it) how for more than a century the place had
been the resort of all the wit and rank and
gallantry of the town ; how Addison had taken
Sir Eager de Coverley there, and Goldsmith the
Chinese philosopher, and Swift had gone in
person to hear the nightingale ; and how much
more attractive it was than its rival Eanelagh,
of which, nevertheless, as Walpole humorously
writes, Lord Chesterfield was so fond that he
ordered all his letters to be directed thither.
It was with difficulty the old gentleman was
persuaded not to take them away from the
radiant scene to a neighbouring street to see the
lodgings where the poet Philips had breathed
his last ; and, by way of reprisal for their
preference for such gauds and tinsel, he quoted

to them (after Dr. Joliiison) Xerxes' remark
about his army, that it was sad to think that of
all that brilliant cro^vd not one would be alive
a hundred years hence. The Scriptures themselves
admit that there is a time to laugh and
a time to play, and these literary reminiscences,
and much more these didactic reflections, were
felt by the young people to be a good deal out
of place. If Mr. Erin could have been induced
to visit the lodgings of Mr. Philips by himself,
or to meditate on the Future alone, and in the
Maze, then indeed they would have applauded
him, but as it was, his company was a trifle
triste.

They were presently relieved from it, however,
in a wholly unexpected manner. They
had explored the walks, promenaded the ' area,'
and listened to the band to their hearts'
content, and had just sat down in one of the
arbours to a modest supper, when dio should
pass by, with his hat on one side and an air of
studied indifference to the commonplace allurements
around him, but Mr. Eeginald Talbot.
His few weeks' residence in London had effected

a revolution in him, which nevertheless could
scarcely be called a reform : from an inhabitant
of Connemara, or some other out-of-the-way
spot, he had become a citizen of the world ;
but the dissipations of the town had not
improved his appearance. His face, though
still full, had lost its colour, and he had a lacklustre
look which so ably seconded his attempts
at languor that it almost rendered him idiotic.

William Henry drew involuntarily back in
the box to avoid recognition, but Mr. Talbot's
eye, roving everywhere, though with a somewhat
fish-like expression, in search of female
beauty, had already been attracted by Margaret's
pretty face. He did not quite recognise
it, probably owing to the doubtful aid he derived
from his spy-glass, but it was evident that he
was struggling with a reminiscence.

Why, surely that is our young friend
Talbot, is it not, Samuel ? ' exclaimed Mr. Erin
with effusion ; and he held out his hand to the
young man at once, not because he was glad to
see him, far from it, but because he thought he
was making a friend of his son welcome.

William Henry, however, was well convinced
that Talbot was no longer his friend, a
circumstance that had not hitherto distressed
him. Indeed, he had by no means regretted
their little tiff, since it had been the means of
keeping Talbot away from Norfolk Street ; but
now that they had met again he had reasons
for wishing that they had not quarrelled. The
very cordiality with which the other addressed
him aroused his apprehensions, for he knew
that it was feigned ; he would much rather
indeed have seen him, as on the occasion when
he had last met her, make advances to Margaret
herself. Of her he was sure ; no dandy,
whether metropolitan or provincial, could, he
knew, ever rival him in her affections ; but this
fellow, smarting from the slight that had been
put upon his muse, might injure him in other
ways. He knew from experience Mr. Eeginald
Talbot was capable of being what at school was
termed 'nasty,' i.e. malignant. It has been
said of the great Marlborough that whenever
he permitted himself a noble phrase it was a
sure sign that he was about to commit a baseness

; and similarly, the fact of Mr. Talbot's
being upon his best behaviour was a symptom
dangerous to his friends. On the present
occasion he was studiously genteel.

His manner to Margaret — very different
from that he generally adopted towards the
fair sex — was distantly polite, while to Mr.
Samuel Erin he was respectful to servility.
What especially marked the abnormal condition
of his mind, and showed his feelings to be
under severe restraint, was that he never
alluded to his own poetical genius. In speaking
to William Henry the subject might well
indeed have been avoided as a painful one ;
but that he should exercise this reticence with
respect to the antiquary — to whom on a previous
occasion, it will be remembered, he had mentioned
within the first five minutes that he was
a man of letters ' — was something portentous.
He did not indeed talk much, but he did what
was a thousand times more difficult to him — he
held his tongue and listened.

This circumstance, joined to his demure
behaviour, caused Mr. Samuel Erin to take a

much more favourable view of his son's friend
than that he had originally entertained, and,
finding him deeply interested in the country of
his birth and in its early history, related to him
at considerable length the story of the disruption
of the Knight Templar, and the escape
of the survivors to Ireland, of which he
happened to have an account in black letter,
which he hoped, as he said, at no distant date
to have the pleasure of showing Mr. Talbot
under his own roof. This naturally led on to
some conversation respecting the labours of
Mr. Erin in the Shakespearean field, concerning
which the young man paid him several
compliments, wherein what was wanted in
appropriateness (for the young gentleman
laboured under the disadvantage of knowing
nothing whatever of the subject) was more
than compensated for by their impassioned
warmth. Then by an easy gradation they fell
to talking on the new-found manuscripts. It
amazed Mr. Erin to find that Talbot had not
yet seen the Profession of Faith.

I have been out of town, sir,' he replied,
VOL. I. R

for falsehood to this son of Erin was as natural
as mother's milk, and laid on like water, on the
perpetual supply system, 'and have not had
the opportunity of seeing it, though, as you
may well imagine, I have heard of little else.
And that reminds me that I have a favour to
ask of you. There is an old friend of mine,
or rather of my late father's, Mr. Albany
Wallis '

Mr. Erin frowned. ' I have heard of the
gentleman,' he put in stiffly, ' and in a sense I
know him.'

I trust you know nothing to his disadvantage,
sir,' said Talbot with humility. ' I
can only say that he has always spoken to me
of yourself, and of your extraordinary erudition
and attainments, with the greatest regard and
consideration.'

Indeed,' returned the other, still drily, but
with some relaxation of stiffness in his tone, ' I
am only acquainted with Mr. Wallis myself by
hearsay ; and judging him by the company he
keeps — for he is known to be a friend of one
Malone, of whom in Christian charity I will

say no more than that he is a fellow whose
shallow pretence and pompous ignorance would
disgrace the name of charlatan — I have certainly
hitherto had but a bad opinion of him.'

Of that, sir, lie is aware,' said Talbot, ' and
it troubles him just now exceedingly. The
sense of your ill-will has prevented him, although
a near neighbour, from calling in Xorfolk
Street ; and knowing that I was a friend of
your son's, he has earnestly entreated me, incase
I had the opportunity, to beg permission
for him to pay you a visit.'

From twelve to one, sir, the Shakespearean
manuscripts are open to the inspection of all
comers,' said ]mr. Erin, with a grand air. ' We
invite investigation, and even criticism.'

Any time, of course, you choose to appoint
will suit my friend,' said Talbot ; ' but, as he led
me to understand, he has a matter of importance
connected with the manuscripts to communicate
to you, and somewhat of a private nature.'

'Then let him come tomorrow evening,
when we shall be alone. Perhaps he would
like to see William Henry.'

b2

'I think he would, sir,' returned Talbot,
and as he spoke he put his hand up to his
mouth, to conceal a demoniacal grin such as
one sees on a gargoyle carved by the piety of
some monkish architect. 'I'll bring him tomorrow.'


During all this time William Henry and
Margaret, in the opposite corner of the arbour,
had carried on a smothered conversation with
one another on quite a different subject, or
rather, as the manner of young people is under
similar circumstances, on no subject at all. It
was enough to them that their hands met under
the table and their hearts met under the rose.
The scene they looked upon was not more
bright than their hopes, nor the music they
listened to more in tune than their tender
fancies. When Mr. Erin pulled out his watch
and pronounced it time to set out for home, it
seemed to them that they had only just arrived.
As for Mr. Eeginald Talbot, for the last hour
or so they had been totally unconscious of his
presence ; but when he took his leave of them,
which he did with much politeness, there was

something of suppressed triumph in his voice
that aroused William Henry's suspicions. A
shudder involuntarily seized him ; he felt like
a merrymaking at a festival who suddenly looks
up into the sky, and perceives, instead of sunshine,
' the ragged rims of thunder brooding
low.'

CHAPTEE XVI.

A BOMBSHELL.

It was significant of the sensitiveness of Mr.
Erin's feelings in regard to bis new-found
treasures, though it by no means indicated any
want of soundness in his faith, that he ignored
as much as possible all attacks upon their
authenticity. This by no means involved his
shutting his eyes to them ; indeed he had privately
procured and read all that had been
written about the MSS., even to that terrible
letter of Lord Claremont to Malone, in which
he had said, ' I am only sorry that Steevens
(the rival commentator) is not the proprietor of
them,' in order (as he meant) that they might
have had the additional pleasure, derived from
private enmity, of exposing them. The sensations
the antiquary endured from these things

were something like those of Regius rolling
down a hill in his barrel stuck full of nails and
knives, but he could not resist the temptation
of reading them any more than a patient with
hay-fever in his eyes can resist rubbing them.

I have known young authors afflicted with
the same mad desire of perusing all the disagreeable
criticisms they can lay their hands
on ; but these things were much more than
criticisms, they were personal imputations of
the vilest kind, which at the same time no law
of libel could touch. They ate into the poor
antiquary's heart, but he never talked about
them. If he had, perhaps they would have
been made more tolerable by the sympathy of
his friends and the arguments of his partisans ;
but, except to himself, he ignored them. He
did not even mention to William Henry that
one Mr. Albany Wallis, whom he had reason to
believe was little better than an infidel, was
coming to Norfolk Street, by permission, to
examine the Shakespeare papers. It weighed
upon his own mind nevertheless, and he actually
regretted that Frank Dennis chanced to drop

iu that afternoon — loyal though he knew him
to be in all other matters — lest in his lukewarm
faith, if faith it could be called at all, he should
let fall anything to encourage the sceptic.

Thus it came to pass that when the servant
announced Mr. Eeginald Talbot and Mr.
Albany Wallis it was only Mr. Erin himself
who felt no astonishment. William Henry was
amazed, for though he had parted from his
quondam friend on the previous evening on
what were outwardly good terms, there had
been no pretence of a renewal of friendship
between them ; their meeting at Vauxhall had,
as we know, been accidental, and Talbot had
not dropped a hint of renewing his visits to
Norfolk Street. The young man had a smiling
but scarcely a genial air ; his manner was constrained,
a thing which, being contrary to his
habit, sat very ill upon him ; and he addressed
himself solely to his host, for which indeed his
errand was a sufficient excuse.

Permit me, sir, to introduce to you my
friend, Mr. Albany WaUis ; a gentleman, like
yourself, well versed in Shakespearean lore.'

Mr. Wallis's name is not unknown to me,'
answered the antiquary coldly ; ' I have the
pleasure of speaking to the late Mr. Garrick's
man of business, have I not ? '

The visitor, a thin grey man, with sharp,
intelligent features, bv no means devoid of
kindliness, bowed courteously.

I had that honour,' he replied gravely ; ' I
have also been acquainted all my life with many
who take an interest in the drama, especially the
Shakespearean drama. That some of them differ
from you, Mr. Erin, on the subject on which I
have called to-day, I am of course aware, but,
believe me, I come in no unfriendly spirit.
I take it for granted that you and I are
equally interested in the establishment of the
truth ! '

It is to be hoped so,' returned the antiquary,
with dignity ; ' you would like, I conclude,
to see the Profession.'

Well, no, sir, not immediately. You have
other documents, as I am informed, in one of
which I am more particularly concerned.'

Very good. Margaret, this is your affair,

it seems,' said the antiquary, smiling : it was a
relief to his mind that the Profession at least
was not about to be impugned. ' Here is the
key of the chest ; bring out the Shakespeare
letter and verses, with the lock of hair.' For a
moment or two Mr. Wallis remained silent.
His eyes followed Margaret as she rose to obey
her uncle's request, with a curious look of
£gentle commiseration in them.

I did not know that this young lady had
anything to do with these discoveries,' he
answered.

Xor has she, sir. The hair and the verses
have become in a manner her own property,
that is — er — under my trusteeship ; but they
were disinterred from a mass of ancient materials
by my son here, William Henry.'

Mr. Wallis turned his face on the young
gentleman thus alluded to much as a policeman
flashes his dark-lantern on a suspected stranger.
There was no commiseration in it now ; it was
a keen, and even a hostile glance.

I see ; but besides the reputed epistle to
Anne Hathaway, there was, I think, a note of

hand purporting to be written to Shakespeare
from John Hemynge.'

I don't know as to " reputed " and " purporting,"
sir, returned the antiquary stiffly,
which are adjectives not usually applied to
documents professedly genuine, at all events
under the roof of their possessor,'

You are right ; I beg your pardon, Mr.
Erin,' put in the visitor apologetically. ' One
has no right to prejudge a case of which one
has only heard an exparte statement. It is,
however, that particular document which I ask
to look at ; a gentleman upon whose word I can
rely has seen it, and assures me that the signature
of John Hemynge appended to the receipt
is — not to mince matters — a forgery.'

The antiquary started to his feet. ' Do you
come here to insult me, sir r ' he inquired
angrily.

No, Mr. Erin, far from it,' returned the
other firndy. ' No one would be better pleased
both on your own account and on that of those
belonging to you ' — here his eye ht once more
on Margaret, who had flushed to her forehead

' if I should find my informant mistaken.
But the fact is, I possess a deed with the authentic
and undoubted signature of John He-synge,
which my friend, who has seen both of
them, assures me is wholly different from that
attached to this new-found document. Assertion,
however, as you may reasonably reply, is
out of place in this matter. The question is
merely one of comparison. Have you any
objection to my applying that test? '

Most certainly not, sir. Margaret, this
Gentleman wishes to see the note of hand.'

o

Margaret brought it from the iron safe and
gave it to Mr. Wallis. Her face still retained
some trace of indignation, and her eyes met
those of the visitor with resolution and even
defiance.

If there is fraud here,' he said to himself,
' this OTrl has nothings to do with it.' The
behaviour of Mr. Erin had also impressed him
favourably ; with that of William Henry he
was not so satisfied, it seemed to him to have
too much sang-froid ; but then (as he frankly
confessed to himself) he had been prejudiced

against him. Mr. Wallis was a man accustomed
to ' thread the labyrinth of the mind ' in matters
more important, or at all events more serious,
than literary investigation, and had a very observant
eye, and the conclusion he came to was
that, if there was one person in the present
company more guilty than another as regards
the Shakespearean fabrications (as Malone had
called them), it was Mr. Frank Dennis. He
had not indeed uttered one word ; but when
the girl had approached the safe there had been
unmistakable signs of trouble in his face, while
at this moment, when, as he (Mr. WaUis) knew,
and as the other must needs suspect, a damning
proof of the worthlessness of one of these
vaunted discoveries was about to be produced,
he exhibited an anxiety and apprehension
which, to do them justice, were absent from the
rest.

This is a mortgage deed executed by John
Hemynge,' observed Mr. WaUis, drawing a
document from his pocket, ' concerning the
genuineness of which there is no dispute. It was
found among the papers of the Featherstone-

haugh family, to whom the Dation is indebted
(through my late client, David Garrick) for the
Shakespeare mortgage now in the British Museum.
If the signature of yonder deed tallies
with it, well and good ; I shall, believe me, be
pleased to find it so ; but if it does not do so,
there can be no question as to which is the
spurious one.'

He threw the mortgage on the table, and
stood with an air, if not of indifference, of one
who has no personal concern in the matter on
hand, while Mr. Erin compared the two signatures
with minuteness. Presently he beckoned
to his son in an agitated manner : ' Your eyes
are better than mine,' he said : ' what do you
make of this ? '

William Henry just glanced at the two
documents in a perfunctory manner, as though
he had been asked to witness some signature of
a client of his employer, and quietly answered :
They are very dissimilar ; whichever is the
wrong one, it can hardly be called an imitation,
for it has not a letter in common with the
other.'

There is no question, young man, as to
which is the wrong one,' remarked Mr. Walls,
severely ; ' and as to imitation, it is clear enough
that such a deception, however clumsily, has
been seriously attempted. The only doubt we
have to clear up is, " Who is the forger ? " '
Mr. Wallis's glance flashed for an instant upon
Frank Dennis. He was standing apart, with
his hand over the lower part of his features,
and his eyes fixed on the ground. He looked
like one upon whom a blow, long expected, has
at last fallen.

It was strange, thought Mr. Wallis, that
Talbot, who had seemed so convinced of the
younger Erin's guilt, had had not a word to say
about this other fellow. His own impression
one of those sudden convictions to which men
of his stamp are especially liable, but which
they would be the last to call inspirations — was
that the affair was a conspiracy, in which these
two young men were alone concerned, and
that its moving spirit was Dennis. Suddenly
the silence was broken by Margaret's clear
tones : —

Mr. Wallis himself has not examined the
deeds,' she said.

'There is no need, young lady, since your
uncle and cousin have already admitted the discrepancy,'
returned the visitor. ' I am only
following the example of that gentleman yonder
' — here he indicated Frank Dennis with his
forefinger — ' in taking the matter for granted.'

Frank removed his hand from his mouth,
showing a face ghastly pale, and quietly answered,
' I am no judge of these things ; but if
I had made such a charge as you have done,
sir, I think, as Miss Slade suggests, that I should
give myself the trouble of seeing with my
own eyes whether it was substantiated.'

Nay,' said Margaret, quickly, ' I spoke not
of any charge. If I thought that Mr. Wallis
was making any personal accusation, I should
not have addressed him at all.'

But really, young lady,' protested Mr.
Wallis, ' there must be something wrong somewhere,
you knows'

I should rather think there was,' observed
Mr. Eeginald Talbot, with a snigger.

And who the devil asked your opinion ? '
inquired Mr. Erin, with the eager shrillness of
a steam boiler which has just discovered its
safety-valve. He did not forget that it was to
this young gentleman's good offices that he was
indebted for this unsatisfactory state of things.

Well, I thought it was a matter of criticism,'
murmured the young Irishman.

That was the very reason, sir, you sh-ould
have held your tongue,' was the uncompromising
reply.

'I really don't know,' observed AViUiam
Henry, who had been idly turning over the
leaves of the mortgage deed during this discussion,
' why any bitterness should be imported
into this discussion. We are all equally interested,
as Mr. Wallis has remarked, in the establishment
of the truth ; and I, for my part, have
nothing to fear from it. I am in no way
responsible, as he must be aware, for the
genuineness of the documents in question, but
only for their discovery. What has happened
to-day is no doubt as disagreeable as it is unlocked
for ; but it is no fault of mine. The

VOL. I. s

only course open to me is, I suppose, to go to
my friend in the Temple and acquaint him with
what has happened. Perhaps he may have
some explanation to offer upon the subject.'

I should very much like to hear it,' said
Mr. Wallis, with a dry smile.

Mr. Eeginald Talbot also began to smile —
aloud, but he caught Mr. Frank Dennis's eye,
which had so unmistakably menacing an expression
in it that the snigger perished in its
birth.

Shall I go, father ? ' inquired William
Henry. For the antiquary sat like one in a
dream, turning over the note of hand, once so
precious to him, but which had now become
waste paper.

Yes, go ! We will wait here till you come
back,' he answered.

The words dropped from his hips like lead.

CHAPTEE XVII.

THE make's nest.

A GREAT poet has sung of a certain tea-party as
sitting ' all silent and all damned,' which is
going pretty far as a description of social
cheerlessness ; but they were at tea, and had
presumably bread and butter, and possibly even
muffins, before them ; whereas the little party
in Norfolk Street, who sat awaiting the return
of William Henry from his problematical
patron (for Mr. Albany Wallis, for one, did not
believe in his existence), had not even such
material comforts to initio-ate their embarrassment
and ennui. On the table there were only
the two deeds, and one of them was in all
probability a forgery. Mr. Erin sat drumming
his fingers .upon it and endeavouring to hide
the anxiety which consumed him — a most

B 2

depressing spectacle. The company, too, were
on anything but good terms with one another
or with themselves. Mr. Albany Wallis was a
just but kind-hearted man ; he knew he was
right, but he was equally certain that he was
uncomfortable, Margaret's beauty had touched
him, and her indignation, however undeserved,
distressed him. He felt convinced that she at
least was innocent of any confederation with
the evildoers, whoever they were.

Now that he had once put hand to the
plough, there was no possibility of drawing
back ; he must needs lay the whole conspiracy
bare; but in his heart he cursed the officious
malignity of Eeginald Talbot, who had set him
to work on so unpleasant a task. It was plain
that that young gentleman knew how it was all
to end. He lay back in his chair, tapping his
boot with his cane, and with a grin on his face
such as a Cheshire cat might wear who feels a
mouse well under her claw. To Mr. Walls it
seemed equally clear that Mr. Frank Dennis
also knew. He sat very pale and quiet, but
with a face expectant of ill. Every now and

then he stole a glance at Margaret, full of ineffable
shame and sorrow. As for her, she
looked neither to the right nor to the left, but
always at the door ; her ears were on the
stretch for William Henry's return from the
moment that his departing footstep died away.
In her face alone was to be seen unshaken confidence
; a woman's faith — so often wasted, as
Mr. Wallis thought to himself, upon false and
worthless objects.

Presently Mr. Erin glanced at her, and,
seeming to gather comfort from her calmness,
observed : —

I am sorry to detain you, Mr. Wallis, but
I think it better for both our sakes that you
should remain here till this matter has, one way
or another, been settled. It will convince you,
at all events, that there is no collusion.'

A very proper arrangement, sir. and one
that does you infinite credit,' returned the other
courteously, ' One word from your son's
friend — that is, if, as I believe, he must needs
give up his case — will be all that is necessary,
so that we shall not have to wait long.'

The gentleman may not be at home,' suggested
Margaret.

True,' answered Mr. Wallis with a bow.
In his heart he thought that the gentleman was
not at all likely to be at home, but there was
nothing in his tone that implied it.

Perhaps,' said Mr. Erin, ' in order to pass
the time, you would like to examine the other
Shakespearean documents in my possession ? '

There was a world of significance, had the
other only known it, in the manner in which the
antiquary thus expressed himself. The idea of
looking at these treasures ' in order to pass the
time ' would, an hour ago, have seemed to him
little short of blasphemy.

As you please, sir,' returned Mr. Wallis
indifferently ; ' though you will pardon me for
saying that if the note of hand turns out to bea
— that is, unauthentic, it will destroy the
credibility of all the C'est.'

It will affect it, no doubt,' admitted the
antiquary.

On the other hand,' observed Margaret in
her clear tones, ' if the evidence should be the

A Vert CHEERLESS Proceeding,

other way, it will proportionately strengthen
their claims.'

Undoubtedly,' replied i\Ir. Wallis. He
could offer that modicum of encouragement
with perfect safety, and he was well pleased to
have the opportunity of doing so. 'Believe
me, young lady,' he went on with earnest
gentleness, ' that it would give me the sincerest
gratification to find your confidence justified by
the result.'

Then he sat down, indifferent eyed, but
with a pretence of interest, to the Profession
that Mr. Erin had spread out upon the table.
It was a cheerless proceeding. The very exhibitor
himself, it was plain, had but little heart
for the performance ; instead of expatiating
with an unction that mic^ht well have been
called 'extreme' on the precious revelation, he
only put in a word or two. If he had apprehensions
such as he had never before experienced
of a visitor's criticism, they were,
however, unfounded. Mr. Wallis perhaps did
not think it worth while to make objections,
since a few more minutes at most must needs seethe

imposture out ; it would have been like
quarrelling with a man upon his deathbed.
He even allowed that the document was ' interesting,'
though, as he made the observation to
Margaret and not to her uncle, it is probable
that it rather expressed his wish to please her
than his real sentiments. His position was
somewhat similar to that of Eloise when taking
the veil.

Yet then to those dread altars as I drew,
Not on the Cross my eyes were fixed, but you,
Not grace, nor zeal love only wa my call.

For though, of course, the old lawyer was not
in love with Margaret, he had a much greater
admiration for her than for the sacred relic.
Still, in spite of himself, habit induced him to
give some considerable attention to the document
; even if it was a forgery it was curious,
and, at all events, anything was better than
sitting with his hands before him watching those
uncomfortable faces. That of Mr. Samuel Erin
was at present particularly so, for his visitor's
eye was travelling towards the ' leafage tree,' a
weak point, which he felt under the circumstances

in a very ill condition to defend, when
suddenly there was a knock at the door.

There is Willie ! ' cried Margaret, starting
to her feet.

She felt assured, since so short a time had
elapsed, that he had found his friend of the
Temple at home ; but what was the news he
had brought with him ?

One glance at the young fellow as he
entered the room was sufficient for her. It
was good news.

The eye of love is an auger that can pierce
the heart, if not the soul ; but to the other
members of the party William Henry's face
told nothing. It did not indeed wear the expression
of defeat, but still less did it exhibit
triumph or exultation. It had the same quiet,
almost indifferent air that it habitually wore
when the Shakespearean discoveries were under
discussion ; but the pallor which anxiety had
caused in it when he left the house upon his
apparently hopeless errand was gone ; with a
quiet smile he drew forth a paper from his
pocket, and handed it to Mr. Wallis.

You are quite right, sir,' he said, ' and yet
you have not put my friend in the wrong. It
is the case of the chameleon.'

What is this ? ' asked Mr. Wallis, a question
which, having unfolded the paper, he proceeded
to answer himself, in tones of the greatest
amazement. ' Why, this is John Hemynge
over again — the real John Hemynge ! '

And yet, I suppose, not more real than the
other,' said William Henry quietly. ' The
simple explanation is that there were two of
them.'

Two of them ! ' exclaimed Mr. Erin, looking
much like the ' gay French mousquetaire '
(only not ' gay ') when he saw the ghost of his
victim on one side of his bed, and her twin
sister in the flesh on the other.

This paper, I see, is an account of some
theatrical disbursements,' observed Mr. WaUis,
biting his lips in much perplexity. ' That
reminds me that the note of hand was upon a
similar subject. You don't mean to tell me
that these Hemynges were, not only both of the
same i^ame, but of the same calling — actors? '

'I tell you nothing, sir, of ray own knowledge,'
answered William Henry clrily, ' for I
know nothing about the matter. I went to my
patron with the story you bade me tell him,
that you possessed an authentic signature of
Shakespeare's friend Hemynge ; that it was
altogether different from the one appended to
the note of hand I had found in his keeping,
and that therefore the latter was a forgery.
He only smiled, and said, " How very like a
commentator ! " Then he opened a little chest
filled with theatrical memoranda. " There is
nothing here of much value," he said, " for I
have examined them ; but, as it happens, there
is something to put the gentleman's mind at rest
as to any question of fraud." Then he gave
me this paper, the signature of which he bade
me to ask you to compare with that on your
mortgage deed. It is identical, is it not ? '

It certainly appears to be so,' admitted
Mr. Wallis.

Well, according to my patron's account,
there were in Shakespeare's time two John
Hemynges : the one — your John Hemynge —

connected with Shakespeare's own theatre, "The
Globe ; " the other, whose receipt is appended
to the note of hand, the manager of the
Curtain '" Theatre. The former, it seems, was
called the Tall John Hemynge, the latter the
Short. If you care to know more about them,
I am instructed to say that my friend is prepared
to give you every information.'

As his eye fell upon the lawyer's chapfallen
face, William Henry could not deny himself
a smile of triumph ; but as regarded his
uncle and Margaret, Mr. Wallis observed that
the young fellow did not so much as even
glance at them— a circumstance which the
lawyer attributed to a very natural cause ; it
was not they, but he, who had doubted of his
good faith, so that in their case he had nothing
to exult over. He felt very much abashed and
disconcerted ; nor was his embarrassment
decreased when Margaret thus addressed
him : —

You will not forget, Mr. Wallis,' she said
gravely, ' what was said just now of the change
which would take place in your opinion of us,

in case this matter should not turn out so unfavourably
as you expected.'

'Nay, pardon me, young lady,' returned the
lawyer, gallantly, ' I have never harboured any
opinion of you otherwise than favourable ; my
observation referred to these other documents,
which indeed, I frankly confess, I am now prepared
to consider in a much less prejudiced
light. For the present I must take my leave,
but in the meantime let me express my thanks
to you, Mr. Erin, for the kind reception I have
met with, and to withdraw, without reserve,
any expression I may have let fall which maybe
construed into a reflection upon your good
faith, or upon that of any member of your
family.'

For a moment it occurred to Mr. Erin that
here was an opportunity for snatching an ally
from the enemy's camp, by getting Mr. Albany
Wallis to add his name to the list of believers,
but on the whole he decided not to do so, upon
the ground of the danger of the experiment.
If Miss Margaret Slade, however, had asked
Mr. Wallis the favour, it is doubtful whether

he would not have acceded to her request.
He felt such a brute at having given her distress
of mind by his unmannerly suspicions that he
would have made almost any sacrifice in reparation
of them. He retired with a profusion
of bows and excuses, while Mr. Eeginald Talbot
followed in silence at his heels like a whipped
dog, who, professing to find a hare in her form,
has only found a mare's nest.

CHAPTER XVIII.

'Whatever HAPPENS, I SHALL LOVE YOU, WILLIE.'

It was not till his visitors lead gone that their
host seemed to become fully conscious of the
gravity of their errand. While the mind is
clouded with doubt it is impossible for it to
entertain any emotion very acutely, but now
that the accusation of the literary lawyer had
been shown to be groundless, Mr. Erin became
at once alive to its great wickedness and impertinence.


The man must have been mad — stark,
staring mad ! ' he exclaimed, ' to have come
here, and upon the ground of that trumpery
deed of his to have made such abominable imputations
! I know that Malone is burning to
see my manuscripts, though he has not the
honesty to confess it, and I should not wonder
if he had sent that fellow here as a spy.'

Nay, I am sure Mr. Wallis was no spy,'
said Margaret.

'Well, at all events, instead of reporting
All is barren," as was hoped,' continued the
antiquary, ' lie will have to speak of " milk
and honey." Upon my life, I believe I could
have got him to sign our Profession of Faith if I
had only pressed it ; for by nature, however,
warped by evil communications, he struck meas
an honest man.'

Not only honest, but kind, uncle,' observed
Margaret gently.

He was very civil to you, I noticed,'
returned her uncle grimly. ' I am sure you
could have got him to sign. What a thorn it
would have been in that scoundrel's side if one
of his lieutenants could have been seduced sofar
from his allegiance ! '

When Mr. Erin said ' that scoundrel ' he
always meant Malone. It was not necessary
for him — as in the case of the gentleman who
had married three times, and was wont to
observe, ' When I say " my wife " I mean my
first wife ' — to explain whom he meant.

'I don't blame Mr. Wallis at all,' said
Margaret. * He came upon a disagreeable
errand, in the interests of truth, and has
frankly acknowledged himself to be in the
wrong. The person I do feel indignant against
is that horrid Mr, Talbot.'

" The man of letters," as he called himself,'
remarked Mr. Erin contemptuously. 'He
never even asked to look at the manuscripts : I
don't believe he can read. What do you think
of your young friend now ? ' he inquired turning
to William Henry.

'Well, sir.! think he has made a fool of
himself and knows it.'

You are much too good-natured, Willie,'
observed Margaret indignantly. 'I am sure,
Frank, you agree with me that Mr. Talbot's
conduct has been most treacherous and malignant.'


Dennis had not opened his lips since
William Henry's return ; he had watched for it
with at least as much anxiety as the rest, but
the refutation of what had been alleged seemed
to have given him rather relief than satisfaction.

I. T

tion. He was too good a fellow to wish any
disgrace to happen even to a rival ; but (as
Margaret read his behaviour) he could hardly
exult in that rival's victory, which could but
result in Mr. Erin's having greater confidence
in the young fellow than ever, and consequently
in the bettering of his chance of gaining
his cousin's hand.

Yes,' said Dennis quietly, ' William Henry
has made the great mistake of allowing an
Irishman of low type to be on familiar terms
with him. The men of that nation, when they
are of sterling nature, are among the best, as
they are undoubtedly among the most agreeable,
men in the world ; but there are a great
many counterfeits — men who, like Talbot,
under the mask of bonhomie conceal a morose
and malignant disposition ; they belong, in fact,
to the same class of their fellow-countrymen
who shoot men from behind a hedge.'

Quite true,' observed Mr. Erin approvingly.
I have never heard that type of man — to
which Malone, for one, belongs — so graphically
described.'

I do hope, willie, you will have nothing
more to do with him,' said Margaret, earnestly.

You may depend upon it he will have
nothing more to do with ??u%' answered the
young fellow, laughing. ' He already knows
what I thought of this verses ; indeed, it was
my telling him my honest opinion of them
which has so set him against me ; and now he
knows what I think of himself.'

Well said, my lad,' said the antiquary,
rubbing his hands and smiling with the consciousness
of triumph. ' One need not fear
any malice when we are conscious of no ill-doing
on our own part. My good Dennis, you
look so exceedingly glum that, if one didn't
know you, one would think that you had not
that cause for confidence.'

As regards what we were just talking of,
that Wish gentleman,' observed Dennis, sententiously,
' I have no confidence in him at all.
There is always reason to fear a man who
carries a knife under his waistcoat.'

Pooh, pooh, Dennis ! you take such sombre
views of everything.'

'At all events,' put in Margaret, gently,
Frank is not alarmed upon this own account

Gad ! that's true,' observed the antiquary,
drily : ' he takes care to let us know that these
matters are no concern of his. If all these
wonderful discoveries that have been vouchsafed
to us these last few months should turnout
to be so much waste paper, I don't think he
would sleep a wink the worse for it.'

Dennis coloured to his temples, but said
nothing. Perhaps he was conscious of shortcoming
in Shakespearean enthusiasm, or was
aware that he had not shown much exultation
over the recent rout of the enemy. Margaret
thought he might have said a word or two in
self-defence ; but what she deemed to be the
cause of his silence — namely, that the whole
subject of the discoveries was distasteful to him,
as being associated, as it certainly was, with
William Henry's success in another matter —
was also an excuse for him, and she pitied him
with all her heart.

To have defended him in his presence to
Mr. Erin would, she felt, have been a cruel

kindness, since it might have suggested a feeling
more tender than pity ; but a certain remorse
it was almost an act of penance — compelled
her to speak of the matter afterwards to
William Henry.

My uncle is very hard upon poor Frank,'
she said, ' about these manuscripts. I am sure
that anything that concerns us concerns him,
but he cannot be expected to feel exactly as we
do in the matter.'

No, I suppose not,' said William Henry.

Well, of course not. It is his way to take
things more philosophically than other people.
I am sure he looked pleased enough when you
confuted Mr. Wallis.'

Pleased, but surprised,' returned the other,
drily.

Oh, Willie, that is ungenerous of you ! '

I am only stating a fact. His face did
not, I admit, exhibit disappointment, but it
expressed extreme astonishment. I don't think
as Mr. Erin does about these things, but I think
a man should stick to his friends, especially in
the presence of those by whom their honesty

is called in question. Mr. Wallis noticed it, I
promise you.'

There was surely no harm in Frank looking
astonished, even if he did,' said Margaret ;
then in a more tender tone, as though she had
done enough for friendship, she added, ' I confess,
however, I was not looking at him. I
was looking at you Wile. How marvellously
you kept command of yourself, even when
things seemed to be at the worst. Nov
confess, dear, did you not really know that
you would find that document, or something
like it, when you went off to the Temple ? '

What makes you say that ? ' he inquired
quickly.

Well, only because I seemed to read it in
your face. Oh, Willie, you don't know what
I went through while you were away. For
though, as you often say, it is no affair of yours
whether the manuscripts are genuine or not,

yet ' She hesitated ; she evidently found

it difficult to put her thought into words.

You mean that the question is one that,
after all, seriously affects us,' he put in gently.

'Well, yes, because you and I are one.
Perhaps it was the presence of that scheming
Mr. Talbot which made you look so, but the
matter seemed somehow to affect 3'ou personally.
Your own honour appeared to be almost
called in question.'

He shook his head, but she went on —

And that is why your parting look, though
you didn't look at me, Willie, gave me courage
to face them. I felt that you would come
back to clear yourself, and to triumph over
them. Of course I did not know how it would
be effected, but I had faith — or perhaps,'
added the girl, dropping her voice, ' it was
love.'

Yes, it was love,' said the young man,
fondling her hand in his own and speaking in
the same low tones, while he gazed thoughtfully
before him. ' Love is better than faith, for it
endures. What we no longer believe in we
despise, but what we have once loved we love
always.'

There was silence between them for a little
the lovers' silence, which is more golden far

than that of which philosophy speaks ; then he
addressed her with a lighter air.

'And were you really pleased,' he said,
when I brought the deed back and made that
old curmudgeon look so foolish ? '

Nay, he was no curmudgeon, Willie, and
I felt as much for him as I could afford to feel ;
but your bringing such good news was delightful.
It showed that what others prize so
highly, such as this man Hemynge's signature,
was for you quite a commonplace possession.
It almost seemed that you have only to hold up
your finger and beckon to her, as it were, and
Good Luck comes to you.'

Then the good luck I have had, and the
estimation in which it has caused me to beheld
by others, makes you happy, Margaret ? '

Of course, it makes me proud and
pleased,' she answered earnestly. ' How can it
be otherwise when you are " the talk of
the town ? " But what gives me the greatest
pleasure of all is to see that it has not spoilt
you, Willie ; that you take it all so quietly and

prudently, which shows that you deserve these
gifts of Fortune.'

She has more in store for me yet,' he
answered confidently ; ' I feel it — I am sure of
it, Maggie ! '

But, my dear Willie, are you not talked
about enough already, and you but a lad of
seventeen? You must be a glutton, a very
glutton, for fame.'

I am,' he answered vehemently, ' for fame,
but not for notoriety only. I Lavish to bethought
well of on my own account — not as
the mere channel of another's thoughts. I
have stuff within me which the world shall
sooner or later recognise — I swear it I '

Margaret looked at him with amazement.
She had hitherto had no great opinion of his
talents, as we know ; but now eit'i :r his enthusiasm
carried her away with it, or, what was
more probable, the atmosphere of love which
surrounded him made him appear larger than
of old. In her mind's eye she already beheld
him a second Dryden, that monarch of letters

VOL. I. U

of whom she had so often heard her uncle
speak.

But you will always be the same to me,
Willie ? ' she murmured timidly.

Her humility, perhaps, touched him, for at
her words he became strangely agitated, and
his face grew pale to the very lips.

Xay,' he said, ' I must ask that of you.
Whatever happens, will you never cease to love
me ? '

Whatever happens, Willie,' she answered
softly, ' I shall love you more and more.'

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

I.ONDOJf : Printed BY

SrOTTISWOOLiK And CO., New-street Squash

A>U PAJiLIAilE^iT Street

Pall Mall Gazette.

THIRD EDITION, with a Portrait, crown 8vo. 6s.

Some Literary Recollections,

Author of ' By Proxy ' ^c.

SOME EXTRACTS FROM NOTICES BY THE PRESS.

THE Athenaeum.— ' To say that Mr. Payn is seen at his best in the book is
as much as to say that it is remarkably pleasant reading. The stories it contains are
not all new. . . . But, old and new, the stories are well told. . . . And then the spirit of
the book is eminently generous and gay. . In brief, his book is one of those which,
like that of Maxim du Camp, if for somewhat different reasons, leave a good taste in the
mouth. . . . For that reason, if for no other, it should have readers in abundance.'

THE SATURDAY REVIEW. -' In a sea on of biographies and reminiscences
Mr. Payn's " Recollections " have several peculiarities of their own. First, they are short
we wish they were longer. . . . Again, Air. Payn's Memories are all good natured. . . .
Thirdly, Mr. Payn's Memories have nothing to do with politics. Mr. Payn's " Recollections
" are quite full of anecdotes of authors, editors, publishers, yea, even of publishers'
readers, and are everywhere buoyant and attractive with humour and good humour.'

THE TIMES. — ' Mr. James Payn's reminiscences do not constitute anything like
a regular autobiography, but may be described as a number of very amusing and good-natured
anecdotes and sketches of literary people connected by their reference to his own
life, but hardly pretending to form a whole of any kind. Though its form may be called
irregular, it is really the most convenient that could have been chosen.'

THE DAILY NEWS. — ' No one who takes up this book of Mr. Payn's, and who
has not previously read the substance of it in the Cornwall Magazine, will be inclined
to put it down until he has finished it. . . . The ignorant person may read it without
being made to feel ashamed, and the most painfully tender susceptibilities will not be
unduly harassed. But it is a prevalent and, perhaps, a well-founded notion that the
number of people who desire to be amused is increasing yet daily. To them we can
cordially recommend " Some Literary Recollections." '

THE STANDARD. — This is a very pleasant volume of gossipy talk of the
literary celebrities with whom Mr. Payn has, in the course of a long career as author
and editor, come in contact, and the only fault there is to found with it is its brevity. . . .
Few readers will lay down the volume without a feeling of regret that its author has kept
it within such comparatively narrow dimensions.'

THE GRAPHIC— ' There is not a dull page in the book. Anecdotes, jests,
epigrams, and odd bits of character and personal experience abound. It is safe to predict
for these entertaining pages one of the successes of the publishing season which has just
opened.'

THE WORLD. — 'One would have to be in a very' melancholy mood Indeed not
to like these '■* Recollections," so full they are of good stories, good spirits, and good sense ;
and even in such a mood it could not be but cheering and refreshing to read with what
generous admiration Mr. Payn speaks of his great contemporaries, Dickens, Thackeray,
Trollope, and the rest.'

VANITY FAIR. — ' ?sir. Payn has been steadily writing for more than thirtyyeats,
but his later work is fresher and more full of fun and elasticity than that which he did in
his youth. . . . The book is a most wise and charming one ; not a page is without a good
story or a piece of delightfully funny writing. Then the kindness and tenderness of every
chapter puts the reader in good humour. Mr. Payn is a man of the world, but he has
never become cynical, and to read his graceful Memories gives all the effect of a chat
with a pleasant and wholesome companion.'

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Uniform Edition ; each Volume Illustrated with a Vignette Title-page

drawn by Arthur Hughes, and Engraved bj' J. Cooper.

Large crown 8vo. 6^.

1. OLD KENSINGTON.

2. THE VILLAGE ON THE CLIFF.

3. FIVE OLD FRIENDS AND A

YOUNG PRINCE.

4. TO ESTHER: and other Sketches.

5. BLUEBEARD'S KEYS ; and other

Stories.

6. THE STORY OF ELIZABETH:

TWO HOURS; FROM AN
ISLAND.

7. TOILERS AND SPINSTERS ; and

other Essays.

8. MISS ANGEL: FULHAM LAWN.

9. MISS WILLIAMSON'S Divinations.



ILLUSTRATED EDITION OF THE

LIFE AND WORKS OF CHARLOTTE Bronze

(CURRER BELL), and her sisters

EMILY and Distaste Bronze

(ELLIS AND ACTON BELL).
In Seven Volumes, large crown 8vo, handsomely bound in cloth, price caper volume.
The descriptions in 'Jane Eyre' and the other fictions by Charlotte Bronte and her
Sisters being mostly of actual places, the Publishers considered that Views are the most
suitable Illustrations for the novels. They are indebted for a clue to the real names of
the most interesting scenes to a friend of the Bronte family, who enabled the artist, Mr.
G. M. Imperii, to identify the places described. He made faithful sketches of them on
the spot, and drew them on wood. It is hoped that these views will add fresh interest to
the reading of the stories.

Lane EYRE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronze. With Five Illustrations.
VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
IHE PROFESSOR AND Poems. By Charlotte Bronte. With Poems by her

Sisters and Father. With Five Illustrations.
WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. And AGNES GREY. By Anne

Bronte. With a Preface and Biographical Notice of both Authors by Charlotte

Bronte. With Five Illustrations.
The TEN-\NT of Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronte. With Five Illustrations,
LIFE OF CHARLOTTE Bronze. By Mrs. Gaskell. With Seven Illustrations.
*rt* The volumes are also to be had infcp. svo. limp cloth, price is. 6d. each.

UNIFORM EDITION OF

MRS. GASKELL'S NOVELS AND TALES.

In Seven Volumes, each containing Four Illustrations.
Price 3^. 6d. each, boiuid iii cloth ; or in Sets of Seven Volumes, handsomely bound
in lialf-rnorocco, price £7 vos.
CONTENTS OF THE VOLUMES:
Vol. I. WIVES AND DAUGHTERS.
Vol. II. NORTH AND SOUTH.
Vol. III. SYLVIA'S LOVERS.
Vol. IV. CRANFORD.
Company Manners— The Well of Pen-x\Iorpha— The Heart of John Middleton— Traits
and Stories of the Huguenots— Six Weeks at Heppenheim— The Squire's Story—
Libbie Marsh's Three Eras— Curious if True-the Moorland Cottage— The Sexton's
Hero— Disappearances— Right at last— The Manchester Marriage— Lois the Witch— The

Crooked Branch. ^^^

Vol. V. MARY BARTON.
Cousin Phillips— My French Master— The Old Nurse's Story— Bess's Troubles at Home
Christmas Storms and Sunshine.

Vol. VI. RUTH.
The Grey Woman— Morton Hall —Mr. Harrison s Confessions — Hand and Heart.

Vol. Vll. LIZZIE LEIGH.
A Dark Night's Work— Round the Sofa— xMy Lady Ludlow-An Accursed Race— The
Doom of the Griffiths— Half a Lifetime Ago— The Poor Clare— The Half Brothers**
The Volumes are also to be had infcp. svo. limp cloth, price-zs. 6d. each.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

<-:%- -■

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/talkoftown02payn

VOL. II.

- '^^ S^!T'/71c

BEaONB'.' HE cried; ' BEGONE I BOTH CF YOU.'

BY

JAMES PAA'X

AUTHOR OF-BY PROXY' ETC. ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES

VOL. 11.

London
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights rpserv'fl

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME.

CHAP. PAGE

XIX. Another DISCOVERT 1

XX. A True LOVER 13

XXT. A TIFF 30

XXII. A BARGAT^^ . 46

XXIII. AX rXEXPECTED ALLY 63

XXIV. MANAGERS 81

XXV. TWO DISTIXGnSHEb VISITORS . , . . 99

XXVI. TWO ACTRESSES 11?

XXVII. A ROYAL Patron 134

XXVIII. THE Green-EYED Monster 154

XXIX. THE CYPHER . . . . . . .172

XXX. THE PLAT 185

XXXI. THE MESSENGER OF DISGRACE . . . .207

XXXII. THE FEET OF CLAY 223

XXXIII. Breaking IT 239

XXXIV. A COMFORTER 252

XXXV. FAREWELL 266

Begone ! ' HE CRIED. ' Begone ! BOTH OF YOU.' Frontispiece

THEN, IF TOE PLEASE, SIR, I WILL TAKE

ilARGARET,' to face p. 54

THE OTHER, 1^'STEAD OF TAKING HIS HAND,

DREW HIMSELF UP „ 100

that's much better," SMILED MRS. JORDAN

APPROVINGLY „ 128

I KNOW WHAT YOU ARE COME FOR. YOU

ARE COME FOR THIS LETTER. " . „ 172

THE NEXT MOMENT THE CORRIDOR WAS FULL

OF AN EXCITED RABBLE . . . . „ 194

SO GOOD OF YOU ; SO LIKE YOU, MARGARET,'

HE MURMURED ,, 274

CHAPTER XIX.

Another DISCOVERY.

When folks are not
in accord, and especially
if there is
fear on one side,
communication of
all kinds is difficult
enough, but personal
companionship
is well-nigh
unendurable. Often
and often in evenings
not so long
ago William Henry
had hesitated to
come in on his
father's very doorstep,
and turned
away into the wet and wind-swept streets rather
VOL. II. B

than thrust his unwelcome companionship upon
him. Not seldom, in the days between the
death of his wife and Margaret's coming to
Norfolk Street, Mr. Erin had left the supper
table without a word, and sought Ms own
chamber an hour before his time, rather than
endure the sight of the boy whose very existence
was a reproach to him, who had had the
ill taste to survive his own beloved child, and
who had not a pleasure or pursuit in common
with him. Now, however, all this was
changed ; and nothing was more significant of
the alteration in the old man's feelings towards
William Henry than the satisfaction he took in
his society. So close an attachment the young
man might well have dispensed with, since it
kept him sometimes from his Margaret ; but
he nevertheless was far from discouraging it,
since he knew that such familiarity tended in
the end to ensure her to him.

It was the antiquary's whim — or perhaps
he thought that association of ideas might help
to incline the young man's heart towards him
sto read at night Shakespeare's plays with

Mm, as they had been wont to do when William
Henry was yet a child and no coldness had as
yet sprung up between them. At times the
young fellow's attention would flag a little ; his
thoughts would fly after his heart, which was
upstairs in Margaret's keeping ; but as a rule
he shared, or seemed to share, the old man's
enthusiasm. His comments and suggestions on
the text were always received with a respect
which, considering what would have been their
fate had they been hazarded six months ago,
was almost ludicrous. Such illogical changes
in personal estimation are not unexampled ;
even in modern times there have been instances
where the sudden acquisition of wealth, or the
unexpected succession to a title, have invested
their astonished possessors with attributes in noway
connected with either rank or riches ; in
the present case the admiration expressed was,
however, remarkable, because the very qualities
of literary judgment and the like, which were
now acknowledged, had been of old contemptuously
ignored. William Henry, who
had never himself io-noted them, was content

to find them recognised at last by whatever
means, and exchanged his views upon the
character of Hamlet with the antiquary with
cheerful confidence and upon equal terms.

One night they were reading ' Lear ' together,
and had come to those lines wherein
the Duke offers Kent half the administration of
the kingdom. To this Kent replies —

I have a journey, sir, shortly to go :

My master calls me ; I must not say ' No.'

Do you not think, sir,' observed William
Henry, ' that such a couplet is somewhat inappropriate
to the occasion ? '

How so ? ' inquired the antiquary. It was
noteworthy that he took the objection with
such mildness. The notion of anything in
Shakespeare being inappropriate was like suggesting
to a fire-worshipper that there were
spots on the sun.

Well, sir, it strikes me as somewhat too
brief and trivial, considering the subject on
which he speaks. Now what do you think of
this by way of an emendation ? ' He drew

from his pocket a slip of paper on which the
following lines were written in his own handwriting
: —

Thanks, sir ; but I go to that unknown land
That chains each pilgrim fast within its soil,
By living men most shunned, most dreaded.
Still my good master this same journey took :
He calls me ; I am content and straight obey.
Then farewell, world ; the busy scene is done :
Kent lived most true ; Kent died most like a man.

The antiquary's face was a study. A few
months ago it is doubtful whether anything
from William Henry's pen would have obtained
so much as patient consideration. Of his son's
genius Mr. Erin had always thought very
little ; he esteemed him indeed no more worthy
of the title of man of letters than his friend
Mr. Talbot himself ; but his productions were
now on a very different plane. They demanded
his best attention and such admiration as it
was possible to give.

Still my good master this same journey took :
He calls me ; I am content and straight obey,'

he murmured. ' That is harmonious and

natural ; a certain simplicity pervades it : yes,
my lad, that is creditable.'

I venture to think,' said the young man
deferentially, ' that the opening lines —

Thanks, sir ; but I go to that unknown land, &c —

are not devoid of merit.'

Devoid ? No, certainly not devoid. Courteous
in expression and — um — to the point, but
somewhat modern in tone.'

Without speaking, but with a smile full of
significance, the young man produced a roll of
paper and laid it before his companion.

Great heavens ! what is this ? ' exclaimed
Mr. Erin, straightening out the manuscript with
trembling fingers, while he devoured it with his
eyes.

It is something that you hoped to find at
Stratford — at Clapton House,' returned William
Henry, quietly. ' How often have you told me
that some manuscripts of Shakespeare's plays
must needs be in existence somewhere ! You
were right ; this is the original, or at all events
a very early manuscript, of " Lear." '

" Lear " ? Shakespeare's " Lear " ? My
dear Samuel, you take my breath away. And
yet the handwriting seems incontestable ; and
here is the jug watermark, a clear proof at
least of its antiquity. You have read it, of
course : does it differ from the quartos ? '

Yes, materially.'

Thank Heaven ! — I mean, how extraordinary
! One can hardly, indeed, wish a line
of Shakespeare's to differ from what is already
engraved in our hearts ; but still to get his first
thoughts ! Truly a rapturous day ! '

I rather think, sir,' said William Henry,
that after investigation you will acknowledge
that these where not only his first thoughts but
his best thoughts. There is a polish on the
gem that has heretofore been lacking. The
manuscript weill, if I am not mistaken, prove
Shakespeare to have been a more finished
writer than has been hitherto imagined. There
are many new readings, but once again to refer
to that speech of Kent's : you admired it in its
modern form, into which I purposely cast it,
confident that its merits would not escape you

even in that guise ; but in its proper and antique
dress just be so good as to reverse it ; perhaps
you will give it voice, the advantage of a trained
utterance.'

Thus advised, Mr. Erin, nothing loth, repeated
the lines aloud : — -

Thanks, Sir ; biitte I goe toe platte unknown land
That haynes each Pilgrims faste within its style.

He read sonorously and with a somewhat
pompous air, but effectively ; the dignity of
the subject sustained him ; moreover the sight
of the old spelling and quaint calligraphy
stirred him as the clang of the trumpet moves
the war-horse to exhibit his best paces.

It is certainly very fine,' was his verdict
upon his own performance. ' Who does not
pronounce that speech replete with pathos and
energy must resign all pretensions to poetical
taste.'

But as an emendation on the received version,'
persisted William Henry —

I have a journey, sir, shortly to go —

will you not admit that it compares favourably
with^Aa^r

I consider it, my dear Samuel,' was the
solemn reply, ' a decided improvement.'

He spoke in a tone of conviction, which
admitted of no Question ; sudden as his conversion
was (for in praising what in fact he had
believed to be his son's composition he had
gone to the extreme limit that his conscience
would permit), it was perfectly genuine.

There are only a very few people in the
world who form an independent judgment on
anything upon its intrinsic merits. Most of us
are the slaves of authority, or what is supposed
to be authority, in matters of opinion. In letters
men are almost as much victims to a name as
in art. The scholar blind to the beauties of a
modern poem can perceive them in an ancient
one even where they do not exist. He cannot
be persuaded that aeschylus was capable of
writing a dull play ; the antiquary prefers a
torso of two thousand years old to a full-length
figure by Canova. This may not be good
sense, but it is human nature.

I need not ask you,' continued Mr. Erin,
after a pause, during which he gazed at the

manuscript like Cortez, on his peak, at the
Pacific, ' whether this precious document came
from the same treasure house as the rest ? '

Yes, sir ; it almost seems as if there were
no ercl to them. I have not yet explored half
the curious papers on which my patron seems
to set so little store.'

The antiquary's eyes sparkled under his
shaggy brows ; if the young man had read his
very heart he could not have replied to its
secret thoughts more pertinently. An hour
before he had hardly dreamt of the existence of
such a prize, but, now that it had been found,
it at once began to suggest the most magnificent
possibilities. This was the first, but why should
it be the last ? If the manuscript of the ' Lear '
had survived all the accidents of time and
chance, why not that of the ' Hamlet ' also —
the 'Hamlet,' with its ambiguous utterances,
so differently rendered by the Shakespearean
oracles, and which stood so much in need of an
authoritative exponent ?

When a man (for no merit of his owii
beyond a little bribery at elections) is made a

baronet, he is not so enraptured but that he
beholds in the perspective a peerage, and even
dreams that upon a somewhat ampler waistcoat
(but still his own) may one day repose the
broad riband of the Garter.

What is very remarkable in the present
manuscript,' continued William Henry, ' is that
it is free from the ribaldry which but too often
disfigures the plays of Shakespeare.'

The taste of the time was somewhat
coarse,' observed Mr. Erin. It was almost incredible
even to himself, but he felt that his
tone was deprecatory ; he was actually making
apologies for the Bard of Avon to this young
gentleman of seventeen.

Nevertheless I cannot believe that Shakespeare
pandered to it,' observed William Henry
gravely. ' These things are in my opinion introduced
by the players of the period, and
afterwards inserted in the stage copies of the
plays from which they were literally printed ;
and thus the ear of England has been abused.
If the discovery of this manuscript should
clear Shakespeare's memory from these ignoble

stains, it will be a subject of national congratulation.'


'Very true,' assented Mr. Erin. He felt
that the remark was insufficient, ^vantiug in
enthusiasm, and altogether upon a lower level
than the other's arguments ; but the fact was
his mind was dwelling upon more personal
considerations. He was reflecting upon his
own high position as the proprietor of this
unique treasure and on what Malone would say
now.

These reflections, while they filled him
with self-complacency, made him set a higher
value upon William Henry than ever ; for,
like the magician in the Arabian story, he
could do nothing without his Aladdheen to
help him.

CHAPTEE XX.

A TRUE LOVER,

If Mr. Erin imagined that ' what Malone would
s2ijnoic ' — i.e. after the discovery of the ' Lear '
manuscript — must needs be in the way of
apology and penitence, he was doomed to
disappointment. So far from the circumstance
carrying conviction to the soul of that commentator,
and making him remorseful for his
past transgressions, it seemed to incite him to the
greater insolence, just as (so Mr. Erin expressed
it) the discovery of a new Scripture might have
incited the Devil not only against it, but against
the old ones. He reiterated all his old objections
and fortified them with new ones; he
refused to accept the testimony of the Hemynge
note of hand, which had satisfied his friend
and ally Mr. WaUis ; he repeated his horrid
suggestions that the Shakespeare lock was a

girl's ringlet, and, in a word, ' raged ' like the
heathen. Having declined to look at the
Lear ' upon the ground of ' life being too
short for the examination of such trash,' he
pronounced it to be * plain and palpable
forgery.' ' Three words,' he said, ' would
suffice for the matter,' and published ' An
Inquiry into Certain Papers Attributed to
Shakespeare,' extending to four hundred pages
quarto.

Whereto Mr. Erin responded at equal length,
with ' a studious avoidance of the personality
which Mr. Malone had imported into the
controversy,' but at the same time taking the
liberty to observe that in acting his various
parts on the stage of life, Fortune had denied
that gentleman every quality essential to each,
inasmuch as he was a critic without taste, a
poet without imagination, a scholar without
learning, a wit without humour, an antiquary
without the least knowledge of antiquity, and a
man of gallantry, in his dotage. This was a
very pretty quarrel as it stood ; but, far from
being confined to two antagonists, it was taken

up by scores on each side : it was no longer ' a
gentle passage of arms,' as the combat a
outrance used to be euphoniously called, but a
melee. Only the ancient rules of a fair fight
were utterly disregarded ; both parties went at
it hammer and tongs, and hit one another
anywhere and with anything. One would
have almost imagined that instead of a disagreement
among' scholars it had been a theological
controversy.

To the statement that no one who was nota
fool or a knave believed in the Shakespearean
manuscripts, Mr. Samuel Erin, scorning to make
any particular rejoinder, replied by simply
publishing a hist of those who had appended
their names to his certificate. To this he added
a footnote stating the opinion which Dr. Parr
had expressed concerning the Profession —
namely, that there were many beautiful things
in the liturgy of the Church of England, but
all inferior to it, which produced a vehement
disavowal from that hot-tempered cleric ; he
mentioned that he had never stated anything
so foolish, and that the words in question had

been used by Dr. Wanton, an observation
which caused some coolness between the two
learned divines.

To say that William Henry, the football
between these two opposing parties, enjoyed it, ^
would be an exaggeration ; he liked being in
the air — and indeed he was lauded by many
persons to the very skies — but did not so much
relish the being knocked and trodden underfoot
below.

As a popular poet once remarked of the
reviewers, ' I like their eulogies well enough,
but d — n their criticisms,' so the young man
would have preferred his notoriety to have
been without this alloy ; but on the whole it
pleased him vastly.

Margaret was almost angry with him for
taking men's hard words so coolly, but comforted
herself by reflecting that her Willie
must have a heavenly temper.

As for me,' she Avould say, ' I could
scratch their eyes out. It drives me wild to
listen to what uncle sometimes reads aloud out
of their horrid pamphlets.'

To which the young fellow would gallantly
reply, ' To have such a partisan, who would
not compound for fifty such detractors ? And,
after all, these good people have a right to
their own opinions, though it must be confessed
they express them with some intemperance. I
have given them the " Lear " manuscript, but I
cannot give them the taste and poetic feeling
necessary to appreciate it.'

What of course had wounded Margaret was
not their antagonistic criticism, nor even their
supercilious contempt, but the accusations they
had not scrupled to make against William
Henry's good faith. One does not talk of the
poetic feeling ' of a hostile jury. But love has
as many causes of admiration as Burton in his
'Anatomy' finds for melancholy; and the
young fellow's very carelessness about these
charges was, in Margaret's eyes, a feather in his
cap, and proved, for one thing, their absolute
want of foundation. If she did not understand
all the niceties of the points of difference between
the ' Lear ' manuscript and the ' Lear ' as

VOL. II. ■ c

bf

it was printed in her uncle's quarto edition of
the play, it was not for want of instruction.
There was little else talked of in Norfolk Street,
which was perhaps one of the reasons which
made the visits of Frank Dennis still more rare.
It was clear that the whole subject of the
Shakespearean discoveries was distasteful to
him ; and it must be confessed that he did not
even affect that interest in them which good
breeding, and indeed good nature, would have
seemed to suggest. As to the comparative
merits of the old and new readings, or rather,
as Mr. Erin maintained, of the accepted and
the original text, he had no opinion to offer one
way or the other. ' I am no critic,' he would
say ; ' so that while my differing from you
might give you some annoyance, my agreement
with you could afford you no satisfaction ' — a
remark that did not by any means content the
antiquary.

When one's friends have no opinions of
their own it cannot surely hurt them to adopt
our opinions, and it is only reasonable that they
should do so. It was quite a comfort (because

not wholly looked for) to find that when pushed
home on a subject wdthm his own judgment
Mr. Dennis's heart in these matters was at least
in the right place. Thus, when referring one
day to the onslaughts of his opponents, Mr.
Erin instanced as an example of their microscopic
depravity a certain objection that had
been made to the Hemjmge's note of hand.
You know, of course, my good fellow, how it
has been proved beyond all dispute that there
were two John Hemynges.'

I was here when Mr. Albany Wallis came
and the other deed was found,' was the young
man's reply.

Tut ! tut ! why, that of course ; but, dear
me, how behindhand you are. One would
really have thought as an old friend, however:
little interest you take in these matters for their
own sake, that you would have kept abreast
with us so far. Why, this receipt here has
been found since then, with a memorandum in
the bard's o^vn hand, " Receipt force inoneyes
given me bye the talk Heinynrje onne accounted
the Curtain Theatre!' '

c 2

I did not happen to have heard of it,' said
Dennis, regarding the new-found treasure, if not
with indifference, certainly with some lack of
rapture.

Well, now you see it,' continued Mr. Erin
with irritation. ' Of course it disposes of all
doubt in that direction. But now, forsooth, the
note of hand is objected to upon the ground of
its seals.'

Good heavens ! ' ejaculated Dennis, and
this time it was evident that he was really
moved.

No wonder you are indignant. I now remember
that I drew your particular attention
to the document in question. Well, it is
almost incredible that their accusation has
shrunk to the puny charge that a note of hand,
even in Shakespeare's time, would not have had
seals appended to it. Is it not amazing that
human nature can stoop to such detraction ? If
it had been Malone — a mere reptile — who
makes a point of the Globe being a theatre
instead of a playhouse — but this is some lawyer

it seems, a child of the Devil, I'll warrant, like
the rest of his craft.'

Considering that William Henry, now mr.
Erin's 'dear Samuel,' had been articled to a
conveyancer with the idea of becoming a
lawyer himself when full grown, this was a
somewhat sweeping as well as severe remark ;
but, carried away by the torrent of his wrath,
the speaker was wholly unconscious of this
little inconsistency.

As if every one did not know,' he continued
— • not to mention the fact that in
Malone's own prolegomena the Curtain Theatre
is so called in Blackwood's sermon, a.d, 1578
that in the Elizabethan times every one not
only spelt as he liked, and differently at different
times, but appended seals to their documents
or did without them, as opportunity served. Is
it not even probable that Hemynge, being a
player and knowing little of business, may have
been particularly solicitous of every form of law
being observed, however superfluous, and in
even so small a matter ? Is it not in accordance,

I ask, with-what we know of human nature
that it should be so ? '

It was clear that this was no extempore
speech, nor even a discourse the claims of which
could be satisfied by pen and ink, but one
very evidently intended to be printed. Its
deliverance gave Frank Dennis time to recover
from a certain dismay into which Mr. Erin's
communication had thrown him.

Just so,' he said ; ' you are right, no
doubt. The objection as to its being contrary
to custom to append seals seems frivolous
enough.'

And the ground has been cut away
from the first, you see, in all other directions,'
exclaimed the antiquary triumphantly.
Margaret,' he continued in high good humour
as his niece entered the room, ' permit me to
introduce to you a convert. Mr. Frank Dennis
has been hitherto little better than a sceptic,
but the light of truth is beginning to dawn
upon him through crannies. He has been
moved to confess that the note of hand at least
is genuine. I have a letter to write before the



post goes out, so will leave him in your hands
to continue the work of conversion.'

The door closed behind him before Frank
Dennis, always slow of speech, could form his
reply ; Exit he gave Margaret the benefit of it.

I never told your uncle,' he said in a grave

SliiSlT

pained voice, ' that I believed the note of hand
to be genuine.'

What does it matter? ' exclaimed Margaret
reproachfully. ' I cannot tell you how these
miserable disagreements distress me ; of themselves,
indeed, they are of no consequence, but
they irritate my uncle, and have a still worse

effect, Frank, upon you. ' I can ascribe it to
no other cause, indeed, that you have almost
entirely ceased to visit us.'

This was not quite true ; moreover, it was
a dangerous assertion to make, likely to draw
upon her the very reproach she had always
feared, and which she felt was not undeserved.
She trembled lest he should reply, ' Xo, that
was not the reason ; it is because you have
preferred William Henry's love to mine.'

It Alas to her relief, therefore, though also
to her great surprise, that he answered in his
habitual quiet tone, ' Perhaps it is, Margaret.'

She did not believe it was, and was convinced
that in saying so he had laid a burthen
upon his conscience for her sake. His nature,
she well kncAv, was so honest and simple that
it shrank from even an evasion of the truth,
and the very fact of his having thus evaded it
to spare her showed her the depth of his affection.
If he, then, still loved her, was it not
cruel, she reflected, to ask him to her home
to Witness her happiness with another's She
would miss his company, for that was always

9^

pleasant to her as that of a tender and faithful
friend ; but was it not selfish of her to invite

\ \ \A

it ? It was obvious that he came unwillingly,
and only in obedience to her behest. If she
ceased to importune him he would certainly

cease to come, but she would not lose his
friendship. When — that is, if — Willie and she
were married, it would be different with him ;
he would then come and see them as the friend
of both.

Of course it's very unfortunate,' she stammered,
with her eyes fixed on the ground, ' but
since my uncle is so thin-skinned about these
manuscripts, and you, as he says, are so dreadfully
sceptical, it would perhaps be better —
until the whole affair has subsided '

She looked up for a moment in her embarrassment
of speech and met Frank's face ; it
was gazing at her with an expression of pain and
pity and patience ^^'hich she did not understand
and which increased her perplexity.

Yes, Margaret, you are right,' he said : ' I
am better away from here for the present. My
coming can do no good, and, as 3'ou have surmised,
it gives me pain.'

At this the blood rushed to her cheeks, but
he went on in the same quiet, resolute tone, as
though he had made no reference to his love
for her at all.

When one cannot say what one will, even
when nature dictates it, it is clear that one is ina
false position. I shall not come to Norfolk
Street any more.'

But you are not going away — I mean from
your home ? ' exclaimed the girl, alarmed by
an expression in his face which seemed to
forebode some worse tiling than his words
implied.

No, Margaret ; I shall be at home, where
a word from you will find me at your service
always — alio says.'

He spoke With such a tender stress upon
the word that she felt a great remorse for what
she had done to him, though indeed it had
been no fault of hers. It is impossible, under
the present conditions of society at least, that
a young woman should make two young
men happy at once ; one of them must go to
the wall. Perhaps if this one had put himself
forward instead of the other matters might
have been otherwise ; the peach falls to the
hand that is readiest. There are men that
never wain the woman they love till she becomes

a widow ; for my part, in the meantime — but
I am writing of Frank Dennis. He was of a
patient disposition, and had a very moderate
opinion of himself. And yet his love for
Margaret was great, and so genuine that he
could have been content to see her happy with
another man. Why he was not now content
was because he did not think she would be
happy ; but he did not tell her so, for, though
honesty might suggest his doing so, honour
forbade him. There is an honour quite different
from that of the fanfaronnading sort, one
which has nothing to do with running a fellow-creature
through for a hasty word, or with
ruining some one else to pay our card debts —
a delicate, scrupulous sense of what is becoming
even in our relations with our enemies, a flower
of a modest colour which grows in the shade.
This was the sort of honour that Frank Dennis
possessed, and which prompted him now to
keep silence, when he might have said something
which would have been much to his own
advantage.

Good-bye, Margaret,' Alas all he said, as he

took her hand in his. He would, if he could,
have even eliminated a certain tenderness from
his tone, because he knew it gave her pain ;
but he could not so utterly conquer nature.

Good-bye, Frank,' was all she said in reply,
or dared to say.

She was thinking of him and not of herself
at all. It was pity for him which made her
voice falter and her soul quail within her, lest
at that supreme moment he should have demanded
from her, once for all, another sort of
dismissal.

As to love, her heart was loyal to her
Willie ; and yet, though she would not have
confessed it even to herself, she had a secret
sense as the door closed upon this other one
that she had burned her boats.

CHAPTEE XXL

A TIFF.

When one is not en rapport with one's friends
about any particular subject, in which for the
time they are interested, it is better to leave
them, for it is certain they would rather have
our room than our company. If you happen
to be at Bullock Smithy, for example, during
a contested election, when your host at the
Hall and all his family are looking forward to
the regeneration of the species — conditional
upon the return of Mr. Brown — and you don't
much care about it yourself (or even doubt of
its being accomplished that way), you had
better for the present leave the Hall and revisit
it under less exciting circumstances. They
will politely lament your departure, but privately
be very glad to get rid of you. You

may be (you are) a charming person, but just
now you are a little in the way. They resent
your presence as spirit-sappers resent that of
•• the sceptic,' as they call every one endowed
with reason and common-sense. The common
harmony is disturbed by it as by a false note.

Thus it happened that the withdrawal of
Frank Dennis from his friends in Norfolk Street
was upon the whole a relief to them. They
could talk unreservedly among themselves of
the subject that lay next their hearts, and
which was really assuming great importance
for all of them.

If the mere amount of the Shakespearean
manuscripts could have assured, as it undoubtedly
made more probable, their authenticity,
the voice of detraction ought to have been
silenced ; for there was some new discovery
made in that wonderful treasure chamber of
the Temple almost every day. Contracts and
mortgages, theatrical disbursements, miscellaneous
letters, deeds of gift, all immediately
relating to Shakespeare, if not in his very hand,
were constantly being found. Records which

a few months ago would have filled Mr. Erin's
heart with rapture were now, indeed, welcomed
by him, but almost as a matter of
course. ' The gentleman of considerable property
in the Temple,' as the antiquary had
been wont to vaguely term him, had now
grown as familiar to him as though he had had
a name as well as a local habitation.

Well, what news from our friend to-day,
Samuel ? ' was the cheery question he would
address to his son on his return home every
evening, and it was very seldom that there was
no news.

Mr. Erin indeed had cause to be grateful to
this unknown person, since he had (though not
without reluctance) given permission for the
publication of the papers, which had accordingly
been advertised to appear in a handsome
quarto at two guineas. They included all the
documents, the ' Lear ' (of which unfortunately
three leaves were missing) and a few pages of
Hamlet.' These last differed but little from
those of the accepted text, a circumstance
which did not escape the notice of the enemy.

who did not hesitate to aver that the fori:rer,
whoever he was, had found ' Hamlet ' too
difficult a nut to crack.

The best reply, as Mr. Erin wisely concluded,
to so coarse a sarcasm was the publication
of Shakespeare's Deed of Trust, conveying
the ' Lear ' to John Hemynge, in which he said,
Should this bee everre againe Imprinted,
I doe order tyhatt iste bee so down from this
nine true written Place, and not from those
now printed' — an injunction which, had there
been an entire copy extant, would doubtless
have included the ' Hamlet ' also.

To the ' Miscellaneous papers and legal
instruments, under the hand and seal of
William Shakespeare, including the tragedy
of " King Lear " and a small fragment of
Hamlet, " ' was prefixed a preface by Mr.
Erin himself, setting forth the circumstances
under which they had come into his possession,
challenging criticism and defying inquiry. This
publication was of course the crucial test.
While our opinions are expressed viva voce, or
even with pen and ink, they are of little con-vol.

II. D

sequence to the world at large, however much
they may affect our little circle of friends and
enemies. I know many persons who might
have remained in possession of great works of
genius in manuscript had they not been so
indiscreet as to print them ; the annalist's
sarcasm of nisi impressed applies to authors as
well as kings.

The book evoked a storm of censure.
My eyes will scarcely permit me to read it,'
wrote Malone (' posturing as a sick lion,'
sneered Mr. Erin), ' but I have read enough
to convince me that the whole production is
a forgery.' Others fell foul of the style, the
ideas, the very punctuation of the discovered
manuscripts. They acknowledged that the
phraseology was simple, but added that ' it
was that sort of simplicity that belongs to the
fool.' As it was some time before the advocates
of the discovery could get out their
rejoinders — with which many of those dio
had signed the certificate were busy — Mr.
Samuel Erin had for the present a pretty time
of it. He was like a man caught in a downpour

of hailstones without an umbrella. He
never blenched, however, for a single instant ;
one would have thought that waterproofs and
overalls had been invented before his time for
his especial behalf. But poor Margaret trembled
and shivered. How could people be so
wicked as to say such things of Willie ! She
would not have been so distressed had she not

seen that he shrank from these sins's himself.

<—

Womanlike, she concealed her own pain and
strove to comfort him.

As for these imputations upon your
honour, Willie, they are not worth thinking
of; it is as though they called you a negro,
when every one who has ever seen you knows
you to be a white man. Still less need you
trouble yourself about their criticisms ; for
what can it matter to you whether the manuscript,
or the printed copy, of Shakespeare's
works has the greater worth ? '

That's true,' assented the young fellow ;
but by his knitted brows and downcast looks
she knew that it did matter to him nevertheless.


T) 2

This is what I have always feared for you,
should you publish a book of your own,' she went
on earnestly. ' You are so sensitive, darling.
How thankful I am that Shakespeare (who can
afford to smile at it) is bearing the brunt of all
this, and not you ! '

Then came the 'rejoinders,' like sunshine
after storm. ' There was not an ingenuous character
or disinterested individual in the whole
circle of literature,' wrote one enthusiastic
partisan, ' to whom the manuscripts had been
subjected who was not convinced of their
authenticity.' They had ' not only convinced
the scholar and the antiquary, but the paper-maker.'
As to the secresy observed with respect
to their origin and possessor, 'what becomes
of the acumen of the critic if such details are
necessary to establish the genuineness of such
a production? His occupation is gone.' As
to the intrinsic merits of the ' Lear,' the seal of
Shakespeare's genius was stamped upon it. ' A
wit so pregnant, an imagination so unbounded,
a knowledge so intuitive of the weakness of the
human heart as was here exhibited could belong

to no other man. If it was not his, it was
inspiration itself.'

Here, indeed,' thought William Henrys is
something like criticism. This is an independent
opinion with which the carping of
prejudice or personal malevolence is not to be
mentioned in the same breath.'

And, indeed, if these eulogies had been the
products of the best minds in the most perfect
state of equilibrium they could scarcely have
given him a more exquisite gratification. He
had a sensation about his forehead as though a
wreath of laurels rested there, or even a halo.
He touched the stars with his head, and if he
moved upon the earth at all it was on wings.
It was delightful to Margaret to see him thus.
She hardly recognised in him, exultant and
self-conscious, the same young fellow whom
she had known depressed and obscure. She
was proud beyond measure of the position he
had made for himself in the world of letters,
but happier still because it seemed to make
him hers, to put her imcle's consent to their
union beyond all question. Yet, as love's

fashion is, she still pictured to herself at times
delays, opposition, and even obstacles.

'We must not be too sure, my darling,'
she said to him lovingly one day, ' though all
things seem to smile on us. It is but the promise
after all, the bud but not the flower, the
blossom but not the fruit.'

True,' he answered thoughtfully ; ' all this
is but a mock engagement ; the battle has yet
to come. It is something, however, that the
fighting will be on the same field ; one at least
knows the ground.'

She stared at him, in doubt as to what he
meant ; then, as if alarmed by her wondering
looks, he stammered out, ' I was thinking of
Mr. Erin ; we now know him thoroughly, or
rather he has become another man from what
he was.'

My uncle has changed, no doubt, and for
the better,' she said.

'There is change everywhere and for the
better,' he answered, smiling.

He took from his pocket one of the printed
cards which were now formally issued to purchasers

of the lately published volume for
leave to examine the manuscripts.

SHAKESPEARE.

Admit Albany Wallis, a subscriber, to view
the papers.

'Think of Mr. Wallis having bought the
book ! Malone and he have quarrelled about
it, it seems.'

'Xot about the book,' put in Margaret
quietly ; ' I am afraid he is not even yet a true
believer, but I like him better for having
bought the book than even if he were. He
felt he had behaved badly to us when he
came here with that wretched Mr. Talbot, and
his purchase of it was by way of making some
amends. Where he differed from Mr. Malone
was about the John Hemynge deed you
brought from the Temple ; Mr. Malone has
had the malevolence to stigmatise even that asa
forgery ; but, as Mr. Wallis points out, since
you were away from Norfolk Street only three-quarters
of an hour, such a fraud was impossible

and out of the question. He is a just
man With a mind open to conviction, and he
has had the course to confess himself in the

wrong.

'Whoever told you all this?' inquired
William Henry in amazement.

A person who is no friend of his, but, like
him, has a generous nature.'

Methinks you do protest too much,' observed
the young man drily. *Xo one was saying
anything against your informant, who it was
easy to perceive was Mr. Frank Dennis. I
thought he had literally withdrawn his countenance
from us of late, as he has done long
ago in another sense.'

No one can control his own opinions,
Willie,' said Margaret gently. 'I have heard
you yourself say a hundred times, concerning
this very matter, that every one had a right to
them, but, since the very knowledge of Frank's
entertaining certain views (though he never
expressed them except upon compulsion) was an
annoyance to my uncle, he thought it better to
absent himself.'

But still you meet him elsewhere ? '

I met him m the street the other day by
accident. He gave me, it is true, the information
I have just given to you, but he did not
volunteer it. It was I who spoke to him first
about Mr. Wallis.'

It seems he took great care to undeceive
you as to that gentleman's having any belief
in me.'

In you, Willie ? We never even spoke of
you:

This was very true : he had become a
subject to which, for Frank's sake, she never
alluded in Frank's presence,

Well, of course I am not responsible for
the manuscripts ; but do you suppose that
Dennis was thinking of them, for which he
does not care one farthings, even if he was
talking of them ? He was thinking; of me.
When he depreciates them to you he depreciates
me ; when he quotes the opinion of Mr.
Wallis or of any one else he is quoting it
against me. You need not blush, Margaret,
as if my mind had just awakened to a suspicion

of the truth. Do you suppose I don't know
what Mr. Frank Dennis has been after, all
along ? '

I will not pretend to be ignorant of what
you mean, Willie,' said Margaret firmly, ' but
you are quite mistaken if you imagine that
Frank Dennis has ever breathed a word to me,
or, as I believe, to any one, to your disadvantage
: he has a loyal heart and is a true
friend.'

A friend, indeed ! ' said William Henry
scornfully.

Yes, indeed and in need. I will lay my
life on it, Willie. A man who detests all
falsehood and deceit, and even if he entertained
an unworthy thought of a rival would
hold his peace about him.'

That is wdiy, no doubt, he did not speak
of me,' put in the young man bitterly. ' Detraction
can be conveyed by silence as well as
by a forked tongue.'

You are both unjust and unkind, Willie.'

'Still the fact remains that, whenever you
see this gentleman, I do not rise — I will not

say by comparison, because I believe you love
me — but I do not rise in your opinion. You
cannot deny it ; your face confesses it. Under
these circumstances you can hardly think me
unreasonable if I ask you for the present not to
meet Mr. Frank Dennis, even " by accident in
the street." '

I will not speak to him, Willie, if you
object to it,' said Margaret in a low voice.
She was the more distressed at what he had
said because she had a secret consciousness
that it was not undeserved. He did not
indeed sink in her opinion after her talks with
Frank, and certainly did not suffer by contrast ;
but, on the other hand, he did not rise, while
her confidence in the genuineness of the Shakespearean
documents did sink.

Thence arose misgivings as to the future,
doubts whether Willie would be permitted to
win her, and a certain unsteadiness, not indeed
of purpose but of outlook.

Of course you must speak to him if you
meet him, Maggie,' continued William Henry
in a tone from which all irritation had disappeared

; ' only for the present do not seek his
society. You will not long have to deny
yourself the pleasure, since in a few weeks —
that is, I intend very shortly to ask Mr. Erin to
give you to me for my very own.'

Oh, Willie ! He will never do it,' she
returned, not however with much conviction,
but as one who toys with doubt. ' I am sure
he does not dream of your having such an
intention.'

'Then he must be as blind as Gloster,
Maggie,'

This allusion to the ' Lear ' was somehow—
it would have been difficult to say why —
unwelcome to her. Love no doubt depends
upon very small and comparatively mundane
matters, but still that her hopes of marriage
with her lover should hang upon the general
belief in the genuineness of an old manuscript
seemed a little humiliating. She would have
far preferred, had it been possible, that William
Henry should have won his way to a modest
competence by his own pen. Perhaps he had
hopes of this, and some surprise in store for

her ; or why should he have used that phrase
in a few weeks ' ? It was true that he had
substituted for it a more vague expression, but
she could not help thinking that he had some
definite plan in his mind to precipitate events.
What could it be ?

CHAPTEE XXII.

A Bargain.

The book goes bravely, Samuel,' observed Mr.
Erin, as father and son were sitting together
one evening with Margaret between them.
William Henry's hand was resting on the back
of her chair, and at times he addressed her intones
so low that his words must needs have
had no more meaning for a third person than if
they had been in a foreign tongue. Yet both
his contiguity and his confidences remained
unreproved. Perhaps among other recently
developed virtues in the young man it was put
down by Mr. Erin (who himself had a quick
eye for the main chance) to William Henry's
credit that he never questioned his father's
right to treat the Shakespearean papers as his
own, or to demand any account of his stewardship
with respect to them.

The antiquary, however, had scruples of
his own, which, if they did not compel him to
part with hard money, induced him to look
upon his milch cow with very lenient and
indulgent eyes.

It was surely only natural that these two
young people should entertain a very strong
mutual attachment ; through long familiarity
they doubtless seemed more like brother and
sister to one another than cousins. It could
not be said, in short, that Mr. Erin winked at
their love-making, but he shut his eyes to it.
It would have been very inconvenient to have
said ' Xo ' to a certain question, and quite impossible
to say ' Yes.' It was better that things
should take their own course, even if it was a
little dangerous, than to make matters uncomfortable
by interference.

From first to last, my lad,' he continued ina
cheerful voice, ' we shall make little short of
500/., I expect'

Indeed,' said William Henry indifferently.
To do him justice he cared little for money at
any time, and just now less than usual. His

appetite, even for fame, had for the present lost
its keenness. Love possessed him wholly ; he
cared only for Margaret.

To think that a new reading of an old
play — though to be sure it is Shakespeare's
play — should produce so much ! ' went on Mr.
Erin complacently. ' Good heavens ! what
would not the public give for a new play by
the immortal bard ? '

The question is,' observed William Henry,
what would yoii give, Mr. Erin ? '

The remark was so unexpected, and delivered
in such a quiet tone, that for a
moment the antiquary was unbounded, and
between disbelief and expectancy made no
reply.

My dear Samuel,' he murmured presently,
is it possible you can be serious, that you have
in your possession '

Nay, sir,' interrupted the young man
smiling ; ' I never said that. I do not possess
it, but within the last few days I have known
of the existence of such a manuscript.'

You have known and not told me ! ' exclaimed

the antiquary reproachfully ; ' why, I
might have died in the meantime ! '

Then you would have seen Shakespeare,
and he would have told you all about it,' returned
William Henry' lightly.

Do not answer your father like that,' said
Margaret in low, reproving tones.

It was plain, indeed, that Mr. Erin was
greatly agitated. His eyes were fixed upon
his son, but without speculation in them. He
looked like one in a trance, to whom has been
vouchsafed some wondrous vision.

I know what is best,' returned the young
man under his breath, pressing Margaret's
shoulder with his hand. His arm still hung
over her chair ; his manner was studiously
unmoved, as becomes the master of a situation.


Where is it ? ' gasped the old man.

In the Temple. I have not yet obtained
permission to bring it away. Until I could do
that I felt it was useless to speak about the
matter — that I should only be discredited.
Even you yourself, unless you saw the manu-vol.

II. E

script, might hesitate to believe in its authenticity.'


The manuscript ? ' exclaimed Mr. Erin, his
mind too monopolised by the splendour of the
discovery to descend to detail ; ' you have really
seen it, then, with your own eyes ? An unacted
play of Shakespeare's ! '

An unpublished one, at all events. I have
certainly seen it, and within these two hours,
but only in my patron's presence.'

He said that whatever you found was to
be yours,' exclaimed Mr. Erin petulantly.

Well, up to this time he has been as good
as his word,' said William Henry smiling.

Indeed he has,' remarked Margaret. ' We
must not be ungrateful, uncle.'

Nevertheless, people should perform what
they promise,' observed the antiquary severely.

For the second time Margaret felt a gentle
pressure upon her shoulder ; it seemed as
though Willie had whispered, ' You hear that.'

The play is called " Yortigern and Eowena,"
' continued the young man.

'An admirable subject,' murmured the
antiquary ecstatically.

It is, of course, historical ; there are
Hengist and Horses.'

Horsa,' suggested Mr. Erin.

Shakespeare writes it Horses ; Horsa was
perhaps his sister.'

'Perhaps,' admitted the antiquary with
prompt adhesion. ' And the treatment? How
does it rank as regards his other productions ? '

'Nay, sir, that is for you to judge; I am
no critic'

But you tell me that your patron will not
part with it.'

I have not yet persuaded him to do so ;
but I by no means despair of it, and in the
meantime I have a copy of it.' ^

My dear Samuel ! '

At first I tried to commit it to memory,
but found the task beyond my powers. It is
a very long play.'

The longer the better,' murmured the
antiquary.

But not when one has to get it by heart,'
observed William Henry drily. His tone and
manner were more in contrast to those of the

2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF \\k\m\&

elder man than ever ; as one grew heated the
other seemed to grow cooler and cooler.
There was no question as to which of them,
just at present, was likely to prove the better
hand at a bargain.

But why do you talk thus, Samuel ? The
play, the play's the thing ; since you have it
why do you not produce it ? You cannot
imagine that delay — indeed, that anything —
can enhance the interest I feel in this most
marvellous of our discoveries.'

William Henry's face grew very grave.

It is true that whatever is mine is yours, ina
sense,' he said; 'but still you must pardon
me for remarking that they are my discoveries

Margaret started in her chair ; if she had
not felt William Henry's grasp upon her wrist
for he had shifted his position and was
confronting the antiquary face to face —
she would have risen from it. She had
never given her cousin credit for such self-assertion,
and she trembled for its result, She
did not even yet suspect it had a motive in
which she herself was concerned ; but the

situation alarmed her. It was like that of
some audacious clerk who demands of his
master a partnership, vritli a certain difference
that made it even graver.

What is it you want ? ' inquired the antiquary.
He too had become conscious that the
relations between William Henry and himself
were about to enter on a new phase ; nevertheless
his tone was conciliatory, like that of
a man who, though somewhat tried, cannot
afford to quarrel with his bread-and-butter.

'I am the last man, I hope, to be illiberal,'
he continued. ' If I were dealing with a stranger
I should frankly own that what you have, or
rather, hope to have, to dispose of is a valuable
commodity ; to me, indeed, as you know, it
is more valuable than to any mere dealer in
such wares. Nevertheless I hope you will be
reasonable ; after all it is a question of what
the thing will fetch. I suppose you will not
ask a fancy price ? '

William Henry smiled. ' Well, some people
might think it so, Mr. Erin, but it is not money
at all that I require of you.'

Not money ? ' echoed the antiquary in a
voice of great relief. ' Well, that indeed shows
a proper spirit. I am really pleased to find that
we are to have no lagging over a matter of
this kind, which in truth would be little short
of a sacrilege. If you have fixed your mind
upon any of my poor possessions, though it
should even be the " Cameron," the earliest
edition extant, and complete except for the
title-page '

It is not the " Cameron," sir.'

Or the quarto of 1623, with marginal
notes in my own hand. But no ; that is a
small matter indeed by comparison with this
magnificent discovery. I hardly know what I
have which would in any way appear to you
an equivalent ; but be assured that anything
at my disposal is very much at your service.'

Then if you please, sir, I will take Margaret.'


Margaret ! ' Mr. Erin repeated the name
in tones of such supreme amazement as could
not have been exceeded had the young man
stipulated for his wng. Perhaps his surprise was

a little simulated, vehicle was certainly not the
case with Margaret herself ; she sat in silence,
covered with blushes, and with her eyes fixed on
the table before her, very much frightened, but
by no means 'hurt.' While she trembled at
Willie's audacity she admired it.

Mr. Erin shot a glance at her which convinced
him that he would get no help from that
quarter. If she had not been cognisant of the
young fellow's intention it was clear that the
proposal he had made was not displeasing to
her. The antiquary ransacked his mind for an
objection that would meet the case ; there
were plenty of them there, but none of them fit
for use and at the same time strong enough.
A very powerful one at once occurred to him
in the question, ' What do you propose to hive
upon ? ' but unhappily the answer was equally
obvious, ' Upon you ! ' A most intolerable suggestion,
but one which — on the brink of a
bargain — it was not convenient to combat.

For a moment, too, the objection of consanguinity
occurred to him, that they were
cousins ; an admirable plea, because it was

quite insurmountable ; but though this might
have had its weight with Minaret, he doubted
of its efficacy in William Henry's case, inasmuch
as he probably knew that they were not
cousins. To have this question raised in the
young lady's presence — or indeed at all — was
not to be thought of. In the end he had to
content himself with the commonplace argument
of immaturity, unsatisfactory at the best, since
it only delays the evil day.

Margaret ? You surely cannot be serious,
my dear lad. Why, your united ages scarcely
make up that of a marriageable man. This is
really too ridiculous. You are not eighteen.'

The rejoinder that that was an objection
which time could be relied on to remove was
obvious, but William Henry did not make it.
He was not only playing for a great stake ; it
was necessary that it should be paid in ready
money.

I venture to think, Mr. Erin,' he said
respectfully, ' that our case is somewhat exceptional.
We have known one another fora
long time, and very intimately ; it is not a

question of calf love. Moreover, to be frank
with you, my value in your eyes is now at its
highest. You may learn to esteem me more ;
1 trust you may ; but as time goes on I cannot
hope commercially to be at such a premium.
Stow or never, therefore, is my time to sell.'

Though he spoke of himself as the article
of barter he was well aware that Mr. Erin's
thoughts where fixed upon another purchase,
which, as it were, included him in the same
lot.'

But, my dear Samuel, this is so altogether
unexpected.'

So is the discovery of the manuscript,' put
in the young fellow with pitiless logic.

It is like springing a mine on me, my
lad.'

The " Vortigern and Eowena " is also a
mine, or I hope will prove so,' was the quick
rejoinder.

Whatever might be urged against William
Henry Erin, it could not be said that he had
not his wits about him.

'You have only the copy,' objected the

antiquary, though he felt the argument to be
inadequate, since it was liable to be swept
away.

Nay,' returned the young man, smiling,
what becomes of the acumen of the critic,
if internal evidence is insufficient to establish
authenticity? His occupation is gone.'

This was Mr. Erin's favourite quotation
from the ' Rejoinder ; ' to use it against him
was Hke seething a kid in its mother's milk,
and it roused him for the first time to vigorous
opposition. It is possible that he also saw his
opportunity for spurring the other on to gain
possession of the precious document.

That is all mighty fine, young sir, but this
is not a question of sentiment. I must see this
play in Shakespeare's own handwriting before
I can take your most unlooked-for proposal
into consideration at all. At present the whole
affair is in the air.'

You shall see the play,' said William Henry
composedly.

Moreover,' continued the antiquary with
equal firmness, ' it will not be sufficient that I

myself should be convinced of its authenticity.
It must receive general acceptance.'

I can hardly promise, sir, that there will be
no objectors,' returned the young man drily ;
Mr Malone, for example, will probably have
something to say.'

The mention of ' that devil,' as the antiquary,
in moments of irritation, was wont to
call that respectable commentator, was most
successful.

I speak of rational beings, sir,' returned
Mr. Erin, with quite what is called in painting
his ' early manner.' ' What Malone may take
into his head to think is absolutely indifferent
to me. I speak of the public voice.'

As heard, for instance, at the National
Theatre,' suggested William Henry earnestly.
Suppose that " Vortigern andEowena " should
be acted at Drury Lane or Covent Garden,
and be received as the bona fide production
of Shakespeare ? Would that test content
you?'

That such an ordeal would be of a sufficiently
crucial nature was indubitable, yet not more so

than the confidence with which it was proposed.
If the least gammer of doubt as to the genuineness
of the Shakespearean MSS. still reigned in
the antiquary's mind the voice and manner of
his son as he spoke those words would have
dispelled it. The immaturity of the two young
people was not much altered for the better
since Mi Erin had cited it as a bar to their union,
but, under the circumstances now suggested,
their position would be very materially improved,
A play at Drury Lane in those days
meant money in pocket ; a successful play was
a small fortune, and might even be a laroje one.
He would have greatly preferred to have this
precious MS., like the others, for nothing, but,
after all, what was demanded of him was better
than being asked to give hard cash for a pig ina
poke. It was only a promise to pay upon
conditions which would make the payment
comparatively easy.

If " Vortigern and Eowena " is successful,'
continued William Henry with the quiet persistence
of a carpenter who strikes the same
nail on the head, ' it must be understood that I

have permission to marry Margaret as soon as
she pleases.'

Poor Mr. Erin looked appealingly at his
niece. ' You will surely not be so indelicate,' his
glance seemed to say, ' as to wish to precipitate
a matter of this kind ? ' But he looked in vain.
She did not, it is true, say, ' I will though ; ' there
was even a blush on her cheek, which might
have seemed to flatter his expectations : but
she kept silence, which in such a case it was
impossible to construe otherwise than as consent.

Some old gentlemen would have hereupon
felt themselves justified in saying that 'young
women were not so forward in their time,'
or ' that such conduct was in their experience
unprecedented,' a reflection, to judge by the
frequency with which it is indulged in under
similar circumstances, that would seem to give
some sort of consolation ; but the antecedents
of Mr. Samuel Erin were unhappily, as we
have hinted, not of a sufficiently ascetic nature
to enable him to use this solace.

Perhaps you would like to read the play ? '
suggested William Henry.

Very much,' replied the antiquary with
eagerness.

Just as you please, Mr. Erin. It is yours
of course, upon the understanding, supposing it
to realise expectation, that we have your consent
to our marriage.'

Very good,' replied the antiquary, without
any eagerness at all, and in a tone which (had
such a substitution been feasible) would have
better suited with ' Very bad.'

AX Unexpected ALLY.

THAT had
gone before
as regarded the
Shakespeare MSS.
sank into almost
insignificance as
compared with the
stir made by the
^^Yortigern and Eowena.' The superiority
X)f new lamps over old ones has, with that

well-known exception in the ' Arabian Nights,'
been pretty generally acknowledged in all
climes and times. If a scrap of writing from the
great genius, who had left nothing of himself
behind him, save, as had been hitherto supposed,
a couple of signatures, had had its attractions
; if the original drafts of a well-known
play or two had set the town by the
ears ; one may imagine the excitement produced
by the discovery of a brand-new drama
in the master's hand. Mr. Samuel Erin's door
in Norfolk Street was positively besieged by
applicants to view the wonder.

That gentleman, however, declined for the
present to gratify the public curiosity. Conscious
as he was of the importance of his own
position, he was also fully aware of the necessity
of strengthening it against all comers, among
whom must necessarily be many foes. William
Henry had been as good as his word. He
had, though with great difficulty, persuaded his
patron to part with the precious manuscript,
which had been duly placed in the antiquary's
hands. Both by external and internal evidence

he was fully satisfied with its authenticity ; but
it was necessary that the world without should
share his conviction. Mahomet, it seems, was
for a considerable time content with a single
believer ; nor when we consider that that
believer was his wife, is it discreditable to his
claims. If he could only have converted his
valet de chambre also, he ought to have been
well satisfied. Mr. Erin, as we are aware, was
in a much better position as to followers, but
then he wanted so much more. Mahomet, sofar
as we know, had not just then a two-guinea
edition of the Koran in hand, the sale of which
was beginning to slacken. It was doubtful
whether the immediate publication of the
'Yortigern' might not injure its predecessor,
unless its genuineness could be better authenticated.


To this end, Mr. Erin took the bold step of
convening a committee of commentators and
critics to report upon the MS. A selection was
made from those who had signed the certificate,
and who were therefore favourable ; but others
were invited who had not so compromised

VOL. II. F

themselves, and even who might be supposed
to be hostile, including Mr. Albany Wallis. Xo
one could say that it was a hole-and-corner
business, far less that the assembly was packed.
It would, without doubt, have been much more
agreeable to Mr. Erin if it had been, for he
had to listen to some very unpleasant things.
These, for the most part, it Alas true, were said
by small men. Just as in the great railway
meetings of the present day, the shareholder
who has just put enough in the undertaking to
qualify him to speak at all is always the most
loquacious, so the second-rate critics, who had
not much chance of being listened to in the
world without, were, if not the most sceptical,
the most vituperative ; and poor Mr. Erin was
not a chairman who could ignore them. The
style, the matter, the calligraphy of the ' Vortigern,'
nay, even the very paper on which it was
written, underwent the sharpest scrutiny and
evoked some very bitter remarks. Dr. Parr
and Dr. Wanton, the two great cards of the
certificate, were strongly in favour of the
play, and carried many with them, including

the laureate Pye, and his brother poet, Sir
James Burgess. But there were also many
adversaries.

The fact was, notwithstanding that famous
dictum about the occupation of the critic
being gone if the intrinsic merit of a work was
not sufficient to establish its genuineness, and
though the excellence of the ' Yortigern ' was
on the whole admitted, the story of how it
came into William Henry's hands was the real
obstacle to its acceptance. His patron of the
Temple was too much wrapped in mystery to
be satisfactory to the minds of most.

The committee was to sit for two days, and
then decide by vote upon the all-important
question, was there or was there not sufficient
evidence before them of the authenticity of
the play ? William Henry was always present,
a witness whose examination was always
proceeding, but, as it were, in a circle. The
keenest expert could get nothing out of him
beyond what had been already got. He had
nothing to tell, save what he had already told.
His manner was cool and collected, and prof

2

duce a favourable impression. Sir James
Burgess said, ' If this young man is not speaking
the truth, he is a marvellous actor, and weare
informed, upon authority which in this case
can certainly not be disputed, that he is but
seventeen.' The authority was not quite so
good as Sir James imagined, but the fact was ashe
stated it.

Alone with Mr. Erin and Margaret, the
young fellow was even more self-reliant; he
was hopeful. Whatever decision the committee
might arrive at, there was still, he would say,
the appeal to the public ; and in that he expressed
his confidence. In this Mr. Erin could
not agree ; if the play was discredited by those
who had been so solemnly convened to judge of
it, he doubted of its acceptance out of doors.
On the second and all-important day there
was even a fuller attendance than on the first.
Among the new-comers was the Bishop of St.
Andrews, a good-natured divine enough, but
who produced an unfavourable impression by
quoting Porson's 'Iambics,' 'Three children
sliding on the ice,' which the great professor

pretended to have found in an old trunk among
some manuscript plays of Sophocles — an obvious
satire upon the Shakespearean discoveries.
Greek wit is never so mirth-provoking as to
endanger life, but at this specimen it was
difficult for Mr. Samuel Erin to force a smile.
What even more depressed him was the unexpected
arrival of Mr. Eeginald Talbot. How
this young man had gained admittance he could
not understand ; but at such a time the real
ground of objection to him could not, of course,
be stated. Public opinion had been challenged,
and on the brink of its decision it would have
been madness indeed to have any altercation
with one who had evinced his scepticism.

Talbot had come in alone and taken his
seat rather apart from the rest : his face
looked less florid than usual, but resolute
enough ; after one glance round the room he
fixed his eyes upon the ground. Every
moment the antiquary expected to hear his
blatant voice giving utterance to some offensive
imputation ; but he remained silent, listening
to the pros and cons of his seniors, with

no particular interest, as it seemed, in the
matter.

William Henry had seen him enter, of
course — there were few things that escaped his
observation — but had shown no sign of concern,
far less of apprehension. He either did not fear
him, or had screwed his courage to the sticking
place. Now and then, indeed, he glanced
nervously at the door ; but from no fear of
an enemy. He had some misgiving lest Margaret's
anxiety upon his account might compel
her to come and hear for herself how matters
were going on ; a very groundless apprehension,
for nothing could have been more foreign
to her retiring and modest nature than to have
intruded herself upon such an assembly.

After all who wished to speak had had
their say, the Laureate rose and addressed the
meeting. He had listened very attentively, he
said, to the opinions that had been advanced
on both sides upon the subject of controversy ;
and if he could not say that he had himself
come to a definite conclusion, he thought that
he had at least gathered the general view

of those present. The play before them was
undoubtedly a remarkable one ; he could not
take upon himself to say from internal evidence
whether it was, or was not, written by William
Shakespeare, but, on the whole, he believed it
to have been so. Persons better qualified than
himself to judge of such matters had expressed
themselves for and against the other proofs of
its authenticity. Again, on the whole, these
seemed to him to be in its favour. But what,
after all, was their great stumbling-block was
the mystery — and as it seemed to him the
unnecessary mystery — that hung about its discovery.


Here there were audible expressions of
assent. Mr. Erin, pale and trembling, but
much more with anger than with fear, was
about to rise, but the Laureate waved him
back. He was not going to have his peroration
spoilt by any man. There was a general
murmur of ' Pye, Pye,' which under any other
circumstances, would have sounded exquisitely
humorous ; it was like a bread riot of the
upper classes. ' Under these circumstances,'

continued the orator, ' if anyone can be found
who has seen the MS. as it were in dtii^ and
has met the unknown patron of the Temple in
the flesh, so as to corroborate so far the testimony
of this young gentleman ' (here he pointed
to William Henry), ' I, for one, shall have no
hesitation in acknowledging myself a believer ;
but in the absence of such a witness I must
take leave, at least, to reserve my judgment.'


There was a long and significant silence.
If the speaker had not expressed the views of
the majority, he had done so for many of those
present ; while the want of corroborative testimony,
such as he had indicated, was felt by all.
Even Mr Erin, perhaps for the first time,
understood how evidence which had been, and
was, perfectly conclusive to himself, might well
fail, thus unsupported, to satisfy the public
mind. He felt like the young blood who had
recently been endeavouring for a bet to dispose
within five minutes of a hundred sovereigns to
as many persons on London Bridge for a penny
apiece. His MSS. were genuine, but if he

could not persuade people to believe it, where
would be his profit ?

Well,' continued the Laureate in self-satisfied
tones, for he was pleased with the
impression his eloquence had produced, and
especially that he had reduced the antiquary —
in whose mind he had created a desert and
called it peace — to silence : 'Well ! the question
is. Is there such a witness as I have described ? '

Yes, there is.'

These words fell upon the general ear like
a bombshell, but no one was more utterly astounded
by them than Vir. Samuel Erin himself.
He could hardly believe his ears, and when he
looked to the quarter from which they proceeded
— and to which every one else was looking
— he could not believe his eyes ; for the man
that had uttered them was ]mr. Eeginald Talbot.

The young man was not, indeed, in appearance
quite the sort of witness idiom one would
have chosen to establish the authenticity of an
ancient literary document ; though at a police
court, in some case of assault (provided the
victim was respectable, and he had been for the

prosecution), he might have been passable
enough. His dress was that of a young man
of fashion, but not of good fashion ; his
manner was suggestive less of confidence than
of swagger, and his face spoke of indulgence
in liquor. On the other hand, this impression
may have been partly caused by his contrast
with these learned pundits, most of them in
wigs, and some of them in shovel hats ; he
scarcely seemed to belong to the same race.
The very eyeglass, which headed the cane he
carried so jauntily in his hand, was out of
keeping with their eye-glasses, and looked like
some gay young lens who had refused to be
put into spectacles, and was winking at life on
its own hook.

Does any one know this young gentleman
? ' inquired Mr. Pye, with significant
hesitation.

Yes, I know him,' observed Mr. Albany
Wallis. ' I have, it is true, but slight acquaintance
with his personal character, but he comes
of respectable parentage.'

'You may add that he has two hundred

a year of this own, good money,' observed Mr.
Talbot with some complacency, and a strong
Irish accent.

Air. Pye looked at him very dubiously, and
in spite of this assurance of his financial solvency,
addressed himself to the previous speaker.

In the case before us, Mr, Wallis — and I
need not say how your opinion will weigh with
us, — do you consider this gentleman as a
dependable witness ? '

Mr. Eeginald Talbot turned very red, and,
not having a retort on hand suitable to bestow
on a poet laureate, very wisely held his tongue.

'I am bound to say,' said Mr. Wallis
gravely, ' that Mr. Talbot has given some attention
to the authenticity of the Shakespeare
MSS., and up to this time he has expressed
himself, and with somewhat unnecessary vehemence,
to their discredit ; any evidence he
may therefore have to offer in their favour will
have some weight with me.'

Then all the company awaited in expectant
silence for Mr. Eeginald Talbot's narrative.

What Vir. Wallis has said is quite right,'

said that young gentleman, with unnecessary
affability. * I did use to think that there was
something amiss with those Shakespeare papers.
I had an idea that Mr. William Henry Erin
yonder was playing tricks, so I made it my
business to watch Mm. I hung about his
chambers in the New Inn — they are on the
ground floor, though pretty high up — and with
a short ladder I have made shift to see what
was going on dien he was alone in his room,
and little suspected it.'

William Henry, standing apart with folded
arms, listened to this confession of his former
friend with a contemptuous smile. If it was a
revelation to him, he displayed the indifference
of a North American Indian.

For days and days I watched him and
discovered nothing. Then I dogged his steps
to the city, where he went every afternoon ; on
two occasions he turned, as if to see whether
he was followed, and I think he saw me.'

William Henry shook his head.

Well, at all events I thought he did, and
gave it up. The third time, walking on the

other side of the street, and very careful to
leave a safe distance between us, I tracked him
to a staircase in the Temple. He stopped at a
door on the first floor, and entered ^\^thout
knocking. I waited a bit and then followed
him. An old gentleman was seated in the room
alone, in an armchair, reading ; he looked up
from his book in great astonishment, and inquired
very curtly who I was.

I said that I came upon business of importance,
after young Mr. Erin. He rose, and
opening an inner door, exclaimed : " Here is a
friend of yom"s, sir : what is the meaning of his
intrusion here ? " He spoke very angrily, but I
felt that he had some reason for it, and when
Erin came out and said, " Talbot, you have
ruined me," I felt sorry for what I had done.
There was nothing for it but to make a clean
breast of it, and with many apologies, of which
not the slightest notice was taken, I explained
that curiosity, and a suspicion that the world
was being gulled by these pretended discoveries,
had induced me to look into the matter
myself.

" You are a spy, then," cried the old
gentleman. I thought for a moment that he
was going to throw me out of the window ; but
his rage instantly subsided. " Take him into
the next room, Erin, and show him all," he said
He took me accordingly, and there I saw an
immense quantity of old manuscripts strewed
about the floor ; I should say whole careful
of them. I was so sorry and so ashamed of
myself that I never spoke a word till Erin let
me out again.

'^ I am sorry I came," I said ; " but I am
quite satisfied, sir, that Erin spoke the truth."

" I don't care a farthing, sir, whether you
are satisfied or not," replied the old gentleman ;
you have taken a mean advantage of your
friend, and an unpardonable liberty with me."

Then I told him upon my honour, and as I
hoped to be saved, that I would never reveal
his name to any human being.'

'He waved his hand contemptuously, and
observed that my word and my oath together
were not worth sixpence ; but if I had any
feeling for my friend, or any remorse for the

baseness I had committed, I had better hold
my tongue, since, if by my means his-secret
should be discovered, Erin should never darken
his doors again, nor receive from him any of
the benefits which it had been his intention to
confer upon him. Erin himself did not speak
to me at all ; he has never spoken to me from
that day to this ; but hearing by accident of
this meeting, I resolved to come here, and do
what I could for him by way of reparation.
That is all I have got to say.'

This narrative made an immense impression.
Mr. Samuel Erin sighed a great sigh of relief,
and looked around him with triumphant
exultation. He had not needed any confirmation
of his son's story for himself, but he felt
how opportune with respect to others was this
young man's testimony — that in him, in fact,
he had entertained an angel very much unawares.
A murmur of satisfaction ran round
the company, and the faces of even the most
sceptical relaxed their severity. William
Henry alone looked totally unmoved ; like one
who had all along been conscious that his

character would be cleared, one way or another,
and was different in what way. Some
questions were put to Talbot, but nothing was
elicited to shake his evidence ; indeed, since he
had by his own showing taken his oath that he
would not reveal the name of the Templar
unknown, there was little more to be extracted
from him.

Tie Laureate, in a short but dignified
speech, observed that after the very testimony
he had stated was the only thing wanting to
his conviction had been forthcoming, he could
not, in reason, offer any further objection to
the authenticity of the play, and that for his
part he admitted it.

To this the whole company, with hardly a
dissentient voice, expressed their agreement,
and the committee dispersed, after passing an
all but unanimous resolution that the ' Yortigern
and Eowena ' was a genuine play of William
Shakespeare's.

CHAPTER Xxii,

Managers.

The last two days had been very trying ones
for the little household m Xorfolk Street, and,
though success had crowned their hopes, they
bore marks of the struggle that evening. Even,
young William Henry, who, like the antiquarian
Duchess (but with a difference), seemed to have
been born before nerves had come into fashion,
showed siens of the terrible ordeal through
which he had passed; he was tender-footed,
after the red-hot ploughshares.

The antiquary himself was almost in a state
of collapse ; while Margaret, as sensible and
self-contained a oriel as was to be found

on

either side of the Thames, between gratitude to
Heaven and love to man, became for the first
time in her life hysterical. All was well for
her Willie at last, but she doubted; and with

VOL. II. G

reason, whether, exposed to the brunt of the
battle, and fighting for what was dearer to him
than life itself, his honour, he had suffered as
much as she had done, sitting in her little room
apart from the melee and picturing to herself
the terrors of defeat.

She listened to their narrative of the
proceedings with a fearful joy, deemed at first
Mr. Pye the basest, and presently the best of
men, and felt a secret gratitude to Mr. Albany
Wallis that she would have found it difficult to
explain : she had an impression that he was
not their ally, but that a strong sense of justice,
mingled perhaps with remorse for the part he
had on a former occasion taken against them,
had made him something more than neutraL
Remorse, too, she herself felt as regarded the
person to whom the final triumph was after all
mainly owing.

Where is Mr. Talbot, Willie ? ' she said
excitedly ' I should like to tell him, not only
how much indebted I am to him, but how
wrong was the judgment I had previously
formed of him.'

To be sure,' observed the antiquary
naively ; ' where is Talbot ? ' When the city
has been preserved, as the Scripture says,
nobody remembers the name of the obscure
individual who saved it, and in the glow of
victory Mr. Erin had clean forgotten his young
Irish ally. ' I suppose his modesty prevented
him from waiting to receive om acknowledgments.'


No doubt it was his modesty,' said William
Henry drily. ' But as for your gratitude,
Maggie, I think it is somewhat misplaced ; if
he has now done us good, he once did his best
to do us harm, and thus far we are only quits.'

That was a dirty trick his following Samuel
to the Temple,' observed Mr. Erin ; ' though, as
it happened, it has turned out to our advantage.'


Still, it is not every one who is ready to
make reparation for an error,' said Margaret
gravely.

To this there was no reply from her uncle.
Margaret hardly expected any. He was a man
who took the gifts which Heaven vouchsafed

him without any excess of fervour ; but from
Willie she had looked for more generosity of
spirit; on the other hand, he might be a little
jealous (she had a vague impression that the
young Irish gentleman had made some clumsy
attempt in confederation with his eye-glass to
recommend himself to her attention), in which
case of course Willie was forgiven.

At all events,' she continued smiling, for
this idea amused her, ' I shall not be considered
forward if I thank Mr. Talbot on my own account
when he next pays us a visit.'

I shall not have the least objection,'
returned William Henry in the same light tone
though his taking it upon himself to say so
was significant enough of his confidence in his
position — ' but I am afraid you will not have
an early opportunity of relieving your mind of
its weight of gratitude. Talbot goes home tomorrow
by the Irish packet.'

Then you saw him after all, before he left
this afternoon,' cried Margaret. ' Why, I
understood that he had fled to avoid your
thanks.'

That was my father's view,' said William
Henry, 'and such a touching one that I had
not the heart to combat it ; but as a matter of
fact I did see Talbot for one moment, and of
course I thanked him.'

Oh ! Willie, Willie, why will you always
make yourself out worse than you are ? ' exclaimed
Margaret reproachfully.

I think we had better say nothing about
it,' observed the antiquary thoughtfully. Margaret
looked up rather sharply at him ; she
thought his words had reference to William
Henry's modest concealment of his own virtues,
and that he was disputing the fact ; but, strange
to say, though that estimable young man was
before his eyes, Mr. Erin was not thinking of
him at all, ' We will leave others to say what
they like,' continued he, ' and fight it out among
themselves. In twenty-four hours the whole
town will be talking of nothing else.'

You mean about the play, sir ? ' suggested
William Henry.

Well, of course ; what the devil else should
I mean ? ' returned the antiquary with irritation

It was disgusting that these two young people
for his niece looked as much at sea as his
son — should be so wrapped up in one another
and their commonplace affairs as to have
forgotten ' Yortigern and Eowena ' already. ' I
think it will be better to rest on our oars and
wait events.'

Shut our eyes and open our mouths,' said
William Henry, ' and see what Heaven will
send us.'

The remark was flippant, but the sense of
it was in accordance with Mr. Erin's views. In
his exaltation of spirit he even condescended to
reply in the same vein.

I shall open my mouth pretty wide, I can
tell you, when the managers come ; but we
must not go to them.'

You of course know best,' said William
Henry modestly. If left to himself the impetuosity
of youth would have led him on the
morrow, cap (and MS.) in hand, to the stage-door
of the nearest theatre.

Fortunately, you see, we can afford to
wait,' said Mr. Erin composedly.

William Henry glanced at Margaret, and
Margaret dropped her eyes ; Mr. Erin's sentiments,
thono'h intended to be comforting and
even exultant, were, strange to say, not shared
by these young people.

They had not, however, to wait long. As
Mr. Erin had predicted, the news that the committee
appointed to investigate the claims of
the ' Yortigern ' MS. had decided in its favour
flew swiftly over the town. ' From the palace
to the cottage,' said Mr. Erin in his enthusiasm,
though probably it only reached the cottage
orne. Letters of congratulation poured in from
every quarter. Even Malone was reported to
have said that if it could have been done incognito
he should have liked to see the manuscript.
(What he really said was, ' I wish that
Steevens had found it,' meaning that he should
have taken a real pleasure in exasperating him.)
The opinion of antiquaries was divided ; and if
Reid and Eitson denounced the play, Garters
was enthusiastic in its favour, and
gave it more supporters than Heraldry ever
dreamt of.

Before a week was over came Mr. Harris,
proprietor of Covent Garden Theatre, to Norfolk
Street in person. The announcement of his
name set William Henry's heart beating more
quickly than it had done even on that fateful
afternoon in Anne Ha thaw ay's garden. For the
first time he shrank from the customary ordeal
of investigation, and Mr, Erin interviewed the
manager alone. As it happened, the young
man need have been under no apprehension of
a brow-beating. Mr. Harris was a practical
man, of an expansive mind, which did not
stoop to details.

The committee, I hear, sir, have decided
in favour of this play of yours,' was his first
remark; it was delivered With quite unnecessary
abruptness, but it was not the tone alone
which grated upon Mr. Erin's ears

This play of mine, as you have thought
proper to term it, Mr. Harris,' he replied with
dignity, ' is Shakespeare's play.'

So you say, and, indeed, so many other
people say, or I should not be here,' was the
cool rejoinder. ' Between ourselves, Mr. Erin,

and, speaking as one man of the world to
another, I don't care a farthing — certainly nota
Queen Anne's farthing — whether it is Shakespeare's
play or not. The question that concerns
me is, " Do the public believe it to be such ? " '

Am I to understand, then, that you do not
wish to examine the MS. ? '

Examine it ? Certainly not. My time is
very much occupied — it is in five acts, is it
not?'

It is in fiYQ acts,' assented the antiquary ;
he could hardly trust himself to reply, except
in the other's words. Mr. Harris's indifference,
notwithstanding that it promised to facilitate
matters, was most offensive to him. ' Mr. Pye
has been so good as to promise us a prologue
for the play.'

That's good ; " Prologue by the Poet
Laureate " will look well in the bill. We must
have an epilogue ready, even though ' — here
he smiled grimly — ' we never get so far as
that.'

The suggestion of such a contingency —
which, of course, meant total failure — in cold

blood, filled up the cup of the antiquary's
indignation. He almost resolved, whatever
this man offered, to decline his proposition to
bring out the play.

'Mr. Merry will write the epilogue,' he
replied icily.

A very good man — for an epilogue,' replied
the manager drily. ' Well, we must
strike while the iron's hot, or not at all. We
must not give the public time to flag in its
enthusiasm, or, what will be worse, perhaps, to
alter its opinion. There is risk of this even
now, but I am ready to run it, and I'll take the
play.'

The devil you will ! ' said Mr. Erin.

Yes, I will,' continued the manager calmly,
taking, or pretending to take, this explosion of
his companion as an expression of admiration
of his own courage ; ' it will cost a good bit of
money, but I'll take it and never charge you a
farthing for placing it on the boards. It's an
offer you are not likely to get again, I promise
you.'

rU take your word for that,' said the antiquary

quietly ; he had passed the glowing
stage of indignation, into that white heat which
looks almost like coolness. ' I don't think any
other human being would venture to make so
audacious a proposal. Have you really the
impudence to ask me to give you a play of
Shakespeare's for nothing ? '

'For nothing? What, do you call the
advertisement nothing ? How is an author's
name established ? How does he acquire fame
and fortune but through the opportunity of
becoming known? And how could he get a
better one than having his play acted at Co vent
Garden?'

I was not aware that Shakespeare stood in
need of an advertisement, Mr. Harris,' retiu-ned
the antiquary grimly. ' And even supposing
that, thanks to you, he becomes popular, he is
not a rising young author ; should " Yortigern
and Eowena " be ever so successful, that would
not enable us to find another of his plays.'

It would be a great encouragement to doit,'
answered the manager impudently. ' However,
there's mv offer ! '

'And there's my door, i^Ir. Harris.' And
Mr. Erin pointed to it with unmistakable
significance.

Stuff and nonsense ! ' said the manager.
'What do you want? How do you suppose
plays are brought out, man ? Come, what do
you say to half profits ? '

No ! '

Then, look here — now, this is your last
chance, as I'm a Christian man.'

Then I shall have another,' said Mr. Erin.
It was the first approach to an epigram he
had ever made in his life. Anger is a short
madness, genius is a kind of madness, and so,
perhaps, it came about that fury suggested to
him that lively sally.

A hundred pounds down, and half profits :
that is my last word,' cried the manager.

No ! ' thundered the antiquary. He was
still upon his legs, with his outstretched arm
pointing to the door like a finger-post.

The manager walked into the passage,
opened the front door, and held it in his hand.

A hundred and fifty, and half profits.'

No.'

Very good ; more than a hundred and
fifty pounds for the play of a Shakespeare who
spells and with a final e I will not give.'

The door closed behind him with a great
bang, which sounded, however, less like a
thunder-clap to Mr. Erin than that concluding
sarcasm. He was not aware that a pamphlet
had been published that very morning, which
pointed out that the spelling of mid with an e,
a practice pursued throughout the ' Yortigern,'
had been utterly unknown, not only to
Elizabethan times, but to any other.

When IMr. Erin rejoined his two young
people, who were waiting for him with no little
anxiety in the next room, there was no need to
ask his news. His face told it.

Nevertheless, Margaret said, ' Well, uncle ? '
before she could stop herself.

It is not well,' he answered passionately ;
it is devilish bad.'

But surely Mr. Harris was not uncivil ? '

Uncivil ? Who wants his civility ? Who
but a fool would expect it in a theatrical

manager ? Bring me the play — the " Northern."

'

What is the matter now ? ' inquired
William Henry.

His manner, as usual, was imperturbable.
Mr. Erin — so great was the revolution wrought
in him by recent circumstances — seemed at
once to derive comfort from it. 'Well, it's
very unfortunate, but it seems that an objection
has been discovered — insignificant in itself —
but which seriously affects its genuineness.'

Indeed ? There have been a good many
not insignificant objections — and yet it has
been generally accepted,' said the young man
smiling.

It's nothing to smile at, I do assise you, if
what that fellow said is correct.'

He had the manuscript before him, and was
examining it with nervous eagerness through his
glasses. ' Yes, here's one, and here's another
and with an e. Why should Shakespeare spell
and with an ^ ? '

He looked up sharply at his son, as if
asking a riddle of one who has the answer to it.

I am sure I don't know, sir,' replied
William Henry quietly. 'He spelt things
pretty much as he pleased.'

That's true, that's true. But just now it's
certainly most disappointing that there should
be any hitch. The very stars in their courses
seem to fight against us.'

It is an unfortunate conjunction, that is
all,' said the young man, smiling again. ' The
objection of which ]vir. Harris speaks may be
new, but not the spelling : and was so spelt in
the Profession of Faith, for example.'

Indeed ! That had escaped my recollection.
Come, that is satisfactory. All those,
then, who signed the certificate will be with
us. It was foolish of me to be so discouraged.'

And did Mr. Harris decline the play on
the ground of and being written with the
finals?'

Well, no, he didn't decline it.'

He only used that argument, perhaps, in
order to get it at a cheap rate ? ' suggested
William Henry.

This, as we know, had not been the case ;

he had pretty broadly hinted that he did not
believe it to be Shakespeare's play at all, and
even that there might be plenty more where
the 'Vortigern' came from, but so bound up
in these wondrous discoveries had Mr. Erin's
mind become, that it was distressing and humiliating
to have to confess as much, even to his
son and niece.

Why, yes ; he wanted it cheap, and therefore
of course depreciated it. He only offered
one hundred and fifty pounds for it and half
profits.'

William Henry looked up amazed. For
the first time his self-control deserted him. In
his heart he thought the antiquary a fool for
leavings refused such terms ; but it was not the
rejection of the terms that annoyed him so
much as the rejection of the chance of having
the play produced at a theatre like Covent
Garden. His feelings, in fact, were precisely
the same as those on which Mr. Harris had
counted — without his host.

The money in hand may be small, sir, but
the half profits — in case the play were successful

— as I feel it must have been, might have
been well worth having.'

Mr. Erin began to think so too by this time.
After all, what did it matter whether the manager
were a believer in the play or not, had his
theatre been only made the channel of its introduction
to the public ? He sat in moody
silence, thinking whether it would be possible,
after what had passed, ' to win that tassel
gentle,' Mr. Harris, ' back again.' It was certain
that he (Mi. Erin) would have to swallow
a very large leek first.

The servant-girl entered, bringing a slip of
paper upon a salver, the name, no doubt, of
one of those thousand and one persons who
were now always coming to ask permission to
see the MS.

Two gentlemen to see you, sir,' said the
maid.

The antiquary glanced at the name, and
then, as high as a gentleman of sixty can leap,
he leapt from his chair.

Margaret, thinking her uncle had been

VOL. II. H

seized with some malady — presumably ' the
jumps ' — uttered a little scream of terror.

Good heavens ! what is it ? '

Sheridan ! ' he cried triumphantly. ' There
are more fish in the sea, Samuel, than have
come out of it, and better ones ; see, lad, it's in
his own handwriting ; he is here in person —
Richard Brindled Sheridan, favoured by Dr.
Parr " '

CHAPTER XXV.

TWO Distinguished VISITORS.

ElCHAED BmXSLEY ShERID.IX —

The pride of the palace, the bower, and the hall,

The orator, dramatist, minstrel who ran
Through each mode of the lyi-e and was master of all —

was a very great man in those days in many
ways ; but what made him just now of especial
importance to Mr. Samuel Erin was that he was
the manager of Drury Lane Theatre.

That Mr. Harris, of Covent Garden, should
have snapped at the • Vortigern ' bait had been
a satisfactory circumstance enough (though
indeed he had only ' sucked it ' and got off the
hook), but the coming of Sheridan was quite
another matter. Compared with him, all other
managers were small fry.

It was with a less assured demeanour,

H 2

therefore, than usual, and with an expectancy-somewhat
tempered with awx, that Mr.
Samuel Erin repaired to the parlour. Even
the MS. in his hand had lost some of its virtue
in view of the authority who was about to pronounce
upon it ; it was almost as if he had
been a young author with his own play ; a
work of immense original genius, but which
he was about to submit for the first time to a
leading publisher. It was some relief to him
to feel that Dr. Parr would be present, who
was well known to him, and a believer in the
Shakespearean manuscripts.

As he entered the room the great man
came forward to shake him frankly by the
hand. His manner was more than gracious, it
was genial, and seemed to put him at his ease
in a moment. His appearance was not imposing
a man of forty-five inclined to corpulency, with
a loose-fitting coat secured by one button over
the chest, and a carelessly knotted white neckcloth
— he wore his own hair, already very grey,
tied behind with a black riband. His face was
puffy, and evinced signs of what was even then

called ' free living.' What redeemed it, however,
and invested the whole man with marvellous
attraction were his bright and sparkling
eyes, which glittered with merriment and good
humour. The antiquary was so fascinated with
them that for the moment he took no notice
of the other person in the room, till Sheridan
called his attention to him.

You have doubtless seen our friend here
pretty often before, Mr. Erin ? ' he said smiling.

The antiquary turned round and held out
his hand mechanically. The other, however,
instead of taking it, drew himself up to his full
height (which was a good way), put his hands
behind him, and bowed stiffly ; it was not Dr.
Parr but John Kemble.

Mr. Erin, as a player, had of course seen
him ' pretty often before,' but generally in
royal robes or in armour, attired as a king
or a warrior ; as it happened he had never
before seen him in plain clothes. He had a
noble figure and a handsome face — though,
strange to say, not a very mobile one — and, sofar,
was in strong contrast to his companion ;

the difference in expression was even greater.
Mr. Kemble had a sternness of demeanour that
was almost forbidding, and which reminded
Mr. Erin on the instant that he was an intimate
friend of Malone's.

'I did not expect the honour of a visit
from Mr. Kemble,' said the antiquary drily.

I did not come, sir, of my own free will,'
was the uncompromising reply, delivered in
deep tragic tones. ' I am here at the request
of my friend Mr. Sheridan.'

Quite true,' observed that gentleman, his
eyes dancing with laughter at the antagonistic
attitude of his two companions ; the tragedian
like a stately St. Bernard with stiff tail, who
resents the attention of some half-breed of no
insignificant stature, and that ventures to entertain
a very tolerable opinion of itself.

I dragged him here, Mr. Erin, like iniquity,
with cart ropes. The quarrels of commentators,
I know, are like the bars of a castle ;
they'll be shot rather than open their arms to
one another. For my sake, however, I hope
you will, both of you, make a truce while this

little matter of business is under discussion ;
then to it again hammer and tongs with all my
heart. — Now, where's this play?'

Mr. Erin produced it from his breast-pocket,
into which he had hurriedly thrust it.

Oh, that's it, is it ? Gad ! he carries it
about with him as a mother carries a newborn
babe, whose paternity has never been
questioned.'

Kemble smiled, as Coriolanus might have
done at the mention of gratitude.

I think, Mr. Sheridan,' said the antiquary
in an offended tone, 'if you will be so good
as to glance at yonder certificate, including
among other authorities your friend Dr. Parr,
you must admit that the legitimacy of " Vortigern
and Eowena" is tolerably well established.
Herbert Croft, Dr. Walton, the Poet Laureate,
Sir James Bland Burgess, are vouchers '

Weighty enough, indeed,' interposed the
manager impatiently ; ' anything ought to go
down with such names attached to it. But the
play, the play's the thing. Let's look at it.'

It was a detail, if report spoke true, that

Sheridan did not always insist upon. He had
offered to accept a comedy from the authoress
of 'Evening' unread, and to put it on the
boards of Drury Lane. Even now, when the
manuscript was spread out before him, he
seemed to shrink from the task he had imposed
upon himself.

Gad ! ' he exclaimed, ' there seems a good
lot of it!'

There are two thousand eight hundred
lines in all,' explained Mr. Erin gravely.

'Fourteen hundred lines are deemed sufficient
for an acting drama,' observed Mr.
Kemble acidly.

The dramas of William Shakespeare, sir,
with which I happen to have some acquaintance,'
returned the antiquary with bitter significance,
' extend in more than one case to
a greater length than the " Vortices." '

Come, come, Kemble,' said the manager
good-naturedly. 'Surplusage is no error, and
one can hardly complain because one gets two
plays for the price of one. Now, Mr. Erin,
would you prefer to be present at our investigation

or not ? Mothers generally shrink from
an mqiiest upon even a foster-child, but there
have been Woman matrons '

I make it an invariable rule, Mr. Sheridan,'
put in the antiquary hastily, ' though on the
present occasion there is no ground, of course,
for its being put in practice, never to permit
the literary offspring of which you speak to
leave my hands.'

'Afraid of body-snatching, eh? Think of
you and me wanting to steal a play, Kemble !
Why, Drury Lane is a perfect foundling
Hospital for them. However, just as you
please, sir.'

Then, while ]mr. Erin sat apart affecting to
be immersed in a folio (but vv^lth his ears wide
open), the two sat down to the manuscript,
iron which Kemble now and then read aloud
in deep sonorous tones, which were not always
so sarcastic as he intended them to be.

There was a certain rhythmical roll in
many lines like the thunder of the surf, and
also (as in its case) a head of foam which gave
the impression of strength. For example : —

Full fifty breathless bodies struck my sight ;
And some with gaping mouths did seem to mock me ;
Whilst others, smiling in cold death itself,
Scoffingly bade me look on that which soon
Would wrench from off my brow this sacred crown.
And make me too a subject like themselves.

From Kemble's mouth at least such hues

were not wanting in majestic vigour, though he

lent it to them involuntarily. It was evident

enough, indeed, that he was adverse to the

acceptance of the play, while Sheridan was in

favour of it. What doubtless furthered Mr.

Erin's hopes was that Sheridan had notoriously

no very high opinion of Shakespeare himself ;

he thought his genius exaggerated. Presently

Kemble came to the three best lines in the

tragedy —

Give me a sword,
I have so clogged and badged this with blood
And slippery gore, that it doth mock my grasp ;
A sword I say !

A speech he delivered with fine emphasis.

Come, that is better than " Titus Antoninus,"
anyway,' said Sheridan slily.

An echo, sir, a mere echo of " Richard
the Third," ' growled the tragedian.

Let us hope it will answer with " Richard
the Fourth'" was the laughing rejoinder.

Their disagreement was like the conflict
between the whale and a sword-fish, and could
have but the same end.

I don't mean to say that some things here
are not better than others,' said Kemble doggedly,
* though perhaps I may be permitted
to add that you hear them to the best advantage
; but to me the whole thing has a false
ring.'

Perhaps it's my want of ear,' returned the
manager ; ' but do you think, ]mr. Kemble,' here
he sank his voice to a whisper, ' that many
people have good ears ? '

The drollery and even roguishness of his
face as he hazarded this inquiry was indescribable.
The tragedian ' put the question by '
and pursued his argument.

Whatever you think of Shakespeare, Mr.
Sheridan, you must allow that he at least
always ^vrote poetry. Now, much of what I
have had the honour to read to you is not
poetry.'

But let us suppose Shakespeare was
drunk.'

Sir ! ' exclaimed the tragedian in an
offended tone.

Sir ! ' echoed the antiquary, dropping the
folio with a crash.

Good Heavens ! gentlemen, may not one
even put a postulate ? Even Euclid, a Writer
of little imagination, permits that much. It is
not such a very impossible supposition. Have
you never heard of a man of genius with a
turn for the bottle ? '

As he looked very hard at the tragedian,
that gentleman felt called upon to reply. ' I
have no personal experience of anything of
that kind,' he said loftily.

Well, of course not ; how should you ? '
returned Sheridan blandly, but with a curve of
the lip that seemed to say, ' We are talking of
men of genius.' Perhaps his reference to his
own weakness made him bitter. If it was so,
the feeling was very transitory ; it was with
his most winning smile that he presently
addressed his friend, ' Come, Prester John, we

can do nothing without you in this affair ;
surely you vnW not fail us.'

I will have no responsibility in the matter,'
was the haughty reply. ' I will not append
my name to yonder hist ; I will not have it go
forth to the world that I admit the genuineness
of this production ; I will not stamp it with

my warranty ; I will not '

Tut, tut, man,' broke in the manager impatiently
; ' but you'll act, you'll act.'
Well, yes, I will play Yortigern.'
And ]airs. Siddons will play Edmundaa ? '
Xay, sir, that is a question for herself I
cannot answer for Sarah ; she always takes her
own way.'

To hear you talk one would think she was
yom wife instead of yom sister,' said the
manager laughing. ' Then the Country Girl '
(so Mrs. Jordan was called from her first
success, which had been made in that piece)
shall be Flavia, who has to appear in man's
clothes ; she loves to wear the breeches, as the
poor Duke has long discovered. Well, we'll
take your friend Shakespeare's play. Mr. Erin.'

And the manasseh rose from his chair with a
yawn, Hke one who has conceited a distasteful
business.

But, ahem ! nothing has been said about
terms,' suggested the antiquary.

Terms ? Does he mean money ? ' said the
manager, looking towards the tragedian with
an air of extreme astonishment, as though he
would say, ' Can I believe my ears ? '

I am almost inclined to believe he does,'
replied the other, smiling for the first time.

But surely not money down ; not ready
money, he can't mean that.'

The antiquary's face unmistakably implied
that he did.

Good heavens, Mr. Erin, who has any
ready money ? I was just talking of the Duke
of Clarence, has he any ready money ? Not a
guinea — though you should threaten to drown
him., like his namesake, in a butt of malmsey —
to save his life.'

The money might be paid out of the
profits of the first night, and then half profits,'
suo'trested Mr. Erin.

Mere details — business,' cried the manager
disdainfully. ' You must see Albany Wallis
about all that. That's a pretty face,' he
added, stopping abruptly beneath a picture on
the wall and pointing to it — ' a charming
face.'

It is the portrait of my niece, Margaret.'

Aye, aye ; love, faith, a pure soul in a
fair body ; a true heart, I am sure of it.'

His voice, freighted with genuine feeling,
seemed to melt away in music.

She is in truth a good girl, Mr. Sheridan :
the light of my poor house.'

Take care of her, sir ; be kind to her, lest,
when it is too late, you rue it.'

He was gone in a flash, and the door
closed behind him.

Mr. Erin looked at the tragedian in amazement.


Some likeness to his late wife, I fancy,'
observed that gentleman in grave explanation.
'Her death was a matter of much regret to
him.' He seemed to be about to hold out his
hand, but something restrained him ; his eye

had lit by chance on the certificate. ' Good
morning, Mr. Erin he said with a stiff
bow.

Good morning, Mr. Kemble.'

CHAPTEE XXVI.

TWO ACTRESSES.

The arrangements made between Mr. Samuel
Erin, on belial of his son William Henry, ' an
infant,' with Mr. Albany Wallis, for the
production of the play were eminently satisfactory.
mr. Erin was to receive three hundred
pounds on the morning after the first night of
representation, and half profits for the next
sixty nights. Shakespeare himself had probably
never made so good a bargain.

The news of the acceptance of the ' Vortigern
' by the management of Drury Lane
Theatre immensely increased the public excitement
concerning it. In those days ' Old
Drury' (though indeed it was then far from
old) was the national theatre ; and the fact of
a play being played upon its boards (inde-vol.

II. I

penitently of Sheridan having chosen it) gave
it a certain imprimatur. It was not unreasonable,
therefore, in William Henry that he
already saw himself half way to fortune, while
his success in love might be said to be assured ;
there are but few of us in truth who, at his
age, are in a position so enviable. For, as
when we grow old, prosperity, if it does come,
comes but too often too late for its enjoyment,
so the sunshine of youth is marred by the
uncertainty of its duration, and by the clouds
that overhang its future. Of the reception
of the ' Yor tiger n ' the young fellow had but
little doubt ; he believed it would run a long
and successful course, as most people do
believe in the case of the hare of their own
finding. And yet the manifestation of his joy
was by no means extravagant. The gravity
and coolness of his demeanour, which had
characterised him throughout the discoveries,
did not now desert him. At times, indeed,
even when Margaret's arms were about his
neck, he looked anxious and distrait; but
when she rallied him about it he had always

an explanation, natural enough and not unwelcome
to her.

I feel,' he said, ' as you once told me you
felt in looking at that fair scene near Stratford,
that it seemed almost too beautiful to be real,
and that you had a vague fear that it would all
melt. When I look on you, dear, I feel the
same : such happiness is far too high for me ;
I have not deserved it, and I fear lest it should
never be mine.'

But you have deserved it, Willie,' she
would lovingly reply. ' Xot even my uncle
questions that. He spoke of you in the
highest terms, he told me, to the Regent
himself.'

For Mr. Erin had been sent for to Carlton
House, and had shown the precious Shakespearean
manuscripts to the future ruler of the
realm, who had expressed himself as 'greatly
interested.' He had been unable, he said, to
resist the weight of evidence which had been
adduced in favour of their authenticity, and
had especially admired the ' Vortigern.' The
old man's head was almost turned with the

1 2

royal praises ; and it was not to be wondered
at that he had expressed his satisfaction with
the youth by whose means he had been introduced
into so serene an atmosphere.

I do not think I am without desert, Made,
though there was a time when you used to think
so [an allusion, of course, to her old scepticism
as to his genius] ; but I do not deserve you'
was William Henry's grave reply.

A modest rejoinder, which, we may be sure,
secured its reward.

Margaret thought that there never had
been, and never would be, so deserving a youth
as her Willie, or one who, having received his
deserts, bore his honours so unassumingly.

Nevertheless — for, in spite of the proverb,
It never rains but it pours,' good fortune
seldom befalls us mortals without alloy — there
were drops of bitterness in his full cup. The
Poet Laureate Pye had been reminded of his
promise to write a prologue for the ' Yortigern,'
and had performed it, but by no means in a
satisfactory manner.

It had come to them one morning at breakfast,

and had been received with rapture by mr.
Erin — till he came to read it. It commenced
as follows : —

If in our scenes your eyes, delighted, find,

Marks that denote the mighty master's mind ;

If at his words the tears of pity flow,

Your hearts with horror fill, with rapture glow,

Demand no other proof ;

But if these proofs should fail, if in the strain

Ye seek the drama's awful sire in vain.

Should critics, heralds, antiquaries, join

To give their fiat to each doubtful line.

Believe them not.

Curse the fellow ! ' cried the antiquary,
throwing down the manuscript in disgust ; ' why,
this is worse than useless. What the devil does
he mean by his '' ifs " and " not " ? '

I fancy ]mr. Malone could tell us,' observed
William Henry quietly.

No doubt, lad, no doubt,' said Mr. Erin,
eagerly catching at this solution of the
Laureate's change of front. ' That man would
drop his poison into the ear of an archangel.
Xot that Pye is an archangel, nor anything like
It.'

Archangels must write very indifferent

poetry if he is,' remarked William Henry
smiling.

Just so — a deuced bad poet ! ' rejoined Mr.
Erin. ' His prologue, even without an " if " in
it, would damn any play ; I'll write to Burgess
Sir James will do it, I'll warrant.'

And Sir James did it accordingly, and in a
fashion much more agreeable to ' Yortigern's '
sponsors.

No common cause your verdict now demands,
Before the coui-t immortal Shakespeare stands ;

Stamp it your own, assert your poet's fame,

And add fresh wreaths to Shakespeare's honoured name.

There was no doubt in Mr. Erin's mind as to
Sir James Bland Burgess being a better poet
than Mr. Pye.

There were other hitches — nay, absolute
breaks-down — which could not be so easily
mended. Mrs. Siddons, who it was hoped
would play the chief female character,
Edmundaa, had a severe cold, which was suspected
by many people, and known by her
friends, to be a stage cold — a malady which

actors and actresses assume at pleasure as a
pretext for declining any objectionable part.
When a barrister refuses a brief, it is naturally
concluded that his client's cause is precarious —
a lawyer, it is argued, would never send money
away from his doors except for the gravest
reasons ; and similarly the ' Vortigern ' suffered
in public estimation when the news of Mrs.
Siddons's indisposition got abroad. Her reason,
as Malone and Company averred, was that ' the
whole play was an audacious imposition.' In
this case that flattering unction of ' There are as
good fish in the sea,' &c., could hardly be laid
to ]mr. Erin's soul ; it was unquestionably a
bitter disappointment ; the part had to be given
to ]airs. Powell, a much prettier and younger
woman, but not the queen of the stage. His
sister's conduct, too, seemed to have an unfavourable
effect on Kemble, whose interest in
the play was already at the best but lukewarm,
and it was felt absolutely necessary to conciliate
him.

Mr. Erin wrote to him to say that, notwithstanding'
the circumstance of ' Yortiizern and

Eowena ' being the production of the immortal
bard, the great tragedian was at liberty to use
his own excellent judgment in preparing it for
the state.

A cold reply was received, to the effect
that it should be acted faithfully from the copy
sent to the theatre.

These were bitter drops ; but where is the
cup of human prosperity without them ? In
reading the record of even the most fortunate
man's career, we may be sure that, though it
appears to run with such unbroken smoothness,
there is many a hitch. We hear the
triumphant paeans, but not the deep low notes
of chagrin and disappointment that to the
hero's own ear accompany them and turn his
blood to gall. The shining shield, bossed with
victories, appears to be of solid gold, but there
is but a thin coating of it, and underneath lies
rusted and corroding iron. It is something,
however, to show gold at all ; and Margaret
was prompt with her comfort.

When, my dear Willie, was good fortune
without its drawbacks ? These are but spots

in the sun of our prosperity, and we should
have only room in our hearts for gratitude.
Think how much sunshine we have had of
late, and how far beyond our expectations.
When you first chanced upon these wonderful
discoveries, how great a thing it would have
seemed to you to light on such a treasure
trove as the " Yortigern," and then to have it
accepted by Sheridan for Drury Lane ! Think
of that ! '

Quite true, my darling ; and yet you have
not mentioned the highest gift that Fortune
has vouchsafed me, compared with which all
her other favours are mere gilt and tinsel —
your dear self.'

Tut, tut ; you are a born actor, sir, and
should offer your services to Mr. Kemble.'

He looked at her with troubled eyes,
gravely, almost sorrowfully, then folded her
to his breast without a word.

It was clear, she thought, that Mrs.
Siddons's refusal to play her part had disappointed
him cruelly.

One day two ladies called to see Mr. Erin.

The antiquary, as it happened, was out : upon
hearing which, they expressed a wish to see his
son. William Henry, who no more went to
the office in the New Inn, but transacted his
father's business for him at home (not so much
that he was necessary to it as because the old
gentleman preferred to keep the lad about
him), was neither mounting drawings nor
cataloguing prints, but exchanging pretty
nothings with Margaret, when the servant
came with her message.

Ladies to see you, Willie,' said she, laughing.
* I am almost inclined to be jealous ; I
wonder what can be their business ? '

They want to see the MSS., I suppose,' he
said indifferently. ' Well, at all events I can't
get at them ; your uncle has taken the key of
the chest with him.'

Margaret shook her head.

They have come about the play,' she said ;
they are actresses'*

This was a conclusion to which William
Henry had already arrived, though he had not

thought it worth while to mention it. His
heart, indeed, had leapt up within him at the
news in question, not that he was the least
inclined to play the gay Lothario, but that
everything connected with the representation
of the 'Vortigern' immensely interested him.
Hitherto he had been kept out of it ; the
whole affair had been carried on up to this
point without his interference, as indeed was
natural enough ; it was not as if the ' Northern
' had been his play.

'It is very unlikely,' said William Henry
diplomatically ; ' but it is possible they want
Mr. Erin's opinion about some reading, and
since I know his views I had perhaps better
see them.'

His tone was interrogative, but he did
not wait to hear her opinion on the subject,
but at once repaired to the parlour. That
apartment, hallowed by so many antiquarian
associations, was now tenanted by two persons
of a very different stamp from those who generally
visited it. ' If critics and commentators

indeed were beings like these,' was the young
rogue's reflection, ' " cherished foHos " would be
things to be envied.'

Both ladies were young, though an expert
in such matters, which William Henry was
not, might have come to the conclusion that
they were not quite so young as they looked.
It is true they were neither painted nor
powdered ; but besides being very fashionably
and becomingly dressed, there was that brightness
of expression in their lively faces which
makes more head against time than all the
cosmetics in the world. It is always a matter
of surprise among dull people that actresses,
even of a high type, should be so popular, and
often make such good matches with men of
culture and good breeding. The reason is, I
think, that if they are not natural, they at least
do their best to appear so ; they do not stifle
nature, as is the habit of some of their sex who
are much more highly placed. Languor and
studied indifference are not of themselves
attractive, and they are suspected, and with

reason, of being very convenient cloaks for
stupidity.

The intelligence of these ladies shone in
their eyes, which also twinkled with amusement.
They had both had a very hard time
of it during one portion of their lives, but it
had extinguished neither their good-native
nor their sense of humour. The appearance
of William Henry, who looked all youth and
simplicity, instead of the snuffy old antiquary
whom they had expected to see, tickled them
excessively. The fact that he was very good-looking
also aroused their interest. If they
had come 'Upon business, in short, they remained
for pleasure ; and the sense of this (for
it was unmistakable) embarrassed not a little
their involuntary host.

By sight he knew both the ladies ; the
younger was ]airs. Powell, a handsome woman,
very tall and elegant, who had of late stepped
into a much higher rank of her profession, as,
indeed, was clear enough from her having been
made the substitute of Mrs. Siddons in the

forthcoming tragedy. Just now, however, she
was undertaking comedy, and her melodious
tones and speaking face made a harmony like
the voice and the instrument

The other lady was Mrs. Jordan, who, without
enjoying so high a dramatic reputation, was
a still greater favourite with the public. She,
too, was tall and comely, but her beauty was of
a simpler type — it would be better described as
loveliness. The charms which had carried all
before them when she made her fame as ' The
Country Girl ' were more mature, but not less
attractive. The world of play-goers was at her
feet, the knowledge that an eminent personage
had gained her affections, and even, it was said,
contracted a private marriage with her, aroused
the envy of many a gilded flutterer, and had
driven at least one of them to despair. Her
tenderness of disposition and generosity to the
distressed were notorious, and could be read in
her smile.

We have ventured to call upon you, Mr.
Erin, as you may perhaps guess, with reference
to " Vortigern and Eowena," ' said Mrs. Powell.

I am so sorry, but my father is not at
home,' stammered William Hey.

Well, really ! ' returned the lady reproaches.


At all events, we are not sorry,' said Mrs.
Jordan slily.

I did not mean — you know what I mean,'
pleaded William Henry with a blush that they
probably envied. ' I am so sorry to be so
awkward, but I am very young.'

Does he mean to say that we are not ? '
ejaculated Mrs. Powell with a majestic air.
Great heavens ! '

I think, sister, since he has thrown himself
upon the mercy of the court,' interposed Mrs.
Jordan good-naturedly, ' that we should not be
hard upon him.'

Youth and inexperience,' exclaimed Mrs.
Powell judicially, ' are no excuses for crime ;

but since my learned sister You have seen

her as Portia, no doubt, young man, and a very
pretty lawyer she makes — don't you think
so?

It was like two people speaking from the

same mouth — the one all gaiety, the other all
merriment.

Of course I have seen her, who has not ? '
said William Henry, plucking up his courage,
though with such desperation that it almost
came away by the roots.

That's much better,' smiled Mrs. Jordan
approvingly.

I am not sure,' returned her companion.
Do you not also remember me, sir ? '

'Who could forget you who remembers
'• Juliet," madam ? ' returned the young gentleman,
with his hand (as he thought) upon his
heart.

Left side, sir, the next time,' observed his
tormentor encouragingly ; ' anatomy has not
been a special study with you, but you improve
in manners. We are here to test your gallantry,
to sue for favours.'

Whatever lies within my humble power todo
for you, madam, may be considered as
done.'

Did I say " improves " ? Why, he's
perfect,' said Mrs. Powell, with a laughing

ArpnOTINGI.T.

glance at her companion. ' But it's all for
love of Portia,' she added with a sigh.

Xo, of Juliet,' returned Mrs. Jordan, with
another shake of her pretty head.

There was a gentle tap at the door ; a face,
a very charming one, looked in, and with a
murmured apology withdrew as suddenly as it
had come.

Curiosity,' said Mrs. Jordan softly, her
eyes twinkling like two stars.

Jealousy,' answered Mrs. Powell derisively.
' I do not ask which was it, but who
was it, sir ? '

I don't know,' said William Henry boldly;
I had my back to the door.'

At this both ladies burst out laughing, if
an expression so coarse can be applied to as
musical mirth as ever rippled from the hips of
woman.

He doesn't know,' cried Mrs. Powell ; ' and
this is the young gentleman we took for
all simplicity. How dare you, sir ? As if her
fairy footfall was not evidence enough to your
throbbing ears, as if her coming here at all

VOL. II. K

to see how you were getting on with two
wicked young women from Drury Lane, was
not sufficient proof of her identity ? ' Then
turning to her companion, ' How dreadful to
contemplate is his depravity ! So young in
years, and yet so versed in duplicity.'

You are engaged to be married to her, of
course,' said Mrs. Jordan softly.

'Well, yes, madam,' admitted William
Henry ; he could not help thinking how
charming she would look as the page, Flavia.

Don't be ashamed of it, yoimg gentleman,'
said IMi^s. Jordan gravely.

It is to your credit, remember, if not to
hers,' interpolated Mrs. Powell ambiguously.

And does this pretty creature live in the
house ? ' continued sirs. Jordan with tender
interest.

Yes, madam ; she is my cousin, Margaret
Slade.'

How nice ! I never had a cousin when
I was so young as that. How I envy
her!'

" This shall to the Duke," ' quoted Mrs.

Powell menacingly. Then they both laughed
again.

William Henry was dazzled, delighted, and
a little uncomfortable.

We must not take up his time,' said Mrs.
Jordan rising and consulting her watch.

Now that we know that he is so very
much engaged,' assented Mrs. Powell slily.

But you have not told me your business
ladies,' observed William Henry naively.

Then they both laughed again, as they well
might, for the truth was that, having something
so very much more pleasant in hand,
they had forgotten all about it ; they were not
bees, but butterflies.

The fact is — only your company is so
delightful it put our business out of our heads
we want to go over the play with you.'

There is but one copy in the house, ladies,
in yonder safe, and I am sorry to say my father
has the key.'

Then you must bring it to the theatre
tomorrow morning, sir,' said Mrs. Powell
imperiously.

K 2

William Henry shook his head. ' That is
the original Shakespeare MS., madam ; I could
not venture on such a step.'

What ridiculous scruples ! ' cried Mrs.
Powell impatiently, beating her pretty foot
upon the floor.

But we can use the acting copy,' suggested
Mrs. Jordan, ' and — if this young gentleman
will be so good as to come himself.'
Anything sweeter or more seductive than her
tone it was impossible to imagine ; even the
very pause and break in the sentence had
literally an unspeakable charm.

'I will come with the greatest pleasure,'
said William Hey.

There was indeed no reason why he should
not do so, but if there had been it would have
been all the same. He was fascinated.

To-morrow, then, at eleven o'clock,' she
said, and held out her hand ; he pressed it, and
she returned the pressure, but with mirthful eyes.

Mrs. Powell shook hands with him too, and
shook her head as she did so. ' Poor young
man ! ' she said ; ' poor Margaret ! '

Then they both laughed again : they
laughed in the parlour, they laughed in the
passage, they laughed on the very doorstep.
As Margaret said of them after their departure,
somewhat severely, ' They seemed to be a pair
of very frivolous young women.'

THE TALK OF THE TOWN.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

A ROYAL PATRON.

William HEXEY
performed his promise
punctually,
and presented himself
next morning
atDruryLane. He
had never been inside
a theatre by
daylight before,
and the contrast
of the scene to
that to which he
had been accustomed
struck him
very forcibly. If
any young gentleman
belonging to me were stage-struck, I
should ask the permission of the lessee of

one of our National Theatres to allow me
to introduce him into its auditorium some
dulhsh morning. If his enthusiasm survived,
I will believe that the passion for the sea will
still remain in a boy's breast after a visit to a
ship's cockpit. The spectacle of those draped
galleries, those empty seats and ill-lit space,
where all was wont to be light and laughter, is
little short of ghastly. William Henry indeed
only caught glimpses of it here and therethrough
the eye-holes over the doors, as he was
led through the echoing passages to the back
of the stage ; but they were sufficient. He in
vain attempted to picture to himself the very
different appearance the place would bear when
probably he should see it next, at the representation
of ' Vortigern and Rowena.'

His imagination was chilled. The object
of his visit, even though it might well have
done so, since it was to be interviewed by two
of the most charming women on the English
stage, did not fill him with the pleasurable
anticipation which he had experienced when he
had received the invitation. There was no

harm in it, of course, but he had come without
Margaret's knowledge, and his conscience reproached
him for so doing. It was, no doubt,
her own fault ; she had shown such unmistakable
feelings of jealousy on the previous
day, and had expressed such uncharitable views
on the character of actresses in general, that he
had shrunk from telling her of the appointment
he had made for tomorrow. It was a pity
that the dear girl was so unreasonable ; for,
though she had entirely agreed with him that
Mrs. Powell's conduct, of which he had given
her an amusing version, had been pert, sha had
failed to understand what a contrast that of
Mrs. Jordan afforded, or how distinctly it bespoke
a simple and ingenuous nature. He had
never dreamt, of course, of repeating Mrs.
Powell's parting remark about ' poor Margaret ; '
but if such a notion had entered his mind, the
manner in which the dear girl had received
other details of the little interview would have
forbidden it. He felt quite certain that she
was capable of believing that Mrs. Jordan was
ready to fall in love with him, or even had

already done it. The very idea of such a
thing, when she knew he was engaged to somebody
else, was, of course, ridiculous. He
thought that it would have set Margaret's mind
at ease to tell her that he had given that piece
of information to the ladies, whereas it had
aroused her indignation, not indeed against
him but against them. ' What right had they
to ask such questions? It was impertinent,
forward, and indelicate ; and she did hope
that those young women would never commit
the impropriety of calling in Xorfolk Street
and asking to see a young gentleman, with
whom they could have no earthly business,
again.'

And now, unknown to Margaret, he was
coins to see them. The conscience at seventeen
is tender, and it was no wonder William Hey's
smote him. At that age, however, the memory
(for some things) is unfortunately short, and
when a door suddenly opened from a labyrinthine
passage, into a prettily furnished room,
where Mrs. Jordan, reining in an arm-chair,
was reading with rapt attention a certain manuscript

he recognised, he thought he had never
seen anyone so beautiful before.

She arose with a pleasant smile, and a
natural coquettish air w^liich became her charmingly,
and bade him welcome.

Pray come in,' said she, for he stood at the
door entranced ; ' it is not everyone that is
admitted into my dressing-room, but I shan't
bite you.'

It was not the least like a dressing-room
except that it had a multiplicity of mirrors,
but her calling it so discomposed him (he
could not help thinking to himself how very
much more, if she had but known it, it would
have discomposed Margaret) ; his knees had a
tendency to knock together, and he felt that he
looked like a fool.

You need not be afraid,' continued the
lady smiling, not displeased perhaps to see the
effect she had produced in him, the symptoms
of which where not unfamiliar to her ; ' Mrs.
Powell will be here directly — she is not so
punctual as you are.'

She has not so much reason to be, madam,'

said William Henry. The words had occiuTed
to him as if by inspiration, but directly they
were uttered he repented of them. He had intended
them to be very gallant, but they now
struck him as exceedingly foolish.

He is certainly a very amusing young
man,' said the lady, as if addressing a third
person. ' Pray sit down, sir. I saw your father
after I had the pleasure of seeing you yesterday.
You are not in the least alike. You should
have seen Kemble and him together ; it was as
good as any play. They don't hit it off together
so well as you and I do. Perhaps you will say
again they have not so much reason.'

It was a very unfortunate remark of mine,'
said William Henry penitently.

I don't know that ; you needn't be so hard
upon yourself. I think you had an idea that
you were somehow paying me a compliment.
For my part, however, I have enough of compliments,
and prefer a little honesty for a
change.'

William Henry bethought him of saying
something about the genuineness of some compliments,

but by the expression of her face,
which had suddenly become grave, he judged
that she had had enough of the subject, and
remained silent.

And how is Margaret ? '

The young man blushed to the roots of his
hair, and blushed the more because he felt himself
blushing.

I have heard of the young lady from your
father, and nothing but good of her. I hope '
this with great severity — ' that you are not
ashamed of her, sir.'

No, madam.'

And I hope, sir ' — this with an angry
flash of her bright eyes — ' that you are not
ashamed of me''

Madam ! '

'Then why did you not tell her that you
were coming here ? '

William Henry bit his lip, and was about
to stammer something he knew not what,
when fortunately there was a knock at the door.

Come in,' said Mrs. Jordan.

The knocking was continued very loudly,

but the permission was not repeated. Mrs.
Jordan began to laugh, and at every recurrence
of the summons laughed more and more.
Then the door was opened a very little way.
Are you sure that I may come in, Dorothy ?
Are you sure I don't intrude ? ' inquired a
musical voice in accents of pretended anxiety.

And then Lors. Powell entered.

You are late,' observed ]\lrs. Jordan
reprovingly; 'that is not like your usual
habits.'

I thought you might like to have a Httle
time to yourselves, my dear,' replied the other
with great simplicity. 'I am quite sorry to
trouble you with business matters, Mr. Erin,
but the fact is it's pressing. I must have
Edmundaa altered ; she is heavy in hand.'

But, my dear madam, what has that to do
with me?'

With you ? "^Hiy, everything ; to whom
else can I come ? Kemble won't listen to me ;
your father, a most respectable man no doubt,
is quite impracticable, and only raves about
the Immortal Bard.'

But 1 cannot alter Shakespeare's play,
madam.'

Why not ? He's dead, isn't he ? Besides,
nis plays have been often enough altered
before. Garrick did it for one.'

'Perhaps, madam; but then I am not
Garrick. I can no more alter a play than
write one.'

Upon my word, my dear,' interposed Mrs.
Jordan, ' there is a good deal in what Mr. Erin
says. I want to have things altered in my own
part, but if, as he tells us '

Pooh ! nonsense,' broke in the other ;
you have nothing to complain of in Flavia.
She is in man's clothes, which fit you to a
nicety, and that is all you need care about.'

If he takes my advice he won't touch the
play,' said Mrs. Jordan, fairly trembling with
rage.

There you see the Country Girl,' said Mrs.
Powell, pointing to her friend with a little
hand that trembled too. ' Her temper is only
so long ' (she indicated the twentieth part of an
inch). 'Nobody can say that she has not a

natural manner, or does not know how to
blush.'

Nobody can say of Mrs. Powell,' retorted
the other, ' when she tries to blush, that her
beauty is only skin deep.'

It was certainly a most terrible scene, and
most heartily did William Henry wish himself
back in Norfolk Street. At that very moment,
however, when he expected to see them dig
their nails into one another, both ladies burst
out laughing. He began to think that either
their rage or their laughter must needs be
artificial, whereas, in fact, while they lasted
they were both real enough. Mirth with them
was the natural safety valve of all their
passions, and a very excellent mechanical contrivance
too.

But won't you just lighten my Edmundaa
a little, Mr. Erin,' persisted Mrs. Powell ; * a
touch here and a touch there ? '

^ My dear madam, supposing even I were
capable of doing such a thing (which I am
not), just consider what people would say if
I touched the play. Even now our enemies

attack its authenticity, and what a handle must
such a proceeding needs afford them.'

That is surely reasonable,' observed Mrs.
Jordan for the second time.

I don't know about reasonable,' returned
Mrs. Powell with a most bewitching pout ;
but I know if you were not here I could
persuade him.'

Shall I leave you ? ' said Mrs. Jordan,
making a feint of retiring from the room.

Oh no,' pleaded William Henry involuntarily.


'Well, upon my life,' cried Mrs. Powell,
you are a most complimentary young man !
However, I'll leave you, which considering the
company you are in, will be quite revenge
enough.' She stood at the door, drawn up to
her full height like a tragedy queen ; then
suddenly altering her tone, her air, her voice,
and becoming as if by magic the very picture
of pity, she added ' Poor Margaret ! ' and was
gone.

She is a queer mad creature, but means
no harm,' said Mrs. Jordan consolingly. ' She

was angry at your refusal to alter her part for
her, and when she is angry she will say
anything. You must not mind her. Xow,

I've taken a fancy to you, Master . By

the bye, what is your name ? '

Erin.'

Chut ! I mean your Christian name ? '

William Henry.'

And what does Margaret call you ? '

Willie.'

Very good ; then since I have no wish to
poach on Margaret's preserves, I shall call
you " Henry." I have taken a fancy to you,
Master Henry, and mean to do you a service ;
a gentleman of influence, with whom I have
some interest, wants to look at these Shakespeare
manuscripts, and has directed them to
be at his house this morning.'

I am afraid they will not be there,' said
WilUam Henry. ' My father has never permitted
them to leave Norfolk Street except
once, at the personal request of the Prince
Regent.'

Nevertheless, I think the gentleman I

VOL. II. L

speak of will have his way,' said the actress,
smiling. 'Now I wish him, in case he sees
the manuscripts, to see their discoverer also.
Perhaps he may give him a helping hand.'

You are very kind,' said William Henry
gently : it was not gratitude for the favour to
come that moved him, for he had no suspicion
how it was to be realised, but her evident warmth
of feeling towards him. Her manner had not
only an exquisite grace, but an unmistakable
tenderness; and then she was so exceedingly
handsome. A young man's heart is like the
tinder, which in those days, with flint and steel,
was the substitute for our lucifer matches ;
away from its box it is liable to danger from
every spark. ' You are very good and kind,'
repeated William Henry mechanically ; he felt
an impulse, hard to be withstood, to add ' and
very beautiful.'

I am not good,' said his companion,
gravely, ' but I suppose I am kind enough. It
is much easier, my young friend, to be kind
than good. Well, now I am going to take you
to this gentleman.'

She put on her cloak and bonnet, and led
the way to the stage door of the theatre. A
closed carriage, well appointed, was at the
door, in waiting for her, and they took their
seats. In a few minutes they were whirled to
their destination — a huge red house set in a
courtyard, with which William Henry was
unacquainted, or which in the perturbation of
his mind he failed to recognise. They passed
through certain corridors into a large room
looking on a garden. It was handsomely
furnished ; a harp stood in one corner, a piano
in the other ; the walls were hung with beautiful
pictures. But what aroused William
Henry's amazement, and prevented him from
giving his attention elsewhere, was the circumstance
that on a table by the window were
arranged the whole collection of the Shakespeare
papers.

You are looking for your father's blood
upon them,' said Mrs. Jordan, smiling ; ' you
are thinking to yourself that he must surely
have been cut to pieces ere he would have

L 2

permitted them to leave his hands. But the

fact is Hush, here comes your future

patron.'

William Henry was used to a patron, and
for that matter to a sufficiently mysterious
one ; but for the moment he was devoured by
curiosity, mingled with a certain awe. The
appearance of the new-comer, if he had expected
to see anyone very magnificent, must
have been a disappointment to him, for it
certainly was not of an imposing kind. There
entered the room, so rapidly that he almost
seemed to run, a young man of thirty, somewhat
inclined to corpulence, with a cheery
good-natured face, but decidedly commonplace
in its expression.

Well, well, Dorothy, you see I'm here,' he
said, without taking the least notice of the
stranger's presence. ' Now let us see these
manuscripts — wonderful manuscripts — and get
it over.' He spoke with great volubility, and
plumped down on a chair by the table as if ina
great hurry. ' What funny writing, and what
queer ink and paper ! and what great seals !

Shakespeare was never Lord Chancellor, was
he?'

I don't think he was, sir,' said Mrs, Jordan,
laughing. ' It was the fashion in those days
for deeds to wear fob and watch and
chain.'

Fobs, fobs ? I see no fobs. So this is
Lear ; " I've seen " Lear." The play where
everybody has their eyes put out. So he wrote
it like this, did he ? I wonder how anybody
could read it. Hambllett, Hambllett ; I never
heard of him. Notes of hand. Gad ! I know
them pretty well.'

This is the young gentleman, sir, to whom
we owe the discovery of all these manuscripts,'
said Mrs. Jordan, drawing his attention to
William Henry.

Aye, aye,' said the new comer, wheeling
his chair round to get a good view of William
Henry's face. ' You found them, did you ;
those that hide can find ; that's what people
tell me, you know.'

The speech was such a rude one, that it
might have been uttered by the first Gentleman

ill Europe, nor indeed was William Henry by
any means certain that he was not standing in
his august presence; but there was a good-natured
twinkle in the stranger's eye which
mitigated the harshness of his words. Never,
indeed, before had the doubts concerning the
genuineness of the manuscripts been expressed
in a manner so personally offensive to the
young fellow, and notwithstanding his conviction
that the speaker was a man of very
high rank, he might not have hesitated to
resent it, but for a certain appealing look which
Mrs Jordan cast at him. He remembered that
it was for his own sake that she had asked
him to meet this man, and that if he offended
him she herself might be the sufferer. He
therefore only answered with a forced smile, • I
should think no one but Mr. Malone could
have told you that.'

And who the deuce is Mr. Malone ? ' was
the contemptuous rejoinder ; a question that
put the coping-stone on the young fellow's
embarrassment and, indeed, utterly discomfited
him. He felt transported into strange regions j

with a new atmosphere ; a world that had
never heard of Mr. Malone the commentator
was unintelligible to him. It is one of the
lessons that can only be taught by years, and of
which the ' Months ' and ' Algys ' of high life
are as ignorant as the ' Jacks ' and ' Harry ' of
low, that our respective horizons are limited.

As William Henry stood tongue-tied, a
sudden burst of melody filled the room. Mrs.
Jordan had sat down to the piano, and was
singing with exquisite pathos a song that was
very familiar to him.

Detraction strove to turn her heart

And sour her gentle mind ;
But Charity still kept her part,

And meekness to her soul did bind.

Very nice, and very true,' murmured the
strange gentleman approvingly, keeping time
with head and hand to the tune. His irritation
had departed like an evil spirit exorcised ; into
his coarse countenance had stolen an expression
of pure enjoyment ; his eyes were full of
gentleness and even affection. Such power have
the voice and the instrument (when accompanied

by a pretty face) even on the most
commonplace natures.

Now what is that, what is that ? ' he exclaimed
excitedly, when the song was done.
And why have I never heard it before, my
dear ? '

'Because it is brand-new, sir,' said Mrs.
Jordan, with a bewitching curtsey. ' I sing it
as Flavia in this new play of " Vortigern and
Eowena," which is to be performed next month
at Drury Lane, and which I hope you will come
to see.'

Certainly, certainly. Why shouldn't I ?

Detraction strove to turn her heart
And sour her gentle mind.

But it didn't succeed, did it, Dorothy ? '

I hope not, sir,' returned the lady modestly.
'Then I may take it as a promise, sir, that you
will honour this performance with your presence
; it will be on the second of April.'

Yes, yes ; tell Sherry to keep a box — a
box. And now I'm off to the Privy Council.
Sorry I can't take you with me, Dorothy, but
you're not sworn in yet — not sworn in.'

And off he shambled ; his walk aud talk
were very like one another — rapid, irregular,
and fitful.

There,' cried Mrs. Jordan triumphantly,
I have got what I wanted for you, Master
Harry; the play will now have the Eoyal
patronage.'

Then that gentleman is '

His Eoyal Highness the Duke of Clarence,
my husband J

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE Green-EYED MONSTER.

A DROLL rogue of my acquaintance, whom
(one tried to think) the force of circumstance,
rather than any natural disposition, had driven
from the pavement of integrity into the gutter,
used to maintain that it was better to confess
one's peccadilloes, with such colourable excuses
as might suggest themselves, than to conceal
them. In the former case you might, with a
struggle, get out of the scrape and have done
with it ; in the latter case you .were never safe
from discovery, and when it came there was
sure to be a catastrophe.

There was, it is true, no peccadillo in
William Henry's keeping that appointment we
wot of with those two charming ornaments of
Drury Lane Theatre, but since he had an
impression that Margaret might not like it, he

ought, according to my friend's philosophy, to
have told her all about it. After his interview
with his Eoyal Highness (which could not be
concealed) he felt that this straightforward
course was the right one, and as he returned
home in the hackney carriage with the precious
manuscripts, amused himself with the thoughts
of the pleasure Margaret would exhibit on
hearing of the greatness that had been thrust
upon him. When her mind had been dazzled
by visions of Loyalty, he had intended it to sip
out in a casual way that he had been indebted
for his introduction to his Eoyal Highness to
one of those professional persons who had
called in Norfolk Street the previous day on
business, and whom he had been compelled to
receive in place of his father — a Mrs. Jordan.
The whole thing ran as smoothly and naturally
in his own mind as could be. It was like
some well-oiled mechanical machine, which
the inventor (though of course it was no
invention, only an adaptation) feels confident
will do all he expects of it, only somehow
in practice it doesn't act. He found Margaret

not in the least interested about his Eoyal
Highness, and very much excited about the
lady who had been the mere medium of his
introduction, and whose part in the matter he
had taken, it must be confessed, some pains to
minimise.

'You have not been frank with me, William
Henry,' she said with some severity.

He had it upon his lips to say that since he
was William Henry he coukl hardly be Frank,
but he felt she was in no mood for banter ;
and, moreover, with that name there naturally
occurred to him the thought of Frank Dennis,
which made his heart stand still. It was not
her anger that he feared, nor even the diminution
of her love, which had been indicated very
significantly by the mention of his double name
(which she had not used for months) instead of
Willie,' but the possible diversion of her love
to another object. Perhaps she was already
making a comparison in her mind between
himself and a certain other person who, whatever
his faults, would, she knew, never have
deceived her.

It was not impossible that love could stray,
for had it not done so but a few hours ago,
within his own experience, and with no such
provocation ? It was very different, of course, in
his case ; there is a certain latitude given to
men, and the handsomest man on the stage, or
off it, would, he was well aware, not have
caused Margaret to forget her Willie even for
an instant. But then women, when they are
jealous, are capable of anything, and from
pique will not only 'be off ' with those they
love, but sometimes ' be on ' with another.

I am very sorry, Margaret,' he stammered,
but I really don't know what you mean.'

'Then your face belies your words,' was
the cold reply. ' Why did you not tell me
yesterday that you were going to meet that
woman at Drury Lane this morning ? '

'There were two of them,' said William
Henry eagerly, urged, as he felt, by some
fortunate inspiration to tell the whole truth.

Oh, there were two, were there ? ' Though
she strove to keep her tone the same, there
was a relaxation in her severity that did not

escape him ; the reflection that there was safety
in numbers had no doubt occurred to her.
You omitted that circumstance, sir, in your
previous narrative, with, no doubt, many
others.'

Indeed, Margaret, I have told you all ;
that is, all that I thought could have any
interest for you. I ought to have said, of
course, that the invitation to the theatre came
from both the ladies ; they wanted to have
some alteration made in the play for them
(which of course was out of the question).
Mrs. Powell was very angry about it ; I
should think that she had a temper of her
own.'

I don't want to hear about Mrs. Powell.'
There was once a young gentleman who
was endeavouring to make himself agreeable asa
raconteur in the presence of Loyalty. When
he had done his story the Eoyal lips let fall
these terrible words : ' We are not amused.'
Poor William Henry found himself in much
the same position. His reminiscences of Mrs.
Powell were, as it were, cut off at the main.

Margaret's instinct had eliminated that factor
from the sum of the matter as insignificant ;
there was another person to talk about, it was
true, but he was averse to enter upon that
subject. Unhappily it was suggested to him asa
topic.

Who, may I ask, is this Mrs. Jordan ? '

Well, she was the other lady, of course,
who called here,' said William Henry (he felt
that he was turning a lively red, and it was so
important to him that he should keep his
colour). ' She is to perform Flavia in the
play.'

The person in man's clothes ? ' observed
Margaret icily.

Well, she plays the Page ; you can hardly
expect her to play him in petticoats. It was
not a dress rehearsal,' stammered the young
man, ' if you mean that. They simply asked
me — both of them — to step round to the theatre
this morning and render them some professional
assistance, which, as it happened, I am unable
to do. I cannot for the life of me see what
harm there was in that.'

Then why did you not tell me you were
going?'

It was the same dreadful question over
again. Of course he ought to have told her,
and if he had had any idea that she would
have come to know of it he certainly would
have done so. He looked so sorry (not to
say silly) that Margaret's heart melted a
little.

You know how I hate anything clandestine
and underhand, William Henry.'

I know it,' he answered, with a deep sigh.
His face was one of such abject misery, that
one would have said, whatever he had done,
he was sufficiently punished for it. Her heart
melted more and more ; he went on penitently
:

Of course I ought to have told you,
Margaret, but I did not conceal it because there
was anything to be ashamed of. Only I knew
you would not like it, that you would think
there was harm in it — as you do, it seems —
where there is no harm. It was surely a great
piece of good nature on their part, after I had

disappointed them about the play, to offer todo
their best for it, and to get the Duke '

Did they both go with you to St. James's
Palace ? ' she put in drily.

He was on the point of saying that there
had been only room for two in the coach, but
fortunately he was a young gentleman who
thought before he spoke. It would certainly
not have been a satisfactory explanation, and
the very idea that he had been about to make
it throned him scarlet,

No wonder you are ashamed of yourself,
sir,' said she, perceiving his confusion. ' Why
do you talk to me about " they " and " them,"
when you know that only one of these women
had anything to do with the matter ? '

Well, naturally, my dear, Mrs. Jordan
was the person to introduce me to his Eoyal
Highness, since she has been privately married
to him.'

I don't believe one word of it.'

I can only say she told me so,' said William
Henry simply.

Margaret did not give much credit to the

VOL. II. M

assertion of this lady, but she believed what
William Henry said. After all, the poor young
fellow had probably meant no harm, nor even
dreamt of the meshes into which this designing
female would have drawn him. He had only
been indiscreet and a little surreptitious, and
had been rated enough.

You don't know what these actresses are,
Willie,' she said gravely, ' nor what pleasure
they take in making misery and estrangements
between honest people. Nothing this woman
would like better, I'm sure of it, than to come
between you and me.'

My dear Margaret, how can you say such
things ? If you had only seen her ! '

I don't want to see her,' interpolated Margaret
quickly.

'A person entirely devoted to her profession,
in which she is justly held in the highest
esteem.'

'I don't deny that she is a good actress,'
returned Margaret significantly ; ' indeed I
have no doubt of it.'

And she spoke of you so kindly.'

'Of me ? How dared she speak of me ? '
cried Margaret with flashing eye. ' What does
she know of me ? '

Well, she saw you just for a moment when
you looked in by accident yesterday, and she
said how beautiful and kind you looked, and
congratulated me '

It was shameful of you to tell those women
of our engagement,' she put in.

Why not ? What was there to be ashamed
of? Am I not proud of it? Why should I
not have told them ? '

His simplicity was very touching. If there
had been such a thing as a male ingenue upon
the stage, the speaker would have been the very
man to play it.

'How they must have laughed at you m
their sleeves, my poor Willie ! ' she answered
pityingly.

He did not think it necessary to state that
they had laughed at him, and by no means in
their sleeves.

I will never see them again if you don't
wish it,' said William Henry, still sticking to

M 2

the plural number. ' Only I suppose when the
Vortigern " comes to be acted it will be necessary
to do so just for a night or two.'

Oh, I don't mind your seeing them at
the play, Willie. We shall, of course, be there
together.'

He had meant that his assistance would
probably be required behind the scenes. Indeed
Mrs. Jordan had taken it for granted that
he Avould be a constant visitor at the theatre
while the play was in preparation, and he had
very willingly acquiesced in that arrangement,
but he had not the courage to say so. He
was only too thankful that Margaret's suspicions
were at last set at rest. He knew that she was
of a jealous disposition, and also that she
abhorred deceit, and he loved her none the lesson
either account, but there were reasons why
her manifestation of such excessive displeasure
on so small a matter alarmed him, and made
his heart heavy within him. However, in a
month or two they would be married. He
would then be her very own, and she would
have no misgivings about him ; and as to

deceit, there would be no further cause for it,
and what was past and gone would surely be
forgiven. But still his heart was heavy.

Considering Margaret's youth and her middle-class
position in life, the irritation and annoyance
she had exhibited may seem unnatural as well
as uncalled for. Young women of her age and
rank are not nowadays supposed to know so
much about the temptations of the stage, butin
her time matters were different. The
charms of this and that popular actress, and
even their mode of life, were topics of common
talk, and there was none of them more talked
about than Mrs. Jordan. It is not, therefore,
to be wondered at that Margaret regarded her
as a syren attracted by the notoriety (not to
mention the innocence and beauty) of her
Willie, who designed to wile him from the
quiet harbour of domestic love into the stormy
seas of passion. Moreover, it must be said for
Margaret that her jealousy was not like that of
some people who, while resenting the interference
of others with their private property, do
not lavish on it any especial kindness of their

own. She had always been the friend and
defender of William Henry, even before he
became her lover, and had long established
claims on his fidelity, and it galled her that one
glimpse of a pretty face should have so worked
with him as to induce him to renew acquaintance
with it, under what seemed to her such
suspicious circumstances, and especially in so
secret and clandestine a fashion. It had always
been a complaint of hers in the old days that
William Henry was inclined to deception. It
was in relation, however, to Mr. Erin only that
she had observed it, and in that case there had
been, certainly, excuses for the young man ;
but that he should have deceived her — if, at
least, concealment could be called deception —
she justly considered to be less pardonable.
However, she had now said her say, and with a
vigour that the circumstances scarcely called
for ; indeed, she felt that she had been somewhat
hard upon him. However wrong he had
been to try to hoodwink her, that had been the
extent of his offending. He could hardly have
declined to go to the theatre ; and, indeed, she

confessed to herself that while the play was in
progress it was not reasonable to expect him to
hold no communication with those who were
to perform in it. The matter interested him
very much, nor did she forget that it was
mainly on her own account, for did not her
uncle's consent to their union depend upon the
play's success?

When ]mr. Erin presently announced the
first rehearsal at the theatre, and suggested that
William Henry should be present to witness it.
Margaret made no opposition ; her objections,
in short, to the young man's renewing his
acquaintance with the fair Flavia where tacitly
withdrawn. She acknowledged to herself that
things could scarcely be otherwise, and that,
after all, there could be no possible harm in the
matter ; and fi^om that moment, whenever her
Willie was out of her sight, she was more
tormented with the fires of jealousy than ever.

She knew that he saw sirs. Jordan constantly,
and was yet compelled to ignore it ;
she burned to know what passed between them,
yet scorned to inquire. The news William

Henry brought back with him of the prospects
of the play seemed hardly of any consequence
to her compared with matters on which he
never spoke at all. What was it to her that
Kemble was unsympathetic, dogged, and studiously
apathetic in his rendering of Vortigern ;
that Fillmore as Horses was more like a
buffoon than a hero ? What was it to her. on
the other hand, that Mrs. Powell as Edmundaa
surpassed Mrs. Siddons herself? What she
wished to know, and could not ask, was how
that hussy Mrs. Jordan was behaving herself,
not as Flavia in tights (though that idea was
far from consolatory), but in her own proper
person. Of one thing she felt convinced, that
not content with seeing her Willie every day,
this woman corresponded with him ; that lie
received letters from her under that very roof.
Else how was it that when the post now
brought him missives in a hand that was
strange to her, he would slip them into his
pocket without a word of comment, and with
an air of indifference that did not impose upon
her for an instant ? William Henry lead now

a little sitting-room of his own, and she noticed
that when these letters arrived he remained in
it longer alone than usual ; reading them, no
doubt, over and over, perhaps replying to them
in the same fervid style in which (she felt sure)
they were written, and possibly (for Margaret,
though no poet like her Willie, had a lively
imagination of her own) even kissing them.

One morning the Epilogue to ' Yortigern
and Eowena' arrived from Vir. Merry, and was
discussed at breakfast-time word by word, as
befitted so important a document. An hour
afterwards, when William Henry had gone out,
as Margaret was only too well convinced, to
Drury Lane, mr. Erin returned to the subject.

I don't much like those concluding lines

in the first part,' he said —

The scattered flowers he left, benignly save,
Posthumous flowers ; the garland of the grave.

It ran '"- benignly save," did it not,
Made ? '

I am not sure, uncle.*

Then just go and get the thing out of
Samuel's room.'

Margaret went and looked about her for
the manuscript in question. It was nowhere
to be found. But in her researches she came
upon another document spread out in the half-opened
drawer of the writing-table ; it was
written in a delicate hand on large letter-paper,
and it was almost impossible that she could
avoid reading the commencement of it.

My dear W. H.,' it began, and then followed
a mass of heterogeneous words without
sense or meaning, as if they had been taken at
random out of some dictionary. It is probable
that Margaret had never heard of a cryptogram,
but she had heard of communications
written in cypher, and it flashed upon her
mind at once that she was looking at some
letter of that nature. It was bad enough that
this abandoned hussy of Drury Lane, who
dwelt but a mile away from them, and saw her
Willie five days out of six, should nevertheless
have the audacity to correspond with him ; but
that she should write such things as could not
bear the light and had to be concealed in
cypher was indeed intolerable. Granting her

premises, there was certainly ample cause for
the indignation that mantled to her very forehead,
and the bitterness that took possession of
her very soul.

As she stood with one hand on the table,
for her limbs trembled with the agitation that
shook her mind, she heard the front door softly
closed, and a hurried footstep in the passage.
It was William Henry, who had remembered
no doubt — too late — that he had left the letter
exposed to view, and had returned to place it
in some safer receptacle. The next moment he
was face to face with her.

CHAPTER XXIX.

THE CYPHER.

I KNOW what you are come for,' said
Margaret in a broken voice, which lead yet no
touch of tenderness in it. ' You are come for
this letter.' She snatched it from the drawer
and held it before him. ' It is no use to lie tome
; your face tells me the truth.'

William Henry's face was indeed white to
the lips ; his eyes returned her gaze with a
confused and frightened stare. He stammered
out something, he knew not what, and sank
into a chair.

What,' continued the girl, in harsh, pitiless
tones, ' have you nothings to say for
yourself ? Has your ready tongue no excuse
to offer for this new duplicity ? '

Have you read the letter ? ' he inquired
hoarsely.

No ; how could I ? '

The colour rushed back to his cheeks, and
into his eyes there came a gleam of hope.

No,' she went on, 'it is you who shall read
it to me. If you decline to do so, I shall conclude
that this vile creature has written you
what is not fit for anyone, save women like
herself, to hear, and your refusal will be the
last words that you will ever address to me
with my consent, so help me Heaven.'

Mrs. Powell herself, when personating some
heroine of the stage, never looked or spoke
vrith greater earnestness of purpose than on
this occasion did simple Margaret Slade out of
the simplicity of her nature.

I will read you the letter, Margaret,' was
William Henry's quiet reply.

His words, and still more his tone, staggered
Margaret not a little. The change in his face
and manner within the last few minutes had
indeed been most remarkable. At first he had
seemed so struck with the consciousness of
guilt, and so hopeless of forgiveness, that he
had not dared to throw himself upon her

mercy. Then he had appeared to recover himself
a little ; and now he Alas quite calm and
composed as though all apprehension had
passed away from him.

His voice as he said ' I will read you the
letter, Margaret,' had even a tender reproach in
it, as though he, and not she, were the injured
party.

Eead it,' she said ; but her tone was no
longer stubborn and imperious. It was plain
that this woman's letter was not a love-letter,
or he would not have consented to read it ; and
if it was not a love-letter, what cause had she for
anger ? And yet, if it was not so, why had he
exhibited such confusion — nay despair ?

I will read it, since you wish it,' he went
on, ' though it is a breach of confidence. It is
better to break one's word than to break one's
heart.'

The morality of this aphorism was somewhat
questionable, but Margaret nodded assent. She
took it, no doubt, in a particular sense. It was
certainly better that she should know the worst
than that any proviso of a designing woman,

made for her own wicked convenience, should
be respected.

It is well to begin at the beginning,' continued
William Henry. ' Be so good as to look
at the address of that letter.'

She did so with an indifferent air. She could
almost have said that she had seen it before, for
she recognised it at once as one of those missives
of which he had received so many of
late.

'Let me draw your attention to the postmark.'


It was ' Mallow : Ireland.'

The letter feU from her hand. Self-humiliation
mastered for the moment the
happiness of discovering that he had not been
false to her after all. It was certainly not
with Mrs. Jordan that he was secretly corresponding,
and probably with no one of her
sex. If Margaret had been an older woman,
with a larger experience of the ways of men,
she might have regretted her misplaced indignation
as ' waste ; ' it might have even struck
her that the present mistake might weaken her

position if on some future occasion she should
have better reason for her reproaches, but she
had no thought except for the injustice she had
done her lover. She stood before him with
downcast head, stupefied and penitent.

Oh, Willie, I am so sorry.'

So am I, dear ; sorry that you should have
so little confidence in me ; sorry that you should
have thought me capable of carrying on, under the
roof that shelters you, an intrigue with another
woman. This letter — and I have received others
like it — is from Eeginald Talbot.'

But, Willie, what could I think ? ' she
pleaded humbly, ' and why should you write
to Mr. Talbot in cypher ? And why when I
charged you falsely — with — what — you have
mentioned — did you look so — so guilty ? '

Say rather so hurt and shocked, Margaret,'
he answered gravely. 'It was surely only
natural that I should be shocked at finding
the girl I loved so distrustful of me.'

I was wrong, oh, very, very wrong ; and
yet,' she pleaded, ' I erred through love of you,
Willie. If I had not cared for you so much —

SO very much — I should not have been so unreasonable,'


You mean so wild with jealousy he
replied smiling. ' However, it's all over now,'
and he held out his hand for the letter which
she still retained.

Please to read it to me,' she said ; ' a few
words will do.'

His face grew pale again, as she thought
with anger.

Why so ? ' he replied. ' Are you not
satisfied even now ? '

Yes, yes ; it was foolish of me, I know,
but I said " So help me Heaven." '

Oh, I see. For your oath's sake. That
is what Herod said to the daughter of Herodias.
It is not a good example to follow.*

He spoke stiffly, but she shook her head.

I only ask for a few words, Willie.'

'But Talbot writes to me in confidence;
about matters that only affect him and me.
There is not a word that concerns you in it.'

Still she shook her head. The girl was truth
itself, not only in the spirit but in the letter.

VOL. II. N

She had sworn not to speak with him unless he
did a certain thing, and though the reason for
his doing so no longer existed, her oath remained.
Her stubbornness evidently annoyed
him. Their parts in the little drama had as it
were become reversed. The wrongdoer had
become the injured person, and vice versa.

The facts are these,' he said slowly.
Talbot and I, as you know, have a secret in
common. He is the only person save myself,
who has seen my patron. What he writes of
him and his concerns — that is of the manuscripts
— we do not wish others to see. We
have therefore hit upon a device to keep our
communications secret.'

He took out of the drawer a piece of cardboard
exactly the shape and size of ordinary
letter-paper, full of large holes neatly cut at
unequal distances. He placed it on blank
paper, and through the interstices wrote these
words :

Margaret has done you the honour to take
your finnikin hand-writing for that of Mrs.
Jordan.'

Then he took off the cardboard and filled
in the spaces with a number of inconsequent
words, so that the whole communication became
meaningless.

Talbot has another piece of cardboard
exactly similar to this,' he continued, ' and has
only to place it over this rubbish for my
meaning to become apparent.'

'It is very ingenious,' said Margaret. It
was the highest praise she could afford. Such
arts were distasteful to her. They seemed to
suggest a natural turn for deception, and she
secretly hoped that the invention lay at
Talbot's door.

Yes, I think the plan does me some
credit,' said William Henry complacently.
Well, I have only to lay the cardboard over
this letter that so excited your indignation, to
get at the writer's meaning.'

Her eyes were turned towards him, but with
no fixity of expression, she was bound to listen
and to look, but her interest was gone.

" Why do you not send me a copy of the
play ? " ' he rapidly read. '' One would think

N 2

it was you only who had any stake in it ; " and
so on, and so on. I suppose you have no wish
to pry further into our little secret ? ' he added,
folding up the letter at the same tune.

I did not wish to pry into it at all, Willie,'
she answered sorrowfully ; ' I again repeat I am
sorry to have mistrusted you.'

Well, well, let us say no more about it.
Let us forgive and forget.'

It is you who have to forgive, Willie,
not I.'

I don't say that,' he answered gravely ;
*but if you think so, keep your forgiveness,
Maggie, for next time. Be sure I shall have
need of it.'

Here the voice of Mr. Erin was heard
calling for Margaret.

Why do you not bring me the play ? '

William Henry held up his finger in sign
that she should not reveal his presence in the
house to Mr. Erin, and taking the manuscript
from a cupboard placed it in her hand.

Take it him,' he whispered, with a tender
kiss.

She kissed him again without a word ; the
tears stood in her eyes, as, the very image of
penitence and self-reproach, she made her mute
adieu.

It was certainly an occasion on which some
men, not unconscious of errors, might have
congratulated themselves.

The expression on William Hem:'y's face,
however, was very far from one of triumph ;
it was white and worn and weary.

'Another such a victory,' he murmured
with a haggard smile, ' and I shall be undone.'

He locked the door and threw himself into
a chair with an exhausted air, like an actor
who, having played his part successfully, is conscious
of having done so with great effort, and
also that he owed more to good luck than to
good guidance. ' Great heaven ! ' he muttered,
what an escape ! Suppose she had found the
key for herself and read the letter, or even if
she had compelled me to do so. She must have
heard it all. I could not have invented a
syllable to save my life . What a millstone
is this fellow about my neck,' he presently

continued, as he tore the letter along and
across, and threw the fragments under his feet.
A copy of the play ! No, that he shall never
see till the time is past for harm to come of it.
A few days more, and all will be safe. I will
be pestered no longer nth his cursed importunities.'


Then he took the perforated cardboard and
tore that likewise into small pieces. ' Now I
have burnt my boats with a vengeance,' he
added grimly.

Then he rose and paced up and down the
room, first rapidly, then slower and slower.

I am afraid I have been hasty, after all,'
he murmured ; ' this Talbot is ill to deal with,
and suspicious as the devil. If I tell him in
what peril his communications have placed me,
and that therefore I have destroyed his cypher,
he will not believe me, though it is the truth.
I must tell him that it has been destroyed by
accident, and that therefore I dare not write
him what he wishes, and that he will not believe
either. If incredulity were genius, then indeed
he would be a very clever fellow, but not

Otherwise. Great heavens ! what rubbish he
writes and calls it poetry. Xo, no, no,' he
muttered with knitted brows, ' not that Master
Eeginald, at any price. And yet how mad it
will make him to find it is not so. He will dome
a mischief if he can, no doubt. However,
he will know nothing till it is too late. Next
Saturday will put me out of the reach of harm.
Would it were Saturday, and all were well.
That's Shakespeare, by the bye, save that he
says supper time. A bad augury — a bad
augury. The Ides of March are come, but
they have not yet gone.' Here he took another
turn up and down the room. ' I wonder
whether, v/ith all his knowledge of humanity,
Shakespeare ever knew a man who suffered
like me. I wonder whether he sees me now,
and knows about it. A strange thought indeed,
and yet it may be so. Perhaps his great soul,
which understands it all, has pity on me.
Will she pity me?" A still more momentous
question. Pity is akin to love, he says, when
love comes last. If love comes first, will pity
follow it ? What thoughts could I set down

this moment were I in the mood for it ; and yet
they say I am no more a poet than this Talbot.
He a poet ! The vain drivelling fool ; curse his
false heart and prying eyes ! I hate him.'

CHAPTER XXX.

THE PLAY.

The first night of one new play is much the
same as that of another, I suppose, all the world
over. The opening and shutting of doors, the
rustling of silks and satins, the murmur of expectancy,
cannot hush the beating of the young
author's breast, as he sits at the back of the
box and longs, like the sick man, for the morning.
Everybody who is anybody (a charming
phrase indicating about one billionth of the
human race) is there. Men of fashion and
women of wit : gossips and critics ; playwrights
who have been damned tmd hope for company
in their Inferno ; playwrights who have succeeded,
with no love for a new rival ; the fast
and the loose. Lights everywhere, but as
much difficulty in finding places as though it

were dark ; mute recognitions, whispered information
(' A dead failure, they tell me.'
The best thing since the " School for
Scandal " ' ) ; fashionable titters ; consumption
with her ill-bred cough. These are things
peculiar to all first nights, but the first night of
a newly discovered play by William Shakespeare
' was, as one may imagine, something
exceptional.

Malone, of course, had been at work. The
public had been warned against ' an impudent
imposture ' in ' a Letter to Lord Claremont '
(surely the longest ever written) of which
Edmund Burke had been so good as to say
that he had got to the seventy-third page
before he went to sleep.' It had been necessary
to issue a counter-handbill and to distribute it
at the doors.

VORTIGERN.

A malevolent and impudent attack on the
Shakespeare Manuscript having appeared on
the eve of representation of this play, evidently
intended to injure the proprietor of the Manuscript,
Mr. Erin feels it impossible, within the

short space of time between the publishing and
the representation, to produce an answer to
Mr. Malone's most ill-founded assertions in his
Inquiry." He is therefore induced to request
that " Vortigern and Eowena " may be heard
with that candour which has ever distinguished
a British audience.'

Opposition handbills were also in circulation,
headed ' A Forgery.' The public interest
in the play was unprecedented. The doors of
Drury Lane were besieged. Within, the excitement
was even more tremendous. The
house was crammed to the very roof. Many
paid box prices though they knew no seats were
to be obtained there, for the purpose of getting
down into the pit. ' The air was charged with
the murmurs of the contending factions.'
Nothing was ever heard or seen like it within
the walls of a playhouse. In a centre box sat
Samuel Erin and Margaret. The antiquary had
thought it right that they should occupy a conspicuous
position and show a bold front to the
world, and she had consented to this arrangement
without a murmur, for was it not for her

Willie's sake ? She looked very pale, however,
and when addressed had hardly voice to answer.
The vast assemblage in such commotion, the
shouts and cries from the gallery, the satirical
cries of ' Author ! Author ! ' — though the overture
had not commenced — appalled her.

In a small box on the opposite side of the
house, sat alone a tall handsome man, as pale
as she. He had drawn the little curtain forward,
so as to conceal himself from the
occupants of the house, and kept his face,
which wore a look of great distress, turned
towards the stage. Through the folds of the
curtain he had stolen one glance at her as she
took her seat ; but afterwards he had looked no
more at her. In the next compartment was
another and younger man, dio also seemed to
have a personal interest in Margaret Slade.
His box was full of spectators, but he sat at
the back of them, and unseen by her, fixed his
eyes upon her from time to time with a searching
expression. When the play began, however,
he listened to it with the most rapt
attention — not a word escaped him — and with

every word his face grew darker and more
malevolent.

Behind the curtain opinion was almost as
much divided as before it. Kemble was in his
grimmest humour ; disinclined, as many said,
both then and afterwards, to give his Vortigern
fair play. Some of the inferior actors, taking
their tune from him, certainly abstained from
exerting themselves, and even made no secret
beforehand of their design to abstain. It was
a play cumbrous in construction, and even in
the very names of the dramatis personage, such
as Mortimer and Catagiinus; but it had
been accepted by the management, and the
company, as it was afterwards urged, and with
justice, should have done their best for it.
Mrs. Powell and Mrs. Jordan vied with one
another in encouraging William Henry, who
remained all the evening behind the scenes.
The former made a magnificent Edmundaa ; the
latter, of whom the greatest of our dramatic
critics writes, ' Delightful Mrs. Jordan, whose
voice did away with the cares of the whole
house before they saw her come in,' surpassed

herself. If beauty and vivacity could have
saved the piece she would have saved it, single-handed.
There was a great deal of opposition,
but at first the play went fairly well. The swell
and roll of its sonorous lines hid their lack of
ideas, and in a fashion supported themselves
unaided.

We are safe now, the " Yortigern " will
succeed, Henry,' said Mrs. Jordan cheerfully,
as she left the stage at the close of the second
act.

William Henry did not answer ; his face,
pale and haggard as it had been throughout
the evening, had suddenly assumed a look of
horror.

What is the matter with you, lad ? ' exclaimed
Mrs. Powell. ' You would make a
good actor, but a very bad author ; you could
not look more desponding if the play was your
own. It is going all right ; you must not mind
a hiss or two.'

I fear him,' whispered WilUam Henry,
hoarsely. ' That is his hateful voice ; it is allover.'


The two ladies looked at one another
significantly ; they had seen young fathers of
promising plays on first nights before, but here
was a mere godfather worse than any of them.
They thought that the young fellow had taken
leave of his wits.

I tell you it is all over,' continued the
wretched youth; 'he has come here to damn
me.'

'If you mean the Devil, that is nothing
new,' said Mrs. Powell ; ' he is always, so weare
told, in the play-house.'

She spoke very sharply; she thought it
the right remedy to apply under the circumstances,
just as she might have recommended
bending back the fingers in an extreme case
of hysterics.

Come here,' said Mrs. Jordan, leading the
young man to a spot where, through a chink
in the curtain, they could get a view of the
box where his father and cousin sat. ' Look at
your Margaret yonder ; she is not a coward
like you.' Indeed, the more the people hissed,
the calmer and the more indifferent Margaret

seemed to be, though under that unmoved exterior
she suffered agonies. She was thinking
of her Willie, though she could not see him,
and love enhanced her beauty.

It was a frightful scene of turmoil, though
up till now a good-natured one. The actor
who had last left the stage (or rather who was
left upon it, for he had been killed in combat)
had had, by some mismanagement, the curtain
dropped upon his legs, and had jumped up
and rubbed them before the audience in a manner
very unbecoming a corpse. At this they
screamed with laughter, to which his Highness
the Duke of Clarence, in the royal box, contributed
his full share. Their good humour
was, therefore, for the present, assured, though
such mirth was hardly conducive to the success
of a tragedy. But at the commencement
of the next act there were signs of ill-nature.
There were cries set going from a box on the
upper tier, of ' Forgery ! forgery ! ' and even of
Thief Erin ! Thief Erin ! look at Thief Erin ! '

Kemble's magnificent voice alone could
make itself heard above these sounds of displeasure.

He was apostrophising the King of

Terrors : —

Oh sovereign Death,

Who hast for thy domain this world immense.
Churchyards and charterhouse are thy haunts,
And hospitals thy sumptuous palaces ;

And when thou wouldst be merry thou dost choose

The gaudy chamber of a dying king.
And then thou dost ope wide thy monstrous jaws,

And with rude laughter and fantastic tricks

Thou clapp'st thy rattling fingers to thy side ;
And when this solemn mockery is o'er

Here he was suffered to proceed no further ;
that unfortunate hne, uttered in the most
sepulchral tone, was the signal for the most discordant
howl that was ever heard within the
walls of a theatre. He repeated the line with
his own peculiar emphasis, and even, as a
spectator tells us, ' with a solemn grimace.' It
was the death-blow of the piece. A scene of
confusion ensued which beggars description.
Suddenly, and as the newspapers of the day
said, ' without any premonition,' a rush was
made for the box occupied by the Erin.
Fortunately, however, one man at least had
premonition of it. He was the one who has

VOL. II.

been mentioned as occupying a box by himself.
He had been silent all the evening, taking no
part either with the partisans or the opponents
of the play, but with eyes ever attentive to
what was going on. The voice of the young
fellow in the next compartment had attracted
him above all others ; it had malevolence in it
which was wanting in the other cases, and,
though he did not recognise it, sounded not
unfamiliar to him. It had been the first to
raise the cry of ' Forever ! ' and the only one
which had mentioned the name of Erin. Ashe
repeated the words for the third or fourth
time, some drunken fellow hiccuped ' Where
are they ? ' To which the malevolent voice
replied, ' I'll show you. The young scoundrel
is hiding behind the curtain, but we'll have
him out.'

The next moment the corridor was full of an
excited rabble, led by Eeginald Talbot. They
ran in their stupid fury at full speed, but not so
fast as Frank Dennis would have run could he
have got free of them. He had dashed from
his box the instant he had heard Talbot's

vengeful cry, but it had already raised the
wilder spirits of the house, and they had rushed
out from this door and that, and interposed
themselves between him and their leader. He
beheld already Margaret surrounded by this
wild and wanton crew, the old man maltreated,
and William Henry, evidently the object of
this fellow's hatred, torn to pieces. He ran
with the impetuous crowd, parting them like
water left and right with his broad shoulders,
till he gained a place among the foremost.
Talbot, leading by a few paces, had reached a
spot where two staircases met ; the one a narrow
one, leading straight down to a few boxes, in
one of which Margaret was seated, the other a
broader fight, which led to one of the exits of
the house. Talbot, wild with haste and rage,
cast a glance behind him to point out to his
followers the right direction to take, when he
met Dennis' eye, and strove to turn and speak.
But ere he could do so, Frank's strong fingers
were on his neck, and impelled him forward,
like the wind, to the top of the broader stair.
The others, who knew not what had happened,



thought that they were still following their
leader to their destination, and ran on full pelt
behind them. Ere the third step was reached,
half a dozen had fallen headlong, and half a
score came toppling over these. Oaths and
groans mingled with the cries of those who
still pushed on behind, but Eeginald Talbot
neither spoke nor fell. The fingers that had
closed about his neck clutched his throat also,
while at the same time they kept him up,
though his legs used a speed which they had
never before attained to ; they took their four
and even five steps at a time. Fortunately for
him, and perhaps for his custodian also, the
great door at the foot of the staircase was open
to the street, and when they reached it Frank
simply let his companion go, who, bereft of
sense, though by no means of motion, fell face
foremost, with the most frightful violence, into
a mud heap. A friendly pillar brought Dennis
himself to anchorage, who then quietly turned
and entered the theatre by another way.

Thanks to his presence of mind and strength
of bociv, the house was now freed of its more

dangerous elements, and an attempt was
being made to finish the play, though almost
in dumb show. Mrs. Jordan, though greatly
agitated, had even the courage to speak the
epilogue, and for the first time found her
graces and witcheries of no avail. Margaret
would have stayed to say a few words of love
and confidence to William Henry, but Mr
Erin hiuTied her away.

It was a planned thing,' he kept murmuring
on the way home in the hackney-coach.
There was a plot to damn the play ; that devil
Malone was at the bottom of it.'

But Margaret was not thinking of Malone,
nor even of the play, concerning which, though
she heard them not, there were reports, besides
its failure, of misadventure and even death.
She was thinking of Willie, and why he did not
come home to be comforted. The two sat
down alone to supper, of which neither could
touch a mouthful ; the antiquary full of woeful
thoughts, the girl with only one question in her
mind, ' Why does he not come ? '

The maid thought she had seen him at the

door when her mistress got out of the carriage ;
there was certainly some young man with his
hat pulled over his eyes, who had watched her
into the house, and having, as it seemed,
assured himself of her safety, had walked
away. It was possible of course that this might
have been Willie, but whither had he gone ?

'It is no use your waiting for William
Henry,' said the antiquary roughly ; ' why
don't you eat ? '

She noticed that her uncle no longer spoke
of ' Samuel,' and the change jarred upon her
feelings, already strained and tried. It was no
fault of Willie's that the play had not succeeded,
and it was cruel to visit such a misfortune
upon his innocent head.

It is only natural that I should be anxious
about him,' she returned with some touch of
resentment.

Pooh, pooh ! why should you be anxious ?
He is no doubt supping with one of the players.'

His indifferent words struck her like a blow
at random. Was it conceivable, after what
had happened that evening, that Willie should

prefer the society of another to lier own ?
Above all, was it possible that that one should
be Mrs. Jordan .^ She could not but notice
how Flavia had fought for the play, and had
hardly known whether to admire or detest her
for it. If she had been in her place, and
could have done it, she would have fought for
it too, but then she would have an adequate
motive. Why should that woman have dared
so much for it when the others had performed
their parts in so sluggish and perfunctory a
manner ? It must have been because she had
her heart in it. And who could have their
heart in a mere stage-play, a thing at the best
full of fictitious woes and imaginary heroes ?
There must have been human love — or what
such creatures took for love — to have enlisted
her in its cause. Oh, why did not Willie come ?
As the night wore on apprehensions for her
lover's personal safety took the place of these
jealous fears. What might not despair and
disappointment have induced him to do ? In
her wretchedness and need of sympathy and consolation,
she ventured to hint at this to Mr. Erin.

It is surely very odd, uncle. Willie ought
to be home by this time at all events. Should
we not send somewhere ? *

What nonsense ! Whither should we send,
and why ? The lad is old enough to take care
of himself.'

'But perhaps in his dejection and — and —
misery, uncle, he might not have any care of
himself.'

Tush ! lie is not of that sort. He has
much too high an opinion of his own value
to throw himself away — into the river, for
instance. That such an idea should have
entered your mind, however, shows what an
unstable fellow you think him ; and in someways
— though not in that way — he is unstable.
He is but a boy, after all, and a spoilt boy. I
take blame to myself that I suffered him to
entertain the delusion that he was fit to take to
himself a wife. It was conditional indeed upon
certain contingencies which have not taken
place, so that the whole" affair is null and
void.'

Uncle ! ' Margaret rose from her chair,

and with white face and flashing eyes confronted
the old man.

Of course it's null and void,' he went on,
flattening the tobacco in his pipe with its
stopper, and affecting an indifferent air. ' A
bargain's a bargain, though indeed, as I have
said, it is one that I should never have entered
into in any case, but the mere vulgar question
of ways and means now puts an end to the
matter. Of course he looked for material
results from the " Vortigern." It will now not
keep the stage another night, while the publication
of the play is rendered worthless. It is
not his fault, of course ; I don't blame him.
It is not in mortals to command success. There
is nothing for him now but to return to the
conveyancing business ; and in ten years or so
there is no knowing but that he may step into
old Bingley's shoes.'

And I ? ' cried Margaret bitterly. ' What
am I to do ? To wait for him ? '

Certainly not ; that would be hopeless indeed.
The best thing you can possibly do just
at present is to — I shall make arrangements for

his lodging elsewhere out of harm's way — is to
begin to forget all about him.'

Forget him — dorset Willie ? How can I ? '

By thinking of somebody else,' returned
the antiquary coolly : ' that I have heard is
the best way. At all events it will have to be
done.'

Do you think then a woman's heart is
like a seal, uncle, on which an image is impressed,
and which, held to some fierce flame
as mine seems to be, Heaven help me, this
moment — it straightway becomes a blank ready
for the reception of another image? Oh, no,
no, I will wait ten years for Willie, if it be
necessary, but I will never forget him.'

He'll forget you in half the time,' was the
dry rejoinder.

You speak falsely as well as cruelly,
uncle,' said Margaret passionately.

There had been a time when even passion
could not have nerved her to speak so boldly
to the antiquary ; and there had been a time
when if she had dared to do so the old man
would have put down his foot upon such

passion and crunched the sparks out. But just
now Margaret was too full of her misery and
the sense of wrong to care what she said, while
her uncle on his part, though he was fully
resolved to put an end to his niece's engagement
with William Henry, could not at once
resume the relative position to her he had
occupied before it was mooted.

'As to my speaking falsely concerning
William Henry's fidelity,' he answered quietly,
time alone can prove that : and there will be
certainly plenty of time ; while as to cruelty I
really cannot accuse myself of having been
cruel.'

What ! when you have allowed the
mutual love between your son and me for
months to ripen without censure ? When you
have heard him call me his own ten times a
day, and never reproved him for it. When
you have thrown us together and left us
together ? And now because something has
not succeeded, of the success of which you
made sure, do you wish to tear us asunder and
bid us dorset one another. And then, oh

shame, do you dare to say you are not
cruel ? '

The old man made her no reply, perhaps
his conscience pricked him in the matter, or
perhaps he perceived that it was useless to
argue with her in her present excited state.

Have you any fault to find with Willie ? '
she continued reproachfully. ' Has he not
done all he could do in this unfortunate affair ?
What has happened to the "Vortigern" that
he could help or hinder ? Do you suppose he
has deceived you because it has not succeeded
?

Of course not,' put in the antiquary
testily ; ' the boy is honest enough, no doubt ;
but one must look at things from a reasonable
point of view. Come, come, we can talk of
these things tomorrow. It is getting late.
Let us to bed.'

She answered not a word, but sat with her
face bowed down on the table and hidden in
her hands, while he took up his candle and
left her. She remained in the same position
for many minutes, when suddenly there came

a gentle knock, a mere tap, at the front door.
She was on her feet in a moment, with her
long hair loose behind her ears, listening. It
was not Willie's knock, she knew, but it might
be ncAvs of Willie. The clock on the mantelpiece
had just struck two. Then came the tap
again ; this time a little more distinct. It was
evident that her uncle had not heard it, and
the servant had long gone to bed. There
were many bad characters abroad in the street
in those times, restrained by a very inefficient
constabulary, but Margaret did not hesitate to
obey this second summons. She went to the
door and undid the fastenings without making
the least noise.

A woman stood on the step, to judge by
her figure a young one, but her face was hidden
in her hood.

You are Margaret ? ' she said, in clear
sweet tones mingled with an ineffable pity.

I am,' she answered, vrith a dreadful fear
at her heart. She felt that some messenger of
evil tidings stood before her.

I thought so ; I felt sine that you would

be sitting up for him,' murmured the other
softly.

Where is he ? Is he ill ? Why does he
not come home ? ' gasped Margaret.

He is not ill, but he cannot come home.
Let me in, and I will tell you all.'

With a gentle pressure, for Margaret's
instinct was to oppose her, the visitor made
her way into the house. ' Let me see you
quite alone,' she said : ' somewhere where we
cannot be interrupted. I have news for your
private ear — I am sorry to say, bad news.'

And who are you ? ' Margaret's voice
was antagonistic, almost defiant. She resented
this woman's coming beyond all measure, but
the fear within her compelled her to listen to
what she might have to say.

I am Mrs. Jordan,' was the quiet reply.

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE MESSENGER OF DISGRACE.

^M- HOSE words, 'I

am Mrs. Jordan,'
were not unexpected
by Margaret.
There was
no need for her
visitor to speak
them or to throw
back her hood ;
she had known her
from the first. Whatever
evil news there
was to tell, it was
made ten times worse
by the messenger that
brought it. She felt
like Antony's wife in the presence of Cleopatra.
' Yon have been his ruin,' were the

words that trembled on her lips. But there
was something in the other's tone that prevented
their utterance. That it was a beautiful face
was nothing ; she detested and abhorred its
beauty. That it was full of sympathy and
compassion was nothing ; she resented its compassion
as an insult. But there was also sorrow
in it, genuine and unmistakable sorrow. Whatever
wrong this woman had done her — so
Margaret reasoned — she had repented of; perhaps
had come to confess, when it was too late,
but still to confess. There were tears in her
eyes ; she was an actress it is true, but they were
real tears.

Well, what is it you want, madam ? '

Nothing. I am here on your account,
not on my own.'

And Willie sent you ? '

She uttered this with great bitterness, experiencing
the same sort of satisfaction in the
humiliation it cost her, as some persons in
physical pain derive from the self-infliction of
another pain.

He did not send me : he does not even
know that I am here.'

But you come from him. You have been
with him after he left the theatre ? '

Yes, for hours ; two long miserable hours.'
And you dare to tell me that ? '
Yes. Oh, Margaret — for that is the only
name I know you by — put away from you, I
beseech you, all thoughts that wrong him.
He has sins enough — Heaven help him — to
answer for, but not such as you would impute
to hkn. He is faithful to you and despairing.'
What do you mean ? Why should he
despair ? ' The other's words had somewhat
disarmed her, the gentleness and pity in her
companion's looks had. won upon her in spite of
herself. The woman was certainly not thereto
exult over her. It was a bitter reflection
that her lover had not come straight to her ;
that he had sought a go-between (and such
a go-between !) to speak for him. But that
sad word ' despairing ' altered matters in other
respects. What Willie in his modesty and
self-denunciation doubtless feared, was not only
that ]mr. Erin would stick to the letter of his
agreement respecting his consent to his son's

VOL. II. p

marriage (wliicli, indeed, lie lead just announced
his intention to do), but that she herself would
assent to his change of vieAvs ; that the idea of
waiting, probably for years, until Willard
Henry should have made sufficient means upon
which to marry, would be abhorrent to her ;
that, in a word, her love for him did not
comprehend hope and patience. It was possible
indeed that his omission to come in person
arose from delicacy of mind, and the disinclination
to embarrass her by a personal
appeal ; and as for his choice of an intermediary
he had perhaps but poured out his woes into
the ears of the first person who had professed
to sympathise with them, and who, it must be
confessed, had shown him kindness. And yet
how mistaken the dear lad had been in supposing
for a moment that mere misfortune —
the ill success of the play — could cut the bonds
that bound her heart to his! It had had an
effect indeed, but it was only to strengthen
them, for when the object of a woman's love is
in adversity, he becomes the more dear to her
in proportion to the difficulties by which he is

surrounded. Since his love was as genuine asher
own, he ought indeed to have known as
much. And that he should despair of her !
Well, indeed, might she ask with much amazement,
' ^Yliat do you mean ? ^Vliy should he
despair ? '

But Mrs. Jordan's pretty face only grew
more grave and sad.

I wish to heaven, my dear girl,' she said,
that I could use another word. If you knew
the pain it costs me to come here and see you
face to face, and tell you what I have to tell,
you would pity me — if you shall presently
have any pity to spare, save for your unhappy
self and your still more wretched Willie.' The
earnestness and fervour of her tone, and its
solemnity, which seemed to prepare the way
for the revelation of some overwhelming misfortune,
made Margaret's blood run cold.

You said that he was not ill,' she murmured
hoarsely, ' and yet he has not come
home. He is not dead ? Oh, tell me that my
Willie is not dead ? '

'He is not dead, Margaret, but there are

p 2

worse things that happen to those we love
than death. Worse things than even when you
thought the worst of your Willie and of me.'

Great heaven, how you terrify me ! Tell
me what has happened in one word.'

That is impossible, or, if it were possible,
you would never, without proof, believe it. I
must begin at the beginning. You know what
happened to-night —-the failure of the play ;
the peril only just averted, that threatened
your uncle and yourself

Margaret shook her head, not so much in
denial as in indifference. ' What mattered anything
that had threatened herself, even though
the menace had been carried out ? '

Is it possible that you are unaware of your
escape to-night? How the rioters, led by an
enemy of you and yours, where rushing to your
box, when some young fellow threw himself
between it and them ; how he seized their leader
by the throat, at risk of his own life, and threw
him down the stairs, and how all the rest of
them came tumbling after him ? '

If the actress hoped to lead her companion's

mind into other channels, to niter est her for
one instant in any subject save that supreme
one in which her whole soul was wrapped, her
endeavour failed.

But Willie ? ' murmured Margaret impatiently.
' Why do you speak of anything
save Willie ? '

That will come soon enough. Too soon,
dear girl. I must needs tell you it as it all
happened. He was behind the scenes, you
know, throughout the evening. At first, things
seemed to be going pretty well in spite of the
opposition ; but he was never very hopeful,
even then, as he afterwards told me. The
greatness of the reward which would be his incase
of the success of the play — that is, his
claiming you for his own — oppressed him ; it
seemed too high a fortune even though he had
felt himself to be deserving of it.'

'He is deserving of it, and of better fortune,'
put in Margaret quietly.

Mrs. Jordan took no notice of the interruption.
' He seemed depressed and coldhearted
from the first,' she continued, ' though Mrs.

Powell and myself said all we could to encourage
him. Presently, amid the tempest of
disapprobation, he recognised a particular voice
the voice of an enemy ; of the same person,
I have no doubt, who urged on the mob to
your box. From that moment he seemed to
give up all hope. " That man is come to ruin
me ! " he said ; and he spoke the truth.'

It was Eeginald Talbot,' exclaimed Margaret
suddenly. ' Frank always warned Willie
against him. The vile, treacherous wretch ! '

Yes, it was Eeginald Talbot — a base
creature enough, no doubt ; but honest people,
Margaret, are not ruined by anything the base
can say or shout. We must be base ourselves
to enable them to ruin us.'

Margaret rose from her chair. ' I do not
understand you, Mrs. Jordan. I thought that
you were speaking of my Willie.'

Listen, Margaret. Keep calm and listen ;
I would give half of what I have in the world
to spare you, but it must be told.'

I will hear no evil of Willie.'

You shall hear, at least, nothing that has

not fallen from his own lips. When he showed
such fear of his enemy, I reproached him for
his lack of courage, and through a gap in the
stage curtain pointed you out to him as you
sat in your box, exposed to all those shouts and
jeers, and apparently unmoved by them. But
the sight of you only seemed to depress him
still more.'

" That is the last I shall see of my Margaret,"
he said ; " I have lost her for ever."
And again he spoke the truth.'

^ He did not,' cried Margaret vehemently ;
he only thought he spoke it. He imagined
because the play had failed that I should give
him back his troth. But what is the play tome
? My heart is his ; I can wait for him.
We are still very young ; what need is therefor
despair ? '

That is what I thought, that is what I said,'
returned Mrs. Jordan pitifully, ' because I was
in the dark, as you are. I said, '' It will
matter nothing to Margaret, if she really loves
you ; you will still be the same to her."
' " No, I shall not," he answered ; " I can

never be the same to her. If not to-night, tomorrow,
if not tomorrow, the next day, that
villain yonder will unmask me ; she will know
me for what I am, and loathe me."

I had to leave him then, to speak the
epilogue, and when I returned, he looked like
one who had utterly lost heart and hope. No
one troubled himself about him. Mrs. Powell
had gone away, and the others departed, cursing
the play and all who had had any hand in
its production. I dared not leave him to himself,
and besought him to go home at once.
I have no home," he said ; then I took him to
my own house.'

That was good of you,' murmured Margaret,
pale as death.

Then Mrs. Jordan knew that the worst was
over ; that what she had to tell, however sad
and terrible, would fall upon ears prepared to
hear it. And yet even now she could not tell
her right out, 'Your Willie is a cheat and a
bar.'

In the carriage the poor fellow sat like a
dead man, huddled in one corner, without

speech and motion ; but once within doors, I
insisted on his taking some Vine, which revived
him a little. " You cannot stop here," I said,
speaking to him as severely as I could, for
kindness only seemed to unnerve him ; " I
will send out and get you a bed at some inn.
But if it will be any comfort to you to relieve
your mind, I am ready to hear whatever }'ou
have to say." He made a movement towards
his breast-pocket which filled me with apprehensions.
" If you have a pistol there," I said,
give it to me at once. Whatever 3'ou may
have clone, however you may have wronged
Margaret, you will surely not add self slaughter
to your other sins ? You will not break her
heart by killing yourself ? "

'"No, no," he murmured; " it is not that."

I found it was impossible to get any
connected narrative out of him, so I put a
question or two.

'who is this enemy of yours, and why
should it be in his powder to harm you ? "

" Because he knows my secret — my
shameful secret. His name is Reginald Talbot,

and he was at one time my friend. We
quarrelled about some poems of this, and from
that moment he has done his best to ruin me.
He tried to prove that I had forged one of the
Shakespeare papers, and failed in it ; he pretended
to be satisfied at the time with the
evidence in the matter, as the others were, but
from that moment he dogged my footsteps.
He is a sneaking, prying hound.

" One day, when I was at work in my
chambers, forging manuscripts, I saw his face at
my window ; he had climbed up to it by a ladder,
and perceived what I was about. There was no
hope of concealment any longer, so I unlocked
the door and let him in. I told him all — it is
a long story, but it is written here (again he
touched his breast-pocket), and besought him
to have mercy upon me. His heart was like
the nether millstone, as I knew it would be.
He asked me with a sneer what I should do
now, and whether I had any new treasure of
Shakespeare's with which to enrich the world.
I told him of the 'Vortigern,' which I was then
projecting, but which, of course, it was now in

his power to put a stop to. Then he proposed
a compromise. He was very van of his
verses, and he undertook, upon condition that
he was allowed to write some portion of the
play himself, to keep silence upon the matter.
He had the same mad desire that I had, that
the world should take his poetry to be from
Shakespeare's pen. I consented of course, for
I had no choice. All his wrath against me
seemed to have evaporated at once. He was
intensely pleased ; and from that time we
worked together. Moreover, when the committee
appointed to decide upon the genuineness
of the Shakespeare manuscripts hesitated
to accept them because there was no other
witness to their discovery save myself, Talbot
came forward, as we had agreed that he should
do, and deposed that he had seen my patron
from the Temple, and the collection from
which the paper had been taken. His evidence
carried the day and assured me of my
position. On the other hand, Talbot wrote so
feebly that I felt convinced not a line of his
would survive criticism, and, unknown to him,

I composed the whole play independently of
his assistance.

" He had to leave London for Ireland, so
I had no difficulty in deceiving him in this
matter. We corresponded in cipher about it,
and I led him to imagine that the ' Yortigern,'
as accepted in Drury Lane, was the play that
we had composed together. I thought if it
were successful that I should be in a position
to defy him, and that only those who were
already my enemies would believe his story.
He had told me that it was impossible for him
to be in London the first night of its performance,
and I flattered myself that I was quite
safe The instant I recognised his voice in the
theatre, I felt that all was over with me. He
would find out the absence of his own
rhapsodies from the drama ; and that I had
deceived him, as indeed I had — whom have I
not deceived? From that moment my fate
was sealed."

" Unhappy boy ! " cried I ; " is it possible,
then, that you acknowledge yourself to be a
forger and a cheat ? "

" I do," he answered ; " here is the record
of ray transgression."

'' He took from his breast-pocket this paper,
his confession, which, it appears, he always
carried about with him ; an imprudence which
would have been unintelligible in any one else,
but to him who had trodden, as it were, everyday
on the crust of a volcano, it mattered
little. I felt sure at once that this was
written for your eye, Margaret, in case of
discovery ; thus, to the very last, some will
say, the straightforward course was the one
he was disinclined to take. But let us rather
believe that to tell you of his own un worthiness
to your face was an ordeal beyond his strength.
In vain I represented to him the anxiety and
apprehensions which his absence must be exciting
at home.

" I have no home," was his reply. " But
think of your father ! " "I have no father," was
his miserable rejoinder. " But Margaret ; have
you no pity for Margaret ? " "I cannot see
her. I dare not see her," was his pitiful cry.
So I have come to you instead of him.'

Margaret answered nothing. Lie sat with
the confession in her hand, without sign or
word, looking straight before lier.

I must go now,' continued her companion
tenderly. ' If I can be of any use, if I can say
anything for you ; a word of forgiveness with
your farewell — he is but seventeen, remember
well, another time, perhaps.' She had
reached the door when Margaret called her
back with a pitiful cry.

Kiss me ! kiss me ! '

As their hips met, the touch of sympathy,
like Moses' wand, drew the tears from that face
of marble, whereby, even though she left no
hope and the bitter conviction of a wasted love
behind her, the messenger of pity knew that
she had not come altogether in vain.

CHAPTEE Xxxi

THE FEET OF CLAY.

It is a terrible thing to be left alone with one's
dead, and this might in some sort be said to
have been margaret's case when Mrs. Jordan
had departed. Her Willie had become as dead
to her ; all that was left of him was the shameful
record that lay upon the table before her.
Never more — save once — was she to see his
face again in this life, nor did she desire to do
so. She would have shrunk fi^om his hand
had he offered it to her, and the touch of his
lips would have been contamination. He had
obtained her kisses as it were under false pretences,
and she flushed with shame when she
thought of them. She did not conceal from
herself that his behaviour up to the very last
had been in keeping with his vfhole career.

He should have come in person, whatever it
had cost him, and confessed his guilt, and not
have left her a prey to unfounded terrors. It
was cowardly and base and selfish. Miserable
as she had been on his account an hour ago,
she was now infinitely more wretched. It was
better to have thought him dead — and honest,
than to know he was alive and a cheat. ' He
is only seventeen, remember,' had been Mrs.
Jordan's words in appeal to her charity and
pity, but they found no response in Margaret's
bosom. ' One can forgive anything at seventeen,'
was her reflection, ' save hypocrisy and
deceit.' She forgave him as a very charitable
person might forgive a cards harper ; there was
no malice nor hatred in her heart against him,
but she could never take him to her heart
again.

Was it possible, she wondered, that he
could have been always base ? When he had
made that passionate protestation in Anne
Hathaway's garden, for example, and besought
her only to keep her heart free for him for a
little time, to give him a chance of proving

himself worthy of her ; had he had this hateful
plan of fraud and falsehood in his mind even
then ? If he was not to be believed ihen^ if
what he said then was not the utterance of
genuine love and honesty, what word of man
was to be credited ? And if he was honest
then, when did he begin to lie ?

It had been her intention not to read this
hateful paper ; to commit it to the flames ; buta
sort of terrible curiosity now urged her to
peruse it. She had no expectation of finding
in it any mitigation of her lost lover's conduct ;
any plea for pardon or even for pity. She
had no wish to hear what he had to say for
himself ; only a certain morbid interest in it.

Yet as she opened the manuscript and her
eyes feU. on the well-known handwriting, they
filled with unbidden tears. Great heavens !
how she had believed in him, how she had
loved him ! Nay, how she had sympathised
unwittingly with his very frauds, and longed
and prayed for their success. Prayed for it —
the thought of this especially appalled her.
She found herself, for the first time, face to

VOL. II. Q

face with the mystery of life ; with the difficulties
of spiritual things. It is strange enough
(what happens often enough), that we should
fall on our knees and implore the divine
assistance to avert misfortunes from our dear
ones that (if Ave did but know) have already
happened ; but that we should implore it (if
we did but know) on behalf of falsehood,
fraud — with the intent to prosper wickedness !
This man, among his other villanies, almost
made her doubt of the goodness of God !

The manuscript was voluminous. It was
written in the form of a diary, but interspersed
with reflections and protestations.

I protest,' it began, ' that I had no premeditated
design or the idea of any continued
course of duplicity when my first error — the
production of the Hemynge note of hand — was
committed.'

He calls it " an error," ' thought Margaret
with a moan, and indeed the opening remark
was the keynote of the whole composition, significant
of all that was to come. He had been
weak, it avowed, but never wicked ; the victim

not SO much of temptation, but of overwhelming
circumstances, ' You know, Margaret '

This unexpected personal appeal came upon
her like a thunderclap ; it was as though in
that solitary room and in that solemn hour
when night and morning were about to meet,
his very voice had addressed her. ' You know,
Margaret, what sort of relations existed at that
time between Mr. Erin and myself: how,
though he permitted me to pass as his son, he
was far from having any paternal feelings
towards me ; that he had no sympathy with
my tastes, no interest in my doings, and that
he grudged me the cost of my very maintenance.
Was it so very reprehensible that,
having attempted in vain to gain his affection
by the usual road to a father's heart, by
diligence and duty, that I looked about me for
some other way? Knowing his passion for
any reliques of Shakespeare, it struck me that
I might conciliate him by affecting to discover
that of which he was always in search. I do
not seek to justify what I did, but there was
surely some extenuation for it.

Q 2

"- To show you how little of settled purpose
there was in the matter, I took that note of
hand, before presentation to your uncle, to Mr.
La vine, the bookseller, in New Inn Passage, and
showed him the document for his opinion. He
said it seemed to him to have been written a
good many years ago (taking for granted that
it was an imitation), but that the ink was not
what it should be. He told me that he could
give me a mixture much more like old ink if it
Alas my humour to produce the semblance of
antiquity, and immediately mixed together in a
bottle three different liquids used by bookbinders
in marbling covers, and this I always
henceforth used. I have applied to him again
and again for more ink : a circumstance I
mention not only to show the simplicity of the
means employed in these so-called forgeries of
mine, but also the everyday risks I ran of discovery.
Do you think I could have endured
such a position, had I been merely actuated by
the motive I have mentioned ? Could human
nature have borne it ? No, Margaret, I was
sustained bv a far higher ambition, for a man

may strive for a reward unworthily, and even
though he is aware that he does not deserve it.'

The calmness of this reasoning appalled
Margaret even more by its speciousness than by
its falseness. Her instinct, though she knew
nothing of these abstract matters, told her that
such philosophy was rotten at the core,

The imitation of that note of hand was a
false step I admit,' continued the writer, ' but it
succeeded beyond my most sanguine expectations.
It altered my relations with Mr. Erin
entirely, which of itself encouraged me to new
deceptions ; but above all it became a basis on
which to build my hopes of your becoming my
wife. Hitherto I had loved you, Margaret,
passionately, devotedly indeed, but with little
hopes of ever winning you. When I obtained
that promise from your dear lips in the garden
at Shottery, it was not merely with the selfish
intention of excluding for a few months from
your heart the rival whom I feared ; I believed,
as I still believe, that my talents were of a high
order, and I thought that at no distant date
they would meet with public recognition ; that

some of that praise, in short, which I have
gained under false pretences would have been
accorded to my own legitimate efforts. The
time during which you promised to keep yourself
free for me, however, was now drawing to
a close, and I felt that I had not advanced a
single step on the road to either fame or fortune.
I was madly in love with you. I felt
that you were slipping out of the reach of my
arms, and the terrible temptation suggested
itself to secure you by the means that had
already gained me so much in so unlooked-for
a manner. If I could only make myself
necessary to your uncle by ministering to his
ruling passion, perhaps he would give his consent
(which otherwise I well knew could never
be obtained) to our immediate union. Not greed,
I swear it, no. nor even the desire of recognition
(though only as it were by proxy) for my
genius, were my inducements to persevere in
my course —

Love only was my call,

And if I lost thy love, I lost my all.'

It was terrible to Margaret to read such

words ; they almost made her feel as though
she had been a confederate in the delinquencies
of this unhappy boy. Terrible, too, was the
appearance, under dates, of his particular acts
of forgery, each set down in a matter-of-fact
and methodical manner, and concerning which
the total absence of penitence and self-reprobation
was less painful to her than the fallacious
self-justification in which he had indulged
elsewhere.

Nov. 2nd. — Love-letter and verses to Anne
Hathaway. Five stanzas and a braid of hair.
Hair a gage d' amour from a young playmate ;
the silk that bound it had attached the seals
to some old deed. It was thickly woven and
twisted in some peculiar manner, which I
judged would suggest antiquity.

Nov. 7th. — Playhouse receipts. String for
them, some worsted thread taken out of some
old tapestry in the waiting-room of the House
of Lords, where I went to hear his Majesty's
speech with Mr. Erin.

Dec. 2nd. — The Profession of Faith. My
most ambitious performance (except the play).

I solemnly affirm that but for the praises bestowed
upon my good fortune (as it was held)
on the previous occasions, I should have
hesitated to compose this document. On the
other hand, you know, Margaret, how earnestly
desirous Mr. Erin always was that Shakespeare
should be proved to have been a Protestant ;
if I could please him in this I thought that my
way to his heart would be made easy indeed.
Moreover, I had myself the most rooted objection
to anything like bigotry or superstition.
In penning the Profession I formed the twelve
letters contained in the Christian and surname
of Shakespeare as much as possible to resemble
those in his original autographs, but as for the
rest I was only careful to produce as many
doublets and esse as possible. It was a
most simple performance, and executed with so
little prudence that (as you remember) the
word "lessee" was introduced instead of "leafless."
Nor did I take much more trouble with
the composition itself. When, therefore, I
heard Dr. Wanton pronounce such an eulogium

upon it — " Sir, we have many fine things in
our Church Service, and our Litany abounds
with beauties ; but here, sir, is a man who has
distanced us all " — it is hardly to be wondered
at that I was intoxicated with so unexpected a
success. It corroborated very strongly the
high estimation in which I had always held my
talents, and I resolved, since the world would
not recognise them in my proper person, to
compel it to acknowledge them under another
name. If I was not so great as Shakespeare
and indeed I have sometimes believed myself
to be so — I had at all events a soul akin to
him.'

The inordinate and monstrous vanity of
this remark did not escape Margaret's notice,
but it did not give her the pain that his other
reflections had done ; it even afforded some
palliation of his deplorable conduct. The
approbation of so many learned men, deceived
by a great name, had been evidently taken by
him as an involuntary recognition of his own
genius, and in a manner turned his head. She

tried to persuade herself that he henceforth at
least became in some degree irresponsible for
his own actions.

It was about this time,' the confession
continued, ' that I was almost ruined by the
treachery and malignity of Eeginald Talbot,
for it was he, you remember, who induced Mr.
Albany Wallis to confront me with a genuine
signature of John Hemynge. I look upon that
as the most dangerous peril I had yet encountered,
and, at the same time, the cause of
my greatest triumph. It seemed incredible,
and no wonder, that I should have produced
within the space of one hour and a quarter (including
the time spent in going and coming, as
was supposed, to the Temple, but in reality to
my own rooms at the New Inn), a facsimile of
the other John Hemynge's handwriting, unless
it had been a genuine document. By that time
I had become an adept in imitation, and could
also retain in my recollection the form of
letters in any autograph which I had once
beheld. I brought back a deed sufficiently
similar to the original to set all Mr. Wallis's

doubts at rest. It did not, however, satisfy my
own mind, and that very evening I executed
another deed more carefully, which I substituted
for the former one, and which stood
the test of all future examinations. From that
moment indeed, save those who had been my
enemies from the first, and who probably never
would have believed in the Shakespeare manuscripts,
even though they had been really
genuine, I had no serious opponent, with one
exception, and for some reason or another of
his own, he has never shown himself antagonistic
to me.'

There was much more of it ; the whole
composition of the ' Vortigern ' was described,
with Talbot's connection with it, just as it had
been narrated by Mrs. Jordan. But what
chiefly engaged Margaret's thoughts, and caused
her to refer to it again and again, was that
allusion of William Henry's to that one person
who, not belonging to the Malone faction, had
all along discredited his statements, though,
for some reason or another of his own, he
had not shown himself antagonistic* This was

certainly not Talbot, who had shown himself
antagonistic enough, nor was it evidently any
confidant of the unhappy boy's. It could,
therefore, only have been Frank Dennis ; he
lead, she well remembered, always kept silence
when the question of the manuscripts was
mentioned, and had even incurred Mr. Erin's
indignation by doing so. But his nature was
so frank and open that she could not understand
how he could have tacitly countenanced
such a fraud had he been really convinced
that it was being enacted. It was curious,
considering the great distress and perturbation
of her mind, that a matter so comparatively
small should have thus intruded itself; but it
did so.

Otherwise, as may well be imagined, her
thoughts had bitter food enough provided for
them. That whole night long Margaret never
sought her couch. The revelation of the
worthlessness of her lover, made by his own
hand, and, what was worse, made in no spirit
of penitence or remorse, put sleep far from her
eyes, and filled her soul with wretchedness.

If the thought that tidings might have been
worse can afford consolation, that indeed she
had, for William Henry might have married
her. If the play had been successful, and if
Eeginald Talbot had held his tongue, and
indeed if he had not held it — for she would
never have disbelieved in her Willie had he not
torn the mask from his face with his own hand
she might have become William Henry's
wife ! The very idea of it chilled her blood.
Bound to a liar, a cheat, a forger, by an indissoluble
bond for life ! Vowed to love, revere,
and honoiu" a man the baseness of whose
nature she would have been certain to have
discovered sooner or later, but in any case
too late ! She had been saved from that at
least ; and yet how terrible was the blow that
had been inflicted upon her!

Sad it is to be left alone with our dead,
how much sadder to be left alone, after they
have died, with the revelation of their baseness,
to find our love has been wasted on an unworthy
object, our reverence paid to a false
god. In Margaret's case matters were still

worse, for she could not even keep the revelation
to herself; she had not the miserable
satisfaction that some bereaved ones have when
they chance upon the proof of a once loved
one's shame, of concealing it. It was necessary
that she should tell Mr. Erin, and in revealing
the fraud of which he had been the victim,
what misery was she about to inflict upon him !
How the whole fabric of the old man's pride
would be shattered to the dust, and how
triumphantly would his enemies trample upon
it.

CHAPTEE Xxxii.

BREAKING IT.

As Margaret and her uncle sat at breakfast the
next morning — later than usual, as was their
wont on Sundays — scarce a word was interchanged
between them. Her pale face and
haggard eyes evoked no remark from him,
who, indeed, himself looked pale and worn
enough. If he had spoken upon the subject of
the play it might have been made easier to her
to tell him her dreadful tidings. But as it was,
she felt herself unequal to the task ; she could
not break in upon his gloomy thoughts with
such black news. She almost hoped, from his
set lips and knitted brow, that he suspected
something of the truth ; otherwise surely,
surely, she thought, he would express some
anxiety concerning the continued absence of
William Henry.

She was, however, mistaken. Where affection
is not concerned, even the catastrophes
that happen to others (and much less the apprehensions
of them) do not concern us so much
as our own material interests.

After a mere pretence of a meal, the antiquary
produced pen and ink, and proceeded
to make some calculations.

In the middle of them arrived Mr. Albany
Wallis. His face was even graver than usual,
which his host, however, thought natural
enough. He took it for granted that he had
come upon business connected with the play,
the failure of which was sufficient to account
for his depression ; or his melancholy, perhaps,
might have been put on with a view of
cheapening the terms that had been agreed
upon with his employers. But Margaret felt,
the first instant she caught sight of the visitor's
face, that he knew all, and did not need that
dumb assurance of human sympathy, the
close, lingering pressure of his hand, to convince
her of it.

This is a bad job,' said Mr. Erin, with a

pretence of briskness. ' I suppose Sheridan
will not give the play another chance ? '

Certainly not,' said Mr. Wallis decisively.
Almeida is on the bill for tomorrow.'

Then there is nothing for it but to settle,
and have done with it. It is quite as great a
disappointment to me as to the management, I
do assure you, and eventually will be as great
a loss. I have ordered the paper for the
publication of the play, and must needs go on
with it. I cannot break faith with the public'

You are a man of honour, I know,' said
Mr. Wallis gently ; ' but for that very reason
you must not print this play.'

And why not, sir ? '

Because it is spurious.'

That was not your opinion yesterday, Mr.
Wallis, nor is it mine to-day. What, because
few scoundrels have bespattered it, and done
their best to make it a failure, and succeeded,
you call it spurious ! '

Mr. Erin, I entreat you to be calm. I amas
sorry for what has happened as you can
be, though not, perhaps ' (here he stole a

VOL I. R

tender look at Margaret), ' for the same
reason.'

It needs no ghost from the grave to assure
me of that much,' replied the antiquary derisively.
'You have your own interests, and
those of your employers, to look to, and I have
mine. You are here, as I conclude, to pay me
the three hundred pounds agreed upon for the
play and half the profits of the first night.
The house was full enough, at all events.'

Yes, it was a good house. Your share of
the adventure is a hundred and eve pounds
exactly. I have therefore to pay you four
hundred and five pounds.'

Very good ; I cannot permit any deductions.
If it was worth while to discuss the
matter, I might on my part reasonably make
complaint of the manner in which the play was
acted. Kemble never gave it a fair chance.
At Covent Garden it would have had more
justice done to it, and might have met with a
better fate.'

Then it would have met with a fate that it
did not deserve, Mr. Erin.'

I do not wish to discuss the subject,' said
the antiquary curtly. His reply would probably
have been much less courteous but for
the production of the bills — Mr. Sheridan paid
everything in bills — for the amount in question.
Bills and banknotes are the best ' soft answers '
for the turning away of wrath.

'You misunderstand me altogether, Mr.
Erin,' continued the other with dignity. ' I
had no intention, as you seem to have apprehended,
of disturbing your business arrangements
with Mr. Sheridan, which may be taken
as concluded. I am sorry to say I am come
here upon a much more unpleasant errand. I
am here at the request of your son, William
Henry.'

Ah ! I see,' broke in the antiquary with
bitterness ; ' his professional adviser. He shall
not have one penny more than the share — one-third
of the profits — that has been agreed
upon.'

Then he turned to Margaret.

*So you have told him my determination
of last night, have you, and he meets it by a

B 2

declaration of war ? Let him do as he pleases ;
but I warn you, hussy, that if once you throw
in your lot with his, I have done with you.
The money that is his by rights is not much, as
you will find, to keep house upon.'

Margaret strove to speak, but her tongue
clove to the roof of her mouth. It was shocking
to see the old man's rage, and none the
less so because it was so misdirected. If his
passion was so aroused by the mere opposition
(as he supposed it to be) to his will, how would
he take the destruction of his hopes, and the
knowledge that he had been made a public
laughing-stock? Whatever he had been to
others, he had been kind to her ; and,
abhorrent to her as was the crime of ingratitude,
she would have been willing to rest
under its imputation if by so doing she could
have spared him the revelation of the truth.

Dear uncle,' she presently murmured, with
faltering voice, and laying her little hand upon
the old man's arm, 'you wrong me in your
thoughts ; but that is nothing as compared
with the wrong which has been done to you.

All between William Henry and me is over ;
for the rest of my life I will endeavour to
supply his place with you, and to remedy, as
far as in me lies, the evil that he has committed
against you.'

What is it? What is she saying? I do
not understand,' inquired the antiquary in
trembling tones.

She is telling you the truth, sir,' said
Mr. Wallis impressively. 'Heaven send you
the strength to bear it I '

Dear uncle, you have been deceived,' said
Margaret with tender gravity. ' From first to
last you have been deceived, as we all have
been. The Shakespeare manuscripts, of which
you thought so much, are forgeries — everyone
of them. William Henry has confessed
it.'

You he, you baggage, you lie ! ' he cried
with fury.

I wish I did,' sighed Margaret bitterly.

He did not hear her ; there was a singing
in his ears that shut out all other sounds.

So this is the last card you have to play,

you two, is it ? I am to be frightened into
compliance with your wishes ; frightened into
annihilating common sense, and making two
beggars happy ! And you, you, sir ! ' he
added, turning to Mr. Walls ; ' you are not
ashamed to be a confederate in such a scheme
as this ? These two young fools think it is for
their sake, but I know better. You are one of
Malone's create-es. Having already failed by
fair means to disprove the genuineness of these
manuscripts, you have bought over this ungrateful
lad to your side. " If you will
perjure yourself," you have said to him, " and
admit yourself to be a forger, we will see that
you do not lose by it ; we will give you money
since the old man will not — upon which you
and yours can subsist together." Oh, liars and
villains ! '

It was pitiful to see and hear him. King
Lear himself, deserted by his own flesh and
blood and invoking heaven's vengeance on
them, could hardly have been a more dreadful
spectacle.

Mr. Erin,' said Mr. Wallis gravely, ' if you

see me in no way moved by the infamous
accusation you have made against me, and even
restraining a still more natural indignation at
the dishonour your swords have cast upon that
innocent girl, it is not because I do not feel it ;
it is because I pity you from the bottom of
my heart. That you have been duped and
fooled by the falsehood of this unhappy young
man is only what has happened to others, myself
amongst them ; but in your own case the
reflection must be infinitely more bitter, since he
who wrought the wrong was your own flesh and
blood — one who has taken your bread, and
bitten the hand that fed him. If you do not
believe us, Miss Margaret has his own words
for it in black and white.'

Here Margaret drew the confession from
her bosom, and laid it on the table beside her
uncle ; his fingers were grasping the arms of
his chair, and his face was fixed full upon his
visitor in hate and rage.

If you will read it at your leisure,' continued
the lawyer gently, 'you will at least have
the satisfaction of knowing that, ^vith one exception,

no one has had any hand in this shameful
fraud save the miserable lad himself; that
your niece was as innocent of any knowledge
in it, from first to last, as you were ; so much
even those who have been inclined to suspect
you of any connivance in it must needs acknowledge
when they read that paper '

Mr. Erin leaped from his chair, with an
inarticulate cry of fury, and seizing the confession
before him, tore it from left to right, and
from right to left, into a hundred pieces.

Begone,' he cried, ' begone, both of you !
Take her with you, I say, lest I do her a mischief
; take her to the Perjurer, send her to the
devil for all I care ; but never let me see her
false face again ! '

With that he threw himself out of the room
like one demented, and after the door had
clanged behind him they heard his heavy step
at first at a speed beyond his years, but presently
with the tread of exhaustion and old
age, creep up to his own room.

Is it safe to leave him, thhik you ? '
inquired Mr. Wallis in a hushed voice. ' Once

convinced of the truth, his reflections must be
terrible. To be deceived by one's own flesh
and blood ! '

William Henry is not his son,' said
Margaret quietly ; in a time of anguish and
distress it is easy to speak of matters which
under ordinary circumstances we should shrink
from mentioning.

Thank heaven for that ! ' ejaculated the
lawyer ; ' there is no fear, then, that he will
not get over it. What I took for paternal resentment
is partly, no doubt, exasperation at
the exposure of his own credulity. The only
reason for your remaining here after his express
commandment to the contrary no longer therefore
exists. Your doing so for the present at
least will only remind him of his misfortune and
aggravate its bitterness. I have a sister who
keeps my house for me, and who will welcome
you as a mother ; I entreat you to accept of
her hospitality, not only for your own sake,
but for that of your uncle. Indeed, after the
threat he has made use of, I must insist upon
your accompanying me.'

I am not afraid for myself ; I am sure he
will never harm me. Indeed, Mr. Wallis, I
cannot leave him in his solitude and wretchedness.'


He will not be solitary, Miss Margaret.
I will drop a hint to Mr. Dennis, whose intention
I know it is to call upon him this afternoon,
to take up his quarters with him for a while.'

At the mention of Frank Dennis's name
Margaret changed colour ; the idea of meeting
him had suddenly become intolerable.

If your sister will give me an asylum fora
few days,' she hurriedly replied, 'I think I
will take advantage of your most kind offer.'

In a few minutes she had made her preparations
for departure ; she trembled lest
there should come a knock at the front door
while she was yet in the house. She glanced
apprehensively up the little street, as she sallied
forth on Mr. Wallis's arm, lest some one with
eyes that spoke reproof, without intending it,
should come across her before she had gained
the shelter of another roof. Some one whom
she had never estimated at his true worth, or

treated as he deserved ; some one she had
blamed for his coldness and incredulity, but
who had suspected all along — she was as
convinced of it as of the fraud itself — the deception
which had been practised upon her,
but whom the nobleness of a nature that
shrank from the exposure of a rival had kept
silent.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

A Comforted.

There is nothing more astonishing in the
history of mankind than the high estimation in
which credulity — under the form of belief —
has been held by all nations who have had
the least claim to be civilised. Yet the vast
majority of the human race, mere slaves as
they are to custom and convention, imbibing
their faith with their mother's milk, and as
disinclined to change as a wheel that has found
its rut, are absolutely unable to be sceptical.
This is probably why persecution has been
so lightly permitted — even among Christians,
whose connivance at it is otherwise unintelligible
; those who suffered for their scepticism
were comparatively so few that their martyrdom
was disregarded. It is an immense
recommendation to a creed, that the mere

fact of accepting it is accounted the liveliest
virtue, since ninety-nine persons out of a
hundred who have been brought up in it, find
no sort of difficulty in fulfilling its chief obligation.
With the same ease with which the
doctrines of Mahomet or of Buddha are embraced
by their disciples, had the story of the
discovery of the Shakespeare manuscripts been
accepted by Mr. Samuel Erin. Nay, he had
not been only a disciple but a devotee. He had
been looking forward all his life to some revelation
of a similar kind, and it had been
manifested under circumstances that not only
corroborated his views, but flattered his amour
propre. A member of his own house had
been the discoverer of the MSS., and he himself
their apostle and exponent. To confess,
even to himself, that he had been preaching
a false faith, and been the dupe of a lying boy,
seemed impossible. The very idea of it was
wormwood to him. Even the discovery that
Margaret had taken him at his word and left
his roof did not at first shake him. It even
strengthened his suspicion that the whole affair

was a trick to catch his consent to her marriage
with WilUam Henry. It was only done
to frighten him into submission.

But as the solitary hours went by, this
obstinate conviction began to slacken ; as his
indignation grew and grew against the author
of his calamity, he began to admit that such a
scoundrel might be capable of anything, even
sacrilege. It was the affront to the Immortal
Bard that he put first, and the offence to
himself afterwards. Perhaps William Henry
was aware that he was not his son, but he was
also aware of the greatness of Shakespeare.
And yet, what rankled more, was the consciousness
that his own intelligence had been
trifled with — that he had been made a fool of.
It was a subject terrible to think about, and
worse to talk about, and yet he longed for
sympathy ; the solitude of his own thoughts
was intolerable to him.

In the afternoon, at the same time he had
been wont to appear in the days that seemed to
be long past, Frank Dennis arrived. The antiquary
seized his hand with a warmth that he

had never before exhibited, though he had
loved him well, and bade him be seated. The
only thing that had ever come between them
was this man's disinclination to accept the very
facts which he himself was beginning to doubt,
and at first this rendered the meeting embarrassing
; on the other hand, when once the ice
was broken, it smoothed matters.

'Have you heard the new story about
William Henry ? ' he asked in hesitating tones.

Yes ; I wish I could think of it as I
did of the old story. It is true, sir, every
word of it.'

You think so ? ' returned the antiquary
with a forced smile of incredulity.

I am sure of it,' was the quiet reply.

There was a long silence.

What proof have you to substantiate
your assertion ? '

The irony of fate had caused this question
to be asked in the very room where proof used
to be so constantly in view, and on the wall of
which the ' certificate ' of the believers in the
Shakespeare documents still hung suspended.

It was met by another question. ' Have
you not seen this confession ? '

Mr. Erin pointed to the carpet on which
the fragments of the document still remained.
'It was placed in my hands,' said he in a
hoarse dry voice, ' but I never read it.'

No matter ; it would only have given you
pain. I have seen the unhappy lad and heard
the truth from his own lips.'

The truth ! ' echoed the old man bitterly.

Yes, the truth at last. Here is a copy of
an affidavit it is his intention to make tomorrow
morning before a magistrate. There are things
in it which one regrets ; the tone of it is unsatisfactory.
He does not seem so penetrated
with the sense of his misconduct as would be
becoming, but at all events he is careful to
absolve everyone from complicity in his crime,
and particularly yourself. " I solemnly declare,"
he says, " that my father was totally unacquainted
with the whole affair, believing most
firmly the papers to be productions of Shakespeare."
'

The antiquary's brow grew very dark ' I

will never see that young man's face if I can
help it,' he said solemnly, ' or speak one word
to him again, so help me Heaven ! '

He does not expect it,' answered the
other quietly. ' Henceforward he will take
his own way in the world. After " expressing
regret for any offence he may have given the
world or any individual, trusting at the same
time they will deem the whole the act of a
boy without any evil intention, but hurried on
by vanity and the praise of others," he goes
on to say, '' Should I attempt any other play,
or work of imagination, I shall hope the public
will lay aside all prejudice my conduct may
have deserved, and grant me their indulgence."
I suppose, therefore, he intends to live by his
pen.'

You mean to starve by it,' answered the
old man bitterly. The style of the composition
he had just heard struck him as fustian : he
had heard it before and expressed another
opinion of it, but then the circumstances were
different. In Art and Literature the views of
most people are less affected by the work itself

VOL. II. s

than by the name under which it is presented
to their notice.

There was a long pause. x\s in a reservoir,
when once its contents have begun to percolate
drop by drop through the dam, the drops soon
become a stream, and the stream a torrent, and
the dam is swept away, so it was with Mr.
Erin's obstinacy. The dam was gone by this
time, and the bitter waters of conviction rolled
in upon his mind like a flood. There was no
longer a dry place on it to afford a perch for the
mocking-bird of incredulity.

When was it, Frank,' he inquired in an
altered voice,' when you yourself began to suspect
this — this infamous deception ? '

From the very first. You remember giving
me the document with the seals attached,
that had the quintain upon them ? It accidentally
fell from my hands, when a portion of the
back of one of the seals broke off, and disclosed
the inside, which was made of new wax !
The — the forger — though he had contrived to
cut the old seal without breaking, found it had
lost its moisture, so that the slip of parchment

which he had introduced into it could only beheld
by new wax. The next day I perceived
that the two parts had been bound together by
black silk, which, if anyone had given himself
the trouble to untwist, would have made him as
wise as I.'

'And yet you held your peace, Dennis,'
groaned the old man reproachfully.

In the first place you would have disbelieved
had the proofs of imposture been
twice as strong ; and secondly — well, there
were other reasons into which it is not necessary
now to enter. You are quite aware that I
never lent my countenance to the deception,
and believe me, Mr. Erin, if I could have saved
you from your present humiliation — with
honour — I would have done so. It was not
possible. I am come here to-day to make what
amends are in my power for the wrong my
silence may have done you. William Henry's
affidavit will acquit you of all blame in this
matter in the eyes of unprejudiced persons,
but you have your enemies, and many persons
who were your friends,' he pointed to the

certificate, ' will now join their ranks. For
some time, at least, residence in London must
needs be painful to you. I had taken a cottage
near Bath, intending for the present to dwell
there ; but circumstances ' (here the colour
came into the young man's cheeks) ' have
altered my intention. I shall now reside in
town, and my little country home is at your
service ; there, out of the reach of malicious
tongues, you may reside in peace and quiet as
long as you think proper.'

For the first time throughout the interview
something like satisfaction came into the old
man's face. The notion of escaping from the
flouts and jeers of his acquaintances, and from
their equally galling silence, was very welcome
to him.

I thank you,' he said, ' with all my heart,
Dennis.'

There is only one condition, sir,' hesitated
the other. ' I think the proposition would be
more acceptable to — to Miss Margaret — if she
did not know that she was accepting any hospitality

of mine. You will be so good as to
conceal from her that fact.'

Yes, yes,' assented the old man. He did
not like to confess that Margaret was elsewhere
; that she had been driven from his roof
by his own insensate anger. His companion's
offer had touched him and turned the current
of his thoughts from their accustomed groove
himself and his own affairs — into other
channels. He recognised the patience and
forbearance of this young fellow, and the
temptation to unmask a rival which he had resisted
and left to other hands to do. He was
curious to know the full extent to which this
self-sacrifice would have extended.

But suppose matters had gone still further,
Dennis ? If the play had been successful,
and its genuineness acknowledged, and Margaret
? '

It was not possible,' broke in the other,
with a flush. ' No one could have read the
Vortigern " — I mean could have seen it acted,'
he added, hurriedly, ' and believed it to be a

play of William Shakespeare's. I felt confident
of that.'

Still, some of us were deceived,' insisted
the antiquary, with a melancholy smile, 'and
why not more? Suppose the play had succeeded,
the contingency on which, as you know,
my niece's marriage with this scoundrel depended,
what would you have done then ? '

I should have still kept silence. I only
suspected, remember . I was not quite sure.
Moreover, Margaret herself midst have been
spared the knowledge of the truth, and it was
not for me to undeceive her.'

You would have permitted her, then, fora
delicate scruple, to entrust her happiness to a
scoundrel ? '

You press me hard, sir, though I do not
say you have not a right to do so,' replied
Dennis, greatly agitated. ^ I have thought of
this a thousand times ; it has cost me days and
nights of misery, Heaven knows. But on the
whole I have satisfied my conscience. When
one has lost all iKjpe in a matter that has once
concerned one to the uttermost, one takes a

clear view of it. The young man of whom you
speak has, doubtless, many faults ; he is weak
and vain, and greedy of applause, however
gained ; he is to some extent unprincipled, he
has even committed a serious crime ; but he
is not altogether what you have called him,
a scoundrel. He is not unkind; under less
adverse circumstances than those in which,
from the very first, he has been placed, he
would have shown himself a better man. An
exceptional temptation assailed him, and he
succumbed to it. He would not necessarily —
or I have tried to think so — have made a bad
husband.'

This speech was uttered with grave deliberation,
and the manner of it was most impressive
; the speaker might have stood for
some personification of Justice, weighing his
words with equal hand. Indeed this man was
more than just, he was magnanimous.

The antiquary could not withhold his admiration
from his companion, though with his sentiments
he was wholly unable to sympathise.

You are throwing good feeling away

Frank Dennis,' lie said, ' upon a thankless cur.
If you think to move me to compassion for
him, you are pleading to deaf ears. He is
henceforth as a dead man to me and mine.'

You will act as you think right, no doubt,
said the young man quietly, ' and I am only
doing the same.'

He felt that whatever his own wrongs had
been, the wrongs of his companion were far
greater. Cajoled, deceived, and stricken in
years, his reputation smirched, if not destroyed ;
humiliated in his own eyes, degraded in those
of others ; if he did not do well to be angry,
it could hardly be said, being human, that he
did ill.

Dennis gave the antiquary the address of
his cottage, and the necessary information for
reaching the spot, and bade him adieu with
much emotion.

But you will not desert us ? ' said Mr.
Erin imploringly. ' If you stand apart from

us ' His voice trembled and he left the

sentence unfinished. He not only, as the other
guessed, meant to imply that in such a case

they would be friendless indeed, but that
Dennis's withdrawal from his society would be
construed as condemnation.

If you write to me to come,' he answered,
if you are quite sure that my presence will be

acceptable to you and yours ' and in his

turn he hesitated.

I understand,' said the antiquary gently.
I shall think of others for the future, as well
as of myself, if only ' (here he gave a mournful
smile) ' to distract my thoughts from what is
painful.'

There is sunshine still behind the clouds,'
said Dennis, as he shook hands.

True, true,' replied the other ; then added
to himself with a deep sigh as he closed the
door after his visitor, ' for you. but not forme.'


CHAPTEE XXXV.

FAREWELL.

Not a single night did Margaret sleep away
from her uncle's roof. He went in person to
Mr. WaUis's house and claimed her. The
apology he had schooled himself to make to
that gentleman was stayed upon the threshold
of his Hps.

Your ftice,' Mr. Erin, tells me all that I
need and more than I wish to hear,' said the
kindly lawyer. ' Pray spare yourself and me.'

One unfortunate remark, however, Mr.
Wallis made, for which he bitterly blamed
himself, though as it turned out, unnecessarily.

The antiquary paid him over that portion
of money received from the Theatre which was
due to William Henry, and requested him to
place it in his hands.

I will do SO,' said the lawyer, ' though,
where I in his place, I had rather starve than
take it.'

Directly the words were uttered, he perceived
their application to the antiquary himself,
who was quietly pocketing his own share of the
wages of iniquity.

But though we have the same skin, it is of
various degrees of thickness.

He will take it,' said the other drily, ' and
starve afterwards.'

Notwithstanding this deviation of Mr.
Erin's from the straight path, it is well to state
here that Mr. Albany Wallis never consented —
although they were his friends and allies — with
those who laid the sins of William Henry upon
his father's shoulders. When Bishop Percy, on
the authority of the commentator Steevens,
observed that the whole house in Norfolk
Street was ' an elaborate workshop,' Mr. Wallis
contradicted the statement point-blank ; and
when another traducer went the length of including
Margaret in the indictment by the
assertion that a female relative of Mr. Erin's

performed the more delicate work of the
(forged) autographs, he gave inn the he
direct.

The storm, indeed, that burst upon the
heads of the antiquary and his belongings was
terrible, and fortunate it was for them that
they had found an asylum afar off. Most
of the ' hailstones and coals of fire ' fell short of
it ; and those that reached them, through the
malice of enemies or the officiousness of good-natured
friends, were fended off from the old
man by Margaret's watchful care. Upon the
whole, indeed, it is doubtful whether those
seemingly evil days were not good for her.
Her solicitude upon her uncle's account prevented
her from dwelling over much upon her
private grief, just as the heartbreak of the
widower is sometimes stayed by the cry of the
children.

It was many a day, however, before she
could look her own misfortune in the face, and
scrutinise its lineaments, for when we come to
gauge our sorrows it is a sign that the deep
waters that have gone over our soul have

begun to shallow. Notwithstanding her horror
of her Willie's crime, she could not forget
what he had once been to her, even though
she was well aware, from a sure source, that
matters where not so with him. Mrs. Jordan
had written to her, out of the fulness of one
of the kindest hearts that ever beat in woman's
breast, to allay her apprehensions about him
on material grounds. Though poor enough,
he was not in want, nor likely to be so.
Without a word of ill-nature, she had also
contrived to make her understand that the
boy was not inconsolable ; he was busy with
his pen, and if his genius did not soar, his
conceit was osborne on lusty pinions. ' All is
Vanity,' said the preacher in disparagement of
that attribute ; yet he was an author himself,
and ought to have known the consolation of
such a gift.

One of Mrs. Jordan's letters enclosed a
little note from William Henry, which for
months Margaret could not bring herself to
read. She knew that it required no reply, and
must needs bruise the wound that had not yet

healed within her ; so it lay in her desk like
some mystic jewel which its possessor keeps in
her case because it brings ill-luck to the wearer.
But when, after long waiting, and without
importunity, Frank Dennis obtained permission
to visit his own house, she felt it to be her
duty to read or burn that note. It was nota
case of being off with the old love before she
was on with the new, so far as William Henry
was concerned, for she had long done with
him ; but she was conscious of a certain tender
curiosity, which, as circumstances were now
turning out, might become disloyalty to another,
and therefore she resolved to allay it.

She took the folded paper in her trembling
hand, like one who takes up earth to scatter on
the coffin lid; it was the very last sight she
would ever have of aught belonging to him.
There was a certain solemnity about those farewell
words of his, even though they could not
matter much. Perhaps they where not words of
farewell ; perhaps, in his wild, boyish fashion,
they were about to tell her that in spite of his
ruin and disgrace, he still loved her, and how,

knowing that her heart had once been his, he
defied her to cast liii out of it. That would
be cruel indeed, though it would not alter the
course she had marked out for herself. Would
it not be better after all to burn the letter ?

The next moment she had torn it open and
read it. It was dated months ago, within a
week, indeed, of the discovery of his shame. ' I
have done you a grievous wrong, Margaret ;
let me now do you one good service. It is buta
little word of advice, yet if you knew what it
cost me to give it, you would hold it of some
value. Frank Dennis is worth a thousand of
me and loves you — I cannot bring myself to
write with a truer love than mine, for that
is impossible — but with a love more worthy
of you. Marry him, Margaret, and forget
me!'

It could not have mattered much, as has
been said. The man was a bankrupt ; but still
he had given her all he had to give, a quittance.


With Aunt Margaret's fortunes, as apart
from the misguided youth who in so strange a

manner had almost linked her lot with his,
our story has little to do. My own impressionis
that she was a happy wife ; and it is quite
certain that Frank Dennis was the best of
husbands. Mr. Erin did not long survive his
day of humiliation, though it was not, I think,
distress of mind that hastened his end so much
(as often happens) as the relinquishment of his
old pursuits and favourite studies. When we
have ridden a hobby-horse all our lives, it is no
wonder that when it is suddenly taken from
us we find that we have lost the use of our
legs.

Some embers of his old taste for antiquities
must still, indeed, have glowed within him, for
in those last days he wrote a ' History of the
Inns of Court,' with New Inn among them ;
but it is plain his heart was not in it. Henceforth
his favourite volume was a sealed book to
him ; there were two names — once so frequent
on his tongue — to which he never alluded,
William Henry Erin and William Shakespeare.

With respect to the former, Frank Dennis
maintained a similar reticence for no less than

five-and-twenty years. At the expiration of
that time, Aunt Margaret received a certain
letter, which she placed in her husband's hands
without a word.

Poor fellow ! ' was his remark when he
had read it. ' Well ! we must, of comes, go upto
town.'

William Hey had written from his sickbed
to ask to see Margaret once more before
he died.

They had lived in the country ever since
their marriage, but they set out for London at
once.

It was summer-time, the very month in
which they had journeyed to Stratford on-avon
more than a quarter of a century ago,
and they talked of that time together without
any reserve.

I think if it had not been for that visit to
Bristol,' said Frank thoughtfully, 'that none
of this sad business would have happened ; it
was Chatterton's story that put it into his
head.' Margaret nodded sorrowful assent. She

VOL. II. T

remembered well how the unhappy lad had
defended his prototype's conduct.

It was a miserable crime,' she said, * and
miserably has he suffered for it.'

'That is all we need think of now, Margaret
; of that, and of his temptation,' he
added tenderly, ' which, as I can witness, was
excessive.'

Here was, indeed, a husband to thank
heaven for, and she knew it. And yet — and
yet — the tears were in her eyes upon another's
account. How bright and handsome had her
Willie looked as he took his seat by her side
at the inn table, on that other journey. How
eager had been his face when he had first
pressed his suit in Anne Hathaway's garden.
In the mist of memory the will-of-the-wisp
looms large and twinkles like a very star.

When they reached London, Margaret went
alone to the lodging he had indicated ; a poor
place enough, but with no signs of want about
it as she had feared, nor did the sick man lack
due tendance. He was very near his end ; but

'So GOOD OF To', SO LIKE YOU, MARGARET," HE MURMURED.

his eyes — all that was left of him that she
recognised — flashed grateful recognition.

So good of you, so like you, Margaret,'
he murmured.

She sat by him a long time, overwhelmed
with pity, but not seldom distressed by his
worldly talk. The ruling passion was strong
in death. He spoke of his works — of which
he had written many in his own name, and of
the recognition which he felt assured they
would one day meet with ; he even told her,
with a smile of triumph, that Malone himself
had bidden one hundred and thirty guineas for
the forged Shakespeare documents. He seemed
unable to take a just view of his own behaviour
in that transaction, though as to others, he was
not only just but generous.

Dear Margaret,' were his last failing words
to her : ' I once gave you a piece of advice,
the only thing I had to give — which you did
well to follow. I have nothing but the thanks
of a dying man to offer you for your having
some to bid me farewell, save what I have

now to say — which I well know will be news
to you. I have been an unfortunate, as well
as a misguided, man ; my talents have never
been acknowledged, and if I had had to live
by my wits alone, I should have starved — yes,
starved ! ' His sharp face darkened, and he
raised his feeble hands as if in protest against
the judgment of the world. ' There was one
man, Margaret, one among all these millions,
and he the very last to whom I should have
looked for aid, who caused me to be sought
out and gave me help. I have lived more or
less upon his bounty ever since. He has never
told you of it, Margaret ; and now there is no
need to tell you ; you who knoAv him can
guess who it is.'

Margaret's tears fell fast ; it was touching
indeed to hear of her husband's goodness from
the lips of his dying rival.

'Frank is very good to me, dear Willie,'
she sobbed.

Yes, yes, I knew it would be so,' he
murmured ; * honest and true. What is the
breath of the world to him who will not even

let it know of his good deeds. Yes, yes — kiss
me, kiss me for the last time — worth a thousand
of me, Margaret, though he was never the
Talk of the Town'

THE End.

LONDON : Printed BY

8P0TTI8W00DE AND CO., New-street Socage

Abed PAELIAilKNT STJIEEX

Vanity Fair.

The Magazine Reader will find no better investment for his sixpence.

Fall Mall Gazette.

PRICE SIXPENCE MONTHLY.

ILLUSTRATED.

THE NEW SERIES OF THE

Cornwall MAGAZINE.

Edited by JAMES Pain.

Each Number contains, in addition to an instalment of a
Serial Story by a Popular Author,

SHORT STORIES AND ARTICLES,

BIT THE BEST 'V^E.lTEI^S.

Among the Artists-who are engaged in Illustrating the Net Series of

THE Cornwall MAGAZINE

ARE

G. DU Married, WM. SMALL, W. RALSTON, H. Furnish,
E. J. WHEELER, R. C. WOODVILLE, J. P. ATKINSON,

A. C. Corolla, A. T. Ewes, G. G. KILBURNE,

WM. H. Covered, ROBERT BARNES, R. CALDECOTT,

M. FITZGERALD, WALTER S. Stage, &c.

Volumes L to III. of the New Series (Truly 1883 to December 1884),
Price 4J'. 6d. each, bound in cloth,

PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED,

ARE NOW READY, AND FORM

VERY HANDSOME VOLUMES

FOR

PRESENTATION OR LIBRARY PURPOSES.

Cases for binding the Volumes may be had, price One Shilling each.
London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

OF

POPULAR storks

Handsomely bound in cloth gilt, each volume containing
Four Illustrations. Crown 8vo. 3J-. 6d.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington.

By Anthony Trollope.

Frame PARSONAGE.

By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering.

By Anthony Trollope.
TRANSFORMATION : a Romance.

By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

ROMANTIC TALES.

By the Author of 'John Halifax, Gentleman.'

DOMESTIC STORIES.

By the Author of ' John Halifax, Gentleman. '

NO NAME.

By Wilkie Collins.

ARMADALE.

By Wilkie Collins.

AFTER DARK.

By Wilkie Collins.

MAUD TALBOT.

By Holme Lee,

THE MOORS AND THE FENS.

By Mrs. J. H. Liddell.

WITHIN THE PRECINCTS

By Mrs. Oliphant.

carta.

By Mrs. Oliphant.

FOR PERCIVAL.

By Margaret Veley.

NO NEW THING.

By W\ E. Norris.

LOVE THE DEBT.

By Basil.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.
