OF THE

UN verity

or ILLINOIS

K's

^

THE

HEIE OF THE AGES

I.

HEIE OF THE AGES

JAMES Pain

ATTHoU OF 'BY P R ( ( X Y ' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE

Isle;

hall ri'jhls reserved]

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/heirofages01payn

NOTE.

The two poems, entitled ' The Children ' and ' On an
Old Harpsichord ascribed to Matthew Meyrick in this
novel, were written by a lad who died many years ago
of consumption, before he attained his majority. I never
knew him personally — our relation being only that of
editor and contributor — but judging from his letters, no
less than from hLs verses, I am well convinced that in him
his country lost a genius. The poems in question were
written, I believe, in his nineteenth year.

4"

^^

OP

THE FIRST VOLUME

Chafing PAGE

I. The Doctor's Fiat 1

II. Jefferson 17

III. The I>fTERYiEW 35

IV. At Dinner 47

V. Sorcery 66

VI. Jefferson asks a Favor 77

VII. The Start 92

VIII. Coursing 105

IX. Confidence . . . . . . .123

X. ' The Boy ' 137

XI. Compromised ]57

XII. The Journey 177

XIII. At THE LOOK-OTJT 196

XIV. Roger Leyden 216

XV. On Battle Hill 234

XVI. Criticism 24y

XVII. Literature 264

HEIE OF THE AGES.

CHAPTER I.

THE doctor's fiat.

If there is one attitude above all others that,
in an Englishman at least, betokens personal
complacency, and the sense of being monarch
of all he surveys, it is the standing on his own
hearth rug with his legs slightly apart, his
back to the fire, and his coat-tails under his
arms. Neither sculptor nor painter, so far as
I know, has transferred this particular pose to
marble or canvas — perhaps from the impossibility
of including within it the whole human
form divine — but there is nothing equal to it
in the way of characteristic significance. The

VOL. I. B

head is thrown carelessly back, the shoulder-blades
rest lightly on the edge of the mantelpiece,
and the expression of the face is that of
supreme content and undisputed authority.

Under these favourable circumstances, Mr.
Christopher Melburn, of Burrow Hall, Justice
of the Peace for Downshire, is introduced to
the reader's notice. He is a tall, handsome,
and strikingly aristocratic-looking man of sixty
years old or so, but bearing that ' bouquet '
of years as lightly as though it were a single
flower. His fine grey eyes have not lost their
fire, nor do they stand in need of glasses to
read the smallest type in which his magisterial
doings are chronicled in the local paper ; if
his brow is slightly furrowed, it is not by
time so much as by a certain chronic disapproval
of the turn things are taking in the
world — ' opening of flood-gates, tampering
with vested interests and the sacred ark of
the Constitution &c. &c., for he is a Whig of
the old school : neither in his frame nor face
is there the slightest sign of decadence or of
giving way to anything or anybody. When

he speaks of one of the many misfortunes
which are about to befall his country, he
always adds ' I shall not live to see it,' but
not with that patriotic and unselfish air with
which the observation is generally made ; his
tone would rather lead you to understand that
while Christopher Melburn is alive his country
is safe, but that when he shall be shattered to
his fathers (an event, however, not to occur
just now by any means) the last barrier to
sweeping change will have been swept away,
and after that the Deluge.

In some persons the thoughts of so terrible
a catastrophe taking place for certain after their
demise would have affected their spirits, but
this gentleman's nature was cast in too heroic
a mould to be disturbed by considerations of
that kind. If it had been possible for an idea
of Mr. Melburn' s to have taken so va^fue a
shape, I think that some such formula as
^ serve them right ' would have expressed his
views upon the generation that would succeed
him. If he had been elected for the county
when he stood for it — instead of his having

p 2

thrown away twenty thousand pounds he could
ill afford in the dirt, and on the dirt, in that
vain endeavour — he would have made a figure
in Parliament, have attained a place in the
Cabinet, and possibly changed the aspect of
the whole political horizon from dark to light ;
but since the talents which Heaven had given
him had been ignored, and his patriotic aspirations
unappreciated, then Downshire and the
world must take the consequences. They had
rejected an opportunity which certainly was
not likely, looking at the state of his finances,
to occur again. He was a power still, and no
small one ; but that more extended sphere of
usefulness to which he had looked forward (in
company with a baronetcy if not a peerage)
had been denied him by his fellow-countrymen,
and so much the worse for them.

In his own opinion, however, which nothing
could shake, Christopher Melburn was as
great a man as ever ; and in his own house,
and on his own hearth rug, could still regard
matters with much complacency. The appearance
of things about him was indeed of a

nature to inspire this feeling. The apartment
in which he stood, his private sanctum —
study ' he called it, though its array of books
was limited — was a handsome one ; and the
view from the great bay window — for the other
and smaller one only looked out upon the
carriage sweep — was very extensive.

In the foreground was a garden, bright
and fresh with the tints of early spring ; the
lawn sloped down to a lake beautiful in itself,
and possessing the additional merit of being
the only piece of ornamental water on the vast
table-land of down on which Burrow Hall
was situated ; upon the other side of it lay the
park, which, though of somewhat small extent
for so pretentious a title, was charmingly dotted
with knolls and crags ; then a broad band of
trees, which sheltered this favoured residence
from bitter north and roaring east ; and, beyond
them, the rounded masses of the South
Downs stretching to left and right, like some
green sea on the day after a storm.

Neither the picturesqueness of the landscape
nor its extent formed, however, its

chief attraction to the person who was at
present regarding it with so much approval,
but the knowledge that so far as the eye could
reach it was all his own. A good many
senses have been added to the original five in
these later years ; but there is one which
must always have existed in some form as
universally as to-day — the influence of Which
is, I am told, with some men so great as to
make up for the absence of any other —
namely, the sense of Possession. A few,
indeed, have no personal experience of it.
When they see a jewel, the glow or the
sparkle of it gladdens their eye (perhaps for
half a minute), but the consciousness of its
being their own, though they would like to
have it to sell well enough, would not enhance
its charms for them in the slightest degree ; a
rare volume, the ownership of which fills the
book-hunter with the most pleasurable emotions,
may be theirs or the first pickpocket's,
for all they care, when once they have become
acquainted with its contents ; while, as for
that eagerness for ' laying field to field ' of

which the Hebrew prophet speaks with such
reprobation, it is to them an inexplicable egotism,
which would carry with it, if successful,
a terrible punishment indeed, since ' to be
placed alone in the midst of the earth ' is
about the last object of their ambition. The
majority of mankind, however, it is probable,
think with Mr. Melburn, who, if he could have
worn the stars for shirt studs, and attached
the moon to his watch-cham, would have seta
much higher value on the heavenly bodies
than he did at present. There was one blot
upon the landscape, indeed, which no other
eye perceived but his own — namely, a very
heavy mortgage, begun in those electioneering
times, and afterwards enlarged on certain
pressing occasions ; but just now it did not
intrude upon him. He was not only at ease
with himself, as indeed it was his wont to be,
but with the world at arose — including the
Jews.

At j;his moment a step was heard coming
down the stairs from the floor above — a very
heavy step, which nevertheless moved with as

little sound as the weight of him to whom it
belonged admitted of; a slow and thoughtful
step, which somehow conveyed the impression
to the hearer of a made-up mind.

Thank goodness, Edith is all right,' observed
Mr. Christopher Melburn to himself.
^ When Dalling comes down like that without
stopping at the landing the case is clear —
there are no complications.'

He had had opportunities of hearing Dr.
Balling's step when it had lingered ; not once
nor twice only, had it been the doctor's task to
tell the squire bad news concerning his own
flesh and blood. Two daughters and a son
had died under his roof of the fell disease,
consumption. His son, Jefferson, the sole offspring
of his first marriage, was, indeed, strong
and healthy enough ; but Mary, his remaining
child by the second marriage, was delicate ;
and her mother had been an invalid for years.
Some new phase in her condition had necessitated
the doctor's visit on this occasion. To
her daughter it had seemed alarming ; but
Mr. Melburn thought, cr pretended to think

Otherwise. He always discredited everything
personally disagreeable to himself as an imputation
against Providence, and on this occasion
had sent for the doctor less from apprehension
than to have his own view corroborated by a
medical opinion.

The door opened, and in stalked a man of
such gigantic stature that if he had died, as
some men are said to do, by inches, he might
have composed an encyclopaedia, supplement
and all, during his last illness. All that is
often to be said of such exceptional individuals
is that they are very tall men ; but this Anak
was remarkable for something besides his
thews and sinews. There is a well-known
saying in these days that ' there are only two
doctors out of London,' a statement which
varies with the speaker, and becomes enlarged,
let us hope, with his experience ; but if, as
doubtless was the case, it was made in the
times of which we write, the name of Dr.
Bailing would certainly have been found in
the most exclusive list. So great was his fame
that he was sometimes even summoned to the

metropolis to take part in consultations. In
Downshire lie was called * The Infallible and
by bis intimates ' The Pope.' Though confident
of speech, his manners and movements
were exceptionally gentle ; it almost seemed,
as with Tulliver among the Lilliputians, that in
associating with his fellow-men he was afraid
of his own strength and weight ; and indeed
there was some reason for his being careful.
Some years ago, striding home one evening
along the downs — for whenever he could, he
used his own legs instead of his horse's — he
was set upon by two tramps or footpads. It
was during a thick fog, or they would probably
never have committed such an act of imprudence.
Probably they only saw a part of him,
and very naturally mistook it for the whole.
When the doctor loomed upon them in his
entirety they would very gladly have dropped
their bludgeons and fled ; but matters were
too far advanced for remedy : his gigantic arms
flew out like the suckers of an octopus, and
seized each man by the scruff of his neck ;
then he knocked their heads together — just

once. In the one case, as he intended, there
was a supple fracture, but in the other —
perhaps the poor wretch had a softer cranium
the blow was fatal. It was said that Dr.
Daring ever afterwards shrank from attending
cases of concussion of the brain, which, in a
hunting country, must have been inconvenient.

His huge countenance, bronzed by wind
and weather, looked very grave and gentle
as he now entered the room. But even if
that had not been its normal expression, Mr.
Christopher Melburn would have declined to
draw from it any evil augury.

Wells doctor, and what's your news ? '
he inquired, without shifting his comfortable
position. ' This east wind has been playing
its usual tricks, I suppose, with my im-fortunate
wife.'

It has not improved matters, no doubt,'
was the dry reply ; * but the weather is buta
small factor in a case like hers. I am
sorry to say that I think badly of her.'

So you have said any time during these
last ten years,' returned the squire, with an

attempt at cheerfulness. ' We can hardly
expect to see poor Edith very strong again,
of course ; but, as she says herself, '• creaking
doors hang long." You don't mean, surely,
to assert of your positive knowledge that
there is any danger ? '

From underneath the doctor's shaggy
eyebrows, which would have made a tolerable
head of hair for most sexagenarians, there
flashed forth a terrible look of contempt and
reproof.

^ There is more than danger, Mr. Mel-burn,'
he put in, curtly. ' Your wife's
malady has, in my opinion, taken a direction
that can only have one end.' - :i ;

The squire turned pale, and, gathering
himself together, walked straight up to his
companion, who was standing by the window.

Good heavens, Dalling ! Do you mean
that my wife is dying ? ' His tone had
genuine feeling in it : he was shocked.

There is no immediate danger, if you
mean that, Mr. Melburn.'

The other uttered a sio;h of relief.

She may rise from her bed tomorrow
in all probability will do so, for she has
the pluck of two women — and may even comedown
stairs as usual ; but her recovery is
utterly hopeless. The only thing that can
prolong her life is change of air, of scene, of
all the conditions of life to which she is
accustomed. As soon as she is strong enough
to bear the journey, you must take her to
the German baths, which formerly benefited
her so much. It is advice, Mr. Melburn,'
he continued, observing the other was about
to speak, ' which I should not think of offering
— since I know from her own lips the
inconvenience it will entail upon you — if
there were any choice in the matter ; but, in
my judgment, there is none.'

Really, Dalling,' said the squire, walking
about the room with rapid strides, ^ your
advice is more like a cone cVilire than a
medical prescription. One would think that
there was some penalty like that oi prcemunire
for any one who should be so audacious as to
neglect it.'

^ I don't know as to penalty,' observed
the doctor, drily ; ' but the simple effect of
such neglect will be that " the creaking door "
of which you spoke will not hang upon its
fragile hinge three months. It is for you to
decide whether it is worth while to prolong
life under circumstances which may seem to
you undesirable. In our profession we have
only one view of such matters : but very
possibly it may be an erroneous one.'

It is very inconvenient,' murmured Mr.
Melburn, testily, but without taking the least
notice of his companion's satire, just as the
spring is coming on, and matters on the
estate want particular attention. "We're expecting
the new governess, too, this very
day ; and Jefferson is coming home on purpose
to meet Winthrop.'

The world is full of inconveniences,' returned
the doctor, cheerfully ; ' and one can
no more escape from them than I can keep
myself dry in a shower by picking my way
through the drops of rain.' He could afford
to joke, for he knew that he had carried his

point ; when the squire began to count his
slain — to enumerate his grievances — it was a
sign that the battle was over.

The matter being settled, the doctor had
the tact, seldom wanting to gentlemen of his
calling, to make no further reference to it.
The critical state of Mrs. Melburn's health was
not indeed, one would have thought, a subject
to be dismissed so curtly ; but he knew his
man, and that he required quite as * peculiar
treatment ' as his patient.

^ And who is the young lady,' he inquired,
whom you have engaged as Miss Mary's
governess ? '

A Miss Dart. She has taken the highest
honours a young woman can compass : has a
diploma, very much more imposing than was
ever given by the College of Physicians ; is
highly distinguished in all the ologies, while
she is only " favourably mentioned " as regards
accomplishments. I suspect she'll be a
caution ; which, as among her other duties
she will have to ward off trespassers on Winthrop's
preserve, it is only right and proper

she should be. She will probably have sandy
hair and red eyes. Talk of an angel and we
hear the flutter of her wings. Here's the
carriage, just come back with her from the
railway station ; so you can judge for yourself.'


The two gentlemen turned to the window;
which, thanks to an artfully contrived blind,
enabled the occupant of the study to command
the porch without exposing himself to
view, and thereby to decide whether he should
be at home, or not at home, to visitors. For
the space of three minutes they stood, with
their noses flattened against the blind, in
silence, till the front door closed, announcing
that the new-comer had come in. Then Mr.
Christopher Melburn observed to his companion,
' By Jingo ! eh ! ' and Dr. Dalling
elevated his eyebrows, and very softly and
significantly whistled. When men are alone
together their manner of expressing the emotions
is primitive.

JEFFERSON.

Will papa consent to your going abroad, do
you think, mother ? '

Yes, darling, I do. At all events, I have
done my best.'

How good you are to me ! '

Nonsense 1 Did you not hear the doctor
say that change was essential to me ? '

But that was after you reminded him
what good the baths had done you before.'

'Well, if you choose to feel that I have
conferred an obligation on you, perhaps you
will be so good as to help me on to the sofa.'

But, suppose papa were to come up and
find you there, would he not think '

He will not come up,' put in the sick
lady, quietly. Her tone was confident, but

VOL. I. c

there was a little shiver in it full of sad significance.
Most husbands, even those with
whom any demons costiveness of affection is
not ' their way upon hearing such tidings as
Christopher Melburn had heard that afternoon,
would have come to say a word of comfort
and sympathy to their sick wife. It was not
only that the time had long gone by, however,
in his case for the exhibition of domestic
sentiment, but, as she well understood, he
would abstain from any such proceeding with
a purpose — namely, to mark his disapprobation
of the step which he had been compelled
at her instigation (as he put it) to consent to.
He was by no means convinced of its necessity
(he never could be so convinced when
anything was disagreeable to him), and even
if he had been — but that is a subject, perhaps,
into which it is better not to go.

Life is a sacred thing to many natures
which never take into consideration matters
that alone make it worth the living. We
may use no daggers, and yet drain from every
vein of those about us the only true lifeblood

— happiness, affection, hope. It is an
operation that is going on every day in the
most respectable households ; and, to do them
justice, TV'ithout the knowledge — at all events
the full knowledge — of the operators. But
the patients are very conscious of it, save
where at the last indifference and despair
proffer themselves as anaesthetics.

It was twenty years ago since Christopher
Melburn had led his second bride to the
altar. He had been a widower for the same
space of time ; but though the bridegroom
was middle-aged, a handsomer pair had never
been seen in Downshire since his previous
nuptials. The bride, though of good family,
had little or no fortune ; but her youth and
beauty were justly held to have made up for
that deficiency : though not a love-match m
the usual acceptation of the term, it could
not be called a marriage of convenience.
There was nothing sordid about it, there was
no self-sacrifice ; and, though the squire's
son might well have objected to a stepmother
of his own age, there was apparently no oppo-

c 2

siphon. The happy pair passed their honeymoon
in Wales, mostly in a carriage and
four. Under such circumstances, existence
takes the tint of rose-colour, and Christopher
Melburn was just the man to shine in them.
Their return to Burrow Hall was accomplished
in a carriage and pair, and a silver
age succeeded the golden one. In due time
came the young family and their expenses,
which, added to the heavy loss consequent on
that futile attempt to save the country, tried
the squire's purse-strings and his temper
severely. Then Mrs. Melburn fell into ill-health,
and lost much of that beauty which
was her chief attraction in her husband's
eyes : this was not only very hard upon him,
but seemed a sort of non-fulfilment of her
part of the bargain, and he took little pains to
conceal his displeasure. The children, pretty
and aristocratic-looking, whom he admitted
did her credit, failed and died, to his extreme
annoyance, and even the one that survived
fell somehow short of what he expected of
her.

Mary was fair as a lily but almost as
fragile, she was not the companion that he
had pictured to himself she would have been
to him in his walks and drives ; moreover,
and this he resented more than all, she
ranged herself upon her mother's side, which
(so far had matters gone by this time) was
equivalent to antagonism. It was true that
Jefferson — now a Major in the Dragoons —
had not so ranged himself ; his attitude, as
regards his stepmother, had, to all outward
appearances, been always strictly neutral ; but
the squire was not upon the best of terms
with his son. There had been college debts,
and other debts, though not of a very serious
character, for if the young man's military
career had not been brilliant, it had not been
exceptionally expensive. Even these outgoings
had ceased ; but the squire had an
uneasy suspicion that the Major was not living
within his allowance, but had borrowed
money in anticipation of his own demise.

This idea was wormwood to the squire.
The very notion of death was as objectionable

to him as it was to Louis XIV. ; but that
such an event should be speculated upon as
regarded himself was treason. That Jefferson
did not marry, and thereby repair the
family fortunes, had at one time been another
cause at first of disappointment and afterwards
of disquietude with the squire. But
that source of worry had long been dry.

Fortunately, Mary's fortune was in the
way of being assured. Mr. Winthrop, one
of the magnates of Downshire, was understood
to be her suitor, though he was not as yet
her betrothed. His habits were a little dissipated,
but doubtless he would have sown his
wild oats before he became a married man.
Such a connection was in every way desirable,
and would strengthen the squire's position in
the county. But even in this matter there
was a hitch. Mary did not give the young
gentleman the encouragement he had the
right to expect, and, when paternal pressure
was exercised, escaped from it on plea of ill-health,
and sought sanctuary in her mother's
sick-room. The squire had no grounds for

asserting that his wife connived at her
daughter's disobedience, but he suspected it,
and this filled his cup of bitterness almost
to overflowing. For years the rift between
them had been gradually widening, and they
had long ceased to have bed or board in
common ; for though Mrs. Melburn would, on
special occasion?, take her place at the head
of his table, she was generally unequal to
the exertion, and took her meals in her own
apartments and alone. It was under these
circumstances that a companion, under the
designation of governess, had become absolutely
necessary for Mary Melburn.

Such being the state of affairs at Burrow
Hall, it may well be wondered that its mistress
should, as she herself had expressed it, ' have
done her best,' or indeed, made any effort, to
bring about an excursion to Germany (or
anywhere else), tHe-astute with her lord and
master, and indeed it has already been hinted
that she had not suo^orested the idea to the
family doctor upon her own account. The
truth was, that Fate had dealt with Mrs.

Melburn in such a fashion that she no longer
lived for herself at all. When I read in the
works of certain philosophers that self-interest
is the sole spring of human actions, it seems
to me that they are colour-blind ; at all events,
they are quite unable to recognise that neutral
tint in which so many natures, especially
those of women, become steeped, through
adverse circumstances, in later life. Indifferent
to pleasure and inured to woe, they
draw: their lengthening; chain, until the Great
Deliverer sets them free ; but of any turn in
Fortune's wheel in their favour in this world
they well know there is no hope. Though
no longer sensitive to the blows of Fate themselves,
they are often vulnerable enough in the
person of some beloved object, whom it is their
one solicitude to shield, with all their scanty
power, from harm. In Mrs. Melburn' s case
this object was her daughter. It would have
been a small thing to say that she would have
died for her : unloved, save by her alone ;
unhappy, with flagging strength and failing
breath, Death had small terrors : she was

ready to do far more than die — to live for
Mary. All her thoughts, and they were
many, were concentrated upon this point ; all
her intelligence, and it was considerable, was
sharpened to this end. And in the meantime,
not a duty was neglected. From her sofa
she superintended and directed all domestic
matters with marvellous skill ; and though
the means at her disposal were by no means
ample, there was no house better looked after
in Downshire — none where guests were made
more comfortable, or dinners better served —
than that of the master of Burrow Hall.
Notwithstanding his frequent reflection that
he was very hardly treated as regarded matrimonial
matters, there were even some people
who were of opinion that, after all, he had not
made such a bad bargain.

Of the personal appearance of Mrs. Melburn
and her daughter nothingness be said, since
we shall presently have the opinion of an
independent witness upon that point ; but
while the mistress of the house is being transferred
from her bed to her sofa we may give a

word or two to Miss Elizabeth Dart, if only
in explanation of the extraordinary behaviour
of the two gentlemen who had reconnoitred
her from behind the blind. That she was
most unexpectedly good-looking may be taken
for granted ; and, indeed, anything more
different from the fancy portrait that Mr.
Melburn had drawn of her, it would be difficult
to imagine. That she was tall and
shapely could be seen as she sat in the open
carriage ; but when she stepped out of it and
threw back her veil, she displayed a countenance
of really quite exceptional beauty.
Her complexion was dark, almost to olive-colour,
but with the blood showing through
it in a manner that is seldom seen out of
Spain ; her eyes were dark, but soft ; her hair
was jet black, but swept so abruptly off her
forehead that it was impossible to judge of
its abundance. The expression of her face,
which, to match with the rest of her appearance,
should have been haughty, was, on the
contrary, modest almost to timidity ; nevertheless,
it was very far from insipid or

wanting in self-reliance, and the glance she
cast about her on her new surroundings was
full of intelligence and observation.

^ Miss Dart, for Mrs. Melbourne was her
remark to the butler when he opened the door
to her, delivered in gentle but very distinct
tones ; it was a sentence that she had well
considered, and yet of the propriety of which
she was not quite certain — she thought it
sounded too much like a message from the
Parcel Delivery Company ; but it had, at all
events, the desired effect of dissociating her,
in the butler's mind, from an ordinary
visitor.

^ If you will wait one minute. Miss, you
shall be shown up to my mistress's room,'
was his reply.

She remained standing in the hall, while
the man rang a hand-bell which produced
Mrs. Melbum's maid. There was a short
colloquy between the two domestics, and then,
with a clumsy word or two of explanation,
the new arrival was shown into the breakfast -
room. She knew that Mrs. Melburn was an

invalid, and guessed at the true state of affairs
pretty accurately ; still, any delay when weare
in a state of anxiety and suspense increases
our discomfort. It was with a beating heart,
though her face showed nothing of perturbation,
that Elizabeth Dart found herself alone.
She had never been in so fine a house before,
nor even sat in a private carriage ; but her
mind was of a cast on which mere externals,
though they by no means escaped her observation,
made little or no impression. With
many persons who use the phrase ' carriage
people,' the former part of the word dominates
the latter ; but with this young lady humanity
came first and its surroundings afterwards.
She had only one friend in the world, and she
was a hundred miles away ; and the question
she naturally asked herself was ' What sort of
people have I come to dwell amongst? ' This
problem, of which nothing was known to her,
absorbed her wholly. Her natural powers of
perception, however, took in not only the fact
that the room was handsomely furnished, and
with great taste, but its appearance in every

particular ; she noticed the landscapes on the
walls, the statuettes on the brackets, the
church tower that showed itself through the
trees, and the shrubbery on which the window
looked : this was a gift which exercised
itself mechanically, and of the possession of
which she herself was only half conscious.
But her ear was listening for footsteps, and
her mind in somewhat shrinking expectation
of what sort of person they would bring with
them. In a minute or so the door opened,
and, as is usual under such circumstances,
gave to her view an individual entirely different
from the person she had pictured to herself.

Instead of the invalid lady she had looked
for, appeared a military-looking gentleman of
middle age, tall and very strongly built, with
a bronzed, handsome face, a pair of honos
moustaches, and bold eyes. Their
boldness, however (which was, after all, only
characteristic of his martial profession), vanished
from them the instant they rested upon
her, and was succeeded by a gentle and respectful
glance.

^ A thousand pardons,' he murmured, as
she rose to meet him. ' I was not aware that
any one was here. I beg you will sit down.'

I regret to hear — that is, I was given to
understand — that Mrs. Melburn is less well
this afternoon than usual.'

Yes ; it is, I am sorry to say, one of her
bad days. You had a pleasant journey, I hope,
from town.'

Thank you ; yes.'

^ You must have found this March wind
cold, however, coming over the downs ; they
should have sent the closed carriage for you.'

Indeed, I was quite comfortable, and
enjoyed the drive exceedingly. I have never
been on downs before.'

One must be upon them on horseback,
however, for their thorough enjoyment.'

That would be a still more novel experience
to me,' she said, smiling. ' Miss Melburn
is a good horsewoman, no doubt ? '

Pretty will ; it will probably be the one
thing that we poor ignoramuses Avill be in a
position to teach you.'

The compliment was a little pronounced ;
but, coming from lier employer (for she had
no suspicion that she was addressing any one
else), it sounded kind.

I am afraid I know very few things,' she
said quietly ; ^ hardly enough to teach me how
little I do know.'

That is beyond me returned her companion,
gently, smoothing his moustaches.
You must be prepared to find us all exceedingly
slow of comprehension. I think it's
the Devonshire afr. By-the-by, have they
offered you no refreshment ? '

He moved to the fireplace and touched the
bell-handle, without, however, drawing it out.

Indeed, Mr. Melburn, I do not need it,'
she said hurriedly. * I had some tea at the
junction.'

And very bad it was, I'll answer for it.
Their tea no more comes from China than their
teacups.'

Fortunately I am not much of a connoisseur
in tea,' she answered, smiling.

I dare say you despise all creature comforts

he said, gravely. ' That is the way
with all you intellectual people.'

^ But, indeed, I am not so intellectual as
all that,' she answered, naively ; whereupon
they both broke into a little laugh. In the
middle of it the door opened and revealed a
young lady so slight and tall, and with such
a look of amazement on her pretty face, that
she mio-ht have stood for a note of admiration.
That she had brown hair and eyes,
with very delicate features, was conveyed to
Elizabeth Dart at the first glance, but the
pained astonishment in every lineament of the
new comer's face was so marked, that nothing
else for the moment impressed itself on her.

On her late companion, however, it produced
no effect whatever ; he even had his
lau2fh out as though no such interruption had
occurred, and then duly observed, ^ Better
late than never, Miss Mary. Let me introduce
you to Miss Dart, whose acquaintance
I have had the good fortune to be the first
of us to make.'

^ I am very sorry,' said Miss Melburn (the

phrase seemed to be somehow retrospective,
instead of referring, as was intended, to the
words that were to follow), ' but mamma was
in the act of getting np when you arrived,
which prevented my coming down at once to
welcome you.'

It was a pretty speech enough, and delivered
in the gentlest tone ; but to the sensitive
ear which it addressed it wanted
genuineness, or rather it seemed as though
the genuineness which it should by rights
have possessed had been wrung out of it.
She held out her hand at the same time, but
there was a stiffness in the action, and, what
was worse, a stiffness that misbehave it, as
though formality was not habitual to her.
Will you kindly come with me upstairs ? '
she added.

With a bow to her supposed employer,
which he acknowledged by a cheerful ' Au
revoir. Miss Dart,' the governess followed her
pupil into the hall. That something was
wrong somewhere, she was convinced, and
she had a strong suspicion that she was held

VOL. I. D

to blame for it, but of its nature she was
wholly ignorant.

To feel that upon the very threshold of
one's new life one has made a false step is
a most discouraging reflection, and, though
Elizabeth Dart had as brave a spirit as ever
dwelt in woman, her heart sank low within
her.

CHAPTER III.

THE INTERVIEW.

There is no living-room, to my mind, more
pleasant and comfortable than a well-appointed
lady's boudoir ; the rarity of man's privilege
to enter its sacred precincts may enhance its
charms, but its intrinsic attractions are indisputable.
There is an air of rest as well as of
refinement about it that captivates the sense,
and which renders the idea of belonging to
the gentler sex something more than tolerable
— if only one were allowed to smoke.
This prohibition did not, of course, affect Miss
Elizabeth Dart ; and though, as we have said,
she was unusually indifferent to external surroundings,
the snugness and beauty of Mrs.
Melbum's sancti made no slight impression
upon her. To confess the truth, she had

never seen a boudoir before ; and the reflection
it evoked in her was characteristically
impersonal and philosophic — ' So this is how*
the rich live ; and how even ill-health is mitigated
to them She involuntarily contrasted
in her mind this bright and cheerful room,
with its birds and flowers, and the charming
view it commanded from its oriel window,
with a certain apartment in the New Road,
where her Aunt Jane Brighton, the sole relative
and friend she had in the world, was wont
to pass her dreary days. These thoughts
occurred to her in a flash, and left her attention
fixed upon the figure to which all the
rest were mere accessories — the mistress of
the room herself. Draped in some loose-fitting
but becoming robe, ornamented with beautiful
designs of the needle (her daughter's handiwork),
she lay upon a sofa, propped up by
pillows ; at once the fairest and most fragile
specimen of an English matron eye ever
beheld. Her complexion was so exquisite,
her countenance so delicate, that she would
have looked like a piece of egg-shell china,

but for the expression of her countenance,
which, though marred by that look of effort
which arises from constant pain, and the
necessity of overcoming it, was ^ spirituelle '
in a hiofh degree.

You will excuse my not rising. Miss
Dart,' she said, with a gentle smile, and
putting out a small transparent hand ;
^ but I can only afford to do so on occasions
of ceremony, of which I hope you
do not feel this to be one. You have had a
long journey, and must be tuned. Pray sit
down.'

Then ensued a conversation of the ordinary
sort, between employer and employed ;
a few questions, brief and conventional, and
similarly answered, about Miss Dart's belongings,
and others put, with scarcely more of
interest, respecting her acquirements. She
was given to understand that Miss Mary's
education had practically ceased ; and that
what, in fact, was required for her was not so
much a governess as a chaperon and companion.
This explanation was given with

singular skill and delicacy and without the
least air of patronage ; but somehow the
kindness lacked that personal application
which, under the circumstances, would have
so much enhanced it. It seemed rather to
arise from a disposition naturally gracious,
but by no means prone to impulse or confidence
in a stranger. Elizabeth Dart had a
gift of perception and intuitive knowledge
which, to a great extent, made up for her
want of experience in life ; but she felt that
Mrs. Melburn was a problem beyond her
powers.

Mary sat silent, with a grave, preoccupied
look, that sat strangely upon her pretty face ;
once only an expression of interest passed
over her features — when her mother mentioned
that in case, as was possible, she herself
should be compelled to pass a month
or two for her health abroad, it was probable
that her daughter and Miss Dart would
spend the time at Casterton, a little town
on the south coast, with a sister of Mr.
Melburn' s.

You will find it very dull, I fear ; but
the place is picturesque.'

It must be very dull to seem dull tome,'
said the governess, smiling. ' When I
have not been at school, I have been pupil
teacher in a school : and, with the exception
of a few weeks in London with my aunt, I
have seen nothing of the world at all.'

You do not give me that impression,
Miss Dart,' was the unexpected rejoinder.
It might, of course, have been made in a
complimentary sense, but the tone was serious,
and Elizabeth Dart felt the colour rising in
her cheeks.

What I mean to say,' explained Mrs.
Melburn, hastily, • was that you have none
of that mauvaise honfc and awkwardness of
manner which one generally associates with
ignorance of that kind.'

We learnt deportment at Acacia Lodge,'
returned the governess, with a forced smile.

^ Still, it is unusual to find social defects
of that sort supplied by any assistance fi'om
without. Shut up in my sick-room, for

example, I know that I become selfish and
egotistic in spite of myself — which reminds
that I have kept you sitting here with
your bonnet on without offering you any
refreshment. We do not dine till seven.'

^ Thank you, no. Mr. Melburn was so
good as to offer me a cup of tea ; but, as I
told him, I had some at the junction.'

Mr. Melburn ? Indeed ! '

There was a surprise in Mrs. Melburn' s
tone which grated on the other's ear. Was
it so very extraordinary, then, that the
master of Burrow Hall should have condescended
so far as to offer refreshment to
a governess, she wondered ?

It was not papa,' put in Mary, with that
reluctant haste which young persons use
when making an unpleasant communication :
it was Jefferson.'

Jefferson ! ' Mrs. Melburn' s surprise was
even greater than before, and this time
mingled with decided disapprobation. Her
face, too, as she looked up sharply at the
new comer, showed open displeasure. Miss

Dart's position was certainly embarrassing,
but the reflection that she was in no way-answerable
for any mistake that might have
occurred, prevented her from feeling embarrassment.
The colour mounted high into
her cheeks, but it was from indignation that,
for the second time, blame should be unjustly
imputed to her, rather than from confusion.
When the liszt on a card-table is weak it is
difficult to discover hearts from diamonds,
and, without sufficient data, one cannot pronounce
with certainty whether the cause of
a young girl's blush is modesty or shame.
There was no doubt, however, in the mind
of Elizabeth Dart which of them in her case
Mrs. Melburn took it for. The governess
remained obstinately, perhaps audaciously,
silent.

The gentleman who received you,' said
Mrs. Melburn, m chilling tones, ' was not, it
appears, my husband, but my step son. Major
Melburn.'

Then, in lier turn, somewhat haughtily
and with an almost imperceptible inclination

of the head, Miss Dart replied ' Indeed!'


Her pride, though not her temper, was
fairly roused. Though willing to put her
hand, and with unusual vigour, to any work,
however humble, and to earn even the bitter
bread of dependence without repining, she had
great independence of character. She stood,
as she thought, in the presence of an insolent
woman who, having grudged her a civility,
such as any man might pay to any girl, at
her husband's hands, was still more wroth to
find that it had been paid to her by another.
Major Melt urn's manner might, under the
circumstances (as she now understood them),
have been somewhat familiar, but it had been
at least frank and kind. She greatly preferred
it to the affected graciousness and artificial
courtesy With which she had been received
upstairs. This was unfortunate, as it was
with those upstairs and no others that her
lot was cast. If there had been time to draw
distinctions, she might perhaps have excepted
the younger of her two companions from this

sweeping conclusion ; but when we are young
we resent the misjudgment of our contemporaries
even more than that of our elders ; we
have a closer claim upon their sympathy, and
to express it in homely terms — it is not
their business to preach to us. Mary Melburn,
it was true, had by no means preached to her ;
but she had shown downstairs a wholly uncalled
for displeasure — though distress would
have been a better word, had Miss Dart had
leisure for picking and choosing of terms ;
while in the boudoir', though she had done
nothing hostile, she had done nothing; to
smooth matters. Surely she might have said
something to explain away the error into
which her companion and friend that was to
be had fallen, instead of confining herself to
that bare statement of fact, ' It was not papa ;
it was Jefferson.'

There was some more talk, upon other
matters, but there was now a stiffness in
Mrs. Melburn's tone, quite different from the
formality inseparable from a first acquaintance.
It was a great relief to the new comer when

the interview was terminated by her employer
suggesting that the domestic should show her
to her room and see that she had everything
she required.

What she required was solitude — the opportunity
of thinking over her position and
reviewing her own conduct. She could not
conceal from herself that the impression she
had made at Burrow Hall was, somehow or
another, an unfortunate one. From Mary
Melburn's manner, it was clear that she perceived
this, and did her best to do away with
it — nay. it seemed to Miss Dart that once or
twice the young lady was on the point of
saying something to soften, and perhaps elucidate,
matters. However, she had not done
so: it was plain that she was shy and nervous
even in her solicitude for the other's comfort.

^ We dine in three quarters of an hour
she had said. ' I will come and fetch you.'

Then, as she turned to leave the room,
something in her companion's face appeared
to touch her. She came back and held out
her hand. ' It must all seem very strange

and lonely to you here, but I am sure we
shall be good friends.'

Indeed, I hope so,' said Miss Dart, gratefully.
She could not say, as she wished todo,
' I am sure we shall,' for her character
was obstinately truthful; but the tears rose
to her eyes and supplied what was wanting.

A kind word in season, how good it is !
She felt at once that things were not so bad
as they had seemed before it was spoken, and
that she would be able to ' get on ' with Miss
Melburn at least, if not with her mother. Yet
what had she done to make the ' getting on '
with the elder lady seem so problematical?
She was not unacquainted with the peculiarities
of invalids, and could make allowance for
them ; but she could find no clue to Mrs.
Melburn's annoyance and displeasure. Her
best guess at it — and she acknowledged to
herself it was but a poor one — was that her
mistake in taking Major Melburn for his
father had wounded her employer's amour
propre. It had perhaps implied that a husband
of her own aofe would have been more

becoming than one old enough to be her
father ; but this left Miss Melburn's strange
behaviour still unaccounted for, since it could
not have arisen from the same cause. Though
she had not expected to find a life of dependence
without a thorn, she had not bargained
for a hidden thorn.

CHAPTER lY.

AT Dinner.

A girl's first ball is a great experience, but it
is not such an ordeal as lier first dinner party.
In the former case, there is, mixed with her
apprehensions, no inconsiderable expectation
of enjoyment ; whereas, in the latter, there
are only tremors. I remember seeing one
little lady — though by no means a child —
astonish the strange gentleman who offered
his arm to take her downstairs by bursting
into tears. The joys of the table are exclusively
for the mature. What are even
turtle and venison to the maiden of blushing;
sixteen, or even eighteen, who must needs
partake of them in unfamiliar company ?
Better a dinner of herbs — or, at least, of
hashed mutton — where ease of manner is.

than eight courses, eaten on our best behaviour.
Miss Elizabeth Dart was more than
eighteen — she was, indeed, three or four-and-twenty
— but she had never before made one of
a dinner party. The class of society to which
she had been accustomed did not affect that
form of entertainment : they lunched heavily
in the middle of the day, and in the evening
took meat teas. Social differences of the
superficial kind, it is true, did not much move
her ; it was natural to her to dive below them
for something of more intrinsic worth ; nor was
she by any means what is commonly known
as ' shy ' — she had a sense of proportion, a
consciousness of possessing powers greatly
above the average, which forbade that feeling.
A large party would not have alarmed her
more than a small one ; but of however many
it might consist on the present occasion, she
would certainly find herself the only stranger
among them. If a young girl convoyed by
her mother feels diffident and nervous in such
a position, it was surely not to be wondered
at that, having attired herself as sprucely asher

modest vrardrobc permitted, it was with
some flutter of anxiety that Elizabeth Dart
awaited the return of the young lady who was
to be at once both her pupil and her cicerone.
Mary Melburn entered her room with a smile,
superimposed, however, upon a grave countenance.
It seemed as certain to the new
governess as though she had been a witness
to it, that some conversation about her had
passed in the interim between mother and
daughter which had been of a serious and not
quite satisfactory kind.

^ Mamma is not well enough to dine downstairs
to-day,' she said ; ' there will be no one
but papa and Jefferson and one visitor.'

If this speech was, as seemed probable,
an excuse for the absence of Mrs. Melburn,
Elizabeth Dart was only too happy to accept
it, since the presence of the mistress of the
house as chaperon would, she felt, have been
far from reassuring. As to the visitor, whoever
he might be, he was not so formidable
in her apprehensions as the master of the
house ; that that gentleman was also her

VOL. I. E

employer Alas a circumstance, of comes, which
also placed her at a great disadvantage as
regards ordinary young ladies making their
debut. It was once observed to me by a well-known
writer, famous for his ' saving commonsense,'
that, notwithstanding the bother made
about governesses in the way of pity, no
sooner do they burst into full bloom as
successful school-mistresses, than we have nota
civil word for them. The conclusion he
drew was that our views in both cases were
exaggerated, and that, even when our Becky
Shapes are all they ought to be, they are not
to be so greatly commiserated. With all
respect for his judgment, I still take leave to
think that their position is very sad and pitiful
: they are not only dependent in the ordinary
sense, as respects their employers, but
more or less at the mercy of any one in the
house who may chance to take a dislike to
them. While, on the other hand, matters
become even still more unpleasant if any
member of the opposite sex takes it into his
head to pay them any marked attention.

The mmcl of Miss Elizabeth Dart, however,
was of neither a morbid nor desponding
cast, and though that trip on the threshold of
her new home, which she had so unconsciously
made, did somewhat depress her, she
was resolved, if possible, to recover her lost
ground, and at all events to make the best of
matters.

In the drawing-room were three gentlemen,
all of whom rose as the two ladies
entered the room. Mr. Melburn's manner ashe
came forward and welcomed the new-comer
to Burrow Hall impressed her favourably.
His handsome face smiled upon her with benignity,
and his tone, if somewhat patronising,
had also something paternal in it. ' My son
Jefferson, it seems, you have already seen ? '
The Major nodded good-naturedly ; though
he said nothing, his face seemed to wear an
€ncoura«rm2f look, for which she could not but
be grateful : it looked to her like a friend's
face. ' Mr. AYinthrop, like yourself, is from
London, and has only joined our circle today.'


E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
Illinois LIBRARY

^ Sorry I did not come by the earlier
train observed Mr. Winthrop with an elaborate
bow, ' since I might have been of use to
Miss Dart.'

What use be could possibly have been it
was difficult to imagine, as Miss Dart bad
travelled second-class, and bad needed no
assistance in drinking ber cup of tea ; but
the aspiration was, at all events, a polite one.
Mr. Winthrop, a tall, ungainly looking gentleman,
with a face like a horse — it bad possibly
acquired the resemblance from association
with that quadruped, for be was very equine
in bis tastes — was, indeed, the pink of politeness.
When be addressed a lady, be invariably
bowed, wbicb caused the glass,
always stuck in bis eye, to fill out of it,
and gave one the impression of something
mechanical. He wore a constant smile, which
perhaps from long usage had become weak,
for it now resembled a simper ; and though a
young man — not more than thirty at the most
bis crop of bay-coloured hair was very
scanty, and had deserted the uppermost and

less fertile regions of his head altogether. His
loose, limited figure looked no doubt to less
advantage than it otherwise would have done
contrasted with the stalwart frame of the
Major, or even with the erect and still shapely
form of the master of the house ; but what
was in stronger contrast still was the expression
of his face, which was timid, and lacked
the force of character which distinguished both
father and son.

It was easy to see, however, that, despite
these shortcomings, Mr. Winthrop occupied
a high place in the estimation of both these
gentlemen. His utterances, though of a
commonplace kind, were listened to with
great attention, and his opinions, if not very
strong in themselves, had always the advantage
of corroboration. Little as she knew
of life, the quick-eyed governess soon came
to the conclusion that Mr. Winthrop was
possessed of something in the way of wealth
or position that exacted homage ; but whether
Mary Melburn's conduct towards him was
dictated by respect, or dislike, she was not so

sure. He paid her such attentions as would
have been considered marked even in a 'squire
of dames,' and she received them with a
frigid courtesy that might either be the
acknowledgment of such patronage or a sign
of its rejection.

When dinner was announced, and he
offered his arm to her, Miss Dart noticed that
she laid her hand on it as lightly as though it
had been a broken limb, and that not a word
escaped from her lips during their passage into
the dining-room. Mr. Melburn himself, who
was, of course, her own escort, conversed with
grave condescension, and explained to her as
they passed the sideboard the presence of an
array of silver cups upon it, which he saw had
attracted her attention.

You must not think they are meant for
drinking purposes,' he said, smiling, ^ and
still less that they are exhibited from ostentation
; but when Mr. Winthrop is here we like
to remind him that other families besides his
own have distinguished themselves in the
field;

Miss Dart will conclude that vre have
won these things in battle, Sir,' said the
Major, who was walking behind them, 'unless
you are a Httle more explicit. They are only
coursing cups.'

The explanation was not altogether superfluous,
for she had never seen such trophies of
the chase, and was amazed at their size and
splendour.

She had heard of ' o-oino; to the doors ' as a
term for poverty, but it seemed to her that
these animals might be a source of wealth ;
her ignorance of how such things were come
by was similar to that of a child who, looking
into a jeweller's shop, concludes that a goldsmith
must needs be a Croesus.

They must be very valuable,' she murmured.


They cost a deal of money, at all events,'
said the Squire, drily. Then added, in a tone
that was meant to be heard, ' It is only men
like om* friend Mr. Winthrop who can afford
to be successful in the coursing-field.'

In this speech, as it seemed to the governess,

lier host gave the keynote of the
conversation. There were not many subjects
besides his personal ailments, and his family
tree, on which Mr. Winthrop could talk with
comfort to himself, but coursing happened to
be one of them. The subject was a much
more generally acceptable one than it seemed
likely to be, for, while it was a familiar topic
to Mr. Melburn and his son, its very novelty
had an attraction for Miss Dart, who was
never better pleased than when acquiring information
which at the same time gave her an
insight into social life. As for Mary Melburn,
she seemed to welcome it because it afforded
her an excuse for silence while listening to
the outpourings of her neighbour's enthusiasm.
The ladies were but very rarely appealed to ;
but, in answer to some question put to her by
the Major about greyhounds. Miss Dart was
obliged to confess that her sole acquaintance
with them was derived from books.

Of course,' she said, ^ I delight in Sir
Walter's Maid ; but that, I believe, was a
deer-hound.'

What Sir Walter T\'as that ? ' inquired
Mr. Winthrop. ' I know a Sir Walter Ross,
who courses down in Berkshire.'

'I was speaking of Sir Walter Scott,' she
replied, not a little abashed at having been
the unwilling cause of the discovery of such
ignorance.

I always thought it strange he didn't
call the dog Salamanca,' observed the Squire,
gravely. ' In England, we always call greyhounds
— so far as the first letter goes, at least
after our own names. It would have been
quite natural for me to own a Maid — I daresay
you have not got a single dog, Winthrop,
whose name does not begin with a " W." '

There's Wilkie, and Went worth, and
Wildrake, who won the cup from your
Marrowbones at Ashton, last year.'

You needn't tell me that,' said the
Squire, ruefully.

You see there are some things that we
can teach you, even in Downshire, Miss Dart,'
said the Major, in a low voice. His tone was
sarcastic ; but, as she well understood, the

sarcasm did not apply to herself. Perhaps
she would rather it had done so, since it
seemed to take for granted a certain contempt
for her company, or, at all events, for one
member of it, which it distressed her to have
imputed. On the other hand, it was not displeasing
to her to find some one who could
enter into her feelings, and, above all, who
had taken the trouble to let her know that he
had done so. She felt lonely and out of her
element ; and sympathy of any kind, under
such circumstances, is very grateful. In addition
to the strangeness of all things about
her, there seemed to be a mystery of some
kind brooding over matters at Burrow Hall,
though it only betrayed itself in silence. It
was odd, for example, to say the least of it,
that not a word was dropped concerning the
hostess of the house ; no expression of regret
for her absence or its cause ; no hint even of
her existence. The governess's reading was
extensive, and had comprised many works of
fiction, and she had gathered from it that the
domestic affections were not so much cultivated

among the higher ranks as in that in
which she had been accustomed to move, but
that Mr. Winthrop should not have asked
Mary Melburn a question about her mother's
health when they first met in the drawing-room
seemed strange indeed. Little by little
she came to understand that Burrow Hall was
one of those unhappy houses denounced in the
Scriptures, — ' a house divided against itself
but for what reason it was so, or even into
what camps it was divided, she did not learn
till long afterwards.

In the meantime, having very literally
started their hare, it seemed that the topic of
cousins:, among; Mr. Melburn's guests, was
never to be exhausted.

It was better than a talk about bullocks,
because there was necessarily more movement,
though it did not move on ; but to poor Miss
Dart, who had never seen a hare, except in a
poulterer's shop, it would have been insufferably
tedious, save for a way she had, under
similar circumstances, of diseno-ao'ino; herself
from the train of talk about her like a slip-carriage.

This operation did not take the
common form of dreaming, a dangerous custom
which is apt to put him who practises
it in an embarrassing position ; she only exchanged
the concrete for the abstract, and
while permitting her thoughts to range over a
wider surface, still kept them sufficiently fixed
upon what was going on about her. Often
and often had she excited Aunt Jane's astonishment
by her comments on the feelings and
motives of their common friends after an
evening passed in their company, where she
had borne her full share in the conversation,
and to all appearance had been as much
absorbed in it as they were.

^ What a strange girl you are, Lizzie,' she
would say, half in admiration, half in alarm,
at she knew not what ; ' you seem to turn
everybody inside out. I can't help thinking
you would make your fortune if you took
to the trade of character-telling, like that
romancer over the way.'

The romancer was a chiromancer on the
other side of the street, who professed, by

spreading your fingers out (and probably putting
his own to his nose as soon as your back
was turned), to define your moral and intellectual
qualities, and to suggest the profession
most suitable to their exercise. This was not
high praise, but perhaps (for praise when weare
young goes far, and is almost as satisfactory
as pudding) it had encouraged Miss Dart
to continue her speculations. It was a habitat
all events that had become confirmed by
this time, and was destined to bear fruit,
which was no more dreamt of at present than
the music in the sees's of the niorhtinsrale.'

Did these people talk ? ' she was wondering
now, ' for the sake of talking, and because
they had nothing better to talk about, or with
a motive ? ' she knew that with persons of a
low intellectual type, the 'mere use of the
faculty of expression is gratifying to them.
What else can explain the repetition of a
remark in different words that we so often
hear ? But she had a higher opinion of her
host's intelligence than this, and a higher one
still of the Major's. The whole conversation

she concluded, was framed to suit Mr. Winthrop
: but was it to please him generally,
or with a more direct object ? This riddle,
which may appear uninteresting to persons
who investigate double acrostics with enthusiasm,
soon got to have a strong attraction
for her.

By-the-bye,' observed Mr. Melburn, during
a short pause, 'we must remember that
tomorrow is our last day this season. I am
glad to see the glass is rising.'

It would make precious little difference
to me,' said Mr. Winthrop, ' if it was stuck at
'much rain" — indeed, for Wilhelmina's sake
I should prefer a wet day, for her best chance
is when the ground is heavy.'

I was thinking of the ladies,' remarked
Mr. Melburn, drily, ' not of the dogs.'

To be sure,' put in Mr. Winthrop, bowing
towards his fair neighbour, and dropping his
eyeglass on his dessert plate, where it fell on
a slice of pear, ' that is a sunshine we cannot
dispense with. You will honour us with
your presence, Miss Melburn, of course ? '

Thank you, no. Clappers Down is
scarcely a spot for the carriage, the hills are
too precipitous.'

^ Then why not ride ? ' observed her father,
with a frown on his hio^h forehead, and a
sharpness in his tone which fairly startled
the governess : it was like the development
of a new note in some familiar instrument.

I cannot ride alone, and run the chance
of being the only lady at the meeting,'
observed Mary, quietly, 'as happened once
before. 1 remember your objecting to it,
yourself, papa.'

Mr. Melburn bit his lip ; there is no argument
so unwelcome, because so unanswerable,
as that which is taken out of our own mouths
and used against ourselves.

But why should not Miss Dart ride ? ' he
inquired, peevishly.

The question should by rights, of course,
have been addressed to Miss Dart herself; we
do not generally use the third person in conversation
when the first is sitting next to us ;
but when the Squire was crossed, his manners,

like those of many other people, were wont to
lose their polish. His tone, indeed, was distinctly
irritable ; if his words had been paraphrased,
they would, it seemed to the shrinking
ears of the governess, have run thus —
Why won't she ride ? What's she here for
but to be chaperon whether on horse or
foot ? '

It was plain by the blush on her cheek
that Miss Melburn understood what was
passing in her new friend's mind.

Papa forgets, Miss Dart,' she observed

apologetically, ' that folk who do not live on

the downs as we do are not all born centaurs.'

I have never ridden a horse in my life,'

said the governess, quietly.

Mr. Winthrop looked at her with amazement,
and for once without dropping his eyeglass.
' Then what do you ride ? ' he inquired,
with simplicity.

^ A zebra,' exclaimed the Major, gravely,
^ Unfortunately, however, her steed will not
come in time for tomorrow.'

Jefferson is joking, Winthrop,' explained

Mr. Melburn, for that gentleman's jaw had
dropped in something like consternation.
Come, let us have our tobacco.'

At this unmistakable hint the two young
ladies rose at once — the Major holding wide
the door for them — and repaired to the .

:.

CHAPTER Y.

SORCERY.

It is doubtful whether either of the two
young ladies experienced much sense of relief
from their escape from the dining-room. It
would have been impossible for them, considering
their mutual relations, to discuss the company
they had just quitted ; but, in any case,
the governess would have felt the topic to have
been a dangerous one, for during the whole meal
Mary Melburn had struck her as being hardly
less ill at ease, or less in accord with those
about her, than herself. At the same time,
silence upon a topic so obvious was embarrassing.
The consciousness of having annoyed
the master of the house by her inexperience
as a horsewoman also weighed upon
her mind ; she felt that she had made as

unfavourable an impression upon him as this
wife. After two such false starts, it seemed
almost impossible that lier career at Burrow
Hall should run smoothly.

With her young companion herself she
was better pleased than her behaviour at first
had led her to expect. Miss Melburn's
manner to her at dinner had been considerate,
and even kind ; but even with her she felt by
no means sure of her footing : while the young
lady, on her part, showed none of that frankness
and confidence which might have been looked
for at her years. Her manner, it is true, was
gentle and courteous ; but there was a coldness,
or at least a caution, about it that could not
be mistaken. This was the more painful to
Elizabeth Dart, since from the diagnosis she
had, as usual, formed of the other's character,
such reticence seemed to be foreign to it.

Miss Melburn treated the new-comer rather
as a visitor than one who was to be a resident
with her under the same roof : and, though
solicitous enough for her comfort and amusement,
made but little efibrt to make her feel

at home. She drew her attention to the books
upon the table, to the pictures on the walls,
and, finally, to that last refuge of the drawing-room
destitute, the family photograph album.
To Miss Dart this was a welcome object. For
the faces of our friends, as being in some sort
the company we keep,' afford an index to
our own characters ; and where all is dark
(and it was so with her as regarded all her
surroundings), even the light of a farthing
candle is acceptable.

The first picture represented the Squire
himself in uniform, with his hand upon his
sword, and with such an ultra-military expression
of countenance as might have fitted
some commander giving orders for the sacking
of a city.

I did not know that your father had been
in the Army,' observed the governess.

Nor has he,' returned Mary, with a smile ;
that is the dress of the Deputy-lieutenant of
the county.'

There is no class of people who feel their
io-france so much as those who have really

been well educated ; and at that moment poor
Miss Dart would willingly have sunk through
the floor and taken her chance of what lay
beneath it. She nervously continued her examination
of the volume, wherein the Squire
still figured in various characters — dispensing
justice as Chairman of the Quarter Sessions ;
on horseback, with the initials ' M.F.H.' under
him, a mystery into which Miss Dart did
not venture to inquire ; as an orator addressing
some popular assembly. Over this she
lingered a Httle (as well she might), until
Mary murmured, ' That was when papa stood
for Downshire. He didn't get in, you know ; '
which was another blow.

Then there came a portrait of the Major
in his war-paint ; and a handsome chief he
looked.

That is Jefferson, of course,' said Mary,
drily. It seemed to Miss Dart that there was
some reproof in the speech — which somehow
brought the colour to her cheeks — because the
page was not turned over on the instant.

What a very lovely creature ! ' she exclaimed,

as she came upon the next portrait.
It represented a young girl attired in a ball
dress, and selecting a flower from a bouquet
with grave significance. With all its youth
and beauty, the face was not a happy one ;
the eyes had trouble in them, and the mouth
had doubt and even dread about it.

^ This is from a picture, not from life,'
observed Miss Dart.

It is,' was the quiet rejoinder ; ^ but they
tell me it was very like.'

1 have never seen a face so beautiful in
real life.'

And yet you have seen that very face ;
it is the portrait of my mother when she was
eighteen.'

The eyes of the speaker were suffused
with tears, and her voice trembled with
emotion.

I see the likeness now,' said the governess,
gently ; ' I am afraid your mother must have
suffered much.'

It was clear, indeed, that years alone could
never have brought so marked a change.

^ She has been a great sufferer all her life,'
returned Miss Melburn, gravely.

Poor soul, poor soul I ' were the words
that rose to Miss Dart's lips, but they did not
pass them. It struck her that a governess
should not venture to be so sympathetic to
her superiors ; and yet she could hardly say,
^ Poor lady, poor lady ! '

To be silent must needs seem to be unfeeling
; but in the meantime the moments were
fleeting by ; and with every moment speech,
as is usual under such circumstances, became
more difficult to her.

I am very sorry,' at last she murmured
; an expression so conventional that
she felt it must appear to be dictated by indifference,
or perhaps even by antagonism.

^ That is my Aunt Meyrick,' observed
Miss Mary, turning the next page with her
own hand, 'with whom we are probably to
stay at Casterton.'

This lady, to judge by her portrait, would
be at least ten years the Squire's junior ;
there was some resemblance between them in

feature, but none in expression. The widow
was less handsome, but more pleasing ; the
mouth had none of the Squire's decision about
it, and the eyes were gentle to timidity.

'It is a very pleasant face,' was Miss
Dart's involuntary remark.

Aunt Meyrick is a dear ! ' exclaimed
Miss Melburn, enthusiastically ; ' and this is
^' a dear," too, in his way, though it is a very
different way.'

The picture showed a dwarfish and almost
deformed man, with a face full of wrinkles,
redeemed by eyes of keen intelligence. His
apparel was homely in the extreme. He had
a disc in his hand, such as electro biologists
place in the hands of their victims before proceeding
to experiment upon them.

Now, what would you say this gentleman
Vias — for a gentleman he is, though of
humble birth ? ' inquired Mary, with a smile.

Well, I should say,' said Miss Dart, after
a moment's consideration, ' that he was an
enthusiast ; and although an antiquarian, very

fond of at least one person who lias not age to
recommend her — yourself

You must be a magician, Miss Dart ! '
exclaimed the other, in astonishment ; ' you
have described Mr. Leyden to a nicety. If it
is not contrary to the rules of the Black Art,
would you mind telling me by what means
you read his character so correctly ? '

Xothing is more simple,' returned the
governess, smiling ; ' his eyes betray his enthusiasm,
the antique coin in his hand suggested
the nature of his pursuit, and the tone
in which you spoke of him assured me of your
great regard for him, which in such a case
must needs be reciprocated.'

We are very simple, superstitious folk on
the downs here,' said Miss Melburn, smiling
in her turn ; ' and if this gift of yours should
be generally known, you will run some risk
of being burnt as a sorcerer.'

Still my art has its limits, and I confess
this young gentleman puzzles me,' said the
governess as she turned over the next page.

Her manner had become unconsciously
natural ; the barriers, or one of them, between
herself and her companion had been suddenly
removed. Mary, on her part, found herself,
for the first time, not only interested in, but
drawn towards, the new-comer. She remained
silent, watching her narrowly. The portrait
was of a young man of two or three-and -
twenty, slender and pale, extended on a couch,
with a book in his hand, on which, however,
his eyes were not fixed. They rested on the
ground with a thoughtful, intent expression.
The face was one of great beauty ; but, if not
positively effeminate, it lacked vigour.

Perhaps it may help you,' said Mary,
after a long pause, ' to tell you what somebody
else remarked whose opinion was asked
upon the same subject : he said, ' That young
gentleman looks like a girl in boy's clothes,
and must be uncommonly lazy." '

'Whoever said that,' said Miss Dart,
quietly, ' could never have studied Latter,
nor his fellow-creatures. In the first place, it
is clear that this young man is an invalid ; I

should say, by the pose of the limbs, a chronic
invalid.'

The profound silence that followed this
remark was broken by a suppressed sigh.

The book continued Miss Dart, gravely
' though, to be sure, he is not reading it —
is rather misleading. It is not the sort of
book, to judge from the outside, I should have
expected to see him with.'

It is the history of the Anglo-saxon
coinage,' observed Miss Mary.

Just so. Well, he doesn't care about the
book, you see, but is only trying to read it ;
perhaps, to please his friend, Mr. Leyden.'

A witch, a witch ! ' cried Miss Mary,
clapping her hands delightedly. ' Go on ; oh,
please go on ! '

Well, I am not sure,' proceeded Miss
Dart, with deliberation : ' I may lose my
reputation as a sorceress by such a monstrous
suggestion, but the Sybil within me prompts
me to pronounce this young gentleman to bea
poet.'

It is marvellous — it is amazing — you are

quite right ! ' exclaimed Miss Mary, in a
breath. ' Hush ! — they are coming in from
the dining-room.'

In an instant she had put back the 
in its place, and turning to the
piano affected to be busied with her music-book.
The echoing hall was at the same time
filled with voices, and the three gentlemen
trooped in.

JEFFERSON ASKS A FAVOUR.

Mr. Winthrop looked in high spirits, and
slightly flushed, the Major somewhat bored,
and the Squire like a man who has been put
out, and has a great objection to the process.
He brushed by the governess as if she had
been a piece of furniture, and took up his
usual position with his back to the fire, and
his arms under his coat-tails. Instead of deriving
the usual satisfaction from that attitude,
it was plain from the frown on his brow,
and the way he looked about him, that he was
in a state of discontent. His lips moved not
as if m prayer,' but the contrary. Miss
Dart even thought she caught the word
idiot ' pronounced under his breath ; his
eyes were at that moment fixed on the pair

by the piano, but whether the remark was
applied to his daughter or his guest was
doubtful : perhaps he used it as a noun of
multitude.

And what have you ladies been doing
with yourselves, Miss Dart ? ' inquired the
Major, in sprightly tones.

^ If nothing of a very elevating nature, I
am afraid,' she answered. * We have been
looking at photographs.'

What, already ? ' was his somewhat enigmatical
rejoinder, ' The Governor in his
armour, eh ? and our sisters and our cousins
and our aunts ? '

Not your sister. I am surprised to find
her conspicuous by her absence ; not, however,
that she would make a good photograph,
because she has so much expression.'

Why don't you say what one young lady
generally does say of another under such
circumstances, '' because her beauty lies in her
expression " ? '

because I do not think so. To my
thinking, Miss Melburn is beautiful in both

ways, only the sun seldom succeeds in catching
the second way.'

^ It is very kind of you to take that rose-coloured
view of her.'

Does not everybody do so ? ' Miss Dart's
eyes involuntarily wandered, as she spoke,
towards the piano, at which Miss Mary was
sitting down to play, with Mr. Winthrop
standing at her side regarding her, glass in
eye, with evident admiration.

He'll break that glass against the keys of
the piano, I'll bet a guinea, before he's turned
over half a dozen leaves,' said the Major,
parenthetically. ' AVell, I don't know as
to everybody ; brothers, you know, are not
aj)t to be enthusiastic about theu^ sisters'
charms.'

• I should have thought, on the contrary,
that they would have been the very persons
to take pride in them.'

'Indeed; well, you see, I'm only a half-brother,'
said the Major, smiling. ' The
cousin, by the-bye, has been trotted out, of
course ? '

the cousin? What cousin? I don't
understand you.'

matt Meyrick, the poet. If the photograph
book was exhibited, Mary has surely
introduced you to the young gentleman.'

Not by name. There was, I remember,
a portrait of a young man, an invalid.'

You may call a man so who has paralysis
of the spine, I suppose ; but it's a very delicate
way of putting it.'

^ Is it really so bad as that ? Poor
fellow ! '

He has his compensations, however. In
the first place, he has a better opinion of his
own talents — I beg his pardon, of his genius
than any young man in the world. Then
he is the idol of his mother. He has also an
independent worshipper, a mad numismatist ;
and there's Mary. There are very few people
who can boast of three creatures who believe
in them ; I should be very glad,' here the
Major sank his voice a little, ' to have ones

These things depend on one's deserts, I
fancy,' said the governess, quietly.

That extinguishes me altogether,' returned
the Major, smiling ; but he did not
look extinguished nevertheless. His air was
gay and his face was bright as he stood
beating time to the music, which had now
begun, and he certainly looked a very handsome
fellow.

The Squire, with one coat-tail under his
arm, as an officer carries his sword, now
began to move towards the piano with the
caution of a sportsman stalking deer : he was
fond of music in his way, and his dissatisfied
soul seemed to become soothed by it, though
his brow was still far from clear. Xo sooner
had he departed from her vicinity than Miss
Dart became conscious of a voice addressing;
her from above, as gently as falls the dew
from Heaven. It was, of course, the Major's
voice ; but, as his head was nodding to the
music, and his eyes fixed on the musician, it
was difficult to connect him with it.

This may be the only opportunity, Miss
Dart, I may have to say to you it murmured
that, if you could reconsider your determinate.

I. G

tion not to go to the coursing tomorrow, you
would lay us all under a great obligation. I
do not make use of the argument which would
have the greatest weight with most people,
that your doing so would be the shortest way
of conciliating the authorities ' (here he nodded
out of time — towards the Squire) ' because
I do not think you a person to be actuated by
self-interest. I am asking you a favour — nota
personal one, of course — but in the name of
the family.'

But how can I go? ' inquired the governess,
in great distress of mind. The manner
of the application embarrassed her quite as
much as the proposition itself, and yet it was
perfectly respectful ; moreover, though he put
self-interest out of the question, she could
hardly doubt from the kindliness of his face
that he really had her own advantage in view.
As I told Mr. Melburn at dinner, I have never
been on horseback in my life.'

But that is one of the few things that
we can teach you ; you will certainly have to
learn it ; so why should you not take your

first lesson tomorrow morning ? I can
promise you the steadiest of steeds, and that
if you feel the least nervous, you shall never
be left by yourself even for a minute. I knew
what a comfort that is when, five years ago, I
first learnt to ride a bicycle.'

^ But I shall shame you all with my
awkwardness, and look so ludicrous.'

^ I venture to differ from you there,' said
the Major, gravely ; 'the saddle will not seem
a stranger place to you than Burrow Hall, and
I prophesy that within a week you will ride
like Diana. I mean, of course, Diana Vernon

Well, I will speak to your sister about
it,' said the governess, hesitatingly, ' and
if she will take the risk of such a companion



Pardon me — I would not do that,' interposed
the Major ; ' she has already said that
she could not leave you at home alone, and
I don't think she would like to lay herself
under an obligation to you, as it were, by
pressing the matter. Xow, though to me I
must confess your going or staying at home

G 2

will make a difference, I am not the principal
party concerned, and have therefore ventured
to plead with yon. If you would tell my
father to - night, without mentioning my
mediation of course, that you had agreed to
make one of our party to Clapper's Down,
it would give him great pleasure — I wish
I could say that it would do so on your
account ; but the compliment would be transparent
; even if you believed me, you would
not thank me afterwards for introducing
you to a fool's paradise. I trust. Miss Dart,
that I have not offended you by my plain
speaking? '

No, no ; it is not that,' she answered,
hurriedly (for the music Alas already dying
away); 'since it seems that the matter is
really of some importance, I promise you I
will go to Clapper's Down.'

A thousand thanks ! Bravo ! bravo ! '
His two latter words were a tribute to the
musician, but to his companion's ear they had
a touch of triumph as well as applause. It
was natural, however, that he should be gratified

by having overcome her scruples ; it was
also ' nice of him,' though it was a mere
civility, to say that her going to the meet
would make a difference to him. There was
not much in common, nor likely to be,
between her humble self and the ]viator ;
but in the strange and frigid atmosphere in
which she found herself, his kind and frank
advice came to her like a ray of sunshine on a
wintry day.

When Elizabeth Dart had once given a
promise, its performance, however unpleasant
to herself, if it lay within her power, was
certain ; and if ro opportunity had offered
itself of speaking to Mr. Melburn respecting
her readiness to join the party tomorrow,
she would, somehow or other, have made one.
She had made up her mind to speak when Mr.
Winthrop should have taken his departure ;
but, as it turned out, that gentleman was
sleeping in the house. He was still in the
room when, to her surprise and confusion,
Mary rose from her chair and with an 'It is
getting late, and I am sure you must be tired,

Miss Dart, with your long journey,' prepared
to leave the drawings-room.

The Squire's brow clouded at once ; it
seemed to the governess, from the glance he
cast at her, that she was for the second time
incurring his displeasure.

I. hope when you have slept upon it,
Mary,' he said, in a tone half of persuasion,
half of discontent, ' that you will reconsider
your determination with respect to to-morrow

I don't see how, under the circumstances ,
it can well be altered, papa,' she answered,
gently, with a look at Miss Dart, the significance
of which, however, it was difficult to
translate. It might have referred to the
expedition in question, or to their going
upstairs.

I believe,' said the governess, modestly,
^ that it is possible for a person, however insignificant,
to interfere with the public enjoyment.
Pray do not consider, Mr. Melburn,
my unwillingness to venture on horseback asa
refusal. Rather than spoil any one's pleasure,
I will go, of course.'

The effect of the speech, though it was not
impromptu, was far greater than the speaker
had anticipated.

^ Come, that's well ! ' cried the Squire, with
much satisfaction. ' We are all obliged to you.
Miss Dart.'

Yes, indeed,' assented Mr. Winthrop,
with enthusiasm. ' She shall have one of my
horses, if she likes ; Clinker will carry her
like a lamb.'

Like a lamb that is rather apt to skip,
however,' observed the Major, drily. Save to
Miss Dart, who knew of course that he was
prepared for it, he must have seemed to take
her change of purpose with gauche indifference.


She must ride Seaman,' said the Squire,
decisively ; ' he will carry her like a rock.'

The governess noticed that Mary Melburn
had said nothing, which was an embarrassing-circumstance,
for it was to her, and not to the
gentlemen, that she had naturally looked for
an acknowledgment of her offer. It was plain
that it had made an impression on her ; but

it could hardly have been a favourable one,
for the delicate pink of her cheeks had
deepened into rose colour, and from her
eyes there shot a glance of pained surprise.

If Miss Dart wishes to go,' she said,
presently, with evident effort, ' of course,
there is nothing more to be said.'

Oh, but indeed I don't wish it,' exclaimed
the governess, not without some
little resentment. She felt it hard that a
self-sacrifice should thus be treated as though
it were a self-indulgence. ' I only offered.'

What does it signify ? The matter's
settled,' said the Squire, authoritatively. ' Remember,
young ladies, we breakfast at eight
tomorrow, for we must start before nine.'

I hope I did right,' said the governess,
gently, as she and Miss Melburn went up the
stairs together.

There could be hardly a right or wrong
in the matter,' was the indifferent reply. ^ I
was not anxious to go myself, but that you
did not know.'

^ Indeed I did not,' returned the other.

earnestly. ' I only thought that it would
please your father.'

Just so ; and so, you see, it did.'
With a hand-shake and a pleasant nod, as
if to assure her that no ground for offence had
been given, she left her at her door. Nevertheless,
that Miss Melburn was annoyed,
though it mio'ht not be with her, was clear
to Miss Dart. As she sat by the fire in her
cosy little room pondering on the day's
events, it seemed to her that she had unconsciously
given a good deal of annoyance.
Her material surroundings were comfortable
enough ; much more so, indeed, than any of
which she had had experience. But how far
rather would she have been sitting in her own
little back room in her aunt's lodgings !
What sorry substitutes of genuine ease are
all the appliances of luxury ; how light in
the balance weigh a hundred pretty speeches
against one little word of love I Xot, indeed
though there had been nothing to complain
of in Miss Melburn' s behaviour — that any one
had been specially polite to her. No one

except the Major had even been at the
trouble to take any notice of her. He had,
indeed, seemed to understand her position,
and, in some sort, even her feelings ; and
he had certainly meant her well in advising
her as he had done, though the result had
been disappointing. For the present, it was
clear that Mary Melburn was withholding
her confidence from her. The social outlook
was not only unpromising, but misty.
She knew not where to tread without treading
on somebody's toes. How eagerly she
would have welcomed some hint of how
matters stood, some friendly compass for
her future guidance. If she had been in
Miss Melburn' s place and Miss Melburn in
hers, surely, she thought, she would have made
some effort to make her course less difficult
to her. Common humanity almost seemed
to demand it ; but this common humanity
was, perhaps, not to be found in such superior
residences as Burrow Hall. Notwithstanding
these desponding thoughts, the very
difficulties of her position interested her. She

had the power not only of ' getting out of
herself so much recommended to persons
in trouble by those who themselves are free
from it, but of regarding herself from the
outside, which is another way of saying
that, though perhaps unconsciously, Elizabeth
Dart was a student of human nature.

CHAPTER Ir.

THE START.

^ If you please, Miss, Miss Melburn's compliments,
and she sends you a riding-habit,
which she hopes will fit you,' were the first
words that fell upon Miss Dart's ears when
she awoke in the morning. It brought
home to her, with painful distinctness, all
the events of the preceding day, which sleep
had blotted out ; it was not without a sharp
twinge of trepidation that she remembered
the unaccustomed thing she had promised
to do to oblige the Squire. She gazed at
her ordinary and familiar dress with the
same sort of yearning with which Joan of
Arc must have surveyed the armour which
she was forbidden to don.

If you please. Miss,' continued the maid,

who was good-natured, simple, and, from
deficiency of culture, had not the usual contempt
of her class for governesses, ' if you
will ring when you are ready, I will come
and help you on with it.'

This offer Miss Dart accepted with effusion.
The garment alarmed her ; the getting
ito it seemed to her like returning to
long clothes. The Abigail not only performed
her promise, but, when the habit
was on, told her how Miss Mary was accustomed
to hold it, so as to permit of pedestrianism.
After one or two essays she
looked much less like a swan on diy land
than I have seen some young ladies similarly
accoutred. As the Major had hinted,
it was scarcely possible, indeed, for Elizabeth
Dart to look awkward ; she had too
much o-ood sense. Even the eroino: downstairs
to the breakfast-room was effected
without mishap. She found the three gentlemen
alone together, arrayed in sporting
costume, with knee-breeches and top-boots,
an attire she had never seen out of a circus ;

her own apparel, being familiar to their eye,
fortunately courted no attention.

I see you have screwed your courage
to the sticking place, Miss Dart,' was all
the allusion the Squire made to it, as he
looked up for a moment from his morning's
letters.

I hope it will prove so,' she answered,
laughingly ; but the jest fell apparently upon
deaf ears.

Unless as a matter of practice,' murmured
the Major, under cover of a drooping
fire of envelope flap and newspaper
cutting, 'you will find it useless to make
jokes in this house. We're a very serious
family.'

The observation, so far as it suggested
that the miscarriage of her little pleasantry
imputed dulness to her employer, was unwelcome
to her ; but, being human, she
could not but be grateful to the person who
had understood it.

It was unbecoming in me to joke at all,'
she answered, gravely.

^ Of course,' he answered, mockingly. ' AVe
should revere the Square and his relations and
always keep our proper stations.'

I wish you would not make such a noise
with that^paper, Jefferson,' exclaimed Mr. Mel-burn,
irritably ; ' it sets my teeth on edge.'

That's only natural, since it's the Tory
organ,' returned the Major coolly.

I hope Miss Mary is not, after all, going
to give us the slip,' observed Mr. Winthrop,
pulling out his watch.

The slip ? Why should she give us the
slip ? ' inquired the Square, frowning.

A very appropriate metaphor for a
coursing meeting,' put in the Major, quickly.
So ho ! ' (imitating the cry of the sportsman
who sees a hare sitting) ' here comes the
pretty puss herself.'

The compliment, though well deserved —
for a prettier creature than Miss Mary looked
in her riding dress it would have been hard
to imagine — did not seem to be appreciated by
its object. Without so much as acknowledging
the Major's presence, or that of Mr. Winthrop,

who got up to greet lier, she went
straight up to the governess and held out
her hand.

^ I owe you an apology, Miss Dart, for
being so late and lazy as to have suffered
you to come down by yourself. I hope,' she
added, in a lower tone, and glancing at the
other's habit, 'that you have had no difficulties
; if you had, however, you have surmounted
them famously.'

She went up to her father, and, lifting her
comely head on one side, received upon her
cheek the hasty smear which formed the
paternal kiss.

To Mr. Winthrop, waiting patiently glass
in eye, she gave her hand, but very coldly,
and when he retained it somewhat beyond the
usual limits, she utilised the interval to nod to
her half-brother, ere sitting down before the
tea-urn.

This little byplay was a revelation to
Miss Dart. If Miss Mary had been a less
skilful actress the governess would have
known last night what, as matters were,

she had been by no means convinced of — •
namely, that Mr. Winthrop's attentions were
unwelcome to the young lady, and that she
had made her new friend's ignorance of
horsemanship the excuse for evading his
companionship at the coursing meeting. But
the other had played her part so naturally
that Miss Dart had supposed it quite possible
that she had been standing in the way
of her A^'ishes, as it was evident she had
been in those of the Squire.

This new knowledge melted her heart
towards her pupil, since it showed that on
her part the girl had something to forgive.
Her coldness of the previous night was accounted
for, if not excused. So thoroughly
had Miss Dart's indignation evaporated that
there was none left to take what would have
now seemed to have been its proper direction
namely, that of the Major, to whose interference
the unpleasantly which had taken
place was clearly due. He, at least, could
scarcely have been ignorant of his sister's
feelings in the matter ; but men, reasoned

VOL. I. H

the governess — no, not reasoned, said to herself
— think so little of these things ; they are
always slightly inclined to be selfish ; and
since her going to the coursing meeting
would add to his own pleasure

I do believe the air of our downs has
done you good already, Miss Dart observed
Mary, breaking in on these reflections.

Either it or something else had certainly
given the governess a very high colour, which
the observation considerably intensified.

I am sure that it is very wholesome she
stammered, feebly.

I wish we could bottle it, and sell it in
London,' said the Squire, regretfully.

For sleeping draughts,' murmured the
Major, drily.

Yes,' assented Mr. Winthrop ; ' the
downs' air is capital for that — especially
after coursing. It is the most admirable
sport in the world, Miss Dart, as Miss
Melburn here will tell you.'

^ I am sure she will think it a very pretty
sight,' said Mary, indifferently.

There is no objection to it either continued
Mr. "Winthrop, volubly, ' such as
Tvomen — I mean ladies — make to pigeon-shooting
; there is no cruelty to animals,
and so on : a most innocent pleasure, I do
assure you. Ask any one who has ever
tried it.'

^ The hare, for example,' observed the
Major.

In spite of her efforts, Miss Dart could
not restrain a smile. It was all very well
for the Major, who, under cover of his great
blonde moustache, retained the gravity of a
Judge ; but it was very wrong of him, and
hard on her. Yet, somehow, she could not
be so angry with him as she wanted to be.
The Squire, however, was under no such
restraint.

Well, Sir, and what of that ? ' he said,
turning sharply on his son. ' Has not man
been given the fruits of the earth — I mean
the beasts of the field — for his sustenance
and enjoyment ? '

Just so,' said Mr. Winthrop, assenting

; ' and, as everybody knows, " there
is no hare so tender as a coursed hare." '

It was no doubt by accident, but here
the Major's elbow, trembling with suppressed
merriment, touched that of his fair neighbour.
Between her sense of humour and her sense
of what was becoming, poor Miss Dart could
scarcely permit herself to breathe. Fortunately,
at that moment the craunch of horses'
hoofs upon the ground drew general attention
to the windows, through which could be seen
the grooms and helpers leading the five horses,
two of which, of course, had side-saddles.

That is your nag. Miss Dart — old Seaman,'
said the Squire, regarding the animals
critically through his double eyeglass ; then
he threw up a window and began talking to
the groom about some animal not present,
who had been ' fired,' in such a tender,
regretful voice that one would have thought
he had been speaking of one of his theatrical.


Which horse did your father say was
mine ? ' inquired the governess of Miss Mary,

in tones which she in vain endeavoured to
render indifferent .

The brown one. You must not mind
his being large ; he is very docile.'

That is what is said of elephants, Mary,'
said the Major, remonstratingly.

I wish it was an elephant,' thought poor
Miss Dart to herself, ' then it would have a
howdah on it instead of that thing.' And,
indeed, it cannot be denied that to a neophyte
a side-saddle is not a symbol of security.

Miss Mary had already assured her friend
that her mother was too ill to see her that
morning till after her return, but she herself
went to take leave of her. There were certain
packets containing lunch to be distributed
to each member of the party, and the gentlemen
had to provide themselves with cigars ;
so that it was twenty minutes or so before
they were all assembled on the carriage-drive
in front of the house and ready for the
start.

Mr. Winthrop stepped briskly forward to
assist Miss Mary to her horse, but losing his

eyeglass in the attempt, as usual, and fumbling
to find it, she beckoned in the meantime to
the groom, who, with his hand under her foot,
landed her deftly in her seat on the instant.
The Major stood in waiting to render the
same service to Miss Dart, but perceiving the
piteous look she cast from him to her gigantic
steed — like a landsman who sees a mere rope
thrown out to him to help him up a shipside
— led the animal at once to an old ,
which, like some altar erected to the
equine race, stood on one side of the entrance-steps,
and therefrom she transferred herself
to the saddle without difficulty. For this
thoughtful attention she felt truly grateful,
and smiled her thanks on him, while he showed
her how to hold her whip and reins.

The pommel will be a great temptation,
but you must avoid it,' he said, gravely.
Ending on horseback is like life itself : you
must depend on yourself, and not on any
extraneous aids.'

But if he begins to trot ? ' suggested

poor Miss Dart, feeling as if she was on a
mountain of the volcanic sort, the least movement
of which would be fatal.

He never trots, it shakes his fat sides too
much,' was the encouraging rejoinder; 'and
when he canters it is Uke a rocking chair —
danger there is none. But be assured I shall
never leave your side till you have lost all fear
of it.'

As he turned to mount his own champs
and impatient steed, he raised his eyes to an
upper window and lifted his hat, while at the
same time a demise look, almost mocking by
contrast with that which he had just been
wearing, came over his features. Miss Dart
followed his gaze, and beheld sirs. Melburn,
in a morning gown, looking fixedly at her.
On her face, too, was an expression she could
not understand. It was one of pain and deep
distress. Upon seeing that she was observed,
however, she bowed and waved her hand with
cold politeness. Before the governess could
return her salute, the cortege besfan to move.

and with it the mountain on which she sat
She had read, of course, of the motion of the
earth, and had accepted it with other scientific
theories, but it was her first experience of the
actual fact.

CHAPTER YIIL

Coursing.

The coursing meetings of to-day wear a strong
resemblance to those of the racecourse. The
ratio in which sport and gain were wont to be
mixed has become inverted, the strife is less
for honour than for rewards ; even the reward
is not what it was. but takes the form of hard
cash ; and over ' the pleasant fields and farms,'
where the ' fine old English gentleman ' was
wont to follow his favourite pastime, are now
everywhere — mingled with the other cloven
hoofs — the footprints of the members of the
betting ring. But even still, in out-of-the-way
spots upon the windy hills, or in sheltered
hollows of the down lands, there are meetings
of the old kind, attended b}^ squires and
farmers only, and sometimes by fair equestrians.


The downs — wliicli, save for a few high-placed
fir clumps, or a patch of furze taller
than common, are free from all obstruction to
the view — seem made for such a sport. The
road to Clapper's Down was uphill all the
way — for which the governess thanked her
stars, since it necessitated a foot-pace ; they
climbed and climbed up the deep chalk road,
till at last they reached the summit of a great
green plateau which, unadorned itself by
Nature's hand, looked down upon the varied
beauties of three counties — hamlets, clustered
round their grey-towered churches ; homesteads,
with their compact farmyards and
forests of ricks about them ; the dull blue
river, glinting coldly through the as yet unclothed
trees, and winding along the low
headlands, till it hid itself in some ancient
town : here and there, far off, the smoke of a
railway train, but not the train itself; nothing
looked in motion, for the distance lent rest as
well as enchantment to the view. The anchored
waggons upon the open road seemed
stationary, as also the nearer flocks of sheep

to the right hand and to the left, though the
clear notes of their bells told a different tale.

Suddenly, in the hollow of the hill, the
party from the Hall came upon a goodly
sight : a body of some fifty men on horseback,
preceded by a vanguard of a dozen more
scattered at some distance apart, like skirmishers
— the voluntary beaters for the game.

^ I see a red coat ! ' exclaimed Miss Dart,
whom the unaccustomed air, and the novelty
of the ride and of all the objects about her, had
greatly excited : since Seaman still plodded
soberly on his way, her apprehensions had vanished,
and enjoyment had taken their place. ^ I
thought that only fox-hunters wore red coats.'

Quite right,' said the Major, who was
riding, as he had promised, at her bridle-rein ;
that is the judge of the coursing ; and between
the two parties of horsemen in the
turnip-field, you see another man in red on
foot — that is the slipper. He holds the couple
of greyhounds that are next to run in his leash,

within which is a string See, though weare

a little late, we are yet in time, like tardy

arrivals at a dinner party, for the first course.
They have found a hare. Here she comes
down the hill, straight for that fir plantation
just below us. Now the dogs have the sight,
look how they strain, and drag the slipper
with them ! '

Through the clear air was heard the judge's
mandate, 'Go'; and the greyhounds, fawn
and white, the very types of speed and grace,
bound forward simultaneously, taking three
yards of ground for poor puss's two. There
is no doubt that they will soon come up
with her — but as to catching her, see
how she threw them out by that sharp
turn, and scuds away up the hill — that
is a very different matter. Down hill, indeed,
which is the way she must take, however
indirectly, she has no chance ; the dogs recover
their lost ground, gain on her, overtake
her, arch their long backs in readiness to
spring, when, with another still sharper turn,
like that of the wrist of a swordsman, she
flies away again with her ears laid level with
her back and leaves her baffled foes thirty

yards behind her. It is a species of circular
sailing, which sooner or later must tire puss
out ; but, in the meanwhile, she approaches
nearer and nearer to the plantation which is
her sanctuary from the jaws of death. The
greyhounds appear to be aware of this, and
this time they come up with her, turn her,
force her down hill as it were, before her time ;
the fawn do of, who is leading, with outstretched
neck makes a fierce grab at her, and
for his pains gets a mouthful of fur, but puss
herself is through the fence and safe ; not
without hopes of dewy mornings yet to come
next spring, and hours of snoozing in her
cosy form through wintry noons.

Confound the beast ! ' exclaimed the
Major, vehemently.

What ! ' cried Miss Dart, with indignation
her heart had been beating throughout the
whole proceeding almost as fast as the hare's
' you don't mean to say you are sorry she
has escaped ? '

Oh, no, no, no,' he answered emphatically
; then, after a moment's hesitation, he

added, ' I am afraid I was not thinking of
poor puss at all ; the white dog belongs to us,
you see, and has lost the course.'

But neither of them caught the hare,' she
urged.

Quite true ; but the fawn dog turned her
twice to the other's once, and stuck to her all
along, though he tripped at last.'

Then he explained to her how ' a turn '
is when the hare swerves from her course,
and ^ a wrench ' when she swerves still more
sharply from it, and that ' a trip ' is when a
dog seizes the hare and fails to kill it.

She listened with an interest that amazed
him ; the spectacle of a female nature easily
roused to enthusiasm and greedy for things
new and strange was a novelty to him, and
encouraged him to pursue a topic Which, truth
to say, he cared little about.

^ The race is by no means to the swift in
these matters,' he continued, smiling. ' The
judge, yonder, has to take all the circumstances
of the case into account : whether the
hare bends round towards one dog or the

other ; or whether one fails to catch sight of
pussy at the first glance, and therefore has a
bad start. Xothing escapes his consideration.'

'That is not so in human life observed
Miss Dart, gravely.

True ; there is no one to handicap us
in the struggle for existence.' He looked at
her very curiously for a moment, but she did
not observe it ; her gaze was fixed upon the
scene before her ; it seemed as though she
had made the reflection to herself without expectation
of any rejoinder ; perhaps the form
in which he had couched his reply had been
unintelligible to her, but her inattention
piqued him.

•' I suppose, Miss Dart, you consider that,
being a soldier, I am incapable of philosophic
reflections, or even of sympathy.'

Xo, Major Melburn, certainly not that'
she answered, hurriedly, and with a faint
flush. ' It did strike me, however, that we
must needs regard the matter you spoke of
from very different standpoints. To you, if
the world does not seem the best possible

of all worlds, it nevertheless shows its
sunny side. It must strike you that the
doctrine of compensation — of redressing the
balance — is a somewhat superfluous theory ;
while to me — well, I don't complain ; but my
lines have fallen in less pleasant places.'

And yet it is said,' he answered in low
tones, 'that 'slightly comes the world to
those who are cast in gentle mould." '

I am afraid I can take very little comfort
from that circumstance, even if it were fact,'
she answered, smiling, but with a certain
severity too. ' I am not made of sugar-plums,
I do assure you.'

I never supposed you were,' he answered,
gently. ' I know many young ladies who are
composed of that material, and you are not

in the least like them. This is a pretty

sight, is it not ? '

They had now almost joined the company
upon the opposite hill. There had been
another course, and puss had again reached
the plantation in safety, round which, ' though
lost to sight to memory dear,' her baffled

pursuers were vainly straining their keen
eyes for her. The dogs that had not yet
run were standing about in pairs, clothed (as
if they had been Italian greyhounds) in parti-coloured
garments, with only their legs and
heads exposed to view, like so many miniature
racehorses. Upon glossy hunters, with
arching heads and champing mouths, or upon
stout, sturdy cobs, rode the gentry and
yeomen of Downshire — a mounted troop such
as no other land could probably furnish, with
here and there a grotesque exception, such as
some case of obesity upon a Shetland pony,
or a more independent than wealthy sportsman
perched on the tottering hind legs of a
Jerusalem pony. There were also half a
dozen of dear John Leech's little boys upon
the backs of infinitesimal ponies, all mane
and tail. Here, too, rode the stewards of the
meetings, with red and white ribbons at their
button-holes, and with choice expressions in
their mouths for folk who would ride over
the untried ground, and start the hare when
there were no dogs to follow her ; curious

VOL. I. I

it was to mark the nice gradations of treatment
to which these trespassers were subjected
; how the transgressing squire was
expostulated with, and the erring yeoman
sworn at, and the simple smock-frocked pedestrian
fairly worshipped back into his
proper place. Besides these, there were the
camp-followers — heterogeneous vehicles, which
could be only described, with charity, generically
as ' four-wheelers ' ; a plague of gigs,
numerous as the flies of Egypt, and of every
colour in the rainbow ; dog-carts, literally
dog-carts, which had carried the various
candidates for the stakes from their distant
kennels, or from railway stations ; and a
covered cart, ordinarily used by some village
carrier, but filled on this occasion with
creature comforts, and resembling a peripatetic
public house. The spectacle would
have been interesting and exciting to almost
any one, but to Elizabeth Dart it was entrancing,
for it was a new page of human nature.

So ho ! ' cries a sharp-eyed farmer ;
^ there she lies under the grey grass yonder.'

How close she sits, well knowing what all
this rout has come about, and determined not
to stir a leg till she is whipped up. Fatal
mistake, puss, surely, to lose the precious
moments while thy canine enemies are scores
of yards away, and the slipper does not even
know of thy existence ! This time it is resolved
that all escape to the plantation should
be cut off. The Horsemen ride off to left and
right and make a lane, through which she
must needs run to the downs. Push forward,
boys, upon your pigmy steeds to the front ;
for you, too, will need all the start you can
get

Up comes the red judge upon a fresh
horse, and the red slipper (poor fellow I), on
the same pair of feet ; some good soul, however,
presently lends him a horse to mount
the hill. There is a crack of a hunting-whip,
and off starts a long-legged hare straight for
the down land — away go the fleet dogs, and
away the regiment of miscellaneous cavalry,
the elephantine Seaman and his fair burden,
to whom he imparts the equable motion of a

I 2

rocking-horse — among them, and away the
four-wheels, and the gigs, and the peripatetic
public-house. These last work up the least
perpendicular hill, which happens to be
ploughed land, like so many teams.

The stout hare holds her own ; and when
the horsemen, who have been hanging on the
steep like flies on a window-pane, reach the
summit, the dogs and sis are a mile away.

Ladies who ride to hounds are, as a rule
no more enthusiastic than are male sportsmen ;
they are diffuse about dogs and horses and
the details of the chase, but they feel little
excitement in it save of the physical kind ;.
they enjoy the excursion but feel nothing of
the poetry of motion it affords, beside which
that of the ball-room sinks into insignificance.
With Elizabeth Dart it was different, she
seemed to be carried out of herself into
another world ; the rush of the wind, the
beat of her horse's feet upon the springy
turf, was music to her ; for the moment she
experienced supreme enjoyment, and her face
showed it.

It is like champagne, is it not ? ' exclaimed
the Major, as he galloped by her side.

^ I don't know she answered, smiling ;
^ I never tasted champagne.'

The Major stared at her in undisguised
amazement : a woman who had never tasted
champagne was a phenomenon to him — nay,
an anomaly. A child who had never tasted
suo^ar would have astonished him less, though,
to be sure, he knew little about children. Ina
general way, simplicity had no charms for
him ; but in this case it had a certain
piquancy. He had the sense to admire the
frankness of a reply which was also a confession
; for how poor he reflected must have
been the surroundings, and how humble the
bringing up, of one who had attained maturity,
without an experience so ordinary and matter
of course!

At this moment a circumstance occurred
which rather disenchanted our heroine, with
respect to coursing : the hare, which had been
Hearing the sanctuary, a fir-grove, in the
usual manner, in one of her turns — not good

enough, alas ! to deserve another — got caught
in the air by one of the clogs, and uttered a
horrible cry of torture. Miss Dart's hands
dropped the reins and flew up to her ears.

How can you be so rash ! ' cried the
Major. ' If I had not been beside you' — for
his hand had seized her bridle at once — ' you
might have broken your neck ! '

His apprehensions Averse probably exaggerated,
since Seaman was an animal as
little given to stumbling as to running away ;
but she could not but acknowledge his solicitude.


I did not know our pleasure was to be
purchased at such a price,' she answered. Her
pupil's face, too, though she must have been
used to such incidents, wore a look of distress.


Cried like a child, didn't she, Miss Mary ? '
observed Mr. AYinthrop, with the air of one
who hits upon an appropriate metaphor. Her
eyes spoke for her, but the girl made no reply ;
a shudder ran through her frame. Perhaps
she was not thinking solely of the poor hare.

It was a shocking; sio^ht,' she murmured.

It is, at all events, what all hares come to
unless they're shot,' he answered ; and then
added, with some irritation, ' I think, too, that
you might have remembered that it was my
dog.'

That disposes of the tie, does it not ? '
exclaimed the Squire, riding up. ' Mary, you
should congratulate Winthrop.'

I am glad that Mr. Winthrop has won the
stakes,' she answered, mechanically. Then,
turning to the governess, she exclaimed, ' I am
sure I ought to congratulate you, too. Miss
Dart. How capitally you have got on with
Seaman ! '

*And kept on,' put in Mr. Winthrop.
^ That's rather good, Jefferson, eh ? ' and he
prodded his friend humorously with the crop
of his whip.

I think it very good,' replied the Major ;
that is,' he added, dropping his voice so
that Miss Dart alone could hear, ^ for
you:

We must drink Winthrop's health at

dinner to-nights exclaimed Mr. Melburn, exultingly.


Yes J and in champagne,' said the Major.

The Squire made a wry face ; there were
reasons why he was inclined to be hospitable
to his guest, but at the same time there are
limits to hospitality.

As they turned their horses homeward,
Did you see how the Governor's face fell.
Miss Dart,' asked the Major, 'when I suggested
his giving us champagne ? He is uncommonly
chary of his fizz.'

Then I think it was very wrong of you to
suggest it,' she said, with severity, for she felt
that it was also very wrong of him to make
her the recipient of such information. ' If you
knew that it would annoy your father, why did
you do it ? '

Well, if you really wish to know the
reason,' he answered, with a smile, ' it was on
your account ; since you told me just now
that you had never tasted champagne, I was
determined that you should have an early
opportunity of doing so.'

Really, Major Melburn, you must have a
poor opinion of me,' she answered, stiffly, ' to
suppose that I entertain any such ambition.
I have no more curiosity in the way of wine
than of tobacco.'

• Well, I have seen some very distinguished
young women, with handles to their names,
too, for whom even tobacco has had
charms.'

^ I neither envy them their taste nor
their handles to their names,' was the chilling
rejoinder.

Xow don't be angry with me,' said the
Major, penitently. ' I know you are quite another
and very superior sort of person to them,
but you did say the other evening — I mean
yesterday, but somehow or other I seem to
have known you so much longer — that you
thought it was a good thing to have some experience
of everything, big and little, so long
as it was not harmful, and I thought that
even champagne was not too small a thing to
be left out of the category. I am awfully
sorry if I have offended you.'

You have not offended me, Major
Melburn.'

Nay, but it is clear I have,' he answered,
comically. ' I am not like Winthrop, yonder,
who never knows when he has put his foot
in it ; at all events, be as good as to say you
forgive me.'

^ Very well. Major Melburn, I forgive
you.'

She looked up, and noticed Miss Mary's
eyes regarding her with the same strange
expression she had noticed in Mrs. Melburn's
face when she had started from the hall that
morning. There was pity in it as well as pain,
she felt, but its meaning, though her wits were
keen to mark the thoughts of others, was
hidden from her. The physiognomists may
boast as they please, but the human countenance
is not, after all, so easy to translate asa
Greek play with a crib.

CHAPTER IX.

CONFIDENCE.

Miss Diet had just exchanged her habit, or
rather Miss Melbiirn's, for her ordinary attire,
when that young lady knocked at her door.
^ Mamma would like to see you if quite convenient,'
she said, ' before you go downstairs.'
Her voice was very gentle, but it was not
cordial ; and it was for cordiality that the
governess yearned. Her nature was anything
but parasitical, it did not require anything:
to cling; to ; it could live, ' suffer,' and
even ' be strong,' without sympathy, but it
could not be happy without it. There are
some plants the roots of which, if they find
themselves in arid soil, will elongate and
stretch in all directions for water, without
which they cannot flourish, though they can

exist. Elizabeth Dart was one of them. She

had no fear of being treated unkindly at

Burrow Hall, nor even with neglect (though

neglect she could have borne) ; but she was

keenly conscious that she had failed as yet in

gaining the confidence of her pupil. It was

this, above all things, when she had accepted

her present situation, that she had made up

her mind to secure ; and to know that she

had failed filled her with discouragement.

She had had, as pupil-teacher in a large

school, a considerable experience of girls, and

whenever she had tried to make one of them her

friend, had succeeded. With others she had

not tried, not because she felt the labour

would have been thrown away, for she had

too strong a sense of duty to spare herself,

but because her intuition informed her that

the thing was impossible.

In the case of Mary Melburn she felt no
such conviction, and that circumstance distressed
her the more. Had the girl been cold
and cross, grudging, insolent, or artificial,
friendship would have been out of the question,

and there T\'ouId have been nothing for
it but to earn her salary by unsweetened toil,
as had happened to hundreds in her position ;
but notwithstanding some shortcomings, or
what had seemed to be such, in Mary Mel-bum's
behaviour to her, she was convinced
that she had a good disposition and all the
capabilities for friendship. It was hard,
therefore, that the door of mutual understanding
was closed between them, and the
key hidden from her, or out of reach. Of
Mrs. Melburn, on the other hand, she had no
such good opinion. She had a suspicion that
that lady, if not an hypochondriac, was not
so ill as she affected to be, while she claimed
all the privileges of a confirmed invalid.
That this, at all events, was the opinion of
others seemed certain, or surely some notice
would have been taken of her condition by
the male members of her family. Even their
guest, to whom she was probably well known,
had not given himself the trouble, as she had
noticed, to inquire after her health that morning.
It was, therefore, with no enviable feelings

that Elizabeth Dart found herself for the
second time in her employer's boudoir.

Mrs. Melburn, as before, was on the sofa,
but fully attired ; indeed, from her appearance,
the governess judged, and indeed rightly,
that she intended to present herself that evening
at the dinner-table below-stairs. Her
dress became her admirably, and heightened
her undeniable charms ; but, on the other
hand, it increased the delicacy of her appearance
— as virgin white and wreaths of flowers,
with which reverent hands would fain decorate
the youthful dead, only the more proclaim
mortality. As Miss Dart looked at her, she
reproached herself with having imputed the
pretence of illness to one so manifestly weak
and frail. There was firmness, if not vigour,
however, in the calm clear tones in which
Mrs. Melburn saluted her, and immediately
afterwards addressed her daughter.

I wish, Mary, to say a few words to Miss
Dart alone, or rather in Dr. Dalling's presence
only.'

The governess followed the direction of

her eyes and perceived, as Mary withdrew,
that there was still a third person in the
room. A man of gigantic state was standing
in the shadow of the window-curtain,
with his hands behind him, reo-ardino- her
with great intentness. He inclined three feet
or so of his frame as his name was mentioned,
but remained silent. The afternoon lio^ht fell
full upon herself and revealed every feature.
She felt at once that this gentleman's opinion
would presently be passed on her in a non-professional
sense ; that she had been sent for
on approval, or what was quite as likely to
prove the reverse. It was borne in upon her
quick intelligence that the unfavourable judgment
which her employer had already formed
of her was to be confirmed, or not, according;
to the view which the family physician might
take of her. It would be something much
more serious than inconvenience, if she were
thus to lose her first situation, and so immediately,
but this consideration in no way
affected her behaviour or the course of conduct
she intended to pursue ; for, with all

her cleverness, she was incapable of playing
a part that was not her own. As she stood
beside her employer's couch, with her head
slightly thrown back and a quiet air of respect,
that was also self-respect, in her bright,
clear eyes, she might have realised, if not
altogether in Wordsworthian fashion, a poet's
idea of ' Resolution and Independence.'

I have sent for you, Miss Dart,' said the
invalid, in low but very distinct tones, 'inconsequence
of a certain change of circumstances
which affects us both.'

Here she paused ; and the governess inclined
her head with unchanged face, but
with a heavier heart. From this exordium
she judged that her dismissal had been decided
on, and was already picturing to herself
Aunt Jane's distressful face, and the re-commencement
of old troubles known but to the
poor, who only ask leave to work, and yet
find it so difficult to obtain permission.

My state of health, as Dr. Dalling informs
me to-day, is even less satisfactory than he
had supposed it to be, and will, therefore, in

all probability, necessitate my going abroad at
a still earlier date. My daughter's departure
for Casterton will therefore be proportionately
hastened ; in fact, it may take place immediately,
and the question is. whether you are
qualified not only to fill the post of her friend
and companion, but also, in some measure, to
take charge of her in my place ? ' She paused ;
but as it was clear she did so from physical
causes — the effort of speaking with such
gravity and distinctness — the other held her
peace.

You are very young,' she continued — ' a
circumstance with which you may justly say I
was already acquainted ; but from the excellent
certificates '

^ Testimonials,' suggested a voice from the
window curtain, surprisingly soft and gentle
to emanate from so huge a frame ; ' it is we
doctors who grant certificates, and — unlike
this young lady's — always of disability.'

I beg your pardon. Miss Dart,' resumed
Mrs. Melburn, with an obvious increase of
kindliness in her tone. ' I was about to
VOL. I. K

remark that from the testimonials I had
received with you, I had been led to imagine
that I should find in you not only an
agreeable and, elevating associate for my
daughter, but one somewhat more staid and
judicious — not that an old head upon young
shoulders is to be expected.'

There was another gentle murmur from
the curtain.

Or even, as Dr. Dalling suggests, " to be
desired" ; but in this respect I have been a
little disappointed.'

^ I am very sorry,' said the governess,
gently, ' and the more so since, not being
conscious of any shortcoming in the matter
you mention, I scarcely know how to guard
against the repetition of my offence.'

There is no offence. Miss Dart,' answered
Mrs. Melburn, hastily. ' Things have turned
out a little unfortunately, that is all — accidents
will happen ' — here she hesitated, it was
plain that embarrassment had caused her to
wander into unaccustomed platitude.

Of course they will,' put in the friendly

voice. ' If accidents did not happen, what
would become of the doctors ? If I may
say a word, Miss Dart, as a very old friend
of Mrs. Melburn's, and one whom she is so
good as to put some faith in as an adviser,
I would venture to suo'o-est that from no fault
of your own you have not thoroughly comprehended
her position. Unhappily, through
illness — and — and — other causes, she is unable
to exercise that supervision over her daughter
which, as a mother, she would wish to use,
and her duties in this respect will fall upon
your shoulders. I need scarcely tell you, for
even from the little you have seen of her you
must needs have arrived at that conclusion
yourself, that Miss Mary wants no 'looking
after " in the conventional sense ; she does
not require control or even guidance ; but
she does stand in need of sympathy and a
certain guardianship such as might be looked
for in an elder sister.'

san undivided attention,' observed Mrs.
Melburn, with the air of a person who,

having been at a loss for the right word to use
upon an important occasion, has found it at
last.

The governess flushed to her forehead,

Mrs. Melburn is very far from imputing
any neglect to you, Miss Dart went on the
friendly voice ; ' but, in the necessary absence
of her mother, or, indeed, of any female friend,
Miss Mary finds herself in some degree isolated
; her position demands not only an
adviser, but I may say a protector.'

Mrs. Melburn nodded her head in approbation
and adhesion.

You would doubtless reply,' continued
the doctor, ' if circumstances permitted you
to speak plainly upon so delicate a matter,
that you can scarcely understand how a young
lady in her father's house can be so placed ;
but, nevertheless, such is the case. It is plain,
therefore, that your responsibility will be the
greater when — as will happen almost immediately
— she leaves that house. In telling
you this much, I need not say. Miss Dart,
that Mrs. Melburn is placing the greatest

confidence in yon, which she feels sure you
will not abuse.'

If the governess could have caught sight
of her employer's face, it must needs have
caused her to accept this last statement with
what journalists term 'some reserve' ; for it
was aghast with terror and dismay. Her own
eyes, however, were cast upon the ground ;
her heart was touched by the doctor's simple
and manly appeal ; she felt full of tenderness,
pity, and gratitude — all quickened by a vague
sense of self-reproach.

I am deeply sensible,' she replied, ' Dr.
Dalling, of the frankness with which, through
your mouth, Mrs. Melburn has been so good
as to treat me. It shall be my earnest endeavour
henceforth to prove myself worthy of
her confidence.'

I-was certain of it from the fivsi.^ observe 1
the doctor, laconically

^ You are always right,' murmured sirs.
Melburn, unconscious that that naive rejoinder
implied a previous disagreement on the point.

Once more she addressed herself to the

governess, but in a much more assured and
natural tone, like one who feels that the
ground is cleared of certain obstacles that
might have appeared insurmountable.

^ When you are at Casterton, Miss Dart,
which you soon will be, you will remember,
please, that my daughter is solely in your
charge ; and that no matter what pressure
may be put upon you, you have my authority
for prohibiting '

I would scarcely say prohibiting, Mrs.
Melburn,' interposed the doctor, gently ;
it suggests a necessity which surely can
hardly arise.'

'I wish I could feel that,' answered the
invalid, drily. ' Let me say, then, generally,
Miss Dart, that you have my authority for
protecting my daughter from all attentions
that may be distasteful to her.'

Miss Dart bowed her head in respectful
assent. She could not doubt but that the
person she was thus exhorted to keep at arm's
length — and further — was Mr. Winthrop.
The imposition of such a task was a matter

of much significance, for it was plain that, in
so doing, her employer was not only placing
a great responsibility hi her hands, but also
herself in her hands. She was taking it for
granted that the governess would be henceforth
not only her friend but her ally. So
confident was she that she would not prove
traitress, that she had, as it were, intrusted
her with the key of the citadel. Xothing
could, so far, be more flattering. On the
other hand, Miss Dart could not conceal from
herself that Mrs. Melburn had not had jnuch
choice in the matter. Since her departure
was so immediate, it was scarcely possible for
her to make other arrangements — to procure
a new governess, for example. It was also
clear that she had not taken so important a
step without seeking the advice of another ;
or, indeed, what seemed quite as likely, that
other might have persuaded her to take it.
But for the interposition of that favouring
and gentle voice, like an Eolian harp placed
in the window, it even seemed possible that
the interview mio-ht have had a different

ending. The main business Once concluded,
however, everything else went fair and free,
like a ship before the wind.

You will find my sister-in-law, Mrs.
Meyrick, most kind. Her mode of life is
very quiet ; but her little cottage is a Home,'
continued Mrs. Melburn, after a pause. Was
it fancy, thought the governess, or did she
detect a tinge of bitterness in that last sentence
? Did there lurk in it an involuntary
comparison between Mrs. Meyrick' s humble
residence and Burrow Hall? If it was so,
surely this poor lady, whatever might be her
faults, was to be pitied. It is not only those
who shiver on our inhospitable doorsteps in
the winter nights who are the homeless.

I don't think there is anything more to
be said,' observed Mrs. Melburn, with a glance
at her counsel.

Certainly not,' said the doctor, decisively
; and as the governess left the room
he waved his hand to her, with a look of
approbation and encouragement.

THE BOY.'

When, an hour or so afterwards, Miss Dart
descended into the drawing-room, she found
the master of the house and the Major attired
for dinner, and Dr. Dalling hat in hand. All
three had the air of being; eno^ag:ed in rave
conversation. She would have retired hastily,
but Mr. Melburn called her back.

AYe are discussing no secrets,' he exclaimed,
in sharp and petulant tones ; ' prey

come in, Miss Dart Then you really

won't stop and dine with us, doctor? '

Thank you, no — not to-day,' was the
quiet reply.

The invitation, or the repetition of it, as
it struck the new-comer, was not very pressing,
and the rejection of it unnecessarily

positive. As the doctor left the room, he
bowed to the governess with stately courtesy,
very different from his style of farewell above-stairs.


By-the-by, I forgot you two have not
been introduced to one another,' said the
Squire.

Nevertheless, I have had the pleasure of
seeing Miss Dart before.'

Just so — I forgot. We had the first
sight of her through the window, had we
not ? ' returned Mr. Melburn, with a forced
laugh.

To the governess this explanation was
unintelligible, but what she well understood
was that the doctor on his part did not wish
to claim further acquaintance with her ; a
circumstance which corroborated her suspicion
that the family at Burrow Hall were divided
into two parties, and that she had already
been enlisted by one of them.

I don't believe half that fellow said,'
observed the Squire, vehemently, as soon as
the door had closed behind the doctor.

It was an observation injudicious indeed
for him to have made before an almost entire
stranger ; but when the master of Burrow
Hall was ' put out,' it was not in his nature
to be reticent. The Major stole a glance,
half horrified, half humorous, at Miss Dart,
as he replied respectfully: 'At all events, Sir,
you have done the right thing. It was impossible,
after the expression of an opinion
so decided, and coming from such a quarter,
for you to have arrived at any other conclusion.'


It's all very well for you to take it so
philosophically,' returned the squire, snappishly
; ' but supposing I was to say, " Well,
I can't go myself, but I will send Jefferson
to take care of you." '

sin that case,' was the dry rejoinder, 'I
think it just possible, Sir, as in the case of
the cheap sherry recommended for the gout,
that Mrs. Melburn would reply: '* Rather
than take that prescription, I prefer to remain
ill, and at home." '

At this moment Mrs. Melburn, leaning

on her daughter's arm, entered the room ;
the Squire stepped forward with outstretched
hand as if to greet some invited guest. ' Is
not this rather rash, considering what the
doctor has been telling me, mv dear?' he

Jd

my

observed, in cold remonstrance.

^ He gave me his permission,' she answered ;
and since it seems my stay at home is to be
so Limited, I could not resist takius: advantage
of it Thank you, I feel no worse.'

The last sentence was addressed to the
Major, in reply to some murmured inquiry
about her health, and was delivered in icy
tones. As she was about to take her seat,
Mr. Winthrop entered. Her presence evidently
took him by surprise ; he cast a
hurried glance of dismay at the Major, met
by an amused smile, and, dropping his glass,
expressed confusedly his pleasure at seeing
his hostess below-stairs.

I had feared,' he said, ' from the accounts
Mr. Melburn gave me, that I was not to see
you during my present visit.'

As I am going away so soon, I could not

bring myself to pass my evenings in separation
from my daughter any more,' lie said.

That is not a very complimentary remark
as regards the rest of us.' observed the
Squire, with frowning brow.

I think, under the circumstances, a very
natural one, my dear ; and as you yourself are
to be the companion of my journey, you have
no cause to complain of it.'

That's one for Winthrop and me, and you.
Miss Dart,' returned the Major, in low tones.
I know no one who can '" put in her left"
more neatly than my excellent stepmother.'

If Mrs. Melburn's air was not aggressive,
it was indeed, for an invalid, decidedly combative.
With her arm still resting on that of
her daughter, she seemed to repel Mr. Winthrop's
polite advances like a hen who shelters
a chicken under its wing.

Come,' she said, as dinner was announced,
I must leave you gentlemen to divide Miss
Dart, and exercise the privilege of an invalid
by choosing my own partner.'

She was on her way to the ding-room

with Miss Mary before Mr. Winthrop could
oppose a word of remonstrance. He bit his
lip and looked exceedingly annoyed ; but the
Squire stepped up to him and, whispering in
his ear something that smoothed his brow,
linked his arm in his and led him briskly
out.

There was nothing for it but for Miss Dart
to take the Major's arm, which he offered in
the most natural way, and without the least
touch of ceremony.

Ours is a genial family, is it not ? ' he
said. ' It is said to be very old, and I have a
theory that it began in the glacial period, and
has never quite got rid of that atmosphere.'

You should not speak of your family like
that to me,' replied the governess, severely ;
it is not right.'

I am so sorry,' he answered, penitently ;
you scold me so often that I seem to be
always forgetting myself. Yet, if you knew
the temptation it is to be natural when one has
found a human being who can really sympathise
with one '

THE BOY 143

^ But I do not sympathise with you,
when '

Pray do not say that,' put in the Major,
pleadingly ; then, with a rapid change of voice,
he added, * Come, there are the long glasses
which mark the presence of the Boy.'

The governess looked puzzled, as well she
might.

I say, Winthrop," he continued, ' here's a
young lady who does not know that " the
Boy " means champagne.'

Impossible ! ' replied that gentleman, with
an air of amazement. ' What do you think of
that, Miss Melburn ? '

I can only say that, until this moment, 1
shared Miss Dart's ignorance,' was the quiet
reply.

^ Good Heavens I ' ejaculated Mr. Winthrop.
There was so considerable a mixture of contempt
in the tone, that the Squire was nettled
on his own account.

^ You town gentlemen must excuse our
country simplicity,' he said ; ' but we are not
in the way of hearing London slang.'

What, Sir ! do you mean to say you didn't
know it ? ' exclaimed Mr. Winthrop, unconscious
of reproof. ' Think of that, Jefferson !
Thank you, no — no sherry ' — to the butler —
when I see champagne, I am a one wine man.
I drink it right through, after dinner and all.'

The Squire groaned.

'What's the matter. Sir?' inquired Mr.
Winthrop, whom the very sight of his
favourite and accustomed liquor seemed to
inspire with eloquence.

I think I felt a twinge of the gout,' replied
his host, apologetically.

Then taste " the Boy "she'll bring it out
for you. Gout carries away everything.'

Thank you, I don't want it to carry me
away,' was the curt rejoinder. The host had
brought up two bottles from his hoarded
store, but in fervent expectation that one
would suffice. Should his guest carry out his
full intentions, it was obvious this expectation
would not be realised if he took any champagne
himself. He was by no means penurious
or inhospitable, but he had been

brought up in an old-fashioned school, and
looked upon champagne as a luxury.

^ It is as good as a play, and I see you are
enjoying it,' murmured the Major to his neighbour.


I really do not know what you mean,' replied
Miss Dart, it must be confessed a little
tenaciously ; for her sense of humour had
compelled her to take in and appreciate the
whole situation.

I suppose Dr. Dalling would veto your
taking ever such a little glass, my dear ? ' observed
the Squire to his wife.

It has no temptation for me,' she
answered quietly.

Ah ! that means it's not iced,' exclaimed
Mr. Winthrop, with an air of conviction. ' I've
noticed that all women — I mean ladies — like
their champagne iced. That's a mistake when
it's really good. Xow, so far as I have gone
with it — for one can seldom pronounce with
certainty upon the first taste — this is very
good champagne, Jefferson.'

I rather think it is,' replied the Squire,

VOL. I. L

drily. ' Though it is not, in my opinion, a
wine to go well with soup and fish.'

My dear Sir, good wine goes well with
everything, only better with some things than
with others. Some say champagne should
never be drunk with the sweets. That's rubbish
: the French always do it, and they ought,
I suppose, to know.'

I hate the French,' exclaimed the Squire,
parenthetically.

So do I,' continued Mr. Winthrop ;
^ they speak such a vile language. Not so
bad as German though. That reminds me,
Mrs. Melburn, that you are going to Germany
in a day or two.' He raised his glass and
looked towards her. ' I hope you will have a
good time.'

As addressed to a person seriously, if not
hopelessly ill, and going abroad for her health,
the aspiration was hardly an appropriate one.
Mrs. Melburn, however, acknowledged it by a
frigid bow.

Miss Mary, will you do me the honour
of taking a glass of champagne with me ? '
inquired the guest.

^ She never takes champagne,' put in the
Squire, hastily. ' She is too much afraid of
our hereditary enemy.'

Mr. Winthrop stared at the speaker through
his eye-glass. ' That's beyond me,' he said :
it sounds like something from the catechism.'


^ Probably the Mohammedan catechism,
which forbids the juice of the grape,' observed
the Major. ' Here's another young lady with
scruples. Mrs. Melburn, pray use your influence
with Miss Dart to induce her to take a
little champagne.'

If you like it, I hope you will take some,'
said the hostess, addressing the governess
with a smile.

But she doesn't know whether she likes
it or not,' explained the Major; 'she has
never tasted such a thing in her life.'

^ Well, I never! ' exclaimed Mr. "Winthrop,
knocking the table with his list. * That would
astonish some of our London friends, would
it not, Jefferson, eh?'

sot more than some of our London

friends sometimes astonish ns,' observed the
Major, sharply. ' Do you intend to make
any stay in Paris, Sir? ' he inquired, turning
to the Squire, ^ on your way to Schwan-
beck? '

I think not. We shall probably go by
Brussels.'

She is not taking any? ' observed Mr.
Winthrop, pointing to Miss Dart's untouched
wine-glass ; ' she has only pretended to take
some.'

You have been to Schwanbeck before,
have you not, Mrs. Melburn? ' inquired the
governess.

Come, I say, Jefferson, keep your legs to
yourself,' exclaimed Mr. Winthrop, in agonised
remonstrance.

The Major went on eating with imperturbably
complacent face. He was saying to
himself, ' I have caught him on the very
place I tried for — the shin.'

Miss Dart rightly guessed what had
happened, and was by no means angry with
the airsfressor. There are certain social outrages

wliicb, like diseases, require desperate
remedies — the actual cautery.

Oh yes ; I know Schwanbeck well,'
returned the hostess, in low tones. ' It is
a beautiful valley, through which a rocky
river runs, and surrounded by wooded hills.'

And a precious dull place too,' observed
the Squire, by way of commentary.

'Yes ; it is very dull,' assented the lady.
It had not seemed dull to her once, when she
had stayed there in comparatively good health
with Mary, and with a husband not hopelessly
estranged ; but now she looked to revisiting
it with melancholy forebodings. As ' a
sorrow's crown of sorrows ' is remembering;
happier things, so there is no place so dispiriting
as one we have known under happier
auspices, and with which, when weak and ill,
and unaccompanied by those who made its
sunshine, we are once more compelled to make
acquaintance. When those associates are dead,
indeed, it affords to some natures a melancholy
pleasure to haunt the spots they once enlivened
with their presence ; but Mrs. Melburn had

not even that poor solace ; she was leaving
the one being she loved — though the time
she had to spend with her on earth must
needs be brief — and going, for her dear sake,
into voluntary exile.

The thoii<2:ht of it made her bruised heart
heavy, and to speak of aught else cost a
painful effort. She was unaware, as yet, of
what was obvious to this male companions,
that Mr. Winthrop was drinking more than
was good for him, and his loquacity only
annoyed her, as in the case of one who in
melancholy mood wanders at noon in some
congenial pine-wood, and is troubled by the
chatter of the jay.

Mary Melburn guessed the feelings that
were agitating her mother's breast ; but sympathy
made her silent — indeed the circumstances
in which she was placed almost
enforced silence upon her ; and Miss Dart
arrived at the truth, or something like it,
by intuition. If her hostess had been alone,
she would have left her to her meditations ;
but as meditation was impossible, she judged

that some topic of interest, such as she had
perceived Schwanbeck to be, would be a relief
to her ; moreover, though she had no experience
of the genus Winthrop, she understood
that it was necessary to make conversation, if
only to keep it out of that gentleman's hands.

She accordingly addressed her hostess on
the subject of the German Drunken, a topic
with which she showed herself so familiar
that Major Melburn presently observed, ' I
suppose it was your modesty, ]\Iiss Dart,
that led us to infer that your knowledge of
the German tongue was acquired in England
? '

One has only to have a cold in one's
head,' put in the Squire, testily, ' to talk like
a native.'

You seem to be of the opinion, Sir, of the
gentleman who said, ^' He spoke all civilised
languages, and also German," ' observed the
Major.

These interpolations saved Miss Dart from
the necessity of acknowledging that she had
never set foot on foreign soil ; to have done

SO, lie felt, Avould have been almost a confession
of deceit, for the truth was, she had
the rare gift of so assimilating what she had
read, that it almost placed her in the same
plane with those who had seen.

I want some more champagne,' observed
Mr. Winthrop, tinkling his dessert-knife
against his wine-glass impatiently. ' You
may say what you like about German — hie —
I mean hock — but there's nothing like "the
Boy," except of course ' — here he cast a
glance of gallantry at Miss Melburn — ' the
other boy, Cupid.'

With a quiet bow to Miss Dart, Mrs.
Melburn rose from table and the ladies trooped
out of the room.

As Miss Dart preceded them through the
hall, she heard a passionate murmur from
Miss Melburn, and the quiet rejoinder of her
mother, ' I am not sorry it has happened,
Mary, since your father can no longer plead
ignorance of his real character.'

In the drawing-room, not a word was said
respecting Mr. Winthrop ; though now and

niE BOY 153

again conversation was involuntarily suspended
when certain sounds were heard —
loud laughter, the fragments of a sono, and
voices raised in cano-er — from the dining-room.
All that had taken place in that apartment,
though so importunate in the thoughts of
each, was ignored by the tongue. Under
such circumstances talk is apt to be hurried
and precipitate ; the first words that come to
the lips are preferable to silence, as when horses
are running away down hill an increase of
speed, with all its attendant risks, is sometimes
less dangerous than to stop. Through these
otherwise untoward circumstances it came to
pass that the governess found her employer
easier to get on with, and less reserved than
had hitherto been the case. Perhaps Mrs.
Melburn had noted how Miss Dart had come
to her rescue on a recent occasion, and was
not unconscious that she was now doing her
best to smooth matters, but at all events her
manner was, by comparison with what it had
been, frank and almost familiar.

Happening to speak with curiosity of a

book which Miss Dart had in her possession,
the governess ran up to her room to procure
it. On her way down, the dining-room door
was flung open, and the sounds of angry
altercation overflowed into the hall. She
paused upon the landing, scarce knowing
whether to retreat or to go on, and, unseen
herself, became an involuntary listener to
what was said.

I tell you that nothing ails me — I am "fit
as a fiddle," ' remonstrated a voice, that, but
for the limited area of possibilities, she might
have failed to identify ; as it must needs be
one of three, however, she recognised in the
owner of those husky and recalcitrant tones
Mr. Winthrop. She seemed even, somehow,
to become aware that he had dropped his eyeglass,
and was feebly fumbling for it.

You do not know what is good for you,'
returned the Major, in half grave, half-bantering
tones. ' As your friend and adviser, I
prescribe bed.'

Never go to bed till small hours ; rule I
make,' was the uncompromising reply. ' Nothing

so good for one as ladies' society after
dinner, brush ois the cobwebs — beeswing I
mean — elevate the mind.'

You're much too elevated already, my
good friend, for ladies' society.'

Not a bit of it. Like a fellow all the
better for high spirits. Seen me in them before
— that is, your mother has — I mean your
half mother, your step-mother, your mother-in-law.'


My sister, however, has not had that
pleasure,' was the dry rejoinder.

Here one of the speakers shifted his position,
and Miss Dart caught slight of the
Major's resolute face as he stepped between
his friend and the drawing-room door. She
shrank into the extreme angle of the landing,
in terror lest he should catch sight of her.

Mr. Winthropmade some rejoinder, which,
save for the two words ' Miss Mary,' did not
reach her ear, and then once more came the
Major's voice, this time much more severe and
even menacing.

There is also another young lady there

sir, who is quite unused to see gentlemen
forget themselves.'

'Pooh, pooh, the governess! Why, you
old fox ' — here there was a sort of smothered
snigger.

Another word, sir' — this in suppressed
tones of intense passion — ' and I will strangle
you outright ! To your kennel, you cur ! '

There was a short strut-oie, a shuffle of
feet upon the tiled floor as of a man pushed
backward by irresistible force, and then a
door closed with a crash. The hall was
empty.

CHAPTER XI.

COMPROMISED.

Miss Dart trembled, but not now with
terror : it was rather with excitement. Experiences
of human life were welcome to her,
and if she felt disgust at what had happened
on one account, it was not unmixed with
something akin to admiration on another.
The display of physical strength when
exerted on the side of morals is always
attractive to the female mind, and this is
certainly not the less the case when its
exercise has any personal application ; she
could not doubt that it was some disrespectful
reference to herself on Mr. Winthrop's
part that had been cut short so summarily.
Under circumstances that might well have
aroused his vehement indignation, the Major

had not forgotten that when the doing-room
door had closed upon the Squire he had succeeded
to his father's place as host ; but when
the other's conduct grew outrageous, he was
surely not to blame for having applied the
only argument — that of force — which could
be made effectual or even intelligible. He
had been patient, firm, and, so far as she
herself was concerned, it might be even said
chivalrous.

She brought down her book, and conversed
upon it with Mrs. Melburn with
tolerable self-possession ; it was certain that
Mr. Winthrop would not put in an appearance,
so that she was under no apprehension
of a scene ; but nevertheless, it was
with some feeling of discomfort that she
awaited the arrival of the two other gentlemen.
Mr. Melburn was the first to appear ;
he came in rubbing his hands in a nervous
fashion, and complaining of the cold ; his
daughter happened to be engaged on some
knitting of the philanthropic sort. ' Busy
as a bee as usual, Mary,' he said, kindly,

*in making honey for others.' It was not
exactly honey, but one cannot expect metaphor
to fit all the way round like a woollen
sock, which, as a matter of fact, was the
article she was engaged upon ; then he took
his usual station on the rug, but in the reverse
position : his face was fixed upon the
fire, in which, when we are thoughtful, so
many of us find attraction ; and his fingers
beat upon the mantelpiece a mechanical and
monotonous tune. After a considerable interval,
the ]\rajor followed, indifferent-eyed,
and looking even more spick and span than
usual. Miss Dart noticed that his white
cravat had been changed. He came up to
where she was sitting with Mrs. Melburn,
and said, ' Poor AYinthrop has gone to roost ;
his day on the downs has tired him out. If
shad won three prizes out of seven I believe
I should have been as fresh as paint ; but I
have never had his luck, so cannot tell what
effect such pleasurable excitement might have
had upon me.' The speech was so obviously
prepared and apologetic that it was almost an

insult to the understanding of those to whom
it was addressed. Without deigning to reply
it, Mrs. Melburn rose at once and joined
her daughter ; the governess remained, but in
silence.

The Major took the book she had been
engaged with out of her hand, and, as though
he where making some remark upon it, observed,
' You do not believe one word I have
been saying.'

I believe you sometimes,' she answered,
quietly. ' When, for instance, you told me
that the air of the downs was intoxicating.'

There is nothing like frankness,' he
answered, grimly. Then in the tone of one
who dismisses an unpleasant subject for a
pleasant one, he added, ' I trust you and
Mary are not going to run away from us
when the Governor and Mrs. Melburn go ? '

Most certainly we are ; how could it be
otherwise?' she answered, stiffly.

Well, at all events, don't be angry with
me. I really see no harm in Mary and you
being left here under her brother's protection.

Then we shall have only two more days
together at Burrow Hall ? '

Xot one ; your sister and I go to Caster-ton
tomorrow.'

To-morrow ! Why is that ? ' he inquired,
sharply.

Well, at all events, to use your own
words, " Don't be angry with me," ' returned
Miss Dart, smiling ; 'it has been so arranged.
I believe, this evening, because Mrs. Melburn
wishes to see us both safely off and out of
the Hall — if you were a housekeeper yourself,
you would understand it — before taking her
own departure.'

A very pretty arrangement,' he observed,

sardonicallv.

%/

I think it is a very natural one,' she
answered, drily.

His manner piqued her ; however annoyed
he might be at recent events, he had no right
to vent his irritation on her.

Perhaps you think it even a pleasant
one ? ' he inquired, gravely.

Well — no ; I have no wish to leave

VOL. I. M

Barrow Hall, nor to go to Casterton : a
governess ought to have no wishes.'

^ You know what is said of a cottage with
a double coach-house ? ' he answered.

^ Yes ; but I do not admit the applications


^ You know, I suppose, that Casterton is
not very far away ; or else I might reasonably
complain, if not of your pride, of your
hard-heartiness, Miss Dart. If you thought
you were never going to see me again, you
would have the common politeness, I hope, to
say, '' I am sorry." '

But I am coming back, as I have every
reason to believe, when Mrs. Melburn comes
back.'

^ But that may be months hence — her return
is quite uncertain — and even when you
do come back I may not be here. A soldier is
not his own master any more than you are

What is it that I ought to say, Major
Melburn? '

Well, you might say, " I hope you will
b^ coming over to see your sister before long."

That does not seem to be stretching politeness
very far.'

^ If you come over to Casterton, we shall,
of course, be glad to see you.'

Why do you say '• we " ? You are not a
royal personage, nor even an editor ; why
can't you say '* I shall be glad " ? '

^ Yery good ; so be it.'

You see, Winthrop and I will be staying
on here for some time, and nothing would be
easier — or, to use your own phrase — more
natural, than that we should come over
together.'

^ I shall not be glad to see Mr. Winthrop,'
answered Miss Dart, decisively.

I did not ask you to be ; that is some one
else's affair, not yours.'

Pardon me, but it is mine. As Miss
Melburn's governess, I shall recommend her
not to receive Mr. Winthrop' s visit.'

The instant she had spoken she perceived
her mistake. In thus disclosing the duty that
had been imposed upon her, she was not only

ji 2

betraying Mrs. Melburn's confidence, but
possibly doing an immense deal of mischief.

'Oh, that's it, is it!' said the Major,
bitterly.

His handsome face, for the first time,
seemed to be set against her ; he looked not
only exceedingly annoyed, but antagonistic.
Supposing he should tell his father the injunction
that had been laid upon her, and that
the Squire should insist upon its being withdrawn,
what trouble might not her rashness
entail upon Mrs. Melburn! what opportunities
of persecution upon Mary! There was nothing
that she would not lia^^e done to make
atonement for her imprudence. But what
could she do?

You must please to remember. Major
Melburn,' she said, pleadingly, ' that what I
have just told you has been said in confidence.'


I did not understand it in that sense,'
he answered, coldly. ' Your communication,
which is of much greater importance than you
are aware of, Miss Dart, takes me by surprise.

I really do not know in what direction my
duty lies ; there are family interests involved
in the matter, and it will be a question for my
father to decide '

I entreat you as a } personal favour,' she
interrupted earnestly, ' to say nothing of this
to Mr. Melburn.'

Jefferson, get the candles,' exclaimed the
Squire, irritably : ' the ladies are going upstairs.'


Mrs. Melburn, indeed, had risen with that
intention, and was only waiting for ]\[iss
Dart's attention to be disengaged ; her conversation
with the Major had been so engrossing
that this had escaped her notice ; no
doubt they were all wondering what she could
have to say to him of such apparent moment —
a reflection in itself discomfiting, but which
faded into insignificance beside the trouble
that was hanging over her. If the Major
should carry out his purpose of speaking to
the Squire, it was only too probable that that
very night would witness some catastrophe.
There was not even time to renew her appeal

to his good feeling, or rather, as it seemed to
her, to entreat his mercy.

It was therefore with an exquisite sense of
relief that she heard these words whispered ina
flash as he handed her her flat candlestick
' Leave your book here and come downstairs
after it presently.'

As he held out his hand, she could not
resist giving it a little squeeze of gratitude.
He had not indeed promised to obey her
request, but it was hardly to be imagined that,
having thus offered her the opportunity of
renewing it, he could ultimately decline it.
Nothing so bad as that, thought the governess,
recollecting her historical studies, had
happened since Monmouth pleaded for his life
with the second James.

So urgent was the occasion, and so important
its claim, that not until the ladies had
said good-night to her, and she found herself
alone in her own apartment, was there room
in her mind for other considerations. For
the first time, she then reflected that to have
made an appointment with her employer's

son in the drawing-room, after the rest of
the family had retired, was scarcely a proper
thing for a young lady in her position to have
done. As she stood at her half-opened door
waiting for the voices in the hall, which
would be the signal of the Squire's withdrawal
to the smoking-room, she could not
help calling to mind a saying of her aunt
lighter when conversing with her about her
future.

My dear, you will never make a governess
; you are too impulsive, and have too
proud a spirit of your own. Though diffident
of your talents, you are not sufficiently impressed
by the influences of wealth and rank ;
you have, in a word, too much of human
nature about you.'

That is just wdiy I cannot stand remaining;
at our "Ladies' CoUeo-e," ' she had
answered, laughingly ; ' even with the possibility
of becoming, at three score years and
ten or so, its Principal. Things are too 
and conventional for me there ; 1
want to breathe free air.'

^ That can't be done by a governess in a
genteel family, my dear ; or, at all events, by
yon,' was the quiet reply. ' You always
said, when you were thought to be delicate,
that a respirator seemed to suffocate you.'

And now she began to feel that Aunt
Jane had been rio^ht ; and that she was not
fitted for her calling. It was true, that as to
her present trouble she was, to a great extent,
the victim of circumstances ; though a little
more prudence would have kept her out of it.
But she could not conceal from herself that
what she was about to do, however necessitated
by her duty to others, was itself a rash,
proceeding, and one very open to misconception.
Nevertheless, she had a strong sense
of justice ; and since she had imperilled her
pupil's happiness by her own folly — for her
opinion of Mr. Winthrop was by this time no
higher than that which was obviously entertained
by Mrs. Melburn of him, and if what
she had called his persecution of Mary at
Casterton should be permitted, there was no
knowing' how it would end — she admitted to

herself it was very right that she should be
punished for it.

With a beatific but resolute heart, she
therefore heard the Squire depart, as usual, to
that sanctuary where, under the influence of
the kindly weed, men forget even their mortgages,
and, candle in hand, ran softly down
to the drawing-room to fetch her book.

The Major was waiting for her, and with,
a grave smile upon his face took her reluctant
hand and held it in his own. She did not dare
to anger him by withdrawing it, but met his
eager eyes with a steadfast look which seemed
(if such a thing were possible m one so self-possessed)
to slightly disconcert him ; he had
probably expected that she would have looked
down.

And so, Miss Dart,' were his first words,
^ you have taken the shilling ? '

*I do not understand yon, Major Mel-burn.'


What, again ? ' he answered, gently.
'It seems that I am never to make myself
intelligible to you. I mean, of course, that

you have enlisted — joined the camp of the
enemy.'

What enemy ? '

Come, come, I cannot believe, Miss Dart,
that with your intelligence you have not discovered
for yourself how matters stand in this
house. Do you mean to tell me that you
don't see, for one thing, that my step-mother
hates me like poison, and that Miss Mary
shares her views ? It is probable, indeed,' he
continued, cynically, ' that they have been
communicated to you by word of mouth
already.'

^ Indeed, indeed, they have not,' she
answered, earnestly. ^ How could it have
been so ? It would have been as indecorous
of your people to speak against you to meas
it would have been painful to me to listen.
It would have been ungrateful in me, too,' she
added, after a moment's hesitation.

You are grateful for very small things.
Miss Dart.'

Consideration and kindness to one in
my position are not small things.' She spoke

with genuine feeling ; but perhaps she would
not have expressed herself so warmly but for
the urgency of the occasion.

I am happy indeed,' he said, ' if I have
been the means of making you feel more at
home in this most uncomfortable house.
There are circumstances into which there is
no need to enter which, as I have hinted,
make an engagement between Winthrop and
my sister very desirable. They do not affect
me, of course, but my father. When you
told me to-night what were your sailing orders
from Mrs. Melburn '

They were sealed ones,' she put in,
promptly. ' It was a dereliction of duty to
reveal them. On the other hand, I thought
I was safe with you — that is '

Do not amend the phrase,' he interrupted,
earnestly. ' You are always safe with me.
For the moment, it struck me that it would
be a dereliction of my duty not to inform my
father of Mrs. Melburn' s plan to thwart his
wishes ; but I find I am not so dutiful as I
thought I was. There are other considerations.

For one thing, I would not be the
cause of getting you into trouble for twenty
Winthrop.'

You are very kind murmured Miss
Dart.

There can be no hard-and-fast lines laid
down for one's conduct in these matters,'
he continued. ' Both you and I must be
governed by circumstances ; the attentions
of this young gentleman, for example, it is
obvious, must not be encouraged.'

^ Pardon me, they must not be tolerated.
Major Melburn,' interrupted the governess,
firmly. ' Whatever influence I may possess,
let me say, once for all, will be used to exclude
them.'

You have plenty of pluck, I must say,'
exclaimed the Major, admiringly ; ' but this
is a very one-sided arrangement. My scruples,
it seems, are to be ignored, while yours are to
be respected. How very like a woman ! '

I have the weaknesses of my sex, no
doubt,' she answered. ' I acknowledge that
you have reason in what you Say. Unhappily,

it is not in my power — as it lies in yours — to
be generous in this particular case.'

My conduct, in short, like the second
pig in the show, is " highly commended," but
not to be rewarded.'

I have, unfortunately, no reward to '

Nay, but you have, indeed,' interrupted
the Major, eagerly. ' May I tell you what
it is ? '

He was gazing fixedly into her eyes, but
she did not dare withdraw them. It was
somehow borne in upon her that it was
necessary to meet his gaze with one as firm ;
and, though her heart beat fast, and her limbs
trembled under her, she did so. To show the
least alarm at what he was about to say, she
felt, would be fraught with danger, though
she scarce knew of what.

You have just told me,' he said, with
earnest gentleness, but with a rapid change
of expression in his face which did not escape
her, and which somehow suggested that he

CO

had at first intended to say something else,
that you cannot be generous to me ; I do

not ask for generosity, but if I have really
laid you under any obligation, as you seem to
think, I ask you in return for justice. Will
you do me justice ? '

^ Indeed I will, if you will tell me how ? '

The opportunity has not, as you have just
reminded me, yet occurred ; but it will occur.
You will hear me ill-spoken of, maligned, traduced
; my conduct to others, my conduct even
to yourself, will be distorted and made to appear
the very contrary of what it has been ; I shall
be presented to you en silhouette, all black,
and you will be required to recognise the
portrait. Now, Heaven knows that I am no
whiter than other men ; but I ask you to
believe that I have my white points — that I
am, at worst, like Farmer Jones's horse we
admired so to-day — piebald,'

I will think of you as piebald, and
admire you as much as I can,' said Miss Dart,
smiling. It was not at all a laughing matter,
as she well knew ; but there are occasions
even of great moment when it is well to smile.

^ Above all things,' he continued, without

noticing the lightness of her rejoinder, the
cause of which indeed he probably well
understood, ' I would ask ^^ou, when you are
so good as to waste a thought on me, to use
your own judgment and not that of other
people ; and when inclined to blame, make
allowance for me as the judge did for the poor
dogs we saw upon the downs to-day. Do
this, and we shall be quits.'

^ I will certainly do that,' said Miss Dart,
earnestly.

^ Good-night, good-night.' He pushed open
the drawing-room door, which had not been
closed during their interview, and held up his
finger for silence.

It was a gesture she did not like, for
it suggested something clandestine, yet she
could hardly take notice of it. He remained
in the hall, watching her as she went upstairs,
and, as she turned the last corner,
waved his hand and smiled. At the same
moment she heard a door close in the neighbourhood
of Mrs. Melburn's room. She felt
the colour burn m her cheek as she hurried

to her own apartment. Innocent of harm,
she was not indifferent to the imputation of
it. There was certainly nothing wrong in
her having gone downstairs to fetch her
book ; though, unfortunately, she had forgotten
to bring it back with her. But the
expedition, she could not conceal from herself,
had had its danger. It was curious,
in one of her keen intelligence, that it did
not strike her that Major Melburn was to
blame for having necessitated such a step on
her part ; but if some slight sense of grievance
against him flashed for an instant through her
mind, she forgot it and forgave him.

CHAPTER :^II.

THE JOURNEY.

Somewhat to Miss Dart's surprise, though
she had began to understand already the
strength of will that dwelt in her hostess's
frail body, Mrs. Melburn made her appearance
next morning at the breakfast-table. If
she did so, as was probable, with the same
devoted courage which the hen exhibits when
her chick is threatened with the foe, to defend
her daughter from those attentions which,
thanks to her maternal precaution, Mr.
"Winthrop would have no other opportunity
of paying for months to come, her apprehensions
were groundless ; for Mr. Winthrop
was not present. He was never an early
riser, and perhaps his head ached. A man
may have all the good will in the world

VOL. I. N

towards champagne, without that miscalled
grateful ' wine reciprocating his attachment :
just as in that much-recommended process of
hardening a delicate child you may happen to
lose him, so in that of seasoning the brain to
a favourite liquor you may fail in your object
and come to considerable grief. The fact
was, that through too much indulgence in
liquor, Mr. Winthrop's nerves were not what
they had been. The circumstance was much
regretted ' in the county,' as in the case of a
young gentleman of family and position, who
had been pricked for High Sheriff, it was only
proper that it should be. It was all the more
necessary, as Mr. Melburn gravely argued,
that he should be taken by the hand while
there was yet time and room for amendment,
and exposed to good influences ; and what
better method could be desired of keeping
such a nature straight than that of a suitable
and well-chosen marriage? The Squire had
so often expressed this view, and in such
appropriate and even eloquent terms, that, in
encouraging his young friend's attentions to

his daughter, he believed himself to be less
aggrandising his family than performing a
public duty. "What his son, the Major,
thought of it — who had had better opportunities
than his parent of observing Mr.
Winthrop's character — he was not called upon
to say ; and, as was usual with him under
such circumstances, he maintained a judicious
silence.

Soon after breakfast, at which the mistress
of the house scarce uttered a word, the
travelling-carriage came round to the door
which was to convey the young ladies by road
to Casterton. Miss Dart had been summoned
to Mrs. Melburn's room for a word of farewell,
and it was literally a word. She had
found Mary utterly overcome with grief — as
deed was natural, after such a parting as
must have taken place — and her mother, white
as a lily trembling on its stalk, but tearless.

Remember,' she said, with touching
pathos, *my only child is in your hands.'

Then with a sudden impulse she drew the
governess towards her and kissed her forehead.

Though affected by this painful scene,
and deeply penetrated with the sense of
responsibility thus imposed upon her, Miss
Dart did not feel herself so drawn towards
her employer as might have been expected.
This personal demonstration had nothing
caressing in it ; it was more like the sealing
of the contract than an impulse of the
emotions ; and in the pained and anxious slice
of the invalid there was less of faith than
hope. With some murmured but earnest
words expressive of her acceptance of the
trust that had been placed in her, the governess
took her leave. In the hall stood the
Squire, with troubled and abstracted looks.
I hope you will have a pleasant drive. Miss
Dart, and — um — enjoy yourself

She passed on, that he might have his
good-bye in private with Mary, who was
following her. At the door stood the Major,
with an extended hand, but maintaining a
somewhat embarrassing silence. ' We leave
you in the sunshine,' she said, with reference
to the morning, which was bright with all
the promise of spring.

It goes when you go he answered in his
gentlest tone. ' I hope that the will which
shuts out Winthrop from Casterton has not
had a codicil added since yesterday that
excludes me also.'

How could it possibly be so ? ' she
answered, with amazement.

He shrugged his shoulders. ' At all
events, I am grateful that it is not. Well,
Exile is better than Death ; it is not '' Goodbye,"
but only " Au revoir." '

There was a strange mixture, or so it
seemed to the ear which it addressed, of jest
and earnest in his voice.

He assisted Mii^s Dart into the carriage,
and, as Mary came quickly out into the porch,
stood beside the step and performed the like
office for his sister. But without so much as
touching his hand or casting; a fiance in his
direction, she sprang into the vehicle, and ina
broken tone bade the coachman drive on.
Her veil was drawn down in such a manner
that her face was invisible, but it was easy to
be seen that she was deeply moved. Her
companion pitied her from the bottom of her

heart, but she also thought that somewhat
hard measure had been dealt to the Major, to
whom, at all events, none of his sister's woes
were owing. That stranger within our gates,
the governess, regards matters that go on
amongst ns from an independent and unprejudiced
point of view. However unenviable
may be her lot in other respects, she remains
comparatively unaffected by the convulsions
which shake the pillars of domestic
peace.

Miss Elizabeth Dart, for example, sympathetic
and tender-hearted though she Alas,
could not be expected to feel that departure
from Burrow Hall as her companion did, who
was parting from her mother under such sad
circumstances. This was a distinct advantage
to Mary, since she was not encouraged to
dwell upon her own morbid thoughts. It
was, indeed, a lesson to her not without its
effect, to note the cheerfulness and vitality of
her young friend who, dowered with so few of
Fortune's gifts, seemed to find enjoyment or
interest in everything about her. The fresh

air, the simsliine, the very motion of the carriage
over the springy turf, gave her a keen
sense of pleasure ; the desolate widespreading
downs, with here and there a lire clump, or a
pond for the sheep to drink at. had a charm
for her stir beyond that of novelty. If her
happiness had any other source, it was hidden
even from herself. She experienced, not
indeed *the wild joys of living,' but the exquisite
appreciation of mere existence, as she
had never done before — not the unconscious
delight of a healthy child, but the intelligent
gratification of a lover of Nature.

You have not lived much out of doors, I
suppose ? ' said Mary, smiling at one of these
simple bird-notes of admiration.

• Oh, no ; at least, never in a wild free
country like this.'

^ But you would not like to live in it — in
that farmhouse, for instance, in the bottom
yonder ; five miles from everywhere and with
not a book in the house, I'll answer for it,
newer than " PiWim's Procuress " ? '

^ Oh, no, no, no ! ' she answered, vehemently.

' I like the society of my fellow-creatures,
even when I do not like the people
themselves. I was not unhappy even at Miss
Maigre's.'

Who was Miss Maigre ? '

She kept the school where I was pupils
before I went to the college. It was
a very genteel establishment, with such rules
and regulations as never were heard of. '' Not
to speak more than is absolutely necessary to
a servant" was one of them. What a humane
provision, what a charming device for promoting
Christian sentiments, was it not ? '

^ I suppose it was to prevent the young
ladies gossiping.'

Not at all ; it was to keep them select.
Not to kiss the governesses " was another
regulation. The girls were never to forget
that they were porcelain and other people mere
earthenware.'

That would have made me very angry, if
I had been a governess,' said Mary. ' I can
hardly believe it possible. Let us hope it was
to discourage the habit of kissing.'

^ Xo. Miss Maigre ignored the very idea
of that as an offence. There was, indeed, no
punishment for it, just as there was no penalty
for parricide in the Laws of Solon. The only
thing in the regulations which so much as
hinted at it was the very last one, which closed
the whole code Maigre, as it were, with a
snap. " Xot even to look at a boys' school." '

How that would delight Dr. Dallmg I '
remarked Mary, laughing. ' What he com-plans
of in us women, in whose cause, to do
him justice, he is otherwise always ready todo
battle, is that we have no humour ; if we
had, he maintains that life would be much
easier for us.'

I think Dr. Dalling is right ; at least,
though I don't know whether I have the gift
of humour or not, I have often had the rough
places made smooth for me by recognising
their ridiculous side. Indeed,' she added,
gravely, ' one is sometimes tempted to think
that Fate itself is a humorist.'

One hears of the irony of Fate,' observed
Mary.

I don't mean exactly that,' said Miss
Dart, gently. ' The idea I wished to convey
is, after all, perhaps a painful one. There is
doubtless a certain austerity about the ways of
Providence, let Renan say what he will.'

^ Renan ? Do you read Renan? ' inquired
Mary, with a look of surprise.

^ I don't read him, but I have read him.'
He is Jefferson's favourite author.'
Indeed,' returned Miss Dart, with indifference,
or with what she flattered herself had
the appearance of indifference. There had
been something in the other's tone, or perhaps
it was only the unexpected mention of the
Major's name, which brought the colour to
her cheeks. ' It is a strange taste for a soldier.
You would say the same, perhaps, of a governess,'
she continued, after a pause. ^ I do not
feel called upon to defend Renan or even
myself; but I have read many things which
you will have no need to read. The library,
which is to such as you a mere pleasure-ground,
is to me the armoury from which I
reach down the bow and spear by aid of which

I live. Without much reading, and that of all
kinds, how, with my limited horizon, could I
become acquainted with human life ? Moreover,
books are not only my teachers but my
friends. You have never known — I hope you
will never know — that sense of isolation which
compels one to seek companionship in print
and paper because that of flesh and blood is
denied us.'

The governess spoke with a deep pathos,
that touched the other.

Your lot has been a hard one ; forgive
me for recalling; it to your recollection.'

^ It occurs to me now and then without
reminder,' was the bitter reply. Then, in
gentler tones, she added, ' I have nothing to
forgive you for, my dear Miss Melburn.'

If you would have me believe you, please
to call me Mary.'

You are very kind ; I must be no longer
Miss Dart to you, then ; my name, Elizabeth,
is a somewhat uncouth one, but the person
who loves me always calls me Lizzie.'

The person ? '

Yes ; my Aunt Jane. She thinks a
great deal of me, I do assure yon ; and does
her best in the way of devotion to make up
for the absence of those troops of friends who
form the bodyguard of the more prosperous.'

There was a long silence. Was Miss
Mel burn meditating, thought the governess,
on her companion's unfortunate condition, of
which it pained her to speak further ; or
having, in a moment of impulse, made advances
of friendship, did she regret them or, at all
events, consider that she had done enough to
encourage confidence ?

Such a reflection was caused neither by
egotism nor self-consciousness ; it was Miss
Dart's way to thread the labyrinth of the
mind of others, and track a motive through
the maze A harmless vivisectionist, she was
attracted by these studies of the beating heart, ^
which, if as yet they had profited her nothing,
had certainly added interest to a life devoid
of ordinary excitements.

They had now arrived at the sunlit of a
great plateau which, however, still stretched

before them, obscuring what was beyond.
Fifty yards away from the green track they
were pursuing was a little eminence, devoid
of its usual fir-crown, and Mary proposed that
while the horses rested for a few minutes they
should visit it.

AVe are still some distance from our
journey's end, Lizzie, but from Downing's
Xob yonder you will see your future home.'

And what is Downing's Xob? ' inquired
Miss Dart, as they moved swiftly over the
elastic turf to the spot in question — a bare
green mound with excavations on it which
time had almost healed.

It is a barrow it is supposed, but if it
has anything to do with Farmer Downing,
which — not being a wheelbarrow — is improbable,
it must be connected with some ancestor
exceedingly remote. Some say it is Dane's
Xob ; but though they have dug it half away
no one has discovered whose nob it is.'

What did they find in it? How I should
like to have been at the exploration I ' exclaimed
Miss Dart, enthusiastically.

^ You would like to be everywhere and
at everything, I do believe,' exclaimed Mary,
laughing. ' They only found some bones and
what the archaeologists call implements, which
it is very difficult for unlearned persons to
identify with anything particular. Xow, here's
a view for you ! '

The sea ! ' cried Miss Dart, in a transport.


Well, of course it is.'

^ I have not seen the sea for years,' answered
the other, in hushed tones. * How
grand it is ! '

She stood drinking in the scene before her
with measureless content. It was really a
remarkable spectacle. The downs came to an
end abruptly, and looked down like a terrace
on a garden, on an immense tract of low, fiat
land, which seemed to grow higher as it arrived
at its boundary — the ocean. This tract had
no fences of any kind, but was intersected
with rivulets ; there were a few farms on it,
but not so many farms as old square-towered
churches.

That is Casterton Marli,' explained
Mary. ' The Romans banked out the sea
from it, to the great surprise of the Britons,
who thought it labour lost. If it were not for
the dyke, the whole district would be underwater.'


But the people? — there seems to be no
population.'

^ It is very thinly peopled ; the air, as its
neighbours say (who do not live there), is badin
winter, worse in summer, and only fit for
cattle, which feed on the marsh in great
numbers.'

^ But the cattle don't go to church. Why
are there so many churches ? '

^ That has puzzled wiser heads than ours
I beg your pardon, I mean mine,' said Mar',
smiling. 'After the Romans left, the dykes
were kept up by the Archbishops of Canterbury
; and their Graces, it is supposed, caused
churches to be built in excess of the population.
They are all very old, and some of them,
I am sorry to say, falling into decay. The
same thing is to be seen on Romney Marsh.'

That was the Smugglers' Colony, and
where the conspirators landed who were to
assassinate William III., was it not?' observed
the governess, with great interest.

I dare say it was ; I wish I knew as much
as you do about things,' said Mary, simply.
^ Well, at Rye and Winchester the sea has
retreated, leaving them, as it were, stranded ;
but at Casterton it has not quite deserted us.
We are still a port, though it must be confessed
but little patronised ; we are contemptuously
spoken of as getting shallower and shallower
every day.'

Never mind,' said Miss Dart, roguishly ;
'that often happens even inland.'

We done mind, Miss. AYe are very well
satisfied with ourselves, I do assure you. And
are we not picturesque ? Observe, that while
that great SAveep of down constitutes for the
most part only a terrace standing on a marsh,
the portion of it above Casterton is still a cliff,
as the rest of it once was. And look at our
grey little town yonder, with his dear tumbledown
old castle, its ancient church, built on a

rock, as it should be, and its magnificent

iiiii;

It is magnificent, indeed ; but it is surely
not an ordinary hill. It looks to me something
artificial — like this very nob, for instance, only
twenty times bigger.'

Mary clapped her hands together and
uttered a little shout of gratification.

AVhat? Does it really strike you so, even
at this distance? How delighted Roo-er
Leyden will be when he comes to hear about
it ; that is the great test of intelligence with
him — whether people think Battle Hill was
raised by human hands or not. It must have
taken a good many hands, and I am afraid
you will find yourself in but a small minority
upon the subject. A new recruit will, however,
be only hailed with the more rapture.'

'Battle Hill, you call it?' said Miss Dart,
thoughtfully. There was an attraction for her
in the object in question for which she could
not account ; it almost seemed to her that she
had seen it before ; though, if it was so, it
could only have been in dreams.

VOL. I. o

Was there, then, a battle fought there? '

It is said so ; others, again, maintain it
to be Beacon Hill. Mr. Jones, our Rector,
insists upon it that it was called Bacon Hill,
because of its having at one time produced
beach nuts, which the swine fed upon. Roger
Leyden and he are hardly upon speaking terms
in consequence.'

They rejoined the carriage, which pursued
a level track for miles, with only a low expanse
of down on either hand ; but Battle Hill was
persistently before the rental eyes of the
governess.

Even when at last they reached the devious
road which led down to the plain, and
Casterton in all its old-world glories lay before
them, the aspect of that curious hill still
monopolised her attention. She could not
account for the interest it had excited in her in
any way. The case was similar to that not
uncommon one where a girl sees a man's face
for the first time, and something whispers to
her ' That is your fate ' ; only this was a hill
and not a person. ' Perhaps I shall be murdered

there and buried there she said to
herself ; for, amongst her many thoughts. Miss
Dart had grim ones ; ' and therefore fated to
haunt the place for a few hundred years or so.
Then, but not till then, I may get a little tired
of Battle Hi;

O 2

CHAPTER XIII.

AT THE LOOK-OUT.

The carriage descended the long decline, every
turn of which brought into view some new
and picturesque feature of the little town — the
ruined castle, the high towered church (once
a sanctuary, Mary told her companion, for
any one who had committed crime and fled
there), the grey gabled houses, the short but
massive jetty, with its red sailed ships : but
Battle Hill, topped with fir-trees, all leaning
inland, like a gigantic helmet with wind-swept
feathers, stood up black against the sun, and
dominated all.

Presently they passed over a causeway,
with the water lapping both its sides, and even
the road itself; for it was high tide, and a
fresh breeze was blowing.

How delicious is the smell of the sea ! '
murmured Miss Dart in an ecstasy.

^ So say 1/ said Mary. ' Dr. Dalling
declares it comes from all sorts of dreadful
things : but so do the best scents sold in
Bond street. For my part, when I go to a
seaside place that has not got it, I feel the
same lack and sense of disappointment as when
I take up a dog-violet, which has no smell.
Now, is not Casterton a charming old place,
Lizzie ? ^

^ It is a poem. It must be a privilege to
live in it.'

How glad Mat Avill be when I tell him
that. I am sure mamma need not have been
afraid you would find it dull.'

I don't think Mrs. Melburn quite understands
me,' said Miss Dart, quietly. It was
the first protest she had made against what
she felt had been an injustice. Mary flushed
but answered nothing. Her pained, embarrassed
look, and her silence, afforded ample
corroboration of the other's suspicions.

^ I hope you will understand me, Mary,'

she went on, gravely. ' I am not afraid of
being understood.'

I am quite sure of that,' returned Mary,
earnestly. ^ If I do not understand you just
at first, you must not mind that, since, in the
meantime, I have learnt to like you, Lizzie.'

The tears rushed to Miss Dart's eyes.

How good you are to me ! ' she said.

There was no embrace between them, as
would have happened in the case of most
girls, under similar circumstances. Perhaps
Mary had been induced to say a little more
than she had intended. At all events, she
seemed to think that she had said enough.

Now we are going to have a little shaking,'
she remarked, as the carriage rumbled over
the little round stones with which Casterton
street (for it had but one) was paved. The
o^rass o:rew between these stones ; there was
no traffic ; nor, indeed, did they meet with
any vehicle until the horses stopped at Mrs.
Mey rick's door. The house was of modest
size and ancient date. Above the door, and
even on the woodwork of the lower windows,

were carved fruit and flowers ; the low roof
projected a foot or two, and threw its shadow
on the pavement. Miss Dart had seen such
a house in drawing-books (Ms), at Miss
Maigre's, but never before in reality.

It must be very old , is it not ? ' she
inquired as they waited for the summons of
the bell to be answered.

'' Old " is a comparative term in Caster-ton.
It is two hundred years old, perhaps
what Koger Leyden calls '' a mushroom
house." '

The door opened, and, instead of letting
light into the house, seemed to emit it into
the dark and narrow street. At the end of
the passage, and immediately fronting them,
was a lahore window, through which the sun
streamed ; the countless smiles of the sunlit
sea could be seen through it. A statuette
and two busts of marble added their white
brightness. Thouoii smalL the house was
not in the least like the cottage home which
Miss Dart had been led to expect from Mrs.
Melburn's description of it, and still less from

its own appearance from without. The front
of it was in harmony with its neighbour
dwellings : the windows were full of little
lozenge-shaped panes, and opened on hinges ;
a picturesque gloom pervaded it. At the back
all was modern, the windows in sashes of
single panes admitted light into every cranny.
A couple of centuries seemed to have elapsed
between the front door, and that which opened
on the garden in the rear. In the drawing-room
into which the two girls were ushered
by the neat little serving maid, with whom
Mary had shaken hands as with an old friend,
and greeted with an ' How are you, Janet ? ' the
furniture was comfortable even to luxury, but
less quaint than even the fashion of the day
approved. The oak panelling alone reminded
one of any connection with the past. Here,
too, on pedestals, on either side of the fireplace,
were figures in marble.

I had forgotten to tell you,' whispered
Mary, noticing her companion's surprise at
this excess of statuary, ' that Uncle Meyrick
Meas a sculptor.'

Miss Dart nodded an ' Indeed ' ; she was
too interested in things around her to give
attention to any particular matter. The
contrast the bright little room afforded to the
grand drawing-room at Burrow Hall was very-great,
but especially in its outlook.

There was but a strip of pleasure-ground
between the house and the sea, on which,
however, it looked down from a considerable
height ; but on the ris^ht hand the garden
broadened and afforded space for some erection
formed of glass, which nevertheless did not
look like a conservatory.

My mistress has stepped out,' said the
maid, ' not expecting you to arrive so early,
but you will find Mr. Matthew in the pavilion.'
With that she threw up the window, beneath
which was a short flight of steps, as though
the acceptance of her suggestion was a matter
of course.

A bright expectant look came into Mary
Melburn's eyes and a flush of pleasure into her
cheeks ; nevertheless, she hesitated.

^ Perhaps, Lizzie, you would like me to

show you your room first, and to take off your
wraps ? '

Not at all ; go and see your cousin by all
means, I will wait here with the greatest of
pleasure.'

Wait here ? Why should you wait ? '
The speaker's cheek grew crimson.

It was only that I understood that Mr.
Meyrick was an invalid, and perhaps the presence
of a stranger '

Hush, hush,' interrupted Mary, earnestly ;
^ he does not like to be considered an invalid,
nor indeed is he one in the sense that you
imagine. Though he gets no better, he grows
no worse, and perhaps in time '

Here she suddenly broke off and turned her
face to the sea. Whatever were her thoughts,
it is certain they were deep and tender. It is
to the ocean when we are upon its shore that
we naturally turn our eyes in thought ; even
the boundless blue of the skies, though it
speaks a similar language to the soul, affords
less encouragement to reflection : the eternity
of which it is the symbol does not appeal to

US SO personally, its depths are out of our
sphere.

Hullo ! Why, Mary I '

The words, which were musical and full of
surprise and joy, came from the pavilion, at
the door of which stood a young man, shading
his eyes from the sun with his right hand, and
with the other grasping the door-post.

We are coming. Mat, we are comme ! '
cried Mary, as if apprehensive that he would
make some effort to meet them, and at the
same time moving rapidly towards him. Miss
Dart followed at a slower pace. To her eyes
the young man presented the appearance of
some spiritual picture set in a humble frame
the doorway. He was tall and slight,
and, save for that supporting hand, his figure
and attitude suggested no infirmity. His
face, which was extremely beautiful, was not
deficient in colour, or perhaps the occasion
supplied it ; but the features were delicate as
those of a woman, and the curved lips, though
smiling, were pressed together mechanically,
as is the case with those who suffer fi'om

habitual pain. His complexion was very dark,
and his hair of that glossy blackness which is
more often seen in natives of Spain and Italy
than in those of our own even sunniest south.
His eyes were large and liquid, and full of
expression.

^ Why, you are even better than your word,
Mary,' he exclaimed, as he took his cousin's
hand and welcomed her with effusion. ^ You
come to-day instead of tomorrow, and earlier
to-day than we could have hoped for.'

Mamma thought it more convenient,'
stammered Mary, ' since she was leaving home.
This is my friend. Miss Dart.'

We are very pleased to see you. Miss
Dart. My mother ought to be here to bid you
welcome But pray step into my little den.'

He motioned that she should precede him,
and was about to make his way, after the
fashion of lame folks, by help of table and
chair to a couch with pillows, that stood in
one corner of the apartment, Ashen Mary interposed
her arm. ' Here is your crutch. Mat ;
you are surely not grown too proud to use it ? '

His dark sensitive fa^.e took the hue of
the pomegranate ; it evidently pained him to
exhibit his dependence before a stranger.

You must consider Lizzie, here, once for
all, as one of the family,' said ]Mary, gently,
translating: his look. It was a touching sicfht
to see her lead him to his place — the should-be
weak assisting the should-be strong ; both so
young, but one so young in vain, since health
and strength were denied him. If Miss Dart
had not already suspected the love they bore
one another it would have been impossible to
doubt it as she looked at them. It was a
spectacle not easily forgotten. The scene itself,
too, was striking enough to impress a much
less vivid imagination than that with which
she was gifted.

The pavilion, as it was called, was a large
room, built entirely of glass, but with a fireplace
and shutters and curtains, so as to be
available for Winter use. It commanded a
noble prospect, the sea, the harbour, and the
most picturesque part of the old town, including;
the ruined castle. Whatever less agreeable

objects presented themselves were shut out
from the view by painted windows, which
threw their light so lavishly upon the floor
that the India matting with which it was
covered resembled a gorgeous carpet. What
most attracted Miss Dart's attention, however,
were the books, which always act as a
magnet to the eye that loves them, in the
palace or the hut, in camp or cabin, however
strange be the surroundings ; it is on them
that it naturally settles, as the bee on the
flower. There was no great choice of volumes
in the pavilion ; but what were there Miss
Dart recognised at once as her favourite reading
— the poets. They were neither in shelves
nor slides, but were strewn about in profusion
on tables and chairs, and floor, and on the
writing-desk drawn up to the sofa on which,
as if exhausted with his recent exertion, the
young man lay at length. It might well have
seemed to Elizabeth Dart that to live in that
fairy bower, with its environments, even under
such conditions as were imposed on its proprietor,
would have been preferable to her own

position, with its common gifts of health and
vigour. Was it a hopeless yearning in Matthew
Meyrick's face, or a yearning all but equally
hopeless in her own secret heart, that forbade
the exchange ? The idea did but cross her
mind and was dismissed.

Roger has not been here to-day, Mat
observed Mary, presently.

What tells you that ? '

Something that does not speak to the
ear. I don't smell his tobacco smoke.'

But it so happens I have been smoking
myself.'

I know that, too,' she answered, smiling.
Whereupon they smiled at one another with
tender significance. There are some poor
creatures, mere dabblers in the art of love,
who would have turned this into ridicule ; but
Miss Dart understood it thoroughly. If the
step of the man one loves, or his voice, is discernible
from that of another, why should not
his tobacco smoke be equally recognisable ?

The two 3'oung people were very far from
excluding Miss Dart from their conversation.

Her young host, indeed, was most pleasant
and genial ; nevertheless, she felt that they
had matters to talk about that had to be
postponed till they were alone together.
It was, therefore, rather a relief to her when
Mary suddenly exclaimed, ' There is Aunt
Louisa

The mistress of the house was a lady of
formidable proportions, and as she stood on
the top of the steps that led down from the
parlour, they afforded a pedestal for their full
display. It almost seemed that a new statue
of life-size, and a little over, had been added
to the already numerous Meyrick collection.
Though so stately of form, the expression of
her face was gentle even to shyness. She
was handsome as her brother, the Squire, and
very like him ; but it was a likeness of mere
kinship, which (like its loving) is often of a
mere mechanical kind. They had the same
strongly marked features, the same aristocratic
air, the same coloured eyes, even ; but her voice
and manner were her own. Where he was
patronising, she was kindly ; but there was

something in her hesitating air which suggested
weakness.

Her welcome, like her son's, was cordial ;
but the manner was less natural. It seemed
that while performing the duties of hospitality,
which she did with true womanly grace, her
mind was occupied with other and less agreeable
matters.

At luncheon, which, though served with
elegance, was of the simplest kind. Miss Dart
noticed that wine-glasses were set before herself
and Mary only, till a look from her
mistress caused the maid to place one before
Mr. Matthew. Mary declined the claret that
was offered her.

I do think,' said her aunt, ' that after
your journey over the downs you ought to
take some wine. Your mother has placed
you in my hands, remember.'

Yery well,' said Mary, smiling, ' I am all
obedience. I will have half a glass.'

What do you think of that as a young
lady's notion of being " all obedience," Miss
Dart ? ' inquired Mrs. Meyrick. ' I trust
VOL. I. p

you are not going to follow a bad example.
The wine won't hurt you ; you need not be
afraid of its being a 'vin du pays" — a
Casterton vintage. It comes from my brother's
cellar.'

Indeed, I am not afraid of any such
thing,' laughed the governess ; ' but I never
do take wine in the middle of the day.'

That is severe on me observed Mary.
It would only serve you right if I said, " But
she makes up for it at dinner, though." '

Mat, I do hope you will have some,' said
Mrs. Meyrick, pleadingly.

You know, mother, that I never take
wine,' was the quiet rejoinder.

But the doctor says it's so good for you
I mean this kind of wine. Mary, speak to
him.'

I am going to drink your health, Mat,'
said Mary, ' and I hope you will drink mine.
I am sure you will not pay me the bad compliment
of doing so in water.'

The young man signed to the servant to
fill him a full glass. As the cousins pledged

one another, it seemed to T-Iiss Dart that
Matthew's eyes involuntarily rendered towards
his crutches, which stood in a little
rack, made on purpose for them, with reach
of his hands. His face, which lead flushed
as Mary spoke, grew pale at Mary's words.

When the two girls presently found themselves
alone together, Mary spoke of this.

You doubtless observed Mat's behaviour
about the wine at luncheon, Lizzie? '

I noticed that it seemed to pain him to
have his health drunk, poor fellow.'

I didn't mean that,' said Mary, with a
quick flush. ' I was foolish to do it, because
he is always so hopeless about himself I was
only referring to the wine. You must know,
if you have not guessed it, that Mat and his
mother are very ill off.'

I am very sorry indeed ; I had not
Pressed it. I should have thought. iudoino;
from this pretty house '

• That was poor uncle Theoo's doing,' she
interrupted. ' He was a man devoted to his
art. and who loved comfort and luxury. I

p 2

am afraid he spent all his money, and some of
poor Aunt Louisa's, in that way. She loves
the place for his sake, and will never be
induced to give it up. There have been all
kinds of trouble and worry about it. My
father quarrelled with my uncle when he was
alive — I believe there were faults on both
sides : Uncle Theoo was very thoughtless and
aggravating; and papa had no sort of sympathy
with his ways. My aunt, of course,
could not endure to hear her husband spoken
ill of; and Mat — who would blame him for
it? — espoused his mother's cause. The thing
has been patched up, but there remains a
soreness. When I visit the Look-out, my
expenses are always paid, as indeed it is only
right they should be, and wine and things are
sent with me. Mat never takes wine, not
because he doesn't like it, or because it is not
good for him — as you heard my aunt say, it is
very good for him — but simply because it i&
too dear a luxury. And he is too proud to
drink papa's wine.'

I understand,' said Miss Dart, softly ;,

nevertheless, this news was a revelation to
her. She had been used to poverty all her
life ; but here was a kind of poverty with
which she had been hitherto unacquainted.

What makes it so dreadful continued
Mary, ' is that dear Mat feels himself so helpless,
and such a burden on his mother ; and
what I fear is, that there are even worse
things behind the ills we know of, and that,
with all her economy, poor Aunt Louisa is
still living beyond her little income. Only
remember that you need never feel uncomfortable
about our expenses, because, as I have
said, they are defrayed. If you had guessed
the real facts of the case without knowing
this, I believe you would have starved yourself,
Lizzie ; at all events, it would have made
you very uncomfortable.'

It is very good of you to place such
confidence in me, Mary.'

^ Perhaps I should not have done so if you
were less clever said Mary, smiling. ' I was
afraid of your finding it all out for yourself
except about our being paid for.'

Under other circumstances, Miss Dart,
perhaps, would have reflected that this was
not the first time that confidence had been
reposed in her, as it were, on compulsion ;
but sorrow for the position of Mrs. Meyrick
and her son monopolised her mind. She
knew the sting of poverty well ; but then she
had strength and health to bear it, and she
had not been brought up in luxury as her
hostess had been. With the habit of one
used to small economies her thoughts turned
to the future. ' But, my dear Mary, if your
aunt is now living beyond her means, and
your cousin can earn nothing for himself,
matters must get worse and worse.'

Yes ; but what my aunt says to herself
is, that they will last his time, and for her
own she cares nothing. If only during the
short space that Fate has allotted to him he
can be made happy and comfortable, she will
afterwards be content to live on a crumb.'
And he does not know this ? '
^ Of course not, it would kill him if he
did. He only knows that she has a small

income, and even that knowledge makes him
chafe and pine because he has no power to
assist her. '* What can a cripple with his
crutches do for anybody ? " he says to himself


^ Does he get worse ? ' inquired Miss Dart,
gently.

^ I cannot say ; sometimes I think he
does, and then, again, sometimes he seems
better. The doctor here pronounces his case
hopeless, but Mat has had no really good
advice, nor will he consent to take it. Like
all chronic invalids, the dear fellow is a little
obstinate. " I am a cripple for life," he says,
^^ and no money shall be wasted in buying
false hopes on my account." '

CHAPTER Xii.

ROGER LEYDEN.

The information which Miss Dart had received
as regarded the state of affairs at the
Look-out interested her far more than her
informant had any idea of, though she counted
on her sympathy. It is often said that there
are none so kind to the poor as the poor themselves,
and certainly there is no bond of union
so quickly made as that of a common poverty.
Its shifts, its needs, its humble aspirations are
understood and sympathised with at once,
even if there be no oppressor against whom
to make common cause. The reason why ladies
of moderate means have so much more to
say to one another, and are so much more at
ease when they meet for the first time than
fashionable women, is that they have something
to talk about besides ' gadding and

gossip.' Between the folks at Burrow Hall
and Elizabeth Dart, a gulf had been fixed ;
it was not only that the former neither toiled
nor spun, but that they were acquainted
with none of those anxieties which, while they
make rough the road of life to us, undoubtedly
add to its interest. It is by no means the
least of the misfortunes of wealth that those
who possess it are cut off from the hopes and
fears that move the majority of their fellow-creatures
; and it is curious enough how even
those who have ' made their money,' as the
phrase goes, lose touch of these things and
stand aloof, or at all events apart from them,
so far as sympathy goes, equally with those
who are born rich.

The position of the Merrick not only
excited Miss Dart's compassion, but attracted
her imagination. It was no ordinary case,
such as her own, for instance, of want of
friends and means. She pictured to herself
her hostess in her youth, as the ' daughter of
the house,' a member of a county family, petted
and indulged ; then, her marriage with the

sculptor, no doubt, contrary to the wishes of
her friends, and in face of certain prophecies
which, however commonplace and conventional,
had found their fulfilment. She could
well understand the friction that had taken place
between the hard wood and the smooth — the
Squire and the artist — during her whole
married life, and the flame that had come of it
when she was left a widow, much worse off
than even the prejudices of her kinsfolk had
all along prognosticated. Then the boy, the
apple of his mother's eye, and such a goodly
apple, but with the seeds of death in him —
delicate, sensitive, resentful even of the benefits
that the enemies of his father would confer
upon him ; conscious of his mother's poverty,
but ignorant of the extent of it ; the prey
of hopeless love, too. These things, which on
an ordinary mind would have dawned sooner
or later, presented themselves to the governess
with distinct completeness on the instant ;
her pity, easily moved at the cry of distress,
was much more poignant when there was no
cry. She felt a vehement desire to help this

poor lady and her son which, somehow, was
not quenched by the reflection that she had
no power to help even herself. Among the
miseries of small or no means is seldom
reckoned the sense of our utter helplessness to
help others in the like calamity ; it is, nevertheless,
to some people at least, a considerable
factor in the sum of wretchedness. That
independence of character Miss Dart possessed,
and which, however advantageous in
some respects to one in her position, had its
drawbacks in others, disappeared at once from
her manner in relation to her new friends,
and caused her to be welcomed from the first
as one of themselves. Xo doubt they felt
instinctively that this young woman, who
might have taken either side in the family
dissension, belonged to their faction.

There was one person, however, for whose
approval, whether about things or persons,
both mother and son were wont to wait before
making up their minds. This was Roger
Leyden, of the Castle. He was so called,
and was proud of the designation, not because

lie kept an inn of that name, but because
he lived in the old tower which was all that
was left of that once formidable pile. There
were no other Leyden in Casterton to necessitate
his being so called by way of distinction,
but he was always spoken of as ' of the Castle,'
as though he had been some territorial magnate.
He had been connected with the ruin
so long, and was so much more conversant
with its history (as indeed with that of the
whole district) than any other living person,
that one was always associated with the other.
If any one came to Casterton in search of information
as regarded the antiquities of the
place, or its archaeology, he was referred to
Roger Leyden as naturally as, if his horse
had wanted a shoe, he would have been directed
to the blacksmith's. His family had been
natives of the place for centuries ; he plumed
himself on having been born ' free ' (i.e. on
his father having been a freeman of Casterton).
Notwithstanding this, his youth and early
manhood had been spent elsewhere. Having
been left an orphan, with very narrow means,

he had gone forth, in what capacity it was not
generally known, to make his fortune ; but at
all events he had found it, or as much of
worldly wealth as sufficed his simple needs.
He had returned in early manhood to his
native town, and taken the old tower off the
willing hands of the Corporation, in whom it
was vested, as a place of residence. And now,
after long years, he had become as well known
as his dwelling ; with which, deed, to the
young folk of the place, he seemed coeval.
Some called him eccentric, some a character ;
but, on the whole, his fellow townsmen were
proud of him, as of one who could give his
reasons for the faith that was in him as respected
all that pertained to their dwelling-place.
There was, however, a rough side to
his tongue, as well as a want of sympathy
with all commonplace notions, that prevented
his being generally popular, save among the
poor, on whom he spent much of his substance.
The only house where he was a constant
visitor, or with whose inmates he was on
familiar terms, was the Look-out.

At this own request he had undertaken the
superintendence of Matthew Meyrick's education.
' I have been a schoolmaster,' was his
modest statement of his qualifications to the
boy's mother, ' and though I have never succeeded
in becoming a scholar, it is not through
ignorance of w4iat constitutes scholarship. If
your lad were as other lads, I should be of
little use to him. 1 could not teach him to
push his way in the world, nor to get the
better of his fellow creatures. I cannot even
promise to make him love learning for its own
sake ; but if you will entrust him to my care,
he shall learn to hate idleness, and enjoy such
pleasures, and they are the truest ones, as lie
within his reach. Life will thus be rendered
at least more tolerable to him. His companionship
will to me be priceless, for you
know how dear he is to me; the obligation
is wholly on my side. I ask for this post of
instructor as a personal favour, and I shall
consider it as a sacred trust.'

It need hardly be said that the generous
offer had been gratefully accepted by the

widow. Roger Leyden had proved himself
already a true friend during her husband's lifetime.
His advice had been taken when that
of all others had been resented, and thoiio-h
he could not prevent Mr. merrick's extravagances
he had sometimes restrained them.
Above all, when Death had beckoned the
sculptor from a world that had been little else
to him but a land of dreams, Roger Leyden
had been the champion of his memory : a
chivalrous task enough, since the two men
had had absolutely nothing in common save
their affection for those whom one had left
behind him. Theoo Merrick (as he always
elected to be called, though it is probable that
his Christian name had had at least another
syllable at his baptism) was an artist essentially
of the modern type, in the days before
art had gone to medieval sources for instruction.
He was very much at his ^ ease in Zion,'
not only as respected the old masters, but
everything else which time had hallowed ;
and of the Christian centuries unhesitatingly
announced his preference for the nineteenth.

This of itself was wormwood to Roger
Ley den. But when Theoo Meyrick put his
views into practice, and let light and air into
the sacred precincts of the Mayor's House,
which, moreover, he newly christened — an
act of very adult baptism — the Look-out,
Roger's loyalty to his friend was sorely tried
indeed. It seemed to him that nothing less
than a sacrilege had been committed. He
had given certain ancient doors and windows,
which would otherwise have been sold as
rubbish, sanctuary in the Castle, where they
remained a perpetual reminder of that act of
Vandalism on the part of the sculptor.

Yet, as we have said, when Theoo Meyrick
died an unsuccessful artist who, moreover,
had wasted his goods, and not only his own
goods, Roger Leyden became his apologist
and defender. The dead man had made him
his executor, an appointment which, though
little more than a sinecure, gave him a locus
standi which not even the Squire could dispute
or ignore; and he had stood between
him and the widow more than once when

such intervention hal been sorely needed.
He bad long ceased to be Matthew's tutor,
but only to become bis friend, and it was difficult
to say better mother or son esteemed
him most. If Miss Elizabeth Dart, indeed,
had been aware of his relations with her new
friends, and how accustomed they were to
regard matters through his spectacles, she
miofht have looked forward to meetings him
with no little apprehension, lest she should
fail to make a pleasant impression on him,
and thereby lose what little ground she might
have won in their good opinion.

As regards personal appearance, however,
as he presented himself to her eyes that
afternoon at five-o'clock tea, he was far from
formidable. A frail, slender old man, with a
stoop of the shoulders, and long, scanty grey
hair, he looked more like some illustration out
of a German fairy story than an executor and
family adviser; he had large silver-rimmed
spectacles, which were always sliding down
his nose, and being constantly replaced, with
a reproving shake of the head, which set

VOL. I. Q

them off ao^ain. His voice was shrill, and his
manner abrupt to brusqiieness, the result, as
Mrs. Meyrick was careful to inform her guest,
of constitutional shyness ; and, by way of
salute to the new arrivals, he nodded to Miss
Dart with his hand behind him, and pinched
Mary Melbm^n's ear.

And how is dear mamma ? ' he inquired,
tenderly (as though the Squire and his son
were not in existence), and when he was
reminded where she was about to go for her
health, began to abuse the German waters.

Why does she not go to Bath ? King
Bladed flourished before any of the Bads were
heard of ; but England is never good enough
for some people, whether they be sick or sound.'

If mamma had gone to Bath, Miss Dart
and I would not have come to Casterton,
Mr. Leyden,' said Mary, reproachfully.

And then Miss Dart would not have
been bored to death, as she probably will be,'
was the conciliating rejoinder. ' A miserable,
dull, grass-grown place this : don't you
think so, young lady ? '

^ It is grass-grown, but to a Londoner
like myself that has all the charm of novelty,'
said the governess, simply ; ^ while as to its
being dull and miserable, I never beheld so
beautiful a town, nor one half so interesting.
Some one has called a cathedral a " petrified
religion," and similarly your little town seems
to me to be a poem in stone and bricks.'

What do you think of that, Mat ? '
cried the little man, his eyes twinkling with
pleasure. ' This young lady is evidently in
your line of business.'

Nay, I think she is rather in your Ime,
Mr. Leyden,' said Mary, ' from the admiration
she expressed for Downing's Xob as we
came along, and from the way in which she
recognised Battle Hill, when half a dozen miles
from it, as being an artificial elevation.'

Viewed from the north, as she beheld it,
it ought so to strike everybody,' exclaimed
the antiquary, with enthusiasm ; ' nevertheless,
it showed an intelligence only too rare,
and especially as regards the feminine mid,
that she recognised the fact. I shall do

Q 2

myself the pleasure, if she will permit me,
of going over Battle Hill with this young lady.'

My poor Lizzie ! ' sighed Miss Melburn,
with exaggerated compassion.

Miss Dart, you are in for it cried
Matthew, sympathetically.

The little man looked from one to the
other, like a terrier between two antagonists,
uncertain upon which to spring ; at last he
snapped at Matthew.

There are worse things to be endured,
Miss Dart, I do assure you, than being condemned
to hear a lecture on antiquities from
a competent authority. It is possible that
you may, one day, find yourself under the
necessity of listening to the lucubrations of
an amateur poet. Even my grey hairs have
been no protection from that outrage.'

When I have gone through both experiences,'
said Miss Dart, gravely

And provided you survive them,' put in
Mary, slily.

I shall then be able to say from which
I have derived the greatest pleasure.'

'Now, I call that very pretty observed
Mrs. Meyrick.

^ Well, well, we will both be friends with
her till she decides, Matthew,' said the old
fellow, smiling.

^ I intend to be friends with Miss Dart in
any case said Matthew, gallantly.

That's rank bribery,' exclaimed the old
gentleman. ' He is bidding for a favourable
criticism uj^on his epic'

^ I have never written an epic,' protested
the young man, blushing.

I have heard a recitation or two that
gave me the impression of an epic ; that is,
as to length,' persisted the old gentleman.

Don't you mind him, my dear,' said the
widow, encouragingly.

Don't you mind him. Mat,' echoed Mary,
with indignant sympathy.

Don't you mind him, Mat,' shrieked the
old fellow, with satiric iteration. ' If you
never saw a spoilt boy. Miss Dart, let me
introduce one to your attention.'

The question in such a case that naturally

occurs to me, with my educational
instincts observed Miss Dart, demurely, is,
^ Who was his tutor? '

This sally was greeted with general
applause, only increased by the dumb dissent
of the little antiquary. He shook his head
at the sentiment, and his finger at Miss Dart,
and enjoyed the whole situation more than
any of them. Such is the marvellous power
of genial mirth, that the governess made more
way with him by that sly rejoinder, and more
surely established her footing in the household
generally, than she could have done by the
most Machiavellian arts.

By the time dinner was over, for which
Roger Ley den remained without invitation,
and as naturally as though he were an inmate
of the establishment, it seemed to Elizabeth
Dart as though, instead of a visitor, she was
a member of the family ; and that in the
Look-out she had found a home. The most
convincing proof of it and of her possessing
her soul at ease, without those disturbing
thoughts which the sense of strangeness and

insecurity always engenders, was that on
retiring to her room that nis^ht she drew
forth from her desk a certain manuscript,
which had remained untouched during her
whole stay at Burrow Hall, and proceeded
to enter in it divers memoranda and reflections
; such terms are inadequate, yet it is
difficult to give them a more appropriate
name, for that manuscript was certainly no
commonplace book. Like Madame Poland
on the scaffold, Elizabeth Dart often wished
for a pen to set down the strange thoughts
which arose within her ; of late the opportunity
had been denied her, or rather circumstances
had forbidden it, but now they rolled
in upon her brain as unceasingly as the moonlit
waves broke in upon the shore in foam
beneath her window, and with as clear and
picturesque distinctness as the outlines of
Battle Hill itself, which rose in majesty above
the pavilion.

She as yet had no notion of what she
was, stni less of what she might grow to
be, but now and then, * in seasons of calm

weather ' like the present, a sense of intellectual
force, quite apart from self-consciousness,
was wont to seize and intoxicate her
like the inspiration of the sybil. When it
left her she experienced a feeling of exhaustion,
and also of disappointment ; she almost felt
that she had been the sport of some mocking
spirit, but it recurred again and again, and
each time with increased strength, filling her
with a vague consciousness of power. She
was no longer the governess and companion,
the insignificant unit in the great sum of
social life ; her whole being seemed to expand,
like the Fin in the Arabian Nights released
from its bottle, and to spread itself in all
directions. Her spirit had wings and flew
upward, regarding from a height the world
from which it had temporarily escaped, with
keen observance and speculation. Her pen
flew over the paper impelled by an inexplicable
and almost irresistible impulse, and yet
among all her crowding thoughts the central
one, dwelling in a secret but far from serene
seclusion, remained unexpressed. Its form

was as yet too vague ; in the rational and
ordinary moods of her well-balanced mind,
before whose gate paced the sentinel Commonsense,
it never intruded ; but sometimes he
deserted his post, and the Fancy roved. She
did not know it for what it was, or at all
events did not know it for certain, much less
did she recognise that other and much rarer
attribute which possessed her : but the one
was Love and the other was Genius.

CHAPTER XY.

ON BATTLE HILL.

If Elizabeth Dart was a genius — a matter
which, though I have decided in her favour,
truth to say, there were some to dispute — (a
misfortune, however, which also happened to
Shakspeare), she had none of those indolent,
happy-go-lucky, take-me-in-the-humour ways
which in the public mind is somehow associated
with that divine gift. To some people it
is almost shocking to learn that Scott was a
diligent and hard worker, that Wordsworth
was a man of business who practised economies
; and I fear that it will arouse incredulity
as to the young lady's pretensions when I
confess that she was an early riser. Notwithstanding
her fatigues of the previous day,
and the network which, as has been hinted,

followed it, Miss Dart rose next morning, if
not with the lark, with Janet the little maid,
who was going about her work with a song
as blithe and on almost as lio-ht a T^dno;. But
if harmony was dear to Janet, the opportunity
of conversation was still more sweet. The
cook and she, as she was careful to inform the
visitor, made up the household in ordinary at
the Look-out, though on great and rare
occasions (such as the Squire's coming) the
services of a charwoman were enlisted. The
cook had been there ever since the mistress
kept house, and was her own maternal aunt.
Sometimes the springs rose at Casterton and
filled the cellar, so that you would think the
sea was coming in. At Whitsuntide and
Michaelmas there were hiring fairs, when the
place was like London Town. Mr, Matthew
had been like what he was ever since she
(Janet) could recollect. Was it not a 23ity?
It was always such a pleasure to him, and
indeed to all of them, to have Miss Mary there.
It put new life into them — for Mr. Ley den,
though he was very kind, mostly spoke of

them as was dead and gone — and raised
Missus's spirits. All this information was
given gratuitously, and with great volubility.
It was evident that listeners were not often to
be met with in Casterton, and that even such
a chance as the unlocking of the front door
for one of them was not to be neglected.
There was nothing of fitfulness or gossip in
the maiden's discourse : it flowed like a pent-up
stream, to which an outlet has been
miraculously afforded.

Which is the nearest way to Battle Hill?'
inquired the involuntary recipient of all this
information, in a moment, not of silence, but
of recuperation.

I don't know, Miss,' answered Janet,
simply.

^ Good gracious! Why, the hill just outside
the town. I see it from my window
rising behind the pavilion.'

^ Well, I don't stir much abroad. Miss;
but I suppose it will be what they call the
Loompp." You turn to the left and then to
the right by the grocer's shop.'

It was as though a denizen of Fish Street,
on being requested to direct one to the Monument,
had answered, ' I am not a gad-about
myself, but perhaps you mean what our folks
call the '' Spike." '

It was, as we have said, Miss Dart's habit
to rise early, but with such a new and interesting
world awaiting her as Casterton
promised to prove she could hardly have done
otherwise. The poet of Nature has assured
us that even in old age the sunrise still seemed
to him ' a glorious birth ' ; and to some of us
who are old and not poets, the everyday
miracles of earth, sky, and sea have yet their
attractions, but a new place that is a town
or city, which we happen never to have seen

before — the mere work of men's hands

awakens in us little expectation. It is only
one more ant-hill on the way to the grave.
But with the young it is different. Such
matters have for them the charm of novelty
and almost of discovery, it is only the dullards
who take them as a matter of course. The
narrow streets of this forlorn old town with

its pent-house roofs and gables, its massive
walls still stubbornly resisting the attacks of
time, its ancient gateway with its toothless
portcullis menacing the unconscious passer-by,
were delightful to the eye of their latest
visitor. The silence of the place, unbroken,
save by the chatter of the jackdaws about the
grey church steeple, and the distant lap of the
sea, filled her with an inexpressible calm. To
most minds under similar circumstances such
a scene would have been merely an enlargement
of the experience, and would have
afforded an excuse for the purchase of local
photographs, or a topic for dinner-table conversation.
With Elizabeth Dart it went far
deeper. She pictured to herself the countless
generations of her own race who had inhabited
these old-world houses and trodden this historic
ground. She speculated upon the lives
of those who still dwelt there, so peaceful,
so secluded, so out of the region in which her
own lot had been cast. The traveller sees
fifty such places and has something to say of
each — the date of its foundation, the proportions

of its cliurcli, including; the lieioiat of its
tower, and the genealogy of the Lords of the
Manor. This one was sufficient for her. and
she learnt more from it than he, though she
had not the advantage of his information.
No matter how exceptional may be the circumstances
of his position the traveller never
forgets himself, and expects his reader to be
interested in how he slept and what he had
for breakfast; as Elizabeth Dart trod the
grass-grown streets of this slumbrous town
she was unconscious of her own existence,
which was merged and lost in that of a
hundred generations.

The hill of which she was in quest stood
farther off than she had anticipated, though
scarcely at such a distance as was indicated
by the term ' abroad ' which Janet had used.
Though it had seemed to tower above her
very window, it was, in fact, more than half a
mile away. It Aras visible enough so soon as
she had cleared the town, which was fortunate,
as not a human being did she meet of whom
to ask the way.

This solitude intensified the solemnity of
the scene. It might have been some morning
after the Danes had landed, as they often had
done on that coast, and slain every mother's
son in the little town.

From this hill how many times must those
thrice accursed sails have been descried and
the note of alarm have been sounded. The
Loompp, or Lump, as Janet had called it, was
certainly of peculiar formation ; it resembled
in shape a quartern loaf, as though the upper
part had been superimposed upon the lower ;
but while that homely metaphor at once
intruded upon the spectator's mind, it was
without prejudice to the picturesqueness of
the object in question. From base to summit
it was well covered with turf, but of two different
kinds — that of the lower half being the
short close turf of the downs, that of the
upper of a longer and softer kind, plentifully
mingled with moss. It was bare of trees
except for those few firs upon its apex, which
the sea-winds, unable to bend or break, had
forced to lean landward. The view from this

spot was magnificent and very various?. <Jii
the north lay the great range of high downland,
betraying, where it trended to the west,
its old seaboard position. Though the sea
was three miles removed, the evidence of its
former presence was evident in the waterworn
and overhanging cliff. On the east nestled
Casterton, as though secure in the vigilance
of its giant sentinel. To the south was the
grey, far stretching sea, lit up here and thereby
a gleam of sunlight, and flecked by a
white sail or red ; on the west stretched the
vast low-lying marsh, which has been already
adverted to, with its far-apart church towers
and farms.

A goodly spectacle, is it not, Miss Dart ? '
exclaimed a voice close beside her.

The governess started, and almost
screamed ; she was fairly frightened ; it had
seemed to her that she was the only person
just then alive in the world, and even that
world had not been the ordinary and everyday
working one.

^Tou have been dreaming,' said Roger

VOL. I. B

Leyden, for he it was ; 'a very proper thing
to do upon Battle Hill. I do it myself.'

But how did you come here ? ' inquired
Miss Dart. 'I did not see a soul upon the
road, nor was any one within sight as I looked
around me.'

I was here before you (it is ney custom
to come here most mornings), and was hidden
from you by the tumulus.'

The tumulus ! '

Ah, you cannot see one,' he replied, contemptuously
: ' unless there is something like
a barrow, as our earth-worms term it, you
cannot conceive that you are treading on the
bones of captains and of kings. There has
been no barrow here, except wheelbarrows —
of which I have seen fifty at a time, when
Lord Destray ordered the excavations to be
made — from first to last. When a man is
buried, we put him in a grave, with a mound
at top of it ; but when a thousand men are
buried — dead of the plague, for instance —
they are thrown into a pit ; when they are
murderers, ravishers, Danes, hateful to sight

and memory, whom for once you have gotten
the better of, and exterminated, can you not
understand that a whole hill piled upon themis
not too much ? That is what happened
here.'

Their bones, then, have been found ? '
^ Xo, I am thankful to say, they have not
been found. The earthworms have their
theories, and my Lord Destray acted on them.
At such and such a depth he was told such
and such objects would be discovered : the
sword, the arrow — with T\'hich the long-perished
Dead hoped to begin life anew in the
other world ; the drinking-cup, ouc of which
he would quaff mead in the halls of Odin ;
the body itself, in a sitting posture, with an
ahead of stone or a bronze dagger beside it.
Xothmg could be more satisfactory than the
forecasts of the experts, down to the minutest
detail ; only, nothing whatever rewarded the
explorers.'

That must have been a great disappointment
to them,' said Miss Dart. She was
conscious that the reply would fall short of

E 2

expectation ; but lier tongue, ordinarily ready
enough for the occasion, somehow seemed to
fail her. The old man beside her had spoken
with a vehemence and disdain which were
incomprehensible to her ; she felt that he was
moved by considerations in which she had no
share.

Disappointment ! ' he echoed, scornfully,
Yes ; they were baffled, as such fools deserve
to be.'

He bit his lip, and looked round him with
an angry air.

How is it that the grass here is so soft
and fresh, Mr. Leyden, and that on the lower
part of the hill so short ? '

'You have an observant eye,' he answered,
regarding her with keen scrutiny.
The soil above is rich ; even your chemist
knows the virtue of blood and bone. The
soil below — well, that is rich too, perhaps,
but after another fashion. It's a sore subject;
don't let's talk about it.' Then he went on,
more gently, ' I've frightened you again.
You must not mind mc, my dear young lady.

Prophets are of no account in their own
country, and nobody does mind me hereabouts.'


That is surely a little ungrateful, Mr.
Leyden, smce I know some of your neighbours,
at least, who regard you with both
respect and affection.'

Your hostess and her son — true. It was
not because I had forgotten them that I spoke
as I did. The world is divided for me into
men, women, and ^.leyricks. It is only the
last with whom I have any concern.'

Miss Mary Melburn would scarcely like
to hear me repeat that, I think.'

Pooh, pooh I She woidd not believe
you if you did. Indeed, I would not have
you yourself, Miss Dart, set me down altogether
as an ogre. Only when certain matters
come into my mind, they make me misanthropical.
To think that that good woman
yonder ' — he pointed in the direction of the
Look-out, where the painted windows at the
rear of the pavilion were reddening in the
sun — • should have to pinch and save for want

of what could be so certainly obtained, if
some folks had only a little faith ! To see
that poor boy pine and dwindle because the
skill is dear which could make him, I am persuaded,
like other men ; and to know that
one has only to stretch out one's hand ! —
Bah! it makes me mad to think of it! Forgive
me,' he added, abruptly. ' Inadvertently
you touched a chord in this old-fashioned
out-of-gear instrument, and have produced
harshness, caterwauling. You seem to like
the old hill ? '

I admire it above everything. I have
never seen any prospect half so glorious. It
seems to me that to live at Casterton, amid
such scenes and associations, must be one of
the highest privileges within the gift of Fortune.'
She spoke with flushed cheeks and
earnest eyes ; it was plain that she was paying
no compliments.

Yet people come and call it an interesting
place to spend a few hours in. They
come here, even, and say, " What a great
hill ! " They have eyes, but they have no

souls ; that's what is the matter with
them.'

Janet calls it the ''Loomp,'" said Miss
Dart, smiling.

So they all do, hereabouts. The
strangers are no worse than our neighbours.
Familiarity breeds contempt.'

But not with you, it seems.'

Xo, not with me,' sighed the old man.
In a few short years this neglected voice
will be dumb ; and then there will be none —
no, not one to point the road.'

His chin sank upon his breast ] his eyes
were fixed on the ground which, with his foot,
he feebly stirred. As he did so, he seemed,
Tantalus-like, to gather strength ; for presently
he raised his head, and exclaimed, in lord,
sonorous tones, ' And yet it is not lost, but
only hidden. Before yonder sea gives up its
treasure, this one surely shall be found.
Such waste of wealth cannot go on for ever.
Centuries hence it will be found ; but in the
meantime the Good will lack, the Young decay.
Heaven's will be done ! ' He raised his hat,

and the wind scattered the grey hah's about
his head ; his face presented a picture of quiet
resignation. ' Come,' he said, rousing himself
with an effort, ' they will be waiting
breakfast for you at the Mayor's House ' (he
always called it by its old name, and never
the 'Look-out). 'I must not teach you to
dream ; that is only fit for an old man like
me. You are a worker, and will work to
some purpose, or I am much mistaken. Let
us go down.'

CHAPTER XYL

Criticism.

When Miss Dart returned to the Look-out
she found the family already assembled at the
breakfast table. When they heard who had
been the companion of her morning's walk
the two young people did not spare their
insinuations.'

You met by appointment, of course,' said
Mary, confidently.

It was made last night,' observed
Matthew. ^ I heard the old gentleman say
he would be her cicerone.' •

It was remiss in Aunt Louisa not to
have offered to be her chaperon,' remarked
Mary.

What nonsense ! ' put in Mrs. Meyrick,
reproachfully. ' We all know that Mr.

Leyden always is on Battle Hill five mornings
out of. six.'

Just so, dear aunt said Mary, sweetly,
and no doubt Lizzie was aware of the fact ;
that is what we think so indiscreet in her
conduct.'

The badinage of the cousins pleased Miss
Dart, since it was a sure sign of their being at
ease with her.

^ I only do not confess that I have fallen
in love with Mr. Leyden,' she said, boldly,
^ because, if I did, you would tell him.'

Bravo, bravo ! ' cried Matthew, clapping
his hands. ' This is as it should be.'

Well, of course I knew it would be so,'
said Mary. ' Now tell me all about it, Lizzie.
I mean what you can tell us. Did he cast
your horoscope last night, and predict your
future fortune for you ? '

You don't mean to say Mr. Leyden is an
astrologer ? '

At all events,' persisted Mary, ' he is a
firm believer in the conjunction of the stars.
Everything of importance he undertakes is

done under a certain position of the heavens,
as he terms it. Over his door are three serpents
with their tails in their mouths

My dear Mary,' interposed Matthew, ' the
serpents have nothing to with astrology ;
they symbolise eternity — the time it took to
make that poor old castle of his habitable.'

My dear Matthew,' observed Mrs. Merrick,
gravely, ' you are confusing Miss Dart.'

Which was unnecessary,' murmured
Mary, ' since she looked so much confused
upon another account.'

In this raillery of Mary's, Miss Dart did
not fail to recognise and welcome a novel condition
of mind. At Burrow Hall she had
shown no such disposition for such mirth ;
the high spirits of youth had been oppressed
and kept under by a very Battle Hill of
care.

Seriously, Lizzie,' she continued, ' did
not our dear old friend say some things that
astonished you ? '

Well, yes, he did 5 but it was rather his
manner than his words that astonished me

the excitement and irritation which he
seemed to labour milder when mention was
made of certain subjects.'

The treasure ! You don't mean to 
got upon the treasure?' cried Matthew.
^ He rarely mentions that even to us, and
never to strangers.'

^ Strangers ? ' put in Mary, with demure
reproach. ' As if he considered Miss Dart a
stranger.'

He really did hint something about
wasted wealth — some recommendation of his
that had been discredited.'

Then you must be in great favour with
him, Miss Dart, I promise you,' said Mrs.
Meyrick, smiling.

I am very, very jealous ! ' exclaimed
Mary. ' Mr. Leyden has not spoken to me
upon that sacred subject for years.'

but what is the subject?' inquired Miss
Dart, with interest.

Well,' said Matthew, ^ you must know,
or rather you do know, for Mary tells me you
know everything, that it was at this spot that

the Saxons under Egbert, or at all events
during his reign, defeated the Danes. While
employed in their usual occupation of plunder
and pillage, they left their fleet at Casterton
insufficiently guarded, and the Saxons destroyed
it. After the Danes had had an
exceptionally good time and sacked the
churches of London and Canterbury — please
note that fact — they came down here with
their plunder to take it back to Denmark, and
found no means of transport. Improvident
persons are often accused of burning their
boats, but in this case it had been done for
them. In the meantime Egbert gathered
together his forces, the whole district rose
against the invaders, and for the first time
they found themselves on the defensive. The
chronicles affirm that they gave battle to the
Saxons outside the town, and were not only
defeated but exterminated. All beyond this
is conjecture, but the theory is that before
the catastrophe they buried their ill-gotten
treasure. It is tolerably certain that it was
never found, since Mother Church, who had

a keen eye for her possessions even in those
days, had to put up with her loss, and the
shrine of Canterbury, which had been for years
the richest in England, remained for centuries
one of the poorest. Now, it is Roger Leyden's
contention, that because Battle Hill was obviously
the most convenient spot to hide it,
in readiness for embarkation in case the invaders
had been victorious, or one of them had
survived to fetch it, that the treasure lies
there. His view is that the Saxons buried
the enemy in thousands where they lay,
heaping up on them — partly from the necessity
of the case, but chiefly as a record of triumph
the largest sepulchral mound which was
ever seen, and that with every spadeful they
hid what was their own, and made it more
difficult to recover it.

When the excavations took place many
years back, by the order of the late Lord
Destray, Mr. Leyden laid his views before his
lordship. " You will not find any relics of
the slain," he said, " at the usual depths for
such discoveries, you will have to dig much

deeper." So far he was right ; only, since no
bones were found, his lordship, who found
the job, even as matters were, very expensive,
declined to believe in their existence. A good
many people are of his opinion, and indeed
the place is more often called '' The Lump "
than with any reference to the historical
incident which is supposed to have taken
place there. As to digging through the underpart
of the great hill and then through the
lower, it is hardly to be expected that any one
who has the money would be sanguine enough
to do so at the recommendation of an enthusiast
such as our friend. The present
Lord Destray is in embarrassed circumstances,
and the last man likely to undertake such an
enterprise ; so in all probability the truth of
the matter will never be ascertained. In the
meantime, one feels thankful that dear Roo-er
Ley den has not ten thousand pounds of his
own, since he would infallibly spend it all in
buying Battle Hill and excavating it.'

Still, Mr. Leyden may be right,' observed
Miss Dart, thoughtfully.

^ Now, this is very serious observed
Matthew. ' It is bad enough to have a fanatic
next door, but that he should find a convert
under our own roof is terrible to contemplate.'

I only said " may be right," ' remonstrated
Miss Dart.

That is the first step, the next is " must
be right," the third is taking spades on starlit
nights (with a large sack to hold the treasure-trove)
and digging upon Battle Hill with Mr.
Leyden. I can see them at it, my dear
mother.'

'For shame, Matthew ! ' said Mrs. Meyrick,
reprovingly. ' You know you cannot see anything
of the kind. I am glad to say you will
not be worried any more by my son, Miss
Dart, for the next few hours, for it is the
children's morning.'

As her hostess rose from the table Miss
Dart postponed her natural desire to learn
what ' the children's morning ' might mean
for a better opportunity ; but when she found
herself alone with Mary, with whom, though
she could scarcely be called her governess, it

was arranged that certain improving works
should be read and discussed daily, she put
the question with no little interest.

The fact is,' said Mary, with a flush of
tender pleasure, ' that poor Matthew, though
so ill and seldom free from pain, has a horror
of being what he calls a mere cause of trouble
and anxiety to others without being any good
in the world. So three times a week he
receives detachments of poor children, to
whom he reads and plays. It is the only
education some of them ever get, and never
was schooling half so welcome. The little
folks of Casterton adore him, and he takes no
less pleasure in their society than they in his.'
How I should like to see them together ! '
said Miss Dart.

That I am afraid can never be ; the introduction
of a grown-u23 person, he affirms, at
once destroys their enjoyment, though with
him they are as natural and as much at their
ease as though he were their own age. I
wonder whether it would annoy him if I were
to show you a little poem he made upon them ?
VOL. I. s

To me it is simply charming ; but if you do
not like it, please don't let him know that
you have seen it. He is very sensitive, poor
fellow, to every breath of censure. I am
quite thankful to think that circumstances
prevent the dearest wish of his heart being
indulged — i.e. the publication of his poems —
lest criticism should kill him, as it killed
Keats.'

Let us say, as it was fabled to have done
so said Miss Dart, with a touch of professional
manner. ' If I am favoured with a
sight of these verses, which I should extremely
like to see, I promise you that nothing
I shall say of them will kill your cousin.'

Mary produced from her desk a little roll
of MSS. ; they were beautifully written out in
her own handwriting and tied together with a
slender chain of hair, of the same colour as her
own. Miss Dart could not help reflecting
how sacred would these poor mementoes
become to their possessor should anything
happen to the author of them. ^ I feel it is
a breach of confidence,' murmured Mary,

remorsefully ; 'and yet I am sure he would
so value your opinion.'

An observation which, being paraphrased,
thought Miss Dart, would run thus, ' And yet
it would be so sweet to find that you shared
my admiration of his talents.' The poem
which Mary put into her hand was called
The Children.'

To grown-up beauty men are fond

Of singing frequent praises ;
Alike they laud brunette and blonde

With pretty high-flown phrases.
To me, though such ripe loveliness

No doubt is far the rarest,
Of all things fair, I must confess,

The children seem the fairest.

The children with their happy looks,

Their little joys and sorrows,
Their frank delight in picture-books,

Their wealth of bright to-morrows —
What heart but in their tiny hands

Is soft as wax for moulding?
What eye that sees their elfin bands

But joys in the beholding 1

Would those kind powers that dispense

Aladdin gifts befriend me,
No thorn crown of pre-eminence.

In letters they should send me ;

8 2

Only the skill to wake delight,
Like some old story-teller,

That for the darlings I might write
Such tales as Cinderella !

No bland reviewers' suavity

Of eulogy I'd covet.
They, with their eager gravity,

Should read my book and love it.
And they should come about my chair.

Their fondness all my glory.
And climb my knees, and pull my hair,

And thank me for my story.

To them when summer-time was bright,

Among the cowslip meadows.
Or round the winter fire at night.

While rose and fell the shadows—
Their faces all towards me bent.

Their eyes with pleasure glistening,
Their cheeks aglow with wonderment.

And all intently listening —

Would I discourse of gallant knights.

Their triumphs and distresses ;
Of giant foes and tourney fights.

And beautiful Princesses,
Of wide enchanted wanderings.

In distant tropic prairies ;
Of fairies, and all fairy things.

To these that are my fairies.

And when in fair-off after days

My tales should all be over,
Though no rich cenotaph of praise

My memory shall cover ;
In some few hearts my name should wake

A touch of old affection ;
And kind re membrane for the sake

Of early recollection.

Miss Dart read it over to herself with
great attention, while Mary watched her with
glistening eyes.

^ How do you like it ? I do hope you like
it, Lizzie ? ' she said, earnestly.

I think it most tender and touching

Oh, I am so glad ; and then you are such
a good judge, too.'

I am not at all sure of that ; but I have
read a good deal of poetry, and have at least
some sense of proportion. I know of few
poems on the same subject that strike me so
favourably.

Of fairies and all fairy things
To these that are my fairies

is a charming couplet

^ But if it was published, what would the
critics say ? '

^ I cannot answer for the critics. If it
came out in a magazine it would be magazine
verse, you see, which would be fatal. If it
was published in a volume it would be by
a new poet, and that also would be fatal —
scarcely a day passes in which we do not hear
compliments paid to writers of another age,
while not a month comes forward that is not
loaded with invectives against the writers of
to-day. The dullest critic who strives at a
reputation for delicacy by showing that he
cannot be pleased may pathetically assure us
that our taste is on the decline, and consign
every modern performance to oblivion. Such
general invective, however, conveys no instruction
; all it teaches is that the writer
dislikes an age by which he is himself
probably disregarded. — That is not my
thunder,' added Miss Dart, smiling, ^ but
Oliver Goldsmith's ; and what was true in
his day is true in this. There are only
a very few who are capable of judging
literature, and far less poetry, on its own
merits.'

^ Then you would not advise Matthew to
publish his poems ? '

^ I should not venture to advise him one
way or the other ; but if I had written a
poem like this, and others equally good, I
don't think I should be afraid of criticism.'

Kiss me, Lizzie,' said Mary, simply.

She obeyed, of course, and very willingly,
and Mary hugged her in return. Nevertheless,
it struck Miss Dart that it was scarcely a fair
exchange of kisses. Her kiss had been given
to Mary upon her own account, whereas
Mary's kiss was paid, as it were, to the credit
of somebody else ; it was a kiss at secondhand.


CHAPTER XVII.

LITERATURE.

In the afternoon, when the children had departed,
Mrs. Meyrick and Mary paid a few
calls in the town, and Miss Dart was left to
keep Matthew company. It was only very
seldom that he was well enough to leave the
house even in the invalid-chair constructed for
that purpose, and he was much averse to such
progresses, which even in that sparsely populated
place attracted some public attention. It
was a charity, he said, for any one to sit and
talk to him, and the governess was nothing
loth to undertake that task. He interested her
very much, and she was glad to make further
acquaintance with him. He invited her into
the pavilion that he might have the pleasure
of introducing her to his friends, as he termed
showing her his books.

Friends, indeed, and no fair-weather ones,
they are to all of us, and even if we differ from
them, they will be no parties to the quarrel ;
we may * shut them up,' but they will not be
offended ; we may ' drop ' them, but they are
always ready to resume relations upon the old
footing. We select them, grave or gay as our
humour prompts, but they have no jealousies
of one another ; in these respects it must be
acknowledged that print and paper have the
advantage over flesh and blood. But to him
whom ill-health confines within four walls
books are something more than friends. Love
itself smiles on him from their pages and
touches his lonely heart. Through them he
sees the world from which he is debarred reflected
from a hundred points of view ; on his
couch, thanks to their magic art, he travels as
on an enchanted carpet to distant lands ;
through them his sympathy and his pity,
which might lack an object, are kept alive
and healthy. Above all, the capable soul
which often resides in the frailest tenements
of clay is led by them to the topmost heights

of thought and the brightest realms of
fancy.

So was it with Matthew Meyrick. Condemned
for life to pallet and cell, he had roved
at his own sweet will through the bright fields
of imagination and humour, and his mind was
adorned with their choicest flowers. Of practical
matters he knew little or nothing, and did
not seek to know. This was, in some respects,
fortunate for him, since the fruit of that Tree
of Knowledge must needs have been bitter for
him ; it was not through selfishness, or the
reflection that they would last his time, that
his eyes were closed to his mother's straitened
means, or the end to which, economically as
their little household was managed, their mode
of life was slowly but surely tending : she had
designedly deceived him upon that point, and it
was not one, when once he was assured that
all was well, in which he took much interest.
He was aware that her income was small, and
had shown his recognition of the fact by
obstinately refusing to be taken to town for
advice, and would probably have done so had

the hopes of any benefit to his malady resulting
from such a course been much less
problematical than they were ; but of the actual
position of her affairs he had no suspicion.
The effect of even the partial disclosure of it
had not been such as to encourage her to further
revelations. The avoidance of any reference
to ordinary matters in his conversation
would, as savouring of affectation, have been a
drawback to most people, and would certainly
have been so to Miss Dart, who put Humanity
(as a topic) first, and Literature afterwards ;
but his peculiar position was an excuse for
him. He talked of books, and books only, for
the same reason that others talk of bullocks ;
it was the only subject he was acquainted
with. He spoke, as is the habit with all invalids,
of his own concerns, tastes, and prejudices,
but without that egotism which illness
often engenders.

There is my Lord and King,' he said,
pointing to a voluminous edition of Shakspeare,
with one hand, while he supported himself on
his crutch with the other. ^ He is the master

of the ceremonies who introduces me to my
fellow creatures ; without him I should be
almost as much estranged from them as Crusoe
on his island

There is none like him, none,' observed
Miss Dart, in a tone of subdued enthusiasm.

You are quoting Tennyson,' said
Matthew, smiling.

To be sure, I had forgotten ; the observation
is in " Maud," is it not ? '

^ Yes ; there is no poet so much quoted
without recognition. The reason is that,
among his minor charms, he has the art
of clothing common things in a poetical dress ;
he could, I am certain, describe a gas manufactory
in the most harmonious manner.'

He has pictured a very prosperous one,'
observed Miss Dart, slily, ' in that very
volume which you have just accused me of
plagiarising from : " and mellow metres more
than cent, per cent." '

Matthew threw back his shapely head, and
laughed aloud : a literary joke always tickled
him.

I shall never read " The Brook " again
he said, ' in the proper spirit.'

Yet a great philosopher has said that no
man holds his religions faith sure and certain
who cannot afford to laugh it : a hard saying
for most people, no doubt, but, on the whole, a
true one.'

There is, at least, no fear in that case of
being laughed out of it,' observed Matthew.

It means more than that, I think. You
ought yourself to know the weak points in
your citadel, and to be confident in its
strength, in spite of them.'

But is it not possible to have a citadel
without weak points ? ' he suggested, thoughtfully.


With some people no doubt it is : they
are, however, exceptionally fortunate.'

I should, on the contrary, have said that
such folk were the majority.'

I am speaking of sure and certain Faith,
not the mere capacity for credulity. The majority
of mankind have no citadel, but only an
earthwork, from behind which, because they

can see no enemy, they exclaim, " This is impregnable."
'

You think about these matters a good
deal,' observed Matthew, with interest.

I have done so, though, I fear, to little
purpose,' she answered. ' The effect of such
reflections is often only to make one self-conscious
— a very contemptible state of mind,
whether in man or woman. For my part, I
have done my thinking, if I may designate
by so high a term those obstinate questionings
of sense and outward things, those blank
misgivings which, as Wordsworth yonder tells
us, belong to the period of youth ; he speaks
of " worlds not realised." I wish to realise
them ; if not " eager-hearted as a boy when
first he leaves his father's field," I am the reverse
of the lotus-eaters with their " we have
had enough of action and of motion, we." I
have had enough and more than enough of
stagnation. I desire to look about me and see
what is going on.'

And yet you have come to Casterton ? '
I am very glad I have come. Folk are

more picturesque here — I mean iii character —
than in London. You know what the poet
says about that? '

It was kind and considerate of her to thus
alter her manner of talk to suit his mood, but
he had no suspicion of any such design in it.
He thought it nothing surprising that when
her mouth did ope out should fly a trope, or a
quotation, and took her for a devotee at the
shrine of Apollo, like himself.

Which is your favourite poet, after
Shakspeare ? ' he presently inquired.

Shakspeare is not my favourite, though
so far the greatest,' she answered frankly ; ' it
is only a very few people who can say of the
king that he is their best friend.

You comfort me,' he answered, smiling ;
I always ascribed it to my own feebleness
that I find less pleasure in his society than in
that of some of his inferiors.'

Of course one feels the difference of
degree,' she answered ; ' but besides, one is
not always in the humour, as the American
poet so charmingly confesses, for the grand old

masters. The strong meat of Milton, for example,
once a month is as much as my constitution
can stand.'

^ Being an invalid, I partake of him even
at longer intervals,' observed Matthew,
demurely.

But you are never afraid of Prevalent
Arabica — Keats and Shelley,' she put in,
sly.

How shocking ! ' he exclaimed. ' All the
good opinion I had begun to entertain of you,
Miss Dart, is now scattered to the winds.
How dare you to speak so of Keats? Think
of his " Nightingale " with its woful picture of
the world, —

Where palsy shakes a few last sad grey hairs,
Where youth grows pale and spectre-thin and dies,
Where but to think is to be full of sorrow and leaden-eyed
despairs.'

It w as evident, from the pathos and earnestness
of the speaker's tone, that the lines he quoted
had, in his eyes, a personal application.

But that is just what I complain of in
your Keats,' observed Miss Dart, drily ;

• there is no poet more suggestive than he. but
he " melts the waxen hearts of men." He is
as morbid, though not in the same selfish and
sullen way, as Byron.'

I love him,' said Matthew, simply.

Yes ; but quite as much for his defects
as his merits, and most of all — now confess it
because he reflects your own mood.'

There may be something in what you
say,' admitted Matthew, reluctantly.

It would do you good,' observed Miss Dart,
didactically, ' to read Crabbe for a fortnight.'

But he is so deficient in imagination.'

He has none, and that is why I recommend
him. He deals with facts that are
outside ourselves. If he makes one weep, it
is never on one's own account. He does not
appeal to our weaknesses, or lower the system,
as the doctors say. He is a sure tonic'

Shelley is tonic enough for me,' said
Matthew. ' I admire him, I think, even more
than Keats.'

And you do not love him so much?
Come, be honest.'

VOL. I. T

Well, no, I do not love him so much. He
occasionally appeals to sympathies that seem
altogether beyond me, and irritates me even
when he is most charming — as in " The
Cloud" — by becoming unintelligible. This
is unpardonable ; because no writer — not even
Tennyson — was ever gifted with greater grace
of expression, while he is as harmonious as the
]bird he has immortalised. What music and
almost colour there is in his " Sensitive Plant " !
what pathos, even, in the highest melodies,
such as his "Lines to an Indian Air! " He
never gives us a false note.'

Very seldom,' said Miss Dart.

Never, never ! ' he answered, impatiently.
What can be more exquisitely accurate than
these lines in " Dejection " ? —

Alas, I have nor hope nor health,

Nor peace within, nor calm around,
Nor that content surpassing Health

The sage in meditation found ;
And walked with inward glory crowned.

Nor fame, nor power, nor love, nor leisure,
Others I see whom these surround.

Smiling they live, and call life pleasure.
To me that cup has been dealt in another measure.'

The words lost nothing of their beauty in
Matthew's delivery of them, though at the
close his voice trembled a little, as the song (jf
the lark when he nears the ground. It seemed
that he had forgotten the presence of his
visitor, for he moved quickly on his crutch to
the window, where she heard him murmuring
to himself those admirable lines beginning,
One word is too often profaned for me to
profane it.' There could certainly be no
doubt of the reference they had to his own
case ; and the plaintive and despondent tones
of his voice thrilled the listener's very soul.

I can give not what men call love ;

But wilt thou accept not
The homage the heart lifts above

And the heavens reject not ?
The desire of the moth for the star,

Of the night for the morrow,
The devotion to something afar

From the sphere of our sorrow.

You are wrong,' said Miss Dart, her
cold critical tones breaking a long silence,
and contrasting strangely with the other's
impassioned speech — 'you are wrong about
Shelley never giving us a false note, as is

shown in those very lines. "Accept not"
and " reject not " can surely never be what
Webster calls even " an allowable rhyme." '

You are quite right,' exclaimed Matthew,
in amazement ; ' but how is it possible, since
I have had those lines by heart for years, that
such a defect could have escaped me ? '

Just because you had them, as you say,
by heart. In your admiration of the sentiment
of the poem you forget to criticise it.'

I cannot criticise. I wish I could.'

Why so ? ' inquired his companion, smiling.
' Is it not enough to be a poet ? '

A poet ? Who told you I was a poet ?
Ah, it was that foolish talk at dinner yesterday!
It is true I have written a few little
tidings — Heavens, how the tin-pot mock
modesty of the amateur author seems to
ring in that sentence ! — yet I should be
sorry if you were to set me down in such
a category — that is altogether. Miss Dart.'

1 am inclined to put you much higher ;
that is to say,' for she suddenly remembered
that the poem which had so struck her fancy

had been shown to her in confidence, 'your
appreciation of the poets seems to me quite
different from that of the poetasters. If you
would show me what you have written —
although I am no critic, I am accustomed
to winnow chaff from wheat — perhaps I
could point out here and there some defect
which has escaped you, or even suggest '

My dear Miss Dart,' he interrupted,
eagerly, ' it would be such a charity ! Roger
Ley den cares for nothing that is not a thousand
years old. I have no one else to advise
me ; and sometimes I think there is really
something in what I write, and ao^ain sometimes
that I am the same in mind as I
am in body — just a feeble, barren, unnecessary
creature.'

Whether Matthew Meyrick was a poet or
not could hardly affect the question of his
general usefulness ; but Miss Dart understood
what he meant as well as if he had
expressed himself with the accuracy of a
French mathematician. It is, in fact, only
the merest paper-spoilers and blockheads who

look forward to seeing themselves in print, asa
woman looks in a hand-glass in ' admiration
and not ' for advantage.' Almost all of
ns have a modest hope that our work will
serve some purpose other than the lining of
a trunk, and elicit some spark of sympathy
from a kindred nature. In Matthew's case
there was also the wish to gain touch of
a world from which circumstances had debarred
him, but with which, in secret, he
had a passionate desire to mingle.

With a blush at his own audacity, but
without more ado, he opened his desk and
brought out for his companion's inspection
a bundle of MSS.; an action that would have
alarmed some people very considerably. To
one like Miss Dart, however, who had been
used to looking over examination papers, the
ordeal was not so very formidable ; and as it
happened, she was more than repaid for her
good-nature by what she read. It was not
that the poems themselves were very original ,
though they had genuine merit, but they
proved a complete index of the writer's mind,

and afforded a study of character such as had
never before been afforded her ; in the pursuit
of which kind of knowledge the governess,
as we know, displayed all the eagerness
of the vivisectionist combined with a sympathy
for the subject of inquiry from which
the latter is so infamously free. In these
compositions of an invalid, she expected to
find very little that was objective ; much
that was personal and morbid : the prolonged
expression of pain, disappointment, and despondency.


So far from this being the case, the keynote
of the poems was cheerfulness ; there
was nothing of the atmosphere of the sickroom
about them, and when they touched
upon that topic at all they dwelt not on
the patient but on the watcher : —

Weary ? No, I am not weary ; only of seeing you so.
Do not you think for me, dear ; I rest in the daytime, you
know.

That was probably what his mother had said
to him in prose a hundred times, as she sat
by his pillow ; but it was significant that

he had put on record what she had said to
him and not what he had said to her.

Again, though the form of the verse
showed in almost all cases from what mould
it came, and its harmonies were often the
echo of older music, the thoughts were
generally fresh and bright enough. Upon
the whole. Miss Dart was able to speak
well of Matthew's productions without any
strain of conscience, and, as a fee for her
services, requested that one of his poems
should be given her — a request that pleased
him almost as well as her praise. Of the
latter, indeed, she was so far from lavish that,
though she had a scheme through which she
hoped his talents might obtain some recognition,
she concealed from him the high opinion
she had actually formed of them lest disappointment
should come of it.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

Printed BY

SPOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Squab

LOXDOJf

1^ •

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

p29he

N/.2

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/heirofages02payn

Heir OF THE AGES

II.

HEIE OF THE AGES

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF 'BY PROXY* ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON
SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[All rights reserved

P5-'S>Vve.

CONTENTS

OP

THE SECOND VOLUME

HEIE OF THE AGES.

CHAPTER Xviii.

THE Horoscope.

Whatever shadow moonlit be hanging; over
the little household at the Look-out, in the
way of pecuniary embarrassment, it did not
obtrude itself upon any one's notice. The
burden of that secret had been so long borne
by the widow herself that it had ceased,
except occasionally, to oppress her ; she
gathered her roses, such as they were, while
she might, and, thankful to see her son so
cheered by the presence of his cousin and
her friend, and them so well pleased with
his companionship, she took her share of the

VOL. II. B

general contentment, and shut her eyes to
the future. Blessed indeed is the constitution
that permits its possessor so to do. To
bear the ills of life with resignation and philosophy
is doubtless good ; but to be able to
ignore their approach, although we have full
knowledge of it, until they are actually at our
door is a more enviable gift. It is not too
much to say that one-half of the misery of
human life consists in apprehension, of which
at least one-fifth turns out to be groundless.
Curiously enough, though Mrs. Meyrick herself
trembled, as we have said, only occasionally
at the menaces of Fate, and never shuddered
and shrank from them as some would
have done, Eoger Leyden never forgot the evil
days that were coming with such certainty,
if not upon Matthew, at all events on his
mother. It might have been — nay, it would
have been — worse for her to have seen him
harassed by penury, to feel that his poor
maimed life lacked its comforts ] but, though
she had so far ventured to keep him in happy
ignorance of their position, what an outlook,

reflected the kind old archaeologist, had the
poor widow even as it was! The best that
could happen was that her boy should die
while the money lasted — i.e. at an early date ;
and then, bereft of the only being to whom
she clung, there would remain for her an
indefinite number of years to be passed in
loneliness and penury.

Such considerations, I have noticed, so
long as they affect others at least, are wont
to influence persons of well-regulated and
orthodox minds but little ; they not onh
bear the misfortunes of their friends with
resignation meet and meek, but accept them
with such humility and acquiescence in the
ways of Providence as make themselves
appear even more earnest and well-principled
than they were to start with.
These harsh notes, in short, just as the
exception proves the rule, seem to their
attuned and well-regulated ears to give assurance
of the universal harmony.

But in some minds, not so happily constituted,
the miseries, present or to come, of

B 2

their fellow-creatures, and especially if they
are dear to them, have a disquieting effect.
They are not only moved — considering what
(present company excepted) we all deserve —
to undue consideration for the victim, but are
led into impious doubt as to whether things
in general happen in the world exactly as
they should do, and with relation to desert.
Whenever Eoger Leyden thought of Mrs.
Meyrick and her future — and he very often
thought about it — his mind was apt to take
this dangerous and deplorable direction.

On the next day but one after his introduction
to the governess he spoke to her on
the subject with great frankness and vehemence,
and, it must be confessed, not without
finding some response. From a person literally
so well schooled as Miss Dart, one might
have expected a reproof of such sentiments,
if not a logical discourse, with arguments
properly suited to the occasion; but, on the
whole, she sympathised with him; and so curiously
is human nature constituted that agreement
of this kind will sometimes consolidate

a friendship in a marvellously brief space of
time, which many years of acquaintanceship,
with the genteelest opportunities of cultivating
it, will fail to establish. The proof of
this in the present case was that Roger Leyden
invited Miss Dart to inspect his private residence.
Every Englishman's house is said to
be his castle, but Mr. Leyden's house was not
only a real castle, but was environed by all
the difficulties of approach, and more, which
the law feigns to provide. Xo one ever
entered it without the owner's leave, and very
few obtained that permission. He made an
exception in favour of such persons as were
attracted to the little town by its historic and
archaeological interest, but of ordinary visitors
he saw nothing. There was, indeed, little
accommodation for such folk, and nothing
to show them. The place was scrupulously
clean, which, in the case of an antiquary's
residence, was unusual ; but it was ill provided
even with the most ordinary furniture.
The few rooms it contained were low and
dark ; the windows were small, and placed at

such a distance from the rooms (on account
of the immense thickness of the walls) that to
look through them was like looking through
a telescope. The staircases, which were both
of stone, were spiral, and led, the one to an
open watch-tower, on which there was scarcely
room for two people to stand ; the other to
Mr. Ley den's bed-chamber, where there was
just room for him to lie at length with ten
feet of stone all round him. In the centre of
the Castle, which was half in ruins, was a sunk
courtyard, full of spring flowers, which the
sun scarcely ever reached, except at midday.
In the summer, indeed, it was a blaze of
colour, the warmth and brightness of which
contrasted strangely with the rusty bars and
careless windows of the rooms on the same
level, which had once been the Castle dungeons.
If Roger Leyden had a weakness, he
used to say (as though astrology and archaeology
were to be counted as strong points) it
was for flowers that flourished in such old-world
and gloomy places, where they seemed
to shine like good deeds in a naughty world.

The chief apartment of the Castle was the
central room, an octagon with a stone roof;
and here, on an oak table, were spread
various ' finds,' in the shape of ancient relics,
which Koger had picked np in the neighbourhood.
Each was carefully numbered, and
bore a neat inscription setting forth the date
and place of its discovery. The sacredness of
this apartment (the only stone octagon in
the county) and its contents had, in the eyes
of their proprietor, no parallel in profane
history ; and woe to the visitor who fingered
brass or bone in an irreverent spirit I Nay,
woe even to the less sacrilegious who allowed
his attention to be distracted from the
records of the historic past while its owner
was dilating' on them I In such cases, the
lecture would suddenly change its form and
become a philippic.

The only person who was exempted from
these severities was Mrs. Meyrick. On that
good lady, clothed in the mail of good-natured
indifference, the whole armoury of
the past, from flint knives downwards, was

powerless to make the least impression ; and
Eoger had long given her up as incorrigible
and contumacious, but without that desire to
hand her over to the secular arm, to be burnt
alive, which most fanatics feel under such
circumstances : he only pitied her from the
bottom of this kindly heart.

On the present occasion she had accompanied
Miss Dart to the Castle from motives
of propriety (Mary Melburn remaining at
home to keep Matthew company), but had
left her in charge of her host at the entrance
of 'the museum,' as she persisted, to his
horror, in calling it.

1 only worry Roger, ni}^ dear, with tiny
ignorance about all these wonderful things,'
she whispered. ' It's no use his explaining
them to me, for what goes in at one ear goes
out at the other ; and I shall leave you to
have your mind improved for a few minutes
while I have a chat with old Rachel about
her cream cheeses.'

Old Rachel was Mr. Leyden's sole domestic,
and possessed the secret of making

the delicacies in question to perfection ; she
had revealed it in confidence to many of her
friends and neighbours, but, it was supposed,
with some reservation, since in their hands
the article never attained the same fulness of
success as in her own. The matter, however,
was so diplomatically managed that she still
continued to maintain both her popularity
and her reputation.

Mr. Roger Leyden's lecture was by no
means so formidable an affair as his audience
of one had been led to expect ; it was sententious
rather than diffusive, and mildly
explanatory instead of being dogmatic, and,
what was still more unexpected, his manner
gave her the impression of his being preoccupied
with something else. Had a spectator
been present, it is even probable that he
would have pronounced the disciple to have
been more interested in the matter on hand
than the demonstrator himself. Miss Dart,
who had never before seen a torque for
example, was eloquent in her praise of the
chaste and simple ornament. Her enthusiasm

seemed to please him, but without arousing a
kindred flame.

You understand what is worthy of
admiration he said, 'and express your
appreciation becomingly. Most young ladies
who see these things are seized with a desire
to try them on. I feel about that something
of what Walter Scott felt when the town
councillor (or somebody) would have placed
the old crown of Scotland on the head of a
lady visitor. The attraction of this armlet in
my eyes is that the last arm it rested on was
probably that of some Saxon or even ancient
Briton.'

It is curious,' observed Miss Dart, ' that
at this very day it is the custom, I hear,
among the golden youth of London to wear
torques, only they call them bangles.'

Vanity has as rank a growth in the light
soil as in the clay,' observed Mr. Ley den.
Virgil tells us that the Trojans wore these
ornaments when they colonised Italy ; they
were common, too, among the Persians and
the Gauls.'

^ Moreover,' observed Miss Dart, ' a great
portrait painter has left it on record that he
found his sitters of the male sex at least as
solicitous to be represented favourably as the
ladies

No doubt, no doubt,' returned the antiquary.
' Still, it is not every man who
wishes to have his portrait taken, which can
hardly be said of women. The torque, after
all, was an exceptional distinction, whereas
there is hardly a grave of any Roman lady
without its speculum and tweezers.'

No Roman remains, I suppose, have been
found on Battle Hill ? ' observed Miss Dart,
who, piqued, she knew not why, by her companion's
reticence, was desirous to hear him
discourse upon his favourite topic.

Nothing has been found save these few
coins of Egbert.'

^ And do you suppose that they form a
portion of some greater and undiscovered
treasure ? '

Certainly not,' he answered confidently ;
they were dropped there by accident, just

as you might lose a sixpence stooping in a
strawberry bed.'

There were no gold coins in Egbert's
reign, I believe ? '

^ No ; there was nothing made of gold buta
few ornaments, and the crosses and vessels
of the Church.'

He was regarding her with great attention,
yet with a far-away look, like one who
has his mind fixed both on the present and
the future. ' Surely now,' she thought to
herself, 'he is about to tell me of the
treasure.' It was not that the suspect had
much attraction for her, save in connection
with the man himself, who had awakened
in her as great an interest in his way as
Matthew Meyrick had in his. She felt as a
painter feels who happens upon some rare
and striking model, that he was no ordinary
study in human nature.

Miss Dart,' he said, with gravity, ' I
think myself fortunate in having this opportunity
of saying a few words to you
in private ; like Pilate's wife, I have had

a dream about you which troubles me
much.'

^ A dream ? — and about me ? ' she answered,
smiling. ' If a dream, as I have read, is the
consequence of having had its subject in our
waking thoughts, I ought to feel complimented.'

He waved his hand as though to dismiss
such trivialities as compliments from the
matter under discussion.

^ I have thought of you much ever since
I saw you first,' he went on ; ' but that
has naught to do with what I speak of.
Elizabeth Dart, I have cast your horoscope,
and the lord of the ascendant at your nativity
I find to be the sun. That, to begin with, is
a great matter, for against such fortunate
persons the malefic influence of the stars
avails but little.'

The stars in their courses hitherto, Mr.
Leyden, have, nevertheless, fought against
me and mine,' she answered, quietly. She
did not want to argue with him, but there
was something in her nature which forbade
her to humour even an innocent superstition ;

moreover, though her disposition was cheerful,
she lived in no fool's paradise. Her
thoughts had wandered to a certain lonely
lodging, where sat, after a life of honest toil,
a gentle woman, troubled by rheumatism,
waiting for an old age of poverty and pain.

I know it, I know it,' he answered, confidently
; ' but it will not always be so. In
this dream of mine I tell you I beheld the sun
environed by the twelve signs, save Pisces,
which was defective.'

^ Fish is a luxury, which accounts for it,'
thought Miss Dart.

Only the sun — now mark this — was nine
times bigger than the true sun, which denotes
a corresponding increase in your estate.'

That will give me a capital of 90/.,'
observed Miss Dart, smiling, for I have
just got 10/. which I can call my own.'

^ Peace, peace ! ' he answered, reprovingly,
and in solemn tones. 'I tell you it is appointed
that you will be immensely rich.
Wealth will be no curse to you as it is to
the majority of its possessors, for you will

make good use of it ; yon will remember the
TTidow and the orphan. . . . My dear Mrs.
Meyrick,' he broke off as that lady entered
the room, ^ Miss Dart began to think you
would never come ; she is sick and tired of
my antiquarian lore, and longs to be at home
with Matthew and Mary.'

It was clear to Miss Dart that she had
offended her singular host, and yet the
apology she would have offered was difficult
to make.

It would have been impossible for her to
express belief in horoscopes or the auguries
of dreams ; moreover, it was plain from the
old man's words that he wished no reference
to be made in the presence of a third person
to the subject of their conversation. ' I am
very sorry to have shown myself such a
sceptic, Mr. Ley den,' she murmured, as they
shook hands.

^No matter, I am used to beg discredited
was his quiet rejoinder.

CHAPTER XIX.

AN EDITOR.

Everybody, not in the first flight of fashion
and ignorance, must remember the sensation
caused by the first appearance of the ' Millennium
Review ' — nay, even fashionable people
deigned to notice the existence of that phenomenon,
when, after rising like a rocket through
the literary empyrean to an unparalleled altitude,
it remained there emitting showers of
wit and fancy. It was published, of course,
(to supply an obvious void in literature) ; the
wonder was that it found one and succeeded
in filling it. Some one said that it was suggested
by the well-known lament of the divine
who enlarged the sphere of ecclesiastical harmonies,
that ' the devil should have all the
best tunes.' At all events, its declared object

was to enlist under the banner of Orthodoxy
certain talents, such as wit and humour, which
had hitherto been retained by the other side.
Only, from the nature of things, it was necessary
that the Orthodox should be exceeding
broad. From the High and Dry, therefore,
this publication could look but for little sympathy,
and still less from the Evangelical party.
But between high water mark and low-water
mark opinions are plentiful as sand and various
as shells, and it was to this section of the reading
public that the ' Millennium ' appealed. The
editor of this new venture, one Felix Argand,
was a man of character. His opinions within
certain not very clearly defined limits were
audacious, and he had the courage of his
opinions. Contrary to the advice of his
friends, he had invested all the money he had
in the world in this literary speculation. In
vain had they judiciously pointed out that the
brain worker and the wire-puller were dramatis
personae which should never be undertaken by
the same individual ; since, if once the grit of
worry gets into the delicate wheels of intellect,

VOL. II. c

there ensues disaster. Argand answered, ' I
know it, but I must be entirely untrammelled
in this affair, or I shall sink like a stone.'

They watched his proceedings with a smile
of compassion, and — it seemed, with that
Millennium ' round his neck, like a miracle
they beheld him float. Success assured, at
all events for the present, he became the
prey of quite another set of advisers. For
himself they cared nothing, but they were
earnestly desirous to make use of his enterprise
for the advocacy of their theories. ' In some
respects the principles of the millennium"
were so admirable,' they said ; ' what a pity
it is you suffer it to fall short of perfection.'
The High Church party entreated him to become
" a bulwark." A great and venerable
authority offered to contribute an article upon
the ' Translations of Bishops.'

'Dear and reverend sir,' he replied, 'you
mistake the nature of the question that the
public is putting to itself. It is not whether
there shall be any more Translations, but anymore
Originals.'

The venerated (and titled) head of the
Evangelical party besought him in moving
terms to remember that philanthropic endeavour
without dogmatic faith was only one
of the million roads to the everlasting bonfire.


^ My lord,' he replied, ' I admire your.
philanthropic exertions beyond everything ;
but it seems to me that you have made a
religion for yourself out of the worst parts
of Theology.'

Felix Argand was one of the gentlest -
natured men that ever took pen in hand ;
but he resented dictation, and had a habit
of expressing himself epigrammatically. His
personal appearance was striking : tall and
thin, with flowing hair and eloquent brown
eyes, he had the appearance of a religious
enthusiast ; but though ingenuous and frank
to a fault, and cordial (where he liked people)
in a remarkable degree, he was well acquainted
with human nature ; not easily deceived, and
never deceived twice by the same arts ; with
a tongue smooth and gentle, but sharp on

occasion like a razor, he held his own against
all comers. Though his aim was nothing less
than the regeneration of society, he entertained
no false hopes of its accomplishment. To leave
the world better than he found it was his
highest expectation. His heart was tender
towards all who were worthy of compassion ;
but cold as steel towards the base. The
coquetting of the humanitarians with the
cruel aroused his bitterest contempt ; and
servility and sycophancy his keenest ridicule.
With Whig or Tory he had no
sympathy ; the utter independence of party
politics exhibited by the ' Millennium '
was one of its specialties ; and, though a
spiritual tone pervaded it, it was wholly
sectarian.

Though Felix Argand had taken the
highest honours at Oxford, he had derived
no material advantage from them, since his
peculiar principles had forbidden him to accept
the terms on which alone a Fellowship could,
at that time, be obtained. His reputation,
however, had preceded him to town, whereby

that circle which still concerns itself
with University matters, while it does its
work in the larger literary world, he was
warmly welcomed. With such exceptional
advantages, his talents soon obtained recognition,
if within a somewhat limited sphere ;
and his pen gained him an income which,
supplemented by some small private means of
his own, was amply sufficient for his needs.
This source of support, however, in a short
time became precarious — not from any falling
off m the value of his contributions, but from
the views expressed in them. Editors complained
that he was angular — a fatal bar to
eminence in journalism ; and the application
of the smoothing-iron was borne with impatience.
His mind, though not, perhaps, very
logical, was essentially original. Some said
he was not ' quiet in harness ' ; but others
went further, and averred that he was not
adapted either for riding or driving, but, like
the wild horse of the Ukraine, fit only to
rove at will, or at best, to take part in those
Roman races which are run without saddle or

bridle, with the spur of his own imagination
pricking his sides.

Of course, he was pronounced unpractical ;
and, indeed, he was so in the sense that he
could find no groove to fit him ; but, with
less reason, it was deplored that he was
utterly ignorant of the world. Felix Argand,
indeed, concerned himself not so much with
the doings of the world as with its thinking
; but the latter he made his particular
study, and became surprisingly familiar with
it. He possessed an unusual share of human
sympathy, and a manner that invited confidence.
With the opinions of philosophers
and sages mankind is well acquainted, for
they can be read in books ; but with the
views of our own friends and neighbours,
regarding matters that are out of the sphere
of their everyday existence, we rarely think
it worth our while to inquire. Teachers and
preachers imagine that in providing them
with doctrine they have inspired conviction and
supplied them with faith. Felix Argand had
the intelligence to perceive that this was not the

case. He learnt that among a large minority
of ordinary thinkers the great principles of
Belief survive in the ashes of Dogma ; the
^ Millennium ' was addressed to readers as far
removed from Orthodoxy as from Agnosticism,
and found its public. The success accomplished
was great and immediate ; but
its peculiarity lay in its personal character.
The originator of this enterprise, who had
been hitherto only a moderately well-known
figure in London life, became a personage
and a power. He was still young, which
increased the marvel ; and even younger in
heart than in years. He sympathised with
the youthful doubter, with the budding
poet, with the thinker who had just burst
the shell ; he read every contribution, or
some part of it, with his own eye ; it is not
surprising, therefore, that as his good-nature
got to be understood his correspondence became
considerable; and yet it was said that
he never left a letter unanswered.

Of course, he was immensely laughed at.
Editors of a more practical kind did not

hesitate to aver that he had a bee in his
bonnet, though they acknowledged that it was
a working bee. Such unparalleled amenity
could only be explained by a hankering after
popularity, and Avhat made his conduct still
more reprehensible was that he gained his
end. Such dereliction from professional practice
it was, however, a comfort to think must
bring its own punishment. Like the lady
who betrayed the city and was smothered
with bracelets, he must presently be consumed
by the gratitude of his correspondents,
and it did in fact consume some hours daily
of his precious time.

Of Felix Argand, even Elizabeth Dart, in
the land of the Philistines, had dimly heard ;
but only once had she held in her hand a
copy of the ' Millennium ' ; it was not a sort
of periodical to be found in a lady's school,
or lying on the drawing-room table of a house
like Burrow Hall ; and it cost five shillings.
This was in her case a prohibitive price. Still,
she had seen it, had turned over the leaves of
an old number exposed on a book stall, and

wished that she had a shilling to spare with
which to purchase it. But the Court of Chancery
within her, in the shape of Conscience,
had sternly decided that the * Millennium ' was
not a necessary, but a luxury. She understood
the nature of the publication in a vague
and imperfect way, much as she had learnt
that of its editor, and she entertained a
sincere admiration for them both.

Once or twice, indeed, of late years, when
stirred by a certain yearning which has been
hinted at, she had taken her courage in both
hands and sat down to address this unknown
friend to whose attention the love of literature
was said to be a password, but the letter had
never been sent. The very fact that his door was
so frequently on its hinge to all applicants had
deterred her. It was not vanity and egotism
after all which, under pretence of modesty,
impelled her to join the throng. But now,
when the matter was no longer a personal
one, and this friendly hand might be of some
service to another, she had no such scruple
in entreating its guidance. She resolved to

apply to Felix Argand on behalf of Matthew
Meyrick.

Her pen, though as well practised in
private as a two-years old racer, was not so
fast; it could hardly be called that of a
ready writer ; though far from fastidious, she
was never content with a good word when
a better seemed wanting ; and she shrank,
above all things, from inflicting her tedious -
ness upon any correspondent. In this case
it was essential to be brief, and yet there was
so much to say. As to her own judgment of
Matthew's talent, she put it aside as though
it were worthless ; she inclosed two of his
poems, the one he had given her, and ' The
Children ' (of which she obtained a copy
from Mary without, however, revealing the
use to which she intended to put it), and let
them speak for themselves. But she described
in a few touching lines the circumstances of
the poet, his youth, his poverty, his incurable
disease, and the happiness which encouragement
from the hand to which she was
appealing would confer upon him; above

all things, she pleaded for the truth: if
he thought there was a real promise in the
young man's productions, she entreated him to
say so. There were no compliments (though
she might conscientiously have used compliments)
save that implied in her confidence of
getting a reply. Being, for a woman, exceptionably
reasonable, she did not expect an answer
for some days. She received one, however,
at the end of forty-eight hours, in a hand
perfectly legible, but which gave the impression
of its having run away with the writer.

Dear Madam,' it ran —

^ The specimens you have sent me of your
young friend's muse are full of promise, and
even give some performance. I return the
MSS. by another post, lest the sight of them,
as implying rejection, should unnecessarily
disappoint you. The fact is, though there is
no bar to the admission of verse into its
columns, the '' Millennium " has as yet printed
none, and ^' The Children " is hardly of sufficient
merit to lead the van. On the other

hand, I thought so highly both of it and its
companion poem that I offered them to my
friend the editor of the " Parthenon," and he
has accepted both. One, " On an Old Harpsichord,"
will appear in the next number of his
magazine, and here it is in type. I know
from experience that there is nothing like
seeing himself in print for encouraging a
young author, and I hope this will have the
happy effect on your protege which you seem
to expect. On the other hand, I need scarcely
tell you that his hopes must not be raised too
high. His circumstances and opportunities,
we must remember, though disadvantageous
enough from a practical point of view, have
in reality been propitious to the development
of this particular talent of verse-making. His
music is but the echo of the strains of others,
and this present poem would never have been
written had not Locker sung before him.
Nevertheless, whosoever fails to recognise its
merits is incapable of judging such matters.
You must allow me to add that whatever
sympathy I feel for this young man is far

exceeded bv the interest which has been excited
in me by the letter of his introducer.
I say nothing of the tenderness and good
feeling which prompted it — for editors, you
know, have nothing to do with sentiment. I
am referring solely to the perfection of its
composition, which does you, madam, something
beyond credit.

^ The modest silence you maintain upon
your own affairs makes it somewhat difficult
for me to address you upon the subject, but 1
wish to say that if you have yourself any
desire to join the army of Captain Pen, the
"Millennium" would be willing at least to
favourably consider the application of such a
recruit. At all events, I forward the six last
numbers of the review for your guidance in
such a case.

I am, madam, yours sincerely,

Felix Akgaxd.'

As Elizabeth Dart read this letter, her
limbs trembled, her face grew pale, and her
whole being experienced a shock of delight.

It was as if a door had suddenly opened to
her into a heaven of which she had often
dreamt, but which she had had no expectation
of entering. It seemed to her that this man
had read her very souL The next moment
she blushed with shame at her own involuntary
but unaccustomed egotism. What ought
to have given her most pleasure was surely
not the encouragement addressed to herself,
but to Matthew. What delight — nay, what
benefit — would such gracious praise afford
him ! How enchanted would he be to see his
verses in the ' Parthenon,' where only poems of
exceptional merit were, she knew, admitted !
How kind it was of Mr. Argand to have
caused a proof to be struck for him ! How
much better the little poem read in print than
it had done in manuscript !

ON AN OLD HARPSICHORD.

Its varnish cracked, its paintings scarred,
Its dainty gilding sadly marred,

And turned to dingy umber,
It stands forlorn, a waif or stray
Of glories long since passed away —

An ancient piece of lumber.

What more ? And yet low rich it is,
This harpsichord in memories

And quaint associations,
Recalling that far time, when still
High birth and title had their will,

And kings were more than nations.

Alien gallants wore the true grand air —
And wigs by half a morning's care

Made wondrous smooth and sheeny —
And, while the perfumed pinch they took,
Lisped languid rhapsodies on Gluck

Or may be on Picking.

I touch the keys— the startled chord
Can scarce a weak response afford,

That wakes a low vibration
Among the slackened palsied strings :
A feeble spell, and yet it brings

A magic transformation.

An antique aspect veils the place —
A weird, oppressive, ghostly grace

That almost makes one tremble ;
A mystic light pervades the air.
Faint footfalls gather on the stair,

The belles and beaux assemble.

The belles and beaux ? Alas, the ghosts,
Thin shadows of once reigning toasts,

And heroes of the duel.
They smile, they chatter, they parade,
They rustle in superb brocade.

They shine with many a jewel.

They flirt their fans with pretty airs,
They tap their precious tabatieres.

They smooth their ruffles grandly ;
While here and there an exquisite
Lets fall his studied stroke of wit,

And waits for plaudits blandly.

The harpsichord is quavering soon
A minuet's slow triplet tune :

A courtly powdered couple,
All formal graces, bend and slide,
With curtsies marvellously wide,

And bows politely supple.

The tune is changed : with graceful ease
Fair spirit fingers sweep the keys,

A spirit voice is trilling ;
The passionate * Che faro ? ' strain
Comes like a half-heard cry of pain

From some far distance thrilling.

The lights go out ; the voices die ;
Among the strings strange tremors fly,

That slowly sink to slumber :
The harpsichord remains alone,
A monument of glories done —

An ancient piece of lumber.

It was an echo, no doubt ; but it was also
full of echoes of that picturesque past which
it was intended to portray. And then the
writer was but a boy. For the moment she
pictured to herself the intense pleasure she
would have in showing him his first-born in

its robe of print ; but only for a moment.
There was one who would have a still greater
pleasure in so doing, and to lier she would
delegate that grateful task : Mary Melburn
should be the messenger of this good tidings.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XX.

GOOD NEWS.

The connection between our physical and
spiritual natures is not yet understood, or
tonics would not so often be prescribed for the
dispirited. A piece of good news is often
more beneficial to the invalid than all the steel
and iron in the chemist's shop. If this truth
were accepted, it is possible that cheerfulness
and kindness would more commonly enter into
the treatment of those volunteer physicians of
the human race who, to judge by their teaching,
know no other specific for our woes than
the patience to bear them ; if it were not,
indeed, more easy to preach philosophy than
to offer comfort, and especially so infinitely
cheaper, it would be surprising that so obvious
a remedy should be neglected. Could Felix
Argand have been aware of the pleasure his

letter and its contents diffused at the Lookout,
he would have thought it worth his while
for to see others happy was a great enjoyment
to him — to have journeyed thither to
witness it. It pervaded the whole atmosphere
of life there like a perfume.

First, as we have seen, it transported
Elizabeth Dart to the seventh heaven, realising
— or bringing within measurable distance
of realisation — what had hitherto been but a
dream, making the merely possible probable,
and giving wings to hope. Very exaggerated
sentiments, it may be thought, to arise in
any woman from so slight a cause. Yet to
some natures the opportunity of telling their
thoughts to the world is at least as attractive
as that of shutting themselves out from it in
monasteries and nunneries is to others. The
impulse is an exceptional one in both cases —
much more so in the former than in the latter
but when it exists it is very powerful.
Sooner or later the swollen tarn will find, of
course, a way for itself ; but in its mountain
home, afar from stream and river, it lies

ignorant of this law of its being, and welcomes
the first outlet with exuberant joy. At the
same time, nothing could be more foreign to
the character of Elizabeth Dart than that desire
of rushing into print which, so far from being
an exceptional impulse, is nowadays the most
common form of vanity. That enterprise,
undertaken commonly with so light a heart,
and solely or chiefly with the idea of personal
gratification, was invested in her eyes with a
certain solemnity and a sense of responsibility
at which, perhaps, Mr. Felix Argand himself
would have smiled. She felt none of that
eagerness for immediate action which seizes
upon most aspirants for literary fame under
similar circumstances. She was well content
to wait as before ; but not, as before, without
reason for the hope — nay, the faith — that was
within her. She was like one who, having
once become assured of her lover's affectionis
in no hurry for its fruition, but is satisfied
with ' a long engagement.' It behoved her
now to consider whether the thoughts that
had so often blossomed in her mind, and some

of wliicli lie had, with more or less of adequacy,
set down on paper, would bear transplanting
and the open air. Upon the whole,
her happiness, though great, was very sober
and subdued.

The reception of her good news by Mary
to whom, however, she had only shown so
much of Mr. Argand's letter as referred to
Matthew — was of a very different character.

How very, very, very good of you it was,
dear Lizzie ! ' she cried, with sparkling eyes,
and how like you, to have thought of writing
to Mr. What's-his-name about dear Mat I And
how delighted he will be ! How I should like
to see his face when he first sees his beautiful
poem in print ! '

You will certainly have that gratification,
since it is you who shall show it to him.'

Oh, Lizzie, that would not be fair! ' she
murmured hesitatingly ; ' it is you who have
done it all. I am much too stupid to have
thought of such a thug, and much too frightened
of editors to have dared to do it, even
if I had thought of it. I wish I was clever

and courageous like you. I wish — oh, how
I wish — it was I who had done this for
Matthew ! '

The tears came into Mary's eyes as she
uttered this aspiration.

^ Lizzie,' she added, gravely, ' you are
much more worthy of him than I am.'

The governess laughed aloud, and executed
an elaborate curtsey.

^ I am well aware, my dear,' she said, ' that
you have paid me the highest compliment that
is in your power to bestow ; do not, however,
work yourself into a state of jealousy, for
which, I do assure you, there is no ground.
What, I suppose, we both desire is to give
your cousin as much pleasure from this occurrence
as possible ; and as it is quite clear that
good news from your lips would be much
better news to him than from mine, from yours
it must come.'

Then the two girls made a confidante of
Mrs. Meyrick. She was not a lady much
given to literature ; but next to David — who
possessed, however, an unfair advantage in

being inspired — she had always believed in
Matthew as the greatest poet that ever lived.
When she saw his verses in print, she was
quite sure of this. Under these circumstances,
it was creditable that she did not
ascribe his success entirely to his own merits.

You are a dear girl. Miss Dart,' she
said, embracing her ; * most people who had
screwed their courage up to make such an
application to a stranger would have done
so on their own account, and not for a poor
crippled boy.'

I never thought of that,' said Mary,
penitently.

But I had no poem to send,' observed
Miss Dart, smiling.

• You might have written one, if you had
thought of it,' asserted Mrs. Meyrick, confidently,
as though a poem was a postscript.

It was amazing how small a circumstance
had made these three women happy, and also
made one of them so dear to the others.

Presently, Mary tripped into the Pavilion,
where Matthew, as usual, when it was not

the children's morning,' was polishing u]) a
poem.

' I am coming to interrupt you,' was her
audacious observation.

He put his pen aside with a pleasant
smile, and answered, gallantly, ' I wish life
were made u^ of such interruptions.'

I dare say you do. But I have brought
you a present.'
A present ? '

Yes ; you must guess what it is. What
is it you would like best in all the world ? '

He gazed at her bright face and sparkling
eyes with wonder.

That is a very large order,' he answered,
playfully. ' I am not sure that just now I
have it in stock.'

Think, think,' she went on, with eager
excitement ; ' what is it that is most often in
your mind ? What is the dream of your life,
which sou, nevertheless, have been convinced
would never be accomplished ? '

He shook his head, but not like one who
gives up a riddle ; there was a piteous yearning'

in his face which told what he would like

o

best only too well, since it was plain that he
would never get it. Mary was sobered m a
moment.

^ Why, Matthew, how dense you are ! ' she
exclaimed, m a changed voice. ' Is it not
fame that you are always thinking about ? —
and here it is, or at least the beginning of it,'
and she held out the printed poem. The
colour rushed to the young author's cheeks.

What is this ? How comes this about ? '

Through dear Lizzie Dart. You gave
her the MS., you know, and she sent it to
some friend in London, who has put it into
the " Parthenon ; " is it not kind of her ? '

It is more than kind ; but she told me
that she had no literary friends.'

True, I am doing her less than justice.
It was to a stranger, a Mr. Argand, that she
wrote, pointing out how beautiful your poems
were, only that you were too modest to think
them worth printing ; in which you see she
was quite right. She will tell you all about it
presently, only she thought it would give you

greater pleasure because I am your cousin,
and — and — so on, to hear the first news from
me.'

In which, again, as you say, she was quite
right,' said Matthew, earnestly.

And don't they look nice in print. Mat ;
and are you not pleased ? ' inquired Mary,
hurriedly.

Yes, yes ; I should be ungrateful indeed,'
he murmured ; then added, inconsequently,
we cannot expect to get everything we want
in this world.'

Not at first, of course not ; but, as Lizzie
says, now that you have once got your foot
in, it will be your own fault if you do not
keep the door open ; and the " Parthenon " is
such a high-class paper.'

From the bottom of her heart did Mary
wish that her good news had been intrusted
to a more discreet messenger than herself. If
it had been Lizzie, or indeed anybody else,
Matthew would have thought only of the
verses ; but those unfortunate words she had
used, ' What would you like best in all the

world ? ' had drawn his mid away to another
subject, which, though well understood by
both, it had been tacitly agreed between them
should never be alluded to. She would always
love him with a love far beyond that of a
sister ; but brother and sister they needs must
be. How deplorable it was that he should
thus permit himself to repine at the inevitable
! It was surely much harder for her,
since in all probability she would outlive him:
and now to bewail his loss, to ignore the relations
that existed between them — how cruel
as well as foolish it was in him ! But no ; his
lot, after all, was harder than hers, and her
heart smote her for the unuttered reproach.
As he turned slowly on his crutch to the window,
and looked out in silence on the grey
and gloomy sea, it was an immense relief to
her that when he spoke again it was upon the
matter in hand.

I have heard something of this Mr.
Argand,' he said ; ' he is said to take an
exceptional interest in young writers.'

But only, I suppose, when he sees there

is something in them. I don't see why you
should depreciate yourself in that way

I am not for a wonder, thinking of myself
just now at all, Mary. I am thinking
of Mr. Argand and Miss Dart. Here are two
people who have gone out of their way — Miss
Dart a great deal out of her way, for it must
have cost her much to address him, a total
stranger — to do another a great kindness, and
here am I, a selfish cripple, doing nothing for
others, and always bemoaning myself.'

Mat, be silent,' interrupted the girl, vehemently.
' I will not listen to you. You shall
not say such things.'

Nevertheless, they are true, my dear.
Perhaps, if through this opportunity I should
get something to do, matters may mend with
me in this respect. In that case, it will be
hard to overrate the benefit it will confer
upon me.'

The reflection was wise, but unwholesome,
because unnatural. Such self-consciousness
in one so young could hardly have arisen in a
healthy mind. ' And I tell you what, dear,'

he contmiiecl, gravely, ' there is some one here
who has found this out. Some one who
is vastly superior to me, though I have
been used to think so highly of my own
talents.'

That is ridiculous ; mere mock modesty,
Mat,' put m Mary, confidently. ' Mr. Leyden
is very clever in his way, but his wits are not
with miles of yours.'

I am not by any means sure of that ; but
I am not thinking of Roger, I am speaking of
Miss Dart. I believe she knows me, Mary,
as thoroughly as you do ; and even better in
some ways. Under pretence of hearing other
people's ideas, she suggests them, and reads
their characters like a book. Xow, if Mr.
Argand could get lur to write for him, it is
my conviction he would draw a prize.'

That's just what your mother says,'
replied Mary, laughing ; ' and I am sure
Lizzie is very talented, and all that, but she
is very weak in some things in which, as I am
sure, no really very clever woman could be.'

In what things ? '

Well, I am not quite at liberty to say ;
but mamma, who lias sharp eyes for such
matters, you know, is quite of my opinion.
In particular, I think you are wrong about
Miss Dart being a judge of character.'

Indeed,' said Matthew, thoughtfully.
Now that surprises me very much. I mean
your mother's having expressed such an
opinion of Miss Dart.'

You think she is wrong,' said Mary,
smiling.

I am sure she is wrong.'

Well, time will show. If it shows you
are right, so much the better. We shall not
grudge you your superior wisdom. Good
Heavens ! there is Jefferson.'

In truth, at that moment there appeared
on the steps leading from the parlour, side by
side with Mrs. Meyrick, the Major himself.

I can't see him, I can't see him,' exclaimed
Matthew, vehemently. ' I am not
well enough this morning to see anybody.'

And you want a nurse,' said Mary,
gravely. 'I don't think I should be justified

in leaving yon for any length of time — say,
more than five minutes.'

'I suppose he will stay to luncheon
sighed ]matthew.

Your mother, of course, will have to ask
him to do so. Here are we plotting to evade
an unwelcome visitor with never a thought
for the poor hostess, for whom there is no
escape.'

Immediately, too, after one of us has
made a solemn vow to abjure selfishness and
lead a new life,' added Matthew, penitently.
However, as one must stop somewhere, I
suppose, even in a career of perfection, it
is surely permissible to draw the line at
Jefferson. But I do pity the dear mother.'

Perhaps she will find somebody to take
him off her hands,' said Mary, drily.

What, Roger ? Xever ! He detests him
even more than — I mean he has no better
opinion of him than we have.'

Xo, not Roger. Look yonder.'

The Major, standing on the top step, had
suddenly wheeled round, and. with beaming

smile, extended his hand to Miss Dart, whose
face reflected the pleasure in his own.

Great Heavens ! ' ejaculated Matthew.
Do you really mean to say she likes him ? '

^ Most certainly she does ; that is what
makes me a little doubtful of her intuition.
At first it made mamma doubtful of Lizzie ;
but it is only because she is hoodwinked and
infatuated.'

It is impossible ! ' ejaculated Matthew.

It is not only possible, but it is the case,'
answered Mary, earnestly. ' Nor is it really
to be wondered at. It is difficult for you and
me to regard the matter from poor Lizzie's
point of view. He has made himself exceedingly
agreeable ever since she came to us ;
and he can be very agreeable when he pleases ;
and, indeed, I really believe, so far as he is
capable of affection for any one but himself, he
is actually in love with her.'

But that makes it so much worse, I mean
for her,' exclaimed Matthew, mournfully. ' It
is shameful ; it is cruel ; why have you not
opened her eyes to his real character ? '

How little you know of our sex ! ' replied
Mary, gently. ' That would be the very way
to strengthen his position with her. Once or
twice I have ventured to throw out a hint to
her in the most delicate manner, but she has
instantly darted away from the subject like a
fish who sees the line in the sunshine. Don't
think me hard on dear Lizzie, Mat, for I like
her as much as you do ; except for this, there
is the most perfect confidence between us ;
bat indeed, indeed, she must find Jefferson
out for herself.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXL

AN UNWELCOME VISITOR.

Events, like misfortunes, seldom come singly.
The course of human life is that of a ship ;
most of it is passed on the wide ocean without
a sail in sight, or an occurrence by which to
mark a days The storm and the leak and the
wreck commonly come together, and the fair
islands, at which we gladly touch, in clusters.
The letter from ]mr. Argand formed an
epoch in Elizabeth Dart's existence, and,
indeed, promised to change the course of it.
Such an incident might well have seemed
sufficient to vary ' the level waste of rounded
grey ' that formed her life for many days to
come, yet on the very morning on which it
happened occurred Major Melburn's visit, an
event much less unexpected but not inferior
to it in interest.

She had come down from her room intending
to join Mary in the Passion and to offer
her congratulations to Matthew, when, on
entering the dining-room, she saw Mrs. Merrick
standing at the open window with, as she
thought, a stranger. But the Major, being on
the look-out for her, had quicker eyes, and,
before she could withdraw, addressed her.
She felt the colour fly to her cheek as she
returned his oTeetinsr, and her heart o-ave a
flutter of joy. How handsome and pleasant
he looked, and, in comparison with his hostess,
as she could not help remarking, how completely
at his ease. That Mrs. Meyrick and
Matthew did not like him she had assessed
from the silence they maintained about him :
in their case, since they were his Ijlood relations,
it was less explicable than in the case of
Mrs. Melburn and her daughter, but doubtless
they had espoused the latter' s cause. But if
the Major had been Mrs. Meyrick's favourite
nephew he could not have appeared more at
home with her. This complete self-possession,
which Miss Dart had noticed more than once.

t: 2

UNIVERSITY OF

illinois library.

and under much more trying circumstances,
lead always excited her admiration.

She herself was by no means without self-command,
but she knew her difficulties in
maintaining it ; her nature was, indeed, exceedingly
emotional, and such delicate organisations
are attracted by their opposites as the
needle by the iron. There could be no question,
indeed, as to the attractive qualities of
Major Melburn generally. Not even those
most prejudiced against him could affect to
wonder what any woman could see in him
to admire. He was not only good-looking,
which always goes for something with the
female sex, though for not so much as with
the male, but distinguished-looking. His
air and manner were striking, and gave that
suggestion of reserve force which it is so
easy for those who are its possessors to
exaggerate and magnify. Without giving the
least impression of effort, he always seemed
superior to his company. His store of information
was in truth but scanty, yet he husbanded
it and used it with such effect at the

right moment that it seemed ample. Of books,
indeed, he professed to know but little — a
very small blemish in Miss Dart's eyes, who
had had some reason to doubt the excellences
of mere learning ; but he exhibited a knowledge
of life she the more admired, since it
produced apparently an indifference to position
and degree. It was to that, quite as
much as to kindness of heart, that she set
down his friendly behaviour to herself, and
the equal footing on which he had placed her
from the first. Her natural astuteness was
not indeed blunted, but, as it were, sheathed,
when she endeavoured to regard him critically,
and even this was very seldom, for his
friendly way disarmed her. Though dimly
conscious of her own talents, she was free
from personal vanity, and utterly unaccustomed
to the attentions of the other sex. It
never entered her mind that Major Melburn
had been first attracted to her by her beauty,
and that all * other graces had followed in
their proper places,' which, in his table of
precedence, stood far below it.

It was one of those cases, rare in love
affairs, where lookers-on see more of the game
than the players, or, at all events, than one of
them : and it was certainly no idle boast of
Mary Melbnrn's that if she had pleased, or
rather, if it had been judicious to do so, she
could have opened her friend's eyes. It must
be admitted, however, that Mary had known
the Major's game for many years.

Have you any news from Mrs. Mel-burn
? ' inquired Miss Dart, a question which
of itself betrayed the confusion of mind which
his visit had produced in her ; for if she had
had the power to think, and had not been
moved merely by the desire to say something
objective and apart from her own concerns,
she would have known that he was the last
person likely to be informed on such a matter.
It was characteristic in him that instead of
evading the inquiry he met it point blank.

Well, the fact is,' he answered, smiling,
my stepmother and I are not very constant
correspondents ; I don't think, in fact, she
has ever favoured me with a note in my life ;

and, as to the governor, his letters from
abroad have all been addressed to the bailiff.
You know his ways, Mrs. Meyrick ; he is
always afraid of his land running away in his
absence, though indeed that phenomenon is
sometimes known to take place under the very
eyes of its proprietor,' concluded the Major,
cheerfully.

^ Christopher always liked to look after
things himself,' observed Mrs. Meyrick, apologetically.
' He has such a pride in the estate,
because it has been in the family so long.'

It is a pity it does not increase iu value
with time, like wine.' observed the Major,
drily. ' All the landlords are beg ruined,
you know, Mrs. Meyrick.'

His tone was mildly explanatory, like that
of a grown-up person addressing a child ; it
was certainly not unkind, yet it seemed to
affect the widow as though she had received
a reproof.

I do not doubt it, indeed, Jefferson,' she
replied. ' Xevertheless, hard times are never
so hard for the rich as for the poor.'

I am not so sure of tliat/ he mused,
Poor people grow callous to their trouble
like the hand of toil.'

'Like the much-smitten back to stripes,
you should rather say,' put in Miss Dart,
quickly. ' They are not to be less pitied,
surely, because unmerited disaster pursues
them with persistence.'

Certainly not,' admitted the Major,
gently. ' I only meant in a vague way that
sometimes the wind is tempered to the shorn
lamb. Perhaps it isn't ; it may be that it
is only selfishness which causes us to minimise
the troubles we do not share, or share in
less degree.'

He looked so penitent that Miss Dart
quite repented of her sharp rejoinder. If the
Major was a little thoughtless, or at times
exhibited too much of the harshness of the
soldier, he always came to the right conclusion
on reflection. If this change seemed to be
effected by a gentle reminder from herself,
it was not the less gratifying to her ; but
the same result would, doubtless, have been

attained had any one else taken the trouble to
question his views. As it happened, no one
did take the trouble ; his position was, unfortunately,
an isolated one ; and, indeed, it
really seemed that no one understood hin, or
appreciated what was good in him, except herself.
It was not vanity that caused her to
arrive at this conclusion, but the testimony of
his own words.

I dare say I am an unsatisfactory individual,'
he had once said to her ; ' but it
must be owned that there has not been much
patience wasted on me at home.' Miss Dart
admitted to herself that the Major was not
wholly satisfactory ; but she thought he might
have been made so bv more kind and judicious
treatment, and pitied him. Though no one,
as she had told him, had breathed a word
against him to her, it was plain that he was a
favourite with none of the family. either at
Burrow Hall or at the Look-out. ' Where
is Mary ? ' he inquired, presently, of his
hostess.

She is in the Pavilion, with Matthew. I

am not certain that lie is well enough to-day
to see a visitor.'

The tremulousness of poor Mrs. Meyrick's
tone was touching. It was plain that her
simple nature was very ill-qualified for deception
; but Matthew did so dislike Jefferson,
and it was so important that the invalid should
not be irritated or distressed. Her embarrassment,
however, did not at the moment attract
Miss Dart's attention so much as the laconic
and unsympathetic character of her reply. Mrs. .
Meyrick, she knew, was incapable of hardness
in the ordinary sense ; and yet it was hard,
when a brother asked after a sister, whom presumably,
too, he had come over expressly to
see, for her, in indirect but still unmistakable
terms, to be denied him. The Major smiled,
with a half-glance at the governess, which
seemed to say, ' You sec how they treat me,'
and answered, quietly, ' I was in hopes she
might be induced to take a turn with me
on the pier.'

You will see her at luncheon, you know,'
said Mrs. Meyrick, doubtfully.

I cannot stay for luncheon,' was his dry
rejoinder ; ^ and, besides, I wanted to say a
few words to her in private. Perhaps you
will kindly tell her that ? '

Mrs. Meyrick assented by a nod, and at
once went off to the Pavilion ; but with a look
that by no means boded hopefully for the
success of her mission.

• It is charming to find oneself so beloved
by one's family, is it not, Miss Dart ? ' said
the Major, laughing, as soon as they were left
alone.

If I thought what I conclude you mean,'
she answered, gravely, ' I should think it no
laus^hino- matter,'

'But. then, I am used to be snubbed
When I remarked, just now, that the experience
of calamity produced philosophy, I was
severely reproved for it ; but there is really
something in it.'

I have no doubt your sister will come outwith
you,' said Miss Dart, ' or, at all events,
give you that opportunity of speaking to her
which you desire.'

There was a scholastic nng m the sentence,
always observable in Miss Dart's utterances
when they were of an artificial kind. She
had not quite the confidence in Mary's acquiescence
which she had expressed ; but it
seemed so necessary to say something conciliatory
and calculated to make matters less unpleasant.


You are very sanguine,' he answered,
quietly. ^ I know all these good people better
than you do. It does not seem much to ask, it
is true ; bat you will see that it is too much.'

'Let us hope not.'

By all means. If, however, my view
turns out to be the correct one, may I venture
to ask the same favour of yourself —
namely, five minutes' private conversation ?
What I have to say to Mary,' he went on,
hurriedly, perceiving his companion looked
embarrassed, ' can be said to her with equal
force by a third person ; but it is most important
that it should be said. Mrs. Meyrick
is coming back to us. If the reply is " Nay,"
will you be at the pier-head in twenty minutes

or so ? — it is the only means I have of getting
speech with yon.'

If he had proposed a meeting on their own
account, it was probable Miss Dart would have
declined it, though she had as little of the prude
about her as of the flirt, but she could hardly
refuse to act as intermediary between Mary
and himself : even if he had exasperated the
importance of what he had to say, she might
still, in declining to hear it, be throwing away
the chance of reuniting brother and sister, or
at least of bringing them to a better understanding
of one another.

It was easy to read on Mrs. Mey rick's face
that the Major had been a true prophet, before
she faltered forth how grieved she was
to say ' that it was one of dear Matthew's bad
mornings, and that Mary could not be persuaded
to leave him.'

I am sorry,' said the Major, quietly.
I wish that I could add that I am disappointed.
Save for the pleasure of seeing you,
Aunt Louisa, it seems that I have had my
ride for nothing.'

It is most unfortunate murmured poor
Mrs. Meyrick. ' You will surely, however,
have some lunch ? '

Thank you ; no. I have a friend stopping
with me at home, whom I ought not to
desert longer than is absolutely necessary.'

His hostess did not press the matter ; she
even unconsciously uttered a sigh of relief.
As the Major took Miss Dart's hand, he said,
in a low voice, ' You will not fail me ? ' His
face looked so eager and so tender (as she had
seen it only once before) as he bent over her,
that she half repented of the promise she
had given him ; nevertheless, she answered,
I will come.'

ON THE PIER.

It is universally admitted when the time seems
to have arrived, through misfortune or evil
report, for one's friends to * rally round one,'
that, as a rule, they do not rally. Nevertheless,
that is the occasion that a woman who
entertains a tenderness for a man always seizes
to show it. She is not content with holding
herself apart from those who traduce him, or
declining to listen to their insinuations, but
she runs up to him as she never did before,
and, placing her hand in his, in sign, not of
love, as she flatters herself, but of friendship,
exclaims. • I do not believe one word of what
these people say.'

The refusal of Mary Melburn to give her
brother an interview, though not unintelligible
to Miss Dart, seemed very inexcusable, while

the whole character of his reception at the
Look-out struck her as cold and cruel. Like
most persons who have not mixed much with
the world, or had the opportunity of contracting
friendship, the ties of blood had, in her
eyes, an exaggerated importance. The only
person who was related to her was also her best
friend ; the circumstance seemed only natural
and in accordance with the fitness of things ;
and that Mrs. Meyrick should have received
her nephew with such manifest want of
cordiality, and that his sister should have
point-blank refused to see him at all, was
absolutely shocking to her. Indignation at
their conduct evoked in her a strong sympathy
as well as compassion for the victim,
and, as she was only too conscious, at the
same time intensified her feeling of personal
regard for him. That we are ignorant of our
characters is a maxim sufficiently flavoured
with paradox, but that we should be ignorant
of our own motives is almost a contradiction
in terms.

Nevertheless, it was without the least

sense of doing anything clandestine, or contrary
to maidenly propriety, that Elizabeth
Dart took her way to the little pier. The very
dependence of her position gave her an independence
of action, and what would have been
little short of audacious in the ghd was only
a bold step in the governess.

The pier at Casterton was by no means
one of those elaborate erections to which the
visitors at our fashionable seaside resorts are
so accustomed ; it had no spacious promenade
with its concert-room, or at least its pavilion

for the band, no shields of oiass to let m the

< ^

lio'ht and exclude the wind, no lio^ht and
elegant roof to keep off the sun or rain. It
was short and thick and ugly, built of solid
stone, and furnished with a rouofh bench or
two, which those who were so fortunate as to
secure drakes-ed hither and thither, into coins
of vantage according to the direction of the
wind.

On one of these she found the Major
sitting with his umbrella up, for rain drops
were falling ; and it was only natural she

VOL. II. F

should partake of its shelter, a simple arrangement
which gives the impression of isolation
to the persons concerned. The ostrich with
his head in the sand derives, no doubt, a
similar satisfaction from his seclusion, however
partial or inadequate. It must be added,
however, that while the female bird on this
occasion seemed to entertain no apprehension,
the male bird occasionally popped his head
out and kept a sharp look out on passers-by.

How kind of you it is, Miss Dart,' he
murmured, tenderly, ' to give me this opportunity
of speaking to you.'

It is only my duty. Major Melburn, to do
so,' was her reply. ' If what you have to say
concerns your sister so nearly, she ought to
be informed of it.'

This rejoinder did not seem to please her
companion, though there was a certain unnecessary
quiet and deliberation in its tone
which belied its words. When we have no
suspicion of danger we do not put on our
armour.

you are very good to take such an

interest in her,' he answered, gently. ' I
venture to believe that it extends more or less
to all of us. Under ordinary circumstances,
and considering the short time you have been
with us, it would be impossible to repose the
confidence in you which I am about to show ;
but somehow — I hardly know how, though
I feel it — you have won the right to learn
everything from my lips that concerns ourselves.'


Miss Dart moved her head in tacit
acknowledgment of the compliment ; perhaps
she was a little mistrustful of having her
voice completely under control.

I am sure,' he went on, * that you will
treat whatever I say as confidential, and that,
however much you may differ from me as to
the course of conduct clary should pursue,
you will give me credit for good intentions.'


^ You may take so much for granted,
Major Melburn.'

'Now, I dare say you think, from our
mode of life at Burrow Hall, that we aro rich

f2

people ? Well, that is not the case. The
estate is encumbered, and my father is in
pecuniary straits.'

I am both sorry and surprised to hear
it.'

I knew you would be ; the matter does
not concern me so much, because I have some
money of my own from my mother, and, of
course, my pay ; but the fact is, that on my
father's death — and perhaps before, for one
cannot keep up appearances for ever — Mary
will be very ill-off indeed. You know what
sort of man my father is — as proud as Lucifer,
and very reserved about his own affairs. She
therefore suspects nothing of this. I think it
unfair to her ; but still, I am not justified in
revealing to her what he has thought proper
to conceal. It was my intention, however, if
she had given me the opportunity, to hint
at the true state of affairs. You will know,
Miss Dart, better than I whether Mary is
qualified, in case things come to the worst,
to gain her own living, as you yourself do,
for example.'

What I As a governess ? You don't
mean to tell me things will be as bad as
that?'

Miss Dart was greatly disturbed, and sat
with down-drooped eyes reflecting on the evil
tidings. At the sound of an approaching
footstep the Major's head emerged from its
shelter like that of a turtle from its shell ; a
shambling figure in an ulster was making his
way up the little pier against the wind and
rain. As he neared them, he caught sicrht of
the Major's face, which was full of discouragement
and menace. The new-comer was about
to speak, but such fury flashed from the
other's eyes that he altered his purpose, and
with a shrug of his shoulders turned upon his
heel and retraced his steps. The Major drew
a breath of relief which, to judge by his
countenance, was, however, unmixed with
thankfulness, and rejoined his companion in
her silken bower.

I gather from your tone, my dear bliss
Dart,' he said, ' that you have no great
opinion of Clary's qualifications as a teacher ;

the position requires training, mental discipline.'


^ How can you talk in that cold way ! '
she broke forth indignantly. ' You know
how your sister has been brought up, and
that her undertaking anything of the sort is
an impossibility.'

Nevertheless, you must not be angry
with me. Miss Dart, who am not answerable
for her imperfections.'

I am not angry with you, upon that
account at least,' she added, after a moment's
hesitation.

^I see,' he answered, quietly; you are
angry with me because, having confessed to
possessing means of my own, I do not offer
to share them with my half-sister. I think,
considering the sentiments she entertains
towards me, which are proved by her conduct
this very morning, that such an expectation
is unreasonable. I hope I am not less
generous than other people, or more bitter
against my enemies. I should certainly be
willing to make her an allowance, which it

is quite as certain, however, she would never
accept — no, not if she were starving. You
know that as well as I do.'

Miss Dart did know it, and was silent.

All this is very disagreeable,' he continued
; ' but it is absolutely necessary that
you should be acquainted with the real state
of the case. A chance — most people would
call it a great stroke of luck, but I wish to
stick to facts — a chance, I say, is offered to
Mary of escaping from her troubles, and
establishing herself in even a better position
than she is now supposed to occupy. The
gentleman may not be quite to her taste — he
has his weaknesses, I admit, as most of us
have — but there is no reason whv he should
not make her a good husband.'

Do you mean Mr. Winthrop ? ' put in
Miss Dart, coldly.

Yes. You need not tell me that he is
no favourite of yours ; but this is not a
question of favourites. It is a case of position
and comfort versus poverty and no home.'

And what would you have me do, since

I am not allowed, it seems, to reveal to her
the whole truth ? '

I would ask you to hit at it ; and if
you will not put in a word for Winthrop — of
whose merits or demerits you will forgive me
for saying you can scarcely be a judge — at all
events not to increase her prejudice against
him.'

^ It is not necessary to increase it, Major
Melburn,' was the icy reply, and there was
deep disappointment in its tone, as well as
displeasure. ' No girl who had any respect
for herself could entertain any warmth of
feeling for that person ; unless, indeed, it
were indignation. Xo ; I am sorry that
I cannot oblige you in this matter, but sorrier
still that you should have asked me to do so.
If, as you suggest, I have had but few opportunities
of learning Mr. Winthrop's character,
that is not the case with you. Would you
have your sister marry a drunkard? '

That is a harsh term to apply to a man
because lie gives way to an occasional weakness.'


^ I am not going to argue the matter ;
I will only say that in my eyes there is no
advantage the world can give that could
weio^h against such a vice m a husband. I
have drunk from the cup of poverty all my
life, and know its bitterness ; but welcome
want itself with all its humiliations in preference
to such a fate.'

You are right, Miss Dart was the unexpected
reply, delivered with enthusiastic
vehemence. ' I have said my last word upon
this subject, and will never allude to it again.
Do not be angry with me for having performed
what seemed to me a duty, till you
convinced me to the contrary. A man thinks
of these matters so differently from a woman,
though he does not often find such a woman
as you to set him right. What, after all, is a
union without love, though it is endowed
with all things else? What, indeed, are conventional
advantages of any kind compared
with the emotions of the heart ? Dear Miss
Dart, I am ashamed of myself.'

If you thought pott were right, there is

no need for shame,' she answered, gently.
Her voice trembled a little, she was touched
by his frank contrition.

Golden words, golden words,' he murmured,
approvingly. ' Our own conscience,
as you say, is the highest law. What matters
what the world says or what it thinks, or
what conventionality enjoins, if only we
obey the dictates of our hearts ? Miss Dart,
you see before you an unworthy man
one of whom you have doubtless heard
much ill.'

Not a word,' she put in, huskily. It
seemed to her that her power of speech was
somehow paralysed. Though she heard every
word that was addressed to her, nor missed
so much as the inflection of a tone, her brain
was in a tumult.

If you have not heard, you will hear,' he
went on, with tender earnestness ; ' and much
that is said to my disadvantage will be true.
My mother died before I knew her. You
know what sort of father I have. His second
marriage did not improve matters so far as

I was concerned: there are certain jealousies
and antagonisms, as you must have perceived.
A man without a home is always in peril.
I have often done amiss in many ways. Still
I am not utterly worthless.'

I am quite sure of that,' she whispered,
consolingly. She was trembling in every
limb.

I should not be so sure were it not for
the feelings I entertain towards yourself,' he
continued, gravely. ' There must be something
good in a man who recognises goodness,
gentleness, and unconventional affection in
another. In you I have found all these.'

She shook her head, but very gently.
She was afraid of shaking the tears from her
eyes.

Yes, my dear Miss Dart, in you I seem
to see my ideal.'

I must not listen to this,' she murmured,
making an effort to rise.

One moment,' he said, laying his hand
upon her own, ' and then I shall have done.
I will tell you why you think you must not

listen ; because, forsooth, you happen to be
poor and I have a competency ; because I am
the son of the house to which you have come
as a dependant. If I were a lad of twenty
there might be some reason in such scruples.
You might then be afraid lest some fool
should say of you that you were a designing
girl. There is no such thing — as compared
with the men who are called their victims — asa
designing girl; that is a story the hawks
have invented against the doves. But in my
case such a representation would be ludicrous
indeed. Moreover, in uniting your lot with
mine you injure no one. My fortune, such as
it is, is my own ; while for taking me away
from my belongings it is certain you will get
nothing but thanks. These considerations, it
is true, will be superfluous if my proposition
itself should be distasteful to you. I am only
doing the best for myself by clearing away
obstructions. I want a " clear field "; though,
alas ! I cannot add " and no favour." If I am
tried on my merits, my chance is poor indeed.
Do you thhik it possible, my dear Miss Dart,

that, in spite of my faults, you could ever
love me? '

He had never let go of her hand, and she
no longer struggled, as she had done at first,
to escape from his grasp. Her very soul was
in a tumult, but its predominant emotion was
one of joy. She no longer attempted to conceal
from herself that she loved this man ;
and he was her first love. Xo man had ever
spoken to her of love before. He had anticipated
the very objections which had at once
occurred to her, and in a great measure had
removed them. She felt that she knew but
little of him, and called to mind a score
of wise reflections she had read concerning
perils of haste under the like circumstances;
but like all recorded experiences of
other people, they seemed to have little reference
to her particular case. The position of
every one of us appears exceptional when our
feelings prompt us to make light of a general
rule.

I know so little of you, Major Melburn,'
she said ; but she felt that the plea was only

in arrest of judgment ; that if not now, then
tomorrow — if not tomorrow, the next day —
she would have to answer him more directly
and in the affirmative.

That is fortunate for me,' he answered,
smiling ; ' for it is only since I have seen you,
and been under your good influence, that I
have been worth much. I must entreat you to
judge me rather by my future than my past ;
and especially from your own observation
rather than from hearsay. I am like the early
Christians in one respect, at all events — that
my foes are those of my own household. I
cannot say I do not wish to hurry your decision,
for I would give half of what remains tome
of life to call you my own to-day ; but I
am willing to wait and hope. May I venture,
dear girl, to ask that much? '

'I will think over what you have said,'
she answered, with tolerable firmness ; ^ and at
all events, be assured that I am grateful —
deeply grateful.'

'No,' he put in, decisively; ^ you must
not say that. Do not suppose that I am

such a fool as to mistake on which side the
obligation lies. It is possible the world may
think otherwise, but even / am not of the
world in some things; while you, if I judge
you rightly, you despise its judgments, and
respect even its laws only when they are in
consonance with your sense of what is right.
Xevertheless, as you would say ' — for Miss
Dart was about to speak — ' we cannot always
act independently of its opinion. It is that
which makes caution absolutely?" necessary in
our case. Even if you had consented to
make me happy at once, instead of taking
my proposal into your consideration, I should
still have asked of you to conceal the affair
for the present. I need not point out to you
how disadvantageously, from the prejudice
that exists against me, the suspicion of any
engagement between us would affect your
relations with your friends at the Look-out.
or what a complication would ensue on your
return to Burrow Hall. From what you
know of me, I think you will admit that I am
by nature frank enough ; I abhor anything

clandestine as much as you do ; but until the
time is ripe I must entreat you to keep our
secret.'

There is no secret to keep, at present,
Major Melburn.'

I know it,' he put in, quickly ; ^ though
it is cruel to remind me of it ; I only feared,
supposing your heart should respond to mine,
lest you might (as girls, I have heard, do
under such circumstances) take Mary into
your confidence.'

That is only where there is sympathy,'
answered Miss Dart, gravely. 'Be sure I
should never breathe your name to any one
who was not friendly to you. Even now,
indeed, for that very reason, it is a sealed
subject between your sister and myself.'

He glanced at her with swift approval,
and something more ; from the expression of
his eager eyes she was reminded that in mentioning
that very reticence she had made a
serious admission. Unlike many of her sex
and age, she was not, however, one to take
pleasure in concealing her liking. She was

willing enoiigli to let her companion know
that she looked upon him as a friend, and,
indeed, she found it difficult to restrain herself
from being still more frank. He had, it
was true, given her time for reflection before
accepting his suit, but she well knew that in
this he ran no risks. Her heart was already
in his keeping.

'I shall write no line, dear girl,' he said,
for that would be dangerous, but I shall
expect one, just one, from you. In the meantime.
Heaven bless and keep you ! '

His grasp tightened on her hand, his face
came very close to hers ] but he drew back
with a sigh.

It is time for us to part,' he murmured,
sadly. ' Your absence from home will be
noticed. Stay,' he added, hurriedly, ' you
must make no secret of our having met ; for
that old astrologer yonder has caught sio^lit
of US. You may say, what is true enough,
that I was pleading for Winthrop. and in vain.'

He rose and lifted his hat, like one who
has met a lady casually, and is taking leave,

VOL. II. G

and quietly strolled down the pier, past
Koger Ley den, who, apparently engaged with
a spyglass in watching the shipping, never
turned his head as he went by.

CHAPTER Xxii.

THE COX FEDERATES.

There are occasions when one wishes even
our best friends a little farther off; and just
now, Elizabeth Dart would have preferred
Roger Leyden to have been rubbing up the
coins in his museum, or speculating on
Danish stock (in the shape of hidden treasure)
upon the mound of Battle Hill, rather
than standing where he was, at the entrance
of the little pier, where she must needs pass
close by him to re-enter the town. However,
it was already luncheon time, and her absence
would begin to excite, not only surprise, but
anxiety, at home ; so she got up, and, with as
indifferent an air as she could assume, commenced
her retreat. AYith such an uninterrupted
interest did Mr. Leyden continue to
regard the ships in the offing that she almost

hoped to pass him without notice ; but as
she came exactly opposite to him he brought
his glass to bear on her (at three feet off, or
so), and shut it up with such a vicious snap
that, in her state of nervous tension, she
could scarcely refrain from uttering a cry of
alarm. She not only did refrain from it,
however, but contrived to assume a tone of
unconcern, as she observed —

You seem to have found some object of
great attraction for your telescope this morning,
Mr. Leyden.'

That is so,' he answered, grimly ; ' I was
watching a piratical craft which is but seldom
seen in these latitudes. What excited my
curiosity was her carrying sail when there
was no occasion for it — nothing is more ridiculous
than to see a man sitting under an
umbrella when there is no rain : if, however,
he has a female companion at his side, the
circumstance may be accounted for.'

Miss Dart mechanically looked up at the
sky, which was serene and unclouded.

It has been like that this half-hour '

remarked her persecutor, drily. She Tries
annoyed at the observations he had made, of
course ; but somehow she was not offended.
She was not altogether displeased, perhaps,
that the secrecy which had been imposed
upon her, as respected any understanding
between herself and the Major, should thus
be rendered impossible, and through no fault
of her own. All clandestine proceedings
were distasteful to her — she already repented
of having so easily fallen into the Major's
views in that respect ; and then she was so
certain of the antiquary's goodwill that it was
difficult to be angry with him.

I see nothing very remarkable, Mr.
Ley den,' she said, quietly, ' in sitting by a
gentleman's side with whom 1 am well acquainted,
even though it be under an umbrella
; and I am by no means inclined to
admit, even though it were a phenomenon,
that I owe you any explanation of it. I may
say, however, that I came here at Major Mel-burn's
own invitation to discuss a matter of
great importance concerning his sister.'

I know all that. He wanted to persuade
you to advocate Mr. Winthrop's pretensions,
which you very properly declined to do. It
is astonishing,' he added, musingly, ' how
wise and prudent we often are in matters
affecting other people ; whereas in our own
concerns we are prone to lose our heads, and
sometimes even our hearts.'

Very true, no doubt, Mr. Ley den ; but
syllogisms can be listened to at any time,
while potatoes must be eaten whilst they are
hot. It is already past luncheon time, so I
must say good-bye.'

Take care what else you say good-bye to,
my dear young lady,' he murmured, solemnly.
I know, as you say, that I have no right to
pry into your affairs ; but if, as I fear, your
thoughts are tending in a certain direction, I
beseech you to restrain them while you have
still the power ; for that way madness lies.'

You have been consulting the stars
again,' returned Miss Dart, scornfully.

The stars are not to be despised,' he
answered, gravely : ' but it is not in the blue

vault of heaven that one would look for any
record of Jefferson Melburn.'

Why did you not tell hun what you
thought of him just now, instead of slandering
him behind his back ? ' inquired Elizabeth
Dart, in tones that trembled with anger.

^ Because, for one thing, he knows it ; and
for the other, my opinion would not weigh
with him one feather.'

It weighs as lightly, sir, with me,' returned
the girl, contemptuously, and, with
flashing eyes, passed on into the town.

Now have you done more harm than
good, Eoger Leyden,' was the antiquary's
muttered self-reproach, as he watched her retreating
figure, its step firmer than usual, and
its head thrown slightly back, as if in defiance.
" There's no fool like an old fool " is at its
truest in matters of love : I ought to have
known that a girl of spirit would resent any
cheapening of her bargain in the way of a
sweetheart, even though he were the most
worthless lot in the market. When I told
her that I knew what the fellow had been

talking about (no difficult matter to arrive
at since I saw his friend Winthrop himself,
awaiting his fate, no doubt, at the door of
'' The Welcome), and also what answer she
had given him (easy enough for any one who
knows her keen intelligence and honest heart
to guess), I thought that I had impressed her
with my knowledge of human nature, but
directly I came to speak of the Major himself
she became a very Thomas in disbelief. I
ought to have known — I ought to have remembered,
that is — that it would be so.
Moreover, it was folly to anger her, since the
thini:^ will never be. The stars have said it.
What ! with her sun nine times bigger than
the true sun, and all the twelve signs, but
Pisces (which only shows that she will never
be a shipowner), to suppose that she will
marry a spendthrift and a ne'er-do-well like
Jefferson Melburn ! No. I wonder how her
wealth will come' to her — "Wealth," as old
Samuel called it, " beyond the dreams of
Avarice " — for somehow it will come ? Perhaps
she will turn out to be heiress of Jong-

forgotten and powerless millions, the last of
an ancient race, whose line has been swallowed
up as the river by the sand, only to
appear again in a dry place. And yet she is
too masterful and wise (save in one matter)
to have come from a worn-out stock of any
kind — a very remarkable young woman, and
not for you, Master ^Melburn. you may take
my word for it ; nor for any of your kind.'

The object of this uncomplimentary prophecy
had, in the meantime, betaken himself
to ' The Welcome,' the only inn which
Casterton boasted. It stood in the middle
of the little High street, a spot of such
unexceptionable advantage that a vehicle
could, with skill and judgment, be turned
round before its doors without the intrusion
of the horse's head into the windows opposite.
It was furnished with a portico that could
afford shelter, till admittance could be gained
wdthm, to at least two persons, and with
balconies, containing in summer time each
three flower-pots, which gave it upon market-days
quite a distinguished and gay appearance.

The rooms were exquisitely clean ; but
their bulging ceilings hung so low that the
laws of politeness were taught, perforce, to
any guest of moderate height who was inclined
to keep his hat on within doors. In
the front parlour, upon so short a sofa that
he had to supplement it with a chair for the
accommodation of his legs, reclined a gentleman
with a cigar in his mouth, and a glass of
brandy and-water on a table by his side. In
spite of his luxurious position and its concomitants,
he appeared by no means at his
ease. His brow was knitted, his face was
gloomy, his white lips showed where his discoloured
teeth had pressed upon them, and he
had all the appearance of a gentleman in the
sulks — an indisposition which even repeated
doses of brandy and AYater have been rarely
known to ameliorate.

To him entered Major Melburn, radiant
from the result of an interview, and cheerful
in the contemplation of his own affairs.

You have good news, then, after all,
Jeff?' exclaimed Winthrop, raising himself

upon this elbow, and sticking his glass into this
eye.

^ AVell, no, I am afraid I can hardly say
that ; but that is not my fault. How deuced
imprudent it was of you to show yourself just
now on the pier ! '

Why, you yourself told me to go there.'

That was, of course, supposing my sister
had been with me ; but when you saw that it
was not she — that you could not carry matters
by a coup de main, as we had hoped — you
should surely have known better than to
intrude yourself. I am sure I frowned at you
enough ; and if you had had any sense, you
would have made yourself scarce at once.'

Sense ? I suppose you think no one has
any sense but yourself ? ' returned the other,
angrily. ' I may not have your oily tongue,
and your slippery ways, but I have eyes in
my head, like other people. I could see that
it was not on my affairs that you were talking
so confidently with your friend. Miss Dart.
You are playing the old game, are you ?
Only this time you have nothing to lose.'

The radiance had departed from the
Major's face at the first words of his companion
; but now it grew black as thunder.

You had better leave me and Miss Dart
to settle our own affairs, my friend he said,
in a voice hoarse with suppressed passion, and
very menacing.

'By all means. You may make just as
great a fool of her as you like ; but you shall
no longer make a fool of me.'

The Major smiled contemptuously, as
though any operation of that kind from
without was a work of supererogation,
but his white face and trembling hands
betrayed the constraint he was putting on
himself.

I have done my best for you, and will
continue to do it,' he replied, ' in spite of your
own folly, which checks me at every turn.
Brandy at midday in a country inn, where
every servant is a tatler ! Had Mary been
where you expected to find her, you would
have addressed her with breath reeking of it !
As well have said, "I love you, but I love

Drink better." How can you be so mad,
Winthrop ! '

Never you mind me and my brandy,'
returned the other, in dogged but less defiant
tones. At first, Mr. Winthrop had been disposed
for battle, but he was now inclined to
act on the defensive only; the stronger will
was befdnnino; to tell.

Now, it is quite ridiculous for you and
me to quarrel, Winny,' exclaimed the Major,
frankly, but with a somewhat grating laugh.
It only gives us the trouble of making it up
again. You know the old proverb, " Aman-tim
ir," &c ? '

^ Yes ; I know the proverb about quarrelling,
if that's what you mean. If it makes
honest folk come by their own, I can't say
that I should object to a little disagreement.'

This reply was one of that nature for
which the philosophers tell us we should
always be prepared — namely, the unexpected ;
and it took the Major — who was far from
being a philosopher — very much aback. It
was not surprising to him that AYinthrop's

muddled brain should have got two proverbs
of certainly very different import so ludicrously
mixed, but that his thoughts should
have shot to the subject of coming by one's
own, or, in other words, of getting one's
borrowed money back, on such very slight
suggestion. It was clear to him that the
question was accustomed to present itself to
Mr. Winthrop's mind much oftener and with
much more importunity than he had heretofore
imagined. It was disgusting that a fellow
whom one had admitted to one's friendship,
though intellectually so unworthy of it, and
even called ' Winny ' when one wished to be
especially conciliatory, should turn against
one in this manner. In the highest and
noblest sense, the obligation lay no doubt on
Mr. Winthrop's side ; bat as a mere matter of
finance, the other was his debtor.

You shall be paid, sir, in meal or in malt,
never fear,' said the Major, haughtily.

Yes ; but I'm beginning to think that I
had rather have it in money,' was the unvarnished
reply. In any other man's mouth such

a rejoinder would have been an epigram, and
could have been parried nth a smile, but the
force of it in the present case lay in its
absolute simplicity and matter of fact, which
admitted of no such evasion. What it meant
(as the Major was well aware) was, 'I'm getting
tired of being fobbed off and fobbed off
with the promise of your sister's hand, and
would rather see those five hundred pounds
back which I lent to you on that which I now
think to be very doubtful security.'

I say again that you shall be paid, or
rather that you shall receive what you have
agreed to consider an equivalent for payment.'

And I say again that I prefer cash
down.'

^ Don't make me angry,' said the Major,
hoarsely : ' that can't do you any good. It
is sheer nonsense to talk to me of cash payments,
and you know it : you can't get blood
from a stone.'

Oh yes, you can, if you know how to
squeeze it,' returned the other, cunningly,
sipping at his brandy and water. 'Even a

stone has a tender place sometimes. Suppose

I was to tell the pretty governess I say,

what the devil are you at ! '

With a quick movement of his arm the
Major had thrust aside the table and made a
grab at his companion's throat. Mr. Winthrop
mechanically put his knee up, so that
the other's hand fell short of its intent. That
last insult, a blow — or its equivalent, which
once having passed between grown men
makes reconciliation impossible — had therefore
been arrested. Though murder itself looked
forth from the Major's face, he was conscious
that his boats had been saved from burning, and
was even ' thankful ' for it (though it would,
perhaps, have puzzled him to say to whom).
Even in the words that passion compelled
his mouth to utter there was a certain locus
penitence for the man who provoked him ; as
though some mad elephant, turning to rend
its keeper, at the same time should point to
the corner of its den, where the little spiral
staircase affords a shelter from its fury.

If you dare to speak what was just now

on the tip of your tongue to lier or to any
living creature, so help me, Heaven, I will
kill you ! How can you, can you be so mad
as to threaten it ? Promise me, promise
before sou speak another word, that you will
never do it. Can anything be so cowardly, or
such a breach of confidence between man and
man ? '

You needn't make such a fuss,' said
Winthrop, white and trembling, at least as
much with rage as fear. By nature he was no
coward ; but his nerves, weakened by his own
excesses, had given way under the unexpected
strain upon them, and the consciousness of the
fact filled him with resentment. ' A fellow
may say, " suppose I were to do so-and-so," I
conclude, without intending to do it. I amas
much a man of honour, let me tell you, as
yourself.'

The claim — and. to say the truth, it was
not an extravagant one — was admitted at
once.

Of course you are, Winthrop ; and when
you are not in drink there is no better fellow

VOL. II. H

in the world. It is that cursed stuff yonder
he pointed to the floor, where lay the glass
and its contents, ' that has been the cause of
all this. Your blood might have been spilt
along with it, or mine,' he added, quickly, for
he felt it was uncomplimentary to take it
for granted that a personal contest could only
have had one result. ' Well, thank Heaven, it
can all be wiped up with a dish-cloth. I am
very sorry I lost my temper, Winny.'

^ Well, well, it's all right so far,' muttered
the other, ungraciously 5 for one who has
been frightened, and is ashamed of it, does
not easily forgive ; ' but I am sick of these
delays and adjournments. Why was not
Mary on the pier, as you promised she should
be?'

That wretched Matthew has one of his
bad days, as they call it — it's a pity his days
don't come to an end — and she was unable to
leave him. As to delays the thing can't hang
on much longer. The news from Germany,
the other day, makes it certain that Mrs,
Melburn's case is hopeless.'

That I have been told, any time during
the last six months,' observed the other,
drily.

^ True ; but it is now not only a question
of time, but of a very short time. It is Mrs.
Melbum who prejudices Mary against you,
and what a dangerous enemy she can be I
have myself reason to know. When she is
gone you will meet with no obstacle save
a little coyness, which a man of your mettle
should have no difficulty in overcoming.
Unlike her mother, Mary is like wax, and
can be moulded as you please. You will bea
husband who has his own way.'

She's a sweet pretty girl, no doubt,'
admitted Winthrop ; ' but I suppose we shall
have to wait three months or so,' he added,
fully, for the funeral and that.'

Xot at all,' returned the Major, confidently.
' My father and Mary will go to some
out-of-the-way place for a change, and then
you two can be married quietly, and at once.'

Oh, as quiet as you please,' returned the
other, with a chuckle. ' I suppose I could

not see lier just now,' murmured the amorous
swain, ^ not even for a minute ! '

Not to-day ; we'll try again in a week or
two. It is quite possible that I may then use
such arguments with her as may induce her to
make you a happy man much earlier than you
think for.'

Yery good. The sooner I tear up that
little I U of yours, Jeff, the better for both
of us. There are our horses at the door.
Now, just one stirrup-cup, and then for the
saddle.'

Not one drop shall you drink more.
Even now, when you get into the open air,
you will feel that you have had too much.'

Winthrop muttered a remonstrance in the
concise form of an execration, but he submitted.
The Major's strong will had once
more regained its supremacy. No trace of
their late quarrel could be observed in either
of them as they went downstairs together
and mounted their horses. There are many
so-called friendships in the world which exist
on similar conditions ; as long as the tie of

self-interest binds them, natures even the
most discordant and even lawless — though the
breaches that at times of necessity take place
between them are neither forgiven nor forgotten
— will yet hold together.

The two gentlemen were both well
mounted, and on ordinary occasions it would
have been difficult to say which had the better
seat : a man, however, may be too much at
his ease in the saddle.

I wish,' said the Major, grimly, as they
rode along the stony causeway, ' that you
would take your hands out of your pockets.'

^ What does it signify ? One isn't in the
Row,' returned the other, testily.

That's just it. If you were there it
wouldn't so much matter ; but if you fell off
here, you'd break your neck.'

AVhat a rum fellow you are, Jeff ! ' said
Mr. Winthrop ; but he gathered up his reins
at once, and sat as stiff as the Great Duke
(though with considerably more of effort) till
they reached the downs.

Chapter Xxii.

TITANIA.

A GOOD deal too much, lias been made, in my
opinion, of the alteration in a man's character
and conduct when he first falls in love ; but
as regards a girl, the change can scarcely
be exaggerated. All things seem literally to
have become new with her, and she regards the
whole world from a different standpoint from
that which she occupied before. She sees
everything double ; not, indeed, in duplicate,
but through her own eyes, and through the
eyes of the beloved object. His prejudices,
or what she used to consider such, begin to
have some show of reason ; his faults to assume
the appearance of virtues. The very class to
which he belongs, if it differs from her own,
is credited with merits to which she has
hitherto been blind. The thought of him

monopolises her mind and lusts all others.
In most cases there is some confidante of her
own sex, to whom she discourses of him, and
in whom she finds a sympathy which man (to
whom a love-tale is intolerable) denies to man
under the like circumstances.

To Elizabeth Dart no such safety-valve
for the emotions was vouchsafed. She had to
bear her bliss alone, as she had so often borne
her woe.

That precaution of taking time to makeup
her mind as to whether she would accept
the Major's offer or no was, she well knew, a
mere formula : her heart had been his for the
asking, almost from the first. If it be asked,
how was it that so very intelligent and sagacious
a young woman should have made such
a choice, our reply is — circumspect. One has
only to look next door, or over the way, to
see the parallel.

Long afterwards, and when the subject of
their conversation had become a personage, I
remember hearing two great ladies talking of
this very matter. ' Beyond good looks and a

pleasant manner,' said one, ' what was therein
Major Melburn to have attracted such a
woraan ? '

My dear, she saw nothing in him ; she
only thought she saw, as Titania did when
she called the ass her " gentle joy." Her
genius idealised him.'

The Major, however, was not an ass
argued the other : ' he was another sort of
animal altogether, and in some ways of a far
inferior type.'

That is quite true, but he was the first
gentleman with whom she had ever been on
equal terms.'

This last remark, though made by one who
had but a conventional notion of what constitutes
a gentleman, had a great deal of truth in
it. The class to which the Major belonged had
hitherto been viewed by Elizabeth Dart only
at a distance ; its attractions were unknown
to her, and what merits belonged to the type
she attributed to the individual. It was like
a stranger to the came watching; two habitues
at billiards ; he will hear them make many

remarks upon the incidents of play, and be
persuaded that they have a good deal of wit
about them ; whereas everything they say in
that way, if he had had their opportunity of observation,
he would know is said five thousand
times a year on precisely the same occasions.
The gloss of politeness, the veneer of chivalry,
which the Major possessed, in common with
the whole caste to which he belonged, seemed
not only genuine, and the evidence of a noble
nature, but as something peculiar to himself.
Experience she had none ; and in this case
her intuition failed her because of her great
likings for the man. In love-matters there is
good reason to suppose, from his biography,
that even Shakspeare was not quite judicious ;
and the true reason that causes philosophers
to make light of love is not because it is
illogical, but because it is inexplicable to them
and their theories. AVhat showed the preoccupation
of Miss Dart's mind, perhaps,
beyond all other signs, was that, save a grateful
acknowledgment of his letter, she opened
no communications with Mr. Marg-and. That

concentration of mind was wanting which is
necessary to literary effort. Instead of thinking,
she took to dreaming. This, however,
was only as regarded her own affairs. The
calls of duty and friendship were in no way
disregarded.

To Matthew she was invaluable, in selecting
such of his poems as were most suitable
for publication in the ' Parthenon,' and in
suggesting improvements. It was amazing to
see how his spirits rose with success, and, if
even his physical ailment derived no benefit
from it, it seemed to do so from his having
something else to think about. In her relations
with Matthew, Miss Dart had looked
for little change in consequence of what had
happened as regarded the Major ; but in
Mary's case she had feared there would be
coldness, or at least a withdrawal of confidence.
It was a subject that could not be
debated, or on which any new conclusion
could be arrived at ; .the more frank the girl
was about it, the worse she knew it must befor
herself ; and yet it could hardly be ignored.

It was not Mary's silence, therefore, but the
continuance of matters on the old footing that
convinced Miss Dart that her secret remained
undivulo-ed. When the first moment of india
nation against Roger Leyden had passed away,
she had forgiven him — as perhaps she could
have forgiven nobody else — for his words of
warning. Her sense of justice compelled her
to acknowledge his good intentions, and to
make allowance for the outspoken and candid
nature of the man ; and now she was deeply
touched by his keeping what he had
discovered, and so greatly disapproved of,
to himself. It would have been, perhaps,
beyond the powers of woman to maintain
a similar reticence, under like circumstances.
Ke never referred to it, even to herself. ' I
have said my say once and for all,' was what
his manner implied ; ' and I have no desire to
make mischief.'

As to keeping her own secret. Miss Dart
had reviewed the matter calmly and dispassionately
in her own mind, and found that she
had no scruples about it. If the Major had

been of her own age, as lie himself had put it,
and if their union could have in any way injured
the family prospects, her position would
have been different ; bat there was certainly
at present no need to provoke disapproval and
endanger friendship. Besides, she had not, as
yet, even formally accepted him.

There came a time when, looking back at
this period of her life with bitterness in her
soul, she seemed to have been dwelling in a
Fool's Paradise : to many of us no other
Paradise is possible, and while it lasts it
serves its purpose as though it were a seventh
heaven ; but it was not so much that her
happiness was unreal, as that it was another
person, a new Elizabeth Dart, that was enjoying
it. Had she been her once keen, sagacious,
independent self, she would never have known
that hour of joy to which, with self-blinded
eyes, she surrendered herself. The flame of
love within her, though it burned so brightly,
was steady and without flicker. It needed not
to be fed with letters from the beloved object,
nor with iterations of his vows ; and she

credited him with the like confidence in delaying
her promised reply to him. It was difficult
to explain to herself the cause of her
procrastination in this respect. Perhaps she
had some misgivings, not of herself nor of him,
but as regarded the sacrifice he would be making
for her sake. Perhaps she willingly prolonged
her days of freedom — the last she
could call her own — to be used, as she phrased
it, without reference to her other self that was
to be. However, at last she wrote.

It was a letter different altogether, both in
style and spirit, from most acceptances of a
similar kind. Her love for him was frankly
acknowledged, and devotedly expressed ; but
she dwelt much on her own shortcomings and
unworthiness. Of her former life she said but
little ; not because she was ashamed of it, but
because she was secretly conscious that its
details would not interest him. ' I have only
one relative in the world,' she wrote : ' my
dear Aunt Jane, whom I do not expect that
you will see with the same eyes I do, but
whom you must love for my sake, if not for

her own. My conscience reproaches me for
concealing from her my present happiness ;
bnt you see, I am already learning to obey
you, and have told her nothing. Nothing is
suspected here save by Mr. Leyden, who, I
am now convinced, will not betray us. If
Mrs. Melburn were in England, I should of
course owe it to her to tell her all — I could
not remain for twenty-four hours under her
roof without doing so ; but I feel no such
obligation imposed upon me at Casterton, so
you may be quite at ease on this point. . . .
I quite agreed with what you said the other
day about London as a dwelling-place, though
I may not have seemed very enthusiastic about
it at the time ; the fact is — thanks to you,
Sir — my mind was a little off its balance. I
seemed to hear nothing you said (after that
one thing) ; but now every precious word
comes back to me. Yes ; London, by all
means, though doubtless I should have been
equally conformable to your wishes if you had
said Bath, or Jericho. You have not only
robbed me of my heart, but of my will.

Hitherto, London has always appeared to me
very harsh and egotistic — stony-hearted, as
De Quince calls its Oxford Street ; hitherto,
I have been bat a pilgrim and a sojourner
there ; with you by my side, it will be no
longer a peopled solitude, but something very
different. . As to what you said of the
risk of correspondence. I am quite content
not to hear from you ; for your silence will
give consent to my indulging in a thousand
happy thoughts, of which you will be the
centre. From the news from Germany today,
it seems certain that we shall return to
Burrow Hall in July, at the farthest. I hear
Mrs. Melburn is little, if at all, bettered by
the change. When I think of the pain and
troubles of others, and contrast them with
my present bliss, I am ashamed of my own
unworthiness ; such sentiments, however, I
know, appear in your Index Expurgatorius
under the general head of doldrums ; so no
more of them. When I am with you, I can
make myself very disagreeable, as you know,
in the way of lectures and reproofs ; but now

that I am away, I am only bent on pleasing
you, Alas, alas, how I love you ! '

There was much more to the same effect :
the self-abnegation of a sovereign will — the
honore of a noble heart to an idol of its
own creation — with now and again a struggle
where the old individuality and independence
of character made a stand for an instant
against the tide of passion.

When the letter was posted, Miss Dart
experienced a sense of extreme relief The
Psalmist's Liber avi animal has an application
far wider than the religious circle. Nervous and
excitable persons, over whom some important
stroke of Fate is impending, are often driven
to their wits' end by the contemplation of it ;
but let them once sit down and write their
appeal, defence, or whatever plea in restraint
of execution occurs to them, then the weight,
though it still overhangs their heads, is removed
from their hearts. They have done
their best, is their comforting reflection, and
they can do no more ; and when the mind is
monopolised by joyful anticipation instead of

apprehension, the same effect is produced by
a similar course of action.

For the first time since the Major's proposal,
Miss Dart now felt herself free to follow
the natural bent of her disposition, and to turn
her thoughts to Mr. Felix Aro-and and the
Millennium.' She had, of course, acknowledged
that gentleman's letter, but no other
communication had passed between them.
She had read with attention the copies of the
review with which he had supplied her ; but
they had given her little assistance in the
way of suggestion. Its contents were varied
enough, and perhaps too varied. Had their
range been more limited, it would have made
her choice of a subject easier. She was not one
of those literary aspirants to whom everything
that is their own appears to have a peculiar
charm and the stamp of originality. There
was nothing in her collection of MSS. that
seemed suitable, or, at all events, as representative
of her powers. Disappointed, but not
dispirited, it suddenly struck her that a description
of Casterton and its surroundings,

VOL. II. I

which had made so deep an impression on her
own mind, might have some interest for those
who were strangers to such old-world haunts.
The town with * Silence and old Time ' for
its indwellers ; the downs, with their freedom
and solitude ; the sea, and the marsh that
had once been the sea ; and, above all, Battle
Hill, with its legend and its buried mystery :
these at least were subjects in themselves
not commonplace, and capable of picturesque
treatment. She wrote a sketch of them at
a sitting, which, however, was prolonged till
daybreak, and in hot haste. Ideas suggested
themselves to her with such rapidity that she
feared her pen would fail to seize them ere
they escaped ; a day or two was devoted to
correction and excision, when she was amazed
to find how little was to be effected in the
way of improvement, for she had yet to learn
that with genius it is not the second thoughts
that are best. Finally, she made a fair copy
of the article, and, with many misgivings and
an apologetic letter, despatched it. As the
contributions to the ' Millennium ' were all

signed, it was necessary to follow that practice
; but she entreated the editor's permission,
in the unexpected case of his accepting the
paper, to permit it to wear a pseudonym.
She entitled it ' A Bit of Old England and
soothed it ' John Javelin,' which, while handsome
vague reference to her own name, would
conceal it, as well as her sex, from recognition.


Unlike her communication to Burrow
Hall, when once it was dropped ito the post
she regretted its departure, and was tormented
with the conviction of its inadequacy and
shortcomings. Even when, like the dove
from the Ark, after many days it did not
return to her, she drew no favourable augury
from that circumstance, but pictured it lying
in unequal strips in Mr. Argand's waste -
paper basket.

I 2

CHAPTER XXV.

SENT FOR.

Save for the proof sheets from the ' Parthenon
which now came pretty frequently to Matthew,
with now and then a cheque, which, though
of insignificant amount, filled his heart with
gladness such as only our first earnings can
bestow, the Casterton postman had almost a
sinecure as regarded the Look-out. Mrs.
Meyrick was only not forgotten by the world,
because it had never known her ; beyond the
four walls of her little home she had no friend
even on paper ; while Miss Dart's sole correspondent
was Aunt Jane, who every week
indited an epistle from the New Road, full
of domestic intelligence respecting Mary Anne,
the fourteenth or fifteenth of the lodging-house
maidens (as it happened), her breakages, and

her cousin in the Guards, with some notes on
natural history, taken from personal observation
of Mouser, the black cat. With the like
regularity, letters came for Mary Melbum,
from her mother ; but which by no means
indulged in detail. They dwelt much more
upon her daughter's doings than her own, and
it was rather by reading between the lines of
her communication than from anything she
said of her own health that Mary gathered
there was no improvement in it, but rather
the contrary. The Squire, no doubt, had
written to his son upon that subject with
greater candour ; but, even as it was, Mary's
heart was full of forebodings. That her
present happiness, and her freedom from the
hateful attentions of Mr. Winthrop, were purchased
by her mother's voluntary exile she
had no suspicion — no child can guess the self-sacrifice
of which a mother is capable — but
the thought of her, ill, solitary, or worse than
solitary, and in a foreign land, made the girl's
heart ache.

One morning a letter arrived for her from

the Squire himself, the very sight of which
chased the colour from her cheeks. Her
father scarcely ever wrote to her, and the
apprehension that he had written in her
mother's stead, because she was too ill to
write, at once occurred to her. The communication,
however, which was very brief,
was to some extent reassuring. Mr. Melburn
described his wife's health as neither better nor
worse ; but, since it was no better, he had
decided to bring her home at once, where they
would arrive on the day, or perhaps even the
day before, his letter would reach Casterton.
In this uncertainty there might be a difficulty
in sending the carriage for Mary and Miss
Dart, and he therefore directed them to proceed
to Burrow Hall forthwith in some hired
conveyance. In her delight at the prospect
of so soon embracing her mother, the urgency
implied in this last sentence at first escaped
Mary's notice ; but to Miss Dart the summons
appeared very grave. She even reproached
herself for being less cast down by it than the
occasion seemed to demand ; but the fact is,

that in the marshalling of human affairs, those
of other people, unless they are very clear tous,
must always stand in the rank behind our
owt ; and the same word of command which
recalled Mary to the couch of her invalid
mother summoned Miss Dart to her lover.

But for that reflection, it would have been
grief to her, indeed, to bid adieu to Casterton.
The place itself had attractions for her —
its quiet, old-world isolation, its wind-swept
waste of marsh and downland, and the murmur
and passion of its sea — such as no other
place had ever had. It is only in a few cases
that locality, independent of association, takes
any hold of the human heart ; as a rule, man
is almost as indifferent to nature in its particular
aspects as nature is to him ; but now
and then it happens — and this is by no means
confined to persons of romantic or impressionable
dispositions — that the heart is drawn to
some scene of beauty as to a home. The rich
man says, ' I will come here again next year,'
or even, if he is very much enraptured, ' I
will live here.' Miss Dart, who had no such

Opportunities of gratifying a caprice, could
only wish ' Good-bye ' to Casterton. It was
possible, and even probable, that she might
never see it again, and the thought of that
long farewell filled her with something more
than regret — with hopeless yearnings. The
parting, too, with her hostess and Matthew
was full of sadness. Mrs. Meyrick had
shown nothing but kindness to her : if the
widow had little worldly wisdom, she had
none of the follies of the world : no pride, no
estimation of persons by their purses ; and
she was a gentlewoman to the core. It was
impossible, thanks to the Squire's frankness
of expression, that she could be unconscious
of her weaknesses and incompetence, but of
her own virtues she remained in utter ignorance.


When Miss Dart, as she took leave of her,
exclaimed, not without tears, ' Dear Mrs.
Meyrick, how good you have been to me ! '
the widow was honestly amazed.

^I good to you, Lizzie! Why, you have
been a sunbeam in our house ; and how can I

ever be grateful enough to you for the interest
you have taken in my poor boy ? '

Matthew, indeed, felt her departure only
less than the loss of Mary.

I am indebted to you, dear Miss Dart,'
he said, * if not for a new existence, for
infusing vitality into the old one. Thanks to
you, I am another creature, though still buta
poor one. Your encouragement has put
hope into me : thanks to your good offices,
I have found touch of my fellows. I
shall never forget you — never,' and then the
poor lad had turned his face to the wall,
ashamed of the weakness that he could not
hide.

Roger Leyden, too, in spite of his plain
speaking, had a high place in her regard.
Even as a man of character, with a distinct
individuality of his own, he was very interesting
to her ; but his devotion to her friends,
and his tender consideration for herself, shown
in a hundred ways (but in none more than his
silence upon a matter the revelation of which
would have sadly marred her farewells, and

even, perhaps, turned their regret to bitterness),
had endeared him to her.

^ We shall meet again, my dear young
lady,' he said, with cheerful confidence,
^ though under very different conditions.
You are going away in the Casterton fly, but
you will return, like Lord Bateman's inamorata,
in a coach and three. The stars have said it.^

His presence among the little circle at the
moment of leave-taking was a great relief to
all concerned.

How sad it seems that there should be
such partings, that such shadows should fall
upon homes that at the best have so little
sunshine ! — that the bridegroom should betaken
from the arms of his bride, and the
boy from the embraces of his mother to tempt
the perilous seas, when so little, and that
which even man could supply, is wanting to
prevent the catastrophe ! It is easy to say,
If these unfortunates could only see through
their tears but a little way into the future,
how much better for them, they would often
admit, it is that things are thus arranged ' :

but, alas ! no such prevision is vouchsafed to
them. And, in the meantime, what solitary
homes, what vacant chairs, what echoes of
imagined footfalls on the one side ; what
looking back and picturing of the far away,
and yearnings that try the very heartstrings,
on the other ! Regard them how we may,
such departures are as Death itself, without
that balm of resignation which the sense of
the inevitable commonly bestows. In such
cases, it is those who remain who are most to
be pitied, for everything reminds them of
what they have lost; while those who go
forth have their minds distracted from regret
by action amid new scenes and duties.

When the door of the Look-out closed on
its late visitors, there was darkness indeed on
the faces they had left behind them.

For awhile, too, the shadow of the parting
hour saddened the two girls as they sat in
silence side by side in the jolting fly, and
slowly passed by the old familiar places. It
was possible they would never see them again,
and only too probable that, if one revisited

them, it would be without the other ; but
when the causeway was passed, and the hill
climbed, and the breeze of the downs began to
blow about them, their spirits began to rise.
There was scarce a cloud in the summer sky.
The larks twittered and towered and sang
about their heads. The air was sweet with
herb and flower.

I cannot but think that such weather as
this must do dear mamma good ? ' said Mary,
cheerfully, but half interrogatively, as such
remarks are made when we need corroboration
of our hope.

Yes, indeed ; though I believe less in
native air than in the influence and associations
of home. You will say, perhaps, since
I have no personal experience of them, that
that is a subject on which I can be no judge,
but my reading points that way.'

You are thinking of Scott,' said Mary,
softly, with the tears in her eyes. They
had been reading Lockhart's ' Life ' together
lately, and Mary, who had been introduced
to it for the first time, had been deeply

touched by that sad passage when Sir Walter,
returning — a dying man — from abroad, is
roused from his stupor by the voice of the
Tweed.

It was an unfortunate chord to have
touched, as Miss Dart felt.

I was not thinking of Scott in particular,
dear Mary,' she said, gently, ' but of the
thousands of invalids who are recommended
to try foreign scenes by their medical advisers.
Scientifically, they may be correct ; but they
do not sufficiently take into account the depressing
effect upon the patient caused by
the severance of home ties, which often far
outweighs any benefit conferred by change of
climate. There is nothing that so retards
recovery as low spirits : it is only too much
to be feared that your mother has suffered
from them while she has been away from you ;
and the sight of the roses on your pretty
cheeks will do her more good, I honestly
believe, than all the Drunken of Germany.'

Mary answered only by a sigh ; the silence
between the two girls remained unbroken

for many a mile. They were both busied
with their own thoughts ; which, though
there was no lack of sympathy between them,
were of a widely different kind : the one was
dwelling on the last days of Love when it
moves hand-in-hand with Death ; the other on
its early prime. Mary lay back in the vehicle
with closed eyes, and tears beneath their lids.
Miss Dart, though grave enough, took note
through the open windows of every feature of
the landscape — the shadows on the hills, the
smoke wreaths from the valley farms, even
the contrast of colours of the turf on which
they drove with that of the untrodden down :
every object of nature had a novel charm and
significance for her.

Do you think that man — Mr. Winthrop
will be there, Lizzie ? ' inquired Mary,
presently. She spoke in a low, quiet tone,
such as one uses who has been thinking on
a subject long before he speaks ; but the
question startled her companion exceedingly.

No,' she replied, hastily ; ' he will not be
there.' Then, as if conscious she had been too

confident, she added, ' It is, at least, very
unlikely.'

• My mother being so ill, you mean ? '

Miss Dart did mean that ; but she had
had also in her mind the half-promise that the
Major had given her that Mary's persecution
should be dropped.

I think on Mrs. Melburn's first coming
home, and as an invalid,' she exclaimed, ' that
no guest is likely to be invited to the house ;
and especially one that is known to be unwelcome
to her.'

^ He is, however, Jefferson's friend,' observed
Mary.

I think you wrong your brother in supposing
him capable of inviting Mr. Winthrop
under such circumstances.'

In her heart she felt certain, for other
reasons, that he would not be there ; and she
was secretly well pleased to be able to defend
the Major with confidence against the imputation
of selfishness.

Mary seemed about to speak, but restrained
herself ; she only shook her head, with a

melancholy incredulous smile, and again
relapsed into silence.

Presently they came to the crest of the
hill, from which the house was visible.

Mary leant forward, and gazed at it intently
; the hand she laid on the window-frame
was trembling ; her lips murmured
Thank Heaven ! '

Miss Dart understood at once that the poor
ffirl had feared to see the blinds down.

You must keep up a good heart, Mary,'
she said, reprovingly ; ' and especially in your
mother's presence. I beseech you, for her
sake, to be as brave as you can.'

Mary made a gesture of assent, and pressed
her companion's hand. She well understood
that the comparative coldness of the other's
tone arose from no want of sympathy : there
are occasions when firmness, even to severity,
is a greater kindness than the softest word.

The lodge gate was fastened back, which
was not usual, and when the vehicle drew up
at the portico the front door was opened on
the instant, both, as Miss Dart's quick intelligence

suggested to her, inauspicious signs.
To his young mistress's eager inquiry the
butler answered that !Mrs. Melburn was as well
as could be expected after her long journey of
yesterday — a reply, evidently learnt by heart,
that confirmed the governess's suspicions.
Mary instantly hurried upstairs, leaving Miss
Dart alone in the hall.

There was nothing for her to do, not even
to ' unpack ' ; for the luggage of the two young
ladies was to follow them from Casterton m a
cart. , As she stood irresolute, hoping that
Mr. Melburn might appear and give her some
certain information of his wife's condition
before her own interview with her should take
place, the door of the breakfast-room was
pushed noiselessly open, and a voice she knew,
though it had never shaped that word before,
murmured * Lizzie.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTER XXYL

OUTSIDE THE WINDOW.

It was the same room in which she had had
that first interview with him on her arrival
at Burrow Hill, when his naturalness and
good-humour had put her at her ease and convinced
her that there was one person, at least,
in that strange house with whom she would
be able to ' get on.' But his reception of heron
this occasion was very different. ^ Oh,
happy hour ! ' he whispered beneath his breath,
and drew her to his breast, and kissed her
again and again.

You got my letter, then,' she said, softly,
as though excusing herself for submitting to
these caresses, which the consciousness that
she had acknowledged her love for him made,
in truth, a thousand times more intoxicating.

Of course I did, my darling, and shall
wear it next my heart till you take its place,'
was the ardent rejoinder. ' Think what it has
cost me not to reply to it ; and think,' he
added, with a glance at the unclosed door
behind which they stood, ' what a need for
caution there must be which imposed upon me
such a cruel silence.'

But there is no need now,' said the
girl, withdrawing from him with a sudden
impulse,

^ Indeed there is, darling, and more than
ever. You will surely put a little trust in
me ! ' he pleaded ; for her face had suddenly
grown very grave. ' You will not misconstrue
or misconceive my motives, as others have
done, when I say that for some time yet we
must needs keep our love a secret.'

I cannot do it — not even for your sake
she answered, firmly.

But you have done it already, dearest.'

With Mary it was different. I owe her no
such duty as I owe Mrs. Melburn ] but under
lev roof there must be nothing clandestine.

If I deceived her, I should be unworthy of
you.'

You do not know how ill she is,
Lizzie.'

That would only make it worse — to deceive
a sick, perhaps a dying, woman ! How
can you ask it of me ? '

Because I love you so ; because the
thought of any hindrance to our union drives
me wild. Hindrance ! — nay, there would be
flattest denial. You do not know my stepmother's
obstinate nature, nor my father's
pride.'

I am proud, too, in my way,' returned
Miss Dart. Her shapely figure was drawn upto
its full height ; her eyes sparkled with a
light that was new to him. She was resolute,
it was plain, to have her will ; and yet, as he
gazed upon her, and bit his lip in doubt and
fear, he could not withhold his admiration. It
seemed to him that her beauty had never shone
so gloriously before.

There is only one way,' he murmured
mechanically. ' Give me till tomorrow.

Promise me at least this much — that for
twenty-four hours you will not disclose the —
the relations between us.'

I do not like it,' said Miss Dart, doubtfully,
and yet remorseful of her doubt. It
was terrible to her to have to oppose him ;
almost as terrible as that sharp, quick pang at
her heart — caused by she scarce knew what —
which had made her step back from him a few
minutes ago.

Do you suppose like it ? ' he exclaimed,
bitterly. ' Do you think it will be easy or
pleasant for me, for even twenty-four hours,
to keep at a distance from you ; to treat you
as if nothing had passed between us ; to put
a padlock on my lips ; to veil my eyes ;
to hide the thoughts — the loving, blissful
thoughts — that consume my soul ? Oh,
Lizzie ! — to refuse my first request, and that
so slight a one ! '

His words, uttered with passionate vehemence,
but in suppressed, scarcely audible
tones, melted her heart within her ; but what
moved her even more were his pleading eyes, his

beseeching looks* his strong arms held forth in
piteous expostulation.

I do not refuse it,' she answered, with her
hand upon her heart, as though to restrain its
wild and unaccustomed beating. ' I will keep
our secret till tomorrow.'

^ For that, much thanks. It is the last
time that I shall ask you to give way to any
wish of mine ; henceforth, it is your will in
all things that shall be my law — the law of
love.' Again he took her to his arms and
kissed her tenderly — then suddenly started
back, with an exclamation.

'What is it?' she inquired, her manner
almost composed by contrast with his agitation
and alarm.

ISTothino'. I thought I saw a man's
shadow through the window; my father is
somewhere in the grounds, and if he should
have seen us '

'Well, and what then? ' she put in, disdainfully.
' He will know to-day what he will
have to be told tomorrow, that is all. What
have we to be ashamed of ? '

^ Nothing, indeed he answered, eagerly ;
but you do not know my father. What
would happen — should he discover our secret
would be, that you would be packed home
at once — and I, well, packed 6>/fl What then?
again you may say.' He broke off abruptly,
and fell to pacing the little room. • Well, by
Heaven, I believe you are right. A woman's
instinct is sometimes better than all the
wisdom of the serpent. On the whole, I believe
it would be the best thing that could happen.
You would go to your aunt's house, of course ;
and I would take lodgings in the same parish
for three weeks — that is necessary, I believe,
to secure a licence. Or, still better, we could
go to a registry office : you are not one to
care about orange-flowers, and bridesmaids,
and all the paraphernalia of the altar. Why
should I not call you mine at once ? '

That was not my proposition,' said Miss
Dart. • I wish you to do nothing rash or
without consideration.'

I am sure you don't — the proposal comes
from me. I am not a young gentleman underage,

or just of age. I am my own master —
that is, until I knew you. Now, I am yoitr
slave.'

It was pleasant to her to hear him call
himself so — this strong-willed and impetuous
man, of whom so many stood in fear — even if
she did not quite believe it • as to his offer, she
did not take the same view of it as other girls,
no better, if better placed, might have done ;
the standpoint from which she viewed it was
so different ; she had pride enough, but her
pride inclined her to it. She resented the
contempt which, as he had implied — and, no
doubt, with good reason — the Squire would
regard her. She knew herself superior to
the whole race of Melbourne (save one) from
the Conquest downwards. Birth and blood
were nothing to her, wealth she did not
desire ; if the Major had represented himself
to her as a man of fortune, instead of one with
moderate means, it would not have affected
her a hair's breadth in his favour ; it would,
indeed, have been to his disadvantage, since,
in taking him, she might have been taking

something away from others. It seemed to
her that she had no less right to make her
choice of him than he of her. That she could
make him a good wife, she felt assured ; she
was ready to sacrifice herself to him in all ways,
and, at the same time, to benefit those belonging
to him. Whatever influence she might
have on him would be used to mend the breach
between him and his family, and to disabuse
their minds from the prejudices they entertained
against him. She would, above all, be
in a position to oppose the designs of Mr.
Winthrop should he still attempt to prosecute
them. All these considerations pressed upon
her mind. What she was not so conscious of
was that his passion was re-echoed and responded
to in her own heart by an equal
yearning. If love consumed him as he had
said, it also burnt in her, though with a far
purer and steadier flame. She had spoken to
him with apparent calmness' and deliberation,
but it had cost her much to do so ; she had
longed to say, even to that proposition of
secrecy, and, as it had seemed to her, almost

of duplicity, ' Whatever you please, dearest ;
to be assured of your love is all I ask ; ' and
now, when what he proposed involved no
dereliction of duty, why should she hesitate to
make him happy? His scheme, perhaps, was
somewhat audacious ; but it was not like an
elopement proposed by a young heir, but only
a taking of the bull by the horns — a bold
method of coins; away at a stroke with the
obstructions that stupidity and convention
were certain to offer to their union. In delay
there was certainly danger, and to both of
them : why should she run the risk of their
happiness being sacrificed at the altar of family
pride?

If I am thrust out of these doors through
no fault of mine,' she answered, after a long
silence, ' I am ready to do as you think best
and wisest.'

If you are thrust out of these doors,
my darling,' repeated the Major, with tender
earnestness, ' my arms will be open to you.
In the meantime, while you remain lucre be
surprised at nothing that happens.'

He pressed his lips to her forehead, as if
in sion and seal of their agreement, and noiselessly
left the room.

She stood awhile half dazed, but wholly-happy,
till the unaccustomed hush and silence
in the house reminded her that all is not love
in the world : while she had been partaking
of its raptures, what a scene of misery was
in all probability being enacted above-stairs !
Could the love be worthy, she asked herself
in bitter self-reproach, that had made her,
even for a few minutes, oblivious of the fact ?
and yet — and yet — was she to blame that
human nature had been too strong for her ?
White, and silent as a ghost, she hurried
through the empty hall and up the stairs to
her own room, whither, as she guessed, Mary
would presently come to fetch her ; but instead
of taking off her bonnet and cloak, she sank
down on a chair, overcome by a tumult of
emotions. Through the open T^-indows, which
looked out immediately on a small shrubbery
leading to a paddock, where the cattle were
standing under the trees, came all those

tranquil sounds which seem to intensify the
noon-day silence of the summer. The dreary
caw of the rooks, the cock-crow from some
distant farmyard, the swishing of the
cows' tails, the swing of the bough released
from the weight of the blackbird — it seemed
as though, like Fie-Ear in the fairy story,
she could almost hear the grass grow. Had
she done wrong, or had she done right ? Had
she been thinking of herself and her own
advantage all along, while flattering herself
that she was doing her best for others ? From
all self-seeking in the way of profit or position
she could honestly exonerate herself, and
leave the court of conscience without a stain ;
but, in giving way to her lover's persuasions,
had she not been conscious of finding for
herself an escape from slavery, a termination
to a life of uno-genial toil ? What would honest
and simple-hearted Aunt Jane say when she
came to hear of her engagement ; or, rather,
what would she probably think of it while
locking' her thoughts in her own heart lest
they should do her darling wrong ? And if

even Aunt Jane should thus arraign her, could
Mrs. Melburn, and those who thought with
her on such subjects, be blamed for imputing
selfish and unworthy motives ?

Here the fragrance of a cigar was borne
on the summer breeze, and a footstep that she
knew passed close beneath the open window ;
then an angry voice cried, ' Jefferson, a word
with you ' ; and the footsteps halted ; others
came up to where they stopped, and she felt
that the Squire and his son were standing
within a few yards of where she sat, and were
about to speak of her. Whether it was hier
duty to rise and let them know that she was
within earshot, it is difficult to say ; but
Nature had decided for her. Her limbs were
paralysed — not, indeed, with fear, but with a
certain dread expectancy : her tongue clove
to the roof of her mouth. She could only
picture to herself the two men standing face
to face — Mr. Melbnrn pale with rage, and the
Major with that quiet imperturbable look which
he always wore in times of variance with his
people.

I will thank you to pursue none of your
disgraceful intrigues, sir, under my roof,' were
the Squire's first words. Terrible words
indeed ; but, even while they rang in her
burning ears. Miss Dart did not forget the
nature of the speaker, or the circumstance that
drew them from his lips. The Squire was
just the man who, in his moments of fury,
exaggerates the crime of an offender and
generalises an accusation for the very purpose
of embittering it.

Indeed, sir, you are doing me wrong,' was
the quiet reply. She could see him, though the
wall was between them, flicking away the ash
from his cigar, and smiling confidently under
his moustache.

I know the morality of your profession
as to falsehood, where a woman is concerned,'
answered the Squire, contemptuously ; ' or
else I should say you were lying.'

I hope you will not say that, sir,' replied
the Major, not pleadingly, but in a tone of
suppressed menace.

^ Let me say at once, then, that I

happened to be passing by the study window
ten minutes ago, and thereby save you the
trouble of further subterfuge. Perhaps you
will explain, with as little circumlocution as
the case admits, how you came to be kissing
my daughter's companion ? '

• Nothing is simpler, sir ; indeed, if this
inquisition had not taken place, it was my
intention this very day to have told you — not,
indeed, that I had kissed Miss Dart, which is,
after all, a superfluous detail ; but that I had
found it necessary for both our sakes to secure
her as an ally in a certain affair which is
at least as important as a flirtation with a
governess.'

You admit the flirtation, however,'
remarked the Squire, drily.

Well, yes ; the only means that occurred
to me for securing her services,' replied the
Major, coolly, ' was to pretend to make love to
her.'

Miss Dart shuddered as she listened : the
lie, she felt assured, was uttered for her sake ;
but it was no less a lie. She had read that.

in men's eyes, or in some men's eyes, all was
fair in love and war ; but hitherto with contempt
and disapproval. Was it possible that
true love could ever be the excuse for an
untruth? The very calmness with which the
lie was told appalled her. Could love, and
not custom, have given that impressive tone,
that confidence of utterance, which almost to
her ears carried conviction with it?

It has, perhaps, escaped your notice,'
continued the Major — with one pause, owed
to a puff of his cigar — ' that Miss Dart, giving
way, no doubt, to certain influences which
have been brought to bear upon her, has all
along opposed herself to your wishes in the
matter of Mr. Winthrop ; a piece of impertinence,
you would say ' — this, no doubt, in
answer to some contemptuous gesture of the
Squire's — ' but we must take things as we
find them : her opinion has great weight
with Mary, and it seemed to me worth
a little trouble to win her over to our
A^iews.'

Why not have told me all this at once,

and let me have sent her packing? ' returned
the Squire, quickly.

You know my position here, sir, and
how any direct interference of mine, even for
Mary's good, would have been resented by
Mrs. Melburn and misrepresented to yourself.
I have, as it happens, fallen under your displeasure
even as matters stand : that is my
misfortune ; I have done my best, and failed,
it seems, most egregiously. As to Miss Dart,
you shall never have to complain of my
speaking one word to her again ; but on the
other hand, while she remains under this roof,
you may take it for granted that Winthrop's
attentions will be persistently discouraged.'

I shall give Miss Dart her cone this
very day,' said the Squire, with sudden
decision.

In my opinion, you could not do a wiser
thing, sir,' said the ]viator, indifferently.

Miss Dart heard this without surprise :

now that she had once got over the shock of

the Major's duplicity, the rest seemed strangely

familiar to her — like one of those scenes

VOL. n. L

which we fancy have occurred to us in a
previous state of existence. She understood,
as if she had been at the back of his rain,
that his object was to get her out of the house
that he might follow her to London at once
and marry her.

There was the quick spurt of a match
and silence while another cigar was being lit.
Then a pause which had no such explanation.
The Squire was regarding his son with eyes
once more fall of suspicion ; the indifference
he had shown as to the governess's departure
had perhaps been overdone.

'When does your leave expire, sir? ' he
presently asked, abruptly.

It has only just begun,' returned the
Major, smiling. ' At the risk of being wearisome
to my family, I thought of living at
home for the next six weeks.'

The Squire stroked his chin and nodded
his head, as if in sign that, having considered
the matter, he felt, upon the whole, satisfied.
He turned upon his heel as if to retrace his
steps, then suddenly stopped, and in grave,

quick tones, such as one uses to escape from
an unpleasant subject, observed, ' I conclude,
Jefferson, that your wife is still alive ? '

Yes, sir ; she is

Footsteps upon the gravel dying away in
opposite directions : on the one side sharp
and decided ; on the other, over which hung
the tobacco-smoke, slow and dawdling the
steps of a careless lounger. Then the caw of
the rook, and the crow of the cock, and the
wishing; of the cows' tails in the shade ao-ain.
All was the same as it had been ten minutes
ago ; but, in the meantime, a life had been
shattered. There are wounds which the misconduct
of those we love is capable of inflicting
on our spiritual nature similar in their effects
to those of gunshot wounds on the human
frame : death ensues, but without mutilation ;
and there are also catastrophes equivalent to
those produced by the bursting of a shell, by
which the whole moral being; is laid in ruins.
Of these latter victims, one here and there, if
he have strength to bear the knife — the lopping
away of the last fragments of misplaced

trust, the splinters of diseased and morbid
love — will sometimes recover ; but lie is never,
as the phrase goes, ' the same man he was '
again. And this thing is still more true in
the case of a woman.

i

Chapter. XXYIL

A TURN OF THP: TIDE.

As the prophet, during the overturning of a
pitcher, seemed to himself to have experienced
the joys of seven heavens, so he might doubtless
have felt during the same time (had his
imagination tended the other way) the pangs
of as many hells ; similarly, it was not a minute
since the hearing of that dreadful question, • I
conclude that your wife is still alive ? ' and
its still more dreadful answer, ' Yes, sir, she
is,' that Elizabeth Dart remained motionless
in her chair ; but within that minute were
crowded such agonies of emotion as would
have sufficed an ordinary soul for its earthly
lifetime. Presently she rose, and, taking up
mechanically her little hand-bag, stole, with
tottering steps, down the back staircase ; then

passing through the servants' offices (where
a cook-maid saw her, and afterwards observed
that Miss Dart ' looked as though she were a-
walking in her sleep '), she reached the carriage
drive, and passed unobserved through the
lodge gates.

She was bound for Casterton, the only
palace in the world, save London, where she
could find a friend ; she would have gone to
town from the railway station at once, but that
she had no money — not even so much as was
necessary to pay her fare. We often glibly
say that the rich have their troubles like the
poor ; but we forget to add that the same
troubles are increased tenfold in the case of
the latter through the absence of the mere
means of remedy or escape : their child maybe
ill in both cases, but in the one case the
doctor cannot be sent for, or the remedies he
prescribes cannot be procured ; or the home
may become hateful and the scene of insult,
where the poor inmate has not the wherewithal
which the rich one possesses to seek
another or even to leave it.

The road between Elizabeth Dart and her
destination was long and hilly ; but, under
ordinary circumstances, it would not have
tried her strength and youth very severely.
But a laden heart is a heavy burthen ; and
even the physical difficulties that lay before
her added insensibly to its weight. It would
be evening' she dimly reflected, before the
strait of Battle Hill would loom in sioiit,
even supposing that she had the skill to keep
the almost trackless way. How wearisome
looked the steep and blinding chalk road ; how
desolate the treeless downs, which an hour
before had reflected the brightness of her
hopes !

In motion, however, especially of a fatiguing
kind, our bitterest griefs, though they
may not, indeed, be assuaged, for the time are
stanched, which is why some men speak of
walking; off their cares.' as though it were
the gout. And it was only when, at the
summit of the first hill, Miss Dart sat down
by the wayside for breath, that the full consciousness
of her misery began to dawn on her.

Curiously enough, it was not the sense of
her misfortune but that of her wrongs which
took the foremost place ; exasperation at the
injustice with which she had been treated
swelled her proud heart well-nigh to bursting
and scorched the tears that would otherwise
have flowed for her woes. To put as much
space as possible between herself and the roof
that sheltered that perfidious slavering snake,
Jefferson Melburn, had been her first blind
impulse ; but on reflection, if the torrent of
angry thoughts that swept across her mind
could be so termed, the contempt and callousness
of the Squire scarcely less aroused her
resentment. The passionate indignation of
the deceived woman included father and son
in the same condemnation ; it was not ' that
man ' only, to think of whom raised the fever
of her blood to boiling heat, but ' those men.'
The Squire, it is true, did not know what had
passed between herself and the Major ; but he
knew that, notwithstanding he was vowed to
another, his son lead made love to her ; and
yet he had only objected to it as a domestic

scandal which might disadvantageoiisly affect
himself — nay, when persuaded that the object
of this atrocious duplicity had been to farther
his own ends, he had actually acquiesced in
it as ^ only a flirtation with a governess ! '
Great Heavens ! what was this race of profligates
and schemers that, to further one
nefarious plan, the happiness and reputation
of a friendless e^irl should not weiss with them
a feather weight ? ' And my blood, too, is
not ditch water,' was the reflection she would
have borrowed from another's lips had she been
in the humour for quotation.

However we gloze and hide the matter,
our respect for those whom we conventionally
term our ' betters ' is but the thinnest crust,
Which one stamp from the foot of insolent
injustice destroys for ever ; and, in the case
of a naturally independent spirit, sets free a
lava stream of fiery hate, the existence of
which, but for that unlucky rent, would
never have been suspected, the contemptuous
indifference which such a nature opposes to
mere annoyance easily passing for submission,

or even acquiescence. It is of this sort, and
by this means, that in unquiet times revolutionists
are manufactured. Elizabeth Dart
had nothing in her composition of the petro-lease,
nor could she under any circumstances
have become vindictive ; but her whole soul
rose in arms against the social system which
she held responsible for her wrongs. Nay, to
borrow an historic phrase, which well describes
the sudden and yet permanent change which
had taken place in her character, ' it was nota
rising, it was a revolution.'

In the tumult of her mind, and the wide
sweep of its indignation, Mrs. Melburn herself
did not escape reproach. If that lady suspected,
as it was almost certain she did, that her
step-son was paying his attentions to a girl beneath
her roof, to whom by every law of hospitality
she stood in the place of a parent, was
it not her plain duty to have warned her that
they must of necessity be of a dishonourable
nature ? It was true that she had evinced displeasure
at what had seemed to be the signs of
familiarity, or of a mutual understanding between

the Major and her governess. But that
was explicable enough : on selfish grounds she
had objected to any alliance with her enemy.
But cognisant, as she must needs be, of his
being: a married man. it was shameful of her
not to have spoken out, and, with however
rough a hand, dragged her from the precipice
on which she stood. If the Squire had been
callous and brutal, his wife's conduct, being a
woman, was worse, and could only have been
accounted for on worse grounds — namely,
that having failed to secure her as a partisan,
she was not displeased to see her bringing on
herself a punishment the extremity of which
was practically without limit. To do Elizabeth
Dart justice, however, this odious accusation
had flashed with lurid lia'ht but for a
moment across her mid, which shrank with
horror from the very picture of its own
devising. She felt that she had done the
dying woman a wrong as grievous, though
only in her thoughts, as had been inflicted on
herself in practice ; that either the ^lajor's
marriage must have been a secret to all but

his father, or that the serious character of his
attentions to herself must have escaped Mrs.
Melburn's notice. As for Mary, there was
still room in her bruised and embittered heart
for pity for her as she thought of the pain
which her sudden and unexplained departure
must needs inflict upon that gentle nature.
To what would she attribute this abrupt
desertion of her in that day of distress, and
perhaps of need ? What would she do when
she found that she had fled ?

There was a sound of wheels upon the hill
behind her. Was it possible that, having
discovered her flight, and the direction it had
taken, she was coming after her to induce her
to return ? Or could it be that man himself,
unconscious of the revelation of his baseness!
Her heart stood still within her at the thought.
How hateful had that smiling face, those
gracious and confiding tones, the very form
whose strength and symmetry had once
charmed her eyes, become ! She pictured him
now saying always, with sullen, indifferent
face, ' Yes, sir ; my wife is still alive.'

As the vehicle came in siijht, lie recognised,
with great relief, the fly in which she
had come from Casterton. and which, after the
horses had rested and been refreshed at the
inn, was doubtless returning thither. In this
little matter, at least. Fortune, which owed
her so much of reparation, had favoured her.

The driver's momentary astonishment at
her request to be taken back to the Look-out
was quenched at once in the satisfaction of
pocketing a return fare, and she took her seat
unquestioned. A mile farther on they met
the cart containing the luoro^aoce of herself and
Mary ; and while what belonged to her was
being transferred from it to her own vehicle,
she took the opportunity of writing a few
pencilled lines — in French, to escape Down-shire
eyes — to Mary : —

In consequence of a conversation, to
which I was an unwilling listener, between
your father and Major Melburn this afternoon,
there is no course open to me but to leave
Burrow Hall. Forgive the uneasiness that

my departure must needs have caused you,
and the inconvenience which 1 fear will ensue
from it ; and, under all circumstances, be
assured of my affection. I will write to you
from London.'

This explanation, bald and curt as it
looked, she felt would be sufficient, and, at
the same time, inflict no unnecessary pain. It
would be taken for granted by the two ladies
that the Squire's resolution to give her ^ her
cone that very day ' — to the utterance of which
he would be obliged to confess — had been anticipated
by her own act ; while the Major himself
would be at no loss to understand the true
reason of her departure — namely, the revelation
of his treachery and falsehood from his own lips.

What his plan had been — if his recklessness
and passion had admitted of a plan — it
was difficult to say. The subject was one
which this proposed victim naturally shrank
from speculating upon ; but he had probably
intended to follow her to London, where,
having ingratiated himself — an easy task —

more and more into her confidence and
affections, lie would presently have imposed
upon her by a mock marriage.

Humiliating as were the moral aspects of
the case, they were hardly less so than those
of her financial condition. The very money
that was owing; to her for her salary, and on
which alone she could look for subsistence
for the present, seemed to her less like honest
earnings than the wao;es of shame. The idea
of accepting a similar post to that which she
had filled at Burrow Hall had become abhorrent
to lier ; to live on the scanty means of
Aunt Jane, even for a day, was not to be
thought of : and nothing;, therefore, remained
to her but to seek for a situation in some
seminary, such as she had filled ]before, and
had left with such a sense of enfranchisement.
How she had beaten her winofs ao-amst the
bars, and pined for open air ; and now, having
tasted of it — only at Casterton, however ; for
that which she had breathed under the same
roof with Jefferson Melburn seemed now mere
choke-damp and miasma — she must needs go

back to prison, perhaps for the remainder of
her days ! And she was not yet five and-twenty
!

Her aspirations, too, which had hitherto
supported her in all her troubles — nay, the
inspiration, as it had almost seemed, which
now and again had taken possession of her
soul — had vanished. It could not be said
that Mr. Aro^and's letter had flattered it into
existence, for it had dwelt within her, in
some dim shape, as long as she could remember
; but his encouragement had given it
form and lent it wings. Though the paper
she had written for the ' Millennium ' had fallen
far short of what she had expected of herself
for who of us who think at all are satisfied
with the expression of our thoughts — she had
secretly believed it to possess merit far above
the common. The flattering unction Which
the neophyte in literature can in most cases
apply to the wound of disappointment as
regards ' style ' or ' appropriateness to our
columns ' was denied to her. It was not her
first nor lier twentieth production : the composition

had been as good as lie could make
it, while, though it was true she had read no
such similar mingling of description and reflection
in the pages of the * Millennium,' the
very specialty of the review was its originality
and freedom from convention. The failure of
her contribution must therefore have arisen
from want of merit. What to any one experienced
in such matters was significant of
lier utter depression was that she did not fora
moment question Mr. Argand's judgment in
the matter, far less did she dream of imputing
a want of kindness to his silence. He evidently
thought that his first impression of her powers
had been a false one, and that to give her any
further encouragement would be an act of
cruelty. Mrs. Meyrick would give her lodgment
for the night, no doubt, and her fixed
intention upon finding herself in her own
room was to destroy every manuscript she
possessed, and put an end once for all to her
false hopes in that direction, as her false hopes
in another had been done to death by a more
cruel but not more relentless hand. For the

VOL. IT. M

rest of her natural life she must make up her
mind to be a drudge : a fate accepted with
resignation by tens of thousands — but who,
for the most part, are born for the cart shafts
and have no yearning for cleaving the
empyrean with sunlit wings.

The shades of evening began to fall when
Miss Dart once more found herself looking
down on the little town : it seemed more grey
and gloomy than she had ever seen it, but
upon the summit of Battle Hill still lingered,
golden, the last rays of day.

When the door of the Look-out was
opened to her, she saw Mrs. Meyrick standing
with anxious face behind the little maid : the
unaccustomed sound of wheels stopping at her
door had doubtless alarmed her.

She took the new-comer's hand in silence,
and led her into a little room at the back of
the house, noah unused except at preserving
seasons, but in which her husband had once
kept a lathe, and used as a workshop. ' What,
in Heaven's name, has happened ?' she inquired,
in a trembling voice.

^ Xothing — at least nothing to any one of
consequence was the bitter rejoinder. Its
sarcasm was lost upon the widow, whose mind
was not one of those exceptional ones which
are fitted up for the reception of two ideas at
the same time.

My sister-in-law is no worse, then? ' she
replied, with relief in her tones.

I believe not ; but I have not seen her.
I was obliged to come away at once.'
But why ? — oh, why ? '

To prevent being sent away ; just as any
other servant anticipates dismissal by giving
warning.'

^ Sent away ? I am quite sure you ought
never to have been sent away,' exclaimed the
kind old lady, indignantly. ' There must have
been some plot against you, and Jefferson was
at the bottom of it.'

At that name Miss Dart, hitherto as firm
and cold as iron, began to tremble. ' Sit you
down, girl,' continued the widow, authoritatively,
' and drink this.'

She had opened acupbonr.]. and taking out

a square bottle, the contents of which were
solid as well as liquid, had rapidly filled from
it a small glass. ' The cherries have no stones
in them, and will not hurt you even if you do
swallow them ; the brandy is thirty sears
old.'

It is doubtful whether this eulogy would
have had much effect but for the appealing
look with which it was accompanied. To
please her hostess Miss Dart took a sip from
the glass, and at once experienced a sense of
restoration. She had passed the whole day
without food, for she had had no appetite for
breakfast, and the emotions she had undergone
had exhausted her.

Thank you she murmured, gratefully.
^ I feel better now. You have just mentioned
a certain person's name. Be so good as to tell
me '

Not one word will I speak about him, or
anybody else, till you have finished the glass.'

There are some things, such as the administration
of cordials, in which the weak
become the stronger. Miss Dart obeyed.

Xow eat a biscuit.'

This mandate was more difficult of accomplishment.
Who of us is so fortunate as not
to have known moments when the staff of life
is literally broken, and the gorge rises at a
crumb of bread ?

^ If you wish to ask me any questions about
Major Melburn, I am ready to answer them,'
resumed Mrs. Meyrick, with an air of resignation.
^ It is an unpleasant subject to me, as
you may have guessed ; but if it is absolutely
necessary '

I wish to ask only one thing,' interrupted
Miss Dart. ' Did you know that he was
married ? '

Certainly not.'

You would have known it, I suppose, if
]Mrs. Melburn knew it ? '

Without doubt I should have known it.
sly sister-in-law and I have no secrets from
each other as respects that person.'

Yet it does not seem to surprise you to
hear what I have just said.'

Not at all. Nothing that I could hear

said of my brother's son would surprise me —
my poor dear girl.'

Her first words were wrung from an
indignant woman denouncing, unwillingly,
lier own flesh and blood ; her last, were the
expression of tenderest sympathy with the
misfortune of one she loved. Miss Dart had
suddenly burst into tears, and covered her
face with her hands. Mrs. Meyrick made no
effort to restrain her companion's grief. Like
a doctor, slow to diagnose the disease of his
patient, but who, having once discovered it, is
at no loss how to treat it, she remained quiet
and collected, save that her own eyes were wet
with tears.

^ I had no idea how things were with you,
my darling,' she said, presently, ' or I would
have spoken long ago. You are, doubtless,
asking yourself, " Why did not Mrs. Melburn,
who was in a better position than I for seeing
how matters were going on, utter no note of
warning ? " To explain that, I must tell you
what is known to none but herself and me —
not even to her own daughter. Yes,' she

continued, as if to herself, ' I owe it to Edith
as well as to you, though the confidence is a
painful one. Long years ago, when you were
a little child, and it could never have been
guessed how such a matter could have affected
you, my sister-in-law, then a young and very
pretty girl, met Jefferson Melburn at a ball.
It was in some garrison town where his
regiment was quartered, and then' acquaintanceship
was of the slightest : nevertheless, I
believe, he proposed to her and was rejected.
The affair — or at least that was how it was
represented to me — was of so transient a
nature that it made hardly any impression on
her. 'When Mr. Melburn, the elder, offered
himself, the recollection of what had happened
gave her some embarrassment ; but Jefferson
was at that time in India, and not expected
home for years ; he had had, moreover, a
quarrel with the Squire, and it was generally
understood that he would never come to
Burrow Hall ; and, as you know, she became
Mrs. Melburn. Then, matters turned out
quite differently — and, as generally happens,

much worse. Jefferson came to England on
sick-leave ; his quarrel With his father was
made up — though they will never be friends
by some arrangement about the entail on
the estate ; and Jefferson came home. My
sister-in-law had never liked him, and his
former liking: for her had now changed to
detestation. Outwardly, he maintained a cold
and deferential respect for her, but he has
never lost an opportunity of doing her a
mischief, or of fomenting the unhappy differences
that arose between her husband and
herself Revengeful and utterly unscrupulous
as she knew him to be, figure to yourself what
life must have been to her for the last twenty
years, at the mercy of this man's slanderous
tongue ! When I hear people talk so glibly
of the wrath to come, as of something new and
strange, can they know, I wonder, that in this
world already there are poor souls, not altogether
wicked ones, who have found their
Gehenna ! ' She paused a moment, overcome
with emotion, and transfigured in her companion's
eyes from the commonplace, kind creature

she had hitherto known to soraethms^ almost
heroic in her divine compassion. ' Judge, then,
dear Lizzie, was it possible for this unhappy
woman even if she knew what — as I guess —
was taking place between you and this man,
that she could have spoken out against him ?
On the other hand, had she known that he
Alas married, I do believe that no personal

considerations, however weighty '

Enough, enough, ' exclaimed Miss Dart,
falling on the widow's neck, and mingling
her tears with hers ; ' forgive me, that, in my
selfish folly, supposing myself to be the most
miserable woman in the world, instead of
being merely the most blind and foolish, I
have caused you so much distress and pain.
Your confidence, be assured, is not misplaced
; and, as for mine, whatever is worth
your hearing of my wretched story shall be
told at once.' Then, in few words, she told
her all that had happened, concealing nothing
of the worship she had paid to her idol,
with its feet — nay, with its whole being —
of worthless clay ; and concluding with a

statement of her own poor position and barren
prospects.

swell, well,' said lier kind hostess, encouragingly,
when she had quite done, ^ you
must come and live with us till you see
your way to placing yourself in comfortable
quarters. As to ways and means — for I
know you are the most practical young
woman (outside that weakness' which is common
to all our sex) that ever cut out a gown
or made a bonnet as well as any milliner
you must remember that your presence
here is, to begin with, the saving of a doctor's
bill : even during the twelve hours that
you have been away, dear Mat has already
begun to show signs of running down, like
a clock that has lost its winder. Then, your
marketing is so much better than mine or
Lucy's.'

Pray, pray, don't tempt me, dear Mrs.
Meyrick ! ' interrupted Miss Dart, in agonised
tones. ' I have already suffered from the pretence
and shadow of love : let me not also
suffer from its substance. What you so

hospitably propose would, indeed, be a cruel
kindness. There is nothing for me now —
unless I would sink into the mire of mere
despondency and despair — but work : work
with my fingers, if nothing better offers —
work for a few pence if not for a few pounds
but work I must have, of some kind, at
once. All that I am here to ask of you is a
lodging for the night and the loan of my
fare to town tomorrow.'

As you please, dear Lizzie,' replied the
widow, * or rather, as you will, and must. I
am well aware that I am quite incompetent
to advise you. I must go to Mat, and break
to him what has happened : it will be a bitter
blow.'

Oh, Mrs. Meyrick, spare him ! spare
him !'

How can I ? How is it possible ? Do
you suppose that the sorrow of one he loves
can be hidden from him ? He has only to
look at you.'

I should never have come here,' murmured
Miss Dart, bitterly. ' My very presence

diffuses wretchedness. Give me at least a
few minutes to wash away these traces of
weakness.'

You have half an hour good,' said Mrs.
Meyrick, looking at her watch. 'He is in
the Pavilion, and will know nothing till
dinner time of your arrival. There is a
letter for you somewhere ; it came by the
afternoon's post. I will send it up to your
room.'

A letter from Aunt Jane, no doubt,'
thought Miss Dart, wearily. ' She little
guesses that I have been to Burrow Hall, and
have now left it for ever ; that I am coming
home to her tomorrow to be another burden
to her bowed'down back.'

Ten minutes had passed, and Mrs.
Meyrick was standing on the well-worn steps
outside the dining-room, where the maid was
laying the little table for three ; she had
been cudgelling her brains for what to say
to Matthew that should o-ivq him the least

amount of pain, and with small advantage —
the winter water grows no warmer for the
would-be swimmer's contemplation of it —
when suddenly, from the open window overhead,
a voice cried, ' Do not trouble to tell
Matthew, Mrs. Meyrick. I will speak to him
myself.'

If the good lady had been a student of
the poets, like her son, it is probable that, at
the sound of it, certain verses would have
occurred to her descriptive of the linnet's

song —

And unto one her note is gay,

And now her little ones have ranged ;
And unto one her note is changed,

Because her brood is stolen away.

Ten minutes ago, the voice she heard had
been heavy with woe ! now, it was unmistakably
clear and bright ; not cheerful merely
as a woman in despondency can make
it for another's sake — but with the true
bird note of joy. She looked up and beheld
a face radiant with hope — nay, with happiness.
' Not one word to him of what has

happened whispered the smiling lips. ' It

will not now be necessary.'

But what will you tell him, my child ? '
Good news, dear Mrs. Meyrick ; nothing

but good news.'

CHAPTER XXYIIL

CONGRATULATIONS.

There are comfortable saws and sayings concerning
the limits of human woe which it is to
be hoped have some truth in them. ' The
darkest hour is before dawn,' and ^ When
things are at their worst they must needs
mend are samples of them. It is, unhappily,
sometimes difficult to say which hour is
darkest, or to affirm with accuracy at what
point things have reached their worst. There
are some cases — even many cases — where Fate
is desperately malignant, and ' " Unmerciful
disaster" never draws rein.' But to the
majority of us, though it is difficult to believe
that ' The shadow on the dial proves the passing
of the trial, proves the presence of the sun,' it
may, I think, be said that after the tempest
comes, not only calm, but sunshine ; that there

is some sort of compensation for most of us
even in this world.

Elizabeth Dart was not one given to
exaggerate her woes. She recognised, even
in her misery, that many a woman was not
only worse off than herself, as the phrase
goes, but had far deeper cause for tears. Was
not Mrs. Melburn, for example — of whom, in
her ignorance, she had been inclined sometimes
to think hard things — one far more to be
pitied ? Nor was she so foolish as to attempt
to disarm misfortune by picturing it to herself
as having come to the leno-th of its
tether. The very letter now in her hand
might bring tidings of illness from Aunt Jane
(in the disorganised and morbid condition of
her nerves, it seemed only too probable), and
infuse still more of bitterness into her cup.
Still, that cup was well-nigh full. To be a
drudge, and an unsmiling drudge, for life, was
the best prospect that life afforded her. She
took the letter from Janet's hands with a
sigh, half of apprehension, half of despondency.



It was not from Aunt Jane, but from

Mr. Argand. She tore it open, less in expectation
than in fear to encourage expectation
wliicli should leave her more hopeless than
before, and out leaped a cheque for twenty
pounds. The blood rushed to her face as
though it had received a blow. Charity —
compensation for disappointment — was her
explanation of the phenomenon. She took up
the cheque with her fingers as though they had
been a pair of tongs, and placed it on the
stable before her. The letter that accompanied
it was a long one, as letters must needs be
which apologise for a kindness that may well
be mistaken for an insult. She had heard of
such misplaced generosity before, in similar
cases, and the writer's heart must, have been
touched by her forlorn condition (which he
must have guessed at, however, by the magic
of sympathy, since it was certain she had
never hinted at it), while his judgment had
condemned her contribution : —

My dear Madam, — You have, I fear,
been thinking me sadly negligent ; but a
severe and sudden illness, an attack of low

VOL. II. N

fever, must be my excuse for not having
written to you long ago. My last act and
deed in health was to send your admirable
article to the printers. I have never seen it
since, until I read it in the ^' Millennium " today
— a circumstance which (if you knew my
editorial habits, which never permit a proof
to be in the reading) would have all the force
of a medical certificate. Strange to say, it
has scarcely ever been out of my thoughts.
A hundred times, as I tossed on my restless
pillow, have I been at Casterton, on the
marsh, on the pier, and in the quaint little
town. I have seen the racehorses, clothed
or unclothed, at their exercises and at their
trial gallops, on the windy downs. I have
fought against the Danes, and with them (for
-delirium has no patriotism) on Battle Hill ,
I have seen the towns that lie beneath the
sea, in your enchanted neighbourhood, and
peopled them with inhabitants who have
suffered no sea change. What all this phantasmagoria
meant as regards your contribution
was of course clear enough to me, and needed

no corroboration from without. Still, it will
interest you to learn that one of her Majesty's
judges — almost the only one in these days
who has any claim to be considered a judge
in literary matters — has just been calling on
me, under the transparent pretence of inquiring
after my health, but in reality to learn
who is John Javelin.

" Are you aware, my dear sir," he was
so good as to say, '' that in the net of your
Millennium ' this month (I will not say owing
to your absence from your duties, but m
spite of it) there shines and shimmers one of
those very rare fish called a genius ? " "I
am well aware of it, my lud," was my ungracious
reply. •* I dare say, however, you
will be careful not to encourage unreasonable
expectations by letting the gentleman know
your opinion of him," was his dry rejoinder.
A sarcasm which, I hope, you will do me the
justice to say was unmerited.

It reminded me, however, of what, but
for my illness, would assuredly not have been
forgotten — namely, to express to you the very

N 2

great admiration I feel for "A Bit of Old
England" and its author. It is easy to invest
with interest an uncommon subject, but to
make a trite one even acceptable is a feat
beyond most pens. Your little paper will
delight every eye that reads it and possesses
the faculty of appreciation. As a mere piece
of description, it is perfect — as good as Kingsley's
sketches of North Devon scenery. The
stores of knowledge which it has laid under
contribution for its illustration, must strike
every one as unusually ample ; but to one who,
like myself, is acquainted with your age and
sex, they are indeed amazing. The chief, and
much more uncommon, merit of the paper
lies, however, in its suggestiveness ; in the
ordinary reader, it must needs beget thought
and reflection, which will be sure to leave him
a wiser man than they found him ; but for the
more exceptional one, from his lordship the
judge aforesaid down to the humble editor who
now addresses you, it possesses also a suggestiveness
as respects the writer, and endows
her with far greater powers even than she has

exhibited. '* This is promise rather than performance,"
is a professional phrase which
editors find convenient for mitigating; the importunities
of youthful aspirants ; but in your
case it must be varied. There is plenty of
performance in your work, but also a promise
far beyond it, and of which, to speak truth
without flattery, I can hardly trust myself to
write. To say that you will do far better
work than '• A Bit of Old England," though of
its kind it is impossible to conceive anything
better, would be to utter a platitude ; indeed,
in your own mind, you must well be convinced
of the fact. Let me rather predict that you
will soon do your talents justice on a wider
canvas. In my ignorance of much that I
would gladly know concerning your position
and prospects, and especially what you yourself
consider to be your qualifications for a
literary career, I shrink from giving you
advice : but it seems to me you are wasting on
a narrow field such powers of observation as
nature grants only to a very few in the same
generation. After all these eulogium, I am

afraid the enclosed cheque will appear miserably
inadequate. You will think of the fruitseller
of Constantinople with his "In the name of
the Prophet — Figs ! " You must understand,
however, that the " Millennium," though thriving,
is in its minority, and has not, at present,
the means at its disposal to reward genius according
to its deserts. — With every kind wish,
I am, my dear madam, yours most faithfully
and hopefully, , ^^^^^^ Argand.'

Great is the power of deserved praise. It
frees the imprisoned Hope, and turns the key
on its gaolers, black-browed Care and tyrannous
Need. No touch of fairy wand could have
effected a transformation more complete than
did these words of encouragement in the bosom
of Elizabeth Dart. They seemed to give wings
to her very being — or rather, they gave her
confirmation strong and positive that it had
wings. Depressed and downtrodden by circumstance,
she had of late begun to doubt her
possession of certain gifts of Nature which had
from time to time given sign of their presence

; but now she felt assured that they
were hers.

The good man is ignorant of his goodness,
or surprised to hear that others call it by such
a name ; but in intellectual matters, the case
is different : it is probable that every one who
possesses exceptional attainments is more or
less conscious of their existence. The sense
of comparison, which is not absent from even
the most modest natures, renders it impossible
that it should be otherwise. The recognition
from outside is only corroboration. Nevertheless,
it brings on the birth.

A glow of confidence — something different
and far better than the awakening of ambition
pervaded Miss Dart's mind. ' How happy
shall I be able to make Aunt Jane ! ' was her
first unpresumptuous thought ; for, whether
she had genius or not, it was certain, as Mrs.
Meyrick had said, that she was practical in
her ideas. That she was already so happy in
herself may need a word of explanation. A
woman who has just had her idol shattered
should not, it may be suggested, have derived

such exceeding satisfaction from the receipt of
twenty pounds ; but it was precisely because it
was shattered, and not a fragment of worth or
comeliness left of it, that she felt so buoyant.
She had not lost a lover, for it was plain
she never had one ; she had escaped from a
scoundrel of whom no remembrance was left
to her, save of his perfidy. Instead of being
tossed about the stormy waves of life on the
wreck of her poor fortunes, she had suddenly
come upon smooth water and a harbour.

As for the cheque — which, my lady reader
is thinking, with a smile, will just pay for her
winter mantle — I am aware that it did not
represent much ; still (for comparison comes
in here, too), it represented exactly one quarter
of the annual income which Miss Dart
was wont to receive from the practice of her
scholastic profession ; and she had gained it by
a few hours of mental toil. Compared with the
other contents of Mr. Argand's envelope, it
was indeed of small intrinsic consequence ;
but, as an earnest of what hereafter might be
won by her pen, it was pregnant with possibilities

; and, if they took at present but the
concrete form of ' making Aunt Jane happy,'
it was, at least, a something.

I think, upon the whole, in short, that
that change of tone in which Miss Dart has
just exclaimed, ' Good news, dear Mrs. Merrick
! Xothing but good news' was justified.

At the same time, it was difficult to explain
to that lady exactly what had happened ; even
if Mr. Argand's letter was not to he considered
as Miss Dart was inclined to hold it — a
confidential communication, it was not, as the
phrase goes, ' everybody's letter ' ; to Mrs.
Meyrick, it would be hardly intelligible, and
would certainly lack that significance and
blossom of promise which it possessed for its
recipient. To be told that her guest had had
literary employment offered her in London
would scarcely account to that good lady for the
rise that had taken place in the barometer of
her young friend's spirits ; even in the case of
an unquestionable genius and original poet —
namely, her son Matthew — the emolument
received for literary labour had struck the

widow as inconsiderable, and how much less
must (naturally) be given to any other writer
and for mere prose. To Miss Dart, however,
no other course presented itself, though in the
face of high-wrought expectation, but to tender
this weak solution of the mystery of her change
of spirits.

Well, of course, my dears said Mrs. Merrick,
wondering at the colour in those cheeks
which a few minutes ago had been so pale, and
at the brightness that had replaced the dew in
those gentle eyes. ' I am glad if you are glad;
but if it is only because Mr. Argand has
printed the account you tell me you have written
of Casterton, and which I am sure I shall
be most pleased to read '

^ He has not only printed it, but paid for it,'
interrupted the authoress, in desperation, but
not without a comical sense of disappointment
at the manner in which her news had been
received ; ' he has sent me twenty pounds for
it,' and she produced the cheque like one who
plays his last card.

^ Twenty pounds ! ' echoed Mrs. Meyrick,

examining the document with eyes not wholly
free from suspicion. ' Twenty pounds for a
description of Casterton ? ' with a ludicrous
stress upon the word, as though she was not
certain that the whole fee simple of the town
had not been disposed of; 'why, the 'millennium
" must be made of money.'

That is a good many people's notion of the
'' Millennium," ' answered Miss Dart, lauo^hinof.

7

But it must be true, my dear,' was the
grave rejoinder. ' I don't say a word against
your talent for description ; but I am so
dreadfully afraid there must be some mistake.
^\^hy, how long did you take to write it ? '

Well, the mere writing of it took me about
six hours.'

Gracious mercy on me ! Why, that's
twenty pounds a day — six thousand pounds a
year exclusive of Sundays ; and I do hope, my
dear, whatever they offer you, that you will
never work on Sundays.'

Her appeal had a piteous earnestness about
it which Miss Dart comprehended at once, and
which robbed it of its absurdity. She remembered

that the widow had told her how her
late husband's working at his busts on Sunday
had been the sole cause of disagreement that
had ever arisen between them.

I don't think working on Sunday will be
necessary,' said Miss Dart, smiling, ' if I make
six thousand a year on week-days. But don't
you think that I have now a good excuse for
Matthew for my having left Burrow Hall and
given up governesses in favour of Grub
Street ? '

Of course, you have ; and, as it happens,
he need never know that Mr. Argand's letter
found you here ; for ever since you and Mary
went this morning, the poor lad has shut himself
up in the Pavilion, and never asked a
question about the post or anything.'

It may be asked, with incredulity, ' But
was so intelligent a young gentleman as Matthew
Meyrick taken in by this pious and
simple fraud to save him pain ; and did not
the abruptness of the governess's return from
Burrow Hall awaken his suspicions ? '

For the moment — that is to say, till their

visitor's retirement for the night left him free
to question his mother on the whole subject,
when the truth, of course, came out — the explanation
did satisfy him. That implied invitation
from mr. Argand to come, like a literary
Whittington, to seek her fortune in town,
seemed to him of the nature of a royal command,
which, under the same circumstances
he would have himself obeyed without a
moment's delay. Unlike Miss Dart, who was
a student of human nature first, and a litterateur
afterwards, he put letters before everything.
In view of that flattering epistle from the
Jupiter of the ' Millennium,' all minor matters
including the very existence of such a personas
Jefferson Mel burn — were dwarfed, and disappeared.
In his extreme delight at Miss Dart's
good fortune, and in the recognition of the
talents which had so long aroused his own
amazement by one so capable of judgment as
Mr. Argand, he even for a moment omitted to
inquire, ' And what does Mary say, and how
will she do without you ? ' This question,
which could not have been long postponed,

was providentially averted by the dropping in
of Mr. Leyden to dinner. He had heard of
Miss Dart's sudden return — within an hour of
its occurrence it had, indeed, become the talk
of the little town — and its true cause had at
once suggested itself to him. "■' That scoundrel
Jefferson was his private reflection, ' must
have shown his hand, or rather his cloven
foot.'

The antiquary's regard for Miss Dart, and
the keen interest he took in her affairs, must
be his excuse ; but the fact was, curiosity to
know how she had discovered the real character
of the Major consumed him. The explanation
she gave of her sudden return to Casterton
seemed to afford him complete satisfaction ;
but, in reality, in Mrs. Mey rick's face he read
ample confirmation of his own views. He saw
how the land lay, in short, almost as completely
as though he had had a chart of it ;
and he proved of immense assistance in averting
the conversation from dangerous topics. To
judge by the talk, indeed, in that little diningroom,
one would have imagined it was a publisher's

parlour in Paternoster Row, with the
hostess as a sleeping partner. Nor was the
subject-matter — the prospects of a literary life
one whit less interesting because not one of
the company had any knowledge of it ; information
on the point would only have clipped
the wings of their imagination, or, perhaps,
even plucked them.

As to material results, the estimate arrived
at by Mrs. Meyrick, though not exceeded, was
held to be reasonable and, on the whole, satisfactory,
save by Miss Dart herself.

If my income ever reaches a thousand
pounds,' she modestly observed, ' I think, Mr.
Leyden, that the stars will have justified
themselves.'

Certainly not, my dear young lady,' was
the confident rejoinder. ' Literature will do all
it can for you, no doubt ; but the stars, you
may take my word for it, don't put themselves
out — I mean, interfere in human affairs — for a
thousand a year.'

THE HEIR OF THE AGES

CHAPTER XXIX.

A NEW DEPARTURE.

Miss Dart gave way with little reluctance
to Mrs. Meyrick's earnest entreaties that she
should remain at the Look-out another day.
She was among such friends as she was not
likely to find elsewhere, and whom she would,
perhaps, never see again. She felt the need
of an interval of rest after that day of incident
and emotion, and before she commenced
a life which, with all its promise, must be
new and strange. It was also necessary, of
course, that Aunt Jane, though she had no
preparations to make for her reception, should
be apprised of her coming and its cause. Besides,
there were two other letters, of even
more importance, to be despatched, such as
could be more conveniently written in that

peaceful place and time than after the conclusion
of a journey, or in the confusion of an
arrival.

One of them Alas to Mary Melburn, the
other to Mr. Arganrl. The former was far
the shorter, and yet hy no means brief. It
was not necessary to tell so near and dear a
friend that nothing short of dire necessity
had compelled her abrupt desertion of her,
under circumstances in which she could so ill
l>e spared ; and to write of the Major's conduct
she could not compel her pen ; it was
a humiliation for her to recall his name. The
whole explanation of his deceit and treachery
she left to Mrs. Meyrick — to be sent by the
same post to her sister-in-law — with a well-founded
confidence that it would lose none of
its baseness in the telling. She took it for
granted that Mary would understand that her
separation from Burrow Hall was complete
and final ; but of the lasting nature of her
love for her late pupil and companion she gave
full assurance.

That there is no need for these jjrotesta-

VOL. II. o

tions, my dear Mary,' she wrote, ' I am well
aware ; I make them only because it is a
selfish pleasure to do so ; but, as to your
mother, it is only too necessary to express
my very high regard and respect for her, and
my gratitude for all her kindness. Whatever
errors and follies I may seem to have committed
under her roof, there is none that I so
deeply reproach myself with as my misapprehension
of her gentle and noble nature. I
sometimes thought her cold and constrained
to me, when, as I now perceive, there must
have seemed to her much in my conduct deserving;
of the severest censure. It would be
impertinence in me to address her personally
on such a topic, but I pray you to let her
know what distress of mind this reflection
causes me. In what anxiety and alarm you
may be at this moment on her account, I
dare not picture to myself, and yet, as she
herself will tell you, I cannot be with you.
I go to London tomorrow to begin life
afresh, under good auspices.' (Here followed
an account of her literary prospects.) ^ But,

whether failure or success attend me, I shall
never forget you. or fail to sympathise with
your joys and sorrows. To-day, as I feel too
well, your sky is dark, and your horizon
darker still. Alas ! I can only give you my
prayers. With what dread and fear shall I
open your letter tomorrow night (for I know
you have written), and yet how thankfully
shall I welcome it ! '

To Mr. Argand she was as frank as she
had hitherto been reticent. She made no
attempt to restrain the expressions of gratitude
that naturally fell from her pen. She
felt as though she were addressing a parent ;
for did she not owe to him a new life? She
pictured him to herself a venerable personage,
who, laden with the experience of at least half
a century of literary toil, still preserved a
tender heart, and delighted in the encouragement
of budding talent ; a sort of nineteenth -
century Dr. Johnson, who might almost have
patted her on the head paternally, and called
her * my dear ' without offence. She plainly
told him that his letter had decided Lier to

adopt literature as a profession, but at the
same time acquitting him of all responsibility
in the matter. It was a project she had had
in her mind ever since the first moment she
began to think, though he had given it shape
and solidity. It was only in her enumeration
of what she judged to be her qualifications
for a literary calling that she omitted, less
from modesty than ignorance, to state the
whole truth. She had the sagacity to understand
that a great deal of the reading to
which she had been accustomed, and which
is known as ' high-class ' education, is only an
encumbrance to the mind. She did not give
herself credit for the acumen which had, in
fact, enabled her to select from the unwieldy
mass what was best and brightest. Most
persons of the scholastic class, whether male
or female, are apt to load themselves with
weighty but unnecessary information, which
they drop, like paving-stones, on the toes of
their less learned acquaintances, and are therefore
shunned, with reason, by society at large.
The faculty of intellectual digestion is denied

to them ; they belong to that increasing army,
not of martyrs, but of those Tho make martyrs
of other people, who are educated above
their wits. Miss Dart, a Jack Horner, without
his priggish egotism, had picked out the
plums from her literary cake : whatever was
adapted for illustration or for argument she
had retained for use ; and, with an instinct
of separation and discernment not inferior to
that which is ascribed (not always, unhappily,
with truth) to the delicate sensibility of our
molars, had rejected the rest. Her views of
life, if not original, were untrammelled by
convention ; she had already suffered for this
in person ; but, on the other hand, they gave
a wider ranire to her ideas, which offered a
curious contrast to the narrow limits of her
experience. As regards the last, however,
though undoubtedly there is an advantage
in * seasoned brains,' its benefits are liable to
be exaggerated. It is possible to have seen a
great deal of human life, especially if it is
of the same description, and still to remain
intensely stupid. Intuition, which is a sort

of experience by inspiration, had hitherto
supplied its place with Miss Dart ; and with
such persons, not only does a very little experience,
especially if it be only sufficiently
various, go a long way, but a very considerable
knowledge of human affairs can be acquired
by reading. Though the newspaper
had been in the Index Expurgaiorius while
she was a pupil, when she became a teacher
she had been free to read it ; and she had,
with her usual judgment in the matter of
selection, taken full advantage of the permission.
By this means she had made herself
well acquainted with political and social matters
that are commonly but little studied by
persons of her age and sex ; she took an
interest in them, indeed, Which was almost
phenomenal, and, reversing the usual formula,
might have been well described as ' of the
world, although not in it.'

Introspection, however, was not easy to
her, for she was far too natural to be self-conscious
; and she found that in writing of
herself to Mr. Argand — which she felt it due

to him to do — she had undertaken a difficult
task. She withheld from him, in ignorance,
much that it was important to him to know ;
but only in one thing did she mislead him.
I am afraid,' she wrote, ' that I have no
imagination ' — a statement which had its consequences.
She made it in all simplicity ;
but, as a matter of fact, she had often amused
herself — having no other means of recreation
by imagining an Elizabeth Dart in quite
other circumstances than her real ones, and
surrounded by beings of her own creation, as
different from her acquaintances in the flesh
as fancy could form them. Of this practice
she had anything but a high opinion, and, in
fact, was ashamed of it : it came under the
category of day-dreams, and was to be discouraged.


In conclusion, Miss Dart made no apology
for inflicting these details upon her correspondent
— for had he not requested them of
her? — but, though giving her London address,
she begged him to spare himself the trouble
of a reply. ' You have given me at least as

much encouragement as is good for me,' she
wrote, ' and there is no fear that the grateful
soil will not produce a harvest ; though
whether it be worth the reaping, it will befor
you to judge.'

By that morning's post the copy of the
Millennium ' containing Miss Dart's paper
arrived at the Look-out, and, in spite of her
protest, was read aloud by Roger Leyden to
the rest.

I had no idea what an interesting place
we lived in,' was Mrs. Meyrick's remark on it.

My picture does not strike you, then, as
very like the original ? ' observed Miss Dart ;
not on the whole, perhaps, a very happy
rejoinder ; but she was hampered with a
sense of embarrassment from which no young
author whose work is the subject of discussion
in her own presence can be wholly
free.

Nay, I think it is more like than the
original,' was the naive reply. ' You have
made me recognise beauties in its dear old
face which had hitherto escaped me, and I

seem to love it in consequence more than
ever.'

Let i^s have no more criticism after that,'
said Eoger Leyden, triumphantly ; ' Mrs.
Meyrick has gone to the root of the matter.'

^ It was hardly possible to go wrong with
such materials,' observed Miss Dart, modestly:
even a journeyman who is so fortunate as to
find the best Carrara ready to his practised
hand must turn out something to be admired;
there is always the marble ; and I am sure,
but for you, Mr. Leyden, one half of my
sketch at least would not have been written.'

You have touched nothing, my dear
young lady, that you have not adorned,'
answered the antiquary, not gallantly, but intones
of quiet conviction. ' What do you
think, Matthew ? '

I am thinking, if the writer of that
delightful jDaper is a journeyman,' sighed
Matthew, ' what am / ? '

Considering the quarter from which it
comes— a gentleman " who writes himself,"
as Sheridan says,' remarked Roger Leyden,

clapping his hands, * I think that ought to
content you, Miss Dart : eulogium can no
further go

It may be thought that the approval of
private friends upon a literary effort does not
count for much. But, at all events, it is a
rare kind of praise. If a prophet is held in
small honour among his own belongings, an
author is commonly held in no honour at all.
Those of his own household, or his immediate
neighbours, are the last to perceive his merit ;
it is only when it has received public recognition
that they swell the note of praise.
It seems curious, even to themselves, that,
though they lived next door,' they ^ never
knew this famous man before.' A good
many first works, it is true, have been published,
if their author is to be believed, at
the ' request of friends ' ; but that is at
least as often the offspring of imagination
as the productions themselves. In the present
case, these critics on the hearth, though
they were but three, were unusually representative
: the antiquary, the poet, and Mrs.

Meyrick, each belonged to a very different
class from the others ; and their common
opinion was, therefore, all the more propitious.
Indeed, had she remained at Caster
ton, there would have been reason to fear
for Miss Dart, at the very outset of her
career, the unhappy fate which only too often
befalls the veteran of letters — inter the focus
of an admiring clique to become ashes, in
which his ^ wonted fires ' do not live.

The dangerous ordeal was, however, in
her case very brief; and the flattery of the
little circle was soon forgotten m its kindness.
The wrench of parting with her Casterton
friends was far greater than it had seemed
the day before, when she had been going on
a shorter journey, and to dwell with those
who had a near connection with themselves.
She might now be bidding them good-bye forever
!

The farewell interview between Matthew
and herself was affectionate, and even tender ;
but their talk was not of one another. He
spoke of his love for Mary, and of its hopelessness,

in a manner that wrung her heart ;
yet she could not but rejoice that he had so
spoken to her — it was the highest compliment,
she felt, that friendship could pay.

Mrs. Meyrick embraced her with tears and
kisses. If good wishes were a burden, she
would have sunk under the load. Who was
she, and what had she done, she asked of herself,
to be treated with such confidence and
affection ?

At the railway station, miles away, the
first to meet her, as she stepped out of the fly,
was Roger Leyden, a man who always avoided
all places, as she knew, where men do congregate.


It was the first time in her lonely life that
any one had troubled himself to ' see her
ofi" ' by the train ; and it touched her very
much.

It is nothing but selfishness on my
part,' protested the antiquary. ' I worship
the rising sun. You will one day travel
as princes (and railway directors) do, by " a
special." The stars have said it.' Then, ashe

pressed her hand at the carriage window,
You will not forget your friends at the Lookout,
I know. Write to poor Matthew now
and then — you will be the only link between
him and the world without.'

It was this, she felt, that he had come to
impress upon her ; for his love for the lad was
great.

Hitherto, her journeys (and some of them
had been long ones) had been dull enough ;
her thoughts had been without speculation.
But now it was far otherwise ; the horizon of
her life had been enlarged ; her future was
full of hope.

Presently, she arrived at the junction,
where she had alighted on her way to Burrow
Hall. She shrank back into a corner of the
compartment, lest by some chance Major
Melburn should be there. She was as safe
from his intrusion as though she had been ina
balloon. He was one of those men whom
it is inconceivable to imagine in a second-class
carriage ; but it was possible he might be on
the platform. That danger past, her thoughts

reverted to those connected with him. How
were matters going with Mrs. Melburn and
poor Mary ? she wondered. Was it possible
that to the girl's other troubles was added
the hateful presence of Mr. Winthrop ? The
Major, indeed, had assured her that it would
not be so ; but his word was as worthless as
himself

How wretched was the position of those
two women, which she had at one time
imagined to be enviable ! If there are compensations
in one lot, there are drawbacks in
another : only it is Heaven which sends the
former, and man who too often creates the
latter.

But for that serpent, Jefferson Melburn,
Burrow Hall might have been, if not an Eden,
at least a happy home. How much better
would it be for the world if that ^ Bill for the
Abolition of Scoundrels ' could be passed
which one of her favourite authors had declared
to be so indispensable ! She found herself
drawing a comparison between the Major
and her unknown friend, Mr. Argand ; both.

perhaps, with equal gifts, but one of whom
had used and the other misused them. Had
the one man, she wondered, been always
inclined to good, and the other to evil ? The
religious world, or a portion of it, had a
theory that a man receives his call direct and
on a sudden from Heaven : was it possible
that a call could come from the other direction
with equal abruptness ? Could Jefferson
Melburn have ever said his prayers at his
mother's knee ; have experienced the enthusiasms
and illusions of youth ; and now,
all of a sudden, become unwholesome and
corrupt ? Or had he been born bad ? She
knew the proverb, ^ Nemo repent,' &c., and
even its free translation by the rather unjust
judge (' It takes five years to make an attorney')
; but she was not one to accept
proverbs with passive submission. Upon the
whole, she was inclined to picture the man asa
Mephistopheles. She dismissed him from
her mind with a shudder, and turned her
thoughts to his antithesis — as she imagined
him — Felix Argand. "What sort of person,

she wondered, was he in appearance ? A man
probably advanced in years, and ' crowned
with reverence and the silver hair ' ? She
could never tell him how much he had done
for her, or how grateful she was to him ; but,
if ever she had the opportunity, she would
tell his wife. How proud that wife must be
of him !

In the midst of these speculations, which
had devoured the way for her, the houses
sprang up like magic on either side, each with
its little strip of garden running down to the
railway line like brooks to a river. The train
began to slacken speed, and the well-known
roar of London to greet her ears. It seemed
to have a wider and a deeper meaning for
them than it had ever had heretofore.

CHAPTER XXX.

IN THE MARYLEBONE ROAD.

At what date the road called ' New ' in
London may have had a right to bear that
title, I have no idea, but it was presumably
at an epoch when architecture was not in its
most flourishing condition. It is, perhaps,
for a thoroughfare of such pretensions, the
least cheerful to be found in the metropolis ;
yet, to have an end is denied to it. At
different stages of its melancholy career, it
has, indeed, adopted various titles ; but the
long, unlovely street ' never loses its identity.
For the most part, it has no shops ; but now
and then a deviser of memorials for the dead
has turned his strip of garden into a graveyard
full of cenotaphs . Those, however, who
dwell in that western portion of this locality,

VOL. II. p

tera:ied the Maryleboiie Road, are unaltered
by these mementos ; there is nothing to remind
them in it that there is any termination
to their monotonous existence. Formerly
there was, doubtless, more life in the street ;
but all its traffic has been absorbed by the
Metropolitan Railway, and is now carried
underground. There are gratings through
which the astonished stranger suddenly sees
columns of steam arise as from a geyser,
which makes still denser the atmosphere
around. On a wet Sunday, indeed, to one
who finds himself, for the first time, m this
Arabia deserta it seems amazing to behold so
many iron railings and not a single suicide
depending from them.

Mankind, however, is mentally very independent
of local circumstance, and it is
probable that there are as many happy households,
in proportion, in murky Newcastle as
in that sunlit Isle of Wight, which we call,
not inappropriately, the garden of England.

Aunt Jane (Mrs. Richter), for whose
hospitable roof (for her lodgings were at the

top of the house) Miss Elizabeth Dart was
bound, dwelt iii the Marylebone Road, and
never found the locality to affect her spirits ;
neither did the weather, nor even the east
wind. As science now packs its electricity
for nightly use, so she kept within her a
store of sunshine which was permanent and
inexhaustible. The objects on which it shone
were few, but that was not her fault ; her
heart had warmth enough for a world. Even
her landlady, Mrs. Birk, who was not of a
material which naturally absorbs heat and
light of that sort, shared it ; so did her own
little maid, Annie ; so did her cat, Apollinaris.
It was so called, not after the famous
drinking water, but the Syrian bishop of that
name, whose life and works her late husband
had edited with great applause, but unhappily
at his own expense. The Rev. Tristan
Richter had been a scholar of great erudition,
and might probably have proved the excellence
of learning when house and land were
gone and spent (in publishing) had time
permitted, but he had died in the plenitude

of his theological honours almost penniless.
More fortunate than many of his cloth, however,
he had not left his widow with encumbrances,
and with the fragment of his fortune
and a small annuity which remained to her,
she might have lived comfortably enough in
some humble cottage of the Devonshire
village of which he had been the vicar, and
which she loved for his sake and for its own,
but for the sudden death of her brother,
Thomas Dart, a lieutenant on half-pay ; this
gentleman left her all he had to leave — his
only child, Elizabeth. Under such circumstances
some persons would have declined
to administer, but Aunt Jane would always
have it that no one had ever received a
handsomer legacy.

For the education of the girl, in such a
manner that she might gain her own living
when the annuity should terminate, the widow
at once came up to town. No one ever knew
what it cost her to leave that grave in the
sunny churchyard, and all the memories that
hung about it with the creepers and the

flowers. It was a sacrifice that sent up no
incense save to the All-seeing Eye. If her
dear Lizzie had not had a will far stronger
than her own, she would have kept her long
after she was of an age to keep herself, and
never grudged the cost, which, small as it
was, her scanty means could ill afford ; but the
gulfs natural hunger for books was whetted
by a desire for independence ; not that she
felt the weight of obligation, laid on her by
the hand of love as lightly as a flower, but
that she yearned to prove herself not unworthy
of the pains bestowed upon her. At
an age much earlier than such posts are
usually obtained, she became teacher at the
ladies' college at which she had been pupil;
and, but for the entreaties of the principal,
who understood her value, would have gone
out as a governess lon«r before she had volunteered
her services to Mrs. Melburn. Having
once removed the burden of her maintenance
from Aunt Jane's shoulders, it was no wonder
that Lizzie had regarded her withdrawal from
her late position with shrinking reluctance ;

or that lie had hailed with such thankfulness
and joy the new career that had so promisingly
presented itself; but, as for Aunt
Jane herself, the idea that she had got rid of
a responsibility never even so much as crossed
her mind. That Lizzie was in good spirits
about something or other, which she herself
did not understand, save that it had some
connection with writing for a magazine, was
of course a gratifying circumstance ; but what
delighted her, and filled her mind to the exclusion
of all speculation, was the thought
that Lizzie was coming back to her much
sooner than she could reasonably have expected,
and was even probably to remain
at home for good. To say that her four
rooms were swept and garnished for her
niece's reception would have been a reflection
on Annie's handiwork, by whom they
were always kept in a state of cleanliness
only seen elsewhere in gaols and lighthouses ;
but certain arrangements were made of an
exceptional and triumphal kind. The doorstep
of the house, which only so far belonged

to her that she had a right to step on it, was
washed and scrubbed — an operation which
had not taken place within the memory of
any inmate of the establishment ; half a dozen
flowers in pots were purchased of a peripatetic
flower seller and placed in the front
windows ; while in Lizzie's own little room
there was hung on the whitewashed walls,
like a tablet, a card with ' Welcome Home '
upon it, painted by Aunt Jane's own hands.
The widow had her gifts, among which was
a taste for decoration in colours, which as
applied to birthday cards, and even doyle,
she had been wont to think highly of till she
had tested its market value : it was the one
modest attempt she had made to add to her
resources, and, having proved a failure, it
now only served to amuse her leisure hours.
Accomplishments, no matter what they may
cost to acquire, are the most unsaleable of all
commodities. Still, Mrs. Richter had good
cause to be thankful, having no great turn
for books, that, after certain daily duties
among the poor in neighbouring Lesson

Grove were over, she could sit down before
her cottage-piano, or before her little easel,
and forget the lonely time. The widow, by
nature chatty and cheerful, had found enjoyment
in such society as her Devonshire home
afforded ; but now in all the wide world of
London there was no one she could call her
friend. She did not repine ; it was only as
if between her and her fellow creatures, save
her Lizzie only, a door had been softly closed ;
but she had her moments of wistful recollection.


Mrs. Richter was still, for a widow, young ;
and if she had lost much of the quiet beauty
for which she had once been remarkable, she
had acquired other, if less obvious, charms —
the impress of a blameless life, and of a mind
that occupies itself in thought for others,
could be read in her gentle face and tender
eyes. She was a little creature, cast, indeed,
in almost a fairy mould, so that Lizzie used to
wonder as a child how so much of goodness
could be packed in so small a space ; her
voice was sweet and musical, and, without

being at all distinguished-looking, no one
who had eyes to see could doubt that Aunt
Jane was a gentlewoman. Though she had
left off her widow's weeds, her dress was of
the simplest, yet she always looked superior
to her surroundings. She reminded Lizzie of
one of those silver-hued and delicate birds,
such as one sees exposed for sale in cramped,
rude cages, in low neighbourhoods — captive
and out of their element, but full of song.

For half an hour before her niece could
reasonably be expected. Aunt Jane was
watching for her from the window with
eagerness ; the vans and waggons aroused illogical
expectation, and every passing cab gave
her a pang of disappointment. At last, the
long-looked-for vehicle stopped at the gate.

Run, Annie, run ! ' cried Aunt Jane,
and open the door for Miss Lizzie ; she has
not seen a black face for so long that Susan's
may frighten her.'

Susan was one of many Susans who
had occupied the post of maid-of-all-work in
Mrs. Birk's establishment ; she was not, as

the widow's words would have seemed to
imply, a negress ; but constant contact with
grimy substances, including black lead, had
almost utterly obliterated her native hue. It
was, no doubt, more pleasant to Lizzie to be
welcomed by a face she knew.

Mrs. Richter's reception of her was little
less than ecstatic. ' How lovely you look, my
dear ! ' she murmured between her caresses ;
how fresh and how sweet you are : it is as
though the summer itself had come to visit
me!'

^ That is the flowers,' returned Lizzie,
laughing, and producing from her basket a
charming bouquet, which Mrs. Meyrick had
insisted on her plucking from the garden at
the Look-out. She had also selected some
seaweed from the shore that morning, for she
knew her aunt's passion for ' the smell of the
sea.' It was impossible to imagine simpler
offerings ; but we do not estimate the gifts of
those we love by their value, and Aunt Jane
derived as much pleasure from them as any
diamond tiara would have given her.

^ How charming it was of you to think of
me, darling ! What exquisite flowers ! Oh
dear, oh dear ' (sniffing as though she would
sniff her nose off) , ' I seem to be in Devonshire
again — and see, here is the seaweed we
used to call the barometer. I will hang it upon
a nail, and it will tell us what weather is
coming as well as anything from Negretti and
Sambre's.'

Then there was a banquet — not of herbs,
yet certainly one where love was ; wherewith
Mrs. Birk had nothing to do, butin
which Annie, who was admirable at
raising a chicken and making bread sauce,
had outdone herself. ' I must ask you to
carve it, Lizzie, as you always used to do,'
said the hostess. She would gladly have
spared her guest the trouble, but the fact washer
hands were trembling with emotion, and
the tears stood in her eyes and interfered with
her vision.

^ To think that the old days have come
again,' she murmured, softly, when the feast
was over ; and the words were so freighted

with thankfulness that they seemed the
natural termination of her simple ^ Grace.'

They will be even brighter and better
days, I hope said Lizzie.

I don't know. God is very good to meas
it is, my dear. Tell me all about it.'

What she meant was that Lizzie should
tell her of her new hopes and expectations.
She had already been informed by letter of
her niece's reasons for leaving Burrow Hall,
and she well understood that was a subject
which it would be painful to her to discuss.
She knew that the girl had been treated ill —
nay, infamously — and her gentle soul had
thrilled with indignation upon her account ;
but she was content to wait till Lizzie chose
to speak upon the matter, or to know no more
if she chose to be silent. She had not that
greediness for painful details which belongs to
vulgar natures. Little by little, she did, in
fact, hear afterwards all that had happened ;
the topic was not so painful to the girl as
it was abhorrent ; but Aunt Jane received it
almost without comment ; it shocked her

general sense of rectitude that such things
should be suffered to be done in the world,
or that a man like Jefferson Melburn should
exist. Even in dispositions the most devout,
the idea of misgovernment will suo^o;est itself
when Fate ill-uses without cause those who
are near and dear to them.

There was no allusion, now, however, as
we have said, to the author of Lizzie's woes ;
the talk between the two women was confined
to the bright side of matters ; albeit, even
there, though there was no embarrassment of
course, the girl found it difficult to give a
reason for the faith that was in her that should
satisfy the hearer. The calling of literature
was connected in Mrs. Richter's mind with
anything but success. She associated it with
the ' Life and Works of Apollinaris,' of which
she had made a fair copy for the j^i'inter with
her own hand. The four handsome volumes
of which the work had consisted now stood on
her bookshelf, bound expressly for her by the
author's orders in grateful acknowledgment
of her assistance. Under that very roof she

had once beheld a page of it from another
copy which had environed a half-pound of
Dorset butter. Its recognition had been
one of the most painful events of her existence.
If her husband's genius had failed to
make its mark, or, at all events, to make
anything else, what hope could there befor
Lizzie ?

The stress that her niece laid on the fact
that the ' Millennium' was an organ by no means
of a fugitive or ephemeral character gave her
anything but encouragement. The object of
the publication of the *Life of Apollinaris ' had
been anything but ephemeral. It had been
directed, for its prefix had said so, ' against
those false principles of Arianism which were
as prevalent now as they had ever been ' ;
there had been nothing fugitive about it save
the fate of the work itself. She pictured Mr.
Felix Argand as a venerable student, elaborating
tomes of theological controversy which
were published (very judiciously) in a periodical
form, so that the issue might be arrested
at any moment.

She was far too tender-hearted to decipher
companion's obvious delight in the prospects
of a literary career ; but she could not
help showing that her own expectations of
success were by no means so sanguine. When,
in despair of getting her to take more cheerful
views, Lizzie tried the same experiment that
had been so successful with Mrs. Meyrick, by
bringing out from her purse eighteen golden
sovereigns, the remainder of Mr. Argand's
cheque, and placing them in rouleaux on the
table. Aunt Jane did, indeed, exhibit considerable
astonishment. She had never seen so
much money in specie since, as a child, she had
been taken over the Bank of England.

^Do you really mean to tell me,' she
gasped, • that Mr. Argand gave you that fora
description of Casterton ? '

He did, indeed, and, as I have said, has
invited me to become a regular contributor.'

The idea that crossed the widow's mind
was that the gentleman must be mad ; that
his relatives would probably interfere, and the
sovereigns have to be refunded ; but this

suggestion was obviously too uncomplimentary
to Lizzie's talents to be expressed.

As truth could not be entirely sacrificed,
she compromised the matter.

Well, it is only to be hoped, my dear,'
she said, ^ that the man is made of money.'

Lizzie laughed at this naive misgiving,
which was certainly not of a nature to flatter
her self-conceit.

^ You are evidently supposing, my dear
aunt, that Mr. Argand is a wealthy philanthropist
whose humour it is to remunerate
young authors en a scale of magnificence
utterly unjustified by the circumstances of
the case. A kinder-hearted or more generous
man I believe it would be difficult to find ;
but I do not think it probable — and, indeed,
it would be a kindness of a very mistaken
sort — that he has purposely misled me as to
the pecuniary value of what I have written for
him, or may write. If I understand the matter,
the ' Millennium' is a periodical which has taken
a high position in the world of letters, and
is not only very valuable as a property, but

capable of becoming much more so. Without
detracting from Mr. Argand's generosity (of
which I am as conscious as I am of his admirable
behaviour to myself and poor Matthew in
other respects), I am encouraged to hope that
there has been nothing of charity about it, but
that my assistance may really be worth the
price he puts upon it, and which you are disposed
to think a fancy value.'

I didn't say that, dear,' put in Aunt
Jane, hurriedly ; ' only when I remember what
your dear uncle used to receive for his contributions
to the ^' Lady's Casket," for which, in
his lighter moments, he would occasionally pena
stanza '

^ But, my dear aunt,' interrupted Lizzie, with
just the least touch of professional irritation,
the " Millennium" is not the '' Lady's Casket,"
nor anything at all like it. It addresses a very
select and intelligent audience ; and though,
it is true, it has done me the honour of accepting
my little paper, such trivialities (which
from one point of view gives me the greater
satisfaction) are, as a general rule, altogether

VOL. II. Q

out of its line. I believe that I am the first
woman that has ever written a line for it.'

The look of admiration with which Want
Jane received this piece of news was not one
of entire approval : she was proud of her
niece's achievement, but just the least bit
scandalised by it. It was one thing to have
a Hannah More in the family, but quite
another to have a Harriet Martineau.

When, a few minutes afterwards, Lizzie
produced her copy of the 'Millennium,' the name
of John Javelin was not to be found in it.
She rightly judged that to have written under
such a pseudonym would appear to Aunt Jane
a babe, to whom Bevalenta Arabica itself
would have seemed like strong meat — only a
little less audacious than to dress in man's
clothes.

CHAPTER XXXI.

A VISITOR.

Though Elizabeth Dart was no exception to
the rule, that, upon the whole, our private
affairs are at least as interesting to us as those
of other people, she had given many a thought
to Mary Melburn since they parted, and
looked forward with great anxiety to the
news of her which she knew the mornings's
post would bring. Her apprehension on her
friend's account had, indeed, been almost
morbid ; and it was quite a relief to her to
see that the envelope which contained the
communication in question had no black edge.
If anything should happen to Mrs. Melburn —
and it was only too likely that, within a very
short time, it would happen — how painful and
perilous would be her daughter's condition!

q2

She would not, indeed, be friendless ; but her
foes would be of her own household. Surrounded
with luxury, and with all the supposed
advantages of position, how preferable
seemed Mary's lot to her own ; and yet, in
truth, how much less was it to be envied I
Her very handwriting had not its customary
firmness, and seemed to speak of anxiety and
depression.

My dear, dear Lizzie,' her letter began,
^ your pencilled note was the first news I got
of your departure, which saved me, doubtless,
an agony of apprehension ; yet to feel that
you have gone, and to know why, seems to
fill my cup of misery almost to the brim. At
the same time, the thought that you have left
this place, with all its painful associations, and
are safe with those you love, is a great comfort
to me. I am shocked and ashamed that one,
unhappily connected with me by so near a
tie of blood, should have behaved to you in
the manner Aunt Louis's letter, just arrived,
reveals to us. That he should have been

capable of such conduct does not, alas I surprise
me ; but of the fact in which his baseness
consists I need not tell you that both
mamma and I were entirely ignorant. He is
gone ; and the very atmosphere seems the
purer for it. Papa — into whose hands mamma
put Aunt Louisa's letter — and he had a stormy
parting ; and, I trust, we are rid of his presence,
and of all belonging to him, for sometime
to come. But, Lizzie dear, though weare
so far relieved, the Angel of Death is
hovering; over us. I can no long-er conceal
from myself that dear mamma is about to
leave us. The sense of my coming desolation
will, I know, excuse the brevity with which I
have spoken above of your departure from us.
Great as would be the comfort of your presence,
it would be selfish to wish you were
with us. It is even selfish in me to mourn
for what is about to happen. Xot even I can
tell what dear mamma has endured for years
on my account ; but I know that she has
spent her life for me — nay, more — that she has
striven to prolong it for my sake, when she

would rather have been at rest. There are
some things which one cannot write or speak
about, even to our dearest friends ; oh, Lizzie,
life to some of us is, indeed, a pitiful story !
And if this world should be the end of it,
their case would be sad indeed. I try to be
quite sure that I shall see her again : with
that sweet smile, without its weariness ; with
those loving eyes, without that yearning which
comes into them whenever they rest on me.
But even that is hard. Everything seems
hard just now. I remember your wise advice ;
but there are times when '' to take short
views" is to be most despairing; for, in doing
so, one only beholds a grave. She has begged
me to ask your forgiveness — I suppose, for
not having warned you of a danger which
she never suspected — and in such a voice,
Lizzie! ^' The voice, in pain and sickness,
of fancied faults afraid." I scarcely know
whether to ask you to write her a few lines or
not. You have so much the better judgment,
and will do whatever you think best as well
as kindest. Dr. Dalling has just been. He

says there is no change '* at present," and
that the patient may take "whatever she
seems to have a fancy for." One knows but
too well what that phrase means ; instead of
having little meaning, though the words are
strong," the words are weak, bat their sense
is terrible. It is said that sickness makes the
patient selfish : no one who sees mamma
would believe that ; but I feel that it has
made the watcher selfish. Xot a word have I
written yet of the bright prospects which
Aunt Louise tells us are dawning on your
dear self. Believe me, however, that I congratulate
you on them from the bottom of
my heart ; what little ray of gladness comes
to me in this dark time is reflected from
them. God bless you, dearest. — Ever your
affectionate friend, ' May Melbuex.

Pes. — When you write, tell me how you
left all at Casterton. Aunt Louisa says
nothing of herself. I am sure they must
have felt your leaving them.'

All at Casterton ' was a periphrasis for

Mat, of whom, perhaps, under present circumstances,
the poor girl felt it almost a sin to
be thinking. She was evidently in that unnatural
condition (very different from a merely
artificial one) which the apprehension of a
great calamity often induces. In such cases,
strange to say, what are called easy circumstances
are an aggravation. If Mary, when
forbidden, as she was by Dr. Dalling, to
watch by her mother's bedside beyond a
certain time, had been compelled to occupy
herself with any employment, it would have
been the better for her. Pier mind had only
itself to feed upon.

With Elizabeth Dart the very contrary
was the case ; a circumstance which had often
kept her spirits from failing, and of late had
enabled her to recover from a moral shock,
which, in another less favourably constituted,
might have left fatal effects. She had not
only ' resources of her own,' as is said of a
woman who knits, or a man who planes, but
took a wide and far-reaching interest in many
matters.

Her very exclusion from the world enabled
lier to take at least an independent view of
it. Though her disposition was essentially
feminine, she busied herself (for it was nota
mere amusement with her) with reflections
upon affairs that are with most of her sex out
of the region of speculation. The contrast between
the governess of the present day and her
prototype, whose text-book was ' Mangnall's
Questions,' was scarcely greater than that
between Elizabeth Dart and her contemporaries
of her own calling. She had no love of
learning for its own sake, but used it as a
stepping-stone for thought, and her thoughts
were essentially of the present. In calling her
practical ' Mrs. Meyrick had unconsciously
struck the key-note of an instrument the nature
and compass of which were far beyond her
comprehension. Adaptability is one of the
chief attributes of the practical nature, and
Elizabeth Dart possessed it in perfection : she
could ' get on ' with almost anybody, but
when she had love and esteem for them, she
was sympathy itself. Aunt Jane was never

puzzled by her niece's conversation, or entertained
any suspicion that her ideas moved on a
higher plane than her own. Lizzie interested
herself in matters of the house, and that question
of ways and means which forms so important
an item in the lives of most of us, as
though there were no greater topics of interest
under the sun. In Mary's letter was inclosed
a cheque for the salary to the date of her
departure, ' with Mr. Melburn's compliments
and thanks,' which, with the remainder of
Mr. Argand's honorarium, placed the little
household in quite a flourishing condition of
finance. In vain had Mrs. Richter protested
against Lizzie considering herself otherwise
than as a guest. 'We are a joint-stock company.
Aunt Jane,' was the firm rejoinder ;
^ and every speculation must be undertaken in
concert.' It may not have been a very stable
firm, or capable of standing any considerable
commercial crisis, but the partners got on
much more smoothly together than is usual
in the City.

On the second afternoon of Lizzie's arrival,

there occurred what was little less than a
portent in that humble establishment : a
visitor called. Susan appeared bearing a
card, with a mourning edge promptly executed
by her own fingers, and the curt introduction,
^ Please, mum. Miss Argand, to see
Miss Dart.' Lizzie was in her own room, so
that on Mrs. Richter fell the first brunt of the
interview. It was years since any one had
thought it worth their while to place her in
the position of hostess, and, for the moment,
she was a little perturbed.

I ought, perhaps, to have asked permission
to present myself,' said the visitor, gently,
perceiving the other's confusion ; ' but my
brother was so adverse to delay.'

Mr. Argand has been very kind to my
niece, she tells me,' said Mrs. Richter.

From what he tells me, the obligation, if
one exists at all, is quite on the other side,'
said Miss Argand, graciously. ' What makes
me a little ashamed of my intrusion here is
the consciousness that self-interest, or, at all
events, my brother's interest, is at the bottom

of it. The " Millennium " is, as you are,
doubtless, aware, of his own creation ; and
the writer of any article which has drawn so
much public attention to it, as has happened
in the case of Miss Dart's paper, must necessarily
evoke, not only his professional sympathy,
but his gratitude. Less than this,' she
added, in less formal tones, ' I dare not say,
lest I should fall under my brother's displeasure.
We think ourselves most fortunate
in being your neighbours, for it is only a
stone's throw to Hare wood Square ; and I
hope we shall have many opportunities of
becoming better acquainted.'

You are very good,' murmured Mrs.
Richter. The other's flow of words was
rather too much for the little lady, and, as it
were, carried her off* her feet. ' I am sure
we shall be very glad to call.'

And not only to call, I hope. We look
forward to seeing a great deal of you and
your accomplished niece. She must be really
a most marvellous personage.'

I don't know as to that ' returned the

widow, smiling ; ' but, then, I am no judge.
I can only say she is the dearest and best of
girls '

Girls ? ' interrupted Miss Argand, quickly.
I understood from my brother that she had
been engaged in tuition for many years. You
don't mean to say that Miss Dart is a girl ? '

You can judge for yourself,' answered the
widow, smiling ; for the amazement evinced
by her editor as Lizzie entered the room
was most amusing to witness. Miss Argand
was a lady of about forty years of age, tall
and rather angular, but with a face full of
expression. It had hitherto worn a most
gracious air, tinged, however, by a little
touch of patronage ; but it now looked not
only surprised but troubled.

^ Miss Dart, I believe ; though I can
scarcely credit it,' she exclaimed, as she
held out her hand. ' Is it possible that you
are so young ? '

I do not feel " so young," or, at aU events,
not criminally young,' said Lizzie, smiling.

^ It is a drawback which disappears intime,'

said Mrs. Richter, cheerfully. The
compliment to her niece which the visitor's
words obviously implied was pleasing to her ;
while the tone of disappointment, and almost
of rebuke, in which it was conveyed, escaped
her notice.

^ What amazes me is that, at your years,
you could have written as you have done,'
explained Miss Argand. ' I do not refer to
your talents — for talents may belong to anyone
— but the manner in which you have
treated the subject. Where on earth did you
get all your queer information about the training
of racehorses, for example ? '

^ I used to see them training on the
downs,' said Lizzie, quietly, ' and then I made
inquiries.'

And about the Danes ? — there were no
Danes to tell you anything.'

I have a friend who has made the subject
his owii, and who was so good as to place his
knowledge at my service.'

Some old antiquary, I suppose.'

This question was put with an air of

interest which the matter hardly seemed to
justify.

He is not very old — not old enough to
be Urfa's contemporary,' said Lizzie, still
smiling, but feeling just a little aggrieved
upon Mr. Leyden's account.

Well, it is a most marvellous paper,' said
Miss Argand, ' and does you great credit.
Every one is talking about it.'

I was very glad to find it pleased Mr.
Argand,' said Lizzie, modestly.

Xo doubt. It must be always a satisfaction
to a contributor to find that the editor
appreciates him — that is, of course, his work.
Do you propose remaining long in town ? '

Why, yes. If all goes well, I hope to
remain here permanently.'

Indeed ? It seems almost a pity, with
your evident love of the country, and your
talent — I may say, genius — for describing it,
that you should bury yourself in London.'

But there is something to describe even
in London.'

^ Yes, yes ; but all that has been done

I'm afraid you'll miss the fresh air and the
scenery.'

The speaker bit her lips, and shook her
head, and glanced through the window upon
the Marylebone Road so disparagingly that
Mrs. Richter felt herself called upon to say
something in its defence.

^ We have not a very cheerful look-out
here, it is true ; but the air is wholesome
enough.'

As wholesome, you would say, as in
Harewood Square, at all events,' remarked
Miss Argand, frankly. ' That's quite true ;
but then, you and I, Mrs. Richter, are not so
young as your niece. Now, don't you agree
with me that young people are always best
away from the smoke and roar and whirl of
London ? '

We are not much in its whirl,' observed
the widow, gently. ' We live, of necessity, a
very quiet life. Moreover, we are not in a
position to choose for ourselves.'

What we should like,' said Lizzie, with
some piquancy of tone, for the visitor's remark

had displeased her, ' would be a house
in the country, a house in town, and a house
at the seaside.'

^ Oh ! I don't mean that,' exclaimed Miss
Argand, flushing to her forehead. ' I am
sure I should like all sorts of things which
are altogether out of my reach. Only it is as
easy to live, in a quiet way, of course, in any
place as in London. I am sure, if it were not
for Felix and the '* Millennium," nothing would
induce me to live in town.' Then she went
on in a half frightened tone, like one who has
exceeded, or perhaps disobeyed, her instructions
from a higher power, ' I do hope, Miss
Dart, that you and your aunt will let us see
something of you. It is my brother's particular
wish to make your acquaintance.
People get on so much better in business
matters — if, indeed, one may call literature
business — when they know one another personally.
My at-home day is Wednesday, but
any day on which you will be good enough to
call, I shall be charmed to see you.'

Then, with a shake of Mrs. Richter's

VOL. II. R

hand, so cordial that it seemed to have something
of compensation in it, and a somewhat
less demonstrative squeeze of that of her
niece, Miss Argand took her departure.

There was silence between the two ladies
for some moments after she left the room ;
they stood looking at one another as if each
waited for the other to express her opinion on
the visitor before hazarding her own.

She is certainly very strange,' observed
Mrs. Richter, presently, ' but I think she
means to be kind.'

I am not quite sure of that,' said Lizzie,
gravely.

Her manner was much more genial when
she first arrived,' remarked the widow, ' but
somehow it seemed to grow colder. I am
afraid I did not make a favourable impression
upon her.'

Nay ; that fault must lie at my door,
Aunt Jane,' returned her niece, with a forced
smile. ' It was plain that my appearance fell
very far short of her expectations.'

That is impossible,' observed the widow,

naively ; ' but I do think she resented your
being so young. Having made a picture in
her mind of some learned lady of middle age,
she must have been annoyed at having to
root it all out to make room for you''

In that case I have the same cause for
chagrin,' sighed Miss Dart. ' It was very
foolish, no doubt, but, having formed so high
an idea of ]\lr. Argand, I somehow imagined
that everybody who belonged to him must be
on the same plane. I confess I am disappointed.'


^ I thought Mr. Argand was a married
man,' observed Aunt Jane.

^ So did I,' said Lizzie, smiling ' Though
I don't see how his being a bachelor should
have made his sister so peculiar.'

Xo ; of course not,' returned the widow,
hastily ; ' only, being accustomed to keep
house for him, and so on, puts her in a certain
position.'

Yet it did not strike me that she made
any attempt to patronise us.'

Certainly not, my dear : I thought she

2 2

seemed to believe with delicacy in that way.
To some women's minds the difference between
Harewood Square and a second floor in
the Marylebone Road would have been present
throughout the interview.'

She is not a vulgar woman,' remarked
Lizzie, confidently, ^ but that only makes
her behaviour the more unintelligible.'

I am not prepared to say that I dislike
her,' said Aunt Jane, with an air of concession.

No ; nor I, exactly. I am quite prepared
to say, however, that I don't like her
manner. Upon the whole, I am sorry she
came. It would have been better if I had
followed my instincts and called upon Mr.
Argand at his office.'

Oh, Lizzie, that would never have done,
since it turns out that he is not married.'

^ My dear Aunt Jane, what does it signify
to his contributors whether the editor of the
"Millennium" is married or not? I could
never get you to understand that literature —
that is, the business part of it — is just as
much a business as dealing in corn.'

Very good, my dear ; I only hope that it
is in a less depressed condition than the newspapers
describe corn to be.'

Her words, as Lizzie quite understood,
were not meant to be discouraging, except sofar
as the present topic was concerned, but
what particular ' fad ' dear Aunt Jane had got
in her mind she could not guess.

Well, I suppose we must return Miss
Argand's call, at all events,' observed Lizzie ;
^ and since the invitation was given in so
formal and almost reluctant a way, it had
better be on her at-home day.'

I am ashamed to confess, my dear,' said
Mrs. Richter, with a little flush, ' that I don't
quite know what an at-home day is.'

It is a day set apart for the reception of
those outside acquaintances whom we must
receive,' explained Lizzie, laughing, ' so that
for the remainder of the week, at least, we
may feel ourselves free of them.'

CHAPTER XXXII.

IN Heywood SQUARE.

On the ensuing Wednesday Mrs. Richter and
Miss Dart presented themselves in Harewood
Square. Mr. Argand's house was one of the
smallest it contained, and they found the little
drawing-room crowded with callers. Lizzie
had rather feared, from what Miss Argand had
said to her, that she would find herself the
object of some attention ; but the buzz of
conversation was only just as much interrupted
by their entrance as happens when
strangers make their appearance in a circle
the members of which are tolerably well
known to one another. It was resumed
again, as water meets behind the hand that
parts it, as soon as they sat down. The
company was composed almost entirely of

ladies ; the few males who were scattered
among them bad rather the au' of chaperons
elderly persons who, having nothing particular
to do, had accompanied their belongings
to a scene in which they took little
personal interest. There were, however, one
or two young men, of more or less intellectual
physiognomy, whom Lizzie shrewdly concluded
to be paying their respects to the lady
of the house with a view to indirectly commending
themselves to her brother's notice.
It was the ladies who almost exclusively kept
up the ball of conversation, and, as a rule, with
much more than the average success. Theu^
talk was by no means confined to the ' movements
' of the aristocracy, balls, or bonnets, but
dealt with art and literature, as well as the
more engrossing topics of the day. Their attire
was, in many cases, aesthetic ; it was a marvel
to Mrs. Eichter how some of their gowns held
together, for they appeared to be draped in
them rather than dressed. The conversation
was not only lively but continuous ; it
required no lifting from the hostess, who,

indeed, seldom joined in it unless she was
appealed to. She had motioned the two late
comers to the sofa where she sat, as though
she desired to have their near her, but she
only addressed to them a few commonplaces.
It seemed to Lizzie that, though perfectly at
ease with her numerous guests, she seemed
preoccupied and a little nervous. Presently,
a little knot in her immediate neighbourhood
started a topic which appeared to have a
keener interest for them than those they had
hitherto discussed.

It is no use our appealing to Miss Argand,'
said one of them, looking at the hostess with
significance, ' or I am sure she would corroborate
my view.'

^ At all events, she would not corroborate
Mr. Herbert's view,' observed another.

I think not, indeed,' said a third, contemptuously,
and then they all laughed.

I don't know what the knotty point is,'
observed Miss Argand, ' which you pay me
the compliment of supposing I can unravel.'

Oh, we know you can unravel it,' rejoined

the first speaker, ' only you are so obstinate
and unkind. AVe are talking about the famous
article : concerning its merits we are all
agreed, but about its authorship vre are as
much at sea as ever.'

Miss Argand turned very red, and shook
her head.

Now, you mustn't be angry with us,' said
the second speaker, ' and we don't want you
to betray your brother's confidence ; but do
tell us whether it is quite a new hand that
wrote it, or an old one that pretends to be
new ? If the latter, we shall be much relieved,
for, though success in any form is to be deprecated,
we shall not mind it so much where weare
used to it : what we all abominate is rising*
talent.'

Pray speak for yourself, Mrs. Broom,'
cried the other ladies, in chorus.

Xot at all,' rejoined that lady, who was a
novelist of some reputation ; 'let us be quite
honest, and set the example of frankness.
Now, don't tell us that it is a new hand.'

I shall certainly not tell you that, nor

anything else about it,' said the hostess ; ' it is
a subject my brother does not wish discussed.'

Wish discussed ! ' echoed speaker number
three. ' Well, upon my word, that is going a
little too far. The idea of an editor getting
a new genius, or an old one pretending to bea
new one, to write him a first-rate contribution,
and then not wishing it discussed ! Why,
of course, that is the very thing he does wish.
If it was only moderately good, I can imagine
that mystery might be some advantage, but
when nothing is to be gained by it, why not
satisfy our curiosity ? Just consider what
an advertisement we should make for your
brother ; all our tongues going nineteen to
the dozen, in the best literary circles, in praise
of Mr. Argand's novice, as they say in the
sporting journals ; or (if it must be so) in
praise of some famous author who, we had
fondly hoped, had written himself out.'

I must positively decline to reveal the
writer's name,' said Miss Argand, snatching up
a newspaper and using it both as a fan and a
screen.

^ We are getting warm, as the children
say murmured the lady novelist. ' I don't
think she will be able to hold out much
longer.'

We don't want his name persisted
number three, ' or, rather, we are hopeless of
getting that out of you. We want to know
whether he is a new man.'

sand whether he is a young man,' observed
number one ; ' that particularly, for it
will make him all the more interesting tous.'


Or whether he is a man at all,' put in
number two. ' Mr. Herbert pretends to have
discovered, from internal evidence, that this
paragon is a woman.'

^ Mr. Herbert is a great critic,' observed
Miss Argand, with well-affected gravity.

Oh. come, we are not oroino; to stand
that ! ' put in Mrs, Broom, indignantly ; ' a
more pretentious and untrustworthy guide has
never essayed to lead astray the public taste.'

There was an uncomfortable silence for a
moment, for every one knew that mr. Herbert

had fallen foul of Mrs. Broom's last novel in
the ' Literary Review.'

Still, he has some discernment,' remarked
number one ; ^ though not, indeed, as a reviewer
' — a murmur of adhesion seemed to
pervade the entire room ; ' and I should like
to know what has caused him to adopt such
an extraordinary opinion.'

Well, I have heard,' said number three,
^ that he finds certain tender touches in it.'

In the description of the jockey's spurs? '
put in Mrs. Broom, with acidity.

No, no ; in the account of the Danish
wives who are waiting in vain at home for the
return of their husbands — all slain on Battle
Hill ; and these, he says, could only have been
written by a woman.'

^ On the contrary, they could only have
been written by a man,' contended Mrs. Broom.
^ Of course, a man would make out that the
widows were in a dreadful state.'

Mrs. Richter gave a little groan : the lady
novelist was too much for her ; yet, strange
to say such little attention does the ordinary

reader pay to what lie reads — she had not the
least idea that it was her niece's contribution
that was under discussion.

Moreover,' continued number three, ' Mr.
Herbert says, in his article in the '' Looker
On " this week, that, though the coursing on
the downs is so admirably described, it is a
feminine view of sport ; there is more pity for
the hare expressed than " brutal man " would
exhibit.'

In sentiment, at all events,' observed one
of the young men, whose attention, like that
of the rest of the company, had been gradually
absorbed by the subject under discussion,
^ it strikes me that the new writer, whoever
he is, is an imitator of Dickens.'

*Xo, sir,' observed Mrs. Broom, authoritatively,
' the man who wrote "A Bit of Old
England " has a style of his own, and is an
imitator of nobody.'

Good heavens ! they are talking about
you Lizzie,' murmured Mrs. Richter, in a
terrified whisper.

Miss Dart, Who had, of course, been aware

of the fact from the first, nodded her head as
though in reply to some indifferent remark ;
the conversation immensely amused her.

I suppose,' observed a lady, ' there is no
chance of our seeing Mr. Argand here today
?'

I am afraid not,' replied the hostess.

Well, you tell him,' said Mrs. Broom,
rising, That I should dearly like to have the
cross-examining of him for five minutes about
his contributor. Heaven bless you, my dear ! '
Here she kissed her hostess with much demonstrativeness
of affection, and left the room.

'I suppose you will tell us one thing. Miss
Argand,' observed the young man who had
already spoken, as the door closed behind the
lady novelist. ' It was not Mrs. Broom herself
who wrote the article, was it ? '

It certainly was not,' answered the hostess.
What should make you think of such a thing,
Mr. Wybrow ? '

Oh, only that she praised it so,' was the
naive rejoinder. At this there was a general
laugh, a clatter of empty tea-cups as the

guests placed them on the table, and the rustle
which attends the breaking up of a female
conclave. Mrs. Eichter and her niece also
rose from their seats, but, at a whispered word
from their hostess, ' Be so good as to stay a
moment,' they resumed them.

Then Lizzie understood at once that the
master of the house, though by no means ' at
home ' in the conventional sense, was in fact
within doors, and would presently see her.
Hardly had the front-door closed, indeed, on
the last of the visitors when ]mr. Argand
entered the drawing-room. He was a tall,
spare man of thirty-five, but looking considerably
older ; his brown hair, mixed with
grey, was already beginning to be scant ; his
shoulders had that stoop in them, produced as
much from a habit of keeping their eyes on
the ground as from the sedentary nature of
their pursuits, which almost always belongs to
men of thought. His eyes were large, though
somewhat sunk, and full of expression. He
came in very quickly, holding out his hand
with an eager smile. ' How good it is of you

to have come to us, Mrs. Richter,' he said ;
then, as Lizzie's hand met his, he retained it,
patting it as if she were a child, and regarding
her with the utmost interest and approval.
So this is really you, is it, Miss Dart ? It
seems incredible, doesn't it, Joanna ? '

Miss Dart looks very young, as I told
you,' said Miss Argand, drily, her indifferent
manner contrasting very strongly with the
excitement and surprise exhibited by her
brother.

^ Well, and what did you think of our
dilettanti ; I beg their pardon, I mean our
literati? You have nothing to compare with
them at Casterton, we flatter ourselves ; ' here
he smiled, and so significantly that it was
plain his words of bashfulness had the sense
of deprecation.

I thought some of them very interesting,'
said Lizzie, ' especially Mrs. Broom.'

Miss Argand glanced at her brother, as
much as to say, ' You hear that? Where is
the discernment of character of which you talk
so much ? '

^ In what way interesting ? ' inquired Mr.
Arrant. ' I am curious to learn how she
struck you.'

^ I thought her very clever and also
honest, but with a better opinion of her
talents than that entertained by others. Is
she " anybody very particular," as Mr. Hook
used to say? '

She is anything but particular,' observed
Miss Argand. ' I never knew a woman say
such things.'

She is certainly remarkable. Yes, a
woman of character. An authoress, too, of
considerable note,' said Mr. Argand, in the
tone of a man who weighs his words, but with
a certain distrait air, as though they were the
words of somebody else.

You know you will never take one of her
novels for the '' Millennium," Felix, though she
has importuned you enough to have persuaded
the unjust judge.'

Quite true, my dear ; she has only failed
because I am too good a judge. Everybody
says that sooner or later. Miss Dart, I must

VOL. II. S

call in the aid of fiction, but then it need not
be Mrs. Broom's fiction. On the other hand,
she is undoubtedly a clever woman, and, as
you say, " honest," after a fashion. She speaks
her mind.'

What I meant by honest was that she did
not seem to be afraid to acknowledge her own
weaknesses, or even the merits of others. Perhaps,
however, I ought to confess that she was
so good as to take up the cudgels for my poor
little contribution.'

Mr. Argand shot a glance at once
astonished and displeased at his sister.

Oh ! you needn't be alarmed,' she replied,
complainingly. ' I have disclosed no secrets ;
but, unfortunately. Miss Dart's paper became
the subject of discussion in her presence.
Even a vivisectionist would have felt for her.
However, they never found out that they were
cutting her up.'

Isaac Walton could not have treated his
worm more tenderly, I do assure you,' said
Miss Dart, laughing ; ' they really were most
appreciatory.'

Literary folk mostly are ; it is only the
fools and the failures who are o^rudo-ino^,'
observed Mr. Argand. ' Who were there here
to-day, Joanna ? '
Miss Ran.'

Poetess explained Mr. Argand, like a
quick chorus ; ' has written some charming
lyrics, and at least one tedious epic ; bears the
reputation of being a great classical scholar
with everybody — that is, with everybody who
doesn't know the classics

^ For shame, Felix ! ' remonstrated his
sister.

Never mind me, my dear ; I am only
saving Miss Dart's time. She would find all
these people out for herself, and pahit them to
the life for us in half a dozen sittings. Well?'
Then there was Miss Dixie.'
Female representative of the higher culture.
She'll talk to you by the yard about
the mission of art. She has the courage of
her opinions, and dresses in the Grecian
style.'

I noticed her,' murmured Mrs. Richter.

s2

Well, then, perhaps you can tell us how
she does it,' observed Miss Argand, with an
interest that seemed to be aroused in spite of
herself. ' She assures us that she never uses
hooks or eyes, or laces, or pins, or buttons for
her garments. Do you think they are held
together by the edges of postage stamps ? '

That is much too prosaic,' said Mr.
Argand ; ' let us suggest, with diffidence,
everlasting bands." '

^ They are sold at fourpence a box at
Whiteley's,' observed Mrs. Richter, confidently
a piece of information which was received
with suppressed rapture.

The widow's natural and pleasant ways
recommended themselves to her host and
hostess. Her prejudice, if it could be called
by so harsh a name, had already given way
to liking for the latter ; while the former, to
meeting with whom she had looked forward
with terror, she pronounced, to herself, quite
delightful. With Mr. Argand, Lizzie was, as
.she had expected to be, at her ease, except,
indeed, that she felt she owed him certain acknowledgments

she could not speak of at present
; and which, while they remained unexpressed,
left her, as it were, an ungracious
debtor ; but between Miss Argand and herself
she felt there was an invisible barrier, composed
of she knew not what. It was certainly not
anything of her own creation. She was naturally
desirous of being good friends with one
so nearly connected with the kindly editor, nor
did she herself dislike her hostess, but she was
conscious of that instinct of repulsion, wanting
only to the most egotistic, and which never
errs, which warned her that the impression
she had made upon Miss Argand was unfavourable.
It was curious ; for not only had
she from the first, of course, endeavoured to
make herself agreeable to her, but it was plain
that Miss Argand had called upon her aunt
with the best intentions, and presumably with
the desire to be pleased. It could not be ascribed
to jealousy ; for, even if Lizzie had been
inclined to plume herself upon her brief and
solitary literary performance, which she was
far from doing — indeed, the high terms in

which she had heard it spoken of astonished
and amazed her — Miss Argand was not herself
a woman of letters. Her manner again,
though distinctly conciliatory, was as difficult
to define as her reasons for dislike were
to discern. It had nothing of the offence of
patronage about it ; nor of that insolent neglect
which women of fashion do not scruple to
use in their own houses to guests of their own
sex whom it is not worth their while to cultivate
; it was not even exactly cold. But what
graciousness there was in it seemed to be admitted
against the grain. Her face, however,
had never expressed such decided displeasure
as it did when Mr. Argand presently said : —
Now, Joanna, you must do your very best
to make yourself agreeable to Mrs. Eichter, for
I am going to talk to this young lady about
business matters

Then you had better go into the back
drawing-room,' was the grave rejoinder — a
reply evidently rehearsed beforehand, and
which seemed to be dragged out of the speaker
by the roots.

To this proposition there was, of course,
no alternative but to consent ; and Miss Dart
rose at once and passed with her host into
the next room, which, though undivided from
the larger apartment by either door or curtain,
admitted of private converse.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

EDITOR AND CONTRIBUTOR.

Mr. Felix Argand was one of those men
who, with all the will in the world to be
precise and neat, are inherently the reverse
in practice. He boasted that he knew whereto
lay his hand on every manuscript in his
office, and not without reason, but, to the
looker-on, it seemed incredible that to such a
labyrinth of confusion there could be a key of
any kind ; he was accurate and punctual in
all things, but he arrived at these virtues by
a way of his own which would have driven
any one else who pursued it distracted ; the
simplest operations of arithmetic he performed
in a manner that Coles never dreamt of, but
nevertheless successfully. With the work of
his hands he was equally peculiar, but the

result was not so felicitous ; lie was, in fact,
dreadfully clumsy. To wheel an easy-chair
into a quiet corner for his companion's accommodation,
and to place a footstool beneath it,
was by no means with him what ' to snatch a
battle-axe from the nearest foe on the one
hand, and to strike man and horse to the
earth on the other is to the hero of romance
i.e. the work of an instant. It took a
considerable time ; but he went about it with
the enthusiasm of a ' navvy at a barrow.'
Miss Dart could not help smiling at his
laborious arrangements for her comfort, but
she nevertheless appreciated them ; they were
evidently exceptional marks of favour with
him. When they were completed to his
mind, he sat down close beside her, and, ina
tone in which sincere respect was strangely
blended with curiosity, he said, ' Xow do,
pray, tell me all about yourself, Miss Dart.'

But I have told you, or at least written
to you, Mr. Argand, all that could possibly
interest you about so small a subject.'

Pardon me, but you did not tell me.;

you rather misled me — though, I do not
doubt, without meaning it. I had pictured
to myself somebody wholly different

In what way ? '

It is hardly fair to put that question,' he
answered, smiling ; ' perhaps I expected too
much — in the way of age. You're absurdly
young, you see, to be a contributor to the
Millennium." '

I am very sorry ; perhaps in ten years'
time or so, I may be competent for it. Is
there no method of accelerating ripeness ?
Would you recommend me to go round the
Cape? '

He laughed long and softly, eking out his
mirth like one who enjoys something rich and
rare, rocking himself to and fro, and nursing
his knee, but at the same time looking at her
steadfastly.

I recommend you to do nothing,' he said,
earnestly, * but to follow in all things your
own suggestions. There are minds which, in
literary matters, require a hint or two to start
them, as some pumps require a few drops of

water to set them a-going ; and there are
others to whom every recommendation from
without is an obstruction and an embarrassment
: you belong, I fear, to the latter
class

^ Why did you say, "I fear " ? ' inquired
Lizzie. ' If it is as you say, I shall give you
less trouble.'

^ I did not know that I had said " I fear," '
he answered, simply ; ' it was an unconscious
outburst of selfishness ; I had flattered myself,
before I had the pleasure of seeing you, that I
might have been of some assistance to you in
the path you have chosen.'

You have been of more assistance to me
already than gratitude can express,' she answered,
eagerly ; ' that is what I have wanted
to say to you ever so long ; for though it is
only a few days since I received your kind
letter, it seems a lifetime : your words of
encouragement have indeed given me new
life.'

He listened to her like one who partakes
of some pleasure of which his judgment, if

not his conscience, disapproves, but who
cannot resist prolonging it. ' It is only fair
and right,' he said, ' to tell you that you are
mistaken. You are like a passenger at some
great railway junction who has happened,
through information supplied by a passer-by,
to have just hit his train ; if he had not done
so he would have caught the next, and if not
that the next. I have been so fortunate as
to offer the first opportunity of making you
known to the world — that is all : genius, like
murder, will always out.'

Miss Dart shook her head and smiled. ' I
am going to put a very impertinent question,
Mr. Argand. Are you quite sure if this insignificant
contribution of mine, of which I
must say it seems far too much has been
made, had not appeared in the " Millennium " —
if, in short, you had had nothing to do with
me — do you honestly believe you would have
thought so highly of it ? '

^ As regards the " Millennium," I boldly
say " yes." I should have been transported
with envy had I seen it anywhere else ; but

as to your second question — well, if I had not
seen you, of course I should have thought less
of your talents. What is merely excellent in
the writing of a man of fifty is a miracle in
one of fifteen.'

And would you have thought I was
fifty ? ' inquired Miss Dart, smiling.

No ; because your pen has too light a
touch ; but I should certainly have thought
you nearer fifty than fifteen. In that very
misleading account of yourself, you say that
you have been engaged in tuition for the last
eight years. How could that possibly have
been ? '

I might have been a nursery governess,
and taught spelling, surely, while I washed
the baby and dressed the children, and
wheeled the double perambulator.'

^ Stuff* and nonsense ! You ? '

It is true, however, that at sixteen I was
pupil teacher in a ladies' college.'

Dear, dear ! And was that necessary ? '
inquired Mr. Argand, with compassionate
earnestness.

^ It was right and fitting, at all events ;
as to necessity, my dear Aunt Jane, yonder,
would no doubt have kept me in idleness
out of her scanty income to this day, had I
allowed her.'

Mr. Argand's eyes flashed towards Mrs.
Richter a look that seemed to say, ^ Excellent
woman ! ' and then flashed back again to his
companion. It seemed as though he could
read her genius in her features, so great
was their attraction for him.

Well, and then ? '

I stayed at the college nearly eight years,
and then went out as a governess to — well —
near Casterton, as you know : that was my
first situation.'

And you have had no experience of
life ? '

Nothing to speak of.'

It is wonderful ; it is incredible,' he
murmured. ' But where did you get all
your knowledge of social matters ? It is
only hinted at, of course, in what you have
written, but it has not escaped me.'

I have read whenever I had leisure for
reading.'

What have you read ? '
^ Everything that came in my way
^ Not excluding the newspapers, it seems? '
Certainly not ; that was the only means
I had of knowing what was going on in the
world. I have always thought for myself;
now I want to see for myself.'
"What is it you want to see ? '
^ Everything. Xot the Tower and the
Thames Tunnel, but the world ; not society
only — which is a very small portion of it —
but human life. That is the sole think; that
now interests me.'

Why do you say now ? '
The colour flew to Miss Dart's cheek.
Because I have given up teaching, and wish
to be a student myself Up to this point
Mr. Argand had been well convinced that his
companion had been telling him the whole
truth ; it was now equally plain to him that
she had something to conceal. He would
have given much to hear what it was ; but

lie would not for worlds have called up that
blush again, for there had been distress and
pain in it.

^I wish the "Millennium" was a newspapers
he said, smiling ; ' you would make an
admirable special correspondent.'

Would not a home correspondent be of
some use to you? A writer who would treat
of social matters — not, deed, from a new
point of view, but from an old one which has
been forgotten ? '

I don't quite understand you.'

It is difficult to explain myself, yet I know
what I mean. Every social question seems
now covered by layers of cast — the result
of party feeling and conventionality ; there
are new ways of looking at them — mostly
Utopian or immoral — but they cannot even
be seen. Would it not be possible to let the
licht of Nature in upon them ? You will
say this requires originality of mind. Not at
all. It only requires simplicity — nay, even a
sort of ignorance. There have been humorous
attempts at looking at civilisation from without,

tliroiigli the eyes of barbarians, but I ama
serious barbarian.'

Very true,' said Mr. Argand ; he was
not thinking of her definition of herself, but
of her proposition. ' If any one else had
made such a suDfo-estion to me, I should
have laughed at it, but you have exceptional
advantages for such a task.'

You mean disadvantages ? '

To a certain extent, yes,' he answered,
thoughtfully. ' Has your mind dwelt long
upon this scheme of setting; the world to
rights ? '

Yes ; but very vaguely. It is only of
late that it has obtruded itself.'

Some shock, no doubt, has brought it to
the surface. Just as the fall of a large stone
into a lake will bring up objects at the very
bottom to the face of the water.'

Perhaps.' Her eyes were riveted on the
carpet, her lips were drawn together, her
cheeks were once more crimson.

^ Well, you can try your hand.'

^ Thank you.' Her tone had gratitude in

VOL. II. T

it, but also a sober satisfaction and relief. It
was not so much that of a person who has
made an appeal which has been granted, as of
one who has made a suggestion likely to
be of common advantage which has been
acceded to.

^ There is only one thing more,' said Mr.
Argand ; ^ you must understand that this is
to be a business affair ; that you and I are
talking as editor and contributor, and in no
other relation with one another.'

^ Of course,' she answered, simply. ^ How
else could I have ventured to ask what would
have seemed a mere favour ? '

Mr. Argand bit his lip. ^ I hope. Miss
Dart, even if it had been so, you would not
have hesitated to ask me a favour ? '

Certainly not. I am under much too
great an obligation to you already to feel the
weight of a little more kindness or indulgence,
but this is a professional matter,
wherein to ask a favour would not have been
fair.'

That is not, by any means, the view of

the ordinary contributor, I do assure you,'
said Mr. Argand, with a sigh — the echo of
many a reminiscence. ' However, what I
was about to say is that, since we have come
to an understandings about this affair, the
usual arrangements must be entered into.
The proposition you have made me may,
and indeed must, entail certain expenses.
You will, therefore, not be offended when I
say that you must allow me to advance you

what is requisite '

Offended ! ' she put in quickly. ' Why
should I be offended? I have been accustomed
to take five pounds five shillings — the
last not always in silver — every quarter for
my professional services. That is one of the
things that strike me as so strange in the
world : why people who have, perhaps, very
little delicacy about anything else, should be
so sensitive about money matters. The
workman is worthy of his hire, only, I
object to his being paid before his work is
done.'

T 2

But in this case, as I say, there may be
initial expenses : money out of pocket'

Then I will come to you with my
account. I am afraid, Mr. Argand, you must
think me dreadfully practical,' she added,
softly.

^ I think you — quite right,' said Mr.
Argand. The sentence, which had begun
enthusiastically, seemed to end coldly, discreetly,
and in a manner that he had not
intended. ^ It is a great mistake to mingle
sentiment with business.'

yet, to judge by your letters,' she
answered, gently, ' you allow sentiment — if,
at least, kindness and pity come under that
head — to influence your conduct even as
regards practical matters.'

You are thinking of your young friend
at Casterton. Well, of course, I was touched
by his peculiar circumstances ; but not to the
extent ' — here he smiled, as he flattered himself,
like a rogue, but, to Lizzie's eyes, it
was a very pleasant smile — ' of engaging his

services for the " Millennium." I only recommended
him to somebody else.'

But even that was kind.'

I don't know. It is as troublesome to
refuse to grant a favour as to ask one of
another.'

^ Not to a selfish nature.'

We men are all selfish. It is true, however,
that we are not all brutal. Though
sentiment does not affect our dealings, social
matters have, no doubt, a great influence on
them. It is said that more bargains are
struck in the city at luncheon time than
during any other hour. Personal acquaintanceship,
no doubt, oils the wheel of business-life
better than the best professional introduction.'


And is it not the same in literature ? '"

That is a very delicate question. Indeed',
with an editor, it is a sore subject. Personal
acquaintanceship is his bane. If a man
knows me enough to nod to, that is urged
as a reason for my accepting a contribution —

if not from himself, from some protege. If
I take a lady down to dinner, she writes tome
next morning offering a MS. upon that
round. With those he knows more intimately
it is even worse ; for to refuse a friend
admission into " om commons " is to lose him.
An editor should have no friends to start
with. I sometimes wish that all my communications
with my fellow-creatures could
be carried on through the post, so that I need
never be brought face to face with them.'

But this is very discouraging observed
Miss Dart, with gravity.

Do, pray, believe me,' he added, quickly,
that I am not universally morose. There
are contributors whom I have desired to
know, and, having known, appreciate all the
more. Indeed, it is one of the chief recommendations
of a literary calling that it introduces
one to the people who are best worth
knowing.'

I can well imagine that,' said Miss Dart,
enthusiastically. ' How charming it must be

to have one's ambition in that way gratified
I'

• But it is not nvj ambition returned
Mr. Argand, drily. * I appreciate its advantages,
of course, but the profession of letters
is not my ideal of life. Perhaps I have no
ideal ; but what I take most merest in is
politics. That seems to astonish you.'

^ It amazes me I Do you v^'ish, then, to
be in Parliament ? '

Most certainly I do.'

And on which side? — for from the millennium
" I am not even able to gather that.'

I hope not. I shall be on neither side.
If ever I take my seat in the House — which
is very improbable — it will be as a very independent
member. However, that is a subject
which can hardly interest you. We were
talking of Mr. Matthew Meyrick. His poems
are really very creditable to him — and to you
for having discovered them. I hope the
young gentleman is better.'

I am afraid he will never get better. He

has, I fear, an incurable disease — some ailment
of the spine.'

Still, that is not always incurable. He
should come to town, and see Dredge
about it.^

Dr. Dredge ? That is the gentleman
Dr. Dalling spoke to me about, to the same
effect, at Burrow Hall. How I wish I could
persuade Matthew to see him ! '

I should have thought you could persuade
him to do anything,' said Mr. Argand, simply.
What is it, Joanna? '

His sister was standing behind his chair.

I have already addressed you twice,
Felix,' said that lady, with a complaining air,
but you paid no attention to me. Mrs,
Richter has matters to attend to at home, and
wishes to know when your conference with
Miss Dart is likely to be over.'

It is not late,' said Mr. Argand, with
a little irritation, produced by his sister's
manner, rather than her words.

It is indeed,' cried Miss Dart, consulting
the watch her aunt had given her on the day

she had come of age. It was only a silver
one, but it had cost that lady a month's
income.

Lizzie rose in haste, and, as she did so, the
circling notes of a gong below stairs made
themselves heard.

Dear me ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Richter, from
the next room, ' we are actually keeping.
and ]\riss Argand from their dinner,
Lizzie.'

It is only the dressing gong,' explained
the hostess, graciously. Her brother hastily
whispered something to her ; to which she
replied, * Impossible ; not to-day — there is
not enough.'

The words were inaudible to her visitors,
yet one of them, at least, guessed what had
been said.

Lizzie held out her hand to Mr. Argand.
I thank you once more for your great kindness.'


Don't talk of that,' he said, but he took
her hand, and returned its pressure warmly.
Doubtless, he forgot the circumstance — as his

sister often said, ' Dear Felix was so absent '
since, after escorting his visitors to the
front door, he again took her hand ; which,
Mrs. Richter afterward observed, though not
absolutely improper, was unusual : like being
helped twice to soup.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

PRINTED BY

SPOTTISWOODE And CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

Fcp. Svo. Limp Cloth.

By the Sisters Bronze.

2s. 6d. each.

JANE EYRE. By Charlotte Bronze.

SHIRLEY. By Charlotte Bronze.

VILLETTE. By Charlotte Bronze.

THE TENANT OF Windfall HALL. By Anne Bronze.

WUTHERING HEIGHTS. By Emily Bronte. AGNES GREY. By Anne Bronte.

With Preface and Memoir of the Sisters, by Charlotte Bronte.
THE PROFESSOR. By Charlotte Bronte. To which are added the Poems of

Charlotte, Emily, and Anne Bronte.

By Mrs. GASKELL.

IS. 6d. each,

WIVES AND DAUGHTERS, MARY BARTON, axd other T.\les.

NORTH AND SOUTH. RUTH, and other Tales.

SYLVIA'S LOVERS. LIZZIE LEIGH, and other Tales.

CRANFORD, and other Tales. \AY^ OF CHARLOTTE Bronze.

By LEIGH HUNT.

2s. 6d. each.

IMAGINATION AND FANCY; or, Selections from the English Poets.

THE TOWN : Its Memorable Characters and Events. Illustrated.

AUTOBIOGRAPHY OF LEIGH HUNT.

MEN, WOMEN, AND BOOKS ; a Selection of Sketches, Essays, and Critical

Memoirs.
WIT AND HUMOUR: Selected from the English Poets.
A JAR OF HONEY FROM MOUNT HYBLA; or, Sweetsfrom Sicily in Particular,

and Pastoral Poetry' in General.
TABLE TALK. To which are added IMAGINARY CONVERSATIONS OF

POPE AND SWIFT.

Uniform with the above 2s. 6d. each.

THE SMALL HOUSE AT Arlington. By Anthony Trollope.

THE Clavering. By Anthony Trollope.

From LEY PARSONAGE. By Anthony Trollope.

ROMOLA. By George Eliot.

BELOW THE SURFACE. By Sir A. H. Elton, Bart.

TRANSFORMATION. By Nathaniel Hawthorne.

DEERBROOK. By Harriet Martineau.

HOUSEHOLD EDUCATION. Bv Harriet Martineau.

Autobiography OF LUTFULLAH.

LECTURES ON THE ENGLISH Humorist OF THE EIGHTEENTH

CENTURY. By W. M. Thackeray.
THE FOUR GEORGES. With Illustrations by the Author. By W. M. Thackeray.
PAUL THE POPE AND PAUL THE FRIAR. By T. A. Trollope.
THE Rose-garden. By the Author of 'Unawares.'
CHRONICLES OF DUSTYPORE. A Tale of Modem Anglo-Indian Society. By

the Author of ' Wheat and Tares.'
IN THE SILVER AGE. By Holme Lee.
Carta. Bv Mrs. Oliphant.
WITHIN THE PRECINCTS. By Mrs. Oliphant.

London : SMITH, Elder, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Pictorial Covers price Two Shillings each.

KO NAME.

By

WILKIE COLLINS.

AFTER DARK.

ARMADALE

The above tiiay also he kad in Limp Cloth, price is. €:d. each.

By the Author' of
'JOHN Halifax, GENTLEMAN.'
ROMANTIC TALES. | DOMESTIC STORIES.

By HOLME LEE

AGAINST WIND AND TIDE.

SYLVAN HOLTS DAUGHTER.

Katie Parade.

WARP AND WOOF.

Annie Harleigh's FORTUNES.

THE WORTLEBANK DIARY;

BASIL GODFREY'S CAPRICE.
MAUDE TALBOT.
COUNTRY STORIES.
KATHERINE'S TRIAL.
MR. WYNYARD's WARD.

THE BEAUTIFUL MISS BARRINGTON.

Uniform with the above.
RECOLLECTIONS AND ANECDOTES OF THE CAMP, THE COURT, AND

THE CLUBS. Bv Captain Gronow.
GRASP YOUR NETTLE. By E. Lynn Linton.
AGNES OF SORRENTO. By Mrs. H. B. Stowe.

TALES OF THE COLONIES: or, Adventures of an Emigrant. By C. Rowcroft.
Latina. By the Author of ' Dr. Antonio ' and ' Lorenzo Benoni.*
HESTER KIRTON. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
BY THE SEA. By Katharine S. Macquoid.
THE HOTEL DU PETIT ST. JEAN.
VERA. Bv the Author of ' The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'
IN THAT STATE OF LIFE. By Hamilton Aide'.
MORALS AND MYSTERIES. By Hamilton Aide'.
MR. AND MRS. FAULCONBRIDGE. By Hamilton Aide'.
SIX MONTHS HENCE. By the Author of 'Behind the Veil,'&c.
THE STORY OF THE PLEBISCITE. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian.
GABRIEL DENVER. By Oliver Maddox Brown.
TAKE CARE WHOM YOU TRUST. By Compton Reade.
PEARL AND EMERALD. Bv R. E. Francisco.
Seule. By the Author of 'The Hotel du Petit St. Jean.'
PENRUDDOCKE. By Hamilton Aide'.
A GARDEN OF WOMEN. By Sarah Tatler.
BRIGADIER FREDERIC. By MM. Erckmann-Chatrian,
molly Sawn. By the Author of ' Phyllis,' &c.

MATRIMONY. By W. E, Norris.
*PHYLLIS. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn,' &c.

MADEMOISELLE DE MERSAC. By W. E. Norris.
*MRS. GEOFFREY. Bv the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'
BEN Miller's WOOING. By Holme Lee.
*AIRY FAIRY LILIAN. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'
FOR PERCIVAL. By Margaret Veley.
»ROSSMOYNE. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

MEHALAH. By the Author of ' John Herring.'
*DORIS. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'
JOHN HERRING. By the Author of ' Mehalah.'

Domestic STORIES. By the Author of ' John Halifax, Gentleman."
NO NEW THING. By W. E. Norris.
RAINBOW GOLD. By D. Christie Murray.
*GREEN PLEASURE AND GREY GRIEF. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.
*PORTIA. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'
*BEAUTY'S DAUGHTERS. By the Author of ' Molly Bawn.'

These Volumes can also be had in Limp Cloth, fcp. 8vo. is. 6d. each.

London: SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

7^

OF THE
UN Diversity
Of ILLINOIS



in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/heirofages03payn

HEIE OF THE AGES

III.

HEIE OF THE AGES

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF 'BY PROXY' ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON

SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 WATERLOO PLACE



[.4// rights reserved']

v,3

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME

HEIE OF THE AGES,

CHAPTER Xxxi.

THE PUBLIC GOOD.'

^ Well, my dear,' said Mrs. Eichter, as she
and her niece pursued their way homeward,
and what do you think of it all ? '

I am very glad I have seen Mr. Argand,
and much obliged to you for doing what, I
fear, must have been little short of a penance
for my sake.'

You mean the "at-home" ; well, that was
certainly rather trying. The idea of hearing
you discussed in that manner, some of them
even suD-o-estino; that you were a man I But I
had really almost forgotten the '"'at-home." Do

VOL. III. B

you know that you have been talking to Mr.
Argand exactly one hour and a half ? '

You should rather say he has been talking
to me.'

I suppose so. He looked, however,

very much interested in what you were
saying.'

^ He is most kind and sympathetic ; his
ears are open to everything, even to what
I told him about Mr. Matthew Meyrick.'

And as to your own affairs — I mean the
Millennium," and so on,' put in Aunt Jane,
hastily, like one who is afraid of misinterpretation,
or having gone too far.

He has taken all I proposed into his
most favourable consideration. I have got
what it does not fall to every one to get —
my chance.'

I am so glad you are pleased, dear.'

The congratulation did not move lizzie
the less because it was clear that Aunt Jane
did not comprehend the cause of her satisfaction.
' I do not understand : I love ' is a
motto not only applicable to wives.

And you ? I am afraid you did not find
the time pass so agreeably with Miss Argand.
She struck me as a little cold.'

She was very communicative and confidential
with me, nevertheless, my dear, I do
assure you

Indeed

^ Yes ; I thought rather unnecessarily so.
She took great pains to impress upon me that
Mr. Argand had nothing but the profits of
his magazine to live upon ; and that he was
very ambitious.'

That is quite true,' returned Lizzie,
gently ; ' he gave me to understand as much
himself ; that is the only thing that somehow
disappointed me in him ; he wants to get into
Parliament.'

Oh, dear ; oh, dear,' sighed Mrs. Eichter.

There is nothing so disgraceful in it,'
laughed Lizzie, ' that you should distress
yourself about it ; but it seems to me a small
aspiration for such a nature. However,
every one to his taste. I dare say there would
be many, if it was worth their while, to j^ick

b2

holes in mine. Aunt Jane, I am going to ask
yon a great favour.'

My dear, I wish I had one to grant you.'

Bat you have. I want you to go about
with me wherever I can't go by myself.'

^ Any more " at-homes " ? ' inquired Aunt
Jane, in the tone of one who is anxious to
Jaiow the worst.

^ No : it is nothing of that kind.'

■^ Then I am prepared to go to gaol with
you if it is necessary,' was the cheerful reply.

Certainly, we must see the gaols ; also
the courts of law that lead to them ; the
hospitals, the docks, the slums '

^ The what?' inquired Mrs. Richter, with
amazement.

^ The dwellings of the poorest of the poor.
I want to see everything, and Mr. Argand has
promised to put me in the way of doing it.'

Very good, my dear ; I only hope,'
added the widow, in a resigned whisper, ' we
shall not be robbed and murdered.'

In after years, when one of these two
ladies had become a celebrity, this incident

was disregarded in the usual wicked fashion.
There were even humorous pictures of the
audacious pair engaged in putting their
design into execution, borrowed from the
designs of the once famous ' Tom and Bob '
seeing ^ Life in London ' ; a tribute to her
niece's popularity which, one is glad to think,
never met Mrs. Richter's eyes. The subject
was one which not only lent itself to illustration,
but, naturally enough, awakened ridicule.
Miss Dart's scheme of research was no doubt
crude ; still, those who would paint from life
must draw from the living model, and the eye
of genius can seize at a glance more than the
more commonplace vision can grasp m a lifetime.
Simple as was her plan, it would not
have been easy of execution but for Mr.
Argand's assistance. He had an ' open
sesame ' for most doors, and placed it, as he
had promised, at his fair contributor's disposal.
She sat beside the judge upon the
bench, and visited the criminal in his cell ;
she plumbed the depths of misery into which
the poor are plunged, and m ministering, sofar

as she was able, to their needs, partook of
their rare enjoyments ; she did not shrink
even from beholding those sharp and terrible
remedies with which the surgeon seems to
mock humanity in granting to it a new lease
of existence.

Nor was the brighter side of life neglected :
not only did she visit the usual haunts of
pleasure, but often enjoyed what had hitherto
been utterly unknown to her — the intellectual
feast. At Mr. Argand's table she met what
his sister was wont to describe as ' everybody '
a term which is seldom quite so comprehensive
as the user would have it understood,
but which in this case was, at least, tolerably
wide. She met poets, statesmen, critics,
doctors, lawyers — all of whom had achieved
for themselves more or less of reputation.
Her good looks were a sufficient passport to
their attention ; but she talked but little to
them. Upon the whole, perhaps, their conversation
disappointed her. She missed the
enthusiasm of Matthew Meyrick, and the
earnestness of Eoger Leyden. They seemed

wanting in originality, or perhaps had lost, in
the grinding of the social mill, * the picturesque
of man and man

But she Twas entirely at her ease with
them. Her paper m the ' Millennium ' was
as completely forgotten as though it had
never been written : no one wonders to see
a pretty girl at any table, whether there is
anything in her or not. Miss Argand,
though stiff in her manner, was always polite.
Lizzie did not ' get on ' with her, but there
was notliini>: to find fault with in her as a
hostess ; she was what very few people were
with whom she came into anything like close
contact — an enigma to her. AVhat also
puzzled her, with respect to this lady, was
the silence which Aunt Jane maintained
about her. It was probable, Lizzie thought,
that she disliked her, but, from her disinclination
to make mischief, preferred to keep her
thoughts to herself Xor was ]\lr. Ar^T^and
himself quite so intelligible to her as on first
acquaintance she had thought him to be.
His kindness to her was unremitting, and

was exhibited to her in a thousand ways ; but
there was something of reserve in his manner
for which she could not account. He
had also moods of depression, which, she had
her suspicion, were connected with business
affairs ; but, on the other hand, he always
spoke of the ' Millennium ' as a financial success.
' It has got a firm hold of the public
mind,' he once said of it ; ^ and with such
a sheet-anchor one ought to ride out any
ordinary gale.'

She wondered what sort of a gale it was
of whose rising he stood in fear ; but the
tone in which he had spoken of it did not
encourage inquiry. To see Mr. Argand sad
gave her great discomfort ; but this did not
often happen. She had plenty to do, and
plenty to think about, and no apprehension
for the future. She enjoyed, in short, that
summum bonum of the diligent soul — work
without worry. The time passed only too
quickly. She discovered, for the first time,
that life was full of happiness.

It was her practice to get up early, and

Lizzie's astonishment may be imagined,
therefore, when one morning her aunt, who
had been making the tea as usual, while she
herself was busy at her desk, suddenly inquired,
in a tone of mingled interest and
deprecation, ' My dear child, who on earth is
John Javelin? '

For the moment Lizzie thought that the
remark was a personal one ; indeed, it was
as much through chance as through Mrs.
Richter's native simplicity that up to that moment
the widow had never associated her with
that name. Miss Argand had taken it for
granted that she knew her niece wrote under
that pseudonym ; but Lizzie, as we know, had
purposely concealed the fact from her.

John Javelin ? He is a writer in the
Millennium," ' replied Miss Dart, quietly.
What about him? '

^ Well, there is a good deal about him :
two columns in this newspaper about him.
I hope it will not do the " Millennium " any
harm ; but Mr. Argand seems to have got
hold of a very queer contributor.'

^ I have not seen the " Millennium " yet ;
it only comes out to-day ; but I suppose it
is sent to the newspapers in advance.'

'Well, the "Times" has got it, at all
events, and Mr. Javelin has " got it " too, in
another sense. Oh, my clear Lizzie, how
glad I am it is not you ; not, of course, that

you would ever dream of writing such an
article, speaking evil of dignities, or, at all
events, speaking of them in an irreverent
way, and so audacious from beginning to
end ! '

^ Dear me,' observed Lizzie, with an
irrepressible twinkle in her eyes ; • how
shocking ! '

Well, of course you feel bound to stick
up for the "Millennium"; but you don't
know. When you have read the review '

Read it out to me,' put in Lizzie, smiling;
'the tea is only just made; and you
have excited my interest immensely.'

I wonder what poor Mr. Argand will
say?'

Is that how it begins ? '

My dear Lizzie, of course not. This is
how it begins ' : —

It is not our custom, as our readers are
aware, to pass any opinion upon the quarterly
reviews. From the nature of their publication,
they are mostly stately commentaries on
the past, and do not concern themselves, as

it is our less agreeable task to do, with the
topics of the day. Of late years, however,
or, indeed, we may almost say of late months
so brief has been the existence of the periodical
in question — there has appeared among
this class of reviews a new candidate for
public favour. It has appealed, not, as we
understand, without success, to a larger
audience, and has established no little reputation
for originality of view. It has carefully
abstained from siding with either this or that
political party ; and by its wit and wisdom
has recommended itself to both. To-day, however,
the " Millennium" has made a new departure,
though in what direction it is somewhat
difficult to say. Its independence, it must be
admitted, though still without any taint of
Radicalism, as Radicalism is commonly understood,
has taken the form of denunciation ; it
lays an indictment against authority itself,
and arraigns our whole social morality at the
bar of conscience. The matter seems deserving
of some notice, not only from the status
of the " Millennium " itself, but from the

boldness and vigour of the article in question,
which, under the somewhat ambitious title of
^' The Public Good," deals with the entire
fabric of society. It is evident that the
writer, who signs himself John Javelin, is not
one of those who, while they are rarely so
imprudent as to name a date, avow their belief
in the '' Good Old Times " ; yet he insists
that there were days —

When none were for a party,
But all were for the State,

or, at all events, when the public interest was
held of more consequence, and the duties of
citizenship were inculcated more generally,
than at present.

" In these days," he says, " our duty to
the State is the very last thing which is considered,
even by moderately honest folks. Men
that would not wrong their neighbour of a
shilling have little scruple in making a false
return of their income to the tax-gatherers.
I have observed of late years that even those
notifications in the newspapers from the Chancellor
of the Exchequer concerning conscience

money have disappeared ; the few people
who had some lingering scruple in that way-having
apparently died out. Taxes of all
kinds are looked upon in a totally different
light from other debts, and the very last light
in which they are viewed is that of debts of
honour ; to elude them is considered far from
shameful, at worst as venial, at best as a
clever stroke of business. This arises not so
much from want of patriotism as from habit
and example. For many generations the
State has been looked upon as a milch cow
by both political parties, the members of
which have got all they could out of it for
their families and supporters as a matter of
course, without the idea ever crossing; their
minds that they were robbing the Commonwealth.


" There is also another reason for this
general unscrupulousness. It is much more
easy to do our duty to our neighbour than to
society at large. A board, or company, is
considered fair game for deception ; gentlemen,
and especially gentlewomen, will pay half-fares

for their children, when they travel by railway
long after they have passed the specified age.
It does not strike them as a fi:*aud, and even
when discovered they are not overwhelmed
with shame as they would be if caught cheating
at cards. That ' fortuitous combination
of atoms,' the Government, is regarded m the
same way. "^"hen a man dies, his heirs underrate
the value of his property to diminish
the probate duty ; and, even in the hour of
death, he will not seldom make some adroit
disposal of it so as to elude the public due.
Surely these things ought not so to be. It
was, indeed, concerning modern times that the
poet wrote, ' The individual withers, and the
world is more and more,' but, as a matter of
fact, the individual is very far from withering
; while the world, as represented by his
neighbours, grows of less and less account
with him."

The writer admits, indeed, that public
spirit is not dead, and pays due honour to those
societies which have been formed to defend
popular rights (as, for example, in respect to

open spaces in the neighbourhood of our
towns) from private encroachment, but
maintains that the rights of property have
become so sacred that the very unison d^etre
of property is lost sight of. He holds the law
itself to be blameworthy in the matter, and
points out how the private wrong is always
dealt with in our courts more severely than
the offence against the State.

" To rob a fine lady's jewel-drawer is
a much more dangerous experiment than to
break open a poor-box. The fact of the
contents of the latter being for the poor — a
common trust, which every citizen is capable
of understanding — is never taken into account.
To deface a statue in a private garden would
be an offence punished at least as severely —
probably more so — than the defilement of a
public fountain out of what is strangely
called ' pure mischief,' but which, in reality,
arises from a hateful hostility to the general
convenience. If the public good was the
object of public interest that it ought to be,
such offences would be treated with exceptional

severity ; but at present, not only ia everybody's
business nobody's business, but everybody's
property is regarded with far less
solicitude than if it belonged to the individual.
" The same neglect of the public good is
manifest, even as regards personal security.
That odious and noxious weed, the ' rough,'
is allowed to have his way with us in a manner
unheard of save on the very outskirts of
civilisation. It has been complained, by those
who suffer from him, that the law would put
him down quickly enough if those who make
the law were in a position to feel his brutality
: as matters are, thousands of helpless
have a hard life made still less endurable
for them by these brutal scoundrels.
One who knows life well has written of the
rough that ' his conscience is the cat-o'-nine-tails
' ; but our sentimentalists (who are well
out of the reach of his fists) are ready to faint
at the notion of administering the lash to
him ; they think it will ' harden ' his gentle-nature.
As it is manifest we cannot always
keep our roughs locked up, I will suggest a

VOL. III. c

^

method of getting rid of them and, at the
same time, of utilising those virtues which
they are supposed by the sanguine to possess.
On their second offence, let them be placed
in a regiment composed entirely of the same
class, and officered by persons who are accustomed
to deal with it. Whenever we are at
war — as we almost always are with some
most favoured nation ' or another — let that
regiment be first on the rota for foreign
service. The superfluous physical energies,
which are at present occupied in beating
women and children, or inoffensive passers-by,
will then be worthily employed ; these
gentry, who have been termed ' soldiers in the
wrong place,' will then be in the right place,
and have the opportunity afforded them of
distinguishing themselves ; they will literally
have left their country ' for their country's
good' — a phrase which for years has been only
used with reference to transportation, and has
now no signification at all."

It is not only the law itself, however, but
the administrators of the law, whom (with

exceptions, however) the writer in the
Millennium " charges with beg the cause
of this state of affairs : —

" It would seem, indeed, from the
sentences of most of our criminal judges, that
the very last thing they have in their mind
is the public good. It is probable that the
upper classes are not aware of the widespread
prevalence of cruelty and brutality iu England
at the present day. I notice that such cases
are commonly excluded from the daily papers
on the ground, I suppose, of their being too
painful in their details. It has been written,
however, by a good and wise woman that ' we
can surely bear to read about what other
people have to endure ' ; and, at the risk of a
little shuddering, I thmk it would be well if
some of our kid-gloved gentry would buy
some weekly paper for a penny next week,
and cast their eye over the narratives — for
they are sure to be there — of cruelty and
wrong inflicted upon women and children,
and other helpless persons, with the punishments,
or rather the encouragements, awarded

c 2

to the perpetrators. One English judge,
indeed, who knew the subject on which he
was writing, has given his opinion of these
wretches, and how they should be dealt with.
They are not men at all,' he says, 4n any
moral sense : they are human tigers, and
ought to be extirpated like the wild beasts
they are.' The punishment of death awarded
to murderers may often be too severe : a
murder may be committed in an uncontrollable
fit of passion, and under great
provocation. But there are criminals infinitely
more dangerous to the public good
than your mere murderer, and who should
be punished at least as severely, but who
under present circumstances, receive terms of
imprisonment, often infamously short, from
which they emerge to make life intolerable to
all who are in their power. It is admitted by
the professors of every creed that to decrease
the sum of human misery should be the aim
of all men ; whereas these creatures deliberately
set themselves to work to increase it ;
while Justice looking on with folded hands, and

Hi ilk-ands water humanitarianism, under the
alias of philanthropy, pleads not for the
victim, but for the tyrant."

" Indeed," this writer goes on to say,
*^ what class of our fellow-countrymen are
taught their duties to the State as a commonwealth
? In those exclusive seminaries of
learning where that mysterious and expensive
article ^ the tone ' is supposed to be obtained,
there is, indeed, some occasional reference in
the educational course to the public good,
but it is always in a dead language ; and
my experience is that dead languages do not,
upon the average mind, create much impression.
And yet it might be thought that in
schools frequented by the flower of British
youth who, in manhood, need not occupy themselves
as others have to do in getting the
means of livelihood, the science of the public
good should be particularly studied. As for
the other places where youths are educated, I
do not know that our duty to the community
in which we live is so much as hinted at in
any of them ; and yet, alas ! it does not come

by nature. It lias been said by a bitter
enemy of popular education that we now
teach everything except the Bible ' ; this
is, probably, an exaggeration ; but cannot
a superfluous ' ology ' be dropped, and in its
place an occasional lesson taught concerning
the duties of citizenship ? In the next generation,
then, it may perhaps be held that to
cheat the State is as bad as to cheat one's
neighbour ; that will be, at least, a step in
the rii^ht direction, though far indeed from
the true faith once prevalent — now all but
dead — that the highest good is the public
good.'

These are stirring words, and we are far
from saying that they are wholly uncalled for.
It is a pity, however, that the writer sometimes
allows his zeal, which is considerable, to outrun
his discretion. The following, for example,
strikes us, to say the least of it, as
audacious : — '

^ " To judge by the way in which it is
commonly spoken of, our very form of Government
would seem to have become of more

consequence than the commonwealth itself,
for which governments exist at all. An
English Admiral, eno^ao^ed on what was then
a national duty — fighting the Dutch — was
informed, while at sea, that his country had
changed its form of Government, and was
asked what he proposed to do? 'Do?' he
answered, ' I shall do my duty to my country.'
He was the last man, however, of the grand
old times. Everybody who was killed in
battle in later days was described as having
died for his ' King and Country.' Our Government
being Constitutional, he should more
accurately have been said to have died for
King, Lords, Commons, and Country ' ;
and even then the phrase would be open to
the objection of putting three carts before the
horse. Most of us are agreed that monarchy
is the best form of government ; still, man
was not made for monarchy, but the reverse.
Pro patria ' is a motto now only used by
coach-builders ; but there was surely more
sense in it than in that which has been
substituted for it. One can hardly imagine.

for example, a man, however reckless of existence,
dying for George the Fourth."

There are many things true, some things
new, and much that is good in " The Public
Good," but there is also a certain fanaticism —
the indignation, rather than the enthusiasm
of conviction — which offends those who are
accustomed to weigh their words. There is
nothing personal in the paper, yet somehow it
suggests much of the writer's vehemence
springs from an individual wrong, which may
even be his own. His denunciations have
almost as much bitterness as strength in them ;
and without, as we have said, being Radical,
the article is intensely Democratic. In this
last respect we cannot congratulate the
^' Millennium" on its contributor ; its line has
been hitherto one of strict impartiality, from
which we are sorry to see it diverge. On the
other hand, it has brought to light a new
ornament to literature, and yet not altogether
T\QW, The most remarkable feature in the
matter is, indeed, that a paper like " The Public
Good " should have proceeded from the same

hand (unknown, as far as we are aware, to
fame) which gave us that exquisite picture of
country life, '' A Bit of Old England." '

Goodness gracious me, what a dreadful
mistake ! ' cried Mrs. Richter, shrinking from
the words she had just uttered, like Fear, in
Collins's ' Ode,' from the noise itself had made.
The idea of mixing you up with that
audacious Mr. Javelin ! "What on earth is to
be done? '

We must bring an action for libel, I
suppose,' said Lizzie, quietly. ' I must talk
to Mr. Argand about it.'

Here the door was opened by her maid,
and her voice, in the accents of Cockaigne,
announced Mr. Arrant himself.

CHAPTER XXXV.

A HALE CONFIDENCE.

You have read the " Times,' ^ I see said Mr.
Argand, smiling, as he shook hands with Mrs.
Richter.

Yes, indeed, we have,' returned that lady,
looking unutterable things.

There is an article upon '* The Public
Good " in all the other papers,' said the editor,
complacently.

Let us hope they have not fallen into
the same mistake ; I call it most abominable,
don't you, Mr. Argand, that any one should
confuse Lizzie with that dreadful Mr. Javelin ? '

Dear me, I had quite forgotten ! ' cried
Mr. Argand, looking at Miss Dart, with an air
of ludicrous penitence. In his pleasure and
excitement, it had, in fact, escaped him that

she had kept her identity with John Javelin
from her aunt's knowledge.

Forgotten it ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Eichter.
^ What, already ! I am sure I shall never
forget it. It is enough to make my poor
husband, who was always devoted to the dear
child, turn in his grave. The idea of her being
^' intensely Democratic ! " '

^ That is only a conventional phrase of
disapprobation,' murmured !Mr. Argand.
^ One must say something depreciatory in a
review.'

'Well, of course you ought to know,' said
Mrs. Richter, naively ; ' but I should be sorry
indeed to see such remarks applied to anything
that my niece wrote.'

My dear,' said Lizzie, putting her arm
round her aunt's little waist, and speaking
very softly, ' I have a confession to make.
When I first spoke to you about the '* Millennium
" I saw that you did not like my being
the only female contributor it had, and felt
that you would still less approve of my masquerading
in it in male attire ; but the mischief

— if mischief it was — had been already
done. I could not screw up my courage to
tell you I had adopted the signature of " John
Javelin." '

Mercy me ! ' This was the strongest
form of ejaculation in Aunt Jane's vocabulary.


I am very sorry to have deceived you, but
I did it for the best.'

I am sure you did answered the little
lady, gently ; there was a pained expression
in her kind face which found its way to her
niece's heart, and the other perceived it and
regretted it, like one who finds an arrow from
her own bow in the heart of a friend. ' But,
my darling, it does not signify,' she added,
with inexpressible tenderness. ' I am a
foolish old woman who, as you rightly concluded,
should not be intrusted with State
secrets.'

^ It wasn't that,' said Lizzie, earnestly ;
I only wished to save you pain.'

I know it, my dear ; ' and she cast a
glance at the newspaper, which she still held

in her band, as much as to say, ' It is not
you Tho have pained me, but this abominable
print.'

Mr. Argand saw his opportunity, and
seized the skirts of happy chance. ' My dear
Mrs. Eichter,' he interposed, ' is it possible
you have not read 'the Public Good"? I
should have thought you were the very last
person to condemn a fellow-creature without
trial. Here is a copy of the " Millennium '^
which contains this terrible paper ; please take
it, and judge for yourself

She held her hand out with a gratified
look, and left the room without a word.

How very, very sorry I am ! ' exclaimed
Miss Dart, regretfully. ' I am afraid she
is wounded by my want of confidence in
her.'

'Not so,' said Mr. Argand, confidently.
She is only distressed at having expressed
herself unfavourably of your production. She
will come back as great an admirer of John
Javelin as of yourself ; and m so doing, my
dear Miss Dart, she will show her judgment ]

I cannot tell you low delighted I am with the
reception of your paper. It almost reconciles
one with the critics. I have never known an
article in a quarterly attract so much attention.
Moreover — and this I know will gratify you
more than anything else — I am convinced it
will do great good.'

I hope it will do some good to the
Millennium," at all events, said Lizzie, deprecatingly.


It will do it an immense deal of good.
But I am not always thinking of the
millennium," I do assure you. You have
already made two sensations ; do you know
that in our literary weights and measures
three sensations make a reputation? '

You are always so kind and encouraging,
Mr. Argand.'

To be encouraging is a natural branch
of my business,' he replied ; ^ though I seldom
find such modest depreciation as in your case.
Authors nowadays generally know their own
value. Indeed, they are apt to value their
productions at a fancy price.'

^ That is the effect of imagination ; you
see, I am not a writer of fiction.'

No ; I wish you were. What you told
me about yourself with respect to that matter
was a disappointment to me. Xow, if you
could only have written novels '

Well, what then? You don't publish
novels in the '* Millennium " ? '

^ I wish, my dear young lady, you would
not fall into that habit of supposing that I am
always thinking of my — well, of myself — for
that is what it comes to.'

I should be most ungrateful if I thought
anything of the kind,' she answered, earnestly.
There is, however, surely no harm in your
love for your own child, as Miss Argand
calls it.

You must not believe everything my sister
says about me,' he answered, slowly walking
up and down the room. ' She is an excellent
woman, and is, I am well aware, devoted tome
and my interests ; but she does not entirely
understand me. I am not the literary machine
which she would lead you to imagine. I have

really some human feelings.' He spoke in a
tone of annoyance, which she had never before
heard him use, and which surprised her very
much.

It is difficult to make ourselves understood,
even by our nearest and dearest,' she
replied. ^ I have the same difficulty, in my
little way, with Aunt Jane.'

^ Has my sister ever spoken to you confidentially
about my affairs ? ' he asked,
abruptly.

Certainly not. It was not a thing to be
expected, in any case.'

Why do you say, in any case ? ' he put in,
sharply. ' Do you mean that she is not confidential
to you at all? '

Well, she naturally prefers to make Aunt
Jane, who is more of the same age, rather than
myself, her confidante.'

^ Then you hear everything all the same,
though you hear it at second hand? ' he said,
stopping in his walk and regarding her with
keen attention.

^ It is true that Aunt Jane and I have no

secrets from each other, except this one,' she
answered lightly, pointing to the newspaper,
with its review ; * but I do assure you. Miss
Argand was very discreet. She has disclosed
no secrets of the prison-house, in connection
with profits or circulation.'

There, again ! ' he cried, with irritation :
^ why do you always associate me with my
Review — as if I were a man made of proof-sheets,
instead of flesh and blood ? '

Nay ; were you not yourself speaking of
your own " affairs," which it was reasonable
for me to identify with those of the '' Millennium
? " '

He glanced at her with suspicion, which,
even while he looked, seemed to fade away and
give place to his usual frankness of expression.

That is very true,' he said ; ' and, after
all, it is only natural that Joanna should
gossip about it. I hope she told you, or
rather your aunt, that the Review is doing
very well, and especially that we have sold
more of the number that had your article in
it than of any other.'

VOL. III. D

^ She did not do so ; but I am delighted to
hear it. I can fancy few things more satisfactory
than the continuous success of a
literary organ of one's own creation.'

It is very pleasant, no doubt ; and
certainly I have nothing to complain of with
respect to the '' Millennium." Success, however,
is a relative term ; and it is impossible,
with our material, to appeal to any very
extensive public'

You mean, of course, that it flies over
the heads of the million. To me, indeed, who
have only lately known the million, it seems
a marvel that you succeed as you do.'

'Well, since what readers we have are
for the most part well-to-do people, advertisers
are glad to patronise us, you see ;
and advertisements are the life-blood of
a periodical. Nevertheless, what I desire
above all things is a great circulation. A
first-rate and original novel might possibly
obtain it.'

^ I cannot imagine how people can like to
read novels bit by bit.'

That is what everybody says, yet no
magazine can command a laisse circle of subscribers,
without a serial novel ; even the
newspapers are adopting the same means of
attracting their readers. The appetite for
fiction is enormous, and grows by what it
feeds on. Unhappily, good fiction is as rare
as ever, but that is the fillip I want for the
Millennium." '

^ It appears to me, Mr. Argand,' said Miss
Dart, smiling, ' that, if not ungrateful, you
are at least a little unreasonable in your
expectations. If the " Millennium " were
straggling for existence the case would be
different ; as it is, you remind me of the
dinner guest m '* Punch," who tells his
hostess that, though not hungry, he is happy
to say he is gTcedy.'

A very just rebuke,' he observed, gravely,
but, unhappily, one that comes too late.'

How so ? '

Well, one's habits get ingrained, you see,'
he answered ; * I am ambitious. Through
ambition Caesar fell.'

^ He didn't want to get into Parliament,
however,' said Miss Dart, slyly.

Ah, it was foolish of me to let you
into that secret,' he said, smiling. ' I feel it
has given you a low opinion of me.'

Nothing could ever give me that, Mr.
Argand,' she answered, confidently.

His face for an instant glowed with
pleasure ; then clouded over with an intense
sadness.

^ The good opinion of those we respect is
welcome to us,' he said, ' even when it is
undeserved. I shall never betray any of my
weaknesses to you again, but leave you to
find them out for yourself.'

Then you will be safe, for I shall never
look for them.'

There are others, however, who will
point them out to you.'

I shall not believe them.'

Then you will be wrong,' he answered,
vehemently. ^ You cannot imagine how very
weak I have been. Miss Dart.' Again he took
to pacing up and down the room, then

suddenly stopped, and, looking steadfastly in
her face, inquired —

What is your opinion of a gambler ? '

Gambling is a matter of which I have no
knowledge'" she answered, quietly.

It is hardly likely that that circumstance
should prevent your condemnation of it,' he
put in, bitterly. ' The most violent anti-tobacconist
is the man who has never smoked ;
as the severest critic is the gentleman most
ignorant of letters.'

Perhaps I am allowing you to give me
credit for charity where it is not deserved,' she
replied, frankly. 'I have "no information,"
as " Bradshaw " says, of the motives that lead
to the practice of which you speak ; but my impression
is that there are three kinds of gamblers
: some actuated by greed ; some who have
a natural passion for excitement ; and others,
again, who are gamblers, if I may so express
it, by circumstance, who, making haste to
become rich for a particular purpose, take the
shortest, and find it the longest, way round.
These last may be taught by experience, the

others, never. That, at least, is my poor
opinion.'

It is not the general view,' said Mr.
Argand ; ' but it is only like you to see the
door of a locus penitence which has escaped

the eyes of others Here comes your

aunt. Well, my dear Mrs. Richter, have you
read the paper ? '

Don't speak of the paper, sir. I don't
think I shall ever read a paper again ; so
unkind as it is, and so unfair '

I meant the article in the " Millennium," '
interrupted Mr. Argand, smiling — 'your niece's
article.'

Oh, yes ; I. have read that, indeed, from
first to last. It is simply beautiful! My
dear Lizzie, how could such wonderful ideas
ever get into your head ? And how true
it all is, especially about those adulterating
shops, for as for cayenne pepper, there is not
such a thing to be got, I do believe, within a
mile of us. What can it be that makes people
so wicked, Mr. Argand ? '

Perhaps it's the new red-brick houses

which offer too great a temptation to the
Italian 'svareliousemen/ he answered, slily.

^ You think it's that do you ? Well, I am
glad there is some excuse for them. I am
sure, dear, this article will do ever so much
good. It's almost like a sermon, is it not,
Mr. Argand ? '

As it was evident that sirs. Eichter
intended by this parallel to convey a compliment
to his contributor of a high kind, the
editor replied ' Yes, indeed,' though without
effusion.

I am quite sure your uncle, dear, would
have approved of it immensely,' continued
Aunt Jane : ' there is much true religious
feeling in it, though without dogmatism.'

Mr. Argand smiled, and rose to take his
leave : matters which had looked at first a
little awkward had evidently turned out in
the most satisfactory manner. From the
moment that Mrs. Eichter understood that
her niece had written ' The Public Good,' her
mind had become open to conviction, and it
would now have been difficult to find a

more tliick- and-thin admirer of its merits
a state of things which is not unexampled
(though relationship, indeed, has nothing to do
with it) in the very highest regions of Art and
Literature. Lizzie, too, was well pleased to
find the effects of the shock which she had
unwittingly given Aunt Jane had passed off
so quietly. But no sooner does one source
of anxiety vanish in the human breast, than
another succeeds it ; her mind was now full
of trouble upon Mr. Argand's account ; it
seemed to her that he had been on the point
of telling her of some catastrophe which had
happened to his own affairs. ' What is your
opinion of a gambler ? ' he had asked her,
with a bitter self-reproach in his tone that had
showed its personal application. She would
never have suspected him of such a weakness,
or believed in its existence, save for the
testimony of his o^n lips ; but what surprised
her, more even than the fact, was his voluntary
confession, of it. Not only had he never
spoken to her of his private affairs before, but
on this very occasion had seemed to express

some apprehension of his sister's having clone
so. Why, then, had he himself done the very-thing
to which he objected in another ?

Here came the postman's knock, which
always awakened anxiety in Lizzie's bosom
for news from Burrow Hall, where Mrs.
Melburn, it was only too certain, was now
drawing near her end.

He only brought a letter for her, however,
from Mr. Argand himself — a mere official
note from the ' Millennium ' office, inclosing a
cheque for fifty pounds.

For a moment she had a mind to send
it back — an impulse which, on reflection, she
repented of with a hot blush ; and, indeed, it
would have been an impertinence that Mr.
Argand would not easily have forgiven.

The ' Millennium,' it was certain, was
prosperous enough ; and whatever was amiss
with the fortunes of its proprietor lay altogether
outside of it.

CHAPTER Xxxii.

opinions IN STORIES.'

No article in a review, however striking, is a
nine-days' wonder ; and ' The Public Good '
would, without doubt, have gone the way of
all similar contributions in a week, at farthest,
but for a strange rumour that began to follow
wherever its reputation penetrated, like an
echo. It was said that it was written by a
woman. Considering the nature of the article
in question, this circumstance, if true, was
certainly — as the world agreed — remarkable.
How the report originated was doubtful ;
perhaps the opinion that Mr. Herbert, the
great critic, had expressed respecting the first
paper, by the same author, was, by mistake,
transferred to the second ; or, perhaps, the
critic himself professed to find in the second

paper the corroboration of his previous view.
But, within a very few days of the appearance
of the number of the 'Millennium' in question,
it was announced in a society journal that Mr.
John Javelin was a lady ; whereupon arose a
considerable controversy. Some asserted — on
the most irreproachable, though necessarily
circumstantial, evidence — the writer to be a
man ; others insisted that this or that particular
literary touch could only have been
given by a woman ; and some, indignant with
a problem that they could not solve, and
expressing themselves in what they confidently
believed to be epigram, affirmed that
whether man or woman, one thing at least
was certain — the writer was neither gentleman
nor lady.

Mr. Argand declared that a misery of
which he had never dreamed was added to
his unhappy lot as an editor. Letters arrived
by every post, from the ' dear Duchess ' who
dabbles in literature up to the most established
names in poetry and fiction, all beseeching
him, if the name of his contributor was to

be a mystery, at least to tell them, in the
strictest confidence, ' yes ' or ' no ' as to the
sex. They even sent him a stamped envelope
for a reply. ' Thanks to you, my dear Miss
Dart,' he said, ' I have actually found out a
new way of making enemies. As to revealing
the matter to any one of these applicants, it
would, indeed, have been to make it public at
once.' ' You know I can keep a secret, my
dear Mr. Argand,' wrote one impassioned lady
a somewhat compromising assurance, to
which he prudently rejoined, ' I hope I can
keep one, too.' The feelings of Miss Dart,
who was all for secrecy, had to be consulted ;
and, moreover, his own advantage obviously
lay in the same direction. The edition of the
Millennium ' in which ' The Public Good '
appeared was devoured within three days ;
and another and another were called for.
The article was quoted in ' the House,' with
cheers, and — even better — with hisses. It
was said that a famous writer in the ' Quarterly,'
forgetful of etiquette and the politeness
due to a rival, had sworn to demolish it in the

April number. It was the topic of conversation
at every table where literature had any
attraction at all. At that of Mr. Argand, a
certain reticence upon the subject was naturally
observed ; but it was often alluded to.
To have her opinion asked upon her own production
was, at first, a little embarrassing to
Lizzie ; but she soon got used to it, and it
tickled her sense of humour. Xo one imagined
it to be within the limits of possibility
that a young lady of her appearance and
demeanour could have taken Society by the
throat in so vigorous a manner.

Lizzie could talk charmingly and brightly
enough, but it was her role to be a Listener —
to observe, and not to comment. Nothing,
however, escaped her notice. What delighted
her most was when some man of intelligence
would amuse himself by ' drawing her out '
into some region of thought far, as he imagined,
beyond her depth ; or endeavoured to
dazzle her with his intellectual coruscations.
He gave her, indeed, as he flattered himself,
much more than he received -, but he little

knew it was only in the form of ' material.'
While appearing to be out of her depth, she was,
in reality, but treading water or plumbing
his own shallows. Modest as was her opinion
of herself, it was difficult not to feel a certain
consciousness of superiority born of involuntary
comparison. The person of whom she
learned most was, however, undoubtedly Mr.
Argand ; whose mind was, to some extent,
the complement of her own, and whose unlikeness
fitted hers to a nicety. Not a word
did he speak to her, since his visit on the
occasion that has been described, respecting
his own affairs ; but on other matters she
had learned to talk with him with entire unreserve.
He paid her the compliment, seldom
vouchsafed by man to woman, to converse
on speculative and spiritual subjects — Tate,
Free-will, Fore-knowledge absolute.' Complete
friendship cannot exist between men
without the exchange of this sort of confidence
: it is not necessary that there should
be an agreement, but there must be some
confession of faith, or of the absence of faith.

Between Tromen, such speculations are scarcely
ever entertained ; and between men and women,
as has been said, but rarely : when they are
so, however, they form a very strong bond of
sympathy. Never before had Elizabeth Dart
met with a fellow-creature to whom it had
been possible to confide those thoughts on
Being and 7ioi Being — those weak solutions of
the riddle of the painful Earth ' which
intrude dimly, once and again, on most
minds, but which with others are far more
urgent and importunate. It is seldom, indeed,
anything of a practical nature comes of it ;
but in this case something did come. Miss
Dart conceived the idea of recording her
spiritual and philosophical views of mankind
after an entirely novel fashion. It was neither
essay nor allegory, and still less was it one
of those exhaustive treatises which leave the
opinion of nineteen twentieths of the human
race out of the question as valueless, just as
the clergyman excused himself for neglecting
his cure of souls upon the ground that they
were not worth saving. In this remarkable

production, the creed of ordinary folk for the
first time found expression. She called it
Opinions in Stories ' — a somewhat fanciful
title, which, after some discussion with her
editor, was, however, adopted.

The scheme of it was simple enough : an
ordinary dwelling-house was, as it were, the
stage on which this drama of speculation was
enacted. There was first the dining-room, in
which that sort of desultory talk took place
between the men over the walnuts and the
wine which sometimes occurs when the topic
of the Future is introduced. There was the
smoking-room, where the tongue, even on the
most sacred subjects, grows more free and
audacious ; and there was the drawing-room,
where men and women together — the same
topic being retained — discoursed, as it were,
on tiptoe, and not without reference to the
clergyman of the parish. It was well for Miss
Dart that she had taken her editor into her
confidence, since, without his assistance in the
matter, her representation of affairs would,
notwithstanding her great powers of intuition,

have been necessarily incomplete : even as it
was, they amazed him. A hint dropped here
and there into her ear had given her the key
to systems of thought which she had reproduced
in their entirety, just as the professor
of natural history evolved his whole animal
from a thigh-bone ; nor was humour wanting
to give naturalness to discussion, and remove
it from the atmosphere of mere theology. At
Mr. Argand's suggestion, she greatly enlarged
her original plan. The servants' hall, and
even the kitchen, were included in it, with
John Thomas's view ' of another place,' and
Mary Jane's idea of ' bettering herself ' in a
future sphere. But what, above all things,
enhanced the attraction of this really unique
production, was the pathos and beauty of that
part of it entitled ' The Sick Chamber,' whereby
the pillow of the dear and dying, the
about-to-be-left- desolate finds himself face to
face with a question that has, hitherto, only
presented itself to him as a subject for cynical
or humorous speculation.

I know nothing like this in the language

VOL. III. E

was Mr. Argancl's observation, when she read
to him, in the back drawing-room in Hare-wood
Square — which was always the scene of
collaboration — that portion of her MS. She
laughed at his enthusiasm, though it brought a
flush of pleasure to her cheek. ' You may laugh,
my dear Miss Dart,' he answered, gravely ;
but, the fact is, it is too good for the " Millennium,"
an observation which — as she afterwards
ventured to tell him — seemed to throw
his first eulogium, high as it was, completely
into the shade. What he meant was that he
had scruples about putting into his own
columns that which he honestly believed
would, if published separately, achieve for
her a reputation. Miss Dart knew how to
appreciate such generosity without taking
advantage of it. She had, indeed, designed
her contribution especially for Mr. Argand's
review, with a mischievous intent (for which
perhaps she would have been ashamed had not
the Great Wizard of the North, in somewhat
similar circumstances, set her the example) of
still further mystifying its readers as to her

own identity. For ' Opinions in Stories ' looked
as little likely to have come from a woman's
hand as a contribution well could do ; while
Mr. Around's touches, or rather his suggestions
for every Ime of it was her own — seemed to
put the matter beyond all question.

It was impossible that editor and contributor
should thus lay their heads together
without being; brought into close contact, and
seeing much more of one another than heretofore.
Yet their personal relations remained
unchanged. !Mr. Argand's admiration for the
genius of his protegee, as it developed before
his eyes, was without disguise. His praises,
which, though generous, had hitherto been
expressed with judiciousness and caution, now
knew no stint. He was no longer the master ;
indeed, that he had never been, for he had
always recognised attainments in her that were
beyond his teaching ; he was no longer the
Mentor to her Telemachus ; he was scarcely
even the commentator of her work, but confined
himself to such literary services as are hinted
at in footnotes by the syllable ' siir/g.' in italics.

But with all his appreciation and approval of
her, and his obvious interest in her productions,
there was no increase of warmth in his manner ;
on the contrary, despite his kindness, which
was unceasing, and which displayed itself in a
hundred ways, his tone was at times so cold
as it seemed to her, so studiously cold
that she almost feared she had offended
him.

Her relations with Miss Argand had, on
the other hand, improved, or at least that
lady had become, of late, more gracious to
her, and on one occasion Lizzie had ventured
to ask her whether Mr. Argand was out of
health.

^ Why do you ask ? ^ was the quick rejoinder,
accompanied by a glance which seemed
to search her very soul.

Only that I have fancied that he has
seemed depressed — and overworked.'

Such a clever young woman as you
should know that work never hurt anybody,'
returned Miss Argand, drily. Then, perceiving
that her speech had given pain, she added,
more gently, ' My brother is a little worried

just now ; you must not take any notice

of it;

As Miss Dart looked up in the elder lady's
face, she sav the tears in her eyes ; and instantly
her own were haled with sympathetic
dew.

I am very, very sorry,' she murmured,
timidly.

I am sure you are There, there —

don't let's talk about it.'

All the arts of diplomacy directed towards
an entente cordiale fade into insignificance beside
one involuntary touch of nature ; and from
that moment the two women understood one
another. Though Lizzie's fears were thus
corroborated, as respected the state of Mr.
Argand's affairs, it was a comfort to her to be
assured that there was no other reason for
his depression. To a true woman's mind,
money troubles ' have never the importance
that they assume with men. ' What matters,
if you have but health and strength, my son ? '
says the mother, consolingly. ' What matters,
so long; as we are still together, mv darling; ? '
smiles the loins wife.

CHAPTER Xxxiii.

A CHANCE MEETING.

One morning Miss Dart received a note from
Mr. Are-and written at the office of his review.

o

It was his wont to keep his business and his
social affairs as distinct and separate as his
correspondents would permit him to do. In
Hare wood Square, unless they were in the
back drawing-room together, which he playfully
termed the ' shop,' he never spoke to
Lizzie of his literary plans, while from his
place of business he never wrote except on
subjects connected with publication. It was
his theory that a man should leave all thoughts
of his daily work along with its toils in his
office, and never permit them to intrude upon
his leisure or pleasure,

You will, no doubt, expect from the
address upon my notepaper,' he began, ' that I

have got something to say to you as respects
your forthcoming article ; even that would
have a very considerable flavour of self about
it, but as it happens my pen is dipped in
self—piir sang the very blackest fluid. A
manuscript has been received here concerning
Tvhich I am in want of another opinion, and
there is no one to whom I look with greater
confidence for it than yourself It is a novel
of which class of literature I see a great deal
more than enough. It is in type writing. I
do not say that I should not otherwise have
looked at it, but the circumstance, no doubt,
attracted me to it. I took it up after luncheon
over a cigar, and I only j must lay it down, half-read,
at six p.m. This fact, of course, is
worth many columns of criticism, and under
ordinary circumstances I should not mistrust
the impression it implies -, but I have not been
quite myself of late. The doctor tells me my
"nervous centres are disorganised," which is,
I suppose, a euphemism for the liver being out
of order ; at all events, when one is out of sorts
I have noticed that both cne's approval and

disapproval upon literary matters are apt to
be exaggerated. To confess the honest truth, I
cannot trust myself to say what I think just now
of this novel : perhaps tomorrow I may take,
like the French gentleman, with his '' superbe —
magnifique— pretty veil," a much less rapturous
view. I am taking the thing home with me,
to finish it to-night I trust — and it will be left
with you in the morning. Read it carefully,
don't hurry over it as I have done, and then
let me know your opinion. The author — for
I am sure it is a man — gives only his initials
and an address at a post-office ; but the communication
which accompanies his contribution
is characteristic enough : —

" Dear Sir, — I forward you a novel entitled
^ The Usher.' I offer you the use of it, that
is, its serial right in the ' Millennium,' for 200/.
It is worth that at least to you, or it will be
worth nothing ; in the latter case be so good
as to return it to me, registered, for which
purpose I enclose the necessary stamps,
address M. M., Post-office, E us ton-street."

Short and sweet, is it not ? though

there is not much light with the sweetness.
Who can it be ? It is no writer one knows,
I'm certain, but quite a new hand. For one
second it struck me that it might be your
young friend, Matthew Meyrick ; but there is
nothing but the similarity of the initial to
suofo-est such a thing". The real Simon Pure,

CO O /

whoever he is, knows the world well, and has
had, I should say, no very pleasant experience
of it. However, I am forgetting that you have
not been introduced to M. M., or rather to his
MS., which will arrive by hand (for safety's
sake) very soon after this note. I am very
impatient for your opinion.' Then came a
postscript which made Lizzie smile. ' I think
that no time should be lost in sending '• The
Usher " to the printers. If the first chapters
could appear side by side with your own
admirable article, we are pretty certain to have
a double-barrelled success in the next number.
What do you say ? '

It was clear to Miss Dart that whatever
she said would, under these circumstances,
have but little effect upon the fate of the MS.

in question ; but, nevertheless, she gave her
best attention to it. To speak of ' The Usher '
here would be superfluous ; the time is past
for criticising a work about which the public
has long made up its mind. The only interest
that the matter could now possess would be
in the impressions that a book so well known
to the world conveyed to the mind of a reader
on its first appearance. Let it suffice to say
that Lizzie, though not insensible to its merits,
was unable to accord the measureless approbation
that was expected of her. She acknowledged
that the novel was original ; she was
even tempted, in some places, to think very
highly of it ; but on the whole, with Mr.
Argand's eulogy ringing in her ears, it disappointed
her. The story of the despised
drudge who develops such talents as a painter,
and in his immense prosperity awards good
and evil, like a small providence, to the companions
of his youth, reminded her of Monte
Crista, and suffered by the comparison. The
characters were lifelike enough, she confessed,
but too photographic ; they lacked shade.

The satire seemed not only bitter but personal ;
some of the portraits, indeed, only fell short
of caricature because there was so little o'ood
nature about them : they resembled lampoons.
These opinions, with some pruning, she set
down in writing:, and sent to mr. Aro^and.
^ A thousand thanks,' he wrote back by return
of post ; ' I could not have thought that any
criticism could have given me so much pleasure.
From the manner in which you have
always received my advice, I had begun to
think you too 'nobly planned" — a contributor
too pure and good for an editor's daily, or
even quarterly, food. Xow, I perceive that
you are human, after all. Your grudging
appreciation of " The Usher" betrays the sex
of Mr. John Javelin. It is also her excuse.
My dear Miss Dart, you are jealous.'

It was plain that she had made him angry ;
nor can it be denied that he had some reason
to be so. The manager of an operatic company
who has discovered a novice with a voice is
naturally outraged when his judgment on so
delicate a matter is impugned ; and when the

objection comes from a lady who is herself a
professional singer, the explanation of it is
only too obvious. The matter, in fact, which
only moved Lizzie to mirth, disturbed Mr.
Argand for four and twenty hours — until he
saw her. Then they had it out together in a
manner entirely satisfactory to him — that is to
say, he got everything his own way.

You allow,' he said, ' that there is a
certain rough vigour about the story ? '

She nodded.

And you admit that it is original ? '

She hesitated, but at last consented with
another nod.

And, at all events, there is no doubt, if
one is to admit fiction into the " Millennium "
at all, that here is an opportunity ? '

Of that, of course, Mr. Argand you are
the best judge.'

Very good ! ' he exclaimed, complacently.
I was convinced that, upon reflection, you
would come over to my opinion.'

The incident is narrated, not only as affording
an excellent example of how to

conduct an argument and bring it to a satisfactory
conclusion, but because it will afterwards
be reverted to.

In the meantime, however, other events
took place which put literary affairs out of
Lizzie's head. The long-expected letter announcing
Mrs. Melburn's death arrived from
Casterton. Mrs. Meyrick, Matthew wrote,
had been summoned to Burrow Hall, and
would presently bring Mary back to the Lookout,
probably to stay there an indefinite time.
There had been troubles at the Hall of other
kinds — some dispute between the Squire and
Jefferson, who had sold out of the Army,
and had been living at home — about money
matters. It was rumoured that Mr. Melburn's
affairs were seriously involved. The idea of
Mary's coming to Casterton ' for good ' was, of
course, inexpressibly welcome to the writer ;
but there was an air of melancholy throughout
his letter quite apart from the tidings it
conveyed, for which, indeed, every one had
been long prepared, and that seemed to speak
of failing health. ' If you can tear yourself

away from your beloved London, when the
summer weather comes on, it would be a
charity to come and see us,' he wrote. ' Weare,
as usual here, in a state of stagnation, only
dear old Roger is greatly excited by the circumstance
of Battle Hill being offered for sale.
What horrifies him even more than the fact
itself, is that it is recommended in the advertisement
as an excellent site for building
purposes. He already sees, in imagination, a
row of villa residences, spick and span, erected
over the bones of the Danish host, and their
ill-gotten treasures thereby put further out of
reach than ever ; it is with difficulty that the
dear old gentleman can be restrained from
selling his all, and placing the proceeds in this
very unproductive investment. The whole
thug is offered at what certainly seems a cheap
price, but, unfortunately, not for a song, or
you would have to congratulate me upon being
a landed proprietor. Nothing would give me
greater pleasure — or let us say few things ' —
(for Lizzie there was a pathos in this reservation)
' than to give old Roger Leyden the title-deeds

of Battle Hill upon this next birthday :
on the other hand, it is to be feared that he
would at once set to work with pick and spade,
and ruin himself in a fortnight. How nice it
would be, if somebody of taste, who admired
our little town, and who is making quite a
fortune, as we hear, by literature, in London,
would come down and buy the Hill. This
could be done for two or three hundred
pounds ; a charming little cottage could be
built upon it for as much again, to which
she would bring her excellent aunt, and, with
the help of some appreciative neighbours, they
would live happy ever afterwards. Alas ! my
dear Miss Dart, this is but a dream, I know.
Such good fortune is not to be expected out
of fairyland. Let us hope that the sleep with
which our little life is rounded may have such
dreams.'

This letter not only filled its recipient with
sad thoughts on Mary Melburn's account, but
on that of the writer. She was moved to go
down to Casterton, and comfort — so far as it
lay in her power to do so — that unhappy pair.

It also increased in her the yearning she had
long entertained to revisit that dear old town
by the sea, where she had first looked real
happiness in the face. Perhaps in the summer,
if matters went as well with her as they
promised to do, this would be possible. How
delightful it would be, to exchange the heat
and dust and noise of the town for the fresh
breezes of quiet Casterton! How charmed
Aunt Jane would be with it! Dreadful as
Mary's loss must for the present appear to her,
she would have a far happier life with Mrs.
Meyrick than she had ever had at home, if
only Matthew was spared to them — a momentous
' if,' indeed : for as to any complete hope
of recovery, that seemed farther off from the
poor lad than ever.

Lizzie sat down and wrote a long letter of
condolence to Mary, full of genuine love and
sympathy, but not with the complete naturalness
she would have wished. She respected
Mrs. Melburn's character, and intensely pitied
her ; but her heart had never been attracted to
her as it had been towards her daughter.

She had been one of those women who
live and suffer for their own belongings only ;
the tendrils of whose sympathy cling to what
is immediately near them, but do not extend
beyond it. Nevertheless, Miss Dart was heavy
at heart because of her. She felt very disinclined
for society, and much regretted that
Mrs, Richter and herself had promised to
accompany Mr. Argand and his sister to the
opera that evening ; but a box had been placed
at his disposal, a circumstance which did not
often occur, and she knew that her absence
would greatly disappoint him. How often it
happens that we attend scenes of gaiety from
reasons altogether disconnected with their
attractions, though our presence is always
taken as a sign of lightheartedness ! There is
a certain eloquent divine of the English Church
against whom it is cast up to this day that
he used to play cards at college on a Sunday.
The statement is true ; but, so far as it implies
an accusation, absurdly false. Grave, even in
his adolescence, he disliked all games, and
abstained from them ; but one of his friends

VOL. III. F

fell ill, and, to ease his pain, would often play
at cribbage. On week-days he had plenty of
companions to play with him ; but on Sundays
he found it difficult to find one ; whereupon
the embryo divine volunteered to be his playmate
: an act of self-sacrifice that has cost him
more than he was aware of at the time, or that,
being a man of sense, he had thought possible ;
but which, nevertheless, he has never regretted.
If the eye of observation scans the rows of a
crowded theatre, it is not difficult to discover
those who have come to be amused from that
large minority who have no such object in view,
but who find themselves there from force of
circumstances : there are as grave faces to be
found in boxes as in pews ; unmoved by what
is going on upon the mimic stage, they are
wrapt in some drama of real life which is being
enacted within them, and only when ' waked
with silence,' as the curtain falls, do they become
conscious of their surroundings.

It was in this uncongenial frame of mind
that Lizzie found herself seated by Mr. Argand
that evenings at the opera. He addressed her

more than once, but it was with difficulty that
she compelled her attention to what he said.
Her eyes rarely sought the stage, but wandered
over the house, the comparative monotony of
which allowed her thoughts more freedom :
the loud notes of the singers reached her ears,
but penetrated no further ; the doorways of
her brain were closed to them. Her thoughts
were now in the chamber of death at Burrow
Hall, now upon the windy downs it looked
upon, and now on the summit of Battle Hill,
with the far stretching marsh and endless sea
beneath her. Amid these scenes only a small
portion of her life had been spent, yet its chief
events had lain there. Her greatest happiness
had come to her there, and also her greatest
misery ; the shock of it, she knew, had changed
the whole course of her existence ; and the
remembrance of it still filled her with pain
and shame. She was now on the jetty of
Casterton, alone ; the wild waste of water
weltered cold and grey around her ; a few
seagulls were circling in the evening sky. and
uttering at intervals a wild and discordant

r2

cry ; when suddenly the scene vanished with
the celerity of a dissolving view, and she
became aware of two black spots — an opera-glass
was being levelled at her from the
opposite box. She gazed mechanically at its
inmates. One was a thin, cadaverous man,
still young, but with all the premature signs
of age ; so terrible was the alteration his
mode of life had wrought in him since she
had seen him last, that she would, perhaps,
have failed to recognise him as Mr. Winthrop,
but for his companion, who held the glass,
and was pointing it at her still with insolent
persistence : it was impossible to mistake
Jefferson Melburn for any other man.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

AFTER-dinner CRITICS.

The baleful vision ^liich Miss Dart lead seen
in the opera-house would not, under ordinary
circumstances, perhaps, have much disturbed
her. It was not as if she still nourished a
single sentimental regret in connection with
Jefferson Melburn. He had power only to
disgust, not to wound her. But, as it
happened, the meeting had taken place when
she was nervous and unhinged ; and, though
she contrived to conceal its occurrence from
her friends, it seriously affected her. The
knowledge that this man was in London, and
might possibly be again brought face to face
with her, preyed upon her spirits. She had
been working very hard of late, and was conscious
of a need for rest she had never felt

before. On the other hand, she could not
afford two outings in the year, and it was
imprudent thus to anticipate the summer.
Nature in spring-time calls those in city pent
into the woods and fields ; but it is only the
rich who can afford to obey her summons at
that period. When a shipwrecked company
have only a small stock of provision for a long
voyage, they must eke it out as best they can ;
if they take their fill of food at first, they will
have none left to eat in days when they will
want it more. And thus it is with a great
majority of us in respect to holidays. We
yearn to leave this living tomb of town when
the leaves come on the trees ; but a time will
come, we know, when it will be still more
intolerable to dwell in it, and we postpone
our holiday till then. All we can do, in the
meantime, when we find ourselves run down
or out of sorts, is to try a tonic. About this
time Miss Dart had one presented to her, in
the form of a piece of good news — an ounce of
which, as is well known, is worth a ton of
bark. The April number of the ' Millennium '

came out, and ' Opinions in Stories ' was
received ^^tll universal approbation. Had it
stood alone, the article could hardly have failed
to attract public attention ; but as the third of
a trilogy, of which two had already made their
mark, it created an immense sensation. Those
who had asserted that its predecessors had
been written by a woman were, however,
contrary to Mr. Argand's expectations, by
no means silenced. Masculine and vigorous
as the style was. by all admitted to be, there
were some who contended that the ' Death
Chamber ' could only have been written by a
female hand. The review, within a few weeks,
reached a pinnacle of success it lead never
attained before.

At a dinner-party at Harewood Square,
at which Miss Dart was present, this circumstance
became the subject of conversation.


'Is it a State secret, or not. Argand,'
inquired one of the guests, ' that the '* Millennium"
has doubled its circulation this month? '

It is certainly not a State secret,' said Mr.

Argand, smiling : ' on the contrary, I am
happy to say it is a simple fact.'

But that is not Mr. John Javelin's doing,'
observed another guest, in a dry tone. The
speaker was a Mr. Davies, who, not content
with being the terror of authors in the
Weekly Weasel,' had actually republished his
own criticisms in book form. ' I have no
doubt his essays, or whatever he terms them,
are popular with a certain class ; but nobody's
essays ever doubled the circulation of anything.
It must be the story that has done it.'

That is what you have said in the
'' Weasel " already,' said Mr. Argand, sharply,
for he was annoyed that such a discussion
should have been raised before Miss Dart.
He had confidence in her good sense, and
knew that she took a tolerably philosophic
view of criticism ; but then the critics had
hitherto been favourable to her. They were
so now, only some of them had turned away
from her to worship the rising sun — the anonymous
author of ' The Usher.'

There was no doubt that, great as had

been the sensation made by Miss Dart's productions,
it had been equalled, if not surpassed,
by that of her new rival.

I remark that while rapping Davies's
knuckles,' observed another guest, a Mr.
ElHott, a critic renowned for his severity,
our host has omitted to answer his question.
Is it possible, I wonder, that both novelist
and essayist are here present amongst us, and
that he does not, for his life, dare give an
opinion as to which has raised the circulation,
for fear of offending the other ? '

^ And also for fear of having to increase
his scale of remuneration,' added Mr. Davies,
acidly.

Amid the laughter which followed this
sally, the ladies rose.

I wonder whether Argand's rival contributors
are with us now or not ? ' observed the
incorrigible Elliott; * to judge by the look of
relief upon his face, one would imagine them
both to have gone upstairs.'

Xo woman ever wrote " The Usher," I'll
take my oath,' ejaculated Davies, bluntly.

^ Will you venture a five-pound note upon
that ? ' observed a quiet voice. It came from
Mr. Herbert, who was a man not given to
much speaking, but who, when he did speak,
was listened to in literary circles with respectful
attention. He was not, like Messrs. Davies
and Elliott, a tomahawk critic ; he thoughtless
of being smart himself (and of making
his author smart) than of doing justice to a
book ; but his tongue was like a whip, and,
at the smack of it, curs hid themselves.

The positive one was silenced. ' Davies
reminds me, Mr. Herbert,' observed Elliott,
in his silkiest manner, 'of the prudent schoolboy—"
Will you take your oath ? " '' Yes."
Will you take your dying oath ? " '' Yes."
Will you bet sixpence ? " "No." Perjury
has no fears for him ; but he draws the line
at speculative investment.'

Why is it you think " The Usher " may
have been written by a woman, Herbert ? '
inquired Mr. Argand, earnestly. 'It is a
matter on which I really seek for information,
for the MS. came to me anonymously ; nor

have I the least clue as to the writer.'
This statement made not a little sensation,
for Mr. Around's word was not to be
doubted.

You are deuced peculiar as well as fortunate
in your secrets, Argand,' observed Davies,
grudgingly ; ' notwithstanding that all our
■\mters in the " Weasel " are anonymous, there
is very little difficulty, I fancy, in finding out
the real Simon pure

Does any one ever want to find them
out ? ' inquired Mr. Elliott.

I think I recognise a woman's hand m
The Usher," ' observed Mr. Herbert, taking
more notice of this passage of arms than a
great St. Bernard of the quarrel between two
pugs, ' for two reasons : it is at once too
tender and too bitter for a man's work.'

And its merits ; what do you think of
them ? '

I scarcely like to say. There is not
enough of it at present on which to form
an opinion.'

'I have read the whole of it' said Mr.

Argand ; ' and in my judgment, it keeps up
its present interest to the end.'

Then there is no novel published within
the last quarter of a century with which it need
fear comparison said Mr. Herbert, confidently.

That's not saying much for it,' muttered
Mr. Elliott, spitefully.

Elliott looks on the great works of
literature,' said Mr. Herbert, ' as other folks
look on the horizon. Whenever he approaches
them, so far as their greatness is concerned,
they vanish. He is like the people who praise
the good old times ; they decline to fix on
any old time in particular, but retire further
and further back, till they and their praise
together are lost in the mist of ages. His
counterpart in the next century will be crushing
the contemporary novelist by comparing
him with the giant author of " The
Usher." '

Mr. Herbert's option of the novel was
very welcome to Mr. Argand, for he had
great confidence in his judgment. On the
other hand, strangely enough, he found himself

grudging the unknown author not only
his praise, but his success. As the editor,
and still more as the proprietor, of the
Millennium,' this feeling was as unnatural as
it was unaccountable ; but he could not help
feeling mortified, not, as he told himself over
and over again, upon Miss Dart's account, but
on his own, that her contribution had taken
the second place in the public estimation.
Like a violet by a mossy stone, her genius
had been hidden from the eye till he had
discovered it ; though he had not planted,
he had watered and nourished it ; and he had
taken a natural pride in the admiration excited
by its beauty. With her anonymous rival it
was impossible he could feel this sympathy.
Whether ' The Usher ' was superior to
Opinions in Stories ' or to Miss Dart's other
essays was not, indeed, the question. No
comparison could possibly be made between
them. The fact of the former being a fiction
other things being equal, or even nearly
equal — was quite sufficient to account for
its greater popularity. Still, it troubled him.

He had not been serious when he had
written to Miss Dart that her want of appreciation
of the new novelist had been caused
by jealousy ; he was jealous for her, but he
knew that she herself was superior to any
such sentiment, and that the news of the
success of ' The Usher ' would give her
genuine pleasure. Yet hitherto he had forborne
to speak of it. This evening, however,
on finding; himself next to her in the drawings
he was induced to do so. The topic
arose out of the conversation that had taken
place below stairs.

What is the matter, Mr. Argand ? ' inquired
Miss Dart, softly, as he took his seat
beside her. ' It's no use to answer "Nothing ; "
something, I am sure, has ruffled you.'

Nothing can escape your eye, I know ;
well, something has ruffled me. It is very
foolish, of course, to allow oneself to be put
out by such trifles ; but to have to listen to
the chatter of such men as Davies and Elliott
as their host — that is, without the right of
rejoinder — is rather a trial.'

And what have they been talking about?'

You.'

Good gracious ! What could such eminent
individuals have to say about me ? '

^ Well, of course they did not know that
it was you they were discussing. Elliott was,
as usual, eloquent on the decline and fall
of literature, of which, forsooth, he had the
impudence to quote '* Opinions in Stories " as
an example. He declared there have been no
essays worth reading since the '• Spectator."
^' What! " I said, wishing; to give the man a
loophole of escape from his own attic, '* not
even in the 'Indicator' ?" He answered "Xo,"
in a manner that convinced me he had never
read it, and then went rambling on against
all modern writers in that spitefully apish
manner which is my peculiar aversion. It
would have done you good to hear Herbert
answer him. He reminded us how the praise
of the past at the expense of the present has
been a favourite practice in all ages ; how
Goldsmith suffered from it in his time, as no
doubt Shakspeare did in his, and traced its

origin to the same cause as that which produces
the worship of high birth in the vulgar.
They pretend to admire it above intellectual
gifts, in order to belittle those of their own
class who happen to possess them.'

He meant, then, by analogy to imply
that the person who denies genius to the
writer of his own time is generally himself a
failure,' observed Lizzie. ' Was that not rather
hard upon Mr. Elliott ? '

Not a bit of it ; besides, his skin is like
that of a rhinoceros. I only wish Davies had
given Herbert the same chance of putting in
his left. But Davies, though impudent, is not
courageous. The idea of his having said in
his mangy paper that " The Public Good "
may have been a striking essay, but it was
not literature ! '

But why should he not say so if he thinks
so ? ' inquired Miss Dart, smiling.

^ But he does not think so, any more than
Elliott thinks that this is the brazen age of
fiction ; it is only he who is brazen, and he
knows it.'

But these poor creatures do nobody any
harm argued Lizzie.

True, but they mean harm ; they are the
curs that bark at the heels of success, and
they would unhorse the rider, if they could, for
very spite.'

^ I wish I could be angry with them to
oblige you, Mr Argand ; but I suppose they
take some pleasure in barking, and as they
cannot bite, what does it matter ? '

You are too good-natured, my dear Miss
Dart. If you were not so, I should hesitate
to tell you of the success that " The Usher " is
attaining.'

Why, you don't suppose because that
proves your good judgment with respect to
the attraction of the work, and my own appreciation
of it to be too cold, that I should be
otherwise than pleased, surely ? I am delighted
to hear that it is so much liked.'

I am sure you are. Envy and jealousy
were left out of your disposition from the first,
just as there are some oranges without pips.'

'So far as "The Usher" is concerned —

VOL. III. G

tliougli please to observe I take no credit for
that — I certainly feel neither. Has it really
had a good effect upon the circulation of the
"Millennium?'

A very great effect. It is not only the
public who are charmed with it, but what is
of much greater consequence to the author —
the publishers.'

Isn't that the same thing ? '

^ Not at all. The public is sometimes
sweet upon an author when the publishers
cannot be persuaded to be so, while the contrary
happens still more often. I have known
writers continue to sell their MSS. whose
books cannot be sold. There is a great deal
more sentiment in 'the trade" than is generally
suspected. But " The Usher" has done
well with both parties. Look at that ! '

He put in her hand a letter from a great
magnate of Paternoster-row.

^ Dear Argand, — Will you be so good as
to forward the inclosed to your new author.
In my opinion he will go far ; and I trust to
your good offices to bring us together. If you

think my proposition, which I leave open in
more senses than one, is likely to fall short of
his expectation, be so good as to let me know,
and I will remodel it.'

AYith this note was another, addressed to
M. M., in which, after certain stipulations as
to the length of the story, a thousand pounds
was offered for the copyright of ' The Usher.'

That seems a large sum.' observed Miss
Dart. ' I suppose you wil] advise the gentleman
to accept it.'

I shall do nothing of the sort. If he
does not choose to confide in me, I shall
certainly not volunteer my advice.'

I did not think you could be so unkind,
Mr. Around. You knew nothings of me, but
my name, in my case.'

That was very different,' he answered,
softly. ' I draw the line at initials. One is
not interested in the spiritual welfare of " M
or N " in the Catechism.'

And what do you think M. M. will do as
respects this offer ? '

He will jump at it, of course, and thereby

prove himself to be not quite so clever a gentleman
as he thinks himself. He ought to sell
the book for a term of years. I only wish,
my dear Miss Dart, that this Monarch of the
Row would bid as highly for what is just as
meritorious, though in another way. When
you have written essays enough to make up a
volume, we shall find out how far his appreciation
extends in that direction.'

Then I may hope that the " Millennium "
is not quite tired of me yet ? ' said Miss Dart,
gaily.

It will always be glad to get you for its
contributor, you may be very sure, whatever
happens,' observed Mr. Argand, in tones
grave even to sorrowfulness. She looked up
quickly, with sympathising face, but he had
already risen, and was addressing himself to
another guest. ' What could he have meant,'
she wondered, ' by that Whatever happens ? '
If he was thinking of separating himself from
the review, it would be grief indeed to her ;
the assurance that he had given of her permanent
connection with it in any case, would in

that contingency be but small comfort : for
the review was what bound them together, and
if that bond should snap, there would be no
excuse for their meeting ; for those conversations,
which gave such a charm to life ; for
that companionship, which would, if withdrawn,
be such an inexpressible loss to her.

CHAPTER XXXIX.

EE VISITED.

Should you like a little trip into the
country, Aunt Jane ? ' inquired Lizzie, as
they sat at breakfast one morning, a few
days after the dinner party at Harewood
Square.

What a question, my dear ? You might
as well ask me if I should like a glimpse of
heaven. The only drawback in both cases
would be that I should have to come back
again. Shall it be Richmond Park or Hampstead

Heath P '

I propose that we shall run down to the

sea.'

Very good, my dear : it will, however,

be rather fatiguing. It has always struck me

that those six hours at the seaside for three

shillings '

Six hours ! ' interrupted Miss Dart, with
a haughty wave of her hand. ' That is the
allowance of the excursionists : of people
without cash in their pockets. I intend to
go for a week, at least.*

But will not that be ver' expensive ?
At this time of year, to be sure, lodgings
are cheap.'

I mean to go to an hotel.'

An hotel ! Goodness gracious I why, we
shall be ruined. I quite think you ought to
have a holiday, my dear ; and I need not say
what intense pleasure it will give me to accompany
you. You have been working like
a horse, I know, for the last three months ;
and you ought to be as comfortable and free
from sordid cares as possible ; but if you will
leave all the housekeeping and marketing tome
'

You will get as little of a holiday at the
sea as you get in London,' put in Lizzie,
authoritatively. ' AYhat I am bent on is not
only comfort, but luxury. I intend to be
extravagant — lavish ! '

^ Mercy me, the girl's mad ! That hundred
pounds of yours — though, I must say,
it was very handsome of Mr. Argand to give
it ; it's what I call coining money — burns
in your pocket. No, my dear. When your
uncle and I were married we went to an hotel
for ten days. One ought to have been happy,
of course, being on one's honeymoon ; but
one wasn't. Every bit I put into my mouth
went, so to speak, against my stomach. It
seemed like eating gold ; a cup of tea was
nine pence. If they brought you a sandwich
and a glass of water on a tray, they charged
you for plate, glass, and linen. Nobody
ought ever to put his head into an hotel
that isn't made of money.'

But if you are — why, then it does not
matter,' returned Lizzie, gravely. look at
that — and that — and that,' and with every
^ that ' the speaker produced from a pocketbook
a new bank-note for a hundred pounds.

^ Heaven have mercy upon us ! ' gasped
Mrs. Richter.

Say, rather, for what we have received

let it make us thankful,' returned Lizzie,
smiling.

And do you mean to say, you have made
all those yourself, you amazing creature ? '

I made them, but I didn't forge them, as
you think : they are all honestly come by, I
do assure you. By the eleven o'clock express
this morning we are going down to Casterton,
where we shall put up at the Welcome. For
the first time for many years, my dear Aunt
Jane, you are about to enjoy yourself. If ever
T catch you talking — nay, thinking — about
what anything costs — mind this — I'll throw a
five-pound note into the fire.'

Nothing in the way of wonderment out of
a fairy story was ever seen like the expression
of Aunt Jane's face. The whole situation, in
her eyes, was nothing less than magical. It
never even struck her to inquire where all
that enormous wealth (as it seemed to her)
in bank notes had come from. Her niece's
masterful air and complete confidence in her
own resources would of themselves have
effected much ; but, backed as they were by

such material evidences of prosperity, they
crushed curiosity itself. Like a child at a
pantomime dazed by the glare of the transformation
scene, she did not seek to know
how such splendours were produced, but
was content to wonder and admire. She
left the room to make her simple preparations
for the trip, in a sort of splendid stupor,
such as is said to be induced by haschish.
As for Elizabeth Dart, she had never been soin
love with life as at that moment. There
is no happiness in the world equal to making
happy those we love. To set some good
soul, long buffeted by the waves of adversity,
above their reach, is an action in the power
of comparatively few of us ; and not one in
ten of those few have the wish to do it. This
enormous pleasure, however, had fallen to
this young woman's lot. The years of self-sacrifice
that her aunt had devoted to her
without a murmur, the thousand acts of
priceless love she had done for her, were all
remembered ; and the thought that the time
had come at last — not to repay her, for that

was impossible — but to show how sensible
she was of them, filled her soul with joy.
Never again, please God, should sordid care
or apprehension for the future — a future not
her own — vex that gentle heart ! The very
winds of heaven should never visit that
cheek, furrowed by widow's tears and worn
with loneliness and poverty, too roughly.
One thing only troubled her, and made her
almost ashamed of her happiness — the thought
of Mary Melburn, poor and motherless, whom
she was about to visit ; but it was possible
she might make the rough path of life
smoother to her also, if the rays of that
prosperity which had begun to dawn upon
her should grow to the full light of noon.
She was not ambitious, but she was very
sanguine about her future ; and, indeed, not
without reason. It was very philosophic,
no doubt, to be thus elated by a wave or
two of the wand of Good Fortune ; but
then, Lizzie made no claim to philosophy —
she was a very intelligent and practical
young woman.

She had something even now in her mind
of a very practical character, notwithstanding
that it was so full of joy and love. It
mingled with the pleasure with which she
watched Aunt Jane's delight upon the
journey and enhanced it. ' How green the
trees are, how blue the sky is : just as they
used to be in Devonshire ! ' said the simple
creature.

You ought to live in the country all
your days,' said Lizzie.

Aunt Jane uttered a little sigh, and shook
her head.

^ We can't have everything we wish in
this world, my darling ; let us be grateful
for the blessings we do have. Did ever
such a day as this come out of the heavens
before ? '

You don't know what comes out of the
heavens,' said Lizzie, gently. ' How long is
it since you have been ten miles from
London ? '

Ten years. How deliciously fresh the
air is ! '

^ It is nothing to what it will be by the
sea. But it will be very quiet down at
Casterton. You must not expect to be
ding out and going to the opera, as you do
in London, you dear old dissipated thing.'

^ The idea of my wanting to do anything
of the kind ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Richter, indignantly
; ^ why, for my part '

Then she stopped, but not in time.

Do you suppose I don't know, Aunt
Jane, that you do such things for my sake,
and for my sake only ? '

I didn't mean that, my dear,' said Aunt
Jane, penitently. 'I'm sure I am very glad
to go with you anywhere ; only, if people did
but know who you were, I should enjoy it so
much better. I have sometimes thought to
myself, when they have been talking about
those wonderful writings of yours, now, if I
could only be allowed to say, " It was Lizzie
Dart who wrote those things, and I'm her
aunt ; " that would be the happiest moment
of my life.'

You dear ! ' said Lizzie. She felt by

intuition that the light of fame is never so
welcome as when we see it reflected in the
eyes of those who love us.

I suppose some of your friends will be at
the station?' observed Aunt Jane, timidly,
as they drew near to their destination.

Certainly not ; they have not the least
idea that we are coming.'

Mrs. Eichter's face wore a look of relief.
^ Then we shall have this evening all to ourselves,
shall we ? '

Well, I think, as the inn is rather close
to them ' (it was about four doors from the
Look-out), ewe must just drop in to see
them. But I promise you this, my dear,
that if you don't like them we will see as
little of them as possible.'

I am sure I shall like them, because they
love you,' returned Aunt Jane, placidly. She
was speaking the simple truth — a jewel that
not all the gold of the Indies can purchase.
What would many a rich man give, I wonder,
if he could only hear a fellow creature utter
such words, and believe them ? Not only to

have lovers for our own sake, but to win
their goodwill for others because they love
us, is a feat beyond the reach of wealth, or
power, or fame.

How fortunate we were in having that
charming carriage, Lizzie, all to ourselves ! '
observed Aunt Jane, as they waited for their
luggage on the platform. ' And what a
delightful guard ; is it possible, I heard him
say '• Thank you," Lizzie, as we got out ? '

Very likely ; they are certainly civil on
this line,' replied Lizzie, with gravity. ' I am
glad you enjoyed the journey.'

I did, indeed, except for the thought of
what it must have cost you. The idea of
bringing me first class ! '

• I shall have to order a fire to be lighted
at the inn, to put that five-pound note m,
Aunt Jane, if you say another word.'

Well, well, I won't. But must we really
take a fly — is there no omnibus ? '

I have a good mind to wait here hill a
carriage and-four can be procured,' was the
menacing rejoinder.

^ Why, the very porter touches his hat tous,
Lizzie. I never experienced such civility
never ! Oh, what air ! Oh, what a view !
I never saw such a singular-looking hill in
all my life.'

That is Battle Hill, of which I have told
you so much. See how it towers above the
marsh ! What a place it would be to build a
house upon, would it not ? Do you see a
black speck moving along the top of it ? —
that is Mr. Leyden.'

My dear child, how can you possibly
know that ? '

Because I know his ways.'

One would think that you had lived
with these good folks all your life,' remarked
Aunt Jane, with just the least
touch of annoyance in her tone.

^ And so, indeed, it seems,' answered
Lizzie, simply ; not forgetting, however, at
the same time to lay an assuring hand upon
her companion's arm. ' There are people with
whom we may live under the same roof for years
and never know ; while there are others whose
hearts are opened to us in a few hours.'

But you must have the key,' observed
Mrs. Richter, with unaccustomed shrewdness.

Xo doubt. I do not speak, of course, of
those who wear their hearts upon their sleeves.
There must be sympathy.'

But even in that, one is sometimes mistaken.'


^ True.' It was only a monosyllable, but
it was as conclusive as the most laboured discourse.
Poor Mrs. Richter felt like one who,
going through some great mansion with her
host, opens, through inadvertence, some Blue
Beard's Chamber. She hastened to change
the subject.

How numerous are the churches yonder,
in that great plain ! The folk about here
ought to be very good.'

• Still I should prefer not to live upon the
marsh. In midsummer there is no shade to
be found there save what is cast by Battle
Hill. It always used to remind me of that
line m the Bible, '' The shadow of a great rock
in a weary land." When we build our house
here, it shall look the other way — not towards

VOL. ITT. H

the marsh, but the town. Did you ever see
such a quaint old place ? '

^ Never, never : it is peace and rest itself,'
murmured the little lady, in a rapture.

Her aunt's enthusiasm delighted Lizzie ;
and, indeed, there are few things more pleasant
than introducing those dear to us to scenes
we love : moreover, seldom is it that, on revisiting
a spot, we can say, ' I am happier
than the last time I saw it,' for even if we
have no sense of loss, at all events we are
older, and our spirits less buoyant than of
yore. But in Lizzie's case the comparison of
past and present was altogether in favour of
the latter. Her new-born prosperity was as
marvellous to her, and almost as inexplicable,
as it was to her companion.

Their destination was, of course, the Welcome
Inn, where it will be remembered Major
Melburn had been on the point of having a
^ difficulty ' with Mr. Winthrop. Their apartments
comprehended the very room where the
discussion between the two worthies had taken
place. Its old-fashioned look, which seemed

to promise moderate charges, pleased Mrs.
Richter, while the view from the bedroom,
which commanded the same prospect as that
from the Look-out, charmed her beyond
comparison.

Do you like this ? ' inquired Lizzie, as
the other sat enraptured at the window,
drinking in the glorious breeze. ^ Do you
think you shall be happy here? '

^ Yes, oh yes ; except for the thought of
having to go away again.'

I was afraid it would make you rather
dissatisfied with the Marylebone Road,' said
Lizzie, gently.

Nay, my dear ; that would be wrong,
indeed. We should be content with what we
have ; but this change is delightful.'

Perhaps, if one lived here one would get
tired of it.'

I can't say that, my dear : it would seem
like blasphemy. Xever, never, never have I
seen anything half as beautiful ! '

Lizzie bent down with a smile of serene
content, and kissed her aunt upon the forehead.

After luncheon they repaired to the Lookout.
Aunt Jane had endeavoured to persuade
her niece to see her friends at first alone ; but
Lizzie ^^as resolute that they should go together.
She wished it to be understood how
entirely they two were one, and also, by the reception
which she knew she would meet with,
that her aunt might be assured of the genuineness
of the attachment of her friends at Caster-ton.
Nor in this was she disappointed: even the
little maid welcomed her with a cry of rapture.

^ Lor, Miss Dart ; how pleased Missus will
be to see you ! '

When her name was announced in the
sitting-room, Mrs. Meyrick started from her
chair, and held out both her arms in welcome.
You dear, dear girl ! ' she exclaimed. ' This
is Aunt Jane, of course,' she added, shaking
her heartily by the hand. ' What good fairy
has brought you down to us ? And why did
you not give us a word of warning, Lizzie?
Not that that signifies, of course ; for I know
you will not mind sharing Mary's room, and
Mrs. Richter will, of course, have yours.'

We are staying at the inn, my dear Mrs.
Meyrick, thank you ; but you will see quite
enough of us, I promise you.'

^ Enough of you? There, don't you talk
to me like that, Lizzie. Life in London has
already taught you to tell fibs. I shall send
for your boxes instantly.'

Shy little Mrs. Richter quaked in her
shoes lest her niece should succumb to the
proposal. Modest as was her estate of
herself, she could have no doubt of her
hostess's goodwill towards her ; but half the
pleasure of her holiday would have been
taken away had she been expected to spend
it in a strange house, and, as she expressed it,
on her best behaviour.' But Miss Dart stuck
to her guns, and was not to be dislodged from
the position she had taken up, and for the
choice of which she had her reasons.

^ And how is dear Mary? '

I think as well as can be expected ; it
is, I am thankful to feel, a comfort to her to
be here.'

I am sure of that. And Matthew ? '

He is no better ' — the tears came into the
widow's eyes. ^ I only hope you will think
he is no worse. He does not complain ; but
he moves about less and less. I tell him it
is bad for Mary — for he can scarcely ever be
induced to be without her — and he does make

what effort he can. ' But ' here Mrs.

Meyrick broke off, or, rather, broke down ;
there was no need, indeed, for her to finish,
for she was speaking to sympathetic ears. ^ I
am sure the sight of you, Lizzie, will do him
as much good as anything,' she added, after
a painful pause.

Is he in the Pavilion ? '

Yes ; he lives there, just as usual ; only,
alas ! keeps more to the sofa. You will find
Mary reading to him, and talking over his
new book.'

His new book ? I did not know he was
bringing out a book.'

He has kept it a secret even from me.
The first copies came this morning, and he
was going to send you one of them by tonight's
post. It will be ten times the

pleasure to him to give it to you himself

but there, I must not tell you another word
about it. You had better go to him at once,
or he will have a grievance against me for
detaining you.'

How good and kind you are to my
Lizzie, Mrs. Meyrick I ' said Aunt Jane, ina
trembling tone, when the two elder ladies
were left alone.

Nay, it is she who is good to us, my
dear Mrs. Richter. We call her our Sunbeam.
Hark at them I They have seen her
from the window. That is Mary's voice, and
that — that sound you hear — is my poor son,
hastening on his crutches to meet her. He
knew she had not forgotten us, though she
did strive to keep her secret. Oh ! my dear
Mrs. Richter, how proud you must be of her ;
how happy her success must make you I '

It does, of course ; but she has no secret
that I know of.'

What ! do you mean to say that you
don't know about it ? '

I know there is something,' said Mrs.

Eichter, calling to mind the vision of wealth
that had so dazzled her that morning ; ' but
dear Lizzie, though she is kinder and more
loving than ever — if that is possible — has
grown beyond me altogether.'

That is what Matthew says : she stands
a head and shoulders above everybody.
Though she never told us, Matthew has
found her out.'

But what is the secret ? ' exclaimed Mrs.
Richter, excitedly.

If you don't know it, I mustn't tell you,
Mrs. Richter. You must have it from her
lips, and not from mine. But I am sure it's
true. Matthew has said so ; and Matthew is
so clever. Here they all come together. See,
he is moving along quite fast —-just as he used
to do long ago ; it's like a miracle ; and your
Lizzie, who is also our Lizzie, has worked it.
She is, as he says, the most wonderful girl
that ever lived ! '

Chapter XL.

THE Secret.

Ix some book that Mrs. Richter had read in
her childhood — full of woodcuts and allegories
— there was a picture of Sorrow and
111- Health being comforted by Wisdom ;
which, as the three young folks came into
view, Mary, in her robe of mourning, and
Matthew Meyrick, pale and crippled, with
Elizabeth Dart serene and smiling between
them, recurred to her with a flash. The
confidence they reposed in her, the belief
they had in her powers, was as clearly to be
read in the expression of their faces as the
affection with which they regarded her. She
had been received by them with rapture,
though Mary had shed those natural tears,
in response to her friend's sympathetic embrace,

which rush to our eyes with every
association with those whom we have lately
lost. It seemed to both of them that they
could have talked to her for hours, and never
wearied tongue or ear ; but the information
that she had brought Aunt Jane with her
had caused them to postpone their confidences.
To make one so dear to their
visitor to feel that she was at home withall
at the Look-out was their first thought.
Never since ' dear Ernest's ' time, nor possibly
even then — for he had been more given to
theology than sentiment — had little Mrs.
Richter been made so much of. ^ I really
almost began to think, my dear,' she said
afterwards to Lizzie, ^ that I must have done
something, either in a dream or in some other
state of existence, to deserve it.'

Though they spoke of persons she had
never seen — Mrs. Melburn and the Squire —
she had heard so much of them from her
niece that she had not that feeling of isolation
and sense of 'being out of it' that is
generally experienced under similar circumstances

; while, at the same tune, it gratified
her to be thus treated as one of the family,
Nervous as she always was in the presence of
mere acquaintances, it did not even alarm her
very much when a wrinkled little man suddenly
appeared in the centre of the group,
and, after wringing Lizzie's hand as though
he would wring it off, proceeded to shake her
own as heartily.

^ Of course, you are Aunt Jane,' he said,
who, having repented of taking this young
lady from her natural home, has brought her
back to us and to what used to be Casterton.'

^ The dear old place, however, looks very
much as it used to do,' said Lizzie, laughing.

'It won't do that for long, my dear,'
sighed the old gentleman ; ' we are going to
be as spick and span as Clapton-on-Sea, or
any other fashionable town that flames out
of an advertisement. We shall have an
esplanade, with a brass band playing on it
from two to four, before we are many months
older. His lordship will stick at nothing.
The sacrilegious wretch has actually offered

Battle Hill for sale, with a hideous suggestion
about its being adapted for building
purposes.'

But nobody has bought it, nor even bid
for it ; has he ? '

Not as yet ; but it is only a question of
time. They will buy it, and they will build
villa residences upon it. What do they care
for the relics of the dead and the memorials of
their forefathers ? '

What if in digging the foundations of
the villas they should come upon the buried
treasure ? ' observed Lizzie, slily.

Don't speak of it ! ' exclaimed the old
man, vehemently. ' If such an event should
happen, it would be the death of me ; and, I
tell you, it may happen. The idea of a
speculative builder becoming possessed of the
spoil of the Dane has something blasphemous
about it. Every time I go to that hill, I
seem to feel it will be my last visit. There
is a board up already, with " Trespassers
Beware! " upon it ; but that I take no notice
of I suppose it, in my own mind, to refer

to any wretches who may want to build
there. Think of Urfa Terrace or Canute
Crescent, and Sweyn Villas, defiling that
grand old hill ! But any one who chooses to
go into John Martin's, yonder, with 500/. in
his pocket, can beg that infamous work tomorrow
; and nobody can stop him. However,
I have no right to talk about a misfortune
which affects no one, after all, but a poor
antiquary like myself. Let us speak of a much
pleasant subject — your own affairs. AVe
poor savages at Casterton always ventured,
you know, to think you were a marvel ; and
that the idol of our barbarous little tribe
should have become an object of worship in
the world of London is immensely to the
credit of our discernment.'

It would be, without doubt, if the circumstance
you mention had taken place,'
replied Lizzie, laughing. ' Unhappily, however,
there have been no offerings at the
shrine.'

There has been incense enough, at til
events,' put in Matthew. ' I never open a

newspaper, my dear Miss Dart, without reading
something eulogistic about you. Instead
of laying siege to Fame in the usual fashion
by approaches and parallels, you seem to have
carried her by a coup de main.'

They must be very old newspapers, I
fear, in which you read anything about my
poor production,' said Lizzie. ^ It is quite
true, indeed, that what I have contributed to
the 'millennium" has been praised, much beyond
my expectations and their worth ; but
even three swallows don't make a summer.'

My dear Mat,' murmured Mary, despondingly,
' I am afraid you must na-^e mad
a mistake.'

Not a bit of it,' he answered, under his
breath. ' Don't you know a hypocrite when
you see one? Look at that wicked blush.'

There was certainly a flush in Elizabeth
Dart's cheek which might have been taken in
an accused person, by a hostile judge, as an
evidence of guilt.

^ You are more in the dark, Miss Dart,
than we are,' observed Roger Ley den,

gravely. ' Would you mind coming into the
light here, and letting me have a good long
look at your face? It will be a great pleasure
to me, even if I don't find in it what I expect
to see.'

You have already told my fortune, Sir,
by starlight,' she answered, lightly, ' so there
is no excuse for further investigation.'

^ Yery good. Then we will tell Mrs.
Richter's fortune for her.' He spoke so
gently, and with such a tender respect in
his tone, that Aunt Jane was not one whit
alarmed by this alarming proposition.

There are plenty of lines to guide you,'
she answered, smiling, ' but I am afraid they
lead to nothing ; or at least to a very poor
fortune.'

'I am not sure of that,' said the antiquary,
in solemn tones, and scrutinising her
attentively : ' you are, to begin with, very
happy in your domestic relations, and people
get fond of you at first sight.'

He is right, so far,' cried Matthew,
clapping his hands.

He is judging by results,' objected Mary.

My dear Lizzie how can you permit
your aunt to be teased in this way ! ' said
Mrs. Meyrick.

Be quiet, all of you ; you are interrupting
the investigation,' exclaimed Mr. Leyden,
authoritatively. ' If you are not famous
yourself, my dear lady, you will become so
by proxy. I am not quite sure which it will
be ; but you have much literary taste.'

There I am sure you are wrong,' said
Aunt Jane, laughing ; ' ask Lizzie.'

I shall not " ask Lizzie," as Lizzie is not
to be trusted. Lizzie will say anything, or
decline to say anything. How do you know
you have no literary taste? Don't you like
the novel, " The Usher," that has just been
begun in the " Millennium " ? '

I have not read it ; I never read anything
in the '' Millennium " except what Lizzie
writes,' answered Mrs. Richter, simply.

There was an uncomfortable silence.
'Is it possible that the intelligence of this
honourable court has been deceived? ' inquired

Eoger Leyden, ' or is this witness mute of
malice? '

I have not the least idea what you are
wanting to get out of me,' said Mrs. Richter,
raising her eyebrows.

She must be pressed to death said
Roger Leyden, gravely. ' I don't see any
other way out of it.'

She is telling nothing but the truth,
Roger,' observed Matthew, confidently : ' the
principal criminal has, it seems, no confederate.'


Do you mean to say, my dear Mrs,
Richter,' exclaimed Mr. Leyden, impatiently,
that you have no secret to tell us in connection
with the accused ? '

If you mean with Lizzie, none at all :
nothing has been confided to me, I do assure
you.'

You have not chanced to hear that she
is bringing out a book at all, perhaps ? ' continued
the inquisitor, severely.

Not a word.'

Roger Leyden glanced with a puzzled air

VOL. III. I

at Matthew ; his look seemed to say, ' Perhaps
we are wrong after all.' Matthew shook
his head, and smiled incredulously.

What is all this about ? ' inquired Miss
Dart, innocently. While these searching interrogations
were being put to Aunt Jane
she had been to all appearance engaged in
private conversation with Mrs. Meyrick.
Did I hear that any one had been bringing
out a book? " Matthew moved to a side table
and took from it a little parcel made up for
the book-post, and addressed to herself.
'Your arrival, my dear Miss Dart,' he said,
placing it in her hands, ' has saved me sixpence.'


This is charming, indeed ! ' she exclaimed,
delightedly. * What a pleasant surprise,
indeed, I have anticipated! "Poems
by Matthew Meyrick" — how very nice that
looks! Here are "The Children," "The
Harpsichord," and all my old favourites. I
know them all by heart, but I no less rejoice
to hold them in my hand. They are published,
I see, by Mr. Rose, of Paternoster

Row. I happen to know that gentleman,
and shall congratulate him on his discernment.
I congratulate you, my dear Matthew,
with all my heart. I will not say, in tune-worn
phrase, that the casket is worthy of the
jewel ; but the binding — though, I am afraid,
all the bindings are not like this — is perfection.'


^ Come, that was my choice ! ' exclaimed
Mrs. Meyrick, triumphantly. ' I was determined
to have a hand in dear ]matthew's
book, if it was only in the cover.'

Suddenly, Miss Dart, who was still turning
over the leaves of the little volume, became
crimson. ' She has seen it at last,' murmured
Mary.

You. are right. Mat,' observed Eoo-er
Leyden, sententiously ; * if ever conscious
guilt was depicted in the human countenance,
I behold it now. If your modesty forbids
your reading that dedication aloud. Miss Dart,
I will repeat it for you. ''' To the Authoress of
The Usher,' chose genius I admire, like the rest
of the icorld ; and chose friendship I should

1 2

envy above all things did I not enjoy the advantage
of possessing it '

I call that almost as pretty as the poem,'
observed Mrs. Meyrick, critically. Miss Dart
had not yet spoken, but it was plain she was
greatly agitated ; the little book trembled in
her grasp.

It troubled her in many ways to know
that her secret was revealed ; but it touched
her to learn that Matthew had discovered
what so many had failed to find ; it was his
affection for her, no doubt, that had made his
eyes so keen.

Whatever good fortune may befall me,^
she said, earnestly, ' even though it should
be deserved, I shall never value so highly as
this unmerited proof of your regard for me,
Matthew.'

Now what does she mean by unmerited ? '
put in the antiquary, sharply. ' Is she still
endeavouring to put us oiF the scent ? '

I meant the praise,' she answered, gently.
I confess, I did write the book.'

Eoger Ley den seized his cap and threw it

ujD to the ceiling ; Mrs. Meyrick and Mary
clapped their hands ; and Matthew beat the
floor in an ecstasy of applause. Aunt Jane
alone made no demonstration : her lips trembled,
and the tears came into her eyes. T\liile
rejoicing in her niece's success, her tender
heart felt a thrill of pain that she had not been
made the repository of a secret, to the knowledge
of which others had doubtless been
admitted. Miss Dart read all she felt at a single
glance. ' If I had told anybody about it,'
she said, ' of course it would have been you.
Aunt Jane ; but I thought it better, in case
of failure, to keep the matter to myself alone.
How was it, Matthew, that you ever came to
guess it ? '

^ I recognised your hand throughout,
Lizzie, as Mary will bear me witness ; but
there were some touches which could have come
from no other pen : the poor old clerk, about
whom there was every '• symptom of ' breaking
up,' except the holidays ; " the priest,
who knows no more of spiritual matters than
an organ monkey knows of music ; and your

literary gentleman, who offers to take charge
of the child in the crowd at the illuminations,
on the ground that he is accustomed " to see
things through the press," spoke to me unmistakably
of Elizabeth Dart. There were
some things, indeed, that puzzled me; but
their very unlikeness to yourself somehow
awoke my suspicions : the moralising old
General, for example, who remarks " that men
of middle age, who omit to play whist in the
afternoons, generally get into mischief." Now
where on earl did you get that from? '

Lizzie shrugged her shoulders, and laughed
with an indifferent air ; but in reality she
resented the question : no novelist likes to be
asked whence he took this and that. In this
particular case, too, it so happened that Miss
Dart had borrowed the observation from the
cynical lips of Jefferson Melburn.

There were some things, however, that
localised you,' continued Matthew, ' and put
the matter beyond doubt. Don't you recollect
how amused you were with the old sexton
here, and his technical expressions? Now,

there is a verger in your story who uses his
very phrase — " When we depart this transitory
life." '

^ To be sure,' said Miss Dart. ' I recollect
it perfectly. How very, very foolish of me !
To rob without concealment is the height of
imprudence.' She spoke with an air of vexation,
but in her heart she was well pleased :
it was that ^ transitory life,' she felt convinced,
which had, in fact, betrayed her. All
the other things were but corroborations ;
mere affection had not been that touchstone
which she had thought and feared. If it had
been, some one other than Matthew Merrick
and a better critic, would surely, surely, have
made as o;ood a otcss as he.

CHAPTER Alla

DEAL.

Before Lizzie left the Look-out that evening
for it is needless to say that Aunt Jane and
she were constrained to remain to dinner —
she found the opportunity of having a private
talk with Mary. She learnt that, though the
Squire was still at Burrow Hall, his position
was greatly altered ; he had lost large sums
in speculation ; and the property was much
involved. It had been obviously a relief to
him when Mrs. Meyrick had proposed to take
charge of his daughter. ' I offered to stay
with poor papa,' said Mary, ' but he did not
want me. He said he wanted nobody. It
will be very wretched for him. Jefferson
and he have had some disagreement about the
entail. He will come down, I believe, in the

shooting season, and then papa will go elsewhere.
It is a miserable story.'

And as to your own affairs, darling ? '
inquired Miss Dart.

They can scarcely be called affairs,' she
answered, smiling, ' they are so insignificant.
I have a thousand pounds from dear mamma,
the interest of which at present forms my pin-money.
Whether I shall ever have anything
more to live upon is doubtful. In the meantime,
however, papa pays a certain sum for
my maintenance to aunt. You must not
blame him ; he does as much as he can forme.
Things do not look very bright, but
they might have been much worse.'

Miss Dart knew what she meant — namely,
that she mio'ht have been still sufferings from
the persecution of ]mr. Winthrop, which had
now ceased. She had always sympathised
with Mary upon that matter ; but much more
since she herself had learned how hateful to a
woman's mind it was possible for a man to be.
It was a subject much too unwelcome to be
pursued.

And Matthew ? '

Mary's face, wliicli Had hitherto been
serene and cheerful, became troubled at once.

Matthew is no better. Oh ! Lizzie, I
fear, I fear, that he is getting worse. You
see him now at his very best, because your
coming has gladdened him. But sometimes
never before his mother, but only when we
two are quite alone — it is very sad to hear
him talk. It is not as if he did not wish to
get well ; he does wish it very much, poor
fellow — but '

^ That is so far in his favour,' put in
Lizzie, quickly. ' It is only the incurable
who has neither wish nor hope. His very
desire for life will help him to hold on to it.'

Mary shook her head. ' No, no ; he
feels it slipping from him, and that his grasp
of it weakens almost daily. What will his
mother do when he is gone ? '

And what will you do ? ' thought Lizzie
to herself, as she gazed on her companion's
face, which, shadowed by the coming woe,
had suddenly lost its look of youth, and

become grey and haggard. ' ^^ary, dear, I
have got a plan for Matthew. He must come
up to town and see Dr. Dredge.'

Who is Dr. Dredge ? '

^ He is a physician who has made spinal
complaint his peculiar study. When I tell
you that Dr. Dalling once spoke to me about
him, at Burrow Hall, as being the only man
living likely to do Matthew good, you maybe
sure that he has some special gift. Your
cousin, remember, has seen no one but a
country doctor, in whom, moreover, he has
himself but little confidence.'

He has confidence in no one. He is convinced
that no skill can possibly do him good ;
while as to going up to town, the thought of
the expense such a proceeding would entail
would, I am sure, prevent him doing any
such thing, even if he were more hopeful.
^' There has been enough money wasted upon
me already by my poor mother," he says.'

The cost is of no consequence. I have
more money than I want, and nothing would
please me so much as the spending of it to do

Matthew good. One of the tidings — indeed,
the main thing — I have come down hereabout
is to obtain, through you, his consent
to try Dr. Dredge. I would have brought
him down to see Matthew here, but that Mr.
Argand tells me he will never leave town to
visit anybody

You good, dear girl ! ' cried Mary, embracing
her friend affectionately. ' I will
tell Matthew what you offer, because it will
please him so, but I warn you beforehand that
he will not consent. "What ?" he will say,
do you think I would take Lizzie's money,
which she has earned with her brain, anymore
than my dear mother's, and throw it
into the gutter ? " '

'But it may not be thrown into the
gutter. It may bring health and strength,
and, at all events, there is a chance of it.
My plan is this — that Matthew and you, and
Mrs. Meyrick, shall have our rooms, where
we know that we can make you comfortable ;
while Aunt Jane and I emigrate to the next
floor.'

That is, we are to evict as well as ruin
you. Why, it would cost a fortune.'

It would cost, perhaps, fifty pounds —
perhaps a hundred. Let me tell you. Miss, I
am now become a person of property, and that
a hundred pounds would neither make me nor
break me. You will not go into these details
with Matthew, of course ; but I entreat of you
to persuade him.'

I will do my best, though T know that I
shall fail. I shall be your debtor for what
you would have done as long as I live.'

I shall leave you two alone tomorrow
morning,' said Lizzie, ' to discuss the matter ;
and I dare say Mrs. Meyrick will kindly take
Aunt Jane off my hands till luncheon time,
as I have a little business to transact upon
my own account.'

Xot work, dear Lizzie ; I do hope you
will take a complete holiday while you are
down here. Mrs. Richter tells me that your
pen is never out of your hand at home.'

I promise you it is nothing to tax my
brain,' said Lizzie, laughing ; and here Roger

Leyden came up and pointed to the clock,
which stood at a very late hour indeed, as
hours were reckoned at Casterton. ' You
will never keep your appointment with me
on the hill tomorrow. Miss Dart, if you don't
get some beauty sleep.'

Oh, that's the business you have to transact
which will not tax your brain, is it ? '
whispered Mary, roguishly. Lizzie nodded
assent. ' To make an assignation with a
young lady, Mr. Leyden, and then to talk
about it, is not what is done in the best
circles,' she observed, reproachfully.

Nevertheless, Mr. Leyden was permitted
to escort the two ladies home to the inn.

At eleven, then, punctually ? ' said Lizzie,
as he took his leave.

Why not at ten ? '

Because between ten and eleven I have
something particular to do.'

I never heard of anybody having anything
particular to do in Casterton before,'
grumbled the antiquary ; * but you always
have your way. At eleven, then, let it be.'

Aunt Jane and Lizzie breakfasted early
the next morning — earlier, indeed, than the
latter desired, for her own purposes ; but it
was impossible to restrain the elder lady's
energy. ^ Every moment that I spend indoors,'
she said, ' I grudge. I want to drink
in as much of this glorious air, to see as
much of this lovely spot, as possible. It
is not to be expected that I shall have
such a holiday again. It seems to me that
the whole scene will melt if once I take my
eyes off it.'

Then you would really like to Hve here ? '

Dont, Lizzie, don't : it is cruel. The
very notion of leaving it, as we must do tomorrow,
I suppose, or the next day, appals
me. Don't let me know when I am going
till it is time to pack up. In the meantime,
I am living here.'

Quite right ; "life is but thought," said
Lizzie, smiling at her tenderly. Tor the
present, consider yourself a resident. Would
you think it very unkind of me if I left you to
your own devices for an hour or two this

morning, though Mrs. Meyrick, you kno^Y,
said she expected you after breakfast ? '

She is very good, and they are all as
good to me as good can be ; but I should like
a little walk by the sea alone above all things.
Somehow or other, Lizzie — I suppose it's the
vastness and freedom of it — I always feel a
better woman at the sea.'

Then what a good woman you would be
if you lived here ! '

Don't, Lizzie ; don't, I say. I am no
more fit for it than to live in Heaven. Look
at that sea-gull ! Not all the pigeons in the
Marylebone Road can compare with it.'

If you go to the jetty — it's the first turning
to the right — you'll see plenty of them.
If I don't join you there, you'll find me at the
Look-out.'

Aunt Jane trotted off* in the direction indicated,
like a child on a holiday. She had
no doubt that Lizzie had some of that wonderful
literary work to do, which, considering the
praise it brought, not to mention that sheaf of
bank' notes which had dazzled her eyes the

previous morning, seemed to her to have
something of magic about it. Even that
great work ' The Life of Apollinaris ' sank
into insignificance beside it. She did not
even dare to advise her niece not to work, as
Mary had done, though she longed to do so.
Lizzie knew what was good for her, and for
everybody, so much better than she did.
How everybody who knew what she had done
bowed down before her ; never was there,
surely, such a wonderful young woman.
Dear Ernest had always said that it was
much better to be good than clever (a remark
which he had not the least idea was of an
egotistic character) ; but Lizzie was as good,
if that was possible, as she was clever.

Almost opposite the inn was the office of
Mr. Snu crop, the auctioneer and estate accent.

CO" o

As there was nothing to sell to anybody at
Caster ton, and no estate except Lord Destray's,
even this double-barrelled business could not
have brought him in much profit, but he was
also a carpenter and builder. He had a front
shop dedicated to the two humbler trades,

VOL. Il K

where turning and planing were carried on,
and a back parlour, hung with maps and
plans, devoted to the agency.

In the latter apartment he was rarely to
be found, not only because there was little
to do there, but because it had only a bit of a
skylight, and afforded no view save of the
heavenly bodies. He liked to behold his
fellow-creatures, and to mitigate the asperities
of toil by conversation with the passers-by.
A half-door, which communicated with the
street, facilitated this ; and any summer day
Mr. Snuggg was to be seen, leaning on the
lower half, and looking up the street and
down the street — if not for a customer, at
least for a companion. We hear people talk
of the Mysteries of London Life, as regards
the existence of a considerable portion of its
inhabitants ; and how on earth its poor
women keep body and soul together is indeed
difficult to understand ; but how small shopkeepers
continue to live and thrive in the
country is, to my mind, much more amazing.
The only explanation of the phenomenon is

that they have all a few thousands m the
Three per Cents., and that theu^ affectation of
carrying on business is merely a philanthropic
pretence ; so that the youthful beholder of
their unparalleled prosperity may set it down
to the magic of Perseverance.

Mr. Snuggg's carpenter and builder's
business opened early, but his auction and
estate agency was not in working order till
ten a.m. To the former he attended in his
shirt sieves, and edified the gossips by his
Radical views ; but when concerning himself
with the latter, he was no looser Snucro- the
joiner, but an individual of great respectability,
with a stake in the country, and
opinions appropriate to that elevated position.

When Miss Dart issued from the Welcome
that morning, Mr. Snuggg was in his chrysalis
state, and rather less ' within his gates ' than
without them ; his three-quarter length ^v^as
stretched over the half door, where the disappearance
of Mrs. Richter round the corner
had left it.

The spectacle of a stranger in Casterton

K 2

was calculated to arouse excitement in the
mind of any native ; and Mr. Snuggg, in
addition to his multifarious callings, was the
most inveterate of gossips. But for this
preoccupation of his mind, the presence of
Miss Dart at his elbow would certainly not
have escaped him.

A fine morning, Mr. Snuggg.'

Why, Miss Dart, I do declare ! Glad to
see you back at Casterton.'

Thank you, Mr. Snuggg. Yes ; I have
come down with my aunt from London for a
few days.'

^ The strange lady just gone to the jetty,
I suppose ; I was wondering who she was.
Strangers here are a godsend — though old
friends are much more so, I'm sure,' here
he bowed politely ; 'nothing new here, but
New Year's Day, from one year's end to
another.'

You are contemplating something new,
at all events — if, as I hear, old Battle Hill is
to be sold.'

The Loompp ? True ; but who'll buy it ? '

replied Mr. Snuggg, despondently. ' It's only
a bit of unproductive land, with a few fir-trees
on it, you see — like a poor peer with his
coronet. It's cheap enough, 'tis true, but
then if nobody wants it '

I think I know of some one who would
like to have it, if it is really, as you say, to
be sold cheap.'

You do ? ' he snatched off the carpenter's
cap which he wore at work, and threw back
the half-door. ' If you will be kind enough
to step into the office. Miss Dart, I will be
with you in a minute, and furnish you withall
particulars.'

It was really not much more than a
minute before 1>3 reappeared, no longer as
Snuggg the joiner, but in his auctioneer-andes
ate agent apparel.

The Hill has already been put up for
sale, I believe,' observed Miss Dart.

Well, yes ; the reserved price of 500/.
was not realised. As I explained to his
lordship, sufficiently long notice had not
been given, nor was the matter advertised as

it should be. We shall be more fortunate next
time, no doubt.'

^ But in the meanwhile, as I read in the
newspaper, 500/. was the price.'

That is so — to a certain extent : to
builders who wanted a site, in consideration
of the advantages that would arrive to the
estate, there might be '

'My friend is not a builder.'

As I concluded. A man of taste, fond
of the picturesque, perhaps, and of antiquities ?
To such a person the situation for a villa
residence would be unrivalled. The Hill has
been in the Destray family for centuries.
That of itself is a recommendation; and the
present lord, when a boy, has often picnicked
upon it, he told me, with the present members
of the family: quite an aristocratic nook.
The western slope affords good opportunities
for a mansion in the Gothic style.'

'My friend would not desire a mansion;
his object in possessing the Hill would be to
erect upon it a small cottage ; but I am afraid
the purchase-money, combined with the cost

of such a dwelling, "would be above his
means.'

A very pretty cottage could be built
under the lee of that hill ; quite sheltered, and
with a splendid view, for, let us say 400/.'

Would you undertake to build it yourself,
Mr. Snuggg, for that money? '

Well, well ; I was speaking in general
terms — though the materials, to be sure, are
close at hand. It was not as if you were
asking me for an estimate, ]\Iiss Dart.'

^ Not exactly, yet the person I have in my
mind would, I think, prefer the matter to be
in local hands, and you will certainly have
my good word, Mr. Snuggg. On the other
hand, dol. is, I fear, more than he is in a
position to give.'

Just so ; that is, of course, a difficulty,'
said Mr. Snuggg, smoothing his chin as though
he were removing the obstacle m question. ' I
think, however, I may fairly say to his lordship,
'• Here is an offer of 450/., or even 400/.,
for the Hill ; not, indeed, from a professional
builder, but from a gentleman of taste, who

has given me his word to employ an architect
who may be trusted to beautify rather than
disfigure the locality." Yes ; I think I should
be doing his lordship a service, Miss Dart, in
persuading him, under the circumstances you
have mentioned, to take 400/. for Battle
Hill;

Yery good. I have the purchase money
in my possession, and if the matter can be
concluded in a day or two, before I leave
the town, I shall be obliged to you.'

I will have a memorandum that will be
binding prepared by tomorrow morning, if
you will kindly give me the gentleman's
name.'

^ You may make it out in my name, Mr.
Snuggg.'

In your name ? Well, now, really. Miss
Dart, this is a satisfactory circumstance said
the agent, rubbing his hands deferentially.
^ It is seldom, indeed, that business and
pleasure are so mixed. With a lady already
so well known in Casterton, and, if I may
venture to add, so favourably inclined towards

myself, there can be no sort of difficulty about
the estimate about the cottage ; and, as to the
purchase money for the Hill, you may take it
for certain that it will not exceed 400/.'

CHAPTER XLII.

CONGRATULATED.

To judge by the talk about the ' hunger for
land,' one would suppose that when the earth
beneath us is our own property, we tread it
with a more assured and vigorous step, while,
at the same time, we strike the stars with our
head. I had a little land myself once, but experienced
no such sensations on the spot in
question ; and was exceedingly glad to get rid
of it. For my part, I can no more conceive of
the earth as mine — in the same sense, at least,
that the eve shillings in my pocket are my own
than of the sea or the sky belonging to me.
Similarly, it was with no sense of proprietorship
that Miss Dart drew near Battle Hill,
though to all intents and purposes she had
bought it. That she had secured a house, or

rather a spot whereon to build a house, for
Aunt Jane and herself in a locality that both
delighted in, was, however, a conviction sufficiently
pleasurable without any territorial
pride ; and that that spot was Battle Hill was
also a subject of especial congratulation on her
friends' account. l>\"ith what delight would
Mrs. Meyrick and Mary and Matthew receive
the news that, sooner or later, she would become
their neighbour ; and with what rapture
would Roger Leyden welcome it I She found
him looking out for her from the hill top.

^ You are better than your word,' he cried,
holding out his hand.

I got my business over more quickly than
I expected,' she replied.

And it was done well, as well as quickly,
I'll be bound. You look as if your ideas were
still in full flow.'

I think it was done rather well,' she
answered. She was secretly very proud of the
bargain she had effected with mr. Snuggg ; not
only as a personal achievement, but on broader
and higher grounds. It was always said of

literary persons that they were unfit for
practical affairs, and she flattered herself that
she had taken that reproach away from their
profession by her manipulation of Mr. Snuggg
that morning.

o

This is like old times said the antiquary.
^ I hardly hoped ever to stand with
you on Battle Hill again, with the same
feelings.'

Yet I am not very prone to change,' remarked
Miss Dart, quietly.

^ That is true. You will be always
natural ; you will estimate things at their just
value ; no tumult of acclaim will ever turn your
head. I was speaking of the place itself, which
will sooner or later undergo terrible alterations.'


You mean, if it is sold ? '

It is sure to be sold.'

Yet the reserve price, I understand,
was not bidden when the lot was put up
for auction.'

^ The reserve price? That is Snuggg's
story. It is quite true that no one bid 500^.

for the hill, nor 50/. The fact is, nobody
wanted it.'

But would it be sold for less than 500/.? '

^ Well, of course it would. To my certain
knowledge, it was offered to Bolt, the grazier,
for 350/.'

Goodness gracious ! ' said Miss Dart.

Fact, I assure you. I had almost a mind
to sell all I had in the world and buy it myself,
though I know it would be my ruin. If
Battle Hill were mine, I must dig for the
treasure. The temptation is still tremendous.
I dream about it ; I lie awake and think about
it. It might cost ten thousand pounds to find
it, you say ; but it might also cost only a five-pound
note ; and if I bought the hill I should
have about five pounds to spare. Every time
I pass Snuggg's shop I feel inclined to go in and
buy it, lest somebody else should, like the dog
in the manger.'

But why is it not bought? '

^ Because, except for building purposes, it
is absolutely useless ; and, at present, the
builders don't see their way. Of course, they

will see it some day ; in the meantime, it is
possible that some sacrilegious wretch will
take a fancy to it, and purchase it for his own
pleasure. That would be better, of course,
than to see it fall into the hands of the Philistines
of the line and plummet ; but, still, it
would be terrible. He would put up a
notice, ^' This is Private," and gates at the
foot of the hill, which would be open to the
public on Saturday afternoons only.'

Such a creature would build a house upon
it, I suppose? ' observed Miss Dart.

Of course he would • the most hideous
house conceivable.'

And where would he put it ? or rather,
where would you put it, if you were he ? '

The two suppositions are quite distinct,'
observed the antiquary, drily. * He would
put it where his architect advised him — facing
the south and west, so as to suck in the fogs
from the marsh and shut out the town. /
should put it in yonder coomb, where I could
see the old castle and the jetty, and at night
the harbour light.'

'And the Pavilion and the Look-outs
murmured Miss Dart.

Of course. But what would the monster
we have in our minds care about such
things ? '

Dear Mr. Leyden, I am that monster ; I
have bought Battle Hill. I mean to build nota
house, but a little cottage in that coomb,
where I j^i'opose to spend my life.'

You ! Yoic have bought it ? ' cried the
antiquary, solemnly. ' It is the finger of
Fate ! ' His eyes wandered over the hill, and
then came back to her confident face with a
strange look of care in them.

And have you not a word of congratulation
to give me ? Are you not pleased that I am
about to be your neighbour, as I hope to be ? '

Yes ; yes, indeed. I am more glad than
words can say ; it will bring happiness, too,
to other hearts than mine. "For life," you
say ; yes, and to your children after you.
Some day or other my prophecy will come to
pass, and you or yours will find what Urfa
buried here.'

'Well, since it was you who first put it
into my mind to buy the hill, I promise you
this, Mr. Leyden — that if 1 do find the
treasure you shall have half of it.'

You are joking ! You cannot be serious !
Do you really mean that you will make it
over to me or my representatives ? '

Certainly ; I never was more serious in
my life,' she answered, gravely. ' Unfortunately,
I am not so generous as I wish to bethought,
because I am incredulous as to the
existence of the thing in question. But you
shall have a written undertaking — you shall
draw it up yourself, and I will sign it — to
satisfy you upon the point. On the other
hand, I must say at once that I shall not
spend sixpence in digging to look for it.'

'That's not to be expected,' assented the
antiquary ; ' nor, indeed, would I have you
risk anything in such a search. I am not so
grasping as I seem, indeed.'

You don't even seem grasping, Mr.
Leyden,' said Miss Dart, smiling.

I must, at all events, appear very selfish

in having shown no curiosity to know how
you have acquired your proud position of
landed proprietor. For the moment, the sense
of your golden expectations put out of my
head the humbler means by which you came
into them.'

^ Pray do not say expectations, Mr.
Ley den, for I have none.'

Well, then, possibilities. You know
that it is personal interest, and not impertinence,
that prompts the inquiry ; but whereon
earth did you get the 7xioney from ? The
pen nowadays coins gold, I hear, but the
"Millennium" does not pay at that rate ; and
The Usher " is only just begun.'

It is '' The Usher," nevertheless, to which
I am indebted for Battle Hill. I have sold
the use of the novel for five years for a
thousand pounds.'

Heavens and Earth ! I was an •* Usher"
myself once, and never made a tenth of the
money.'

nevertheless, it's not a fortune ; and I
can well imagine that many people will think

VOL. III. I,

me very foolish for spending so much of my
little all in such a purchase. But dear Aunt
Jane and I have had such a bad time of it,
and she for so much longer than I, that we
two yearn for peace and quiet ; also, thanks
to you, I have learnt to love Battle Hill very
dearly. Moreover, when the cottage is built,
we shall live here as cheaply as anywhere.
You may say, indeed, it is difficult to live
even cheaply, if one has nothing to live upon ;
but as to the future, I am content to take
my chance. At present I am young and in
health, and what I have done in the writing
way I feel confident I can do again, and
perhaps again, and even better.'

^ That is a noble confidence,' exclaimed
the antiquary, admiringly, ' and, I will be
sworn, well founded. But, though I say it to
my own disadvantage, you must not bury
yourself alive at Casterton. For a poet, it is
well enough : he communes with the stars ;
but you must mix with that world it is your
mission (or I am greatly mistaken) to describe.'


I feel that,' answered his companion,
simply. ' It is my purpose, if all goes well,
to live here all the summer long ; to come
whenever I need rest and quiet, and to make
this glorious spot my home. But in the
winter I shall live in London. That is what
you would have suggested, is it not ? Why
do you look so grave ? '

Did I look grave ? I meant to look
glad. Such good fortune following on good
desert is rare, indeed. It seems to redress the
balance — restore the average of happiness.'
His eyes were fixed upon the Look-out.

You were thinking of those to whom the
cup of life has been dealt in another measure,'
said Miss Dart. ' I, too, believe me, have not
forgotten them.'

I am sure you have not. There are some
hearts — a very few — that melt beneath the
sun of prosperity ; that seem to grow more
tender to the woes of others the further they
themselves are removed from woe. Let us go
down and gladden our dear friends yonder
with the news of your good fortune.'

l2

I must not tell them till I have bought
the Hill ; that will not be till tomorrow.
There may be a slip between the cup and the
lip. Aunt Jane was saying yesterday that
Casterton seeded too beautiful, to be real ;
that she was afraid it would melt before her
eyes and that is what I feel with respect to
this darling scheme of mine.'

CHAPTER XLIII.

THE SHADOW IN THE SUNSHINE.

That it never rains but it pours, in the sense
of sorrows not befalling us singly, is a proverb
that few of us poor mortals are found to
deny ; but there is no similar saw in connection
with prosperity. The Greeks of old were
absolutely afraid of great good luck — so very
rare was it, in then* time, that Fortune gave
men a lift without a back-hander to follow ;
and the Scotch have a term for good spirits
which itself presages misfortune. Elizabeth
Dart was grateful from the bottom of her
heart for the food things which had befallen
her ; but she feared no Nemesis, and had no
misgivings. Without for one moment endorsing
Roger Leyden's view of desert in the
matter, she was too honest to belie her own

talents ; and, indeed, regarded them almost as
judiciously as though they belonged to someone
else ; they had been appreciated by the public
far beyond her hopes, and been rewarded
materially far beyond her expectations ; but,
though she had under estimated the value of
what she had produced, she had not underestimated
its merit. She was as free from
mock modesty on the one hand as she was
from vanity on the other. It was impossible
for her to shut her eyes to the fact that, considering
the scanty nature of her performances,
they had already made a great and unusual
success ; while the manner in which ' The
Usher ' had been received was more encouraging
still. Nor did she judge from results
alone ; she had a sense of proportion rare in
her sex, and though what she had effected of
course fell far short of what she had proposed
to herself — for expression can never convey
our ideas with the perfection we desire — her
work held its own, and more than its own,
by comparison with the best specimens of her
contemporaries. She recognised, in fact, if she

did not actually acknowledge to herself, the
true nature of those aspirations which had always
dwelt within her ; and that circumstance
filled her with the best kind of confidence —
the consciousness of power. There are some
writers, and very good ones, who are the
Single speech Hamiltons of literature ; they
embody their experience of life in a single
book, and then have done with it, from sheer
lack of material ; they have no deposit in the
Bank of Imagination. If they make a second
attempt, they overdraw their account. Xow,
Elizabeth Dart was conscious of possessing
resources for much more than one campaign.
Exceptional as she was in many ways, she
also held peculiar views of life. She desired
money only for the happiness which it conferred,
though by no means on herself only;
indeed, she had discovered early that the
greatest happiness is to be found in conferring
it ; and where most people thought of
increase, she thought of enjoyment.

One of the richest men I ever knew — but
by no means the worst — came by accident to

his death, when he had only made a million or
so. The whole energies of his existence had
been spent in acquiring wealth, and, long after
there had been the least necessity for it, he
had worked harder than any clerk who consumes
the midnight oil to add the payment of
overtime ' to the scanty subsistence he earns
for his wife and family. And on his deathbed
he repented it. ' I wish, my dear friends,' he
murmured, pathetically, 'that I had enjoyed
myself a little more.' It was not, to be sure,
a very exalted aspiration at such a moment ;
but there was a good deal of sense in it. His
mistake was a very common one with energetic
and assiduous persons. Elizabeth Dart,
who was as diligent in her way as this dead
Dives had ever been, had not fallen into his
error. She had had, as she had told Mr. Leyden,
a hard life of it, and seen those she loved
enduring still worse things ; and, while detesting
idleness, she had a passionate yearning for
peace and comfort — a wholesome desire for
enjoyment, as different from the mere love of
pleasure as the parson's whist differs from the

gambling at Monaco. Though not so fortunate
as the Fool in the Scripture, who had
goods laid up for him for many years, she had
reason to feel that her future was provided
for — a reflection the surpassing comfort of
which can be only understood by those who
have no such provision.

Xever in all her life had she felt so happy ;
the only drawback to her supreme content, in
fact, was the obligation she had enjoined upon
herself to keep from her friends the secret of
her purchase of Battle Hill until the matter
was actually effected. The information that
the land had already been offered for a less
sum than the lowest she was about to pay had
considerably shaken her confidence in Mr.
Snuggg, and also in her own capabilities for
dealing with him ; so the rest of the arrangements
she intrusted to Koger Leyden, a shrewd
man of business enough, when not under the
influence of the stars, or riding the hobbyhorse
of antiquity.

For all her prudent resolves, it is possible
that she would not have been able to conceal

from the loving eyes of those of the Look-out
the unaccustomed exaltation of her spirits, had
she not elsewhere found an excuse for them.
Quite a large packet of letters had arrived for
her from London, all of which contained good
and even great news. They had been forwarded
to her from the ' Millennium ' office by
Mr. Argand, but accompanied — as she noticed
with some chagrin — by no line from himself.
She had told him of her intention of coming
down to Casterton, and she had thought he
misrht have written to her a few words of congratulation
in finding herself in a spot which
he knew was so dear to her. She felt that it
had now become necessary — since others had
discovered it — to confess to him that she was
the author of ' The Usher and the avowal
was somehow made more difficult to her by his
silence. Was it possible that he had found it
out for himself, and was displeased, or even
hurt, at her reticence ?

It struck her, for the first time, that it was
possible that a copy of Matthew's poems might
have been sent to the ^ Millennium ' office ; in

which case the dedication of it, had it met Mr.
Argand's eye, would certainly have revealed
her secret to lira. This idea would have
troubled her more, but for the contents of her
letters, the importance of which for the moment
monopolised her thoughts. They were
all addressed, of course, to ' John Javelin,
Esq.' Some of them were, as usual, applications
for autographs ; others, equally as usual,
bore invitations to ' at-homes ' and even
dinner-parties, from unknown ' lion hunters,'
who have never the least scruple about the
means they use to ensnare their prey. She
had often received such communications, but
never so many at a time. It was clear that
her third contribution to the millennium,'
Opinion in Stories,' had greatly Quickened
the public curiosity about her. Such things
are straws — but straws which show the direction
in which the wind is blowing. There
were three letters of another sort. Xo. 1 was
from a firm of publishers, offering to purchase
' The Usher,' when completed, at the
same price for which Mr. Rose had agreed with

her. ^ If, unhappily, that novel should have
been disposed of, Messrs. Blank and Asterisk
would be happy to make arrangements with
the author for the copyright of his next story,
on still more favourable terms.'

This communication was gratifying
enough, yet it amazed even more than it
pleased her. The rate at which news flies
out of which any profit is to be got — has
never yet been calculated by the arithmetician
; and it astonished Miss Dart to find
that the identity of John Javelin with the
author of ' The Usher ' had been already discovered
by an entire stranger. That it was
somehow or other owing to the publication of
Matthew's poems was certain, since Mr. Rose
who had his own reasons for keeping silence
on the subject — had been the only repository
of her secret.

No. 2 letter was from the proprietor of a
popular magazine, offering a large sum for the
serial right of publication of the successor to
The Usher.' That there should be a successor
it was taken for granted, as though it were a

case of ' The King is dead. Long live the
King ! ' As the copyright was not required
in this instance, the arrangement for the sale
of the book could probably be made with
Xo. 1, independently from the proposal from
the magazine.

Xo. 3 was from a newspaper association,
to the same effect as Xo. 2, but promising still
more liberal terms. The writer, it said, ' asa
secretary to the syndicate,' was also empowered
to offer a considerable portion of the
purchase-money in advance. In these propositions
what would have seemed to her a
few weeks ago a fortune, and what was, at
all events, a large income, was assured to
her for the next twelve months. If she had
read her news aloud to her friends at the
Look-out, it would have conferred almost as
much pleasure upon them as it gave herself.
They T^-ere not as the stranger ' who does but
intermeddle with our joy ; ' the brightness of
her prosperity would have gladdened them,
and cast no shadow. But she remembered
their own poverty, and only spoke of the

encouragement lie had received in general
terms. It is an unusual reticence ; for
nothing is more common than for the prosperous
to boast of their superfluous wealth in
the presence of those to whom every shilling,
as the phrase goes, is of consequence ; though
like Narcissus — they would hardly, perhaps,
dilate upon their last banquet to persons in
want of a dinner. The heartfelt congratulations
of her friends were not less enjoyable
to Lizzie because her mind was occupied with
thoughts of how her new-found wealth could
best be used in serving them. If death could
not be averted (and she secretly nourished a
hope that somehow it might be so) from that
hospitable door, poverty, at least, she resolved,
should never set foot in it. If money ever
brought a happy day, it was that day. At
eve fell its first shadow. On returning to the
inn before dinner, she found a letter from
Mr. Argand.

^ My dear Miss Dart, — Though somewhat
late — for the world has known your secret,

it appears, for some days — I hasten to congratulate
you most heartily and sincerely upon
your well-earned honours. If I do not say "I
am not surprised," it is not because I entertained
the least doubt of your genius or dreamt
of assigning to it any limit ; it is only that it
seems a little strange that you should have
reposed a confidence in others which was
denied to myself You will, perhaps, justly
reply that a professional critic should have
discovered this mystery for himself, or that
the personal interest with which I hope you
will credit me should have given me some clue
to it. Well, I do not defend myself. I will
now take comfort from the reflection that my
ignorance enabled me to speak of " The Usher"
to your own ear in such terms of eulogy as,
for fear of being suspected of flattery, I could
hardly have employed had I known you to be
its author. It is something, too, gained on
your part, to have acquired a critic's real
option without those ^' buts *' and '' ifs " in
whose company it always appears when he
is on his guard. Before you, my dear Miss

Dart, lies the most pleasant literary future
that has ever presented itself to one of your
sex and age ; I shall watch it with the utmost
interest from astir. Perhaps, after all, it is
the fact that I am about to relinquish my
position as an editor — or, I should rather says,
the circumstances which have compelled me
to accept that course — which has made me
blind to your handiwork. When the mind is
full of business matters it loses its delicacy of
discernment. There is one thing of a material
kind that gives me much trouble in connection
with your admirable story — it was offered by
the unknown author to the "Millennium" fora
sum out of all proportion, as is now abundantly
manifest, to its value. It was, no
doubt, your modest judgment of his merits
that caused you to put so insignificant a price
upon it ; but I need hardly say that had I
continued to direct the magazine, this mistake
would have been rectified. In view of the
crreat increase of circulation which *' The
Usher " has conferred upon it, some new
arrangement would indeed appear imperative.

These matters are now unfortunately out of
my hands, and may possibly be without
remedy. I remember in one of our early talks
together, you spoke (as it seemed to me without
reason) of one of the chief drawbacks of
your condition in life as being the inability
to do good : how much worse, then, you will
easily understand, is the position of one who
cannot do even simple justice. However, let
us have done with vain regrets. One would
think this was a letter of condolence rather
than of congratulation. As I have often told
sou, it is only a matter of ** how long" as to
when genius such as yours receives its recognition
; but the most consoling reflection
which I shall carry with me ito obscurity
is that while I played my part as a stage
manager of literature I had the great happiness
of brinoino^ before the footliofhts one of
its brightest ornaments. My sister unites
her most kind regards with mine, and I am
always, my dear Miss Dart, your most faithful
friend and well-wisher,

Felix Argand.'

VOL. III. M

CHAPTER XLIV.

MR. LEYDEn's REPRESENTATIVE.

The arrangements at the Welcome were primitive,
and it was fortunate for Miss Dart that
this letter had been brought to her own room
instead of being left, as usual, to await the
return of the ladies in the sitting-room ; its
effect upon her could hardly have been concealed
from any spectator, much less from
such loving eyes as those of Aunt Jane. The
colour, which expectation had evoked in her
face as she opened the missive, faded gradually
from cheek and lip as she perused it ; when
she concluded it, it seemed to her that her
very heart had stopped beating. To learn
that by her reticence she had hurt so kind and
dear a friend was distressing enough to her ;
but, to her mind, it was only too clear that

there was something more amiss with Felix
garland than wounded feelings. That some
heavy misfortune of a material kind had befallen
him she was convinced, and even behind
that must needs lurk something worse to have
caused him to give up that beloved offspring
of his own creation, the ' Millennium.' He
had, indeed, on a previous occasion hinted at
the possibility of its passing into other hands ;
but his words had had no immediate, nor, as
it seemed, any very practical significance.
They had been uttered like the ' If anything
happens to me ' of the parent still far from old
age and in good health, when he speaks of the
provision made for his children. 'Whoever
is editor of the " Millennium," ' he had said,
'your support, you may be sure, will be
always welcome to him.' But now, it seemed
to her, the reins of government had been
wholly surrendered — nay, snatched — out of
his hands.

On most occasions of social catastrophe,
the cause of which is unknown, imagination
has only too free scope to search for it ; the

M 2

answer to that ' What can he have done ? ^
may assume any shape, however monstrous.
But m this case, of one thug, at least, Elizabeth
Dart was certain — that whatever Felix
Argand had done, it was nothing to be
ashamed of. Her opinion of him was the
highest she had ever entertained of any
man, and it stood upon a rock. Her feelings
towards him had hitherto, indeed, been of the
nature of those of a worshipper towards his
patron saint ; she had regarded him as guide,
philosopher, and friend, but less as friend,
perhaps, than as in the former characters ;
she had had an affectionate respect for him
that was, even yet, not unmixed with awe.
But now that he was in trouble, her sentiments
experienced a sudden change. He
seemed to be drawn nearer to her, and, without
losing his noble attributes, to appear in a
more familiar garb. She had never feared him
with that fear which casts out love ; but her
admiration for his character had placed him
on a pedestal out of the reach of familiar recognition
; now she saw him as he was — very

sorrowful, and therefore very human ; and
she yearned, in vain, to comfort him.

He had, evidently, no expectation of comfort
from her. Like some monarch fallen
from his high estate, he seemed to wrap his
kingly robes about him for the last time, and
to take a dignified adieu of those who had
stood about his throne. But there was no
evidence of emotion : he sought for no sympathy,
far less for consolation. He had befriended
many like herself, as she knew ;
perhaps there were others to whom he had
addressed similar words of farewell. She said
this to herself, yet found herself unwilling to
believe the speaker. Xot even Felix Argand
could have been so kind to any other as he
had been to her. With what judgment had
he advised her ! With what praise had he
encouraged her ! With what enthusiasm had
he fought her battles ! Each act of friendship
he had shown recurred to her with marvellous
particularity ; from the first letter he had
written to her, as an unknown correspondent,
down to that evening; when he had been so

indignant against the poor man who had said
her essays ' were not literature.' Though it
was now evident that he had thought far
more highly of ' The Usher ' than of her
earlier productions — indeed, if it was good at
all, it stood on a much higher plane, as being
a far more ambitious performance — how courteously
he had refrained from hinting at it,
lest he should wound her susceptibilities.
His behaviour, indeed, at all times had been
marked by the tenderest delicacy. Was there
not something in this very letter, it suddenly
struck her, that seemed to savour of a wish
to spare her — something omitted, rather than
hinted, which suggested separation ? It was,
on the face of it, only a letter of farewell,
inasmuch as it announced a dissolution of
their literary connection as editor and contributor
; but, between the lines, there suddenly
seemed to appear a purpose of departure.
Why was there not one word said of her
return to town, or of any time when they
mi<2:ht ao-ain meet one another ? When once
this idea had obtained entrance into her mind

it grew, like the enchanted helmet in the
Castle of Otranto, till it gradually filled every
chamber of it. If she was right in her surmise,
if Mr. Argand was really contemplating
not only the relinquishment of his review, but
his leaving London — or, perhaps, England
itself — it was strange, indeed, that his sister,
at least, should not have written to her of
his intention. But, on the other hand. Miss
Argand — though she occasionally rebelled
against hin — was, on the whole, a loyal subject
to her brother, and, if he had enjoyed
silence upon her with respect to any subject,
would certainly keep it.

When we are young, balmy sleep is easily
wooed, and will endure much before she forsakes
us ; but Elizabeth Dart scarce closed
her eyes that night, so consumed she was
with vague alarms ; so importuned by the incessant
thought, 'What is Felix Argand's
trouble, and what can I do to help him ? '

In the morning, while they were still at
breakfast, Roofed Leyden was announced.

In any other case Miss Dart, who had a

high option of his judgment, would have
asked his opinion upon the matter that was
oppressing her ; but she justly considered
that Mr. Argand's affairs should not be discussed
with one who was a stranger to him.

There was something, too, in the antiquary's
manner of self-conscious importance
and ill concealed satisfaction that would of
itself have discouraged a confidence that
sought for sympathy. He accepted her
invitation to partake of their meal, though
she knew he had already breakfasted, and
was unusually vivacious and talkative. She
guessed, as she thought, the reason of the
exaltation of his spirits, and but yesterday
would have shared them. He was to undertake
that little matter of business for her
with Mr. Snuggg that morning, and was no
doubt elated with the prospect. The looks
he cast at her and then at the unconscious
Mrs. Richter were full of sly significance :
once when the widow thanked him for his
osier to show her the wonders of the castle.

he replied that it was only his ' duty to his
neighbour.'

We must not be too sure,' murmured
Miss Dart, gravely.

It was even in her mind to put an end
for the present to the negotiations at which
he hinted, altogether ; she had now no heart
for it ; it seemed an ungrateful and ungracious
elinor to be thinking of her own gratification
when misfortune, as she felt certain, was
dogging the heels of her good friend in town.
But Mr. Leyden only smiled at her warning
whisper : smiled and waked, and tapped his
breast pocket, which she then noticed for the
hast time had an unusual protrusion.

You don't mean to say you have done
it ? ' exclaimed Lizzie, surprised out of herself


Indeed, I do ; there is nothing; wanting;
to complete the bargain but your signature.
I was so frightened at what you said yesterday
about the cup and the lip, that I called on
Snuggg this morning, before office hours, and

settled everything. I've got it here,' and
again he tapped his pocket exultingly.

What is it Mr. Leyden has got for
you, my dear? ' inquired Aunt Jane, who was
dissecting a shrimp.

The antiquary threw a glance at Lizzie,
which seemed to say, ' Shall I tell her ? ' It
was a pleasure she had reserved for herself ;
but somehow the good news had lost its
savour. She very willingly left the pleasant
task to Mr. Leyden.

It is Battle Hill,' said the antiquary,
brimming over with his secret. ^ I had quite
a difficulty in getting it into my pocket ; but
here it is,' and he laid a bulky document
upon the table. Mrs. Richter looked at Lizzie
with apprehension. Though she liked Roger
Leyden very well, she had been from the first
a good deal afraid of him ; she had heard of
his doings with the stars, and his wanderings
on the Hill ; but it now struck her that he
was something more than eccentric — stark,
staring mad.

^ Mr. Leyden only means that I have

bought the Hill, Aunt Jane said Lizzie,

reassurinocly.

C V

'Bouo-ht the Hill? bought the Hill?'
murmured the little widow. She looked
towards the door this time, for she began to
think that her niece had also taken leave of
her senses.

Yes, I have bought it ; or as good as
bought it. I hope to build a little cottage
on it one day, for you and me to live in
together.'

It is impossible, Lizzie ; it is too good
to be true.'

Why should it not be true, Aunt Jane? '
answered her niece, caressingly. ' You areas
good as can be ; yet you are not too good
to be true. It has been yom experience
hitherto, I know, that nothing that is pleasant
can be meant for you. I hope, please God,
that life will henceforth have a brighter side
for you.'

A brighter side — to live here in this
lovely spot — and with you, Lizzie — it seems
like Heaven itself.'

It is also like Heaven, in being some
little way off at present,' said Lizzie, smiling.
It must be a long time before we begin to
build our nest.'

But you have made sure of the tree,'
said the antiquary, exultingly ; ' that is the
great point ; you have only to come across
the way and set your hand to this document
in the presence of witnesses, and Battle Hill
is yours. It must be a great satisfaction to
you, my dear Mrs. Richter, to possess a
niece who is a landed proprietor.'

She is everything she ought to be, I'm
sure,' said Aunt Jane, approvingly. ' Would
you mind, my dear Lizzie, if I left you for a
few minutes to have a look at it ? '

A look at what? '

The Hill ; I can see it from my bedroom
window, you know.'

The amazing news had been rather too
much for the little widow, and she yearned
for an opportunity of realising it alone. Her
intense happiness had communicated itself, in

sjDite of herself, to Lizzie, and for the moment
she forgot her trouble.

Did you ever see any one so delighted as
dear Aunt Jane, Mr. Leyden ? I wonder if
«o much pleasure was ever before purchased
for 400/. ? '

To be exact, for 350/.,' observed the
antiquary.

But I had undertaken to pay toland
'

Yes ; but that was before you knew the
Hill had been offered to Bolt, the grazier, for
350/. I represented to Mr. Snuggg that the effect
of that discovery upon your mind might be very
disadvantageous to him as a builder, if matters
were not arranged to your satisfaction.'

'My dear Mr. Leyden, how can I ever
repay you for your great kindness and all the
trouble '

Hush, hush I If ever there was a case
where the phrase 'the trouble is a pleasure"
had a literal application, it is this case ; but,
as a matter of fact, there is a fee attached to

my poor services. I have a little memorandum
here, but I will read the other document
first, to save time, at Mr. Snuggg's.'
With that the antiquary began to read the
deed in question, not without a certain enjoyment
of its quaint and old-world phraseology,
from the comparatively high-and-dry land
of ' This indenture witnesseth,' through the
morasses of iteration, ' heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns, and every of them
by these present and pursuant to and by force
and virtue, and in execution of the power or
powers, authority or authorities of, &c.,' into
yellowest fog.

You understand all this, I hope, my dear
Miss Dart ? ' said Roger Leyden, after an exceptionally
severe struggle with half a dozen
extinct but jaw-breaking synonyms.

Not one single word of it,^ was the
candid reply.

^ That is a pity, for it has a fine old smack
about it, and reminds one of black letter.'

It looks like black letter, too. Why, in
the name of common-sense, can't these things

be written so as to be read, and in lang:iiao;e
that is intelligible ? '

That is a question you must put to the
lawyers. Perhaps it would tend to make law
cheap; and there is nothing so dear, so the
lawyers say, as cheap law. Do you care to
hear the rest of it, or shall we take it as
read ? '

^ We will take it as read, by all means.'

Very good. And now there is the
memorandum I have jotted down, in which
you undertake, as possessor of Battle Hill, to
make over to my representatives — that is,
any one I choose to appoint in my place — or
to me, one half of such ancient treasure as
may be found there, or the value of it. It is
merely a matter of form.'

^ But since it is legible, and can be understand
of the people,' remarked Miss Dart,
pointing to the MS. in question, which her
companion kept folded in his hand, ' why
should I not see it ? I have read in books of
virtuous and trustful women signing away all
their property to designing wretches, without

having the least idea that they were doing
anything of the kind.'

Well, if you must, you must said the
antiquary, reluctantly.

But I do not see your name in the
document at all, Mr. Leyden ? '

Why, no ; I have left a blank to be filled
up at the last moment by my representative.'

Heirs and assigns ? ' suggested Miss Dart,
with the proud conscientiousness of newly
acquired learning.

Well, Mary is not exactly that, you see.'

Mary ? Do you mean Mary Melburn ? '

Well, of course I do. You don't suppose
I wanted all that money for myself ? ' (he
always spoke of the treasure as if it were ina
bank instead of a hill). ' Besides, I may be
dead a quarter of a century before you find
it; and Matthew will be dead, poor lad, for
certain. He will have what little I have to
leave him — unless, indeed, I am so unfortunate
as to survive him — and will therefore be
my heir. That is why I said representative ;

and I knew you would not be displeased to
find it was Mary.'

Of course not, my dear Mr. Ley den
assented Lizzie, tenderly. Though she knew
that it mattered absolutely nothing to any one
to whom the visionary property was assigned,
she was touched by the antiquary's precision
in a matter which to him had all the solidity
of fact. Many men have their hobbies, but
they ride them for their own ends. To keep
a hobby for some one else's advantage is a very
rare occurrence indeed. Miss Dart appreciated
it accordingly. She said, with her brightest
smile, ' Let us go across to Mr. Snuggg, and
make sure of •* our property." '

VOL. III. N

CHAPTER Xli.

'l HAVE DONE YOU WRONG.'

The signing and sealing by which Elizabeth
Dart was transferred into a landed proprietor
was performed with as little of ' the law's
delay ' as has probably ever entered into such a
proceeding ; it was a ready-money transaction,
and the vendor, as represented by Mr. Snuggg,
was as desirous for the completion of the contract
as the vendee. In twenty minutes the
antiquary and his young friend were back at
the Welcome. He parted from her at the door,
rightly imagining that she would prefer to
receive her relative's congratulations alone.
Aunt Jane was waiting for her in the parlour
with pale face and anxious eyes.

^ There has been no hitch, my dear,' cried
Lizzie, cheerfully, in answer to her troubled

looks ; ' the Hill is ours ; kiss me, while I am
still affable and not yet spoiled by my proud
position of being a lady of the land.'

Aunt Jane threw herself on her neck, and
burst into tears. ' I congratulate you a
thousand times, my darling, and with all my
heart. It ought to be the happiest day of my
life, I'm sure.'

And what oiighi to be, I beg you will
understand for the future z'.s,' replied Lizzie,
with severity. ' Alien people are poor, this
present sphere may not seem the best possible
of worlds to them ; but remember that you
and I have henceforth nothing in common
with such folk. AVe are a prosperous couple ;
and everything that is, is right. We cannot
imagine what there is to complain of ; we
acknowledge, with humility, that everything
is m accordance with the fitness of things ;
and you must allow me to add that all display
of emotion is out of place in the best circles.'

We are never out of the reach of misfortune,
Lizzie, while we have friends who are
within its grasp.'

•s 2

But, for the future, we must not know
unfortunate people, Aunt Jane ; we must

only know carriage people What is the

matter ? Good Heavens ! Has anything
happened ? ' cried Lizzie, dropping her bantering
tone, and gazing on her companion's face
with sudden alarm.

Mary has been here.'

'I see ; the contrast between your
pleasure and her trouble has vexed your
gentle heart. So far from envying our
happiness, she will share it. Did you tell
her ? '

Oh, no ; I left that for your sweet lips
my darling ; and besides, she called hereabout
another matter that concerns yourself.
She would have waited, but that Matthew is
not so well this morning ; or, perhaps, she
could not bear to see your little spell of sunshine
clouded. She brought this paper with
her, in which there is bad news.'

Poor Matthew ! The " Parthenon " ! Some
slating of his poems — of those which were not
published in its own columns, we may be

quite sure. I wish the critics would transfer

one half the praise they lavish on me to

him.

They sit at home and turn an easy wheel

That sets sharp racks at work to pinch and peel.

I do not care to read it.'

But it is not about Matthew ; it is about
Mr. Argand.'

Great Heavens I ' The colour rushed
from her face, and she seized the paper with
trembling hands, that contrasted strangely
indeed with her former indifference. ' Where
is it ? Where is it ? ' she cried, impatiently.

It is only a literary note ; but Matthew
thought it of sufficient importance to send
the paper on. It might, he said, be an exaggeration.'


Read it, read it,' murmured Lizzie,
hoarsely. Her eyes were blinded by fast-flowing
tears.

• We are sorry to say the reports that
have been floating in the air of literary circles,
for some time, concerning; the retirement of
Mr. Around from the management of the

Millennium " have assumed only too much
consistency. This Tviil be a great blow to
serial literature. The fact is to be regretted
on all accounts, but especially if, as we understand,
the misfortune is connected with
financial difficulties.'

Is it not bad news ? Such a kind goodman
as he is,' interrupted Mrs. Richter.
What is it you want, Lizzie ? '

She did not answer ; she had already got
the book in her hand that she was looking for.
It was a ' Bradshaw,' Which they had brought
down with them. She turned over the pages
of the guide with faltering fingers and that
eager haste which is ' half-sister to Delay.'
At last she found the place.

Aunt Jane, I am o^oino; back to town
at once,' she said decisively. ' But that
must not cut short your holiday. You can
either stop here, or stay with our friends at
the Look-out, who will be delighted to see
you. It is impossible to say how long I maybe
away, but I hope not long.'

And do you think I could stay here enjoying

myself, while you, as I know by your
dear face, are in trouble and misery ? ' cried
the little woman in a tone of tender remonstrance.


Why not ? ' answered the girl, bitterly.
What have I been dong these three days,
while my best friend has been drinking the
cup of bitterness to the dregs ? — full of
dreams of pleasure and prosperity, while he
has been surrounded with the rising tide of
ruin — a niggard, when I might perhaps have
helped him — ungrateful and unkind, a worthless
creature.' Her face was drawn and
haggard, her tone vehement and remorseful ;
she moved to the bell, and rang it violently.
^ Can I have a fly to go to the station ? '

^I am sorry to say, ma'am,' said the maid,
^ it has gone out.'

Xo matter, I can walk.'

^ I can walk too,' pleaded Aunt Jane.

Xo, my dear, no,' said Lizzie, falling at
once into her usual tone of tenderness. ' You
shall follow, if you really wish it, in the
afternoon ; you will do me a greater favour

by SO doing than by accompanying me, welcome
as your companionship always is. I
must go alone ; and, just now, I cannot bear
any questioning, even from the lips I love.
Say to my dear friends that I have pressing
business, literary business, in London. I
have not a moment to lose if I would catch
the express. Here is my purse — pay everything
; and when you come home to-night,
you will see your Lizzie, I trust, herself again.
I am so sorry, so very sorry, to cut short
your little holiday, my darling.'

One swift embrace, and she was gone.
Aunt Jane watched her from the window,
moving quickly down the narrow street, with
gaze set straight before her : a traveller with
a purpose.

If I did not know she was a genius, I
should say the dear girl was daft,' murmured
the little widow. ' I feel almost daft myself.
Think of being left all alone in an hotel, in a
private sitting-room, with a purse of gold in
my hand ! I feel like somebody in a parable.'

Li the meantime, Elizabeth Dart passed

on her way without looking right or left — nota
glance even did she cast on Battle Hill as
she went by it. The place, though it had
become her own, had not only no attraction
for her now, but had something repulsive
about it. She had spent money on it which
might have served a better purpose, and it
would be difficult to realise such a property,
even at a loss. It had been the foundation
for schemes of pleasure and ambition which
she had been weaving for herself, while the
man to whom she was indebted for all she had,
had been writing in a net of embarrassment.
She had not known it, indeed ; but she might
have guessed it. She did not blame Mr.
Argand for having withheld his confidence
from her, as he had tacitly reproached Iter for
doing. She set it down rightly to his unwillingness
to cause her pain ; bat the fact
that she had received the first news of his
misfortune from a paragraph in a newspaper
filled her with humiliation.

She reached the railway station without
the least consciousness of how she had arrived

there. She only knew she was in time to
catch the train ; the journey by rail was accomplished
in the same mechanical manner.
On reaching town, she took a cab and drove
at once to Harewood Square. It was some
little comfort to her that the house wore its
familiar look. If, as she reproached herself,
she had hitherto not been alive sufficiently to
the misfortunes that were pressing upon Felix
Argand, they now loomed large enough before
her mental vision, and she would hardly have
been astonished had she found his home untenanted,
and bills of sale in its windows.
Everything, however, wore the same appearance
as usual. It was with a beating heart
that Elizabeth Dart waited for the servant's
reply to the question whether his master was
at home. It was long past the usual hour
for his departure to his office, but perhaps
his occupation there was already gone, and
there was no need for him to leave his roof.
Quite a weight seemed taken from her
mind when the man replied, ' He is not at
home, Miss.'

Can I see Miss ArgancI ? ' was her next
inquiry.

If she had couched the question in the
same terms as before, she would doubtless
have received the same reply ; it was evident
by the servant's manner that he had received
orders to deny his mistress to all callers ; on
the other hand, he knew she was a friend of
the family.

^ I am not quite sure. Miss ; she is not
very well,' he hesitated.

Please to say that my business is important,
and very pressing.' After some interval
he returned, and ushered her into the drawing-room.
It was a pleasant apartment enough
as she remembered it, but in the morning it
had an artificial and untimely look. Already
the guests who had been wont to enliven it
were wanting ; where the murmur of pleasant
talk had been, and the ripple of laughter,
there was silence, and to Miss Dart's foreboding
spirit it seemed to have already lost
its atmosphere of home. The whole house,
like one over which the shadow of calamity

has fallen, was very still. Presently, a slow
and iinelastic step was heard upon the stairs,
and Miss Argand entered. She was dressed
as usual, and there was no outward sign of
woe ; she had even a smile upon her face as
she greeted her visitor, though it flitted away
in a second, like a sunday from a mirror,
leaving it cold and cheerless.

You have returned to town earlier than
you intended, have you not, Miss Dart ? ' she
inquired, in cold mechanical tones.

Yes — oh, yes ! but not so early as I
ought to have done. I ought never to have
left it.'

^Whvnot?'

Because, as I fear, you are in trouble.'

Who told you that? Not Felix? ' cried
Miss Argand, quickly, and darting a penetrating
glance at her companion.

Oh no ; your brother has told me nothing
or only what the world knows.'

You mean about his giving up the
Millennium " ? Yes, he has decided upon
doinir that. It will make, however, one is

pleased to know, no difference with your connection
with it. I congratulate you upon the
great success of '' The Usher " ; every one,
they tell me, is talking about it. It was a
great surprise to him to find you were the
author.'

Has my silence upon the subject forfeited
his friendship,. Miss Argand? ' cried Lizzie,
suddenly. ' AVhat have I done ? Great
Heavens! what have I done to be so treated?
When I was unknown and poor he was my
best and kindest friend, but now '

'Well, that is it,' interrupted Miss Argand.
Your positions are reversed, you see. You
are prosperous and will be rich, while he, my
brother Felix, is penniless and ruined.'

Her first words were uttered with studious
coldness, her last in a tone trembling with
emotion ; when she had done her face fell
forward on her hand and she sobbed like a
child.

Elizabeth Dart rose from her chair and fell
upon her knees beside her.

Miss Argand, dear Miss Argand, who

love and pity him so, have a little pity on me.
You say when he was prosperous and I Alas
poor that he was my friend, but that now our
positions are reversed. I take you at your
word : let me be his friend now ! There is
nothing, nothing in the world that I would
not do for him. All I have is his, and I am
here to offer it ; only tell me what I can do ! '

The vehemence and passion of her tone
were intense, yet her voice was distinct and
clear — the voice of a woman who, though she
may have lost her heart, still keeps her head.
Miss Argand looked at her with streaming
eyes, but with an expression not so much of
sorrow as of surprise and remorse.

I have done you wrong, Miss Dart,* she
murmured.

No matter what you have done, no matter
about me at all. Only tell me how I can help
him. How much does he owe? When has
he got to pay it? Will 500/. be of any service
to him?'

Miss Argand shook her head, and smiled
sadly but very tenderly.

^ You good, dear girl, but it is of no use.'

I can get more ; I am sure I can get
more ; only let me know exactly how lie
stands and how much he owes.'

He owes nothing. The company in
which he had put his all has been wound up.
The last call has been made, and he has paid
it with his last shilling. This house is sold
as it stands, and there is nothing in it we can
call our own. He leaves this day month for
Australia ; he has accepted, I believe, some
appointment in Melbourne ; but I do not
trouble him with questions.'

'But the ^'MiUennium"?'

The " Millennium " is his own for one
more issue, then the mortgage he raised upon
it for this unfortunate speculation will be
foreclosed.'

What is its amount ? '

Two thousand pounds.'

But the " Review " must be worth more
than that. His editorship has made a great
success of it.'

Just so ; when he has resigned I am told

it will be valueless, but the mortgagee is a
man of letters, Mr. Doris, whom you have met
here, who wishes to undertake it himself. I
think Felix might have got the money advanced
to him at one time, but he is very
proud, and would ask no help of au}^ man.'

Thank Heaven for that ! ' murmured
Elizabeth Dart.

You must never tell him that I told you
all this,' continued Miss Argand. ' It would
wound him to the quick ; but not worse,' she
added, with a sigh, ' than it wounds me.'

Why should it wound you to tell me
about him ? '

Because, though you cannot help him, I
am sure you would do if you could, and I have
never given you credit for such generosity.
On the contrary, I thought — but, as you say,
it is no matter what I thought. 1 picture to
myself all day my brother and his future ;
with all his talents I fear he is not one to
make his way in a new world ; his career is
closed, his ambition is quenched. He has
already. Heaven help him! the look of a

broken man. He will be home to lunch with
us, but you will be shocked to see him.'

I would not see him for the world,' was
Miss Dart's unexpected reply. ' That is, I
mean not like that.' She rose at once as if
in alarm lest he should return and find her.
'When will he not be here? when, that is,
can I see you alone to-day, my dear Miss
Argand ? '

Any time this evening. Felix dines out
to-night with his Melbourne friend, to conclude,
I understand, some final arrangements.'

Then I will look in at eight o'clock, if
you will not be very tired of me ? '

I shall not be that,' smiled Miss Argand,
sadly. ' The time is coming, and very shortly,
when I shall pine for the sight of an old friend
in vain. But you must not hide yourself
from Felix. If he knew that you were in
town, it would distress him beyond measure
to think you had avoided him.'

But he must not know I am in town —
until to-night, at all events. I must beg of
you to keep my visit a secret.'

VOL. III.

'As you please, my dear sighed Miss
Argand : ' good-bye, and God bless you ! '
She uttered the last words with fervent
earnestness, and, drawing her young companion
towards her, pressed her lips to her
forehead.

CHAPTER XLYL

RAISING THE WIND.

Miss Dart was well accustomed to make her
way about town alone, but she had never felt
so lonely as when she left ]mr. Argand's door.
A companion, indeed, in the sense of a protector,
she did not need. Even Aunt Jane
would, just now, have been superfluous, and
in her way ; but she stood in the utmost need
of an adviser ; and the only man who could
have helped her in her difficulties was the last
to whom she could apply. Nevertheless, she
was not without a scheme, which she had
thought out for herself in the railway train ;
and she put it into practice at once. In the
first place, she called m the New-road to
advise the landlady of her aunt's expected
return, and also to fetch certain papers of her
own, which she put away in a little hand-bag :



and then lie took a hansom to Paternoster-row.


She had visited it not many days before,
and upon a similar errand ; but to-day her
business was far more pressing and important.
She endeavoured to picture to herself in what
state she would return an hour or two hence.
Would success or failure have resulted from
her efforts ? Even if the latter should happen,
there would still be a hope, though a very
slender one, of obtaining her desire. The consciousness
of its existence, however — the knowledge
that there was yet a second line of defence
behind her should the first prove useless —
supported her wonderfully. She was naturally
of a sanguine disposition, and her experience
of life had strengthened it. Those who have
known trouble and disappointment are not so
easily depressed as those who find themselves
for the first time face to face with extremity.

It seemed to her of good augury, to begin
with, that Mr. Rose, whom she proposed to
visit, was at home. If he had been out of
town, as, considering the season, he well might

have been, half her hopes would have been
cut off at once ; for the success of her mission
was, she felt, dependent upon the
promptness of its issue. A week — perhaps a
day — Whence, his help, even if lie attained it,
might be valueless.

Mr. Rose was not among the princes of
the publishing trade ; but still less did he
belong to its pettifoggers. He had not been
long; enough established to be held in the first
rank of the Row ; but he had a long head, a
long purse, and plenty of pluck. If he was
not acknowledged by the great houses as a
rival, they had cause to regret his existence.
He was not very particular about the courtesies
of ' the trade,' and on two or three
occasions had lured a popular author from his
literary proprietor by the jingling of his
guineas. But he had never yet discovered a
writer of any standing for himself till he made
that offer of a thousand pounds to the unknown
author of ' The Usher.'

He had also, as we know, published
Matthew Meyrick's poems. The former of

these operations had been speculative. His
opinion of the novel was very high, and he
believed, in time, he should see his money
back. The latter had arisen from no hope of
gain. He had brought out the poems because
they were good poems, and would reflect
credit upon him as a publisher. He was no
money-grubber, though he liked to make
money ; he resented being reckoned with the
rank and file of his calling, and aspired to be
one of the Rulers of the Row. Still, he had
not been born in its purple, and had someways
that were by no means Royal ways.
He was not quite a gentleman, although he
had very narrowly missed being one. His
appearance was in his favour. Though of
small stature, he had a leonine head and handsome
features ; his hair was grey, and his
face almost colourless ; but his black eyes
were so large and brilliant, that their searching
glance, turned upon an author who had
received advances without advancing with his
MS., reminded him of the dark-lantern of a
policeman.

To see you again so soon is, indeed, an
unexpected pleasure. Miss Dart,' he said, as
she was ushered into his sanctum ; but those
who knew him best would have gathered that
his feelings were not quite so cordial as his
words. He had by no means lost faith in his
newly discovered genius, and was far from
repenting of his bargain with her ; but it
promised to be a less profitable one — thanks
to Mr. Argand's hint, * If I were the author
of " The Usher," I would sell it for five years,
and not for perpetuity ' — than he had proposed
to himself. When he first set eyes upon her,
it seemed to him that she was a client after his
own heart ; and he was surprised, and not a
little disappointed, to find her such a stickler
for her rights. It was ' not pretty of her,' or
what her youth and inexperience had led him
to expect, and it had put him out in his
calculations ; still, he had no mistrust of his
own judgment. He had read the whole novel,
and what he had heard of it upon all sides
had strengthened his opinion of its exceptional
merit. He was perfectly satisfied with his

bargain ; what he feared from Miss Dart's reappearance
was that she was not satisfied, and
had come to ask for more money. Of course,
there was no need to give it. The arrangement
had been ratified and was legally binding ;
but he was very disinclined to quarrel with a
writer who, to use a significant expression
peculiar to 'the Row,' had evidently a good
deal of meat on her bones. It may be thought
that it was not very chivalrous of Mr. Rose
to believe his fair client capable of putting-pressure
upon him in such a matter, and so
soon ; but his experience of female authors
was that they were not much swayed by delicate
scruples in these arrangements, and that
within twelve hours of the conclusion of a
literary bargain they always regretted it, and
thought they ought to have got better terms.
Advisers are rarely wanting to them who
believe in their transcendent genius to any
extent (short of investing in it), and in the
universal placability of publishers.

The first words of his visitor were very far
from removing his apprehensions upon this

point, though they were uttered in a very-gentle
and modest voice, and not at all in that
tone of grievance, or of even righteous indignation,
in which such applications were usually
made.

I am come to you upon a matter which
to me is of ver'' great importance, Mr. Rose.
I wish, if possible, to obtain a very considerable
sum of money at once ? '

Mr. Rose smiled and raised his eyebrows.:
It is not an uncommon case, my dear
madam,' he replied, drily. 'Everybody wants
money, and most of us immediately. In fact,
it has been observed that there is no one upon
the earth's surface, however wealthy, to whom
a thousand pounds wouldn't be acceptable,
and that even the richest people are often hard
up for ready money.'

I am even more greedy than the millionaire
of whom you speak,' was Miss Dart's
quiet reply ' for I want two thousand pounds
in bank-notes.'

Really ! ' It was only a word, but it
seemed weighted with the stolid indifference

of a whole tribe of North American Indians.
The speaker looked wistfully at the unfinished
letter, which he had pushed away from him
on the desk at her entrance into the room, and
then at the clock that stood upon his mantelpiece.
^ These aspirations his face seemed to
say, ' would be interesting, if I had time to
consider them, on account of their abnormal
size ; but my time is valuable, and they have
no personal relation to myself

If you cannot help me yourself, Mr.
Rose,' continued Miss Dart, with a tinge of
colour in her anxious face, ' you will not at
least, I hope, refuse me the benefit of your
advice, inter circumstances which you will
understand as well as any man, and infinitely
better than any one else to whom I could
apply. I have another novel here ' — she produced
a large manuscript from her bag — ' not,
indeed, written, but sketched in skeleton
fashion from beginning to end. I believe it
in many ways to be superior to " The Usher " ;
it is, at all events, the result of a larger experience.
I will not take up your time with

it, if you think that its realisation of the sum
I mention is out of the question, as far as you
are concerned. I could leave it with you for
two hours, but not more, as, in case of refusal,
it would be but so much lost time ; and it is
absolutely necessary for me to procure the
money before the banks close.'

Mr. Rose — who had pricked up his ears,
^ like a horse that hears the corn-bin open,' at
the words ^ another novel ' — laid them down
again at this reference to the bank. He shook
his head, and observed, curtly, ' It is quite out
of the question, Miss Dart ; I have gone to
the end of my tether with you already.'

Very good : it is kind of you, at least,
not to delude me with false hopes. Please to
consider yourself no longer as the possible
publisher of the novel, but as my friend and
adviser as to its disposal. Here are three
letters I received yesterday. This one is from
Messrs. Blank and Asterisk, your next-door
neighbours.'

Mr. Rose took the letter, with a smile that
was intended to express a polite interest ; but

its effect Alas grim. Messrs. Blank and
Asterisk were his neighbours — even as Miss
Dart had said, his next neighbours — but he
could scarcely be said to love them as himself.
He had lately had a dispute with them over
the body of an author — a question of certain
copyrights he had left behind him — ;end they
had worsted him. He did not like that expression
' unhappily ' in their communication :
Unhappily, " The Usher " has been disposed
of.' They knew it was disposed of well
enough, and to him ; and it was great impertinence
of them to use that word. Still less
did he like the phrase, ' on still more favourable
terms.' It was a vairue but no less
nefarious attempt to decoy his author away
from him — to rob him of his one laurel, his
first genius.

If Messrs. Blank and Asterisk will sign
you two thousand pounds for that — that
skeleton ' — he exclaimed, bitterly, ^ I should
certainly recommend you to accept their offer.'

And you will even go the length of

wishing them joy of their bargain,' said Miss
Dart, smiling.

Well, I did not say so ; but if I must
say the honest truth, I think it would be a
ridiculously lavish offer.'

^ No doubt, as the matter stands ; but
here are two applications for the same work
one from a magazine, the other from a
syndicate of newspapers, which may require
the serial rights. Xow, would not Messrs.
Blank and Asterisk take one of these offers
into account, and, by the purchase of all
rights at once, recoup themselves for a portion
of their outlay ? '

No doubt they would, if only the novel
were finished ; though, even in that case, it
would show considerably more spirit than
they are generally credited with. The fact
is, my dear young lady,' added Mr. Rose, in
gentler tones, ' there is a risk in the matter
which one has a delicacy in mentioning to
you ; but, though your novel may be a
masterpiece, when you have clothed your

skeleton, as you call it, it may never be
clothed at all

^ You mean that I may die in the meantime.'


Mr. Rose nodded. ^ Such accidents do
happen, even to the healthiest and youngest
of us. The works of our great authors live
for ever,' here he bowed, perhaps to point a
complimentary allusion to ^ The Usher';
^ but the authors themselves inherit the common
lot. Now, where should I be, financial
speaking, my dear Madam, if I gave 2,000^.
for these dry bones, and anything should
happen to you before you breathed life into
them? '

You are left out of the question altogether,
you know,' observed Miss Dart,
quietly ; ' we were talking of Messrs. Blank
and Asterisk. Now, what I thought of
proposing to them was to insure my life for
this money, and to place the policy in their
hands till I gave them the complete MS. in
exchange for it.' .

An uncommonly good idea, Miss Dart

exclaimed Mr. Rose, approvingly. ' Make
over '• The Usher" in perpetuity, instead of
giving only a five-years right in it, and the
sum you require for your next book shall be
yours.'

But Messrs. Blank and Asterisk have
not got '' The Usher," ' returned Miss Dart,
with an innocent air.

Neither have they got two thousand
pounds at call on their banker's hands,'
replied Mr. Rose, audaciously. ^ Xow, I
should just give you a cheque for the money,
and you could get it changed in Fleet-street
in eye minutes. Only think, too, what a
disadvantage it would be for you to be offering
your wares from publisher to publisher
instead of sticking to a respectable house like
mine, which you have been connected with
from the first. There is nothing, to my
mind, more unpleasant — as a matter of feeling
than disloyalty of this kind. If you'll
allow me, I'll just get down the heads of our
little agreement for your signature.'

There must be nothing about " The

Usher" in it, Mr. Eose/ said Miss Dart,
decisively. ' The advice that was given me
with respect to the disposal of that novel,
I am bound to respect ; but as to this other,
I will sign anything you please.'

For the next ten minutes Mr. Rose said
nothing, but employed with diligence a
practised pen. Then he suddenly turned
round with, ' After all, by Jove ! there is a
risk. I take for granted that you will insure
your life as soon as the thing can be done ;
but suppose anything should happen to you
before ? '

I'll be very careful,' said Miss Dart,
humbly. ' I'll look on both sides of the
crossings.'

Crossings ! you must not put your foot
to the ground.'

Very good ; and I will always choose
the safest of patent safety hansoms.'

Heavens ! you must not dream of getting
into a hansom ; you must always take a four-wheeled
cab.'

It is very hot weather for four-wheelers ;
but you shall be obeyed, Mr. Rose.'

And there is one tiling, though it's
scarcely worth while to mention it, there
must be no longer any concealment of your
real name.'

Oh ! mr. Rose, I had so much rather
not,' pleaded Miss Dart.

You have promised me you will agree
to anything I please in this matter,' lie
answered, coldly, ' and that is one of my
stipulations. The mystery that has hitherto
been maintained about you has been very
useful ; but the time has now come for
putting an end to it. When the world hears
that the author of " The Usher " and of those
admirable essays is a lady, it will have something
to talk about, or I'm much mistaken.'

^ But I don't want to be talked about,
Mr. Rose.'

That is only because you don't know
what's good for you. To be talked about, in
the case of an author, is to be read ; to be
read, is to be bought ; and to be bought,'

VOL. III. p

concluded the publisher, with the air of one
in search of a climax, ' well — to be bought, is
the laurel crown of literature.'

Yet Milton's " Paradise Lost" was sold,
it is said, for fifteen pounds,' said Miss Dart,
smiling.

And a deuced lucky fellow he was to get
it. I should like to see Messrs. Blank and
Asterisk giving fifteen pounds for " Paradise
Lost," or even bringing it out at half profits.
There's your cheque, Miss Dart, I will get it
changed at the bank for you myself, and then
see you safely into your cab, for both our
sakes,'

CHAPTER Xliii.

AX Explanation.

Mr. Rose, to do him justice, whether a matter
Twas great or small, was always as good as his
word. He accompanied Miss Dart to the
bank, and drew for her forty notes of fifty
each — an ' operation ' which would otherwise
have embarrassed her not a little. On the
way thither he talked of other things, and
among them of the impending change in the
^ Millennium ' announced by the ' Parthenon.'

Why Mr. Argand should have given it
up,' he said, ' passes my comprehension.'

But I am afraid — at least, so the paper
said,' put in Miss Dart, hastily, ' it is not a
question of choice.'

He parts with the proprietorship, no
doubt, upon compulsion,' observed Mr. Rose,

p 2

^ and precious hard up lie must be to doit,
considering it is his own offspring, and
such a promising child ; but whoever has
bought it is, in my opinion, a fool not to
have secured Argand's services as editor,
at any price. It is like buying a racehorse
Without securing the only jockey who can
ride him.'

Unpleasant as was the conversation to
Miss Dart, she did not shrink from pursuing
it. It struck her that from one so sagacious
and conversant with affairs as her companion
she might learn something that might be of
advantage to Mr. Argand.

The gentleman who has bought it '

she began.

Bought it? ' broke in the publisher, with
eager interest. ' Then, it is absolutely disposed
of, is it ? '

^ Well, no ; ' she hesitated, for she felt that
she had no right to speak of the mortgage,
^ it has not actually changed hands.'

Now, look here. Miss Dart, we have done
some business together which has been

mutually satisfactory, I hope ; now, perhaps,
you can do me a good turn. Mr. Argand, as
everybody knows, is uncommonly sweet upon
you — I mean, of course, as an authoress,' he
hastily added, for poor Miss Dart had turned
scarlet, ^ Any word from you will have his
ear. Just you tell him that there is a person
of your acquaintance who will give him, if he
will still continue to edit it — upon terms, of
course, to be agreed upon — a good round sum
for the "Millennium." '

^ How much? ' inquired Miss Dart, meekly,
Well, upon my word, young lady, that's
coming to the point indeed. I can't say the
sum without looking into the books ; but I'll
give him four years' purchase for it. Only,
that must buy him too. If he's a wise man,
and things are as bad as they are said to be
with him, he'll just go through the Bankruptcy
Court, and start again as fresh as a two-year-old.'


Here they reached the bank, where Mr.
Rose transferred the sum agreed upon to
Miss Dart, with many injunctions as to its

safe custody. As lie helped her into the cab
he noticed that her limbs trembled.

You must not be nervous he whispered
slily, ' you are not like a railway truck,
ticketed with the amount you carry. Besides,
it is I who ought to be nervous. Be very,
very careful of your precious life, for if anything
should happen to you I should never
forgive myself.'

As Mr. Rose took off his hat with an
encouraging smile, Miss Dart felt that she
,was parting from a friend 5 if he was somewhat
too wise in his generation to be numbered
among the children of light, he had
nevertheless something in common with
them.

Lizzie drove straight home to the New
Road to deposit her treasure in safety, and
there, not a little to her relief, she found
Aunt Jane. The sense of responsibility while
action lay before her, she could bear ; but
now all was done that could be done, and, as
she hoped, for the best, she felt the burden of
it almost too much for her strength. With

another, it is true, it could not be shared;
but the consciousness of having a friend with
her, and not being absolutely alone in that
time of trouble and uncertainty, relieved her
wonderfully.

How good of you it was to come by so
early a tram ! ' she exclaimed, as she embraced
the little widow. * I thought it was arranged
that you were to wait for the afternoon
express ? '

How could I wait, my darling,' was the
affectionate reply, ' when it was possible to
meet you earlier? You may be sure it was
no pleasure to me to stay at Casterton with
the knowledge that you were alone — and —
and in trouble, in London.'

But you wished good-bye to our dear
friends at the Look-out, and explained to
them why it was absolutely necessary I should
have come away ? '

^I did my best, my dear,' returned the
widow, simply ; ' but I am not good at explanation,
and especially when I don't understand
the thing myself. Mary, however, is

SO clever, that that didn't signify. She comprehended
the whole matter at once, and said
she would have done just the same had she
been in your place.'

Here Aunt Jane stole a half-frightened
look at her niece, who, however, was looking
out of the window, with a thoughtful and
preoccupied face. ' Dear Mary ! ' in tenderest
accents, was all that she murmured in reply.
Presently she inquired, after a long silence,
Did you tell them about Battle Hill ? '

I did not mean to do so ; but Mr. Leyden
came in, and took it for granted that they
knew it. If you had only seen their delight
at the news, my darling ! I do not believe,
if the place had become their own, that it
could have given them greater pleasure.'

'Alas, Aunt Jane, I have bad news for
them, and for you ! It must be years before
we go to live at Caster ton, if we ever do at
all. I am so very, very sorry to have raised
your hopes only to destroy them.'

It is of no sort of consequence, my
darling, so far as I am concerned ; if we are

content, we are happy ; and I am always
content with you — not, of course,' added
Aunt Jane, hastily, ' that I am so foolish or
so selfish as to imagine that I can always
be with you.'

There is only one thing that shall ever
part us,' said Lizzie, quietly, ' and that is
death.'

You must not say that — you must not
say that I ' put in Aunt Jane, with a little
sob. ' When I said I am content to be with
you, I should have added that I should also
be content, wherever I was, if I were assured
you were happy.'

You dear old thing I ' whispered Lizzie,
caressing her. ' It is just like you to say so ;
but it is also, I hope, like me to be as good
as my word.'

Aunt and niece sat together at the open
window — for the afternoon was extremely
hot — exchanging only now and then a word
with one another, but each busy with her own
thoughts, until it was dinner time.

I am going out this evening for an hour

or SO,' said Lizzie ; ' but 1 shall not be
far flaunt

Jane understood at once that she
was going to Harewood Square ; doubtless,
too, she guessed that she had already been
there ; but not a single question did she
put upon the matter. She had not many-gifts,
but she had that golden one of silence,
which, in some circumstances, outweighs all
others.

She did not even offer her escort when
Lizzie rose to put on her bonnet, though her
eyes anxiously watched the cab along the
street, until it disappeared at the turning into
the square.

Miss Argand was at home and alone, as
she had promised to be ; and though her face
was weary and sad, it brightened up a little
at the sight of her visitor.

Let us come into the back drawing-room,'
she said, ' it is cooler there.' It was also
darker, and there were traces of recent tears
upon the poor lady's cheeks, which she was
unwilling should be seen. The heat had

increased ; every door and window in the two
rooms was open ; there was hardly a breath
of air.

^ I think we shall have thunder, presently,'
she said, wearily ; though, in truth, she cared
nothing whether it thundered or not.

Has anything happened since I saw you,
my dear Miss Argand? Any change, I mean,
in your brother's affairs ? '

None whatever, dear ; we are only a
little nearer the edge of the precipice, that is
all. AVhat makes me so wretched is that I
cannot convince Felix that this trouble affects
me on his account, and hardly on my own
at all. He reproaches himself with having
ruined Die ; whereas I had nothing to lose.
It is his own little fortune that has gone,
which he had a perfect right to spend m
any way he chose, only the way he chose
has been so unlucky.'

Supposing the mortgage of 2,000/. on
the " Millennium " to be paid off, he would,
still, as I understand, have that in his possession,
would he not ? '

I suppose so. But what is the good of
supposing, my dear ? '

Still, there is no harm in it,' said Lizzie,
smiling. ' Even Euclid, who is not an
imaginative writer, admits that much : " Let
it be granted," he says.'

^ Miss Dart, dear Miss Dart,' interrupted
Miss Argand, with agitation, ' you would
never play with my feelings, I know. You
have some good news for us.'

I have got 2,000/., at all events,' and
with that she produced a little parcel from
her hand-bag and laid it on the table.

Great heavens ! what a wretch I have
been,' said Miss Argand, bitterly. ' I am a
very wicked woman ! '

Lizzie stared, as well she might.

'Go on, my dear, don't mind what I am
saying. Who has obtained this money, and
under what conditions? Everything will
depend on that.'

There are no conditions. It is my own
money : now it is your brother's,' and she
pushed the parcel to her across the table.

Your money ! ' cried Miss Argand.
^ Alas ! then it is of no use ; he will never,
never take it. And it is I, fool that I
am, who have prevented it. Listen to me,
you dear good girl, and forgive me, if you
can.'

Xevertheless, for a moment or two she
did not speak ; but, like one who is contending
with acute physical pain, pressed her open
hands against her face, and rocked herself to
and fro.

Felix and I have lived together all our
lives,' she began. ' At first, when we were
both left orphans, and he was very young, I
believe I did my best as an elder sister by
him. I would have done more, if I could, for
he was and is dearer to me than ail the world
beside ; what I did do was not much — yet he
has never forgotten it. After a few years, our
positions became reversed ; and since then he
has been my protector and the provider of all
my needs. My influence over him has. however,
never ceased. If I had exerted it wisely,
he would this day be the happiest of men ;

but my selfishness and want of sympathy
have ruined him.'

You do yourself wrong, Miss Argand
said Lizzie, in grave but tender tones. ' Whatever
may have been wanting in you, it was
not want of sympathy ; and whatever mistake
you may have committed, it was, as you
thought, for his benefit

Miss Argand shook her head. endear
; I had sympathy with his work, sympathy
even with his ambition ; but where the
true happiness of his heart was concerned, I
had none ; his dearest wishes were counter to
my own, and, therefore, I opposed them. I
tried to persuade myself that I was acting for
his good, I know now that I was doing it for
my own gratification ; my motive was not
love, but jealousy'

Here the thunder began to peal, though
from a cloudless sky, and the speaker paused,
as though to listen to it. The two women sat
together for a little in silence, each looking
before her thoughtfully, but with eyes averted
from the other. There was no occasion for

either to read the other's face ; for the very
thought of her companion's heart was known
to her.

When he first spoke to me of your writings,
Lizzie continued Miss Argand, ' I felt
almost as interested in you as he did himself ;
I had a genuine admiration for your genius ;
I looked forward with pleasure to carrying
out his wish that I should be of friendly
service to you. Until I saw you, I forget
now what sort of a picture I had made of
you in my mind ; but it was something very
unlike yourself. When I beheld you, young
and beautiful, and called to mind the terms
in which my brother had spoken of the qualities
of your mind, I feared, and justly, the
effect you would produce upon him. I called
upon you with the kindest intentions, and
you did nothing to alter them, yet when I
left your presence it was as a rival and as
an enemy. I even persuaded myself that you
were an adventuress, from whose charms it
behoved me to guard my brother by all
means in my power. You may have noticed,

perhaps, low coldly I received you ; how
rarely I invited you to our house ; and how
few were the opportunities I gave you of
being alone with Felix. In the end, I should
have failed, of course ; but if I had assisted
him, as I should have done from the beginning,
all would yet have gone well.' Lizzie
was about to speak, but her companion
stopped her. ^ I want no confession from
your lips, my dear ; nothing that you could
say could alter my convictions as to the
feelings you entertained for Felix. The
eyes of Jealousy are even keener than those
of Love ; and it is for me to confess, and
not for you. I say that in those early days,
but for my secret opposition and selfish conduct,
two hearts would have been made
happy ; and all that I could do to hinder
it would have been useless long before this,
but for the change that took place in my
brother's means. It may seem incredible
to you, but at first our common misfortune
was welcome to me — because, from what I
knew of him, I knew it would prevent him

declaring his love. Thanks to me, while he
was prosperous he delayed to do so ; and
now that he is in adversity his lips are sealed
for ever. Even if you had been twice as poor as
once you were, he would not ask you to share
this ruin ; but, being prosperous and famous,
and ^dth a fortune before you, it is out of the
question that he should think of you otherwise
than as something beyond his reach, and
lost to liiLQ for ever. It is I that have done
it ! It is I that have wrecked his life ! Oh I
Lizzie, Lizzie, forgive me ! '

I have nothing' to foro-ive, Miss Arofand/
said Lizzie, gently. ' I do not wonder that
you were unwilling that Felix Argand should
throw himself away upon a girl like me.'

'Like you? There is none like you! I
know it now, too late, too late ! He will
never take that money from your hands,
never, never ! '

It is in my hands no longer,' was the
quiet reply. ' Xor need he know that it
has ever been in them. Hush I I heard the
front door close.'

VOL. III. Q

No. It was the thunder. Felix will
not be home for hours. He comes home
late. He walks about the streets to tire
himself out, to get the sleep that anxiety
denies him. From whom could we persuade
him that this money comes, unless
from you ? Who is there but yourself who
would be so generous ? '

There is no generosity about it. There
are many persons — Mr. Rose, the publisher,
for one — who would advance the sum, and
more, upon the security of the "Millennium," if
only Mr. Argand would consent to remain its
editor. He has been too hasty in this matter,
and too hopeless, and too doubtful of his great
gifts and reputation.'

I believe that is true,' murmured the
other.

Let him take it, then, froui Mr. Rose, if
he is too proud to take it from me. There
will be no obligation on his side, you may
assure him ; it is only I who will be the loser.
I had promised myself a great pleasure ; but
that is over' (her voice broke down). 'I
think I will go home.'

She rose, but paused, with a frightened
look on her face ; and, following the direction
of her eyes. Miss Argand beheld a form
standing in the doorway between the two
rooms.

It is Felix ! ' she cried out.

^ Yes, it is I,' he answered, in a hoarse
voice. ' I did not know that any one was here ;
I have heard something that was not meant
for my ears. Miss Dart '

^ Call her Lizzie ! Call her Lizzie ! She
loves you, Felix ! ' exclaimed Miss Argand,
wildly.

It mattered not what he called her ; for
Lizzie, overcome with emotion, and fatigue,
and terror, had fallen forward m a dead faint,
and he had but just time to catch her in his
arms.

CHAPTER Xlvii

TELLING THE NEWS.

Whatever cause Miss Argand had to reproach
herself for what she had done of
malice prepense m separating two fond hearts,
she had, in the impulse of the moment, made
amends for it. When a gentleman has been
informed that the object of his affection loves
him, and finds her in his arms, all explanation
becomes mere surplusage. The fact of her
being in a dead faint by no means detracts
from the satisfactoriness of the situation. He
lingers (in a manner that would never be permitted
at sea) over the operation of ' bringing
her to,' and the less adroit he is at it, the
more cause he has to congratulate himself.
Ashen she comes to herself, he is pretty confident
that she will come to him ; and so, in

fact, it turned out iii the present case. When
the next flash of liofhtnmo; searched the room
in its STvift but comprehensive fashion, it
found the editor and his contributor sitting
hand in-hand alone tog-ether — Miss Around
having very judiciously Withdrawn herself
directly there was no further need of
her services — in the apparent enjoyment of
an entire mutual understanding. Nevertheless,
there were certain details to be inquired
into. A^'hat was that great pleasure, for example,
Felix had accidentally heard his Lizzie
say that she had promised herself, but which
was denied to her, as it appeared, through
some fault of his ? And what was he to
take from Mr. Rose which he was too proud
to take from her ?

It was only a little parcel, which Miss
Argand had got in her possession,' she replied.

Some MS., I suppose,' he said, not indifferently
— very far from indifferently — but
without the slightest interest in the question ;
he had put it, in fact, only with the object
of hearing her talk, as we give sugar to a
canary to make it sing.

Not Ms,' she said, ' print — or rather,
engravings.'

A little present he murmured, ' no
doubt, to smooth the way. I have just
found a communication from Mr. Rose upon
my study table which may have a considerable
influence upon my unhappy fortunes,
and which, indeed, has emboldened me to
declare what, however great had been the
temptation, it would otherwise have behoved
me to conceal. Dear Lizzie, I am no longer
a penniless man, and have even a prospect
before me, such as I had not an hour ago, of
at least a competent income. Mr. Rose has
offered to purchase the " Millennium " on very
liberal terms, and to retain me as its editor at
a handsome salary.'

He has lost no time in that little transaction,'
thought Lizzie to herself, with a
secret smile ; but what she said was, ' That
is very nice.'

^ Even as matters stand, however, and
though I were less unworthy of you in all
other ways, I am a very, very bad match
for you, my dear girl.'

Indeed ! ' remarked Lizzie, and never was
that lukewarm word more charmingly expressed
; it was a really exquisite combination
of interest and scepticism, and seemed to
invite any amount of information of the same
amazing and incredible nature.

Still,' continued Mr. Argand, modestly,
I am not the pauper 1 thought I was ; or,
I should rather say, that as a literary commodity
(though infinitely less valuable than a
popular author like Mr. John Javelin) I fetch
more in the market than I ever ventured to
suspect.'

• You are placed, in fact, in the same
position as you were before, except that you
have exchanged morto-ao^ees ? '

Yell, not exactly, my darling,' sighed
Mr. Argand ; • you don't quite understand
the matter.'

I think I do, sir. The idea of you contradicting
me at such a very early stage as
this ! '

Indeed, my dear Lizzie, I only wish you
were right ; but the fact is, I shall exchange,

not mortgagees, but the position of a proprietor
for that of an editor. My poor " Millennium
" will pass out of my possession, though
not out of my hands, for good and all.'

But if you were to pay off the present
mortgage, would not that be better than
selling ? '

Why, of course, it would ; only unfortunately
I have not got the money. To be
sure, I might have borrowed it, but I have
been so troubled and worried by other things
that I did not think of that plan in time.'

If you could, however, effect such an
arrangement with any one, you would — supposing
the 'millennium" kept its value — be
under no obligation to him? '

None whatever, since I should, of course,
pay a good rate of interest for the advance.'

Very good ; then behold your new mortgagee.
Here is the money with which to pay
off the old one.'

The money! You must be mad, Lizzie.
I am a little out of my mind myself; but then
I have something to be mad about : there is

rolling to set your fine brain in a ferment
with happiness. That you are a fortune tome
I am well convinced ; you may be even
worth a great deal to the publishers ; but
that even '* The Usher " should have produced
you 2,000/. I must really decline to believe.'

It seems to me that you are very rude,
Felix ; and again I say it is very early to be
rude,' said Lizzie, with the most delicious
little pout. ' What right have you to underestimate
the worth of my novel, Sir ? Ashen
you thought it was somebody else's you
praised it enough ; but that was because
you had got it for your own magazine, I
suppose.'

Oh, dear, dear! here is a Termagant! '

^ And there is a sceptic. I don't believe
your name is Felix : 1 believe it's Thomas.
Perhaps you will open that parcel and count
those notes.'

Oh, Lizzie ! is it really true ? What
pains and trouble have you not undergone for
my sake ! You must have moved heaven and
earth to get all this money.'

I did move a publisher admitted Lizzie,
ruefully. ' However, there it is.'

And do you really suppose that I am
going to take it? '

That depends upon whether you are
going to take me — which I understood was
your intention. If not, and you leave me
to wear the willow, then, even as a deserted
mortgagee, I have your own word for it that I
shall put you under no obligation.'

What have I done to deserve such a
woman as this?' murmured Felix Argand.

Heaps of misdemeanours. In the first
place, you lost your temper because I did not
choose you to know that I had written a
novel.'

Lizzie, I see it all now ; you concealed its
authorship in order — since you had heard that
I was in difficulties — to let the 'millennium"
have it at a cheap rate. You are certainly the
most self-sacrificing; of mortals.'

That is not Mr. Kose's view of my character,
I do assure you.'

Never mind Mr. Kose just now, my pet.

tiny darling! ' murmured Felix, caressingly.
How shall I find a name endearing enouo-li

O 7

and which has not been spoilt by ignoble use,
by which to call you? '

Call me your mortgagee suggested
Lizzie, laughing;. ' That will have the merit
both of truth and originality. I don't suppose
any one ever fell in love with his mortgagee
before. Seriously, my dear Felix, I shall not
feel free to be happy with you till you have got
rid of all your embarrassments.'

I don't care twopence for my embarrassments,'
said Felix, snapping his fingers. The
observation was philosophic enough ; but the
speaker had anything but the appearance of a
philosopher. He looked so bright and gay
that he might have been the editor of ' Punch '
rather than of the ' Millennium.' He had suddenly
grown ten years younger.

It is fortunate that one of us, at least, hasa
turn for practical matters,' remarked Lizzie,
with great gravity.

But not when we are alone together for the
first time, like this,' pleaded her lover, tenderly.

It would only be charitable to remember
that your sister is also alone,' observed Lizzie
not, however, immediately ; there was an
interval allowed for refreshment.' ' I should
never forgive myself if I caused you to neglect
her.'

You will never cause me to do anything
but what is kind and affectionate,' murmured
Felix, more tenderly than ever.

^ Yes ; but I don't mean what is affectionate
to me Sir How terribly it

thunders ! '

I hear only your sweet voice. Joanna
likes nothing so much as listening to thunder
• — quite alone.'

By way of comment to this audacious
speech, there was here a most demonstrative
rattle at the outer door, followed by a warning
cough, a rustling of silk, and then the appearance
of Miss Argand herself. ' I am very
sorry,' said she, 'to interrupt any conversation
upon private business — but the fact is, I dare
not stay by myself any longer. I thought that
last clap would have split the house ! '

What docs it signify ? ' exclaimed Felix,
peevishly. ' We have only got it for five weeks
more.'

He is quite irrational, and not all accountable
for what he says. Miss Argand,' explained
Lizzie, apologetically.

And I don't at all wonder at it ; only,
you must never again call me Miss Argand,
my dear.' She held out her arms, and Lizzie
flew into them. 'Has he forgiven me, my
darling, as you have ? ' she whispered.

He has no remembrance of anything but
your love and devotion to him,' was the confident
reply.

The tears came into Joanna's eyes.

Felix, dear Felix, I congratulate you withall
my heart ! '

The brother and sister embraced tenderly,

and then ' What are you about, Felix ? '

remonstrated Joanna. ' You have no right to
be congratulating; her J

^ Yes, I have — on having found a sister,'
explained Felix.

He may be irrational, but he retains his

presence of mind,' remarked Joanna, amid
great laughter.

It is probable that three such happy people
were not to be found that night in District W.

By some mistake — which, as it turned out,
was a fortunate one — the gentleman from Melbourne
had not kept his appointment ; so that
Mr. Argand had entered into no compact with
him. The happy pair talked of their future,
which circumstances had so brightly altered ;
and the hours vanished on golden wings.
Suddenly, Lizzie started up with a remorseful
cry. ' I have quite forgotten dear Aunt
Jane ! ' she exclaimed. ' How frightened she
will be at my being so late ! '

They tried to comfort her, though not to
stop her ; for it was evident that she was
much distressed. ' If I have given her a moment's
pain,' she cried, ' I am the wickedest of
women ! '

But it's wicked of you to want to leave
me ! ' urged the enamoured one.

^ Lizzie is quite right,' said Joanna. ' She
will not make the worse wife to you, Felix,

because, even when you are by lier side, she
thinks of one to whom she owes both love and
duty.'

Nor will he make the worse husband,
Joanna, because he does, and will always do,
the like,' said Lizzie, quickly.

That was very prettily said, my dear ;
but how sharp you are already at defending
him I I thought you had cut my nose off.
Xow, I shouldn't wonder if Felix saw you
home.'

Felix did see her home. As she had expected,
the lights showed through the windows
of the sitting-room — a proof that her
aunt was keeping vigil for her. ^ Will you
not come up, Felix? ' she said, hesitatingly, as
they stood at the door. He did not think it
necessary to reply in words. She led the way,
a few steps before him, lest Aunt Jane, expectant
of callers, should have laid aside her
cap, without which mortal man had not beheld
her for twenty years.

I hope I have not frightened you. Aunt
Jane, by beg so late ? '

Not the least in the world returned that
lady, with a quiet smile.

You will be surprised to hear that I have
brought you a gentleman visitor.'

^ I am not at all surprised, my dear was
the unexpected rejoinder. And the next moment
Mr. Argand and the little widow were
shaking hands together as though they would
shake each other's arms off. Independently of
the tears that stood in her kind eyes, it was
easy to see that she thoroughly comprehended
the whole situation.

And how did you ever come to guess
our secret? ' asked Lizzie, after her aunt had
tenderly embraced and congratulated her.

I did not guess it, my dear. I am too old
and too stupid ; but a little bird informed me
of it this morning.'

^ But we didn't know it ourselves until
this evening.'

Yes, you did ; only you hadn't told it to
one another. When that horrid paragraph in
the " Parthenon" made youjumpup and run off
to the railway— for she walked every step of

the way, Mr. Argand — I said to myself, this
is friendship indeed ! But when I told Mary
what had happened, she had a much better explanation
to oflPer. She is in love herself, you
see — though, poor dear, she will never wear
the orange-flower — and jumped at once to the
right conclusion. '* You may be quite certain,"
she said, " that Lizzie is in love with Mr.
Around " ; while as to mr. Arrant being; in
love with you, Lizzie,' added Aunt Jane,
naively, ^ why, how could it be otherwise? '

'A very just observation,' observed Felix
gravely.

Well, under the circumstances, my dear,.
I made up my mind not to expect you home
to-nio^ht before I saw you ; and when I did see
you it did not astonish me to find who was
your companion.'

You are like the dear old travelling: dervish
that sums up the corroborative evidence
in the Eastern tales, to prove that the lost
camel has only one eye,' said Lizzie, laughing ;
^ and you must be as tired, too, with your unac-

VOL. III. R

customer journey and your troubles about my
poor self, as any dervish.'

Felix took the hint at once, and (after certain
familiar formalities) his leave.

He is a good kind man, Lizzie,' was Ait
Jane's comment upon him, ' and as worthy of
you as any man is likely to be. Now, tell me,
my darling, all about it.'

There were reasons that made this a difficult
task, for Lizzie, of course, wished to conceal
that she had made any sacrifice for Mr.
Argand. But, considering what Aunt Jane
had been to her, and also that she had already
had cause to complain of being denied her
confidence, she felt compelled to narrate the
whole transaction with Mr. Kose. She had
lier reward, for the good widow, while warmly
appreciating its revelation, did not understand
one word of the matter.

I am very stupid, I know, my dear ; but
though I see what an excellent arrangement
has been made for every one, I don't comprehend
how you have managed to change

paper, which is not bank notes, and which has
not even been written upon, into gold I '

Yell, in a word, my dear, I've mortgaged
myself. It sounds like an accident, doesn't it?
But, I assure you, it's a most satisfactory
arrangement.'

^ You dear, clever creature I That I'm sure
it is, or you would never have made it.'

E 2

CHAPTER XLIX.

AT THE duchess's.

Before the week was over, Lizzie had insured
her life, and the policy was lodged in
Mr. Rose's hands, without any one belonging
to her suspecting anything of the matter.

She knew that Aunt Jane's secrecy as to
her having mortgaged herself would be inviolable,
because she never talked about
anything she did not understand ; and it
immensely increased the pleasure of having
freed her lover from his embarrassments at
her own cost, that he was unaware of the
circumstance. She would have to work, it
was true, and to work harder than she would
otherwise have done ; but work for one we
love, even if we do not delight in the work
itself — as she did — is sweetest toil. She had
the utmost confidence in her own powers,

and, to judge by the verdict of the world, it
was not misplaced. Mr. Rose had lost no
time in making use of the privilege for which
he had stipulated of making known the
authorship of ' The Usher ' ; and in a few
days her name was in the mouths of all
who take an interest in such matters, and
of that still larger community who pretend
to take it. There was not a newspaper of
any standing which had not some reference
to her, with more or less euloo^istic reference
to her marvellous gifts. Her essays were
criticised anew and read — or attempted to
be read — by the light of her novel. Characteristic
touches were discovered in both,
which she herself would have been at a loss
to recognise, had her attention been drawn
to them. But, while by no means contemptuous
of praise, she shrank, with something
more than dislike, from all public prominence.
Acting on Mr. Argand's advice, which chimed
in with her natural instincts in the matter, she
read no criticisms on herself, whether favourable
or otherwise.

The one,' he said, ' will only tickle your
vanity, and the other Around your amour
progress

For there were, of course, adverse criticisms
; her success had been so complete
and immediate that she was already in the
position of a writer of established reputation,
whom all the poisoned darts (and even stink-pots)
of envy and detraction are attracted, as
by some natural law of gravity. Worse than
these, though even more contemptible, were
the personal observations in which certain
journals did not hesitate to indulge. Some of
them were even at the pains to compile — indifferent
styles, and according to their own
taste and fancy — her biography. In one of
these the circumstance of her having been so
long mistaken for one of the male sex was
ascribed to a way she had, in common with
a great female novelist in France, of going
about in men's clothes. In another she was
the daughter of an Archbishop (who had
secretly married beneath him), and had taken
to light literature and pronounced opinions in

revenge for his declining; to acknowledge her
as his legitimate offspring.

These flights of fancy were occasionally
mingled with infinitesimal strains of truth.
One journal described her as a governess who
had charmed the son of the house, who had,
m consequence, been discarded by his father ;
her pen now maintained her husband — unhappily,
a mauvais sifjet, who spent her magnificent
earnings in every description of dissipation.
Another was compelled, by a sense
of public duty, to give the statement (which
it had, however, received upon the best
authority) for what it was worth, that neither
the essays nor the novel, of which so much
was talked, were her own composition, but
had been written by her old schoolmaster,
an indigent antiquary who, in total ignorance
of their literary value, had sold them to her
for five and-twenty shillings the lot. Inconsequence
of this interesting information,
old schoolmasters and others sprang up like
mushrooms in various places in the country,
claiming their rights, and appealing to a

credulous public for a few shillings to keep
life and soul together in genius wronged.

All this rubbish, however, only tended
to raise higher and higher the flame of her
notoriety.

The applications for autographs, for
photographs, for ' a few words in your own
handwriting, expressing a sentiment,' or fora
quotation from your admirable works,'
flowed in unceasingly ; invitations to dinners,
to afternoon teas, and even to breakfasts, from
the most high-placed Diana — lion-huntresses
of the first rank — rained in upon her by every
post. Not only were all the proprietors of
literary menageries in town eager to add her
to their collection, but even those of the
provinces. These latter, indeed, to whom
the tedium of their existence had probably
begotten a certain desperation, were more
audacious and importunate than the others.
She was invited to half a dozen country seats
by as many female magnates, whose apology
for addressing her must be found (they said)
in the fact that, in the authoress of ' The

Usher.' they recognised, not only a genius —
which, indeed, all the world acknowledged —
but, in the highest and noblest sense, a
friend.

If their tributes of respect did not impress
Miss Elizabeth Dart quite so deeply as, in
some cases, they were obviously expected todo,
they afforded her very considerable amusement.
As her address was unknown, they
were all addressed to her. to be forwarded
by the editor of the ' Millennium,' who most
bitterly complained of the postage. It was
about the only thing, in those days, that
Felix Argand had to complain of. Lizzie's
love had renewed for him, not. indeed, his
youth — for he was still comparatively a
young man — but that light-hearted gaiety
which fails and fades, on our road through
middle life, as though the coming stupor of
old age, beheld from afar, had palsied us with
its prospect.

One day, with eyes that twinkled with
fun, he brought a letter to her of the kind
which usually came in packets.

It was an envelope, containing a dinner
card, from the Dowager Duchess of Doldrum.

^ It is very kind of her,' said Lizzie, rather
coldly ; ' but I don't see why it should not
have been forwarded with the others.'

The idea of his having made an exception
in favour of her Grace was very disagreeable
to her. She exceedingly resented the notion
of patronage under any circumstances, and
that this example of it should have had the
tacit recommendation of her Felix was particularly
distasteful.

My dear, she is a Duchess,' remonstrated
Felix, wickedly. It was very seldom that he
could get ' a rise ' out of Lizzie whose sense
of humour was, indeed, much stronger than
his own, and he enjoyed his opportunity
immensely.

At all events, I have not the honour of
her acquaintance,' was the frigid reply.

That is why she seeks it, I suppose. I
did not bring her invitation " with the others,"
as you call them, because she herself enjoined
me to place it in your hands.'

Ob, lie is a friend of your own, is she ? '
exclaimed Lizzie, with an air of relief.

There is as much friendship between us
as is possible between persons of such different
positions in life. I am sometimes asked to
"at-homes " at Doldrum House. We are not
absolutely confidential, though she sometimes
bows to me quite sweetly in the Park when
there is no one looking.'

You are going yourself, however. I
suppose, to this dinner ? '

'I ? Certainly not. There is a reception
in the evening, however, to which I am invited
— you must remember, my darling ' (for
Lizzie looked very much ruffled), 'that her
Grace is quite unaware of our engagement.'

Does she ask me, then, to come alone ? '

Xo ; she has very kindly included
Joanna in the invitation. I have another
card here, which I am to give her if you
accept, but not otherwise.'

Then I consider this lady exceedingly
impertinent.'

My dear, she is a Duchess.'

I shall certainly not go, Felix.'

Then I think you will make a mistake,
my love. In my opinion, you should never
lose an opportunity of a new experience.'

Copy ! ' exclaimed Lizzie, with indignation.
' I am not a newspaper reporter. If I
went on those grounds, I should indeed be a
fitting guest for such a hostess.'

My dear Lizzie, do be reasonable. There
isj in the first place, no obligation in the
matter ; or, if any, it lies on her Grace's
side. If her own admiration for genius is
not very genuine, you will meet others at her
house of another calibre. I don't pretend
that it will be a new world to you. A palace,
a host of servants, and an interminable dinner
do not, as is too commonly supposed, constitute
a Paradise ; the company that is, par
excellence termed brilliant, is often, no doubt,
exceedingly dull ; but still, it will be an experience
to meet them. The only commoner
besides Joanna and yourself will probably
be Sir David Dredge, for I met him in the
street just now, and he told me he was going.'

Sir David Dredge — is that the doctor ? '

Yes ; lie has just been made a Baronet :
a very quaint old fellow, one of the few menin
his profession who takes a real interest in
literature. If you had heard him when he
raved about *" The Usher " I am sure you
would like to meet him added Felix, slily.

I think I'll go observed Lizzie, thoughtfully.


Felix stared at her, amazed.

Yes, there is much in what you have
urged ; and I don't mind being dazzled, just
for once. But do you think Joanna will
go?'

To dinner at Doldrum House ? T\^ith
peas in her shoes, if that was obligatory. In

matters of social rank, all women ' He

hesitated, then stopped abruptly.

Yes ? You were about to make an
observation,' observed Lizzie, sweetly.

'Xo, an exception. I was about to say
that all the women I have ever met. except
yourself, are more or less weak about titles.
Even titled women themselves are weak about

them. I know a Countess who always speaks
of her own husband — it sounds like a sarcasm,
for she henpecked him — as " My Lord." '

Well, now you will have to make no
exception, even of me, Felix ; for I am going
to Doldrum House, you see, after all.'

Accordingly, at the appointed day, to
Doldrum House the two ladies went. The
Duchess was a good woman, in her way ;
good-tempered, unless crossed by anybody ;
homely at heart, in spite of the pomp that
surrounded her ; and with a determination of
spirit that was very highly spoken of by those
who did not suffer from it. Her manner was
natural — as it is not difficult for people's
manner to be who have everything their own
way — and was much admired. There were
many persons of high rank at the banquet ;
but Miss Dart was the guest of the evening,
and her hostess called her ^ my dear.'

You shall sit next to whom you please,'
she whispered to her while they were in the
drawing-room. ' Dredge, eh ? ' (I am sorry
to say she ignored the new Baronet's title.)

You have got nothing the matter with
your johne, I hope, that you want to talk
to him about. However, Dredge it shall be.'
And the places at table were arranged accordingly.


Xothing was lost, we may be sure, upon
Elizabeth Dart (except some of the entrees).
She had the eye of a hawk, without its
appetite ; but the person who most attracted
her attention was her next neighbour.

He was a stout man, with a fine head and
a very soft voice. There were members of
his profession, less distinguished, who maintained
that it was not always so very soft ;
but, in speaking to Lizzie, it sounded like a
snowfall. He spoke of her works with an
intelligent enthusiasm which put it beyond
question that he had really read them.

Is the original of your delightful " Bit
of Old England " a state secret ? ' he inquired.


Xot from you,' she answered, sweetly.
It is Casterton.'

He made a note of the name upon his

sort cuff. ' I shall go there this autumn;
without fail,' he said.

^ If you do,' she replied, gravely, ' I want
you to do me a great service, Sir David.'

Consider it as already done. Miss Dart,'
was the gallant reply.

I have a dear young friend there — one
Matthew Meyrick — who is dying of some
spinal complaint, which he ought not to die
of

Who says that ? '

Dr. Dalling, of Downshire. He told me
there was one man in England who could
cure him, and only one — Dr. Dredge.'

Did he now ? ' The physician leant
back in his chair, with an air of pleased
reminiscence. ' I remember Dalling. We
were students together at Guy's. A man
of sense and judgment. Unhappily, I have
made a solemn vow and covenant with myself
never to see a patient out of London.'

Everybody knows that, Sir David ; and
the country is jealous of the town in consequence.'


^ Miss Dart, I have found out what I
should never have suspected from your behaviour
here — for never did I see a young
lady so much at ease in the social Zion. You
are a flatterer.'

No, Sir David ; if I seem to be so, it is
only because I admire your noble profession
above all others, and recognise the head of it
in yourself.'

Cannot this poet of yours come up to
town, and consult me, like other people ? '
inquired the doctor, with a pretence of irritation.


Xo. I have forgotten to give him what
will be the very best passport to your help.
He is very poor.'

For the first time in my life. Miss Dart,
I may truly say that I am sorry for the resolution
1 have made, and which I cannot break —
even for your sake ; if it was known that I
visited this gentleman in the country professionally
'

I wouldn't ask you to do such a thing
for worlds ! ' interrupted Miss Dart, simply.

VOL. III. s

^ You must visit liiiii as a friend, of course,
and cure him for notliins;.'

I never thought of that ! ' exclaimed the
physician ; and, indeed, it was probable that
the idea had all the attraction of novelty for
him. It was said of Sir David that, on being
appealed to, on a certain occasion which
seemed to demand some abatement, to reduce
a fee in three figures, he had magnanimously
replied, ' I will make it pounds instead of
guineas ' ; but, as a rule, he surpassed Shylock
by demanding more than his pound.
There were plenty of unfashionable physicians,
he used to say, who were quite justified in
prescribing gratuitously ; but, for his part,
his fees were a part of his reputation, and he
couldn't afford it. It was the first time for a
quarter of a century that he had made an
exception to this admirable rule. He flattered
himself he was doing it solely to oblige a
young woman of genius, of whom all the
town was talking ; he was quite unaware that,
like the trout a la Doldrum he had been just
discussing, he had been tickled and landed.

When Miss Dart took her leave of her
hostess that night, ' I have enjoyed your
company very much, my dear said the
Duchess, an inversion of the usual forms of
hospitality which amused her guest immensely.
She, too, had good reason to be
satisfied with her entertainment at Doldrum
House, for she had succeeded beyond her
expectations in attaining the object which
alone had attracted her thither.

CHAPTER L.

STRUCK DOWN.

There are two things — accident and illness —
which, though common enough in human life,
are always more or less left out of our calculations.
We see them happening on all sides to
our friends, we know that any day they may
happen to ourselves, and we may even make
.such feeble provision against them as is
possible. But it is our secret hope that we
shall ourselves escape these misfortunes, to
which, after all, flesh is not necessarily the
heir, but only a possible legatee. When they
do happen, they fall on one class with comparative
lightness ; and on another, with
terrific force. Those who have capital, on the
interest of which they live, and who, dying,
can bequeath it to their children, are out of

reach of the worst effect of these calamities ;
they may be tortured, they may be crippled,
but there is no necessity for the maimed limbs
to work, for the fevered brain to think for
others ; their dear ones are materially no
worse off than they were in consequence of the
blow that has been dealt to themselves. It is
for the bread-winner that accident and illness
have the gravest and most crushing consequences.
To be paralysed, and yet to feel
the necessity for exertion, is the most distressing
position in which poor human nature can
be placed. The intense egotism of philosophy
avails us nothing under such circumstances :
nay, even the resignation born of religion is
powerless to console us, since our unavailing
tears fall not for ourselves only, but for
others.

Were we always looking from side to side
for these misfortunes, like one who treads a
crowded crossing, life would be unendurable ;
but, at the same time, the unexpectedness of
their occurrence adds to the force of the shock.
To-day, the lawyer, the man of business, or

the author, may be said to be more or less
prosperous ; tomorrow, he lies with broken
bones or broken health ; and, above all, with
the terrible consciousness of every-day vanishing
means. Of the three, the author is in the
worst case, since he has no partner to carry on
his trade, and no ^ good-will ' to dispose of :
both principal and income, save under circumstances
which are only too exceptional, are
gone together.

For some little time Elizabeth Dart had
experienced such prosperity as rarely falls to
the lot of man, and still more rarely to that
of woman. She possessed a great and ever-widening
reputation ; a future of unexampled
brilliancy, in the case of one of her age and
sex, lay before her, and of this she felt assured
; she had no doubt of her own powers ;
she was conscious that she had only just
begun to draw upon resources that were practically
without limit. All that was brightest,
and much that was best in society, were eager
for her company under their own roof ; while
an invitation from herself was a social distinction.

She had temporarily taken a small but
pretty house m Tilbury, with a charming
garden, which was Aunt Jane's paradise. Mr.
Argand had arranged with his landlord to
retain possession of his house in Harewood
Square, so that the two families (if they could
be called such) ^veve still neighbours. It need
scarcely be said that they saw a great deal
of one another. They might be said, indeed,
to possess in common a town house and a
country house ; but, on account of the time
of year — for it was still early autumn — they
were more often at the latter than the former.
Mr. Around and Lizzie were to be married at
Christmas ; the bridegroom would have preferred
an earlier date, but she had reasons,
known only to herself, for deferring his felicity
to the end of the year. She wished to come
to him free from debt. Until ale had finished
her new book, and had thereby discharged her
obligation to Mr. Rose, she felt that she had
not leisure to be happy. Their engagement,
however, was announced, and increased the
interest which was felt in her. It was universally

agreed that so fitting a niatcli gave quite
a colour to the old belief (so fast, alas ! dying
out) that marriages are made in heaven.
Felix Argand had a striking individuality of
his own, and was widely known and deservedly
popular. While every one congratulated
him, a few who knew him well congratulated
her ; and it was their felicitations, we
may be sure, which gave the most pleasure.
Happy in herself, in her lover, in her surroundings
of all kinds, her cup of pleasure had
been filled to the brim by good news from
Casterton. The day after meeting Sir David
at Doldrum House she had sent him a copy of
Matthew's poems, with a letter reminding him
of his promise ; and the physician had been as
good as his word. He had spent most of the
short holiday he allowed himself at Casterton,
and made great friends with the invalid,
visiting him almost daily.

^ Your young friend,' he wrote, confidentially,
to Miss Dart, from the Welcome, ' interests
me, you will be pleased to hear, more
than his malady. There are, in my opinion.

no insuperable difficulties, such as we doctors
love, connected with it. I cannot say that he
has been treated for it improperly, for he has
not been treated at all. Time and the chapter
of accidents are excellent things to trust to ;
but it is hard on science to ignore her powers
and despise her assistance altogether. To
leave everything to Nature is the simplest of
remedies ; but (strictly between ourselves)
she is not always bent on remedy. If she has
any good intentions, it is, on the other hand,
well to supplement them a little. This is
what I hope I have done. There are certain
resemblances in the case in question to a
serious, perhaps incurable, form of myelitis ;
but I have reason to hope that it will tarn out
mere spinal congestion, in which there lies
always hope. If the treatment I have suggested
be persevered in, I should not be surprised,
a twelvemonth hence, to see M. M. (excuse
a literary style which smacks of the " Lancet ")
bestriding a steed of flesh and blood as easily
as he now mounts his Pegasus. He has
thrown up the sponge too easily. If a carriage

with C- springs and a yacht were at his
disposal, his cure would doubtless be accelerated
; but, even as matters are, you have good
cause for congratulation. Do not thank me,
however, my dear Miss Dart, till we are out
of the wood ; nor, indeed, even then — for I
assure you, without affectation, that the obligation
will be on my side. The society of your
young friend has doubled my enjoyment of
this beautiful spot. 'No wonder that it inspires
genius. I don't say a word about
Miss Mary, from which you will draw, I
know, the wickedest conclusions. When I reflect
that I am doing my best to get a hated
rival upon his legs again, I assure you I
plume myself not a little upon such chivalrous
conducts

From subsequent bulletins, after Sir David
had left Casterton, it was plain that an improvement
in Matthew's condition had commenced.


One morning; Elizabeth Dart sat down as

usual to her daily task, and found herself

^ unable to pursue it. Her head seemed to spin

round, and she found it impossible to concentrate
her thoughts ; when, with effort, she had
written down a word or two, she was in doubt
as to whether they were spelt aright. There
are few veterans of the pen to whom these
symptoms have not occasionally occurred ; but
they alarmed her exceedingly. If the attack
had been more violent, it would in some respects
have been better for her, for she would
then have been less conscious of her shortcoming
; as it was, she recognised, not only
the difficulty of conception, but the platitudes
that came of it. This circumstance would
not have been a portent to some writers ; but
she had never written platitudes. Any
person of ordinary common sense would,
under such circumstances, have desisted from
their occupation, but the more obstacles
Nature interposed the more resolute she became
to overcome them. It was as though,
finding her mind a blank, she felt a necessity
for supplying it with ideas ; but, unhappily,
they would not come. Her brain, like a
nervous horse whom its rider compels again

and again to face some object of its apprehension,
became more and more recalcitrant.
^ If I once suffer myself was her reflection,
to imagine myself unequal to my daily task,
all will be over with me : I shall become like
those spiritless Bohemians who never wrote
unless they were in the humour " or could
not otherwise obtain a glass of liquor.' The
only thought she could entertain with clearness,
and which came without invitation, was
connected with her creditor, Mr. Rose. She
had only written half the novel for which he
paid her in advance ; and if it was never
to be finished she might just as well have
written none of it. A small thing it may be
said to disturb so great a mind, a trouble
both in nature and extent contemptible enough
to any one of even moderate means. There
have been geniuses even, like herself, who
would have regarded it with the most philosophic
equanimity, but her nature was not
only exceptionally sensitive, but singularly
simple and honest.

It was her habit to be quite alone while

employed in composition : she could not endure
interruption of any kind ; but she made
an exception in favour of Aunt Jane, who
would come into her room half a dozen times
in the morning ' to see ' — very literally, for
she never spoke — ' to see how her dear girl
was getting on.' On such occasions Lizzie
would always smile and nod, and the little
widow, much refreshed by these manifestations,
would retire as she came, noiselessly as a cat.
This morning, when she looked in, there was
no smile for her : her niece, pen in hand, was
staring straight before her like a sphinx. Aunt
Jane, who had a certain superstitious reverence
for Lizzie while at her desk, would probably
have made no observation, imagining
the attitude to be only a new form of inspiration,
but for the fact of perceiving the MS.
book in which her niece always wrote, upon
the floor.

Why, my darling, you've dropped your
book.'

It doesn't matter,' was the astounding
reply. Even the Sibyl had a book (though it

turned out at last to be a very little one), and
it seemed incredible to Aunt Jane, clever as
Lizzie was, that she should be able to write in
the air as though it were paper. There was
something, too, strange and distrait in Lizzie's
tones which alarmed her.

You are not well, my child ; you do not
look like yourself.'

I am not myself,' sighed Lizzie, dropping
the pen and bursting into tears.

Li half an hour she was lying unconscious
in her bed. The nearest doctor was sent for.
His face at first was grave ; but cleared, and
became even cheerful after a conversation with
Mr. Argand, who, with his sister, had been
summoned at once. It was a case of overwork,
he pronounced ; the brain had been
taxed too heavily.

I do not think so,' said Mr. Argand, who
was not unacquainted with that subject, and
knew the ease with which Lizzie did her work.

Her nervous centres are disorganised,'
observed the doctor, professionally, plunging
out of the other's depth.

For days Lizzie lay in a high fever, not
raving, but talking incessantly to herself. It
was sad, indeed, for those who loved her, and
had been used to her bright and thoughtful
utterances, to listen to those bald, disjointed
scraps : a thing quite as piteous in its way as
though her physical beauty had been marred
and mutilated by some hideous accident.
Aunt Jane and Miss Aro^and were both born
nurses — it is the birthright of the best women
so that there was no occasion for the
services of any of those estimable handmaids
of healing who of late years have robbed
sickness of half its terrors. In their gentle
ministrations these two ladies found some
solace for the grief that consumed them, but
for Felix Ars^and there was no such mitigation.
It was his fate to watch the sufferings
of his darling — from whose neighbourhood he
could not tear himself away — without being
of the least assistance to her. It would be
too severe upon him to quote his own self-reproach
that he was as clumsy as a carthorse
; but he was certainly as nervous as a

thoroughbred. The very type of thought, his
mind, accustomed to unfettered freedom, was
now compelled to revolve in a contracted
circle, like a squirrel in its cage. He could
think of nothing else save Lizzie, and of losing
her. He passed a week of agony, which
was repaid by a single smile that she gave
him as he sat beside her pillow. It was the
first sign of consciousness she had exhibited,
and the doctor drew the happiest auguries
from it ; os it turned out, however, very prematurely.
The patient grew better, indeed,
in many respects, and even stronger, but
there were certain symptoms which hinted of
permanent mischief. She spoke little, and
that in whispers, but a feverish anxiety seemed
to consume her.

Is there anything that troubles you,
dearest ? ' inquired Felix ; ' anything on your
mind ? '

She did not answer, but her silence was no
longer significant ; a question had often to be
put to her twice or thrice before she appeared
to comprehend it.

^ Do yon wish to see any one ? '

Yes,' she murmured, after a pause, ' Sir
David Dredge.'

The physician came ; had a long interview
with the patient, and afterwards with
Mr. Argand. His face and manner were
grave. There were peculiarities in the case
that alarmed him, because he could not account
for them ; it was not egotism, but experience,
that caused him, when he was
puzzled, to fear the worst.

^ She is, at least, better than she was ? '
urged Felix, pleading for a favourable verdict.
*It is something, surely, that she has recovered
consciousness ? '

In most cases it would be so, no doubt ;
but not in hers. She has begun to think too
soon ; and yet to tell her not to do so is
equivalent to telling an ordinary person not
to breathe.'

You don't mean to say that her mind is
reverting to her work,' said Felix, in alarm.

I am not sure. It would be as futile for
it to do so, as regards the outcome, as though

VOL. III. T

lie were to attempt to construct a watch in
her head ; but I noticed when I spoke of
absolute rest that she looked very troubled.
Are you aware of there being any pressing
need for her exerting herself ; the conclusion
of some book within a specified time, for
instance ? '

^ No ; certainly not.'

^ Nevertheless, there is something on her
mind. I hope there is — otherwise, from what
I have seen of her, the case is very grave.'

Do you apprehend ' In vain Felix

strove to put his question firmly.

No, not that,' put in the physician, curtly.
Nothing immediate ; nor, in my opinion, is
she in what is commonly called danger. But
for some people there are worse things than
death.'

You fear for her mind,' faltered Felix.

She fears for it herself — which is still
more serious,' answered the doctor. He
walked to the window, which looked upon the
garden, where Aunt Jane was gathering a few
late flowers for the sick-room.

Xow, if Miss Dart were like that woman,
she would be well in a fortnight he said,

with irritation ; ' but, being what she is '

he stopped himself suddenly, remembering in
whose presence he stood. It was not the
fact that his companion was betrothed to his
patient that stopped him ; Sir David was not
much troubled, in a general way, by sentiment,
but Felix Argand was a very considerable
personage in his way, whose feelings
were worth consideration.

I suppose that all reference to her former
pursuits, or to books at all, is to be avoided.'

Xot at all ; encourage her to talk as
much as you can, no matter on what subjects.
Let her do anything she has a mind for.'

But if she asks for pen and paper ? '

She will not ask for them ; she is only
too conscious of her impotence ; that, if I am
not mistaken, is what is preying upon her.
She says to herself, and it is only too probable
that she is right, '* My occupation is gone ; 1
shall never write a line again." Xevertheless,

T 2

if she does ask for them, let her have them.
She must be crossed m nothings

That very day, the sick girl whispered to
Aunt Jane, ' I want to write a letter.' It
seemed impossible that, in her condition, she
should accomplish such a thing; nevertheless,
the widow had her orders, and the writing
materials were brought. She propped the
patient up with pillows ; and, with infinite
labour, the task, which had once, alas ! been
so easy, was accomplished.

^ Post it with your own hands. Aunt
Jane ; and let no one know to whom it is
sent,' were the patient's injunctions ; after
which, her overtaxed strength failed her, and
she fainted away.

CHAPTER LI.

DISAPPOINTED HOPE.

The news of Miss Dart's illness, following so
quickly upon the revelation of her supposed
identity, had produced no little sensation, just
as one stone dropped into a pond immediately
after another has a cumulative effect upon its
surface. It had assisted many a diner-out in
the performance of his duty to his neighbour ;
had formed the topic of conversation among
the ladies in the drawing-room; and even
evoked a languid comment in the smoking-room
afterwards. Society had been pleased
to consider itself quite distressed about it.
Scores of carriages, some even with occupants,
had called to leave ' kind inquiries ' at her
modest dwelling ; and every post brought
expressions of condolence and sympathy,

many of them genuine, many more spurious,
but all significant of the extent of her fame.

These letters, at Aunt Jane's request, were
opened, and — when necessary — replied to, by
Mr. Argand ; communications of a private
kind there were none, since her personal
friends were aware of her condition, which,
of course, made it impossible for her to attend
to correspondence. On the morning after Sir
David's visit, there arrived a letter, which
her deputy opened as usual, and of the brief
contents of which he became possessed almost
before he was aware. Perhaps, even if he
had guessed its private character, he would,
under the circumstances, have been justified
in reading it ; at all events, as matters turned
out, it was well indeed that he did so.

^ Dear Miss Dart,' it began, ' I beg to
acknowledge your favour of the 15th. Every
word of it does you honour, except so far as
it imputes a somewhat impatient, not to say
greedy, disposition to your humble servant.
Two thousand pounds is two thousand

pounds, and I should, of course, be loth to
lose it; but, in spite of your forebodings, I
shall beg leave to continue to look upon it as
in safe hands. At all events, for the present,
there is not the slightest need to distress
yourself about the matter. Three months
hence, or even a later date, will be time
enough to consider the subject from the point
of view of your kind communication. Pray
keep your mind at ease as far as I am concerned,
and devote yourself to regaining that
health and strength to your recovery of which
so many thousands are looking forward with
selfish hopes, besides yours, most faithfully,

Alexander Rose.

In five minutes, Mr. Argand, with the
letter in his pocket, was in a hansom on his
way to Paternoster-row ; and that he had lost
no time, nor stopped to speak of the matter
to any one in the house, was fortunate ; for
hardly had he left the house before Aunt Jane
came down, at the patient's request, to know
if there was any communication from Mr.

Kose. He found the publisher at his office,
and obtained from him, though not without
much difficulty, the details of his transaction
with Miss Dart. To do Mr. Rose justice, he
was very unwilling to disclose his client's
secret, even though it was to his obvious advantage
to do so ; but to his visitor's authoritative
statement — ' 1 am engaged to be married
to this young lady ; her affairs are my affairs,
and her debts are my debts ' — there could, of
course, be but one reply. Mr. Argand received
it with an emotion that quite affected
the kind-hearted publisher, and the sight of
which would have facilitated subsequent
arrangements more than he would have been
willing to confess, even had there been
any difficulty in the matter, which, indeed,
there was none. Mr. Argand, on the
security of the ' Millennium,' which thus
proved itself almost as negotiable as current
coin, became at once responsible for the sum
advanced to Miss Dart; and between them
they concocted a letter which, placed in the
same envelope, was simply substituted for

that wliicli had come from Paternoster-row
by post.

Dear Miss Dart, — I beg to acknowledge
(and here ended the publisher's part of the
composition) your favour of the loth inst.
I am sorry you should have troubled yourself
to write from your sick-room upon a mere
business matter. When you get quite welland
strong I shall be happy to discuss it with
you ; but in the meantime, let me assure you
that I have taken such measures as will amply
insure myself against any possible loss as
concerns the sum of money I advanced to
you. I dare say this astonishes you, but
there are a good many things in the book
trade that would astonish you, if I were so
imprudent as to reveal them. Vs^iih the most
sincere hope for your speedy recovery, ever
yours faithfully,

Alexander Rose.

The success of this little conspiracy was
much more satisfactory than that which

attends most pious frauds. Had Lizzie's
brain been in full working order, it is doubtful,
indeed, whether even the most positive
assurance from a creditor could have convinced
her that a debt could be discharged
without any consideration having been given
for it; but as matters Averse, no composing
draught within the sources of the Pharmacopoeia
could have soothed her nerves as did
Mr. Rose's quittance. From the moment she
received it, she began to mend ; and as time
wore on, Felix supplemented the magic potion
by giving her good accounts (quite justified
by the facts, however) of the success of the
Millennium.'

^ If you should never write again, my
darling,' he once said to her, ' there will
always, thanks to you ' (which was literally
true, for but for her the ' Millennium ' would
have been his no longer), ' be amply sufficient
for us to live upon.'

The way in which she received this news
was corroboration enough, had he needed it,
of the trouble that had so long consumed her.

Thank Heaven for that ! ' she murmured,
^ for Felix, darling, I shall never write again.'

Her mind, indeed, for all purposes of
imagination had become a sealed book. She
could think, but she could no longer create.
What had caused this, science itself could not
explain, though it was by no means the first
case of a similar kind that had been presented
to its notice. What was still more curious,
now that the necessity for exertion in this
direction no longer existed, the desire for it
had also vanished. That passionate yearning
to express her thoughts on paper which had
once compelled her fingers seemed to have
died a sudden death. She once asked Sir
David, who continued to take great interest
in her, on psychological as well as personal
grounds, whether, in his option, it would
ever be resuscitated. ' My dear young lady,'
he answered, frankly, ' I don't think it ever
will. It is possible, on the other hand, that
it may be so. If anything should occur to
stir your nature to its depths — some great
happiness, for example (for we will not speak

of calamity) — the magic fountain may leap
up again with its accustomed song.' ' Then
it will never do so she answered, with a
smile and a sigh, ' since I am as happy
already as it is possible for mortal women to
be ' ; for, as it happened, it was the eve of her
bridal day.

This resignation to the will of Fate was,
of course, a thankworthy circumstance ; but
though dreams of ambition no longer troubled
Lizzie, those which she had so often indulged
in, as regarded the happiness of others, were
abandoned with supreme regret. She had
secretly promised herself to make the welfare
of Matthew and Mary her peculiar care. The
former was recovering from his malady in a
manner much beyond expectation ; but, even
if he grew strong and well, how could he ask
his beloved Mary to become his wife without
the means of supporting her? It was to be
feared, indeed, that he had only been rescued
from the grave to become, with his devoted
mother, the prey of poverty. She had, as
has been said, been living on her principal — a

noble lout most imprudent abnegation. She
had said to herself, ' It will last his time ' ;
and now, alas I without knowing it, the unfortunate
young man was overlying that
time, and his mother's means were well-nigh
exhausted. Their position was worse than
precarious, for its end was certain — it was
hopelessly deplorable. Lizzie could ' rest on
her laurels,' and even live upon them ; but
they could not sustain others as she had
hoped they would do.

This reflection embittered even her honeymoon,
some of which was spent at Casterton.
Had an opportunity offered itself to get rid
of Battle Hill, she would have seized it, so
urgent seemed the necessity of having a sum
of money in hand to postpone, till ]matthew
should at least have made a complete recovery,
the calamity that was overhanging him and
his. Xot a word, however, did the widow
breathe of her need, the pressing character of
which Lizzie only learnt through her original
informant Roger Ley den. The bride and
bridegroom were received with the same

modest hospitality that had always reigned at
the Look-out.

Mr. Snuggg had good cause to congratulate
his employer, though not himself, upon having
got rid of all that well-known and
valuable property commonly called ' The
Loompp,' for there were no other bidders, and
the time seemed distant indeed when the
purchaser should put it to that use for which
she had once so proudly intended it. The
newly married couple had a fairly good,
though of course precarious, income ; for who
can tell, in the case of however popular a
periodical, what a few months may bring in
the way of disaster ? Their means had but a
scanty margin. The Tilbury cottage was given
up, and Aunt Jane came to live with them and
Miss Argand in Harewood Square. In spite
of much experience to the contrary in similar
arrangements, these elements kindly mixed ;
they were a united and happy family party.
Miss Argand, though she tendered her resignation,
and even pressed it, was not dispossessed
of her position as the lady of the house.

Domestic honours were not such as her new
sister-in-law had ever sighed for, while it
would have been as difficult to rouse Aunt
Jane's ambition in that or any other direction
as that of a white mouse.

In literature, as well as in other matters,
Lizzie continued to take the same intelligent
interest as before ; it was but the creative
faculty, which for the most part is only missed
on paper, which had disappeared. Her sympathies
were as keen as ever. She was even
much agitated by an event that happened
about this tune, which might well have been
supposed to have had little, if any, interest
for her — namely, the decease of Jefferson
Melburn. He met his death by violence at
the hands of poachers with whom he and his
keepers came into conflict in the coverts of
Burrow Hall. The game laws was one of the
many subjects which Miss Dart and he had
been wont to discuss together, and she remembered
well, how, for his own ends, as had so
often happened, he had pretended to be a convert
to her views. This, doubtless, made the

manner of this death peculiarly distressing to
her. Otherwise, that he had left the world
could hardly be a matter to be deplored. He
had done evil and not good all his days, and
had left evil behind him. He had failed in
an attempt to secure Winthrop's money (who
had fallen a victim to his own vices some
months before), had speculated on its reversion
and contracted heavy debts, which had to be
paid out of the already deeply encumbered
estate ; and the Squire was left with a mere
pittance. It even became necessary to part
with the hall, which was advertised for sale.
There were memories about it connected with
her mother which made this circumstance
painful to Mary, though her father thought
little of it. Broken in health and spirit, his
pride was still stiff and strong, and in any
case he would probably have shrunk from
residing with narrow means in a spot where
he had once held his head so high. He announced
his intention of living abroad, nor
did he express any wish that his daughter
should accompany him. He had long, indeed,

ceased to even affect an interest in her, and
was her father only in name. How much
circumstances had to do with this it was
useless to speculate, but they certainly had
something. But for the need, or the apparent
need, of a rich suitor for Mary, it is probable
that this estrangement would never have taken
place. How far our domestic relations are
affected by external matters would be certainly
a curious, and perhaps even a profitable,
inquiry. Just now the hard results of poverty
were pressing upon Lizzie's mind with painful
persistence. She had known its harshness
too well not to sympathise with its effect upon
those she loved ; and she resented, upon their
account, the palsy of those faculties which
had once promised her such material advantages.
If they had still been hers she could
have relieved dear Mrs. Meyrick from her
embarrassments — a term of euphony too often
applied to ruin — and made two lives hajDpy.
For herself, she wanted nothing. Felix and
she, though no longer bride and bridegroom,
were still lovers. There was no happier home

VOL. III. u

than hers in the whole world of London, nor
did it contain a happier woman, save for the
thought of those for whom the cup of Life
held such different measure.

CHAPTER Il

THE HEIR OF THE AGES.

There was once a Roman vrho, if we may
believe the records of the period in which she
^ flourished,' was the prominent figure of the
day in literary society in London. She was
not only studied in the closet, but held the
rapt attention of thousands upon the stage.
We have the written authority of one of the
greatest geniuses of all time that she was the
greatest genius of his time, and his view was
more or less endorsed by his contemporaries.
While still in her prime, her gift — we may
call it by what name we please, for, as often
happens, the opinion of posterity and that of
her own time were at variance on the matter
was suddenly taken away from her ; her
popularity vanished with it so immediately

that we may almost say she awoke one
morning and found herself unknown. For a
quarter of a century she lived on — a charming
woman, mingling in society as before, and in
one sense even more so than ever, for she was
no longer on a pedestal but stood on the same
plane with the rest of the world. It is
recorded of her that, under these changed
circumstances, she was very cheerful and
happy. It had been hitherto a case without
parallel, but if matters should continue as at
present, that of Elizabeth Argand bade fair to
match it. She accepted her position with the
like resignation ; and if she did so now when
the heavy hand of disappointment was first
laid upon her, it was evident that with the
lapse of time the weight of it would grow less
and less. Indeed, what alone distressed her
now — if anything of the kind could be said to
distress her — were the thoughtless questions
occasionally addressed to her, by those ignorant
of the circumstances, with respect to her
forthcoming works ; a faint flush would then
come into her cheeks, and she would make

some evasive and generally gay reply. Such
enquiries were natural enough, but they used
to irritate Felix exceedingly.

Good Heavens ! Sir,' he exclaimed to
one of those impertinent questioners, whose
thoughtless words he inhabited had even
Lizzie more annoyance than was really the case,
are you in the habit of asking the matrons
of your acquaintance when they are about to
gratify the world with an increase to their
families ? '

But in his calmer moments he confessed to
himself that this was not quite a parallel case.

One day in early spring-time, Lizzie received
a letter from Casterton in an unfamiliar
handwriting. She opened it in some alarm,
for she was always on the watch for the first
knell of a catastrophe in that quarter, nor did
the signature of the letter, to which she turned
at once, reassure her, for it was that of Roger
Leyden, to whom alone beside herself the state
of the widow's affairs was known. The
despatch was a long one, which increased her
fears.

^ My clear Mrs. Argand it began, ' a most
remarkable incident has just occurred here,
the results of which almost take my breath
away as I relate them. But a few hours ago,
in the early morning, I chanced to be on
Battle Hill — your Hill. There had been a
heavy storm during the night, but the wind
had ceased and the sky was clear. Suddenly
I heard a rumbling noise like subterranean
thunder. Then, as it seemed to me, the whole
Hill, like the wood of Dunsinane, began to
move. It was, however, only a part of it, and
did not include the summit, on which I was
standing. The fir-trees were tossed to and
fro as though a strong wind were blowing,
though they were not more agitated than I.
I thought my beloved Hill, or half of it, was
going to run into the sea. An immense
superficies, ten acres I should say, with all
that was upon it was moving swiftly downwards,
accompanied by a peculiar noise which
I can only liken to that of a flock of sheep
running in fright at the sight of a dog. You
know there are a few firs in the extreme

hollow, only the tips of which can be discerned
from the top ; I saw these disappearing with
a sort of sudden but noiseless violence, as
though they had been plucked up by the roots.
Long and deep chasms gaped to left and right
on which fragments of earth remained standing,
still topped by the green turf. Hollows
were raised to mounts and mounts reduced
to hollows. Yet all this occurred in less, at
utmost, than a quarter of an hour. Fortunately,
as you will presently see, I was the
sole witness of this phenomenon.

And now remains the most astounding
incident of it. As soon as the movement of
the earth permitted it, I descended to the
scene of desolation. On the upper part of
the lower formation of the hill — which, you
remember, is like that of a quartern loaf — a
body of earth about fifty feet thick had been
carried away. On the bed of soil thus left
bare, such a spectacle presented itself as had
never been imagined out of an eastern tale.
The whole place was strewed with treasure.
Diamonds, rubies, sapphires, and emeralds, all

torn from their settings — showing they had
been no personal ornaments — cups and flagons
of gold, tarnished by time and mould, of
course, but beautifully embossed and carved,
strewed the ground in all directions. There
were no less than eve crucifixes of solid gold,
and one crozier of the same metal, broken,
but set with precious stones. I cannot at
present compute even the number of these
objects, and far less their value ; but it must
be something enormous. It is, of course, the
hoard buried by Urfa the Dane — the spoil of
the churches of London and Canterbury, of
which defeat and death deprived him. He
had placed it in the side of the hill next the
sea, no doubt for the convenience of shipping
it, and where, thank Heaven ! my lord never
thought of diMno^ for it.'

The reader here put down the letter in
sheer amazement. Then a chill crept over
her at the thought that what had just been
described to her had not actually taken place-perhaps
the antiquary's wits had failed him,
and he had depicted as an actual occurrence

what had, doubtless, presented itself to his imagination
a hundred times before. There was,
however, too much particularity in the narrative
for that ; and, moreover, there was the
landslip, which could hardly have suggested
itself as a Dens ex machine unless it had
proved to be one.

Notwithstanding the stupendousness of
the phenomenon,' continued her correspondent,
' my first thought was of you and Mary.
But for that, this sudden realisation of the
dream of half a lifetime would, I verily
believe, have shaken my reason. The question
was how, having found this treasure,
should the discovery of it be kept secret till
it could be secured by its rightful owners ? I
had no spade or implements of any kind ;
and there was nothing for it but to take up
the earth in my hands and therewith cover up
the treasure which it had just revealed. As
soon, however, as the news of the landslip
should reach the town, the hill, of course,
would be visited by crowds, and this precaution
would be unavailing. Fortunately, it

was still early, and the noise of the late commotion
had, as it turned out, reached no ears
but my own. There was nothing for it but
to hasten home and procure such bags and
baskets as I could lay hands upon, and the
services of a lad with a wheelbarrow. As I
left the Hill, however, I met Harman, the
miller, coming out of Casterton with his cart
full of sacks. I knew him for an honest
man, and at once determined to make him my
confidant. Indeed, I could have done little
without him, and might have lost all. I gave
him to understand that what I wanted of him
would be the best morning's work miller ever
put his hands to. And then, taking half a
dozen sacks on our shoulders, I took him to
the scene of operations. Never since All
Baba beheld the treasure of the forty thieves
was man so astonished. I told him that it all
belonged to the Crown — a treasure-trove —
and that every article was sacred, which, in a
sense, was true. This seemed to impress him
as much as the sight of the things themselves,
and a great deal more than the landslip.

Besides his sack, lie had some twine, and
we packed up between us everything we
could lay our hands upon, and took it in the
cart to my cellar. Within an hour all Cas-merton
was on the Loompp, examining the
natural phenomenon ; but the most remarkable
of its incidents is for the present a secret,
known only to your humble servant, Harman
the miller, and one other. The one other is
Mrs. Meyrick, to whom I could not resist the
temptation of revealing it ; not for the pleasure
of telling, but because I knew the weight
of care which the knowledge of Mary's o'ood
fortune would remove. You and she (as per
agreement) are, of course, the proprietors of
all this wealth, to dispose of as you please,
after disbursing that " something handsome "
which I have promised in your name to the
miller. I have "consulted the books" as to
your claim in the matter, and feel sure there
is no doubt about it. I had, in my ignorance,
secured you the manorial rights in the Hill —
quite a titbit of legal literature, which you,
nevertheless, had not the patience to listen to;

but it seems I might have saved myself the
trouble. The case stands thus : treasure-trove
in most cases belongs to the Crown,
which always pays an equivalent for its value
upon the property being given up ; in this
case, however, there is no need to be under an
obligation to Royalty, for when the said creatures
trove is not hidden and covered by the
earth, it belongs to the finder, who, of course,
is, by proxy, yourself. Heaven knows I
never wanted a coin of it — and, indeed, there
are no coins — there was no robbery on Urfa's
part at all ; it was pure sacrilege. I never
had any wants, and I have no longer any
washes. Matthew and Mary, Mrs. Meyrick
and your dear self, can now never know the
curse of poverty ; and you are all of that sort
whom riches cannot spoil. It will suffice forme
to be acknowledged a prophet in my own
country. I would also respectfully draw
your attention to the fact that the stars have
fulfilled their prediction. When they decreed
you wealth, I was very certain that they
meant something more than the fruits of

literature. They don't put themselves outwith
portents and the like), as I. told you, for a
trifle. Matthew always called you the " Heir of
the Ages " ; but he little guessed how well the
title was to be justified. It is now no longer
a mere intellectual compliment. Centuries
have given up their treasure to you, the Past
has made you its residuary legatee. You
will, however, I am well convinced, hold all
in trust to promote the happiness and the
good of others. I send you a thousand congratulations
; and also, by train, lest you
should fancy, as you well may, that I have
been dreaming, a single sample of your new
possessions, or, as Harman calls it, '" one of
the mugs " — a curious specimen of eighth-century
handiwork.'

This letter had come by the afternoon post,
so that Lizzie had not long to wait before
communicating its contents to her husband.
To him she felt they were first owed, sackbut
for him she might never have become the
possessor of Battle Hill. Second only to the
pleasure she had of telling the good news to

Felix was that she felt in revealing it to Aunt
Jane. Indeed, in the latter case, there were
circumstances which made it even more
delightful to her. It was, in fact, an act of
reparation; for had she not once shown her
the promised land (with a house on it) in
vain, and unwittingly caused her a bitter disappointment
? There had been a slip between
the cup and the lip, but it had been made
ample amends for by a slip of another kind.
This was Joanna's first joke — ^ a beaded
bubble winking at the brim ' of her cup of
happiness ; and though her brother expressed
an editorial hope that they might ' hear from
her again,' it has been, up to the present date,
her last. There was some contention about
the division of the treasure — which realised
quite a fortune — but it did not even attain the
dimensions of a friendly suit, and was settled
out of court. At first, Mary could not be
brought to understand how any part of it
came to her at all ; but as Roger Leyden
pointed out, with grave severity, if the agreement
was void by which Lizzie became Mary's

coheiress, it would deprive Lizzie of her own
rights, since the treasure would then revert to
the finder himself ; and there would probably
have been little difference in its distribution
even if it had.

Indeed the greatest difficulty in the business
was to get the antiquary to accept what
seemed to all parties but himself a reasonable
share. He was, however, eventually induced
to take a sum which to him was affluence. If
he did not hold his head higher in consequence
he was, at least, brought nearer to his friends
the stars, for, with a portion of the money,
he built an enormous telescope, which was the
wonder of the neighbourhood.

None but himself knew how near the little
household at the Look-out had been to ruin
when fortune thus stepped in and saved it.
But the change could be read in the widow's
face. It was marvellous, to those who knew
nothing of the care that had oppressed her,
how she suddenly threw off the ' fardel of her
years,' and became comparatively young again.
Within the period which Sir David had

allowed for his recovery, lier Matthew had
completely regained health and strength. His
favourite walk during convalescence was to
The Looms where, on the very spot where
the treasure was found, a house was rising,
under the superintendence of Mr. Snuggg, for
Lizzie and her husband, with special rooms in
it, we may be sure, for Joanna and Aunt
Jane.

The first use to which it was put when
completed was to welcome the wedding guests
of the young couple. That Mary should be
married from her house was a pleasure that
Lizzie had long promised herself, and, unlike
most pleasures, it fulfilled all expectation.
The guests were few, but never did happier
faces beam round a breakfast table. Even
the Squire, who had come over from the Continent
to do honour to the occasion, was
wreathed in smiles. Mary had behaved to him
with great generosity, and even offered to
make such an arrangement as would enable
him to reside at Burrow Hall, which had not
as yet been sold. He preferred, however, the

life which he had chosen for himself, and which
suited him in many ways. The family seat
was therefore purchased by the young couple,
who divide the time between it and the Lookout.
To borrow a phrase from the Major's
sporting vocabulary, you could — in summer
at least — cover the whole of the chief personages
of this history with a pocket-handkerchief,
for they dwell only a few miles apart,
even when they are not, as often happens,
staying under each other's roofs.

Matthew and Mary have several children,
all idolised by grand mamma ; but fortune has
denied that blessing to the Organs. They
are, nevertheless, a very happy couple. Half
the year they spend in Casterton and half in
Harewood Square. The '* Millennium " still
lives and prospers under Mr. Argand's management.
What does Lizzie do with herself ? it
may be asked. It is not, however, necessary to
answer that question, since the reader, if he is
a reader, knows as much about the matter as
I do. On the very afternoon of Mary's marriage
Felix found his wife at her desk in her

VOL. III. X

boudoir, the window of which commands, to
my mind, the most charming view in England »
That seems a very lengthy communication,
my dear,' he observed : ' are you writing an
account of our festivities to the Morning

Foster

No, my dear ; I am clothing the
skeleton.'

Sir David's forecast had been correct.
Mary's marriage with Matthew had stirred
Lizzie's nature to its very depths, and the
spring, so long sealed, had burst forth again.

THE END.

PRINTED BY

SrOTTISWOODB AND CO., New-street SQUARE

LONDON

Pall Mall Gazette.

CHEAPER EDITION, Fcp. Svo. limp cloth, 2s. 6d.

Some Literary Recollections.

Author of ' By Proxy ' dr-v.

SOME EXTRACTS FROM NOTICES BY THE PRESS.

THE ATHENAEUM.— 'To say that Mr. Pa^-n is seen at his best in the book is
as much as to say that it is remarkably pleasant reading. The stories it contains are not
all new. . . . But, old and new, the stories are well told. . . . And then the spirit of
the book is eminently generous and gay. . In brief, his book is one of those which,
like that of Maxim du Camp, if for somewhat different reasons, leave a good taste in the
mouth. . . . For that reason, if for no other, it should have readers in abundance.'

THE SATURDAY Review—' In a season of biographies and reminiscences
Mr. Payn's " Recollections " have several peculiarities of their own. First, they are short
we wish they were longer. . . . Again, Mr. Payn's Memories are all good-natured. . . .
Thirdly, Mr. Payn's Memories have nothing to do with politics. Mr. Payn's " Recollections"
are quite full of anecdotes of authors, editors, publishers, yea, even of publishers'
readers, and are every-where buoyant and attractive with humour and good humour.'

THE TIMES.— 'Mr. James Payn's reminiscences do not constitute anything like
a regular autobiography, but may be described as a number of very amusing and good-natured
anecdotes and sketches of literary people connected by their reference to his own
life, but hardly pretending to form a whole of any kind. Though its form may be called
irregular, it is really the most convenient that could have been chosen.'

THE DAILY News—' Xo one who takes up this book of Mr. Payn's. and who

has not previously read the substance of it in the Cornwall Magazine, will be inclined
to put it down until he has finished it. . . . The ignorant person may read it without
being made to feel ashamed, and the most painfully tender susceptibilities will not be
unduly harassed. But it is a prevalent and, perhaps, a well-founded notion that the
number of people who desire to be amused is increasing yet daily. I'o them we can
cordially recommend " Some Literary Recollections." '

THE STANDARD.— 'This is a very pleasant volume of gossipy talk of the
literary celebrities with whom Mr. Pati has, in the course of a long career as author
and editor, come in contact, and the only fault there is to be found with it is its brevity. . . .
Few readers will lay down the volume without a feeling of regret that its author has kept
it within such comparatively narrow dimensions.'

THE GRAPHIC— 'There is not a dull page in the book. Anecdotes, jests,
epigrams, and odd bitsof character and personal experience abound. It is safe to predict
for these entertaining pages one of the successes of the publishing season which has just
opened.'

THE WORLD. — 'One would have to be In a very melancholy mood indeed not
to like these ' ' Recollections," so full they are of good stories, good spirits, and good sense ;
and even in such a mood it could not be but cheering and refreshing to read with what
generous admiration Mr. Payn speaks of his great contemporaries, Dickens, Thackeray,
'trollope, and the rest.'

VANITY Fair—' Mr. Palm has been steadily writing for more than thirty years,
but his later work is fresher and more full of fun and elasticity than that which he did in
his youth. . . . The book is a most wise and charming one ; not a page is without a good
story or a piece of delightfully funny writing. Then the kindness and tenderness of every
chapter puts the reader in good humour. Mr. Payn is a man of the world, but he has
never become cynical, and to read his graceful Memories gives all the effects of a chat
with a pleasant and wholesome companion.'

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.

Vanity Fair,
the magazine reader will find no better investment for his sixpence.'
Pall Mall Gazette.

PRICE SIXPENCE MONTHLY,

ILLUSTRATED.

THE NEW SERIES OF THE

Cornwall MAGAZINE.

Edited by JAMES Pain.

Each Number contains, in addition to instalments of
Serial Stories by Popular Authors,

SHORT STORIES AND ARTICLES,

BY THE BEST ■V^I^;ITEI^,S.

Among the Artists whose Illustrations have appeared in the New Series of

THE Cornwall MAGAZINE

ARE

G. DU Married, WM. SMALL, W. RALSTON, H. Furnish,
E. J. WHEELER, R. C. WOODVILLE, J. P. ATKINSON,

A. C. Corolla, A. T. Ewes, G. G. KILBURNE,

WM. H. Covered, ROBERT BARNES, R. CALDECOTT,

M. FITZGERALD, WALTER S. Stage, &c.

Volumes I. to V. of the New Series (July 1883 to December 1885),
Price 4^^. dd. each, bound in cloth,

PROFUSELY ILLUSTRATED,

ARE KEPT IN STOCK, AND FORM

VERY HANDSOME VOLUMES

FOR

PRESENTATION OR LIBRARY PURPOSES.

*^ Cases for binding the Volumes may be had price One Shilling each*

London : SMITH, ELDER, & CO., 15 Waterloo Place.
