^A

JaoTies VdJfix

A I

V^

.Mr ifs Grand, LONDON,

AND A^H-E RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS
NOVELS -. -^^T=,^^^J^^r^^3S0»,B.„s ,« SETS c«.v.

For oT/fer^"™'™" '""^"»" ™" « C™»T„, BO^STAU-

For ONH V^nH^^e at a time 6 Month* 12 Months

For FOUR " 1 3 2 2

For SIX • " •• 1 8 2 10

For TWELVE '" '" 1 15 a 3

■••■•• 3 6 6

OF THE
UN IVLR.SITY
or ILLINOIS


1886!

V, I

VOL. I.

\

Scheherezade : A London Night's Entertainment. By Florence
Warden. 3 vols.
The Nun's Curse. By Mrs. Riddell. 3 vols.
A Modern Magician. By Fitzgerald Molloy. 3 vols.
The Twin Soul. 2 vols.

Her Two Millions. By William Westall. 3 vols.
Through Green Glasses. By F. M. Allen. 1 vol.
A Secret Inheritance. By B. L. Farjeon. 3 vols.
A Modern Circe. By the Author of " Molly Bawn." 3 vols.
Logic Town. By Sarah Tatler. 3 vols.
This Man's Wife. By G. M. Fenn. 3 vols.

WARD AND Donkey, Publishers, London.

a, Hofaci.

BY

JAMES Paix,

ArXHOE OF

LOST Isle MASSrS'GBEED," " THE Here OF THE AGES,

"by Proxy," ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

WARD And DOWNEY,

12, York Street, Covent Garden

1888.

All rights reserved.

/, Suffolk.

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED
BY HIS Friend

JAMES Pay.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/princeofbloodnov01payn

CONTEXTS OF VOLUME I,

PROLOGUE.

AT THE ' Inventories.'

It was a very hot night at the Inventions,
which was the reason, or one of the reasons,
which made Mr. Arthur Forester and Miss
Cicely Forester prefer sitting in the balcony
of the Chinese department to walking about
the grounds. Their chairs were very close
together, and they were evidently on such
intimate and familiar terms with one another,
that if one had been informed that they bore
the same name it was easy for even a bad
hand at guessing to infer that they were
brother and sister. It is easier, however, to
guess than to guess right ; and as a matter of
fact they were first cousins.

Volet. B

There is something, to my mind, very-pleasant
in that relationship between two
young persons of opposite sexes, since, in
addition to its present advantages, it offers
possibilities which nearer relationship does not
admit of, and which, when one of the two
parties, as in Miss Cicely's case, is twenty-one
years of age and exceedingly pretty, are apt to
occur to the other, and, perhaps, even to both.

To occur to one — the mere mental operation
is, indeed, as has been said of guessing, very
easy ; a great many occurrences of the same
nature have probably happened to most of us,
whereas to occur, in the sense of realization
and actual fact, is not so common. There
were several obstacles to the suggestion in
question being carried out in the present case ;
to begin with — which rendered it unnecessary
to dwell upon the rest — the young people had
not a penny between them. This phrase, of
course, is not to be taken literally. They
must, in fact, have had sixty pence — for it was
Wednesday and a half-crown night — to enable
them to be at the Inventions, or, as some have
lightly termed it, " The Fisheries," at all ;

while they Lad had to pay an additional twelve
pence apiece for their seats in the balcony.
The very cigar which Mr. Arthur was smoking
had certainly cost something — though I am
not prepared to say it had been paid for by
the consumer — more than a penny. The coin,
indeed, has such a relative sense that some
Allies and Atlas are said to have '' not a
penny between them" when they have ten
thousand pounds. AVe call them "as poor as
Job' but their case only resembles that
patriarch's before the final catastrophe fell
upon him, and when he still retained a little
something, such as his camels. But Arthur
and Cicely (or Sissy, as he called her, perhaps
to keep up the delusion that he only loved
her in a brotherly way) had really nothing
that could be called their own at all, except a
few debts. Their parents had moderately
good incomes, which died with them, and
large families, which did not. It was necessary,
therefore, that the girls should be
provided for, with more or less well-to-do
husbands, and that the boys should provide
for themselves. There was no more thought

B 2

of fortune-hunting in the former case than of
greed in the latter ; and they all thoroughly
understood their positions.

It is the fashion to accuse young women of
heartlessness who in love affairs manifest
any common-sense ; yet I am inclined to
think that the love which is really genuine,
or, at all events, that is worth much, has
always a substratum of that kind. There are
young ladies who are ready enough to marry
him they please to call " the man of their
choice," though they know he has only sufficient
to maintain them during the honeymoon.
I do not blame them — I am much too
polite for that, I hope ; but I pity them, and
I also pity Mm.

Sissy Forester was as affectionate and
tender-hearted a girl as ever said " Yes " to a
lover, but she was not a fool. In this respect
she had the advantage of Mr. Arthur. The
young man, indeed, was clever enough ; if he
did not get on at his profession — the Bar — it
was only for want of practice. He had a
ready wit ; he would have been even diligent
had there appeared the remotest chance of the

blossom of this legal learning turning into
fruit; but to sit in lonely chambers, poring
over law books, without the shadow of a
client crossing one's threshold, is weary work.
What makes it so sad is, that there is no means
of informing the priesthood of Themis that
you are thus sacrificing yourself upon her
altar. So far as they are concerned you might
just as well be enjoying yourself. If one
could only put a board up over one's chambers,
To Solicitors and Others," stating how Ions:
one had been at it, and for how many hours
a day,4t might attract some passing " sulor.'s "
attention, and so bring business ; but the
etiquette of the profession forbids this. Arthur's
chambers, with half a clerk, cost his father a
hundred a year, and he lived at home.

With these prospects he would have married
Cicely Forester tomorrow, but having an
uneasy suspicion that she was a very sensible
girl, as well as a very charming one, he had
never ventured to ask her to become his wife.
There would have been no excuse, of course,
for such an act of lunacy ; but there would
have been a mitigation, for if he did not ask

her himself, and pretty soon, he knew that
somebody else would do so. It was not only
the well-founded apprehension that so adorable
a creature would find others to worship at her
shrine that troubled him, but the existence of
an actual suitor. This was a Mr. Dunlow, a
friend of Sissy's father, a man not, indeed, in
his first youth, but whose years could not be
called disproportionate to her own ; a worthy
fellow of good means, who had not yet indeed
proposed to her, but concerning whom it was
well understood that she " had only to hold
up her little finger " to bring him to her feet.
She had, as Arthur believed, no feeling warmer
than regard for the gentleman at present ;
but the pale flame. Regard, is soon fanned by
circumstances into something stronger and
brighter; and all the circumstances were in
his favour. Before Arthur's jealous eyes was
present everywhere the somewhat plump form
of Mr. Robert Dunlow. He saw him now in
the wavering band of the electric light, and in
the dancing fountain, just as Sissy's mental
vision would have seen him (though under a
very different aspect) had she been really in

love with liirn. Even while the young fellow
was speaking to the girl, this thoughts would
often stray to his rival, and render bitter the
very cup of pleasure which was at his lips.
It was this, perhaps, as well as the fact that
he dared not speak of what he would, that
made Arthur Forester more silent in his
cousin's company than elsewhere.

"How like life itself all this is, Sissy," he
murmured, after one of many pauses. " The
music and the colour and the splendour last
such a little time, and then everything appears
more dark and blank by contrast."

Not to those dio prefer Nature to
Art," was the quiet reply. " To my mind the
moon yonder is preferable, at all events for a
permanency, to all these garish lights, nor
is a brass band absolutely necessary to my
existence."

You are very hard on me," he murmured
gently, striving in vain to meet her eyes,
which where fixed on the fairy scene before her.

What have I said that is hard ? Is it
because I have spoken the truth 1 "

'* Now you are still harder. You mean to

imply that I shrink from looking facts in the
face ? "

I congratulate you on your promptness in
drawing an inference."

"Thank you," he answered bitterly; "it is
pleasant, because so rare, to hear you admit
that I can do anything."

I have never doubted your abilities,
Arthur," she replied with tender gravity ; she
knew that she was hurting; his feelings, and
suffered more than he did himself from the
keenness of her own words — she used them
as the surgeon uses his knife, unwillingly, yet
for the patient's good.

What is the use of abilities when there is
no scope for them ? " was his impatient rejoinder,
which lost, however, some of its vehemence
from the fact of its being delivered under
his breath. " Heaven knows I have read
hard enough and perseveringly enough too ;
you don't know what it is to ask for work and
be denied it."

Whom have you asked ? " she inquired, ina
tone in which curiosity was not so distinctly
marked as a certain quiet irony.

Asked ? "Well, ODe can't go touting for
briefs like a commercial traveller," lie answered
angrily; "there is only one way, they tell
me, by wliicli a man can get on now at the
Bar who has no connection."

What is that ? "

'' He must marry an attorney's daughter !
You would not advise me to do that, I
suppose ? "

The last words were uttered in a very low
and gentle tone, and he cast a plaintive glance
at her as he awaited her reply, which did not
come immediately .

If I were in your place I would do anything,
anything, rather than live a life of idleness."

But how can I help being idle ? "

There was no answer save a little shrug of
the shoulders, but it was full of significance.

'' You despise me, Sissy ? '*'

'•' I despise all idle young men."

Her voice was steady, but her face was
deadly pale, and the hand which rested on
the rail in front of her trembled in its little
glove.

The vounor man flushed to his forehead, half

rose from his seat, and then sat clown again.
There was a crowd of people all around them,
and he could scarcely leave her there alone ;
they had no suspicion, of course, of what was
passing in his mind ; they thought he had
only risen to draw the coffee-cup which was
on the table nearer to him ; but his soul was
consumed with anger, and shame, and love.
It was a balcony scene of a very different
kind from the one in ' Romeo and Juliet.'

To taunt me with idleness. Sissy, when it
is no fault of mine," he muttered between his
teeth, "is most cruel and unkind."

Cruel if you will," she answered huskily
(turning on him a reproachful glance which
seemed to say, " Cruel, indeed, it is, but not
to you alone); '^ cruel if you will, but not
unkind, nay, 'cruel only to be kind'"

There was a long pause. The fairy fountain
rose and fell, and blushed and paled, and rose
and fell again ; the myriad lights twinkled
from the trees and from the sward, and from
the stream beneath them ; the music grew and
failed, and died and rose and died again, but of
none of these things did this unhappy pair

take note, but communed with their own sad
hearts in silence.

What would you have me do ? " at last
he murmured hoarsely.

"Your duty. Is it fitting, is it manly, that you
should ask a girl for counsel in such a matter ? "

Since you where so free with your blame, I
thought perhaps you might have some advice
to give me*' he answered reproachfully.

As to the blame, I beg pardon, I had no
right to blame you."

''Do not say that, dear Sissy, do not say
that,i'^he murmured pleadingly. '' Whatever
you tell me to do, I will do it."

That is to say, you would shift your
responsibilities to my shoulders," was the indignant
reply. " You are not a child, Arthur ;
you surely know what is right and what is
wronor without beings told."

But it is not a question of right only.
Listen to me, pray listen to me, Sissy," for she
had moved her head impatiently, " I have had
an appointment offered me in India, a very
small thing, but still something. Do you
know of it ? "

"Yes, I know of it."

"And yet you have never spoken of it tome?"


"Nor you to me."

Oil, but that is so different. If I accept
this appointment, which may or may not lead
to something better — something worth having
it cannot come for years."

"Does something worth having, a competence
I suppose you call it, generally come to
young gentlemen of twenty eight ? Or do
you think your merits demand the special
intervention of Providence in your favour ? "

But if I took this post should I not lose
you. Sissy ? "

I was not aware that you had ever won me."

That is true ; I have never dared to ask
you to be my wife. How could I, being
penniless ? "

How indeed ? "

Yet I love you with all my heart and
soul. I would give my life to make you
happy. To be with you, except for the thought
of parting from you, is Heaven itself; but
that thought is always intruding. I am like

one in a blissful dream, who is nevertheless
conscious that he is dreaming, and will sooner
or later awaken to misery. Even at my worst
when I am most despondent — I worship 3-011.

'The desire of the moth for the star,

Of the night for the morrow ;
The devotion of something afar
From the' sphere of my sorrow '

then fills all my being ; at my best — but that
is only dreaming."

The girl kept her face averted from her
lover, but she did not interrupt him ; once
she had striven to do so, but her tonoTie had
refused to do its office ; the temptation of
listening to those passionate words, it might
be for the last time, had been too strong for
her. She had suffered herself for the moment,
despite prudence and a fixed resolve to the
contrary, to be carried away by it. She was
greatly agitated. The rose in her bosom
shook and lost its petals ; they dropped upon
her lap, and one would have fluttered to the
ground, but her companion caught it unobserved.
Her eyes were wet with tears.

Sissy, dear' went on the young man in a

changed voice, *'I have done with protestations
; if you do not believe that I love you
truly, it is useless for me to say any more.
Only if you ask me why it is I have not gone
to India, it is because I felt that in so doing
I should be leaving you to another."

She shook her head decisively.

What ? " His face lit up with a brightness
no electric flame could rival. 'will you
promise that in my absence you will not
marry Mr. Dunlow ? "

I shall never marry Mr. Dunlow."

Thank Heaven for that." It was pretty
to see how, since the girl had said it, he took
her word as though the thing were an accomplished
fact. " And is it possible," he went
on breathlessly, " that for all that time — one
knows not how long it may be — you will wait
for me ? "

It was not because Cicely had not made up
her mind upon the matter that she hesitated
to reply. She was very much in love with
Arthur, but by no means prepared to cast all
prudence to the winds ; if once a promise
passed her lips, it became a law of her being,

which made her less hasty than some young
women can afford to be in saying " Yes."
Moreover, though she admired and respected
Arthur (for, indeed, she could not otherwise
have loved him), she had no great confidence
in the stability of his character. Under the
conditions of life to which he had been accustomed
there was no fault to find with him.
He was a wholesome-minded, generous, affectionate
young fellow. But to hard work,
discomfort, and self-dependence he had been
unaccustomed ; nor, though he had met with
ill-success, had he known what it was to suffer
from it materially.

That he had said nothing beyond the truth
when speaking of his devotion to her, she was
well convinced ; but she thought it possible,
nay, probable, that the thought of winning
her would not be able to support him under
circumstances such as he was only too likely
to meet with in the new life which had been
proposed to him. What if, after a year or
two, he should return to England, a failure, as
poor as ever, with even less hope of getting
on in his profession than at present, and yet

bound to marry a penniless girl. She was
thinking of him far more than of herself ; but
she thought of herself too — of the wreck that
would thus be made of both their lives. If
he succeeded, in however small a way, she
would be well content ; and however long a
time he took about it, she was willing to wait
for him. She knew herself to be true as steel.
But with that alternative of wretchedness for
both of them before her eyes, she was resolute
not to say "Yes." On the other hand, how
should she persuade him to take the only
course that offered for his good without giving
him the assurance of her fidelity.

You have not answered my question,
Sissy," resumed the young man importunately.
" I have told you how I love you ;
you have only to say one little word, and
from that moment I have something to live
for, something to hope for, something to work
for. I know it is very selfish of me to ask
you to say it, to ask you to wait for years —
perhaps for many years — for an absent man,
while your beauty fades (if, indeed, it can
ever fade) and your youth departs."

"It is not that'' she put in quickly.

Can it be, then, that you doubt me ? Oh,
Sissy, I will be faithful to you as long as I
live. I promise you before heaven "

Again she interrupted him with earnest
vehemence. *' I do not doubt you, Arthur,
but I will not accept your promise. I wish
you to be free. That must be our bargain,
if bargain there is to be between us. We

o

must both be free."

*' That is impossible, seeing one of us is
already bound," he answered, bitterly. *' I,
at least, am yours. I have sworn it."

Such a contract can hardly be binding,"
she went on, with a forced smile, *' without
the consent of both parties."

Then you, on your part, refuse to reciprocate
my trust ? "

"I did not say that. But I will make no
promise. We must both be free."

It was no wonder that he did not understand
her. We are not so unconscious of our
own weaknesses as it is the fashion to assert,
but we are often ignorant of how they strike

other people. He was quite willing to
VOL. I. c

undergo any inconveniences (and much more
than inconveniences) for any time, for his
love's sake, but he disliked the idea of going to
India for other reasons than that he had given
her, though that, it was true, was the chief
reason. Arthur Forester was a product (and
not a discreditable one) of culture and high
civilization, and he did not relish exile. Better
and higher natures than his own have not
shrunk from it, nor have thought of such an
exodus as exile at all, but from going to
India without the promise of his beloved
assured to him he did shrink. And yet he
was not angry with Sissy because she had not
given him her promise ; it was very difficult
for him to be angry with her under any circumstances,
and her assurance that she did
not intend to marry Mr. Dunlow had made
him very grateful to her. He was also
certain, it must be remembered, though she
had not said so in so many words, that she
loved him.

They sat in silence for many moments ;
presently Sissy exclaimed softly, " There is
godmamma." She drew back a little, not

wishing to be recognized, and pointed over
the balcony to an old lady going by on the
path below in an armchair. Arthur's eyes
listlessly followed the direction of her finger.

Is she not beautiful ? Is she not magnificent
? " asked Sissy with enthusiasm.

"She looks like a princess," assented the
young man.

Do you think so ? Now, if you knew all
that is very curious."

Indeed ! Is she really then a princess ? "

"Amonsf all the thousands that are in
these^gardens," said Sissy, ignoring this inquiry,
which indeed was put half in jest, and
still following the slow moving figure with
her eyes, " there is none whose history has
been such a romance as hers ; moreover she
is the best of women ; her whole life, which I
fear is fast coming to a close, is passed in
doings o-ood."

Quite a fairy godmother, in short," he
answered lightly. " Why have you never
told me about her ? What is her story ? "

At this simple question which followed so
naturally upon the conversation which had

C 2

preceded it, a change passed over the girl's
face. It brightened up, not exactly with
pleasure, but with the satisfaction that is
derived from the sense of a difficulty smoothed
away.

"Yes ; you shall know her story. That
is," she continued gravely, " if she will give
me permission to reveal it, for it is known
only to a very few."

Why not tell it me yourself ? If it is
a long one, so much the better. We will
come here every evening, and you shall goon
with it — this is the very place for it — like
Scheherazade in the ' Arabian Nights.' "

o

*' No. It is no tale to be listened to lightly,"
she answered with gravity; "you must read
it with care and lay it to heart. It contains
the only answer I can give you, Arthur, to the
question you put to me a few minutes ago."

Are you serious ? You may be sure that
not a S3^11able will escape my attention ; but
how shall I recognize your dear self in the story
of another ? I am not very good at a moral
lesson," he added deprecatingly, *' especially
if it takes the form of allegory."

"There is no allegory in godmamma's
story ; the lesson it teaches is simple enough,
and applies as much to me as to you."

He looked amazed and puzzled, as well he
might.

You must find the key of it for yourself.
See, the fountain has leaped its last ; we must
be going home."

Ah, if my home was but your home.
Sissy dear, will you not promise ? "

Xo ; I will not promise," she answered
firmly. " For both our sakes, Arthur, we
must be free."

The very next morning, for Miss Cicely was
prompt in all she did, there arrived a MS.
at Mr. Arthur Forester's chambers, in the
Temple. He received it, if not with the same
rapture, with as much excitement as though
it had been a brief; it was a lengthy document,
but occupied only a small space, being
written in a neat, but almost microscopic
hand. Scrupulously clean, it bore tokens of
much use, for it had had one constant reader ;
the same fingers had wrinkled it, the same
eyes had pored over it and watered it with

their tears, again and again. On the flap of
the envelope were written in Cicely's hand
these words, which might have been taken fora
motto, but which her lover recognized as a
personal monition.

I sympathize with her regrets."

A DISUNITED FAMILY.

Ox June the 13th, 1835, four persons were
breakfasting together in a private room at
the ' George Hotel,' Portsmouth. They were
a family party consisting of a gentleman and
three ladies. The former, Mr. Ernest Carbury,
was a person of some note in the city, and of
peculiar importance in the eyes of the East
India Company, which was in the last days of
its greatness. He had held more than one
high post in India, and was now, somewhat
to the astonishment of his friends, who had
assumed him to have shaken the pagoda tree
with sufficient skill upon previous occasions
to render further application to it unnecessary,
about to fill another. He was about sixty
years of age, short, but squarely built, with
a strong, intelligent face. His complexion,

naturally pale, had not been rendered swarthy
by the tropic sun to which it had been exposed,
and though his life had been by no
means devoid of action, he was of corpulent
habit, which added to the effect produced by
a pompous and dictatorial manner.

Miss Sophia, his sister and junior by five
years, resembled him in figure, though she was
much stouter, but in no other respects. Her
face was flat and florid ; she smiled whenever
there was an excuse for smiling. Her enemies
if she had any, which she had not — might
have said that this was to show her teeth,
which were very white and even ; but this
was not the case : she smiled from pure good
nature, and also sometimes to mitigate wrath.
Her manner was hesitating, especially when
addressing the head of the family ; the expression
of her countenance was weak and
indecisive, though by no means unpleasing.
It was whispered, but not widely believed,
that she had once been very good looking.
The other two members of the party belonged
to another generation. The elder of the two.
Miss Eleanor, Mr. Norbury's daughter, was

'ZO

twenty-four years of age ; she was tall and
slight and slim, and her complexion was
pasty, but, like her father's (though she, too,
had been to India), it had not been baked by
the sun. Her eyes were of pale blue, and
her manner for her age and sex exceedingly
undemonstrative. She was of a reserved
nature and spoke little, but when she did
it was to the point; she was one of those
conscientious people who do not allow even
their silence to be misunderstood.

Miss Edith, Mr. Carbury's niece, was five
years younger than her cousin, and, therefore,
two years short of beinor of aQ;e. Though she
was croino; to India, like her aunt, for the first
time, she was darker than her uncle and
cousin, who had lived there. Her complexion
was naturally very delicate, but not having
had a mother to look after it (for she had
been left an orphan at a very early age), it
had been somewhat bronzed by our summer
suns — a circumstance, however, which did not
prevent her being exceedingly comely. Her
eyes were gray, intermixed with hazel ; and
her hair, which was very luxuriant, was of a

deep brown. She had a fine colour and a
very charming figure. Her dress was far
simpler than that of her cousin, but very
becoming. Nobody, however (of the male
sex), could have thought of her dress while
looking at Edith Norbury, and if he did so, it
would only have been to make the general
but private observation, *' That girl would look
well in anything."

The expression of her changeful face was,
nevertheless, just now by no means joyous ;
she had a depressed air which struck one
as incongruous and unsuitable in her. This
depression was not unobserved by the others,
but except for an occasional squeeze of her
hand from Aunt Sophia when opportunity
offered itself for this expression of sympathy,
it was ignored. Mr. Norbury was reading his
newspaper to himself and the rest were silent.
The viands were plentiful, but it was an
uncomfortable and unsociable meal.

*the Ganges starts tomorrow morning at
daybreak," presently observed Mr. Norbury,
in loud, authoritative tones, like those of a
crier giving public notice. "As everything

has been satisfactorily arranged for us, there
will be no need for us to go on board till the
evening, in the cool."

The last words were suggested by his
tropical experience. It is natural to the
Anglo-Indian to do everything with reference
to the temperature ; but, as a matter of fact,
it was warm enough even at Portsmouth.

The His^h-street, on which the windows of
the ' George ' looked down, was baking hot :
the soldiers that passed in their stiff stocks and
close-fitting uniforms excited the pity of the
civiliansras the sailor with his loose and low-necked
garb aroused their envy. The trees on
the ramparts at the end of the street moved
not a leaf. The flags on the dwellings of the
great military and naval authorities clung to
their staffs as though they were themselves
in "office"; even the smaller bunting on the
ships in harbour, caught sight of here and
there through gaps in the houses or over their
roofs, had not a flutter in them. Distant
firing broke on the ear complainingly, as
though it were too hot for drill.

"It is really too warm to do anything,"

remarked Aunt Sophia, fanning her ample self
with a local guide-book.

*' I am going shopping," said Miss Eleanor.

This was not merely a reproof to laziness,
though the tone conveyed that moral lesson.
It had a much more direct significance ; it
implied that she must have a companion.

Would it not be better to wait till it
gets a little cooler, my dear ? " remarked Aunt
sophia.

No doubt ; only, unfortunately, it is a law
of nature that the higher the sun rises the
warmer it gets. As for me, I am not made
of sugar."

To judge by the tone in which she spoke,
she certainly was not.

Well, it is quite impossible that you can
walk out alone, my dear, in a place like this —
so military and naval," sighed Aunt Sophia.
She cast an appealing glance at Edith ; but
that young lady, who had already finished her
meal, which had been a very scanty one, and
was sitting pensively at an open window,
made no sign. It was probable she had not
even heard the conversation. Miss Eleanor

curled her lip, which was by nature straight
and very thin.

*' Come," she said, impatiently, ^' let us be
off."

The two ladies retired, and presently reappeared
with their bonnets on. Mr. Norbury
was still behind his paper, his niece still at
the window.

"You are not coming with us, Edie, I
suppose ? " said Aunt Sophia cheerfully. The
girl shook her head. " Well, I must say it is
rather warm for walking," as if in apology for
the other^^dumb refusal.

What nonsense ! " ejaculated Miss Eleanor.
If you think this warm, what will you think
of India ? "

I shall be dug out," said Aunt Sophia
prophetically. It was a phrase she always
used to express her feelings in a heated
atmosphere ; but she used it now with quite
pathetic despair. She looked forward to a
residence in the gorgeous East with the
utmost horror. " My dear," she had once
said to Edith in confidence, " I would rather
live in Whitechapel all my days than go to

India. I shall melt away there to nothing,
and you will have to remove the last of me
with brown paper and a hot iron." She was
serious, though she spoke in jest. '' Circumstances
over which she had no control," in
the personage of her brother Ernest, where
impelling her ; and in Edith's case she spoke
to sympathetic ears. Eleanor, on the other
hand, ridiculed her apprehensions. She could
hardly be said to make fun of them, for she
had not in her nature the materials for fun,
nor did she make light of them. On the
contrary, her humour was to exaggerate to
her aunt the disagreeable of life in India.
She discoursed upon the thug and the tiger
with affected familiarity, and raised the
temperature to imaginary degrees. As somebody
said of her who knew her well, Eleanor
Norbury had the grimness of a schoolboy
without his light heart.

Some minutes elapsed after the ladies had
departed, which were passed by the occupants
of the apartment in complete silence. Edith,
with her chin resting on her little hand, and
her elbow on the window ledge, sat deep in

thought and apparently unconscious of lier
companion's presence ; not so, however, Mr.
Korbuiy. He sat facing her with the newspaper
still before him, but ever and anon
over the eds^e of it, he shot a furtive g-lance
at his niece, which seemed to give him anything
but satisfaction. At last he rose, and
in a bland and studiously conciliatory voice,
observed, " Is your outfit complete ? Edith,
is there anything, any comfort or luxury,
which my forethought has not provided ?
There is plenty of time to rectify any such
omission, and if Portsmouth contains the
article or articles in question, I will make it
my business to procure them for you."

Thank you, uncle ; no, I have everything
I require." How feeble are words, as a vehicle
of expression, compared with the voice that
speaks them, or with the manner in which
they are delivered. Though the girl's reply
was a strictly accurate one, her meaning
seemed somehow the very reverse of that
which her speech conveyed. Mr. Norbury
looked at her steadily, as after a momentary
glance towards him, she had resumed her

former position, and with a heavy frown and
a smile that fitted it — took up his hat. " An
obstinate wench," he murmured to himself ashe
went down-stairs. " To have withstood
such an offer as that, which, as she knew,
must have comprehended a new bonnet at
least, and might even have run to jewellery,
shows in a woman quite an unparalleled
amount of pigheadedness. — Tush ! she's in
the sulks, that's what she's in. Well, well,
like Madeira she'll be better for going round
the Cape. A sea voyage and a couple of
years in India will wean her from her folly.
Absence makes the heart grow fonder, they
say. In that case, Mr. Charles Layton, she
will adore you, for I shall take care she never
sees your face again."

ox THE RAMPARTS.

As soon as Edith Norbuiy found herself
alone, she uttered a deep sigh of relief. The
temperature without and within was hotter
than ever, but the oppression which had
weighed upon her almost to suffocation was
withdrawn. For the first time since she had
left her room that morning she felt free to
look and move as she pleased. 'the breath
of man," science tells us, "is deadly to his
fellow-creatures ; " but hardly less so, under
certain circumstances, is his presence. In the
same room with her Uncle Ernest, Edith
Norbury experienced much the same sensations
as some very intelligent and bright-eyed
bird who finds himself in the same compartment
with a snake. Let him be ever so
fascinating in his manner, he would end, she

VOL. I. B

was convinced, by destroying lier. His flattering
speeches, his offers of costly gifts were
only so many acts of lubrication, intended to
make the swallowing her the easier. If
asked for an explanation of her apprehension,
she would have found it difficult to give one.
It was not Ernest Norbury's nature to be
demonstratively kind to any one, but to
Edith he had been always both generous and
gracious. He had put himself out of the way,
in fact, to be agreeable to her, nor was it his
fault so much as his misfortune that the effort
had been very perceptible. As a host — and
she had lived in his house for the three years
which had elapsed since her father's death had
left her orphaned — she had had nothing to
complain of him. His table was liberal ; his
carriage had been as much at her own service
as at that of his daughter, or of his sister,
who resided with him. As a kinsman, he not
only made no difference between those ladies
and herself, but made much more ' fuss ' with
her than with either of them ; his enemies
said because she was an heiress, but that
seemed hardly probable, since he was a man

of means himself, and had, therefore, not the
weighty reason for that worship of wealth in
another which bows down most heads so low.
In no domestic relation to her it was certain
could Uncle Ernest be considered as an ogre.
He was also, however, her guardian, and had
absolutely and decisively forbidden her to
marry the man of her choice.

For one of her age and sex Edith Norbury
had a strong sense of justice, and she sometimes
asked herself was it fair, for this one
action, cruel and unreasonable though it was
of him, that she should ignore all her uncle's
previous good conduct towards her, and impute
to him she scarce knew what, of evil, but
something which filled her involuntarily — nay,
against her will — with a vague loathing and
terror ? With Mr. Charles Layton, barrister-at-law,
she was without doubt very much in
love. Before she met him her later life, notwithstanding
she was still so young, had been
as a dull, monotonous sea, while ever since it
had been lit with smiles and sunshine ; and
now that his presence was forbidden it had
not only become dull again, but gray and cold,

D 2

without the least gleam of light in the horizon.
Uncle Ernest, doubtless, did not quite believe
that matters were so bad as this with her, but
she had done her best to convince him of it.
She had assured him with all the eloquence of
nature's pleading, that the happiness of her life
depended on her engagement, and he had been
deaf to her tears and prayers. He had given,
of course, his reasons, or rather his reason, for
his cruel conduct, and that had seemed to hera
wholly inadequate one.

Mr. Layton, he said, was a needy man,
whereas she was an heiress. He was making,
however, a gradually increasing income at
the law, and was certainly both diligent and
clever, and he had some expectations, though
of an uncertain kind. Under these circumstances
it had been infamous of Uncle Ernest
to call him an adventurer, yet that was the
term which, in a long and painful interview
with his niece, he had applied to her lover.
Perhaps this plain speaking, even more than
her uncle's bare refusal of her petition, was
at the bottom of her chant-ed feelings tov»^ards
him. The man who could call Charles Layton

an adventurer seemed to her capable of saying,
yes, and doing anything. Stung by indignation
and despair, she had told Uncle Ernest
that if his only objection to her marriage with
her lover was in truth disparity of fortune, he,
her guardian, might take her money for himself,
and then Charley would take her penniless
and prove that he was no adventurer.

This reasonable proposition, so far from
finding favour in Uncle Ernest's eyes, made
him what could only be described as furious.
He had not only looked and spoken as she had
never thought it possible he could look and
speak, but had somehow left behind him the
impression that he had shown her his true face,
with the mask oft, for the first time. From
that hour all confidence in Uncle Ernest was
gone, and even the grounds on which her confidence
in him had hitherto rested were gone
with it. She did not forget, of course, his
hospitality, nor the solicitude he had so long
exhibited for her welfare ; but they no longer
seemed to have been dictated by duty. It
was impossible, if he loved his dead brother ashe
had professed to do, that he could have

behaved as he had done to that dead brother's
child. That Edith's lather had nevertheless
believed that he had loved him was certain ;
he had not only left his whole fortune in trust
to him for her benefit, but her future until
she should come of age entirely in his hands.
He had the absolute disposal of her as regarded
her place of residence ; and this right he was
pushing to the uttermost by taking her with
him to India.

The reason of so much power being confided
in him was, unhappily, the very reason which
Uncle Ernest gave for his thus exporting her.
Her father had been afraid that his daughter's
fortune would attract adventurers ; and had,
therefore, armed her guardian with every
weapon to defend her against them. He
would have made her a ward in Chancery,
but that he believed in his brother's judgment
more than in that of the law ; nor, finally, had
he been content with even these measures of
precaution. Like one who keeps fast his
prisoner with bolt and bar, and also puts him
on his honour, her father had besought her to
look on her uncle as a second parent, and even

obtained a promise from her as he lay dying,
that she would comport herself in all things
to his brother Ernest's will ; and this was the
bond that formed her firmest fetter. The Ev.
John Norbury, Rector of Instead and Canon
of Domineer, had never been suspected of
being a saint, but neither was he a man of the
world, in any sense. As the elder son of a
wealthy father he had been always prosperous,
quite independent of his Church preferment.
His money had come to him not only without
effort, but^without even the full knowledge of
how it came. Business would have been distasteful
to him, no doubt, had he had any
experience of it ; but he had none. His
younger brother, on the other hand, had
shown great capacity for it, and the Canon
had admired him accordingly, as we are apt
to admire our own flesh and blood who distinguish
themselves in matters out of our
line. It was upon the whole no wonder that
the Canon, in leaving this life, had confided
his daughter and her affairs so absolutely to
his brother's care. Filial love prevented her
from resenting' this fact, however much she

regretted it, and she felt that however mistaken
he had been, he had done his best for
her. But she did resent her uncle's conduct
above measure, and while bowing to his
authority for the sake of him who had delegated
it, she felt that he had grossly abused it.

To take her to India with him, not, as she
was well convinced, because it was necessary
or because he could not have safely bestowed
her at home, but merely to separate
her effectually from the man she loved, was
an outrage.

Such was Edith Norbury's position as regarded
her Uncle Ernest — a state of things
so grievous and intolerable that it made all
other matters almost indifferent to her. Her
relations with her cousin Eleanor were by no
means what she would have wished them to
be; but they had suffered no change, as in
her uncle's case, from good to ill. They had
always been more or less uncomfortable —
what diplomatists call * strained.' The cause
of this was not very explicable to her. She
was loth to accuse her cousin of jealousy, but
she had certainly seemed to dislike the consideration

with which her uncle had treated
her. Eleanor would fain at first have given
herself the airs of an elder sister, and when
her efforts in that direction were put down by
her parent with a strong hand, their failure
seemed to embitter her against her. Of late,
she had by no means insisted upon this superiority
of age, but had resented the attentions
paid to Edith by their common friends,
not hesitating to hint that they were the
result of her wealth rather than her merit.
But where Edith felt her conduct the most
keenly was with regard to Mr. Layton, of
whom she knew Eleanor entertained a far
better opinion than her father, and yet had
taken the latter's part in the controversy concerning
the young man. At one time, unconscious
of the pleasure her praise had given
Edith, she had praised him to her exceedingly
; but since he had declared his love for
her cousin, she had set herself against him.
When reminded of her approval of him, she
did not deny it ; and even confessed that it
was his very desire to ally himself with Edith
that set her against him. ^' He has no self-respect,"

lie said ; " no man with proper
pride, being in comparatively narrow circumstances,
would aspire to the hand of one so
wealthy as yourself, even if he really loved
you." The poisonous sting in the tail of that
speech was too much for Edith ; she could not
trust herself to reply to it, and from the
moment it was uttered, she felt that all which
constitutes true friendship between her and
her cousin was dead, if, indeed, it ever had
an existence. Even Aunt Sophia, slow as she
was to speak up, or out, about anything, when
she heard those cruel words, had cried, " For
shame, Eleanor ! " but her niece had only
added, '' I was asked my opinion, and I have
given it."

And it was with this girl for her companion,
and with Ernest Norbury as her host
and master, that Edith was about to embark
for India, for a residence of at least two
years. Was ever heiress in so sad a plight ?
Most girls went to India in search of a suitor
the motive, perhaps, which caused her
cousin Eleanor to regard their exodus with
such complacency — but she was about to be

carried tatler avowedly to escape from one.
What pressure, it was only too probable,
would be put upon her in the mean time !
What efforts would be made to detach her
from her lover ; what risks lay even in the
chapter of accidents extending over so long
a period ; and at the best, how unhappy
among such domestic surroundings must be
her sojourn in a foreign land !

Portsmouth, or rather its next-door neighbour,
Southey, was not unknown to Edith

Norbury. It was not far from Instead, and

had been a favourite resort of the Canon's in
the summer months. As a child she had played
under those very trees upon the grassy rampart
which she now beheld from the hotel
window. It had been her custom, or her
nurse's custom, to see the evening gun fired
from the neighbouring bastion. The fancy
seized her to revisit these spots once more.
That Uncle Ernest would not approve of it
was certain. He disliked her going anywhere
unaccompanied by Eleanor or Aunt Sophia ;
but her apprehension of incurring his displeasure
was not just now very keen — it is

even doubtful whether it did not give her
some zest for the enterprise.

She put on her bonnet and started at once,
for there was no knowing when her guardian
might return. As for Eleanor, she had gone
shopping, and for her last day's shopping ;
and, notwithstanding the heat of the weather,
her absence might be counted upon up to
luncheon time at least. On the ramparts it
was by comparison cool, but not a soul had
sought their shade but herself. I have been
told by competent authorities that Portsmouth
is the best defended town, independent of
natural position, in Europe ; but at the date
of our story the Portsdown lines did not exist,
save perhaps in the brain of some engineer,
importuning, and importuning in vain, an incredulous
War Office. The old ramparts only,
with their deep fosses, were there ; the drawbridges,
the moats, the-sluices, the subterranean
footways, cunningly devised to interpose
by serpentine windings the massive earth
to the progress of the cannon-ball. All these
things were familiar to Edith. The sentries
pacing here and there in the distance, the

soldiers at drill on the Common, or guarding
with flashing bayonets the drab-clothed convicts
at their spade-work — all looked as it
had looked to her in the old days. She
thought she could discern the very house in
the old-fashioned Jubilee-Terrace where they
used to lodo'e. As nature knows no change,
whatever happens to us mortals, so it seemed
that human affairs here went on like clockwork,
no matter who lived or died. How
often, with her father's hand tight clasped in
hers, had she listened to the same dropping
fire of musketry that now met her ear ; how
often gazed at those truculent offenders in
drab, half in pity, half in fear. The Canon
had known all the authorities ; she had sat
with him in the Governor's pew in the garrison
chapel, amid a blue and scarlet congregation,
the movements of the service accompanied,
to her delight and awe, with jingling
of spurs and rattling of scabbards. She had
played with the sword-knots of old generals,
and with the cocked hats of admirals of the
red, white, and blue. Often had her father
taken her up the harbour in some ten-oared

galley, lent to him by the high officials in
the dockyard, to visit the Victory, where
Nelson died, or the biscuit manufactory which
supplied the navy, but had always one to
spare, a very hot and hard one, for her dainty
teeth ; or Dorchester Castle, where the French
prisoners were confined in the great war.

She seemed to hear once more the measured
beat of the oars, and the shrill notes of command
of the little midshipmen who accompanied
them. Yet how long ago it seemed,
nevertheless, now dear papa was dead. In
those days she had thought it a dreadful
thing to die, but now it almost seemed to
her a more dreadful thing to live. To dwell
in exile far from home, and separated from
the only being she loved, was indeed a cruel
fate. Walking very slowly, and musing in
this sad fashion as she walked, she came
presently to her old friend, the evening gun,
now free from its little ring of spectators.
One individual only was standing near it —
a bearded gentleman, apparently an invalid,
for, in spite of the heat, he wore a cloak.
He had climbed the parapet, and was gazing

through a spy-glass out on SjDitliead, where
the Ganges, as her uncle had informed her
(indeed, it was the only vessel there), was
lying at anchor. She gazed at it, too, through
the embrasure with sorrowful eyes and a sinking
heart. That, then, was to be her floating
for three months, after which she was
to be a captive and an exile for nearly two
years more on shore, hundreds of miles from
Charley. She was so buried in these sad
reflections that she did not notice that the
stranger had slid ofi* the parapet and approached
her. He was a young man, very good-looking,
and, if an invalid, showed no traces of it in
his face. His hair was brown and curling;, his
gray eyes were large and soft, but with plenty
of intelligence in them ; he had no whiskers
•or moustache, which, perhaps, caused his beard
to misbecome him — it somehow looked as if it
ouQ-ht to belong: to an older man.

K you are trying to make out the Ganges''
he said, in low, respectful tones, " perhaps you
would like to use my glass." At the sound of
his voice Edith turned round and started —
nay, trembled in every limb. Her nerves,

ordinarily strong enough, had been sorely
tried of late, and her thoughts, fixed upon one
object, took unconsciously a colour from it,
which affected all around her. She felt it was
but fancy, yet there was something in the
stranger's tone that reminded her of one who
was no stranger, and which made her whole
soul vibrate. Unable to acknowledge his
courtesy even by a word, she gazed at him
with intense amazement. As if understanding
the cause of her perplexity, he smiled a reassuring
smile. " The hair," he said, " is the
hair of Esau, but the voice is the voice of
Jacob," and with his left hand he gave a tug
at his beard, and off it came. The girl uttered
a cry of delight. " Oh, Charley, Charley ! is
it Charley?"

I think it is ; it seems so, doesn't it ? " he
answered, with a tender smile, as he clasped
her in his arms. '^ I thought I would just
come and say good-bye."

FAREWELL.'

You darling ! you darling ! Let me go,
Charley ; the sentinel has his eye upon us."

Quite right ; his business is to see that weare
not interrupted. His orders are to shoot
all who have not the password — ' Faithful and
True.' "

Oh, Charley, suppose my uncle should
come by," she murmured timorously.

Then the sentry has orders to fire low.
No, my darling ; your uncle has gone to the
dockyard. I have just met him with his
business face on. He believes I am still in
Derbyshire."

How good of you to come so far just for
one last word from my lips, and " — here she
smiled in the slyest and most bewitching
manner conceivable — " and, the other thing."

VOL. I. E

I would have gone round the world for
it' he murmured simply.

But how did you know you would meet
me here ? "

I did not know ; I only hoped. You told
me that you used to love the old ramparts, so
I guessed that you would revisit them if you
could, and alone. Fortune, you see, has at
last begun to favour us. Perhaps she will do
more."

Oh no, oh no ! " moaned the poor girl
bitterly ; " she is against us. Even in sending
you here — do not think me ungrateful,
Charley — but even in that she is not kind.
All that terrible farewell has now to come over
again. I don't think I can bear it, Charley ;
my heart will break." Her pretty face, looking
up into his with hopeless yearning, looked
piteous and pathetic indeed. '* Oh, Charley,
to part, to part, and not to meet again for
two long years. In that time you will have
forgotten your poor Edie."

He smiled and shook his head incredulously,
but it was evidently an effort to him to smile.
The spectacle of her despair was terrible to him.

Of course, there is a short way out of all
this, Edie," he said gravely, " and it is selfish
of me not to take it. I could take you away
with me to my sister's house, and before a
month was over could call you my lawful wife.
I need not say how happy, beyond all dreams
of happiness, that would make me, and yet,
as I have said, it is selfishness that prevents
me. You are not of age, and, though I am
well convinced you know your own mind
upon the matter, others will not think so. It
will be said.4hat I took advantage of your youth
and inexperience to get your money when
you come of age. Your uncle will say, ' Did I
not always tell you he was an adventurer?'
and the world will believe him. In two years'
time I hope to be in a better position as to
means. There will, at all events, be then no
such great disparity between us, and I need
not say that all you have will be made your
own, as surely as lawyers can make it. I know,"
he went on, in answer to her gesture of impatience,
" that nothing of this seems to you of
importance, but I must keep my honour untarnished
for your sake. Then, again, there is

E 2

vNiVERSfn Of

your promise to your father, to obey your
uncle in all things till you come of age. He
obtained it, as I believe, under a false impression
of his brother's character, and, was it
possible for him to do so, he would now release
you from it gladly. Still, you gave it him."

On his death-bed," murmured the girl
solemnly.

"Yes ; that, of course, in your eyes makes
it the more binding. Would it be right, I
ask myself, to persuade you to set that sacred
promise at naught, even to make you happy —
to save you from what I know must seem
unmitigated wretchedness for two long years ?
I ask this, I say, of myself, and not of you.
It would be cruel and cowardly to put the
burthen of reply upon my darling."

Nevertheless, dear, let me answer for
myself," she put in gravely. " You are right,
Charley ; I felt it in my heart — no, not in my
heart. My heart, Heaven help me, is pleading
the other way "

And mine, Heaven knows ! — and mine,"
he cried passionately. " Oh ! do not let us
talk of it, or all is lost."

Once more he took her in his arms and
clasped her close. It was a dangerous moment.
He felt the " Let us fly ! " rising to his lips,
and well understood that if once they passed
them she would not — could not — deny him.
Love was strong in him, but duty, or what he
deemed was duty, was stronger. The kiss he
pressed upon her mouth, and which almost
ruined all, was the seal of victory. Having
gained it, he would fain have made no more
allusion to what it had cost him, nor retraced
one step of that perilous way. Man-like he
would have extracted his full of joy from the
passing moment without a thought of the
bitterness beyond ; but with the girl it was
different. Though she had made up her mind
to bear them, she could not dismiss the
miseries of the solitary and sunless future.

Two years — two years," she murmured ;
''' between now and then what may not
happen, Charley ? "

"To be sure, what may not ? " he replied,
cheerfully, purposely mistaking her meaning.
There is no knowing what may turn up to
our advantage. Perhaps before twenty-four

hours are over our heads the sky may
clear."

How can it clear, Charley ? In twenty-four
hours there will be leagues of sea between
us, and with every succeeding hour more
leagues. It is dreadful, it is horrible ! " She
shuddered and shut her eyes,' as though the
outlook she pictured was of a physical kind.
He regarded her with a hesitating look, as
though he had something to tell her, but
doubted whether it would be wise to reveal it.
*two years," she went on ; " we may both be
dead, or, worse, one of us may be dead."

Faithful and true, living or dead," he
murmured, smiling It was the refrain of a
song they used to sing together, and at the
well-known words she smiled upon him with
ineffable tenderness.

I shall remember that, be sure," she said.
I shall be yours, and yours only, whether
you live or die, until my life's end."

'' And I yours, Edie. But I say again let
us hope for the best. I know what you are
thinking — that line wee used to read together,
describing the vain and commonplace

attempts at consolation, 'And vacant chaff
well meant for grain Yet perhaps there
may be some grain of hope for us."

"Of hope ? '' she put in eagerly. " Then
you have some plan, some scheme. Oh,
Charley, do not hide it from me. Give me
some crumb of comfort."

A look of alarm had crossed his face at her
first words, but before she had done he had
regained his composure. " Well, well, since
you insist upon my telling it you — though the
whole thin is uncertain and in the clouds —
the fact is, my cousin, the Attorney-general,
may possibly give me some work to do in
Calcutta, which, though of a temporary kind,
will be a good excuse for my coming out to
India and seeing how you are going on."

Oh, my darling, how delightful ! But
why have you kept this from me ? "

Well, for one thing, as I say, because the
matter was not quite settled."

Then it is settled now. It is not in the
clouds," she exclaimed, rapturously. " Oh !
when shall you be coming ? If I only knew
the date, that will be something; to live for

and to look forward to, to cast its sunshine
through the mist and gloom of my existence."

"It is the shadow, and not the sunshine,
that projects itself in that way, my darling,"
lie answered, smiling, " but you must really
not be so excited about it. That was one of
the reasons which prevented my disclosing
my little secret to you. I was afraid that
you would build too much upon it, and show
it by your manner. It would never do for
Uncle Ernest to suspect just yet that I had
any such plan in view. You must not suddenly
throw off your woes, remember."

Throw off my woes, Charley," she murmured
reproachfully. " How little you guess
their weight. It is true that what you have
told me is a gleam of sunshine ; nay, for
I must not be ungrateful, it gladdens my
heart to its very core, but there is no fear
of my spirits being too high. And when
may I expect you ? When do you sail from
England ? " she added, with access of interest
that hardly fitted with the depression she
had striven to paint. Again that look of
alarm came over the young man's features,

but this time accompanied by one of self-reproach.


Perhaps in a year's time," he said deliberately
; then, as her face fell from expectation
to extreme despondency, he added, " Or perhaps
even earlier."

*' In a year's time," she murmured like
a melancholy but distant echo. " Great
Heavens ! what a year it will be ! '^

Now, really, Edie, this is not being grateful'"
he remonstrated, '' nor even reasonable.
One-half of the time of our probation has
suddenly been lopped away, and your face is
no brighter for it."

Because all that makes it bright is about
to leave it," she answered simply. '' We
have been here — I know not how long, but
it seems a moment — it may be hours. If my
uncle returns and finds me from home, or what
he calls home, he will be full of suspicion."

You are right, my darling, as }'ou always
are. It is most important that he should
suspect nothing. Now one more kiss, and
then farewell."

A long farewell," she moaned despairingly.

Perhaps not so long as we think," he
answered cheerfully.

Good-bye, sweetheart, good-bye."
He disenoraojed himself from her clino:inor
arms with an effort, pressed his lips to her
forehead, and walked quickly away. He did
not even turn his head, and her woman's instinct
guessed the reason. He had already put
his beard on, and he did not wish that her last
look should not remind her of himself. As
she gazed after his retreating form her tears
beo-an to fall for the first time. While he had
been with her she could not afford to waste
her time, and dim with weeping the sight
that he would gladden no more. She watched
him till he disappeared down the neighbouring
bastion into the parade ground, then slowly
and sadly retraced her steps to the hotel.
The cloud upon her spirits that had lifted a
little, descended again ; the pain of parting
with her lover had, at all events for the
present, done away with his good news. There
was no fear of Uncle Ernest suspecting a hitch
in his plans from any alteration in his unhappy
niece's manner.

ox BOARD.

There is nothing that shows the amazing
adaptability of the human mind to changed
conditions more than the philosophy with
which it accepts life on board ship. The
adaptability of the body is generally, it is true,
even greater, but in this particular case the
body, or a very important part of it, is, strange
to say, conservative. It resents the change
from land to sea exceedingly. How any civilized
being, much more one brought up, as the
saying goes, "in the lap of luxury," can
voluntarily and with a light heart exchange
terra firnia, with its safety and its comforts,,
for the horrors of the heaving deep, is simply
inexplicable. Even Dr. Johnson, who was not
very particular, expresses a natural loathing

lit marine arrangements. In his time, indeed,
passenger vessels were very different from
what they are now, or even from what they
were at the date of our story. But accepting:
all the modern rubbish about 'floating
palaces ' and exquisite viands (which, nevertheless,
all taste as if they had been boiled in
the same cloth), and substituting ' bowers ' forbad
berths, the fact still remains that one is
cabinet, cribbed, confined" in a manner
that one would not put up with for twenty-four
hours, much more for whole weeks at a
time, on shore. I say nothing about being
shaken about with such violence as iu any
respectable city in the world not visited by
an earthquake would ensure for the victim the
protection of the police, nor of being the spectator
of such behaviour in one's fellow-creatures
as is never seen out of a hospital or spoken of
in decent society. I leave out of the question
the almost incredible fact that persons who
can afford to escape it — not by the sacrifice of
half their fortune, as one would suppose they
would gladly do, but by the payment of a few
extra pounds — will even submit to live in

the same cabin — a dog-kennel — with a poor
wretch thus afflicted for many days and nights,
whereas, if you made any such proposition
to them as regards travelling by land, they
would take it as an insult, and knock you
down. Apart from these unspeakable horrors,
the difference between life on sea and life
on shore is enormous — far greater than that
between poverty and riches, or between sickness
and health upon the same plane ; and
though, of course, some people absolutely like
a sea voyage, as there are others who like
interior in the Arctic regions or climbing;
hills, the comparative indifference with which
the general public exchange the one for the
other is a proof of the fitness of the human
soul for any fate.

To do her justice, Miss Eleanor Carbury
was not in this respect to be mentioned among
the common herd. Though it was not the
first time she had gone by ship to India, she
looked forward to the voyage on board the
Ganges with anything but pleasure. She knew
what the comforts of a cabin and the pleasures
of a cuddy were even in calm weather.

She had had enough of action and of motion, she
Rolled to larboard, rolled to starboard, when the surge
was seething free,"

and had she been left to her own choice,
she would have rocked on ' C ' sprigs in her
carriage. She did not deceive herself with
any of the smooth commonplaces about 'freedom
of life at sea." She called it the freedom
of a hencoop, and she did not deceive other
people. Indeed, in describing how matters
would be to her fellow-voyagers who had not
had her experience, she drew them — doubtless
with good intentions, and to prevent
unreasonable expectations — even worse than
they were — " dipped her pencil in the hues
of eclipse." The consequence of which was,
that poor Aunt Sophia was half dead with
fright before she left the packet-boat that
took them out in the evening over a glassy
sea to the Ganges. In Edith's case the evil
auguries of her cousin fell upon deaf ears.
When we are in sorrow we are more adaptable
than ever, because we care little what
becomes of us. The troubles of the mind,
save in the case of acute physical pain, override

and obliterate those of the body, and
much more the apprehension of them. The
little party were received on board with very
unusual marks of respect ; for Mr. Norbury's
position " in the company " was well known.
He had made special application to go by the
Ganges, which, as a rule, carried no passengers
at all ; and every arrangement had been made
for his comfort and convenience. Captain
Head, a florid, resolute-looking man, with
iron-gray hair, and quiet, intelligent eyes,
welcomed them in person. " I trust," he said,
**Mr. Norbury, that your party will find
everything to their satisfaction ; we have no
other ladies on board to divide our attentions
with them."

No other ladies, you say," answered the
other quickly; ''no other gentlemen either, I
hope. I thought that had been understood at
the India House."

The captain shrugged his shoulders and
smiled, but not in a very conciliatory manner.
He did not like his passenger's tone. "I
know nothing of any arrangement outside my
ship," he said, with an emphasis that implied

that over all inside he was master, and not
to be dictated to even by a member of the
council. 'there are two gentlemen only
with as beside yourself."

It's no matter," says Mr. Norbury, loftily,
to which the captain replied with another smile
that seemed to suggest that it was no matter
whether it mattered to Mr. Norbury or not.

Then he turned to the ladies, whom he had
already respectfully saluted, and addressed
to them a few words of genial courtesy.
They were uttered with the simplicity and
frankness of a sailor, but not without a certain
dignity. The captain of an Indiamen in those
days was in a position little inferior to that of
a man-of-war, which, indeed, the Ganrjcs herself
mio'ht also have been termed. She carried
guns, was of 600 tons burthen, and was
manned by a crew of nearly 100 men. His
manner impressed the ladies very differently.
Miss Eleanor thought it was familiar, and
even impertinent. Those domineering airs
that belong to most Europeans who have lived
in the East, and which, even in England,
remain at the best dormant, had revived

within lier. She looked upon the captain as
xxn uncovenanted person. Aunt Sophia, on
the other hand, dazzled by his uniform, and
charmed by this politeness, felt as though she
was being patronized by royalty. His resolute
countenance gave her confidence ; the sword
by his side seemed to be a guarantee against
pirates, a danger which had presented itself
to her mind in vivid colours.

Edith, whose beautiful Jut melancholy face
had evidently awakened his interest, was
greatly pleased with the captain. She recognized
something paternal and benevolent
about him, which she had been far from anticipating,
and which seemed to whisper to her,
This man will be my friend."

The officers of the ship were then introduced
to the party. The first mate, Mr.
Marston, a gentleman of thirty-five or so, and
already inclining to baldness, tall, very polite,
but rather prim.

Mr. Eedmayne, the second mate, a young
fellow of five-and-tweuty, but looking even
younger, very handsome, but rather shy.
Mr. Bates, the third mate, much older than

VOL. I. F

the other two, a squat, powerfully-built man,
marked with small-pox, and not looking like
a gentleman at all.

Mr. Doyle, the surgeon, a jovial, middle-aged
Irishman, with eyes sparkling with good
humour, and a mouth which, even when not
smiling, seemed always about to smile.

At supper the little party was joined by
oue of the gentleman passengers — Mr. Ains-worth,
a clergyman ; a stout, pale, elderly
man, with a face totally hairless, but with the
expression of a sheep. Without an invitation,
he favoured the company with a long, extempore
grace, during the delivery of which Mr.
Norbury's face was a study. " Who the deuce is
he ? " he whispered indignantly to the captain ;
'not one of the company's chaplains, surely."

I think not ; he is a protege of the secretary.
You know his leaning. I believe he
is a missionary ; an inoffensive man enough."

But that is just what he isn't," put in Mr.
Norbury ; "he is most offensive. The idea
of an uncovenanted minister volunteering
grace — and such a grace."

Just so. He did it at dinner. He calls

it asking a blessing. I must take an opportunity
of telling him that I am chaplain onboard
my own ship. He won't do it again
for some time, however, if I am not mistaken.
It is comines on to blow, and gentlemen of
that complexion and habit of body — eh ? "

I hope so, indeed," said Mr. Norbury,
piously. At present, at all events, Mr. Ains-worth
was in possession of his health and full
flow of conversation, which, however, he
addressed mostly to the ladies. He gave his
especial attention — as was right and proper —
to the eldest of the three ; but it was but
indifferently reciprocated. Aunt Sophia's mind
was too much preoccupied with the novelty
of her situation, her forebodings as to what
was to happen when the ship began to move
for it was at present at anchor and almost
motionless — to listen to conversation, however
edifying. Her attempts to do so were quite
lamentable.

"The whole question of the lost tribes,"
Mr. Ainsworth was remarking, after a long
dissertation on the subject, "is intensely interesting.
AYhat do you think. Miss Norbury ? "

F 2

No doubt. Do you think they were lost
going out to India ? " hazarded Aunt Sophia.

Edith, compelled to smile in spite of her
troubles, had to explain that her relative was
very nervous and apprehensive about the sea.

It was the captain's advice that the ladies
should retire to their cabins before they began
the voyage. " What do you say, Mr. Doyle ? "
he inquired, referring to the scientific authority.

I say, ditto, sir," returned the other, with
a rich Irish accent. " I wish I could tell
them, as the nurses tell the children — ' Pretty
dears, you will sleep without rocking.' But
as that's impossible, it's better to sleep before
the rocking begins."

Aunt Sophia rose immediately, with a pale
face, to act upon the prescription at once ; and
Eleanor also withdrew to her cabin. Edith
asked permission of the captain to go on deck.

"The deck is yours, madam," was the
gallant reply, "but I am afraid you will
find us just for to-night in a sad state of
confusion."

Edith had an idea that her uncle had made
an objection, which was overruled. The captain

gave her this arm up the cuddy stairs.
Mr. Eedmayne followed with rugs ; Mr. Doyle
with a footstool. Doubtless had not the first
and third mates been on duty they would
have also volunteered their services. In two
minutes she found herself in a comfortable
armchair on deck, watching the preparations
for departure, and won for the moment from
the contemplation of her woes by the novelty
and strangeness of the scene. There was a
pilot on the poop, who roared out to the
chief mate^4iat he had to say, like a candidate
on a platform bent on making himself
heard by the very last man on the skirts of
his audience ; the prim and polite chief mate,
transformed into an angry brawler, repeated
his orders to the boatswain ; and the boatswain,
iu censed, as it seemed, at receiving
them second hand, addressed the same inflammatory
lang-uagje, but with even greater
emphasis, to the crew. Then there was a
shuffling of naked feet upon the deck, and
a number of men seized each a bar of wood
and stuck them into the capstan, and then
standing between the spokes and leaning upon

them with heavy hands and brawny chests,
seemed suddenly turned to stone. If an enchanter's
wand had been waved which had
chanted tumult to silence, and action to
tranquillity, the transformation could not
have been more complete. Then piercing the
silence came the shrill note of a fiddle, and
keeping time with their feet to its air, the
sailors began to stamp and tramp round the
capstan, which, with shriek on shriek, protested
against the outrage, till the anchor
swung at the bows. Then the ropes began
to rattle and the great sails to flap, and fill
and strain above, and the waves, as the huge
ship cut her way through them, to swirl, and
hiss, and foam below.

Under any circumstances, the girl's mind
would have been filled with the interest and
excitement of the scene, which, even as it was,
she could not watch unmoved ; but when the
tumult was over, and the big ship began to
speed upon her way before the freshening
breeze, and the ' Fair Island,' looking doubly
fair in the calm moonlight, to fade upon her
sight, the thoughts which had been always

present, like a dark undercurrent in a shallow
lake, of what she was leaving behind her,
began to gather strength and volume ; her
hands dropped on her lap and her eyes filled
with tears. Had any one on board that teeming
ship such cause for sorrow as she ? Others,
indeed, had parted with those dearest to them,
but it was not for years ; after the voyage
out and home they would see them again ;
and in any case it was their business to be
going out. But she had no business. She
was going into unnecessary exile — the victim
of mere cruelty and caprice.

'rit is getting late, Edith; it is time you
went to your cabin." It was her uncle's voice
which thus addressed her, in cold and authoritative
tones — more authoritative, nay even
dictatorial, she thought, than he had ever
used to her.

Thank you ; no, I prefer the deck at
present." Her spirit was roused. She had
obeyed him in grave matters, and brought
wretchedness upon herself in so doing ; she
was not going to submit to petty tyranny.

He removed the cisfar he was smokiiigf

from his mouth, and looked at her attentively.
She returned his glance with equal
steadiness.

You do not seem to me to be in a riorht
frame of mind," he said.

"It is possible you may not be best judge
of that," was her quiet reply.

I am the best judge at all events of what
is the best course, and the only course for you
to take, Miss Edith, and that is — Submission."

Heaven knows, I have submitted," exclaimed
the girl with a gesture of despair,
too far, too far."

In the letter," he said, ignoring those last
words of hers, " but not in the spirit. I have
watched you very narrowly since — since you
have been in possession of my sentiments
with regard to a certain subject ; and I see
you still hanker after the forbidden thing.
Now, pray understand once and for all, that
you will never get it. I may have had some
difficulty — there is no harm in confessing it
now — in making; matters safe while we were
on shore and in England. I could not well
have locked you up, and your attractions

might well have tempted your needy lover to
some l3old stroke."

''He is a man of honour," said Edith
haughtily. For the moment she felt inclined
to tell him that that very day would have
given her her freedom but for that fact.

Mr. Norbury shruo^aed his shoulders.

Unhappily, he is also a man of straw,
which is a fatal objection to him. That you
have seen the last of him is quite certain.
I dare say you thouodit it strange that I
objected toe-your maid coming with you.
Shall I tell you the reason ? "

The matter is no longer of anv consequence,"
she answered indifferently. " I suppose
it was for cheapness."

Under his shaggy eyebrows his eyes flashed
fire.

"That is an insult. You know very well that
that is not my way ; I have denied you nothing
that money can purchase, unless, indeed,
the gentleman upon whom you are wasting
your affections comes under that head."

She had been about to apologize to him for
her uncalled-for sarcasm, but that sneer on

his part froze every impulse of conciliation and
left lier marble.

''No, miss, I dismissed your maid because I
knew that persons in lier rank of life ignore all
disparities in love-making — save that of years
and sympathize — '^

"I do not take counsel of my lady's maid,
Uncle Ernest," interrupted the girl with spirit.

I am glad to hear it. But, at all events,
her presence would have had associations for
you which would have been mischievous. It
was for that reason and for your sake that I
left her behind. I exhort and entreat you
now, for your own sake, to cease from vain
regrets. The last straw that bound you to
that unworthy young man has now, believe
me, been severed."

It will hold as long as life holds," she
answered firmly.

I have been very patient with you, hitherto,
Edith. I have made allowance for your inexperience
and impulsive nature ; but you may
try me too far. I am your uncle, but remember
that I am also your guardian."

I know it well," she answered bitterly.

*you have taken advantage of your position
to the uttermost."

What do you mean ? " he cried, fire again
flashing from his eyes. "Do you dare to

impute " he stopped, his passion arrested

by her look of wonder. " It was very unpleasant
to me to exert my authority," he
added quietly, "but I did my duty."

And I mine," she said. " AYhat more is
it you ask of me ? "

Mr. Lay ton's letters — you have four of
them, I know. I don't want to read them, of
course ; but I must see them destroyed with
my own eyes."

That you never shall. I will die first."

Then you will die soon, for I will have
them within twenty-four hours." With that
he turned on his heel and left her very
terrified but not subdued. She did not dislike
him, perhaps, more than she had done of late,
but she was more afraid of him. She had
known that he had an iron hand, but she had
never seen it without the velvet glove before.

THE PASSENGER.

Edith obeyed her uncle in one thing at once ;
she ran down to her cabin. Those letters he
had spoken of were there, and though an hour
ag-o such an idea would never have entered her
mind, she thought him quite capable of possessing
himself of them by fraud or even force.
That she possessed some correspondence of her
lover's was natural enough for him to take for
granted, but how had he come to know that
she had had four letters — exactly four ? Nobody
knew it, as she had thought, except herself
; nobody to her knowledge had even seen
them. They were kept in a secret place ; she
had often read them, it was true, but only
when she was alone. She tried to think
whether she had ever been interrupted in that
occupation. She had a vague idea that on one
occasion this had occurred, but she could not

recall by whom. It must have been by one of
three persons only, her maid Salina, her cousin
Eleanor, or Aunt Sophia. Salina, she felt sure,
would never have revealed the fact, for she
sympathized heart and soul with her young
mistress ; so far her uncle had been right.
Aunt Sophia was equally to be trusted, not
because she was a partisan, for she was not ;
though she pitied her sorrows, she had scrupulously
avoided taking sides with her, and she
was not one to make mischief. If anybody had
told of her-secret treasure it must, then, have
been Eleanor. Her cousin had not behaved
kindly or even justly in the matter of Mr.
Layton, but she shrank from thinking lier
capable of meanness and treachery. If it were
so, her own position was even more deplorable
than she had imagined it to be. It was terrible
to be without friends, but how much worse
would it be to be surrounded by enemies and
spies. After all, the letters had come by j^ost,
and Mr. Norbury might possibly have taken
note of their arrival ; even that, however, presupposed
an amount of surveillance for which
she was unprepared, and which alarmed her.

Here were the letters safe enough. She
took them from their hiding-place with the
reverence of a priest who handles some frail
and precious relic, and read them over again in
their order. The three first were full of happiness
; the fourth, written after the happiness
was threatened, was full of hope. In none of
them was the writer importunate or pressing,
as is the manner of lovers. At first, indeed, he
had hesitated to accept her troth as binding on
herself. "You are so young and ignorant of
the world," he said, '' that it seems taking an
unfair advantage of you. I feel that I have no
right to bind you with so long a chain. With
nie — who have nothing to lose in the interim
it is different. Let me be bound, not you."
Some people may think that this was ' magnificent,'
but it was not 'love.' To Edith it
seemed love of a rare and chivalrous sort ; but
she had declined his terms. He had warned
her from the first that Mr. Norbury would not
give his consent to their marriage ; that at the
best they must needs wait till she came of age ;
but that she was well content to wait for him.
I am yours, whether soon or late," she wrote,

and it was not in human nature that he shouldering
the sacrifice.

Then came the time in which the two next
letters were written — hours of blissful content,
days 'when it was always afternoon" — letters
written and read in dreamland. Then the day
when her uncle put his foot down to stamp
love out — love which, like the sweet-smelling
herb, yields only the more fragrance for being;
crushed — and after it, and their forced separation,
the fourth letter. It was this she held
most precious because it applied to her present
position and formed the guide to her
future conduct. " We are parted," it said,
"but only as water is parted by the hand.
No power on earth can prevent our meeting;
ao'ain if only we are true to each other.
Whatever happens remember that every day
brings you nearer to me and me nearer to you.
You will do me the justice to say (to yourself)
that I have never striven to set you against
your uncle , I will not do it now, but in my
opinion he will leave no stone unturned to
effect his object. It is even possible that he
will not always confine himself to persuasion

to win you over to his way of thinking ; the
thought of his being severe or unkind to you
makes me shudder, but I fear that he is capable
of such a change of conduct. If I do him
wrong I owe hai an apology, and shall be
rejoiced to make it."

He had not done him wrong. Her uncle's
behaviour to her that evening, his voice,
his manner, his threatening words had proved
her lover in the right ; thanks to him, she
had been prepared for this change, though,
even as it was, it alarmed and shocked her.
Doubtless if Charley had known of her guardian's
intention to carry her to India, his letter
would have been more outspoken, but it was
written previous to their knowledge of this
plan, of which, indeed, they had had no suspicion
until within a few days of its accomplishment.
She had written to inform her
lover of it, and doubtless, distrustful of any
letter reaching her, his presence that morning
had been his reply. Even without it, the letter
she held in her hand would have strengthened
and supported her under her present trial ; for
"faithful and true, living or dead" was its

burthen throughout ; but with his last words
ringing in her ears, his last looks — apt illustration
of that loving text — still visible to her
mind's eye, it seemed as though it would have
sustained her under very martyrdom. Uncle
Ernest had been wise — after his false lights —
to endeavour to wrest this prop and stay from
her — that dear hand-writing; would be a source
from which she drew courage and content
whenever she looked at it ; and neither threats
nor cajolery should ever induce her to part

with it. —

In the place of concealment where she had
hitherto kept the letters, a secret drawer in
her desk, she had no longer any confidence,
for she felt that her uncle would have no
scruples in employing any means to get possession
of them. Where, then, in her cabin
could she conceal them ? She had read Edgar
Poe's story of ' The Purloined Letter,' and remembered
his direction that the most open
place, as likely to be the least suspected, was
the safest. In that case the envelope had been
turned inside out and the missive left about,
for any chance comer to take up. She shrank,

VOL. I. G

however, from that notion of the chance comer
in the shape of the stewardess, for example
whom idle curiosity might prompt to examine
this treasure, and, moreover, there were
four letters, and not one, to be hidden. She
thought of disposing each in a secret place,
so that if one or two should be stolen from
her, the others would be left ; but how could
she endure the loss of one or two ? In the
end she resolved to carry them about with her,
and sewed them into her apparel. "All day
long to fall and rise, upon her balmy bosom
with — not, alas ! her laughter — but her sighs."
Then with a tolerably tranquil mind she
sought her berth. She was one of those exceptional
individuals who are born good sailors,
and suffered no misery from the motion of the
vessel. That Aunt Sophia in the next cabin
was not so fortunate was made apparent to
her by various groaning and complaining ; the
prescription of the Irish doctor of going to sleep
early had not, it seemed, been by any means
successful with her, probably because she had
been unable to put it into practice. She could
do her aunt no good, she knew, even if she

could have visited lier, which, of course, she
could not do, but the idea of that good Lady's
tortures niade her feel very uncomfortable.
Moreover, though not otherwise inconvenienced,
the beating and bumping of the ship,
and the other novel accompaniments to her
situation, kept her awake for some time. At
last she fell into a heavy slumber.

In the dead of the night she awoke with that
unaccountable suddenness and consciousness of
something having happened, with which weare
all familiar. The wind and the sea had
risen, and with shrieks and tumult, unfamiliar
to a landsman's ear, but amid them there
seemed to be, or rather to have been, a sound
more recognizable and commonplace, as though
some one had stumbled against an article of
furniture in the cabin. Such a circumstance
was impossible, since she had locked her door,
and, indeed, one glance round the little room,
dimly lighted from above, was sufficient to
assure her that she was alone, and everything
around her as she had left it. Xo doubt it
had been some sharp shock of the sea, which
has innumerable ways of announcing its

G 2

presence, from the gentle tap of the school-girl,
who, standing on tiptoe, can just lift the
knocker, to the thundering summons of the
fireman. She must in future prepare herself
for every description of disturbance.

Nevertheless, she did not easily fall asleep
ao-ain. She lay in that sort of half dreamy
state which rejects the present and the future,
and concerns itself with the past only. She was
once more in the old cathedral town in which
she had spent most of her youth. She walked
ao-ain with her father in the water meadows
that surrounded it, and heard in the distance
the soft, melancholy chimes cleaving the
summer air. She wandered alone in the
cloisters, while the swelling anthem "shook
the prophets blazoned on the panes" of the
great eastern window ; she knelt in the stately
fane and heard the sweet voices of the
choristers talking (as her childish fancy had
painted them) with God. Was all that past
and done with (she had just sense enough
to wonder), or was it, perhaps, at the judgment
day, to be all gone over again ? What
becomes of our lives when we have lived

them 1 They cannot be surely as suits of
clothes, which, having worn out, we discard
and see no more of. Short as her existence
had been, it had been divided, as most of
our lives are, into different epochs. Her
residence at her uncle's house in town seemed
not only a new existence, but the experience
of another person. If, at least, she was the
same person who had passed through both, her
identity was not recognizable. Though she
knew that the latter phase had been passed
in the worhl and the former out of it, the
latter seemed less real, more like playing at
life than when she was a child and did play
at it ; though she saw so many more of her
fellow-creatures in it, she felt more Ion el v.
Her father had gone to heaven and left her,
and there was no one to occupy his place.
She seemed almost as in a strange land where
the people where kind to her, in a certain
superficial fashion, but it was not that native
land, every flower of which she had known
so well, and where by a very few she had
been beloved. Scenes of fashion passed before
her half-shut eyes — gay dresses, brilliantly-lit

rooms, and crowded companies. Then one
man, tall and comely ; less courtly than some
others, perhaps, but more gracious and tender ;
acrain and again she saw him ; then when he
was not by she saw him. She was, somehow,
no longer alone in the world. There was
some one to care for her ; some one to love
her, as her father had done, though in another
way. Then he, too, was threatened with
death, or was it herself that was threatened?
It was all one. There was cold and thick
darkness all about her, when suddenly his
voice was heard.

She was broad awake in an instant. The
light of morning, nay, of day, was flooding
the little cabin. She knew in a moment
where she was, and recognized the present
in all particulars. He was a hundred miles
away or so from her, and the sea between
them, and yet she had heard his voice.
Something terrible, then, had happened to
him. She had read of such things. How,
in the moment of dissolution, the spirit of
one who loves us is permitted for one fleeting
instant to make its presence known to us,

thoiigli far away, and in some vague manner
to give its last farewell.

Edith Norbury was not deficient in commonsense,
but the perspiration gathered on her
brow as this idea occurred to her. The daylight
could not quench the superstitious terror,
nor the sounds of life and motion that now
pervaded the ship drown the recollection of
that beloved voice. ^Yhat it had said she
knew not, but it had spoken, and there was no
mistaking those well-loved and familiar tones.
The impression was so strong and vivid, that
it even removed the remembrance of the noise
she had heard in the night, till she rose and
began to dress. Then, indeed, it recurred to
her with redoubled strength and significance,
for the four letters from her lover, which she
had sewn into her garment, had, to her intense
amazement, disappeared. At first she
imagined herself to be the victim of some
delusion of the senses. She had not remembered,
perhaps, where she had • put them
aright, and had only dreamt of changing their
place of security, but on examining the secret
drawer with feverish haste, she found it, as she

expected, empty. Then, again, it struck her
that the agitation and excitement of her mind
might have induced her to walk in her sleep,
and unconsciously remove the articles on which
her waking; thoughts had dwelt with such
intensity. But the closest search failed to
find them ; they where gone. Her ears, then,
had not deceived her ; some one had entered
her cabin in the night and stolen her treasures.
Yet her door was locked, and the key still
remained on the inside. As to the window,
it was, of course, a mere bull's-eye, and looked
on the sea. The mystery was inexplicable,
and but for the noise she had heard, would,
perhaps, have been associated in her mind
with that equally mysterious voice ; but as it
was, what had happened was only too palpable.
Whatever means had been adopted by the
perpetrator, she had been robbed, and the
sense of loss swallowed up her wonder at the
means. Whether her uncle had been the
actual committed of the crime or not, though
the fact of his being so would naturally have
turned her dislike of him into disgust, it was
clear to her that he was the real offender.
Priceless as the letters were to her, none but

himself could attach any value to them. That
he did so, she had his own words in proof the
night before, coupled \Yith the assurance that
he meant to have them. The inference was
clear and fair that he had got them now.

As she stepped out of her cabin, intending
to visit Aunt Sophia, she met the stewardess,
who informed her that that lady had had a disturbed
night (a very euphonious phrase, poor
soul, for her actual experience), and had cost
Miss Eleanor one who had been in attendance
upon her ; the two ladies had, therefore, given
her instructions that they were not to be
disturbed.

As it still wanted some time to the breakfast
hour, Edith went up on deck, and took her
seat where she had sat the previous night. A
very different view now presented itself to
her ; the ship was out of sight of land, and
the wild water — for so it seemed to her,
though there was but a slight breeze blowing
foamed and sparkled on all sides of her,
while beyond lay the boundless blue. Under
any other circumstances the lightness and
freshness of the scene must needs have put
life and spirit into her. But the face of

nature, whether she smile or frown, affects us
but little when the heart within us is heavy.
We repay her callousness to our own sorrows
with a like indifference.

Presently her uncle came up to her. She
looked up to him boldly and searchingly, but
he did not shrink from her gaze. If he was
conscious of having committed the baseness of
which she suspected him, he had schooled
himself to conceal it.

I hope you have slept well, Edith ? " he
said, with a fleeting smile. " But I need not
ask ; you look as fresh as a daisy. Your aunt
and cousin, I hear, have been by no means
so fortunate." His tone was natural enough,
and if his manner was a little embarrassed, soit
had always been in these later days after
their disagreement about Mr. Lay ton — if there
was anything suspicious about his address, it
was that he talked rather more quickly than
usual, without giving her time to reply.

''I am quite well, thank you," she said
coldly.

That's well. I hope the sea breezes have
given you a good appetite. There is the gong

for breakfast ; let me give you my arm to the
cuddy."

The ship was pitching sufficiently to make
the refusal of his offer a positive rudeness, but
as she laid her hand upon his arm, her fingers
seemed to shrink from grasping it. Her head
swam round so, that if he had not clasped her
close with his elbow she would have fallen.

'trust to me, who have my sea-legs on,"
he said, as he led her to the companion, where
she gladly exchanged her hold of him for that
of the banister.

*' Come," said the captain, speaking in his
cheery voice from the breakfast-table, '' here
is one of our ladies, at least. Good morning.
Miss Norbury. You know every one here, I
think, save the latest addition to our company.
Mr. Charles Layton, Miss Edith Norbury."
Her lover, who was sitting at the table with
the rest, rose up to greet her.

She was dimly conscious of hearing a frightful
execration from her uncle, a high-pitched
remonstrance from the captain, and then the
cabin swam round with her, and she remembered
no more.

THE ACCUSATION.

It often takes them this way when it
doesn't the other. No one, much less a fragile
and delicate young creature like this, can goto
sea for the first time without paying her
footing in meal or in malt."

These were the words, uttered in an Hibernian
accent, soft and strong (like the best
Irish whisky), which fell upon Edith's ears as
she regained consciousness. But it was not
till afterwards, though she felt that they were
kindly meant, that she had a clear perception
of their motive and significance. Mr. Dove
knew well enough that her indisposition had
been caused by some mental shock (at the
nature of which he could only make a shrewd
guess), and he had done his best to conceal
the fact from the spectators. Fortunately,

though this success in deceiving them was
doubtful, they were, as it happened, only eve
in number. Besides the captain and Mr.
Bates, and the involuntary cause of the catastrophe,
Mr. Charles Lay ton himself, there was
no one as yet at the breakfast-table. Save an
interchange of looks, which, however, had been
expressive enough — Mr. Norbury had glared
at Mr. Layton and then tit the captain, like a
tiger who cannot make up his mind which of
two victims to devour first, to which the captain
had replied with indignant astonishment,
and the young barrister with quiet scorn —
nothing had passed in the mean time between
them. Edith's fainting fit, if so short a seizure
could be so called, had only lasted a few
seconds ; perhaps there was an inner consciousness
of her lover's presence, even in that overturn
of mind, which acted as a restorative.

If you went to your cabin and laid down
a bit ? " continued Mr. Doyle, tentatively.

Thank you, no ; I am quite well now ; I
would rather stay where I am," said Edith,
with a forced smile.

Quite right, it's the breakfast that's the

things for lier," observed the accommodating:
doctor.

Her uncle was about to object, but the captain
interposed in a tone of authority :

'rit is the doctor who is master in a case
of this kind, Mr. Carbury, and we must
have no mutiny on board the Ganges if you
please'

It was only the natural chivalry of a
disposition which always leant towards the
weaker side, and the ladies, which had dictated
this speech ; but to Mr. Norbury's ear
it only corroborated the conviction that the
whole affair had been planned beforehand
between the captain and Mr. Layton. He
had been bribed to take ' that adventurer '
out to India for the express purpose of prosecuting
his forbidden suit. If the pilot had
not left — and Layton had doubtless delayed
his own appearance till he had done so, for
that very reason — he would have put niece
and daughter into his boat and returned to
England ; but as it was, he felt that for the
time he was powerless. The captain was
master of the situation, and until they reached

Calcutta could hardly be dismissed from the
Company's service for conspiracy.

Nor could Edith be locked up, with a sentry
at the door of her cabin with orders to shoot
any one who attempted to communicate with
her without her uncle's permission. Language
could not have expressed his fury in any case,
but the necessity which prudence enjoined on
him to keep silence seemed almost dangerous
to life. He took his seat at the table half-suffocated
with rage and resentment, while
the captain pressed the breakfast dainties on
Edith's attention, and Mr. Charles Layton
sipped his tea. There are certain explosives
on which a change of temperature has a very
disastrous effect, and the mere contemplation
of the young barrister's coolness drove Mr.
Norbury's temper, which was at a white heat,
to the vero;e of bursting;.

The politest of bows and the gravest of
smiles had been all the acknowledgment
which Layton had given of Edith's presence.
There had been only just so much of recognition
in it as, to one who knew the position
in which he stood with reference to her

belonmnors, would have seemed becoming. He
had met her before, it seemed, but not under
circumstances to encourage familiarity. Happily
for their strained relations — a phrase
which fell far short of describing the state
of tension of Mr. Norbury's mind — Mr. Ains-worth
now made his appearance, and, knowing
nothing of what had happened, relieved the
strain by commonplace inquiries. How had
Miss .Norbury passed her first night on board
ship ? How were the other ladies ? How
was Mr. Layton himself, who had shown such
suspicious prudence in his early retirement
the previous evening ? "Judging by the
cheerfulness of your voice this morning, which
I heard before I was stirring, myself," he
concluded, " I conjecture your fears were
groundless."

Up to that moment Edith had scarcely
understood one word of what had been
addressed to her, and had replied to everything
with the accurate but sententious brevity
of an automaton ; but with this reference to
her lover, intelligence, and with it recollection,
returned to her. The events of the previous

nia'ht, with what lie had tlioiio:ht was the
hallucination of the morning, the hearing of
Charley's voice, at once returned to her.

So far, then, from its having been the last
farewell of his departing spirit, it was his first
good-morrow ' on the deep ! Instead of
being parted from her, he had been reunited
to her ! What matter though they had stolen
those dear memorials of him from their hiding-place,
since he was here in person and needed
no reminder. Her soul was so filled with
gratitude that it had no room for wonder.
Here was her lover under the same roof, not
as on land in a house from which he could
be ejected ; not as a guest ; but as a tenant,
with equal rights with those of her uncle
himself — and for the moment she was contented
with that assurance without seeking
to know how it had all come to pass.

It is one of the few advantages that breakfast
on shipboard possesses over the same meal
on shore, that people drop in and out without
ceremony, and Edith found no difficulty in
making her exit from the cuddy alone and
resuming her old position on deck. Neither

VOL. I. H

her uncle nor her lover followed her, much,
no doubt, as each would have liked to have
done so, and held private converse with her
though of a very different kind. The one,
it was easy to guess, was yearning to pour
out his heart before her, while the other was
scarcely less impatient to give her a piece of
his mind. Though wholly innocent of any
such knowledge, she could not conceal from
herself that Vir. Norbury might naturally
enough conclude that she had been cognizant
of Mr. Lay ton's being on board the Gauges,
and have good ground for resentment on that
account. The idea of such subtlety and dissimulation
being imputed to her would, under
other circumstances, have distressed her
greatly ; but her uncle's behaviour to her on
the previous evening, and especially that theft
of the letters, which it was impossible not to
lay at his door, had aroused her just indignation.
Without provocation, and believing her
to be utterly defenceless and in his power, he
had commenced hostilities against her ; and
she would perhaps have felt little compunction
even if by any act of her own she had secured

to herself the presence of this earnest and
devoted ally. Her only uneasiness as to the
matter was as respected Aunt Sophia, whose
good opinion she valued much ; for the
moment, however, it was impossible to clear
herself in that brood lady's eves : in those of
her cousin she was less solicitous to do so —
first, because, after what had passed, any
mention to her of Mr. Layton would have
been distasteful ; and, secondly, because she
had a shrewd suspicion that Eleanor would
not be willing: to be convinced.

Though she had hitherto submitted herself
so obediently to her uncle's will, Edith had
plenty of spirit, and it was now thoroughly
aroused. Like a player who thinks he has
the game for certain, her uncle had shown
his cards too soon, and had even had the
imprudence to let her know that he would
stick at nothing in the means he took to win
with them. As she sat so deep in thought
that the stir and movement in the ship above
and around her was almost unheard, she
suddenly heard her uncle's voice. It was not
addressing her, nor was he to be seen, so that

H 2

at first it gave lier no little alarm ; but presently
she perceived that the sound came
through a cabin skylight close beside her.
The tones were low and full of suppressed
passion, but so distinct that every word was
audible. If the idea that she was playing the
involuntary part of eavesdropper had occurred
to Edith, which, truth to say, it did not, so
intensely was her interest excited by what was
going on that she could not have stirred from
her place. Her limbs had suddenly become
rigid ; yet she could hardly have likened herself
to a statue, for a statue has many organs,
whereas she was all ear.

And now, sir, that we are alone together,"
said Mr. Norbury, " perhaps you may consider
that the time has come for an explanation of
your presence here."

Indeed," replied a quiet voice she knew,
*' I am not aware that any such is owed you,
Mr. Norbury."

''I am not one to be trifled with, Mr.
Lay ton, I do assure you," was the fierce rejoinder.
" By whatever disgraceful trick you
have obtained a passage by this ship "

*' You will keep a civil tongue in your head,
or you will leave my cabin," interrupted a
voice Edith did not know. Sharp, stern, and
incisive, it seemed to cut the other's speech as
with a knife. "You may bully your clerks
in Leadenhall-street, Mr. Norbury, and you
may bully your niggers in Hindostan, but you
will not bully me. Let that be understood
between us, if you please, if we are to speak
together at all." There was silence for a
moment or two, and then, as if some gesture
of conciliation had been made by his adversary,
the young man resumed in his ordinary
voice, "As for my presence here, I might be
well content to refer you to the captain for
its cause ; but, not to be discourteous, I will
say at once that I am in Government employment
on special service."

I thought you were a barrister."
Just so ; my mission is a professional one."
Your practice is so extensive that it
extends to India ? "

"It may do so, though there are circumstances
which may compel me to disembark
at the Cape."

In other words, you intend to dog the
footsteps of my niece wherever she goes ? "

Then came the short, sharp voice again.

''Be so kind as to remember what I have
just said. I will endure no impertinence from
any man."

Impertinence ! Surely it is pertinent
enough that I should make inquiries of your
intentions with regard to a young lady of
whom I am the sole guardian and the uncle."

A little more than kin and less than
kind," was the dry reply. "Yes, you have
authority over her it is certain, for you have
pushed it to its utmost limits. You have
none, however, over me. I am here on my
own business."

That is a — an evasion. If she were not
on board the Ganges you would never have
taken passage in her."

You have no rig-ht to discuss motive. I

o

have no objection, however, to acknowledge
that so far you are correct. Miss Edith
Norbury has promised to be my wife."

"And I have absolutely forbidden her to
be so."

Nay, that is beyond your powers. You
may have forbidden her to marry me within
a certain period, after which she becomes her
own mistress. It is a mere matter of time."

"And in the meanwhile you do not think
it dishonourable to persuade her to set my
authority at defiance and to arrange with you
a scheme — whether a modest and maidenly
one is a question "

Stop, sir ! " thundered the other. " Your
opinion upon that matter, valuable as it
doubtless ^wbuld be, when one considers the
purity of its source, is uncalled for. Your
niece, I may say at once, until she saw me
just now at the breakfast table, was no more
aware than yourself of my presence on board
the Ganges

Mr. Norbury gave a grunt of sullen acquiescence.
He had probably already come to the
conclusion that his niece's emotion on beholding
her lover could hardly have been feigned ;
but it was not in his nature when his mask
was off, as it was at present, to acknowledge
anything graciously.

"Whether she was aware of it or not," he

said, "you will gain nothing by your audacity,
sir, while the object — the innocent object, as
you would have me believe — of your persecution
will suffer for it. I shall keep my
niece in the strictest seclusion throughout
the voyage."

There was a pause, which the listener's
imagination filled up aright : the menace had
strained the leash in which Lay ton had held
his temper to its utmost limit.

*' You had best not threaten me, Mr.
Norbury," he replied steadily, " and still less
her, or I shall have to speak some very plain
truths to you."

I fear no truth that you or any other man
can speak, sir. It is you who, if you knew
the truth regarding my niece, would have
cause for regret. You are not playing for
so high a stake as you imagine, sir. It is
true that up to this time I have objected to
your suit mainly on the ground of inequality
of position. I wished to put the matter in
its least offensive form. You smile incredulously,
but, on my honour, what I am about
to state is the simple fact. Under no circumstances,

I admit, would I have sanctioned
your engagement ; the step you have taken
in thrusting your undesired presence upon us
here was not necessary to make me resolute
upon that point ; but. since you have chosen,
to do so, it may save you more labour in vain,
to inform you that rumour has much overstated
my niece's fortune."

'ras to that, sir, her fortune is no attraction
to me ; but I am quite aware, or at all events
have a shrewd suspicion, that it is not what
it was when it first came into your hands."

There was a crash of a chair thrown violently
to the ground by the sudden rising of the
sitter.

What ! Do you dare to accuse me of
misappropriation of her property ? "

I accuse you of nothing. Like yourself,
I have no desire to be offensive. Let us
suppose there has been a fall in the value
of the securities you held in trust for her.
Under such circumstances it occurs to you
that, to avoid — well, I will not say unpleasant
inquiries, but — grumbling, it would be better
that her husband should not be a man of

business, certainly not a lawyer like myself.
Upon the whole it strikes you as a good plan
to take her out to India ; in the first place to
get rid of me, in the second to get her married
to somebody else — not necessarily a nabob — I
acquit you of any intention of disposing of
her to the highest bidder — but to some one
who will be satisfied as to money matters
w^itli the word of a gentleman and a man of
honour."

Pray go on, sir. It is fortunate for you
that there is no witness here."

'rit is fortunate for one of us, no doubt, Mr.
Norbury. As we are quite alone, however, it
is possible to suggest to you that under the
circumstances, from your own point of view,
I may not be so bad a husband for your niece
after all."

'' I see. After having made the most
libellous and infamous charges which it is
possible for you to invent, you are taking
their proof for granted in order that you may
compound a felony."

That is very neatly put. My suggestion,
I admit, is quite open to that interpretation.

If I had not looked at the matter all round I
should be strongly inclined to take that very
view of it myself. But I am thinking solely
of what is best to be done to ensure the happiness
of your niece. Under any circumstances,
I fear I should never get her to prosecute you.
Motives and feelings into which you are utterly
unable to enter, and for which, I confess, in
this particular case I myself have but little
sympathy, will plead for you to gain your
cause. As her husband, it is true, I could
compel the law to take its course, but I should
put no such compulsion upon her. I shall
tell her the truth. Yes, though I would
gladly spare her what I know would give her
unspeakable pain, I cannot keep her in ignorance
of what has happened. I cannot be a
party to your misbehaviour even for her sake ;
but I give you my word that, unless at her
own instigation, I will take no steps to right
her or to punish her wrong-doer. All this,
however, on condition that you lay the whole
extent of your malversations before her and
me, and consent to our immediate marriage."
"A very pretty bargain for a gentleman

and a barrister-at-law to propose, upon my
soul ! " cried the other, in a voice that, hoarse
with fear and rage, endeavoured to simulate
contempt.

"No, Mr. Norbury, it is not pretty. It is
a very ugly bargain, I admit, and the uglier
the more we contemplate it. But upon the
whole, and looking, I repeat, to your niece's
interests only, one may say of it, though bad,
that bad's the best."

There was again a pause, longer than those
which had preceded it. Edith's ear was
straining for her uncle's reply. The proposition
of her lover had commended itself to her
without any drawbacks. Let Mr. Norbury
keep her money, if he had really been so
wicked as to take it ; should he but consent
to their marriage she would forgive him freely.
It had not given her much pain, as Layton
had supposed it would have done, to learn
that she had been robbed of her property by
the very hand that should have protected it.
It was not like the revelation of a baseness in
one whom we have reposed confidence, much
less loved. All respect for her uncle had long

died within lier. Nothing remained but a
certain sentimental regard for the authority
which had been delegated to him. One would
have thought that under the circumstances
that, too, would have died, since it was plain
that the authority in question had, as it were,
been obtained under false pretences, that is,
upon the understanding that the delegate had
been a just and honest man. Yet it was not
so. Our habits of thought are not like the
garments which we readily exchange for others
as the temperature dictates. This man was
still her uncle and her guardian, and his consent
to her lover's proposal, if not so absolutely
essential as it had seemed some hours ao^o, was
a matter at least most expedient and desirable.
Moreover, though she was almost certain that
Lay ton's accusations — for such of course they
were, whatever thin disguise he had thrown
over them — were well grounded, she was not
quite sure of it ; and Mr. Carbury's long-delayed
rejoinder enlarged the chink of
doubt.

If I have let you say your say with unchecked
tongue, Mr. Layton," he presently

replied in quiet, resolute tones, '' it was only
thoroughly to understand the nature of the
man with whom I had to deal. You have
shown yourself as venomous as you are unprincipled.
I despise your insinuations and
defy you ; and I will take such measures, be
assured, as will make all your pains and plans
to thrust yourself upon my niece's society onboard
this ship unprofitable."

'rand why not afterwards?" was the contemptuous
reply. '' Why was there any need
to bring her here at all, when the law would
have protected her at home ? When a young
lady of fortune is in danger of persecution
from an ' adventurer,' as you have been pleased
to term me, there is a very certain way of
putting her out of reach. Why did you not
make your niece a ward in Chancery ? I will
tell you — because, knowing what you had
done, and suspecting that others knew it,
you did not dare invoke the law."

That is enough, sir ; I have done with
you. If you persist in your infamous pursuit
of my ward the consequences will be on your
own head. I am not one to threaten in vain.

When I meet an adder I avoid it if I can ;

but if I cannot avoid it "

'' Just so, admitting for the sake of argument
th'it I am invertebrate," interrupted Lay ton,
scornfully, as the other hesitated, " what
then ? "

Why, then I set my heel upon it ! "
There was a contemptuous laugh, and then
the cabin door slammed ; the interview between
these two unflinching; antagonists was
over.

THE THIEF.

Upon the whole, though it troubled her
exceedingly, it was an advantage to Edith to
have overheard that terrible talk. One of the
things that gentlewomen (for the women of
the lower ranks know it, alas ! only too well)
can never understand is, that men of their
own class can be absolute scoundrels. Even
men who do not know the world are apt to
believe that what are called the criminal
classes are separated by some almost impassable
gulf from the members of their own
society and acquaintance. Save as regards
the actual commission of crime, this is by no
means the case. There are many gentlemen
of fashion, and still more of good commercial
position, who have all the materials for criminality
in their dispositions, only, fortunately

for them, the temptation is very rarely sufficient
to make them overstep the line of actual
delinquency. The hard employer, the mean
millionnaire, and the unprincipled rake are in
many cases as ripe for Newgate, and much
more deserving of it, than the rascal in rags
who steals ; it is only because it is their
interest that they are apparently ranged on
the side of honesty. We probably meet
every day on equal footing, and exchange
pleasant words of greeting, with men who are
quite capable of murder if the thing was
highly advantageous to them, and could be
done without risk. Of the desperate wickedness
of some human hearts, the ordinary easygoing
folks, who fortunately form the majority
of us, have, I am satisfied, no idea. They
cannot understand how a gentleman in broadcloth
can be a ruffian, or an educated person
on a level with the inhuman cur who skins
cats alive, not from the lust of greed, but
from that worst lust of all, the love of cruelty.
Only now and then, in moments of unguarded
talk, do we catch lurid gleams of the real
nature of such men, but the baleful fires are

VOL. I. I

there under the smooth clay. Women never
see the least glimpse of them. " I am quite
sure he could never do such a thing " would
be their calm rejoinder to any imputation of
gross baseness (so long as it was not in connection
with their own sex) made against any
man of their own acquaintance ; you might as
well try to persuade them that he was a blackman.


Even the information Edith had gathered
from Layton's accusations (which she now
believed to be well founded) did not convince
her, as it would have convinced a man, that
her uncle was a scoundrel. Her kinship with
him, nay, even her fathers trust in him,
misplaced as she felt it to have been, fought
against such utter condemnation. She pictured
him as reckless, and even unscrupulous, but
hardly as having robbed her ; or, perhaps, she
did even think that, but with the slight store
that one of her age and sex almost always
does put upon mere money when it is her
own, she minimized the crime till it was
hardly more than an indiscretion. What
gave her a far worse opinion of her uncle, and

put lier much more on her guard against him,
was the threat expressed in his parting speech
to her lover, " When I meet an adder I avoid
it if I can ; if not, I set my foot upon it."

The tone in which those words were delivered
still rang in her ears, and she felt that
they meant mischief. Being what she was,
she had a hesitation in saying to herself, '' He
will stick at nothing; — nothings," but that was
the tendency of her thought. So far, then,
she was advj^aged by what she had heard,
for to be forewarned is to be forearmed.
Though her fears fell far short of what they
would have been had she understood the unscrupulous
nature of the man with whom she
had to deal, they made her look forward to
her first meeting with her uncle with a
shudder. She had, it is true, been absolved
by her lover from all complicity in his scheme
for becoming the companion of her voyage.
But, knowing what had passed between the
two men, she could understand Mr. Norbury's
feelings towards her would be far more hostile
than they had hitherto been. It was a great
relief to her, therefore, when, in place of her

I 2

uncle, whom she had expected, she presently
saw Aunt Sophia making her devious way
towards her on the arm of the doctor.

I've persuaded your aunt to come up on
deck and get a breath of fresh air," explained
Mr. Doyle, as he led his companion to a chair
contiguous to Edith's ; " there's nothing like
trying your sea-legs early."

As in the case of the legs of childhood, it is
possible, however, to try them too early, and
poor Aunt Sophia staggered into her chair as
though those limbs had not only been bandy,
but boneless.

Oh, my dear," she moaned complainingly,
what a dreadful thing is shipboard ! If I
could have foreseen one-tenth of the miseries
it was to entail upon me, no persuasions of
your Uncle Ernest should have induced me
to accompany them. If I must have gone to
India I would rather have ridden on the top
of an omnibus the whole way, by the overland
route."

Wretched as she was, Edith could not but
smile at the alternative of travel thus presented
to her. ** But, my dear aunt, you will soon

get over the motion, bad as the pitching and
tossing seems to you at first."

It is not that," put in Aunt Sophia, with
unwonted irritation, " though I shall certainly
never get used to having my heels higher
than my head every other moment. It is
the sinking, the terrible down, down, down-dropping,
which is so detestable. It seems a
perfect miracle how we ever come up again,
and I almost wish we didn't."

"My poor^dear," said Edith, coaxingly.
She will laugh at all that, will she not, Mr.
Doyle, in a few days ? "

She'll think it one of the finest jokes that
ever was cracked," corroborated the gentleman
appealed to.

Cracked ! " exclaimed Aunt Sophia, turning
upon the astonished surgeon with angry
vehemence ; " you must be cracked yourself
to see any joke in such horrors. It is not
only physical pain that they engender, they
poison the whole moral system. I protest I
don't care sixpence what becomes, not only of
myself, but of all that used to be near and
dear to me. They have had just the same

effect upon my brother Ernest. He looks as
though he could eat one, and throws his words
at one as if they were bones to a dog."

The surgeon had strolled away at the
mention of Uncle Ernest, rightly concluding
that if Aunt Sophia had not been * put out '
by her sufferings, she would not have been
so frank in his presence in alluding to her
respected relative. Still, though she knew
they were alone together, Edith shrank from
speaking to her companion of her guardian.

"I am afraid you have had a most unpleasant
night's rest," she said, evasively.

Best ? People don't rest at sea — at least,

not people who are Oh, good gracious !

now we are going down ' again. My dear,
I seem hardly to have had one wink of
sleep."

I should have come and seen how you
were this morning, had I been permitted todo
so, but I was told that you did not wish
to be disturbed."

"My dear, I never expressed any such
wish. I was not in a condition to harbour
a wish. I must say Eleanor was very kind,

and looked in upon me more than once during
the night."

Aunt Sophia's tone was significant. It
implied some astonishment at the kind behaviour
of her elder niece, and also some
suggestion of neglect on the part of the
younger.

But your cabin door was locked, for I
tried the handle, though very softly so as not
to disturb you, before I went to bed," observed
Edith.

Oh, I don't complain of you, my dear, far
from it ; and, moreover, you could have done
nothing for me, even if you had come ; but as
for the door being locked, our three cabins all
communicate with one another, you know ;
the panel of each partition slips back. Did
not the stewardess tell you that 1 "

Edith had looked up with amazement. It
was clear to her now how her cabin had been
entered during the night, and only too clear
whose was the hand that had deprived her
of her precious treasures. It must have been
that of her cousin Eleanor.

"No, I did not know it," she answered

with effort, ''or I should have certainly coral
to you as my cousin did."

I am sure you would ; but, as I have said,
it would have been no good. ' When lovely
woman stoops to folly ' — no, of course I don't
mean that, but when one is so mad as to go to
sea, there is no remedy for the consequences.
No one can help one, and one can't help oneself.
Nelly meant to be very careful, no
doubt, but, coming in and out to look after
me, she made so much noise that she woke me
out of the little sleep I had ; indeed, but that
she assured me to the contrary, I thought
that she had slid back the partition and gone
in to you. How pale you look, Edith ! I
hope you are not feeling as I do. Everything
seems to swim about except the ship ;
there it is, sinking again ! oh dear, oh dear ! "

Edith, who felt that Aunt Sophia's sufferings
must have been severe, indeed, to have
engendered this complaining and almost bitter
spirit in one ordinarily so full of the milk of
human kindness, strove her best to be sympathetic
; but the sense of her cousin's treachery,
the conviction that she was playing into her

fathers hands in so unworthy a manner,
depressed her exceedingly. If her lover had
not come to her rescue, how terrible would
have been her position between two foes who
should have been her nearest friends, and with
none but poor Aunt Sophia to lean upon.
AYhat a pair of unscrupulous enemies, too,
dear Charley had made for himself by his
loving scheme !

There are worse things than sea-sickness,
dear Aunt sophia," she murmured, in the
anguish of her soul.

"That I deny," was the irritable rejoinder.
'' If you only knew what it was you wouldn't
say so. In my case it produces simple prostration
; and because I'm Ljuiet and don't
complain, you think little of it. But wait
till you see your uncle. He is naturally,
perhaps, rather a bilious subject, and its effect
on him is really most deplorable. Talk of
temper ! There is the less cause for him, too,
for whereas we poor women are among
strangers, he has unexpectedly found an old
friend on board."

A friend ? " said Edith, scarcely able to

believe lier ears, for her mind at once reverted
to her lover. " Did he say a friend ? "

Yes, he did ; though indeed I rather
wondered at it, considering the difference in
their positions ; the third mate, it seems, is
a former acquaintance of his. I came upon
them talking in the cuddy. * I find Mr.
Bates is an old friend of mine,' he said, as if
in explanation of their familiarity. Then he
said, ' We are discussing old times,' as much
as to say my company was not wanted, and
in a tone that was sharp enough to cat one's
nose off. If it had not been for dear Dr.
Doyle — though I don't see the use of a
doctor on board ship, unless he can cure seasickness
— I could never have climbed what
they call the companion-ladder, because I suppose
no one can get up it alone. It's hard,"
added Aunt Sophia, with a little snuffle, " to
be so snapped at, when one feels on the
verge of the grave."

"Uncle Ernest is very angry," explained
Edith, " because he has discovered that Charley
is on board."

Charley ? Mr. Layton ? Good heavens ! "

The good lady's excitement was so intense
that for the moment she forgot her woes.
*' Has lie hid himself in the hold, as a stow-away,
or what 1 "

Of course not," returned Edith, with
dignity ; "he is a passenger, which he has
as much right to be as you or I ! "

*' Oh, my dear, pray don't misunderstand
me. I'm sure I wish he had the ship to
himself, as far as that goes. He should
have my place, I'm sure, and welcome. Only,
how very amazing it is that he should be
here. I call it tremendous ! It didn't astonish
?sou so much, I suppose," she added with
simplicity.

Yes, it did ; I knew nothing whatever of
his intention."

Your Uncle Ernest will never believe that,"
said Aunt Sophia gravely. '' Oh dear, oh
dear ! no wonder he looked black. This is
beyond everything I have ever apprehended.
It is like being taken by pirates."

I am much obliged to you for the compliment."


No, no, I don't mean that it is a parallel

case, of course, except in the unexpectedness
of the calamity — the shock."

I don't think it is a calamity at all."

Oh, my goodness, but what will your
uncle think ? Mr. Lay ton on board the
Ganges I Well, thank Heaven for one thing,
we shall now get out at the Cape."

Then Mr. Layton will get out too."

By all means," gasped Aunt Sophia, with
a sigh of relief; "then perhaps we shall all
return by caravan or something. I had rather
come back on a camel through the desert than
risk another voyage. Well, what you have
told me explains, if it does not excuse, your
uncle's behaviour, which is some comfort."

I am sorry my uncle is so angry," replied
Edith, with more indifference perhaps than
she really felt ; "but, as I have said, Mr.
Layton has a perfect right to be here ; and
even if he had not I had no hand in bringing
him."

Aunt Sophia shook her head in a manner
to imply that it was a very serious business in
any case.

There is Eleanor, too," she murmured

presently as if to herself, " lie will be in a
pretty state."

What has Eleanor to do with it ? What
right has my cousin to meddle with my
affairs ? " inquired Edith. The thought of
how she had already meddled with them, and
so treacherously and inexcusably, brought the
colour into her cheeks.

Quite true, my dear, quite true," answered
the other hurriedly ; *' but you know what
Eleanor island how violent in her prejudices."

And how unscrupulous in acting on them,"
put in Edith, bitterly. " Yes, I know all
that."

'' For mercy's sake, my darling, hush ! "
cried Aunt Sophia, in terrified tones. " She
isn't ill a bit " (this with a grudging emphasis),
and may be up-stairs, or whatever they call
it, at any moment."

Let her come 1 " cried Edith, origin' reins
to her passionate indignation ; '^ let her come.
I never was afraid of thieves."

WITH HER MASK OFF.

That last observation of Edith's, " I never
was afraid of thieves," was, of course, a dark
saying to Aunt Sophia. She knew, indeed,
that her niece did not suffer from those
nervous terrors which seized herself of nights
with respect to possible depredators, but she
did not understand her allusion to the fact on
the present occasion. It was obvious by her
look of wild surprise that she had not the
least reason for supposing it could have any
reference to Eleanor ; yet the appearance of
her elder niece at that moment seemed to
suo^g;est some sort of association with it, and
filled her with vague alarm.

You look very white and shivery still,
Aunt Sophia," remarked the new-comer as she

took her seat ; then, with a nod and a cold
smile addressed to her cousin, she added,
You, Edith, on the contrary, it seems,
may be congratulated upon being a good
sailor."

Eleanor was never demonstrative, and the
relations between the cousins of late had been
such that no endearment, even of the conventional
kind, had ever passed between
them ; but at meeting and parting it had
hitherto been their custom to shake hands.
It seemed to Edith that, in dispensing with
this ceremony, Eleanor was either making a
declaration of war, or that, believing the other
suspected her of having stolen her treasured
letters, she was unwilling to run the risk of
having her advances rejected. Her tone, too,
had something of sensitiveness in it which
corroborated this latter view.

I have suffered nothing from the motion
of the ship," returned Edith dryly. There
was a significance in her words which implied
that she had, however, something else
to complain of, but Eleanor made haste to
ignore it.

"You have not had much experience, however,
as yet," she replied ; " this is nothing to
what we shall meet with round the Cape and
afterwards."

It was a characteristic speech in any case,
but especially so if Edith's surmise was correct,
since the ill-nature of her cousin's disposition
thus showed itself notwithstanding it was her
obvious interest to be conciliatory, or at all
events to avoid quarrel.

*' If it's worse than this I shall die," said
Aunt Sophia, confidently. The remark perhaps
was not solely made with reference to the sea
voyage. The sense of being between her two
nieces at daggers drawn, of one of idiom at
least she stood in deadly fear, gave intensity
to her foreboding.

Eleanor laughed in her short, hard way.
We get used to everything in time ; the
sooner we find out that our best plan is to
bear it the better."

To Edith's excited mind burning with the
sense of her wrong, and the presence of her
wrono[doer, this too seemed less of a general
observation than it would have appeared to

an outsider. She read a menace to herself
between its lines. The instinct was strong
within her to tax her cousin with her perfidy,
and to defy her utmost malice, backed as it
was by her father's power, but she restrained
herself for her aunt's sake. It was not fair to
place that timid and inoffensive lady in such
a position that she must needs take sides with
one of her two relatives, and that in all
probability the side she would rather not have
taken. There was a long and painful silence.
Then, as though satisfied with her victory,
Eleanor began to speak of ordinary matters,
and, among other things, to discuss with her
aunt — for Edith said little or nothing — matters
of the ship. The captain she pronounced to
be an impertinent sort of a person, who presumed
on his position. She had reason to
believe, she said, that it was ]mr. Carbury's
intention to make him '*' know his place"'

Really ? " put in Aunt Sophia ; the vision
of the skipper in his uniform and sword was
before her eyes, and he seemed too tremendous
a personage to be thus subjugated, even by
her doughty brother.

VOL. I. K

Certainly," said Eleanor, tartly, " indeed I
am inclined to believe, for I just saw papa
take the captain into his cabin, that he is at
this moment giving him a setting down."

Edith had a shrewd idea that the interview
had a near connection vv^ith her own affairs, but
it was plain that Eleanor entertained no such
suspicion. " Captain Head," she added, with
an almost imperceptible toss of her head, " does
not quite seem to understand who we are."
She would rather have said, so as to exclude
her cousin from all participation in his dignity,
*' who papa is," but that would have been to
ignore her own importance.

Mr. Marston and Mr. Redmayne are well
enough," she went on, " and I weill say for
Mr. Bates that he is particularly respectful,
and seems to appreciate our position."

And what nice little midshipmen they
are," said Aunt Sophia, " at least from what
one saw of them last night ; though I dare say
it was their uniform that set them off so."

*'I did not notice them: they are hardly
officers at all," observed Eleanor, contemptuously.


^*They are certainly officers," said Edith,
confidently. Her antagonism was fairly roused.

'they can be disrated and flogged," replied
her cousin, as though she would have liked to
see it done.

How shocking ! " murmured Aunt Sophia,
with a shudder. " Father than anything of
that kind should take place I would get out
and walk —-that is, be drowned."

'' You would not be asked ; it would bea
matter of discipline," observed her niece
severely.

Here came up to them, with a polite salute,
one of the proposed victims to outraged maritime
law, a 'midshipmen.' He was a lad of
fifteen, tall for his age, but rather delicate-looking
for a sailor boy. He had brown curly
hair, blue eyes, and teeth like snow. He
looked like a beautiful page — but not one of
those pages who have buttons. Though by
nature * cheeky ' enough and full of mischief,
his manners when, as at present, he was on
his best behaviour, were excellent. In his
braiding of blue and gold he looked, every
inch of him, '.a duodecimo gentleman.

K 2

Mr. Marston lias sent me to offer you this
rug, ladies, as the morning; is somewhat coal."

But now a difficulty arose. When he had
received his orders from the first mate there
had been but two ladies on deck ; there were
now three, which was one more than the rug
could accommodate. As Aunt Sophia and
Edith had thanked him instantaneously and
with some effusion, while Eleanor had only
nodded as if in acknowledgment of what washer
due, it was not surprising that he paid
his attentions to the two former, while the
latter was for the moment literally " left out
in the cold." " I will get you another rug
directly," he said to her politely, and then
proceeded to place the wrap round the other
two ladies, taking particular care and perhaps
unnecessary time in tucking it up round Edith,
who, it must be confessed, rewarded him with
her sweetest smile. This brought a blush into
his youthful cheek, which the conversation of
the midshipmen's mess had long since ceased
to evoke. It was perhaps his first essay as a
squire of dames.

And what is your name, young gentleman

? " inquired Eleanor, in a patronizing
tone. His pretence at being grown up was
very offensive to her ; lie felt it was her duty
to " sit upon him" and thereby reduce him to
his proper dimensions.

'' My name is Lewis Coolly."

And how old are you ? "

The boy's face flushed crimson ; his pride
was wounded at being interrogated like a
schoolboy, and in the presence of others. At
the same time, there was a light in his eye
that told of mischief.

I am in my sixteenth year," he answered,
with the simplicity and meekness of a child.
How old are you '? "

Eleanor answered nothing, but the colour in
her cheeks became even yet more unwholesome,
as though its nastiness had gone sour.

"Mr. Bates," she exclaimed. The third
mate, dio was leaning on the taffrail at some
distance, came up at once. " This young
gentleman has been impertinent to me."

Indeed." The dark forbidding face grew
sympathetically grave. " What did he say ? "

I should think there was no need to go

into details," she answered haughtily. '* I say-again
he has been impertinent."

"Go up to the masthead, sir, and stay there
until I call you down," cried the officer, glaring
fiercely at the boy.

Master Lewis Conolly looked him straight
in the face, giving him quite an angelic smile
in exchange for his scowl, saluted (he was full
of salutations, the politest little monkey onboard
the ship), and retired in the direction
indicated. In a few seconds they beheld him
climbing the rigging, not like a cat, as midshipmen
are figured, by any means, but with
the utmost deliberation.

Oh, Eleanor, how could you ? " remonstrated
Aunt Sophia.

He is a very impertinent young fellow''
put in Mr. Bates, " and wants a tight hand.
To cool his heels up yonder for a couple of
hours or so will do him all the good in the
world."

I call it most infamous and cowardly," cried
Edith suddenly, with vehement indignation.

*' Of me, madam ? " answered the officer,
turning upon her with a very ugly smile.

^' No, sir, not of you — you have been merely
unjust — but of the person who caused you to
commit such an act of tyranny."

My cousin Edith unhappily knows nothing
of discipline," explained Eleanor, in apologetic
tones. " She forgets that her own case is an
exceptional one, and thinks that every one
else should be spoilt and have their own way."

Of this taunt Edith took no notice, and
contented herself with observing very resolutely,
'* I shall lay the case before the
captain."

Mr. Bates glanced at Eleanor inquiringly.
His look seemed to say, " Will she really have
the pluck to do that ? If so, the matter
will become serious, and the burthen will be
o-n your shoulders."

Eleanor, on her part, was entertaining somewhat
similar reflections. She wished to have
the boy punished, but if the affair was to be
investigated his crime would have to be stated,
which might not only seem insignificant in
itself, but was calculated to make her appear
ridiculous.

"I have no desire to make a fuss about

a trifle," lie said. Her tone was ungracious
and reluctant enough, but the officer took it
as cancelling his sentence.

Come down, you boy," he shouted.

Master Lewis Conolly detached one hand
from the shrouds, saluted, and descended,
with the same deliberation of movement ashe
had gone up.

Come here, sir," said Mr. Bates. He
obeyed like an angel, but one who nevertheless
was not provided with wings.

Thanks to this lady, sir," continued the
officer, indicating Eleanor, " sou are pardoned
this time."

Master Lewis Conolly saluted again, and,
turning his blue eyes gratefully on Edith,
replied, 'thank you, madam," and retired.

The third mate also went his way, leaving
the three ladies in even a more embarrassing
position as regarded their relations to one
another than he had found them. If silence
had before been possible, to one of them at
least it had now become unendurable. Eleanor
Norbury's nature was one of those that cannot
accept defeat with grace, and which persists

in a bad cause with the same pertinacity as
though it were a good one.

You are doing what you can, Edith," she said
in a voice trembling with passion ''to induce
others to resist authority, as you have resisted
it yourself. It will be bad for them, and sooner
or later, I warn you, it will be bad for you."

"Are you commissioned by any one to
threaten me ? " inquired Edith, dryly.

Of course not to threaten you ; but it is
certainly my father's wish that you should
understand that he is getting tired of a policy
of conciliation."

"■ He will not succeed in his object any
better by a ]policy of theft."

Of what ? " cried Eleanor, rising to her
feet with a suppressed scream of rage.

The instant the accusing words had passed
her lips, Edith perceived their double meaning.
She had referred to the robbery of her
letters only, but the recollection of her lover's
talk with Mr. Norbury at once recurred to
her. She beheld in her imagination an indignant
daughter resenting: a charge of dishonesty
against her father.

I am referring," said Edith, in calmer
tones than she would have thought it possible
to use in such a matter, '^ to the abstraction
of my private letters from my cabin last night.
From a conversation I had with my uncle
yesterday evening; I am inclined to think that
they were purloined at his instigation."

*' Your suspicion is quite correct ; I took
them myself under his authority," replied
Eleanor, boldly ; " they are now in his possession."


Then he is a receiver of stolen goods."

You dare to say that ? Then 1 am a
thief, I suppose ? "

Most certainly, upon your own confession."

*' Oh dear ! oh dear ! " murmured Aunt
Sophia, " pirates themselves could be no worse
than this."

The observation might well have been taken
in its literal sense, if theft on board ship is
an act of piracy, but it was evident that the
speaker only intended it metaphorically, and
as descriptive of the social imbroglio.

*' I am not sorry, Edith," continued her
cousin after a pause, which, to judge by the

movement of her throat, was occupied in
swallowing, "that you have used this plainness
of speech ; your insolence and audacity
convince me that you understand your position.
It is just as well too that you, Aunt Sophia,
should understand it. My father's patience
with his niece and ward is exhausted. Since
fair means — I mean since persuasion with her
has utterly failed, he is fully resolved to exert
his authority. The day of disobedience is over,
as she will find."

A suspicion long existent in Edith's mind,
but never entertained — always loyally, up to
this time, put aside as groundless and unworthy
— suddenly became conviction.

You have read Mr. Layton's letters,
Eleanor," she exclaimed.

Eleanor turned ghastly pale. '' I have
not," she muttered between her teeth.

That is a falsehood ; and because they
were written out of the fulness of his heart
to me, and not to you, you are full of jealousy
and hatred."

'' Oh dear ! oh dear ! " moaned Aunt Sophia.
The gallant Ganges had made a dip more deep

than usual, but it was not to that she referred,
but to the social wreck that was taking place
about her. Everything seemed going overboard,
and she without a spar to cling to.

^'You will repent having said that, you —
you hussy, as long as you live," gasped Eleanor,
almost speechless with fury. " Do not think
you are going to have your way any more.
Since your spirit cannot be bent, it must be
broken, and you need look to me for neither
help nor mercy."

To you ! " echoed Edith, with cold scorn.
*'I must be destitute of help indeed before
I look to such a source for succour."

'* You speak as if you were still in London,
with troops of friends purchased by the
rumour of your wealth. But you are now
bound for a land where legitimate authority
is something more than a mere sham ; and,
in the mean time, on board this ship, you will
find you are in firm hands."

The speaker suddenly grew dumb, and into
her face there came a look of rancorous disappointment,
such as her cousin rightly judged
could have been evoked by one cause only.

Edith's back was to the companion-ladder,
so that she could not see who was approaching
them, but in her kinswoman's face she recognized
the new-comer as in a mirror.

I am not, you see, so friendless as you
supposed. Cousin Eleanor," she answered
quietly. " Perhaps I ought to have told you
that Mr. Lay ton was on board."

CAPTAIN HEAD TO THE RESCUE.

Ln" the records of battle, we sometimes come
across the graphic line, '' The enemy broke
and fled." This is generally the result of
sudden panic. If the phi-case can be applied
to a single individual, it exactly fitted the
behaviour of Eleanor Norbury when she
beheld Charles Layton standing before her.
He had made no hostile demonstration — quite
the contrary ; he had lifted his hat with great
politeness ; but she rose at once, and snatching
up her skirts in her hand, as if to avoid the
contamination of his touch, she rushed away,
as Aunt Sophia would have expressed it,
down-stairs.' The latter stood her ground
or rather sat where she was — from sheer
incapacity to do otherwise. For the last
quarter of an hour she had been consumed

with that emotion wliicli ladies, io the marriage
service, are particularly required to avoid,
amazement.' It had seemed to her that
there was no long-er room in her soul for
any new surprise. But she was now fairly
paralyzed with astonishment. For a moment
it did not occur to her that Mr. Layton must
be a passenger on board the Ga/jf/es, like herself;
he appeared to have literally dropped
from the clouds. It was not a case of nee
Bets inter sit. No intervention short of this,
she felt, could have saved Edith, and it had
happened in the very nick of time. She knew
Eleanor well, and therefore knew what good
cause Edith had to fear her. She had recognized
the fact that evil days indeed were in
store for her favourite niece, and now that
such a champion had so opportunely stepped
in, her whole heart was stirred with joy. But
it was a 'fearful joy.' Awhile she welcomed
the deliverer, she trembled at his audacity.
Though her sympathies were altogether with
Edith, she had by no means the courage of
her opinions. Now that she had got over her
first shock of wonder, she would, despite the

perils of locomotion, have essayed to follow
Eleanor, quite as much from fear of her anger,
as from an instinct that the two lovers would
wish to be left alone, had not Mr. Layton,
with a grave smile, motioned her to remain.

Pray do not run away from us," he said.
*' Edith and I have no secrets from you, Miss
Norbury."

A judicious remark enough, but one that
seemed to poor Aunt Sophia, as indeed it was,
not a little compromising. It would be a great
point gained, as Layton felt, if he could get
her to declare herself on Edith's side ; but
actual partisanship was beyond her powers ;
she had not, in fact, the pluck for it. The
consciousness of her own weakness could be
read in her troubled face.

Oh, Mr. Layton, how co^dd you ? " she
murmured reproachfully. '' And yet, though
I know it's very wrong, I can't help feeling
glad."

"Of course you are glad that Edith has
found a protector. None knows better than
yourself how much she stood in need of one."

"That is very true," said Aunt Sophia,

without suspecting the extent of her own
admission. " But what can you do even now
that you are here ? It is useless to attempt
to withstand my brother; he will stir up
everybody on board the ship against you,
even that dear old captain."

But not that dear young midshipman,"
put in Edith, parenthetically. Her good
spirits had returned to her with amazing
quickness now that her lover was by her side.

"My dear child, what is the good of a
midshipman ? How can he help you up at
the mast-head ? "

"I have reason to suppose that Mr. Nor-bury
is now speaking with the captain," said
Layton.

Good heavens ! What will be done to
you?" exclaimed Aunt Sophia. ''He can't
put you in irons, can he ? "

I don't think he can," answered the young

man, smiling. '' Mr. Norbury will suggest,

no doubt, some measure of that kind, but

it will hardly be received with favour. Your

brother's manner is a little too dictatorial, I

fancy, to suit Captain Head."

VOL. I. L

You do not know my brother, Mr. Layton,"
returned Aunt Sophia, in a frightened whisper.
He never forgives where he has been
thwarted as you have thwarted him. If the
poor captain ventures to take your part, he
will lose his ship."

At this prediction the young barrister
laughed aloud. '' Captain Head can take care
of himself, I think, even against Mr. Norbury ;
nor am I at all alarmed upon my own account.
But dear Edith stands in sore need of a friend
of her own sex. If you desert her, Miss
Norbury, she will be isolated indeed ; if you
go over to the enemy "

'' No, no," interrupted Aunt Sophia, clasping
her trembling hands; "I will never do that.
But pray, pray, do not ask me to take sides
with her openly. If I promised to do it,
Eleanor would make me break my promise
within the first five minutes. You don't
know what Eleanor is, Mr. Layton, when she
gets you alone."

That is true," said Mr. Layton, with great
gravity. Not so much as a twinkle of his eye
betrayed that there had been a time when he

might have informed himself upon that point.
I would not put you in a painful position
with respect to your own belongings for the
world, lout remember that Edith also is your
own flesh and blood."

I love her dearly," sighed Aunt Sophia.

I believe you do ; but I wish to put you
on your guard, lest your respect for her should
be impaired by calumny. If I have done
anything amiss, which I deny, in coming onboard
this ship, the fault is wholly mine ; nor
had she the least knowledge of my intention.
She is as innocent and simple as others whom
we know of are unscrupulous and designing ;
whenever you hear anything said against her,
I do not ask you to contradict it, but only to
say to yourself, ' This is a lie.' Give her all
the comfort you can, and leave her defence tome.
If anything should happen to me (Hush,
dear" — this to Edith, whose hand he was
holding in his own — '' you must let me speak
to your aunt now I have the chance — it may
never occur again) — I say, dear Miss Norbury,
if anything should happen to me, remember
that this girl, your dead brother's child, has

L 2

no friend on earth but you. You must advise
her for the best from your own heart, and not
from the promptings of others."

There was a half articulate " I Avill " from
Aunt Sophia. She was sobbing. The picture
thus drawn of her niece's bereavement, and of
the responsibility thereby imposed upon herself,
had been too much for her.

I w\n.s sure that I could trust to your kind
heart," said the young man, gratefully. " I
will not detain you longer, lest your remaining
here should be construed into a more active
alliance with us."

He rose, and was about to offer her his
arm, when his eye caught that of the young
midshipman, who was watching the little
group at some distance.

'' Mr. Conolly," he said, " will you be kind
enough to escort this lady to the cuddy ? "

The young gentleman was at his side in a
moment, with an earnest " Nothing will give
me greater pleasure."

No, sir, not that lady — this one."

The midshipman had offered his arm to
Edith, and now transferred it to Aunt Sophia,

quite politely, but with perhaps not the same
alacrity that he had originally shown.

My dear boy, your arm is not a bit of use.
You must let me hold on to you as I can''
cried the unhappy lady. They staggered
away together to the companion ladder. She
had begun by taking his shoulder with one
hand, to steady herself; the last thing they
saw of her she was clasping his neck with
both her arms, and nothing was to be seen of
Master Lewis Conolly at all.

The two young people looked at one another
and laughed involuntarily, which was the best
thing they could have done, for it relieved the
tension of their minds. Up to this moment,
it must be remembered, not a word of explanation
had passed between them, and even
now, with the sailors passing to and fro about
them, they could not be said to be alone.

"You are not sorry to see me, love? You
are not angry that I have taken you by surprise
? " murmured the young fellow. The
voice that had been so bold in defending
another had the accents of a dove now that
he was defending himself.

Sorry ! Oh no, not sorry, nor yet angry,
Charley ; but why did you not tell me yesterday
of what you proposed to do ? Then that
parting would not have been so terrible ; I
should have been spared twelve hours of a
misery that was almost despair."

I was afraid to do so, Edie, lest your face
should have revealed our secret. If your
uncle had known of my intention to be your
fellow-passenger, he would have forfeited his
passage-money rather than have permitted it."

That is true, indeed," acknowledged Edith ;
"but you have offended him past all pardon."

"I do not want his pardon." For one
moment he was tempted to add, '' though he
may want yours ; " but he resisted the impulse.
He would not pain the girl by telling
her of her uncle's dishonesty, though the
revelation would have been so advantageous
to him. Edith, on her part, had good grounds
for guessing what was on the tip of his tongue,
and the motive which prevented him from
giving it utterance. Thus, which rarely
happens in this world, he reaped the benefit
of his chivalry.

You dear ! " ejaculated tHe young lady.
A tribute to his delicacy of feeling which her
lover took for a mere natural outburst of
affection.

I wish there were not so many people
about," returned her lover yearningly. " Even
at night I suppose they always have a watch
on deck, confound them ! "

I hope so, indeed," said Edith, with an
affectation of ignorance of his meaning that
was simptjrbewitching. " You don't want to
be run down, I suppose."

I don't want sou to run me down," he
replied comically, "though since I have had
the pleasure of your uncle's acquaintance I am
getting quite used to the operation. Perhaps
I ought to tell you, by the bye, at once, that
he and I have had a talk together. He has
given me that piece of his mind which he has
so long promised me. It is better that you
should know the facts so far — he and I are
now at daggers drawn."

"Do not say that," she answered, with a
little shiver. " It is sufficient to tell me that
you have quarrelled."

That circumstance does not affect me in
the least. Upon the whole, I am glad that he
and I now thoroughly understand one another.
My only fear is that it may affect you. It is
possible that your uncle may persuade the
captain to allow him to use compulsion with
you, to make you a prisoner in your cabin ;
but I don't think he will. I am not without
some influence at my back, and I have still
my own appeal to make to him. If it succeeds,
or if the captain is the man I take him
to be, nothing can prevent our enjoying one
another's society on board the Ganges. AVe
shall have weeks and weeks of uninterrupted
happiness before us. That is a great gain, in
any case. When we get to India, our position
will doubtless be more difficult, but by no
means hopeless. In the mean time, my darling
love, we shall be together. Hush ! That is
the captain's voice in your uncle's cabin, which
is next to mine ; they are at it together
hammer and tongs."

They had been at it together some time.
Hitherto, however, they had been prudently
talking in hushed tones, while the con sensation

on deck had prevented Edith's attention
being; drawn to it, as on the former occasion.

*' As to shutting up your niece, sir, in her
cabin, on board my ship," cried the captain,
anojrilv, " I should as soon think of divino;
you ]permission to put her in the hold. To
be frank with you, I cannot conceive any one
calling himself a gentleman proposing such a
measure."

Mr. Carbury's rejoinder was inaudible, but
it probably took the form of a threat, for the
captain's voice pealed out again louder than
ever.

You may make what representations of
my conduct you please, sir, to whom you
please. I know my duty, which for one thing
demands that I should afford protection to my
lady passengers, and not to play into the
hands of any domestic tyrant. If you want
to bully your women folk, then stay ashore,
sir."

There were some inarticulate sounds in
reply, words doubtless smothered in rage,
which acted on the other as flax on fire.

Repent it ! No, sir, I shall not repent it,

whatever comes of it. And as for insolence,
let me tell you that as captain of this ship I
will brook such a term from no man. The
love affair between your niece and this young
gentleman is, it is true, none of my business,
but if I hear of any compulsion being used
towards her, there's a parson on board, and,
as sure as my name's Henry Head, he shall
marry those young people in the cuddy."

Then the cabin door was closed with a
bang, as it had been closed before, and Mr.
Norbury was left alone with such cogitations
as can be conjectured.

How terrible it all is, Charley," murmured
Edith in a whisper. " Of what dreadful
scenes have I become the unhappy cause ! "

The innocent, but not the unhappy cause,
my darling. Why should you be unhappy ?
We shall now be at liberty to do as we please,
which will be charming. There can be only
one thing better, that your uncle should try
compulsion, in which case we shall be married
in the cuddy."

LAND.

Human affairs in general can be more or
less calculated upon. The annuity companies
look forward with well-grounded philosophy
to the decease of their fellow-creatures within
a reasonable time. But, in the abstract,
matters are wholly different. The individual
knows not what a day may bring forth, nor
even one pregnant hour. To him " nothing
comes with certainty except the unexpected."

Within a space of time that seemed too
short for their occurrence, circumstances had
effected a complete hoideversement in the
fortunes of Edith Norbury. The weary voyage
that she had looked forward to with such
apprehension had been suddenly transformed
into a pleasure trip. The end of it, of course,
was to be proportionally dreaded ; but that

is the case with all human happiness. The
most long-lived love contains in it from the
first the germs of ' parting but the sense of
it happily does not haunt us throughout our
lives. A few hours of her lover's society
had hitherto been all that fate had vouchsafed
her, and even those had been trammelled with
hindrances and prohibitions. Now there were
whole wrecks before her of unrestricted enjoyment.
'let us gather our roses while we
may," was the motto of these happy young
people ; and upon the whole it was a wise
one. If the quarrel between Edith and her
people had been less complete, her position
would have been far less enviable. The remark
of the Eastern executioner when racking
his mother-in-law, " Our relations are getting
a little strained," did not apply to her case,
for all connection between herself and them
was cut off, as it were, " at the main," and
for the present, at least, whatever future evil
might come of it, this was the more convenient,
since she lay under no necessity to
conciliate them.

Her uncle and Eleanor, being unable to

make a prisoner of lier, as they would certainly
have clone if they could, put her 'in
Coventry and a very agreeable residential
spot she found it. She had now and then
a stolen interview with Aunt Sophia, who
was, however, unable to tell her what was
going on in the enemy's camp. She was
herself ' suspect or, to borrow a golden
phrase, coined in the Reign of Terror, "suspected
of being suspect," and (worse than boy-dotted)
was at once denied the confidence of
her own people, and forbidden to hold intercourse
with their rebellious relative. With
sea-sickness superadded — for she never got
over that from first to last — this poor lady's
lot was certainly a most deplorable one. It
may be said that she deserved it for not
throwing in her lot where her sympathies
were already enlisted, but heroism is not so
easy to practise as to applaud. She had
always been in her brother's hands, into
which, as Mr. Layton suspected, her property,
if she had had any, had already passed, and
was as unfitted by nature as by circumstances
to take a line of her own in any direction.

Such persons deserve the pity of their fellow-creatures
rather than their blame, yet they
seldom get it, especially, as in Aunt Sophia's
case, when they are of stout proportions. The
misleading proverb, '' Laugh and grow fat,"
robs them of half the sympathy that is their
due. She therefore stood, or rather sat, apart
while the other inmates of the Ganges ranged
themselves on one side or the other in the
family quarrel.

The two lovers, thanks to Edith's gracious
manners and good looks, had a great majority
with them. Captain Head, as we know, had
early declared for them. Mr. Marston, though
believing he held himself straight as a poplar
in the calm atmosphere of duty, was swayed
towards them in spite of himself. Mr. Ked-maine
was an open partisan of theirs, and in
his wild enthusiastic way suggested that Mr.
Norbury and his daughter should be put out
at the Cape and left there. Mr. Ainsworth,
as a man of peace, endeavoured to effect a
reconciliation ; but finding his efforts resented
by Mr. Norbury with much contempt, joined
Edith's banner. ^' I cannot fight for you,"

lie said to Mr. Lay ton ; " my cloth forbids it ;
but on the shortest notice I will marry you
in the cuddy."

The captain's threat had got about, and,
like all jokes on shipboard, had been received
with rapture. But it was in the midshipmen's
berth that Edith's cause was embraced with
the greatest ardour. Master Lewis Conolly
was understood to hold himself in readiness
to meet Mr. Norbury in mortal combat with
any weapon that gentleman might choose
against his modest dirk ; Masters Arthur
North and Frederic Taylor confined themselves
to challenging (in imagination) the
tyrant to fisticuffs with one arm tied behind
them. The sailors, too, almost to a man,
were for the young lady ; they toasted her
charms in grog in the forecastle, and compared
her favourably with the figure-head of their
vessel, which they had hitherto believed to
be of unrivalled beauty. There are not many
things with which a lady can propitiate the
sailors on board the ship on which she is a
passenger, but, on the other hand, if she is
young and beautiful she is looked upon by

the more impressionable among them as a
queen is on shore, and a gracious smile and
a kind word from her go a long way ; of these
Edith was naturally lavish. Moreover, when
it came to subscriptions for the entertainment
of Neptune and Company on the day when
they crossed the line, she gave with a freehand,
which no doubt contrasted favourably
with the conduct of her cousin, who, like Mr.
John Gilpin, though not indeed bent on pleasure,
*' had a frugal mind."

Edith's popularity was not, however, universal.
It was generally understood that Mr.
Norbury was a person of great influence with
"John Company," and could do a great deal
for a man if he had a mind that way. Even
the sturdy British sailor is not always blind
to his own private advantage, and has been
known to make lovely woman herself subordinate
to it ; but the few who were opposed
to the young couple were for the most part
hangers-on of Mr. Bates, the third mate, who,
as we have seen, had from the first entered
into an alliance with his former patron.
What the relations between himself and Mr.

Norbury had previously been none quite
understood, but it was supposed that he had
been in that gentleman's employment, where
he had committed defalcations. From this
charitable view it will be justly concluded
that this officer was not a persona grata onboard
the Ganges and indeed he was very
thoroughly hated by almost the entire ship's
company. The only exception, save among
the common sailors, among whom he had a
small following of his own, was Gideon
Ghorst, the interpreter, a Hindoo who had
lost his caste, and in the process acquired
many things unknown (let us hope) to my
readers, and among them a smattering of
some unconsidered Eastern tongues, including
Malay. His limited acquaintance with English
probably prevented him from understanding
the nature of the language which the third
mate occasionally used to him in common
with the rest of his companions in the forecastle,
while his nature was so gentle that he
was ready to curry favour with anybody for
an allowance of rum.

Notwithstanding that sense of being a

VOL. I. M

general favourite, which is so agreeable to us
all till we come to learn its real value at a
pinch, and the almost constant companionship
of her lover, Edith Norbury was by no means
easy in her mind. Though she had no cause to
love her people, but, on the contrary, greatly
to mistrust and fear them, their total estrangement
from her was distressing. In this respect
perhaps more than any other, a woman's
nature is unlike a man's, that home ties, even
when they take the form of fetters, are essential
to her.

That Mr. Norbury and his daughter should
have taken to ' the sulks ' was a matter of
great congratulation to Charley, who hailed
the excommunication which they had pronounced
upon Edith and himself as though
it had been a " Bless you, my children ! "
uttered by Mr. Carbury, as 'heavy father
with uplifted hands. Even if they had been
his own flesh and blood their enmity would
probably not have caused him the least inconvenience.
Nay, had Mr. Norbur}' been
not only his own uncle, but possessed of all
the cardinal virtues instead of being, as he

shrewdly suspected, a great rogue, and had
yet behaved harshly and unjustly towards
himself, he would probably have been well
content to quarrel with him. "If he be not
fair to me," he would have said to himself,
what care I for his ' warmth ' and reputation
for integrity in the city ? " It is the privilege
and perquisite of a man to shake himself free
of the closest bonds of relationship when they
gall him. But Edith, though innocent of its
existence, secretly bewailed the gulf that
yawned so widely between her and her belongings.
Her disposition prompted her to live
at peace with all her fellow-creatures, but
"especially with those of her own household."
She more than once had confided her regrets
on this matter to Aunt Sophia, who had
sympathized with them to the uttermost.
That excellent woman, through long habit of
submission (for she had really by nature a
good backbone of her own), had become so
dependent as to absolutely demand some sort
of lattice-work to cling to — (miss Virginia
Creeper" Mr. Layton used to call her, with
reference to this parasitic tendency, though

M 2

indeed lie was no parasite) — otherwise, in
spite of flouts and repulses, she woukl not
have striven as she did to effect a reconciliation
between those she feared and those she
loved. Hitherto her endeavours had met
with no success, but a time came when, somewhat
unexpectedly, her brother showed signs
of yielding. It was the evening before the
day on which it was expected that they would
enter Simon's Bay, where the Ganges was to
stop for a day or two, and every one who
could ore leave was mym^ on shore.

'' We shall sight land tomorrow, Sophia,"
said Mr. Norbury, with unwonted affability,
and Eleanor and I propose a little jaunt as
far as Cape Town. It would give us pleasure
to take you with us, for a day or two ashore
would, I am sure, be a great relief to you,
after all you have suffered ; but then, you see,
there is Edith, whom we can hardly leave
alone on shipboard."

It struck Aunt Sophia for the moment that
they had left her alone a good deal already,
but that rebellious idea was characteristically
dismissed from her mind as soon as it had

entered it ; it was of course a different thing,
she reflected, to avoid her society, and to
make it impossible by their absence for her to
communicate with them at alL Though she
had been forbidden to hold converse with her
niece in general terms, occasional intercourse
with her had been winked at (the fact being
that Mr. Norbury had used his sister as an
unconscious spy on Edith's actions), and it
was only natural they should be unwilling to
leave her without a female companion.

Of course, I must stay with Edith," answered
Aunt Sophia, with a little sigh, for
the prospect of even a day or two upon terra
firrna, where, save under very unexceptionable
circumstances, there were no ' sinking,' and
where when the wind blows it only affects
your garments, and not your legs, was very
tempting to her.

"Unless," put in Mr. Norbury, "Edith
would condescend to make one of our party."

I am sure if you or Eleanor would ask her
she would be only too pleased," said Aunt
Sophia, eagerly.

"I shall certainly not ask her," observed

Eleanor sharply. "If my father chooses to
put her in possession of his wishes on the
subject, and to have them disregarded, is
another matter, which only concerns himself
and his self-respect."

Mr. Norbury glanced at his daughter in a
very paternal manner — indeed, much as he
was wont to glance at his niece when he met
her, as necessity compelled him to do at meals
and on deck, with Mr. Charles Layton in her
close vicinity.

"Hold your tongue, miss, and keep your
opinion till it's wanted," was his austere rejoinder.
"No, Sophia, after what has passed
between Edith and myself, it is impossible
that I could run the risk of any rejection of
my advances. I feel, indeed, that the present
state of our relations with one another is
deplorable, and should be glad to put an end
to it, though that of course is an admission
which it would be impossible to make to her.
The only manner in which it can be arranged
is through an intermediary. You can tell her
if you like that, as the ship is calling at
Simon's Town for fresh meat, and will stay

there a couple of days, we propose to drive
over to Cape Town. If she will join us, no
reference will be made to the subject of Mr.
Lay ton, but it must be understood, of course,
that that person does not intrude himself on
our society."

This message, though couched in much more
gracious terms — as Mr. Norbury no doubt
took it for granted it would be — was duly
conveyed by Aunt Sophia to Edith, who in
her turn laid the proposition before her lover.

You will do, my dear," he said, '' exactly
as you please about it ; but if your uncle
thinks he is going to give me the slip by
keeping you at Cape Town and letting the
Ganges sail without you he is greatly mistaken."


"I am quite sure he has no plan of that
kind in view," put in Aunt Sophia, " for weare
only to take luggage sufficient for a couple
of days. You smile as if that might be a
blind, Mr. Layton ; but you don't know
Eleanor. Nothing, I am quite sure, would
ever induce her to be permanently parted
from her wardrobe."

*' Still, if Edith goes to Cape Town, so shall
I," observed the young man, decisively. ^' I
shall not in any way interfere with your
family hearty ; but I only trust Mr. Norbury
as far as I see him, and therefore I shall not
let him out of my sight."

Edith was willing enough to enter the door
of reconciliation thus placed, as it were, ajar
for her, while, upon the other hand, her
apprehensions were calmed by her lover's precautions.
Peace, or rather what was after all
little better than an armed neutrality, was,
metaphorically, sealed and signed that night
between her and her relatives in the cuddy.
If it was not so good as being married there,
it was, she tried to feel, better than that
ignoring of each other's existence which they
had been wont to practise. To her sanguine
disposition it seemed of happy augury that
their subject of conversation — for of course
all personal matters were eschewed — was the
country they were about so soon to visit, the
Cape of Good Hope. Eleanor, though she
thought novels ' frivolous,' was a great reader
of travels, and discoursed of Cape Town and

its climate and of the dimensions of Table
Mountain with accurate severity. As a Minister
' puts up ' some member of the House to
talk out an unwelcome measure, so her father
had enjoined on her to make conversation in
order to avoid the intrusion of any embarrassing
topic, and — like most reticent persons when
they do talk — she talked like a book. It was
not very interesting, but a time was coming,
though close hidden in the cloud that shrouds
our future, wherein Edith was glad to dwell
upon it as being at least a memory void of
offence.

The captain was to stay on board to superintend
matters relating to the provisioning of
the ship, but both the first and second mates
were to be of Mr. Norbury's party in the Cape
waggon the next day. Mr. Bates, on the
other hand, was to stay in Simon's Town,
where he had English, or, as suggested by his
shipmates, more likely native relations. He
was well acquainted with the place, and informed
Mr. Layton where a horse could be
hired to go to Cape Town. His manner of so
doing was almost polite, and indeed the near

approach of land seemed to have a more or
less conciliating effect on everybody. It is
probable that nobody but a pirate, or that
Teredo ncwalis, the ship's bore, from which no
passenger vessel can hope to be free, really
relishes ' blue water ' — the beings out of sifi^ht
of his natural element for any length of time.

When Aunt Sophia awoke in the morning
she found herself for the first time for six
weeks in a state of equilibrium ; the Ganges
had ceased its eternal game of pitch and toss,
and was floating at anchor on Simon's Bay
like a lake cygnet which had never so much
as heard of ' the art of sinking.' Never, as it
seemed to her, had she seen such an enchanting
prospect as presented itself from the deck :
the waveless sea, the safe and solid hills, with
the sun shining full upon them from a cloudless
sky; the little town, which, mellowed by
distance, seemed a place to live and die in.
Everything on board seemed to speak of
holiday, and every one to be doing their level
best to enjoy it. Even Mr. Bates bad a grin
on his face as he came up to congratulate heron
the fair weather, and to point out the

objects of interest — the fountain on the hill
where the clothes yere being washed and
dried, and the admiral's abode, which stood
out from its humbler neighbours surmounted
by its flag. It seemed a lifetime since she
had seen a house, or any hill that was not a
wave.

All that were bound for Cape Town, with
the exception of Mr. Layton, were despatched
in the first boat ; he would not embarrass
Edith by his companionship, but at the same
time was resolved that no trick should be
played him ; if he could not actually keep
them in sight he could follow them at a
sufficiently short interval A smaller boat,
'sith Mr. Bates and some seamen with leave
of absence for the day, was to start immediately
afterwards with him. The former gentleman
had already, as he had informed him, secured
him a riding horse by messenger, and was
giving him directions as to the road — which,
however, it was almost impossible he could
miss — while the boat was getting ready.

You will have the whole of tomorrow
in Cape Town to yourself'' he was saying,

*' for you can do the return journey easily in
two hours, and we shall not sail till evening."
At this moment one Brownrigg, a creature
of Mr. Bates, who had of late been under
punishment for intoxication, came up to the
third mate and asked permission to go on
shore. There was no particular privacy in
the application, which, indeed, was made in
an unnecessarily loud and somewhat impertinent
tone, but Mr. Layton mechanically
moved away from them a pace or two. Ashe
did so he heard in a low but distinct
whisper the words " Don't go ! " There was
such a significant hush and caution in them
that he repressed the exclamation of surprise
that rose to his lips, and only looked about
him. No one was very near him save Mr.
Bates and the sailor, but leaning; over the
taffrail at a little distance was Master Lewis
ConoUy. Layton at once assumed the same
position, for, though the telephone had not
yet been invented, he was aware of the carrying
powers which a piece of wood like the
tafirail of a vessel possesses as regards sound.
He leant over it, and looked down into the

water as the midshipman was doing, but
without taking any notice of him. "^\^ell,
you may leave, my man," said Mr. Bates, ina
voice that was certainly intended to be
heard, '"'but if you go near the liquor store
understand that it will be the worse for you."

*• Don't o;o," murmured the warnings voice
again, more earnestly than before, " your life
is in danger."

Xow, Mr. Lay ton, the boat is ready, if
you are," cried the mate.

One moment, Mr. Bates. I have forgotten
to take any money," exclaimed the
barrister. He ran down to his cabin, apparently
to procure what is said to make the
mare to go, and which he would undoubtedly
require for his equestrian trip ; but it seemed
to be his custom, as among the natives of the
East, to carry two purses ; he placed one of
them in one pocket and one in the other, and
they were pretty heavy ones, considering the
short time he proposed to be away. The
men in the boat were holding on to the shipside
in waiting; for him when he returned to
the deck, and Master Conolly, standing with

his back to them, regarded him with a scared,
reproachful look.

All right, Mr. Bates, I'm ready for you
now," said Mr. Lay ton, with a significant look
at the lad intended to reassure him. Though
he seemed to understand it, it had not, however,
that effect. Leaning on the tafFrail he
watched Mr. Layton as he took his place in
the stern, with an expression of unutterable
woe.

Why, is not Mr. Conolly coming with
us ? " exclaimed Layton, with a sudden impulse
; "you will give him leave, Mr. Bates,
I'm sure?"

'' I cannot, sir ; he is the midshipman on
duty," returned the mate, curtly. " Shove
off, men," and away they went. As they did
so it seemed to Layton that Master Conolly's
eyes travelled from his face to that of the
sailor Brownrigg with a look of intense
distrust and apprehension, as though the
Don't go, your life is in danger," had been
supplemented by that parting glance with
and from that man."

NUMBER TWO.

Brownrigg was a turbulent, sullen-looking
fellow enough, as Layton admitted to himself
as he watched the man stretch to his oar ;
but he had no cause to dread his enmity.
There was only one man, indeed, on board
the Ganges of whom he could say that ; but
his hostility, as he felt, was so bitter that it
might well have made any one to whom his
patronage extended his enemy. He knew,
indeed, of no relation of the sort existing
between Mr. Norbury and the man in question
; but Mr. Bates was an ally of Mr.
Norbury's, and this fellow was one of his
henchmen. It had not escaped Layton's
observation that he had given the man leave
to go on shore, in spite of his recent misbehaviour
; whereas indulgence and forgiveness

were not usually aniong Mr. Bates's weaknesses
in dealing with his subordinates.

The new-born civility of the third mate
towards himself was also a little suspicious.
lie had understood from other sources that
it was really difficult to obtain a mare or
horse in Simon's Town, and set Mr. Bates
had secured one for him, notwithstanding that
no less than six had been requisitioned for
the waggon that conveyed the rest of the
party. The similarity of the case with that
of the horse of Troy, which the Trojans
omitted to " look in the mouth," or elsewhere,
because it was a gift horse, struck him very
forcibly. Perhaps this animal would turn out
to be a buck-jumper ; but even so, he had
been accustomed to ride from boyhood, and
feared nothing; that horse could do to him.
When they reached shore the boat was beached,
and every man partook himself to such enjoyment
as was to his taste and the little town
afforded for him.

At its unambitious inn, * The Clarence,' to
which Mr. Bates himself convoyed him, he
found his promised steed, already saddled and

in waiting for him. It did not look at all
like a buck-jumper, nor in truth a jumper of
any kind ; but he saw no reason why it should
not carry him for the twenty miles or so that
lay between him and Cape Town. A Hottentot
or two, with the appearance of having breakfasted
a la fourchette, and very largely, were
hanging about the yard. One of them offered
to run beside Layton's horse and show him
the way to~C^ape Town — a feat that, for one
with such a paunch, seemed absolutely incredible,
though the landlord assured him it could
be accomplished ; but the young barrister
declined his services. The road indeed, ashe
had been informed, was not a good one ;
but as there was no other he could hardly
miss it, and in a few minutes he was on his
way.

The first ten miles between Simon's Bay
and Cape Town, though no doubt they have
their charms for those who travel it fresh from
the heaving deep, are very barren and uninteresting.
At the date of Mr. Layton's
acquaintance with it the road was hardly
recognizable as such, especially where some

VOL. I. N

stream from the mountains intersected its
sandy track with its deep channel ; but as
its wheel-marks showed where the waggon had
preceded him he had no difficulty in finding
his way. His progress was, however, slow,
for it was difficult to rouse his steed to a
canter, and he arrived at the hotel sometime
after his predecessors, who had already
lunched, and were seeing the local lions. In
this matter he was more fortunate than he
knew, since his friends had already been so
thoroughly put to the question as regarded
home news by all the English sojourners at
the hotel that he himself almost escaped that
fiery ordeal.

There are few things more pathetic — and
more subversive, by the way, of the idea that
home is wherever we ourselves happen to be
than the eager inquiries put to a new
arrival from the old country by colonists (of
the first generation, at least). "Can you tell
me, sir," entreated an old gentleman who
came upon Layton — looking at Table Mountain
with an air of interest that at once convinced
him that he was a visitor, whereas he

was merely wondering whether his beloved
Edith had been provided with a quiet and
sure-footed steed for that inevitable expedition
— '' can you be so very good as to tell
me " — and the tears seemed near his eyes
as he spoke — '' what horse has won the
Derby ? "

On Table Mountain, Edith seemed to Layton
to be safe at least from abduction, which was
his chief apprehension on her account, nor
could he well follow the party, considering the
narrowness of the road, without at one point
or another meeting them point blank, which
would have been very embarrassing. The
attractions of Eondebosch and Wynberg — the
Richmond of Cape Town — and the more
intellectual temptations of its magnificent
public library, offered themselves to him in
vain ; his mind was too anxious to admit of
such distractions, and indeed he felt always
more or less uneasy when he was not hanging
about the court-yard, where the Cape waggon,
fitted for horses and not for oxen, in which
his beloved had arrived, seemed to give him a
solid guarantee that she had not been spirited

away from him. In this yard he met, more
than once, another individual, who also
seemed upon the watch, and whose outline
had appeared not unfamiliar to him. On the
second occasion he recognized him for certain
as the Hottentot who had offered to accompany
him from Simon's Town, and who had now
apparently performed that trip for his own
pleasure. Upon claiming acquaintance with
him, however, this persevering native declined
to admit his own identity ; as he denied it in
Dutch indeed — a lano-uao-e of course unknown
to his interlocutor — this would have gone for
little to shake Lay ton's conviction any way ;
but, moreover, he was one of those persons
who do not forget faces, whether native or
foreign. It was certainly the same man, and
his unexpected reappearance seemed to Layton
to bode no good. His mind was full of apprehension,
and at once jumped to the conclusion
that this fellow was a spy set to watch his
movements on behalf of Mr. Norbury. This
reflection did not tend to render his stay in
Cape Town more pleasant ; there was nothing
for it, however, but to remain and carry out

his simple programme for the next twenty-four
hours.

Wherever Edith and her party went after
their return from Table Mountain, he followed,
though at a respectful distance, and
the next afternoon, having seen them off on
their return journey, he prepared to take the
same route. He had not ridden a hundred
yards, however, when he found his horse was
dead lame, and had to return to the inn for
another. How the lameness had come about
there was no explanation, the landlord combating
the view that it had been the work of
the Hottentot on the ground that he was in
the employment of the very man at Simon's
Town to whom the horse belonged — an argument
which only corroborated the suspicion
Layton entertained, but which he thought it
wiser to keep to himself. As it happened
there was no horse procurable for some time,
and the one that was at last offered him was
a sorry nag even by comparison with its predecessor.
He had no choice, however, but to
take it, for his time was getting very short,
and he well knew the strictness and punctuality

with which the captain's orders were executed.
Though he had shown himself so well disposed
to him it was quite possible if he failed to
appear at the landing-place at the appointed
hour that the Ganges might sail without him.
He therefore hustled his Kosinante along as
well as he could.

The shades of evening were falling before
he lead ridden ten miles out from Cape Town,
and he found a difficulty in crossing the first
ravine or nullah. It was the only one, however,
that was wooded on both sides, and he
hoped by the help of an early moon to find
the rest of the way easily enough. He had
got through the water, and was climbing the
dip into the road beyond, when he heard
something whizzing past his head, and,
glancing back, perceived a native in the act
of selecting a second spear from quite a sheaf
of them. What light there was was fortunately
behind his assailant, and threw out
the outlines of his figure clearly enough.
Layton, thrusting his hand into his socket,
drew forth a pistol and took a snap shot at
the most prominent portion of the enemy's

frame. Then the same thing, only worse,
happened that occurred to Mr. Dean, the
archsBologist, in the ballad —

A chink of old real sandstone hit him in the abdomen,
And he smiled a sickly smile and curled up upon the floor,
And the rest of the proceedings interested him no more.

The Hottentot ' curled up ' and fell, throwing
his hands into the air as men do when
summoned by the Bushranger Death. At the
same instant a man with a crape mask over
his features rushed out of the scrub by the
wayside and struck at Layton with some sharp
instrument. The blow fell short, and only
severed his rein, and before it could be repeated
Layton fired his second pistol pointblank
in the face of this new assailant, and
with the like result. He dropped at his feet
like a stone.

It was neither the time nor place to gratify
his curiosity as to the identity of his foe.
There might be more ruffians where those
came from in the nullah, and he had no other
weapon with which to repel them ; so, striking
his spurs into his horse, he galloped on. This,
however, was that poor animal's last spurt ;

before lie had gone a mile further he gave in,
and neither force nor persuasion could get
even a foot pace out of him ; he was foundered.
Then Lay ton girded up his loins to run. He
was by no means equipped for speed, for,
beside his knapsack, which he now transferred
from his horse to his own back, he had his
pistols to carry. Most persons under these
circumstances, since he had no more ammunition,
would have discarded them ; but Layton
was a lawyer, accustomed to consider the
weight of evidence, and, on the whole, thought
it wiser to retain them. His mind rapidly
reviewed the situation. Of the identity of
the Hottentot he was convinced, and he had
a shrewd suspicion that his ally had been no
other than the man Brownrigg ; the instrument
with which he had l)een attacked had
certainly been a ship's cutlass, which seemed,
at all events, to point him out as a sailor ;
while the warning; words and stance of the
young midshipman made his suspicions trebly
strong. Now if, as he believed, he had been
the proposed victim of a conspiracy, its object
though it had failed in its immediate intent.

which lead certainly been nothing less than
his murder — would be equally obtained by
his detention in the colony in connection with
a criminal trial. He resolved, therefore, to
sav nothing; of what had occurred until, at
all events, he was well on his way with Edith
on board the Ganges. The silence of the other
two parties concerned in the adventure might
be relied upon, and the effect of it as regarded
himself would only be to put him on his guard
against those foes who were still alive, and
whose iinscrupulousness was now only too
manifest. Upon the whole, this determination
did credit to his good sense and discernment.
The only thing he wanted — a common
thing with men of his profession and too practical
turn — was a little moonshine. The dusk
had now almost turned to dark, and speed
avails nothing, even to the swiftest, in such
cases ; they may even be running the wrong
way. He picked his way with his eyes on the
ground, seeking in vain for the wheel-tracks.

Suddenly on the quiet night there broke
the thunder of a ship's gun. On the one
hand, it was a bad sign, for it showed that

Captain Head was getting very impatient ;
on the other, it was a good sign-post, for it
pointed out to him the direction in which to
go. It seemed to him, as he started off again
at full speed, that he should never forget
that moment, nor could experience another
so pregnant with perils and anxieties. If he
did not forget it, however, it was not because
it was never to find its parallel.

Presently the hills that had limited his
horizon opened out ; the full moon swam
forth in splendour, and he beheld the great
bay, with the Gcuirjes on its bosom, and in the
foreground the boat's crew with their oars in
the water, and the coxswain standing up in
the stern searching the land for his belated
passenger.

There were other eyes on board the ship
itself, that were employed, and even more
anxiously, on the same C[uest. The party
from Cape Town had themselves arrived onboard
somewhat behind their time, and found
the captain in a fume. He had been consulting
that seaman's oracle, the barometer, and
it had counselled flight. In spite of the quiet

look of tidings, the wind was rising, and
promised to be no mere capful ; on the other
hand, it was a sou'wester, and favourable to
the ship's course. Under these circumstances,
to be kept hanging about in Simon's Bay fora
single passenger was not to be endured by a
commander with a keen sense of duty. Mr.
Layton was a great friend of his, but there
are limits even to personal friendship ; and if
the youngfTnun imagined that because he had

J CD O

a regard for him he would keep the Ganges
waiting while he finished a game of billiards
in Cape Town, he would find himself dashed
mistaken.

*' Hang the fellow ! wdiy don't he come ? "
exclaimed the captain, irascibly.

Can't say, sir," said Mr. Bates, who had
himself come aboard with exemplary ]punctuality,
even before his leave of absence had
expired. *' I suppose he is amusing himself
somewhere."

'' I'll amuse him, and be dashed to him !
Fire a gun, Mr. Bates."

In the hour of duty (and anger) one is apt
to for ore t matters, save the one immediately in

hand. The captain did not remember that
the third mate and Lay ton were not on very
good terms, or notice that the explanation he
had given of that gentleman's delay was not
exactly one that would have been offered by
a peacemaker.

Edith was sitting by herself in an obscure
corner of the deck, racked by anxiety and
apprehension. She had passed a wretched
couple of days ; for nothing is so distasteful
to us, when we do not relish them, as amusements,
especially when partaken of in uncongenial
company. Once or twice in Cape
Town she had caught sight of Layton going
out by himself, and designedly avoiding her.
She knew the reason of it, of course, but it
had distressed her, and she was longing; to
tell him so, passionately desirous to make up
with loving' words for their forced estrangement.
The companionship of her relatives
had brought her no comfort ; she felt that it
had effected no genuine reconciliation between
them ; it had not even been a patching up.
Mr. Norbury, indeed, had spoken to her without
harshness, but also, as it had seemed to

her, with a certain ill-concealed air of triumph,
as though her acceptance of his invitation had
been the acknowledgment of her defeat ; while
Eleanor had not troubled herself to hide the
confirmed dislike with Which she regarded
her ; and now, though she knew that Charley's
intention was to follow them from Cape Town
immediately, he had not yet arrived ! What
could have delayed him ? had he lost his way,
or met with: some accident in one of those
horrid nulla ? How lonely and miserable
she felt 1 The report of the gun startled her
from these reflections, but filled her with new
alarms. In the agitation and confusion of her
mind, it seemed to bode ill-tidings.

AYhat is the matter, ^Mr. Eedmayne ? "
she inquired hurriedly of the second mate,
who happened to be passing.

It is a signal to the boat," he answered
gently. " The captain is getting impatient,
that is all"

'' But not a signal for its return, surely ?
He will never let it come back without — that
is, he would not leave any passenger behind
and sail without him V

*' Well, you sec, Miss Norbuiy, the Ganges
is not a passenger ship, and indeed, if it

were But there, 1 have no doubt Mr.

Lay ton will turn up in time."

The boat could be distinctly seen a few
oars' length from the shore ; it was motionless
save fur the rise and fall of the wave, and
evidently in waiting for some one. With the
midship alan in charge and his passenger,
there should have been eight persons in all,
whereas only six could be made out through
the glasses.

^* AVho is in command of that boat, Mr.
Bates ? " inquired the captain angrily.

'* Mr. Lewis ConoUy, sir."

'' Then why the deuce doesn't he obey
orders ? Fire another gun, sir."

Before the order could be obeyed a man
was seen running down to the shore, the boat
was pulled in, and he jumped into it, and it
was under way in a moment.

"There are only seven of them yet," muttered
the captain. There was more chagrin
than passion in his tone this time.

The boat's crew are all right, sir, I can

make out six oars," observed Mr. Bates, complacently.


*' Yes, Jut not Mr. Layton. I call you to
witness that I have given him an hour and a
half to make up his lee way, and I can do no
more."

Mr. Bates o'ave an assenting; salute. He
knew his captain well, and understood when a
reply was required of him and when not. Mr.
Norbury, who had drawn near to them, had
not this advantage. He interposed with the
praiseworthy intention of strengthening the
hands of authority.

The public service must, of course, be
attended to, and is to be preferred to all
private considerations."

I don't want to be told my duty, sir,"
observed the captain, curtly, '"'by any dashed
interfering landsman that ever was littered."

Mr. Carbury turned very red, but remained
silent under this wholly unexpected rebuke,
as the boat drew nearer and disclosed the
fact beyond all doubt that there was no passenger.
Then all traces of annoyance disappeared
from his countenance. Mr. Bates and

he interchanged a meanings and well-satisfied
smile.

Presently the captain moved away to where
Edith was sitting. She had a pair of field-glasses
in her hand, with which she was regarding
the approaching boat with the utmost
intentness.

My dear Miss Norbury — I mean ]\Iiss
Edith," he said hurriedly, " I am compelled
with very great reluctance to set sail without
Mr. Layton ; he is doubtless detained by some
accident in Cape Town ; and rather than you
should be left in a state of distress and doubt
about him, I will strain my duty, for your
sake, so far as to touch there, which I had not
intended to do."

Edith rose from her seat and involuntarily
held out her hand, which the old fellow gallantly
took.

I cannot express to you. Captain Plead,"
she murmured with tears in her voice, " the
obligation under which your kind intention has
placed me. I shall never forget it to my
dying day, but I am happy to say that any
departure from your plans is unnecessary sofar

as Mr. Lay ton is concerned ; lie is rowing
with the rest in the boat — I think you call it
Number Two."

"It is certain that he is not Number Two
in somebody's estimation," returned the captain,
as he took the glass from her. '' By
gad, you're right. Miss Edith. It seems that
the eyes of love are sharper than those of
a ship's watch. . . . Mr. Bates, Mr. Layton
is in the boat after all, I am glad to see.
Who is the man that is missing ? "

The answer was a long time coming, and
when it did come it was delivered in a most
lugubrious tone.

Well, sir, so far as I can make out, it's
John Brownricror who is left behind."

"A brood thing too — the troublesome,
drunken dog. Now get the boat on board,
and be smart with it ; and pipe all hands to
make sail."

VOL. I.

Presentiments.

It was in accordance with the course of
conduct on which Layton had determined that
he had declined the seat offered to him by
Conolly in the stern of the boat, and volunteered
to fill the place vacated by Brownrigg
at the oar. It was certain that the midshipman
would have been full of questions as to
the reason of his friend's delay, which would
have been difficult to parry in any case, and
the more so since the thread of the matter
was already in the young gentleman's hand.

Except that he had left his foundered horse
on the same road on which the dead bodies of
Brownrigg and the Hottentot would presently
be found, there was nothing whatever to connect
Layton with their decease, and for the

present, at all events, he felt it was the safer
plan to keep what had happened to himself.

Hence it was that for a few minutes the
hope that he had seen the last of the young
lawyer had, as we know, been raised in Mr.
Norbury's breast, and the fear of it in that
of the captain. To the latter no explanation
of his delay was necessary ; a few apologetic
words aboutthe breaking down of his steed
was taken by the good-natured but peppery
old sailor as an excuse in full, and in the
performance of his nautical duties (which were
soon destined to be pressing enough) he would
probably have forgotten all about the matter
had it not been recalled to his attention.
With Edith, on the other hand, concealment
was more difficult. Love is not only proverbially
importunate, but '' keen to track suggestion
to its inmost cell." One reads of a " telltale
glance," but an averted look, or a want of
promptness in reply equally well tells a man's
secret, or at all events reveals that he has one,
to the woman who loves him. In ten minutes
Layton had put Edith in possession of his
whole story with as great completeness as



any unwilling witness lie had himself ever
turned inside out in a court of justice.

Great heavens ! they meant to murder
you ! " she exclaimed with horror.

*' If they didn't, they ' made believe ' in a
manner that would have made their fortunes
on any stage," returned the young man, dryly.
"A spear between one's ear and one's head,
and a cutlass aimed at one's cheek-bone "

"My father's brother — my own flesh and
blood ! " interrupted the girl in accents of
bitter loathing. Then he understood that she
had not been referring to the actual perpetrators
of the crime in question, but to him
who had set them on.

"Nay, nay, we have no right, my dear, to
jump to any such conclusion as that," he
answered. "It is even possible — though I
confess I doubt it — that my money, and not
my life, may have been the object of my
assailant ; but at all events it is unfair to
conclude without proof that your uncle had
anything to do with the matter."

She shook her head and moaned. " He
had, he had. I am sure of it, Charley. I

understand now what that air of cruel triumph
meant which he wore to-day and yesterday ;
he thought that he had made sure that you
and I would never meet again."

That is a great deal to gather 'from a look,
I must say, my darling," said Lay ton remonstratingly
; " much as I can read in yours."

In truth he was as fully convinced of Mr.
Norbury's complicity in Brownrigg's crime as
herself, but his professional instincts prevented
him from taking it for granted upon mere
suspicion, while he was naturally desirous to
spare her what after all might be an unnecessary
shock to her feelings. Later on in the
evening, however, he had, for the first time
during the last six-and-twenty hours, an
opportunity of speaking to young Conolly, the
result of which settled his views upon the
matter.

Pray tell me, sir, what happened to you
on shore % " inquired the boy, earnestly. " I
am sure you had some far worse adventure,
though you would not speak about it just now,
than losing your way or your horse."

Let us take events in their order, my lad,"

returned the barrister. " Tell me first low
you came to give me that extraordinary warning
yesterday morning, when ]mr. Bates and
Brownrigg were talking together : ' Don't go ;
your life is in danger.' "

*' Because I believed it to be so, IMr. Layton,
and from those very men. Of course, I don't
like Mr. Bates — nobody does, for that matter
or I should say, perhaps, that I am well
aware he does not like me, which prejudices
a fellow. Still, I feel well convinced that the
third mate is a most unscrupulous scoundrel.
He attracts to himself all the ruffians in the
ship. Brownrigg, whom, I am thankful to
say, we seem to have now got rid of, was
about the worst. Do you think Mr. Bates
would have given him leave, just out of
punishment ' too as he was, if he had not
been a pal of his ? The night before last it
was my duty to visit the fellow in the black-hole,
as you would call it. It is not a pleasant
place, but quite good enough for a man who
has made a hog of himself, as he had. My
impression is that Mr. Bates had given him an
extra allowance or two of rum in return for

some promise to do you an injury, for, drunk
as lie was, he kept muttering something about
the third mate and yourself which I could not
understand. My appearance on my rounds
no doubt brought you to his recollection, as
having been always a friend to me. *A
deuced fine fellow, that 'long shore friend of
yours,' he murmured menacingly, ' but he'll
never come on board the Ganges again.'
Why not ? ' I inquired, carelessly. * Why
not ! ' he grunted. ' Because Mr. Bates and I
eh, what are you talking about \ ' He
meant, of course, what was he talking about,
and had he not better hold his tongue : and
nothing more could I o;et out of the brute.
But, notwithstanding his muddled condition,
I could not but think that he referred to some
plot that was really being hatched against
you, and I determined to let you know of it
if I could. I had no chance of seeing you,
however, till you came on deck next morning,
and you knows what occurred then : how
Brownrigg came up to the third mate and
asked for leave and got it. That made me
more suspicious of him than ever, since, if

anything had been already agreed upon between
them, to separate from one another
was the very thing they would have done asa
blind."

My dear lad, you have mistaken your
profession, which should have been the same
as my own," said Layton, smiling ; *' the
deduction was most just."

Indeed, sir, I thought it no laughing
matter," returned the boy, evidently a little
piqued at his communication being received
so lightly. '' I did really believe that your
life was in danger."

And you did your best to save it," returned
Layton, warmly. " You have behaved
like a man, and deserve my fullest confidence
as well as gratitude."

Then he told him all that had happened.

Mr. Bates ought to ] be hung at the
yard-arm," was the midshipman's indignant
comment.

*' No doubt that is a fate that should overtake
more than one of us, if all had their
dues' was the dry reply. " But to accuse a
ruffian without proof is only to put him on his

guard. We must not bark unless we can bite,
my lad. I can trust you, I know, in great
matters. Can I trust you in comparatively
small ones — such as to hold your tongue, for
instance ? "

Layton felt that he could rely on the lad,
but did not think it necessary to enlighten
him as to the ' first causes ' of what had so
nearly proved a catastrophe. It was better
to let him suppose that personal dislike had
been the motive of Mr. Bates's intended crime
rather than that a price (as he was convinced
was the case) had been, as it were, put upon
his head by Mr. Norbury. To have hinted at
such an atrocity would have made it difficult
for the impulsive young midshipman to behave
with due respect to that gentleman, whereby
he would certainly have made him his enemy.
Moreover, he had scruples on Edith's account
about disclosing; to an outsider, however
friendly, the full extent of her uncle's villainy.
On the other hand, having; received this corroboration
of it, he thought there should be
no such concealment of the matter from Edith
herself, if indeed there remained anything to

conceal. After that expression of her own
convictions upon the subject there could be
no further pain for her in the way of revelation,
and he felt that he ought no longer to
aro-ue against them. He did not forget the
eagerness with which she had recently caught
at the prospect of a reconciliation with her
unscrupulous relative, and trembled to think
that she should ever again commit herself to
his tender mercies.

Since the young barrister had returned to
the ship, neither Mr. Norbury nor Eleanor
had obtruded their attentions upon Edith.
In her cousin's case, indeed, this was not
surprising, since it had been obvious that
what advances had hitherto proceeded from
her had been made upon compulsion. Her
uncle's avoidance of her, on the other hand,
might naturally have resulted from apprehension.
Supposing him to be guilty of
having prompted the late attempt upon
Layton's life, he might well be alarmed lest
the other might have escaped from the snare
with some knowledge, or at least suspicion,
of him who had set the springe. For all Mr.

Xorljurv knew, Brownrifror mio-lit not only
have failed in his attempt, but have been
captured and confessed. Ignorant of the
position in which he stood as regarded his
enemy, he might well have been afraid to
open his mouth. There was, therefore, no
more hindrance than before to Layton's conversing
with Edith alone.

A little drawing-room opening from the
cuddy, intended for the use of the Ladies, but
rarely patronized by Eleanor, had been often
used by the lovers as a trysting-place in the
evening, and they resorted to it now. In the
daytime, and in bad weather, a round-house
on deck served the same romantic purpose,
but it was more subject to incursions ; on the
present occasion it would have been anything
but a spot '' for whispering lovers made," for
the noise on deck was terrible. The ship
was flying before the wind, though with much
less of sail than had been set a few hours
ago, and the storm was increasing every
moment. Even in the snug little drawing-room
the two young people found it difficult
to hear each other speak, which necessitated

their sitting close together on the sofa ; while
the frequent jolts and jars from the shock of
the seas made an attitude which a chaperon
would have called ' imprudent,' namely, their
sitting; with their arms round one another's
waists, not only prudent but compulsory.
Even in this position, so admirably adapted
for ' soft nothings,' they had to speak at the
very top of their voices — a requirement which,
perhaps, never enters into the ideas of lovers
who go to sea. This was the more anomalous,
as the subject of their talk deeply affected
the character of other people ; but, on the
other hand, there was no fear of eaves-droppers.
Not a word could be heard on
deck save that which was uttered thrush
the speaking-trumpet ; and matters were not
much better below.

I have been talking; to our young; friend
Conolly, my darling, and I am sorry to say
he corroborates your view of my adventure
with Brownrigg," said Lay ton. " It was a
plot devised between him and Mr. Bates, it
seems ; and as Mr. Bates has nothing to gain
by my departure from this world, I am compelled

to look bellini him for the real culprit.
While there was any doubt you will do me
the justice to say that I gave your uncle the
benefit of it ; but now I am afraid there is
none."

"I am convinced of it," said Edith sadly;
"all is over between that man and me. If
my money was necessary to him he should
have had it for the asking;. But that, it
seems, is not sufficient. Worse than a highwayman,
he does not say to me, *Your
money or your life,' but ' Your life ' only."

Not yours, my darling. Even he, let us
hope, would shrink from harming one so
innocent as yourself."

And is not your life my life ? " she
answered, reproachfully. "If he had taken
you from me, what would life have left worth
living for ? In any case, no ties of blood
shall bind me any longer to one who is a
murderer in his heart. I say again that I
have done with him. Oh, would that I could
think that he had done with us ! "

He has done his worst already, my pretty
one, and indeed it was bad enough," said

Lay ton reassuringly ; '' but having missed his
aim, he will be very careful not to attempt
a second crime. For all he knows, the man
Brownrigg may yet be alive to witness against
him ; or, which would be the same thing in
the end, to witness against his confederate.
As for me, forewarned is forearmed ; and be
sure I am safe enough in any case. I shall
make it my business before we land in India
to collect such evidence against your imcle
as, though it may fail to bring his attempt
on my life home to him, will be sufficient, I
flatter myself, to make him glad to get rid
of me on my own terms — which will include
the possession of his niece. I have friends in
Calcutta who will receive you on landing ;
and before a month has gone over our heads
we shall be man and wife. That is not a
prospect which should terrify you, my darling.
Why do you tremble ? Does the storm affright
you ? "

No, no ; it is not that," she answered with
a shudder. *' I am filled with presentiments
of evil."

That is not like yourself, Edith. A

terrible catastrophe indeed has threatened
us ; but the cloud which held the bolt has
passed over our heads, and now all will be
sunshine. As soon as the captain is at
liberty to attend to anything but his ship,
I shall lay the whole case before him in
confidence ; he is an honest man and will
see justice done. Once beneath his aegis no
harm can atuill events happen to us on board
the Ganges. Of course I wish that we had
not been so scrupulous while we were yet in
England. Had we known your uncle for what
he is, we should have paid less heed to his
authority. But out of evil good has come ;
his wickedness has driven us into each other's
arms."

If the young barrister's eloquence was not
that of Demosthenes, he fulfilled that orator's
precepts of suiting the action to the word
and the word to the action. Cradled in his
embrace, and rocked by the storm, Edith lay
pale and silent ; her eyes regarded him with
the tenderest affection, but were full of tears.

"I wish that I could think with you,
Charley," she presently said. '' I wish that

I could feel that our misfortunes were ended,
and not, as I fear, only beginning. I dare
not even think of such happiness as you have
pictured for us, and so soon. It seems more
likely, somehow, that one of us should die and
leave the other desolate."

Even then, my darling, we should belong
to one another still," answered her lover,
smiling. " ' Faithful and true, living or dead,'
as we used to sing together, you know.
Come ; you are tired, and your nerves are
overstrung to-night ; I must see you to your
cabin."

It would not have been easy for her to get
there unaided by Lay ton's stalwart arm. The
incidents that seem on land to happen to a
drunken man, such as that of the floor rising
up and striking him, actually do take place
at sea during such a storm as was now raging;
over the Indian Ocean. She lay listening toit
for hours ; not in terror of it like her
neighbour, Aunt Sophia, but oppressed with
the sense of a less material danger. It was
a spectre that refused to take a recognizable
shape, but she never lost consciousness of its

presence. To the dreadful diapason of the
storm, the refrain of the old song quoted by
her lover seemed constantly to adapt itself :

Faithful and true, living or dead ;"

but not with the old meaning. Death was no
longer that improbable alternative of which
we speak with a light heart : its sombre and
wide-spread wings seemed to eclipse the sun
of hope.

VOL. I.

The GALE.

I WAS once the only layman in the company
of a large circle of eminent doctors, who were
discoursing, with that frankness which is
usual to members of that calling when they
get together, of the ills to which Hush is heir
and of the little which science can do to
mitigate them. If Nature were but left to
herself, they said, all would be well, or at all
events ever so much better. It was the
nostrums of the faculty — meaning, of course,
those members of the faculty not present —
which did half the mischief. I listened with
amazement, reo-getting; the amount I had
disbursed, to what as it now appeared was
such little purpose, in doctors' fees. I thought
of the woman in the Scriptures who had spent

half her substance in physicians without being
bettered by them, but rather the contrary.

When we adjourned to the smoking-room
I found myself by the side of one of the
wisest-looking of these gentlemen, whose very
face, had I called him in in extremis, would
have been a comfort to me, I'm sure, before
I had listened to the late general confession ;
and, encouraged by his affability, I ventured
to ask him privately whether the talk of his
brethren, in which I noticed he alone had not
joined, was to be taken literally or with a
grain of salt. " A grain ! say rather with a
bushel," was his contemptuous reply. 'rit is
all very well to cry ' stinking fish ' when
there's nobody to hear you" (I bowed in
mechanical acknowledgment of this compliment
to my personal importance, but he took
no notice) ; *' the fact is, however, Nature is by
no means the alma mater which she is described
to be. She is much more like a stepmother.
Suppose you are struck down by illness tomorrow,
there are plenty of people who will
be found to tell you that the best thing to
be done is ' to leave things to Nature,' but the

P 2

simple fact is that what she's after is just this,
sir — Nature wants to kill you."

This gentleman's novel view astonished me
not less than that of his friends had done ;
but upon consideration it seems at least the
more correct of the two. It is the fashion
to speak of Nature as beneficent, but in her
sublimest aspects— and it is as fair to take
them as illustrative of her character as to
judge of man by his actions when he is most
deeply moved — she is very far from benignant
or even humane. When the elements, for
example, throw off the mastery of man, and
appear, as one might say, in their true
colours, these are not rose-colour, but lurid.
Fire becomes the devouring element and
water the devastating flood. There is no
ruth nor mercy in either of them, nor is any
to be found in that which works with both
with such demoniacal and malignant force
that it has been personified in Holy Writ
as the Prince of the Powers of the Air. A
storm at sea to those exposed to its frantic
violence is far from being the sublime
spectacle which it affords to those who

behold it from terra firma : it is only wind
and wave, but it is wind and wave possessed
of devils. Shore-ofoino^ folks have a vague
idea that a storm passes from the face of
the deep almost like passion from the face
of a man, or that at the most, it endures,
like a wet day on land, for twelve hours or
so. They have no conception of a struggle
between giant forces, prolonged it may befor
weeks — an unequal contest, during which,
though courage may still hold out in that
unyielding fort, the soul, physical strength
relaxes and fails as the lamp of hope grows
dim. It is an experience which must be
undergone to be understood. To those who
have only seen her fawning at their feet on
the silver sands in summer time, the tender
mercies of the cruel sea are unintelligible.

It was the fate of those on board the
Ganges to experience them to the' uttermost.
From the evenings when she left Simon's
Bay the tempest had not ceased to pour its
fury upon her tenants for a single hour ;
day and night seemed almost one to them,
engulfed in the green walls of sea, or only

lifted out of them to meet the descending
clouds.

What occurred in vision to one of the most
poetic of poets, and one who was never more
at home than when at sea, had become their
actual experience —

'Tis the terror of tempest. The rags of the sail
Are flickering in ribbons before the fierce gale ;

The good ship seems splitting : it creaks as a tree
While an earthquake is splintering its root, ere the blast
Of the whirlwind that stripped it of branches is past.

The heavy dead hulk,
On the living sea rolls, an inanimate bulk."

It would have been impossible on the fifth
day of her troubles for a landsman to have
recognized the gallant Ganges in her decrepit
and shorn condition. On the second day it
had become necessary to cut away the mizzen-mast,
and on the third the mainmast ; and
yet the wreck flew before the gale more
swiftly far than with all her sails set before
a favouring wind. In what part of the
Indian Ocean she now was no one on board

could tell with certainty. It was only known
that she had been driven hundreds of miles
out of her course, and was driving still ; more
than twenty men had been swept overboard,
and there was no time to mourn them ; the
consciousness of their loss was mainly brought
home to the survivors in the increased tax
upon their physical energies. There was little
sleep for-any man and little food. As for the
cabin passengers, they got what they could
in their outstretched hands from the steward,
regular meals being out of the question.
What Aunt Sophia thought of the sea now
might be conjectured, but she gave no expression
to her views, and if she had they
would have found no auditor. The yell of
the wind drowned all sounds save those which
itself made ; the roar of the maddened sea,
the straining of the ship's timbers, or the
bursting of a sail with an explosion like the
crack of doom. The horseplay of a storm at
sea is like that of our roughs at home —
reckless, aimless, and malignant. There was
not a lucid interval in all its madness — no
lull wherein the watchers, who were no longer.

alas ! the keepers of the storm-fiend, could
snatch an hour's repose.

Some days were not, however, so bad as
others. Then the three miserable women
would crawl up from their stifling cabins to
the round-house upon deck to look upon the
fate that threatened them, which seemed less
horrible than the imagination of it amid the
darkness and chaos below. As in the great
water-floods on land, the wildest and most
savage animals will collect with the tamest
upon the knolls and spurs that ofl'er a temporary
security, and forget the instincts of
tooth and claw in their common peril, so was
it with their human congeners on board the
Ganges. Mr. Norbury and his daughter no
longer kept aloof from Edith, and even met
Mr. Layton without a scowl. On the other
hand, there was no attempt at reconciliation.
Considering the short time which in all probability
they had to live, it was not perhaps
worth their while to make any overtures
of friendship) ; while to confess to having
committed a wrong was foreign to their
natures. Eleanor would sometimes make

room for Edith by her side as she came
staggering in to their common place of shelter,
assisted by her lover ; and Mr. Norbury would
welcome her with a stony smile. He was nota
coward, but his helplessness and want of
occupation compelled him to brood upon the
past, and perhaps the future, and it is probable
that neither of them were cheerful
subjects of-contemplation. They were folks
upon their death-beds whom the doctors had
given up. Mr. Norbury had once put the
question to the captain, " Do you think there
is any hope for us ? " and he had replied with
significant brevity, "I do not," after which
the man of business had placed a padlock on
his lips. He had perhaps so much to repent
of that he knew not where to begin, or his
nature, less reckless than indomitable, made
him averse to ' hedge ' even on the brink
of ruin.

As for Edith, she took her fate for granted
without asking. Most of her time was spent
with Layton, and in his arms, yet not as
earthly lovers. The presentiment that had
oppressed her when they left Simon's Bay

had now almost been accomplished, and was
shared by both of them. They might be
united in the w^oiid where there was no
giving in marriage, but not in this : their
faithfulness was to be proved not in life butin
death. It was the sense of what became
her as a Christian woman that caused her
to leave him occasionally to seek the companionship
of her relatives ; it gave them the
opportunity of making friends with her, and
at all events showed them that she, on lier
part, had no malice or hatred in her heart
towards them. At such times Layton, having
escorted her to the door of the round-house,
would make his way as best he could to some
part of the deck that offered comparative
shelter, and wait there till she required his
services to descend. His presence in the
same place would, he was well aware, be not
only unacceptable to the others, but would
arouse those very feelings of hostility and
bitterness which Edith would fain have
allayed. So it was on a certain day less
tempestuous than its predecessors, but with
no more sun in the sky than in their hearts.

As the wreck — for the ship now hardly-deserved
a better name — drove before the
gale, a mist drove with her, through rents
of which could be occasionally seen the great
gray waves or dark green hollows which had
so long formed their look-out. Aunt Sophia
and Edith were alone in the round-house, but
it was understood that Mr. Norbury and his
daughter were about to join them. Lay ton,
as usual, ensconced himself as best he could
under the lee of the weather-bulwark and
near the helm. There were two men at the
wheel, and Mr. Bates close to them occasionally
issuing an order, or a caution, in stentorian
tones.

The ship still obeyed her helm, but only
on great compulsion and in a half-hearted
manner. It was all the helmsmen could do
to keep her running before the wind in order
to escape the terrific seas that were in chase
of her. It was terrible to look at them ; yet
they had a fascination for Layton which he
could not resist. Each was like a great wall
of water which was about to overtake and
pass through the ship. When it had gone

by, sweeping all that was not fast along with
it, it was with a sort of dull amazement that
he perceived that she still floated. There was
a life-belt having; over him — the last of some
dozen that had been on board. He found
himself wondering how it hung there like a
lonely leaf in late November which has survived
storm and rain, and also why, for such
things had long been without their use. He
had lost none of his physical powers, but,
except when Edith w^s by, had become
strangely apathetic, as men are wont to do
who have lived for days face to face with
death. Suddenly he heard a cry from Bates,
louder than usual, and beheld a mountain
of green water close upon them ; the next
moment he was drenched, breathless, and
blinded. When he comic to himself he became
conscious that other hands beside his owen
were clinging to the same ring in the bulkhead.


What has happened, Mr. Bates ? "
AVe are pooped, the round-house has been
swept away," gasped his companion.

*' The round-house ! " His eyes fell upon

the vacant space which it had occupied a
moment before. " Great heavens 1 where are
the dies ? "

Overboard," was the ghastly rejoinder.

Layton snatched at the life-belt, and the
next instant had leapt on the taffrail and into
the sea.

The man is mad," murmured the other,
but he leant over and sought for him with
his eyes nevertheless, xls if satisfied for the
moment with the ruin it had wrought, the sea
had lulled a little, and it was possible to mark
the human speck for a moment or two in that
ocean of foam. Something happened in that
brief space known only to two human beings.
The, with a white face and a terror in his
eyes which the strife of the elements had
failed to evoke, Mr. Bates made his way
below.

As he did so a vision appeared painted out
on the mist, and beheld only by the men at
the wheel. A great ship without a rag of
sail seemed to fly by them, not parallel to the*
Ganges, but at an angle with her. Her masts
were standing, and there were men on her

deck. It was incomprehensible that she should
not only have survived such a gale but have
suffered so little. The two spectators looked
at one another in horror. "It is the Flying
Dutchman'' exclaimed one, His companion
nodded and turned his quid in his cheek.
Then that will finish us."

The prophecy was about to be fulfilled.

MR. BATES's IsEWS.

It was wkli some difficulty, notwithstanding
his familiarity with the route and his
excellent sea-legs, that Mr. Bates found his
way to the cuddy. The deck, for reasons of
his own, quite unconnected with the state of
affairs there, was just now distasteful to him ;
and besides, he had news to tell somebody.
It may seem strange that under such conditions
of peril it should have been so. To
a landsman, under the same circumstances, the
state of the vessel would have been the sole
subject of interest, and the only news worth
speaking of a change in the weather. But
to a sailor, his ship is his home even when
she has become a wreck, and life, until she
sinks, goes on there for him with its aims and
motives much as usual. In times even that

look desperate lie does not defer tidings of
importance till he gets to dry land and can
consider matters, but grasps the skirts of
happy chance as they sweep by and looks to
the main one.

Mr. Bates's errand was to Mr. Norbury, at
whose cabin door he knocked in a manner in
which vehemence and caution were strangely
mixed. It opened of course from the cuddy,
which was vacant. No meal had been served
there for many a day ; the broad bare table
looked dark and cheerless ; the place itself,
from which every article of movable furniture
had long; been removed, or been broken where
it stood, most dismal. There was little fear
of interruption or of eavesdroppers ; but it
was necessary to beat at the door with violence
to overcome the tumult that reigned everywhere,
and as he did so Mr. Bates kept an eye
over his shoulder. The door was locked, but
that did not necessarily imply that the tenant
was within. It was Mr. Norbury's habit to
lock his door when he was absent. On the
other hand, if elsewhere, where could he be ?
He was certainly not on deck, and could not

therefore have been a witness to the catastrophe
that had just occurred there. "Mr.
Norbury," shouted the third mate through
the keyhole ; then, " Carbury, Carbury."

His voice thus reiterating the other's name
in that solitary place had a gruesome sound,
like that raised by one who, half superstitious
and half sceptical, utters his own name in the
dead of night alone, with the idea of rousing
his familiar spirit.

Norbury, Norbury, let me in ; I have
great and terrible news for you."

What news ? ''

Mr. Bates started and turned round, then
uttered a shrill cry of terror and staggered
against the cabin door. Close behind him,
cling-ingr to the table with both hands and
peering over it, was Edith Norbury, pale as
the ghost he deemed her to be, her long hair
streaming down her neck, her eyes fixed on
his own with agonized inquiry. " You have
terrible news, you say. What is it ? My
uncle is not in his cabin : he is in the roundhouse."


The sweat broke out upon Mr. Bates's fore-vol.

I. Q

teat. If this woman was really alive and
was speaking truth, he had been calling on
a dead man, and with what a purpose ! He
had been striving to inform a spirit already
in hell (for so the position occurred to him)
that the girl whom he hated, and the man
whom he feared and had tried to slay, were
both swept from his path. The man was
certainly gone, but the girl was standing
before his own eyes. Gradually the true state
of affairs began to dawn upon him, but it
was a very different matter to tell it to the
ear for which it had been first intended, and
to tell it to this girl. A heart that is not
to be touched by pity will sometimes be
moved by the consciousness of the commission
of a wrong. In Edith's presence the man
trembled ; his remorse for the moment gave
his voice the semblance of sympathy.

"If your uncle was in the round-house,
Miss Edith, he has perished, for it has been
swept away."

Great heavens ! And Eleanor ? "
*' She has perished with him — I saw her
washed overboard with my own eyes."

It is impossible, it is too horrible ! "
answered the girl, vehemently. " How could
you have seen them perish, when you came
down here to speak to my uncle ? I heard
you calling to him : you said you had terrible
news for him."

It would have been difficult even for one
who was more accustomed to speak the truth
than the tHird mate to state matters as they
had actually occurred. It would have been
embarrassing enough to have to say, " When
I witnessed the catastrophe which has occurred
to your cousin I took her for you : it was the
tidings of your death which I was about to
communicate to Mr. Norbury," not, as it had
seemed, with a superfluity of emotion. But
unhappily there was so much more to say.

I have told you the simple fact. Miss
Edith : I saw the round-house swept away
with your cousin, but I did not know Mr.
Norbury was within it. No, it is useless for
you to go on deck." He seized her wrist as
she was staggering towards the companion-ladder
and detained her by main force. " I
will not permit you to do it; it would be

Q2

dangerous in the last degree. There is no
one there save those whom duty compels
to be."

Mr. Lay ton is there, I know."

"Not now:'

He uttered the words with an intentional
significance, yet without meaning to be brutal ;
it was easier to hint curtly at what had
happened than to explain it in set terms of
any kind.

Not vote ! What, in Heaven's name, do
you mean?" she gasped. *' Where is he?"

Mr. Bates was silent. It was a question,
no doubt, very hard to answer ; but to the
girl's searching and suspicious glance there
seemed something more than embarrassment
in his face.

What have you done with him ? " she
exclaimed with a fierce light in her eyes,
seizing the officer by his loose sailor neckerchief.
" Murderer ! murderer ! Help ! help ! "

A door opened behind them and Aunt
Sophia tottered out of her cabin. '' Merciful
Heaven!" she cried, "what has happened?"
Then perceiving Edith engaged in a frantic

struggle with she knew not whom, she swelled
with her feeble voice the girl's cries for
assistance.

Mr. Ainsworth and Lewis ConoUy appeared
simultaneously — the former from his cabin,
the latter flying down the companion-ladder
like a ball, but alighting on his feet. At the
sight of them Edith released her hold of the
third mate.

What is the matter ? " inquired the clergyman
anxiously.

You may well ask ! " panted Mr. Bates.

With one hand clinging to the table, Edith
pointed to him with the other. " That man
is a murderer ! " she gasped ; " he has murdered
my Charley ! "

The midshipman flew at his throat like a
bull-pup, while Bates struck at him furiously ;
the paralysis which had seemed to seize him
while in Edith's hands disappeared in the case
of this new assailant. Mr. Ainsworth threw
himself between the two unequal combatants
with a vigour wholly unexpected, and separated
them by main force.

Shame upon you, to call yourselves

Christian men," lie exclaimed reprovingly,
*yet thus to fight upon the brink of the
grave ! — Now, Mr. Bates, explain yourself."

I have nothing to explain — the matter
does not concern me at all," answered the
third mate sullenly, "but I had some bad
news to tell, and this young lady has confused
the bearer of it with its cause."

That man has murdered my Charley ! "
reiterated Edith. Her body quivered and
trembled as much with excitement as with
the rolling and pitching of the ship, but the
outstretched arm with which she denounced
her enemy was stiff as steel.

There must be some mistake. Miss Edith,"
murmured the clergyman soothingly ; " Mr.
Layton was alive and well ten minutes ago,
when Mr. Conolly and I brought you two
ladies from the round-house."

"It is true enough, however, that he is
dead," said the third mate curtly. " But as to
my having murdered him, as the young lady
says, it is she, if anybody, who has done it."

'^ What does the man mean ? he must be
mad ! " exclaimed Mr. Ainsworth.

'' Well, this is how it happened : Mr. Lay ton
and I were near the wheel when the wave
came that pooped us. The round-house was
swept away, and with it, as we both thought,
Miss Edith yonder. Mr. Layton seeing her
go overboard (though I suppose it was Miss
Eleanor) jumped on to the tafFrail and leapt
into the sea after her. That's the simple fact,
and I dotft^see how I could have stopped him,
or how it was my fault."

*' Mr. Bates is right so far, my dear young
lady," said the clergyman tenderly. "It
behoves us, no matter how heavy may be our
bereavement, to be just ; if our dear brother
has been taken from us, we may be sure if in
the realms of bliss his soul could be troubled
by anything it would be so by an accusation
made on his account against an innocent
man."

'' What need had I to hurt him," muttered
the third mate, " even if I had a wish to doit
? I suppose such a sea as this is enough
to drown any one without hitting him over
the head."

Mr. Ainsworth threw a searching glance on

the speaker which seemed to say, " This man
doth protest too much," but his attention was
suddenly called to Edith, who would have
fallen to the ground had not the young midshipman
caught her in his arms. The blood
had left her face, her eyes were closed, her
limbs were rigid.

'hold her," he cried excitedly, "while I
run for Mr. Doyle."

"No," exclaimed Aunt Sophia in an unwonted
tone of authority. " Bring her into
her cabin and leave her with me."

Her woman's eyes perceived that her niece
had only fainted, her woman's heart recognized
at once that the presence of any one of whose
sympathy the girl was not assured would on
her coming to herself be most painful to her ;
she would be in the lowest depths of distress
and despair in any case, and if her grief should
not have way it might even be fatal to her.
Under Aunt Sophia's guidance Mr. Ainsworth
and the young midshipman carried her tenderly
into her cabin and placed her upon the narrow
bed. It seemed like laying the poor girl's
corpse in her coffin.

The third mate remained outside, irresolute
and disconcerted. Nothing had turned out
as he had expected. There was no need for
his remaining in the cuddy, yet he hesitated
to go on deck, where his duties called him.
Presently the cabin door opened, and the two
men came out. Coolly slowly made his way
up the companion, without even looking at
Mr. Bates. His step had lost its spring, his
young heart was heavy within him for Edith's
sake.

Mr. Ainsworth addressed the third mate in
the tone of a judge who cross-examines a
witness: 'you say that Mr. Layton jumped
overboard ? Did you see him afterwards ? "

How could I ? " was the sulky response.

I mean, did you see him sink, sir ? "

"Well, no, he had a life-belt on him, but
I saw him drown."

A life-belt ! How was that ? "

I suppose he thought that it might keep
him up a bit. If he had been a sailor he
would have known better : in such a sea it
would only prolong his fate."

Well, you have brought bad news to that

innocent girl — news that will wreck her life,
if it is Heaven's will that she or any of us
should live to remember this day. Let me
ask you to make amends for it in some small
degree. Do not tell her that Mr. Layton had
a life-belt."

Very good ; though there would have
been no harm, I should have thought, in her
believing that he jumped overboard after
her."

It is not that, sir," answered Mr. Ainsworth
angrily. " Can you not understand that it
was for her, and not for himself, that the brave
fellow took that poor precaution ? What I
am afraid of is that in her ignorance of such
matters she might still think that there is
hope for him, and not face the miserable fact
at once."

Hope ! how can there be hope for him,
when I saw him — at least as good as saw him
drown with my own eyes ? How could a
man live for five minutes in such a turmoil ? "

Of course not — it is impossible," sighed
Mr. Ainsworth to himself. " Heaven give her
strength to bear her burthen ! "

A midshipman looking like a drowned
mouse came running down the companion.
You are wanted on deck, Mr. Bates' he
cried with more excitement than respect.
Then perceiving the clergyman, he added
cheerfully, *' The clouds are lifting and the
gale has abated, sir. There is hope for us
still, Mr. Marston thinks."

*' Thanks, my lad." Mr. Ainsworth smiled
and nodded gravely. '' That will be hardly
good news to this poor girl. It would be
better, perhaps, for her if she never woke to
life again. God alone knows, however, what
is the best for us."

THE Week.

Between Nature and human nature there
are many analogies. The seasons have in particular
been largely drawn upon by poets and
divines to illustrate the vicissitudes of our
own existence. As the earth has its winter,
we are told, so has the human heart, and it
will, if it waits long enough, find its springtime.
But Nature can always wait, which
man cannot do, and during the process she
suffers nothing.

In a drear-nighted December

Too happy, happy tree,
Thy branches ne'er remember

Their green felicity.
The frost cannot undo them,
"With its sleety whistle through them,
Nor the cold north wind prevent them from budding at
their prime.

But we, alas ! in our winter-time do remember,

and " a sorrow's crown of sorrow is remembering
happier things."

If only we could be torpid till 'the cold
north winds " — the aching voids, the bitter
and fruitless regrets — had blown over, life
would be very different from what it is.
Ashen some poor woman, delicate and defenceless,
but whom Fate, alas ! deals no more
mercifully with on that account, is suddenly
struck down by its brutal hand, and after a
little while of unconsciousness wakes to life
and her new and painful burden, we call it
coming to herself again, whereas, in fact, she
is herself no longer. Thrush life is left to
her, the light of it has been taken away, and
henceforward she gropes her way in a world
that has been made dark to her. It is the
usual fashion of mankind to speak of the
greatest sorrow that can happen to a woman
the loss of a lons^-loved husband — as lasting
but a year and a day ; well would it be for
many a widow if this were true. There are
thousands who never survive it, and if they
smile, smile only for their children's sake.
We know infinitely less of the sorrows of our

fellow-creatures than of their pleasures, and
are impelled by various motives to ignore
them, the meanest and most grovelling being
the notion that in underrating human woe
we are paying court to that Supreme Being
who, for some doubtless wise but inexplicable
reason, permits its existence.

As, however, in the administration of the
knout in Russia the executioner w411 sometimes
defeat his own object and the law's, by
a too brutal stroke, so Fate in its blind fury
will sometimes kill outright, or numb, where
it has meant to only maim, and this latter
mistake it committed in Edith Norbury's case.
Days passed away after the fact of her lover's
death had been communicated to her before
the full capacity for pain returned to her — the
shock of the news fell on her like a blow from
a bludgeon and stunned her. Now and then
she would awake from a sleep which seemed
akin to death, and murmur, 'dead, dead ! " or
sometimes "Drowned, drowned!" and then
relapse into unconsciousness.

Aunt Sophia never left her side, and tended
her with unremitting gentleness. To her,

perhaps, this melancholy occupation was not
without its advantages ; it prevented her from
dwelling on her own troubles, or on the perils
which surrounded her. For neither her brother
nor her niece Eleanor was it possible that she
could have entertained a genuine affection ;
she had for years loyally shut her eyes to their
real character, but circumstances had of late
compelled her to behold them, not, indeed, as
they really were, but in a very unfavourable
liorht. She was obliged to acknowledge to
herself that the one was harsh and hard, and
the other malignant. There had been a time
when Eleanor had been disposed to regard
Charles Layton with something more than
favour, and since he had declared his love for
another she had done her best to thwart him,
and had spoken of him with the most relentless
and bitter rancour. Still those she had
lost were her near and almost only relatives,
and Aunt Sophia's was one of those conventional
natures with whom the ties of blood
count for very much, independently of the
worth or merits of her belono^ino^s. The
shocking and sudden manner of their ' taking

off' affected her also extremely, and but for
her thoughts being so much monopolized by
her unhappy charge, they would naturally
have dwelt upon it. The catastrophe which
had befallen Mr. Layton, who had always been
a favourite of hers, was also most deplorable,
though she felt it more deeply upon her
niece's account than on her own. Henceforward
all the affection of her credulous but
honest nature was concentrated upon Edith.
As to the danger which threatened them, and
to which she had been hitherto keenly sensitive,
she lost sight of it in the spectacle of the
poor girl's misery. Moreover, though the outlook
was still very serious, the gale had at
length given signs of weariness, the wind had
greatly moderated, and the waves had shrunk
to little above their normal size. Such an
incident as that which had deprived her of
her relatives, and swept off the very place of
shelter in which they sat as with a knife,
could hardly be imagined as one watched
those hurrying but diminished crests.

Strangely enough. Aunt Sophia herself had
been the cause of Edith's salvation, if the

saving of the poor girl's life could indeed beset
down as any benefit. After Layton had
left Edith and her aunt in the round-house,
Mr. Norbury and Eleanor, though, as it happened,
unseen by him, had joined them.
Then Aunt Sophia had been seized with
sudden faintness, the result of many days'
alarm and fatigue, and Edith, with young
ConoUy's assistance, had got her down into
her cabin only a few minutes before the tragedy
on deck took place.

The recurrence of such a catastrophe was, as
has been said, now no longer to be feared, but
the condition of affairs was still full of danger.
The Ganges was little better than a wreck.
A jury-mast had been set up with a few sails,
and she answered wonderfully to her helm ;
but she laboured heavily ; while the rain continued
in such volume that it made every one
almost as wet and wretched as the seas she
had shipped had done before. For the first
time since the commencement of the storm, the
vessel resumed her proper course, from which
she had been driven at great speed for many
days. From the chart it appeared that she

VOL. I. R

was hundreds of miles from the nearest land,
and, of course, utterly unfit to cope with bad
weather. Still, as the midshipman had said,
there was now hope — for those to whom life
still offered hopes.

On Edith this cheering news had little influence,
though she strove to be thankful for
the sake of others. If the highest expectations
of her companions should be realized
and India should be reached in safety, what
would that avail her ? She would only be
landed in a strange country, to which she
had always been averse, without a friend
save the one that accompanied her, and to
whom it would be as distasteful as to herself.
The best she had to look forward to — if
she could be said to look forward to anything,
for, alas, were not all her miserable thoughts
centred in the past? — was that her stay there
should be as short as possible. A tedious and
melancholy return voyage then offered itself,
full of wretched associations, and at the end
of it a home only in name. The man she
loved had left his country for her sake, and,
under a mistake that seemed something designed

by fate in sheer malignity, had perished
in a vain attempt to save another whom he
had imagined to be herself. What a waste of
love and heroism it seemed ! What was the
use of valour, and self-sacrifice, and devotion,
if such rewards were meted out to them ? It
was worse than if blind chance had done it ;
it almost seemed that evil, and not good, was
lord of all.

Presently the rain ceased and the sun came
out. The white malice of the cruel sea was
succeeded by its " countless smile." Like
some treacherous tyrant who has a good-natured
mood and is amazed that his late
victims should have any remembrance of his
late monstrous cruelties, it seemed to say,
Come, let bygones be bygones : mv late
trespasses against you have left, I assure you,
no revengeful feelings in my mind ; let us
laugh and play together." Nor was the invitation
declined. Man, so suspicious of his
fellow-man, is credulous to the advances of
Nature. In a few hours death and destruction
the loss of their comrades, the ruin, of their
floating home — were by the majority of the

R 2

crew of the Ganges almost forgotten ; all
bands went busily to work to throw open the
ports and to dry and air the ship, to examine
the provisions and the stores, and even to
clean the small arms. They did this not only
with alacrity but cheerfulness ; they could not
resist the sunny smile of the sea and the warm
kisses of the favouring wind. Even Aunt
Sophia was wonderfully enlivened by them.

Dearest Edith," said she, " the air is so
fresh and the sky so bright, surely it would do
you good to come on deck."

On deck ! Oh, no," cried the poor girl
with a shudder ; "let us remain here, I entreat
you."

To come on deck and gaze upon the sea
seemed to her like an invitation to behold her
lover's grave. Action, indeed, of any kind
had become abhorrent to her. She secretly
entertained a sort of hope that by remaining
where she was, which she knew to be unwholesome
for her, she might pine away and die
without the sin of suicide. Her state of mind
was not at all understood by Aunt Sophia,
though she thoroughly sympathized with her

calamity — a circumstance wliicli often happens
to those in sorrow : it is easier to weep with
those that weep than to hit upon the springs
of consolation. It would have been wiser for
the present to have avoided the subject of her
niece's loss ; the wound was too fresh and
tender to be touched upon ever so lightly.
But Aunt Sophia thought differently : had
their relations been reversed she would have
found comfort from discoursing upon it, and
she judged Edith by herself.

''He is not lost but gone before, my
darling," lie Avould murmur gently ; but her
well-meant endeavours at consolation met
with no response ; to the mind agonized by
bereavement such conventional remedies are
positive aggravations of calamity ; they seem
to wrong by their ineffectually and insignificance
the memory which it holds so sacred,
and to make light of the loss which it
deplores. Once she even ventured to repeat
a phrase which had often passed Edith's lips
as she lay half unconscious during her first
hours of woe. " ' Faithful and true, living or
dead,' my darling, you are as much his own,

and he yours, remember, as though he were
still with you."

But Edith shook her head with a look
of pained displeasure. The saying that had
been wont to comfort her when there was
no present need for its application, was
no consolation now. It is doubtful whether
under similar circumstances there ever is much
consolation in it. The widower goes to his
wife's grave and there weeps tears of blood ;
for, after all, whatever hateful change may
have taken place in her, there she lies whom
his soul loved. He cannot so easily picture
her, under he knows not what altered conditions,
in the skies, or keep his heart up
with the thought of visiting; her there. It is
not that the promise is uncertain, but that
it is so difficult to picture its realization.
The truth is that in very great calamities,
and unless the suffering soul is permeated
by religious feeling, the world to come has
as little interest for us as the present world :
both alike, for a time at least, seem dull,
stale, and unprofitable. The voice of prayer
itself is stifled upon the lips by the chill

fingers of misery. To the desolate aud
bereaved Heart it seems that there is nothing
left to be prayed for ; no, not even death itself.
Such, in fact, was Edith Norbury's case ; and
it was not to be wondered at, under such
circumstances, that Aunt Sophia's cheering
news of fine weather and progress fell upon
deaf ears. It would have been neither good
nor bad tidings to Edith had she been even
told that the ship was in sight of port. This,
however, the Ganges was very far from being.

For the first time for many days the captain
had been able to get ' an observation,' by
which he found their latitude to be 10 deg.
16 min. north. He also found means to try
the current, which was setting to the E.N.E.
at half a mile an hour. Their rate of sailing
was necessarily very slow, and they were
entirely out of the track of ships, only one of
which, indeed (and that pronounced to be a
phantom), they had set eyes on since they left
Simon's Bay. On the other hand, they had a
good store of provisions on board, notwithstanding
that some of it had been spoilt by
the rain and sea ; and the thoughts of the

sailors, which had been directed to Davy's
Locker with grave doubts as to the accommodation
it would be likely to afford them, were
turning lightly towards Calcutta.

One night, however, the wind began to
freshen, and though, even in the ship's
crippled condition, Mr. Marston did not think
so seriously of it as to arouse the captain,
taking a few hours' rest after his prolonged
exertions, there were signs of more trouble in
store for them. It was, however, far from
being of the same kind. A little after midnight,
and with heavy rain falling, the man
on the look-out siiddenlv cried " Breakers
ahead ! " and the call had hardly reached the
officer on deck when the ship struck with
terrific violence. The horror and dismay
were universal, for such a contingency had
never been anticipated. It seemed almost as
likely that an iceberg should have loomed
upon them out of the murk and mist. All
below, save the two ladies, were on deck in
five minutes, and were throni:>;ino^ about the
captain in an unusual manner, as though
appealing to an authority whom they trusted

in a misfortune of wliicli they had no experience,
and in which they knew not how to
act. Unhappily there was no remedy for
their calamity but to wait for dawn, and in
the mean time to prepare for the worst, which
was only too certain to happen. The Ganges,
which had survived so much, it was now plain
was doomed. Every shock of the sea, from
which she could no longer escape, caused hera
damage more or less vital. In less than an
hour the water was as high as the lower-deck
hatchways ; and, moreover, she was heeling
over to one side. The ammunition and provisions
were therefore all brought up and
placed under tarpaulins. The two remaining
boats were hoisted out, supplied with arms,
food, and water, and kept under the lee of the
ship to receive the crew when she should goto
pieces. When all was done that could be
done in such a strait the ladies were sent for,
as it was thought perilous for them to remain
any longer below. Mr. Marston assisted Aunt
Sophia up the companion-ladder, and Mr.
Ains worth took charge of Edith. Both ladies

o

were in deep mourning, and their appearance

excited not a little interest notwithstanding

o

the emergency of the occasion.

The scene in which they found themselves
was a very strange one. Nearly one half
of the vessel was already submerged ; but
the quarter-deck, resting on the rocks, was
almost clear of water, while the quarter-boards
afforded some shelter from the sea and rain.
Here the captain received them with great
sympathy but perfect cheerfulness, while the
crew stood around him in enforced inaction.
Aunt Sophia was so prostrated by fatigue and
terror that she was only too thankful to sit
down and shut her eyes to such sights around
her as the dim liojht rendered visible : amonor
which the most horrible were the black rocks
showing through the white foam of the
breakers. Her attitude, with clasped hands
and closed lips — though, as she afterwards
owned, she had the greatest difficulty to keep
herself from screaming — might well have been
taken for one of resin-nation. Edith, on the
other hand, looked around her with impassive
calm. That indifference of despair possessed
her which surpasses in its outward manifestation

the whig-hest heroism. Death was as free
from terrors for her as life of hopes.

The captain hcicl feared the effect of the
appearance of his lady passengers upon the
crew, and was not slow to take advantage of
their unexpected calmness and courage. He
had intended to address his people on the
course of conduct he expected from them, and
this incident afforded him an admirable text.
If such courageous behaviour was seen in
women tenderly nurtured and unaccustomed
to peril, what might not be expected of men
and sailors like themselves ? He did not
attempt to make light of the calamity that
had befallen them : it was certain that the
Ganges would never float again, and it was
probable that in a few hours she would go to
pieces. Discipline and obedience to authority
were the virtues Which alone could assist them
in such a strait. When similar misfortunes
happened, he reminded them, they had been
often rendered irremediable by license and
despair. T.et them at least meet their fate
like men, and in their sane minds, without
resort to the spirit-room.

This brief discourse was received with a
round of hearty cheers, which was repeated
with even greater enthusiasm when the captain
announced that two glasses of wine should
be at once administered to every man, with a
bi-suit between them. In their wet and worn
condition it was a refreshment greatly needed,
and its effect was excellent. No one, the
authorities upon suicide tell us, ever shuffles
off his mortal coil within two hours of a meal ;
for though things are said to be *' looked at
through a glass darkly," exactly the reverse
happens when the medium is a wine-glass.
The poor souls on the deck of the Ganges,
or on what was left of it, needed all the
encouragement they could get as they waited
through those weary hours, and longed like a
sick man for the dawn.

At last it came, and disclosed a small island
some three miles away, with some larger ones
much further off to the eastward. The two
boats were immediately manned and oared
and sent on shore with instructions to bring
back an immediate report ; while in the meantime,
for they were Cjuite insufficient for the

transport of the crew, and the ship might at
any moment go to pieces, those who were left
on board applied themselves to the construction
of a raft. The work, though very difficult by
reason of constant interruptions to it caused
by the shocks and inundations of the waves,
was entered upon without the least confusion,
and with as perfect discipline as though the
vessel, instead of being a wreck upon rocks,
had been lying at anchor at Spithead. The
spectacle of this dutiful enthusiasm aroused
Edith from her lethargy. That sympathy
with our fellow-creatures in their physical
struggles against fate, which is felt even by
the dullest and most selfish, won her for the
moment from the contemplation of her own
misery. Her bruised heart began to beat once
more in unison with human endeavour. As
the captain stooped over her as he passed
by, to arrange a rug that had been thrown
over her shoulders, she could not forbear an
expression of admiration at the conduct of his
crew.

That is partly your doing, Miss Edith,"
he answered pleasantly. " Where women

show themselves heroines it is impossible for
men to be cowards."

'' I am not brave, Captain Head," she answered
with a faint smile, " but I have coiiraofe
enough to hear the truth. In two words —
can you tell me what is our real position ? "

That will depend upon the report from
the boats ; but I have little doubt that wee
shall all get to land."

And what land is it ? 1 entreat you,"
she added, reading reluctance on his face, '' to
tell me the worst."

'' My dear young lady," he answered gently,
you lay on me an unwelcome task. I know
no more of that land than you do. It is
not marked on the chart. No human eyes, it
may be, have ever seen it beside our own.
On the other hand, it may be inhabited by
some savage race ; that, of course, would be a
bad business for us."

'' And if not ? "

Well, if not, I fear we must make up our
minds to stay there for some time, until weare
in our turn discovered ; perhaps even forever."


Our sentence is either clearly, in fact, or
transportation for life ? "

It is something like it, I fear ; but that is
no reason why we should lose heart, my dear
young lady."

Certainly not. Thanks, captain," washer
cheerful reply. '' A new life in a new
land," she murmured to herself. It was a
prospect, though without attractions, which at
least appeared less repulsive to her than a
new life in the old one.

Land.

Max, it is said, is the creature of circumstances
; but not alway's so. The martyr in
his flames for example is certainly independent
of them ; so is the intending suicide ; and,
generally, we may say that they have less
influence over us in proportion to our misfortunes.
There are cases indeed when continuous
loss and disappointment place the
simplest of us in a higher position than any to
which philosophy can attain ; when, in other
words, we are so miserable that we care nut
what befalls us. It is an occurrence of which
nobody is envious, but it has a certain dignity,
nevertheless, such as the bastard melancholy,
w^hicli it is still the fashion with some of us to
assume, aspires to in vain.

It was wonderful, even to herself, with

what equanimity Edith contemplated the
scene in which all those about her took so
keen an interest. So long as the construction
of the raft was in progress, occupation prevented
the intrusion of discouragement ; but
when all was done and nothius^ remained but
to await the return of the boats, without
which the raft was almost useless, a profound
depression succeeded to exertion ; the daylight
was fast waning; the sea was on the whole
less violent, but the structure on which it
made its assaults was growing manifestly less
able to resist them. At last a great cry of
joy arose from all. It was only the sight
of the boats that had parted from them a few
hours before, that evoked it ; but, when in
calamity, men are thankful for small mercies ;
or, rather, no mercy seems small to them ;
when we listen in our mute despair by the
death-bed of our dear ones, one word, aye even
a groan is music.

Aunt Sophia threw herself into Edith's
arms, and strong men, moved by an overpowering
impulse, shook hands with one

another. Then all descended into the raft — a
VOL. I. s

loose and shifting mass at the best — to which
the ladies had to be secured by ropes. The
pinnace was to take it in tow, and the jolly-boat,
until they had passed the reef, which
lay behind them and the island, was to tow
the pinnace. When all was ready, the boatswain
sounded his whistle, and Captain Head,
though loath to leave the ship, joined his
crew. It wrung his heart to quit his vessel,
and every one shared his sorrow in a less
deg-ree. Though in ruins, it was still their
dwelling-place, and, in departing from it, they
seemed to be saying good-bye for ever to all
that made what they called home. To the very
last the old Ganges sheltered them by breaking
the shocks of the sea, but not till they had
got a few boat-lengths away from her did they
fully appreciate the service she had thus
afforded them. Every wave now broke over
them, and the blinding spray hid not only the
pinnace from the sight of those on the raft,
but those on the raft from one another. As
for the ladies, their relative positions of aunt
and niece, chaperon and charge, had become
reversed ; the elder lady, prostrated with

terror, hid lier face in the younger's L^p, and
clung round her waist, as the raft rose and fell
upon the long rollers, or was dragged through
the mist and foam that crested them. Edith,
on the other hand, gazed steadily upon them
with eyes that seemed not so much to defy
as to invite them to do their worst, which,
indeed, as it seemed to her, they had already
done. ]mr. Ains worth and young Conolly did
what they could to shield both ladies with a
tarpaulin, thanks to which they were the only
tenants on the raft who were not wetted to
the skin.

Notwithstanding that when they had once
cleared the reef they found themselves in
smoother water, their progress was so slow
that in order to reach the land before nightfall
it became necessary to anchor the raft
with a grapnel, and to transfer its occupants
to the pinnace, by which at last, in batches,
they were all landed.

Their provisions had thus for the present to

be left behind them ; wet, cold, hungry, on

an unknown shore, life alone seemed left to

them, and not much even of that ; yet thes

2

first act of these unhappy people was to shake
hands and congratulate one another upon their
common safety. A cheese, some biscuits, and
a little water formed their supper ; and with
the priming of a pistol they managed to kindle
a fire, by which they dried their clothes, after
which they lay down to sleep under such
shelter as they could find. By the foresight
of the officers, a little tent had been raised for
the accommodation of the two ladies, into
which they presently crept. A ship's lantern
had been hung from the roof, and by its light
they perceived that some bedding had been
provided, with two chairs and a small looking-glass
; this last a characteristic tribute from
man to woman which drew a faint smile from
Edith.

"What amuses you, dear?" murmured
Aunt Sophia, with a rueful glance at their
surroundings. " I should never have thought
you had it in you to smile."

To external matters Edith was indeed
wholly indifferent; they had almost ceased
to occupy a place in her mind. As she lay
down to rest by Aunt Sophia's side her mind

was as far asunder from that of her companion
as pole from pole. The thoughts of the elder
lady were fixed upon the present and the
future ; on the woeful circumstances in which
she found herself placed, and on the scanty
hopes of deliverance. The absence of comforts,
of society, and of all that had hitherto constituted
existence for her appalled her ; the
roar of the angry waves seemed to bid her
despair of ever leaving that out-of-the-way
sea-girt prison. The thoughts of the younger
concerned themselves with the past only. For
her the cup of life seemed to contain no longer
joy or sorrow, and the fabric and the fashion
of it were therefore indifferent to her. The
thunder of the surf spoke to her not of the
loss to come, but of the loss that had already
befallen her — it was the volley over her dead
hero's grave.

Notwithstanding the agitation of their
minds and their adverse surroundings, there
presently fell such dreamless sleep upon
them both as they had not experienced for
weeks.

Edith woke in broad daylight and to almost

unbroken silence. In the distance alone was
heard the whisper of the wave as it wooed the
unwilling sand to its embrace. Though their
tent had been pitched in a spot comparatively
retired, the bustle and movement of so many
persons making the best of strange quarters,
and the monotonous tread of the sentries who
had been placed about their improvised camp,
had been heard on all sides when they retired
to rest. Xot a voice, not a footstep, now gave
token of human presence.

Edie, dear, are you awake ? " said Aunt
Sophia in tremulous tones.

"Yes, dear."

I have been awake for hours, but did
not like to disturb you. It is so very
still, I am sure something dreadful has happened.
Is it possible that we have been
deserted ? "

Certainly not. Fate is very cruel, but
the one crime she cannot commit is to shake
the loyalty of a noble heart."

'true; Captain Head, as you say, is too
much of a man of honour to leave two defenceless
women to shift for themselves because

they were an encumbrance to him. Then,
Mr. Ainsworth, too — it would be very unlike
a clergyman, would it not ? And I am sure
that charming little midshipman would never
leave you!'

My dear Sophy ! What nonsense I "

Of course I know it's nonsense ; it's the
devotion of a child ; but still he is devoted to
you ; and Mr. Marston and Mr. Kedmayne,
though they say very little — and indeed I
wish I could hear them say anytUyig just now
are officers and gentlemen. Still it is so
very quiet. I have been thinking all sorts of
things. Suppose they have been all murdered
by the savages."

What savages ? "

'well, of course there are savages; whoever
heard of an undiscovered island — I heard
Mr. Doyle say it was undiscovered — without
savages % By the bye, there is good Mr.
Doyle ! Don't be alarmed ; I don't mean to
say I see him— I wish I could see anybody —
I was merely reckoning up our friends."

I say again," said Edith gravely, " friends
do not desert us of their own free will, though

Fate may snatch them away. Let us get up
and look about us."

Their toilet was not a prolonged one, they
had no extensive wardrobe to choose from,
having indeed only the clothes which, as the
phrase goes, " they stood up in," and in which
they had laid down. To men this may seem
a small matter, but to the two ladies to whom
such an experience was unknown, it was
significant enough of their new position. As
Aunt Sophia surveyed herself in the little
hand-glass she burst into tears.

What has happened ? " inquired Edith
with anxiety.

Nothing. I am thinking of what is going
to happen. If we are to stay here. Heaven
knows how long, what ivill become of us ? I
mean of our gowns. In a month they will
be dowdy to the last degree. In two months
they will be in rags."

Sufficient for the day is the evil thereof,"
said Edith sententiously.

"Yes, but they are not sufficient for the
day. At least mine is not ; it is falling to
pieces already : and where are we to get

needles and thread ? My dear, have you such
a thing about you as a pin ? "

'eyes."

Come, that's something," ejaculated Aunt
Sophia.

It is indeed a subject of satisfaction when,
though in extreme straits, we find that we are
not actually deprived of the necessaries of life.
For the moment the consciousness of having
repaired her clothes put the apprehension of
savages out of this lady's mind ; it was a
proof, too, that she did not in her heart
believe that they had been deserted by
unkind man.

On issuing from the tent a most lovely view
presented itself. The sapphire sky was without
a cloud — the sea, though of a deeper blue,
glittered with endless smiles. Soft, silvery
sand was beneath their feet. Above them
towered a precipitous hill, broken with a
thousand crags, overgrown by flowery creepers,
and crested with full foliaged trees. The air
had a mixture of freshness and sweetness such
as they had never experienced before ; to
draw their breath was itself a luxury.

'' How very, very beautiful 1 " exclaimed
Edith. '' See how high the sun is in the
heavens ; it must be midday."

*' Then where on earth are our people ? '^

As if in answer to this appeal a human
figure presented itself on one of the rocks
above them, and took off his hat in salutation.
It was Master Lewis Conolly who,
the next instant, sliding down what looked
like a rope of flowers, presented himself
before them.

You dear, good boy," cried Aunt Sophia
ecstatically. " I knew you would not be faraway
from us. Where is everybody else ?
And why are we thus left all alone ? "

The captain gave orders that you ladies
were not to be disturbed," answered the youth
respectfully. " I have been on sentry yonder
over you for the last three hours, though
danger could hardly have befallen you, since
the island is quite uninhabited."

Then they are gone ! " ejaculated Aunt
Sophia, distractedly.

What, our people 1 Well, most of them
arc on board the wreck. Mr. Ainsworth, however,

is preparing breakfast for us yonder."
He pointed to a thin line of smoke above a
ridge of rocks which separated the little cove
in which their tent was placed from the larger
bay where the boats had landed, and Which,
in the darkness and confusion of the previous
night, had seemed one with it.

I hope he is not toasting the cheeses
murmured Aunt Sophia, from whose mind,
agitated beyond its powers, all sense of proportion
had vanished, and in which the
apprehension of one trouble only disappeared
to give place to some new foreboding. '' I am
very hungry, but I don't think 1 could eat
that cheese again."

The young midshipman only replied by a
good-humoured laugh, as he piloted the ladies
to the spot in question. On their way Edith
could not but remark with what judgment
and solicitude, notwithstanding the disorder
that had apparently reigned the previous
evening, their own place of refuge had been
selected. ^ Ladies' Bay'' as it was afterwards
called, was, indeed, admirably fitted for the

purpose to which the captain had assigned it.
The reef of rocks between it and the harsher
bay ran high enough to afford it perfect
privacy, while at the same time communication
with it, by a passage close under the
open cliff, was maintained in all conditions
of the tide.

It was curious, while gratefully acknowledging
this kindly foresight of her fellow-creatures,
how bitterly she resented the cruelty
of fortune. Her own mind, like that of her
companion, was, in truth, for the time, thrown
off its balance, though in a different fashion.
The very kindness which had been shown heron
all hands increased that rebellious feeling*
which rises in the human heart — and often
highest in the most gentle — in the dark hour
of bereavement ; the sufferings to which those
companions to whose good offices she was
so much indebted were exposed, seemed only
another proof of the harshness and injustice
of Fate. The force of circumstances could
hardly have had a stronger illustration ; for
in matters of faith and feeling, Edith Norbury

had been hitherto in no way different from
the majority of those of her sex and position
in life, who accept the decrees of Providence
with that facile submission which is paid to
a limited monarchy which no one suspects of
an arbitrary or unjust act.

END OF TOL. I.

3 0112 060920524

m

X

James r&yn.

2k

YV



SUBS

AND
NOVELS ARE

FOR Sub

For ONE Volume at a

(hovels in more than One Voi

For TWO Volumes

(Novels in more than Two Vol

For THREE Volumes

For FOUR

For SIX

For TWELVE .'

> ONLY.

'/vv^^^^^HMHK •"• "Months.

t •« * & I 1 o

•Mr/fcr C/»j c/oj-j of Subscription.)

17 6 1 11 6
:/ available for this class »f Subscription.)

1 3

1 8
1 15

2 2

2 10

3 3
5 5

■r

VOL. II.

% s»w-

BY

JAMES Pain,

AT7TH0B OF

"lost sie massinger," "the here of the ages,
"by pboxy,'" etc.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. II.

fenton :
WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN.

1888.

All rights reserved.

bread street hill, london,

Bungay, Suffolk.

CONTEXTS OF VOLUME II.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbane-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/princeofbloodnov02payn

CHAPTER I.
RESCUE BAY.

Rescue Bay, as it was presently christened
by common consent, in which the ladies now
found themselves, presented a very different
appearance from that which it had offered to
their eyes twelve hours before. Not a trace
of storm was to be seen on sea or shore ; the
breeze, which blew from the land, only just
sufficed to spread the Union Jack which had
already been planted on the summit of the
wooded cliff, not so much in sign of sovereignty
as to attract, without loss of time, the attention
of a passing vessel, if such perchance
should, like their own, be ever driven from
her course into those unfrequented seas. The

VOL. II. B

great expanse of glittering sand was already
marked out into spaces for the reception of
human tenants, or for the accommodation of
stores, a goodly heap of which was already
piled above high water mark. Knots of menas
busy as bees, were drying powder in the
sun or sitting under the shade of the rocks
with which the sand was interspersed, cleaning
and polishing their small arms.

It was noticeable that, notwithstanding this
unusual industry, every man now and then
looked up from his occupation to gaze seawards,
where operations were going on, on
which, as they well knew, depended not only
their hopes of future enfranchisement, but it
mistfit be even their means of subsistence. A
hasty survey of the island had already been
made, which, as has been said, had been
found to be uninhabited ; but it still remained
to be seen whether it offered any sustenance
for human life. Water, indeed, it possessed
in plenty, for down the centre of the cliff
there fell, with leaps and bounds, a silver
stream of sufficient volume to make its course
visible through the sand until it reached the

shore, where it emptied itself into a landlocked
harbour.

The reef, in fact, on which the Ganges had
come to grief formed a natural breakwater
which, though extending; to the shore in a
westward direction, left on the east a sufficiently
broad passage to have admitted her with
safety in daylight in almost any weather ;
while, once under its protection, she could
have anchored in company with a dozen ships
of the same size, shielded even from the east
wind by a projecting promontory of the land.
The question now on which so much was
depending, was whether the ship could begot
off, in which case it could possibly be
towed into harbour and repaired.

In the mean time, while the present fine
weather lasted, every moment of daylight was
utilized in bringing off stores, provisions, and
every article which could conduce to the
general comfort and convenience. For this
purpose, not only the boats, but also the raft,
had been despatched to the reef and was now
anchored on the sheltered side of it. and with
the naked eye the men could be perceived

B 2

making their way across the rocks that composed
it, each with his burthen on his back,
like ants on an ant-hill.

It was a strange and stirring spectacle, and
moved the two ladies much, though in a
different manner. Edith gazed upon it with
admiration, which was not without a touch
of c) r nicism. Where would be the use, was
the reflection that occurred to her, of all that
industry and solicitude if the wanton wind
should rise but for an hour, or the slumberous
sea begin to yawn. To Aunt Sophia's eyes
it seemed that success must needs crown such
arduous efforts. She even ventured to picture
herself once more in England, no longer
the commonplace and conventional personage
whose role she had hitherto been content to
play, but a female Ulysses, on whose lips, as
she detailed her wanderings and adventures,
quite the best society would be eager to
hang.

The interest of this distant scene for the
moment indeed made the two new-comers
quite oblivious to the fact that Mr. Ainsworth
was waiting for them, and his breakfast, in

the foreground. He bad kindled a fire on
which some coffee was preparing, and spread
out a little table-cloth on the sand, whereon
potted meats, marmalade, and other condiments
were laid, as for a picnic.

"Where on earth did you get all these
dainties ? " exclaimed Aunt Sophia, as she
warmly shook hands with him, her spirits
already elevated, rising several degrees higher
at the contemplation of a feast, which the
air of the place rendered as welcome as it
was unexpected. " My dear Edith, there are
actually eggs ! "

The two surviving fowls, like all the rest
of us, have been doing their duty," returned
the chaplain, as pleased with the younger
lady's grateful smile as by her companion's
more exuberant satisfaction. " It is to Mr.
Marston that you are indebted for the sundries,
and to Mr. Eedmayne for the potted
shrimps. Mr. Doyle contributed the marmalade,
but that is not to be put to his credit,
for out of two pots which he brought ashore
one broke in his pocket. The captain himself
supplied the coffee-pot and its contents, and

your humble servant collected the sticks for
the fire."

"But where, except the sticks, did it all
come from, Mr. Ains worth ? " inquired Edith.
Is it possible that you gentlemen have been
ransacking the Ganges for our comfort, while
we two sluggards were asleep 1 "

While you were taking that rest which
nature demanded, let us rather say, and which
your courage and conduct, permit me to add,
have nobly earned, some of the officers and
a boat's crew made a trial trip to our old
home, and picked up what they could. They
are now laying her under contributions on a
much more extended scale. The necessity
of it is plain enough, but it goes sorely
against the grain with our poor captain.
He says that it seems to him like taking
the money out of the pocket of a dead
friend."

Does he think, then, there is no hope
of the ship's ever being got off?" inquired
Aunt Sophia, looking up from her egg as if
it were addled.

He cannot say that for certain till he has

made a more particular survey of the wreck,"
said the chaplain evasively, at the same time
bringing a telescope to bear upon the object
in question. " He is now coming off in the
jolly-boat, I see, and will no doubt bring us
news of the matter. However it may be,
dear ladies," he added gravely, " let us remember
we have very much to be thankful
for even as it is."

"That is just what Robinson Crusoe said,
or was it the parrot ? " observed Aunt Sophia.
Nothing was further from her thoughts than
any disrespect to the chaplain, but the effect
of the observation was disastrous.

In such a condition as our own, Miss
Norbury," returned Mr. Ains worth reprovingly,
"believe me, that the virtue it behoves
us most to practise is that of resignation to
the will of Providence."

No doubt, no doubt ; but let us hope
that things will not come to the worst," said
Aunt Sophia naively.

Never say die, while there's a shot in
the locker," observed Master Conolly, as he
disposed of a sardine neatly packed in a

layer of marmalade, between a couple of sweet
biscuits. It was a contribution apposite enough
to the conversation, but not on the whole
calculated to allay irritation. A glance which
the good chaplain happened to cast at Edith,
however, put all indignation out of his mind.
In that calm and unmoved face he read, ashe
thought, an absolute submission to the
decree of Fate, and remembering what she
had undergone, his heart found no room in
it except for pity. A silence fell upon the
little group as they watched the boat, which
was bringing the judge and their sentence
with it. It seemed to them that he stepped
out of it with a certain slowness and dignity
which — though dignity was by no
means naturally wanting with him — spoke of
disaster nobly faced ; it might, however, bethe
mere sense of responsibility which their
position must in any case have entailed upon
him. He came towards them with firm,
resolute steps, and took off his cap to his
fair guests with a cheerful smile.

I hope, Mr. Ainsworth, you have taken
care that these ladies, who have been placed

in your especial charge, have been well
provided for ? "

Indeed," said Aunt Sophia, " we have
fared most luxuriously, Captain Head. My
niece and I, indeed, have no words to thank
you for the consideration and kindness with
which we have been treated by everybody."

That is well, ladies. So it will be, I am
confident, to the end, however long we maybe
fated to remain in our present quarters."

Then — then," quavered Aunt Sophia,
you think there is no hope "

"As regards the ship, I regret to say, a
few days — a few hours, if the wind should
rise — will, in my opinion, see the last of her."

Oh, Captain Head, dear Captain Head,
do you really mean that we shall never see
home again ? "

We are, dear madam, as Mr. Ainsworth
here will tell you better than I," said the
captain gently, " in the hands of God. He
will do what seems best to Him and doubtless
best for us. I do not ask you to give up
hope, if hope is a comfort to you, but I think
it would be better for us all to face the facts.

I trust we shall all do what in us lies, like
Englishmen and Englishwomen, for ourselves
and one another; but in my judgment, since
you ask me, I think we shall never see old
England more."

At these words, which were delivered by
the honest captain with a certain solemn
simplicity that went home to the hearts of
his hearers, Aunt Sophia covered her face
with her hands and wept bitterly.

Edith instantly rose, and with a glance at
the rest, which, gentle and apologetic though it
was, forbade them to follow, led her agitated
companion to her tent. The others stood
looking at one another in consternation, as
men, who are not by nature ' roughs,' are
wont to do at the sight of a woman's tears.

What a fool's trick it was of mine," murmured
the captain, penitently, iC to blurt out
the truth like that."

"You have nothing to reproach yourself
with," returned the chaplain, confidently. " It
is much better that she should know the
worst at once, than delude herself with false
hopes."

There was an uncomfortable pause, and
then the captain, lowering his voice, observed,
I was not thinking so much of the one that
was working at the pumps, but of the other.
Did you hear what that poor girl said when
I told them that we should never see old
England more ? She said, ' Thank Heaven.' ,!

Yes, I heard her. I don't think, however,
she quite knew what she was saying."

Driven out of her wits, eh, by my blundering
speech 1 Well, the next time I have
any bad news for her you shall break it
yourself. Heaven knows I had rather go
without my breakfast any day than she should
have an ache in her little finger. But since
the mischief's done, and the coffee's here, you
may pour me out a cup, Conolly."

THE CAPTAIN'S SPEECH.

As when a railway train is rapidly emptied
of its luggage on a platform when the express
is almost due behind it, so were the contents
of the Ganges hurried over her side and into
the boats. Not an hour of the calm weather,
nor of daylight, was wasted ; for " it was
well understood by all, that whatever seemed
precious now would have a fancy value a few
weeks hence, and might even make the difference
of life or death. Though the captain's
resolution as regards the vessel was acknowledged
to be a sound one, there was still a
hope that, after all which was necessary to
their immediate existence should be got out of
her, her timbers might be made use of to
build another ship ; but for this a long spell
of fine weather was indispensable, as the conveyance

of anything of size and weight across
the reef was very difficult, and the prognostications
of the barometer were far from favourable.
For the present, however, morning
after morning; dawned in sunshine and with
softest airs, and every evening saw the acquisitions
from the ship immensely increased.
To the more thoughtless and sanguine, it
seemed that the stores thus accumulated would
last for ever ; they said to themselves with
Robinson Crusoe, that never before were shipwrecked
men so well provided ; but to those
of better judgment it was plain, that unless
the island itself could be made to yield them
support, they would be in the position of men
who live upon their principal, and that a day
must needs come, and that at no distant date,
when there would be nothing; left to feed so
many hungry mouths.

The investigation of the capabilities of their
place of exile were, however, for the time postponed
for the work of salvage. The spectacle
of so much industry amid a scene so fair was
in itself exhilarating. If our first parents had
had some occupation in their idle hours in the

Garden of Eden, besides loafing and spooning,
it is probable that they would not Lave made
such a fiasco of matters. Even the ladies,
who might easily have pleaded exemption
from the common toil, put Eve to shame in
this respect, for instead of roaming over their
lovely dwelling-place in search of fruit, they
busied themselves in sorting out whatever
articles required care and good keeping, and
in storing them afresh in such places as the
captain deemed desirable. This employment
prevented their minds from dwelling upon
their respective calamities, while the invigorating,
though genial, climate restored both
strength and spirit.

The solicitude with which they were treated
by almost all hands, had also its encouraging
effect, and they often found themselves, to
their own astonishment, lis QTsing of things
around them, as though they had been the
environments of ordinary life, rather than of
an abnormal and exceptional position. As a
rule Edith was the consoler; or rather, by
avoiding all reference to their past, beguiled
her companion's thoughts from it. Xow and

then, however, she would, as it were unawares,
make some allusion to it, which revealed the
sepulchre where her heart was buried. On
such occasions it was the elder lady's part, not
indeed to comfort her, for such a task she
knew to be beyond her power, but to turn the
talk to other subjects.

I cannot help thinking, Aunt Sophia,"
said Edith, as the two ladies sat in their tent
one evening comforting themselves with a cup
of tea after the labours of the day, " that this
must be one of the Enchanted Isles that
sailors believed in until within the last
hundred years."

That must be before the geographical
books began to be published, I suppose ? "

Xot at all. I remember in that old
geography of De Lisle, wdneh dear papa used
to set such store on, they were marked in a
map as Basil and Asmuda. Even so late, he
once told me, as 1750, an island never before
known, but covered with fields and woods,
and very fertile, was seen in the Atlantic, and
so strongly vouched for, that ships were sent
from England to explore it."

"I hope they will be sent to look for this
one," sighed Aunt Sophia.

"It is hardly likely, though the parallel
holds good in other respects ; for De Listless
notion was that it was the country of ghosts,
and are we not here the ghosts of our former
selves ? "

I must confess that we have very good
appetites for ghosts," observed Aunt Sophia
drily ; a rejoinder, simple and commonplace
though it was, far more judicious and effective
than any falling in with the other's mood
would have been. It had, also, the advantage
of being true. In their new abode their
physical health was perfect ; in such a climate,
indeed, there was little fear of its being otherwise,
except through the monotony of their
lives ; and of this, as it turned out, the castaways
had not long to complain.

It was the fifth evening after their disaster,
and everything that could conduce to use and
comfort had been taken out of the vessel. On
the next morning it was understood that the
much more serious work of taking her to
pieces w T as to be commenced. The men were

in excellent spirits in anticipation of this, the
first step towards escape from exile, though
the carpenter had reported that the bands of
the ship had given signs of starting, and that
it was unlikely she could hold together much
longer. The ladies were still at their tea,
when suddenly the boatswain's whistle sounded
thrice. They knew it to be the signal for the
assembly of the whole ship's company, and
started up in some alarm. Though not of
course included in the summons, they immediately
repaired to the larger bay, and on their
way were met by Master Conolly, who, foreseeing
their apprehensions, had come in haste
to allay them. Some trouble, he explained,
had arisen with one or two of the men, who
had helped themselves from one of the liquor
casks, and the captain was about to address
the ship's company upon the matter.

In vain the young midshipman endeavoured
to persuade his fair companions to return to
their tent; their curiosity was too strong to
be overcome, and he could only induce them
to accept his escort — a protection which, as it
turned out, was not altogether superfluous.

VOL. II. c

Not one or two only, but a good many of the
men, exhausted with their day's work, and
urged by the natural liking which most seamen
entertain for strong liquor, had taken
advantage of the accidental breaking of a
cask of rum, to drink freely, and had become
very noisy and elated. They gave, indeed, a
mechanical obedience to the summons of the
boatswain, but it was plain from their air and
manner that they were in no condition to
listen to the voice of authority. The majority
of the crew, however, who with them had
formed a ring about the captain and his
officers, maintained an attitude of respectful
attention. Something had already happened
which was not intelligible to the new-comers,
but which could be partly guessed at by the
attitude of the persons concerned. Close to
the captain were three sailors, Mellor, Judge,
and Murdoch, looking very flushed, and to
say truth, somewhat mutinous. They had
borne by no means a good character on board
the Ganges, so that it was not surprising that
they should have misconducted themselves on
shore. Yet the captain not only regarded

them with such troubled and anxious looks, as
were inexplicable to all acquainted with his
resolute and dauntless character, but was addressing
them in terms of consideration rather
than remonstrance. " You have had a hard
day's work and little to eat, and therefore
there is much excuse for you. But I must
say to you, as indeed I say to all, that there
is nothing more dangerous to persons in our
condition than indulgence in drink."

That's all gammon," interrupted Murdoch
huskily ; he was a huge man, beside whose
giant form, with his large arms and hairy
chest, even the captain's stalwart frame was
dwarfed ; " since we are here we mean to
enjoy ourselves, and we don't mean to be
preached to neither, nor yet bully-ragged as
though we were still on board of that cursed
old hulk yonder."

That's so," and " So says I," growled the
other two men, while a faint murmur of applause
went up from a few others in different
parts of the assembly, which showed that they
were not without their sympathizers.

The majority, however, maintained a silence

C 2

which was equally significant. They seemed
only less amazed at their comrades' audacity
than at the patience and toleration with which
it had been borne.

I am sorry," returned the captain, in firm
but quiet tones, which made themselves audible
even to those who, like the ladies and their
conductor, stood on the very outskirts of the
crowd, " that you should so speak of the old
ship which has been our home so long, and
I hope, upon the whole, not an unhappy
one.

Quite right, sir," " A good home," " Ay,
and with a good captain, too," went up from
the now excited throng in all directions. The
captain took off his cap, and the men began
to cheer, but became instantly silent as he
recommenced.

I say I am sorry that any man who has
sailed with me should entertain such unpleasant
recollections of his voyage, or of the
cursed old hulk ' as he calls it, which we are
looking on yonder, it may be, for the last
time."

We don't want no palaver ; we wants to

enjoy ourselves, we wants rum," cried the
mutineers, with drunken vehemence.

"Let the captain speak." "Never mind
black Murdoch, sir." " Three cheers for the
old Ganges I" replied the crowd.

Rum is very good in its way, but we may
have too much of it," observed the captain,
with all the gentleness of a moralist, " and
especially when, as in our case, men are cast
ashore upon an unknown land, subject it maybe
to the attack of savages, at whose mercy
our lives may be placed at any moment, and
dependent for our slender chance of escape
upon the efficiency and alertness of those on
the watch for a passing sail. It would be
hard to be deprived of all hope of seeing our
own country again, with our wives and sweethearts,
because some drunken scoundrel or
another couldn't keep from the rum."

"That's so!" "Three cheers for our
wives and little ones ! " " Home, sweet
Home ! " " You know what's best for us,
captain ! "

I think I do ; but as has been proved tome
pretty clearly by the conduct of one or

two of you here, whom I will not name, I am
no longer your captain."

We know that fast enough, master," exclaimed
Murdoch, triumphantly ; " you are no
master now, nor ever will be, yah ! "

Well that is a matter entirely for our own
consideration, my men," continued the captain
; " the most votes must carry it. It is
quite true, since the Ganges is not a Kingship,
that with the loss of her, I have lost
command of you. You no longer owe me any
obedience ; but that some one to hold supreme
authority must be chosen by you, is certain,
if we would live here for a day, without flying
at each other's throats. Fix upon whom you
will, so long as he be honest and sober, but
when he is once chosen let his will be law.
Even what has occurred to-night shows, I
think, the necessity for such an arrangement,
while tomorrow — well, for all we know, tomorrow
it may be too late to make it. Suppose
an enemy attack us, with no one to give an order
how to repulse him. Suppose a ship came insight,
and fifty men crowd into a boat where
there is only space for ten, and we lose her ! "

Right, right, we'll choose you, captain,
there's nobody but you to choose," came from
all parts of the crowd.

Oh, yes, there are lots of others to choose
from," continued the captain smiling, " and
whom you do choose must be elected in a
proper manner. It won't do to shout for
Jones to-day and for Smith tomorrow, and
your decision, whatever it be, must be put
down in writing. You will find a paper in
yonder tent, with pen and ink all ready for
you, and the chaplain to explain matters, and
show where the mark must be put for those
who are no scholars. Every one in the ship's
company, officers and men, will find his name
there, and every one will vote for whom he
likes ; only remember this, that once recorded,
it cannot be cancelled. Now go and choose
your king."

THE PLEBISCITE.

The notion of a Plebiscite is always an
attractive one to all communities.

It was true that on the present occasion
the matter was generally understood to have
a foregone conclusion. The majority of the
men were too much attached to their old
captain, and had too great confidence in him,
to think of electing any one else to rule over
them ; but still they were nattered by the
idea of choosing for themselves. They crowded
into the tent with alacrity, where Mr. Ains-worth
was seated at the table with 'the
agreement as it was simply called, but on
which in truth very much depended. It set
forth the peculiarity of their position, and the
necessity it involved of having some lawgiver
and leader, against whose fiat there should be

no appeal ; while it left to every man the
power of giving his vote to any member of
the ship's company he pleased.

The proceedings were not without a certain
solemnity, for those who took part in it were
filled at least as much with the sense of their
own importance as of that of the matter in
hand ; nor was the ceremony by any means a
brief one. Many of the sailors could not
write, and most of them had to be separately
instructed in the novel duty demanded of
them ; while even the most accomplished took
some time, with much leaning of their heads
upon one side and screwing of their courage
(and their mouths) to the sticking-place to
execute their autographs. At ]last, however,
all was done, though not before the fall of
night had necessitated the use of torches in
the tent, which cast their lurid glare upon a
scene which was in truth eminently picturesque
and striking. In the open air, on the
other hand, there was still lhdit sufficient for
the conclusion of the proceedings.

The chaplain presently emerged from the
tent bearing the document with its long file

of signatures, and, followed by the whole of
the ship's company, moved towards the spot
where the captain with his officers, or, rather,
with those who had hitherto occupied that
position on board the Ganges, awaited his
approach. After a few words of preface, Mr.
Ainsworth stated that one other person only
beside their late commander had been nominated
for the post of president, or leader, and
as the names of those who had voted for the
individual in question were but few, he suggested
that it w T ould be more convenient to
read them out in the first place.

At this there was some applause, and not a
little laughter of the sarcastic sort, which was
instantly stilled at the sound of the captain's
voice.

If, as I understand, my men," he said,
"the great majority of you have decided to
replace in my hands the authority which I
before possessed, it seems to me that it would
be invidious, and, indeed, unfair, to those who
have come to a contrary conclusion, that their
names should be made public. I neither wish
to know who they are, nor to know who it is

that in their judgment has appeared to them
preferable to myself. I shall take it for
granted that both he and they will acquiesce
in the decision of their shipmates, as I should
myself have done had the case been reversed ;
and I hope no feeling of bitterness or disappointment
will remain in the breasts of anyone
of you."

The simplicity and straightforwardness of
this address went home to the hearts of its
hearers, chiefly, perhaps, because the majority
of them were themselves simple and straightforward.
The reflection would have occurred
to a more sophisticated community that a
reference to the agreement itself would at anytime
put the captain in possession of the information
of which he had so chivalrously
declined to avail himself; but this idea presented
itself neither to him nor them. A
round of cheers arose from the crowd as the
captain took off his cap. It was a thing he
rarely did, except at prayers, and was significant
of his being about to make an important
communication. " The first act of my new
command," he said, " is to reinstate my friends

and yours " (here he pointed to the officers
who stood around him, and who, by their
abstinence from voting, had tacitly shown
their acquiescence in the government of their
chief) "in the same positions of authority
which they have hitherto respectively occupied.
Your vote of this evening evidently approves
their re-appointment, and you will obey them,
I feel sure, as cheerfully as you will obey
me."

Another hearty round of cheering here
greeted the speaker ; his allusion to their
evident wishes (though it was probable they
were unconscious of having entertained them)
gratified them hugely ; and, moreover, with
one exception, they w T ere well satisfied with
their officers.

As the captain looked round on the circle
of approving faces, he perceived that enthusiasm
for the new order of things had reached
its acme, and that the moment had arrived
for the crucial test of the obedience of his
voluntary subjects. "The first order I have
to give you men will, I know, be an unpopular
one," he said, in a low but decisive

tone ; " but when I tell you that in my
opinion it is absolutely necessary, not only for
the maintenance of that authority you have
just ratified, but for the safety of our lives,
you will understand that it must be executed
at once, and without a murmur. In the
beautiful climate in which Providence has
pleased to place us, it may be for the remainder
of our days, strong drinks of any
kind will be only necessary to us as a
medicine. One of those liquor casks yonder
will therefore be placed in the custody of Mr.
Doyle. The rest you will break up at once,
and in my presence."

An ominous silence ensued upon this mandate,
followed by a murmur of unmistakable
dissent.

Do you hear me ? " continued the captain,
in a voice at least as ominous ; it was like the
growl of a lion aroused from sleep. " I must
have those spirit casks broken up."

At first not a man stirred from his place ;
then out from the throng marched Matthew
Murdoch. The effects of liquor were still
very discernible in him, though he knew, as

the saying is, " what he was about ; " there
was less of audacity in his manner than there
had been an hour ago, and he exchanged a
word or two with those about him — an appeal,
no doubt, for their moral support, which was
presumably accorded to him — before he once
more confronted the captain ; his air, though
impudent enough, was not so defiant as heretofore
; and there was something of remonstrance,
mingled with rebellion, in his husky
tones.

Look here, captain ; right is right, but
reason is reason "

"Stop!" roared the captain, in a terrible
voice, and looking round him with eyes from
which all shrank on w T hom they fell. " Is
this drunken dog, my men, your spokesman ? "
he inquired, incredulously.

Not a sound was heard save the breeze in
the trees and the lapping of the sea upon the
sand ; then, after a pause, two replies broke
forth, " Yes, he be."

Come out and join him, then, you skulking
curs."

Then Mellor and Rude came out in a

shamefaced manner, and ranged themselves
beside their ally.

Are there any more ? "

The wind and the sea alone made answer.
The moment, it was felt by all, was a supreme
one, though few pictured to themselves its
immense importance ; the ladies, whom it
concerned most of all, the least.

Aunt Sophia, indeed, was dumb with fear ;
she felt that matters were in a state of tension,
which could only be relieved by some act of
despotic authority upon the one hand, or of
lawless violence upon the other, but her alarm
arose from that mere shrinking; from the
appeal to physical force which belongs to
woman's nature ; she thought neither of consequences
nor of the opposing forces — the
ignoble and the heroic — which composed the
spectacle before her, and whose collision, like
that of two thunder-clouds, was about to
evoke an explosion.

For Edith, on the other hand, the scene had
a dramatic interest, so powerful and absorbing
that it left no room for apprehension. She
had not believed that any incident of the life

that was left to lier could have so moved her.
The reason of this, though she was unaware
of the fact, was its absolute novelty. Her
capacity for emotion had not, as she imagined,
been destroyed ; her sympathies were as quick
and tender as ever, but they could no longer
be approached by the old road. No by-play
of the drama escaped her. She noted the
attitude of the captain, a statue of wrought
iron ; his firm-set lips that repressed the pent-up
fire within, and the eyes that betrayed it.
She marked the ungainly but significant pose
of the mutineer ; his giant arm advanced to
accentuate his words, his huge hand trembling
with hate and fear and liquor, and with every
now and then a glance over his shoulder, as
if to make sure of the presence of his
supporters.

Warned by the continued silence that
speech was expected of him, he resumed his
remonstrance. "Reason is reason, says I, and
it stands to reason that being our own masters
with plenty of leisure and victuals, that we
should no longer labour but enjoy ourselves.
"What we men wants "

You mean you men, you three," interrupted
the captain.

1 'Nay, it's what we all wants, only all have
not the pluck of Matthew Murdoch to say it ;
we wants, since we are ashore, to taste the
sweets of plenty. Now, there is nothing so
sweet in life — save a lass — as good liquor ;
and as to destroying all them casks, I tell you
straight out it shan't be done."

As he ended, he touched, perhaps by
accident, or to emphasize his argument, with
his projected ringer his commander's arm,
which instantly, as if some powerful spring
had released it, struck out from the shoulder
like a catapult, and levelled him on the sand.
There he lay, like an ox in the shambles, and
almost as huge, bleeding from the slaughterer's
axe, for the other's fist had caught him in the
jaw, and had knocked out a tooth or two.

When that mutinous dog comes to himself,"
thundered the captain, with a look of
contempt at the prostrate hulk before him,
put him in irons. And now, my men, breakup
those spirit casks, and be quick about it."

Both orders were obeyed without a murmur ;

VOL. II. d

the irons used in punishment had, as it
happened, been brought from the Ganges,
with the other resources of civilization, and
were presently fitted to Murdoch's huge form
by the carpenter, who was also sergeant-alarms
; while the men, in gangs, each under an
officer, proceeded at once to break in the heads
of the spirit casks, and empty their contents
upon the sand.

It was not one of those ' moral victories'
of which so much is often made by the
party which, according to the poor evidence
of the senses, has unquestionably been beaten,
but a substantial triumph of authority. Not
until all was over was it fully understood
by those most interested in the struggle (and
even then only by a vague sense of relief)
how doubtful had been the issue ; if Murdoch
had not laid his finger on the captain,
the opportunity might have been wanting
which had brought the " skirts of happy
chance" within his grasp, but as it happened
that one knock-down blow had re-established
his supremacy.

Aunt Sophia had been a little shocked by

it ; the appeal to brute force — notwithstanding
the acknowledged admiration of the fair
sex for the display of physical strength — had
jarred upon her gentle nature.

Do you not think, Edith," she said, as
they returned to their tent under the young
midshipman's escort, " that it would be a
gracious and proper thing in us to ask the
captain to pardon that poor man ? "

I am not sure," was the quiet reply. " I
bear, of course, no more ill-will against him
than - you do, but I should like to think
about it a little before joining in such a
request."

I wonder who it was that was put forward
as the opposition candidate to the captain,"
observed Aunt Sophia, presently.

He particularly said that he did not
want to know," remarked Edith, with a half
smile.

Quite right and very proper in him, my
dear," replied the elder lady ; " but, then, I
do want to know. Mr. Conolly, I see you
know ; come, tell us all about it ! "

The unfortunate youth looked not a little

D 2

embarrassed ; if he could have got away from
Aunt Sophia he would probably have done so,
and parleyed with her from a distance, but
her ample arm was hooked to his. He cast a
glance of distress at Edith that seemed to say,
Pray observe that it is not my fault ; I am
obliged to tell her," ere he replied to her
question.

I believe, Miss Norbury, that the other
candidate for the men's suffrages was Mr.
Bates. He had only a very small following ;
but that fellow Murdoch and the two others,
Judge and Mellor, were among them. It was
in my opinion the worst choice they could
have made," added the young fellow, still
glancing furtively at Edith's face, which had
suddenly grown very grave and pale.

Mr. Bates is not a favourite of mine
I'm sure," observed Aunt Sophia, "but we
must remember, Mr. Conolly, it was not his
fault that he was put in nomination. As
our good captain says, let bygones be bygones
; and don't you agree with me that it
would be, so to speak, a pretty thing in
dear Edith and myself, as w r ell as acceptable

to his friends, to get this poor man off his
punishment."

Master Conolly twiddled his cap, and hesitated,
with his eyes fixed interrogatively on
the younger lady.

Of course, Murdoch will be glad to avail
himself of your kind intercession," he said,
but knowing the ill-conditioned set of fellows
to which he belongs, I doubt whether they
will like you a bit the better for it."

Moreover," put in Edith, with sharp
decision, " 1 was once told by one very dear
to me, and who was kindness itself, that it
was always a mistake to attempt to conciliate
the base and cruel, since it only makes them
think you are afraid of them ; and as I am
not afraid either of Mr. Bates or his following,
any interference of mine on their behalf would
produce a false impression."

It was the first time that of her own freewill
Edith had referred to her lost lover, even
indirectly, since his death ; and it was destined
to be the last. Conolly, of course, understood
the reason of her bitterness against Mr. Bates,
but not so Aunt Sophia, who had never been

made the confidant of his conduct at Simon's
Bay. She only understood that her proposal
for interfering with the course of justice on
behalf of Matthew Murdoch had, like himself,
been knocked on the head.

THE EXPLORATION.

To any one who doubted of the necessity
of there being a supreme head to the little
band of exiles, a proof was evident on the
very next morning, which showed the reef
without the wreck; every vestige of the
unfortunate Ganges had disappeared, and but
for the captain's urgency in getting her
emptied while wind and wave permitted,
many an article of comfort for which the term
'worth its weight in gold' would indeed
have been an inadequate expression, would
have been lost with her. Violent as must
have been the storm that thus took away all
trace of her, little of it was felt within the
land-locked harbour, while in ' Ladies' Bay
as the spot in which its tenants were located
was called, was only heard that muffled roar

which dwellers in London associate with distant
traffic, and which like a lullaby soothes
their slumbers. As Anne Sophia and Edith
looked to seaward and saw no vestige of the
object to which they had always been wont
to first turn their eyes, they could hardly
believe the evidence of their senses. Its disappearance
had a very different and even
opposite effect upon them, a fact of which
both were conscious ; the one was full of
regrets, the other well content with what had
happened ; yet each for love's sake sympathized
with the other, and embraced her
without a word.

The morning, though somewhat fresher
than its forerunners had been, was fine and
bright, and the island had never looked so
beautiful. Mr. Marston called upon the ladies
early to inform them it was the captain's
orders that a more commodious residence
was that day to take the place of their tent,
and to propose that while it was being run
up, they should spend the day in exploring
their place of exile. The superintendence of
himself and his chief would be required in

getting things skip-shape and in order in the
larger bay, but the services of the second
mate, Mr. Redmayne, and also those of Mr.
Conolly would be placed at their disposal.
A couple of men would also be told off to
carry their provisions, as well as to aid them
in other respects ; the hills into which the
island was broken being very steep, and progress,
by reason of the luxuriance of vegetation,
by no means easy.

This proposal was accepted with alacrity.
The ladies were very willing to emerge from
the narrow limits of their present place of
residence, and eager to explore the place that
was in all probability to be their future home.
A hasty survey of it, to make sure that it
contained no other inhabitants but themselves,
had been made on the first morning by some
members of the crew, but with that exception
it was virgin ground. It was quite possible
that the expedition they were about to make
would be tke first that kad been undertaken
in tke island, a flowery wilderness whose
beauties had perhaps never before gladdened
the eye of man.

To Edith the prospect afforded even a
greater satisfaction than to Aunt Sophia, who
remarked with some surprise the pleasure that
shone in her niece's face, in welcoming their
escort ; she set it down to the enjoyment
which she promised herself in the society of
Mr. Kedmayne, a very handsome and agreeable
fellow. It was early days, of course,
for Edith to be thinking seriously of any other
man as a successor to her dead lover, but
human nature was human nature, and it was
only reasonable that she should appreciate the
respectful and delicate attention paid her by
the young officer ; after all, it was only a
question of time and opportunity when the
widowed heart of the young girl would seek
consolation elsewhere, and in no circumstances
could opportunity be more favourable than
in the present. So reasoned Aunt Sophia,
not without a sigh, however, for the mutability
of female affection, and a secret and
complacent conviction that had the case been
hers she would have proved more faithful, or,
at all events, less precipitate in transferring
her allegiance. As a matter of fact, except

so far as courtesy demanded, Edith gave no
thought either to Mr. Eedmayne or his attentions.
Her pleasure, such as it was, arose
from a precisely opposite cause, namely, from
the utter novelty of the situation, which prevented
her thoughts from dwelling upon the
love, which for her meant loss, at all, and
had no sort of association with it.

Except youth and good looks Mr. Red-maine
and Charles Layton had little in
common ; but what similarity existed between
them, so far from attracting her towards the
young officer, had the reverse effect. If
any comparison ever suggested itself to her
mind, he suffered by the contrast. She freely
acknowledged his good points, and was grateful
to him for his politeness and good-will ;
but to have set him side by side with her
Charley would have been cruel to the one,
and little short of blasphemous as regarded
the other. Her position was that of an epicure,
who is offered home-made Curacoa, and
who, while admitting it to be good of its
kind, declines to admit the least comparison
with the original.

The case of young Conolly, whom not even
Aunt Sophia could credit with any serious
intentions, was altogether different. His
society was always welcome to Edith, not on
account of his obvious devotion to her, with
which, indeed, if she had understood its depth,
she would perhaps even have been displeased,
but because he had been a favourite with
Charley. She never spoke of her lover to the
young midshipman, but her eyes often filled
with tenderness as she looked at the boy, who,
with the egotism of his age, imagined, no
doubt, that she was not wholly indifferent to
him upon his own account. The rules of
seniority had not always given him satisfaction,
but on the present occasion he was well
pleased that they gave Aunt Sophia to the
custody of the second mate, and left Edith
to his particular care. In neither case was
the charge a sinecure.

The island was of small extent — not more
than twelve miles in circumference — but of
most unequal formation ; except the sandy
bays that fringed it, there' was hardly a level
spot to be found upon it ; it consisted of

mountains and valleys, or rather of hills and
dells, covered with the richest vegetation, and
bright with the foliage of perpetual spring.
The air which, though warm, was fresh and
invigorating, was laden with the perfume often
thousand flowers ; the trees that clothed
the hills themselves bore blossoms of the most
brilliant hue, while the climbing plants which
encircled their trunks, or which, rooted in the
shelving rocks, hung in rich festoons from the
edge of every precipice, gave the idea of an
eternal festival of nature.

In the miniature defiles formed by the hills,
this splendour of bud and bloom reached its
acme ; the turf, watered by clear streams, was
enamelled by flowers of such bright and varied
hue that as you approached it, it seemed as
though you were about to tread on a carpet
formed of precious stones. The blaze of
colour would have been oppressive, but for
the shadowy roof of the huge trees, which
projected themselves on either side, and for
the refreshing glimpses of the sea that were
offered through their interlacing boughs.

Through this wilderness of beauty there

was, of course, no pathway ; but the very
difficulty of progress enhanced its pleasure.
When a wild rose entangles our feet, it may
seem as inconvenient as a common bramble,
but the roses of this Eden had no thorns.
The creepers that hung from rock and tree
were, however, so numerous that it was impossible
to escape their bonds ; the wayfarers
were caught, as it were, in chaplets. On the
other hand these assisted them in their ascents
and descents ; they swung themselves up and
down by ropes of flowers. Nothing that
the imagination can conceive could be more
wondrous than the spectacle of all this
lavish beauty. It kept even the midshipman
silent.

Upon the summit of the second hill, where
the Union Jack was flying, because it was the
highest point of the island, the whole party
halted as if by common consent. The view
from this spot was panoramic, and less obstructed
than elsewhere by trees. Upon all
sides save one glittered the silver sea, without
a break in its far stretching splendour;
on the north there were two groups of islands

apparently about equi-distant from them and
from one another.

Is it possible," murmured Aunt Sophia,
carried out of her ordinary plane of thought
by the entrancing scene, "that our eyes are
the first to behold all this?"

' Full many a flower is born to blush unseen,
And waste its sweetness on the desert air,' "

remarked Mr. Eedmayne, with the complacency
of one who makes an apt quotation.
Nevertheless it fell flat. Eclith remembered
Johnson's depreciatory remarks upon ' the
Elegy,' and for the first time agreed with him.
The situation was indeed too poetic for so
didactic an illustration.

It does not give me the notion of waste
so much as of inexhaustible superabundance,"
she remarked.

Just so," returned the other, with eager
agreement, "and a very pleasant notion too.
Surplusage is no error.' ' To this second
quotation there was no reply.

Aunt Sophia felt for Mr. Eedmayne ; it
was clear to her that if left to carry on the

conversation with Edith single-handed, it would
not conduce to his interest as regarded the
effaceruent of her former lover. She struck in
therefore to the rescue. " I am not quite
sure, Edie, whether the presence of these
islands adds a charm to the prospect, or the
reverse. What do you think ? "

I think that they would be better away,"
was the decisive reply. She did not give her
reason. The fact was that they gave a vague
impression of continuity, of some connection
with that world without which she wished
to have seen the last of, and to have done
with.

cc A very just expression," observed the
second mate, " they would be much better
away."

Why so ? " inquired Aunt Sophia ; she
knew that there was danger to her plans in
drawing him out, but her curiosity was too
strong: for her.

"Because, though we know there are no
savages on this island, we cannot be so sure
of that as regards its neighbours."

Good heavens ! " exclaimed Aunt Sophia,

I understood the captain to say they were
uninhabited."

He hopes and believes they are so ; but
time alone can show it. It is sometimes a
question, with persons in our position, whether
even foes are not better than no fellow-creatures
at all, but that is not our case, at
all events for the present."

You mean that even foes may save us
from starvation," observed Edith, " in case the
island does not prove to be self-supporting ? "

Mr. Redmayne nodded. The subject was
evidently a serious one with him, and, indeed,
it had much occupied the thoughts of the
captain and his officers.

Beg pardon, miss," said one of the sailors,
breaking a rather uncomfortable silence, " but
we found these pears and apples, as we come
along, very, what you was pleased to call self-supporting."


Pears and apples ! You don't mean to
tell me that you have been eating those great
brown and red fruits," exclaimed the officer,
angrily, " that hung on the trees ? "

Well, yes, sir ; my mate and me we

VOL. II. E

finished up a goodish lot of them on the road,"
said the man.

Good heavens ! this may be very serious,"
muttered Mr. Eedmayne, in a tone of great
concern.

We thought they was public property,
like," explained the sailor, apologetically.

It is not that, my man," observed the
officer, smiling in spite of himself; "but you
don't know what mischief you may not have
done to yourselves. One of the first tasks
Mr. Doyle has set himself to do," lie added,
turning to the ladies, " is to analyze the island
fruits with a view to ascertaining: their fitness
for human food."

They are not immediately fatal to life,
sir," remarked Conolly, drily, but with an air
of great respect. " The fact is we eat half a
dozen of them apiece at mess last night,"

"The deuce you did! that only shows,
however, that they do not kill midshipmen."

Despite that injurious remark, this news of
the experiment having been tried, on however
vile a body, gave the speaker great
satisfaction.

If this be so, ladies," he added, cheerfully,
then one of our gravest causes for anxiety
is removed ; with fruit and fish — for I take
it for granted we shall find some means of
catching fish — we need have at least no fear
of want."

Then, sooner or later, some one is sure
to find us," put in Aunt Sophia, " that is,
of course" (with a glance at those specks
in the distance), "I mean some European
ship."

Let us hope so," said Mr. Bedruavne
gently, "though if the worst came to the
worst, and we were left to one another's society
for ever " — (here he blushed and stammered)
" I mean if we were exiles for life in this
beautiful spot, it would not be so intolerable."
He cast a glance at Edith as he ended this
little speech, but she took no notice of it, and
turned to the young midshipman.

What do you say, Mr. Conolly ? "

I could be very happy here," he answered
simply, "but I should like to' see my mother

again,

A very proper reply," said Edith, with a

E 2

LIBRARY mt ^

UNIVERSITY Of fc"* *

smile followed by a little sigh. " Come, let
us go on."

A spirit of thoughtfulness, if not of gloom,
had fallen upon the little party, and with a
view to recover their spirits, Mr. Eedmayne
proposed lunch. The meal was spread in the
next valley, where the sailors lit a fire, and
prepared some tea for the ladies ; after which
refreshment, Master Conolly was called upon
for a song. Our young midshipman had a
beautiful voice, and sang at once ' Sweet
Home' with great simplicity and sweetness.
A silence followed it, more significant than
any applause could have been. The rough
sailors were as much touched as their superiors,
and the hearts of all the audience, save one,
seemed to respond with an Amen.

As they turned to leave the spot, the midshipman's
quick eye lit upon a white object
among the flowers, to which he called Mr.
Eedmayne's attention. He took it up, and
examined the ground about it with great
minuteness.

What new wonder have you discovered ? "
inquired Aunt Sophia.

"Xo wonder, madam, but only a piece of
information," was the grave reply. " We may
now take it for granted that yonder islands
are inhabited."

Why so ? "

Because some weeks — or, perhaps, only
some days — ago there has been held, close to
where we are now sitting, another feast.
Here are the traces of the fire, and here is
a fish-bone. We must return at once, if you
please, and inform the captain."

The news the excursionists brought back
with them to Eescue Bay was so important
that, not satisfied with their report, Captain
Head himself repaired with Mr. Beclmayne
to the spot where the discovery had been
made. That a fire had been lit there was
certain, but how long ago it was difficult to
guess. In a less genial climate the period
might have been extended to months, but
so quick was Nature to reassert herself in
that marvellous region, that it might only
have included as many days. Had the
luncheon party been held a little later,
indeed, there would have been no evidence

of 'previous occupation ' at all, except the
fish-bone, which might itself have got thereby
other than human means. An osprey, for
instance, might have dropped its prey. As
things were, however, it was certain that
there had been other visitors, and that but
lately, on the island than those who at present
occupied it.

I am glad it is a jfo/*-bone," said the
captain, who was not without some humour.
It might have been another sort of bone,
and proved our neighbours yonder to be
cannibals. Even if they be cannibals, however,
they will find us a tough lot," he added
grimly.

Not all of us," observed the younger
officer significantly.

"Just so ; there are two tender morsels you
would say, one of whom might tempt even a
white man. "Well, well," he added kindly,
perceiving the young man's look of confusion,
"it's natural enough at your age that such
matters should enter your thoughts, though,
if you will take my advice, you will dismiss
them. I know the young lady in question,

and she is not like other girls, who, having
missed their bird with one barrel, is ready to
bring down another with a second. In any
case, however, this is no time for love-making ;
our island is like heaven in more respects
than one : there will be no marrying or divine
in marriage in it for some time to come. In
my judgment we shall find it a very tight
place."

You mean we shall not be long left in
undisturbed possession of it, sir ? "

The captain nodded gravely. " If the
Ganges had come ashore on the south yonder,
it is my opinion we should have seen something
of our neighbours before now. As it
is, they know less of us than even we know
of them ; but we may make each others acquaintance
any day."

At all events, sir, no matter how many
they may be, we shall be able to give a good
account of them."

"No doubt, if matters should unhappily
come to that pass ; but all our efforts must
be directed to keeping friends with them.
If not for our own sake, for the sake of

those whom we have in charge, and who are
solely dependent upon us, it behoves us, if
it be possible, to keep the peace. I look
to you, Mr. Recline, to impress that necessity
on all hands."

It shall be done, sir."

The captain nodded approvingly ; he felt
not a little pleased with himself as a diplomat.
One of the most difficult things in the case
of a ship's crew finding themselves in native
company is to keep the men from giving any
cause of offence ; and he felt that in what
he had said to the second mate, he had
offered the strongest inducement for doing
his best to maintain amicable relations with
their expected visitors.

VISITORS.

If Mr. Eedmayne alone nourished a secret
passion for Edith, there was no lack of goodwill
and even tenderness both for her and
Aunt Sophia among the rest of the castaways.
They were, on the whole, good specimens of
Englishmen, and, with a few brutal exceptions,
understood the silent appeal made to all that
was best in them, by the presence of the two
defenceless women. It is possible, had the
reins of authority fallen into other hands, that
the responsibility of what chance had thus
imposed would not have been so loyally
acknowledged ; but as it was, it was pleasant
to note not only the delicate attentions of
the officers, but the willing services of the
sailors, offered on all occasions to the two
ladies as though by hosts to guests.

The very first thought of the captain, as
we have seen, had been to improve their place
of residence ; and in a very few hours the
carpenter and his assistants had made a 
of wood, in place of the tent, but-little
inferior in solidity to those scamped and
crazy edifices which the enterprising builder
now "runs up" in the suburbs of our
metropolis. Its slightness was of no consequence,
for not only was the site completely
sheltered, but hardly any protection was
needed against climatic influences. It required
a fire-place only for cooking purposes, and
there were no stairs. Construction was thus
comparatively easy, but a great deal of
solicitude was expended upon its external
appearance. Not only about the ample porch
with which it was provided, but over the
whole tenement creepers were carefully trained,
which sprang up and flourished with such
marvellous rapidity that in a very short time
the hut of planks resembled a fairy bower.
Within, the arrangements were really of a
superior kind, everything that had adorned the
best cabins, including of course their own,

on board the Ganges, having been laid under
contribution for their new abode. The sitting-room
was quite handsomely furnished with
mirrors, pictures, and couches, nor was anything
wanting to their comfort elsewhere that
forethought could supply. Aunt Sophia and
Edith were far from belonging to that portion
of their sex which take all kindness shown
them by the other as a matter of course, or
to be overpaid by a frigid smile. Their gentle
hearts were touched by it.

On Edith, if such a word can be used of
one so naturally sympathetic, it had a very
humanizing effect ; it made her feel that the
terrible misfortune that had happened to her
need not, as she had imagined, cut her off
from her kind; the lamp of her inner life
had gone out, but still she was not left in
darkness ; or, rather, her mental vision having
got accustomed to what had seemed darkness,
she became aware of a light, if of a somewhat
dim and twilight kind, w r which struggled in to

O ' DO

her from without. Love of the personal sort
was dead within her and buried with her lost
one in the deep ; but sympathy with her fellow-creatures

survived, and made life once more
seem worth the living.

As for Aunt Sophia, whose honesty and
good sense made her well aware that she had
long lost those attractions which are generally
associated with her sex, she had no words to
express her sense of the consideration and
kindness with which she was treated. " In
your case, my dear Edith," she said, "it is
no wonder with your youth and beauty that
you should have such respect paid to you ;
you appear, no doubt, to this industrious hive
like a queen bee, to whom it is impossible to
show too much devotion ; but for my part, I
have nothing to recommend me but my helplessness."


It is that and that only, we may be sure,"
put in Edith quickly, " that makes these brave
fellows indulge and spoil us both, as you and
I would indulge and spoil a motherless child ;
and I wish from my heart that we had some
means of showing how deeply we feel their
tenderness." She thought for a moment, and
then added, " I think I have hit on a plan
to prove our gratitude, though it can never

repay the obligation it imposes on us. It is
certain, my dear Sophy, that wholesome as
this climate appears to be, there will be more
or less of sickness amongst us ; accidents, too,
it is probable will happen, even if there be
not (which Heaven forbid) wounds received
in active warfare with our unknown neighbours
; in any case some kind of hospital
will be necessary. Why should we not fit
up our fourth and largest room — for which
we ourselves have no real need — as a sick
ward, where we may nurse our benefactors
in their hour of need ? "

At this Aunt Sophia clapped her hands
for joy. The proposition was one which suited
not only with her feelings, but her capacity,
for she was a first-rate nurse. It was necessary
to communicate their design to the
captain, who after some demur acceded to the
proposal. For some days they knew not what
leisure meant, but their toil was of the
pleasantness kind, since its object was the
benefit of others. Under the surgeon's superintendence
they selected from the ship's stores
everything necessary for their purpose, and

with their own fingers pulled enough lint
to suffice for the casualties of a general
engagement.

That discovery of the fish-bone brought
indeed the curse of labour upon all the
dwellers in that isle of Eden. Not a moment
was lost in putting the encampment, if such
a term could be applied to what was no
longer a mere assemblage of tents, but which
included a wooden hut or two of some pretensions,
into a state of defence. A barricade
was erected between it and the sea, made by
driving a double row of strong posts into the
sand, interlaced with the branches of trees.
The space between these rows was filled with
logs of wood, stone, and sand, to render it
solid. On the inside a bank was raised, on
which the men could stand and fire if attacked,
with an opening left for one of the six-pounders
which they had contrived to bring on shore.
Two large swivels were also mounted upon
rocks, enclosed within the line of fortification,
so that they could be pointed in all directions ;
and the breast-work was continued round
Ladies' Bay, right up the cliff foot.

These preparations, intended to inspire confidence,
had a directly opposite effect with
Aunt Sophia. She already beheld their island
home invaded by countless savages, with
whom scalping was a pastime, and burning
their enemies alive a festive celebration.
Henceforth she could never be persuaded by
her companion to explore any portion of the
island without an escort, and rarely even to
set foot outside the barricade.

To Edith, on the contrary, this sense of
impending peril was not altogether one of
apprehension, and in truth had a certain
charm of its own, which was due to its
strangeness. Mr. Doyle, who saw much of
her at this period, once remarked that Miss
Edith had a passion for novelty greater than
any he had observed in her sex ; but the fact
was that she hailed anything that was a
distraction to her thoughts, even though it
were anxiety itself. It is in this condition
of our faculties, fortunately a rare one, that
the mind is most accessible to new impressions.

One morning, as the two ladies sat in the
porch, Edith with paint-brush in hand, finishing

a little water-colour sketch of their rampart
she had begun the day before, which
Master Conolly had begged of her, and Aunt
Sophia reading aloud from Walter Scott, the
young midshipman came flying towards them
through the passage that connected the two
bays. His face was flushed with excitement
more than speed, his eyes sparkled, his voice
trembled with the weight of his news, as he
exclaimed, " Some one has come at last ! "

"Some one!" shrieked. Aunt Sophia, dropping
' Question Durward ' from her lap. " Do
you mean the savages ? "

He shook his head.

Great Heaven ! Is it an English ship ? "

The poor lady's ecstasy was but short-lived,
for the lad shook his head again.

At the same time Edith uttered a deep sigh,
which he mistook for one of regret.

I don't know what they are," he said ;
61 come and see with your own eyes."

Edith rose at once to accompany him, and
Aunt Sophia, rather than be left by herself,
followed her example. As they rounded the
rock, a singular spectacle presented itself.

The whole ship's company had the attitude
of a state of siege. Every man was at the
post assigned to him, on the barricade or at
the guns, with the exception of three persons
the captain, Mr. Marston, and the Hindoo
interpreter Gideon Ghorst — who were standing
on the verge of the sea at a short distance
for it was high tide — the first with a white
flag in his hand, the other two each with a
branch of a tree, in token of amity. The
reason for this strange demonstration was not
far to seek. In the harbour, about fifty feet
from the shore, were two large canoes kept
in a state of rest by their paddles ; their
construction w T as most curious and graceful.
They were between thirty and forty feet long,
hollowed apparently out of a single stem.
A balance log at least twenty feet long was
carried by each at the extremity of two
immensely long elastic outriggers, the whole
presenting the appearance of excessive lightness
and buoyancy. From stem to stern the
canoes were filled with the most gorgeous
flowers, heaped up in such profusion that
they almost concealed their tenants. These

VOL. II. F

consisted in each case of nine persons, whose

appearance was so extraordinary that it was

little wonder that the midshipman had been

unable to classify or describe them. With

the exception of one individual, who, like a

native of India, wore waistcloth and turban,

they were all clothed in dazzling white. Their

garments, without having the stiffness of the

European cut, fitted almost as closely, so as to

admit of the freest use of the limbs. Their

arms only, and, as was presently seen, their

legs below the knee, were bare. Bound their

foreheads were circlets of red flowers, and also

around their waists, which, contrasting with the

hue of their attire, shone like crowns and zones

of fire. Mr. Eedmayne, who had advanced to

the ladies backwards for the first time in ibis

life, his eyes being riveted on this amazing

scene, handed Aunt Sophia a field-glass.

"What do you make of them, Miss
Norbury ? " he inquired excitedly.

The lady's scrutiny was long and keen.
I think they are angels," presently she
murmured, in awestruck tones, and passed
on the glass to Edith.

If grace of form constitute an angel, Aunt
Sophia's diagnosis would have been correct.
So far as the assisted eye could judge of these
strange visitors, they were indeed glorious
specimens of humanity. Their colour was a
fine bronze, no darker than that of a European
who has lived long in a sultry climate ; their
hair was black, and very luxuriant, though
so neatly arranged and confined in braids
and plaits that it was difficult to judge of
its length. No more feminine appearance
was thereby imparted to them, however, than
by the fillets worn by our street athletes ;
their forms — to judge by the two who were
standing up and directing the rowers with
their hands — were too majestic and suggestive
of strength.

Had the castaways been the savages whom
they had presupposed their visitors would be,
they might well have imagined that those
they thus beheld were gods. Astonishment,
however, was by no means confined to one
side. The eyes of the new-comers ranged over
the encampment, the guns, and the little group
of men on the shore, with the wildest surprise.

F 2

Presently the captain, raising his voice so
that it could be heard by both parties,
directed the interpreter to address them in
Malay, which was immediately done. Thereupon
the native with the turban spoke a few
hurried words with the man upstanding on
his canoe, and then replied, "Who are you,
whom we find upon our Island of Flowers ;
and are you at peace with us or at war ? "
Then the interpreter, in obedience to the
captain's orders, replied that they were unfortunate
Englishmen who had lost their
ship upon the reef, and that they were their
friends.

On this the two leaders interchanged a

o

word or two, and without a moment of
hesitation the canoes were paddled to shore.
This was done with such rapidity that the
captain was unable, as it had been his intention
to do, to go into the water to meet them,
a sien of confidence and conciliation in such
cases. He instantly, however, pressed forward,
stretching out his hand to one of the leaders.
The latter took it daintily in his palm, and
considered it with much attention, the others

crowding round with expressions of wonder
and delight. They had, as their companion
the Malay explained, never seen a white man
before, and the blue veins in his hands were
what was exciting their surprise.

The captain on this rolled up his sleeve
to let them see that this speciality was not
only local, whereupon they showed him their
own arms, which were in their turn also
peculiar, being tattooed from the wrist to the
shoulder, with every description of flowers.
One of the two leaders had evidently a
superiority over his fellow, for which it was
difficult to account ; his manner was less
dignified, and his curiosity and wonder more
openly expressed ; and on seeing the captain
button his waistcoat, which happened to have
come undone, he burst into a musical laugh,
which was instantly echoed by the rest. His
face was the most good-natured, though without
weakness, it is possible to imagine, and
his gentle and unsuspicious manners were
those of a child. This personage, as the
Malay, who could speak a little English, gave
them to understand, was Masiric, brother of

King Taril, who ruled the neighbouring
island.

At a word from the captain, the rest of
the officers came out of the encampment to
be introduced to the visitors. They naturally
held out their hands, which, however, the
others declined, their curiosity in that direction
having been sufficiently gratified. On
being informed, however, that shaking hands
was a proof of friendship, they entered upon
that exercise w T with great enthusiasm, nor could
they be easily induced to leave it off. It
being breakfast-time, some tea and sweet
biscuits were brought down for the strangers,
who partook of the beverage with seeming
enjoyment; nor was it discovered till long-after
that they thought it the nastiest that
had ever passed their lips. In every movement,
look, and word, they were in short the
pink of courtesy, and the most cordial relations
were at once established between the
two parties.

As they sat upon the ground at their
repast, Edith's curiosity to get a nearer view
of them induced her, in company with Mr.

Redmayne, to approach the group. No sooner
did they catch sight of her than all with one
accord uttered a cry of joy mingled with awe,
and leaping to their feet rushed away to their
canoes. From thence they presently returned,
laden with flowers, and advancing towards her
with every demonstration of respect, heaped
them up at her feet, and then prostrated
themselves on the sand.

What shall I say to them ? " she inquired
eagerly of the interpreter. " What is it they
take me for ? "

They worship flowers," explained the
Malay, " and they take you for their goddess."

"And a very natural error to fall into, too,"
said Mr. Redmayne, under his breath.

THE SONG.

It falls to the lot of very few of us to be
worshipped even metaphorically; and Edith
Norbury's position seemed to her a sufficiently
embarrassing one ; but the fact was that under
the circumstances she could hardly have gone
wrong in whatever she did. Persons of the
blood royal find it very easy to satisfy the
requirements of their 'obedient humble servants,'
and a Divinity has of course still less
difficulty in such matters. It was natural to
Edith to smile and look pleasant, and in so
doing she fulfilled all that was expected of
her. Moreover, as it so happened, these good
people were in the most admirable cue for unquestioning
devotion. Deep hid in the Isle of
Flowers, which it seemed was its native designation,
was a rude altar, to which at certain

seasons, of which this was one, these children
of nature came to pay their vows. Their
offerings they had brought with them, and
finding, as they imagined, the goddess in person
to receive them, it seemed superfluous to
seek her shrine. The situation had that sort
of sublimity about it which is only one step
removed from the ridiculous ; had Edith been
a man, for example, and one of the captain's
build, his appearance with so much floral
decoration would have suowsted to the irreverent
and European mind a 
; as it was, being a woman, and a very
pretty one, she seemed, as she stood knee-deep
in bud and blossom, even to her own countrymen,
as at least a charming Queen of the May,
and their evident admiration assisted the impression
produced upon the visitors.

Even Mr. Bates was pleased, because, as he
explained to one of his henchmen, if these
people didn't know a girl from a goddess, it
was plain that they must be simple indeed,
and that if the young woman only played her
cards decently well she could get anything she
wanted out of them, which would be to the

benefit of the whole community. That she
should hesitate to take advantage of their
ignorance never entered into his mind, and
indeed for the present it was difficult, and, as
the Malay suggested, would be exceedingly
injudicious, to do otherwise. Edith herself
was tortured with scruples ; the position thus
involuntarily thrust upon her was not only
like that of the Lady of Burleigh, " the burthen
of an honour to which she was not born," and
for which she felt wholly unfitted, but seemed
also to savour of impiety. Aunt Sophia, however,
joined with the captain in advising herat
least to be silent. Perhaps she felt a secret
pride in finding so near a relative promoted,
though by mistake, to such an immense elevation,
while at the same time she experienced
a little natural jealousy at having no share of
these celestial honours. "They will very soon
find out, my dear Edith, without your telling
them, that you are no goddess," was her naive
reply to her niece's scruples. At this Edith
smiled — dispensed, as it seemed to them, one
more ray to her enraptured worshippers — and
withdrew as ' divinely ' as she could to Ladies*

Bay, followed by Master Conolly laden with
her floral tributes ; just as some prima donna,
who on returning from a scene in which she
has been overwhelmed by public favour, is
obliged to call in assistance to carry her
bouquets.

While the visitors were being shown over
the encampment, every object of which awakened
in them a new world of thought, the
Malay iu the intervals of interpretation told
the captain what he knew of their new friends.
He himself — according to his own account,
one of the best and most trustworthy of mankind
— had met, as good men do, with great
misfortunes. On a voyage from Canton to
Amboyna his vessel had been driven far out of
her course, and been ten months ago wrecked
on the neighbouring island, which was called
Breda. Not a soul had been saved except
himself ; but the people had proved very kind
to him, as no doubt they would prove to the
captain and his crew. So far, however, from
being effeminate, as they might appear, the
natives of Breda were a very powerful and
warlike race, which they had need to be, since

on its sister island, Amrac, there dwelt a
savage and cruel people, with whom they were
always at war. The island on which they now
were, named Faybur (or Isle of Flowers), unclaimed
by either and common to both, was
seldom visited by the inhabitants of Breda,
except, as on the present occasion, for devotional
purposes, and by those of Amrac (who
worshipped nothing) still more rarely. As to
the possibilities of rescue, it was the Malay's
opinion that the Ganges was the first European
ship that had ever sailed these seas. On
Faybur he had been given to understand that
there were no trees fit for the construction of
canoes, much more of any larger vessel; and
even in Breda the timber, though extraordinarily
light and buoyant, was of a very
perishable nature.

This news had some satisfaction, but more
of discouragement in it. It was probable that,
from their present visitors and their friends,
no evil was to be apprehended ; but there was
no knowing what changes might arise from
their common enemies on the other island ;
while it seemed only too likely that where

they were there they must be content to
remain for the rest of their natural lives. The
captain himself had no family ties, nor was
his mind much given to sentiment ; but this
decree (for such it must needs prove, if the
information of the Malay was correct) of perpetual
separation from all that was familiar
affected him not a little. He felt, too — for
his heart was kind — for those of his people
who had wives and children, whose faces they
were never to see more, and whose homes
would be worse than desolate, because haunted
by false hopes of their return. His pity was
especially claimed by the two women (so unfitted
by their bringing up to face such a
calamity), whom Fate had committed to his
charge, and for whose future, so full of peril,
he had become responsible. To make arrangements
beyond the passing hour for them was
impossible ; truly, indeed, could it be said of
them that they could not know what a day
might bring forth. Xot even the present
could be relied upon, since for the captain —
who had the prejudices, or perhaps it would
be fairer to say the experience of his class —

the very name of Malay was a symbol of bad
faith. He had to take his description of the
state of affairs for granted, not because he
trusted in the man's word, but because there
was no evidence to be procured from any other
source.

A circumstance at this moment occurred,
which, to say the least of it, did not tend to
increase his confidence in the go-between in
question. The captain had besought him, ina
few earnest words, on introducing the new
arrivals into the camp, to say nothing of the
nature of its armament ; to keep their visitors
in ignorance of the existence of that last resource
of civilization — powder and shot — was
of the utmost importance ; and everything
connected with fire-arms had been carefully
put out of sight except the cannon, which
could not be well disposed of, but whose presence
could easily be explained to such simple
inquirers on the ground of decoration. Where
all was novel, a brace of swivels and another
of six-pounders would excite neither more nor
less of curiosity than other objects the uses of
which would be equally unintelligible to them ;

and so, indeed, it had turned out. The
visitors had made the circuit of the camp, and
gorged with undigested information as any
young gentleman who goes up for a competitive
examination at Burlington House,
were about, with many signs of friendly satisfaction,
to return to their canoe, when one of
them discovered upon the sand a bullet. This
object, carelessly dropped and as carelessly left
where it fell, or perhaps too small to attract
an eye less keen than that of a savage, at once
riveted his attention. The weight of it as
contrasted with its minuteness awakened his
wonder, and he instantly turned to the Malay
for a solution of the phenomenon. The explanation
was short and swift, and seemed
sufficient, for the native pushed his inquiries
no farther ; but, on the other hand, he hid the
bullet in his robe, as the captain shrewdly suspected,
for further investigation and inquiry.
The Malay, had he chosen to do so, might have
put an end to all discussion on the matter, by
affecting to treat it as of no importance, and
returning the bullet to its proper owner, or
even throwing it into the sea. It was evident

he had wits and presence of mind enough to
have adopted this course, had he been so inclined
; and the fact that he had not done so
was full of sinister significance. The possession
of this little object would give him the key to
a secret which he would have been otherwise
unable to render intelligible to his companions.
To reproach him with any such design was,
however, out of the question ; not to quarrel
with him, and through him to conciliate the
others as much as possible, was the only course
open to the castaways.

It was, then, with a heavy heart that the
captain saw his visitors about to depart.
On the one hand, it was a matter of great
convenience, and one which did away with
much necessary misconception, that an interpreter
between the two parties had been
found ; on the other, it placed in what might
prove to be unworthy, or even hostile hands,
a vast and irresponsible power. It was to
be hoped, indeed, of a people apparently so
genial and good-natured, that they would draw
favourable conclusions for themselves of their
nev neighbours, but it was certain that their

judgment was liable to be warped and perverted
by the only personage who was in a position
to speak with knowledge, and whose interests
might prompt him to misrepresentation.

A present of some kind was given to each
visitor, nor was the Malay himself forgotten.
Indeed, the captain showed no little diplomacy
in giving him one of precisely the same kind
that was assigned to Prince Masiric, by which
he wished not only to please its recipient but
to arouse some jealousy in the breast of his
Royal Highness. Gifts, too, of various kinds
were forwarded to King Taril — a present of
tea (which his Majesty, as it was afterwards
discovered, took in pinches raw, in preference
to the usual decoction), a jar of sugar-candy,
a pound of the sweet biscuits which had given
such pleasure to his subjects, and several
yards of scarlet cloth.

Laden with these treasures, and delighted
with their amazing experiences, the visitors
were stepping into their vessels, when from the
Ladies' Bay the voice of Master Conolly singing
a Scotch song was borne upon the evening
breeze. The effect upon his native audience

VOL. II. G

was most remarkable. No exclamation of
pleasure broke as before from their lips, but
the hushed amaze of hand and eye " testified
to their delight and wonder. Then, with
ineffable softness, so as not to interrupt the
strain, the word "Deltis" passed from one to
the other. The captain would have inquired
of the Malay what this meant, but Masiric
held up his finger for silence. A strange
picture, indeed, in that exquisite frame of
Nature's handiwork, was this band of enraptured
savages, listening as though to a
voice from heaven (and in truth it lacked
neither sweetness nor pathos) to the song of
the unseen lad : —

Hame, hame, hame, oh, hame fain wad I be,
Oh, hame, hame, hame to my ain countries !
When the flower is in the bud, and the leaf is on the

tree,
The lark shall sing me hame to my ain countries !
Hame, hame, hame, oh, hame fain would I be,
Oh, hame, hame, hame to my ain countries ! "

A VOLUNTARY EXIT.

Not till the song had ceased did the attention
of the visitors relax for one instant, and
with its last note an answering thrill seemed
to pervade their giant frames. In Breda,
explained the Malay, singing was utterly
unknown ; nor did even any bird sing, save
one they called the Deltis, which had a flute-like
note, not unlike that of the young midshipman,
and which, visiting them only at
rare intervals, was held in a manner sacred.
Masiric could not be persuaded that what he
had heard was a melody produced by the
human voice, so the captain ordered Conolly
to be sent for, to give in their presence another
specimen of his powers. As a rule,
midshipmen are not shy, and fortunately he
was no exception to the rule, or the task

G 2,

might well have proved embarrassing. Moreover,
not knowing what a sensation he had
made already, he had no idea how much was
expected of him. But whether by accident
or design, he selected a song of a very different
kind from its predecessor, * Scots wha hae wi
"Wallace bled,' which he gave with a great
deal of vigour and feeling. The effect was
even more striking than that of his previous
effort, for the visitors, as if roused to frenzy
by the stirring strains, flew to their canoes,
and snatching from them each a club —
weapons they had hitherto kept concealed —
performed a sort of war dance in rhythmic
measure. A more complete triumph was
never achieved by singer ; nor, on the other
hand, did ever success exact so severe a penalty.
There was a hurried conversation with the
Malay, and then, on behalf of the visitors, he
besought, as the greatest favour and strongest
mark of friendship that could be shown them,
that the young midshipman should be allowed
to accompany them to Breda. The captain
stood irresolute ; there might be great advantage
in such an arrangement for the ship's

company, but there was also danger to the
envoy. " He shall not go unless he wishes it
himself," was the resolution arrived at, as he
watched the colour come and go in the young
fellow's cheek. Then he took him aside and
spoke with him. M If you shrink from this
undertaking, as well you may, my lad," he
said kindly, " do not hesitate to say so ; it
may, no doubt, be of great benefit to us, if
by your singing you please the king as you
have pleased his people ; but there is much
risk in it, and you have a mother at home to
wdioni I am accountable for your safety, and
of whom it behoves us both to think."

I weill go, sir ; but I should like to wish
good-bye first to Miss Edith Norbury," was
"the lad's simple reply.

Under other circumstances, such a request
would certainly have provoked some ridicule
from one so little given to sentiment as his
commander, in whose eyes Master Lewis
Conolly did not seem to have long emerged
from the nursery. As things were, however,
and considering the nature of the venture the
boy was willing to make, his very youth gave

seriousness to his appeal. As the captain was
about to give him the desired permission,
Edith herself made her appearance from
Ladies' Bay. The news had already reached
her of what had been proposed, and in an
agony of apprehension for the lad's safety, she
had determined — reluctant as she was to interfere
with the dispositions of authority — to
make her protest.

Her presence, as it happened, was welcome
neither to her protege nor to the captain. The
former would have fain made his farewell out
of sight of prying eyes ; the latter was
chagrined that she should have thus run the
risk of cheapening herself by a second appearance
before those on whom she had made so
marvellous an impression. The mischief, however,
if mischief it were, was done. With
rapid step, flushed cheek, and eager eye, Edith
came down to the shore, and as she did so,
the visitors, as before, prostrated themselves
on the sand. Of them she took no notice (an
undesigned piece of diplomacy which probably
increased her reputation with them), but
addressed herself at once to the captain.

"Is it possible, Captain Head, that you are
about to send this fatherless boy among a
strange and it may be a barbarous people,
without a single friend, or the means of
making one, on the possible chance of benefit
to those he leaves behind him ? Let two of
them — for I am speaking for my relative as
well as for myself — the two on whom if evil
falls will suffer the most from it, entreat of
you to make no such sacrifice of a brave boy
for our poor sakes ; we are women, but we are
not such cowards as to wish to be saved from
danger at that cost." She spoke with exceeding
earnestness and passion ; her theme
not only elevated her usual style, but seemed
to inspire her very frame with a dignity
hitherto unknown to it. The visitors uttered
a low cry of awe and deprecation at the sight
of the ire of their goddess.

"Madam," replied the captain quietly, "you
do me wrong. This boy, as he will tell you,
has received no orders from me to comply
with our visitors' request. On the contrary,
I have reminded him that he has a mother
at home who, should we ever, God willing,

return to our native land, will ask me, ' Where
is my son ? ' and woe be to me if I have to
answer, ' His blood is on my hands.' But if
he himself is willing "

Oh, shame upon you ! " interrupted the
girl with vehemence ; " you mean if he himself
is brave enough to lose his young life
for our sakes, why should we hesitate to
take advantage of so much simplicity and
courage ? "

The captain bit his lips and was silent.

He was one of those men whose nature,
invincible by fire and sword, shrinks from
the sharpness of a woman's tongue.

The captain is quite right, Miss Edith,"
said the young midshipman softly; "he has
placed no compulsion on me of any kind ; but
he has offered me an opportunity of distinguishing
myself, such as falls to the lot of
few men of my age " — it was with difficulty
Edith here repressed a smile, in which, however,
it would have been cruel indeed to have
indulged — "and I am fully resolved to embrace
it ; I shall come back again, safe and
sound, no doubt, but if I do not, you will

think of me as having done my duty, and —
and — not forget me."

The tears rushed to Edith's eyes, but remembering
in whose presence she stood, and
how important it was that she should exhibit
no sign of weakness, she restrained them.
She turned to the captain with an interrogating
glance, but he shook his head. " I
will say neither yes nor no, madam, in this
matter ; it never was one of discipline or duty,
and I wash my hands of it. You must just
settle it your own way."

The wind is rising," said the Malay impatiently
to Gideon Ghorst, " and our canoes
are unfitted for rough weather ; we are anxious
to be off, and my people here hope that
nothing has occurred to prevent the fulfilment
of your promise as regards this young
gentleman."

As he spoke, he threw at Conolly a glance
of unmistakable disfavour, which did not
escape the captain's attention. " There has
been no promise," he answered coldly, when
this speech was translated to him. "Xow,
madam, it is for you to decide."

There is nothing so popular with the crowd
as an occasional self-abnegation of authority,
and this deference on the part of their chief to
Edith's opinion was extremely well received
by the ship's company. They quite understood
the affair to be one out of the ordinary
course, and to be settled by no ordinary rules.
As for the visitors, Edith's decision had only
to be explained to them to be unhesitatingly
accepted as law.

The issue, Captain Head, which you have
placed in my feeble hands," she answered
modestly, but in tones so distinct that all
around her could hear, "is, I feel, far too
momentous for them to deal with. I do not,
however, shrink from the responsibility you
have imposed upon me. Let Mr. Conolly go,
since he wishes it ; but not utterly friendless,
or without the means of communicating with
his fellow-countrymen. Let our own interpreter
be his companion ; as he is the only
medium of intercourse between us and our
neighbours, they will prize him for their own
sakes ; and since whenever they visit us they
must needs bring him with them, we shall

always learn how our young envoy fares."
This proposal was received by the whole ship's
company with three ringing cheers, for while
it possessed all the advantages for which they
hoped for themselves, it mitigated the circumstances
of the volunteer exile, whose youth
appealed to every heart, and for whom almost
every one felt both gratitude and pity.

To the Malay, however, the suggestion was
very far from welcome. " The canoes are
light," he murmured in broken English, " and
already overladen."

Our men need not go in the same canoe,"
returned the captain drily, " so no more risk
will be run by one than the other. You will
take both men or none — that is my last word."

Some discussion followed between the Malay
and his friends, whom he was obviously
endeavouring to win over to his own views ;
but it was put an end to by the presence of
mind of Edith, who, addressing the Prince
Masiric by his own name (a circumstance
which caused his royal knees to knock together),
pointed with outstretched finger first
to the midshipman and then to the interpreter,

a gesture that was instantly understood and
its command complied with. In less than a
minute the whole party, with its two additions,
were afloat, and the canoes began to
glide with amazing swiftness towards the
harbour-mouth. The young midshipman was
in the second of them, and kept his eye fixed
upon the " lessening shore " with pathetic
persistence. He was hardly more than a
child in years, and such a parting would have
been a sufficiently trying one to even the
most seasoned sailor ; indeed, there were others
beside Edith and Aunt Sophia to whose eyes
tears forced their way as they beheld the last
of him, but the lad himself betrayed no
symptom of weakness. When the full-voiced
adieu involuntarily arose from the shore, conveying
the good wishes of those he was
probably about to leave for ever, he had even
the spirit to reply to it in a characteristic
manner by singing a verse from ' The Farewell
to Ayrshire ' : —

Friends, that parting tear reserve it,
Though 'tis doubly dear to me ;
Could I think I did deserve it

How much happier should I be " —

an appropriate reply enough to the general
voice, but the song was a favourite one with
Edith, and it is possible that it was intended
to have a meaning for her private ear.

It is like sending forth the dove from the
ark, which always struck me as a cruel experiment,"
sobbed Aunt Sophia.

"Let us hope, madam, that like the dove
he will come back with the olive branch," said
the captain cheerfully ; but his rough and
weather-beaten face, like that of many a one
beside him, was full of tenderness and sorrow.
As to Edith, she had no heart to speak, but
wept in silence.

The harmony of human nature, however, is
never universal, but has always some hitch or
jar in it.

I hope we've seen the last of that young
whipper-snapper'' was Mr. Bates's observation
to his henchman, Matthew Murdoch, as the
canoes rounded the headland. "As he's so
young and tender, I shouldn't be a bit surprised
if the savages boiled and eat him."

THE COPPER KETTLE.

Days and weeks went by without any news
of the young midshipman, or any second visit
from those to whom he had so courageously
intrusted himself. This silence, though very
distressing to those who mourned his loss, and
reproached themselves for having taken advantage
of his chivalrous offer, was, however,
explicable from natural causes. Of course, it
might be that the intention of their neighbours
had been misunderstood, and their pretended
friendship only one of those cunning devices
which savages often put into practice, sometimes
to carry out some cruel design, but more
often without any other aim beyond that of
gratifying their taste for duplicity ; but the
idea of their having played so treacherous
a part did not commend itself to the sober

judgment of the captain, though it excited the
apprehensions of the ladies. But while almost
convinced that the lad stood in no peril from
the hands of his unknown hosts, he had more
serious doubts than he cared to express as to
whether he had ever reached them. The
storm, which the Malay had predicted, must
have come up before the frail canoes, swift as
they were, could possibly have got home, and
they were quite unfitted to live in a heavy
sea. On the other hand, if they had survived
the passage there was reason enough in the
rough weather that had since prevailed to
account for their not having again attempted
it. Though the castaways thought nothing of
it, and the waters of the harbour, protected
by the coral reef, remained almost unruffled,
there was wild work on the sea ; and what the
sea could do in those latitudes the crew of the
sunk Ganges had good reason to know.

Every day from the look-out station Edith
Norbury gazed with anxious eyes upon the
island, looking through the misty foam more
vague than ever, but which had now so strong
a personal interest for her ; but she gazed in

vain. Distressing, however, as were her fears
for the safety of the boy envoy, they in some
measure usurped the place of her former woe,
and were preferable to it inasmuch as they
admitted of a solution. She was never tired of
talking of the lad, and of his heroic self-sacrifice,
and in the hopes of his return seemed
to find that tie to life which had hitherto been
wanting to her. Under other circumstances,
the significance of this change would not have
escaped her companion's observation, nor,
indeed, did it altogether do so, since in after
days she often recalled the impression it had
produced, but for the present Aunt Sophia's
mind was too .much occupied with material
matters to concern itself with psychological
observation.

The preparations for the defence of the
camp were pushed on unceasingly ; sentries
were posted day and night ; there was constant
practice with small arms, though no
powder was expended, and all these indications
of impending strife filled her with alarm.
How Edith could range the island as she did
without an escort was amazing to Aunt Sophia ;

nor could she be made to understand that the
rough weather which prevented the inhabitants
of Breda from repeating their visit, must
equally preclude any hostile manifestations
from Amrac. Moreover, though she had had
no official information of the matter, she was
conscious that there were troubles in the
camp itself, which her fears easily magnified
into acts of mutiny. There had been meetings
of the officers, and whisperings among the
men, and though there was no manifestation
of discontent, there was evidently a chord
amiss in the general harmony that had hitherto
prevailed. The truth was that there had
been more than one case of drunkenness in
the camp, an offence under other circumstances
trivial enough, but which as matters stood
was of the greatest importance.

For the question involved not only theft,
but what was even a more serious crime,
since it implied a guilty knowledge shared
by many — fraudulent concealment. Either
the strong liquor in charge of the doctor
had been stolen, or the destruction of the
liquor casks had not been so complete as

VOL. II. H

was supposed. The latter alternative was the
more probable, since no liquor was missed
from the store, while the drunkenness — though
limited at present to some half-dozen cases —
went on almost unceasingly. In every case
the culprits denied that they were guilty, and
instanced the impossibility of their getting
drunk as proof of their innocence. This w 7 as
hard to get over, and though the captain Alas
not the sort of man to accept the explanation
of ' atmospheric influence ' advanced under
such circumstances by the accused, he was
sorely puzzled how to act. The very plea
disturbed him not a little ; for it was not such
an excuse as would occur to the ordinary
sailors mind. It seemed to point to some
ruling and superior spirit behind the offenders.
The crime itself, too, w r as in their position
of the most dangerous kind, and might lead
at once to mutiny and ruin. In the meantime,
he kept these things as much as possible
from the ladies' ears.

One morning, after Edith had paid her usual
visit to the look-out station, she was tempted
by the loveliness of the clay to extend her

ramble. The weather, indeed, on the island
was almost invariably clear and fine, but for
the first time for weeks the disturbance of the
sea showed signs of abatement ; the clouds to
the northward were lifting, and once more
revealed the island which formed the subject
of so much interested speculation to her.
Even in the bays it was now possible to find
shelter, and descending from the higher
ground, she took her way along them in contemplative
mood. Headland after headland
was thus rounded, without her taking particular
note of anything, but drinking in the freshness
and beauty of the varied scene with unconscious
pleasure. In this way, without knowing
it, she had made half the circuit of the little
territory, and was only made conscious of the
fact by perceiving that she was receding from
and turning her back upon the neighbouring
island. Having got so far she resolved to
complete the round and return to the camp, as
she had not hitherto done, the other way,
when a circumstance occurred of which she
thought little at the time, but which had its
results.

H 2

Behind a projecting cliff there lay one of
those defiles, filled with brightness and colour
from a thousand flowers — though the sun was
absent from it — of which the island possessed
so many. She was wondering whether it
might prove a short cut to the camp, when
she perceived a thin line of smoke wavering
amon£ the trees. It startled but did not
alarm her. It could only proceed of course
from some fire kindled by members of the
camp, and it struck her that she would inquire
of them whether there were any difficulties
in the unknown route she was about to take.
As she turned up the chine, as it would have
been called had it been upon the English seacoast,
she suddenly came upon a little hollow
in which half a dozen men were seated round
a huge copper kettle. At her approach they
all jumped up with a quickness that seemed
suggestive of something; more than mere
respect, and one of them came forward to
meet her. It was Matthew Murdoch, the
man who had been placed in irons on the
appointment of the captain to his command.
His look was angry and even menacing, and

lie stood between her and the rest, with his
great arms akimbo, as if to stop the way.

I am sorry to have disturbed you," she
said gently, " but I have walked farther than
I intended, and thought this might be a
nearer way home than that by which I have
come."

Well, it isn't ; it's a longer way ; and let
me tell you a very dangerous one," was the
gruff reply.

A very dangerous one ? "

He means precipices and that, miss,"
explained another sailor, stepping forward.

Xo, he doesn't," growled Murdoch, " he
means what he says, and she'll find it out if
she comes much farther."

"Tush, tush," exclaimed the other man,
"you mustn't mind him, miss ; but indeed it's
not a safe road to those who don't know it ;
and you had better go back as you came."

Edith thanked him in her usual quiet tones,
and at once began to retrace her steps. Once
only she ventured to look back, and beheld
both the men standing together where she
had left them, with the blue smoke rising over

their heads. She had, as she supposed, interrupted
some outdoor festivity, and thereby
incurred the wrath of the under-bred fellow.
There was no harm done after all, nor did
she nourish any resentment against him, but
this unaccustomed roughness of treatment distressed
her. With the men in general she
had always been popular, and though the
sullen behaviour of one or two had not escaped
her notice, she had set it down to a natural
moroseness of character ; but in this man
there had been evidently intentional rudeness,
and she could not help reflecting, in the unhappy
circumstances in which Aunt Sophia
and herself w T ere placed, how much they owed
to the influence of authority, and how powerless
they would be without it to shield themselves
from insult. Never before did she
feel so keenly the want of what is termed ' a
natural protector,' one bound by the ties of
blood or otherwise, to make her quarrel his
own. To the captain and his officers she was
conscious of being; under a hundred obligations,
for which she had not been ungrateful ; but it
had never before been borne in upon her, how

entirely dependent upon them were Aunt
Sophia and herself, even for those rights which
in less exceptional communities are common
and assured to all. It was a reflection she
did not dwell upon, and which in a few
minutes lost its edge, but having once entered
her mind it remained there, and, though
perhaps unconsciously to herself, had no doubt
a material effect upon her subsequent course
of conduct.

Though well resolved to make no complaint
of the manner in which she had been treated,
albeit it had had in truth more of indignity, if
not of insult, in it than can be gathered by
mere description, the incident itself had made
so strong an impression upon her that she related
it, with reservation, to Aunt Sophia, who
in her turn related it to Mr. Marston.

Your aunt tells me you had an adventure
this morning," he observed to Edith, when he
met her later in the day.

Indeed it was not worth repeating," she
said hurriedly, lest some imprudence of his
informant should get any of the people into
trouble. " It was only that I came upon some

of your sailors making tea, who were so good
as to warn me not to come home by a new
way, as I had intended, and whereby I might
have come to harm."

"And where was it they were when you
came upon them ? "

Edith described the place as well as she
could, eulogized their choice of a locality for
their picnic at once so beautiful and so
secluded, and, dimly conscious of mischief,
endeavoured to make matters as pleasant ^ and
innocent as she could.

And how do you know, Miss Edith, that
the men were making tea ? "

Well, I don't know it," she answered smiling
; " they did not offer me any, it is true ;
but as they had a fire lit, and a large kettle
upon it, T concluded as much."

And no doubt you are right," returned the
officer carelessly. " Only it seemed strange
that they should have troubled themselves to
take their kettle so far from home."

The explanation allayed Edith's suspicions
for the moment, but before nightfall a rumour
from the camp reached her ears which filled

her with consternation. It was said that in
some secret spot on the farthest extremity of
the island, the authorities had discovered certain
implements, including a copper boiler and
a coil of metal, technically called the worm,
used in distillation, and that the same had
been employed in extracting from the Ti-root
(or, as Mr. Doyle more scientifically termed it,
Draccena terminals) an ardent spirit. Here,
then, was the mystery explained of those late
cases of intoxication which had so puzzled and
alarmed the authorities, and Edith Norbuiy
had been the innocent cause of its solution.
The tea party, which she had been so unfortunate
as to interrupt, had been in fact a private
still.

ROYALTIES.

One morning the ladies were startled at
their breakfast hour by most unusual sounds :
the boatswain's whistle followed by a hum of
voices and a confused uproar such as is
audible in the movement of any large number
of persons, even on sand. There was also a
sort of hollow murmur, as though a band of
horn-blowers were practising on their instruments
for the first time. This latter noise
continued after the others had ceased. The
rampart that ran round their bay, instead of
its solitary sentinel, was now lined with men,
who, however, had placed themselves out of
sight of the sea. It seemed only too likely
that the long-expected visit from their neighbours
had taken the form of an invasion.

While they sat in doubt, eager to know

what had occurred, but waiting for orders from
the captain, who had bidden them in any such
case to remain indoors till he should send
them word what to do, an emissary arrived
from him in the person of Mr. Kedmayne.
His Majesty of Breda, he said, had arrived, and
was about to land. He had only brought five
canoes with him, but a man from the look-out
station had brought word that a large fleet
filled with armed men was in waiting on the
further side of the island. It was possible
that Edith's presence might prove of service,
but the matter was left entirely to her own
discretion. She announced herself at once as
ready to go, and accompanied by Aunt Sophia
and the second mate, she at once repaired to
Eescue Bay.

The spectacle that presented itself was even
more striking than on the last occasion. From
where the ladies stood they could see the
whole camp in a posture of defence, although,
beheld from without, its appearance was as
peaceful as usual. The men were lying down
in the batteries, and not a musket-barrel
peeped above the parapet. The king's canoe,

which was of great size, with a raised platform
in the centre, was coming up the harbour,
with two others on each side of it, the occupants
of which splashed the water with their
paddles, and flourished them above their heads
in a graceful and dexterous fashion, while at
the same time they sounded conch shells, like
mermen in attendance upon their sea-king.

On the platform were two persons — one a
little over middle age, of colossal size, with a
dignified expression of countenance, and the
other a much younger man, of slighter build,
and with a face so bright and eager, and yet,
withal, so gentle that it might have belonged
to a child. The absence of beard and whiskers
increased this appearance of youth, so that
until he rose and displayed his figure, which
was almost as tall as that of his companion,
and magnificently proportioned, it would have
been difficult to guess his age, which was, in
fact, nearly twenty-six. His hair was glossy
black, and had a natural wave in it, equally
removed from the crisp curl of the negro and
the straight hair common to so many tribes of
the Indian Archipelago.

Despite the alarm which the situation inspired
in Aunt Sophia's bosom, her eye could
not rest on so splendid an example of man's
outward beauty without approval.

Did you ever see such a magnificent young
fellow ? " she whispered in Edith's ear. " He
looks like the bronze Apollo that used to stand
in your poor uncle's library."

But Edith's attention was fixed on even a
more attractive object, of which she had just
caught sight — namely, the missing midshipman,
who, hitherto obscured by the raised
platform, could now be seen waving his handkerchief
from the same canoe, in which the two
interpreters were also seated.

Look, look, there is Mr. Conolly ! " she
exclaimed excitedly.

The dear, dear boy ! " cried Aunt Sophia.
How glad I am ! " and the tears stood in the
eyes of both women.

At a word from the king, two men from the
other canoes leapt into the water, and made
signs to the captain that he should suffer himself
to be carried in their arms to the royal
barge. Such a mode of locomotion — though

it is called by our children ' king coach ' — is
not very dignified, but on understanding that
its object was to place him on the same platform
as the king, thereby implying an equally exalted
rank, he consented very readily. Then his
Majesty with much complacency, like one who
is exercising a new accomplishment, shook
hands with the captain, and introduced him to
his son, Prince Tarilam. The latter, to the
astonishment of the captain, not only shook
hands with him, but in very musical broken
English observed, "Good morning, sir," whereat
his Majesty clapped his hands triumphantly,
and gazed upon his offspring with affectionate
amazement, like a father who, while recognizing
the senilis of his son, admits with
modesty that it is not hereditary.

It must not, however, be concluded that
King Taril was deficient in intelligence. No
sooner had the procession come ashore than
he beckoned Prince Masiric, and bade him
point out to him those objects of interest,
the description of which had already inflamed
his curiosity. The difference between the
natures of these royal brothers was as distinct

as any to be observed in the most
civilized communities. They were equally
observant, but the one, like the men of
Athens, was captivated by mere novelty, and
seemed to have little sense of comparison,
while the other strove to appraise the relative
value of the different objects brought to
his notice with reference to their use and
advantage.

In after days Edith used to liken King
Taril to Peter the Great, whom, save in
stature, he indeed greatly resembled. He had
the good of his people, and their advancement
in knowledge, always at heart, and preferred
it, as was subsequently amply proved, even
to the ties of blood and the gratification of
a domestic affection which could hardly be
surpassed. Masiric was a wit and a mimic,
and never suffered his high position to hamper
his love of drollery ; whereas the king possessed
a certain dignity which never deserted
him, and even under the most trying circumstances
preserved him from ridicule.

Even as matters were, and on so short an
acquaintance, the captain was disposed to

think well of him, but the news from the
look-out was too serious to be ignored, and
before admitting the visitors to the camp,
lie demanded an explanation of it. When
the question was put through the Malay, the
king drew himself up with an offended air,
and the colour rushed into his face. His son
whispered hastily into his ear, and pointed to
Conolly, whereupon his Majesty inclined his
head in haughty assent. Then the midshipman,
after a few words with Tarilam,
addressed the captain.

The king, sir, I am bidden to say,
harbours no thoughts of treachery. He is
at war with his neighbours, and therefore
has been compelled to put to sea with an
escort sufficient to repel any attack that
might be made on him, but coming hither
with all the sentiments of friendship, he
thought it indelicate to alarm your people
by the exhibition of such a formidable fleet.
They are at the back of the island, it is true,
but they are not near enough to save his
Majesty from violence, a contingency which
never so much as entered his mind, and he

regrets that any similar suspicion should,
nevertheless, have occurred to you." These
words, so uncharacteristic of Master Lewis
Conolly, were delivered with a deliberation
which, though caused by the difficulty of
translation, gave them a certain dignity.

It was now the captain's turn to speechify,
a feat in which it must be confessed he was
less successful than his royal visitor.

Well, upon my soul, it was most uncommonly
considerate and deuced gentlemanly
of the old gentleman," he exclaimed with
enthusiasm, " and you may tell him so forme."


This eulogium, rendered, let us hope, less
literally than the speech of the prince had
been, was received by the monarch with great
satisfaction.

Never," he said, " has the sweet voice
of Deltis sounded more grateful to my ears."
The captain bowed respectfully, and in an
aside with the midshipman, inquired what
on earth was meant by that? Then Master
Conolly, with purple countenance, arising
from a pressing tendency to mirth, reminded

VOL. II. I

him that on account of his singing he had
been likened to the bird called Deltis, the
only one of the feathered tribe in Breda
who could favour its inhabitants with a
song.

But you do not sing in the B redan
language, my young shaver, so how is it
that these good folks understand you ? "

Then the boy modestly explained that
Prince Tarilam had taken a fancy to him
on his first arrival on the island, and ever
since had passed several hours daily in his
company, acquiring from him, with the help
of the interpreter, the English tongue, for
which he had shown a remarkable adaptability,
while in so doing he had of necessity
imparted something of his own.

But is this prince of yours and his father
to be thoroughly trusted, think you ? " inquired
the captain, doubtfully ; "for my
experience as yet has been that the cleverer
the savage the greater the rogue."

There is not a more truthful or kinder-hearted
man in England than Prince Tarilam,
sir," answered the midshipman warmly, " and

he tells me that all the good in him he owes
to the teaching of the kino-well,

well, I hope it may be so ; at all
events we must chance it," was the captain's
conclusion ; whereupon he formally invited
the visitors to enter the camp.

Then, Master Lewis Conolly calling to mind
that there were already two interpreters, and
having something on his own account to say
to somebody else, slipped away from the
cortege and ran up to where Edith and
Aunt Sophia were standing on a rock a little
removed from the rest, but whence they had
a good view of the whole proceedings. He
was received by both with an excess of
welcome, which, if he had been two years
older, would certainly not have been accorded
to him. He was just at that happy epoch
when nobody but yourself knows how old
you are, and thoroughly enjoyed the privilege
of his position. Aunt Sophia called him
indifferently " Mr. Conolly " and " my dear
boy," just as the matter on which they were
speaking chanced to be familiar or otherwise.
Edith, by way of compromise, addressed him

I 2

as Lewis ; but the young rascal was well
aware that he was as great a favourite with
one as the other.

Aunt Sophia would have had him at once
recount his adventures, but this juvenile
Ulysses was much too wary to run the risk
of wasting their effect afc such a juncture.
He confined himself to speaking of the exalted
individuals who were then sharing their
attention with him, and might at any moment
monopolize it. He pointed out to them the
axes which hung from the shoulders of the
king and his son, and which were the ensigns
of their royal race. The handles were of ebony,
and the blades of shells. Around the wrist
of the former was also a bracelet of polished
bone, which, though of the simplest material
and construction, implied in its wearer the
possession of the greatest honour as well as
of the highest rank — a combination of the
Victoria Cross and the Garter. It w r as worn
also by Prince Masiric, as commander-in-chief.

11 But I hope that beautiful Prince Tarilam
has got the bone," observed Aunt Sophia.

He has one, but he is too modest to wear

it," returned the midshipman. " His view is
that it is the reward of merit, and that there
is no merit, but only a fortunate accident, in
being a king's son."

That is a very noble motive for a savage,"
remarked Edith, in astonishment.

A savage ! He is no more a savage than
well — I really know no one who would not
suffer by comparison with him," cried the boy,
with eager enthusiasm. " See, they are about
to show them what a musket can do. In spite
of all I could say, the Malay would explain
the use of the bullet they picked up, and since
then they have been wild to hear the ' white
man's thunder,' as they call it."

The visitors were now, in great expectancy,
assembled round the captain and Mr. Marston,
the latter of whom had a musket in his hand.
He was the best shot in the ship's company,*

Sailors are seldom good shots. This is the reason
why the exploring expeditions sent to the North Seas
have suffered so much privation, and is in a great measure
the reason of their ill-success. There is a sufficiency of
game, if only one could bring it down, which Dr. Herewith
his company of ■ trappers ' — Hudson's Bay men —
never failed to do.

and had therefore been intrusted with the
task of impressing upon their new friends
the efficacy of firearms. The thunder could
be made sure of, of course, but it was essential
to demonstrate the effects of the lightning*.
There was no lack of birds to aim at, albeit
they were not of a kind known to European
sportsmen ; though songless, they were of the
most beautiful and gorgeous colours — the men
called them flying rainbows — and slid rather
than flew through the warm and lustrous air.
It seemed " a sin and a shame," as Aunt
Sophia said, to kill one, and all the more so
since, never having been molested by man, and
not understanding his inventions, especially
gunpowder, they made no great haste to get
out of his reach. It would have made an
habitue of Wimbledon smile to see the care
with which the first mate handled his piece,
watched his chance, and then took aim at a
bird as bright and big as a peacock, that was
leisurely passing over their heads ; it was very
like a literal rendering of the metaphor, " a
barn door flying," and a barn door made
more demonstrative by brilliant advertise-merits

; but at all events he hit it, and down
it came.

The flash of fire, the noise, and then the
fall of the bird, created three distinct sensations
in the visitors. Some stopped their ears,
some shut their eyes (the better, like Mr.
Justice Harleigh, to exercise their judgment),
and even the king suffered himself to be
betrayed into an exclamation of astonishment.
As for the emotional Masiric — prince and
commander-in-chief though he was — he ran
after the bird like a retriever, and picking it
up, examined it with the most minute attention.
How the creature could have been
killed without the flame from the gun reaching
him, which it clearly had not done, taxed his
reason beyond his powers to explain.

Prince Tarilam turned his shapely head
towards the rock on which Conolly was standing,
and smiled. "You have not the least
exaggerated matters," the senile seemed toon

'

say, "but I should like to have one or two
things elucidated respecting this amazing incident."
The midshipman was at his side ina
moment ; but while the other lent his ear

apparently to scientific information, his gaze
was fixed upon the spot which his companion
had just left. Presently Conolly also turned
his eyes in the same direction, as a man
always does do, sooner or later, if the object
of his discourse is visible.

"I do believe the Prince has been asking
questions about us, and not about the musket
at all," ejaculated Aunt Sophia.

Perhaps he wants to know whether it will
kill people as well as birds," said Edith,
drily.

Oh, how wicked ! oh, how can you ! "
exclaimed her companion; "I am sure the
prince would not hurt a fly. Moreover, it
can't be that, because Mr. Conolly is shaking
his head, and very decidedly too."

That may corroborate my view," persisted
Edith ; " he is teaching him the rudiments
of the sixth commandment."

After a great deal of gesture and interpretation,
during which the king maintained an air
of extreme gravity and reflection, while Prince
Masiric exhibited his powers of imitation of
a musket-shot— just as a child presents a

walking-stick and cries, " Pop, bang, fire ! " —
the visitors began to prepare for departure.
The captain and the officers held their hands
out, when, much to their astonishment and
a little to their alarm, they were treated to
quite another form of salutation. Each of the
visitors seized his neighbour by the shoulder,
the king holding the captain as in a vice, the
prince seizing the midshipman, and Masiric
clutching Mr. Marston with such hearty goodwill,
that he left his mark on him for an hour
afterwards ; every host, in fact, was similarly
collared by his guest.

"It is an expression of personal friendship,"
explained Conolly, hastily, for it was
plain that the demonstration was not being
accepted in the spirit in which it was offered
" the tighter they grasp you, the higher is
the estimation they have formed of your
character."

His Majesty must think me an angel,
then," murmured the captain, rubbing his
arms. He smiled, however, with much complacency,
as did all the rest, as in duty bound.
It was, moreover, a relief to them to find that

this tenacious treatment, which suggested
perpetual imprisonment, had, after all, a
friendly aim.

Then, amid blowing of conch shells and
splashing of paddles, the king and his suite
departed. At the mouth of the harbour they
delayed a little, while at a given signal the
fleet, consisting of more than a hundred
canoes, came swiftly up from below the island,
and took their station behind the royal barge,
when the whole cortege left for home. It was
a splendid sight, and a method of royal conveyance
at least as imposing as the gilt
carriage and eight cream-coloured horses used
on state occasions in our own country.

The two ladies would certainly not have
grudged it their admiration, but for a circumstance
which at the moment drew their attention
to another quarter.

See, Mr. Conolly has not gone," cried
Edith, eagerly, who in the confusion and
crowd upon the beach had not hitherto recognized
the fact that the midshipman had been
left behind. " How glad I am they have not
taken him back with them ! Though he has

such a belief in their good will, I much prefer
to see him left with us."

They have left other persons behind them
too," exclaimed Aunt Sophia, excitedly ; " yes,
they certainly have. The prince himself, with
two of his people, no doubt as hostages and
to show that their intentions are honourable.
Now, I call that very nice of them. The idea
of having such a Prince Charming for our
guest is delightful. And, only look, I protest
that that dear boy, who knows how I dote on
royalty, is bringing him to talk with us. My
dear Edith, I feel all in a flutter."

MASTER Coolly's NARRATIVE.

As the midshipman and the young Prince
cf Breda approached the ladies, they could not
help observing the contrast between them,
which, indeed, considering that they were
both favourable types, was as great as contrast
could be. The one was a handsome English
boy, fresh-coloured and blue-eyed, with a
roguish drollery in his face that even the
presence of authority could only mitigate, and
which the nature of the undertaking he had
now on hand intensified to an unusual degree.
The prince, on the other hand, whose comeliness
was of quite another kind, and whose
grace of form suggested some faultless statue,
wore an expression of sedateness altogether
alien to his years. With this, however, was

mingled no touch of austerity ; indeed, it was
the tenderness of his looks, joined to a certain
worshipful awe as he drew near the young
lady, which was trying Master Lewis Conolly's
gravity to the utmost.

The Prince Tarilam wishes to have the
honour of your acquaintance, ladies," he observed
sedately.

The ladies bowed and held out their hands,
which, to their astonishment, he raised respectfully
to his lips. No courtier could have
surpassed the grace and ease of it, only he
saluted the younger lady first, and perhaps
retained her hand a second or two longer.

Welcome," he said, " to Faybur, and may
you be happy with us." The speech, though
so brief, was evidently rehearsed beforehand,
and he looked at the midshipman when he had
uttered it with the simplicity of a child who
seeks approval from his teacher.

Quite right," exclaimed Conolly, encouragingly.
Then, in lower and more rapid tones,
he added, " I was priming his Koyal Highness
with a lot of pretty speeches as we came along
in the canoe, and that is the one he selected.

He is so jolly green that I had not the heart
to keep up the illusion that you were the
goddess of flowers ; but he wishes me to
remark that you certainly are a flower, Miss
Edith, for all that, and the very fairest he
has ever set eyes on."

Edith blushed and smiled, and deprecatingly
shook her head.

"It is no use denying it like that," observed
the midshipman, gravely, after a brief conference
with his companion ; "his Koyal Highness
says he only made a mistake in the kind
of flower ; at first he was under the impression
that you were a rose, but he perceives now by
the movement of your head that you are a
lily of the valley."

You bold, bad boy," cried Aunt Sophia,
I am quite sure the prince has been saying
nothing of the kind."

At which Edith smiled outright, the midshipman
burst into uproarious laughter, and
Tarilam laughed so musically that it seemed
astonishing that so gentle a sound could
proceed from such a formidable frame. There
was no sense of fun in it, of course, yet it was

perfectly natural arid genuine, for it arose
from sympathy, just as the countenance of
any kindly disposed person reflects the spectacle
of happiness in others.

The prince is to be the captain's guest
here for some time, and will share his quarters,"
continued Conolly ; " as his host will be occupied
with his duties, his Royal Highness
hopes that he may be permitted to call
occasionally in Ladies' Bay, and cultivate your
acquaintance. He would like some of your
leisure time to be spent in teaching him
reading, writing, arithmetic, and the use
of the globes."

"Mr. Conolly," said Edith, severely, "it
is neither good taste nor gr>od manners to
make fun of any guest, especially of one who,
from ignorance of our language, is necessarily
at your mercy."

Ten thousand pardons, Miss Edith ; you
don't know what a beast I seem to myself,
now you have held the looking-glass up tome,"
returned the midshipman; "I will
never offend again." His penitence was so
earnest as well as so abject, that Edith could

not but forgive him : she knew that Master
Conolly's crime went no further than in permitting
his high spirits to run away with him,
whereas they required a tight hand.

Now, tell me truly what the prince does
say," she answered.

"Well, I have told him that we have all
duties to do here, except you ladies, and that
I am sure, when we are not at leisure to look
after him, you will be so good as to do so a
little ; and especially that you will help him
to learn English, which it is his great desire
to master ; indeed, I have not exaggerated
matters, Miss Edith, about his having the
highest regard for you ; and I am sure " (this
in a hasty parenthesis) " for your aunt also ;
and in spite of all his strange surroundings,
you will find Prince Tarilam to be a thorough
gentleman."

"We are quite sure of that," said Aunt
Sophia, an opinion evoked not less from the
lad's own evident conviction, than from the
demeanour of the prince himself. His position
was an exceptionally trying one, something
like that of the gentleman in the figure

Pastorate ' in the old quadrille, who had the
utmost difficulty, while dancing alone opposite
two ladies and another man, not to look like
a fool ; nay, Tarilam had not even the relief
of movement, but in stillness and silence had
to endure the consciousness of being talked
about by his three companions without understanding
one word they said. Yet he never
on the one hand betrayed a trace of awkwardness,
nor on the other, of a too great audacity,
but remained the personification of unembarrassed
ease. His expression reminded one
of those admirable specimens of gentleness
among the deaf and dumb, for whom as they
listen in vain, but with a smile of patient
intelligence to the conversation of their more
favoured fellow-creatures, few fail to feel a
touch of tenderness.

For the present, his patience was put to
no further test, for the captain here sent to
say that his guest's quarters were ready for
his inspection, so, with a grace and courtesy
seldom seen out of a minuet, he took his
leave.

"That is the best bred young man that

VOL. II. K

ever I saw' was Aunt Sophia's remark as
soon as he got out of earshot (though that
didn't matter much), " and I do hope we
shall see a great deal of him." As Edith took
no notice of this aspiration, it may at least
be supposed that she had no objection to offer
to it. "I wonder where he gets his clothes
from ? " continued Aunt Sophia, ua'ively.

At this, both of her companions burst out
laughing. " If we are to teach him English,
you will have an excellent opportunity of
asking him that question, Sophy," observed
Edith.

But, my dear child, you mistake me ; I
don't want to know who is his tailor, but
where the material comes from and what it
is, which, as an attire, becomes him so
admirably."

I can tell you all about that, ladies," said
the midshipman, demurely, " not, of course,
now, but some day when you may happen
to ask me to dinner, in order to have the
whole story of my adventures in Amnii."

Their curiosity to learn that matter was,
as the young rogue knew, extreme, and he

received his invitation for that very day
accordingly. It was not the first time that
he had partaken of the hospitality of the
tenants of Ladies' Bay, whose house, indeed.
save that of the captain, was the only one of
dimensions sufficient for the entertainment of
guests, and he not only esteemed the honour
very highly, but thoroughly appreciated the
superiority of the food he got there over that
of the midshipmen's mess. The freshest fish
that could be caught, the daintiest bird that
could be snared, was always reserved for the
ladies' table.

It was, therefore, with the sense of having
well dined, and of being made much of, and
of having deserved it, that the vous: gentleman
proceeded that afternoon to narrate his
story to his hostesses, or rather — for he was
somewhat in the position of Canning's knife-grinder,
as to ' story ' — to allow what he
had to tell to be elicited from him by the
gentle pressure of inquiry.

'•' In the very first place," observed Aunt

Sophy, " we are wild to know what the

prince was saying about us before you intro

2

ducecl him, and what was the proposition
at which you shook your head so
positively ? "

"It is the Amrac custom, Miss Norbury,
for every one to choose for himself a personal
friend, a ceremony which you saw take place
on the beach just now ; and he who is chosen
becomes as a brother, to be loved, cherished,
and protected by the other to his life's end ;
and this honour the Prince Tarilam proposed
to himself to confer upon you."

Upon me ? " exclaimed Aunt Sophia.
Why, goodness gracious, this is the first
time the man has ever set eyes upon me ! "

Once is surely quite enough, madam,"
returned the midshipman, demurely, "for
any man to be impressed with your merits,
only as this ceremony involved some physical
pain, and was also liable to misconstruction,
I persuaded him to perform it by
proxy."

Then who is to take care of my niece ? "
inquired Aunt Sophia, with a severity she found
it difficult to assume, for the compliment that
-had been paid her was not displeasing.

Miss Edith, madam, lias been bespoken
as a sister by Majuba."

And who on earth is Majuba ? "

To be sure — that is because you would
not let me begin at the beginning. Mauvais
the only daughter of King Taril, a most
lovely young woman, and as good, I do assure
you, as she is beautiful."

You seem to have a very great insight
into character, young gentleman," said Aunt
Sophia, " May I ask if you stood proxy
for Edith as you did for me, and were
pinched by this excellent young person in
the shoulder ? "

She did just nip me with her finger and
thumb," stammered the young gentleman ;
it was like being vaccinated, only it seemed
shorter."

"I am afraid it was contagion, however,
that you received from it, and not protection,"
observed Aunt Sophia, with uplifted finger.
Mr. Redmayne was certainly wrong, Edie,
when he told us that no midshipman had been
ever seen to blush."

Mr. Eedmayne has made up for it since

he became a mate, by blushing whenever a
lady speaks to him." returned Master Conolly,
contemptuously.

And how old is this Princess Majuba ? "
inquired Edith, smiling in spite of herself.

She is just four years younger than Prince
Tarilam, and very like him' replied the midshipman.
"She was uncommonly interested
in you both, and would have come here today,
but that it is contrary to etiquette fora
woman to accompany the king on a visit
of ceremony."

But tell us all about everything in its
proper order," interrupted Aunt Sophia, impatiently
; "do let us persuade you — if only
temporarily — to drop Majuba."

Master Conolly cast at Aunt Sophia a look
of deep reproach — she had always hitherto
been his best friend, and this desertion, and
especially the rallying of him in the presence
of Edith, wounded him to the quick — and
then commenced as follows : —

When the canoe in which I went away
approached Amrac, there was a great surf, so
that it seemed impossible to land ; but somehow

the thins; was clone, and I found myself
literally high and dry, for I was carried at
once upon men's shoulders, and in the midst
of a great concourse of people, to the king's
house. I offered him the presents sent by
the captain, which he accepted very graciously,
and at once began to eat the sweet biscuits
and the tea. On the other hand, I was regaled
with something like toffee, only very dry and
hard, on a tortoiseshell dish ; the Malay told
me it was the highest compliment that could
be conferred upon me, so I pretended to enjoy
it, while the scoundrel himself was eating
the most excellent cray-fish and dried turtle,
served on plantain leaves.

I did my best to pretend to like it, but it
was hard work, for I w T as very hungry. Everyone
else who was eating what pleased him,
pretended to look on me with envy, nor did
the king himself — though he could hardly be
enjoying the dried tea leaves — observe that I
was not worthy of so much honour ; but
directly the prince entered the room, he seemed
to understand the whole situation at a glance.
He bade me, through the interpreter, put the

precious fragments of hard-bake aside as if for
future use, and then caused me to be served
with more agreeable, if more humble, food.

"It struck one at once, somehow, that here
was an intelligent and independent-minded
fellow, not in the least affected by forms and
ceremonies. Though his manner to his father
was full of respect and duty, it seemed to me
that the king looked up to him as to a superior
mind, At all events, he did what he liked
with his Majesty as with everybody else.
After the meal was over, he took me into an
adjoining room and introduced me to his
sister, the princess."

"How was she dressed?" inquired Aunt
Sophia.

In white raiment, like an angel. Her attire
was, in fact, of the same material as that you
saw worn by the prince, only much fuller and
longer ; it is made of tappa, a substance
beaten out of the bark of a sort of mulberry
tree. Every one wears it, and it is always
spotless ; but washing is extremely cheap in
Breda, The interpreters were not admitted
to the princess's presence ; so, though she and

her brother talked together of course, all my
intercourse with her was by signs. Yet, you
have no idea how well we got on together."

"Indeed we have a very good idea." said
Edith, laughing.

"It is all very well to laugh," continued the
midshipman, pretending not to understand
her, " but though I felt quite safe in the
company of these two charming persons, I had
no such confidence in the people at large, and
I especially mistrusted the Malay."

We have not yet done with your princess,"
observed Aunt Sophia, severely ; "your interview
seems to have been very short. Did
nothing else occur than what you have told
us?"

There was a little dance which I forgot to
mention," said Master Conolly, with simplicity.

Oh, indeed, you danced with this young
woman, did you ? "

With the princess ? Certainly not, madam.
But, by way of entertaining me, as I suppose,
a number of young ladies, her handmaidens,
were summoned, and executed what you might
call a ballet."

But what might you call it, sir' inquired
Aunt Sophia. " Was it a ballet ? "

I rather think it was," confessed the
youth, demurely. " They were all dressed in
flowers, and very pretty."

Very pretty," repeated Aunt Sophia, not
like an echo, but severely.

I mean the flowers were very pretty," explained
the young gentleman. " But I was
very tired and sleepy and hardly looked at
anything."

He means he had no eyes for any one else
but the Princess Majuba," observed Edith,
smiling.

I don't know what he means," said Aunt
Sophia ; " I only know he ought never to
have gone to Amrac without somebody to
take care of him. Do you mean to say, sir,
that you were not asked to sing ? "

Oh, yes, I had forgotten that. The
princess — I mean the prince — kept saying
1 Deltis, Deltis,' and so I did sing her a song."

' Rule Britannia,' I dare say," said Aunt
Sophia, scornfully ; " nothing of a sentimental
character, of course."

Ob, no, I sang her an horticultural song,
The Last Rose of Summer,' I think it was."

He has already acquired all the duplicity
of the savage," observed Aunt Sophia, lifting
up her hands. " Well, go on, sir."

MASTER Coolly's NARRATIVE CONTINUED.

'presently I began to yawn, so that the
prince burst out laughing, and gave me in
charge to one of his male attendants, who
showed me where I was to sleep. This was a
large room in another house, with a couple of
fires in it, for the nights in Amrac are much
colder than in Breda. They gave me a mat
to lie upon, and another to draw over me, and
a block of wood for a pillow. I should have
slept soundly enough on it, but for the
strangeness of the place, and for the being
away from everybody I knew."

Poor fellow," exclaimed the two ladies,
simultaneously ; for under the mask of raillery
and pretended severity, Aunt Sophia felt at
least as tenderly for the boy as Edith.

"Then, in the middle of the night, eight
men came in and made up the fires, preparatory,
as I thought, to roasting me at one
of them, but it was only, as it turned out, an
excess of civility and attention, and soon after
daybreak they brought me yams and cocoa-nuts
and some turtle soup for breakfast, which
I partook of in the presence of about five
hundred men and women, all sitting rotmd
me in perfect silence, and waiting, as the
interpreter presently told me, for a song.

The people at large seemed to care for
nothing bnt singing and flowers, and though
very kind and pleasant, could not understand
that one could not sing for ever, even" on
turtle soup. I was so tired and weary, that
when the king came down and wanted more
singing, I had hardly strength to comply with
his request, but made signs that I wanted
to return to Faybur to recover my voice.
Whereupon he pointed up to the trees, and
blew strongly with his mouth ; and, to indicate
what would happen in such weather if
the canoes should venture out, he joined his
hands together, with the palms upwards, and

turning them the reverse way, signified that
they would overset. Then he said, ' Deltis,'
indicating how 1 should employ the time, fora
month or two, till the fair weather set in,
and I, on my part, resolutely shut my mouth
and shook my head.

"Then the prince came full of intelligence
and consideration, and smiles that seemed to
take disappointment away from everybody,
and took me by the hand to his own house.

There I found the two interpreters, our
own and the Malay, from the latter of whom
the prince had already learnt a few words of
English, and we set to work to make ourselves
intelligible to one another. Never did I see
so quick a scholar. In less than a week he
knew at least three times as much of my
language as I did of his, and lone before I
came away we dispensed with the interpreter
altogether. The king, on the other hand, was
rather a dunce at it, he said he was too old a
dog to learn new tricks."

My dear Mr. Conolly, he surely never said
that" expostulated Edith.

No, no, it was what he would have said, I

mean, if lie could have said anything ; but
the prince and I got on famously."

"And Majuba ? " demanded Aunt Sophia,
inexorably ; " was she not also a pupil ? "

To be sure, I had forgotten that ; when I
said that the prince was the quickest scholar I
had ever seen, I should have said the quickest
male scholar ; the princess beat him into
fits."

What imagery ! " murmured Aunt Sophia.
"How true it is that poetry is the natural
language of love ! And when you had taught
this peerless young person to talk, may I ask
what it was you talked about ? "

I think you are rather hard upon our
young friend, Sophy," remonstrated Edith.
Remember, Mr. Conolly, that you are not
obliged to criminate yourself, if you find any
difficulty in replying to that question."

I find none at all," retorted the young
gentleman, audaciously ; "I talked to the
princess about you. She was immensely interested,
and I told her everything."

About me ? " exclaimed Edith ; her tone
was not only one of surprise, but of annoyance.

"All about both of you," he answered
hurriedly, " how you had embarked on board
ship for India, and were shipwrecked, and
were now in Breda all alone."

Oh, I see," cried Edith, with an air of
ill-concealed relief; "and she was kind and
sympathizing, was she ? "

She was, indeed ; she would have come to
you at once, as I have said, if etiquette had
permitted it."

"You do not seem to have been much
inconvenienced by etiquette yourself," observed
Aunt Sophia, drily.

Was I not ? Wait till the kino; delights
to honour you, madam (as I am sure he will),
and gives you hard-bake," replied the youth
innocently. " As for the princess, she will be
here — weather permitting — tomorrow or the
next day."

Faybur has, doubtless, new attractions for
her, which it had not before," remarked Aunt
Sophia, viciously.

"Yes, madam," was the demure rejoinder,
she cannot bear being separated from her
only brother."

"You have said that you mistrusted the
Malay' observed Edith, after a pause. " Why
was that?"

"Well, I can hardly say ; it is, perhaps,
only a case of \ I do not like thee, Dr. Fell
but still I found out one thing from our own
interpreter during my first day at Breda, that
it was not on that island, as he told us, on
which the Malay had been shipwrecked, but
on Amrac, and that the people there did not
kill him, but suffered him to escape to Breda,
which is suspicious, as showing a fellow-feeling
with the refugee."

The Amrac folks are very wicked, I suppose,
then ? "

A pack of murderers, nothing less."

What a partisan our young friend has
become," observed Aunt Sophia. " I daresay
if the truth were known, there are princes
and princesses in Amrac quite as respectable
to say the least of it — as in Breda."

Master Conolly shook his head, and intones
much more serious than he had hitherto
used, assured his companions that this was
not the case. " From Amrac," he said, "there

VOL. II. L

is everything to fear, a nation del iii ting in
bloodshed, and because no treaty can bind
them, always at war with their neighbours."

And they might come over here some fine
day," observed Aunt Sophia, apprehensively.

Well, any fine day — for they are not such
good sailors as the Breda folks. Yes. There
is no fear, however, but that w T e shall be able
to give a good account of them," said the
midshipman, drawing himself up to his full
five feet.

Here a messenger came from the captain to
summon Mr. Conolly, to relieve him from his
duties for an hour or two in the entertainment
of the prince ; whereupon he vanished at once.

Poor Captain Head finds conversation
with his Koyal Highness a little difficult, no
doubt," observed Aunt Sophia.

I should hardly think that, after Mr.
Conolly's account of his proficiency in English
; he must have understood us, I fancy, a
great deal better than w T e thought he did."

Gracious goodness ! Do you really think
so, Edith ? "What a horrible notion ! What
was that w T e said about his clothes ? "

You mean what was that you said ? " returned
Edith, laughing.

Dear, dear ! it makes one quite hot to
think of it ! What a mischievous monkey
that boy is."

The afternoon, though fine as usual, was
somewhat oppressive, and when it was so it
was the custom of the ladies to bathe in a
sheltered cove at the extremity of the little
bay. It was a reflection they had often made,
that though their whole wardrobe had been
safely landed, the articles which they had
heretofore been accustomed to set most store
by, such as their dinner and ball dresses, were
now utterly useless, while their more homely
garments were become of great value ; of
these none were more useful than their bathing
gear, which enabled them to take a bath of
the most enjoyable kind whenever they felt
inclined for it. Edith was a tolerable proficient
in notation, and, under the new conditions
of the sea and air and sand, enjoyed it
as she had never done before, while her aunt
watched her with envy from the shallows.
Beside the five senses, there are various

L 2

channels for the influx of human happiness,
not so common to all, but which, nevertheless,
many foolishly despise or ignore, who have it
in their power to use them. One of these is
the art of swimming, the neglect of which in
an age of so-called ' culture ' and education,
and one which prides itself on squeezing all
that is pleasant out of life to the last drop,
both for man and woman, is inexplicably
neglected by the latter. At the date of our
story, this was of course still more the case.
It had been her fathers custom, however —
itself a rare one at the time — to spend at
least a month every year by the sea-side, and
there Edith had acquired this accomplishment.
Enjoyable as she had found it at Ramsgate
and Dover, it was ten times more so at Breda ;
where the buoyancy of the sea, the purity of
the air, the brilliancy of the sky, and the exquisite
beauty of the surrounding scenery,
joined to that forgetfulness of trouble produced
by the exercise itself, made her in truth
more happy when in the water than she ever
felt out of it.

Aunt Sophia splashed about well within her

depth, with a much inferior sense of pleasure,
and with a certain groundless apprehension on
her niece's account, such as a hen might feel
who has hatched a duckling. She was constantly
entreating her niece not to swim sofar
out, as though increased depth meant
increased danger, and I am afraid that Edith
took some malicious pleasure — as experts will
do under such circumstances — in arousing her
fears. On the present occasion, she was disporting
herself as usual, some distance from
the shore, when a cry from Aunt Sophia
reached her. She laughingly replied that she
was all right, and, to prove it, took another
stroke or two out to sea. Then the cry was
repeated, and this time it struck her that
there was something unusual in it. It was
not the warning note of apprehension, but the
shrill treble of agonized alarm. She looked
back and beheld her companion standing on
the shore, and pointing with a vehemence
that also somehow signified despair, to some
object between herself and the swimmer.

Edith's eyes followed the direction of her
gaze, saw something twinkle in the water, and

then disappear. She knew it at once for what
it was, for on board ship she had seen it many
times, and never — though herself in perfect
safety — without a shudder of fear ; it w T as the
brown fin of a shark.

Fear seized her soul, and for a moment
so paralyzed her limbs that she was in imminent
danger of sinking : if she could have
sunk, and been drowned before the creature
came up with her, she felt that it would
have been well indeed. It was not so long
ago that she had felt that death in any form
would have been welcome to her ; but that
hopeless mood had of late been passing away,
and at no time, indeed, could she have confronted
such a form of death as this without
horror and aversion. The most miserable
among us who yearns to be " anywhere, anywhere
out of the world," would shrink from
such a gate of exit. Not even unconsciousness,
which generally mitigates a shock of
horror so intense and sudden, stepped in to
her relief. The vitality, that for an instant
had deserted her frame, returned to it, and
with it an only too accurate understanding of

her helpless position. The shark was between
her and the shore. No boat could possibly
reach her as soon as it, and indeed no man, if
man could be found to run for her sake upon
certain death. The sentry on the rampart had,
indeed, as usual been withdrawn upon the ladies
expressing their intention of bathing, and no
one apparently was in earshot of her aunt's
passionate cries for help.

All this she took in at a glance, as it
were mechanically, but her whole power of
thought was concentrated on her unseen
enemy. We are told that when sudden
death lays hold upon us — as when, for example,
those lose consciousness who are about
to drown — that a vision of our past sweeps
through the mind, and we seem to live our
life again at the very moment of quitting
it ; but this was not the case with Edith
Norbury. Her eyes as she swam desperately
shoreward, were fixed with agonized intentness
on the sea, and her soul was monopolized
by the thought of the hateful creature that
was lying in wait therein to rend her. When
she should see that brown fin rise again, it

would be the sign, she knew, that death in its
most appalling form was close upon her.

At present it was probable that the shark
was not aware of her proximity ; he had,
indeed, been swimming close in shore, and
had snapped at that not unconscious trifle
Aunt Sophia, just as she ran out of his reach ;
but it was to the last degree unlikely that
having found bathers about, he would not be
looking for more. Still there was hope — without
which she could not have swum a stroke
that he might have gone elsewhere.

Edith positively was not fifty yards from
the sandy beach, and was straining every
nerve to reach it, when something close beside
her rose out of the water, and sideways with
a gleaming flash, made at her ; then she
uttered one despairing shriek and knew no
more.

TO THE RESCUE.

Prince Tarilam had been right royally
received by Captain Head ; entertained with
the choicest pickled meats and other European
delicacies, in eluding champagne — which he
had declined to swallow in an effervescing
state upon the ground that living things were
neither drunk nor eaten in Breda — and welcomed
as hospitably as guest could be ; but
conversation had flagged between his host and
him. He could not use his newly-acquired
tongue with others with the same freedom as
with Conolly, who understood his peculiar
difficulties with it, and could help him out
of them. He was diffident, too, as some of
us, though not naturally shy, are apt to be
when talking to a Frenchman who is not our
tutor ; and everything was so new and strange

that the attention which it was so necessary
to pay to his companion's speech was constantly
being diverted elsewhere. So when
he had delivered certain messages from the
king, full of amity and concord, and these
had been reciprocated, both parties felt their
conversational powers on the wane.

I can't be talking to this blessed prince
all day about the greatness and goodness of
his father," was the captain's impatient reflection,
"so I'll get young Conolly to take him
off my hands."

At the mention of the midshipman, the
prince brightened up at once, as the face of
the after-dinner guest is gladdened by the
offer of an unexpected cigar, and the proposal
that his young friend should take him round
the camp was accepted with pleasure. Except
that the summons withdrew him from the
society of the ladies, the midshipman was
equally pleased to be his cicerone.

There are few things more pleasant than to
introduce a person, for whom one has a liking,
to objects of interest, which, though familiar
to ourselves, are unknown to them ; it is

something like the sensation of telling an
excellent but well-known joke to a new audience.
Everything in the prince's eyes was
novel and amazing, down to the very grindstone
on which the men's swords were sharpened.
The glitter of their bayonets — for he
had never seen any polished body, or the
action of ]might upon it — delighted him. A
small hatchet which Conolly gave him, and
which he compared with his own axe of shell
with quite a piteous sense of its inferiority,
filled him with gratitude. His observation
was ceaseless, and so keen, and even deep,
that a superficial explanation did not serve
his turn, and it was not always easy to satisfy
his curiosity. Like Columbus, he had discovered
a new world, but, unlike him, one
much more marvellous and in a far luther
stage of civilization than the one with which
he was familiar.

Their walk extended beyond the camp, to
the outworks of Ladies' Bay. " Why is
there no sentinel here, as elsewhere," inquired
the prince, whose quick eye noticed what was
absent as well as what was present. Conolly

explained to him, that in order to afford
greater privacy, the sentry was withdrawn
when the ladies were bathing

o

Bathing ! " he cried in his own dialect.
Are they bathing there ? " From his tone,
which was one of alarm, Conolly gathered
there was something seriously amiss, but
knew not what. " Tetmil, tetmil," exclaimed
Tarilam excitedly. Conolly knew that this
was the term in Breda for a shark, and his
heart sank within him. Before he could reply,
an agonized shriek broke from the shore,
where, a quarter of a mile away, he suddenly
caught sight of a figure in blue serge, wildly
gesticulating. The next instant he was alone.

Literally like an arrow from a bow, Tarilam
had left his side, and was flying along the
sands with a speed that almost outstripped
the power of vision. Master Lewis Conolly
was a good runner, and to leap from the
rampart and follow his late companion was
the work of a moment, but he might as well
have matched himself against the wind. Aunt
Sophia, almost out of her mind with terror,
was conscious only of something white flashing

by her like a gigantic gull, and plunging
into the sea. In truth, there was need of
speed beyond what lies in the thews and
sinews of ordinary men. Edith's shriek, and,
perhaps, some mechanical beating of her arm
through excessive terror, had momentarily
frightened the shark — the most cowardly of
all predatory creatures — and caused it to miss
its aim ; when it turned to come at her again,
with gleaming teeth and ravening; maw. it
found a less helpless foe.

Almost as much at home in water as on
land, and not unused to such combats, Tarilam
awaited its rush, and at the moment of impact
swerved aside, and buried his hatchet in
the creature's head with a force that needed
no second blow. Then, bearing up Edith's
inanimate form with his left arm, and oaring-himself
with the other to the shore, he laid
her at Aunt Sophia's feet, with the dumb
delight of a retriever.

The whole affair had happened within so
short a space that Conolly only just reached
the spot in time to aid in restoring the girl
to consciousness, a task to which Miss Norbury

alone would have been quite unequal. Her
nerves had by no means recovered the frightful
shock to which they had been subjected,
and, indeed, the spectacle of her niece's preserver,
whose white garment was covered with
blood from his dead foe, was not of a nature
to restore them. Either fearing the effects
of his appearance upon her, or by a delicate
intuition recognizing that his further services
could just then be dispensed with, the prince
quietly re-entered the water, and busied himself
in removing the stains of combat from his
apparel.

Edith came to herself with a shudder, and
looked about her like one who is doubtful of
her own identity ; the truth was she could
not understand, with the recollection of the
horrible fate that had seemed so certain and
so imminent, how it had come to pass that
she was still in life and unharmed.

That dear prince has saved you," sobbed
Aunt Sophia, replying to her wondering look.
He has the swiftness of a deer and the
courage of a lion ; no other human being
could have done it."

That is quite true," observed the young
midshipman sorrowfully. " I was of no use
at all."

Edith held out her hand and smiled feebly.
*' I am sure you did what you could," she
murmured.

Oh, yes, I ran like a snail," he answered
sorrowfully ; " now, perhaps, you will believe
what I told you ladies of Prince Tarilam.
There are very few princes at home, I fancy,
who would run like that to meet a shark in
his native element."

It might have been rejoined with some
reason that such feats were out of the line of
European princes, but neither lady was in the
humour to throw cold w r ater on the boy's
enthusiasm, nor to detract, however indirectly,
from the merits of his hero.

Tell me how it all happened," cried Edith,
her eyes wandering gratefully to her unconscious
preserver.

Master Conolly obeyed, describing with no
little dramatic force, because with perfect
naturalness, what had taken place ; then perceiving
that Edith was greatly moved, and

apparently distressed by the narrative, he
added with an attempt at jocularity, " I do
hope that in future you ladies will be more
careful where you bathe."

Bathe ! " cried Aunt Sophia, vehemently,
I doubt whether I shall ever dare again even
to wash. The creature came up to within a
foot of me, my dear Edie, before it went off to
you." Edith shuddered again, then murmured
with emotion,

How can I ever tell him what I owe him ? "
It is unnecessary," observed the midshipman
confidently. " One look of thanks, if I
know him, will tell him all you feel. He
thinks much less of what he has done, believe
me, than we think of it. What is distressing
him just now, on the other hand, is a matter
that you will only smile at. Though the
people of Breda are almost amphibious, they
dislike above all things getting wet. A shower
of rain, which fortunately seldom occurs, will
keep the whole nation within-doors, and the
prince, I will wager, was much less concerned
about the shark than about getting his clothes
wet in killing him."

Afl Conolly completed his explanation, Tari-lam,
his attire dried in the soft air and sunshine,
and freed from the stains of combat,
came up with a quiet smile of congratulation.

I hope miss is not much worse," he said ;
a sentence which it is probable was not altogether
extempore ; indeed, he had been repeating
it to himself for some time by the sea-shore,
like Demosthenes, before he ventured upon its
deliverance in public.

I should have been dead but for your
timely aid," said Edith, holding out her hand,
which Tarilam took with great respect, and
bowed over like a bronze Chesterfield. " I
shall never forget that I owe you my life,
prince."

"I did nothing," said Tarilam, with a disclaiming
wave of the hand. " Thanks to my
friend here " — he touched the boy lightly on
the shoulder — "who gave me this hatchet, it
was very small work ; if Deltis " (a word he pronounced
with extraordinary sweetness) " could
have run as fast, he would have done as well."

He spoke slowly and with difficulty, but in
the gentlest tone ; it was evident, by the

VOL. II. M

expression of his face, that he wished the young
fellow to share whatever honour was to be
derived from the late proceedings.

"That is a very big 'if'" observed the
midshipman. "I don't know what I should
have done, even had I come up in time and
been in your place. I am afraid the shark
would have eaten both me and the young lady."

Edith shuddered. The prince perceived it,
and at once assumed a tone of indifference.
In Breda we think nothing of details," he
said, "there are one, two, three — a thousand
of them everywhere."

That only makes it worse," observed Aunt
Sophia.

What he means," explained Conolly slyly,
is that your first shark always makes an
impression, sometimes a very serious one."

I cannot laugh with you, Mr. Conolly,"
said Edith ; " I have been too near and too
lately at death's door."

And such a door ! " remarked Aunt Sophia
naively.

The prince looked interrogatively from one
to the other.

It is only the alien who notes how much
even the most ordinary conversation teems
with metaphor.

The helplessness of this magnificent creature
in the toils of small talk moved the pity of
both the ladies, and helped him to find a way
to their hearts almost as much as his heroism.
What also struck them very favourably was
that the curiosity which consumed his fellow-countrymen
seemed to be absent in his case,
at all events, as regarded themselves. He
took everything belonging to them as a matter
of course, even their bathing dresses. In this
last matter it is probable that they did him
more than justice, since, to Prince Tarilam's
eyes, whatever they wore must have appeared
an excess of apparel ; but the fact was, that
while observant enough of externals, he
attached little of that importance to them
which, while among ourselves it is the indication
of a weak nature, is everywhere the
characteristic of an uncivilized race.

"Don't you think, Edith," whispered Aunt

Sophia, after a pause that would have been

embarrassing to almost any stranger, but

M 2

which the visitor endured with all the sangfroid,
and twice the grace of a royal equerry,
don't you think we ought to ask him to
tea ! "

The notion of meeting the occasion in such
a very conventional way drew a smile to the
girl's face, which was immediately reflected in
that of Tarilam.

•• I shall have much pleasure to come," he
said, with gentle earnestness.

"Now, how could he possibly have heard
me ? " exclaimed Aunt Sophia, wonderingly.
Did you hear me, Mr. Conolly ? "

"No!" replied the midshipman laughing,
"but Prince Tarilam can hear the grass grow
and the buds blossom ; if you wish to say anything
you don't want him to hear, I warn you
that you had better write it down. Then you
will be safe."

The prince smiled sadly, threw out his
hands with childish pathos, and shook his
head. If he had said, "There, indeed, you
have the advantage of poor me," he could not
have expressed himself more clearly.

We must really teach him to write,

my dear," observed Aunt Sophia, sottovoce.


"If you will please to be so good," said
Tarilam humbly.

Drat the man," murmured Aunt Sophia,
this time taking good care to be inaudible,
one cannot open one's lips within a mile of
him, without his catching one up."

The acuteness of the prince's senses was
indeed amazing, and it had been brought to
perfection by practice ; that of his intelligence
was also not less abnormal, but hitherto it had
necessarily been dormant ; and though " Knowledge
to his eyes her ample page, rich with the
spoils of time, had ne'er unrolled," he longed
to read it. This species of ambition is very
rare among those we call savages, and, indeed,
with uneducated people of all sorts, who
generally seek to excuse their ignorance by a
pretence of indifference. Tarilam had none of
this pinchbeck stoicism ; it was not often that
in the contemplation of a novelty, however
amazing, he lost his dignity, but there were
occasions when he did so. This happened, for
example, on his first introduction to the ladies'

little parlour, where the mirror which had
once ornamented the cuddy of the Ganges was
let into the wall.

It was curious, as the spectators of the circumstances
afterwards agreed, that the mere
sight of a perpendicular reflector — for with a
horizontal one he must, of course, have been
familiar — should have so moved him ; perhaps
it struck him as hanging water, but his delight

© © ' o

at it was like that of a child.

Aunt Sophia and Conolly were greatly
amused, but Edith was not so ; it seemed
somehow in one of whom she had begun to
form a high ideal like a degradation ; she was
glad of the excuse of their having to change
their attire, to withdraw from a scene that was
nothing less than distressing to her. When

o o

she returned the prince had exhausted his
admiration of the mirror, and was entranced
by another object ; he was standing with a
little unframed water-colour drawing in his
hand, and discoursing of it to the midshipman ;
she caught the words, " Tetmil, Tetmil," repeated
with great eagerness, as she entered
the room.

The prince is charmed with your picture
of the bathing cove, Miss Edith," explained
Conolly.

"It is a compliment to me that he should
have recognized it," she replied modestly.
His approval would somehow have been more
welcome to her — though she owned to herself
that this feeling was unreasonable — had it
been less extravagant ; but as Tarilam had
never seen a picture, which seemed to him a
species of magic, it was no wonder that the
counterfeit presentment of a place he knew,
on canvas, aroused his amazement.

Upon being informed that neither Aunt
Sophia nor the midshipman could paint, he
evinced unmistakable satisfaction. To have
found that the whole race to which this enchantress
belonged was dowered with the
same gift would have given him, perhaps, an
impression of his own inferiority too hopeless
and discouraging, just as the reflection that
there are forty poets in Paisley" must strike
despondency to the hearts of its neighbour
towns. The difficulty which the guest experienced
in communicating his ideas did not, on

the other hand, rouse in Edith any sense of
shortcoming, while the obvious distress which
his failure to do so sometimes caused him
awoke her sympathy.

The reason why so many people find pleasure
in foreign travel, though only slightly
acquainted with foreign tongues, is that
neither at home nor abroad have they any
particular thoughts to communicate ; they are
well content to be understood by the waiters ;
whereas the struggle with Tarilam at this
early period was to render adequately and
intelligibly, not only the inferences and conclusions
he drew from the novel objects
around him, but his own views and opinions.

MR. BATES Finds HIS MASTER.

It was amazing how soon, with the more
cultured of his new friends at Fay bur, and
especially with the ladies, Prince Tarilam
made himself at home. His very unlikeness,
because it consisted mainly in an excessive
simplicity, facilitated assimilation, and made
it as easy to get on with him as with a truthful
child. In matters that were within their
common cognizance, on the other hand, he
exhibited an extraordinary natural sagacity,
while every accession of knowledge added to
his attractions as a companion.

With the sailors, however, this was not
altogether the case. They had the usual prejudice
of their class which induces them to
apply the term ' nigger ' — however obviously
inapplicable — to all persons not born of

European parents, and causes them to be more
sceptical even than the hereditary aristocrat of
the nobility of nature. Some of them were
jealous of the favour which the new-comer
enjoyed with their superiors, and some resented
the stranger's marvellous physical gifts,
which threw those of their best runners and
swimmers and climbers completely into the
shade. As time went on, however, and
Tarilam's generous nature began to be recognized,
these antagonistic sentiments remained
only among those comparatively few with
whom superiority of any kind, but especially
that of moral worth, is always offensive.
Even the two attendants that 'remained with
him were treated for his sake with a civility
which the captain's express commands would
have otherwise failed to secure to them. It
would have been hard, indeed, had it not been
so, for they gave no trouble, and when not
employed in ministering to the needs of their
young master made themselves generally useful
in a hundred ways.

A small canoe had been left with them, and
they taught the men such arts of propelling it

without stretcher or rowlock as seemed impossible
till they themselves had learnt the accomplishment
; they showed them how to
catch fish by novel methods, and how, when
caught, to smoke them, so as to make provision
for the future ; how to make rope as
strong as cables out of the parasitic creepers,
that hung like cobwebs from the trees ; how
to make mats and baskets ; and to express
from certain fruits a sherbet which they
would have pronounced excellent had it but
had a little rum in it. Nay, at the captain's
request, these good-natured fellows even gave
rudimentary lessons in the planting of yams,
though they thought it, in common with all
other useful labour, very literally infra dig. and
only suitable for women.

All this time, while the harbour at Faybur
remained like a mill-pond above the mill, and
the little island basked in sunshine and soft
airs, the open sea was so high and rough that
all communication was cut off with Breda.
The prince and his two attendants were as
completely separated from their own belongings
as though they had been exiles, and, sofar

as lie was concerned, he became every day
more naturalized, and familiar with his new-surroundings.
In old times he had had
thoughts, which the traditions and superstitions
of his people had forbidden him to encourage,
of annexing Faybur to the paternal
dominions : and though it was now no longer
in his power to do so, he found an attraction
in it, such as his native isle did not possess.
He passed most of his time at what might be
called the seminary in ' Ladies' Bay,' where he
showed an extraordinary facility in acquiring,
like a child at a dame's school, not only the
rudiments of the English tongue, but ' the
three K's.' Hitherto his method of computation
had been of the simplest ; as many as
one's eyes ; as many as a crow's toes ; as
many as one's fingers. Both hands and one
over made eleven, and was the limit of calculation.
The feathers of a bird, the waves of
the sea, and the number of stars in the firmament
had all been for him just eleven.

He could now tot up to millions, and if the
achievement gave him no great advantage,
he derived an immense satisfaction from the

curriculum that carried him thither. Never
had pupil more kindly teachers than had hein
the two ladies ; never had tutors a more
eager or grateful pupil. His difficulties,
though they were often absurd, were never
laughed at, with one exception. He had a
difficulty, as many of us have at home, though
of a different kind, with the letter h, which
even his musical voice could never pronounce
soft enough ; and it was a never-ending joke
with his gentle preceptors that he always
addressed one of them as Aunt Soapy.

When he accompanied them in their rambles,
like a Sand ford and Merton rolled into one,
attended by two female Mr. Barrows, his
education was still continued, so that he learnt
as much out of school as in it ; and, what was
rather significant, had it been worth any one's
while to observe it, when he was not walking
with the ladies he preferred to walk by himself.
It would be interesting to know, could
one have 20 1 to " the back of mind," what the
thoughts of this singular being were occupied
with on these occasions. It is certain that
(in one sense, at least) he did not think much

of his ancestors. Though the descendant of a
long line of kings, their power seemed but
paltry, their aims ignoble, and their exploits
of little worth. Culture, indeed, had had an
effect on him very different from the result
which it too often produces among ourselves ;
he was not puffed up by his newly-acquired
superiority over his own race, but rather depressed
by the sense of what was lacking in
them and by his own inferiority to those about
him ; he had escaped being a prig (if one can
imagine a Breda prig), because he was not
cultured beyond his wits. What he had acquired,
vast as it was in comparison with his
previous knowledge, had but convinced him
how much he had yet to learn. Yet there is
reason to believe that his reflections were not
all despondent. It is no evidence of vanity
to be conscious of our own dormant powers.
aesop felt it in slavery, and Keats at the
horse jobber's ; not that Tarilam was either
philosopher or poet, but only that he felt
himself fit for something beyond bestowing
toffee on Royal favourites, or even distributing
Orders of the Bone to meritorious manslayers.

If his vague and simple aspirations
could have been put into words, they might
have found appropriate expression in the
poetic phrase, " Better fifty years of Europe
than a cycle of Cathay ; " albeit that yet
unwritten line was not more unknown to him
than Europe was. He was conscious only
that beyond the sea somewhere there was
another world, peopled with beings of a higher
nature than his own, and whose life was more
worth living. It may be he was wrong ;
"the wild joys of life," the dive through
the "league-long rollers," and the coming up
through the blue wave beyond it, the rush,
dart in hand, through the air, on the ranks of
the foe, the fray, and the feast, may be worth
all our lacquer and gilding, but, if so, Tarilam
erred in good company and from no ignoble
instinct.

Thus thoughtfully was he strolling one
morning along the cliff top that looked
towards Breda, and at a distance from the
camp, which, considering the nature of the
ground, would have taken an ordinary walker
some time to cover, when he suddenly perceived

Mr. Bates coming towards him, The
figure of the third mate was, of course,
familiar to him, but there was something in
the movements of the man that puzzled him.
He was gesticulating violently ; holding up
his hand as if to forbid his further advance,
and shouting with discordant emphasis.

"Stop," he cried, "you something nigger."
Then came an oath such as Tarilam had
sometimes heard from the sailors, but the
meaning of which he could never understand,
for swearing is a product of civilization, and
was unknown in Breda. " Keep where you
are, I say ; we don't want any prying savages
hereabouts."

Tarilam could perceive the man was angry,
but had no conception of the cause, nor did
it give him any disquietude. What monopolized
his attention was the strangeness of
his gait — he lurched and swayed as he came
on, and occasionally stumbled. If Tarilam
had ever seen a horse with the staggers — but
he had never even seen a horse, or evolved
the idea of one out of the depths of his own
consciousness — it would have reminded him

of Mr. Bates, but if he had ever seen a man
attempting to walk when very drunk, a still
more perfect parallel would have occurred to
him.

"Hi, hi! you; stop, I say." By this time
the two had met : and Mr. Bates, with a
flushed face and protruding eyes, had placed
himself straight — or as straight as he could —
before him, so as effectually to bar his progress.
Xow just you go home again."

Go home," repeated the prince, with mild
surprise. " Why should I go home ? "

Well, there are a. thousand reasons, but one
will do. Because we don't want any 
niggers here. Now just be
off." Of the exact sense of the man's words,
stammered and hiccoughed as they were, there
might have been easily some doubt, but about
the tone in which they were uttered there could
be none at all. If Tarilam had been a dog
which had been bidden to go home by a
brutal and ill-tempered master, he could not
have been addressed more insultingly. Into
the bronzed cheek of the prince there suddenly
came a vivid colour, and into his soft eyes a

VOL. II. N

flash of flame, which had Mr. Bates been in
his usual frame of mind — which was inclined
to prudence — would have warned him of
clanger ]ike a signal fire. But the third mate
was in an abnormally heroic state, full of ire,
and also of the courage called Dutch.

Look here," he stuttered, " you nigger,
you'll have to go, and if you make me speak
again you'll not do it with a whole skin. It
is bad enough that you and those other two
dusky devils should be kept in camp, holding
your heads up and thinking yourselves the
equals of Christian men, not to mention of
officers and gentlemen like myself, but that
you should come peeping and prying out of
bounds here is intolerable. Go home, I say."

"No." The monosyllable was uttered
gently, but with a determination which was
unmistakable ; and the speaker looked straight
into the other's eyes as he said it. The quietness
of expression in his face added, no doubt,
to the temptation of its proximity, and Mr.
Bates struck him on the mouth with the back
of his hand. The next moment he was swaying
in air, with a consciousness of space about

Lira, and of a fall of about four hundred feet
sheer upon a rocky beach.

Mr. Bates's hair, in the absence of any
barber, had grown long, and the other had
seized him by it, as one takes a rabbit by
the ears, and swung him off the cliff top.
Face to face with the terrors of instant death,
the drunken wretch was sobered in a moment;
his tongue clave to the roof of his mouth, and
his limbs grew limp like those of a dead man
on the gallows-tree, but all his senses w T ere
keen enough.

He heard a sudden voice a long way off
cry, " Taiilam ! Tarilam ! " in a tone of earnest
entreaty, and he knew that the midshipman
Conolly was pleading for his life. Never did
eavesdropper listen to a conversation not
intended for his private ear with a greater
attention than this gentleman sus per col paid
to the subsequent dialogue.

Let him go, let him go," halloed the
midshipman. Mr. Bates, when he heard
that phrase, reflected with a pang upon the
indefiniteness of the English tongue ; the
prince might very well have taken the words

N 2

as an encouragement to drop him, instead of
pulling him up. " Don't kill him ! spare
him ! " shouted the midshipman, whose voice
as it grew nearer unhappily became less
distinct through want of breath.

He struck me," answered the prince irresolutely,
and without turning his head. He
seemed to be selecting; the most jagged rock
for the reception of the body of Mr. Bates,
which was oscillating under his hand like
a pendulum. " No man has ever struck
Tarilam and lived to say so."

For my sake, for my sake," urged the midshipman,
" I beseech you not to let him fall."

You are my chosen friend ; I can refuse
you nothing," murmured the prince, regretfully
; and with no more effort than it costs
a sailor to heave the lead, he landed the third
mate upon terra firma, where he lay, though
he was not so inanimate as he looked, like a
sack just dropped from a crane.

How did it happen ? What did he
quarrel with you about ? " inquired Conolly,
hurrying up, and gazing with amazement on
the prostrate mate.

"I don't know," answered Tarilam, gloomily.
He wandered in his walk, and stumbled in
his talk, and was angry, and then he gave mea
blow. I shall feel it here," and he touched
his mouth, " as long as I live."

It has not marked you," replied Conolly,
naively — in the midshipman's mess blows were
not uncommon in those days, nor the demands
of honour very exacting — " but you may
depend upon it, he will never boast of it —
will you, sir?" This appeal he made to
Mr. Bates himself in answer to a glance of
adhesion from that gentleman to the promise
thus made on his behalf.

I will never, never boast of it," he murmured
earnestly. " The prince may take his
davy of that ? "

Indeed, it was pretty clear that, as regards
recent proceedings, Mr. Bates had not very
much to boast of; and might well be trusted
to be silent for his own sake.

Come, let us go back to camp," said
Conolly persuasively.

With a quiet gesture of assent, Tarilam
turned away, and without so much as a

glance at his still prostrate foe, began to
retrace his steps. Mr. Bates's eyes, like those
of a snake in the grass, followed him with an
expression of concentrated malignity, which
also included his young preserver.

To-day for you, my friends," he muttered,
between his teeth, " tomorrow for me."

It would have been better for all parties,
himself included, had Mr. Bates been permitted
to obey the laws of gravity.

It may be taken, as a rule, that the time
which is given to an unmitigated scoundrel
to repent himself in is passed in some occupation
of quite another kind, and Mr. Bates
was no exception to it. A bad man's life
is like a bad novel ; the third volume is
generally the worst part of it ; and there is
little cause for regret if its conclusion is what
the reviewers describe as ' hurried.'

LET US KILL THE NIGGER.

Life in Faybur, though for the most part
uneventful enough, did not run quite so
smoothly with Captain Head and his officers
as, thanks to their solicitude, it was made todo
for the two ladies. That that private
still, the existence of which Edith had so
unconsciously betrayed to Mr. Marston, was
from time to time at work somewhere, though
its whereabouts — for the scene of its operations
was easily shifted — had hitherto remained
undiscovered, was certain ; half a
dozen cases of drunkenness had come under
the notice of the authorities, and given them
great disquietude. Their anxiety would have
been even greater had it not seemed pretty
clear that the offence was confined to a few
of the sailors only ; not, as was rightly

concluded, that every man Jack of them after
so prolonged an abstinence would not have
got drunk if he could, but that those who
had so ingeniously invented the means of
indulging themselves in that luxury took care
to keep the secret to themselves. The wisdom
of this reticence was unquestionable, for, as
matters stood, it was difficult to punish even
those who were manifestly guilty of the
offence in question.

It is all very well," Messrs. Murdoch,
Kudge, and Mellor would stutter, when accused
of beinG: intoxicated — and it was these
three men who most frequently fell under that
suspicion — " but how is it possible for a fellow
to get drunk when every drop of liquor is
under lock and key in the doctor's tent ? "
They continued to attribute their condition to
the effect of the climate upon their respective
systems, and except that there was a kettle
missing, the uses of which it was not judicious
for 'the court' to point out to the public at
large, there was really no means of refuting
this line of defence. The gravity of the
danger, however, was fully recognized ; and

while each instance of delinquent) r was hushed
up as much as possible, not a stone was
left unturned to discover the root of the
mischief.

Of all this the two ladies were blissfully
ignorant, and though Edith, as we know, had
her own views of the doubtful tenure on which
authority existed in Faybur, the matter had
of late months troubled her but little. One
could not say that her thoughts were fixed
elsewhere, but they had wandered with more
or less persistency in another direction. The
arrival of Prince Tarilam had very agreeably
broken the monotony of life in Ladies' Bay.
It had from the first been a pleasure to teach
him, so far as she was competent to do so,
those " Fairy Tales of Science " and " Long
Results of Time," the simplest details of which
had for him the attributes of a miracle and
the attractions of magic. To note his mind
expanding under the light of knowledge, like
a flower in the sun, was a spectacle most
interesting to her, while before long the
advantage became not wholly on one side, but
reciprocal, and she found herself listening

almost as often to a tutor as talking to a
pupiL However simple were the views of
Tarilam they were original, and while as
natural as those of a child appealing to his
elders, were also as audacious. Untrammelled
by custom and the restrictions imposed by
education, he discussed with as much firmness
as freedom the ways of fate and the mysteries
of being. The simple but illogical faith of
his own people he had never accepted, but
had hitherto been content with a contemptuous
tolerance of it. The theology which he
learned from Edith recommended itself to him
in many ways, but by no means exhausted his
spiritual curiosity. Aunt Sophia was often
not less appalled by the boldness of his speculations
than amazed by their intelligence.

On the other hand, there were reasons connected
with Edith's antecedents — the blight
that had fallen upon her happiness in the loss
of her lover, and made a broken column of
her young life — that prevented these ' obstinate
questionings' from shocking her, and
even to some extent recommended the interrogator.
Not even in the old days, with

Layton himself, had she discussed these
matters with so much freedom and interest.
After the employments of the day were
over, some of which, too, he usually shared
with the ladies, it was become a custom with
the prince to join them at their evening meal ;
an officer or two, or the chaplain, would sometimes
be of the party, and still more often
Master Conolly, who would contribute to the
amusements of the evening by his gift of song.
But at other times Tarilam would visit the
ladies quite alone, and on such occasions
Edith found his company most agreeable,
because he was then more like himself, and
would express his natural sentiments without
that dread of ridicule which had already found
its place in a breast that had hitherto been
absolutely fearless. One evening, when the
three were occupied in the usual manner — the
two ladies employed in needlework, and
Tarilam fashioning some graceful ornament
out of tortoiseshell, an art in which he was a
proficient — their conversation was suddenly
interrupted by a tumult without ; there was
a roar of voices and a rush of feet, and hardly

had they risen from their chairs before the
little cottage was surrounded by a mob of
sailors and the parlour windows, which, as
usual, were wide open, filled by excited and
furious faces.

What is the matter ? " inquired Edith
with quiet distinctness. Her face was pale,
but otherwise she exhibited no sign of fear.
Aunt Sophia, on the other hand, was speechless
with terror. It was the impression of
both women that a mutiny had broken out.

Matter enough, miss," returned a voice
she knew ; it was that of William Dean, the
gunner, a man who had always borne a good
character, and behaved himself to her with
great respect. " Murder's the matter, and
yonder stands the man who did it."

He pointed to the prince, and as he did so
a tumultuous and inarticulate cry of fury
arose from those about him.

"Kill him! kill the nigger !"

Make way then," interposed a brutal
voice. " Don't talk, but do. Let me get a
shot at him." And flushed with rage and
liquor, the man Mellor, pistol in hand, here

forced himself to the front, and levelled his
weapon at Tarilam's head.

Before he could pull the trigger Edith had
stepped swiftly between them.

"You vile coward' she cried. " Is there
no man here who will see fair play and justice
done ? "

Justice ! Yes ; we'll see justice done,"
answered a shrill voice. " Let us take him to
the same spot, lads, where he killed the mate,
and serve him likewise."

What, without trial ? " cried Edith vehemently.
" Are you savages, then, who have
forgotten that you were once Englishmen ?
William Dean, Luke Norman, Robert Bay, as
you are honest men, I charge you to stand
by me ! "

We mean no harm to you, miss," returned
the gunner, "but as for this here prince, ashe
calls himself, we must have life for life."

And so you shall, if he has taken life.
I'll stake my own that he is innocent. Look
at him, men, and tell me if he wears a
murderer's face."

Like a curtain that conceals some noble

picture, she drew herself aside and showed
him to them.

Motionless as a statue he stood confronting
them, with a sort of mild amazement in his
face. The confusion of tongues had prevented
his half-cultured ear from catching what was
said, but he could perceive that the intruders
were violently enraged and against himself.
It was his first experience (save one) of brutal
passion in his new acquaintances, and it
seemed to afford him all the interest of
novelty. His eyes glanced from one to the
other in dumb surprise, and then turned interrogatively
to Edith.

Tarilam does not understand," he murmured,
with a quiet smile.

They say you have committed a murder."

No." Never was charge so serious met
by so phlegmatic a denial. There was no
more waste of tone than of words about it.
If he had been accused of leaving the door
open, he could not have defended himself with
greater indifference, or at the same time more
convincingly. The shake of the head that
accompanied the monosyllable intensified alike

its force and its sang froid. " If anything of
the kind has happened," it seemed to say, " I
do assure you it was not I that did it."

Had his audience, indeed, been one capable
of appreciating the value of evidence, the
prince would have no longer been in danger ;
but the men were blind with passion, and,
moreover, there were some among them less
concerned to detect a culprit than to sacrifice
a victim.

He is lying \ Kill the nie^er ! kill him,"
arose again from all sides ; nor was it possible
that a catastrophe could have been much
longer averted had not a murmur from the
fringe of the crowd announced the arrival of
assistance. " Stand back, boys, here's the
captain ! "

It was not indeed the captain, but his avant
courier, Master Conolly, who had run on
ahead of him, and with drawn cutlass was
in a moment scattering the crowd to left and
right. The man Mellor, indeed, presented his
pistol at him, but another sailor who stood
by struck the barrel upwards and the weapon
exploded in the air.

The sound of it seemed to remind the rest
of the seriousness of their course of conduct
and had a sobering effect, which was greatly
increased by the appearance of the captain,
followed by Mr. Eedmayne, both armed to
the teeth.

Who fired that pistol ? " he inquired, in a
tone sharp and short as the shot itself.

"John Mellor."

Is any one hurt here ?" The captain was
looking into the little parlour and ' counting
heads ' as he put the question.

No, sir."

That's well, and especially well for John
Mellor," was the grim reply, " for if one hair
of these ladies, or of the prince, their guest,
had been injured, I would have shot him
dead."

Mr. Mellor vanished silently away, and the
crowd began to thin.

You mutinous scoundrels ! " continued the
captain. " What is it you want that you
must needs raise this tumult and disgrace
yourselves in the eyes of our friend and
ally?"

A murmur of discontent and menace ran
through the crowd.

He has committed murder."

What, the prince ? Who says so ? Let
the man that can prove it stand forth. Would
you commit murder yourselves by slaying a
man without trial ? That a foul crime has
been done in our midst is only too true, but
it cannot be wiped out by another. Come,
all of you, to the officers' tent, and hear the
matter sifted. Prince Tarilam, I must trouble
you to come with us ; for though no assurance
of yours is necessary to clear you in my eyes,
this miserable suspicion must be stamped out."

With a pained and wondering look, such
as children wear who are witnesses to the
quarrels of their seniors, Tarilam bowed assent.
It had been brought home to him for the first
time that these superior people, dowered with
such gifts and attributes that had seemed to
him little short of superhuman, could be as
violent and irrational, when the humour seized
them, as the natives of Arnrac. As he took
leave of the ladies he retained Edith's hand
in his for a few seconds.

VOL. II. o

You stood between me and the short
gun," he murmured with intense emotion.
But for you Tarilam would have been a deadman.
He will never forget it."

I ran no risk," she would have answered,
but with his usual swift and noiseless tread
he was gone in a moment.

Conolly and a couple of sailors who could
be relied on were left behind as a guard for
the ladies.

What had happened they had yet to learn,
but that such a precaution should have been
deemed necessary to their safety was full of
sombre significance.

THE EXAMINATION.

The c officers' quarters ' in the camp at
Faybur was a long narrow tent, furnished,
not uncomfortably, with the contents of half-a-dozen
cabins. Everything, however, had
this evening been moved away from the centre
of the apartment, to make room for a certain
something, which lay under a sheet on trestles,
and at once, with a terrible fascination, attracted
every eye. The feet standing out
stark and stiff, and the veiled face showing
sharply through its covering, presented the
unmistakable lineaments of death. How is it,
one wonders, that no sooner has the breath
of life departed than the very form that
contained it becomes new and strange to the
eyes of the living ! Heaven forbid that it

O 2

may be no foretaste or analogue of the final
separation from us of the soul.

Young as he was, Tarilam had seen death
in many forms, nor had it for him the awe
and mystery that it possesses for more cultured
minds ; but as he followed the captain's steps,
he approached the silent shape with a certain
air of reverence as well as interest that had
its effect upon the beholders. Quietly and
without crowding, the majority of the castaways
had entered the tent and were regarding
his demeanour with keen attention. If the
prince had really committed the murder, as
one observed to the other, it could not have
been the first by many, or he could scarcely
have " kept himself so cool " in the presence
of his victim. Once only he showed signs of
perturbation, when they reached the corpse,
and the captain gently drew back the sheet
and revealed the features of the first mate.
Then Tarilam uttered the dead man's name,
with infinite gentleness, and sighed profoundly.
" I did not know it had been so
good a friend of mine," he simply said.

So good a friend of all of us," exclaimed

the captain, vehemently. " A more dutiful
officer and a more loyal messmate than Robert
Marston never drew breath. My curse upon
the cowardly hand that slew him."

And mine," " And mine," cried several
voices.

There was something menacing — nay, almost
bloodthirsty — in the ring of them, which
seemed to remind the captain that there was
less need to arouse the general indignation
than to turn it into the proper channel.
When he spoke again his voice took a graver
and more judicial tone. " This poor fellow
here, my friends, was as dear to me as to
any one of you, and none can be more resolved
than I to avenge him ; but, above all things,
let us be just. We have no lawyers amongst
us, but it will be possible, I hope, to get to
the bottom of this matter without them ; and,
in the first place, it behoves us to hear what
those have to say who saw him first where
he lay dead. As for me, I know nothing
except from hearsay. Mr. Redmayne yonder
brings me word that Mr. Marston has been
picked up on the beach with his head battered

in, and Mr. Doyle reports that he is dead.
That is all that I know for certain, and all
that nine-tenths of you can know, yet I find
fifty men have taken upon themselves to lay
the guilt at the door of a fellow-creature
because his skin is a trifle darker than their
own. William Dean, you were one of those
men. Now let us hear what accusation you
bring; against Prince Tarilam, and on what
grounds. "

The gunner stepped forward with an embarrassed
air. " I know nothing, sir, but
what I was told by my mates ; they said
that the prince had done it to their certain
knowledge."

"Who said?" interrupted the captain,
curtly; "let us have their names, if you
please."

Well, sir, there was Mellor for one."

Very good, let Mellor stand forth. You
are the man who fired a pistol just now at
Mr. Coolly, to prove your detestation of
murder, I suppose. Well, what do you know
about this other ? "

The pistol went off of its own head in my

hand," growled Mellor. " I never meant to
hurt the young gentleman ; it was that prince
as we were after."

Why, what had he done ? "
Chucked Mr. Marston over the cliff."
The sort of murmur which is called ' sensations
mixed with a note of assent, here arose
from the crowd. They had found a spokesman
to justify their late proceedings at last.
You saw him do it, did you ? "
"No, I didn't, but Judge and Murdoch,
they saw him."

Let Judge and Murdoch stand forth."
The two men obeyed, Judge willingly and
even demonstratively enough, Murdoch with
less promptness. His face was white to the
lips, and he kept it studiously averted from
the spot where the dead man was lying.
Now tell us what you know, Judge."
It was my afternoon off duty, and I was
rambling about the island with Murdoch, and
presently I got tired, and sat down to have a
smoke, and Murdoch he went further on. I
had not been two minutes alone, when I heard
him cry out, * Judge ! Judge ! ' and I jumped

up and ran to him. He was standing on the
cliff top, pointing down below ;■ and I looked
down and saw the body on the beach. ' Burst
my buttons says I, ' why, if it ain't Mr.
Marston

' Yes he cries, ' some one has pitched
him over the cliff ; ' and he was shaking his
head and flapping his hands, and very much
put out about it was Murdoch'

But how did he know Mr. Marston had
been pushed over the cliff ? " inquired the
captain. " Why might he not have fallen
over."

I suppose he never thought of that,"
said Kudge stolidly.

That was it ; I never thought of that,"
echoed Murdoch, replying to his mate's look
of inquiry. His voice was hoarse and mechanical
; and when he had spoken his tongue
flickered about his lips as though they were in
need of moisture.

Now I should have thought that had been
the most likely supposition to come into any
man's mind, unless it was already running on
something else," observed the captain reflectively.

" Mr. Marston ) T under," here lie leant
his head sideways towards his dead friend
exactly as he would have done had he been
alive, " was not one to make enemies."

"True for you, sir, that is so," was murmured
on all sides.

Then why should the notion of any one's
having done him a mischief have entered into
your mind % " inquired the captain.

The ground was trodden all about as
though a struggle had been going on' exclaimed
Euclge, " and the grass on the brink
of the hill cliff was torn away in tufts as
though some one had clung there till he had
been flung off."

I am speaking to Murdoch, not to you,
Budge," exclaimed the captain sharply. " I
suppose he has a tongue of his own in his
head like the rest of us."

If that was so, the person in question did
not seem at all inclined to use it ; he stood
silent, with his arms folded on his chest, his
head sunk forward, and his eyes doggedly fixed
upon the ground. The captain glanced from
this unattractive object to his guest, who, with

head erect and fine form drawn to its full
height, presented indeed a strange contrast toit.
" Now I want to know who it was that,
having satisfied himself so easily that there
was murder done here, went a step further,
and laid it at the door of Prince Tarilam ? "

It was Mr. Bates, sir," said the
gunner.

"Mr. Bates," exclaimed the captain, in
astonishment. "Then why is not Mr. Bates
himself here to say so ? "

He ain't very well, sir," observed Budge ;
he was took bad at the sight of Mr. Marston.
But he told us with his own lips that the
prince had done it, for he had almost served
him the same trick himself, at the very same
place, not three weeks ago."

Do you mean that he said the prince had
tried to throw him over the cliff ? "

Yes, sir, he did, and that Mr. Conolly
caught him at it."

Fetch Mr. Bates and Mr. Conolly here
this moment."

Mr. Bates is ill in bed, sir."

Then bring him out of his bed. I don't

move from this spot till tins affair is sifted to
the very bottom."

As a legal investigation, the captain's method
of proceeding left much to be desired. It
was as haphazard and inconsequent as it was
informal ; but it was not altogether unadapted
to the materials with which he had to deal ;
while the personal interest, and even the bias,
he showed in the matter were far from being
resented by his audience. The appearance of
Matthew Murdoch, and the manner in which
he had made his statement, had prejudiced
them against him ; but they were also prejudiced
against Tarilam. There was so little looie
in their mental composition that they did not
understand that if one of the two ' suspects '
was guilty the other must needs be innocent.

Presently Mr. Bates appeared, led between
two men, which gave him the air of being in
custody. His face was red and swollen, his
eyes were unnaturally prominent and wandered
round the tent as if in search of something.
When they lit upon the dead man,
however, he took no more notice of him than
if he had been asleep.

It was Tarilam as did it," were his first
words.

The captain, without attention to the abrupt
and voluntary character of this statement,
merely inquired, " How do you know that ? "

Because he tried to kill me in the same
way. He held me over the cliff top and
would have dropped me, just as he dropped
Mr. Marston, and on the very same point of
rock. He knew the best place to do it."

A murmur of indignation went round the
tent. Here was evidence enough, indeed, and
to the taste of the hearers.

The captain turned mechanically to the
prince, who gravely bowed his head. " It is
quite true that I meant to drop him," he
quietly said. " He struck me."

There was a low growl of anger and discontent.
" He has confessed it ! " muttered a
voice or two ; and one man cried, " Hang
him ! hang him ! "

The captain held up his hand for silence.

Why was I never told of this, Mr.
Bates ? "

Mr. Coolly asked me not to tell."

Let us hear what Mr. Conolly has to say
about it."

The midshipman had by this time arrived,
followed by the two ladies, for whom the
crowd made way. They did not, however,
push to the front, but shrank from the neighbourhood
of the dead body ; they had only
just learnt the nature of the catastrophe which
had caused the mob to invade their dwelling ;
their distress on Mr. Marston's account was
extreme, the elder lady was almost overwhelmed
by it, and would willingly have
remained within doors, but she could not
permit her niece to come unattended, and
Edith's interest in the living had overborne
her natural tremors.

Conolly stepped forward and briefly stated
what he knew of the rencontre between the
prince and the third mate. It was quite true,
he said, that he had kept silence upon the
matter, but not more for the prince's sake than
for that of Mr. Bates, who had committed an
unprovoked assault upon him. The prince
had resented it, no doubt, with unnecessary
violence, but from what he (Conolly) knew of

him, he was, he was persuaded, quite incapable
of any such unprovoked and murderous
outrage as was now laid to his charge.

The third mate seemed to take no notice of
this observation ; he moved his bands across
his eyes, as though to sweep away some
obstacle, and peered through the crowd in
the direction of the ladies with anxious persistence.
Edith was speaking eagerly, though
in low tones, to Mr. Redmayne, who, in his turn,
whispered a few words to the captain. " By all
means. Let us hear what Mr. Doyle has to say
upon the matter," answered, the latter aloud.

The surgeon, who had just removed from
the captain's side to that of Mr. Bates, here
answered to his name.

When was it that you first saw Mr.
Marston at the foot of the cliff ? "

About an hour and a half ago, sir."

Was he then alive ? "

No, sir. No man could have lived for
one minute after such injuries as he had
received. On the other hand, from the condition
of the body he could not have been
dead long. Half an-hour at the most."

You are confident of that," said the
captain.

I am quite certain that he had not been
dead an hour."

Miss Norbury," said the captain, " can
you state with accuracy at what time Prince
Tarilam came to your house this evening ? "

Aunt Sophia strove to speak, bat the
situation was overpowering ; the knowledge
that every eye was turned on her, but
especially the spectacle of the dead man, who
seemed to be awaiting, like the rest, in dumb
expectancy, her momentous reply, was too
much for her nerves. " I can answer that
question," said Edith, in a firm and confident
tone, " for it so happened that I remarked
to my aunt upon the circumstance that Prince
Tarilam had joined us earlier than usual It
was fully two hours ago."

Did you look at your watch ? "

"My aunt did so."

Here Aunt Sophia found her voice.

"It is quite true, Captain Head ; it is
exactly two hours and a half since the prince
joined us."

A murmur of satisfaction ran through the
crowd. The watch that Miss Norbury held
in her hand appealed to their senses as no
mere verbal testimony would have done.

That circumstance, at all events, frees our
guest from all suspicion of guilt in this matter,"
observed the captain. " I think it is due
to him, Mr. Bates, that you should acknowledge
as much."

The third mate anew T red not a word. He
was staring wildly at Edith with both his
hands stretched out before him. " I never
pushed him over," he cried. "He jumped
over of himself. I can't help his dripping
with water. Keep him off, I say ; keep him
off! " The intense terror of the man manifest
in his face and eye and trembling limbs was
shocking to witness, and communicated itself
to those about him. They fled from him in
all directions, and left him standing by the
corpse. The surgeon only kept his place by
his side.

Can any one explain the meaning of
this ? " inquired the captain in an awe-struck
tone. "Is it possible that this unhappy man

is confessing to having perpetrated the crime
himself?"

No, sir," said Mr. Doyle, with an air of
conviction. " It is fair to say that there is
evidence enough that he was absent when the
murder — for a murder I fear it was — was
committed. Mr. Bates is suffering from an
attack of delirium tremens."

VOL. II.

WAS IT POSSIBLE ?

Shocking as was the murder of Mr. Marston
to his friend, the captain, it was hardly more
terrible or symptomatic of trouble to come
than was the professional dictum pronounced
by Mr. Doyle as respected the third mate.
Delirium tremens is not a disease that is
engendered by occasional excess, though even
that would make the circumstance of the
gravest significance, but by long and continuous
drinking habits ; and these had been proved
to exist in one of his own officers, a man in
duty bound to set an example of sobriety,
and especially to discover and expose the
drunkenness which had so mysteriously crept
into the camp. That the offence was closely
connected with the assassination of the first
mate there could now be little doubt. Mr.

Marston bad been very active in bis endeavours
to find out from whence the liquor came, and
who supplied it, which had of late been
demoralizing the men ; and it was only too
probable that in some solitary expedition he
had come upon the delinquents in the very
act of distillation, and had fallen a victim
to their violence. Edith herself, as we know,
had been stopped and turned back for a
similar reason ; and Tarilam had been treated
in the like manner.

In their case their object had not been
detection, and therefore their lives had not
been sacrificed by those they had involuntarily
disturbed in their wrongs doing. Mr. Marston,
an officer devoted to his duties and to be
deterred by no menaces of personal violence,
had perished at their lawless hands. So far
the matter was clear, but as to who had been
the actual murderers — for it was probable,
unless the first mate had been taken at a
disadvantage, which the signs of conflict about
the fatal place seemed to evidence, there
were more than one — it was by no means
certain.

P 2

Appearances seemed to point to Murdoch
and Judge, but not more strongly than to
Mr. Bates himself, who, however, was freed
from the consequence of his own confession (or
what had looked very like it) by the testimony
of Mr. Doyle, in whose company he had
walked from the camp when the surgeon was
summoned to the scene of the murder. At
that time the third mate was sober enough,
and had appeared greatly moved at what had
happened. Indeed, it was Mr. Doyle's impression
that Bates had taken to liquor
immediately on his return to camp in order
to drown the remembrance of the spectacle
he had just beheld.

For the present, such were the doubts and
difficulties that overhung the case, the murderer
of Mr. Marston remained unpunished,
a thing itself of sombre import and evil
augury. Mr. Bates, indeed, was deprived of
his rank, and solemnly warned that on the
next occasion of being found in a state of
intoxication he should be soundly flogged ; but
even this measure, however just and salutary,
had danger in it, since it openly threw into

the arms of the disaffected an ally to whom
there still clung some relics of authority.

If, then, circumstances gave rise to apprehension
in a man so solid and " four-square
to every wind that blew " as Captain Head,
we may imagine how they affected the ladies.
It was only too evident to them that Faybur
had ceased to be that paradise in which,
though cut off from home and friends, they
had long resigned themselves to pass their
lives. To Edith, indeed, the prospect had
been even welcome, but neither Aunt Sophia
or herself had contemplated the possibility
of such events as had lately taken place.
The place was an Eden still, but not the same
Eden to them as it had been before the serpent
had made known its presence. The stain of
murder seemed to blotch the fairness of Nature
herself; the fumes of liquor to mingle with
the perfumes of the air ; and the dark clouds
of insecurity to gather shape and volume in
the azure sky. Only one or two were in all
probability connected with the actual crime,
but it was only too likely that others were
cognizant of it, and it was no wonder that a

certain distrust of their own people arose in
the two women's minds. This was greatly
intensified by the late behaviour of the sailors
towards the prince ; Edith especially could
not forget the spectacle of those furious faces
at her window, or the cries with which they
had demanded his innocent blood. They
would have taken the life of the man to whom
she owed her own, not only without scruple,
but with eager and tumultuous joy. When
she contrasted their bloodthirsty demeanour
with the noble calm with which her guest had
confronted it, the question, " Which was the
savage ? " could hardly fail to occur to her ;
and it could have but one reply.

The prince's behaviour in the tent had
impressed her still more favourably. Some
of the proceedings had necessarily been unintelligible
to him, but he knew at least that
the result of them would be a matter of life
or death to him ; this, indeed, had been clear
even to his two attendants, who directly he
made his appearance had loyally pressed
forward to protect his person.

Commit no violence," he had said to them

in his own language. " Whatever happens
to me, if 1 am killed, tell the king, my father,
not to avenge my death." And from that
moment he had remained unmoved, like one
who, though on the verge of the grave, has
nothing to trouble him, his final dispositions
having been made.

Edith, who had learnt from him sufficient of
the Bredann tongue to understand what he had
said, asked him the reason of it, since it was
hardly to be expected that her efforts in the
direction of religious culture could have taught
him the sublime lesson of forgiveness of ins cries.

I told my father not to avenge my
death," he said, " because I felt that if I was
condemned to die, it would be done under
a mistake." The explanation, though highly
creditable, appeared, considering the simplicity
of the speaker, a little subtle ; there was,
moreover, an expression in his face that was
new to her ; for it conveyed for the first time
the idea of concealment.

Was that your only reason ? " she inquired.

No," was the quiet reply ; "I did not
want war to occur on my account, since if it

did so, it would set your people's faces against
you, because you had been Tarilam's friend."

That was very good and thoughtful of
you," said Edith, with gentle gravity and a
blush, which she strove in vain to repress.

Tarilam raised his eyebrows ; the precautions
he had taken for her safety had occurred to
him so naturally that he was wholly unconscious
of their chivalry.

"When things seemed going against yon,
prince, and the horrid men were shouting that
you were guilty," said Aunt Sophia a little
afterwards — she was curious about the young
man's ' views,' and given to sounding him when
she got him alone — " did you feel no fear ? "

He smiled and shook his head disdainfully.

"But "there would be nothing to be ashamed
of if you did," she persisted ; " death
has its terrors even for Christian folk."

He opened his large eyes in wonder.

"When we die in Breda," he said, "there
is no more trouble ; the Amrac people cannot
reach us. The storm may rage upon the water,
but it does not wake us ; we sleep in peace."

But you would have been taken away

from those who are dear to you — your father,
for example."

It would not be for long ; my father is
old, and would soon rejoin me."

"AndMajuba?"

Majuba would grieve," he admitted gravely.

"And would not Edith grieve also, don't
you think ? "

Would it be worth her while ? Who is
Tarilam ? "

It was worth her while to risk her life for
him when the sailor would have shot him,"
said Miss Norbury reproachfully.

Do you suppose I do not remember 1 " he
answered plaintively, " I know a boy who
had a tame sea-gull, that had broken its
wing ; it got down to the water, arid would
have been blown out to sea and died, had he
not plunged in after it, though the bay was
full of sharks. It was a generous instinct,
but it was not worth while."

But Edith likes you better than the boy
his bird."

Do you really think so ? " His eyes
kindled with eager light.

Why, of course. Did you not save her life ? "

"Ah, yes," he sighed. "It was because
she remembered that." The light went out
from his face ; his voice took a tone of hopeless
despondency, the meaning of which it
was impossible for any woman to mistake.

My poor prince ! " murmured Aunt Sophia
to herself sympathetically.

Though a match-maker to the core, she
shrank from having any hand in such an
affair as this ; she was not particular about
the eligibility of a partly provided that he
was ' nice ' in himself, and would be likely to
make a good husband. If everything else
had promised well, she might even have been
inclined to forgive a difference of race in a
European, but the notion of an inhabitant of
Breda, however princely and attractive, however
chivalrous and unselfish, venturing to
lift his eyes to Edith was a shock to her.
She liked the prince, but it was out of the
question that she could give him any assistance
as a suitor, even if such help could Lave
availed him, which she felt confident it could
not. A girl that had loved Charles Layton

would never listen to poor Tarilam ; she did
not say, even to herself, would never stoop to
listen, for she was not without appreciation of
his noble qualities ; but the unlikeness of the
two men was too pronounced to admit of her
picturing the possibility of the one being
substituted for the other.

She did not understand that so far as that
difference affected the matter at all, it weighed
with Edith in Tarilam' s favour. If there had
been anything in him to remind her of her
former lover in the faintest degree, she would
not have admitted. him to her intimacy. As
it was, it never struck her that in so doing
she was giving him a certain encouragement.
He could never have found the pathway to her
heart which Layton had trodden ; every step
would have disinterred some dead regret ; but
was it not possible that he might reach it by
some road of his own ? He was like some
untutored mathematical genius who attempts
a problem in the schools by a method worked
out by himself, less direct and less convenient,
indeed, than the authorized one, but which,
nevertheless, solves it.

The consciousness of having done her best
for him in the late fracas no doubt strengthened
Edith's interest in the young fellow ; for
if we are inclined to hate those we have
injured, it is no less true that those we have
benefited thereby establish a claim upon our
affections. And yet if it had been suggested
to Edith Norbury that she had even begun to
entertain a tender passion for Prince Tarilam,
she would have denied the imputation with
indignation, though not with the contempt
which the idea had aroused in Aunt Sophia.

Half-mast HIGH.

After the social storm which had threatened
such damage to the little community of castaways,
there ensued a calm in Faybur. The
murder of Mr. Marston, though its perpetrators
remained undiscovered, produced a
very deep effect ; and while it shocked the
majority, very literally sobered the malcontents.
In the latter case, perhaps the fear of
discovery induced good behaviour in the most
of them, but, at all events, there was no
further outbreak, either of drunkenness or
insubordination.

The continuance of bad weather still prevented
the other natives of Breda from visiting
the island, but the two that had accompanied
the prince had made themselves so pleasant
and so useful as to afford the most lively

hopes of concord between their fellow-countrymen
and the ships company. As to Tarilam
himself, the falseness of the accusation against
him having once been admitted, public feeling
veered round in his favour, and his gentle
and genial qualities being thus afforded a fair
chance of appreciation, he became extremely
popular. A few only held aloof from him ;
the degraded mate and his three myrmidons,
M ell or, Edge, and Murdoch.

If the prince comes to harm through any
act of your friends," the captain had informed
Mr. Bates, with a vigour of language which
modern type would be at a loss to reproduce,
"and I fail for the second time in bringing
the murder home to any one of you, as sure
as my name is Henry Head I'll hang you all
four" — a warning that had the happiest effect
in putting all notion of pistolling the prince
out of their minds ; as to attacking him without
firearms, and in no greater disproportion
of force than four to one, they had not so
much as entertained the idea of it. Mr.
Bates never saw Tarilam without a certain
swimming of the head, produced by the recollection

of being held at arm's length over
the precipice where a far worthier life than
his own had found its end ; and the narrative
of that experience, told with much personal
feeling, if without dramatic artifice, had had
a most wholesome effect upon his three
friends.

From the sentimental, or Paul and Virginia
point of view, the attractions of such an island
as Fay bur were manifest. It was quite the
place for two young lovers to dwell in, "the
world forgetting, by the world forgot," till
they both died together on the same day in
one another's arms ; but it did not afford
scope enough for the energies of upwards of
a hundred British sailors. There was not
enough work for them to do, and too little
room for play. They took but limited interest
in literature, chiefly from the fact that only a
very few of them could read. Under Edith's
auspices, Tarilam indeed had become a better
scholar than almost any of them except the
officers. No one wrote but the captain, who
kept a journal which he called a log, and
which was wooden enough to merit its title.

Conversation languished in the tents for want
of a topic.

Under these circumstances it was only
natural that since a murdered man, whose
assassin had never been discovered, was
buried in the place, that his ghost should
occasionally be seen. Ghosts are not seen inlarge
towns, but in country places, where
monotony and some poor substitute for imagination
beget them. With the trifling
exception of the Fit ant om Ship, which has
something professional about it to excuse its
appearance, ghosts are only seen at sea under
the most appropriate circumstances, i. e. in a
dead calm. Captain Head felt it to be a bad
sign that poor Mr. Marston did not rest in
the grave which had been dug for him in the
most beautiful spot in the whole island, but
must needs walk all over it, and meet the
very last men in the ship's company whom he
would have chosen to consort with during life.
Mellor and Judge had both seen him, and
had had fits in consequence. It was whispered
that Murdoch was in the constant habit of
seeing him, though he was very reticent upon

the matter himself, and that Mr. Bates remained
in his tent, as obstinately as Achilles,
after nightfall, for fear of being addressed by
his quondam brother officer, albeit, when in
the flesh they had not been on speaking terms.
If the vision had been confined to these
scoundrels, they might have been welcome toit,
bat others had seen it, or thought they
had seen it, and the whole morale of the camp
was getting endangered by the superstition.
The captain, who suspected trick, rather encouraged
testimony in order that he might
get to the root of the matter. One evening
William Dean asked for a few words in private
with him.

The gunner was known to be a good fellow,
though he had been carried away by the late
whirlwind of indignation aroused by Bates
against the prince, and was by no means
a liar — indeed he had not the imagination
for it. " Capon," he said, very gravely
and respectfully, " I've seen something just
now."

Very good ; I am glad you came to tell
me at once," was the sardonic reply; " one
VOL. II. Q

likes to have the very latest information from
the spirit world."

But I am not sure as he teas a spirit."

Oh, this is a new phase. Mr. Marston
has come to life again has he ? "

It was not Mr. Marston, capon. It was
the Malay."

What do you mean ? The man that came
over with the Bredann folk ? "

Yes, sir."

But they can't come over in this weather ? "

Nevertheless, not half-an-hour ago, I saw
him as sure as my name is William Dean."

Where ? "

Not fifty yards from the look-out. He
seemed to be coming away from it, though
that could hardly be, as the man on duty saw
nothing of him."

Who is the man on duty ? "

Matthew Murdoch."

The captain's face became very grave.
Now just say how it happened."

Well, I thought I would climb up the cliff
to have a pipe and see how the wind lay ; it
was falling a bit, and the sea going down all

round, they told me. When I was within
twenty feet of the top, or so, there stood a
man by himself, who was looking right down
into the camp. He kept himself behind a
bush, but I saw him before he saw me, and
he was not a white man."

Why should he not have been one of the
prince's men ? "

Because I had left them both below.
Moreover, he had only a waistcoat, such as
the Malay wore. The sight of him upset me,
and I stumbled ; the noise made him glance
towards me, and our eyes met, and the Malay
it was, sure enough. He was off like a bird,
and into the bush in a moment."

Did you run after him ? "

No ; I knew it was no good. I went onto
the flagstaff; Murdoch had his back to me,
but heard me coming. ' They are quiet
enough down there, I suppose,' he said."

' What did he mean by that ? "

Well, I guess he thought I was somebody
else."

The captain took in all the possibilities at
a glance. A spy on the island, and Murdoch

Q 2

in traitorous communication with him — ambush
and massacre ! " And when he found
out it was you ? "

He started a bit ; then, says I, ' I have
seen the Malay ' "What Malay ? ' he asks, as
quiet as could be, and swore nobody had been
near him since he had come on the watch."

And what do you think about it, William
Dean ? "

As far as the Malay is concerned, sir, I
don't think about it ; I am sure of it. As to
the other, I don't wish to get any man into
trouble, though Murdoch's no mate of mine.' ,

Quite right. You can keep a still tongue
in your head, I know, Now, say not a word
to anybody, but send the first mate here at
once."

Mr. Eedmayne was now first mate in Mr.
Marston's room, the vacancy caused by Bates's
degradation having been filled up by Arthur
White, the midshipman. He was but a
young hand for such a place, and indeed there
was no one now save Mr. Eedmayne and the
surgeon on whose authority and judgment the
captain could rely.

"Within tea minutes Mr. Eeclmayne had
started, with eight men armed to the teeth,
to make the circuit of the island to search for
canoes.

If the Malay was really in Faybur, he must
have come by boat, in spite of the heavy
weather. Such light vessels as were used in
Breda could of course be carried up from the
shore and hidden in the bush, but hardly,
unless carried by many hands, without leaving
some sign of their passage on the sand. To
search the island itself before daylight was
useless.

A little before midnight the party returned
without result. No canoe had been discovered,
but at the north end of the island, opposite
Breda, there were indentations in the sand
which some thought had been caused by the
hauling up of a canoe, and others not. They
were very indistinct, and the question was
whether they had been rendered so by design,
or whether the marks were solely accidental.
The next day the whole island was thoroughly
investigated by scouting parties, who came
upon the distilling apparatus which had been

the cause of so much evil, and destroyed it ;
in view of which achievement the expedition
could hardly be said to have been labour in
vain ; but no trace of any alien visitor was
discovered. Upon the whole, the captain was
inclined to think that William Dean's Malay
was made of the same material as furnished
for others Mr. Marston's ghost ; but, like a
wise man whose motto is "No risk," he caused
the night rounds to be more frequent, practised
beating to quarters to such perfection that
every man was at his post in a few seconds,
and enacted that two men instead of one
should always keep watch at the look-out.

A few days after these arrangements had
been made, Mr. Eedmayne and Mr. White
had the good luck to come upon what would
at a sea-side place at home have made the
fortune of the locality ; a bay of shells, or
rather a bay of sand beneath which lay such a
treasure of shells as only a child's imagination
could have pictured. They were of all sizes,
some of them reaching to such proportions
that a single one would in our English gardens
have sufficed for a grotto, and of the most

splendid colours. In hue, indeed, they resembled
nothing so much as those gorgeous
sea anemones which line, as with precious
stones, the Giulio caves in Sark ; or those
too brilliant mushrooms which a benevolent
society has painted for us in colours and
labelled 'edible,' without finding a human
being with the courage to touch them.

The two discoverers, though by no means
given to ' gush ' over the wonders of nature,
were carried by the spectacle into unaccustomed
regions of speculation. " How strange,
it seems," observed the newly-promoted
middy, "that things so marvellously beautiful,
and so fitted to delight the eye, should be
covered with sand ! "

Depend upon it, everything is ordained
for the best," returned Mr. Redmayne gravely.
Think what a pleasure it will be to Miss
Edith to discover them for herself! At the
same time I wish — while Nature was about it
that the bay had been placed a little nearer
to the camp."

It was, in fact, almost at the northern
extremity of the island, at the very place

where Edith, had met with such rough treatment
from the distillers, where the cliffs were
the most sheer and the vegetation most
luxuriant. It was nothing of a walk, however,
to one like herself, in the highest state of
vigour, to which, thanks to the exhilarating
climate and her wholesome mode of life, one
of her sex could attain, and the attractions of
the place, as Mr. Kedmayne had foreseen,
were overpowering to her. He himself had
piloted her to the spot, where her pleasure at
the spectacle gave him ten times the enjoyment
he had experienced when beholding it
for the first time, but she was never weary of
visiting it, no matter who were her companions.
When it was possible, however, Mr.
Kedmayne always made one of her escort, a
privilege to which, under the circumstances,
he thought he had a reasonable claim. The
expedition was rather beyond Aunt Sophias
pedestrian powers, and she contented herself
with gloating over the shelly treasures her
niece brought home with her in such profusion
that their little home soon resembled some
haunt of the mermaids.

One morning Edith, started for ' Shell Bay
as it was called, as usual accompanied by the
prince and the first mate. On their last visita
strange bird of uncommon size had been
seen hovering over the spot, and Mr. Red-maine
had therefore provided himself with a
musket, peace having so long reigned at Faybur
that the edict against the waste of gunpowder
was in some degree relaxed. At the moment
of their departure, however, his presence was
required in connection with the storage of
some dried provisions ; while hardly had he
hurried off, when a message from the captain,
requiring the personal services of the prince in
respect to the yam plantation, which had been
established under his auspices, took away
Edith's remaining escort.

As both her companions promised to rejoin
her, however, directly the public service had
been attended to, she saw no reason for postponing
the pleasure she had promised herself.
They could travel, of course, much faster than
she could, and would probably overtake her
before she reached the bay. The road took herby
the look-out, where, as it happened, Murdoch

and Mellor were on duty. They saluted her
respectfully, but she returned the civility with
coldness and very hurriedly ; she distrusted
both the men, and had a firm conviction that
the guilt of Mr. Marston's murder lay at
Murdoch's door. The sight of him was hateful
to her, and dashed her spirits, though it was
so far satisfactory to know that his duties for
the day would prevent him from coming across
her on her proposed expedition. Hardly had
she passed them, when one of them cried out
to the other ; she looked back and saw the
flag descending the staff — a piece of carelessness
in him who had charge of it which might
well have aroused the reproof of his companion.
Nevertheless, she noticed on surmounting
the next hill — where she stood still
a moment to rest herself — that the flag still
remained half-mast hirfi, as though the halyards
had got twisted.

THE BLOW-PIPE.

The day was a most lovely one even for
Faybur, and the sea, which had recently been
of milder mood, was showing even more pronounced
signs of calm. In a few days at
farthest there would be arrivals from Breda ;
the coming of the king had little interest for
her, but she looked forward with some excitement
to the visit from Majuba which Tarilam
had promised her, so soon as the fine weather
should set in. She had a great curiosity,
mixed with a certain apprehension, to see
what Majuba was like. " I hope," Aunt
Sophia had said in her simple way, " that
she will not be tattooed everywhere, or have
feathers in her hair."

This was not very likely, but it was not
impossible, and Edith felt that any trace of

savagery in Tarilam's sister would be a shock
to her. She was thinking f this and of
matters generally connected with her present
life, in a manner which some months ago
would have seemed impossible ; the old life
had not passed away from her, for now and
again it returned to her with great force
and distinctness of regret, but it had been
marvellously superseded by the new. Though
so much that had made up what we call home
was wanting in it, Faybur had become in its
way a home to her. This was a substitution
less difficult to effect in her case than in
another's, since what makes home most worthy
of the name had long been unknown to her ;
the central figures round the hearth in place
of father and mother had been those of her
uncle and her cousin, of whom, dead and gone
though they were, she could not trust herself
to think, because they had been her Charley's
enemies. Had any one near and dear to her
remained in England — thus she reflected upon
the matter without daring to say to herself
Had Charley been alive " — this transference
of her home sympathies would have been

impossible. But, in truth, she no longer looked
upon this island with alien eyes. (It did, in
fact, hold all she could be said to love ; for
though we love the dead, it is in another
fashion.) Its incomparable scenes of beauty,
while they still fascinated her, had grown
familiar ; her observation of nature had
become extraordinarily acute, though it fell
far short of that of Tarilam. She knew the
trees by the music which the wind evoked
from them, the flowers by their perfume, and
even the herbs by the fragrance they emitted
beneath her tread. The sea only was strange
to her ; it was not like that ocean of which
she had had so bitter an experience ; those
unknown islands in the horizon gave it a
certain mystery from which she shrank.

To-day they seemed nearer than usual, and
Breda, of course, the nearest. She had no wish
to visit it ; the idea of so doing filled her with
vague aversion, which the prince, having perceived,
had henceforth forbore to speak about
his home. It was curious that while he so
willingly gave himself up to self-reflection,
Edith avoided it ; one of the reasons which

had caused her to welcome so trifling a matter
as the discovery of the shells was that it gave
her occupation ; she disliked being left, as
now, to her own company and her own
thoughts. If they reverted to the past, they
distressed her ; if they concerned themselves
with the future, they were equally hopeless,
though necessarily more indefinite. She preferred
to live in the present, from day today,
without retrospection and without forecast
; a state of emotion in direct contrast to
that to which she had formerly been accustomed.


She was glad, therefore, since she had not
been rejoined by either of her late companions,
when she found herself at her journey's end.
It was not much to do, but it was better than
thinking, to disinter from their sandy beds
these splendid shells, almost as valuable in a
European mart as precious stones, and ten
times more beautiful. Of their scientific
names — if, indeed, they were known to science
she knew nothing, nor even the terms
applied to their formation ; she did not even
know the difference between a crenated and

a dentated shell ; but she was charmed by
their exquisite loveliness or their imperial
splendour. Some were diaphanous, and, being
held up to the light, disclosed secret chambers,
pavilions of tender green " ; others, though
opaque, resembled pyramids of glowing flame.
She was pushing away the sand from a specimen
which struck her as being lovelier than
the rest, when suddenly she became aware
that she was not alone ; two figures which
had suddenly emerged from the reef of rock
to northwards, were making towards her with
great speed.

In her extreme surprise she made no
attempt to escape, which, indeed, must have
been utterly futile, nor was she very much
alarmed, since from the look of the men she
took them at first for the prince's two attendants
; but as they drew nearer she perceived
that, though dressed in similar attire, and
probably of the same race, they were not the
men she knew, and were armed with clubs.
With noiseless swiftness they ran up and
seized her arms, and each, placing a hand
behind her, began to impel her towards the

spot from which they came. She neither
assisted their movements nor resisted them,
but was borne along in silence ; the whole
transaction seemed to her a kind of hideous
nightmare, in which she had no volition. As
they rounded the reef, however, they came
face to face with the Malay, whom she recognized,
while beyond him, some quarter of a
mile away, was a canoe drawn up on the sand.
Then at once it flashed upon her that nothing
less than her abduction was intended, and she
uttered a bitter cry of distress and despair.

It was echoed, or so it seemed, from the
top of the cliff, which in that furthermost bay
was as sheer as the precipice where Mr.
Mars ton had met his death, though somewhat
more closely hung with creepers. Down this
pathless steep was fluttering something winged
and white, like a bird with a broken wing.
She scarcely recognized it for what it was,
so incredible did it appear that any human
being should venture to descend that airy
steep, yet something within her whispered
Tarilam." She had eyes for nothing save
that terrible descent, which was apparently

accomplished in safety. Still, against three
men, two of them little inferior in stature to
himself, what, though he had reached the
bottom unharmed, could even his prowess
effect ? She felt that he w r as about to rush
towards her, and, unarmed, precipitate himself
upon her captors, two of whom carried
clubs, and the Malay a long knife. Then he
would be slain before her eyes, and the sacrifice
of his priceless life would have been made
in vain.

No sooner did he touch the ground, however,
than he ran like an arrow, not toward
herself, but in the direction of the canoe. A
cry of alarm burst from the three men, who
perceived his object more quickly than she
did, and the Malay and one savage darted
forward to prevent his carrying it into effect,
while the other snatched up Edith in his
brawny arms and followed after them at
scarcely less speed. The canoe was much
nearer to her captors than to Tarilam, and
though his swiftness was such that he went
three feet to their two, they reached it first.
As they stooped to launch it, however, he was

VOL. II. E,

within a few yards of them, and, stooping
suddenly, took up a huge stone. They
dropped their burthen, and the Malay drew
his knife from its sheath, and the savage a
little instrument from his bosom — it was a
blow-pipe.

Tarilam made a feint of throwing the stone
at them, which caused them to jump aside
from the canoe, at which he instantly aimed
it. It struck the frail bark in the centre
and shattered it to atoms.

Then he turned back and flew at the man
who was carrying Edith. The savage put her
down, but twisted his hand in her long hair,
by which he grasped her firmly. He looked
at the broken canoe and the coming foe and
gnashed his teeth; all means of escape were
cut off from him, and he read aright in the
prince's eyes a sentence of immediate death.
Something, however, was still left him — vengeance.
He raised his club and was about to
brain his defenceless and half-fainting captive,
when a sharp report rang out from the cliff
top, and a bullet crashed through his brain.
He fell, and would have draped Edith with

him but that Tarilam's arm was already
around her waist. She clung to him, but
he gently untwined her arms, and placed her
so that his form interposed itself as a shield
between her and a new danger. At the
report of the gun, which, it is needless to
say, had been thus opportunely fired by Mr.
Eedmayne, the Malay had instantly dashed
across the sands into the woods ; but the
remaining savage, while equally recognizing
that the fortune of war was against him, and
even doubtless crediting his enemies with
supernatural assistance, entertained no thought
either of flight or submission. A gesture of
astonishment at the noise and smoke of the
musket, and the fatal effect upon his comrade,
had been extorted from him for the moment,
but he had immediately recovered his presence
of mind, and with malignant deliberation was
advancing towards the prince and Edith with
his blow-pipe at his mouth. It seemed strange
that such a little toy should excite in so
dauntless a breast so intense an apprehension
as Tarilam now exhibited ; not, indeed, on his
own account, since he so freely offered himself

R 2

as a mark for it, but no hen threatened by
hawk ever exhibited a more passionate anxiety
to protect her little ones than the prince
now manifested to screen his charge. His
nostrils dilated with terror, his bronzed face
took a hue more near to pallor than would
have seemed to be possible ; he stood like one
who sees hovering o'er his head the very
angel of death, and listens perforce to the
beating of her wings.

Once more the musket rang out from the
cliff top, but this time without effect ; it was
fired from a lower elevation, but the marksman
in the act of descending by a zigzag route, as
quickly as the nature of the ground permitted,
had not taken so true an aim ; the savage half
turned his head at the report, and on looking
again towards his intended victims beheld
Tarilam within ten feet of him, a flying incarnation
of rage. The next moment both
were on the ground, their hands on one
another's throats, in a death grapple. It did
not last long : Edith knew that it could not.
She watched it with horror, but not so far
as Tarilam was concerned with apprehension ;

man to man a struggle with the prince she
was well convinced could have but one ending.
Presently he rose, leaving his adversary
stretched motionless on the ground, and
staggered towards her. She flew to meet him,

DO '

and in her turn strove to support his tottering
form. " Has he wounded you, my prince % "
she cried, with passionate solicitude.

No, dear, he has killed me," he answered
with a smile. "Tarilam is swift, but not so
swift as an Amrac arrow. The woorali poison
is in my veins. "

Oh, Tarilam, dear Tarilam, what is to be
done ? " she cried despairingly. " There must
be some thing. Think, think ! what can 1 do
for you ? "

Kiss me," he murmured with exquisite
tenderness; "that is all I ask. Kiss me,
Edie," and with that he fell fainting on the
sand.

END OF VOL. II.

3 0112 060920532

OF THE J Vl.OC

§w^kjMH

T""- )

HHHH

5 Payrv

\r

!■■ i i ii iiimiwHuin

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY.

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

6 Months. IS Months.

For ONE Volume at a time £0 12 1 l

(Novels in more than One Volume are not available for this class oj Subscription.)

For TWO Volumes „ 17 6 1 11 6

(Novels in more than Two Volumes are not available for this class of Subscription.)

For THREE Volumes „ 130. .220

For FOUR „ „ 18 „ 2 10

For SIX „ „ 1 15 3 3

For TWELVE 3 6 5

<)*

VOL. III.

% Sofa.

BY

JAMES Pain,

AUTHOR OF

LOST SIR Massinger," "THE HEIR OF THE AGES,"

"BY PROXY," ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

fCxmiiflit :
WARD AND DOWNEY,

12, YORK STREET, CO VENT GARDEN.

1888.

All rights reserved.

bread street hill, london,

Bungay, Suffolk.

sin

CONTEXTS OF VOLUME III.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/princeofbloodnov03payn

CHAPTER I.
IN HOSPITAL.

The first mate came hurrying up, as Edith,
on her knees upon the sand, was covering the
brow and cheeks of the unconscious prince
with kisses. " He is dying," she said, with a
terrible calm, in answer to his look of amazement
; "in shielding me from the dart he has
sacrificed his own life."

Mr. Redmayne stooped down and drew
forth the little weapon which had entered
Tarilam's side, just below the waist.

Such a bodkin as this can never kill a
man," he observed, with ill-concealed contempt.

It has been dipped in woorali," she said.

Mr. Redmayne uttered no reply, but his

VOL. III. B

face spoke for him. He had heard enough of
the poison to know that she had pronounced
a sentence of death ; his handsome cheek
burned with shame because he had grudged
her kisses to a dying man. He looked round
for help mechanically, though he felt that all
help was unavailing. The noise of the gunshots,
echoed by the hills, had been heard
from a great distance, and some sailors were
seen running towards them ; amongst them
the man Kudge was conspicuous ; he was in
ill-favour with the authorities, both on his
own account as well as on that of the company
he kept, and was not wont to show himself
useful in any emergency ; but now he was the
first to run and offer his services.

"It is that scoundrelly Malay who has done
this, I reckon, sir," he said, with a glance at
the broken boat and the two dead savages.

Never mind who has done it for the
present," was the officer's cold reply ; " the
question is, can the mischief be repaired ? Let
the swiftest runner among you go back to
camp and fetch Mr. Doyle. Bid him bring
wine, brandy — any spirit with him — at once ;

though, indeed, it is all too late, I fear, even
as it is."

If any spirit will do, sir," said Edge,
hesitating, " I have something here. It was
given me by them as will make no more of it,
because the 'artillery has been destroyed ; but
as it was made, I thought it was no harm
to keep it, sir."

Mr. Eedmayne snatched the bottle from his
hands, applied it to the mouth of the prince,
whose teeth, already closed, he with difficulty
forced asunder. The crude, strong liquor had
an immediate effect upon the patient, into
whose cheeks it brought back the ebbing life.
It was a case where brandy could save one —
at all events, for the moment ; and but for
that timely draught Tarilam would certainly
have been numbered with the dead.

It was strange, as Mr. Redmayne afterwards
reflected, that the prince should owe his existence
to that scoundrel Rudsje's disobedience
to orders and general complicity with evildoers
; but to those who are greater observers
of human affairs, or more given to speculate
upon their issues, the circumstance will not

B 1

perhaps appear so abnormal as it did to the
first mate of the Ganges. Whatever his
perplexities, he perceived, however, clearly
enough, not only that it was no time for
reproof and the assertion of discipline, but
that the offender had earned his pardon for all
offences in the past ; and, indeed, from that
moment Mr. Richard Euclge was on the side
of ' order.'

Enough men had come up to bear the
prince upon a hastily-formed litter upon their
shoulders, back to camp, a journey which was
necessarily tedious, as they had to make the
circuit of the coast. He complained of the
want of air, which seemed surprising since a
fresh wind was blowing, and Edith walked
beside him fanning; him with a husje leaf. She
spoke not a word, but kept her eyes fixed
upon his face lest the expression of a wish
should escape her. "Whenever he opened his
eyes, which he did at longer and longer
intervals, they fell upon her, and when they
did so his lips never failed to smile. Towards
the end of the journey, however, these signs
of life ceased to manifest themselves. As

they drew nearer home the tidings of what
had happened drew many out to meet them,
including the captain and the doctor. To the
former the news of the Malay's presence on
the island and of the attack of the savages
were necessarily of the gravest import, but his
anxiety on account of public affairs did not
prevent his feeling the greatest sympathy for
the prince and his condition. "If he lives,
Miss Edith," he said, with deep emotion, " we
shall all be proud to call him our friend ; if,
as I greatly fear, we are to know him no more,
lie has died like a man, and better than many
a Christian."

This speech, intended to be comforting, had
quite an opposite effect on the person to
whom it was addressed ; not from its reference
to the probably fatal effect of the prince's
wound, but from its patronizing tone.

In Edith's eyes, Tarilam would not only die,
but had lived " better than many a Christian ; "
for most Christians act only "up to their
lights," whereas he had acted far beyond them.

Mr. Doyle's grave look and ominous silence
gave her a yet deeper pang.

Is there no hope ? " she murmured.

While there is life there is hope," he
answered, then perceiving her young face grow
gray in blank despair, he added compassionately,
" the proverb is not quite so comfortless
in this case as usual, Miss Edith ; the effects
of the woorali poison are, it is true, almost
always fatal, but they are also immediate.
An animal as tenacious of life even as the bear
has been known to be killed by it in a few
moments. That the prince has any life in
him at all, therefore proves that the conditions
are for some reason or other more favourable
than usual."

Perhaps the poison was not fresh, and
therefore less powerful," murmured Edith
eagerly.

The surgeon shook his head. " That would
make no difference. It has been known to be
kept for years, and yet retain its intense
activity."

What is woorali ? " inquired Edith with a
shiver of abhorrence ; the subject was loathsome
to her, but she had a dim idea that by
encouraging; the surgeon's mind to dwell on it

he would be more likely to hit on some
remedy.

Well, it is a sort of gum or resin, pressed
from the plant of the same name. Of its
effect upon the human constitution you may
judge from the quantity of alcohol the patient
has imbibed since his wound without its
affecting him, notwithstanding that he is
wholly unaccustomed to spirituous liquors."

Does he suffer ? " whispered Edith. She
had scarcely heard the surgeon's words ; her
eyes, if she had turned them towards him fora
moment, had reverted with terrible persistency
to the wounded man.

No actual pain ; but he labours under
great oppression. The poison affects the
respiratory organs, and those only. You are
quite right to fan him. Nothing more can be
done till we get him home."

They got him home at last, where they
found everything ready for the reception of
the patient. Whatever was wanting to Aunt
Sophia in other places in the way of judgment
or discretion, was never wanting to her
in the sick-room. Well mi^kt the two women

congratulate themselves on having provided
for ' hospital cases ' in Ladies' Bay, since they
were thus enabled to do the best that could
be done for one so dear to them.

When Mr. Doyle had made his examination
of the wounded man, he sent for both of
them. Tarilam was lying on the couch, with
his eyes closed, and breathing with great
difficulty.

As you will be my only assistants," said
the surgeon, "it is well you should know
exactly what is to be hoped for. If our patient
dies, it will be literally for want of breath, and
we must endeavour to supply it artificially.
Bring me your ivory bellows, Miss Edith."
This miniature instrument — utterly useless, of
course, at Fay bur — hung on the wall of the
little parlour by way of a drawing-room ornament
; some school friend had given it to
Edith c for luck ' on one of her birthdays, but
hitherto, as the poor girl had often reflected,
very little good fortune had come of it. The
time had arrived, however, when she was to
have a higher opinion of the simple gift.

My idea is," continued the surgeon, " that

by injecting air very gently into the nostrils,
so as to prevent its reaching the oesophagus,
and then by applying as gentle a pressure to
the chest to expel it, we may prolong life till
the lungs recover their natural functions.
That, at all events, is our only chance, and, as
it happens, not all the hospitals in Christendom
could prescribe two better operators in a
matter so delicate than yourselves."

The two women listened as though the
words of the surgeon had been inspired.

Edith brought the instrument, but her hands
trembled so excessively that she was unable to
follow Mr. Doyle's instructions ; Aunt Sophia,
therefore, took that task upon herself, while
Edith applied pressure to the patient's chest,
at regular intervals, as the surgeon directed
her. It was the same system now in use for
the resuscitation of the apparently drowned,
but which was discovered long ago by an East
Indian surgeon whom Mr. Doyle had known,
in connection with the curare (or woorali)
poison. He had himself once before tried
it, but without success, but this, of course,
he refrained from mentioning. In that case

he had only a pipe wherewith to inject the
air, a service the bellows performed much
better.

For a long time no result followed from the
treatment, which was supplemented by the
occasional administration of brandy. The
feeble flame of life thus strangely fed continued
still to flicker, and that was all, yet
under the circumstances, as the surgeon was
well aware, it was a good deal. Looking at
the matter from a scientific point of view, and
judging by precedent and analogy, Tarilam
ought by rights to have been a dead man.
Had he eaten a hearty meal just before he had
been attacked by the poison, there would have
been (speaking professionally) an excuse for his
having survived for a quarter of an hour or so ;
but this he had not done. It was true that his
constitution was as wholesome and vigorous as
ever inhabited the human frame, but against
the virus of woorali that would have availed
as little as a linen robe against a rifle bullet.
Had the dart struck him, as it had been intended
to do, in the chest, or, indeed, anywhere
save beneath the waist, nothing could have

saved him ; but his whirlwind rush had disturbed
his enemy's aim, and depressed the
course of the weapon. The woorali has this
attribute, and this only, in common with
snake poison — than which it is far more
deadly — that if swallowed it is comparatively
innocuous ; and except for the injury
effected by the mere passage of the arrow,
and which would have destroyed nine men
out of ten in his place, Tarilam was in the
position of one who had taken the poison
internally.

Every now and then the women intermitted
their ministrations for an instant, while Mr.
Doyle applied his ear to the patient's chest ;
but the result was always disappointing. He
only shook his head and motioned them to goon
again ; if it was not an actual chamber of
death, it was next door to it.

At last Edith looked up and whispered —

"Mr. Doyle, he breathes!"

Do you really think so % " he answered,,
incredulously.

Think so ! " As if she had not been
listening with ears more keen even than the

trained senses of the surgeon for the least sign
of returning life ! As if with every gentlest
pressure of her hand upon his heart she had
not been on the watch for the slightest responsive
movement ! The surgeon's examination
was brief, but satisfactory.

We have got over the worst of it," he said,
with a great sig-h of relief, " and shall soon set
the poor fellow on his legs." This, of course,
except metaphorically, was very far from being
the case ; but from that moment the patient
began to mend apace. As he did so, curiously
enough, Edith Norbury spent less and less
time in his society. She, who had literally
hung upon his lips, and had passed hours in
restoring: life and motion to them, now only
looked in to ask after his progress ; she even
left it to Aunt Sophy to read to him, a task
she had often taken upon herself of old as his
instructress. This puzzled the patient, who,
though by no means complaining, once spoke
of the rarity of her visits in the presence of
her aunt and the surgeon.

You should be well content with her, my
man," said Mr. Doyle, " though she were never

again to say so much as * How are you ? ' for
she has been nothing less than the breath of
life to you."

That is very true' he answered gently.

The surgeon took it for granted that he had
been made aware of the particular service
Edith had rendered him, but to Aunt Sophia,
who knew better, Tarilam's remark was full of
significance.

When the surgeon left, she did not dare to
pursue the subject, notwithstanding the natural
attraction it had for her. She could not help
feeling for the prince, whom she credited with
a hopeless passion for her niece, but she had
no intention of assisting him. That he should
entertain such an attachment indeed, no longer
shocked her. She almost confessed to herself
that the devotion he had shown to the girl
deserved a reciprocity of affection. But, after
all, it was out of the question that a girl
brought up as Edith Norbury had been, with
an experience, too, of a tender passion that
had run in the ordinary channel, should ' take
up ' (as Aunt Sophia expressed it to herself)
with a man who had never been christened.

confirmed, vaccinated, or even been acquainted
with the rudiments of civilization. Edith's
conduct since their patient had mended, it was
true, was suspicious, but it might arise from a
motive the very reverse of that which she
hardly knew whether to fear or hope — the
desire to put an end to the familiarity which
his illness had necessarily engendered.

His two attendants had been already despatched,
at some risk, in the canoe to Breda,
to summon Majuba as soon as the state of the
weather permitted her to join her brother ;
and Edith would probably be well pleased to
see his sister take her place by the convalescent.
If Tarilam should speak to her upon the matter
which she had no doubt was occupying his
thoughts, it would place her in the most embarrassing
position, and to divert his mind
from it, Aunt Sophia began to talk hurriedly
of the first thing that occurred to her, which
happened to be the woorali poison.

I suppose' she said, " you knew in what
the dart had been dipped directly you received
your wound ? "

I knew before it left the blow-pipe," he

answered smiling. " I would have oven all I
had, directly I saw it, to be like Robert Ray "
(the boatswain, a man of exceeding bulk), " that
I might have made a shield of myself for Miss
Edie."

Then the Bredans use poisoned darts themselves,"
observed Aunt Sophia reproachfully.

Some of them," he said, with a flush.
They know no better," he added ; the excuse
he always gave for any custom of his people
which incurred the disapprobation of the two
ladies.

I wonder why Providence permits the existence
of such a dreadful thing as woorali,"
observed Aunt Sophia, soliloquizing. " It can
never intend — that is countenance — the destruction
of one's fellow creatures by such
means. What can be the good of it ? "

It is good for kings," remarked Tarilam,
simply.

For kings I "

Yes. It is not meet for members of a
royal house to grow very old, so as to become
dependent upon those about them for the smallest
service ; it brings authority into contempt.

When the hand can no longer hold the hatchet,
nor the eye martial the warriors, nor the
ear listen to the prayer of our people, it is
time for us to depart. Then the woorali is
good."

Do you mean to say you kill yourselves ? "

Tarilam inclined his head.

"It is the same when we are very ill,
or when shame or misfortune overwhelm us.
I had a sister who loved an Amrac man ;
she could not give him up, so she gave up
her life. The prick of a thorn, thanks to
the woorali, will do it. This is our remedy,"
he held up a finger, through the nail of which
showed a brown speck of infinitesimal size,
"in case evil fortune should take us unawares.
If Tarilam were captured by the Amracs tomorrow,
they would have only a dead man
to boast of."

What ! Do you actually carry the hateful
stuff about with you, like a pinch of
snuff ? "

Tarilam looked puzzled, the metaphor was
unintelligible to him.

Enough to cover a thorn's point only," he

answered, as though the crime lay in the
quantity.

Aunt Sophia looked at him with horror,
almost with aversion. If he had ever had any
chance of securing her as his ally in the matter
next his heart, he had lost it.

VOL. Ill

THE EXECUTION.

While Tarilam hovered between life and
death, strange and stirring events were taking
place in the island, of which it was quite
as well that the two ladies, occupied with
nursing cares, w r ere kept in ignorance. The
captain, indeed, had given directions that
these matters should be carefully concealed
from them. The solitudes of Faybur, which
had never echoed to the cry of hound or note
of horn, became the scene of a man hunt.
Half the camp turned out to beat the woods
and scour the hills for the Malay. That there
had been treachery at work, in which some
of their own people were concerned, was only
too probable, and it was felt to be imperative
that the man should be taken at once, and the
whole truth extracted from him. To this

end, orders were given that no fire-arms were
to be employed, and no violence used beyond
what was absolutely necessary to effect his
capture.

Never had the fair island been so completely
investigated ; its fairy dells and sparkling
waterfalls, its lustrous bowers and archways
blossom-hung, were explored with the utmost
minuteness, but by eyes that brought with
them no sense of beauty. Ail were filled with
indignation against the wretch who had attempted
so cruel an outrage against an unoffending
girl, and, unprovoked, had brought
enemies into their very midst. They moved
in a long line, like beaters in search of game,
that lengthened or contracted with the conformation
of the island itself, but was never
so extended as to allow the object of their
search to slip through them undeserved. It
was probable that he would be in hiding at
the northern end, both as being most remote
from the camp and nearest to any possible
help from his Amrac friends, which the increasing
calm rendered more practicable,

though still hazardous.

c 2

No precaution, however, was omitted from
first to last. As the hunters proceeded, their
line, closing up in the centre, while the flanks
which took the bays, where the walking was
comparatively easy, pushed forward, took the
form of a crescent, and resembled a huge net,
the ends of which are being dragged to shore ;
it was impossible that any one thus enclosed
could escape. Every moment the excitement
increased, and each man advanced with increased
eagerness, in hopes to be the first to
set eyes on the man whose discovery had now
become so imminent. Suddenly, from a
ravine near the shore, there rang out a pistol-shot.


Steady, men, steady ! " cried the officers,
apprehensive that the line should break and
the men run in.

Who has been hit ? " inquired the captain,
appealing from a crag top to a knot of sailors
clustered together around some object below
him.

None of us, sir," replied a voice ; " it is
the Malay."

Who shot him ? "

"Matthew Murdoch."

Disarm that man and tie his hands."

Ere the captain could reach the spot his
orders had been obeyed. The Malay was
lying on the grass breathing heavily, and
bleeding from a wound in the breast. When
he saw the captain his face lit up with an
eager gleam ; it was evident that he wished
to make some communication to him. He
was unable, however, to speak. Mr. Doyle
came up, and, kneeling by his side, applied
some restorative.

What is it you want to say, my man ? "
said the surgeon kindly ; he felt no more goodwill
towards him than the rest, but he knew,
which they did not, that he was dying.

"Murdoch — traitor," murmured the Malay.

You hear that, men?" said the captain,
with stern face. A hum of indignation rose
round the group, which had now grown of
considerable size.

Murdoch stood with a guard on each side
of him, bound, with a face the colour of lead.
It is a lie ! " he muttered hoarsely.

We will hear you presently ; this man's

time is short," observed the captain drily.
Mr. Doyle will continue the prisoner's
examination."

It struck the speaker, ignorant though he
was of legal matters, that if he should be called
upon to punish Murdoch he ought to have no
hand in bringing his guilt home to him.

In what was Murdoch a traitor ? " inquired
the surgeon. " Tell us the truth and only
the truth."

Amrac."

It was with his connivance, you mean,
that you came over here from Amrac with the
two natives ? "

Yes."

Then it could not have been for the first
time. How often have you crossed the sea
before ? "

Two times."

Then the first time you arranged with
Murdoch what should be done on the second
occasion ? "

Yes."

Why did you want to carry off Miss Edith
Norbury ? "

Amrac — goddess."

"You persuaded them that she was a
goddess, and that the possession of her would
be of great advantage to them I "

Yes." There was a look of satisfaction in
the Malay's face, strange indeed to see thereat
such a time. The intelligence of his interlocutor
was smoothing away for him difficulties
which in his condition might well have seemed
insuperable. If the inquiries were of the
nature of ' leading questions ' there was no
one to object to them on that account. It
was justice and not law which all had in
view.

How was it that you and the two Amrac
men found out where to find the young lady ? "

Murdoch," answered the dying man, less
faintly than before ; the mention of the name
of the man who had shot him seemed to lend
him vigour.

But he could not have told you that on
the occasion in question she should have been
alone."

Flag-staff."

The surgeon looked round inquiringly.

Who has had charge of the flagstaff this
week ? " observed the captain.

"Murdoch and Miller, sir," replied Mr.
Redmayne.

"Just so; go on, Mr. Doyle," said the
captain gravely.

Murdoch made some signal, did he, by
which you were to know when the opportunity
for carrying out your purpose had arrived ? "

He-did."

Was there anything else arranged between
you beside this particular matter ? "

Amrac army — Fay bur."

"Do you mean that an army from Amrac
was to invade the island ? "

Yes."

There was a cry of smothered rage from
the whole assembly. Every one glanced at
Murdoch, and some of them pointed at him
menacingly with their cutlasses.

Steady, men, steady ! " cried the captain,
but his voice failed for once to restore order.

He would have had us butchered by the
savages!" cried one. "Let him hang; at the
yard-arm ! " cried another.

Silence, men ! " cried the captain imperiously,
"unless you would have me believe
there are more mutineers than one amongst
you. Proceed, Mr. Doyle. We are wasting
precious time."

They were indeed. The dying man was
almost at his last gasp.

Was there any one in the island besides
Murdoch," inquired the surgeon, speaking
even more distinctly than before, "who was
assisting you in your designs ? "

"Yes."

A movement of sensation pervaded the
crowd.

What were their names ? "

There was no answer.

The mental powers of the dying man, it
was plain, were leaving him fast ; the effort of
framing; words foreign to his tongue was too

o o o

much for him. " Look round and tell us
whether there are any traitors here besides
the man you have mentioned."

The Malay cast his filmy eyes around him.
The spectators shrank from that faltering and
feeble gaze ; if there were any that had cause

to fear it on their own account, it is probable
that, alive to such a contingency, they had
withdrawn themselves out of sight. At all
events, his gaze failed in finding what it
sought. The Malay's head fell back and the
eyelids closed. Then once again his mouth
opened. "Murdoch — Murdoch," he murmured
hoarsely ; and over his stiffening face
there swept a vindictive scowl, which settled
down on it in death.

By the captain's orders they dug a hole in
the sand in the neighbouring bay, and buried
him there by the side of the two natives of
Amrac, who had shared his enterprise and his
fate. Then they returned home with their
prisoner ; the captain, with bent head and
thoughtful face, gloomily leading the way
and giving the time to the rest of the party,
which, as some of those who composed it
whispered to themselves, resembled a funeral
march.

Arrived at the camp, the sentinels were
summoned from their posts by the boatswain's
whistle, and the captain, looking very grave
and grim, addressed the whole assembly, the

prisoner, with his hands still bound, standing
within a few feet of him, his eyes fixed upon
the ground.

In a low but distinct voice the captain narrated,
for the benefit of those who had not
been present, all that had just happened,
dwelling with great particularity upon the
Malay's statements. " That man," he said,
was not bound to us by any community of
race or creed ; he was not of ourselves ; he
was our enemy, it is true, and intended, by
his own showing, to bring destruction upon us
by the hands of cruel and savage men ; he
would have carried away by force an innocent
girl, from whom none of us have received anything
but kindness, and surrendered her to
a fate worse than death among barbarians.
That was not his intention, perhaps, but failing,
as she would necessarily have failed, as
the possessor of the supernatural powers they
looked for, she would sooner or later have
become their victim. For this he has paid,
and justly paid, with his life. Still, he was
not a traitor — as this man is."

Here the speaker paused, and a hoarse

murmur of hate and rage broke forth from the
throng.

The captain held up his hand, and shook
his head.

"The man is here for judgment," he cried,
but not for violence : he shall be punished,
but not a finger of yours shall harm him, nora
drop of his blood be laid at your doors. I
have no more doubt than the sun is shining
that Matthew Murdoch plotted our ruin with
that man ; how or where I know not, though
some of you — I would fain hope a very few —
have cognizance of that matter. Let them
beware for the future, for, so help me Heaven,
I will spare none of them. I say, that this
man is guilty there is not a shadow of a
doubt. Why was it, when he went to seek
the Malay, that, contrary to orders, he took
a pistol with him ? It was with the object —
which he carried out — of shooting the man
down before he should divulge the secret of
their confederacy. Fortunately, however, he
lived to do so. We have heard from his
dying lips that Murdoch was the accomplice
of his villainy; that, while on duty, he used

that very flag yonder, which has been planted
in the feeble hope of helping us to regain our
home and friends, to further his traitorous designs.
In almost all crimes there are some
mitigating circumstances, but here I can see
none ; in almost all criminals there is something
to be said for them, but not for this
man. What is his record since he came
amongst us ? He was the first to break the
law that we had made for our protection in
the matter of the liquor casks. He was one
of the few who set their wicked wits to work
to undo what we had done for the common
good by distilling spirits. And now he has
betrayed us. A mutineer, a drunkard, and a
traitor, what good can be hoped for in such a
wretch ? What evil may not reasonably be
expected? If he plots against an innocent girl,
if he joins hands with savages to bring war
and ruin upon you — his comrades — w r hat good,
I ask, can be left in him ? Let him alone, I
say ; leave him to justice. Officers, draw
your swords."

The crowd, goaded to fury less by the catalogue
of his crimes than by the recital of his

conduct towards themselves, were on the point
of running in upon the prisoner. It needed
all the efforts of the two mates and of the
midshipmen to restrain their fury.

I do not recall these things," continued
the captain, " to arouse your wrath, but to
justify my own action. You have elected me
to be your chief ; it is my duty to see that our
little community is not further endangered by
the presence of this scoundrel amongst us.
Moreover, he has committed murder."

Yes, yes ; it was he that killed Mr.
Marston," cried several voices.

If so, that is a matter for which he will
have to account before the Great Judge," said
the captain solemnly. " We ourselves have no
proof of it. With our own eyes we saw him
shoot the Malay. As mutineer, as traitor, as
murderer, I doom you, Matthew Murdoch, to
death."

The word was followed by a pistol-shot
fired by the captain himself. Matthew Murdoch
leapt into the air and fell on the sand
a dead man.

Prepared as was the crowd for the sentence,

the catastrophe took them by surprise. There
was a moment of ' hushed amaze which the
chief actor in the terrible scene perhaps took
for disapproval.

His blood is on my head," exclaimed the
captain, "and not on yours."

You have done quite right, sir ; if you
had not done it we should have done it
ourselves," exclaimed one.

Shooting was too good for him," cried
many voices.

"Is the man dead, Mr. Doyle?" asked the
captain.

Yes, sir."

"Then God forgive him, and me also
if I have done wroncr in killing him. Let
him be buried with all decency, but at
once."

Deeply moved, the captain turned towards
his tent, the men niakiDg way for him bareheaded
in token of the sympathy they felt for
him. This feeling, however, was not absolutely
universal. On the outskirts of the crowd two
men were discoursing together in a low tone
upon what had occurred.

A deuced high-handed proceeding, that,"
observed Mr. Bates.

Better to keep that opinion to ourselves,
however," replied Mellor, cautiously. " If our
mates here knew what Murdoch knew, the
whole pack would turn on us and tear us to
pieces. We may be upsides with them, however,
one day yet."

Mr. Bates shook his head and ground his
teeth.

"No, we can do nothing in that way now
without the Malay. But I'll be even with
Captain Henry Head, if I have to wait for a
twelvemonth. "

-YES."

It was not till the clay after the execution
(if such it could be called) of Matthew Murdoch
that the two ladies were informed of its
occurrence, and it made a profound impression
upon them. They were not only shocked at
the fact itself, and the depth of depravity that
it revealed in the criminal, but it seemed to
reveal to them an abyss of lawlessness and
license hitherto undreamt of, and on the
verge of which they saw themselves standing.
They recognized for the first time that the
kindness and respect with which they had
been invariably treated by the sailors must —
in some instances, at least — have been feigned ;
and even in others, where there had been no
feigning, how much of it, they now began to
wonder, was to be set down to the influence of

VOL. III. D

an authority which itself was built on but
slender foundations. The captain and his
officers were, they knew, as true as steel ; but
supposing that the community which had invested
them with command should be induced,
by whatever means, to deprive them of it !
What all women desiderate is a natural protector,
and these women, who stood in so
much more need of one than most, had none.
They were not alone in the world, but worse
alone and out of the world, where the forces
of civilization cease to act in their favour.
Their present was insecure, their future was
pregnant with danger. If Murdoch's treachery
had been successful, what might now have
been Edith's fate ! There was only one person
to whom they could look for certain and
lasting aid. In Prince Tarilam they had both
the utmost confidence ; the affectionate regard
they felt for him was, they knew, fully reciprocated,
and he had a nation at his back. But
what a nation ! Where his strength lay, lay
also his weakness. Welcome and attractive to
them as was the prince himself, the two ladies
shrank from all connection with his belongings

; the young midshipman's account of his
friends in Breda, though intended to be
eulogistic, had been far from captivating them.
They had great misgivings even concerning
Majuba, of whose arrival they were in hourly
expectation, and what they had heard of her
fellow countrywomen was by no means to
their advantage.

Aunt and niece did not discuss these matters
in so many words, but they knew what was
passing through each other's minds in reference
to them almost as well as if they had done so.
Narrowed as their lives had become, there was
no room for reticence. Having exhausted the
sad subject of public affairs, " Do you think
that Tarilam will leave us now he is getting
better, Edie ? " inquired Aunt Sophia, hesitatingly.


Leave us ! " returned Edith, with much
surprise, " why should he leave us ? "

Well, when his sister returns — and I don't
suppose she will stop here long — he will wish,
I suppose, to return to Breda with her."

An expression of pain came into Edith's

face ; any allusion to Breda was distasteful to

D 2

her; her companion, however, mistook the
cause of her distress.

We shall miss him dreadfully, shall we
not ? " she continued. " He is certainly very
nice. What a charming disposition he has ;
what tenderness and what unselfishness ! "

Yes," replied Edith thoughtfully—

' How young he seems in the old age of Time,
How green in this gray world.'

I forget where the lines come from, but he
always recalls them to my mind."

Poor fellow ! " murmured Aunt Sophia,
pityingly.

It was significant that Edith did not ask
why her companion pitied him, but maintained
a thoughtful silence. The other did
not break it, but presently left the room with
noiseless step, to attend upon her patient — if,
indeed, he could any longer be called so.

More than half-an-hour passed by, during
which the girl never altered her position, her
elbow on the window-sill, and her face fixed
on the cliff, which stood up sheer in front of
her. The room was very small and at the

back of the house, the larger parlour, with its
splendid sea view and plentiful supply of air,
being now given up to the sick man. There
was nothing in the prospect to divert her
reflections, which, indeed, would not have been
easy to disturb. At one time she thought she
heard a distant shouting; and some stir in the
neighbouring camp ; but it did not excite her
interest. There are times when the world
without, with all its goings on, seems of no
account, and nothing seems real save our own
dreams. Suddenly, however, she became conscious
that the door had been softly opened
and closed. Aunt Sophia then had returned
after her visit, and had doubtless found
matters progressing favourably, as was expected.
As she did not, however, take her
seat, and set to work with her needle as usual,
Edith glanced over her shoulder with a look
of mild surprise, which instantly altered to
one of extreme astonishment.

Standing in the centre of the little room,
with her hands folded in front of her, her eyes
downcast, and an expression on her face of
reverential admiration, stood a most beautiful

girl. She was dressed in flowing robes of
white, which were prevented from contrasting
too sharply with her bronzed and glossy complexion
by the intervention, wherever they
met the skin, of wreaths of scarlet flowers.
In her jet-black hair there was indeed but one,
but round her neck and wrists there was
a profusion of them ; yet such was the good
taste of their arrangement, that so far from
their causing her to resemble a May-day
queen, they had all the grace of ornament.
What struck Edith most, however, in the
appearance of this beautiful apparition washer
extraordinary resemblance to the prince ;
except for her deficiency in height and length
of limb, she might have been Tarilam masquerading
in girl's clothes.

I need not ask who you are," said Edith
gently, as she rose and welcomed the newcomer
; "your likeness to your brother assures
me that you are Majuba."

As she uttered her name the princess fell on
her knees, and seizing Edith's hand in both
her own, devoured it with kisses. Though
there was nothing abject in this demonstration

of gratitude, it was nevertheless embarrassing.


I cannot help thinking," said Edith
smiling, " that though I have recognized you,
you have made some mistake in me. I have
done nothing, I fear, to merit "

It was probable that her visitor had buta
limited understanding of the words addressed
to her, but their meaning was borne in upon
her at once.

I have seen him," she interrupted with
simplicity. " Tarilam has told me all about
his darling."

It was only too obvious to Edith that the
term was one which the prince must have
assigned to herself without any thought of its
repetition, and that his sister simply used it
in default of any other appellation of affection ;
there was nothing for her, however, but to
ignore it.

Then he told you that I owe him my life,"
said Edith, steadfastly.

Majuba looked puzzled and smiled with
open lips. " He told me that you saved him
two time," she explained ; " once from the

thunder gun, and once in the council of the
warriors."

Nay, it was Tarilam who saved me, first
from the shark and afterwards from the
Amrac arrow."

"Yes, and from the arrow," persisted the
princess. " He told me that } T ou gave him
life." Then suddenly she added in a whisper,
but with tenderest emphasis, "Yet what is
life, my darling, without love ? "

Edith blushed from brow to chin. "I do
not understand you, Majuba," she said, coldly.

The princess shook her shapely head and
sighed. " Oh yes, you understand me. The
language of the heart is common to all ; even
an Amrac girl knows when love is speaking to
her. What good is it to have saved Tarilam
before the chiefs with your tongue, if you say
No ' with your tongue afterwards, and kill
him ? "

Majuba, you give me pain," said Edith,
gravely. "It is impossible that your brother
could have told you to speak to me thus."

He never did. Why should there be
words between us ? Am I not his sister ? I

can read his heart, as you can read the books,"
and she placed her hand on one that lay near
to her.

"And how is it you talk about reading
books and speak the English tongue so well ? "
inquired Edith ; the girl's proficiency, in truth,
astonished her exceedingly ; but her question
was suggested less by curiosity than by the
desire to get away from the topic that had
been so unexpectedly forced upon her.

Deltis taught me," answered Majuba,
simply, " and since he went away I have had
the interpreter for my tutor."

A thought passed through Edith's mind
that Master Con oily 's teaching might have
been of a sentimental character, and had put
ideas into the head of this child of nature
which would otherwise have been foreign to it.

I am afraid Deltis sometimes talks nonsense,
Majuba."

He talks as the bird sings ; it is pleasant
to hear him. Tarilam, too, used to be happy
like the birds ; now his heart is sore, and his
speech is sad."

He has been ill," said Edith gently ; " the

poison has injured him. I have nursed him
when he knew not what he said."

Tarilam knows now," returned the girl
decisively. " He loves you."

He does not ; or if he does it w T ould make
my heart sore to hear it."

That is what he told me," rejoined the
other simply. " Tarilam would never speak
his thought to you ; that is why I have come
to speak it for him."

"Then you come in vain, Majuba ; it is
useless."

A film of sorrow fell like a veil on the girl's
pleading face ; the tears were very near her
eyes, but she controlled herself by a strong
effort. She seemed to be collecting all the
scanty stores of argument that lay in her
artless mind.

Breda is so strange to you," she said,
laying one forefinger upon the other, like one
who is checking off adverse chances ; " we are
very rude and ignorant. We must seem to
you as the people of Amrac seem to us ; alas !
alas ! we are but savages ; it would be, you
would say, to stoop too low."

Nay, nay, I am sure you are no savage,
Majuba," put in Edith earnestly, "nor Tarilam
either. You shall be my sister, and he shall
be my brother."

Majuba shook her head decisively, as though
to dismiss that arrangement as altogether
insufficient and unacceptable.

Listen, my darling," she said. " In Breda
there is a district which is taboo save to
people of the Royal blood. No one comes
thither without our permission. We are as
much alone there, when we wish to be so, as
though we were in another world. Did not
Deltis speak to you of it ? "

Edith signified that he had done so.

My brother has only to speak and the
king, our father, will make you taboo like ourselves.
Tarilam will marry you, and you shall
live alone with him in a world of your own."

Edith shook her head.

Or, if you prefer Faybur," continued
Majuba eagerly, " and the society of your
own people, Tarilam will stay here. There
is nothing he will not do, or which he will
not leave undone, to win you. If you knew

him as I do, my darling," she added, with a
touch of pride, " it would not be to stoop soar.

"It is not that, Majuba," answered Edith,
greatly moved. " There are other reasons,
believe me, which make what you have in
your mind a thing impossible."

The princess answered nothing, but with
a quick movement plucked the blossom from
her brow, and all the flowers from her neck
and wrists, and flung them in a heap upon
the floor.

Hush ! he is coming," she said.
The door opened and admitted Tarilam.
His step was slow and his limbs trembled ; he
had lost flesh during his illness, and his face
was worn. He glanced at Edith, and then at
his sister. " Leave us, Majuba," he said, ina
broken voice. The girl cast one look of
tenderest appeal towards Edith, and obeyed
him without a word.

I am come to say good-bye," he murmured
in faint tones. " My father has come
for me."

But you are not yet fit to go," she

answered gravely. " You must get well and
strong first."

Why ? "

The simple monosyllable had a pathos in
it which the other in vain attempted to ignore.
It seemed to say, " Why should I get well ?
What is there now left for me to live for ? "

"That is a foolish question, Tarilam. Sick
people must get well before they leave the
hospital. Ask the doctor or Aunt Sophia."

Aunt Sophia says that since you can never
care for me, it will be better that I should go."

"Aunt Sophia had no right to say that,"
said Edith quickly. It was well enough that
she should decide for herself against taking
this man for her husband, but she resented
its being decided for her ; it was a matter
altogether for her own judgment.

O JO

Was she wrong % " cried Tarilam eagerly.
Then his face fell and his voice faltered.
But, no, I had forgotten Majuba."

Edith looked at him inquiringly. " My
sister has been pleading for me, has she not \ "
he continued gently ; " she threw away her
flowers in sign that her prayers had been

unanswered. It is no wonder. Tarilam has
been too presumptuous ; forgive him."

He held out his hand with a sad smile.
It was not to wish her good-bye, but, as she
well understood, in token of amity with which
he always associated that unfamiliar act. She
hesitatingly gave him her fingers, which he
lightly held in his own without clasping them.

There is nothing to forgive," she said,
there is nothing in your proposal which is
presumptuous." Her tone was thoughtful,
and gave the impression — or rather would
have given it to any one better acquainted
than her companion with the English tongue
of carefulness, of weighing her words. She
was not greatly agitated by the peculiar
circumstances of her position ; it had been
too long and too often reflected upon for
that.

He looked at her with mild surprise unmixed
with hope.

If it be not that Tarilam lies there " (he
pointed to the ground), " and that you are
yonder" (he pointed upwards), "what is it
that keeps us asunder ? "

The knowledge that I do not love you
as you deserve."

"Tarilam has no deserts. A very little
love would suffice him."

But, alas ! I have no love to give you at
all. It is all gone, sunk in the depths of
the sea yonder."

"Deltis told me of that," returned the
prince softly, and with a reverential inclination
of his head. " Death has taken from
you the man you loved, and no one can fill
his place. When one goes out in our canoes
in a storm it is disastrous to lose the paddle ;
the hand is but a poor substitute, yet it is
something. I know that I should be but the
hand. You would never love me as you loved
the other. It is not to be expected. Tarilam
would be content with less than that."

There was no answer. Edith's hand still
lay on his own ; her silence encouraged him
to press it a little. " As to him whom the
sea has taken, I know I can never be his rival.
He will always have the first place in your
heart. I say again, it is but to be expected.
Only in one thing I shall not be his inferior."

She smiled faintly.

What ? You think that impossible even in
one thing ? No, Edie, it is not, for however
he loved you he cannot love you more than
I do ; in that I shall be at least his equal.
You loved him very much, and you will only
love me a very little ; yet my love for you
will always be as great as his. It is worthy
of you, though I am not. I will not wrong
it, therefore, by saying, take my love such as
it is ; will you take me such as I am ? "

Her reply was almost inaudible. If it
could be said to be an acceptance of his offer
at all, it was one which seemed to adopt his
own self-depreciating conclusions. Edith sighed
rather than said " Yes." That modest realization
of his hopes seemed, however, amply to
suffice for him ; he drew her towards him
gently and with infinite tenderness, and kissed
her forehead. It was less like a betrothal
than the sealing of some compact agreed upon
indeed by both parties, but in very different
degrees of acquiescence.

FAMILY TIES.

Tarilam stood for a while in silence, looking
at his betrothed with grateful wondering
face, like one who cannot believe in his own
happiness.

Then when she did not speak, but only

looked thoughtfully before her, like one who

reflects on something she has done, and

already half repents of it, he said softly, " If

there is anything at any time that I can do

to make you happy, be sure it shall be done,

Edie. If, because I am dull and rude, I

cannot guess any wish of yours, as at this

moment, I entreat you to let me know it.

If you fear that the expression of it will hurt

my feelings, dismiss that fear. If you cannot

love me yet, as I hope you will do some day,

at least trust in me."

vol. in. E

"Sara thinking, Tarilam," said Edith, slowly,
acknowledging this artless and devoted speech
by a fleeting smile, " that for the present I
would wish what has just passed between us
to be kept secret."

It shall remain where it is — in Tarilam's
breast," he answered, touching it, " till you
give him leave to speak of it."

No ; that would be impossible," said
Edith. " Aunt Sophia must know and Majuba
they have earned the right to know."

Here she paused. What she wanted to
convey was that she wished Tarilam to abstain
from making any change in his behaviour
towards her till such time as she should think
proper to make their engagement public. It
was only due to her aunt and Majuba, as she
had said, that they should be admitted to her
confidence ; nay, it was certain indeed in any
case that they would soon discover what had
happened for themselves ; but with respect
to all others outside of Ladies' Bay it
w T ould be possible to keep it secret. So far
from being; ashamed of her lover she was
proud of him ; she knew that his nature was

as noble as his intelligence was keen ; that
his mind was as full of grace and beauty as
were his form and features ; but she shrank
from what those of her own race, his inferiors,
would say of this matter. In this there were
many parallels to her own case ; a daughter
of some house of Mammon, who falls in love
with a poor poet or painter, may hold him
far above her own kindred in everything
that constitutes merit, and yet be conscious
of the disdain they feel for him, and recoil
from the expression of it ; and all the more
because she perceives it, from their point of
view at least, to be not wholly unreasonable.
That, sooner or later, all the companions of
her exile must become aware of her engagement
was obvious ; but there was no need
for its immediate publicity. In due time
she would tell the captain ; but as for the
rest, they might very well be left to find it
out for themselves. Master Conolly, though
he had great claims on her regard, was much
too volatile to be intrusted with such a secret ;
while, as to Mr. Ainsworth and the doctor,

and Mr. Eedmayne —

E 2

Unwary
•mEMCIYOFIftUMffS

May I tell the king, my father ? " inquired
Tarilam gently, interrupting these reflections.

The question, though under the circumstances
a most natural one, filled her with
dismay. In the prince's company she often
found herself forgetting that he was a prince,
and still less did that fact suggest itself now that
he had become her lover. As to the monarch
of Breda (though at that moment he was, as it
happened, under her very roof), he had for the
time been utterly left out of her calculations.
So altogether different was the young fellow
from his parent, that she seldom associated
the one with the other. And yet this amazing
personage was about to become her father-in-law.
To tell him what had taken place was
in all probability to tell everybody ; though
as to the Bredans generally, it was indeed of
small consequence. If he approved of it they
would receive the news with blowing of cone
shells, and if otherwise, with some equally
simple manifestation of disapproval ; but that
her own people should first hear it from such
a source would be a circumstance very distressing
to her.

Tarilam scanned her face while these
thoughts passed through her mind as a
mariner scans the skies, but with a less fallible
judgment, because he had love to guide him.

The mouth' he said, " of our kings in
Breda is closely shut ; matters of peace and
war they discuss with their chiefs, but things
which concern the Royal house are kept to
themselves. "When I have said to him,
'Father, I pray you not to do this,' never has
it been done. He has been very good to me
all my life, and denied me nothing save what
would have been harmful. The good of his
people is, as it should be, nearest to his heart,
but after that comes his son. I owe to him
all that I possess of good. I should like to tell
him — if I might — how happy you have made
his son."

It is only reasonable," she answered
gently. " But how can you be sure, Tarilam,
that the news will please him ? "

He looked at her with an undisguised
amazement that spoke more plainly than the
most extravagant expression of admiration.
My darling, has he not seen you ? " A reply

which certainly deserved the smile with which
Edith received it.

"He will not now insist upon your returning
to Breda, will he ? " she inquired. It was
but a feeble specimen of that banter which
lovers are wont to use to one another, but
Tarilam appreciated it to the full.

"He will insist on nothing, dearest," he
answered fondly. " It was only because I had
been ill that he suggested my returning home,
and he will perceive at once that the air of
Faybur is, under the circumstances, much
more suitable to my ailment."

Is he really so kind ? " said Edith naively.

You shall judge for yourself. He is waiting
for me in the next room. May I tell him % "

A faint smile gave him the permission he
sought, and with a grateful glance at her he
left the room.

Never surely did wooer meet with such
reluctance from one who had promised to
become his bride, or bore it with more patient
tenderness. Tarilam well understood, however,
that this did not arise from any doubt of
his devotion, or from the absence of at least a

reciprocal regard. He had, in fact, the same
difficulty to deal with that exists in so many
similar instances, namely, the ' incompatibility
; which so often exists between the
object of a man's choice and his owt relations ;
only in his case the matter was aggravated in
an unusual degree. It is not civilization, nor
even education, which renders intelligible tous
the feelings of other people when antagonistic
to or out of accord with our own, but
an absence of egotism and a natural love of
justice. Tarilam was gifted with both these
virtues, and therefore in no way resented
Edith's disinclination for his people. On the
other hand it was impossible, in his ignorance
of the prejudices of race and creed, that he
could thoroughly understand her position, and
far less those objections which she well knew
would be raised by others. However well her
countrymen got to know him, nay, even should
they recognize the virtues which she had discerned
in him, the consciousness of the source
from which he sprang would (she felt) be
never absent from their minds or cease to cast
its shadow.

It was doubtful if even the loyalty of Aunt
Sophia would stand the strain that the news of
her engagement would put upon it. To her,
above and before all, she owed the revelation
of it, but it had so come about that she was
about to make it in the first place to another,
and him the very last she would have chosen
to be its recipient. It could not be said that
Edith Norbury repented of what she had just
done, but she recognized in that moment of
suspense and embarrassment, the commencement
of an endless chain of similar situations.

Then the door opened and disclosed the
Bredann king. With noiseless step, and a
certain tender dignity, he moved to where she
stood, and laid his strong hands lightly upon
each of her shoulders. She looked up without
shrinking; into his face, on which there was a
smile that well became it.

Good, good," he said. " My son has chosen
well, and Taril is happy."

Edith drooped her eyelids and murmured
something, she knew not what ; and when
she raised them again the king had gone,
and in his place stood Aunt Sophia with outstretched

arms, into which she flew like a bird
to its nest.

Don't cry, don't speak, dear Edie," she
whispered tenderly, as she clasped her close ;
"only feel that you have done as I would
have had you do, and are dearer to me than
ever."

It was an observation open to some cavil as
an expression of cordial congratulation, but
nothing more welcome to Edith's ears could
possibly have been uttered. She did not need
felicitations but approval.

I really do love him, Aunt Sophy," she
sobbed.

Of course you do, my pretty one," put in
the other quickly; " only not quite so much,
you were going to say, as he loves you. The
thing is not possible. Any man so devoted I
never saw. If he had his will your life would
be one rose-leaf without a crumple. You
should have heard him impress upon that dear
old king that he was not to stay more than
two minutes with you. He is a queer father-in-law,
it cannot be denied, but I am sure he
will be a very kind one ; and you're never to

see him, nor any friends of the family, unless
you please — a most exceptionally favourable
arrangement, you must confess. Then, as for
Majuba, she is quite an acquisition to us, and
I believe will really be a comfort to you. She
only lives for Tarilam, and Tarilam only lives
for you, so that you are the mistress of the
whole situation ; upon my word, dear, all things
considered, I think you are a very lucky girl.
I do, indeed. Under the circumstances, I think
you have done the very best thing you could
have done for yourself, and the right thing."

"That last should have come first, Aunt
Sophy," said Edith, with a faint smile. " It
is only natural, however, that you should
think I stand in need of some excuse."

"That was not my meaning, dear; no, I
think you have done right independently of
all expediency, and I am sure that will be
Captain Head's view and Mr. Ainsworth's.
What a fortunate thing it was, by the bye,
that Mr. Ainsworth's life has been preserved
to us.

The colour flew to Edith's pale face. " I
hope you will not speak to Mr. Ainsworth

or any one else at present of — of what has
happened," she said earnestly.

Very good, dear ; since you do not wish
it, I certainly will not," replied Aunt Sophia;
it was a serious blow to her to be presented
from telling such news, under circumstances
where even the smallest gossip had a fancy
value ; " of course you are the best judge of
your own affairs, but will it be quite fair as
regards other people ? "

What people ? "

Well, of course there is no obligation ; you
have a right to do as you please ; but it would
be more merciful to somebody to put him out
of his misery at once. Of course, I have
always known that he had no chance ; but I
am afraid he still clings to hope."

I really do not knows who it is you are
talking about." The tone of the speaker was
incisive and displayed unmistakable annoyance.


Well, of course I meant Mr. Eedmayne,"
returned Aunt Sophia, apologetically.

Then you had no right to mean him," was
the quick reply; "he has never addressed a

single word to me which could be even construed
as you suggest ; I have never regarded
him otherwise than as a friend."

I am quite sure you have not, dear,"
replied the other humbly ; " but still I thought
you must have known — that is, suspected — "

I have suspected nothing of the kind,"
interrupted Edith ; " my thoughts have never
concerned themselves with any such matter."

It was possible that in so speaking the
speaker " did protest too much " ; it is doubtful
whether any woman is quite unconscious
of the admiration she excites in a man with
whom she is familiar enough to call him
friend ; but Edith was certainly speaking
truth as regarded any reciprocity of affection
upon her own part. Upon the whole, however,
the imputation was not a circumstance
to be deplored ; it gave her a certain vigour
if it was but that of repudiation, the energy
of a disclaimer — of which she felt herself to
sorely stand in need.

There ensued a pause which received a
welcome interruption in the entrance of
Majuba. She flew, like a school-girl, into

Edith's arms, and embraced her tenderly.
My sister," she murmured timidly ; " now
indeed may I call you sister ! " then fell
upon her knees as though entreating pardon
for a familiarity that had possibly given
offence. Edith put aside the lustrous hair
that hid Majuba's brow and kissed it. " You
must not kneel to me' she whispered, " sisters
are equals."

"No, no, no," answered the girl, deprecatingly
; " all I ask is to be loved by her
who has made my brother happy, ah, so
happy ! "

Then her eyes lit upon the flowers which
she had plucked away when she bad despaired
of such an issue, and with infinite grace and
quickness proceeded to replace them about
her person.

Is the king, your father, gone ? " inquired
Edith, not in apprehension ; for, companion
by this simple and affectionate creature, she
felt that an interview with the monarch of
Breda would be no long-er so formidable.

o

Oh yes, they are all gone," replied the
girl, putting the last flower in her hair with

the least touch of coquetry. " Did you not
hear the conch shells ? "

Gone ! Where are they gone to ? "

"swell, to Breda first, I suppose, and then
to Anirac," she answered carelessly. " My
father has asked the captain for assistance
against our enemies, and he has ]went him men
and muskets. It is possible the fleets may
meet this very day, but, whether the contest
is by sea or land, it can only end one way ;
the Amrac people cannot fight against your
thunder and lightning. They will never
again dare to come to Faybur and try to carry
you off to their hateful island."

"But you don't mean to say that Tarilam
has gone with the rest ? " cried Edith, starting
from her chair. " He, just risen from a sickbed,
to take a voyage, perhaps to fight !
Why, it will kill him ! "

She spoke with such anxious vehemence
that Aunt Sophia hastened to interfere with
" Of course he has not gone, my darling ;
Majuba is mistaken."

"No, no," cried the girl delightedly; "it
is you who have been mistaken. Is it not

clear, since she fears for him so keenly, that
she loves him with all her heart ? " The ruse
if such an artless device could be so termed
appeared to her so eminently successful that
she clapped her hands in childish glee.

To Aunt Sophia, however, it was not quite
so satisfactory ; in the first place, it involved
a reference to a previous conversation, which
she would certainly have preferred to be
treated as confidential ; and, in the second,
the deduction drawn from it seemed by no
means convincing. It seemed to her that
Edith's anxiety on Tarilam's account might
have arisen naturally enough from her interest
in him as a patient. To Majuba this was a
reflection that had not arisen. For while love
is common to the human race, philanthropy
is a product of civilization.

ILL NEWS.

The alliance between the castaways and the
Bredann nation, which had been disclosed to
Edith with such startling suddenness, had
been brought about by no means so abruptly.
The king, accompanied by a few canoes, had
landed as before, leaving the main body of
the fleet at the back of the island, but his
meeting with the captain, though friendly,
had been marked with a certain stiffness and
reserve. He thanked him for the kindness
shown to his son, but once assured of his
convalescence did not, according to expectation,
demand to be led to him ; contenting
himself with sending Majuba to her brother,
he remained in camp, asking his usual questions
about this and that — though not, as
before, through his interpreter, whom he had

apparently left in Breda — but always with a
distrait and preoccupied air which filled his
host with vague disquiet. At last the captain
sent for Conolly, which he had hitherto fore-borne
to do, lest he should wound the king's
amour prqpre, who had evidently a good
opinion of the progress he had made in the
English tongue, and that young gentleman
soon made matters clear, which might have
otherwise remained inexplicable.

The real cause of the difficulty was, in fact,
what the captain would certainly never have
expected, namely, the king's extreme delicacy
of mind ; the same chivalrous scruples which
had on a previous occasion caused him to keep
his fleet out of sight of his new friends, now
prevented him from asking a certain favour
of them which he had in his mind. He
thought it would look ungenerous so to do,
since his request, under the circumstances,
might appear too like dictation ; and being
unable to express it in such terms as would
make it excusable, he had forborne, notwithstanding
its urgency, to prefer it at all.

What right have I, Deltis," he said in his

o
VOL. III.

own tongue, " to ask your people to help me
to make war against a nation with whom they
have no quarrel ? "

This explanation was even more acceptable
to the captain than he thought it judicious to
admit ; wherein it must be confessed that the
Bredann king; had the advantage of the British
captain in chivalry. So far from having no
quarrel with the people of Amrac, the attempted
raid of at least two of their nation on Faybur
was a distinct casus belli, and an outrage the
captain was extremely willing to avenge, and
to send the king a dozen men with as many
muskets to act as allies to the whole Bredann
power was a method of discharging his obligation
— both friendly and hostile — as agreeable
as could possibly be conceived. The Malay,
it seemed, had quarrelled with his hosts, and
found their neighbours, the Amracs, more to
his liking ; and no doubt it was to his influence
that their conduct was owing. It was
by no means certain, however, now he was
dead, that they would cease from acts of
hostility ; and in any case there would be a
great advantage in taking the initiative.

Volunteers were at once invited for the
proposed expedition, and the call was almost
unanimously responded to. Eighteen, all
steady and reliable men, were selected, and
since diplomacy as well as generalship might
be in request, Mr. Redmayne himself was
placed in command. For the same reason,
Master Conolly, whose value, by reason of his
recent linguistic acquirements, were very much
above the ordinary quotation of the article
midshipman,' was also included in the party.

There was a little luo^agre to be stowed
away, since no one knew how long the expedition
might last, and some arrangements to
be made, so that Majuba's statement that " all
had gone " was not quite literally correct.
Aunt Sophia and Edith, with their patient,
who looked very interesting, but, for a young
warrior who was deterred by circumstances
from taking part in a fray, in disgracefully
good spirits, came down to the shore to add
their farewells to those of the rest. There
were no presentiments of evil, for a speedy
and complete victory could be reasonably
counted on for the allied forces, but the

F 2

parting had nevertheless its pathetic side. It
was the first time that any considerable portion
of the castaways had been dissevered from the
main body.

"You will acquit yourselves like Englishmen,
I know," said the captain, addressing his
little contingent, " notwithstanding that how
you do so may never be known at home."
Whereupon they gave him three ringing
cheers by way of assurance.

The parting between the king and his son
was dignified but full of affection. Master
Conolly took a laughing farewell of the ladies,
and treated the whole affair as an excellent
joke. Mr. Eedmayne's tone was more serious,
as behoved one on whom a grave responsibility
rested. In bidding Edith good-bye he expressed
his hope that all would go well with
her in his absence.

You leave me in safe hands," was her
smiling reply, which referred, of course, to the
captain. No sooner had the words passed her
lips, however, than she felt her face aglow,
for she remembered that Tarilam was standing
close behind her, and that her speech might

seem to bear another meaning. Her consciousness
of her new relations with the prince
no doubt suggested the apprehension ; yet it
was strange (as she often afterwards thought),
since the matter was one on which he could
hardly entertain a doubt, that Mr. Kedmayne
answered, " I hope it may be so." Perhaps he
had seen something in his rival's face that
betrayed his victory ; but it is certain that he
turned upon his heel, as if to avoid taking
leave of him, and stepping briskly into the
canoe that awaited him, never turned his eyes
to shore again. His departure, after what
Aunt Sophia bad so indiscreetly said of him —
even apart from his manner of leave-taking —
was, without doubt, a relief to Edith ; nor — as
this time there was little probability of danger
befalling him — did she, on the whole, regret
the absence of the young midshipman ; he was
accustomed to run in and out of their dwelling
like a pet dog, and it would have been hard to
conceal her secret from his sharp eyes.

From henceforth the inmates of the little
house in Ladies Bay might be considered asa
family party. If absence makes the heart

grow fonder, nearness too, where the heart can
bear inspection, has a similar effect, and of
no man could it be said with greater truth
than of Prince Tarilam, that the more one
knew him the more one got to like him.

The nobility of his nature manifested itself
in a thousand ways, but in nothing more than
in the delicacy with which he pursued, but
forbore to press, his suit. It was amazing
to Edith how soon she found herself at her
ease with him, for she was conscious of being
carried into those smooth waters by no great
efflux of love. Majuba, no doubt, played a
most useful part in bringing this about ; a
more unselfish and gentle creature never
existed, and though she herself was limited in
her affections, and lived, as it were, only for a
very few people, she had an unusual appreciation
of those natures which have wider range.
She even contrived in time to make the topic
of the king, her father, interesting to Edith.
It was impossible not to admire those simple
and generous motives which she ascribed to
him with such dutiful eloquence. She painted
him with the warmest hues of affection, but

not so much as her father as the father of his
people. Devoted as she was to Tarilam, and
intensely proud of the adaptability he showed
in learning accomplishments which were
utterly beyond her horizon, she estimated still
higher those qualities of the heart which it
was her simple faith he had inherited ; she
admired him most as her father's son.

In a word," said Aunt Sophia, after one
of these outbursts of enthusiasm, " Tarilam is
a Prince of the Blood : " a term the magniloquence
of which, perhaps, at least as much as
its justice, so tickled her, that she always
alluded to him by that title, in spite of Edith's
laughing remonstrances. A while ago the girl
would have been seriously annoyed by her so
styling, her lover, which seemed to throw into
relief all that was bizarre and anomalous in
her own position, and it was significant enough
that she could now afford to smile at it.

The definition of the verb ' to be in love
notwithstanding all the marvellous attributes
ascribed to it, is a difficult one ; in spite of
its monopolizing effect, it is like most other
things, a matter of degree, and, moreover, it

grows upon one,' as the phrase goes, at least
as often as it leaps, Minerva-like, cap-a-pie
from the heart. Perhaps the most formidable
opponent to a woman's love is her sense of
inferiority in her lover. In most cases this is
got over, as we see every clay, by her investing
him with imaginary merits ; but in Tarilam's
case there had been drawbacks to which it
would have been impossible for Edith, even
had she been enamoured with him from the
first, to have shut her eyes. One by one
these, however, were disappearing ; his lineage
was now no longer an objection ; nay, he even
stood higher in her opinion from the very fact
of his having broken "his birth's invidious
bar," and shown himself so superior to his
compatriots. He was fast acquiring knowledge
and accomplishments at least equal to
those possessed by those about her of her own
people, while in all matters to which rivalry
w T with them was now limited, he was literally
facile princeps.

Even in our own high state of civilization,
the gifts of mere strength and fleetness and
of skill in all manly exercises, count for more

perhaps than we are willing to acknowledge
in a woman's eyes, and these Tarilam possessed
in perfection. That he was of dauntless
courage she had had proof; nor are youth and
beauty, with propinquity, to be entirely left
out of our calculations, however ethereal maybe
the view it is the fashion to take of this
tender subject. Aunt Sophia, who was nota
bad judge of such matters, presently discovered
that though she was never permitted
to feel de trop, her presence was not so
necessary in the way of avoiding embarrassment
to her niece, as it had been, and that
she could leave the two young people together
without much compunction. If her views
on the subject, indeed, could have been confined
to Ladies' Bay, nothing could have been
more idyllic than the establishment there of
Tarilam and Edith as man and wife, with
Majuba and herself to keep house for them.
Unfortunately, however, though their world
had become very limited, it was not entirely
confined to themselves, albeit just at present
they lived as if it had been. Deprived of
the services of his first mate, and feeling the

absence even of a midshipman from the scanty
staff of officers now remaining to him, the
captain had his hands fully occupied with,
the reins of government, and for the same
reason Mr. Doyle, and even Mr. Ainsworth
(who was always ready to assist authority),
had little leisure for paying visits to the
ladies.

It astonished them both, therefore, not a
little when, as they were sitting at breakfast
together as usual, with Tarilam and his sister,
one morning, Captain Head presented himself.

All started up to welcome him, for he was a
great favourite with every one of them, after
their different fashions ; to Edith especially he
had supplied, as far as in him lay, the place
of a father, and in her face there was some
confusion, for he had seemed to her to regard
her with a peculiar gravity, which her self-consciousness
ascribed to the matter on which
she had not thought fit to place in him a
daughter's confidence. It was a relief to her
that when he spoke he addressed himself not
to her, but to the company generally.

I am sorry, my friends," he said, in a tone

of gravity and deep emotion, " to be the
bearer of bad news."

There is nothing amiss in camp, I do
hope," exclaimed Aunt Sophia fervently ; her
apprehension centred for the moment in Mr.
Ains worth ; to her just now he was the most
important of their fellow-exiles. For though
by custom in those days a ship's captain was
fully competent, under special circumstances,
to join two persons in holy matrimony, she
felt in the case she had in mind, where so
much of conventional requirement was wanting,
the services of an authorized divine to
be especially desirable.

All is well in camp — with those that are
left of us," returned the captain.

Can it be possible then that the expedition
has failed ? " continued Aunt Sophia — this
of course was the natural, however improbable,
alternative ; but the expression the captain
had used — " those that are left of us " — to
Edith's ear had spoken of worse than failure,
and paralyzed her tongue with terror.

'■' The expedition has been successful," he continued,
(< so far as its object was concerned ;

your hereditary enemies, Prince Tarilam, have
been defeated so utterly that they will not
trouble you again for many a year, but the
victory has cost your allies very dearly. We
sent but two officers, as you know, and one
of them is slain. Ladies, I know it will distress
you very much to learn that we have
lost Mr. Kedmayne. He has been killed by
a poisoned arrow."

Aunt Sophia burst into tears ; she w T as
grieved to the bottom of her heart, and yet
there was a sense of relief to her in the
miserable news. It might have been told of

o

Conolly, whom she regarded with almost a
mother's love ; perhaps, too, there was a more
selfish consideration, if that which concerns
the interest of another can be called selfishness,
which rendered Mr. Kedmayne's loss the
less deplorable of the two.

Though she did not weep, every trace of
colour had fled from Edith's cheeks. " I am
distressed indeed," she said in tearful tones, in
which something of penitence as well as pity
seemed to mingle ; the thought of the deadman's
last good-bye shot through her with

a remorseful pang. Then, catching sight of
the prince, who, deeply moved by her emotion,
was regarding her with wistful eyes, and
remembering how he too had nearly succumbed
to the same deadly weapon that had
slain the other, she suddenly threw her arms
round his neck, and burst into tears.

It was a mere uncontrollable impulse, the
significance of which, even when she had given
way to it, did not occur to her.

Aunt Sophia, however, who, as is often the
case, was wont to have her wits about her
when others of keener intelligence might have
been at a loss how to act for the best on the
spur of the moment, at once beckoned the
captain into another room.

"Your terrible news," she said, "has utterly
upset my poor Edie."

No doubt," was the dry reply. " Instinct,
however, seems to have taught her where to
look for comfort."

You guess what has happened, then ; well,
it is true that my niece has consented to
become, the prince's wife. You who have
been so kind and good to us would certainly

have been the first of all our friends to hear
the news, but she has told no one ; she wishes
for the present to keep the matter a secret.
I hope you do not think she has chosen ill ;
at least, you will not be angry with her,"
pleaded Aunt Sophia, for the captain's face
was very grave.

No, no ; I was only thinking for a moment
of my poor Bedrnayne, though I always knew
that he had no chance. Angry with her?
God bless her, why should I be angry ? " He
paced up and down the little room as though
it were his quarter-deck.

"Edith's position is a painful and most
peculiar one," put in Aunt Sophia gently.

No doubt, no doubt, For my part, I have
every reason for congratulation ; for this takes
a load of responsibility from my shoulders.
It was pressing on me just now almost as
heavily as my bad news. In Marston you
ladies lost one friend, who would have stood
by you to the death, and in Bedrnayne you
have lost another ; the few in whom you can
really trust may now be counted on one hand,
sand I myself may be cut off any day. It is

most fortunate, therefore, that the girl has
found so kind and worthy a protector as this
excellent young fellow. It is a pity, of course,
that he is not an Englishman."

Yes, indeed," sighed Aunt Sophia, to
whom the recollection of Tarilam's nationality
was always painful, however studiously she
strove to ignore it.

Well, there's always a drawback in these
matters' said the captain consolingly. " If a
girl's lover is young, he is sure not to have
a penny ; if he is rich, it is ten to one he is
a fool ; if he's clever, it's only too probable
that he will turn out a rogue ; and if he is a
prince with all the virtues, he's got a father
who w r ears a bone bracelet and feathers in his
hair."

This last statement was open to dispute,
and even contradiction ; but the captain made
it with such an extremity of contempt in his
tone as presupposed some cause of personal
indignation, into which Aunt Sophia wisely
forbore to pry.

THE EXPEDITION.

However hesitating had been the approbation
which good old-fashioned Captain Head
had bestowed upon Edith's intentions, the
discovery of them gave her strength and
courage. In revealing her secret to him,
though she had done so unintentionally, she
felt that she had broken the ice, and though
she still desired to keep the matter from the
ears of the rest of her fellow-countrymen, the
idea of divulging it gave her less distress of
mind.

For the present, however, there was excuse
enough for reticence in the calamity which
had befallen the little community. As to the
captain, in Mr. Redmayne he felt that he had
lost his right hand, and all who had any sense
of duty shared his opinion. The body of the

young officer had been committed to the deep,
but the shadow of his loss fell upon the
survivors even deeper and darker than that of
Mr. Marston had done, whom they had laid
in his grave with their own hands. The
vous; officer's nature had been brighter and
more buoyant than that of his predecessor,
and to many the isle itself seemed to have
henceforth lost some of its sunshine.

Master Lewis Conolly was especially cast
down by what had happened, and could hardly
tell the tale to his comrades with the calmness
and dignity befitting the sole surviving officer
of the expedition. AVith the gentler audience
in Ladies' Bav, notwithstanding that it included
the prince, he made no attempt to
conceal his feelings, which, so far from despising,
Tarilam, indeed, appeared to sympathize
with in an extraordinary degree. The news
of the victory obtained by his people was
naturally gratifying to him, but he listened to
the boy's narrative with no trace of triumph,
and with the sorrowfulness and seriousness of
one who counts the cost.

The English had embarked in twelve canoes

VOL. III. G

manned by native rowers, and with the rest
of the fleet had reached Breda without molestation
from the enemy. There they had put
in for refreshments and reinforcements, and
were detained by the state of the weather
from their projected invasion of the Amrac
country. It was not only very boisterous
but wet, a circumstance always distasteful to
the Bredans, and which was also of great inconvenience
to the English from the difficulty
of keeping their muskets dry. This enforced
delay enabled the new-comers to make some
acquaintance with the place and its inhabitants,
of which Mr. Bedmayne, in company
with the young midshipman, took advantage.
He thought it might be useful to them in the
future, and possibly, if ever they returned to
their native land, even of public service.

The island was long, but narrow, and well
wooded, and only to be approached from
the south and west ; in other directions it
was surrounded by a reef of coral, in some
places as much as twenty miles from the
shore, and in none less than six. This reef
acted as an immense breakwater, and rendered

the sea thus enclosed almost always calm,
which added to the sense of isolation with
which the place impressed its visitors. There
was no grain anywhere, and though grass was
plentiful, since there were no cattle to consume
it, it grew high, and was scorched and
burnt up by the sun. There was no quadruped
of any kind, and though there were
cocks and hens in plenty, they were never
eaten unless when in the egg, that is to say,
no eggs were eaten when fresh, but only when
there was a chicken within them.

The only bird ever heard to sing was the
Deltis, whose pipe was as sweet as a flageolet,
but curiously enough they never beheld one.
The chief food of the natives was yams and
fish — of the latter there was a great variety —
but that in most esteem was the luna cockle.
The shell of it was enormous, and when diving
for it — in which the people were amazingly
expert — it would often take two men to bring
up a single specimen. The only luxuries were
sweetmeats, of which the natives were as fond
as children. The one which had proved so
distasteful to the young midshipman was

G 2

made of the kernel of the cocoa-nut mixed
with syrup extracted from the sugar-cane.
Their only drink was the milk of the cocoa-nut,
and they had no salt. There was no river in
the place, but many streams and numberless
ponds of exquisite clearness and beauty. Some
of these were set apart for bathing purposes.
When any man whose business led him near
one of these appropriated to the other sex, he
was obliged to make some particular ' halloo,'
which if answered by a female voice, he could
not go on, however urgent might be his affairs.
There was never any wrangling or fighting.
"Whenever a matter was in dispute, it was
brought before the king, who sat in public
every day to do justice. Every mark of
distinction was paid to him ; his chiefs approached
him with respect, and his ordinary
subjects when they addressed him always put
their hands behind them, like pupils waiting
before their master ; even when passing any
house where he was supposed to be, they
never omitted this action of humility. The
king's behaviour was always gentle and
gracious ; he listened with patience to all that

was said before him, nor did any suppliant
seem to leave his presence dissatisfied. When
in council, messages were delivered in a whisper
through some inferior chief, who, in his turn,
addressed the monarch in a low voice, and
always with his face turned aside. One
punishment for evil-doers — if, indeed, any of
such a blameless race could be so called — was
1 the kings censure which exposed them to
universal shame.

The prime minister, who never left the
island, was next in rank to the king, and was
always first consulted by him. He never
bore arms, nor was he distinguished by the
Order of the Bone. Neither Mr. Eedmayne
nor Conolly were ever invited to his house, as
they were to that of the other chiefs ; he
remained a mystery to them.

Here Conolly paused in his narration, which,
perhaps, had more interest for Edith than he
had any idea of, since he was describing a
land that in all probability would be her
home. He perceived that she was listening
with attention, but it suddenly struck him
that these details were not only well known to

two of his little audience, "but might seem
impertinent and even disagreeable to them.

The prince, mistaking the reason of his
silence, observed with a smile, that the prime
minister was the wisest of the king's counsellors,
and selected from the whole people because
of his sagacity. His intelligence forbade
him to accept any mere tokens of honour,
as also the gifts which otherwise would have
been showered upon him. His life was one
of extreme simplicity, and the sole reason
why he had not asked the Englishmen to his
dwelling was, doubtless, because it was a
mere hut, and therefore unworthy of their
attention.

Conolly explained that it was not curiosity
about the prime minister that had made him
pause, but the reflection that what he was
saying might seem an intrusion upon the
prince's private affairs.

Indeed," said Tarilam, with a gentle smile,
that is not so, Deltis ; you are welcome to
tell anything you have seen among my people,
of whom, though simple and ignorant, I have
no reason to feel ashamed."

In truth, he may well say that, Miss Edie,"
said the midshipman, warmly, " for it is a
fact, that not only perjury, but falsehood of
any kind is absolutely unknown among them.
Moreover, though the Amracs use poisoned
arrows, the Bredans do not do so from moral
scruples, which, of course, places them at a
great disadvantage in their wars with their
neighbours."

"The advantage was on onr side this
time, at all events," observed the prince,
with modesty, " for we had the thunder
guns."

Also," continued the midshipman, " the
Bredans do not think it fair to make an
attack on an enemy by night."

Then he went on to describe their weapons :
the spears twelve feet long, for throwing, which
could be launched with certainty for sixty
feet ; and the spears, eighteen feet long, for
close quarters ; the dart and the sling — the
latter, a piece of wood with a notch for the
dart to lie in : and their daggers made of the

5 no

sting of the crayfish. Their canoes were all made
of the trunk of a tree like the English ash,

and those used in war were painted red both
within and without, and inlaid with shells.
The smallest vessels held five people, and the
largest thirty-five ; and anything more beautiful
than the Bredann fleet when collected for
the expedition, was never seen upon the sea.
When the weather permitted it to start, it
numbered more than two hundred canoes, onboard
of which were fifteen hundred men.
In each boat there was only one spearman
besides the rowers. On reaching the enemy's
coast a small canoe met them bearing four
men, each with a white feather in his hair,
in sign of parley and, as the English thought,
of submission. This, however, was far from
beincr the case. The chief of the Amracs
demanded that certain injuries to their people
committed by the Bredans should be redressed,
but more particularly that they
should give up all claim to the island of
Faybur and its present inhabitants, including
its goddess, whom it was the fixed intention
of the Amrac nation to import into their own
country as a guardian deity, to whom they
looked for great prosperity. These terms

being rejected, the Amrac fleet came out to
give battle to the invaders.

With a view to make their victory more
complete by waiting till the whole force was
engaged, the English reserved their fire, and
in the first discharge of arrows Mr. Redmayne
received his death wound. On seeing him
fall, the Amrac fleet set up a shout of triumph,
which was answered by a discharge of musketry.
The effect of it was amazing ; the unaccustomed
noise and the flashes of the fire
appalled the enemy, and when they saw their
people drop without apparently receiving a
blow, and perceived that they had holes in
their bodies in which no spear was sticking,
they broke and fled in the wildest disorder.
No less than a hundred canoes were sunk and
fifty taken. The conduct of the prisoners,
some of whom were of high rank, was curious
in the extreme. The majority exhibited a
stolid resignation, and, untying their hair,
which was tressed in a huge bunch at the top
of their heads, let it fall over their faces in
token of submission ; but the few who were
distinguished by a bone bracelet on their wrist

defended themselves with the utmost obstinacy,
and only in one case was one taken alive.
This warrior had both his arms broken by
musket balls, and when taken into Conolly's
canoe never took his eyes from the midshipman's
face ; in all the pain of his wound, and
in the prospect of immediate dissolution,
seeming to be impressed by nothing so much
as the colour of his novel enemy. There was
no slaughter of the prisoners, but all dead,
whether friends or enemies, were at once
thrown into the sea.

THE INVESTITURE.

The young midshipman's account of the
contest, though it had its interest for all, was
listened to with very different feelings by the
members of his audience. Aunt Sophia regarded
it with horror, not only as a picture of
savage strife, but as a specimen page out of
a book of life with which it was only too
probable they might be one day more familiar.
Edith showed little emotion, but kept her
eyes fixed on Tarilam, as though the contemplation
of his noble face was an antidote
to what would have been otherwise revolting,
and seemed to find in it the reassurance of
which she doubtless stood in need. Majuba,
though shrinking from the details of slaughter,
wore a look of conscious pride, not only when
the naval powers of her people were alluded

to, but when the indifference to death manifested
by the chieftains of her hereditary foes
was dwelt upon.

We too, you see, savages as you may
deem us," her face seemed to say, " are not
altogether devoid of heroism."

Tarilam listened to it with grave and philosophic
face, as he might have listened to anything
else which had a foregone conclusion.
He was thinking less of what was said than of
its effect upon those who heard it.

What has happened," he thoughtfully remarked,
when Conolly had finished. " may
seem deplorable, but it could hardly have been
avoided. Even among civilized people I am
told that war is not uncommon. In this war
it was absolutely necessary to chastise a
barbarous race who have always interfered
with our peace and quietness. Thanks to the
aid the captain lent us, there will be now
peace in Breda for years to come."

There is something in that," admitted
Aunt Sophia, less interested in general principles
of government than in their practical
application to herself and her belongings. She

had looked upon Amrac and its inhabitants as
merely an item in that long list of ' disagreeable
' which she foresaw Fate had in store
for them, and rejoiced that there was now at
least one the less.

The idea may not have been without its
weight with Edith, but her mind was much
more made up than that of the elder lady as
regarded her future. On the other hand, the
claims of personal friendship were as yet far
stronger with her than those of the country she
was about to adopt as her own. In her heart
of hearts she not only mourned Mr. Eedmayne's
loss more than that of all the Bredans that had
fallen, but grudged it, as too great a sacrifice
for the end accomplished. What was such a
victory, what was even the national benefit
conferred upon the victors, in comparison with
the violent death of one of her own race she
had so long known and respected ? Love, it is
said, is beyond all things a partisan ; but with
Edith it had its limits in that direction. The
prospect that awaited her could hardly be said
to be a welcome one, but she had resolved
to accept it, and almost to make the best of it.

Curiously enough, she found the greatest
obstacles to contend with in what seemed
matters of small importance. The ignorance
of Tarilam's fellow-countrymen — which was
after all their inexperience, and which, in the
case of the prince himself, and even in that of
Majuba, only gave the impression of a pleasing
simplicity — affected her like a personal
humiliation. The easily awakened ridicule
of the sailors at the gaucherie and blunders of
their new friends gave her exquisite pain. In
uniting herself with one whom she firmly
believed to be one of the noblest of men, she
could not forget the race from which he
sprang. The disgrace of ancestry is comparatively
a small matter, except to very small
minds, because its dishonour is invisible and
lies in the grave, but in her case it met herat
every turn. Only when alone with Tarilam
or his sister could she forget it. Even the
behaviour of the king himself, though she had
learnt to admire his character exceedingly,
filled her with confusion, which might well
be termed ' twice confounded,' for she was
ashamed of herself for being ashamed of him.

An example of this of an unusually striking
kind took place within a few days. King
Taril came over to Faybur in great state to
thank his allies for the assistance they had
rendered him. Nothing could have been
more gracious or considerate than the manner
in which he expressed himself. Passing by
all mention of his own share and that of his
nation in the late victory, he ascribed it solely
to the English, and dwelt with regret upon
the loss sustained in championing his quarrel.
In feeling, as Aunt Sophia justly said, this
untutored monarch was as true a gentleman
as ever sat on a throne, but in practical
matters he could only use such tools as laid
to his hand. A philosophic mind might well
have regarded the savage pomp surrounding
him, and the slavish submission that was paid
him by his ordinary subjects, with indifference,
or even perceived in it precisely the
same elements that make up the more civilized
manifestations of respect for royalty ; but
upon Edith's mind, who was on this occasion
an unwilling but indispensable witness of
them, they jarred with a sharp sense of

pain. The blowing of conch shells, the
flourishing of paddles, the prostration of the
oarsmen on the shore, and the bated breath
with which even his nobles — always with
averted face — addressed the king, had something
to her of tragedy as well as farce. She
could not watch the show as a looker-on, nor
even with the comparative indifference of
the captain, who on this occasion had a part
to play in it himself, which he would very
willingly, had refusal been possible without
offence, have declined.

The king had announced his intention to
award him the high order of ' the Bone,' an
honour, as has been said, only bestowed upon
the greatest chiefs, and it was the knowledge
that this greatness was to be bestowed on him,
which had made the good captain so satirical
when speaking of his Majesty to Aunt Sophia.

The investiture of a Knight of the Garter is
not without its humorous features, which a
consideration of the merits of the case may
sometimes heighten, perhaps, rather than otherwise
; but such a ceremony shorn of those
externals which have so wittily been said to

leave majesty ■ a jest was ludicrous indeed.
If Breda had possessed a ' Court Journal,' the
ceremony would have been thus described.

The king and his nobles stood tog-ether
apart, while the captain sat in front of them
at a little distance : the kind's brother advanced
with the circlet and inquired of him
which hand he used in common. This question
was not, however, to be replied to
verbally, which would have been contrary to
etiquette. A stone was placed in each hand,
with a request that he should throw it to a
distance, and the ordeal having proved the left
to be less in use, the left wrist was elected
for the proposed honour. Unfortunately,
however, the captain's frame was somewhat
thickset, and the circlet, not being elastic,
like a garter, had to be rasped away to fit
it. Even then it would not go on. Strings
were therefore attached to the captain's fingers,
and his hand having been plentifully lubricated
with cocoa-nut oil, the king's brother
held him fast by the shoulder, and three nobles
already decorated with the order, were set
to work to pull at the strings. The most

VOL. III. H

profound silence was preserved among the
natives during this trying ceremony, and was
only once broken by the captain, who, as the
magic circlet was painfully compressed on the
joints of his hand, was heard to murmur,
'•' Damn the bone ! " The exclamation, however,
was fortunately drowned in the shouts
of applause that hailed the success of the
operation.

Some men, we are told, are born to greatness
; others achieve it ; and others, again,
have greatness thrust upon them. This last
was, very literally, the captain's case. He
had an Englishman's contempt for all distinctions
conferred by any sovereign save his
own. He did not look upon the ruler of Breda,
however absolute and powerful, as a sovereign
from the right mint, or even as a sovereign at
all. He had an uneasy consciousness that the
spectators of his own nation were with difficulty
suppressing their mirth, and he was suffering
acute physical pain.

Nevertheless, under these untoward circumstances,
he had to listen with a grateful
countenance to the royal congratulations.

You will take care, I trust," said the king
with dignified gravity, "that this token of
honour is rubbed bright every day, and preserved
as a testimony of the rank conferred
upon you ; and I adjure you to defend it
valiantly and never to suffer it to be torn
from your wrist save with the loss of life."
A promise, considering what it had cost him
to get it on, the captain had no scruple in
giving with much effusion.

Edith watched the proceedings with feelings
which she was utterly unconscious of expressing
in her face, till she heard Tarilam whisper
in her ear —

"It is a poor thing to give your captain,
dear Edie, it is true ; but it is the only thins:
we have to give."

It was the first time that anything like a
reproof had passed the prince's lips, and it
touched her to the quick. She not only felt
the pity for him that is akin to love, but the
keenest remorse upon her own account ; his
assumption of authority — if so slight and indirect
a rebuke could so be called — so far

from being resented, was positively agreeable

H 2

to her, not as a pious novice welcomes a
penance, but as a symbol of domestic supremacy.
If she did not look forward with effusion
to the wearing of the marriage ring, she
henceforth felt that the obstacles to her doing
so were less serious ; that it would slip on,
at all events, with less difficulty than the
captain's bracelet had done. She was not
only resigned to her fate, but, so far as
Tarilam was concerned, could even honestly
call it her good fortune. Her affection did
not indeed stand in need of increase ; everyday
passed in his company seemed to reveal
some new vein of gentleness and goodness in
his character ; it was her philosophy as regarded
his belongings that required fortifying,
and as it chanced this also had now happened
to her at the very time when the tie of
personal attachment was drawn tighter than
it had ever been before.

The king and his nobles had accepted the
captain's hospitality for seven days, and his
manner towards her was so kind and delicate,
as well as obviously genuine, that she sometimes
found herself forgetting that he had the

power of life and death, and eat his fish with
his fingers. What pleased her most, however,
was to see other people forgetting it, and in
particular to hear Aunt Sophia speak to her
of the monarch of Breda as " that dear old
gentleman." What, in short, had first appeared
impossible, and then improbable, was becoming
an accomplished fact ; and though no one
outside what might be called the family circle,
save the captain, was aware of Edith's engagement,
it only remained for her, in mercy
as well as justice to her lover — for she was
well convinced it was a matter which his
intense diffidence and humility would prevent
him from pressing upon her — to fix the day
on which he niisrkt call her his own.

THE DERELICT.

Exactly a fortnight after the little breakfast
party at Ladies' Bay had received the
news of battle, it was interrupted by another
messenger bearing still more important and
utterly unlooked-for tidings. Conolly ran past
the open window, waving his cap and shouting
something which haste and excitement
rendered inaudible, and then rushed into the
room crying, " A sail ! a sail ! "

Do you mean a ship ? " exclaimed Aunt
Sophia, starting to her feet in agitation.

Yes, an English ship making for the
island. Hark, there speaks the signal from
the look-out," and as he spoke the thunder of
one of the great guns woke for the first time
the echoes of the surrounding hills.

She was signalled from the hill ten

minutes ago," the boy went on, with breathless
vehemence. " but we could not believe our
eyes. John Newman has just run down to
tell us. It is an English ship, he says, an
Indiamen, like our dear old Ganges, and now
we shall all get home again."

Heaven be praised ! " ejaculated Aunt
Sophia earnestly.

Edith dropped her head, and her pale lips
murmured something inaudible.

But you must all come out and see the
ship," persisted the midshipman, too excited
to perceive the effect his tidings had produced
upon the girl.

"In a minute or two, my dear boy, we will
be with you," replied Aunt Sophia, evasively ;
and off he ran, grudging to lose any portion of
the spectacle of the approaching vessel. To
him it was the harbinger of joy ; and so, for
the moment, it had seemed to the speaker.
The thought of returning; to her native land
had wholly monopolized her mind. Only
when she caught sio;ht of Edith's face was
she reminded that to her niece's ears, since
she had plighted faith with the prince, this

news brought no message of freedom — nay,
that it would make her future position even
less tolerable by its isolation and the loss
of all her friends.

Edith, darling," she cried, vehemently,
' there must be a limit to all self-sacrifice. If
you feel the abnegation demanded of you too
much for your strength, as well you may,
leave the matter in my hands. Let me plead
for you with dear Tarilam. What has now
happened could not have been foreseen, and
overrules what has taken place between you.
His noble nature will admit it, and will absolve
you from a promise made under circumstances
which no longer exist. In sending us this
ship, when all hope of revisiting England
seemed lost to us, the finger of Providence
itself has beckoned you home."

Edith listened till the other had finished,
without sign or sound. Except that she
kept her gaze steadily fixed upon Tarilam, she
might have been a marble statue. " Do not
tempt me, Sophy darling," she answered in
the other's ear in never-to-be-forgotten tones ;
you make the path of duty harder for me."

Then, with a bright smile that illumined her
white face like moonlight upon snow, she rose to
her feet, and advancing with firm step to her
lover, who sat with his eyes upon the ground
as though submissively awaiting her decision,
laid her hand lovingly upon his shoulder.
The very pressure of her fingers told him at
what decision she had arrived before she spoke.

The prince sprang to his feet, and with a
look of ineffable gratitude and content, clasped
her in his arms. " Here is my home," she said,
returning his embrace, " which I will never
quit till death beckons me away. When you
are back in England, Sophy dear" — here her
voice trembled a little in spite of all her
efforts — "you must think of me as a happy
woman. Tarilam has given me his all, and I
have given him all I have to give. He will
not mind if, now and then, perchance, my
look is sad with thinking of you, dear, so faraway."
Here she wholly broke down and hid
her face in Tarilam's breast.

He shall never see it so," exclaimed Aunt
Sophia impulsively. " I will never leave you
nor forsake you, Edie dear. Even as Ruth

clave to Naomi in the old times, so will I
cleave to you. ' Whither thou goes I will go,
and where thou longest I will lodge ; thy
people shall be my people ; ' so help me
Heaven, nought but death shall part thee
and me."

It was difficult to recognize Aunt Sophia
as she poured forth those noble words ; her
homely face was transfigured by the grandeur
of her self-sacrifice. Majuba, who had sat
silent and troubled throughout this painful
scene, which she only half understood, gazed
at her with such awed amazement as might
have been awakened in some Delphian girl by
the inspired sibyl.

No, no, no ! " cried Edith demonstratively,
that must never be."

But I say ' yes,' " answered Aunt Sophia :
whom have I to love but you ? How can I
spend what little remains to me of life, more
usefully, more wisely, nay, more happily, than
by my darling's side. You may count upon
my companionship as settled, Edie," she added
with tender earnestness. " And now, Majuba,
these two young people had better be left

together for a little, while } 7 ou and I go and
see the ship come in."

It was a spectacle to which she felt that
Edith was just now by no means equal, and
indeed it was one which she herself had need to
summon all the forces of her courage and resolution
to face. "Without setting too great a store
on her own value, she could not but be aware
that her promise to share her niece's exile had
robbed it of half its terrors for her ; having
once made the offer, it could never be cancelled,
and she did not repent it ; nevertheless
the sight that awaited her in Eescue Bay filled
her with many a bitter pang. Every eye
was fixed upon the approaching vessel and
every tongue was discoursing of it with eager
joy. Men by no means given to the melting
mood were softened by home thoughts, and
shook one another by the hand in wild congratulation.
It almost seemed that all that
resignation and philosophy they had shown
for so many months had been a mere mask
to hide their passionate yearnings for their
native land ; already the husband saw in
imagination his wife welcoming him, long lost,

but not despaired of, to his home ; the father
beheld his child ; the brother his sister. The
captain looked ten years younger than he
had done an hour ago ; an immense weight
of responsibility had been lifted from his
shoulders, and his face flushed with pleasure
as he reflected that all this great human
family which had been committed to his
charge — a trust that had not been misused —
were about to be restored to their belongings.
Master Conolly had a telescope, which he
pressed upon Aunt Sophia in broken tones.
"I do not want it, I don't indeed," he said ;
and looking at his face it was easy to perceive
the reason. He was thinking; of the mother
who, after all, would see her boy again, and
the tears dimmed his sight.

The aspect of the approaching ship was
peculiar. She was of large size and had every
stitch of sail spread, and as the wind was
favourable to her progress towards the island
her arrival might have been looked for within
an hour at the furthest, but there was something
strange, as even Aunt Sophia's unskilled
eyes could perceive, about her steering. She

came on without tacking, yet in a series of
zigzags. Her nationality was plain, for she
showed English colours, but otherwise she was
an enigma. She took not the slightest notice
of the signals made from the look-out, but
blindly staggered on like a drunken man. No
living creature could be descried upon her
deck, and but that she showed no trace of
harm from wind or wave, and rose up high
in the water, she might have been taken fora
wreck abandoned by her crew.

As she drew nearer, indeed, and, without
the least regard to the warnings from the
land, seemed to be making for the reef on
which the Ganges had come to grief, Captain
Head came to the conclusion that she was
without human guidance, and some sailors
were despatched in canoes with the object of
boarding her and bringing her into harbour,
an operation watched from shore with the
utmost eagerness and excitement. It was
doubtful whether the interest of the Bredann
spectators, who had never seen any craft
larger than the two boats belonging to the
Ganges, or that of the English, was the greater.

As the huge ship was steered through the
channel into the deep but calm waters that
fringed the bay, the exclamations of delight
from the natives mingled with a burst of
English cheers.

From the closest examination it appeared
that she had suffered no damage of any kind,
nor was there a sign of the existence of any
infectious disease such as the captain feared
might have caused her abandonment. On the
other hand, there was not so much as a ship's
biscuit, nor one drop of water in the way of
provision, and his opinion — no doubt a just
one, though it was never corroborated — was
that the ship, having been driven out of her
course like the Ganges by rough weather, had
been afterwards caught in one of those protracted
calms, which, according to the testimony
of the natives, alternated with storms
in that latitude, and that the crew, with
starvation staring them in the face, had taken
to their boats with such small store of food
as still remained to them, and worn out by
toil and privation, had probably perished.

Compassion, however, for the sufferings of

those whom we have never seen, or even
heard of — and much less when, as in this case,
the matter is problematical and uncertain — is
necessarily but of a transitory kind, and such
considerations were soon forgotten in the
general joy. What to others, it was only too
probable, had been a catastrophe, seemed to
the castaways on the shores of Fay bur a signal
act of mercy. They had found, ready to their
hand, in all respects save one — that of provisions
— the means of transporting themselves
to their native land. It was no wonder,
therefore, that their self-congratulations were
excessive ; what was much more surprising
was that their guests, the Bredans, should
exhibit such satisfaction in what had happened
; yet such was the amiability of their
dispositions that, notwithstanding the obvious
loss the departure of allies so powerful would
inflict upon them, they expressed the most
genuine pleasure at their good fortune.

How lucky it is," said the captain to Aunt
Sophia, " that matters have gone no further
as regards Tarilam and Miss Edith ; though
while congratulating you upon what we must

needs now consider her fortunate escape, I
cannot but pity the poor prince, to whom
we are under so many obligations."

Then Aunt Sophia told him how Edith
meant to keep her plighted word, and how
she herself had resolved to share her niece's
exile.

The captains weather-beaten face grew
tender as he listened, and when she had done
he held out both his hands to her. "You
are two angels," he murmured with much
emotion. " I dare not say what I think of
you both, or you would call me an idolater.
If our places were reversed it would be impossible
that I could imitate such self-denial ;
nt the most I can only estimate it at its proper
value. We men call ourselves brave ; but
compared with women such as you we are
but as mice to lions. I will not attempt to
dissuade either of you from treading a path
of duty so high and so precipitous that it
well might make you dizzy to contemplate it ;
but perhaps the mouse may help the lions."

"You have helped us very much, dear
Captain Head," said Aunt Sophia, feebly smiling

; " when I think of all you have done
for us the tears stand in my eyes, as you
perceive ; but I fear the time has come when
it is fated that we must lose your aid."

I said ' perhaps " replied the captain with
earnest significance, and unwilling to witness
the tears she could not restrain, he turned
away abruptly.

Of course, Aunt Sophia knew he could not
really help matters ; no human aid could now
avert the strong current of circumstances that
was hurrying away Edith and herself into
regions new and strange ; but nevertheless
there was something in his words, independently
of their sympathy, which cheered her.

She returned to Ladies' Bay and gently
chilled Edith for remaining within doors while
such great events were happening ; her absence,
as she justly argued, could not fail to be
remarked upon sooner or later, and being
associated with that of Tarilam, must needs
betray her secret to everybody. That they
must now know it soon was true enough, but
it was better, she urged, that it should be told
by Edith's lips than gathered from idle gossip.

VOL. III. I

"You are right, dear," answered Edith, with
a little flush ; "I shall not be ashamed to tell
them."

To any one who saw Tarilam as he looked
that day, it would have been difficult indeed
to associate him with inferiority in any shape.
To his native dignity and faultless grace there
was added a look of calm content and happiness
as different from the bonfire glow of
triumph as is the serenity of a star. He
looked every inch a prince, but not less a
grateful lover. Majuba and he went down
to the shore and met with something like an
ovation. The high spirits of the English overflowed
in all directions, and their feelings of
amity towards the Rredans, heretofore but
too much mitigated by prejudice and even
jealousy, knew no bounds now that they were
about to bid adieu to them. The appearance
of the two ladies was the signal for a burst
of cheering ; and they were overwhelmed on
all sides by congratulations upon their approaching
deliverance, every word of which
caused them infinite embarrassment and pain.

All this time the king and the captain

talked apart, with an earnestness and gravity
that forbade interruption. The difficulty of
making themselves intelligible to one another

CD O

no doubt prolonged the interview, but its
duration was something portentous. At last
the knotty point appeared to be settled, and
the king beckoned to his son to join them,
when the conversation was ao-ain renewed.

The presence of the vessel in harbour attracted
the eves of all the rest, including even
those of Edith. Her mind was full of thoughts
unutterable, or which she would have perished
rather than utter, as she gazed upon the ship
that was to bear all her countrymen away
from her for ever ; but Aunt Sophia, with the
remembrance of the captain's ' perhaps ' in
her mind, threw many a glance in his direction
and trembled with vague hopes and fears.
Was it possible, she wondered, that the
captain had persuaded the king to use his
influence — which was paramount with his son
to release her niece from her eno-ao-ement ?
A cruel thought as regarded poor Tarilam. it
may be said, and one unworthy of her ; but
Aunt Sophia, unselfish and self-sacrificing as

she had proved herself to be, had the weaknesses
of her sex as well as its virtues ; nor
could it be said of her, in a matter in which,
as she thought, her niece's happiness was
concerned, that though she loved Edith much,
she loved honour more.

Presently, as she watched the trio, she saw
the captain draw aside from his two companions
and make a sign to her to come to
him, and, quitting Edith and Majuba without
a word, she followed him to a quiet corner of
the camp.

You have news for me, I know, dear
captain," she exclaimed excitedly, as he
motioned to her to be seated. " Is it possible
it may be good news ? "

I rather flatter myself it is," he answered,
with a chuckle. " I told you a while ago,
you know, that the mouse might help the
lion, and I think I may fairly say that after
a deal of nibbling he has done it. I have
made a hole in the net that held you and
Miss Edith big enough for you both to crawl
through."

DEPARTURE.

The relief the captain's words afforded to
Aunt Sophia was unspeakable. She had so
long been accustomed to trust in him, and
was so well aware that he never took for
granted what he was not perfectly sure of,
that she had no doubt of his good tidings.
Feeling thus confident of Edith's escape from
her troubles, it was not surprising, and,
indeed, high time, that her conscience should
feel a twinge or two upon Tarilam's account.

I thank heaven and I thank you, dear
Captain Head, with all my heart," she exclaimed,
u for this unlooked-for mercy ; but
how does the poor prince bear it \ "

Bear it ? How should he bear it ? Why,
like a man, of course."

Aunt Sophia looked both amazed and

alarmed ; she began to think that she had
been a great deal too sanguine ; for if Tarilam
had borne such a disappointment 'like a
man,' it could certainly not have been what
she had taken it for.

You don't mean to say," she gasped,
that he does not mind our going away to
England ? "

On the contrary, he likes the idea. I got
the king to put it to him on patriotic grounds.
Told him about Peter the Great lodging in
Katcliff Highway, and fired his ambition."

The terrible thought struck Aunt Sophia
that the captain's brain had given way under
the pressure of excitement. " I don't quite
understand what you are talking about," she
murmured timidly. " I was saying that I
feared the poor prince would not much like
being left behind."

Left behind ! Gad, I should think not t
Why of course he's going with you. Then
Miss Edith and he can have the banns put up
in ship shape fashion and be married by a
bishop if she likes. There will be no occasion
for Mr. Ainsworth's services, and our people

here need not know anything about it. I
think it will be better under the present circumstances
that they should not. Don't faint,
there's a good creature — it's worse than crying.
Here's the king."

This was a little ruse of the captain's to
bring Aunt Sophia to herself, for in point of
fact there was no kino and it succeeded to
admiration. The good news she had just
received, with its only drawback thus happily
removed, had been too much for her. Perhaps
she had never quite pictured to herself how
great was the self-abnegation she had contemplated
in remaining with Edith till the
necessity for it was thus done away with. As
soon as he saw she was recovered, the captain,
with great good judgment, quitted the realms
of sentiment and entered into the details of
his scheme.

Knowing the king's love for his people, he
had pictured to him the immense advantages
that would flow to them from a visit of the
prince, with some of his attendants, to England.
He could rely upon the well-known
generosity and gratitude of ' John Company '

to send them back to Breda in a ship laden
with every article that could be useful to the
friendly islanders ; and in view of so vast a
national boon he had ventured to urge that
even separation from his only son would not
be too great a sacrifice.

The struggle between patriotism and paternal
love in Taril's bosom had been sharp but brief,
for his nature was cast not only in regal but
heroic mould. He was well aware that if the
prince left him as Edith's accepted lover it
would be for ever. It was too much to expect
that, after once being reunited to her own
people, she should return of her own free will
to a barbarous and alien land ; he knew, too,
not only that Tarilam's happiness was bound
up in hers, but that he was fitted by nature,
as no other of his race had ever been, to reap
the benefits and enjoyments of civilization.
His feelings were something akin to those of a
father, full of Christian faith, who is about to
lose a good and virtuous son by death ; he felt
that he was going to a better land, and one
more suited to his gifts. The captain from his
scanty store of historic knowledge had 

the example of Peter the Great, as one
who had left his country for his country's good,
and shown a parallel between his case and
that of Tarilam. But the fact was that Taril
himself was a counterpart of Peter, without
his vices ; in all his royal instincts as great a
king, and far less, by nature, of a savage.

His will had always been a law to his offspring,
and now that both love and duty
demanded Tarilam's obedience, it was hardly
to be gainsaid ; still, it had not been without
many a pang of remorse that the prince had
consented to bereave his father of his only son.

Aunt Sophia's gentle nature was touched to
the core by the captain's recital. "What was
my sacrifice, of which you made so much," she
exclaimed with enthusiasm, " compared with
what King Taril has done ! "

He has helped to restore the average on
behalf of my sex in the matter of unselfishness,
no doubt," admitted the captain. " I shall now
view this ridiculous bone bracelet of his with
less dissatisfaction than I should have thought
possible. They are noble fellows, both father
and son."

They are, indeed," cried Aunt Sophia.
See, Tarilam has beckoned to his sister ; he
means to tell her what has happened even
before he tells clear Edith, because it is she
whom he is about to leave, and not the other.
That is a fine trait."

No doubt," assented the captain. " Moreover,
it gives you the opportunity of getting a
word with your niece alone. Take her home
at once, and break the good news to her. I
envy you the sight of the sunshine it will
bring into her pretty face."

There was excuse enough in the occurrences
of the day for the tender gravity with which
Aunt Sophia took her niece's arm, and led
her away from the busy scene. Yet, ere they
had reached Ladies' Bay, and before she had
spoken a word of what she had to tell, Edith
suddenly stopped, and said in a faltering
tone —

I hope, clear Aunt Sophia, no attempt has
been made to alter matters between me and
Tarilam."

The confabulation between the king and the
captain, and afterwards between the captain

and her aunt, had not escaped her notice ; she
had made up her mind as to her future, and
was unwilling that the "low beginnings of
content" should be interfered with by any
new arrangement.

"Not altered, darling, only improved," said
Aunt Sophia softly ; "as soon as we reach
home and are quite alone you shall hear all."

The precaution would have seemed to be
unnecessary, for, to the narrator's surprise and
disappointment, Edith received her tidings,
not only with tranquillity, but with a calmness
very like regret.

Good heavens ! you are surely glad, my
dear, that we are going back to old England % "
exclaimed Aunt Sophia, with amazement.

Yes, I am glad. I am most sincerely glad.
Do not think me ungrateful, Sophy dear, but
remember, it will not be ' old England ' tome."


In the other's natural joy at their unexpected
enfranchisement, she had almost forgotten
the reasons, though they had been
stated to her and she had admitted their force,
which had made exile so tolerable and even

welcome to her niece, and this reply struck
her almost as a revelation. If she had known
that those words, " I am most sincerely glad,"
were uttered for her own sake, and not from
the heart of the speaker, she would have been
even more distressed ; for the simple fact was
that her tidings were unwelcome.

Edith had, indeed, made up her mind to bean
exile under conditions as unpalatable, save
for the devotion of her betrothed, as were ever
offered to woman ; but to return to the country
of Charles Layton with Tarilam as her
accepted lover was an alternative that seemed
more distasteful still. The objections to it
were innumerable, and they seemed to her in
that short instant to gather themselves together
and press against it with superlative
force ; but it was impossible that Aunt Sophia
should be allowed to sacrifice herself a second
time for her sake, as it was certain she would
do if her niece elected to stay. After this one
reminder, therefore — wrung from her in that
moment of distressed surprise — of the changed
conditions under which she was about to revisit
her native land, Edith uttered no word of

dissent or discontent. If her behaviour evinced
less satisfaction than was expected of her, it
was set down by the captain to her credit, as
being unwilling to exhibit her joy in a case
where her lover, in the persons of his father
and his sister, was so great a loser.

King Taril and Majuba, themselves so
careful of the feelings of those they loved,
naturally took the same view. If there was
one other who was not so easily deceived, the
modesty of his requirements in all that concerned
the object of his devotion at least
made him easily contented.

It was his humble hope that with the
greater advantages that would now be open
to him, he might in time make himself less
unworthy of her.

The feelings of the tenants of Ladies' Bay,
including King Taril, now its constant visitor,
were indeed in strong contrast to those of
the other inhabitants of Faybur; the joy
and excitement which possessed the latter,
however, prevented them from taking notice
of the fact, and the engagement between the
two young people — though it was known of

course that the prince and his attendants were
to visit England — was as much a secret to the
whole ship's company, save the captain, as
heretofore.

In the mean time the preparations for embarkation
went on apace. The vessel which
was to carry the castaways home, and which
they fitly named the Deliverance, had everything
on board that they required, except
provisions. Just as though they were in
London, and were moving into a furnished
house, they had only to transfer to it their
personal effects. As to stores, in a few weeks
she was so laden with supplies from King
Taril's bounty, and also with the voluntary
offerings of the kindly Bredans, that there was
some doubt whether she would be able to
leave the harbour into which she had entered
with such ease. When the day came for their
departure there were at least five hundred
canoes in the little bay, full of natives come
to bid them farewell, and each with some
offering by way of remembrance. In vain
were they told that there was no room for
more. " Only this from me ; only this from

me," was the general cry, accompanied by
such supplicatory gestures and tearful eyes
as almost made the sailors themselves exhibit
similar emotion.

The parting between Taril and the prince
touched every heart. The king begged him to
look upon the captain as another father, and the
latter, on his part, assured the king that he
would do his best to repay the debt of gratitude
he owed him by every kindness to his son.
"I am well aware." were the kind's last
words, " that in the distant country he is
about to visit he will be exposed not only
to danger (from which I look to you to guard
him), but to diseases that are unknown to us
here, and from which he may even die."
Here he was silent for a little, restraining his
deep emotion with native dignity. " I have
prepared my thoughts for this. You will be
kind to him, I know, in sickness, but death
you cannot arrest. I shall not blame you."
Then, turning with a pathetic smile to Edith,
he added, " Xor, though you, like Death (and
yet so unlike him), are taking my son away,
pretty one, do I blame you."

Such a farewell between persons apparently
so alien and incongruous was probably never
seen. Edith and Aunt Sophia were bathed in
tears. The captain himself was so moved
that he could hardly give the necessary orders
for setting; sail. As the vessel drew ahead,
the natives whose presents had been declined
paddled in front of it and threw on board
their yams and cocoa-nuts and flowers, with
renewed expressions of affection. " We are
happy because you are going home," they
cried, "but very unhappy to see you are
going away." The king stood on the shore,
majestic and erect, waving his hand, and
apparently unmoved ; but it might be almost
said that the whole nation was in tears, and it
was with difficulty that the sailors themselves
found voice for their three cheers.

HUMILIATIONS.

The change in the fortunes of those who
manned the Deliverance was so great and
unlooked-for that it seemed to them like a
transformation scene upon the stage, in the
reality of which they could scarcely believe.
It put them all, save one — Mr. Bates, who
still nursed his wrongs and showed in every
way he dared his antipathy to the captain — in
the highest good humour. They felt like men
buried alive who suddenly find themselves
restored to fresh air and sunshine ; or like
school-boys who were going home before their
time, in consequence of a providential outbreak
of scarlatina. They counted the days
that must intervene before, under the most
favourable conditions, they could hope to

VOL. III. K

reach their native land, and yet found none of
them too long.

To Edith Norbury neither the future nor
the present wore so rose-coloured a hue. Yet
the change in her position was far greater
than in their case, and, considering what she
had escaped, might well be considered more
advantageous. The revolution in her fortunes
had been two-fold. A few weeks as;o she had
looked forward (though certainly without effusion)
to a new life, the drawbacks to which
would have been intensified by backward
glances at the old one. She was now returning
to her old life, but under such circumstances
as made her regard it with disrelish,
and even dismay.

It was not only that the prospect of revisiting
England awoke a thousand tender and
regretful memories which she had believed
were laid asleep for ever, and would doubtless
have so lain had she remained in exile, but
that Tarilam himself lost something of that
attraction which, though deep and genuine
enough, had, doubtless, owed something to his
position and surroundings. He was as gentle,

kind, and devoted to her as ever ; the gracious
simplicity of his nature made him as much
the idol of the ship's company as of his own
attendants ; but he was no longer the enchanted
prince who had saved her from the
teeth of the shark and the poison of the arrow.
The wardrobe of Mr. Marston had been laid
under contribution for him, and, in his European
clothes, he looked not only as handsome,
but almost as much to the manner born, as in
his native gear. But for his speech, as the
captain said, he might easily have been mistaken
for a young English gentleman of birth
and breeding who had spent some years in the
tropics.

This easy assumption of her own nationality,
which was, in fact, the result of natural
grace, was somehow disagreeable to Edith ; it
reminded her of what she would fain have
forgotten ; if he did not absolutely become in
her eyes (what, being so different, he had
hitherto never been) the successful rival of her
dead lover, he suggested rivalry where, withall
her regard for him, she could not brook it.
What was very curious, his unlikeness to the

K 2

character he had thus involuntarily assumed,
distressed her even more than his aptitude for
it. The ignorance which he had displayed in
Fayhur had amused her, and had even been a
source of attraction ; it had pleased her to be
his tutor. There had been something touching
in the simplicity of one so highly placed
and endowed with such splendid physical
gifts. But on board the Deliverance, and still
more when the ship touched land, and he was
first introduced to the scenes of civilization,
this ignorance of the prince, which he exhibited
without the least reserve, filled her
with vexation and even shame.

Their first port, as it happened, was St.
Helena, a modest example enough of a civilized
community, but what he saw there —
indeed, it might almost be said all he saw
there — excited in him the rapture of a child.
That he had never heard of Napoleon Bonaparte
was nothing surprising — some of his
English companions had perhaps but little
advantage of him in that matter ; but the
state of astonishment into which he was thrown
by the sight of a man on horseback naturally

reflected itself in all beholders. He had never
before beheld any animal with four legs, and
the spectacle of such an abnormal creature in
combination with a man aroused in him —
only too naturally — the wildest amazement.
To discover that this portent — or at least
the equine portion of it — declined to eat
oranges, filled him with the liveliest disappointment.


His eye was as observant as his mind, and
both were bewildered. With all his good
sense it was impossible that, placed in so
novel a position, he could have the sense of
proportion. The present of a string of glass
beads threw him into an ecstasy. He felt
that he had in his hands the wealth of the
Indies, and besought Captain Head to hire a
vessel to take them to Breda, the cost of
which he offered to repay by three of them,
as the knights of old used to give largesse by
tearing off a link of their chains. The only
drawback to his childish happiness at the
spectacle of any novelty was that the king,
his father, could not also behold it.

Though he had learnt to write after a fashion,

lie preferred to keep his memoranda in the
Breda fashion, which was by knots upon a
string. When anything struck him as extraordinary,
he made a knot of it, and as almost
everything did so strike him, he not only soon
came to an end of his string, but, to his great
distress, often forgot what had aroused his
curiosity. Upon being taken to see a school*
and shown its maps and books, he exclaimed
pathetically, "Alas! I am the youngest child
here." When asked to exhibit his native accomplishments,
he would comply with willingness,
and in all those of an athletic nature
delighted his audience ; but with the same
good nature he would comply with a request
for a native song, than which nothing more
discordant and barbarous ever fell on human
ear. It is unnecessary to multiply the occasions
on which his extreme simplicity was
manifested. Its exhibition, though treated
with the utmost delicacy by those about him,
could not but excite the ridicule of strangers,
and every smile it evoked was to Edith a
bitter humiliation. With woman's art and
woman's chivalry she concealed this from the

world at large, but from her relative and companion,
though she never spoke of it to her,
she could not conceal it. Ten times a day
did Aunt Sophia wish themselves back in
Faybur, and, had it been possible, would, for
her niece's sake, have loyally returned thither,
though they were within a few weeks' sail of
home ; for, as she could not but reflect, if
Edith felt her lover's deficiencies even now,
how much more distressingly obvious must
they become in England !

When alone with him, indeed, the affectionate
admiration which Edith never ceased to feel
for him was as complete and undisturbed as
ever. It even pleased her, as of old, when he
came to her in his artless way for information
about this and that ; it was only when his
shortcomings were exposed to others that they
gave her any sense of pain. But in that case
the exhibition of his very virtues would sometimes
distress and grate upon her. His filial
love and duty often caused him to select
objects, intrinsically valueless, but whose
novelty took his fancy, to send to his father,
including even the furniture of the dinner-table

; and by way of apology for a choice
that seemed to need it, he would explain in
his simple fashion how in Breda the king himself
ate off the leaf of the cocoa-nut, drank
out of its shell, and used the husk for napkin.

To the philosophic mind such details would
have been of no account, or been even interesting
; but Edith, who was no philosopher,
shrank from them, nay, she even congratulated
herself on the fact that her eno-ao-ement
to the son of this too simple sovereign was
as yet unroll aimed, and then flushed with
shame at her cowardice.

The captain, as it happened, unconscious of
Edith's associations with the place, decided toland
at Portsmouth, which was a terrible trial
to her. The ship passed within a stone's
throw of the very rampart where Charles
Layton's interview with her had taken place,
and where she had exchanged with him those
vows of eternal fidelity. That scene was
separated by what might have seemed a lifetime
of adventure and strange experience, yet
it seemed to her to have taken place but
yesterday.

Your hand is cold, my darling," said
Tarilam, who stood beside her, lost in admiration
of the ships of war, the batteries on
shore, and the fluttering flags in harbour. It
was cold, indeed, as Death, and it was with
Death her thoughts were busy !

The captain had proposed that the two
ladies should be lodged at the hotel till he
could communicate with the authorities at the
India House as regarded the prince, but they
preferred to remain on ship-board. On the
fourth day the little party started for London
by coach, or, as Tarilam expressed it, in " a
house on wheels, which was run away with by
horses ; " it amazed him that even at night it
should still go on, and that while it went one
way the houses, fields, and trees should be
going the other.

It was arranged that, until Edith's affairs
could be looked into, she and her aunt should
take up their abode with the captain and an
unmarried sister of his in London, who kept
house for him when on shore. It was their
wish to live in the strictest retirement, which,
in Tarilam's case, was impossible. The report

of his arrival made no little public stir, and a
house was taken for him and his attendants
in the neighbourhood, by the East India
Company, who provided for their entertainment
on a very handsome scale.

His curiosity for seeing things, as well as the
invitations, some of them from persons of the
highest rank, which he was compelled to accept,
kept him much abroad, and although Edith
never failed to welcome him with dutiful affection,
his absence was, on the whole, a relief to
her. What he had to tell her — and which he
told with all the confidence of one who is sure
of sympathy in his hearer — was unpalatable,
if not absolutely distasteful to her. He was
eloquent on matters which to her were not
only common events, but things in which she
took no interest (there were few things indeed
that now had interest for her) ; of the kindness
shown him by the great, which, in her
eyes, was something worse than condescension
; or of his popularity with the crowd,
which he took for the national goodwill.
She was conscious, though she never confessed
it even to herself, that while her regard for

him was as great as ever, her return to
England had been the death-blow to that
growing affection, which, had she remained in
Faybur, might have blossomed into the perfect
flower of love. Every familiar scene
awakened memories of the man she had loved
and lost, and seemed to reproach her for her
infidelity to him. The spring of life was
broken within her, and all her remaining
strength was taxed to its uttermost to conceal
the fracture.

Fortunately, her hostess, a kind and old-fashioned
woman, penetrated with a sense of
the superior social position of her guests, left
them very much to themselves, and, with
Aunt Sophia, Edith had, at all events, no
necessity to act a part. She could be silent
without fear of questioning, and, even if she
aroused suspicion of how matters stood with
her, was at least secure from the expression of
it. As to her duty of keeping faith with
Tarilam, she never wavered in it for a
moment ; but sometimes in her heart of hearts
she pondered whether she would not have
welcomed death itself as a relief from the

obligation. She had left but few friends in
England, her associates having been limited
to the circle around her uncle and cousin,
with the members of which she had little in
common, and, through a mistake on their
part, with which she was at the time unacquainted,
but the result of which she accepted
gladly, these did not now attempt to renew
their acquaintance with her.

While in this state of comparative solitude —
with thoughts now dwelling with remorseful
regret upon the past, now recoiling with
vague foreboding from the future — a misfortune
suddenly fell upon their little household
which for the time swallowed up, like an
Aaron's rod, her own brood of miseries and
apprehensions.

BURNING HER BOATS.

Captain Head was arrested one morning,
in his own house, and carried before a magistrate,
upon the charge of murdering one
Matthew Murdoch, a British subject. The
thing was done without a word of warning,
but it did not take him altogether by surprise,
nor did he need to be told that the person who
had sworn the criminal information against
him was one Richard Bates. He knew the
ex-mate to be of the most vindictive nature,
and that he had nursed his hate to keep it
warm ever since he had been deprived of his
rank ; while as to the accusation itself, he
felt his conscience clear, and that no jury of
his fellow-countrymen would think otherwise.
But with the women folk matters were very

different. For them the catastrophe was as
unexpected and tremendous as a thunderbolt
falling from a cloudless sky. They had that
intuitive dread and doubt of the law, even in
the case of the most innocent person, which
appertains to their sex, and with much more
justification than belongs to some of its other
instincts.

Miss Head in particular, who was, of course,
less acquainted with the facts of the matter
than her guests, was almost out of her mind
with terror ; and the spectacle of her wretchedness
afflicted them almost as much as the
calamity itself. The captain had done his
best to comfort them, assuring them of his
ultimate acquittal, but had been obliged to
tell them that they would not see him at
home aixain, as murder was not a bailable
offence, till his trial was over. His parting
from them was painful in the extreme, and
their joy was proportionately greater when,
in a few hours, the good captain returned,
though not, as they fondly hoped on seeing
him, a free man. The magistrate had come
to the conclusion that the charge of murder

could not be maintained, and that of manslaughter
had been substituted for it. The
captain's bail had been fixed at a considerable
sum, but so far from there having been any
difficulty in finding it, many persons of good
position had at once offered themselves as his
security. He had never made any secret of
the punishment he had been compelled to
inflict upon Murdoch, both as a murderer and
one whose treachery had endangered the
safety of the whole island community, and
his conduct had the approbation not only of
all upholders of authority but of the public at
large. His accuser, Mr. Bates, had had a
proportionately ill reception at the police
court, so much so, indeed, that he had had to
be escorted home.

Poor Miss Head was not only greatly consoled
by this intelligence, and by the contemptuous
indifference her brother displayed
with respect to what was laid to his charge,
but found a considerable satisfaction in his
popularity. If everything, as she was now
assured, was sure to go right, she was not
altogether unwilling: that his merits should be

brought into public prominence, even through
a prosecution.

To Edith, on the contrary, this reflection
was anything but welcome. Though there
was no likelihood of her being called as a
witness to anything that had taken place at
Faybur, it was only too likely that her name
would be introduced at the trial, in which
case a publicity would be thrust upon her
which would be painful to her to the last
degree. Upon the whole, she had made up
her mind that should this unfortunately come
to pass, she would prefer to return with
Tarilam to his own country in the ship that
the East India Company were fitting out and
loading with every kind of useful present, to
carry his attendants back to Breda.

Of this, indeed, she had as yet said nothing
though for very different reasons — either to
himself or to Aunt Sophia. In the former
case, though she knew that such a proposition
would be hailed with delight by her lover, it
would necessitate her immediate union with
him, from which, in spite of gratitude, and
duty, and affectionate regard, she shrank with

something more than reluctance ; in the latter,
she knew that such a course would meet with
the most vehement opposition ; in fact, it
was quite possible that Aunt Sophia, in her
disinterested devotion, would insist upon
sharing her voluntary exile, a step which she
could never permit.

The more she thought of the matter the
more this determination grew upon her ; it
would be held, as she well knew, by those
about her, as little less than suicide ; if a plan
so outrageous seemed preferable to her to
becoming Tarilam's wife iu England — if, in
other words, that prospect was so intolerable
to her — they would argue that it behoved
her to give him up. Perhaps, indeed, it
might be so ; but in that case to treat him so
would be in the highest degree dishonourable,
and she preferred suicide to dishonour.

One thing, however, notwithstanding she

had come to this conclusion, she had not

yet persuaded herself to do, and it became

imperative that she should do it, namely, to

destroy the mementoes she still possessed of her

drowned lover. Had he been alive, and their
VOL. in. l

engagement been broken off, she would, of
course, have returned to him those loving
letters, those little priceless gifts, which mark,
like mile-stones upon the highway, the flowery
path of a girl's love. She had also his portrait,
drawn by herself on board the Ganges before
their arrival at the Cape. They were sacred
relics, but they were very far from helping
the devotee. To open her desk and look at
them was terrible to her, and almost made
her falter on the road to which honour
pointed ; she felt that the very possession of
them made it harder and more thorny for
her. To burn them would be, as it were, to
burn her boats ; and, by making retreat (even
in thought) impossible, to nerve her for her
duty ; but to do so seemed nevertheless an
act of sacrilege. To keep them was disloyalty
to the man to w T hom she was betrothed ; to
destroy them was a wrong to the memory
of the only man (as she now knew but too
well) whom she had ever really loved.

Whether Tarilam was aware of her possessing
these mementoes or not, she did not
know. She had certainly never spoken of

them to him herself, but in the early days of
their acquaintance, when they had been as
frank and familiar with him as though he had
been a child, it was by no means impossible
that Aunt Sophia had done so ; his interest in
all Edith had done had been from the first
excessive, and it was quite likely that in proof
of her artistic skill, or in illustration of her
past history, he had been shown Charles
Layton's portrait. At all events, it was a
possession, however precious, perilous to her
own peace of mind, and one which might
cruelly disturb even that of her patient and
exacting lover.

One morning, when Aunt Sophia chanced
to be from home, she took it from her desk,
resolving to destroy it — it would have been
wiser, perhaps, to have done so without looking
at it, but she could not resist one glance
of farewell. iVs a remembrance, alas, it was
useless to her, for the memory of the man it
portrayed was only too present with her at
all times ; but to come to the determination
of destroying it had cost her many a bitter
pang. As she gazed upon it, the occasion on

L 2

which she had painted it returned to her in
its every detail. The cloudless sky, the boundless
sea, the quiet corner of the deck in which
she had established herself with her painting
implements by the side of her lover, his
smiling and expectant face — for the moment
she lived only in the past ; it was not another
day that was passing over her head but the
same clay ; but her eyes, which had then
been lit with joy and love, were now dimmed
with tears ; her ears, that had drunk in his
loving laughter, were now dulled to outward
things. There was a gentle knock at the
door, but she heard it not ; a tender tone that
murmured "My darling;" and then a hand
was lightly placed upon her shoulder. She
started up with a cry of alarm, and beheld
Tarilam.

A MYSTERY.

Forgive me for having startled you, dear
Edie," said the prince with his quiet smile.
"I am earlier than usual. I have just seen a
dear friend of ours, Lewis Con oily. He has
been summoned as a witness in the captains
trial."

The midshipman had not been in London
since their arrival, having gone down at once
to Devonshire, where his mother lived ; and,
under other circumstances, the news of his
presence in town would have awakened
Edith's liveliest interest. But at present one
thought monopolized her mind.

Had Tarilam recognized the picture for
what it was ? That he had seen it and her
tears was certain, for nothing escaped his eyes ;

but as she put it back in her desk, with as
indifferent an air as she could assume, he had
made no observation upon it. In any ordinary
case, this would only have been in
accordance with his usual delicacy of mind.
He never pried into her emotions. If, on the
other hand, he had recognized the portrait, his
very devotion to her would, she felt sure, have
forbidden him to ignore it. He would have
said something kind as regarded his dead rival,
something modest of his own pretensions to
fill his place.

This conviction gave her a sense of inexpressible
relief, and enabled her to converse
with him with a calmness which would have
otherwise been beyond her powers. The topic
of the trial formed naturally the chief subject
of his conversation. The captain, he said,
whom he had just seen, seemed more troubled
in his mind about it than he had hitherto
been, and less inclined to discuss it. He was
not, however, aware that anything new had
come to his knowledge to give him apprehensions
as to the result. Conolly had spoken
of the matter in the most sanguine terms after

an interview with the solicitors for the
defence ; he had to see them again in the
forenoon, after which he would do himself the
pleasure of calling on the ladies.

Again and again during the interview dido

o o

Edith reproach herself for her lack of interest
in what on every ground of gratitude and
regard should have been of so much importance
to her ; if the captain had been in greater
danger it would, she felt a just confidence,
have placed her own affairs in the background,
but as matters stood her mind was preoccupied
with them. This did not arise, however,
from personal considerations ; though her
hand lay without response in that of her
companion, though she answered him only
by monosyllables, it was of him she was
thinking, and not of herself, or only of herself
as far as her future was concerned with his.
In a few weeks, in a month at furthest, if her
purpose of returning with him should be
carried out, she would become this man's wife.
With that picture she had just put away in
her thoughts, instead of his own loving image,
would it be right in her so to do ? Was it

fair to 1dm ? It was with this scruple that
she was occupied.

It was certain that Tarilam was not ignorant
of the effect which the revisiting her own
country had had upon Edith's feelings, and,
doubtless, to this cause he assigned her
present emotion. He asked so little of her in
return for his complete devotion that almost
anything seemed to suffice him. Should she
confess all, it would, she was convinced, only
make him miserable upon her account, not
upon his own. He was content to be second
in the matrimonial race, and even a bad
second, but absolutely to say him ' nay '
would be, she felt, to break his heart. Thinking
of all these things, she parted from him
with more of tenderness than usual, and he
from her with a corresponding show of grateful
affection.

The quiet household had of late been much
disturbed by callers, who came upon business
in connection with the coming trial, and that
morning they seemed to be more numerous
than ever. Once Edith heard the captain's
voice raised in a higher tone than was usual

with him, after which there was a sudden silence,
and once, as she was almost certain, the voice
of Lewis Con oily. As he did not come to her,
however, this could hardly be, and in her own
importunate reflections the circumstance was
soon forgotten ; she thought it strange that
Aunt Sophia's return was so long deferred, but
that too passed away from her mind, and
when at last her relative made her appearance
there was a look in her face that banished all
thoughts of her delay.

What has happened, Aunt Sophia ? "
cried Edith, the chord of self vanishing in an
instant, at the spectacle of such panic and
sorrow in another ; " there are tears in your
kind eyes. I am sure that you have heard ill
news."

No, no, it is nothing," she answered
hastily. " I am a little tired and upset, that's
all." '

You have seen an old friend ? "

"Who told you so?" faltered Aunt Sophia.
The inquiry was one of indifference, but not
the tone, which was faint and even awe struck.

Well, I guessed it," said Edith cheerfully.

You had always a weakness for Master
Conolly, I know. Tarilam told me he was
coming to see me; and, indeed, an hour ago
or so, I thought I heard his voice downstairs ;
but as you were not with me, I suppose he
did not think it worth his while."

Yes, that was it, no doubt," replied Aunt
Sophia. Her assent to so monstrous an explanation
— for, as we know, the midshipman
was devoted to Edith — was obviously mechanical.
She looked the very picture of woe
and terror.

Aunt Sophia, I must know what has happened,"
exclaimed Edith ; " whatever it is I
can bear it better armed in the armour of my
own selfish thoughts than you have done.
Tarilam is well, I know ; I see you alive and
well ; the captain is safe within-doors ; and
that is all my world, save Conolly. Some
misfortune then must have befallen the dear
boy. Why did he not come to see me ? "

He was very much cut up and distressed
by his interview with the captain, and he did
not wish you to be a witness to his weakness."

Edith shook her head. " You are concealing

something from me," she said. " If there is
sorrow in this house it is fit and right that I
should share it." She rose from her seat, and
moved towards the door.

For heaven's sake, Edie, stay where you
are ! " cried Aunt Sophia, seizing her by the
arm. At the same moment the front door
closed with a clang ; some one had quitted the
house. Edith quietly released herself from
Aunt Sophia's hold, who, indeed, no longer
sought to restrain her, and went out to the
top of the stairs. " Captain Head," she called
over the banisters, " will you let me have a
word with you ? "

There had been voices below-stairs when
she spoke, but there now fell a sudden pause.
Then the captain's cheery tones replied, " By
all means, Miss Edith." There was, nevertheless,
a hesitation in his heavy step which did
not escape her notice. His face had a smile
upon it, but also a look of anxiety, as she
thought, and even of pain.

Where is Mr. Conolly ? " were her first
words.

The smile broadened on the others honest

features. " Why, in this very house," he
answered. " The young dog came on purpose
to see you, but he had a fit of shyness. Come
up, sir ! " he bellowed out as if he were on
ship-board ; "Miss Edith knows you are here,
and wants to see you."

Of course I want to see him," said Edith.
Then the midshipman's light step, but surely
slower and with less of spring in it than usual,
came up the stairs.

You naughty boy, why have I need to
send for you ? " she exclaimed, holding out
both her hands.

1 have been with the captain and his
lawyers," answered the boy, glancing apprehensively
at his chief.

And I suppose they want you to commit
perjury," said Edith, smiling. "If that is so
you must not look so pale and frightened
when you are in the witness-box. It was
very good of you to write to me about your
mother. I would have given a thousand pounds
to have seen your first meeting. Yet home
doesn't seem to suit you, my dear boy. You
don't look half so well as you did in Fay bur."

He doesn't like the notion of going into
court," explained the captain. "My counsel,
Mr. "What's-his-name "

Baring," interposed Aunt Sophia.

u Just so. Mr. Baring has been impressing
so strongly upon him the importance of his
evidence that I believe he thinks he is going
to be tried instead of me."

That seems very injudicious," remarked
Edith. " Who is this Mr. Baring ? I thought
you had engaged Mr. Collins."

"That is our leader; Mr. Baring is the
junior. Our solicitor has the greatest confidence
in him."

There was a long silence. In spite of what
had been told her, Edith had an uncomfortable
feeling still, derived from the manner of her
companions, that there was something amiss.
This could now, she felt sure, be connected
with the trial alone, from which, perhaps, this
Mr. Baring had expressed an opinion that she
should not be absent. The testimony of a
woman — and of a young one — she had often
heard had always a certain weight with a

I hope, dear Captain Head," she said,
that out of consideration for my feelings
you are not throwing a chance away. It would
be idle to say that to have to appear in court
would not be distressing to me, but what
would pain me ten times more would be the
reflection that my absence from the witness-box
had been a disadvantage to you."

"It is absolutely out of the question," put
in Aunt Sophia positively.

I am speaking for myself, Sophy," continued
Edith quietly ; " there would, I can
easily understand, be no need for both of us
to give evidence, but so far as I am concerned
my poor services are unreservedly at your
disposal."

No, no, no," cried Aunt Sophia.

I am speaking to Captain Head," continued
Edith decisively. " I am quite sure
there is a hitch somewhere, and in some matter
in which I am concerned. Unless you assure
me, upon your honour, that Mr. Baring has
not advised my being subpoenaed, I shall
write to your solicitor and demand to be put
in the witness-box."

I thank you, dear Miss Edith, from the
bottom of my heart," said the captain, greatly
moved ; " but upon my honour Mr. Baring
never expressed any such opinion."

But he said something about me. Mr.
Conolly, you were present, and will tell me
the truth. What did he say ? "

If ever a midshipman looked embarrassed
it was Master Lewis Conolly. He glanced
at the captain, he glanced at Aunt Sophia,
he glanced at the ceiling. " Well, he talked
a great deal about you, Miss Edith, as indeed
we all did," at last he stammered.

But about the trial ? "

He never said one word about you in
connection with the trial at all." In a midshipman's
theology there is said to be an
eleventh commandment. " Tell a lie, tell a
good one, and stick to it." Had Edith heard
of this dogma she would perhaps have given
it a personal application, but fortunately she
had not. The lad had a fearless and open
countenance, which is also a great advantage
in such cases. There is a colour, too, which
rises to the cheek of fibbing youth when his

word is doubted that may well be mistaken
by any one short of a schoolmaster for virtuous
indignation.

You are a gentleman, and would not
deceive a poor girl, I know, who is putting
her trust in you," said Edith pathetically.

Indeed, indeed, I would not," replied the
lad with precocious naturalness. Whether he
was lying or not, even the intelligent reader,
nay, even the author himself, had he been
present, could not have told for certain. It
is enough to say that Edith Norbury believed
him and was satisfied.

It is said, and with more truth than belongs
to similar observations, which too often have
their source in cynicism and even brutality,
that among the few advantages the poor have
over the rich is that the necessity for labour
prevents them dwelling upon their domestic
griefs. The thoughts which are occupied in
decking the graves of their dead darlings with
flowers in the one case, must be devoted in
the other to providing for the living little
ones that are still left to them. They have
no time to dwell upon their loss. Something

akin to this cruel mercy takes place when
some bitter sorrow of our own is broken in
upon by a calamity, especially if it be short
and sharp, that threatens a friend. Until that
has been settled one way or another we cease
to brood upon our private woe.

Thus, in the approaching trial of Captain
Head, Edith Norbury found a partial mitigation
of her own distress of mind. She discussed
it with Aunt Sophia in all its bearings,
and in her interest and anxiety omitted to
notice how much of the talk fell to her share,
and how little to that of her companion.
What helped her very much was the decision
she had finally arrived at to leave England
as Tarilam's wife. To do so before the captain's
fate had been decided upon, would, she felt,
have been impossible ; but there were, as usual,
delays in fitting out the vessel that was to
take his attendants back to their own country ;
and though the time would be but short to
make arrangements for her marriage in the
mean time, it would be sufficient. The shorter,
indeed, it was, now that she had nerved
herself to go through with it, the better.

VOL. III. M

The chief person concerned would hail her
resolve with rapture, and the less opportunity
Aunt Sophia should have to oppose her plan,
the less pain she herself would suffer in carrying
it out. She had burnt Charles Lay ton's
picture, lest by any unhappy chance such as
had so nearly taken place already, Tarilam
should come to the knowledge of her possession
of it ; his letters and his gifts had
shared the same fate. She was a free woman,
bound to the past by nothing — save her heartstrings.


It was a terrible exception ; yet how many
young women, as she sometimes reflected,
were even in a worse plight than herself. It
was at worst to a dead man, and not to a
living one — to a memory and not to some
true heart still beating with passionate but
fruitless love for her — that she was about to
prove faithless. And the wooer she had accepted,
though, alas ! unloved, was worthy
of her love — if she could but have given it
to him. He had won her gratitude, her
admiration, her affection ; he would prove in
all things, she felt sure, that are commonly

ascribed to such a relation, the best of
husbands to her.

Yet the decision she had finally arrived
at. of returning with hire to Breda, was only
one degree less intolerable to her than its sole
alternative to become his wife in England.
In vain she called to mind his virtues, his
nobility of mind, his generosity of disposition,
his tender consideration, his simplicity — which
to abuse would be like deceiving; a trustful
child — and his absolute devotion. It was a
noble picture, but on the living wall of memory
there hung the likeness of Charles Lay ton,
and she had not the power to remove it, far
less to substitute the other's portrait in its
place.

Three days had now elapsed since she had
last seen Tarilam, and it was significant indeed
of the state of her feelings towards him that
this circumstance not only awakened in her
no anxiety, but was a positive relief to her.
Hitherto he had always spent some time with
her at least once a day ; his absence was
therefore the more unaccountable, and what
was almost as surprising, Aunt Sophia had

M 2

not remarked upon it. What was also curious,
and would under other circumstances have
certainly not escaped Edith's notice, was that,
although the captain's trial was now close at
hand, her aunt talked very little about it,
but made her niece's affairs the chief topic
of her conversation.

Mr. Ernest Norbury had, it appeared, embezzled
almost all her fortune, but in such a
manner as was not beyond the reach of recovery
; and active steps, she was told, were
being? taken to this end. To Edith — bound
for Breda — this was a matter, indeed, of
almost complete indifference, but it was
necessary to feign some interest in it.

Who is it," she inquired one morning,
"that has taken this sanguine view of my
affairs ? "

Mr. Baring ; he is a very capable person,
and I am told he is doing wonders for you."

I should have thought he had had his
hands full of a more important matter," was
the quiet reply ; " but I am much obliged to
him for the interest he is so good as to take
in me."

He does take a great interest in you,
no doubt, from what the captain has told
him."

It would be ungracious not to acknowledge
it. The next time he comes here I shall be
glad to see him."

Well, he has only been here once,"
stammered Aunt Sophia ; " the captain's
business is always transacted at his chambers.
I scarcely think "

My dear Sophy, you need not distress
yourself about this paragon," put in Edith,
with a faint smile. " I dare say we shall
both survive it even if we never meet." Then,
after a pause, " When does the ship sail for
Breda ? " she asked abruptly.

Immediately. No ; by the bye, the day
has been put off indefinitely, but soon ; that is
why Tarilam has not been here of late. He
told me to tell you, if you should express
surprise at it, that he has been so much
engaged in seeing about her lading. The
Company are behaving very generously, and he
has only to ask for what he wants and thinks
will be of service to his people."

I must know the date for certain," said
Edith, earnestly. Her face was deadly pale,
her hand was pressing upon her heart, as
though to suppress some inward pain. " I
must know exactly when the ship sails."

Aunt Sophia herself was almost equally
agitated, and, indeed, that her companion had
made no answer to her reference to Tarilam
might well have shocked her. " I will find it
out for you," she faltered.

Please do, dear, it is important, for I
mean to go in that ship."

You ! Great heavens ! " exclaimed Aunt
Sophia, starting to her feet. "You must be
mad to say so."

No, I am not mad," returned the girl with
a quiet distinctness that somehow seemed
worse than desperation, " but only very unhappy.
Do not make me more so, Sophy,
darling, by attempting to alter what is my
fixed determination. I am quite resolved to
marry Tarilam at once and return with him to
Breda. Of course, such a step seems terrible
to you ; it does to me ; but to remain here as
his wife would be impossible for me. Yes,

that is the truth, which I confess to you, and
to you alone, because nothing less will convince
you of the necessity of what I am about
to do."

He must never, never know it," gasped
Aunt Sophia, replying, as it seemed, to some
inward thought rather than to the other's
words.

Know it ! Heaven forbid ! If you tell
him what I say — I mean about my being
unhappy and not loving him as he deserves to
be loved — I will never forgive you to my
dying day. Not to speak of it, never to let
him feel how short I fall of what I should be
to him, that is the least I owe him."

Her confession, long considered, long delayed,
had been made — as such things often are — on
the impulse of the moment. Perhaps the news
that the ship was sailing soon had extorted it
from her, though she knew that it would be
delayed to suit her purpose. She had rightly
judged that since she had given her reason
Aunt Sophia would cease to urge objections.
Her fear had been rather that she might have
insisted on accompanying her into the exile

which she had formerly proposed to share with
her. That she had not done this — since it
was a sacrifice she would never have accepted
w T as so far a matter for congratulation to
Edith ; but otherwise, the effect of her communication
upon her companion was even
more deplorable than she had apprehended.

He must never, never know it," repeated
Aunt Sophia, rocking herself to and fro and
sobbing convulsively. " He must never, never
know it." For the time it almost seemed that
her passionate grief had deprived this faithful
and tender-hearted woman of her senses.

"Don't let us talk of it, don't let us think
of it, Sophy, dear," said Edith, soothingly.
"Till the time comes, help me to escape from
my own miserable and selfish thoughts ; I entreat
you, as you are kind and true, to do
this as the truest kindness to me. The trial is
coming off tomorrow. How terrible it must
be for poor Miss Head ; but as for the captain,
I cannot believe that so good a man can come
to harm. How long is it likely to last % "

"The trial!" replied Aunt Sophia, wiping
her eyes, and staring as though an entirely

new subject had been proposed for her consideration.
"Mr. Baring puts it at three days
at farthest. He is very hopeful about it.
Mellor and Budge are the only witnesses on
the other side, and it is said that they are
most unwilling ones ; their antecedents have
been discovered to be very bad. All hangs
upon the evidence of Bates."

The wretch that tried to murder Charles
Layton at the Cape ! "

"Then you knew of that all along," exclaimed
Aunt Sophia ; " why did you not tell
me?"

Because I wished to spare your brothers
memory. Yes, I knew it ; yes. And if I had
not known it, I should know it now. I have
thought too much of my dear Charley of late
to be ignorant of aught concerning him while
in life. It is only when I try to think of him
as dead and prone that instinct fails meo



My poor darling ! "

Pity could no further go than was expressed
in those three words of Aunt Sophia ; but
there was terror in her tone as well as pity.
While she bewailed her niece's future, it maybe

that she also doubted her strength to fro
through with it. Edith's manner, however,
was from that moment very calm and quiet ;
and the forbidden subject was, for the present,
no more alluded to.

THE REVELATION.

It was the first day of the trial, and all
Edith Norbury's thoughts were monopolized
by that engrossing subject. All her male
friends were of course in court, and she was
naturally less surprised at Tarilam's absence —
though she had not seen him now for almost a
week — than she had been on any of the preceding
days. If she had not made up her mind
to be his wife so soon, she would no doubt
have felt distress and even compunction at his
continued omission to visit her. She would
have examined herself more particularly as to
whether something in her own conduct had not
caused his absence, and would not have been so
easily satisfied with Aunt Sophia's explanation
of it ; but as matters were, and seeing he was

to be blessed so much sooner than he had
hoped with the possession of her, she could
not grudge herself the sorrow of her solitude.
There were now only a few clays left to her for
thought to wander free over what would henceforth
be forbidden ground ; but on this occasion,
as has been said, her mind was occupied
with less selfish matters.

The whole morning Aunt Sophia and herself
had spent in the company of their hostess,
endeavouring to comfort her and keep up her
spirits. From hour to hour messengers were
despatched from the court-house to the poor
lady with tidings of the trial, and, on the
whole, considering that the prosecution alone
had for the present the ear of the jury, the
news w r as good. The w T worst that could be
made out against the captain w 7 as that he had
exceeded his powers and committed a technical
though indeed a very serious offence ; it was
not even contended by the other side that he
had been actuated by any motives of a personal
kind and apart from the consideration of
the public good. It was rumoured, however,
that Mr. Bates was prepared to swear that his

late chief had had a grudge against Murdoch,
and, at all events, whatever danger was to be
feared lurked in this man's testimony, and in
that only. The report of it was therefore
awaited by the three ladies with especial
anxiety.

After the conclusion of the case for the
Crown, however, no news was brought to them
for hours, their communications had either by
some accident been cut off — which, considering
the press about the court-house, and the
difficulty of ingress and egress, was not an unlikely
thing to have happened — or the news
was such as it was thought better not to send.

Aunt Sophia took the more cheerful view,
and redoubled her efforts to sustain the courage
of her hostess ; but Edith, already broken inspirit,
and all the chambers of her soul rendered
unfit for the entertainment of hope,
found herself as a consoler useless, and withdrew
to her own sitting-room.

From that last and worst state of human
misery, in which the cloud that overhangs ourselves
seems to darken the sky for our fellow-creatures,
the selfish and the egotistic are free ;

the area of their despondency is limited ; they
do not feel the pressure of that atmosphere of
universal woe which weighs so pitilessly upon
more tender natures in their hour of sorrow.
To Edith it seemed only too likely that the
fate which had dealt with her so cruelly might
treat with the same harshness the poor captain,
and the reflection doubled her own distress of
mind.

It was not her habit to vex herself with
the riddle of the painful earth," a conundrum
that rarely attracts the young ; but on this
occasion her thoughts had, with the boldness
of despair, strayed beyond their usual limits
into that dim and pathless forest of apprehension
and surmise which, whether we are aware
of it or not, surrounds us all. Once in it,
the minutes pass like seconds, and the hours
like minutes, though not, alas ! on golden
wings. Our very existence is absorbed by that
future which we thus vaguely contemplate, as
the wanderer is lost in the quicksand. It is
even doubtful in which of the two worlds, this
or that which is to come, we live. What time
had elapsed since she had been alone she knew

not : but the afternoon had faded into evening;
when she was aroused by a knock at her door.
Come in. What news ? " she inquired ina
breath.

Good news ; at least, I hope so," was the
captain's quiet reply, for it was the captain's
self who stood before her.

She sprang to her feet with a wild cry of
joy, and held out both her hands. " My dear,
dear Captain Head, how happy I am to see
you ! All has gone well, then, after all ? "

All has gone well, I hope, dear Miss
Edith, after all," he repeated slowly.

You hope ? " she answered anxiously.
Then there is something still behind ? Pray,
pray tell me all."

There is something, as you say, still behind,"
he answered, still in the same cautions
and tentative tone, as of one who is afraid of
saying too much. ' ' I will tell you all some
day, but it is a long story. Just now we have
only time for the results, as it were."

She glanced at him in mute astonishment.

Why was his speech so bald and bare ? Why,

too, did he use the plural word ' results ' ?

There could be only one result lie had to tell
her. There was something in his manner, too,
notwithstanding the sad tidings he had
brought, and which, indeed, were corroborated
by his presence, that filled her with vague
alarm. The captain's stalwart arm seemed to
tremble as he led her back to her seat, and
placed himself beside her ; his loud straightforward
tones had lost their vigour as he
commenced to speak.

This was how it was, Miss Edith. The
lawyer that was on the other side had not
much to say against me on his own account,
though he was a long time about it ; all he
did say seemed to glance off the ears of the
jury like water from a ship's bows, but he
promised them better things in the way of
my being shown to be a tyrant and a manslayer
when Mr. Richard Bates should come
to be examined. That gentleman, he said,
had no motive for having laid a criminal information
against me, but that of redressing,
so far as law could do so, the wrongs of a
shipmate, and doing justice to the memory of
a dead — he had almost said a murdered — man.

It was probable that it would be urged against
this worthy person that I had deprived him of
his rank, and that out of revenge he had
trumped up this accusation against me, but
that was, at most, a very small matter even
if it could be proved, and would in no way
affect the truth of the charge. There was not
va tittle of evidence to show that Mr. Bates
had been concerned in the alleged mutiny,
which would, as he understood, form the poor
excuse for my high-handed conduct. He was
a just and honourable man, as the jury would
presently see for themselves, and incapable of
that or any other heinous crime, It might be
true that the inquiries into the character of
the lives of other witnesses for the prosecution
had resulted unfavourably ; there were
very few of us, perhaps, who had not some
secret in our past which we would wish effaced,
but this, again, could not affect — or only
moderately affect — their testimony upon the
matter in hand, while that of Mr. Bates was
pure as the driven snow from any stain."

A shiver of disgust passed through Edith's
frame. " Well, well, my dear young lady, we

VOL. III. x

will cut it as short as possible," said the
captain, patting her hand ; " this learned
gentleman, since he was paid for it, was only
right to do his best, and his best, no doubt,
he did. Though he painted Mr. Bates in
such glowing colours, he had to produce the
original, you see, after all ; and in the framework
of the witness-box, I do assure you,
he did not make a pretty picture. Though I
was in the dock myself, I did not envy him,
with his hang-dog face, even from the first,
and presently a time came when I could
almost have found it in my heart to pity
him."

I could not have found it in mine," said
Edith, sternly, " for he was at heart a
murderer."

The captain stroked his chin, and stared at
her with a puzzled look. " That was just
what I was coming to myself," he faltered ;
"is it possible that you know all about it ? "

I know that he tried to murder Charles
Lay ton at the Cape."

Just so, just so," said the captain softly ;
and then he sighed, like one who having, ashe

had hoped, come to the end of a difficult
job, finds once more all his work before him.
Well, Miss Edith, they say it would be a
good thing if we could see ourselves as others
see us, and if so, I ought to be thankful for
the account of myself which I heard from Mr.
Richard Bates when under the examination of
his counsel. It was, I assure you, quite a revelation,
and without his unimpeachable evidence,
I could never have believed myself to be the
irredeemable scoundrel which he showed me
to be. By the time he had got to my shooting
of that unhappy wretch, Matthew Murdoch.
I began to wonder why I was not on
trial for my life, and even why justice had so
long permitted me to live."

tl I suppose that was the reason — I mean the
utterance of this man's slanders," put in Edith,
that no report was brought us of his evidence."

"Well — partly — yes," hesitated the captain ;
something also occurred later on, my dear
young lady, which it was thought you would
not easily understand at second hand, and so
they thought it better to wait till I could
come home and tell it you myself."

N 2

Indeed ! what was that ? " said Edith with
a preoccupied air. Her tone had become
almost indifferent ; now that her companion
was evidently out of peril, she found it difficult
to keep her thoughts from straying from
the subject. The captain, on the other hand,
was growing more nervous and embarrassed
with every word. Though his bluff face was
paler than usual, he passed his handkerchief
across it again and again, as though he were
in the tropics ; a gentle execration would now
and again hover on his lips, whether in condemnation
of his own stupidity, or of those
who had set him a task beyond his powers,
it was impossible to say.

You should have seen the change in that
fellow Bates," he continued, with an attempt
at hilarity in his tone, which was piteous to
the last degree, " when Collins sot hold of
him and shook him, as a terrier shakes a rat.
If you have ever seen a man hanged — which,
however, I dare say you have not — and noticed
how he becomes in the instant a mere heap of
clothes — well, that was Bates's case under
cross-examination. I soon found out that

there was, at all events, one man in the world
a deal worse than I had been shown to be,
and riper for the gallows. It was amazing
how much more Collins, Q.C., seemed to
know of what had been going on in Faybur,
and under my very nose as it were — and he
a thousand miles away — than I ever knew
myself. Bates, he showed, was hand-in-hand
with the Malay, the inventor of that secret
still, from the fumes of which arose half our
misfortunes, and the instigator, if not the
actual perpetrator, of the murder of poor
Marston, which he tried to lay at the door of
the good prince."

Edith's flagging attention was roused in an
instant. " Oh, traitor and villain ! " she cried ;
how well I remember it ! "

You do, do you ? " said the captain,
earnestly. " You may perhaps recollect, then,
one expression that Bates used which puzzled
us all, w r hen his accusation failed, about
cutting a rope ' ? "

Edith shook her head. "It is no matter,"
said the captain, but in a disappointed tone,
and with the same air of having neared his

object, and then having found himself all
abroad again, as he had done before. " Well,
when Mr. Collins had done with Mr Bates,
the scoundrel revived at once, like one who
has received his dozen at the grating, and does
not know that there's another boatswain's
mate to come. When he saw Mr. Baring rise
from his seat, he didn't seem to fear him as he
had done the other (concluding him, I suppose,
to be a much younger and probably less
skilful lawyer), and he even answered the
first question or two he put to him in such an
impudent and offhand way as called forth a
rebuke from the judge. But when he was
asked, ' Did you know one Mr. Charles Layton
on board the Ganges ? ' he turned a very queer
colour, I promise you. What seemed very
strange, however, to me at the time, considering
the effect he had evidently produced
by the introduction of that gentleman's name,
Mr. Baring did not pursue the subject. His
design, as I now believe, was to set Bates's
thoughts running in a particular channel, in
order to make certain revelations he had in
store for him more convincing and complete,

when the time came. If Mr. Collins had
shown himself conversant with matters at
Faybur, Mr. Baring manifested even a more
minute acquaintance with what took place on
our voyage out from first to last. It would
have been impossible to believe, Miss Edie,
unless one had not known the contrary, that
he had not himself been a passenger on board
the Ganges. One would have thought that he
had known your uncle and cousin and even
yourself quite familiarly, and had been qualified
to speak of all of us from personal knowledge.
Among others, he spoke again of Mr.
Charles Layton."

Edith uttered not a word, but in the gathering
twilight her companion noticed that she
straightened herself in her chair like one who
collects all her powers of endurance to bear
the hearing of some painful and distressing
thing. " I will spare you all I can, Miss Edie,"
murmured the captain gently, " but it is
necessary you should know what took place.
As the examination proceeded the witness
grew more and more perturbed in manner
whenever his gaze met that of Mr. Baring,

who presently put this question to him : ' You
remember the day on which the storm carried
away the deck-house with Mr. and Miss Nor-bury
in it ? '

"'Yes/ said Bates, very slowly, and with
his eyes fixed on the roof of the court-house,
I remember it well.'

' Look at me, if you please said Mr.
Baring sternly. ' Do you remember any
other circumstance that happened on that
day ? '

'Yes, Mr. Lay ton was drowned.'

' How was he drowned ? '

"There was no reply. Bates moved his
lips a little and that was all. His face was
like the face of a dead man. The whole court
was so hushed in waiting for his answer that
you might have heard a pin drop.

' Come, sir, you cannot have forgotten a
circumstance of which you were a witness,
though not, perhaps as you have hitherto
imagined, the only witness. Be so good as
to tell us what happened at the very time — or
within a few seconds after it — that the deck-house
of the Ganges was carried away.'

' The Flying Dutchman was seen by the
two men at the wheel

' 1 am not asking you what was seen by
the men at the wheel. Let us hear, if you
please, how Mr. Lay ton was drowned.'

Then Bates licked his dry lips, and
answered straightforwardly enough, but in a
dull, mechanical way, ' When the deck-house
was carried away with Mr. Norbury and his
niece in it, Mr. Layton caught up a life-buoy
and threw himself into the sea, with the
object of saving the young lady

< Well ? '

It was only a monosyllable, Miss Edie,
but if it had been an indictment as Ions; as
my arm, it could not have been more effectual.
Bates seemed by his looks to have changed
places with me, and to be no longer the
witness but the criminal.

' I know nothing more,' he faltered.

"what? Did you never see Mr. Layton's
face again after he leapt from the
deck ? '

' Never.'

The man was speaking so low that notwithstanding

the silence, the judge could not
hear it, and it had to be repeated.

' Think again,' said Mr. Baring;. ' Was not
the drowning man carried back to the shipside
while you were leaning over the bulwarks,
and was there not a rope hanging from it at
which he clutched ? '

The wretched creature was trembling,
Miss Edie, in all his limbs, and whether he
shook his head in dissent or not no man
could say ; but he did shake it.

' Look at me, Richard Bates,' cried Mr.
Baring, in a terrible voice. ' Now will you
dare to swear that you did not cut that rope 1 '

He had taken off his wig, Miss Edie, and
shown him the man he believed he had
murdered ! "

Edith threw up her arms with a wild cry of
joy. " Not dead ! not dead ! " she exclaimed ;
then her head sank upon her breast, and she
murmured in despairing tones, " Too late, too
late ! "

Hush, hush, Miss Edie, you must not say
that," said the captain soothingly, " it is
always better late than never. If some one

else had broken it to you instead of an old
blundered like me, you would not be taking
on so. It was cruel to me and cruel to you
that they should have made me do it. But
I do assure you things are not so bad as you
think'

She held out her hand w T with a bitter smile,
and the captain pressed it to his lips.

There, there, now I know T you have forgiven
me, Miss Edie. I have plenty more to
tell, but I don't know how T to tell it, and
that's the fact. As for what happened afterwards
at the trial — though I know you are
glad to see me a free man — you can afford
to w 7 ait for all that. There is nothing so
interesting to us, after all, as our own affairs
eh, Miss Edie ? " this with a miserable attempt
at slyness. "Your aunt is waiting below
stairs to discuss them with you, unless you
would like to see any one else first," he added,
hesitatingly.

Tarilam, Tarilam ; I will see nobody but
Tarilam," was Edith's impassioned reply.

Oh dear, oh dear ; what is to be done now ? "
ejaculated the captain, glancing helplessly about

him. Then, with a sudden look of relief, he
stamped loudly upon the floor.

It was evidently a preconceived signal, for
Aunt Sophia at once presented herself at the
door. " Have you told her all ? " were her
first words.

I don't know what I've told her," replied
the captain despairingly ; "I only know I
have made a mess of it, as I knew I should.
She has heard that Mr. Barns is Charles
Layton, and when I asked her if she would
like to see him, she answers, ' Tarilam,
Tarilam ; I will see nobody but Tarilam.' "

w 'My-pretty, pretty dear," exclaimed Aunt
Sophia, throwing herself on her knees beside
her niece, and embracing her tenderly, " Prince
Tarilam has sailed to-day for Breda."

BREAKING it.

There is a great art in ' breaking things '
of an emotional character to the persons principally
concerned. The American (Jonathan)
who volunteered to convey the tidings of his
friend (David's) death to his wife, thought, no
doubt, he had hit upon a subtle and delicate
way of doing it when he knocked at her door
and inquired whether ' Widow David ' lived
there. But, as a rule, people shrink from this
sort of task, and prefer to get it done by
proxy. It was not, however, because Aunt
Sophia wished to spare herself that she had
deputed the captain to reveal to Edith the
fact of Charles Layton's being still in the
flesh. She hoped that from his lips it would
come, not indeed with a less shock of surprise,
but with a less disturbing influence

than from herself, whose very presence,
cognizant as Edith knew her to be with her
inmost feelings, must needs " make weakness
weak," and unfit her for the reception of such
amazing news. She had been in possession of
it herself for many days, and judging from
the weight of it even upon her own mind, she
had almost feared lest that of Edith should
break down under the burden so suddenly
laid upon it.

It was not till after much discussion and
consultation, and with the greatest pressure
upon the gallant sailor himself, who shrank
from it with a cowardice that did him infinite
credit, that it had been decided, in case of
his acquittal, to intrust this revelation to the
captain's hands. It was hoped that the good
news of his own discharge from danger would
give his hearer strength to bear the tidings
of what concerned herself; and, moreover,
that it would be thus conveyed to her in the
most natural and straightforward manner.

Unhappily, however, a man may have a
story at first hand, and even of his own experience,
and yet be a bad hand at telling it.

If the captain had not — as he had remorsefully
confessed — absolutely " made a mess of
it," he had certainly not succeeded as a
raconteur. Indeed, he had made the appalling
mistake of beginning at the wrong end
of his story, and now poor Aunt Sophia had
to tell it all over again — under what must be
allowed to be a great disadvantage — to an
audience on the brink of hysterics. Even
when the poor girl had recovered herself a
little, it was doubtful whether she quite
understood her position, since she kept murmuring
" Tarilam, Tarilam," in a voice so
despairing and pathetic as would have touched
her companion in any case, but which, as
matters were, gave her the keenest pain. At
last, however, the symptoms of the malady,
as it were, themselves suggested the remedy,
and Aunt Sophia began to speak to her, not
of the lover she had found, but of him she
had lost, and who, heretofore, had been so
injudiciously ignored.

"Do you remember, Edie, darling," she
said, taking the girl's hand in both her own,
and speaking with infinite tenderness. " the

morning on which he found you in this very
room, looking at Charles Layton's picture ? "

The reply was so feeble and choked with
tears that only the ear of love could have
caught it.

You are right, my darling ; lie did not
know whose it was at the time," continued
Aunt Sophia; "but no sooner had he left
you than he met the very man face to face,
in this very house, and recognized him. for
whom he w T as only too well — that is why
Tarilam has never seen you since, dear Edie."

There was a lone silence, which Aunt
Sophia forbore to break, in hopes that from
that last sentence the girl would be able to
guess for herself the situation, and thereby
render the details that must follow less
distressing.

I do not understand," said Edie, passing
her hand helplessly across her forehead.
"How came Mr. Layton in this house?"

Well, it was this way. When he leapt
into the sea it was as he thought to save you,
and not your unhappy cousin ; he believed
you to have been drowned before his very

eyes. How, after that wicked wretch had
cut the rope by which he could have regained
the Ganges, he was picked up by the ship
which our sailors took for the Flying Butch-man,
I will tell you another day ; but after
he returned to England he was as fully convinced
of your own death as you were of his.
Though he had saved his life, it seemed — as
it seemed to you — that he had nothing left to
live for."

Edith uttered a piteous moan, which went
to the other's heart, for she understood its
meaning.

"Do not reproach yourself, my darling,"

she continued, soothingly, " for, as well we all

know, you did not forget him any more than

he forgot you. You are both, as we all are,

compelled by circumstances to do what seems

the best — where all is bad — for ourselves.

Law became his mistress, and he applied

himself devotedly to his profession, though,

as it happened, there was no longer need for

him to work. You remember that he used

to speak to you of certain expectations which

might possibly bear fruit. They did so, and
VOL. III. o

soon after his return to England he became a
rich man, upon condition of his taking the
name of Baring. The fact of his existence
thus became by that simple means, as unknown
to } T ou as that of yours to him.
Though he knew, of course, of the rest of us
having arrived from Faybur, he made no
attempt to communicate with us. It was not
nattering to poor me, Edie, was it ? but the
consciousness that you were lost to him made
every association with you distressing to him.
Directly he heard, however, of the danger
in which the captain stood by the action
of Mr. Bates, he volunteered his services.
Though he knew that that scoundrel had returned
home, he had hitherto not thought it
worth his while to punish him ; his attempt
to murder him by cutting the rope would
have been a difficult thing to prove under
ordinary circumstances ; but the fact, as he
instantly perceived, might be made of infinite
service to the captain, as indeed it proved,
for on the confession of so foul a crime,
wrung from the chief witness against him,
the case broke down at once."

Here Aunt Sophia paused ; it seemed to
her as though, she spoke in vain ; for Edith
evinced no sign of interest, scarcely of attention.
Her eyes were fixed straight before her,
with an expression of extreme bewilderment
and pain, and the hand her companion clasped
and fondled in her own was cold as ice and
dead to the touch of sympathy.

You said he was in the house — this very
house — that day," she murmured presently.

(i Yes, he called, as I have said, to offer his
services in the coming trial, of which he had
just heard. His card, of course, told the
captain nothing, and ' Heaven forbid you
should be the man I take you for,' were the
words with which he was greeted.

' You are sorry, it seems, to see me in the
land of the living,' answered Mr. Lay ton,
bitterly. 'Well, I am sorry to be there
myself

Then he went on to say that he should

never have sought to renew his acquaintance

with the captain, on account of the melancholy

associations with his lost darling it must

needs awaken, but for the peril in which the

o 2

other stood, and which it was in his power, ashe
thought, to free him from.

Not one word of this, Edie, as he assures
me, did the poor captain at the moment
understand ; he had been amazed beyond
measure at finding Mr. Lay ton still alive ; the
thought of the relations that had once existed
between you and him, and which had been so
unfortunately severed by your engagement
with Prince Tarilam, shocked him exceedingly
; but now it seemed even a more terrible
complication had arisen. It was plain that
Mr. Layton in his turn did not know of your
existence, and it instantly struck the captain
that it would be better he should never learn
it, since to hear you were alive and out of his
reach would be to suffer a second bereavement.
If you had told the captain, as the
other day you told me, that you intended to
sail with Tarilam as your husband, he would
certainly not have opened his lips to Mr.
Layton ; that he did not know this, and
therefore felt that concealment was useless, is
something, at least, to be thankful for, my
darling."

Edith shook her head, and a piteous shiver
ran through her slender frame.

I feel as though I could be thankful
for nothing but death," she answered with
despairing calm. "I am the cause of
trouble and wretchedness to all who belong
to me, and most of all to those whom I love
best."

At all events, nobody grudges the trouble
you have cost them," said Aunt Sophia soothingly.
She felt how utterly inadequate were
such words for the occasion ; the role she had
to play was far beyond her powers, yet, somehow,
she must needs £o through with it.
The captain, as I have said, my darling, felt
that sooner or later Mr. Lay ton must become
cognizant of what had happened, and that
being so, the sooner he should learn it the
better ; and yet, as he confessed to me, he
shrank from telling him as he had never shrunk
from peril on sea or shore. It seemed to him
that no situation could be more distressing or
beset with difficulties, till all of a sudden,
while he was cudgelling his brains for a way
out of it, the matter was made worse a

thousandfold — the door opened and Tarilam
himself stood before them."

With a sharp cry of anguish, Edith put her
hands up to her ears, as if to close her senses
to what was coming.

THE SACRIFICE.

Do not shut your ears, Edie, darling," continued
Aunt Sophia earnestly, " to the noblest
story that ever woman had to tell of man.

' This is Prince Tarilam,' said the captain,
hardly knowing what he said. ' And this
said the prince, interrupting him before he
could complete his introduction, ' is Mr.
Charles Layton, whom Edie believes to be
dead and drowned.'

He had recognized the likeness to the
portrait he had just seen in your hand, and
understood at once not only what had happened,
but what must needs happen if he
should take the course which the generosity
of his noble nature had instantly suggested to
him. His voice was calm and even gentle,
the captain tells me, and in his generous face

could be already read the self-sacrifice he had
in contemplation."

Let me go to him ! let me tell him what
I owe him ! " cried Edith, starting to her feet.
Oh, Tarilam, Tarilam, why can I not be as
noble as yourself ? "

Because, my darling, you are a woman,"
answered Aunt Sophia boldly, " and what was
difficult for him is impossible for you. Not,
however, by a hair's breadth would I belittle
his greatness. You, who know how he loved
you, can alone appreciate what it cost him to
give you up. This, he did, however, in a few
simple words that deserve to be written in
gold. Since you would never have promised
to be his own, he said, had you not believed
his rival to be dead, he acknowledged that you
belonged by right to him who had first won
your love. The simplicity of his reasons for
riorht-doinor touched his hearers almost as

CD O

much as his self-sacrifice itself.

' One has heard of nature's noblemen,'
exclaimed Mr. Layton, ' but here is a born
prince indeed ; ' and, independently of the
huge obligation under which he is to him, it

is impossible to exaggerate his admiration for
Tarilam 's character. Though, from obvious
motives of delicacy, he has forborne to thrust
his companionship upon him, he holds him as
his dearest friend."

Tarilam, Tarilam, tell me of Tarilam,"
murmured Edith impatiently ; to speak or
think of others just then, and especially of
his rival, seemed to the poor girl, bowed down
beneath that weight of debt, ungrateful and
disloyal to her generous creditor.

Tarilam, my darling, as was only to be
expected of him," answered Aunt Sophia,
"had no thought except for you, and how to
cause you, where so much must needs be
painful, the least possible distress of mind.
It was arranged that under pretence of being
occupied with the arrangements for the departure
of his people, he should cease to visit
you as usual. He had resolved to sail with
them directly the trial was over, and he had
seen that dear friend safe for whom, in all his
own trouble, he had shown the tenderest
solicitude. One stipulation only he made —
that he should bid you one last good-bye

before he went, and with his own lips wish
you that happiness which "

Here Aunt Sophia for the first time broke
down ; nothing, indeed, but the extreme importance
of not giving way to emotion, for
Edith's sake, had hitherto restrained her from
doing so ; for while she had been speaking of
Tarilam, the picture of his calm, despairing
face, so ill-assorting with his generous and self-denying
words, had never been absent from
her mind. She was moved, in truth, no less
than Edith herself; who, though she now
knew what Tarilam had done — and, better
than any, its greatness and nobility — had not
been a witness for days and days, as Aunt
Sophia had been, to the doing of it. Tears
Tarilam had not shed — for he had done
nothing misbecoming — and tears did not become
his father's son and a prince of Breda ;
but the distress of that brave though well-nigh
broken heart, had been terrible to witness,
and the thought of it all, for the moment,
fairly overcame her.

Presently she felt herself roughly shaken by
the arm, while at the same time a voice she

scarcely recognized as that of her companion
it was so fierce and harsh — rang in her
trembling ear. " And who forbade my Tarilam
to come ? " it inquired menacingly ; " who
dared to deny me to him ? Oh, cruel and
ungrateful wretch that he must think me !
The one poor favour that he asked of one
who owed him all to be refused ! Who was
it, woman ? "

"Edie darling, forgive me, it was I."

You ! "

Monosyllable though it was, the word seemed
the very concentration of contempt and even
hate, and the girl shrank from her as she
uttered it.

"Listen, Edie, and when I have told you
why I did it," said Aunt Sophia piteously,
think of me what you will. When he first
proposed to say his last good-bye to you in
person, I offered no opposition to it ; it
would, I knew, be distressing to you, of
course, to the last degree, but since he seemed
to think it would be some comfort to him, I
felt it only due to him that he should have
his way. It was then arranged, as he had

understood, that you were to marry him within
a few weeks or months ; but when you presently
confided to me that you proposed to be
his wife at once and sail with him to Breda, a
terror seized me lest you should tell him so
before he could explain how matters really
stood. It would have been too much for
mortal man to bear, Edie, if his disappointment
had taken that shape ; to have such a
cup of happiness held to him so close, and
then to have had to dash it from his lips with
his own hands, was an ordeal too terrible to
subject him to. Do you remember how, when
you told me of your intention, I said, ' He
must never, never know it ' ? though fortunately
you misunderstood my meaning. All I thought
of then, all I have thought of since, was to
spare that noble heart one needless pang. I
persuaded him that to see you again would
distress you infinitely more than to learn what
had happened from other lips, or from his own
written words, and that argument, as I had
foreseen, sufficed. He could not bring himself
to write just now to his dear writing mistress.
There, there, I will say no more."

Aunt Sophia had said enough, and more
than enough, though how to have told her
story in fewer or more judicious words would
have puzzled a wiser brain than hers. Those
simple words, " his dear writing mistress," had
melted the waxen heart " of her companion,
and she had fallen on the floor like one struck
by death itself. The tension to which her
mind had so long been subjected, followed by
the shock of the captain's tidings, had tried her
strength to the uttermost, and now it had
given way.

I have killed my darling " was Aunt
Sophia's first agonized thought, and when, afterlife
returned, and the patient lay for weeks
in fever and delirium, her remorse was hardly
less poignant. Her cry was only exchanged
for one almost as bitter, " I Lave driven my
darling mad." That Edith, however, remained
for so long a period utterly ignorant of the
events that had been so perilously crowded
into her last day of conscious life was probably
on the whole to her advantage, for
before she came to herself her constitution had
had time to gather strength.

The first question she put to Aunt Sophia
in her natural voice, " Where is he, Sophy,
dear?" was one that puzzled that good lady
not a little to reply to ; for she was by no
means certain as to which of her two swains
Edith was making inquiry. Upon consideration,
indeed, she felt it must needs be Mr.
Charles Layton, and I am afraid she rather
grudged that fortunate gentleman his first
place in her niece's mind.

It was very unreasonable, of course, but
the fact was that Aunt Sophia had become,
though unconsciously, a partisan on the losing
side. The spoils were to the victor, and he
could well afford to be without her sympathy,
the absence of which, moreover, he never
discovered, and though somebody else did so,
she was far indeed from resenting it. If anything
could have made Aunt Sophia dearer
to her niece's heart than she was, it was the
consciousness that she respected and admired
Prince Tarilam more than any living man.
They did not talk of him together very often,
but when they did so it was with hushed
voices and dewy eyes.

Charley always spoke of him to his wife as
the noblest fellow he had ever met, but somehow
his praise was not acceptable to her ; it
was well meant, indeed, but, like the worship
that had been offered to her as the Queen of
Flowers, it was, she felt, but the incense of
ignorance. None but herself — and one other
knew what a noble heart beat in Prince
Tarilam's breast, and, thanks to that other,
still continued to beat. Of this, however,
Edith knew nothing till years afterwards,
when the child that had nestled in her bosom
was dancing on her knee.

Edith had received that day a letter from
Breda, the first of many a one that reached
her whenever opportunity served, and the
two women had been talking of the writer
with infinite tenderness.

To hear that dear Tarilam is well and
happy," said Edith, looking at her boy,
makes my cup of happiness full to the
brim. Hitherto, as I may now confess to
you, Sophy, darling, there has always been a
drop of bitterness in it."

"You need not blame yourself on that
account," answered Sophia, with a sudden
touch of tartness. " If you had forgotten
his misery, you would have deserved to
share it."

That is quite true, dear Sophy," was the
humble reply. Then, after a little pause,
"Was he so very, very miserable?" she rejoined
softly. " I have never dared to ask
you about what happened on that dreadful
day, when you took leave of him, but now
that he seems so happy and resigned "

Or says so for your sake," put in Aunt
Sophia significantly.

"Indeed, dear Sophy, I hope that it is
not so ; why should you think it ? Have
you any reason unknown to me ? "

"Reason! no, I have no reason," answered
the other, dryly, " but only a woman's instinct,
and pity for a generous nature hardly
used."

Oh, Sophy, and have 7 no pity ? "

I should be ashamed, indeed, to think so,
Edie ; but you have your husband and your
child ; and sometimes in your paradise of
happiness it seems to me that you have
forgotten him to whom you owe it."

Indeed, indeed, I have not forgotten him ;
Heaven knows it, for night and day his name
is in my prayers."

VOL. III. p

Then I have done you wrong ; forgive

me."

The two women kissed and wept, while the
child gazed at them and pulled his mother's
sleeve, amazed.

"At one time I had wished to keep what
I had to tell a secret to myself for ever, Edie,
and then I thought I would wait and tell
you when time had given you strength to
bear it ; and then, again, when I saw you, as
I wrongfully supposed, forgetting him a little,
I hid the matter, because I felt you were
unworthy to hear it, and if you had not asked
me, Edie, you would never have known one
word of it to my dying day.

When Tarilam had given you up to his
rival, it w T as fortunate, indeed, I thought,
that he had so much to busy himself about
in the preparation of his people for their
voyage and in the lading of the ship. I
saw him every day, and though he spoke of
you at times in words that pierced my heart
with their devotion and despair, he mainly
dwelt upon the subject of the voyage, and of
the pleasure which this and that and the

many gifts he was taking back would give
the king, his father. You remember his room,
Edie, how crowded it was with those little
mementoes of his own choosing, simple and
often worthless in themselves, but speaking
so eloquently of his filial love ? "

There was no reply, but by the tears that
coursed down Edith's cheeks it was easy to
see that she remembered them well.

At last the ship was ready for sailing at an
hour's notice, and only awaited the prince's
pleasure, while he, on his part, was delaying
his departure for the result of the trial. It
was arranged that directly this should be
known I should communicate the news to
him, and bid him a last farewell. The messenger
arrived from the court-house only a
little in advance of the captain himself, who
always says that the heaviest burthen ever
laid upon a man's shoulders was the telling
of the tale he had to tell to you. While he
was doing it, however, I was employed upon
a task that was even more painful, for the
captain's story had a bright side for your

eyes, Edie, and my good-bye to Tarilam had

p 2

none for his. He listened to all I had to
say of you with greedy ears, but in silence,
and the distress in his gentle face was piteous
to witness. The only thing that seemed to
give him comfort was the conviction I expressed
that in due time, and after you had
recovered from the shock of his departure,
you would be happy. He seemed to feel the
same content as regarded you which a dying
parent feels in the happiness of his children."

Did he speak of Charley ? " whispered
Edith, in trembling tones.

Yes ; in the most kind and generous terms,
acknowledging his superiority to himself and
the likelihood of his making you a better
husband. Not a touch of jealousy 'stained
the white radiance ' of that noble soul."

Edith was choked with sobs. Aunt Sophia
took up the child and placed it on the mother's
lap ere she resumed.

He had declined to write to you ere he
went away, as I have said ; but I now besought
him to take the first opportunity of
doing so on arriving at Breda. I told him
how dear his memory would always be to

you, and what pleasure it would give you
to hear from him. To this he answered nothing.
' You will write to her, will you not,
dear Tarilam,' I adjured him solemnly, ' as
soon as you get home ? '

Then, when he still made no reply, I read
something in his face, which, though it must
have been there all along, I had not seen
before. I should not have seen it then,
perhaps, but for the recollection that suddenly
occurred to me of something he had said tome
in Faybur. He had told me that it was
the custom of his royal race, when they
found life too great a burthen, to put an end
to their own existence by the woorali poison, a
few grains of which they always carried about
with them. I had thought little of it at the
time — for, strange as it was, there was so much
else that was strange in those days — and still
less afterwards, when Tarilam had, as it were,
become one of ourselves, and seemed to be
separated from all the ways of his kinsfolk.
But now that he would not give me his
promise to write — for, as you know, he could
never be induced to tell a lie — it struck mein

a flash, what he meant to do. ' Tarilam/
I said, ' I have given you hope, and good
hope, that sooner or later our Edie may
recover from the sorrow which your sudden
and unlooked-for departure must needs cause
her ; but, believe me, she is in no condition
to bear any further shock. If you think of
killing yourself, remember you will kill her
also

He did not answer, but turned his face
away from me with a piteous groan. I had
.guessed his purpose, and saw that it was
already frustrated. He had flattered himself
that be had found a way of escape out of his
misery, and now it was closed to him, as I
knew, for ever. l It would have been easy to
die for her, dear Tarilam,' I said, 'but you
must do more — you must live for her,' and it
is for your sake, Edie, that he is living now."

For the rest, a more loving husband than
Charles Layton no woman ever found, nor
was it to be wondered at, since he had
been always devoted to her. " Faithful and
true, living or dead," had been the promise

he had made to her from the first, and he
kept it loyally. She was loving and devoted,
too, but with a difference ; the sense
that she had not been so loyal as he oppressed
her. Her offence (for such she always
considered it) in this respect had unhappily
been twofold, or rather had been a twofold
catastrophe. She had forgotten the dead
and misled the living. They had both forgiven
her and both assured her, indeed, that
there was nothing; to forgive, but she could
not forgive herself. The subject was never
alluded to, but years elapsed before remorse
faded to regret. She had troubles, as have
the happiest of us — one that especially wrings
a mother's heart, but even that did not surpass
the pang of pity and self-reproach that shot
through it whenever she thought of Tarilam.
Society was distasteful to her, partly, perhaps,
because she feared lest its babble — whether
thoughtless or malicious — might concern itself
with this tender topic, and partly because long
residence in her island home had begotten a
taste for solitude. Her husband toiled and
throve, and was raised, while still in middle

life, to the bench. Her greatest happiness was
in his success, and, above all, in the honour in
which he was held by all men ; but her own
life, was a retired one. What had happened
to her at Faybur was not only an epoch in her
life, but an experience that coloured all the
current of it. Many a woman, before she
meets the man of her choice, has a sweetheart
whose memory keeps its tender and not unwholesome
fragrance for years, but the recollection
of Tarilam abode, in all honesty and
honour, in Edith's heart for ever. She never
forgot her Prince of the Blood.

THE FAIRY GODMOTHER.

It was by the last post, on the previous
evening, that Arthur Forester had received at
his chambers in the Temple the MS. which
Cicely had sent him, and when he rose from
its perusal the summer sun was high in the
heavens. The narrative was certainly not
without an interest of its own, and the more
so since it was the life history of one still
living, and whom he had so lately seen ; but
it could hardly, I fear, have riveted his eyes
to its pages for so many hours had it not had
for him a personal interest of the most vital
kind. It was, indeed, as he had been assured,
no allegory, but a lesson that he who ran
might read ; its obvious moral was, under
every chance and change, to be faithful to

those we love ; and it addressed itself, as
Cicely had told him, at least as much to her
as to him. She might have said even more
so, for in her godmother's story, which, without
doubt, was that of Edith Norbury, it was
Edith who had failed in her fidelity, and not
her lover. It was true that her own case was
not Cicely's, inasmuch as she had refused to
be engaged to him ; but, if he had had any
doubt of it before, he was now well convinced
that she loved him, and was willing to wait
for him, if only he should prove himself
worthy of her ; her sending him the story
could have had no other purpose than to
assure him of it.

The words that she had written on its
envelope were even still more convincing —
I sympathize with her regrets," which
meant, of course, with Edith's regrets ; for if
the tale had been named after its heroine
instead of its hero, might it not well have
been called ' The Remorse of Edith Norbury ' ?

And who was this Edith Norbury, whom he
had only seen but once, and never before —
though it seemed she was Cicely's godmother

so much as heard of? There was a Layton,
he dimly remembered to have heard, who had
risen at an unusually early age to the bench,
and had died when still young — for a judge.
That must have been thirty years ago and
more ; but it was quite possible that the
beautiful old lady he had seen in the wheeled
chair, and whom he had likened to a princess,
was his widow. And it seemed that she
might have been a princess had she so chosen.
No w T under that Cicely had said to him that
evening, " Among all the thousands that are
in these gardens, there is no one whose
story has been such a romance as hers," but
how strange it was that he had never heard
of it!

Upon consideration, however, was it, he
asked himself, so strange ? It was a story
that its heroine had very good reasons for
concealing ; and its incidents were more than
half a century old. However notorious it
might once have been, there w r as time enough
and to spare for it to have been forgotten.
Scores of people with whose name the w T old
is busy in their youth survive to find themselves

obscure, and the more quickly if, as
was doubtless this lady's case, they seek
obscurity.

Interesting as Lady Layton had become to
him since he had learnt her story, Mr. Arthur
Forester had, however, matters of greater
interest to think of, albeit they arose from its
perusal. He sat down and wrote two letters,
one to the secretary of a great personage who
had offered him the appointment in India, and
one to Cicely. The tone of this latter note
was affectionate and devoted, but free from
passion. " I have read the story of your dear
godmother," it said, " with the utmost interest,
and have laid its lesson to heart. I should
have liked before I sail to thank her for it in
person, but I can easily understand that that
is impossible. My time is short — three weeks
from this date. You will give me, dear Cicely,
one interview, I know, before I go. I promise
you it shall cost you nothing, for I will ask
for nothing." It was a very humble letter as
regarded Cicely, and a very modest one as
regarded himself. "With such a prize in
view as I have," he said, "it is a small thing

to say that I shall do my best to win it. If I
fail to do so, it will be my own fault, but not
(as I would have selfishly made it) another's
misfortune."

In reply to his letter, Cicely appointed
a day for their interview. It was not at
an early date, but the reason for that, as
they were to meet but once before his departure
for India, was easily explicable. To
feel that he was still on English ground for
any time after she had bidden him her last
good-bye would naturally be distressing to
her. In the interval Arthur Forester occupied
himself in making arrangements for his
departure.

At the appointed day he repaired to his
uncle's house — who was a widower — where
he was evidently expected. Instead of being
shown up into the drawing-room, he was
ushered to the boudoir, which he rightly
judged to be of good omen. Impecunious
cousins and detrimental generally have not
the entree of that sacred apartment.

Presently Cicely entered, accompanied by
an old lady, very gentle and gracious-looking,

who leaned upon the girl's arm. Arthur
recognized her at once, and before saluting
his mistress, respectfully raised her companion's
fingers to his lips. " You know who I am,
it seems, young sir," she observed good-naturedly.


Now, instead of saying " Yes, you are
Cicely's godmother," Arthur had the intelligence
to reply, " You are Lady Lay ton,
madam' and she inclined her head with a
smile of pleasure. Even the most unselfish of
one's fellow-creatures like to be valued for
their own sakes. Moreover, the young man's
words were accompanied by a look of unmistakable
tenderness and sympathy. It
touched him to think that, woefully changed
indeed by time and trials, but still a living
being; like himself, there stood before him
Edith Norbury, who fifty years ago had been,
perhaps, the counterpart of Cicely herself.
Her story, with all its dramatis persons, came
involuntarily into his mind. Were they all
dead and gone, he wondered, and she alone
left to tell of them ?

Her ladyship looked at him very fixedly.

"forgive," she said, "the egotism of a recluse.
What is it, young sir, that you are thinking
about me ? "

Arthur blushed to his forehead. If lie
would have invented some less personal reply
on the spur of the moment, it is probable he
would have done so ; but, as it was, he told
her the simple truth.

"It is a good sign for you, darling," she
said, turning to Cicely, " that this young man
pities the old. Yes, sir," she added in low
tremulous tones, " they are all dead, save one
the good Prince, and my dear husband, and
kind Aunt Sophy, and honest Captain Head.
They are all gone to heaven, where I hope
soon to follow them. But do not let me
shadow with my cares, my child, your parting
hour."

Here the old lady whispered to Cicely something,
at which she shook her pretty head.
Well, if I must, I must," returned her ladyship,
though not at all like one who is acting
compulsorily, but, on the contrary, with a
bright smile that illumined her gray face as
sunshine sparkles on the frost.

"You see it is not as if you and Sissy here
were engaged to be married, Mr. Arthur," she
bean, " in which case, you would be settling;
your own affairs together, without the intervention
of any old woman in Christendom ;
but as I understand the matter, you are both
as free as air, though one of you is on his
probation." Here Cicely was about to interrupt,
but her godmother lifted an imperious
finger for silence. " I am speaking to the
young gentleman," she said, " and not to you
at all, miss."

What you say is very true, Lady Lay ton,"
returned Arthur humbly, "except that my
own position is not quite so good as you are
pleased to describe it."

You mean that if your happiness could be
secured by your own efforts there would be
no fear of your success ; but that it is very
doubtful, even if you do your very best in
India, whether you will earn sufficient, within
a reasonable time, to enable you to come
home and maintain a wife in England."

I could go out to Mm" murmured Cicely
pleadingly.

o

You will do nothing of the kind, miss,"
returned her godmother sharply. " Do you
suppose that my young friend here is such a
selfish wretch as to permit it ? "

Certainly not," protested Arthur. " She
might be shipwrecked."

"True; as I was. Then you would think
her dead and marry some one else."

Never 1 said Arthur, confidently.

The tears came into the old lady's eyes.

That is what I used to say, my dear, you
remember," she murmured sadly, " and yet I
did not keep my word."

Arthur did remember it, but unfortunately
too late ; he was vexed with himself for
having inadvertently distressed her ; but it
was plain she was not vexed with him.

From "young sir" she had dropped quite
naturally into "mv young* friend 1 and now
she had called him " my dear."

I think I will leave you two young people
together," she said ; then with a loving glance
at Cicely, " You may tell him what you please,
my darling."

I would much rather that you stayed with
vol. in. Q

us, dear godmother, and told him yourself,"
replied Cicely demurely.

That is not your view, Mr, Arthur ? " said
the old lady smiling, for indeed the young
gentleman's countenance, which had risen to
very fair ' at that promise of a tete-astute, had
fallen a little ; " nor must you imagine that it
is in reality Sissy's. She only wishes to give
an old woman whom she loves, and who has few
joys left her in this world, a great pleasure."

Heaven forbid that I should hinder it,
dear madam," said Arthur earnestly. He felt
what he said, for the old lady interested him
immensely.

"You have a kind heart, sir," said Lady
Lay ton gently, " which makes the task that
has been committed to me the more welcome.
Though you have known Sissy long, I have
known her longer, and though it may seem
impossible to you, I do not love her less. I
have for many years lived more in the past
than in the present, and quite alone. It
pleased God to take my darling boy from me,
and since then she has been as my own child.
Having no mother it was natural that she

should come to me for advice and assistance
in her little troubles ; but at last there came
a great trouble — you, sir."

Here Lady Lay ton shook a jewelled ringer
at him, and Arthur hung his head ; not so
low, however, but that he could see Cicely
smiling benignly on him over her godmother's
chair, which kept his spirits up amazingly.

I was horrified to find that a young man
without a penny had dared to lift his eyes to
my godchild. What was still worse, this
gentleman did not seem inclined to bestir
himself to earn a penny."

Arthur made a movement of dissent.

That is what I gathered, sir, from my
informant, notwithstanding, you may be sure,
that she made every excuse for you ; you were
ready to break stones in the road to win her,
in England, it seemed, only stone-breaking
was not a remunerative calling ; but you hesitated
to accept £200 a year in India with the
same object."

It was not the going to India, madam,
but the fear of losing her while I was away,"
put id the young man plaintively.

Q 2

That is what you protested, of course ;
but I was not inclined to believe you. ' This
is in my opinion an idle young fellow, Sissy,'
I said, ' and totally unworthy of you on
which Sissy burst into tears.

' It is better to cry now,' said I, ' than to
cry when things are past mending.' So you
see, sir, I was set dead against you, and did
what I could to your disadvantage."

At first" observed Cicely very softly, like
an explanatory chorus which has lost its voice.

Be quiet, miss," remarked the old lady
reprovingly. " Well, sir, my advice to Sissy
was not only that she should not engage
herself to you — which, indeed, she was far too
wise to do — but, unless you accepted that
appointment in India of your own free-will,
that she should give you up. She would not
express her own opinion on the matter that
night at the Inventions one way or the other,
you remember ; but left it to your own
decision, and still you hesitated, sir. Then
suddenly (catching sight of me in my wheeled
chair) she thought of my unhappy story,
which, if read aright, though she could not

]slight her faith to you in so many words, it
struck her might indirectly assure you of it."

I am thankful to say it did so," murmured
the young fellow.

"My experience has been a bitter one,
Heaven knows, but since it has taught you
wisdom, it has not been without good fruit.
God bless you both ! "

Arthur once more bowed his head, this time
without venturing to look at Cicely ; he felt
somehow that some supreme moment as regarded
his future w T as at hand ; but when
he looked up again, Lady Layton had disappeared.


You will not see her again, Arthur," said
Cicely, gravely, in answer to his look of amazement.
"It was only for my sake that my
dear godmamma consented to see you at all ;
for she sees no one. If I had not been certain
that she would have liked you, I would not
have risked it."

Risked it 1 "

That was not perhaps the right word to
use," said Cicely, blushing, "for in any case
I had obtained her consent to our betrothal."

Here there was what is called in music ' an
interval,' and it was very harmoniously spent.

What are those papers she has left on the
table, Sissy ? "

Papers ? I did not know there were more
than one. This is your appointment from
Judge Manners, a very old friend of Lady
Lay ton's husband."

Judge Manners ! But it was not in his

gift."

Not the Indian one. But this is a revising
barristership, and she knows some 'colors,' as
you call them, and promises to get you work
from them besides."

What a fairy godmother my darling
has ! "

You may well say that," exclaimed Cicely,
her pretty face lit up with glad surprise. " See
what she has given to me, Arthur. "

It was a deed making over to her the sum
of £500 a year till the donor's death, "after
which my dear godchild will be otherwise," it
said, " suitably provided for."

And did you know nothing of this ? "

Not of this, only of the other."

I wonder why she never told you until
now ? "

I think I know, my darling. She had not
made up her mind until she had seen you
whether you were a fit and proper person to
be intrusted with such a treasure as myself.
If she had had her doubts, she would have
withheld her munificence, until you had passed
through some period of probation ; but as it
is—"

We are to be married tomorrow," interrupted
Arthur rapturously.

How can you be so foolish ? "

But that is what she means, Sissy ; J
don't say that she has fixed that date for the
ceremony, but she wishes it to happen as soon
as possible. To delay it would be an act of
mutiny and ingratitude of which I cannot
believe you capable, and which would be only
worthy of Mr. Bates."

Moved by these and other arguments, Cicely
consented to name the day, and it was not a
remote one.

The only drawback to it in the young
couple's eyes when it arrived was that it

lacked the presence of Lady Lay ton, who, as
they both honestly thought, was very inadequately
' represented ' by a magnificent
diamond necklace.

"Who was that stout old gentleman, my
darling," inquired the bridegroom, as they
drove away for their honeymoon, " who handed
you your godmother's present ? I heard him
say something about being her dearest friend."

That is the sole survivor of whom she
spoke the other day. When the East India
Company were dissolved, some of its naval
officers took rank in the Royal Navy ; and he
is one of them, Admiral Conolly, Cab."

What, Master Lewis Conolly 1 "

Yes, the same, though not the same. He
is the only person alive in England, save
poor dear godmamma, who remembers Prince
Tarilam."

THE End.

R. Clay and Sons, London and Bungay.

seward

& DOWNEY'S

CATALOGUE OF

Mm Bubltcaticms

bonbon :

12, YORK STREET, Covent GARDEN, W.C.

THE MEMOIRS OF AN ARABIAN PRINCESS.

Crown 8vo. 6s. [Just ready.

ADAMS, W. H. D.

THE HEALING ART : a History of Medicine
and Medical Celebrities from the Earliest Times to the
Present Day. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. 25s.

ARNOLD, REV. F.
ROBERTSON OF BRIGHTON : with some Notes of

His Times and His Contemporaries. Post 8vo. 9s.

BEAUFORT, R. LEDOS DE.
THE ABBE LISZT : the Story of His Life. Crown
8vo. With Three Portraits. 6s.

BROGLIE, DUC DE.
THE PERSONAL RECOLLECTIONS OF THE
DUC DE BROGLIE. Edited by E. L. de Beaufort. 2 vols.
Demy 8vo. With a Portrait on Steel. sos.

DAUNT, W. J. O'NEILL.
Eighty-five YEARS OF IRISH HISTORY

(1800-1885), 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 21s.

%.* A New Edition, with additional matter, in one vol., is in the
Press.

ELLIOTT, FRANCES.
OLD COURT LIFE IN FRANCE. Royal 8vo.

With Twenty whole-page engravings. 7s. 6d.

FROST, THOMAS.
RECOLLECTIONS OF A COUNTRY Journalist.
New Edition. 6s. [Just ready.

HOG AN, J. F.
THE IRISH IN AUSTRALIA. Demy 8vo. 10s. 6d.

KROPOTKINE, PRINCE.
IN RUSSIAN AND FRENCH PRISONS. Large
post 8vo. With a Plan of the Fortress of St. Peter and St.
Paul. 7s. 6d.

Molly, J. FITZGERALD.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS ; or, London under
the Four Georges. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 12s.

FAMOUS PLAYS, from Congreve's " Love for Love,"

to Lytton's " Lady of Lyons." Large Post 8vo. 10s. 6d.

ROYALTY RESTORED : or, London under Charles II.
2 vols. Large crown 8vo. With Twelve Portraits. 25s.

m * A New and Cheaper Edition of " Royalty Restored," in
one vol., price 6s , is just ready.

LEGGE, ALFRED 0.

THE UNPOPULAR KINO: The Life and Times of
Richard III. 2 vols. Demy 8vo. With Sixteen Illustrations.
sos.

0' COX NOR, T. P.
GLADSTONE'S HOUSE OF COMMONS. Demy

8vo. 12s 6d.

THE PARNELL MOVEMENT. A New and Revised

edition. Paper cover, Is. Cloth, 2s.

O'SHEA, JOHN AUGUSTUS.

AN IRONBOUND CITY : Five Months of Peril and
and Privation in Besieged Paris. 2 vols, crown 8vo. 21s.

LEAVES FROM THE LIFE OF A SPECIAL
CORRESPONDENT. 2 vols. Crown 8vo. 21s.

ROMANTIC SPAIN: a Record of Personal Experiences.
2 vols. Crown 8vo. 21s.

ROOSEVELT, BLANCHE.

VERDI, MILAN, AND " OTHELLO." With numerous

Illustrations. Imp. 16mo. Bevelled boards, gilt top.
7s. 6d.

Said, GEORGE.
THE LIFE AND LETTERS OF GEORGE SAND :

with a Biographical Sketch by R. L. de Beaufort. 3 vols.
Demy 8vo. 36s.

SMITH, GEORGE Barrett.

VICTOR HUGO : His Life and Work. Crown 8vo.
With an Engraved Portrait of Hugo. 6s.

STEPNIAE."
RUSSIA UNDER THE Tears. Crown 8vo. 6s.

STRAUSS, G. L. M.
THE EMPEROR WILLIAM : The Story of a Great
King and a Good Man. Crown 8vo. 6s. [Just ready.

WALL, A. H.
FIFTY YEARS OF A GOOD QUEEN'S REIGN.

Imp. 16mo. With Six portraits. 3s. 6d. Gilt edges. 4s. 6d.

Wool, MADAM JANKA.
RECOLLECTIONS OF LISZT. Crown 8vo. 6s.

[Just ready.

EDUCATION.

Need, S. P.
THE CANDIDATE'S LATIN GRAMMAR. Crown

8vo. 3s. 6d.

ESSAYS.

ANONYMOUS.
IGNORANT ESSAYS. Foolscap 8vo. Bevelled

boards, gilt top. 5s. [Just ready.

ARNOLD, REV. F.
Three-cornered ESSAYS. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d

BUCHANAN, ROBERT.
A LOOK ROUND LITERATURE. Crown 8vo, 6s.

MOULT ON, LOUISE CHANDLER.
OURSELVES AND OUR NEIGHBOURS. A Book

for Women. Foolscap 8vo. [Just ready.

WALKER, THOMAS.
THE ORIGINAL. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

FICTION.

ANONYMOUS;

THE TWIN SOUL. 2 vols. 21s. [Just ready.

AUTHOR OF "MEHALAH."
LITTLE Twopenny. Is.

AUTHOR OF "MOLLY Sawn. U
A MENTAL STRUGGLE. 6s.
A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN. 2s.
LADY Walworth's DIAMONDS. Is.
HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. 2s.
A MODERN CIRCE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

ALLEN, F. M.
THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. With Numerous Illustrations
by M. Fitzgerald. Crown 8vo. 6s. [Shortly.

Appleton, G. W.
A TERRIBLE LEGACY. 6s.
JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. 3s. 6d.
FROZEN HEARTS. 3s. 6d. [In the press.

BARRETT, FRANK.
LIEUTENANT BARNABAS. 3s. 6d. [In the press.

HIS HELPMATE. 6s.
HONEST DAVIE. 2s.
JOHN FORD. Two vols. 12s.
FOUND GUILTY. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
THE GREAT Hester. Is.
FOLLY MORRISON. 2s.

Bentham-EDWARDS, M.
THE FLOWER OF DOOM. 2s.

BLIXKHOOLIE."
A TORY LORDL1NG. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

CAMERON, MRS. H. Loveth.
A LIFE'S MISTAKE. 3s. 6d.

Vanstone, S.
LOVE, THE CONQUEROR. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW, to.

LORD YANECOURTS DAUGHTER. Three vols. 31s. 6d.

IN THE FLOWER OF HER YOUTH, to. In the prest.

CHOKER, B. M.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE. 6s.
PROPER Pride. to.
PRETTY MISS NEVILLE, fe

Dowling, RICHARD.

THE SKELETON KEY. Is.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S, to.

THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART, to.

TEMPEST DRIVEN. 6b.

FATAL BONDS. Three vols. 31s. Si.

DOWNEY, EDMUND.

A HOUSE OF TEARS. Is.
IN ONE TOWN. to. 6d.
ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. 3s. Sd.

FARJEON, B. L.

A SECRET INHERITANCE. Three vols. 31s 60.

THE TRAGEDY OP FE Atherton. Three vols. 31s. tU.

THE SACRED Suggest. 6s.

GREAT PORTER SQUARE, to.

IN A SILVER SEA. to.

THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. 2s.

Gulf. to.

Polka. Is.

EEXX, G. MANVILLE.

ONE MAID'S MISCHIEF. Three vols. 31s. 6L [In the pre*.

THIS MAN'S WIFE. Three vols. 31s. 6d.
MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. 6s.
IN JEOPARDY. 6s.
DOUBLE CUNNING. 6s.
THE BAG OF DIAMONDS. Is.
THE DARK HOUSE. Is.
EVE AT THE WHEEL. U.
THE CHAPLAIN'S CRAZE. U.

THE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. With Numerous Illness


Kendall, PERCY,
SEX TO THE LAST. 3 vols. 31a. 6d.
SPIDERS AND FLIES. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

Fol, MADAME.
THE LAST STAKE. 2s.

FORRESTER, MRS.
VIVA. 2s.

FOTHERGILL, CAROLINE,

AN ENTHUSIAST. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

GIBNEY, SOMERVILLE.

JOHN 0' LONDON : a Story of the Days of Roger Bacon. With
Numerous Illustrations.

THE NEW RIVER : a Romance of the Days of Hugh Myddel-
ton. 3s. 6d.

GIFT, The.

Il LORIMER. 6s.

GRANT, JAMES.
PLAYING WITH FIRE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

HARRISON, MRS. BURTON.
FOLK AND FAIRY TALES. 7s. 6d.

HAUTE, Bred.
SNOWBOUND AT EAGLE'S. 2s.

HILLARY, MAX.
A DEADLY ERRAND. Is.

HUGO, VICTOR.
THE OUTLAW OF ICELAND. 2s. 6d.

Keene, J. F.

MERE Shaking. 2s.

KEEN AN, HENRY F.
THE ALIENS. 6s.

KEITH, LESLIE.
THE CHILCOTES. 6s.
UNCLE BOB'S NIECE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d. [In the press.

KING, RICHARD ASHE (basil).
A SHADOWED LIFE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
COQUETTE'S CONQUEST. 2s.

LESTER, H. FRANCIS.
Under TWO FIG-trees. 3s. 6d.

MACQUOID, KATHARINE S.
AT THE BED GLOVE. 6s.

LOUISA. 2s. [Just ready.

SIB JAMES APPLEBY. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

MANN, MRS. Firman.
eOWABD AND COQUETTE. 3s. 6d.

MARTIN, MRS. HERBERT.
From THE SILENT PAST. 2 vols. 21s.
Amos Vinci. 2 vols. 21s.

Molly, J. FITZGERALD.
A Modern MAGICIAN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.
THAT VILLAIN Romeo. 2s.
WHAT HAST THOU DONE ? 2s [In the press.

MURRAY, D. CHRISTIE.
A NOVELIST'S NOTE BOOK. 6s.

O'BRIEN, FLTZJAMES.
THE DIAMOND LENS. With a Biographical Sketch of the
Author by William Winter. 3s. 6d.

Oliphant, MRS.
Oliver's Bride. Is.

PA NT ON, J. E.
A TANGLED CHAIN. 2 vols. 21s.
LESS THAN KIN. 3s. 6d.

PAXTON, M. W.
Where TEMPESTS BLOW. 3s. 6d. [In the press.

MISS ELVESTEB's Girls. 3s. 6d. [In the press.

PHILIPS, F. C.
AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. 6s.
THE DEAN AND HIS DAUGHTER. 2s.
JACK AND THREE Fills. 2s.
A LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN. 6s.
SOCIAL Vicissitude ES. 2s.

Parnell, THOMAS.
THE LADY DRUSILLA. 6s.

Liddell, MRS. J. H.
MISS GASCOIGNE. 2s.
THE NUN'S CURSE. 3 vols. 31s. 6d. [In the press.

"Rite."
THE LADY Nancy. 2s.
Wretch EN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

ROOSEVELT, BLANCHE.
THE COPPER QUEEN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

RUNCIMAN, JAMES.
THE CHEQUERS : BEING THE NATURAL HISTORY OP
A PUBLIC HOUSE. Crown 8vo. [Just ready.

SMITH, MRS. J. GREGORY.
Atlas : a Story of the Lost Island. 3s. 6d.

THOMAS, ANNIE.
A REIGNING FAVOURITE. 3s. 6d.

Tristan, W. Outran.
A STRANGE AFFAIR. 3 vols. 31s 6d.
COMEDIES FROM A COUNTRY SIDE. 3s. 6d.

Tatler, SARAH.
LOGIE TOWN. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

WARDEN, FLORENCE.
SCHEHEREZADE : A LONDON NIGHT'S Entertainment.
3 vols. 31s. 6d.
A PRINCE O F DARKNESS. Is.

Stall, WILLIAM.
TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. 3s. 6d.
HER TWO MILLIONS. 3 vols. 31s. 6d.

Harrison, MRS. BURTON.
FOLK AND FAIRY TALES. Crown 8vo. With 24

whole-page engravings, by Walter Crane. 6 t

WILDE, LADY (" SPERANZA").
ANCIENT LEGENDS, MYSTIC CHARMS AND
SUPERSTITIONS OF IRELAND. With a Chapter on the
Ancient Races of Ireland by Sir William Wilde. 2 vols.
Crown 8vo. 21s.

MILITARY.

DOUGLAS, WILLIAM.
DUELLING DAYS IN THE ARMY. Imp. 16mo.

7s. 6d.

KOETTSCHAU, LIEUT. COL.
THE COMING FRANCO-GERMAN WAR. Translated

by Holm Hill. Large post 8vo. 7s. 6d.

POETRY.

ADAMS, W. DAVENPORT.
SONGS FROM THE NOVELISTS. Foolscap 4to.
Printed in Brown Ink on hand-made Paper. 7s. 6d.

Dotterel, GEORGE.
YESTERDAY AND TO-DAY. Crown 8vo. 6s.

HAMILTON, EDWIN.

THE MODERATE MAN, AND OTHER Humorous
POEMS. With numerous illustrations by Harry
Furniss. [In the press.

THEOLOGY.

ARNOLD, REV. F.
ROBERTSON OF BRIGHTON. Post 8vo. 9s.

COLLINS, MABEL.
THROUGH THE GATES OF GOLD. A Fragment

of Thought. Foolscap 8 vo. White Cloth. Gilt top. 4s. 6d.
Cubits, George Tickler.
CREATION OR EVOLUTION ? Demy ftvo. 10s. 6d.

WELDON, REV. G. W.
TILLOTSON's SERMONS. Crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.

TRAVEL.

BATES, E. CATHERINE.
A YEAR IN THE GREAT REPUBLIC. 2 vols.

Crown 8vo. 21s.

CONN t WILLIAM.
JAPANESE LIFE, LOVE, AND LEGEND. From

the French of Maurice Dubard. Crown 8v r o. 7s. 6d.

Loud, AXXA BOWMAN.
CATHEDRAL DAYS : A TOUR THROUGH
SOUTHERN ENGLAND. Crown 8vo. With Numerous
Ill stations. 6s.

HARDY, IZA DUFFUS.
ORANGES AND ALLIGATORS : Sketches of South

Florida Life. Crown 8vo. 5s.

Keene, JOHN F.
THREE YEARS OF A WANDERER'S LIFE.

Two vols. Crown 8vo. 21s.
Mecca & Medina. Crown 8vo. 6s. [Just ready.

MISCELLANEOUS.

FROM KITCHEN TO GARRET. A New Work on
Household Management. By Mrs. Panton. "With Numerous
Illustrations. Crown 8vo. [Shortly.

GRACE AND FOLLY : DANCERS AND DANCING.

Illustrated Wrapper. Is. [Just ready.

ECCLESIASTICAL ENGLISH. By George Washington

Moon. Crown 8vo. 3s. 6d.

LIVING PARIS : A Guide to the Manners, Monuments,
and Institutions of the People. Foolscap 8vo. With
Maps and Plans. 6s.

TRAVELS IN THE INTERIOR; OR, THE

WONDERFUL ADVENTURES OF LUKE AND BELINDA.

Edited by a London Physician. Illustrated by Harry*

Furniss. Large Crown 8vo. Gilt top. 6s.

*** An attempt to teach the anatomy and physiology of the human

body in a novel and entertaining manner.

COMMON SENSE IN THE NURSERY. fy

Marion Garland. Crown 8vo 2s. 6d.

DISHES AND DRINKS ; OR, PHILOSOPHY IN
THE KITCHEN. By G. L. M. Strauss. New and Cheaper
Edition. Crown 8vo. 2s. 6d.

Illustrated BOOKS SUITABLE FOR

PRESENTS OR PRIZES.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.
Illustrations by M. Fitzgerald. Cloth gilt, bevelled boards.
6s.

THE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. By G. Manville

Fenn. Illustrations by Gordon Browne. Cloth gilt,
bevelled boards. 6s.

VERDI, MILAN, AND " OTHELLO." By Blanche

Roosevelt. With Sixteen whole-page Illustrations. Cloth
gilt, bevelled boards. 7s. 6d.

AT THE RED GLOVE. By Katharine S. Macquold.
Illustrations by C. S. Reinhart. Cloth gilt, bevelled
boards. 6s

TRAVELS IN THE INTERIOR; OR, THE Wonderful
ADVENTURES OF LUKE AND BELINDA.

Illustrations by Harry Furniss. Bevelled boards, cloth gilt.

JOHN 0' LONDON : a Story of the Days of Roger
Bacon. By Somerville Gibney. Illustrations by M. Fitzgerald.
Cloth gilt, bevelled boards. 6s.

FOLK AND FAIRY TALES. By Mrs. Burton

Harrison. With twenty-four original whole-page Engravings
by Walter Crane. 2nd Edition. Crown 8vo. In handsomely
designed cover, gilt edges. 6s.

CATHEDRAL DAYS : a Tour through Southern
England. By Anna Bowman Dodd. 6s.

OLD COURT LIFE IN FRANCE. By Mrs. Frances
Elliott. With twenty-one original whole-page Engravings.
Royal 8vo 7s. 6d.

FIFTY YEARS OF A GOOD QUEEN'S REIGN.

By A. H. Wall. With six Portraits. Imp. 16rno. Cloth,
3s. 6d. ; bevelled boards, gilt edges. 4s. 6d.

Just ready. At all Libraries in Town and Country.
THE NUN'S CURSE. By Mrs. Riddell. 3 vols.

HER TWO MILLIONS. By William Westall.
3 vols.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.

With Numerous Illustrations bv M. Fitzgerald. 1 vol.

THE FOX AND THE GOOSE : a New Sporting
Novel. 1 vol.

A MODERN MAGICIAN. By J. Fitzgerald Molloy,
3 vols.

JOHN London : a Story of the Days of Roger
Bacon. By Somerville Gibney. 1 vol.

A PRINCE OF THE BLOOD. By James Pain.
3 vols.

THE TWIN SOUL : A Psychological Romance.
2 vols.

ONE MAID'S MISCHIEF. By G. Manilla Fern.

3 vols.

SIX SHILLING NOVELS.

JOHN 0' LONDON : By Somerville Gibney.

THE STORY OF ANTHONY GRACE. By G. Manville Fenn.

THROUGH GREEN GLASSES. By F. M. Allen.

AT THE RED GLOVE. By K. S. Macquoid.

A BIRD OF PASSAGE. By B. M. Croaker.

HIS HELPMATE. By Frank Barrett.

A Terrible LEGACY. By G. W. Appleton.

THE MASTER OF THE CEREMONIES. By G. Manville

Fenn.
IN JEOPARDY. By G. Manville Fenn.
DOUBLE CUNNING. By G. Manville Fenn.
THE ALIENS. By Henry F. Keenan.
AS IN A LOOKING GLASS. By F. C. Philips.
A LUCKY YOUNG WOMAN. By F. C. Philips.
TEMPEST DRIVEN. By Richard Dowling.
A MENTAL STRUGGLE. By the Author of " Molly Bawn."
Il LORIMER. By The. Gift.
THE SACRED NUGGET. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE CHILCOTES. By Leslie Keith.

THREE-AND-SIXPENNY NOVELS.

THE DIAMOND LENS. By Fitzjames O'Brien.

THE FOX AND THE GOOSE.

JACK ALLYN'S FRIENDS. By G. W. Appleton.

LIEUTENANT BARNABAS. By Frank Barrett. [In the press.

TWO PINCHES OF SNUFF. By William Westall.

THE CONFESSIONS OF A COWARD AND COQUETTE.

By the Author of " The Parish of Hilly."
A LIFE'S MISTAKE. By Mrs. Loveth Cameron.
IN ONE TOWN. By E. Downey.
ANCHOR WATCH YARNS. By E. Downey.
Atlas. By Mrs. J. Gregory Smith.
LESS THAN KIN. By J. E. Panton.
A REIGNING FAVOURITE. By Annie Thomas.
THE NEW RIVER. By Somerville Gibney.
UNDER TWO FIG TREES. By H. Francis Lester.
COMEDIES FROM A COUNTRY SIDE. By W. Outran

Tristan.

Two-shilling NOVELS.

THE LAD YE Nancy. By " Rite."

THE DEAN AND HIS DAUGHTER. By F. C.

Philips.

MERE Shaking. By J. F. Keene.

JACK AND THREE Fills. By F. G. Philips.

SOCIAL VICISSITUDES. By F. C. Philips.

PROPER PRIDE. By B. M. Ceoker.

PRETTY MISS NEVILLE. By B. M. Ceoker.

MESS GASCOIGNE. By Mrs. Riddell.

THE PRETTIEST WOMAN IN WARSAW. By

Mabel Collins.

HER WEEK'S AMUSEMENT. By the Author of

Molly Bawn."
A COQUETTE'S CONQUEST. By "Basil."
IN A SILVER SEA. By B. L. Farjeon.
GREAT PORTER SQUARE. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE HOUSE OF WHITE SHADOWS. By B. L.

Farjeon.
Grief. By B. L. Farjeon.
THE LAST STAKE. By Madame Poli.
SNOWBOUND AT EAGLE'S. By Bred Harte.
THE FLOWER OF DOOM. By M. Bethany


VIVA. By Mrs. Forrester.
A MAIDEN ALL FORLORN. By the Author of

•« Molly Bawd."
FOLLY MORRISON. By Frank Barrett.
HONEST DAVIE. By Frank Barrett.
UNDER ST. PAUL'S. By Richard Dowling.
THE DUKE'S SWEETHEART. By Richard

Dowling.
THE OUTLAW OF ICELAND. By Victor Hugo.
THAT VILLAIN ROMEO. By Fitzgerald Molloy.
WHAT HAST THOU DONE ? By Fitzgerald

Mollot. [In the press.

LOUISA. By K. S. Macquoid. [In the press.

THE GREAT Hester. By Frank Barrett.
A BAG OF DIAMONDS. By G. M. Fenn.
THE DARK HOUSE. By G. M. Fenn.
EVE AT THE WHEEL. By G. M. Fenn.
THE CHAPLAIN'S CRAZE. By G. M. Fenn.
LITTLE Twopenny. By the Author of " Mehalah."
A HOUSE OF TEARS. By E. Downey.
LADY Walworth's DIAMONDS. By the Author

of "Phyllis*'

A PRINCE OF DARKNESS. By the Author of

The House on the Marsh."

THE SKELETON KEY. By R. Dowling.
Polka. By B. L. Farjeon.
A DEADLY ERRAND. By Max Hillary.
OLIVER'S BRIDE. By Mrs. Oliphant.
EATEN UP. By Eosten.

*% Messrs. Ward & Downey's Illustrated Catalogue
contains Portraits of the Author of " Molly Bawn," Frank
Barrett, Mrs. Loveth Cameron, Mrs. B. M. Croaker, Richard
Dowling, B. L. Farjeon, George Minoille Fenn, Somerville
Gibney, James Grant, Victor Hugo, Bred Harte, Richard Ashe
King (" Basil") The Abbe Liszt, Mrs. Macquoid, Fitzgerald
Molloy, John Augustus O'Shea, Mrs. Panton, F. C. Philips,
Blanche Roosevelt, George Sand, Florence Warden, and
William Westall.

A New Illustrated Catalogue with additional portraits of
James Pain, Mrs. Riddell, O'Neill Daunt, Mabel Collins,
Harry Furniss, T. P. O'Connor, the Author of " Mehalah,""
G. W. Appleton, Robert Buchanan, Thomas Parnell, G. L. M.
Strauss, fyc, is in preparation.

Ward & Downey, Publishers, 12, York Street, Covent Garden.

.¥

mSSL

ins

N^ :

3 0112 060920516
