¥

p^

<A/^^ a/^&'To^uz/ny^yco^.

yco-i

OF THE

University

OF ILLINOIS

8^3

I

VOL. I.

SPOTT18W00DE AJfD CO., Knew-STREET SQUARE

And Parliament STREET

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF 'BY PROXY' 'High SPIRITS ETC.

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. I.

LONDON
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.



All rifjhls reserved

f

^^3

TO

G E E G E SMITH

THIS BOOK IS DEDICATED
BY HIS FRIEND

JAMES Pain

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/thickerthanwater01paynj

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. MES BECKETT 1

II. A FRIEND OF THE HOUSE 16

III. DEFIANCE 34

lY. LEAP-TEAR 56

V. THE OFFER OF MARRIAGE 71

VI. TWO TO ONE 81

VII. A fool's paradise 97

VIII. MR. RENNIE's instructions 109

IX. UNCLE AND NEPHEW 128

X. 'I SUPPOSE IT MUST BE *' YES " ' . . . 151

XI. THE SUBSTITUTE 172

XII. TWO WOMEN 191

XIII. MES. Southern 21:^

XIV. BLACK TUESDAY 237

XV. FRIENDS IN NEED 255

XVI. THE PHILANTHROPIST 276

XVII. AN INTERRUPTED BARGAIN .288

CKIPTEE I.

MES. BECKETT.

It is two o'clock in the July afternoon, and on
what the majority of Londoners, in spite of
Geronimo's opinion to the contrary, consider the
pleasantness day in the week, because it is a
half-holiday. Geronimo's objection to Saturday
was founded, the poet tells us, on the prolonged
wear of his shirt ; but to the city toiler that is
a small objection ; indeed the greatest of all
Londoners, and one who worked the hardest
(though not, it is true, unless he was obliged),
has left it on record, through his biographer,
that he did not like clean linen.

VOL. I. B

Hyde Park is crowded with pleasure-seekers,
but the Eow is empty. The Upper Ten Thousand
have gone home to hmch, the Over Two
Millions have just dined. Beside the mile-long
garden that extends from the Marble Arch to
Apsley House, the ' swart mechanic ' lounges,
pipe in mouth, admiringly ; he gazes at the
glowing parterres of wondrous shape and hue,
and wonders how ' them colour beds ' are made,
and (especially) who pays for them. He thinks
how his Missis and the kids would enjoy the
spectacle, and is half-inclined to fetch them ;
but upon reflection, and finding his mouth a
little dry, considers the morrow better adapted
for their recreation, and, crossing to the other
side of the road, drops into the public-house in
the mews. As he does so, he bestows, perhaps,
a glance at the stately pile at its corner, and
expresses an opinion, mingled with tobacco
juice, that ' the cove as lives there must have a
sight of money ' — in which he is quite correct.

Of all the mansions in Park Lane, albeit
there are some, although not many, larger,

Beckett House gives the strongest impression to
the passer-by not only of wealth, but, what is
a very different thing (and much better), the
possession of an abundance of ready money.
Just as on illumination nights we see the lines
of some public edifice picked out with fire, so
all the summer long the balconies of Beckett
House show, tier on tier, their glowing lines of
flowers. Under the large portico there is a
miniature jungle of tropical foliage, and when
at night the opened door gives a glimpse of the
interior to the passing Peri, it seems to her au
Eden indeed.

Nor even in winter does this shrine of Flora
lack its gifts, for in the centre and on either
wing are great conservatories, to which ^ the
time of roses ' is but a poetic figment, and May
(for once) is happy in December's arms.

Mrs. Beckett, the owner of this palace, hasa
passion for flowers, which her wealth enables
her to indulge to the full. Xor is this the only
proof of her good taste. She had once a handle
to her name, but laid it aside by an act of

b2

voluntary abnegation. Emperors and others
have done the like before her, but a woman —
never. Her first husband was Sir Eobert Orr,
a City knight, who left her an immense jointure
and ' her ladyship.' He had never been remarkable
for personal beauty, and unless in the
sense of years — he was three times her age —
could hardly have been called accomplished.
It was a marriage of convenience ; but the old
man had been kind to her in life and death,
and she respected his memory. When she
married her second husband, John Beckett, the
railway engineer, she dropped her ' ladyship ' ;
Sir Eobert had been intensely proud of the
title, and she felt that it belonged to him. The
law, of course, would have decided as much,
but she might have retained it by courtesy.
She was not a woman to parade her sentiments,
and, having some sense of humour, was wont to
account for this act of self-sacrifice upon moral
grounds ; she did not think it respectable, she
said, to figure with her husband in the ' Morning
Post ' as Mr. Beckett and Lady Orr ; she

left that suspicious anomaly for the wives of
bishops.

John Beckett had been a rich ran, though
he could not have measured purses with Sir
Eobert, and he had ten times his wits. He had
not wasted them much on building bridges or
hollowing tunnels out of the ' too solid earth ' ;
he left such enduring monuments to scientific
theorists, and applied the great powers of this
mind — he called them, without the faintest consciousness
of self-satire, its 'grasp ' — to contracts ;
mostly in connection with coal. He took the
same practical view of matrimony, which poor
Lady Orr had never guessed, and for her part
had wedded her second husband for love. It
was unintelligible to her that a man of so much
wealth should pant for more ; but he did so to
his last breath. If he could have carried all
his money (and hers) away with him — ' to melt,'
or ' to begin the next world with ' — he would
have done it and left her penniless. As it was,
he died suddenly — killed by a fall from his
horse below her very windows — and intestate.

Even when his scarce breathing body was lying
in an upstairs chamber, and she tending it withall
wifely solicitude, she could not stifle a sense
of coming enfranchisement after twenty-five
years of slavery, or the consciousness that her
Sir Eobert had been the better man of the
two.

A woman of experience at least, if not of
wisdom, was the present mistress of Beckett
House ; with strong passions, but with a not
ungenerous heart ; outspoken from the knowledge
of her 'great possessions,' perhaps, as
much as from natural frankness ; a warm friend
and not a very bitter enemy ; and at the bottom
of it all with a certain simplicity of character,
of which her love for flowers was an example.
She had loved them as Kitty Conway, the
country doctor's daughter, when violets instead
of camellias had been ' her only wear,' sweetness
and wall-flowers the choicest ornaments
of her little garden, and Park Lane to her unsophisticated
mind like other lanes. ' Fat, fair,
and forty,' she was wont to call herself at the

date this story opens, and it was the truth ; but
not the whole truth. Fat she was and fair she
was, but she was within a few years of fifty.
Of course she was admirably preserved ; as the
kings of old took infinite pains that their bodies
after death should not decay, so women do
their best for themselves in that way while still
in the flesh ; and Airs. Beckett was as youthful
as art and care could make her. In shadow
and with the light behind her, persons of the
other sex might have set her down as even less
mature than she described herself to be. There
woidd have been at least ten years' difference
between their ' quotations ' — as poor Sir Eobert
would have called them — and that of her tiring
maid.

Five years she had had of gilded ease and
freedom, since drunken, greedy, hard John
Beckett had occupied his marble hall in Kendal
Green — Sir Eobert had a similar edifice of his
own in Highgate cemetery, for she had too
much good taste to mix their dust — and on the
whole she had enjoyed them. Far too well

favoured by fortune, however, not to have her
detractors, she was whispered by some to be by
no means averse to a third experiment in matrimony.
' There swam no goose so gray,' &c.,
they were wont to quote, and ' There was luck
in odd numbers.' Gossips will say anything, and
men delight in jokes against the fair sex. There
is one about matrimony which was applied to
the present case. A student of human nature
once inquired of his grandmother (seat. 80)
at what age females ceased to experience the
tender passion. ' My dear boy,' she answered,
rather tartly, ' you must ask somebody much
older than I am.' There was even a rumour,
not old enough to be a legend, that Mrs.
Beckett had once sounded her confidential man
of business, Mr. Jennie, upon this subject. ' As
you consult me as a friend,' he said — by which
he meant gratuitously — ' my opinion, my dear
madam, is not worth much ; but as to the remarriage
of widows — in cases where they have
thirty thousand pounds a year at their own
disposal — I think it risky.'

Mrs. Beckett sighed, for she remembered
that even when she was but twenty she had
been married for her money. Still ever' man
was not like John Beckett ; and how nice
Sir Eobert must have been when he was
young.

On the day on which our story opens, the
widow was sitting in her drawing-room with a
novel in her hand, on which, however, she was
not bestowing that close regard, I do not say
which such an agreeable description of literature
has a right to expect, but even the commonest
attention; her glance wandered with
ill-concealed impatience over the top of her
book to the gorgeous timepiece on the mantelpiece,
the hands of which were traveling over
gold and china towards two o'clock.

Suddenly her fair face flushed crimson ; her
eyes had met with another pair bound on the
self-same errand ; Miss Marvon, her young
friend and ' companion,' was also watching the
clock.

Do you want your lunch, Mary ? ' inquired

the lady of the house, with a very good imitation
of a yawn.

Not at all, thank you, Mrs. Beckett,' was
the quiet reply, delivered in the gentlest and
sweetest of tones. It was not her dependent
position that gave honey to her speech ; it was
natural to Mary Marvon to be sweet and gentle
to everybody, but especially to those who were
kind to her ; and Mrs. Beckett had been very
kind. The jewels on the girl's shapely wrist,
the lace about her dainty neck, the very dress
which fitted her slight but graceful figure with
such completeness, were all Mrs. Beckett's gifts.
Nay, in her dark-brown hair blushed a scarlet
flower, which Mrs. Beckett, in her characteristic
admiration for it, had placed there with her
own hands that morning, as being the fittest
setting for such a floral jewel. If anything
were wanting to show how smooth and even
was the social ground on which the two women
stood, notwithstanding the conventional relation
between them, it was found in the next words
that Mrs. Beckett spoke. As a rule ladies do

not think it worth while to excuse themselves
to their hired companions for this or that,
whereas our widow paid hers the compliment
of telKng a ' tarradiddle,' or white he, in order
to expkin her recent interest in the timepiece.


I was thinking,' she said, ' what a want of
originality and sense of appropriateness there
must be in clock makers, since they all represent
the progress of Time by hands, as if he
was an acrobat. If legs were too unpoetical
or indelicate, they might at least use wings.'

It is only with the exceptionally fortunate,
however,' returned Mary, smiling, ' that Time
moves on wings.'

I doubt whether people are always the
happier for that,' observed Mrs. Beckett.

Perhaps not,' assented Mary. ' I should
think those Ives are the most enviable which
are passed smoothly and equably, but not at
eagle speed.'

That was not quite what I had in my
mind,' returned the widow, rising and looking

thoughtfully through the open window. ' I
was thinking that when Time seems to drag,
because of our expectations, it is often better
for us that it should drag on, and that they
should remain without fulfilment. The secret
of happiness in this world' — those three last
words were mere garnish, and suited with her
voice and manner no better than a flower made
of a carrot or a turnip with some delicate entree
' is not to expect, but to make the best of
what we have Was not that the front-door
bell ? '

The last observation was by no means
uttered in the same philosophic tone as the
rest, and a faint red suffused the widow's
cheeks. The colour too came into Mary Mar-von's
face, which was, however, averted from
her patroness, as she answered ' I think so.'

Then they remained silent. If they where
listening for a step upon the stair they must
have been very sanguine, or else in possession
of the gifts of Fine Ear in the fairy tale ; for
thee-pile carpets are not good conductors of

sound. If they could have seen what was going
on below stairs they would have seen this : a
young man of four-ands twenty or so, bright -
eyed and fresh-complexioned, but with that
subdued air which betokens dry humour rather
than that of the sparkling kind, had been
admitted by the hall porter, and introduced
by the good offices of two tall footmen to the
butler, Harris. This personage preceded him
up the staircase with much solemnity, but on
the landing paused, perceiving that the visitor
was not following him.

All right, my man,' said a cheerful voice

from below, ' I will be with you at the finish,

but I really cannot go your pace.'

Then he came up three steps at a bound,

just in time to be announced at the drawing-room
door as ' Mr. Southern.'

Oh, it's you, is it, Charley ? ' observed the

widow in a tone of undisguised disappointment.
Well, yes, in default of a better it 's poor

me. Were you expecting an hereditary prince,

or what ? '

Lunch ! ' said Mrs. Beckett, sharply.

Whether this was a reply to his question oran
order to Harris seemed doubtful ; but the
butler took it in the latter sense.

It is served,' he said, ' me lady.'

The title he used seemed out of place ;
but the fact was, though Mrs. Beckett had
voluntarily descended in the social scale, her
servants had objected to that arrangement.
The old ones had been permitted after her
second marriage to address her by the old
phrase, which they pretended they could
not forget, while the new ones adopted it
readily enough as giving importance to their
office. Mrs. Beckett had made certain efforts
to put a stop to it, and with this very
man — ' Remember I am not " my lady,"
Harris.'

Very good, me lady — I mean ma'am — but
having always been with persons of title, if you
will please to remember, it is difficult, in your
ladyship's presence too ' (Harris was astute and
would have made an excellent ambassador,

except perhaps to the United States), ' not to
say " me lady." '

And I think Mrs. Beckett rather liked a
practice which reminded the world how much
she had given up, and from the noblest motives.

CHAPTER II.

A FRIEND OF THE HOUSE.

It was hard upon ' Charley ' that his hostess
had made it manifest she would have preferred
to welcome somebody else ; but what he felt
much more was, that Miss Marvon also received
him with a similar lack of enthusiasm.

You are early to-day,' she said, not indeed
without a pleasant smile, but that belonged to
her and could no more be dispensed with than
the Austrian lip or the Caucasian nose by their
hereditary wearers : ' I am afraid you are
defrauding the revenue.'

And the tax-payers,' added Mrs. Beckett,
which is me.'

'And this it is to be in a Government
office ! ' exclaimed the young fellow, clasping

his hands despairingly ; ' to rise — but only by
ten pounds a year — with the lark, to work like
a horse at a mill-wheel, and if one shares a
half-holiday with the poorest, and gets away
from one's house of toil upon a Saturday '

Come, take Mary's arm, sir,' interrupted

the widow, ' and lead her downstairs No,

my dear ' (for Mary had modestly drawn back)
' I will not inflict myself upon him, and he
hasn't the strength for it. The duties of the
young gentlemen in the Probate Office are too
overwhelming.'

No one can say we have not the Will,' he
began imploringly.

Be quiet, sir ; you learn nothing but jokes
there : Mary, I insist.'

Charley drew the young lady's arm within
his own, and with a murmur, ' How cruel she
is to me ! ' led the way to the dining-room.

From the above it may be gathered that,
though she had behaved to him so scornfully,
Mr. Charles Sotheran was by no means looked
on with disfavour by the lady of the house ;

VOL. I. c

and indeed she treated none of his sex with such
familiarity. His mother was a clergyman's
widow who had been her school friend, and to
whom she was still the ' Kitty ' of thirty years
ago. She had promised her, when the boy
came up to town, that Beckett House should bea
home to him, and he came in and out of it,
as he himself expressed it, like a cat for whom
a hole has been cut in the door. It was pleasant
to see the expression of the widow's eyes
as she followed the pair downstairs ; a woman
would have translated it at once. ' I intend
these two young people to be one, and a very
pretty pair they'll make.'

Flesh and blood, however, are not so easy
to match as Dresden china, and though Mrs.
Beckett couldn't see it, or rather would not,
there was an obstacle to her good intentions.
Though one of the young people was willing
enough to meet her views, the other was not.
A Scotch lady, whose daughter was recently
married, was asked by an old friend whether
she might congratulate her upon the event.

Yes, yes,' she answered, ' upon the whole it is
very satisfactory ; it is true Jeannie hates her
gudeman, but then there's always a something.'
Mrs. Beckett took a similar view ; she was
aware that Mary Marvon had no love for
Charley, but that circumstance did not deter
her from pursuing her plan. When one ha*:
thirty thousand a year the will is strong. There
was ' always a something,' she said to herself,
and, though her protegee might feel no great
affection for the young man at present, it would
surely come in time. She knew from her own
case that a marriage could be happy without
much previous attachment on the lady's part :
and, alas ! could be unhappy with it. Mary
Marvon did not hate her possible gudeman ;
on the contrary, she liked him very much,
except when he showed symptoms of liking her
too well, when she always put a stop to his
advances. This state of affairs puzzled her
patroness not a little. She would have suspected
any other girl in Mary's position of
looking a little higher ' than at a clerk in the
c2

Probate Office, especially as she might have
looked with success, for Miss Marvon's beauty
and accomplishments, and perhaps the consciousness
that she was the friend and protegee
of a millionaire without a relative, had already
brought more than one eligible suitor to her
feet ; but Mrs. Beckett knew Mary too well to
impute any such motive to her. The girl was
of a proud and independent spirit, very susceptible
to kindness, but of a nature that would
have resented patronage from an archangel.

The wealth that surrounded her, notwithstanding
that until the last few months she had
been altogether unaccustomed to it, affected her
no more than summer sunshine. She admitted
to herself that it was pleasant and enjoyable
enough, but if it came on to rain or even to
snow, there were ways of passing one's existence
within doors ; she had resources of her own
and was independent of the weather.

These, however, were not material resources
; she had no patrimony, indeed she had
never known either father or mother. The

one had died six months before she saw the
light, and the other when she was but an
infant. Mrs. Sotheran, who had been her
mother's friend, had put her out to nurse,
educated, and in a manner adopted her. But
though she had shown her every kindness, and
taken the utmost care in the selection of her
home as regarded her well-being and comfort,
that home had been a school. Though Mrs.
Sotheran had often come to see her, she had
never taken the orphan to her own house. The
reason she had given for this was the state of
her health, which indeed was delicate enough,
the number of her family, and the calls upon
her time made by an invalid husband ; but
the circumstance, taken in connection with the
undoubted affection Mrs. Sotheran entertained
for her, had been to Mary always unaccountable,
and of late years, and since she had
begun to think for herself, even mysterious.
Mr. Sotheran had now long been dead, the
children (of whom Charley was the youngest)
had followed their father to the rave, and

there was plenty of room in the cottage at
Letcombe Dottrell for Mary Marvon. Yet she
had never been invited thither.

Mary's school, although not a fashionable
one, had been a high-class establishment. She
had been well treated, well brought up, and
had wanted for nothing. Mrs. Sotheran's explanation
of the matter was that only a
moderate sum had been placed in her hands as
provision for the orphan, and that it had been
Mrs. Marvon's dying wish that it should be
expended so as to shield her daughter's youth
from the pangs and pains of poverty (from
which she had herself suffered bitterly), and to
fit her as best might be for the battle of life.
There was not enough for Mary to live upon,
but there was enough to keep her in comfort
till she could provide for her own maintenance.
A few hundred pounds, as Mary vaguely understood,
was all that was left to her when, at
eighteen years of age, she had exchanged the
modest comfort of Minerva Seminary, Harrow-gate,
for the splendours of Beckett House.

To Mrs. Sotheran she owed — as she owed
everything else — her present position, and for
this she was more grateful to her than for ail
the rest. Not because it had opened for her
the door of luxury, but for its introduction to
one who had proved herself a gentle, considerate,
and loving friend. Only on one
subject had Mrs. Beckett and her young
companion disagreed since the latter had come
to share her home ; namely, as regarded the
young gentleman who was now escorting Mary
down to luncheon. That Mr. Charles Southern
was good-looking, good-tempered, agreeable,
and very much a gentleman, Mary
admitted ; she had not a word to say against
him except as a lover.

When Mrs. Beckett had gone on to hint
that, though Charley's salary was small,
and increased by no means ' by leaps and
bounds,' a few strokes of her pen would soon
alter all that, and that it would give her great
pleasure to make them, Mary had demi-ely
observed that Mrs. Beckett could not bestow

]her bounty upon a worthier object than Mr.
Charles Sotheran ; but that, so far as she
(Mary) was concerned, he might have ten
thousand a year, but would still be unacceptable
to her as a husband.

Then you must be either a born fool,
Mary,' cried the widow, for the first time
losing her temper with her young favourite,
or you must have had your brain turned by
romances.'

'As we were never allowed to read
romances at Minerva House, my dear Mrs.
Beckett,' returned Mary, cheerfully, but with a
spot of red on each cheek, ' I suppose I must
accept the former of your two alternatives.'

And she added a little curtsey by way of
acknowledgment.

The curtsey, I think, went even further
with Mrs. Beckett than her words ; as a
reproof, it affected her not one whit, for very
rich people are rarely thin-skinned ; but it
showed the other's coolness and determination.
Though the widow by no means gave up her

object, from that moment she ceased to press
it ; she knew that, notwithstanding all the
resources of science, there are some fruits
which can never be brought on by forcing,
and was compelled to believe that this was
one of them. Henceforth she trusted to the
sunshine and the showers : circumstance and
opportunity.

As the three took their seats at the well-spread
board, Charley nodded in his off-hand
way to a vacant chair : ' What Banquo is
sitting there ? ' he inquired.

The Dornays promised to be here,' said
Mrs. Beckett curtly.

Oh, indeed, Banquo and France ! Then
I've got one of their chairs.'

Of course you have, sir ; you were not
expected, though we are very glad to see you,
and they cere.'

It is better to come to a feast when you
are not asked,' observed Charley, with a philosophic
air, ' than to be asked and not come.'

And much better manners,' assented Mrs.

Beckett, warmly. *For my part I don't
understand such conduct. Guests who come
late to lunch are almost as bad as those who
come late to dinner, and they are unpardonable.
For my part I cannot understand why
Society tolerates it.'

'Still it is a sign of good position,' remarked
Charley, with a twinkle in his blue
eyes. ' It is only important people who
venture to do it. They are titled and say to
themselves, " Our host is an inferior person, so
will not resent our rudeness," or they are rich,
and he owes them money and dares not.'

How can you be so foolish, Charley ? ' said
Mary, reprovingly.

But, my dear Mary, it must be so,' continued
the young man, gravely, ' or why does
the host wait for them to the inconvenience of
his other guests, and though he knows the
dinner is spoiling? For my part I always
endure the extra half-hour with great patience
for my host's sake ; for I say to myself, " His
debts will be made easier to him on this

account, or perhaps forgiven to him." He
can't be so foolish or so slavish as to put up
with such behaviour /(9r nothing'

Upon my word, I think Charley's observations
are very sensible,' remarked Mrs.
Beckett, grimly. 'If people can get to a
railway station in time, they can come in time
for dinner. A quarter of an hour for the
difference of clocks I do allow, but beyond
that I would not wait for a Rothschild or a
Eoyal Highness.'

Yes, but then you see you don't owe
Rothschild anything, Mrs. Beckett, and Eoyal
Highnesses are always in time.'

Quite true,' replied the hostess, with
approval. ' It is only your parvenus who take
such liberties.'

Still there are such things as accidents,'
put in Mary, apologetically.

Accidents and offences,' muttered Charley.

That is only another reason why nobody

should wait,' argued Mrs. Beckett; 'I always

say to persons who are so ill-bred as to be

behind time, " I was sure that nothing but an
accident would have detained you, and therefore
we sat down." Nobody but a madman,
for example, would think of waiting for a
doctor, who may be sent for at a moment's
notice. Harris, let those two dishes be taken
out and kept warm.'

Justice tempered with mercy,' observed
Charley.

You are a very impudent young man,'
said the hostess, smiling.

My dear Mrs. Beckett, you are altogether
in error : it is native shyness ; a thing that is
often mistaken for sheer impertinence. I
should not have dreamt of coming here to-day,
for example — and without an invitation — and
especially at luncheon time' (his hostess was
hospitality itself, but here she smiled satirically),
'if I had not had something to communicate
to you of the last importance. I had
news to-day from Letcombe Dotterel'

Good news, I hope ? ' inquired Mrs. Beckett
with interest. 'The last time I heard from

your mother, she wrote in what was, for her,
fairly good spirits.'

She 's lost them now, poor thing ! ' sighed
the young man.

'But what has happened?' cried Mary.
'I heard from her only the other day. I
am quite sure there's not much the matter,
Charley, or, to do you justice, you would have
told us loner aojo, instead of talking such
nonsense.'

'That is the first civil word you have
spoken to me, Mary ; I'm so much obliged. It
is so nice to hear you say you believe I have
some natural affection. It puts one quite on a
level with the brutes.'

Will you tell us your news, sir ? ' broke in
Mrs. Beckett, impatiently. ' Though we care
nothing about you, you know how interested
we both are in your dear mother. If you
kept her in a state of suspense like this it
would frighten her to death.'

'That's just what's the matter with her,'
answered Charley. ' She is almost frightened

to death. And no wonder! There's a giant at
Letcombe Dottrell.'

A what ? ' exclaimed both ladies simultaneously.


A giant ! eight feet, nine feet, ten feet —
I don't know how many feet he is — who takes
his seven-leagued strides about the parish quite
composedly. And he don't live in a caravan
either, as you may think, but at the hall itself.
He is Mr. Beryl Paton's last protege'

Oh, Charley, this is too absurd ! ' ejaculated
Mrs. Beckett.

It's as true as that I sit here, madam,
eating apricot omelette. In addition to the
Archaeological, the Metaphysicians, and the
Every hungarians, whom the squire has
gathered about him, there is now — last, but
by no means least — a Giant.'

But why ? There is nothing m being
nine feet high, or even ten feet, to excite good
Mr. Paton's sympathies. There must be merit,
or at least presumed merit, or some pitiful
misfortune, to do that.'

I don't know about that, Mrs. Beckett :
perhaps he's an orphan giant ; but there he 26'.
Looking down the cottagers' chimneys as he
takes his walks abroad; and, what is worse,
into the bedroom windows at the rectory. Mr.
Wells has complained about it, but the giant
says he can't help it ; it's his natural focus ; he's
not in the same plane with his fellow-creatures.'

Why, Mr. Paton must be going mad I '
exclaimed Mrs. Beckett.

'Going?' echoed the young man; 'a less
charitable person would have said gone.'

How shocking ! Why, they say he owns
half the county.'

Yes ; that 's what of course makes the case
so very distressing.' Not a muscle of the
speaker's lips moved in the direction of a smile ;
nor did his hostess suspect the young man's
seriousness for an instant, but Mary shot at him
a reproving glance. 'Do you think it good
taste,' it said, or seemed to him to say, ' to
laugh at the weaknesses of so good a friend
before her very face ? '

But where on earth, Charley, did Mr.
Paton first see the creature ? '

'Well, one would think by my mother's
description that he must have seen him always ;
that it was impossible for such a portent, being
in the same hemisphere, to avoid observation.
But, as a matter of fact, Mr. Baton found him
in a caravan. You know his passion for the
wonders of nature ; and, attracted by some
advertisement of a straight-haired negress, he
came upon this prodigy. Of course he was
charmed with him, and expressed his astonishment
that so great a man should not only condescend
to be exhibited with the African lady,
and for the same moderate charge of a penny,
but should put up with a smaller type in their
caravan advertisement. This roused the giant's
ambition ; he struck for higher wages and a
separate establishment, and, on his master's declining
his terms, came straight away to Mr.
Baton as to his natural adviser and protector.
The excitement in the neighbourhood is prodigious,
and you may imagine the sensation his

arrival at the hall has created in the Happy
Family itself.'

Oh dear ! dear ! I can indeed,' gasped the
widow, now fairly sobbing with laughter. ' You
have never seen Mr. Paton and the menage at the
hall, Mary, or you would know how to appreciate
this. But of course this creature is not
going to stop, Charley, — large as the house is,
where can they put him ? '

I am sure I don't know ; perhaps Mr.
Paton will build a wing '

At this moment, and while the air was rippling
with mirth, the door opened, and, in a
voice as though he were introducing the guests
to a funeral feast, the butler announced ' Mr.
Domay and Mr. Ealph Mornay.'

VOL. I.

CHAPTEE III.

DEFIANCE.

There are few social crimes more exasperating
at all events to the raconteur — than the
entrance of an outsider into a room where an
excellent story is in course of narration. A
Newfoundland dog coming out of the water
and shaking himself over your light summer
costume is nothing to it. It is an interruption
not only unpardonable, but irreparable ; let the
new-comer be as anxious to mend matters as he
may, the story is .spoilt. Nothing can bring
back ' the splendour to the grass, the glory to
the flower,' or set Humpty Dumpty on his legs
again. This should be borne in mind by all
those folks who, having the intention to give
intellectual pleasure (which few of them have),

are wont to ask some of their friends to
dinner,' and others ' in the evening.' The
former portion of the company are at their ease ;
they have established a mutual understanding,
and formed a regular regiment with their
watchwords and their countersigns ; the others
are raw recruits, and can never be welcomed as
comrades.

It was not easy to discomfit Mr. Charles
Sotheran, but the arrival of these new-comers
made him exceedingly angry, and the more so
because it was easy to perceive that his hostess
and Miss Mary by no means shared his displeasure.
Mrs. Beckett's welcome to them was
indeed tinged with irritation : ' So you are
come at last,' she said, but it was in a tone
which implied that late was better than never,
and the pressure of her hand was in both cases
very reassuring. Miss Marvon said nothing but
Good morning,' but she said it with her
brightest smile, and her hand remained longer
in that of !Mr. Edgar Dornay (or so Mr.

D 2

Sotheran thought) than the occasion at all
demanded.

Mr. Edgar was the younger of the two
visitors. A tall, well-favoured fellow enough,
save for a slight touch of effeminacy or dandyism.
His slight black moustache was twirled
into points so sharp that they might have
threaded the eye of a needle ; he had a frameless,
stringless glass, which stuck in his eye
with the tenacity of a limpet, and he spoke
with an elaborate slowness which seemed to
suggest the extremity of exhaustion. But he
had an intelligent face nevertheless, and what
he said was well expressed.

Mr. Dornay the elder was Edgar's uncle,
and twice his age — the one being fifty or so,
the other twenty-five — but there was no such
disproportion of years in their appearance.
Edgar's quiet ways and well-considered speech
would have better suited one of an elder generation
; his manner was essentially mature; it
was only in his smile that youth was manifested.
He did not often smile, but when he

did so one acknowledged that a man could be
beautiful : he reminded you of the Sun-god.
Now Mr. Dornay senior's smile was the worst
part of him. He performed the operation, as
the Scotch gentleman acknowledged that he
joked, 'with difficulty,' for fear of showing
certain false teeth. It is terrible to reflect that
when one grows old even a smile loses its
charm. It is nature's hint, perhaps, that it is
time that our laughing days were over, but it
is a very grim one.

When Ealph Dornay did not smile, or
smiled with care, he was an attractive object,
and not the least like an uncle. His age might
have been guessed at forty, and his figure, set
off by a dark-blue frock coat, and an irreproachable
white waistcoat, was that of a man
still younger. His eye was bright, his voice
cheery, and his speech gay and fluent. One
would have set him down as a soldier of the
genial old-fashioned type, or one of those clever
Irishmen who have contrived to smother their
brogue. As a matter of fact, he was of no

occupation, and an Englishman. He belonged
to an ancient family, of which his nephew was
the chief, and he regarded him with great
respect accordingly. If it could not be said of
him that he passed his life in defending Edgar's
character, he was always ready to break a
lance for him against the many antagonists
whom the young man's airs and graces evoked.
And this was the more creditable to him as he
could derive no material benefit from such
championship. When the junior branches of
old familles are in these days demonstrative in
their attachment to the head of their house, he
has generally something to give them. Though
the feudal system is extinguished, human nature
is much the same as it used to be ; the difference
is in degree and kind. Even a duke can
now hardly insure protection and immunity for
the peccadilloes of his vassals ; but even in less
ambitious quarters there are some good things
going still, and for the maintenance of family
loyalty there is no such preserving pickle as
expectations. Now Edgar Dornay, though in

possession of Clifie Park, the hereditary' 
of his race, could not afford to Ive
there even if he had wished to do so, which
was, however, far from being the case. The
estate was mortgaged up to the hilt, and burdened
with all sorts of payments to certain
elderly relatives and connections, to whom the
expression, ' first come, first served,' was much
more than a phrase. The present head of the
family was, in fact, less well provided for than
the branches, one of whom was Uncle Ealph
himself. ^Miat he had was not very much, it
is true ; but when one is prudent and careful
to spend every shilling upon one's own needs,
a little money may be made to go a great way.
He had certainly no hope of any increase from
his nephew's garner.

Yet there were some who denied that
Uncle Ealph's feudal attachment was altogether
disinterested, since it was to his nephew's
friendship that he owed his place in society.
Edgar Dornay was not popular among his own
sex, but his very unpopularity was in some

sort a tribute to his importance; men do not
take the trouble to dislike the insignificant, and
Edgar had made a certain position for himself.
Without being a preacher of aesthetics, he
could talk its jargon, and thoroughly understood
the art of persuading folks that they are
catching gleams of the Unintelligible when in
reality they only understand what you are
saying about it. The women who wished to
be thought artistic, philosophic, and also exceptionally
well dressed, adored him. Women
of a higher type he caught with another springe.
With them he was as frank as with the others
he was obscure ; each one was flattered with
the idea that he only ' spread himself for her,
and laid bare the aspirations of a noble nature
which were concealed from the multitude by a
mask of reticence and pedantry. For the rest,
he was not without his good points ; though
Mr. Charles Sotheran could never perceive
them. The one young gentleman had something
too much of nature about him, the other
a great deal too much of art. They mixed

together no better than water and sulphur, and
it was no spoon that could smooth matters
between them. Mrs. Beckett had confided to
Mary that she always felt on thorns when they
were in each other's company ; and it was because
she had been expecting the Dornays that
afternoon that ' Charley ' had not been received
with his usual cordial welcome. The whole
matter had been clear to him directly their
names were mentioned, and easily accounted
for the bitterness with which he had spoken of
the Unpunctual. A vice never seems so reprehensible
as when it is practised by those we
dislike.

When the Dornays entered, Sotheran rose
from his seat and took his leave.

So soon ? ' said Mrs. Beckett in her kindest
tone.

The tone he knew was to make amends for
his voluntary exile ; the words were a mere
compliment.

You will give my love to your dear
mother when you write,' said Mary, warmly.

He nodded, and smiled grimly as though he
were thinking ' I haven't got it to give,' or perhaps
because he felt that he was leaving her
with a happier rival.

A few words of kindness too were given
him by the hostess after his departure. ' What
a bright fellow Charley is ; I really don't know
any one with such a flow of spirits.'

To which Mr. Dornay the elder replied,
Quite true, a most engaging young man ; ' and
his nephew yawned approval.

These tributes to the departed having been
duly paid, the company proceeded to discuss
their usual topics. The conversation was not
intellectually above the level of that which
takes place at most afternoon teas, which , while
ranging from Shakespeare to the musical
glasses, has a decided tendency towards the
latter : though, thanks to the food and wine, it
had perhaps more vigour and spirit. Edgar
spoke with severity against some new theory
of admitting the principle of humour into decoration
; alluded to the fancy alphabet, with

its dropped H, in a well-known dining-room
at Kensington ; and animadverted against gargoyles
in architecture. Though his views were
far from lucid they were well expressed, and
gave almost the same impression of solidity
(though they had none) as a stereoscope ; the
red light of a chemist's shop under similar circumstances
— i.e. in a dense fog — assumes the
resemblance of the sun. Uncle Ealph, though
to all appearances rapt in admiration of his
nephew's eloquence, understood not one syllable
of it, and presently the widow herself
dropped off gorged ' with so much splendid
colouring, and observed in a low tone to
him —

You were at Ascot, of course, Mr. Dornay,
on Thursday ? '

No, not I ; the Derby is my only dissipation
in that way ; ' then added in a low voice,
Edgar was there, I am sorry to say, and, as
usual, unfortunate.'

How naughty he is I ' said the widow,
looking towards the young man with more pity,

one would say, for his bad luck than reprehension
of his bad habits. ' I shall take the opportunity
of giving him a lecture. Mary, I see
Mr. Dornay has no flower in his buttonhole ;
choose him one from the conservatory.'

The observation of course referred to Uncle
Ealph ; Mr. Edgar Dornay would as soon think
of coming out without a flower in his buttonhole
as without his hat. Mary rose at once to
obey, or oblige, her hostess. It was curious,
but short as was the interval that had elapsed
since Mrs. Beckett's attention had been diverted
from decorative art, its high priest had ended
his dissertation upon it, and was now conversing
with Mary in low tones upon some other subject
— to judge from her look — at least an
equally attractive one. As she rose, he too left
his chair, and having opened for her the glass
door of the conservatory — hardly a sitting-room
in Beckett House was without one — was about
to follow her into it when the widow called
him back, in a tone which could not be gainsaid.


You are an arbiter of taste, !Mr. Edgar, as
every one knows, but surely your uncle is the
best judge of what flower he prefers for his own
coat.'

So Uncle Ealph took his place by the young
lady's side, closing the door behind them, while
the widow and Edgar were left tete-astute together.
A glass-door is a non-conductor of
sound, but one can see through it ; and as Mr.
Ealph Dornay wished to have a few words with
his companion in private, he made a pretended
admiration for southern plants and trees his
excuse for straying with her beyond the flora,
portion of the conservatory, and among the
tropical vegetation. Though the old powers of
fern seed to render one invisible are scoffed at
in these days, there is no doubt of ferns doing
it if they are but tall enough ; and the same,
even without that reservation, may be said of
palms.

Do you know the language of flowers,
Miss Mary ? ' inquired Uncle Ealph in significant
tones.

'When I was a child I learnt it she
answered indifferently, but with an inner sense
of expectancy, nevertheless, that it cost her some
pains to conceal. She did not anticipate that
Mr. Dornay was going to make love to her,
but there was something in his voice which, in
connection with what she knew of him, led her
to fear — or hope — that he was about to speak
of love.

Then you know what the palm signifies,'
he continued, looking up at the branches that
canopied them. It was observable that throughout
their interview Mr. Dornay always did look
either up or down, and never at the face of his
companion, so that a spectator (who did not
hear him) would have said, ' This gentleman
thinks of nothing but trees and flowers.'

'The palm indicates victory,' said Mary,
quietly.

Just so. I am here to say that it lies
within your grasp.'

T do not understand you, Mr. Dornay.'

T think you do. But it is only natural —

or at all events penitent — that you should affect
unconsciousness. You imagine that you are
in the presence of an enemy, and are inclined
to look upon even his gifts with suspicion.'

I understand you now, Isle. Dornay,' she
replied, and this time very coldly, * even less
than before.'

Then your change of tone bees you, my
dear young lady,' he answered curtly ; ' come,
the opportunity that has been afforded for our
speaking together must needs be short ; do not
let us waste time in fencing. You will admit,
I suppose, at least this much, that you love my
nephew. Your face indeed tells me so ; for
while I speak of him it has changed as though
this white camellia had become a red one.
But I have known it long ago ; Edgar and I
have no secrets from each other.'

'I am very sure that your nephew never
told you — what you have just now had the
impertinence to imply.'

Quite true, Miss Mary. He only told me
that he loved you ; I took it for granted that

there was reciprocity ; the theory of " the most
favoured nation" holds equally good with individuals.
I must needs add, in spite of your
disclaimer, that you knew that I knew it.
Confess, now, that you have hitherto considered
me as — well, not as an enemy perhaps,
but an antagonist, an obstacle, but for which
the course of true love would have run more
smoothly. I have treated you, never, I hope,
with disrespect, but in a manner, I confess it,
that may have suggested hostility.'

The girl looked up at him with disdain ;
the expression was lost upon him, for he was
regarding an orange on its tree with all the
attention of an intending purchaser ; but he
could not escape the scornfulness of her tone.

'You have treated me, Mr. Dornay,' she
said, 'I do not say with studied indifference,
but with that indifference which is natural to
you when you are addressing persons of no
consequence, and from whom you can reap
no benefit.'

Bitter, bitter ! ' returned the other, with a

reproachful look at the golden fruit ; ' to think
that a thing so beautiful should have pips in it.'

'As to your being an obstacle,' she continued,
' if anything which such as you can say
can turn a man's heart from her he loves, and
induce him to give her up, for her own sake he
had better do so : for if she be a true woman,
let her be ever so poor, he would not be
worthy of her.'

Heroics,' muttered the other contemptuously
; ' you should speak them in blank
verse.' Blank or not, however, there had been
something in her words that had gone home to
him, for his voice trembled with rage as he
added, ' Upon my Hfe, young woman, you are
not very conciliatory ! '

It would be useless for me to be so, even
if I felt inclined, which I do not,' was the quick
rejoinder. ' Conciliation with some people has
only the effect of encouraging them to tread on
you.'

'I recognise the sentiment. Miss Mary,
which I heard expressed the other day — only

VOL. I. E

more in the roiigli — by the young gentleman
who has just taken his leave of us. I would
respectfully advise you — for the object you
have at heart — not to sit at the feet of that
youthful Gamahel; Edgar and I do not like
him.'

Very likely. To one at least of you I can
imagine his independence of character being
very unwelcome.'

In a clerk of the Probate Office, of tender
years, I must confess it seems to me somewhat
out of place,' answered Dornay. ' On the
other hand it is an easy role to play, and
admits of great self-indulgence in the way of
impertinence; nor do I lose sight of the fact
that Mr. Charles Sotheran may think it acceptable
to a certain person as an agreeable change
from the flattery and adulation that she meets
with elsewhere.'

Fresh ah' after incense ! Well, that is
very complimentary,' said Mary, smiling for the
first time.

'I should rather call it pumped air,' said

Mr. Doruav. ' However, Mr. Sotheran is not
worth debate. What I wish to say is, that
however right you may have hitherto been
with respect to my feelings towards you as
regards my nephew, they have undergone a
complete change. I have done my best to
oppose your union with him and have failed.
I lay down my arms and acknowledge myself
vanquished. Henceforth I am upon his side
and yours. If you will not permit me to be
your friend '

She shook her head and drew back : ' I
mistrust you, Mr. Dornay,' she said coldly.

Edgar told me that you were frankness
itself, and begad he 's right ! ' exclaimed the
other, admiringly. ' If he had but half your
determination of character he would be m a
very different position ; but he is so d — d
weak ! — I beg your pardon for the expression,
Miss Mar von.'

She bowed : ' You forget to whom you are
apologising, sir ; I am only a dependant.'

Very true, but you are going to be Mrs.

r. 2

Dornay,' observed the other, naively. ' Now,
my dear young lady, do be reasonable,' he continued
remonstratingly. ' If we can never befriends
— which is your suggestion, not mine,
remember — at least let us be allies. When you
become my nephew's wife, consider how inconvenient
— not to put it more strongly — this
mutual distrust will be to both of us. You v/ill
have great influence, no doubt ; but I am the
nearest relation, and should anything occur to
shake the pillars of domestic peace, as Edgar
calls it, he will naturally look to me for advice.
Then I may do you a good turn.'

I do not believe you are picturing me as
your nephew's wife at all, Mr. Dornay,' was
the girl's quiet reply.

I am. Upon my soul and honour I am ! '
put in the other vehemently. 'As sure as I
breathe I will do my very best to bring about
your marriage. That is what I have come
here to say, so help me Heaven ! '

It may be so. But you have something
else to say. You have omitted to name the

price I am to pay for your valuable assistance.'
It could not have been the effect of sunlight,
because they both stood in the shade ; though
those who knew him best would certainly have
ascribed it to some atmospheric illusion ; but
here Mr. Ealph Dornay blushed.

I don't know what you mean, Miss Mary,'
he answered ; ' but of course there are considerations.
I have hinted to you how we
can, as near connections, be mutually useful to
one another in the future.'

'And in the meantime?' said the miL
scornfully. ' Is there nothing I can do for you
in the meantime ? '

Nothing. You have already said, though
in a manner that I hope your better nature has
already repented of, that you could be of no
advantage to me.'

True. Still it strikes me that it may have
struck you, Mr. Dornay, that circumstances
may arise in which I might be of some disadvantage
to you. Humble as is my position, it
is just possible my advice may be asked by a

certain person upon a matter in which you are
very much interested ; one which has only
recently entered your mind, I think, but which
is now monopolising it, and concerning which,
to use your own candid language, I might do
you a good turn — or not.'

Well ? ' It was but a monosyllable, yet
pregnant with significance, and the speaker for
the first time looked full in his companion's
face with anxious intentness.

'If I am asked my opinion of that matter,
Mr. Dornay,' she continued, 'I shall give it
honestly. Nothing which you can promise
me ; nothing which you can give me (which is
very different), will deter me from so doing.
On the other hand, your secret is as safe with
me as it was before you spoke. I will do you
no voluntary injury, though you have done
many a one to me.'

I never have,' he murmured.

Yes, sir ; for slights, humiliations, even
neglect itself, to one like me, are injuries.
Though you used no daggers you have spoken

them designedly, and of malice prepense ;
words that he as ready to the tongue of the
upstart and the coward, as does the dagger to
the hand of the assassin. I do not forgive
them ; I do not forget them ; but I should
scorn myself as I scorn you if they suggested
retaliation. — And now that we clearly understand
one another, what flower shall I gather
for your buttonhole, Mr. Dornay ? '

Without a word he pointed to the nearest
flower, which happened to be a blush rose.
She clipped it With her scissors, and gave it to
him ; then turned and led the way back to the
dining-room.

CHAPTEE IV.

Leap-year.

It is not the scene which dictates the sentiment,
or the conversation between Uncle Ealph
and Mary Marvon among the ferns and flowers
would have been of a very different kind to
that we have described.

The dining-room, on the other hand,
though a very noble apartment, would hardly
have suggested by association — not to mention
the debris of lunch which still strewed the
table — any tender topic ; yet no sooner did the
other couple leave it, and the widow find
herself alone with Mr. Edgar Dornay, than
her voice and manner softened, and her
face became full of a gentle earnestness and
sympathy.

'My dear Edgar,' she said, in a pleasant
voice, ' I have got something very serious to
say to you.'

He took the chair beside her to which lie
had beckoned him, and answered with his
brightest smile, 'Your preface frightens me,
my dear Mrs. Beckett ; but you don't look
serious, which gives me consolation.'

I wish to look serious, Edgar ; vexed and
disappointed too ; nay, I would be downright
angry with you, only somehow I never can. I
am sure I don't know what it is that makes me
so kind — nay, blind — to your failings ? '

She spoke half interrogatively, as though if
he had any theory upon that point she would
be glad to hear it ; but he only shook his head.

That is my best chance with you and
with everybody,' he said hastily, ' that they
should shut their eyes, or at the worst wink
at my peccadilloes; for thy are may.'

Well, it is something that you show
humility,' she answered, though with a touch
of disappointment mingling with that faint

praise ; ' and I do believe they are but peccadilloes,
Edgar.'

I don't know,' he answered ; ' some moralists
would be very severe on me ; but you, I
venture to think, are not a hanging judge.'

By which you mean, I suppose, you
naughty man, that I would not hang you'
She tapped his hand lightly with her fingers,
and looked at him certainly with an expression
very different from that of a judge when he
puts on the black cap. Mrs. Beckett had not
actually taken to caps, but, perhaps as much
for concealment as for ornament, a piece of
lace, scarcely the size of her own plump hand,
was arranged becomingly enough in her brown
hair, still unmixed with grey.

Well, yes, I venture to think you would
lean to mercy's side in my case.'

But then, Edgar, I don't believe you have
ever done anything very wrong.'

That is very good of you, though it shows
an excess of charity. It is true, however, that
I have never committed murder.'

Xor suicide,' said the widow, lightly.
Come, that 's two off the list of your possible
delinquencies.'

I am not so sure about suicide,' returned
the young man, laughing. ' There are some
people who. if they knew all, would at least
accuse me of contemplating it.'

The widow's face grew grave, and the
colour rushed to her cheeks. ' \yhat people ? '
she asked, in a tone of indignation.

The world at large ; you know what an
interest it takes in one's private affairs.'

Yes ; how much better it imagines it
understands them than oneself,' she added,
contemptuously ; ' for my part I have long
learnt to value its opinion at its true worth.'

She took up a leaf that had fallen from the
flower-stand on the table and flipped it from
her with a finger snap.

But, then, my dear sirs. Beckett, you are
above the world. This earthly ball les at
you" feet.'

And at yours also,' she said gravely.

That is true in a sense, of course, but in a
very different sense,' he rejoined thoughtfully ;
young men are always given that comfortable
assurance ; but if they kick the ball — or even
at it — they have often cause to repent of their
audacity. What happens to those who " fly in
the face of society " is very similar to the fate
of those sea-birds who dash themselves to
pieces against the lanterns of lighthouses.'

That happens from their ignorance,'
observed his companion. 'They are right
enough in seeking for warmth and light. To
my mind the real happiness of life lies in
comfort.'

That is a wide term, my dear Mrs.
Beckett. Your ideas of comfort, for example '
he glanced round the room, on the walls of
which hung landscapes of Linnet (the widow's
favourite painter), and on whose ceiling glowed
the bright hues she loved, arranged with
harmonious skill — 'would to some people
appear very like luxury.'

And why not ? The more of comfort one

has the better. Everything else in the way
of enjoyment sooner or later fades. I have
experienced it myself, Edgar. You will say,
perhaps, '* But you are a woman ; " I doubt
whether that makes much difference in the
long-run, but if you think otherwise, ask your
uncle. He is a man of the world, and
thoroughly understands it.'

But, my dear mrs. Beckett,' objected the
young man, ' you have called a most damaging
witness. Uncle Ralph is a martyr to fashion.
His boots and, what is worse, his waistcoats
are a size too small for him. He dines out
continually — here, for example — where he can
get no smoke after dinner, though he sines for
tobacco after every meal like the bulbul for its
mate ; he even goes to evening parties, and
from sheer exhaustion — not from dancing (he
knows better than that), but from boredom —
is driven to partake of bad champagne. Comfort
! why, comfort is not more " scorned of
devils " than it is by Uncle Ealph.'

I beg your pardon ; he does not scorn it.

On the contrary, lie sacrifices himself for the
present in the hope of finding himself at last in
cotton wool.'

Indeed,' smiled the young man. ' Well,
it may be so ; you ladies have sharper eyes
than we have.'

At all events we see further. What I
wish to urge upon you is not only to think of
to-day, but of tomorrow.'

Just so ; the future,' said Edgar, rising
from his chair and pacing the room. It was
evident that he had forgotten where he was.
After the suicide of which we were speaking
there is another life.'

May I ask what was the particular form
of self-destruction you were contemplating ? '
inquired the widow. Her eyes were on the
table, her hand was busy with some crumbs
that lay before her.

I cannot tell you that,' replied the young
man ; ' it would not be fair to others.'

There was a long silence ; the widow bit
her lip ; she looked disappointed, vexed, like

one who has been pursuing the wrong tack ;
she was not vexed with her companion, however,
for it was in a voice even gentler than
before that she once more addressed him.

If I may be allowed to say so, Edgar, you
have two great failings — imprudence and indecision.
It is about the first I wish to speak
to you — that is to say, if you will listen.'

I beg your pardon,' said the young man,
suddenly stopping in his walk, and resuming
his seat beside his companion ; ' I was lost in
thought, and for the moment imagined myself
at home.'

It was not such a very great mistake, I
hope,' was the gentle reply.

It was not, indeed,' replied the other ;
your house has been always, ever since I
have had the pleasure of knowing you ' (it was
some eighteen months), ' like home ; that
is, it isn't the least like it,' he added, with
ludicrous inconsistency : ' Ealph and I live
in a garret.'

You are always welcome, always, always,'

continued the widow, earnestly, and without
paying attention to this melancholy statement,
and will ever be so. It is here, above all,
that you must come when you need help,
Edgar.'

The young man coloured to the roots of his
hair; the beautiful path that ran straight up
the middle of it looked as if it had been
newly gravelled.

Your advice, I know, has been always
most kindly proffered,' he answered evasively,
and would be most valuable if I only had the
sense to take it.'

Advice, my dear Edgar, is what everybody
is willing to give ; it costs less than a gas fire
and looks as warm and genial ; but, though it
fills the giver with a virtuous glow, the recipient
is often not much the better for it. Now, when
I say help, I mean it.'

'I am sure you do,' answered the young
man, drawing lines upon the table-cloth with
one of his filbert nails, and listening with feverish
impatience for the click of the glass door. A

gentle perspiration, such as doctors hail iu a
feverish patient, bedewed his brow. He was
not so much afraid of the widow — indeed, he
had a very kindly regard and esteem for her —
as he was distrustful of himself. He felt that
a crisis was approaching which would compel
him to take one of two courses which had long
presented themselves to him ; he had, in fact,
made up his mind which to choose, only decision
was abhorrent to him. It was especially
abhorrent now, since the course he had determined
upon would be unwelcome to his companion.
His artist nature shrank from inflicting
pain on any one, but especially on himself; his
position was really a painful one.

A little bird tells me that you had an
unlucky day at Ascot,' said the widow, gently.

• A blue bird with a white breast, was it
not ? ' answered the young fellow, forcing a
laugh and nodding towards the conservatory.
It is the birds of bright plumage that talk the
most, though they are not good at singing.'

He sings your praises, at all events, you

VOL. L F

ungrateful man ; knowing, doubtless, that they
are always pleasing to me.'

You are very good to say so, Mrs.
Beckett.'

'Was the sum a large one, may I ask,
Edgar, which you so unfortunately ventured ? '

Again the colour rushed to the young man's
face. ' I am not accustomed to bet more than
I can pay,' he answered stiffly.

That you are not accustomed to do
anything dishonourable, Edgar, I am well
aware,' was the gentle reply, ' but you are
very imprudent.'

It is my nature,' he returned quickly.
People talk of " living up " to this and that ;
I think I may honestly say that, whatever
income I possessed, I should live up to the last
shilling of it.'

Perhaps if you were very rich you would
think differently,' said the widow, gravely.
There is a certain sense of responsibility that
attaches to great wealth.'

I don't think that would oppress me.

whatever else might, in such a case,' answered
the young man Lightly.

Then I am afraid you must be naturally
extravagant.'

I am,' he replied, with a certain earnest
frankness ; ' and I resent above all things any
check or restraint ; that is one of the reasons
why I hate Cliffe Park, because it is tied up
and I can't get rid of it.'

'But surely, Edgar,' argued the widow,
gravely, ' it must be a comfort to feel that
something — though it may not be much — is
made secure to you in spite of all reverses
of fortune.'

'Xot a bit of it. If I could sell that
wretched place tomorrow, for example, and
pay these Ascot debts — not, of course, but that
I can pay them,' he added hastily, ' from other
sources.'

Just so ; only it is inconvenient to part
with a few thousands.'

It would be if I owed them,' returned the
p 2

young man, laughing ; ' most uncommonly
inconvenient.'

Then your loss is a mere trifle,' remarked
the widow, with an involuntary sigh.

To you it-would be a mere flea-bite, my
dear Mrs. Beckett,' he replied ; ' but to me five
hundred points is — well, five hundred pounds.'

You have stated the case quite correctly,
Edgar ; in a manner, too, that I could not have
done, since it would have savoured of ostentation.
As this sum is to me " a mere flea-bite,"
while to pay it is to you a matter of some consequence,
will you not allow me — it would be a
very great pleasure — to take the privilege of
an old friend ? '

My dear Mrs. Beckett, the thing is impossible,'
exclaimed the young man, starting to his
feet.

Nay, nay, it is certainly not impossible,'
she answered, ' because it is as easy for me todo
it, as it is for you to resume your seat.'

He bit his lip, but took the chair which she
pushed gently towards him.

There is nothing to be offended at, surely,
Edgar. When we posted to Virginia Water the
other day, you thought it no humiliation, I suppose,
because I paid for the postilions and the
turnpikes. This giraffe of water is more than I
need, more than I can drink : shall I not fill
douglass for you if you are thirsty ? ^Mlere is
the obligation ? '

All that is different,' murmured the young
man ; ' you know it is different.'

Because money, forsooth, is held by foolish
persons to be different from everything else.
Suppose, then, I were to die tomorrow, and it
was found that I had not, as the phrase goes,
forgotten " you : that it was my wish, as it is
my wish, Edgar, Heaven knows, to make the
road of life smooth for you : that I had, in
short, left you half my fortune. You would
accept it then ; but now, when I am alive, and
when the knowledge of my having conferred
some benefit upon you would give me pleasure
the greatest pleasure, perhaps, of which my
mind is capable — you reject it ; you spurn it.'

Pardon me, dear Mrs. Beckett, I do not
spurn it, I appreciate your generosity exceedingly
; and if I hesitate, it is not so much on
my own account, believe me.'

Nay, nay,' she interrupted haughtily, ' I
cannot admit that plea. I am old enough — I
mean I have had experience enough of life,
Edgar, to be fully capable of taking care of my
reputation. I know my position thoroughly ;
what the world thinks of me I care not ; what
it weill dare to say of me is not much. They
are coming in ' (she looked towards the glass
door). ' There is no time to speak further on
this matter ; reflect upon it ; turn it over in
your mind.'

'I will.'

In the meantime I will write to you

What, Mary, only a common rose for Mr.
Dornay, after all this time spent in choosing it ! '

A common rose, madam,' said Uncle Ealph,
with a bow and a smile, ' like common honesty
and common sense, is not so very common ;
and, moreover, it stands for True Love, which
is rarer still.'

AN OFFER OF MARRIAGE.

It seems to have escaped the notice of those
social teachers who are so good as to point out
to their fellow-creatures how to get on in the
world, how great a factor in that matter, sometimes
for good, more often for evil, is rapidity
of action caused by the hatred of suspense. It
is not exactly impatience, the ' raw haste '
which the poet describes as 'half-sister to
delay,' but the desire to know the worst or
the best. Though most frequently found in
impulsive natures, it is not peculiar to them.
One of the most methodical men of his time,
and the most successful in his calling? of all
time, possessed this attribute in excess. On
the one hand it caused him never to lose an

opportunity ; he ' caught the skirts of happy
chance ' throughout his life ; but on the other
he often renounced great gains in order to get
a matter settled and off his mind.

Mrs. Beckett, notwithstanding her boasted
experience of life, had never learnt to be patient ;
she had always acted more or less upon impulse,
and her vast wealth had increased this tendency.
Eoyal personages do not write when
they have a fancy for anything ; they telegraph
for it, or send a special messenger. We read
of Louis XIV. that on one occasion ' he had
almost to wait,' but the catastrophe itself was
averted.

No sooner had her two visitors departed
than the widow was consumed with a desire to
despatch that letter to the younger of them of
which she had spoken to him. ' In the meantime
I will write to you,' she had said, not
because she had found speaking difficult, but
the getting an answer from him. She felt
that he had stood on his guard and parried
her thrusts, without absolutely becoming her

antagonist. He had been very careful not to
hurt her feelings, whereas if he had quite made
up his mind to reject her advances he might
have repelled them with a word or two, such
as she could have scarcely blamed him for
using in self-defence. It was plain to her that
he was in a state of indecision : on the one
hand well disposed for a life of ease and opulence
; on the other, sensitive to the ridicule
that would attach to him for the price he
would have to pay for it. She did not dream
of having a rival in her affections ; she had
never heard a whisper of such a thing ; that
view of the case did not occur to her at all,
perhaps because she was secretly conscious that
affection — on his side at least — was not much
concerned in the matter. She knew that
Edgar liked her, and persuaded herself that
his liking, when he came to know the sacrifices
she was prepared to make for him, would turn
to love. But in the meantime she could
hardly write of the sacrifices ; she could not
say, ' If you marry me I will settle this and

that upon you absolutely, and make you
entirely independent of me.' She was secretly
conscious that he had exaggerated his tendency
to extravagance and his dislike to all financial
control, in order to dissuade her from her purpose;
but she ignored it. Her Edgar, if he
would be hers, should be as extravagant ashe
pleased, and have nothing to complain of
in the way of restriction. She had fallen overhead
and ears in love vdth him.

There was certainly some disparity in their
ages, and that on the wrong side ; but Edgar
looked old for his years, while she looked
young, and, what was more, felt so. She had
had troubles, severe ones, but they had not
broken her spirit ; her capacity for affection
was as great as ever. In her first marriage she
had not looked for love ; in her second she had
looked in vain for it. It was still, as it were,
owed to her, and there was yet time to enjoy
it ; and even if it were not thoroughly recipe -
dated, might not her third union be as happy
as her first, where reciprocity had also been

wanting, though, in that case, from her own
side? At the worst she was convinced, and
not without reason, that Edgar Dornay would
never treat her ill. For her friends she had
arguments enough for taking this step. With
her enormous fortune she felt the need of a
protector and adviser, &c. ; she knew their
remonstrances would not be very strong ; and
as for her enemies, she could afford to defy
or to despise them. But the unfolding of her
intentions to Edgar himself was a very different
matter. Even the simple ' yes ' or ' no ' required
from the blushing maiden whose hand
has been asked in marriage is said to be an
embarrassing affair. Conceive then what a
task lay before the endow, who was herself
about to put the question instead of answering
it! And she had not even the excuse of a
leap-year. It was easy enough to begin ' My
dear Edgar,' and to end ' Yours faithfully, Kate
Beckett ' ; the difficulty lay in the intermediate
matter.

A snow-storm of torn-up letters went on in

the widow's boudoir before she could compose
one to her mind ; if it was not a pretty letter
after all, that may be set down to the necessity
of the case ; under the circumstances it was
perhaps as good a one as could have been
written.

My dear Edgar, — If we had not been
interrupted this morning, I had made up my
mind to speak to you upon a certain subject
about which — for suspense in this matter is intolerable
to me — I am now compelled to write.
It is a subject so very delicate and difficult forme
to touch upon, that I should not venture todo
so but for the confidence I feel that I am
not only addressing a man of honour, who will
respect my secret, but a man of feeling,
who will understand what it costs me to
reveal it.'

The above sentence was not composed in a
hurry. Even when it was written she was dissatisfied
with it. She thought the expression
costs ' might remind him inopportunely of her

mone3\ ' It is not usual for ladies to write to
gentlemen upon such a topic ; my very housemaid
would hesitate to give to the young man
with whom she " keeps company " that fateful
ring (with 0. K. K. B. W. P. on it) which she
accepts from him with such alacrity ; it is
a woman's province to wait for her wooer.
Unhappily I do not share the common lot.
My position is an exceptional one. If I am so
fortunate as to have won the affections of an
honourable man, certain considerations would
seal his lips ; and the more worthy he is of
being beloved the more closely they would seal
them. Ever since I have known you, Edgar, I
have been a happier woman ' (perhaps it was
fortunate that their acquaintance had not been
a prolonged one ; it would have been mal a
propos under the circumstances to remind him
that she had known him from his childhood).
Your companionship has cheered me ; your
intelligence has delighted my mind ; and, above
all, your heart, or so I have flattered myself,
has beaten responsively to mine. Your

behaviour of late, and especially to-clay, leads me
to believe that a mistaken sense of independence
may have kept you silent upon a matter
in which your happiness may be, as mine most
certainly is, concerned. The inequality of our
fortunes may, to one of your sensitive nature,
have put a padlock on your tongue. That is
foolish, Edgar, for there is an inequality of age
between us — ten years or more, I fear ' (it was
nearer twenty) — ' which if this matter were
one of bargain, which Heaven forbid, might
fairly be written off against it. If a false pride,
or an unfounded mistrust, prevents your speaking
to me of what is in your heart, I entreat
you for both our sakes to discard them. If,
on the other hand, I have deceived myself, it
is better that I should be undeceived. Your
generous heart will forgive a fond and foolish
woman who has mistaken regard for love, and
a natural kindliness of heart for a particular
inclination.

'Yours faithfully,

'Kate Beckett.'

Then came the postscript, which, though it
would be cynical to say it contained the pith
of the matter, was of considerable importance.
Whatever may be your reply to this, I trust
you will accept the inclosed ; if not as an
earnest of the many offices of loving-kindness I
hope to do for you, then as a small testimony
of what at all events will be a lifelong friendship.
I will only add that, instead of being
five hundred, I wish it were five thousand.'

Having concluded this remarkable composition,
it seemed to the writer that every
moment it lay on her table or even in the post-t
office was lost time ; the possibility of the
Sunday intervening before Edgar could hear
from her was a terrible thought ; so she sent
the note by hand.

Any answer, me lady ? ' inquired the tall
footman to whom its custody was intrusted.

That she expected an answer we may
well imagine, and it was not without an inward
struggle that she replied, ' Xo ; you need
only leave the letter ; ' she would in truth have

liked the man to have waited in the hall of the
Aglaia Club for her correspondent's reply.

When the letter had gone she half regretted
not having added another postscript, ' Please
acknowledge cheque ; ' not that she was solicitous
about its safety, but that it would have
necessitated an immediate response. Nor was
this wholly owing to impatience of suspense.
If she did not know quite as much about Mr.
Edgar Dornay as she thought she did, she was
well aware that he was a man of impulse, and
that her best chance of carrying his somewhat
slackly defended heart was by a coup de main.

CHAPTER YI.

TWO TO ONE.

The withdrawal of Mrs. Beckett to her boudoir
was a matter of sore surprise to Miss Marvon,
for it was not the custom of the elder lady thus
to seclude herself. She did not much care for
general society, of which she had seen enough
and to spare, but she liked companionship,
and especially that of her young friend. It
seemed, therefore, incumbent on her to offer
some sort of explanation for her late seclusion.


I have been writing some letters, my dear,'
she said ; which was true enough, if twenty
copies of one letter constitute a plural.

Could T not have helped you, dear Mrs.
Beckett .P'

VOL. I. G

Well, no ; I don't think you could, ray
dear.'

There was a tinge of red in the widow's
cheek as she said so, and also a faint smile on
her lip, for she was not without some sense of
humour. ' Would it be indiscreet to inquire
what you and Mr. Ealph were talking about all
that time in the conservatory ? '

It was Mary's turn to blush now.

Well, among other things, he was eloquent
upon the language of flowers.'

Indeed,' said the widow, smiling. ' I must
take more care of you, Mary. I had no idea
that you had made an impression in that
quarter.'

N or I,' answered the other, drily.

I am glad you do not take his attentions
very seriously, for I am afraid Mr. Ealph is
rather a butterfly. However, no one can deny
that he is very agreeable, though he always
rather reminds me of the poet of whom it was
said that he could write lines to a broomstick.
He is so very enthusiastic about everything, and
at the shortest possible notice.'

Mary, who had been always careful to
evince uo personal hostility to Uncle Ealph for
the very reason she had given to him, was
now more chary of her censure than ever. She
only smiled adhesion to her companion's sentiments.


How Charley hates him ! ' continued the
widow. ' It is such a pity.'

It is a pity, at all events, that lie shows it
so,' observed Mary.

'No doubt. A young man who has his
way to make in the world should not make
himself enemies.'

Still, Mr. Ealph Dornay tried to snub
hai.'

True. And, as you say, " tried " without
altogether succeeding in it. Charley has a cool,
quiet way with him, which I have often reproved,
but which I confess not a little tickles
me. In a Minister of State it would be admirable,
but in a young Government clerk it is
very impertinent. What an immense difference
social position makes ! Supposing a young

man— I don't say Charley, but one like
Charley '

Upon my word, dear Mrs. Beckett,' interrupted
Mary, laughing, ' I don't believe there
is one.'

I am glad to hear you say so, my dear,'
said the widow, significantly.

Oh, I didn't mean anything so very much
in his favour,' answered Mary, quietly ; ' we
were talking of his cool ways. But I am interrupting
you ; yon were supposing a young
man.'

Yes ; suppose a young man, I was about
to say, equal to Charley in intelligence, though
in another line, who should suddenly exchange
a moderate position for one of great wealth,
what a splendid future would lie before
him'

Mary gave a little shrug of her shoulders.

That depends, my dear Mrs. Beckett. Of
course, as you have just said, his liveliness
would pass for wit, and his talents for genius ;
but the motive for exerting himself would betaken

from him. Being in the lap of luxury,
there is a temptation to sit there, and take
what the gods provide one in a golden
spoon.'

Yet it would surely be a spur to his ambition
to feel that, with the advantages he has
become possessed of, almost anything would be
within his grasp. In a man of moderate means,
however able, the sense of the impossibility of
success crushes endeavour. In a general wav,
you know, I am rather a sentimental person,
but, for the reason I have just given, I do not
think that clever young men should marry
penniless girls.'

Perhaps not,' said Mary, gravely. ' You
presume, however, that the alternative is given
them of marrying for money.'

Let us say marrying money. Why should
we say " for " money because a man marries a
woman who happens to possess it .^ Of course
there must be the alternative. If Charley, for
instance, had had any chance of winning an
heiress, I am not sure, my dear, notwithstanding

my high opinion of you, that I should have
recommended him to your attention.'

Then I wish he had had the chance,' said
Mary, smiling. She could speak lightly enough
of Charley ; but some one else had been
brought to her mind by her companion's words,
of whom she could not so speak. The thoughts
of both ladies, without any mutual consciousness
of the fact, had been dwelling on the same
man. The case Mrs. Beckett had been supposing
was that of Edgar Dornay ; and it had
suggested to Mary whether her encouragement
of that young man's attentions might not bean
act of selfishness which would smother an
honourable ambition, and cut him ofi* from possibilities
of greatness. It was a very delicate
scruple, for, beyond the recommendation of a
change of colour in the decoration of Mrs.
Beckett's boudoir, Mr. Edgar Dornay had at
present effected no particular intellectual revolution,
nor, indeed, accomplished anything
which the world would not have willingly let
die.

I never denied that Charley had his foils.
my dear,' continued Mrs. Beckett, forgetting
her role as advocate of Charley's cause, and
only using him as a perch from which to fly to
the subject which was monopolising her mind ;
his prejudices, for example, are often as strong
as they are groundless. I don't believe, for
example, he likes Edgar himself one bit better
than he likes his uncle.'

'I don't think he quite understands his
character,' observed Mary, with a show of
indifference.

He doesn't give himself the trouble to
study it,' said the widow, vehemently.

It 's a great pity,' observed Mary, gently.

I call it abominable of him,' continued the
widow. ' The way in which he jumped from
his seat when our other visitors entered the
room to-day, and murmured something about
*' another engagement," was too transparently
indecent. One would have thought they had
had the small-pox out upon them.'

They did interrupt his story, however,'

said Mary, apologetically. Her sympathies were
always 'retained for the defence,' and, moreover,
she was anxious to turn the conversation
from its present topic. She loved to think
about Edgar Dornay — indeed, she thought
about him whether she would or no — quite as
much as her companion ; but, unlike her, she
was averse to speak about him. ' I confess I
was very much interested about the giant at
Letcombe Dottrell. What a curious person Mr.
Paton must be ! '

Curious is no word for him, my dear. He
is as mad about some things as a March hare ;
but, being so very rich, he is only considered
eccentric'

But I have always heard he was very
benevolent.'

Well, yes ; except in one particular direction.
In that respect he is like Howard the
philanthropist, who liked everybody except his
own flesh and blood.'

'Why, I understood Mr. Paton had no
relations ! '

Nor has he any near ones. But he once
had an only son. " A Uttle more than kin, and
less than kind," should be the family motto, for
they two hated one another like poison,'

How shocking ! '

It was indeed ; I don't know who was to
blame for it in the first instance ; but the breach
grew wilder and wider, till there was no bridging
it over. At last the son ran away with a young-woman
very inferior to him in social station —
the village organist — which caused a dreadful
scandal.'

That is the sort of marriage which the
world is slowest to forgive,' sighed Mary,
thoughtfully. 'I suppose the world is right,
but it seems very hard.'

In this case its forgiveness was not required,'
observed the widow, drily, ' for they
were never married at all. For all that, however,
young Henry Paton stuck to the girl in a
certain fashion — not that he could have really
loved her, for he ill-treated her, and, in the end,
deserted her ; but he would never marry anyone

else. He declined to form an alliance
which would have been at least respectable,
and on which his father insisted as the basis
of their reconciliation. And, last of all, he
crowned his enormities (for I assure you they
were not mere peccadilloes) by trying to put
his father into a lunatic asylum, which he very
nearly accomplished.'

What a terrible history ! ' exclaimed the
girl. ' And is the young man dead ? '

Yes. He was killed in some drunken
brawl in New York, and mourned by no one
except by his poor mother.'

She is alive, then ? '

Yes ; and as good a woman as ever
breathed. Mr. Paton, too, to do him justice, is
the kindest of husbands ; but he has forbidden
her ever to mention her son's name to him.
What was at first mere heat against him, in the
end turned to hate, so that his very memory is
loathsome to him. What is stranger than all,
this vehemence of detestation has affected the
old man's general views of life. Naturally of a

most tender and sympathising disposition, he
-wdll never admit the tie of blood as a motive
for affection. He looks upon relations as
humorist depict mothers-in-law, while, on
the other hand, his great house is full of living
objects of benevolence, not always chosen with
good judgment. Charley called them, if you
remember, " the Happy Family " — poets,
painters, inventors, and all the intellectual
tagrag and bobtail who are always on the
look-out for money and a patron.'

How very curious ! And do you know
this Mr. Paton ? '

A little. He had some acquaintance atone
time ' — here the widow pressed her lips
together — 'with my second husband. Mr.
Jennie has been his man of business for years,
and your friend, Mrs. Sotheran, of course, is
very intimate at Letcombe Hall, since she lives
in the same parish.'

And yet she has never mentioned to me
one word about Mr. Paton,' said Mary ; ' I
have only heard of him from others.'

How curious ! —Thanks.' This to the
servant, who had just placed a letter in his
mistress's hand. A glance at the address was
sufficient to tell her from whom it came. It
was the one she had been expecting with such
impatience, but she had certainly no right to
complain upon the score of delay. It was not
yet dinner time, and her own letter had not
been despatched more than two hours. She
argued favourably (from what she knew of
Edgar's character) from this prompt reply.
At all events, she held in her hand the key of
her future happiness, or, let us say, discontent,
for misery would certainly be too strong a
word.

The moment was a supreme one, but then
she was not unaccustomed to such supreme
moments. Moreover, as we get on in years,
all moments (save that in which death is
beckoning to some dear one, true and tried)
become less supreme. There was a ' catch ' in
her breath, but her face showed nothing of the
anxiety that consumed her. If it had done

SO, however, her companion would not have
observed it. Her thoughts, attracted for the
moment by the sad domestic history to which
she had just been listening, had already reverted
to more personal affairs — not exactly
her own affairs, though her own were bound
up in them. Mary Marvon used a very rare —
though, among women, a not unexampled —
system of notation. With her Number One
was not always first, and was sometimes
naught. She had every reason to believe,
short of an actual offer of marriage, that Edgar
Dornay proposed to make her his wife. She
had liked him — even, perhaps, what is called
fallen in love with him — from the first, but she
had kept that fact carefully locked up in her
own heart. She had given him no sort of
encouragement, but had behaved to him
exactly as she behaved to Mrs. Beckett's other
visitors ; not, indeed, with the humility often
used by persons in her position, for nature had
not fitted her for the conventional role of a
companion,' but certainly with no forward

assurance. On the contrary, she had put a
constraint upon herself when in his company,
and replied to him whenever he had addressed
her with studied reticence. He had pushed
aside this veil with his own hands, had sought
her out, though with no demonstration of
manner, in her modest retirement, and had
won her heart.

He was not, however, quite sure that he
had won it, nor had she quite made up her
mind to give it him. Her hesitation arose
solely upon his own account. In one point of
view — the most common one — she was without
doubt a bad match for him. She could give
him nothing but her love. Nay, as sirs.
Beckett had just been unconsciously pointing
out, she might be not even a plus at all, but a
minus. His union with her might take away
from him certain opportunities. They did not
present themselves to her in the precise form
that they had appeared to her friend ; she
could not picture the man of her choice
marrying for money, but she could understand

that her poverty might be a check upon his
advancement in life. His parents were dead,
and he had no one but his own wishes to
consult in the matter — unless Uncle Ealph
might be considered in a paternal light, an
idea which she rejected ^vith some contempt.
But this very freedom of choice increased her
hesitation. It behoved her all the more not to
take advantage of this uncontrolled attachment
to his own hurt What the world might say
of it would be a very small thing to her in
comparison with what her own conscience
might say. It did not enter into her consideration
at all — what Mrs. Beckett, on the other
hand, saw very clearly — that Edgar Dornay
was of that impulsive and indecisive nature
which needs, above all others, alliance with a
firm, unwavering one ; that a wife such as
Mary Marvon would, in fact, to a young
gentleman of his incompleteness be ' the
making of him.' But, in spite of all her
doubts, she had a secret conviction in her
heart that she could make him a happy man.

She was not so absolutely ignorant of
human nature as to suppose this sort of love
was reciprocated, but she believed that Edgar
loved her as truly and unselfishly as man could
do. It was most fortunate for her hostess that
Mary was thus sunk in reflection, for with
Edgar Dornay's letter in her hand Mrs. Beckett
felt very unequal to conversation. If her
young friend had looked up at that critical
moment with the very natural observation, for
example, ' Who is your correspondent ? ' one
can hardly imagine what would have happened,
though it is just possible, I fear, that she might
have replied, ' Only a bill, dear,' with the most
innocent smile in the world.

Before conversation was resumed, however,
the dressing gong began to boom through the
house, which afforded her an excuse for retreat
with all the honours of truth.

Even in the seclusion of her own apartment
the widow did not tear open her Edgar's letter
and greedily devour it with her eyes ; nor, as a
matter of fact, perhaps, is that course of action
the usual one in such cases except upon the
stage, where one has to consider the conditions
of distance — the gallery. In real life such
treatment is only applied to telegrams. When
a woman, especially, has a billet-doux in her
hand, or what she hopes will prove one, she is
in no hurry, however impatient may be her
natural disposition, to become possessed of its
contents ; and this is more particularly the
case when she has good reason to believe them
to be agreeable.

VOL. L H

That the cheque had not come back Mrs.
Beckett had assured herself by the ordeal of
touch ; her delicate fingers had weighed the
missive and decided that it was too light to
contain an inclosure. If her Edgar had kept
the cheque she felt that he was secured to her,
or, as brutal mai would have expressed it,
sold ' ; for, though she had urged his acceptance
of it in any case, she knew that there was
in reality no alternative for him.

As she gazed on his handwriting her
thoughts reverted to the day, now thirty years
aoo, when her father had placed a similar
letter in her hand with the quiet remark,
This is from Sir Eobert, my daring ; you will
do as you please about it.'

How different were her present feelings !
It seemed to her as she compared her ' now '
and ' then ' that she could scarcely be the same
woman. Her second offer had been made byword
of mouth ; and how differently again had
that proposal been received ! With what
rapture had she heard it ! With what

promise it had seemed to blossom, and how,
alas, that blossom had withered ere it ever
grew to bud ! She could not conceal from herself
that there was no such blossom now ; yet
if there was less to win — and there was less,
much less — she on her part had less to lose.

My dear Mrs. Beckett, — Your kind letter
has affected me beyond measure. I feel I am
not worthy of your love, but 1 hope to become
worthy of it. I am compelled to spend tomorrow
at Brighton, but I shall be with you at
three o'clock on Monday, when I shall trust \i^
find you alone.

Ever yours affectionately,

Edgar Dorxay.'

'X.B. — Cheque received.'

If the letter was not all that the widow
could wish, it was without doubt an acceptance
of her proposal ; if it did not fulfil her expectations,
it removed from her all apprehensions
of disappointment ; nay, it realised her hopes :
but she didn't like his putting off his visit till
H 2

Monday. Why should he not have come on
Sunday? Even supposing he had a previous
engagement for that day, why should he not
have cancelled it ? Was he not now engaged
to her? The notion of Mr. Edgar Dornay's
having any conscientious scruples concerning
Sunday did not, I regret to say, enter into her
mind. What, however, she resented a great
deal more was Edgar's postscript, ' Cheque
received,' which seemed almost to have a
double signification for her. Her first act,
indeed, was to produce a pair of golden
scissors — one of a set of implements fitted into
a sea shell, such as Aphrodite might have
used at a marine Dorcas Society — and cut that
neatly out. The note looked a little shorter, but
much sweeter, without that little addition.

Mrs. Beckett had not only over lived her
illusions, but had, what very few women
possess, a due sense of proportion. She
acknowledged to herself that concerning the
matter between herself and ' another ' — so her
dividends expressed it — she had got decidedly

the best of it. If Mr. Charles Sotheran, whom,
to do her justice, she would have no more
thought of as a husband than of marrying her
grandson, had been in the place of Mr. Edgar
Dornay, she would have taken a different view
of the affair ; the obligation would, in that
case, have seemed to lie on the other side.
His circumstances were such that, to use a
homely but very significant expression, he
might well have 'jumped at' such an offer.
But Edgar Dornay was well born, in possession
of moderate means, and had made for himself
a certain position in the world. She was not
only very pleased that he had accepted her
proposal, but grateful. It was impossible for
him of course to speak of ' terms,' but she at
once resolved that they should be made as
much to his liking as possible. Her first idea
the idea of a woman in love, but one which
fitted also with the natural generosity of her
disposition — was to make him independent of
her. And it was not enough for her to tell
him her intentions ; she wished to be able to

assure him that they were already in process
of being carried out. This was a notion that
would never of course have entered into the
head of a young girl ; but in her case it had a
certain pathos in it — it was a tacit confession
that she knew she was not loved for herself
alone. If the other reason for which he loved
Tier should be strengthened, would he not then
love her more ? There was at least nothing
sordid in such an act of voluntary munificence.

She dashed off three lines to her man of
business, Mr. Jennie, to request his attendance
on her after breakfast on Monday morning :
Come to breakfast if you can,' she added impulsively,
' though I am afraid our hour (9.30)
will be a little late for you.' Then she went
down to dinner in the highest spirits.

There are some philosophic persons who
do not much believe in the chastening influence
of adversity ; who confess that they are never
so unsympathetic as when they are in low
spirits, and that melancholy and moroseness are
with them synonymous terms. We admire

their candour, but pity the littleness of their
iniuds. Still, it must be acknowledged that
when folks are in good luck they hire more
agreeable as companions than when the" are
depressed ; kindly natures expand under the
influence of crowd fortune, and are very willing;
that their fellow-creatures should share, or at
all events receive the overplus of it. Mrs.
Beckett had been always kind to her young
companion, but never had she borne herself so
warmly towards her as on the present occasion ;
in the familiarity of their conversation when they
had gone up to the drawing-room, she even
ventured once more to hint at the subject of
Mary's settling in Kfe, though without any
direct reference to the husband she had chosen
for her.

You are very young still, my dear, it is
quite true ; but age is relative ; to a girl of
fortune it is of small consequence, but, to one
with small means, every year after she becomes
marriageable is twelve months lost.*

'I have never heard the value of time

pointed out with such particularity,' said Mary,
smiling.

My dear, I am quite serious ; it is the
fact,' returned the widow, earnestly ; ' and I
need not tell you, Mary, that whomsoever you
may choose for a husband — though you know
my especial wishes in that matter — I shall take
care that you do not go to him without a
dowry.'

You are very good and very kind,' said
Mary, with a faint flush ; she was used to hints
of the widow's intentions towards her which
had at first made her very uncomfortable ;
there was something in her nature which revolted
against them, though she had found
from experience that it was better to pass them
lightly by. ' But unless, my dear Mrs. Beckett,
your generosity partakes of the nature of what
Mr. Jennie was trying to explain to us the
other day, a time bargain, or that you want to
get rid of me as soon as possible '

'Nay, nay,' interrupted the widow, 'you
know I don't mean that.' She was conscious.

however — under the new conditions of her
life that was to be — of having contemplated
Mary's departure as a possibility. Xo idea of
jealousy had crossed her mind, but it had
occurred to her that when she became Mrs.
Dornay, not only would Mary's office become
a sinecure, but that there would be something
embarrassing in her presence. In the case of
turtle doves, however roomy their nest maybe,
the happy pair, or the female at all events,
prefers it to be free from lodgers. ' My house
will always be your home, Mary, but circumstances
may alter as regards myself — I may not
be in a position — nobody knows what may
happen.'

The widow was in a quagmire, in which
her struggles to escape only sank her the
deeper ; she felt she had gone too far in hinting
at any alteration in her mode of life, and
she did not know low to erase the impression
her words might have conveyed.

Mary, however, was quite innocent of all
suspicion. She thought Mrs. Beckett was

referring to the uncertainties of human life. ' It
will be long indeed, I hope, and have every
reason to believe,' she answered earnestly,
before I need to come to any resolution on
that account.'

The widow bit her lip and was silent. It
was possible, had Mary given her any encouragement,
that she might have made a
confidante of her then and there ; but under
present circumstances that was out of the
question. It was certainly very unpleasant
that the idea of change in her condition had
only associated itself in Mary's mind with her
decease. She would take care to let Mr.
Eeunie understand that she had sent for him
with quite other views than to give him her
testamentary instructions.

I know you hate to perform in public,
Mary,' she said with some abruptness (it was
the one thing in Mrs. Beckett's manner which
now and then betrayed the relative positions
occupied by Miss Marvon and herself), ' but

since we are quite alone, perhaps you will play
something on the piano.'

It was an elastic request, and Mary took
full advantage of it, for music was her delight.
She played piece after piece, now grave, now
gay, and at the end of each the widow murmured,
' That is indeed a treat,' or ' Thank
you,' or ' How charming ! ' But what was
played was in fact only the accompaniment,
more or less suitable, to her own thoughts.

When Mary's fingers evoked pathos, Mrs.
Beckett's mind reverted to her girlhood, so
long past and gone ; to the simple pleasures of her
youth, and to its dreams ; which, though great
things had befallen her, had been far indeed
from being realised. When the strain grew
sombre her middle life passed once more
before her, haunted by the ghost of love, and
shadowed by a hated presence. When the
tune was bright and joyous, she painted her
future in bright colours, and likened the remainder
of her days to an Indian summer.

But as to whether Beethoven was being played,
or Mozart, or Chopin, the widow neither knew
nor cared, so long as the notes were not so
loud as to interfere with her own reflections.
And so it is with a good many other people
who affect to ' doat on music'

CHAPTER Viii.

MR. Jennie's instructions.

The next day was Sunday, a dies non ; the day
of all days — since in well-regulated establishments
no work is permitted — on which suspense
is most intolerable. Again and again
did ]\lrs. Beckett congratulate herself that she
had taken time by the forelock, and secured
her Edgar's reply. How dreadful it would
have been to have pictured him at Brighton,
ignorant of her devotion to him, and — it
was really within the bounds of possibility —
flirting with somebody else ! Even as it was,
the day was a very long one, and contrary to
her custom she went twice to church, not so
much, however, with the idea of special thanksgiving
as of withdrawing her mind from its

monopolising topic. The preacher was eloquent
and fashionable, but it is doubtful
whether he succeeded in producing in her that
description of meditation which, above all
others, should be ' fancy free.'

Contrary to the widow's expectations, Mr.
Jennie arrived at the breakfast hour on Monday
morning. The lawyer was a man of slight,
almost insignificant figure, young for his years,
which were verging on sixty ; but with an
astute and intelligent face. His eyes, blue and
keen as a sword blade, like it were kept in
scabbard until there was need for them. Their
lids were usually pressed so close together that
it was a wonder he saw out of them. The
habit was ascribed to near-sightedness, an idea
which he was very far from wishing to combat.
The peculiarity had arisen perhaps in trick, but
he had found it useful to him. When he
heard things from his clients (and he sometimes
did) which would have opened ordinary eyes
very wide indeed, they only lifted his lashes a
little. Nothing seemed to astonish him. On

the other hand, he sometimes astonished others ;
on occasions which demanded their exhibition,
some folks knew that he could open his eyes to
some purpose, when their effect was that of a
policeman's bull's-eye suddenly turned on a
detected thief. Mr. Jennie was an old bachelor,
and his manners were of the old school of
politeness : his behaviour to women, always
kindly but mingled with a certain respect, was
quite different from the affected devotion displayed
to them by men of fashion ; his ways
with men were various, but he had a general
reputation for something more than mere scrupulous
integrity ; a man of honour first and a
lawyer afterwards. His business was mainly
confined to the affairs of great families, and the
administration of large estates ; but he had
been known to give valuable advice to persons
of comparative insignificance, and, what was
more, in a very unprofessional manner — without
a fee. Mrs. Beckett adored him, and told
him so ; just a little to his alarm. A woman
who had buried two husbands was, he thought,

capable of reverting to first principles in the
way of matrimony, and of capturing the third
by force. But on the whole he liked her ; and
not least for her treatment of Mary Marvon.
He had seen a great deal of the dependants of
the great, and they did not impress him favourably
; but in this young lady he recognised
modesty without subservience, and an unflinching
self-respect.

This is a compliment indeed, Mr. Jennie,'
were the widow's first words of welcome. ' I
never thought you would come to breakfast.'

It is almost as dangerous to give an
invitation, madam, under the impression that
it will not be accepted,' was his reply, ' as to
back a bill under the contrary impression.
You seem to have made every preparation,
however, for my entertainment.'

There are some cutlets and fish ; oh, I see
what you mean ; why, of course there is Mary.'
The lawyer was shaking hands with her with
something more than his usual politeness. ' I
knew you would never dare to take breakfast

with me alone. Under pretence of being my
chaperon, or sheep dog, every one knows that
Mary is here for the protection of the public'

Quis custodis ? ' murmured the lawyer,
with a glance of pity towards the orphan girl.

What do you say, sir ? ' inquired the
widow, sharply. ' I always suspect the dead
lancruacres.'

o o

I was merely quoting a legal phrase, my
dear madam, with reference to the custody of
infants. By-the-by, I have been having some
correspondence ^dth our friend Mr. Peyton that
would surprise you. What do you think of an
infant nine feet high ? '

The giant ! Oh, we 've heard of him ! '
exclaimed Mary, laughing. -

'Well, he's a minor, and since it was
through Mr. Peyton's advice that he threw up
his engagement, my client thinks he is responsible
for his future. As he shakes the pillars
of domestic peace at the Hall — and, indeed,
the Hall too — it has become necessary place
him somewhere else, and I have been offering

VOL. I. I

premiums to proprietors of travelling shows to
take him. Never was a respectable family
solicitor placed in such a false position.'

The mention of Mr. Jennie's profession,
Mary,' observed the widow, ' which nobody, I
am sure, would ever guess, unless he referred
to it '

Now, do you really expect me to take
that as a compliment, Mrs. Beckett ? ' interposed
the lawyer.

The mention of his profession,' continued
the widow, ' reminds me that he has come here
professionally, and that I must deny myseK the
pleasure of your company this morning ; but
you can have the carriage, of course, as usual.'

Thank you, dear Mrs. Beckett, but I had
much rather walk.'

'Then take Simmons with you, I beg, my
dear : you are much too young and pretty to
go without a maid.'

I would much prefer Alexander,' said
Mary.

^ Now did you ever know such a girl, Mr.

Jennie ? ' exclaimed the widow, appealingly.
She prefers walking to driving, and the company
of Alexander to that of Simmons.'

It depends upon who Alexander is,' observed
the lawyer, judicially. 'If he's an
attractive young man '

It is a dog, my dear sir ; it 's Mr. Beckett's
old St. Bernard.'

Oh, indeed ! One of those animals who
go about with a bottle of Chartreuse — no, by-the-by,
that's the other monastery — of brandy
round their necks, and save people in the
snow. In winter a most admirable companion,
but in summer I should have thought '

'He is charming at all times,' laughed
Mary, rising from her seat ; ' I 've not had a
walk with him for weeks, so that we shall have
lots to say to one another.'

And with a pretty curtsey and a pleasant
smile she left the seniors to their conversation.

That's a good girl, I'm sure,' observed the
lawyer, when the young lady had left the
room.

An excellent girl,' assented Mrs. Beckett,
warmly ; ' she is quite like a younger sister tome.'


'Without the little jealousies and antagonisms
which relations sometimes give rise
to, eh ? ' observed Mr. Jennie, slily.

Upon my word, you 're as bad as Mr.
Peyton,' exclaimed the widow. ' I suppose that
is why you lawyers get such a bad character :
you mix with such queer clients and catch
their complaints.'

Yes, that's it. We go about doing good
at all risks.'

Well, I want you to do some good to-day,
or rather to put me, as your client, in the way
of doing it. I particularly wish to benefit a
certain person — who shall remain nameless, if
you please, for the present — pecuniarily. I
wish that person, though closely connected
with me, to be made independent of me, no
matter what may happen as regards change of
circumstances, or even of feeling in myself.'

'A very generous proposition,' observed

the lawyer, stirring his tea, and thinking to
himself, ' Now she is going to provide for that
young girl. A very good thing too. Companionship
is no inheritance, and one woman's
affection for another is never to be depended
on ; though it looks as firm as the solid
earth, there is always a possibility of a landslip.'


As Mrs. Beckett remained silent, he looked
up at her through his screwed-up eyes and
nodded encouragement. The widow was
blushing, and pursuing a peach stone across
her plate with a trembling finger — a sign of
embarrassment which by no means astonished
the lawyer. People, in his experience, were
generally more ashamed of their benevolent
intentions, especially if they were of a Quixotic
character, than of their revenges.

A highly laudable idea,' he continued, ' if
one is only assured, which, no doubt, you are
in this case, of the worthiness of the individual
to be benefited.'

I have every confidence in the person in

question, Mr. Jennie. Perhaps, without beating
about the bush, it may be as well to state
to you, of course in the strictest confidence,
that the person I have in my mind is my
future husband.'

For the moment Mr. Jennie forgot his
office and even himself. He opened his eyes
to their fullest extent, not in reproof, as usual,
but in sheer amazement.

Alexander has gone out with Miss Mar-von,'
said the widow, severely.

Alexander, my dear madam ? ' stammered
the other.

Yes — the dog. I thought you whistled,
sir.' And, indeed, it was true that the least
ghost of a whistle had somehow escaped from
the old lawyer's lips.

Good heavens, madam ! nothing was
further from my thoughts. It is no whistling
matter.'

'So I should hope,' returned the widow,
implacably ; she was very much offended.

'Thank heavens, it isn't me; that's one

comfort,' was the lawyer's reflection, which
assisted hiiii in summoning a gentle smile.

If I have exhibited any amazement, my
dear sirs. Beckett,' he said, ' it was from the
consideration of your great courage and confidence
in human nature.'

I think I am old enough to know my own
mind, Mr. Jennie.'

I don't know as to that. A woman, they
say, is as old as she looks, in which case I
must needs doubt your judgment.'

I am glad you have something civil to say
at last.'

Civil ! My dear Mrs. Beckett, you must
be well aware that my feelings towards you
are not those of a mere acquaintance, or even
such as should exist between lawyer and client.'

You would not have dared to say that ten
minutes ago,' smiled the widow, who had by
this time recovered, not only her self-possession,
but her good-humour ; from which it may be
gathered that she was not absolutely impervious
to flattery.

Well, I clare to say it now ; and something
more. On one occasion, when I had
had the opportunity of being of service to you,
you were graciously pleased to call me your
guardian.'

I went further, and said " guardian
angel," ' put in Mrs. Beckett, frankly, but with
a tinge of colour. He was referring to a certain
time when his advice had restrained her
from placing what would have been a most ill-judged
confidence in her late husband.

As your friend and well-wisher, at all
events,' pursued the lawyer, modestly, 'it is
my duty now to point out to you that your
position is a very exceptional one. The
gentleman you have in your mind you will
make not only your husband, but a prince
consort.'

And how do you know that he is not a
prince already ? ' inquired the widow, smiling.

The question was a little embarrassing, for
the man Mr. Jennie had in his mind was certainly
not a prince, nor at all like one, being in

fart no other than Mr. Ealph Dornay. He
knew that he was intimate at the house, and
thought him just the sort of calculating humbug
to have learnt the length of Miss. Beckett's
foot.

If he had been a prince I think you would
have called him a personage and not a person,'
returned the lawyer, dexterously.

'He is a prince to me,' said the widow,
gently ; ' to us women all men seem so while
they are our lovers.'

I suppose they do,' observed the lawyer,
drily. He was considering whether, even to
his betrothed, mr. Ealpli Dornay could appear
to possess any princely attributes.

This is a matter, Mr. Jennie,' continued
the widow, stung by his cynical tone, ' in
which I have no need of advice, except professionally.
My mind is quite made up as to
the main question.'

The lawyer bowed, and took a pinch of
snuff: it was the only vice of which he had
ever been accused — or at least convicted.

I am here, my dear madam, to obey your
instructions. You wish, as I understand, that
this fortunate gentleman should enjoy a handsome
life interest in your estate.'

That is of course. It is the usual arrangement,
is it not ? '

'It is a common one, but by no means
without exception. In such a case as yours, a
woman's fortune is settled upon her and her
children, but, if she wishes it, a sufficient
income is reserved to her husband should he
survive her.'

Well, you can draw up the settlement ;
but I wish a certain sum to be given absolutely
to my husband on the day of our marriage
; fifty thousand pounds.'

My dear Mrs. Beckett ! '

Such are my wishes ; be so good as to
embody them in — I don't know how to express
myself technically — but I know what I want to
have done.'

Mr. Jennie smiled as though he had no
doubt of that.

I suppose as regards the lump sum a
deed of gift will be necessary ? ' continued
the widow.

Not at all. There will be certain preliminary
arrangements, and then you have only
to sign a cheque.'

The widow's eyes sparkled with pleasure.
To place a cheque for 50,000/. in the hands of
her intended would be, she felt, an enormous
pleasure to her.

A draft of your instructions shall be prepared
for your approval,' resumed the lawyer,
who had no mention of precipitating matters.
Is there anything — or any one else — you wish
to mention ? '

Since cheques for 50,000/. were flying about,
it struck the kind-hearted lawyer that Mary
Marvon might well be brought to his client's
remembrance before Mr. Ealph Dornay came
into his kingdom, after which her chance would
be small indeed.

No,' said the widow, thoughtfully. ' nothing
cr else occurs to me. You will not be honos

it, I conclude ; it is all so very
simple.'

Very,' assented the lawyer, without moving
a muscle ; but his eyes, if he had been so
foolish as to open them, would have betrayed
the satire.

Then it could be done at once, in half an
hour ? '

'What? The deed? The settlement ? '
The idea of despatch is to a lawyer always
hateful ; but the suggestion of tying up a property
like Mrs. Beckett's — as if it had been a
brown-paper parcel — in half an hour, sounded
to Mr. Jennie like a blasphemy in the ears of
a bishop.

I don't mean that, but I should like
to have a note of my intentions drawn out
in a proper manner, for my own satisfaction.'


What she means,' said the lawyer to himself,
' is for private exhibition. She thinks it
will bring the tears into the eyes of that specious
humbug, whereas it will only make his mouth

water. My dear madam, what a fool you are
about to make of yourself! It is curious when
Nature has done her very best almost in that
way, how some folks will improve upon it.'
Then he added aloud, ' You shall have a note
of your instructions before your luncheon hour,
Mrs. Beckett.'

He named that time because he felt sure
that if the man she had in her mind was ]mr.
Ealph Dornay he would come to lunch ; but
he was not quite certain that he was the man.
A curiosity very foreign to his character impelled
him, as he took his leave, to learn her
secret.

I suppose it would be indiscreet in
me, dear Mrs. Beckett, to hazard a guess as
to the subject of our conversation this morning?'


It would be indiscreet in me to tell,' said
the widow, smiling, which, indeed, considering
that no word of love had passed her Edgar's
lips, it certainly would have been.

If I was to say that the name of the

unknown began with a D and ended with a Y,
should I be very far wrong ? '

You would be getting " warm," sir, as the
children say at " hide and seek," ' returned the
widow, blushing. ' I need say no more than
that.' And she held out her hand.

Mr. Jennie took and pressed it kindly, but
he did not utter one word of congratulation.
He thought his client very foolish ; but also
that she was about to bring upon herself a
greater punishment than her folly deserved.

Mrs. Beckett was well satisfied with his
silence ; in a case like hers she knew enough of
the world to be grateful for small mercies. It
was something — nay, it was a good deal — that
so old a friend and adviser had not dropped a
word about the disparity of years. She had
not the faintest suspicion of the cause which
made any such remarks an impossibility. Her
mind was full of her Edgar, and she concluded
that of Mr. Jennie was preoccupied with the
same individual. If she had told him the truth,
it is probable that the lawyer would have known

better than to attempt remonstrance, but a
certain line in the Table of Forbidden Degrees
in the Prayer Book would certainly have suggested
itself — ' A man may not marry his
grandmother.'

CHAPTEE IX.

UNCLE AND NEPHEW.

The Aglaia in Piccadilly is one of those luxurious
establishments for the suppression of marriage
called clubs, which lets its upper floor in
apartments to members. Those who are so
fortunate as to secure them need never step out
of doors in search of domestic comfort. After
eating and drinking and smoking — nay, even
reading, if their tastes are so exceptional as to
lead them to literature — a pass key opens a
private door for them on the second floor, and
they have only to go up to bed. ' Home is
home, no matter how homely,' and the sitting-room
and two bedrooms rented by the Messrs.
Dornay, uncle and nephew, above their club,
were as much their home as though they possessed

a bouse in the neighbouring square.
Indeed, as to decoration, these three apartments
were by no means homely, while the sitting-room
was furnished with great luxury. Some
of the treasures of Cliffe Park, too precious to
be left to the tender mercies of tenants, had
been imported into it, and the taste of Mr.
Edgar Dornay had supplied whatever had been
wanting to its original embellishment.

To the ordinary eye, however, nothing would
have seemed to be wanting, from Cliffe Park or
anywhere else, for the Aglaia Club, though the
beauty of its architecture was disputed (and
what is not disputed in architecture), was
famous for its fittings. Everything was so
mellow and subdued and harmonious, that, if
mellowness and subjugation and harmony can
effect one half of what is ascribed to them upon
the human soul, all the members of the Aglaia
Club Avould have been as sure of paradise as a
Crusader who had killed a Paynim, or viceversa.
On the other hand, notwithstanding

VOL. I. K

these elegant surroundings, these gentlemen
could scarcely be set down as spiritually minded,
nor indeed did they concern themselves much
with paradise at all. They were mostly golden,
or, more accurately, gilded youths, who resembled
lilies less in their purity than in their
exemption from toil : for, when folks are idle,
it is my firm conviction that not all the sage-green
furniture in the world will keep them
out of mischief.

In some cases these gilded youths were not
very youthful, and in others they had rubbed
some of their gilt off.

Mr. Ealph Dornay suffered from both these
disadvantages more than people were generally
aware of, for, to do him justice, he was a man
of courage ; nay, of dauntless audacity, and
could hold his head up like a man where
another would have held it down through consciousness
of not being worthy of that title ;
one of great resource and of some ingenuity, fit
to breast the blows of circumstance and grapple
with his evil star if Fate so willed it, and very

apt to take advantage of his opportunities when
she chanced to be in a better humour.

Sometimes he even made opportunities for
himself. A great idea had been shaping itself
in his mind of late, or, rather, had suddenly-been
born there, perfected and complete, as
Pallas sprang from the brain of Jove. It was
a magnificent conception, the result of which
might place him above the aspirations of ambition,
but one that was proportionally difficult
to carry out. It was not only that there were
obstacles in the way, huge as a mountain and
as solid, but that his plan required a total change
of front in his own views and proceedings.
Hitherto he had been a mere satellite of his
nephew, content to shine with a very modest
lustre in the same firmament, and, upon the
whole, a faithful satellite. His best advice,
according to his lights, had been always at
Edgar's service, and in some things he had
given him material aid, not, indeed, from affection,
nor even from that tie of blood on which
he so much insisted, but because their interests

K 2

were identical. But now he had it in his mind
to be no more a satellite, but a sun, with a
system of its own. At present, however, as
regarded the attainment of his object he had
no system whatever, but only an audacious and
well-nigh desperate resolve ; it was necessary
to feel his way, and with all the more caution
since on some portion of it he would have to
retrace his steps.

It was the evening of the day on which
Edgar Dornay had accepted Mrs. Beckett's offer,
and uncle and nephew were alone together in
their private apartment. They had not met
since they had lunched together in Park Lane,
the younger man having dined out, and the
elder at the club, as was usual in both cases.
The former had donned his dressing-gown and
slippers, but the latter was in full evening
panoply. Uncle Ealph was not often seen in
dishabille — not because that process of ' breaking
up ' had by any means begun with him
with which most of us, when our ship is no
longer classed Al , are acquainted, and which

men are often quite as solicitous to conceal as
are the softer sex — but because he felt the
danger, at his age, of once giving way to slovenly-habits.
He was as fond of ease as most people
nay, fonder — but in his present circumstances
he did not consider that he could afford to take
it. His attire, though quite as faultless and
more equable — he was never seen in dittos
even in September — was not so splendid as
that of some members of the Aglaia, and,
remembering, perhaps, the dictum of the
poet —

What are myrtles and wreaths to the brow that is wrinkled ? —

he seldom had a flower in his buttonhole. On
the present occasion, however, he wore a sprig
of stephanotis, which attracted his companion's
attention.

What ! two flowers in one day in your
coat, Ealph! You must be going to be
married.'

'The first one, my dear Edgar,' returned
Uncle Ealph, slowly expelling the smoke of his
cigar from his hips, and nodding towards the

mantelpiece, on AvLich Mary's rose was blushing
in a wine-glass as though ashamed of
the association, ' can hardly be considered my
own ; I look upon it as having been given intrust.'


How so ? ' inquired the other, with a tinge
of colour in his cheek, which did not escape his
companion's notice.

Well, I hardly think Miss Marvon would
have given me anything of her own free will.
Moreover, her choice was peculiar. You know
the signification of the common rose, no
doubt ? '

I heard you say it was " true love," ' said
Edgar, with a touch of incredulous contempt.

That was to spare your feelings. ' It 's
true meaning is " Love's Ambassador." If you
yourself are not learned in the language of
flowers. Miss Marvon is, you may depend upon
it

I don't believe Miss Marvon ever gave her
attention to anything so foolish,' said Edgar,
with irritation.

You ought to know best,' returned the
other, shrugging his shoulders. ' I admit that
there is as little doubt of her sagacity as of her
beauty ; but she is a woman, and, being so,
must needs have her little weaknesses.'

You have insisted upon them often enough,
and called them by a worse name,' remarked
his companion, drily.

Yes, I own I have been prejudiced, but,
really, her sweetness and gentleness made a
convert of me this afternoon. Peccavi.'

What the devil do you mean ? ' exclaimed
the young man, sharply. ' Why, it was only
the other day you told me her tongue was like
a whip.'

So it was — to me. But when she speaks
of some one else who bears the same name, it
is a privilege to listen to her. Her lips drop
honey. As for me, I fairly threw down my
arms to-day, and owned myself vanquished.
I confess, my dear Miss Marvon," I said,
that hitherto I have been in opposition to you,
but henceforth I am your ally ; you may rely

on me to advance your interests and your
wishes in every way in my power." '

And what did she say to all that ? '

I had hoped you would not have asked
me,' said Uncle Ealph in an injured tone ; ' she
told me that she had no confidence whatever
in my protestations, and that as for my alliance,
she didn't care one halfpenny whether I washer
ally or her enemy — or words to to that
effect.'

A brave girl, an honest girl ! ' murmured
the young man, admiringly. ' Dear, dear,' he
sighed, ' what a happy world this would be if
one could only do as one liked in it ! '

Now really, Edgar, you astonish me ! '
returned the other with raised eyebrows. ' I
should have thought that was the very condition
under which you had accepted existence.
May I ask what you have ever done that you
didn't like ? '

'Well, for one thing, I lost five hundred
pounds at Ascot.'

True,' replied Uncle Ealph, sententiously ;

'that was certainly a miscarriage of justice.
Still it is not an overwhelming misfortune.'

You would have found it deucedly inconvenient,
Ralph, if it had happened to you'

To this observation, as being absolutely indisputable,
Uncle Ealph made no reply. ' As
to the turf,' he observed, ' whether one has
fifty pounds a year or fifty thousand, the end is
the same to everybody who goes in for it. If
you would only resolve to give up betting, my
dear Edgar, every other pleasure would lie
within your grasp. You have a very tolerable
income. Although I have often advised you to
marry money, I am not sure whether in your
case an economical wife without a dowry would
not in the end be cheaper to you than a rich
one who had been brought up — as they all are
in habits of extravagance. It is not as if
you would have to live on bread and cheese.'

This is quite a new view of affairs ! ' said
Edgar, scornfully.

I know it ; I have confessed as much, and
how I have been converted. Moreover, this

Ascot business put this in my mind : perhaps
if my nephew married the girl he loved, and
who will be absolutely dependent on him, he
would consent to give up for her sake a dangerous
habit, which he wall never forego for his
own. With her he is secure of happiness if he
vvill only be content with that ; and how few
of us are able to look forward to such a
future.'

How strange it is,' returned the other with
quiet scorn, ' that a man of your age. Uncle
Ealph, and who knows that it is deadly to you,
will continue to take champagne at dinner, and
such lots of it.'

A quick, uneasy smile flitted over his companion's
face. ' No, Edgar, I am quite sober,
and very serious ; nay, in sackcloth and ashes.
I am afraid I have done mischief to you through
meaning well. In one matter, at least, and a
most important one, I have hitherto used what
little influence I may be so fortunate as to have
with you for evil and not for good. It is not
pleasant to have to eat one's words, but I

believe I have been all wrong about Miss
Mar von.'

Your repentance, like that of most people,
Uncle Ealph,' replied the young man, gravely,
comes a little too late.'

How so ? How can it be too late ? ' put
in the other quickly ; ' why, it is not six hours
ago since Miss Marvon herself '

'Very likely,' interrupted the young man,
with a forced smile ; ' but to the other party
interested — the humble individual who is now
addressing you — something has happened within
those same six hours. In point of fact, my
dear fellow, I am going to be married to Mrs.
Beckett.'

Uncle Ealph's cigar dropped from his lips,
and lay unheeded where it fell on the delicate
carpet.

Impossible ! Incredible ! You cannot be
really serious, Edgar ? '

It is true as I sit here. It need not astonish
you so far as the widow is concerned. I am not
so vain, or so base, as to boast of such things.

but you must surely have observed that she had
a tendresse for me.'

A tendresse ! I know of course she Heed
you — looked upon you with maternal affection
Edgar shook his head and screwed up his
mouth ; then, observing the look of genuine
disgust on his companion's face, he burst out
into a peal of laughter.

If it 's a joke,' said Uncle Ealph, ' I '11 laugh
with you, Edgar, and welcome. If you really
mean that you are thinking of marrying Mrs.
Beckett '

*I am not thinking of it, I have thought
of it,' put in the other, ' and I am going todo
t.'

Then you 're going to disgrace yourself,
Edgar, and the honour of the family."

As to the family, Uncle Ealph,' was the
quiet reply, ' I know no one belonging to it,
except yourself, for whose opinion I care one
farthing.'

'There are the Dead, Edgar,' answered the
other, impressively ; ' your long line of illustrious

ancestors are not, I hope, to be put
altogether out of account.'

What a marvellous humbug you are,
Ralph ! You are like the cards harper, who
through long practice could deceive himself in
his own looking-glass, when practising his
sleight-offhand tricks. From continually maundering
about the Dornay blood you have got to
persuade yourself that there is something in it
different from that of other people.'

I venture to think there is,' returned
Uncle Ralph.

Very good ; stick to your theory, for all I
care ; but don't try to force it down the throat
of your connections, who know better. Keep
it for the general public. And another thing I
must request of you — not to talk to me about
my disgracing myself. I am the best judge of
my own actions and intentions, and I will submit
to neither reproof nor dictation from any
human being.'

The young man had risen from his chair,
and, striding from one end of the room to the

Other, delivered these words with much fire and
fury.

If I said disgrace, Edgar, I withdraw the
word,' said the other, gently ; ' my affection
and respect for you must be my excuse for my
warmth of expression. What I shrank from
was the contemplation of such self-sacrifice.
That you, with your social position, your
talents, your youth, should thus throw all your
advantages to the winds ; it is pitiful, my dear
Edgar, it is pitiful ! '

Uncle Ealph regarded his nephew with the
same sort of regretful admiration that an aunt
might entertain for a niece who had announced
her intention of becoming an old man's darling.
So young, so fair,' he seemed to be saying to
himself, ' how is it possible that you can thus
sell yourself to this comparatively ancient
personage ? '

I have very good reasons for the step I am
about to take,' said Edgar, modified in spite of
himself by this high estimate of his personal
value.

Thirty thousand of them per annum,' suggested
Uncle Ralph, drily. ' Still there is a
saying that one may buy even money too
dearly. And it won't be your money, to do
what you like with, my poor fellow.'

That is ray affair, Ealph ; though indeed I
have every confidence in Mrs. Beckett's consideration
and generosity.'

Still it is more than likely that her hands
are tied.'

Nonsense ; it is well known that Mrs.
Beckett has entire control of her income. Xot
that / should want that, as her late husband
did, Heaven knows. The man was a greedy,
ill-conditioned brute.'

Oh, I don't question that she will find you
a much more agreeable consort,' put in Uncle
Ralph. ' There is not the least fear of your
suffering from any unpleasant comparisons.
But what was Mr. Beckett's happy fate as
respects finance may not be yours. Sir Peter
may have left his widow free to marty once,
but not a second time.'

Pooh ! that 's ridiculous.'

Nevertheless, before committing yourself it
would ba worth while to look at Sir Peter's
will. If it 's too much trouble, just ask young
Sotheran, who is at the Probate Office, to look
the thing up.'

Sotheran be hanged ! ' exclaimed Edgar.
The irritation in his tone did not escape the
keen ear of his companion, who had by this
time recovered both his equanimity and his
cigar.

Just as you please, my dear boy ; but if I
were in your place I would do nothing in a
hurry in this matter. There is plenty of time
before you at all events.'

'The matter is done, Ealph. The widow

Here he stopped, for, with all his

faults, Edgar Dornay was too much of a
gentleman to expose a woman who loved him
to ridicule, as would certainly have been the
case had he told the true story of his engagement.
'I have already proposed to Mrs. Beckett,
and have had the good fortune to be accepted.'

Not in writing, Edgar ? ' inquired the
other, eagerly. ' Surely not in writing ? '

Yes, in writing.'

I never heard of anything so ill-judged
and infatuated in my life,' cried Uncle Ralph,
taking this handkerchief from his breast and
passing it across his face. There was no doubt
about the genuineness of his emotion ; though
he did not sled tears, the dew was literally
upon his face. ' How could you, could you,
thus wreck all your prospects in life ? '

One would think T was a novice taking
the veil,' observed Edgar, grimly. ' Your tone
and manner would scarcely be justified if I
were a boy of twenty and Mrs. Beckett were
threescore years and ten.'

But what on earth could have induced
you to do it, my poor Edgar ? '

Well, I acted from mixed motives ; it was
done on the spur of the moment.'

Ah ! you were intoxicated by the contemplation
of her charms I '

You will be so good as to remember,

VOL. I. L

Ealph,' observed the young man sharply, ' that
we are speaking of my future wife.'

'True. Pardon me. The whole thing is
so like a dream — a nightmare — that I forgot it
was reality. But what was the reason of this
sudden resolve of yours ? Was it gratitude ? '

Possibly — that is to say, in part.'

She has laid you, then, under some pecuniary
obligation. Oh, Edgar, Edgar, why did
you not come to me ? '

What would have been the good of it ?
You couldn't have given me a cheque for five
hundred pounds, I suppose ; and how were my
Ascot debts to be settled ? '

Five hundred pounds ! Do you mean
to say you have sold yourself for five
hundred pounds ? ' Uncle Ealph started to his
feet with a speed of which one would have
supposed him incapable. He drew a key from
his pocket, opened his desk, and, taking out
his banking book, pitched it into his nephew's
lap. ' I have more than two thousand pounds
there, as you can see for yourself, only awaiting

investment, to which you are as welcome,
my lad, as flowers in May.'

You are very kind, most kind, Ealpli,
said Edgar, gently ; ' perhaps if I had known
about it before I might have been your debtor.
I had thought you were as hard up — at least
for ready money — as myself.'

Uncle Ealph looked a little embarrassed ;
he had certainly not sought the reputation of
being the sort of man who has two thousand
pounds lying idle at his banker's.

I kept the money there for a purpose
which no longer exists,' he explained, ' for an
emergency that has passed away. Pray take
it, or what you need of it.'

It is too late,' answered Edgar, with a
sigh. 'Mrs. Beckett would, indeed, have a
right to complain of me if I withdrew my offer
because the necessity which impelled me to
make it had ceased to exist. Indeed, I am
wrong to speak of necessity in the matter ; I
again repeat that I had mixed motives. I
like Mrs. Beckett very much.'

L 2

I am afraid, my dear Edgar, that there is
another woman who, in the event of this mad
marriage, will also have a right to complain.'

'You didn't think so yesterday,' returned
the young man scornfully.

Yes, I did, yesterday afternoon, when I
heard her speaking about you unreservedly for
the first time. Poor, dear Miss Marvon ! '

Edgar Dornay's brow grew very dark.

You, at least,' he answered vehemently,
'have no right to taunt me about Miss
Marvon ; nor will I listen to another word as
regards my conduct towards her from your
lips. It is enough to feel that one has behaved
dishonourably, without being preached at by
those who are no better than ourselves.'

To this somewhat pointed remark a slight
elevation of his broad shoulders was all the
reply that Uncle Ealph ventured to make.

We shall meet at breakfast tomorrow
morning, I conclude,' he said as he lit his bedroom
candle.

No ; I breakfast out.'

In Park Lane, I suppose ? '

No ; I shall not make my appearance
there till Monday, at three o'clock.'

He did not think it necessary to mention
that he was going to Brighton on the morrow
till Monday, and would be out of the reach of
his companion's arguments for the next six-and-thirty
hours.

As Uncle Ealph opened his bedroom door
he turned and said, with a slight smile, * There
is somebody who will say of this that "it is
an ill wind that blows nobody good." Mr.
Charles Sotheran — or Charley, as Miss Marvon
calls him — will now have the field all to
himself.'

Mary will never marry Sotheran,' cried
Edgar, vehemently.

Why not ^ ' inquired Ealph with simplicity.


Because — because — why, because, of
course, she doesn't care for him.'

Nay ; you mean that at present she would
not marry him because she doesn't care for him

SO much as for you. If No. 1 marries someone
else, of course she will fall back on No. 2.
However, that is her affair, and one of very-small
consequence in comparison with other
matters. Good-night, my dear fellow.'

Having shot that Parthian shaft. Uncle
Ealph closed his bedroom door. If what
happened to Mary, inclusive even of her
possible union with Charley, was of small consequence
to the speaker, it seemed to be of
some moment to his nephew. His lips were
absolutely pale with rage, and he muttered
words concerning the probate clerk which, if
set down in a will, would have invalidated it,
as evidencing madness in the testator. No
argument which Uncle Ealph had hitherto hit
upon had had such weight with him as that
parting arrow loosed at random. It had gone
home to the young man's very heart, and the
barb was rankling in the wound.

Chapter X.

'I Suppose IT MUST BE 'eyes."

Some apology seems owing that so very prominent
a member of the Park Lane household
as the Emperor Alexander has not as yet been
introduced to the reader. But the fact is, his
title, through the affability of his manners, had
long fallen into desuetude, and of late years —
that is, since the death of his late master — he
had been confined to the ground-floor apartments,
and was seldom seen. The dog, a
magnificent St.- Bernard, had been a great
favourite with Mr. Beckett — almost the only
creature besides himself, I think, which that
tippling civil engineer had any regard for ; and
in his time he had wandered over the house at
will. Nothing was further from his mind than

mischief; one look at his thoughtful eyes and
massive head would have convinced you he
was incapable of it ; but in the drawing-room,
crowded as it was with costly nick-nacks, he
did with his colossal tail a good deal of involuntary
damage. The 'Brush system,' as
Charley said, is an admirable one if you only
have it under control ; but this was not the
case with that of Alexander. It worked incessantly,
and with great power, but to no useful
purpose. On the contrary, it was destructive.
Like his great namesake of old, his path was
marked with devastation, but, unlike the
Imperial Madman, he meant no harm. How
could the poor animal know wdiat was going
on behind him ?

His heart, like his frame, was a noble one ;
there was but one blot in his character — fidelity
to his former master. This, however, was an
error of race ; the dog is to be won by fear,
but the cat never — a circumstance which, if
there were no other cogent reasons for it, would
always place the cat above the dog in my

opinion. So far, however, as his lights could
guide him, Alexander was perfection. His
mistress was rather set against him, as she
averred, because of his behaviour towards her
blue china, though I suspect that was not the
real explanation of her coldness ; but Mary
Marvon adored him, and her affection was
reciprocated. She Heed nothing better than a
walk in the Park with Alexander for her sole
companion ; he enjoyed it equally, and when
once his first manifestations of delight, which
resembled the gambols of some hairy elephant
with his trunk at the wrong end of him, were
over, in a no less sober fashion. Instead of
being the ' off and on companion of her walks,'
as Wordsworth's dog was, he stuck to her like
Una's lion, and would not have deserted his
chare even to fight a unicorn. As to other
dogs, he ignored their very existence. He
never made any excursions of curiosity into
the animal, vegetable, or mineral kingdoms,
but trotted by her side with a majestic slouch,
deaf to every call but that of duty. If another

dog forced itself on his attention — a very rare
occurrence except with bull-dogs — he never
bit them, nor so much as opened his mouth;
he literally fell upon them and crushed their
breath out. Those who had any pride left in
them accounted to their friends for their flattened
condition by ascribing it to a steam
roller.

On the morning of Mr. Jennie's visit, Mary
Marvon and her four-footed friend took their
way across the Park to the Serpentine. It was
their favourite walk ; Mary enjoyed the brightness
and beauty of the scene, liked to see the
children saiHng their toy boats, and feeding
the ducks, and all the stir of innocent enjoyment.
The Emperor Alexander took a gracious
interest in the water-dogs, and had a secret
curiosity, which his sense of dignity forbade him
to gratify, to discover if they were web-footed.
Mary's pet standpoint — for she always lingered
a minute there — was the bridge by Kensington
Gardens, which has a view to northwards
equal in beauty and superior in extent to that

from the bridge iu St. Jaraes's Park ; to the south
there is a still finer prospect, if the eye can only
avoid that equestrian image (now removed) of
the Duke of Wellington, which makes one wish
that Fame were indeed a bubble, and could
evanesce without enduring brass. She is gazing
now on the shining water and the stately trees,
but her heart is far from them. She has only
to say one little word, as she believes, and it
will be further still — in another's keeping.

With young ladies of the present day —
those, at least, who permit themselves to love
at all, who are said to be in a minority — it is
the fashion, as Douglas did with the heart of
Bruce, to throw that organ before them and
follow it into the fray. They flatter themselves
that, having risked so tremendous a intake, they
must needs evoke a declaration and win their
lover. Such a practice is doubtless a spur to
exertion, but it has its drawbacks and its
dangers. In my opinion it is more maidenly
to wait till they have answered ' Yes ' to a very
important question. Mary Mar von was of this

opinion ; her heart was still her own, but it
roved, and took short swallow flights from
home — how could she help it? — in the direction
of Edgar Dornay.

She was thinking over what Mrs. Beckett
had said to her the previous day ; no doubt it
should be to her advantage to marry the man
she loved, but that was the very reason which
gave her pause. It is well to look closely into
any course which is recommended to us by
inclination and our own interests. The question
with her was, would her marriage with
Edgar Dornay be to his advantage ? She knew
that his present life was a luxurious one ; and,
though she credited him with certain genuine
qualities, the notion of his possessing which, in
those who knew him better, would have evoked
a smile, she doubted of his fitness for a lifelong
' day of small things ' ; an existence mitigated
by cheap and unfrequent pleasures, and
flawed by economies and acts of self-denial.
At times she even thought she had noticed in
him aspirations after great wealth, or at all

events an admiration of it. She was not so
foolish as to imagine that three months after
marriage he would be as much in love with
her as he professed to be at present ; but her
beauty was not her sheet anchor, as it is with
so many girls. She had some hope that by
that time he would have learnt to love her for
what she had in her of true worth.

For Mary Marvon, though portionless and
almost friendless, was much too honest to hold
herself worthless ; in her heart of hearts she
believed herself worthy of Edgar's love, and
would have done so had he been as rich as
Mrs. Beckett — not that she exaggerated her
own merits, but because she was little more
impressed by mere money than was her forfeited
companion.

Rough, rough ! ' said Alexander, who
was looking through the balustrade by the
side of his mistress, and had recognised an
acquaintance upon the south side of the lake.
It was a hoarse murmur rather than a growl ;
but it was not a note of welcome. It seemed

to say, ' There 's a person I don't much care
about coming towards us yonder ; but, since
you know him, perhaps it 's as well to mention
the fact.'

Mary, who understood Alexander quite
well, looked in the direction of his gaze, and
at once perceived its object.

The ' person ' was Edgar Dornay, handsome
even in the morning, but whose bright
intelligent face, or what she could see of it, for
his head was bent, was fuller of thought than
usual. At the sight of him her heart gave a
quick jump, her cheeks became suffused with a
sudden glow, and the light leaped into her
eyes ; for the moment, love, taking advantage
of her solitude — for, as it happened, there was
no other passenger on the bridge — had asserted
itself. The next moment she was herself again ;
but if she could have looked into the young
man's mind, she would have despised herself
for that momentary weakness. He was thinking
of the momentous interview that was to
take place that afternoon at Beckett House,

and of the conversation he had held on the
Saturday night with his uncle. That gentleman,
as we know, had failed to turn him from
his purpose, but his arguments had been by no
means without their effect ; and he shrank from
any recapitulation of them. He had not seen
his relative since he returned from Brighton,
and did not intend to see him (though there
was an opportunity of doing so, since Uncle
Ealph always lunched at his club) till he had
seen the widow. His best chance, he felt, of
carrying out his plan was to see him no more
till it was completed, or till he had asked Mrs.
Beckett, in propria persona to marry him, and
been formally accepted. And above all, until
this was done it was his intention to keep clear
of Mary Marvon.

Every word Ealph had spoken concerning
her had had a barb in it ; and what his uncle
had said was as nothing compared with the
gnawing of his own thoughts, the sense of
cowardice and falsehood and shame, and above
all the consciousness of loss. For in his own

way Edgar Dornay loved the girl — shrank from
losing her, and was rendered desperate by the
thought of another possessing her. When she
was by his side she was all in all to him ; but
apart from her, or, as he grossly expressed it to
himself, when ' in his sober senses,' he loved
other things better — such as luxury and pleasure
and ease. He had never made Mary an offer,
but he had meant to do it, and he felt that she
knew he meant it ; he believed that he had
won her heart, or rather stolen it, since it now
turned out it was gained under false pretences,
and that after to-day she would regard him asa
thief and a liar.

In comparison with this reflection all other
drawbacks in connection with the widow faded
into nothing ; if her age had been doubled and
her income halved, and his conduct to Mary
Marvon could only have been blotted out, his
condition would have been preferable to what
it was at that moment. How could he ever
hold up his head in her presence and meet her
reproachful eyes? He foresaw that her first

act on learning what he had done would be to
leave Beckett House for a life of poverty and
dependence, since from the woman who washer
rival, and whose gold had outweighed
her worth in his eyes, she would scorn to
take a penny. Although a selfish man, Edgar
Dornay was (as yet) by no means callous, and
the thought of these things gave him great discomfort.
After much pondering, he had come
to the conclusion that the best thing he could
do for himself after his interview with Mrs.
Beckett was to leave to^\Ti for a few days ;
when, on his return to Park Lane, he felt well
assisted he should find the coast clear. Having
made his plans thus far, he drew a long breath,
like a man who ' sees his way ' through at least
the first part of a difficulty ; and, raising his
eyes from the ground for the first time, saw
Mary Marvon standing on the bridge.

At the same moment their eyes met ; if
they had not done so, Mr. Edgar Dornay would
without doubt have turned his face homeward
and gone back again ; but though he felt him-vol.

I. M

self to be a coward every inch of him, he was
not such a coward as that. He mounted the
slope that led to the bridge, and met her with
an outstretched hand.

I had no idea that you were to be found
abroad so early, Mr. Dornay,' said Mary.
Report has maligned you.'

Report generally does,' he answered
gravely. ' It is unfortunate for poor human
nature, whose motives need extenuation rather
than to have things set down in malice '

He was thinking of what she would say of
him when she came to know all.

You are philosophic,' she said, smiling.
That is a bad sign ; I am afraid you have not
yet breakfasted, Mr. Dornay.'

It was very true ; he had sat down to the
morning meal at Brighton, but, notwithstanding
the boasted effects of the sea breeze, had left it
almost untasted. ' You are taking your walk
earlier than usual, yourself, are you not,
Mary?'

He would have said ' Miss Marvon ' had he

dared, but bis familiarity of manner bad gone
beyond that ; sbe still gave bim bis proper title,
but when they were alone together be bad of
late addressed ber by ber Christian name.

Yes,' sbe answered. ' sirs. Beckett is
engaged ^ntli Mr. Jennie ; be bas come to
transact some pressing and important matter,
sbe told me, wbicb would deprive me of ber
companionship.'

'What did sbe mean?' inquired Edgar,
turning pale. To bis disordered mind there
seemed a dreadful significance in those simple
words.

Well, sbe meant that I must be content
with my four-footed friend bere this morning
down. Alec ! down, my dear ! ' for the
affectionate creature, catching this allusion to
himself or at least the glance that accompanied
it, wished to place by way of epaulettes a
gigantic paw on each of ber dainty shoulders —
I did not of coin-se calculate upon the pleasure
of meeting you, Mr. Dornay.'

No,' be answered gently, 'no.' His heart
j: 2

was melting within him like wax ; the sight of
her beauty, the sound of her voice, were overcoming
him. Absence is said to ' make the heart
grow fonder,' but presence, especially if the object
of our affections is attractive, has a still more
powerful influence in that way. This was the
very thing that he had been afraid of — to meet
her face to face — and he had reason to fear
it.

And how was Mr. Jennie looking ? ' He
did not dare to speak of Mrs. Beckett. ' As
like the Sphinx as usual, I suppose ; full of his
secrets ? '

He is never secretive with me ; not of
course that he ever tells me anything, but he is
most frank and kind. I venture to think that
I am rather a favourite of his.'

I do not wonder at that.'

She gave him, with infinite grace, an almost
imperceptible curtsey. ' Thank you, sir ; but
I am afraid it is from no personal merit that
Mr. Jennie is so civil to me. I fancy it is a
pleasant change to him to talk with one who

never speaks of money, because she has none.
Mrs. Beckett tells me that he has no such elinor
as a poor client. They are now probably disposing
of tens of thousands — millions, for all I
know — those two.'

Edgar sighed.

You are wishing that you had millions
yourself, Mr. Domay ? '

No ; quite the contrary. I mean,' he
added hastily, ' that my heart was not just then
fixed on — the subject you suggest.'

Then it sometimes is, I infer.'

Sometimes ; that is, I have sometimes
thought — as most of us have — how pleasant it
would be to be rich.'

They had left the bridge by this time, and
were slowly crossing the Park in the direction of
the Reformers' Tree. There was no one near
them except Alexander, who followed closely behind.
His brow was clouded, his head depressed ;
his massive jaws seemed to find attraction in
the calves of Mr. Edgar Domay's legs, as they
alternately presented themselves to his notice.

I have never speculated upon that subject
myself,' said Mary, gravely ; ' perhaps from the
impossibility, in my case, of such a dream being
realised. But I can easily understand your
doing so. I do not think you are fitted to be a
poor man.'

You mean a poor bachelor. In my present
position I own that wealth has its allurements.
Pleasure can be purchased, but
happiness cannot ; and, after all, what man
desires is happiness ; the lasting good.'

But one must be sure of its lasting,' she
answered gravely ; ' that is the difficulty.'

Ko doubt. The best road to it, however,
it is agreed upon all hands, is to secure a loving
wife.'

That is not your uncle's view,' said Mary,
lightly. She knew whither his talk was tending,
and did not wish to encourage it. Was it
some presentiment that warned her to keep him
at arm's length that morning r

There are doubtless some who are happiest
as single men,' admitted Edgar. 'My uncle

Ealph perhaps for one ; but do not suppose he
does not advocate matrimony for others ; for
myself, for instance. Your ears should have
burnt the other night, since he spent hours of it
in singing your praises.'

A somewhat new departure for him, was
it not ? ' she inquired drily, hut without surprise
; for mr. Ealph Dornay, as we know, had
himself prepared her for it.

Yes ; it is never too late to mend, however,
and I will do him the justice to say that
his recantation has been a very full one.'

Here some one met them on the path ; and,
in drawing nearer to the girl, his arm touched
hers. Alien he had shaken hands with her
twenty minutes ago, his mind had been divided
between her and another; the clasp of her
hand had thrilled him a little, but that had
been all. But now, since he had been sometime
in her company, and his mind had been
dwelling on her and no other, that touch set his
pulses ' throbbing with the fulness of the spring.'
In an instant, as a sudden wind from the gates

of the sun clears the heavens of cloud, all sordid
thoughts were swept away ; the widow and her
money were forgotten.

As for Uncle Ealph, Mary,' he continued,
in a low and fervid tone, ' he was never an
obstacle to my love for you ; nothing could be
that ; but he is my nearest relative, and of
course it pleases me to feel that such opposition
as it was in his power to give has been withdrawn.
Instead of being your enemy he is
now your ally.'

So he was so good as to tell me on Saturday,'
said Mary, coldly.

The young man saw that he had lost
ground.

Of course, Mary,' he put in quickly, ' it
matters even less to you than it does to me
whether Uncle Ealph approves of our being
engaged or not. I only mentioned it to show
that there were now no hindrances to it, however
slight. You will not say " no," darling,
merely because there is no reason for it, out of
sheer caprice ? '

Certainly not,' she said. ' My doubts — for
I have doubts — arise from no fanciful cause,
but from what I know of your own nature.*

My nature ! Would to heaven, Mary, you
could this moment look into my inmost heart;
you would see yourself and no other mirrored
there.'

I was not thinking of any other, Edgar,'
she said with a sight blush ; ' to do you justice,
I do not believe you capable of double-dealing.'


His eyes left hers and sought the ground ;
the blush on her face was reflected on his own,
and she attributed it to the same cause ; she
took it for modesty because she had praised
him — and not for shame. • Moreover,' she
continued, ' I quite believe that at this moment
you think you could be happy with me without
those luxuries — or with a great diminution
of them — on which your happiness has hitherto
so largely depended.'

'My darling,' he answered vehemently,
what is luxury, what is wealth, compared with

the possession of such a treasure as you ? That
is what I pine for ; all else is as nothing tome.
Oh, Mary, if you would only believe
me!'

I wish to believe you, Edgar,' she answered
hesitatingly ; ' but I dare not.'

His very fervour increased her reluctance,
even while it filled her with delight ; it seemed
to her that it was wrong to take advantage of
such headlong and unreasoning passion.

Then, if you wish it, that is all / wish,'
he put in hastily. ' My darling ! my darling
! '

He longed to clasp her in his arms; but
that was impossible, as the trees in Hyde Park
offer by no means that ' boundless contiguity
of shade ' so essential for such a proceeding ;
moreover (though he would have risked tliat)^
Alexander would have probably resented any
such demonstration. As for Mary, her limbs
trembled beneath her, and thereby typified
her mental condition. Shaken by the vehemence
of his protestations and the fascination

of his presence, her resolution was fast giving
way.

I must go in now. Edgar,' she murmured.

'But not as you came out, Mary,' he
answered quickly ; ' you are no longer a free
woman, remember ; you are mine.'

'Not yet,' she said, but this time nth a
faint smile.

It was her last protest.

That is only because the agreement is not
ratified,' he murmured tenderly.

I will come ' — then he suddenly remembered
that he could not come ; that he no
more dared enter into Beckett House on the
errand in question than into the abode of the
queen Lioness in the Zoological Gardens — ' that
is, I will write to-day,' he stammered ; " then
you will send me you: answer in black and
white ; and it will be " Yes," my daring. I
know it will be " Yes." '

'I suppose it must be "Yes," ' said Mary,
softly.

CHAPTEE XI.

THE SUBSTITUTE.

Having once, though it is true only tacitly,
consented to engage herself to Edgar Dornay,
Mary Marvon ventured to be very happy. It
is not, as we have been told, for companions
and dependants to indulge themselves in the
luxury of woe ; how much more, then, in that
of happiness ! And though Mary herself, thanks
to the fortunate circumstances of her position
as much as to her native pride, felt little of
this social depression, she seldom gave way to
vivacity. On this occasion, however, the girl
returned home in high spirits ; and it was for
this reason, perhaps, that she did not notice the
unusual gaiety of her hostess. Mrs. Beckett
was generally what, if she were a man, would

have been called ' good company,' but she had
never before been so bright and merry. She
was happy in the consciousness that she had,
with Mr. Jennie's aid, conferred great advantage
upon the man she loved ; and happy also
on her o^\ti account. But she did not, as on
the last occasion when she and Mary were
alone together, make marriage the topic of
conversation. It would be necessary sooner or
later, of course, to allude to her engagement,
but at present she shrank from it. Notwithstanding
her protestations of independence and
carelessness of the opinion of the world, she
felt some embarrassment in communication her
news even to Mary Marvon.

Mary herself felt something of the same
kind. She indeed had nothing to be ashamed
of in those future prospects of which not sooner
or later, but very soon, it behoved her to speak
to her hostess ; for had not Mrs. Beckett with
her own lips advised her to accept the first
eligible offer ? But she had an idea that her
news would very much astonish the widow,

and felt some coyness in broaching the subject
a propos des bottes.

The only approach that Mrs. Beckett made
to it, so far from encouraging her to pursue it,
had quite a contrary effect. Her hostess informed
the butler at luncheon that she would
not require her carriage that afternoon ; and
also that she would be at home to nobody
except Mr. Dornay.

'Mr. Ealph or Mr. Edgar, my lady?' he
inquired. It was a most unfortunate question,
for the widow's remark was intended to be of
great significance. It was, in fact, her method
of preparing the way for informing Mary of
what had happened.

I said Mr. Dornay,' she answered with
severity. ^ If I had meant Mr. Ealph I should
have said Mr. Ealph.'

It was rather hard on the butler, who, less
acquainted with precedence than with perquisites,
naturally imagined that Mr. Ealph,
being the elder, was of right Mr. Dornay. The
sharpness of the widow's tone did not escape

Mary's attention, but the remark itself filled
her with amazement. How was it, if Eclgar
hid an appointment with the widow, that he
had not informed her (Mary) of it while they
were in the Park together ? and why had he
spoken of writing to her when he was thus
about to have so early an opportunity of seeing
her? On the other hand — not, of course,
anticipating their recent interview and its
happy result — perhaps he had sought a personal
interview with Mrs. Beckett, to enlist her
assistance in pressing his suit.

Never were two women placed in a more
false position to one another than were Mary
Marvon and her hostess, and yet through no
fault of their own.

After luncheon, Mrs. Beckett retired to
her boudoir, and Mary to her own room ; each
glad enough to be alone, but without the
least mistrust or ill-feeling as respected the
other.

By three o'clock the widow's impatience had
become considerable. She was very far from

wishing that any particular respect should be
paid to her on the ground of age, but she
could not but remember that when her last
husband was courting her he was always rather
before his time than after, and that even
against Sir Eobert there had been nothing to
complain of as regarded punctuality. At a
quarter past three o'clock she felt that she had
been foolish in making her Edgar so completely
independent of her, and experienced some
satisfaction in reflecting that the document
which Mr. Jennie had sent to her according to
promise was only a copy of her instructions.
She appreciated, not for the first time, the
wisdom of the legal doctrine that judgment
should precede execution.

At half past three, her indignation against
her Eds^ar was so considerable that she not
only repented of all her good intentions towards
the young man, but repented — not for
the money's sake, but that of her own self-respect
— of having sent him that little cheque
for boh. Then her maid knocked at her door.

and her heart leapt up with a joyful bound,
and she felt she could forgive him anything.

If you please, my lady, mr. Dornay is
here.'

Why is he not shown up at once ? Did I
not give orders to Harris to that effect ? '

Why, yes, my lady ; but he says as this is
the wrong !Mr. Dornay.'

The strong Mr. Dornay ? What do you
mean ? Who is it ? '

Well, please my lady, it 's Mr. Ealph.'

This did not please my lady at all ; indeed
it was ver' far from pleasing her ; but she
could not say so. At first, indeed, she was
even more alarmed than disgusted. She feared
that some accident had happened to Edgar.
Good heavens, suppose he had been thrown
from his horse ! And she had just been
accusing him of ingratitude, and of such
infidelity as man, and man alone, was capable.

Show Mr. Ralph Dornay up.'

He came, the very pink of perfection as to

VOL. I. N

apparel ; with his head erect and a quick
elastic step ; a very presentable gentleman of
four-and-forty to all appearance at oldest ; but
with a certain air of tender gravity which she
had never before known him to wear.

He took the hand she extended towards
him, and pressed it respectfully. ' Nothing
has happened to your nephew, I trust ? ' she
inquired, with irrepressible anxiety.

Nothing — that is to say, physically ; he is
well enough in health.' She knew at once that
he had changed his mind about her, as certainly
as though she had heard it from his own
hips. A mist seemed to form itself before her
eyes, but not from tears ; the weakness to
which she was giving way was not of that sort
at all ; she was livid with fury, the spree
injuria force — second only to a wrong done
to her offspring in its power of arousing
woman's hate — was raging within her. But
there was no heat. Her face was pale and
stiff as marble, and it was in a very quiet tone
that she observed : —

You know, I suppose, that I was expecting
him.'

Uncle Ealph closed his eyes and uplifted
his hands ; no words could have more clearly
expressed his shame and abhorrence of what
had occurred ; he looked like some virtuous
father in a melodrama, desolated by the misconduct
of an unworthy son.

^My dear Mrs. Beckett,' he answered impressively,
'I know all that is to say,' he
added hastily, remembering that there were
some incidents in the matter in hand (such as
Mrs. Beckett's letter to his nephew) which he
had better not know, ' all that a man who feels
he has behaved recklessly and discreditably
dares to tell another. I am come here not to
excuse Edgar, nor even to palate his conduct,
but, so far as it admits of explanation, to explain
it

The widow sat like a statue, ' staring right
on ' at the wall behind him with straining
eyes ; she could not trust herself, such was the
humiliation and slime — but above all the

N 2

anger — that consumed her, to make so much
as a sign. If life should stir within her ever
so little, it seemed to her that the pent-up
torrent of her wrath must needs burst forth,
and that she must ' say things ' of which she ■
would repent her whole life long. This impassiveness
was extremely embarrassing to
Uncle Ealph, who was much in want of a lead ;
he felt like a man who starts upon an aerial
voyage without a straw to tell him which way
the wind is blowing, and is very much afraid
of his balloon going to sea.

The fact is, my dear Mrs. Beckett, my
nephew Edgar is impressionable — too impressionable
— tender-hearted, very susceptible of
kindness, but a creature of impulse. Of
course he did not acquaint me with the actual
details of the transaction in question ; but I
understand that you exhibited the generosity
that is habitual with you, though it is such as
does not enter into the dreams of others.
There lay his error ; he attached too special
and particular significance to an act which was

with you one of everyday practice ; in point of
fact,' concluded Uncle Ealpb, beginning to lose
confidence in his balancing pole upon this very
high rope, ' you sent him some money.'

I did ! ' The words shot out from the
poor lady's tight-shut lips like a pellet from a
pop-gun. ' The sum,' she added with more
self-command of tone, ' was a very small one.'

No doubt ; that is, it seemed so to you,
dear Mrs. Beckett ; but we have not all'yoiu:
princely revenues. Moreover, it is the characteristic
of a nature such as Edcrar's to exasperate
a kindness. His heart was overflowing
gratitude. On the impulse of the moment
he wrote to you a letter which he now regrets ;
since in it (as I am given to understand) he
offered you, though it is true only by implication,
what was not his to give.'

The widow smiled faintly ; she felt sick at
heart. This news that Edgar loved another
was worse — infinitely worse — than all ; but
still she smiled.

You did not take it in that sense ? ' continued

the other eagerly. ' I am indeed
delighted to hear it ; that was the very view of
the matter I took myself. " My dear Edgar,"
I said, " if Mrs. Beckett has taken your communication
in earnest " ' — the widow's brow
darkened. Uncle Ealph altered his course
with the speed of a skater who nears a hole —
and a very deep one — ' " or rather I should
say if Mrs. Beckett fails to see that your gratitude
has overwhelmed your judgment, your
letter will give her annoyance. She will very
justly consider it a piece of impertinence.
That you are a great favourite of hers is true
(which emboldens me to hope that she will
forgive you) ; but she has never given you the
slightest encouragement — even if you were free
to do it, which you are not — to make any such
proposal to her. It is one which a man, much
more suitable for her than yourself, would,
under her exceptional circumstances, hesitate
to make, however he might admire and adore
her." '

Here Uncle Ealph's voice faltered ; it was

clear that he was suffering from personal
emotion.

" Such a proceeding on his part would be
open to so much misconstruction, that he
would prefer to carry his secret with him to
the grave. But you, you have rushed in
where — that is to say, where a more eligible,
though not perhaps a more worthy, suitor
would have hesitated to tread. My only hope
which, however, is a firm one — is that this
dear and excellent lady will have appreciated
your motives, and therefore understood your
mistake." I told him all that,' concluded
Uncle Ealph, wiping his forehead instead of
his eyes. He was quite conscious of the anticlimax
involved in the last sentence, but he
really could not maintain this noble style any
longer ; it was like keeping five balls going in
the air at once — all spiked.

I quite understood the matter,' returned
the widow, beginning to recover her self-possession
and feeling not a little grateful to
her companion for pointing out to her any road

which avoided the valley of humiliation ; ' but
I thought your nephew would have had the
grace to make an apology with his own lips.'

Ah, madam, pray have pity upon him ! '
returned Uncle Ealph, pathetically. ' He was
ashamed to do so ; perhaps he feared, in the
presence of so much graciousness and beauty '
(Mrs. Beckett blushed not unbecomingly, and
certainly not because she was offended), ' that
he should again waver in his allegiance where
it was due by rights — for indeed it had been
offered and was accepted.' A hope that his
previous words had fanned anew in the
widow's breast here faded away and became
cold embers. Uncle Ealph read it in her face,
but he could not afford to spare her. It was
necessary to his own interests that that hope
should die ; and he accordingly set his heel
upon it. ' Yes, madam, my nephew is engaged
to another lady. So far, as I told him, he is
the more excusable, since, being so situated,
his conduct towards yourself shows that he had
taken leave of his senses.'

Without taking notice of this plea of insanity
Mrs. Beckett inquired in quiet tones,
Has your nephew been long engaged to be
married ? '

The word 'long' in respect of time is
almost as vague and variable as the carpenter's
definition of magnitude — ' about the size of a
piece of chalk.' Uncle Ealph knew very well
for Edgar had made a clean breast to him
of everything at luncheon, and besought his
assistance — that his engagement to Mary was
about three hours old, but it would have been
injudicious to say so. ' Xot a very long time,'
he replied evasively ; ' but the attachment is an
old one, and to me I must say,' he added with
a gentle sigh, ' a most inexplicable one.'

'Why?'

The curtness of this monosyllabic inquiry
seemed to disconcert Mr. Ealph Dornay exceedingly.


Well ; there are certain reasons, madam,
if you compel me to mention them. Under
the same roof with the object of my nephew's

affections, who has little beyond personal
beauty, and (I admit) a sweet disposition, to
recommend her, there dwells another lady
equally attractive in those respects, and, in
my humble opinion, a thousand times more
worthy of a man's devotion

Do I know this young woman, Mr.
Dornay ? '

You do, madam.'

She had anticipated no other reply ; but its
effect was extraordinary. Her eyes literally
flashed fire ; she did not speak, but her hips
moved rapidly ; her foot tapped vehemently
upon the floor as if in warning to something
within her — her temper — to keep itself within
bounds.

I have heard of a fit of jealousy,' thought
Uncle Ealph to himself, ' and begad she is
going to have one. This is the worst bit of
the road, and I wish I was well over it.'

'• So — so, Mr. Dornay,' continued the
widow, in a voice between a hiss and a scream,
your nephew has been paying court to Miss

Marvon — my companion — has he, beneath my
very roof? I hope at least that his intentions
were honourable.'

'Come, that's well,' thought Uncle Ealph ;
that must have relieved her.' But it was with
a deprecating air and in very gentle tones that
he replied, ' Oh yes ; as far as that goes, certainly.
Indeed, I have a letter from him to
the young lady herself which, as I have reason
to believe, sets forth '

Give it me ! ' and sirs. Beckett held forth
her hand with an imperious gesture.

Here was a crisis indeed. If he committed
what he knew to be Edgar's private offer of
marriage to Mary Marvon into the widow's
hands, good-bye for ever to his nephew's
friendship ; a long farewell to all the advantages
flowing from ' the head of the family '
and ancestral ties ; but if he refused, it was
equally plain that he would lose the
widow.

There is nothing, my dear Mrs. Beckett,
nothing — that I could find in my heart to

refuse you ; I would that you could read that
heart.'

I have, I do,' she said significantly. He
took her still extended hand and kissed it.
Is it possible,' he whispered softly but boldly,
that I may hope one day to call this mine ? '

She did not say 'Yes' — though she had
certainly well understood him — and she did
not say 'No.' Many emotions were at work
within her — though none of them was love —
which urged her to accept him. The most
powerful of them was pique — which has driven
both man and woman into wedlock with more
precipitancy than ever love did ; there was
revenge which she could wreak by this means
both upon the unfaithful Edgar and on Mary ;
and there was pride, for thus she saw her way
to save herself from humiliation in the eyes of.
Mr. Jennie. But amidst it all her thoughts
were much more occupied with her old love
than with her new.

Give me the letter ! ' she repeated—' your
nephew's letter.'

Uncle Ealph put a note into her hand ; it
was addressed to herself in Edgar's handwriting.


What is this ? ' she inquired.

Carried away by emotion and overwhelmed
by gratitude to you for holding out
a hope to me which I myself had scarcely
ventured to entertain, I had forgotten this
little matter,' he said. 'I believe it contains
nothing but your cheque.'

She tore it across and across with vehemence,
and snowed the fragments on the floor.

I want his letter to Mary Marvon.'

It was certainly a breach of confidence and
something worse, but mr. Ealph Dornay had
gone too far to retreat ; he gave her Mary
Marvon's letter. She clutched it with eager
haste.

I know you will respect the contents,' he
said ; not that he thought she would, but byway
of protest against their violation, and because
he had been brought up as a gentleman.

Truly, they merit respect,' was the scornful

rejoinder. ' You may depend, Mr. Dornay,
upon this letter reaching its destination ; and
now, if you please, I must be alone.'

And when, my dear Mrs. Beckett ' — he
did not even yet dare address her by her
Christian name — ' may I hope to see you
again ? After having made me the happiest
of men, do not doom me to banishment, every
moment of which will be torture.'

To-morrow.'

At what hour shall I find you alone ? '

At any hour,' she answered (with an
exultant look which the other neatly translated
' Miss Sharp-tongue will get her cone
then at once ') ; ' you may come to lunch if
you like.'

'At two o'clock then, tomorrow; goodbye.'
He took her hand, and, once more
raising it to his hips. whispered so that she
could hear it or not, as she pleased, ' Dear,
dearest Kitty.'

CHAPTER Xn.

TWO Women.

There are bad men as there are bad women —
and a great many more of the former than of
the latter — but good does not become bad in
the male with such rapidity as in the female.
Nemo repented &c., is a remark that does not
apply to the softer sex. They are quicker
about everything ; and, for one thing, to take
offence. Wound a woman, even by accident,
in her susceptibilities, her admiration for her
husband, her love for lier children, her own
good looks, or her age, and you will ' see
sparks.' Should she be supplanted in the
affections of her lover it will arouse a sleeping
devil such as you would never believe could have
found harbor' in so fair a form. Whether

you resist him or not, he will not ' flee from
you.' and you may be considered exceptionally
fortunate if he does not fly at you.

If Mrs. Beckett has not given the reader
the impression of being on the whole a good
sort of woman, it is the fault of him who has
described her ; but just at present she is hardly
recognisable as a woman at all. Edgar Dor-nay's
letter to Mary Marvon lies before her unopened
; I don't say she would have read it if
she could, but I think it fortunate that he did
not put it into an adhesive envelope, but took
the precaution to seal it. In a metaphorical
sense she had already read it, for her eyes
pierced through and through it ; she would
have given a thousand pounds to have been
able to possess herself of its contents without
detection ; but the Dor nay crest was a peculiar
one, and though she might be said to have
duplicated her arrangements with certain members
of the family, she had no duplicate of
that.

Another letter lay beside it in the same

handwriting ; the one she had herself received
but yesterday from her faithless swain — he had
lied to her, humiliated her, played her false,
and she had not one spark of affection left for
him. But she did not at that moment hate
him as she hated that 'impudent, treacherous,
designing minx ' — who, as a matter of fact, had
not injured her in thought or word or deed —
Mary Marvon.

The second letter — the widow's own — was
loathsome to her, but she was glad that she
had not torn it up in her first paroxysm of fury
(which she had been tempted to do) as she had
torn the cheque ; for it still had its uses. Presently,
though it was like putting a serpent
there, she placed it in her bosom, and with the
other (Mary's letter) in her hand she descended
into the drawing-room and rang the bell.

Is Miss Marvon within doors ? '

I believe so, my lady.'

Tell her — that is, tell Simmons to tell her
that I wish to see her in her own room.'

After a few minutes, to admit of her being

VOL. I. o

prepared for her and alone, the widow went
upstairs as Eleanor visited Rosamond ; the bowl
in one hand, the dagger in the other. But her
errand was less merciful — it was her intention
to use both.

Mary, inclined for solitude, and chewing the
cud of sweet reflection, had been more annoyed
than surprised by the maid's message ; it had
interrupted some bright day-dreams, but it was
not unusual for Mrs. Beckett to seek half an
hour's intimate talk with her young companion,
which she playfully termed ' a kegmeg.' Poor
Mary, who had been waiting for the postman
with her ears pricked, little imagined what sort
of a kegmeg it was destined to be.

Directly she caught sight of Mrs. Beckett's
face, indeed, she knew that something was
wrong, and very wrong ; not a suspicion, however,
crossed her mind of the real state of the
case. She rose quickly, with a look of affectionate
sympathy. ' My dear Mrs. Beckett,
what has happened ? '

I have brought you a letter, Miss Marvon ; '

here she threw it on the table. ' It is for you,
is it not ? ' for Italy was gazing at it with wild
surprise. ' You know the handwriting, I suppose,
and I fancy you must have been expecting
it.'

Yes, Mrs. Beckett, I did expect it.'

Mary had drawn herself up to her full
height, and was looking the widow straight in
the face ; her manner was respectful, but by no
means subservient. Her voice was resolute and
without a tremor. It seemed to say, ' You are
my social superior, but you have no right to
interfere with my private affairs.'

'Oh, you did, did you? You have the
impudence to tell me that.'

Madam ! '

Yes ; I repeat it, the impudence. How
dare you look me in the face like that, conscious
as you must be of such underhand and
shameful ways P Yes, you may well blush ; I
am glad to see you can blush.'

You must have gone mad, Mrs. Beckett,'
interrupted Mary ; not because she thought so,


but because, though a sweet-tempered and
generous girl, she was not a patient Griselda.

That is true,' was the widow's unexpected
reply. ' I must have gone stark staring mad to
have so long believed in the innocence of such
a treacherous, artful creature ; to have wasted
kindness and consideration on such an ingrate.
I ought to have remembered the proverb about
setting beggars on horseback.'

And when, madam, may I ask, have I ever
begged of you ? '

It was a pertinent question ; for twenty
times had the widow protested to her young
companion that she was a treasure that no
money could buy, and that the obligation in
the matter of her engagement at Beckett House
lay on the side of the employer, and not of the
employed. Mary's salary, though a liberal one,
was not excessive, and she herself had declined,
notwithstanding Mrs. Beckett's repeated solicitations,
to have it raised. It could certainly not
be said with any truth that she tad begged of
her. There was a faint mitigation in Mrs.

Beckett's tone. It was still vinegar, but vinegar
without cayenne pepper, as she replied,
At all events. Miss Marvon, your condition
here was that of an inferior, and it ill became
you indeed to set your cap, as you have done,
at a gentleman like Mr. Domay, my guest and
equal.'

Measured by the piu-se, madam,' returned
Mary, coldly, ' no doubt you are in a very superior
position ; still, there are other standards.
I will admit — though I see it now for the first
time — that my proper course was to have told
you of Mr. Dornay's attentions to me ; but I
will not admit — no, not for a moment — that
there was anything to be reprobated in my
encouracrincr them, even if I did encourage
them, which, as he will tell you, I never did.'

Re will tell me ! ' echoed the other disdainfully.
' Do you think I shall stoop to ask
him? Do you think I don't know how your
whole scheme was carried on as though I had
seen it played ? Your pretence of modesty,
your mock humility, your innocence, while all

the time your heart — no, not your heart, your
cunning, artful mind — was fixed on making him
your husband ; him in whose veins runs the
best blood in England, and you a base-born
nobody — nobody's child.'

That is false ! ' interrupted the girl, with
a deep flush. ' Everything you say is false.
Who told you I was — what you said just
now ? '

'Never mind who told me. I know it.
Ask your friend Mrs. Sotheran. You to marry
Edgar Dornay ; you ! I wish him joy of you.
Head his letter, his offer of disinterested love ;
and when you have read it, read that' She
took the note that lay in her bosom and threw
it on the table beside the other. ' You will see
there that you were not the first to whom he
has offered himself ; that you were but a second
thought, such as strikes a man on the spur of
the moment — a pis aller, a makeshift, that he
takes up with out of pique, when he has failed
to secure for himself wealth and station.'

She was gone in a moment, leaving the

letters behind her, and Mary gazing at them
with bewildered looks.

What had happened? ^Yhat did it all
mean ? All that she knew for certain was that
a terrible change had befallen her, and that she
was not the same woman who but a few minutes
ago had been indulging in dreams of happiness,
lapping herself in soft Lydian airs, or rather to
that ' unheard music ' which the poet truly
tells us is sweeter far than any evoked from
chord.

Mrs. Beckett had said many things which,
whether true or false, demanded her immediate
attention ; it behoved her to look them in the
face, and, for the future, life itself in the face.
She knew even now that she would have to
fight her way in the world alone ; and well indeed
for her if that should prove the worst of
it. Poor she knew she was, but base-born !
If that was true — well, what mattered ? What
need is there to blush for offences for which
we ourselves are in no way to blame ? Yet
the colour was high in poor Mary's cheeks.

First to be considered, however — if, indeed,
she was capable of consideration or reflection —
were the letters. Mrs. Beckett had recommended
her to read them in a certain order.
It was but natural that she should take the
contrary course. She read the widow's letter
first.

My dear Mrs. Beckett, — Your kind letter
has affected me beyond measure. I feel I am
not worthy of your love, but I hope to become
worthy of it. I shall be with, you at three
o'clock on Monday, when I shall trust to find
you alone.

Ever yours affectionately,

'Edgar Dornay.'

The date was Saturday — only Saturday !
He was to have been with Mrs. Beckett to-day
almost at that very hour. Doubtless he would
have been with her had she not rejected him
by letter in the meantime ; and having received
that letter and found his chances of ' securing
wealth and station' (those were the woman's

very words) were over, lie had offered his disdained
hand that very morning to herself.
Poor Mary ! If her rival's advice had been
followed, her cup would without doubt have
been made more bitter for her ; to have opened
her lover's letter first, and afterwards to have
learnt his infidelity, would have been hard indeed.
But she was forewarned and forearmed.
His burning words of passion reached her heart
but could not sear it ; it had to some extent
been rendered callous; his protestations of
eternal love awoke no answering chord, and
even some contempt. She had misplaced her
love; butchering discovered her mistake, she was
not one of those who waste it to the very dregs
upon an unworthy object. She was not angry
with him as Mrs. Beckett had been ; nay, even
while she despised him, she pitied him. ' What
was luxury, what was wealth,' he had said to
her only a few hours ago, ' compared with such
a treasure as herself?' And only a few hours
before he had told her so, he had proposed to
the richest widow in England ! She did not

know, of course, what had actually occurred ;'
that the widow had sent him money and proposed
to him ; yet she pretty accurately
guessed how matters lay and the motives
that had actuated him. She felt that Edgar
Dornay had preferred her to her rival all
along ; that his love for her had even to a
certain extent been genuine ; nay, she believed
(reading his conduct of the morning by the
light now thrown upon it) that he had experienced
a certain sense of relief in having been
rejected by the widow, and left free to follow
what had been his inclination throughout. But
Mary Marvon was not the sort of woman who
is willing to accept a man's inclination in exchange
for her love. Not for one single instant
did she entertain the thought of his now
becoming her husband. It was not the apprehension
of any weakness on her own part —
the idea that with reflection should intrude
the least shadow of a doubt — which caused
her to sit down and pen him these few lines
at once : —

'Dear Sir, — Mrs. Beckett has just handed
me your letter, as well as your note of Satin-day
addressed to herself. I have no more to say to
you, save that I wish you well.

Yours sincerely,

May Marvo>\'

She merely wished to get that matter over
and done with. As to Restrict it ' off her mind,'

DO '

that, alas ! was quite another thing. It was
Likely to remain as long as memory held its seat
there. It seemed to her as though her love had
not so much been misplaced as mislaid ; that
the faculty of entertaining the passion was irrevocably
lost. If she had not had that faculty
she would have missed nothing ; it is not the
man who is born blind who suffers, but the man
who has had the use of his sight and becomes
bUnd.

There are certain cases of misfortune in
which our very deficiencies are of advantage tous
; not in matters material^every drawback
is there an additional source of unhappiness —

but in those of sentiment and spiritual life.
When, for instance, one is poor, and there is an
absolute necessity for exertion, the bruised heart
does not feel its pain as it does when one is
prosperous ; one must needs be up and doing,
either for one's own sake or for that of others,
and work not only prevents us from brooding
over our calamities but is itself a balm. To stay
another hour under Mrs. Beckett's roof seemed
intolerable to Mary; there was an immediate
necessity for her leaving it ; but whither, in her
forlorn and friendless condition, should she
go?

To Letcombe Dottrell she could hardly go
without an invitation, or at least an express
permission from Mrs. Sotheran. There had
been always a disinclination on the part of that
lady to see her at her own home ; she had been
so kind and friendly to her in all other respects
that this had hitherto seemed inexplicable to
Mary. But now, after those cruel words of
Mrs. Beckett, she felt that there might be some
reason for it. Base-born ! If so, the Past,

like the Future, was full of humiliation and
bitterness ; it had been a mistaken kindness to
conceal such a misfortune from, her ; but now,
at all events, it behoved her to know the
worst. Only there were things still more pressing.
First and foremost, her letter to Edgar
must be despatched ; while it remained unsent,
it seemed to her that she was boimd by invisible
but shameful chains ; and then she must cast
about in her mind for some temporary home
in town till Mrs. Sotheran could be communicated
with. She was about to ring the bell
when Simmons entered.

My lady's lady's-maid, as she delighted to
call herself, was of mature years and of a rueful
countenance ; her inferiors addressed her as
Mrs. Simmons, but it was but a title of courtesy,
she still withered upon the virgin thorn. She
was a mere anatomy of a woman, reminding
you, in her extreme strangeness, of the poet's
ungallant observation, ' Madam, if I know your
sex by the fashion of your bones.' But her
frame was always elegantly apparelled, and

within it there was a kindly heart. She had
never felt the antipathy of her class towards her
mistress's ' companion ' ; and, now she was in
trouble, she sympathised with her. What had
actually happened of course she did not know ;
she would have given her ears to know, though
they were an exceptionally large pair ; but she
well understood that Miss Marvon had had
notice to quit, or, as Mr. Harris below stairs
had more concisely expressed it, ' had got the
sack.'

If you please, Miss, my lady bade me give
you this note.'

It ran as follows : —

Mrs. Beckett thinks it possible that, after
what has taken place. Miss Marvon may think
it expedient to remove at once from Beckett
House. This, in Mrs. Beckett's opinion, is not
necessary, as the house is large enough to
afford Miss Marvon accommodation and privacy
without annoyance to any one. The inclosed
cheque, due to Miss Marvon for her services, is
simply sent for her personal convenience, and

by no means as a hint that her presence is no
longer desirable. During the remainder of
Miss Marvon's stay at Beckett House her meals
will be served — since that arrangement will
probably be more agreeable to her — in her
own apartment.'

Please to thank Mrs. Beckett, Simmons,'
said Mary, softly, ' and say I will take advantage
of her consideration ; and be so good as to
have this letter sent by the first post.'

Even as it was, she was touched by her
hostess's note ; and if she had known all — that
is, how severely the widow's amour propre had
been wounded — she would have regarded her
late conduct with still greater charity. The
fact was, as was remarked in the servants' hall,
where opinion is in the main correct, ' My lady
was not a bad sort.' Though, like most of her
sex, she could be very * small ' upon occasions
(or even when there was no occasion), her
nature was not a petty one, and, albeit easily
moved to passion, she was quick to repent of it.
Nay, even when still angry, and very angry —

as in the present instance — she had a certain
generosity of spirit towards the object of her dislike.
She felt it would be a mean and cowardly-action
for one in her position to thrust forth
from her doors, in doubt as to where she
should lay her head, a poor and friendless girl,
even though she had been her successful rival.
She was her guest, too ; and enough of simplicity
of character remained to the widow to
make her feel the duties of hospitality ; perhaps
she even confessed to herself that she was old
enough to be Mary's mother, and that it washer
duty to protect her. That remark about
the house being large enough for two might
even have been taken for conciliation, had the
girl been inclined that way. Then, as to
material matters, Mrs. Beckett had been
generous ; she had added a quarter's salary, in
lieu of notice, to the money due to her late
companion. This, however, through her perturbation
of mind, had for the moment escaped
Mary's attention.

Though the necessity for her departure

seemed no longer so pressing, she was very
anxious to depart, and unwilling to wait till
letters could be exchanged between herself and
Mrs. Sotheran. The only friend except Charley,
who, under the circumstances, was out of the
question, upon whose advice she could rely in
London, was Mr. Jennie. She had no claim
upon him, indeed, whatever ; but his manner
to her had been always so cordial — nth a touch
of the guardian too, which encouraged her even
more than its cordiality — that she resolved to
ask his aid. It was a very small thing she required
of him — namely, a recommendation to
some respectable lodging — but it was essential
she should have it. She did not, of course,
enter into the reasons which caused her to
desire so immediate a change of quarters ; and
she knew, even if Mr. Jennie should come to
her, that he was far too reticent and judicious
a man to compel her to give them. It would
be enough for him to know that a breach had
taken place between herself and her hostess that
was irreparable. Curiously enough, while Mary
VOL. I. p

was penning lier simple despatch to the worthy
lawyer, her hostess was also writing a few lines
to the same gentleman, upon a widely different
subject, and dealing with much more important
matters.

Dear Mr. Jennie, — I have been thinking
over our conversation of this morning, and have
come to the conclusion that your opinion is the
correct one. You may consider my previous
instructions — a copy of which you were so good
as to send me —as cancelled. My engagement,
of course, remains an accomplished fact ; but I
shall not settle the fifty thousand pounds, nor,
indeed, any sum, upon Mr. Dornay. Your
suggestion that he should have a life interest
out of the estate is, after all, the most reasonable,
and will, I am sure, be quite satisfactory
to him. I mil communicate with you further
upon the matter in a few days.

Yours most faithfully,

Kate Bece.ett.'

What a fortunate thing it is,' reflected the
widow, as she sealed her letter, ' that, though
I admitted his name began v/ith a D and ended
with a Y, I never told Mr. Jennie which Mr.
Dornay it was ! '

p 2

CHAPTEE XIII,

MRS. Southern.

Although no immediate help or advice could
be looked for from Letcombe Dotterel, the need
for writing to Mrs. Sotheran seemed to Mary
the most imperative of all the matters that
pressed upon her attention. She had little
doubt, since Mrs. Beckett had said so, that her
parentage had not only been obscure but disgraceful.
That it was more humble on the
one side than on the other she had guessed for
herself; partly from what Mrs. Sotheran had
told her, and partly from her silence upon the
subject. Either her father or her mother had,
by their marriage, annoyed certain members of
=:the family of one of them, and what was so

likely to have been the cause as an inequality
of social position ? The effect of this had been,
she had been led to understand, disinheritance ;
and, having this fact in her mind, it is certain
that if Edgar Dornay had had either father or
mother to say him nay, Mary would never
have consented to become his wife. But these
conclusions of hers had, it now seemed, been
drawn from wrong premisses, and Mrs. Sotheran
had had a better (or worse) reason for her long
reticence as respected her parents than she had
ever suspected. It was necessary to resolve all
doubt upon this matter, if doubt she could be
said to have ; though she had to face the world
alone, she would do so under no false colours.
Pretence and concealment were abhorrent to
her. She almost thanked Mrs. Beckett for
having opened her eyes, however roughly, to
her true position. How terrible it would have
been to have suffered Edgar's engagement to
have gone on in ignorance of the stain of her
birth! She was far, however, from being
angry with Mrs. Sotheran, whose silence, she

well understood, had been dictated by kindness
and consideration.

By the same post by which her note was
despatched to Mr. Jennie she wrote to Let-combe
Dottrell : —

My dear Mrs. Sotheran, — A very serious
disagreement has taken place between Mrs.
Beckett and myself which will at once necessitate
my leaving her house ; so be so good as
to reply to me to the care of Mr. Jennie, who
will be in possession of my address. Of the
cause of quarrel I cannot write now at any
length ; let it suffice to say that Mrs. Beckett
is angry with me for having encouraged the
attentions of a visitor at her house, and has
spoken to me upon the subject in such terms
as renders any further communication with her
impossible. It is not true that I encouraged
his attentions : they were paid to me without
the least encouragement ; but it is quite true
that, but for other circumstances to which it
is now unnecessary to allude, I should have

accepted them. All that is over now ; but what
most annoyed Lies. Beckett, as she gave me to
understand, was the difference in social position
between myself and the gentleman in question.
As I knew of no difference, save the mere conventional
ones of rank and money, I defended
myself from her reproaches with some spirit.
I am not aware of it, but it is possible that I
even lost my temper. Then she told me —
what I certainly did not know, and which if I
had known would have caused me to take a
very different view of the case — that I was
base-born, " nobody's child," as she termed it.
Dear Mrs. Sotheran, do not think I blame you
for having so long concealed so painful a fact
from my knowledge : but is this true ? One
word will be sufficient — " Yes," or " No." It
would have been better, far better, had I known
it before ; but it is absolutely necessary that I
should know it now. It will make no difference
to me ; nothing can make any difference tome.'


Here the girl uttered a deep sigh and laid

her pen down upon the table. That last sentence
had expressed the whole state of the case
as regarded her own feelings. Happy the man,
and happier the woman, who has never been
forced to utter, from the depths of a bruised
heart, ' nothing can henceforth make any difference
to me.' It is never true, of course ; for
everything makes a difference ; but in that
supreme hour of agony and despair in which
we hear nothing but the mould upon Hope's
coffin-lid, it seems to be true.

I wish to know,' she went on, ' my true
position in every respect. I have no expectations
of any kind, so you need not be afraid
of disappointing me. Dear Mrs. Sotheran, this
is not, I feel, how I should write to so old and
tried a friend, and one to whose kindness I
owe so much. Forgive me and be frank with
me. However low my lot may be in the world,
let me at least stand on firm ground.
Yours affectionately,

Mary Marvon.'

The tongue of man is but a small member,
yet (like Cromwell, who represented Huntingdon)
what great things doth it effect ! And
even still more may this be said of the pen.
It is of small consequence who writes with it ;
it is the thing written which does the work and
remains. Who would think that a few words
jotted down in despondency by a penniless girl
just turned out of her situation, coidd affect
any one but herself ? Human society, however,
is but as one great body full of nerves, sensitive
in all its parts, and conscious even of a thorn
in its foot — which is fortunate, for otherwise
some of us would care little on what (or whom)
we trod.

That missive of poor Mary's, a mere wail of
impotent distress, dropped into the pillar-box
by John Thomas with a sniff of contempt for
the ex-companion — for every one knew she was
going ' — sorted with ten thousand others as
though they were the rags from which they
came, but each bearing its message of weal or
woe, was fated to cause some commotion.

Its destination was a village in Dorsetshire ;
its recipient, a widow of fifty-five or so, living
in a cottage of gentility (though it had no
double coach-house) called ' The Bank.' Any
dwelling less like a bank it was difficult to
imagine ; it was very slightly built, and, being
in a part of the country where thieves were
never known to break through and steal, it
had neither bolt nor bar belonging to it. The
front door was indeed religiously locked every
night, but as the two windows on either side of
it opened to the ground, and had only outside
jalousies by way of shutters, the precaution
was somewhat superfluous. Above it towered
a huge sandbank (from which it took its name)
pigeon-holed by sand-martins who kept the air
about it in a perpetual twitter. A verandah
festooned with creepers, now in blossom, ran
round the front of the house, which commanded
a lovely view. In the foreground, a pretty
lawn and garden with a few noble trees ;
beyond, a vast expanse of landscape with a
misty line on the horizon, which was the sea.

Half-way down the hill on which the
cottage was set was a confused mass of towers
and turrets, betokening the presence of some
stately mansion.

The mistress of the cottage, a faded and
somewhat sickly looking lady, though with
that expression of kindliness and good will
which is the dower of a gentle and harmless
nature, was watering some flowers in the
verandah, when that quick, firm step (at once
suggesting haste and burthen) which belongs
to postmen, was heard upon the gravel sweep
without. She looked up from her occupation
with a flush of apprehension ; not that she expected
bad news, but because from her temperament,
and it must be added from her experience
— for it had been a sad one — bad news
always suggested itself to her more naturally
than good news. At the sight of the missive
the man put in her hand, however, her countenance
resumed its usual expression. It was
only a letter from Mary Marvon, She was
glad it was not from Charley, for she had heard

from him the day before, and a second letter
from him might have betokened something
amiss. It did not strike her that there could
be anything amiss with Mary.

The girl had fallen into her hands under
what Mrs. Sotheran called ' very trying ' circumstances
; and had at first imposed upon hera
responsibility which she had felt to be greater
than she could bear ; but from the date of that
event — which still stood up in her life, otherwise
barren of sensational incident, like a
pyramid on a plain — all things had gone on
smoothly (and far more so than she had ventured
to expect) as regarded her young charge.

For eighteen years Mrs. Sotheran had
carried the burthen of the secret of Mary
Marvon's birth, shared with her by only one
other person ; and she was a woman as little
fitted for secrets as a cat for draught. Not
that she was a gossip — far from it; but she
was timid and diffident, unequal to the weight
of her own affairs, much more to conduct, or to
be privy to, those of other people. She did

her duty, but always in fear and trembling,
lest she should fall short of it. She had seen
her husband and all her children, save Charley,
fade and die ; she had fought the battle of life
with narrow means and little strength, but still
without absolute defeat ; and yet she shrank
from its dangers as though she had been a
young recruit, who had never heard a shot
fired, or seen the moonbeams sleeping on the
upturned faces of the dead. Her spirit was
broken, her frame was weak ; she ' had had
enough of it.' Her one prayer to the Divine
Mercy, save for Charley, would have been,
Take me out of this.'

If there had not been other and stronger
reasons for keeping Mary Marvon at a distance,
she felt that she would have been no fit companion
for a young girl, a flower that needs
the sunshine ; but she had done her best for
her elsewhere, and, on the whole, with
success.

There had been no murmurs from Mary;
if there had been matters to complain of she

had concealed them, and above all she had not
troubled her with questions about her past.
The knowledge that her parents were dead, and
that she had no relations who showed any
solicitude about her, seemed suiScient for her.
There would be some trouble about it doubtless
when she married (Mrs. Sotheran always
foresaw troubles long before the shadow of
them fell upon her) ; but until then matters
promised to go smoothly enough.

Mary's letters, therefore, were among the
few things that did not agitate Mrs. Sotheran,
or, to use her own homely phrase, ' put her
into a pucker ' — a moderately cold perspiration.
In fact, she rather liked to hear from Mary,
who wrote pleasant little records of her doings,
anecdotes of the gay world, and opened for
her, as it were, a door through which, without
being herself observed, she could catch a
glimpse of Vanity Fair. And not a letter had
come without the narration of some kindness
on Mrs. Beckett's part to her protegee for
which Mary seemed to thank her original protectress

at second hand. As the morning was
cool and balmy, Mrs. Sotheran did not go
indoors to read her letter, but seated herself
on one of the wicker chairs (a present from
Charley) which stood on the lawn and afforded
an excellent substitute for a garden-bench.
She arranged herself, in short, for ten minutes'
enjoyment.

Mary's first words, however — ' A very
serious disagreement has taken place between
Mrs. Beckett and myself — put to flight all
hopes of repose. It was curious to sse the
physical effect produced upon the poor lady as
she read on. At first her delicately pencilled
eyebrows rose on her forehead and her thin
lips emitted a deprecating munnur : ' Dear,
dear, what a pity ! ' Then her features began
to stiffen, as it were, into stone ; a look of inexpressible
pain and fear came into her eyes ;
and, presently, she dropped the letter on her
lap with a groan of dismay. ' Base-born ! '
Then the secret was out at last — or at least
some of it, for that the whole should have to be

told was even now a thing not to be thought
of. One word said to this poor girl would be
sufficient, it seemed — ' Yes,' or ' No ' ; and for
that moderation on Mary's part, ill as they had
played her, Mrs. Sotheran thanked her stars.
It would not at least be necessary to enter into
explanations. On the other hand, Mary had
concluded her communication with the words,
Be frank with me. However low my lot
may be in the world, let me at least stand on
firm ground.'

Alas ! there was nothing firm for her to
stand on ; all was quicksand.

As Mrs. Sotheran pondered over the letter,
with her eyes fixed on the landscape before her,
it faded from her view, and in its place there
grew this picture : A small low room sparely
furnished but scrupulously clean ; a bed on
which lay a young woman, worn with woe and
haggard with unceasing pain, but still of exquisite
beauty. It was the beauty, however,
which death covets ; the pallor of the tomb
was on her brow ; the hectic — Nature's flag of

distress — burnt ou her cheek, and the voice was
broken and feeble with which she pleaded,
You will take care of my child, dear friend,
till her father comes to claim her ? '

I will,' Mrs. Sotheran had answered
eagerly ; something had almost prompted her
to add, • I will take care of her whether he
comes or not ; ' for in her heart she did not
believe that lie would ever come. Twenty-four
hours earlier the idea of such a responsibility
would have appalled her, and she would
have shrunk from it ; but a very little time
suffices to alter human intentions, whether for
good or ill. The receipt of a telegram ; a
hurried journey ; the finding of an old acquaintance,
poor, deserted, and at the point of death,
had changed the Mrs. Sotheran of yesterday
into another woman. Lie regarded her dyincr
companion with pitiful, yearning eyes; and
presently, as though her emotions of compassion
could be pent up no longer, she burst into a
great sob. ' I did at least hope that he would
have married you, my poor, dear girl.'

VOL, I Q

The hectic flush broadened a Httle on either
cheek ; the large eyes, Ht with the fever within,
became bedewed with tears, and shone like the
sun-dew. She raised a skeleton finger for
silence. ' Very good, my dear,' continued Mrs.
Sotheran ; ' I will not say a word against him ;
it will not be ^vith me that he will have to deal,
but with Another. But 1 do hope that he has
made whatever provision lay in his power for
the babe.'

The speaker's eye had wandered to a little
desk of solid workmanship and bound with
steel, as though in that repository might be the
legal document at which she hinted

The dying woman's face had turned to the
same direction.

'Do you want the desk, my dear? ' The
shake of the still shapely head, from which the
clustering curls had been ruthlessly shorn, was
almost imperceptible ; but the other gathered
from it that it was not the desk that was
wanted.

'The child is asleep,' said Mrs. Sotheran,

pointing to a cradle that stood close beside
her.

Again there was a shake of the head, and
the eyes sought the same object as before.

The only object on the table except the desk
was a little Bible ; she accordingly brought that
to the bedside.

Kiss it, kiss it,' murmured the dymg
woman : ' swear to me that you will never seek
to learn the contents of that desk, without my
without his — permission.'

Then ]airs. Sotheran did what was very
difficult for her — she took courage. It woidd
have been much more easy for her to give the
required promise ; but the reflection that such
a course might injuriously affect the child's interest
occurred to her ; it must be added, too,
that a righteous indignation was burning in her
heart against the man of whom they spoke.

Do you say this, my poor girl, out of fear ?
There is none you need fear now but God,
remember ; and I humbly hope His wrath has
ceased against you.'

Q 2

I do not say it out of fear,' answered the
other in clearer tones, her anxiety to set this
matter right seeming to give her a momentary
strength ; ' I say it out of love ; not for his
sake,' for Mrs. Sotheran's face had involuntarily
darkened, ' but for the child's.'

Then Mrs. Sotheran kissed the book and
gave the promise required of her.

It is needless to say she had kept it. Even
if, under such solemn circumstances, she had
passed her word only, it would not have been
broken ; but an oath had for Mrs. Sotheran a
signification which, to those accustomed to
courts of justice, would have been unintelligible.
She really did believe that whomsoever
should break it, God would no longer ' help.'
To her mind it had even something of the
supernatural in it ; it was the one supreme
occasion on which, since the age of miracles
was past, man and his Creator could still make
a compact together. If Mary Marvon's inquiries
had required for their answer that
Mrs. Sotheran should open that desk, they

would without doubt have remained unsatisfied*


Her heart, albeit as tender a one as ever
beat in woman's breast, would have been as
the nether millstone as regarded any such
appeal ; and this, although the man was dead
concerning whom the promise had been given
that the desk should not be opened till he
came to claim it, and had been dead for many
a year.

It was here that the narrowness of this
good woman's mind stood out like a ridge of
rock in a fertile field. She clung to the letter
and not to the spirit ; not, as is the case with
most of us, from baseness of disposition, but
simply because the letter was dear to her and
the spirit was not. The whole incident, contrasting
as it did in its dramatic force with the
even tenor of her life, had made a very deep
impression on her. To one person only she had
breathed it, though, even in that case, without
mention of lier oath ; and this enforced reticence
had swelled its proportions. But, as

time rolled on and nothing had come of it,
apprehension had ceased ; the matter had lain
so long undisturbed in its pigeon-hole, under
the dust of years, that it was quite unnoticed —
till Mary's letter came, which taught poor
Mrs. Sotheran with iron rod that ' there is no
such thing as forgetting.'

The perturbation of her mind was such
that it was long before she could decide on any
come of action ; but, in the end, she rose,
and, putting on her bonnet, went out.

Her way led down a winding road between
high wooded banks, which after a mile or more
reached the plain as a river debouches on the
sea ; but half-way down she stopped before
some high gates, finely wrought in iron and
richly gilded. Without waiting for the lodge-keeper
to admit her, she opened a side door
and walked rapidly on ; her mind was too fully
occupied to take note of external objects ;
otherwise, albeit the scene was familiar to her,
it could hardly have failed to extort her admiration.
She was passing through an avenue of

oaks, on one side of which lay a well-wooded
park with herds of deer : on the other a landscape
of exquisite beauty that sloped ' with
lessening fields and farms ' to the dim, far-off
ocean.

Immediately in front, but at the end of a
long descent (as became so stately a pile),
stood Letcombe Hall, ' the seat ' (as it was
called in the county history) of the Peyton
family, now, alas ! bidding fair to be extinct.
The grounds about it, of which a complete
bird's-eye view was now obtained, were laid out
in antique fashion with walled gardens, a huge
rosery, and — instead of a croquet or lawn-tennis
ground — a bowling-green as smooth asa
billiard-table ; all these had their various
tenants, male and female ; some seated with
books in their hands, some walking, some
playing, but all conveying a certain undefined
impression that they were no transitory guests.
As every one did what they pleased at Let-combe
Hall, it was called by some folks
Holiday House ' ; but there were people of a

cynical turn who, in allusion to the heterogeneous
character of its inmates, termed it the
Menagerie.'

What struck one most, perhaps, as one
watched these persons all enjoying themselves
in the sunshine (if idleness is enjoyment) was
the absence of child-life. The laugh of a
child would have cleared the moral atmosphere
about this Castle of Indolence, which,
truth to say, hung somewhat heavily on it.
But, alas ! there were no children at Letcombe
Hall. As a young gentleman, to whom we
have already been introduced, was wont to say
of the place, ' It was magnificent, no doubt,
but too much like a first-class madhouse.'

The building itself was of immense proportions,
and, being quite white, shone like a
star for many a mile. Found three fourths of
it ran a gigantic stone verandah on pillars of
stone, so that all the rooms below were cool on
the hottest of summer days, arid every room
above had a spacious balcony.

Before reaching the front door Mrs. Sotheran

met more than ODe group of people and several
paris, all of ^vhom seemed to recognise her.
She acknowledged their salutations, but hurried
on with frightened looks, without exchanging a
word with them Always shy and retiring, she
was on the present occasion extremely apprehensive
of meeting a certain person ; a fear, as
it happened — like most of this poor lady's fears
entirely groundless. She had a habit, however,
common enough with persons of her type,
of endeavouring to meet her terrors half way,
as if by so doing they could be mitigated ; and
this it was which caused her to inquire, having
rung the front door bell with a trembling
hand, whether the master of the house was
within.

No, ma'am,' returned the butler, with
severe civility. ' ^iLr. Peyton left for town this
morning.'

Mrs. Sothei-an uttered a sigh of intense
relief, which, indeed, shaped itself into the
words ' Thank heaven ! ' She looked so grave
and earnest that the man added, ' Some of Mr.

Peyton's people are to follow by the next train.
Perhaps they can take a message.'

No, no, no ! ' returned Mrs. Sotheran,
eagerly. If she could have contrived that
they should tell him that she had not called,
that was the statement she would have confided
to them. ' I will see your mistress.'

Mrs. Peyton has gone with master to
London,' returned the butler.

Gone ! Mrs. Peyton gone ! ' This was
terrible and quite unexpected news. The
mistress of Letcombe Hall scarcely ever left
it, and when she did so it was for the Continent.
London, for certain reasons of which
Mrs. Sotheran was fully cognisant, was distasteful
to her.

Miss Gwynne is within,' continued the
man, taking compassion on the visitor's evident
distress. 'But, as you have doubtless heard,
Miss Gwynne is about to leave the Hall.'

I know, I know,' said Mrs. Sotheran. She
did know that the young lady alluded to, Mrs.
Peyton's companion, was no longer on the

establishment, since she was going to be
married to the vicar of the parish, but lie was
not really thinking about Miss Gwynne at all.

And when is your mistress expected
back ? '

'In about three weeks, I believe, ma'am.'

Mrs. Sotheran nodded and turned away ;
she had hardly strength enough even to nod.
while the information she had just received had
literally taken her breath away. Three weeks
of self-dependence — which was self-torture —
therefore awaited her ! Three weeks of unaided
reflection ! For to write of Mary's letter
to the person it mainly concerned she felt was
impossible. To commit such a thing to paper
was, or might be, ' publication,* from which she
shrank as though it involved ten actions for
libel. If she had but had Mary's letter yesterday,
half the burthen woidd have by this time
been off her shoulders ; but, as it was, she must
needs bear it alone, and it seemed to crush her
to the earth.

On her return she had to run the gauntlet

of the guests at the Hall, but this time she felt
no embarrassment : m the presence of a great
fear the minor emotions sink into insignificance.
To all outward appearance she was now as
little troubled with mauvaise honte as these
ladies and gentlemen themselves, whom the
departure of their host and hostess had affected
not in the least.

Mr. Beryl Peyton was often away from
home. Letcombe Hall was like the decapitated
lady in the German story — everything
went on just the same as though it had not
lost its head. As for Mrs. Peyton, though one
or two simple folks besides Mrs. Sotheran
had a genuine regard for her, she was considered
by the company at the Hall, who were
all eminent and distinguished persons in their
■^vay, as a nonentity.

CHAPTER XIV.

BLACK TUESDAY.

The Tuesday on which poor Mrs. Sotheran's
repose at Letcombe Dottrell wa? so rudely
broken in upon by Maiy Marvon's letter was
also a black Tuesday for some other acquaintances
of ours. Though Mr. Ealph Dornay
had fulfilled his nephew's mission so successfully
in Park Lane (not forgetting that little
incidental stroke of business on his own account),
all was not rose colour with him. He
was under a promise to return forthwith to the
Aglaia Club to inform his young relative how
he had sped upon his errand ; and this was not
an agreeable tiling to look forward to. He
had done what he had been required to do, it
was true ; but he had also slicrhtlv exceeded

his instructions. As to his wooing of the
widow, that was his own affair, and one, moreover,
that was not likely to transpire very
quickly ; but the consciousness that he had
intrusted her with Mary Marvon'^' setter made
him a little uncomfortable, noi because of the
breach of trust involved in it, but of the possible
consequences. Uncle Ealph took it for
granted that Mrs. Beckett would read the
letter, and that then there would be a row with
Mary. Of course Mary would stick to Edgar ;
she knew too well on which side her bread
was buttered to do otherwise ; and she would
certainly inform him that Mrs. Beckett had
been his uncle's postmistress. An explanation
of that circumstance would then be demanded
of him, and Ealph foresaw that there might bea
serious misunderstanding — he even termed it,
as he revolved the idea in his own mind, ' a
rough and tumble ' — with his young relative.

The ties of blood, as we know, were dear
to him ; if the phrase ' thicker than water '
was to be erased from his vocabulary it would

be a serious hiatus ; — but still that might even
happen, and welcome, if he could only make
sure of the widow. He had made a great step
towards that goal, but he had not reached it.
And of the truth of the proverb that ' there 's
many a slip 'twixt the cup and the lip ' he
had had a very recent experience in Edgar's
own case. It behoved him for the present,
at least, like a villain in a melodrama, ' to
dissemble.'

Anything less like a villain than Mr. Ealph
Dornay looked, however, as he entered the
apartment at the Aglaia Club common to himself
and nephew, it was difficult to imagine.
His jaunty step, his assuring smile, and the
cheerfulness of the tone in which he said,
Edgar, my boy, I congratulate you,' all spoke
of a mind at ease and of the consciousness of
benefits conferred upon a fellow-creature.

What a capital fellow you are ! ' cried
Edgar, taking his outstretched hand, and pressing
it eagerly. ' You 've seen her, of course ? '

I should rather think I had.'

Well, what am I to do ? When am 1 to
come ? I can't see her in Park Lane, of
comes.'

Well, i should think not. What the
deuce should you want to see her for ? '

Want to see her for ? What a question !
Of course I want to see Mary.'

Then Uncle Ealph perceived his mistake.

Oh, the girl,' he said ; ' I thought you
meant the widow — it was the widow, you weill
be good enough to remember, to whom you
sent me ; I did not go to her on my own
account.'

Of course not ; I had forgotten,' said
Edgar, turning very red. ' So the widow 's all
right, is she ? '

I hope she is ; I did my very best for you,
but let me tell you it was a very ticklish job.
That is, I mean, it looked so. However, as it
turns out, it was all a mistake.'

What was a mistake ? That she asked
me to marry her ? '

In the excitement of the moment Edgar

forgot that he had never disclosed this fact to
his uncle.

If she did that, it most certainly was a
mistake, a very great mistake,' said Uncle
Ealph, gravely. ' I think, however, that must
have been a conclusion, Edgar, which —

ahem I ' Here he hesitated ; the sentence

was difficult to round, but, nerved perhaps by
some association of ideas, he presently added,
which you must have rather jumped at.'

Well, well, the pont is that you have got
me out of it,' said Edgar, impatiently. ' It
would certainly have been a terrible business
to have become entangled with a woman of
that kind. I confess I should not have liked
to have been ticketed " Fortune hunter " for
the rest of my days, which would most certainly
have happened.'

Considering the great disparity in your
years, no doubt disagreeable things might have
been said,' admitted Uncle Ealph.

The disparity in years was nothing, my
good sir ; on the contrary, that would have

VOL. I. R

been something to the credit side of my account
: it was my want of money that made it
so dreadful.'

'Want of money is always dreadful,' replied
Uncle Ealph ; ' people who have got lots
of it don't understand that. You should have
seen Mrs. Beckett tear that cheque of yours to
pieces ; it would have been just the same had
it been a 500Z. note. However, her little feeling
of irritation was soon over.'

'Indeed,' said Edgar, drily. He was glad
that he was free, but he would not have been
displeased had his enfranchisement cost the
widow a struggle.

Yes ; she said that such a misapprehension
on your part was an impertinence, but
that young men would be young men.'

Which no doubt was her objection to
them,' said Edgar, cynically.

It was a very natural objection to them in
one in her position,' returned Uncle Ealph,
who thought he saw an opportunity of hinting
without offence at his own recent proceedings.

If Mrs. Beckett ever marries again, it would
be, as she gave me to understand, some person
of mature years and good connections,
but with nothing particular about him which
should cause her to be talked about in anyway.'


Such a person as Mr. Ealph Dornay, for
example,' observed Edgar, scornfully.

She might do worse,' said Uncle Ealph,
with a slight flush ; ' indeed, but for me (as we
have seen) she would have done worse.'

Edgar Dornay knew something of women,
but a great deal more about men. 'So so :
you have been making a stepping-stone of your
prostrate friend to higher things, have you,
Mr. Ealph ? ' he said, with bitter significance.
However, my honour is not concerned in
that matter. Did you give my note to Miss
Marvon ? '

I left it for her, sir.' Here there was a
knock at the door; it was generally Uncle
Ealph who said ' Come in,' as he performed all
other little offices that took trouble off his

nephew's shoulders. But he now turned to
the window, and, playing on the pane with his
fingers, began to whistle a popular melody.
Edgar opened the door himself, and took a
note from the servant's hand. At the slight of
the superscription this heart went pit-a-pat, just
as though, insti^jid of being a member of the
Aglaia Club, which, to say truth, was a somewhat
' used up ' and nil admiral society, he
was a young man from the country receiving
his first epistle from his Dulcinea. He felt inclined
to put his hand in his pocket and
(though contrary to the regulations of the
establishment) give the waiter who brought ita
sovereign. Fortunately he restrained himself,
or he would certainly have regretted his
generosity.

Dear Sir,— Mrs. Beckett has just handed
me your letter, as well as your note of Saturday
addressed to herself. I have no more to
say to you, save that I wish you well.
Yours sincerely,

'Mary Marvon.'

Edgar turned upon his uncle like a wildcat.


You are a most infernal scoundrel, Mr.
Ealph Dornay.'

Sir — Edgar — you must have lost your
senses.'

No, sir ; so far as you are concerned, at
least, I have found them. If there is one word
of truth in you, answer me this. To whom
did you give my letter to Mary ? '

To herself, of coin-se. That is to say,' he
stammered, ' I would have done so had I had
the opportunity. She Alas out, and so I left it
for her.'

In whose hands .^ You gave it to sirs.
Beckett. You may deny it or not, as you
please ; I say, you gave it to Mrs. Beckett,'

Edgar Dornay piqued himself on his aristocratic
immobility; but his manner just now
had anything but that ' repose which marks
the stamp of Vere de Vere.' Uncle Ealph,
however, was not afraid of him ; to do him
justice, he was no coward.

I had no alternative,' he answered quietly ;
she insisted upon it ; you have no idea what
a state she was in.'

Edgar Dornay flung open the door, and,
pointing to the staircase, exclaimed in a voice
of thunder, ' Go ! '

Pooh ! pooh ! my good fellow,' said the
other, bestowing his massive frame on an armchair,
from which it would have been difficult
to remove him without mechanical appliances ;
if you talk of going, the notice to quit must
come from me. If you choose to step down
to the manager's room, you will find that
the registered occupant of these apartments is
myself, and that you are only a lodger.'

Edgar paused ; for one moment he thought
of precipitating himself upon Uncle Ealph,
and administering that mysterious punishment
called ' condign ' upon his portly person, but
more prudent counsels prevailed.

You treacherous blackguard ! ' he simply
said, and walked out of the room, slamming
the door behind him.

Uncle Ealpli drew a long breath, and
wiped his forehead with his pocket-handkerchief.


There, that 's over,' he muttered ; ' I 've
burnt my boats. I had no idea that Edgar
had such a temper. He has not behaved like
a gentleman, much less like a Dornay. It is
plain that that girl has been comparing letters
and rejected him. The words applied to me
by my own nephew were '' treacherous blackguards'*
How true it is," he added, as he Ht a
cigar, ' that women are at the bottom of every
mischief in this world.'

Nevertheless, though he took things with
such philosophy, neither that evening nor the
next day were such as could be marked with
white in the calendar of Uncle Ealph. We
can also imagine that the feelings of his
nephew Edgar, houseless and for the present
compelled to put up with such accommodation
as could be afforded by an hotel, were not
very enviable.

At Beckett House, too, matters were very

melancholy. Mr. Jennie was away from
London on business, drawing up marriage
settlements for some country client, or assisting,
with the same imperturbable face, at his
interment, and would not be at home till the
next day, so that both Mary's letter to him,
and that of Mrs. Beckett, necessarily remained
unanswered. The two women sat alone and
apart, revolving many things in their sad
hearts. There were no visitors except Mr.
Ealph Dornay, who came to luncheon v/ith
the widow as agreed upon.

She sat with him in the dining-room for
some time after the meal was over, as she had
sat with Edgar three days ago ; but with very
different feelings. She had quite resolved to
marry Uncle Ealph, and told him so without
the least embarrassment or reserve ; but he
was not so foolish as to indulge in raptures.
Like the young lady in humble life, chronicled
by Mr. Locker, who thought in her humility
that matrimony was ' too good for the likes of
here he was really somewhat overwhelmed by

his own good fortune, and this feeling gave
him the very manner which was, perhaps,
under the circumstances, the most agreeable
to the widow. Sir Walter Raleigh, after that
successful sacrifice of his cloak to the mud,
might have so behaved himself to Queen
Elizabeth. The widow told him frankly that
it was her intention to remain her own mistress
and have the spending of her own money ;
and that in case of her demise he would by
no means find himself a millionaire. A less
intelligent lover woidd have protested that, if
death took her from him, wealth or poverty
would be equally indifferent to him ; but Uncle
Ealph only said that whatever arrangements
she might choose to make would be acceptable
to him, and would, in any case, be far beyond
his deserts or expectations.

There is only one thing,' he said gravely,
which I have to regret in this horn* of happiness
; I am afraid it will cost me my nephew's
affection.'

The widow looked at him with angry eyes,

as though she would have said, ' What if it
does ? '

You see he has not only lost you, madam,
but through his very foolish and injudicious
conduct he has also lost Miss Marvon.'

'She has rejected him, has she?' flashed
out the widow. It was for her the happiest
moment of the interview.

Yes, she has rejected him ; and he lays
his misfortunes at my door, because I gave you
his letter to Miss Marvon.'

This was Uncle Ealph's best stroke. Mrs.
Beckett knew the value set by him upon
family connections,' and appreciated what he
had done accordingly. He had actually laid
her under an obligation.

You will not have to regret, Mr. Dornay,'
she said, with a magnificent significance, ' the
having risked a quarrel with your nephew for
my sake.'

I shall certainly never regret it,' he replied,
with an inclination of his head and a
drop in his voice ; ' " blood is thicker than

water"" but there are claims which are even
less to be denied than those of kindred.'

This speech, on which Uncle Ealph plumed
himself very much, was unhappily lost upon
the widow, who lead by this time — so swift
and slantwise are the thoughts of women — lost
sicrht of him and his self-sacrifice altogether.

She communicated with him, I suppose,
by letter ? ' observed Mrs. Beckett, abruptly.

She ? who ? oh, Miss Marvon. Yes. She
gave it him pretty stiff, I fancy.'

Uncle Ealph had been so utterly thrown off
his guard by the widow's change of front that
he forgot to keep up his heroic vein ; while,
moreover, the remembrance of his nephew's
behaviour disinclined him to mince matters.

Mary lias plenty of spirit,' observed Mrs.
Beckett, approvingly. She would have been
better pleased if Edgar had jilted Mary ; but
even as it was, there was much to be thankful
for. However it had come about, Mary was
not going to have him. From that moment
remorse for her treatment of the young girl

awoke in lier breast. She would have settled
a thousand a year on her at once, with a great
deal of pleasure.

Unhappily, however, one cannot liquidate
everything by cheque.

As Mrs. Beckett and Mr. Dornay passed
through the hall on their way upstairs, who
should be standing there, hat in hand, but Mr.
Charles Sotheran. The meeting was most
embarrassing for the widow, but she smiled
and held out her hand to him in the old
way.

Why, Charley, what brings you here ? '

Oh, nothing,' he stammered ; ' that is, as
I was crossing the Park, I just looked in.
They told me you were not at home. It 's of
no consequence.'

There must have been some mistake in
your case, though it is true I did deny myself
to ordinary visitors,' said the widow, quietly.
What is it, Simmons ? '

My lady's lady's-maid having just descended
from the upper regions, was standing in the

doorway that led from the servants' rooms
with a hesitating look.

Only a message fi'om Miss Marvon for Mr.
Sotheran, my lady : her kind regards, but she
feels too indisposed to see him.'

'Yes, I know poor Miss Marvon has a
headache,' said the widow, addressing Charley
with an assuring smile ; ' perhaps another day.'

^ Just so ; I '11 call again,' said Charley,
retiring with much precipitation.

It was not to be expected that the young
man should have his wits so much at command
as a lady of fifty and of fashion ; but he was
an intelligent fellow, and could give a shrewd
guess at what had happened.

By Jingo ! there has been a row,' was his
muttered exclamation as soon as he found himself
on the outside of the front door. ' She
called Mar" " Miss Marvon." But what can
be the meaning of that mediaeval Adonis beings
alone with Mrs. Beckett when she is denied to
visitors? She surely never can '

He did not complete the sentence, because

some picture presented itself to his mind
(which was of a humorous cast) that caused
him to burst into a roar of laughter.

Mrs. Beckett heard it, for it came through
the open window into her drawing-room ; but,
luckily for Charley, or even perhaps for Uncle
Ealph, she did not guess its cause.

CHAPTEE XV.

FRIENDS I\ Need.

Ox Wednesday morning Mary got her letter
from Letcombe Dottrell. She had not much
hope that it would do otherwise than confirm
her fears as to her parentage ; still she had a
hope. To the philosopher it is, or should bea
matter of no consequence by what means
he comes into the world ; it is one of those
questions which does not concern him personally
at all, but is peculiar to the preceding
generation ; but then wee are not all philosophic.
Xo man, indeed, who is not an absolute fool,
thinks any less of a fellow-creature because of
his birth, since it is a matter beyond his own
control. But unhappily there are so many fools
amongst us that they form a sort of spurious

public opinion such as prevails in schools which
are said to have a ' bad tone.' It is impossible,
indeed, for persons who have the bar sinister
on their shields not to be aware of the prejudice
that exists against them among this class of
persons ; and, if they are of a sensitive disposition,
it rankles in them, as though a man should
blush for shame because he hears it whispered,
that fellow has red hair.' Mary Marvon, for
example, felt that it would be a great aggravation
of her unhappy lot in the world to find
herself illegitimate.

'My dear Mary,' wrote Mrs. vSotheran, ' your
letter has distressed me beyond expression. If
I am to answer your most painful question by
the simple " yes " or " no," which you request
of me, I must needs say " yes " ; for alas, it is
true that you are illegitimate. I cannot, however,
confine myself to that bald .statement of
fact, and, on the other hand, I scarcely know
how much, or how little, I ought to say. The
circumstances of your birth are known only to
myself and one other living person ; they area

secret which I am under a solemn promise
never to disclose ; but this much I may tell
you, or rather, since you insist upon learning
your true position in the world," I needs
must : your parents were of widely different
social rank, but have long gone to that world
where there are no such distinctions ; they have
passed, remember, beyond our judgment ; it
is no longer necessary to be just when you
think of them, but only to be kind and pitiful.
Your mother, though she sinned through love,
is now an angel. As sure as there is a Heaven,
Mary, she is there. Your father — well, I will
only say of him that your mother forgave him
the wrong he did her, and loved him to the last.
It was from the apprehension, my dear girl,
that you might press me upon this unhappy
subject, that I have not done for you all I
might have done ; that, in particular, I have
seemed to fall short (for one thing) in the
exercise of hospitality towards you. And yet
(though I cannot explain this matter) I was
not prompted in this by selfish motives only.
VOL. I. s

As regards your future prospects, I may say
that they are somewhat better than you have
been led to expect. I thought it best — I have
done everything for what I thought was for the
best, believe me — to make little of your expectations
; but as a matter of fact you will be
always out of the reach of avant. A member
of your father's family has hitherto supplied the
means for your maintenance — not grudgingly,
but as a cheerful giver — and will continue to
supply it.'

Never,' exclaimed Mary, striking the letter
vehemently with a passionate hand. ' Never,
so help me Heaven, will I take one farthing
from that source ! ' Her face was suffused with
a burning blush. Her very heart seemed hot
with shame.

For your present necessity,' continued Mrs.
Sotheran, ' in case you may be in want of
money, I inclose five five-pound notes of which
I have a store in trust for you. Charley will
see you tomorrow concerning a temporary
home ; there are some good people from this

parish who let lodgings in London, with whose
address he will furnish you. It is terrible
that you should be driven from your present
quarters so suddenly, so unreasonably, so unjustly
; but I can see that you must leave them
without delay. ]airs. Beckett has not written
to me; a sure sign (if I needed it) of her being
in the wrong in this matter ; what she told you
she had no right to say, in any sense. She did
not know it to be true, since, as I have said,
only one person beside myself is in possession
of the secret of your birth. Mary, believe
that my heart is with you, though I have no
words to say so. And if there is no counsel in
this letter such as you have a right to look fordo
not suppose that it will not come ; but I
must have time to think and plan what is best
to be done.

Ever yours,

'Jane Sotheran.'

The effect of Mrs. Sotheran's letter upon
Mary Marvon, although its contents had been

8 2

anticipated and therefore discounted, was
peculiar. It softened her heart towards her
unknown mother ; awoke in her all sorts of
tender feelings towards the poor and unprotected
of her own sex, such as even her charity-had
not previously included ; but it hardened
her against her father. Mr. Beryl Peyton would
have highly approved of her sentiments in this
respect. The tie of blood — so far from its
having any cementing quality with her — had an
attraction of repulsion. She dwelt upon it in
spite of herself, but she never wished to hear it
spoken of by others. If Mrs. Sotheran could
have looked into her heart she would have had
no fear of an embarrassing question from her
young friend's lips ; on the subject of her birth
they were henceforth sealed. It was a satisfaction
to her to reflect that Mrs. Beckett had no
real knowledge of the matter; and she was less
angry with her for her pretence of possessing
it than she would have been had she actually
done so.

Again, though Mrs. Sotheran's communication

pained her in some respects, it acted as a
tonic, strengthening her to endure the hardness
of others. She had learnt within that last half-hour
to suited and be strong. The world had
no longer any joys to offer, but she had henceforth
one passionate desire — to make herself
independent of it. It was terrible to her to
reflect that she had hitherto been supported
by her father's relatives ; it seemed to her like
living on the wages of her mother's shame.
From whose hand she had received them she
had no curiosity to inquire. Mrs. Lutherans
assurance that they had been ungrudgingly
given awoke no sentiment of gratitude. If the
donor imagined that he had made reparation to
her for another's wrong he was mistaken. The
desire of her soul was to work tiU she had earned
the whole sum to the last farthing, and then to
fling it back to him. She would have liked to
have put those five five-pound notes into an
envelope and return them by the next post, but
she felt that her possession of them would the
sooner enable her to repay the whole debt.

She had already a plan in her mind for gaining
a maintenance, but money was necessary for
her to start with. Mrs. Beckett's cheque would
indeed suffice for that ; but these twenty-five
pounds, being the exact sum she needed for a
certain purpose, would give her an immense
advantage in her race for wealth.

Mrs. Sotheran's allusion to counsel to come
was as clear as daylight to her. It was evident
that that person was not at hand from whom it
was natural that she should seek advice, and
without whom, in material matters, she could
not stir. That person would never be troubled
for help or counsel any more. As for Mrs.
Sotheran, Mary felt nothing but love and gratitude
for her ; albeit she had not seen the tears
which that poor lady had shed over her own
communication, and knew nothing of the pains
and labour she had spent upon it, with a result
far from satisfactory to herself ; for her reflection,
when all was said, had been similar to
that indulged in by the gentleman in liquor,
too much, yet not enough.'

From her window, which commanded a
view of Park Lane, Mary presently saw Mr.
Jennie arrive in a hansom. He did not
come upstairs for many minutes, during which
she waited for him with a calmness which
amazed herself. It arose perhaps from the fact
that she had come to the end of her emotions.
She had gone through so much swithin the last
twenty-four hours that only the dregs of feeling
were left within her. There was nothing more
of moment — or what seemed to her of moment
to be discussed. She could trust Mr. Jennie's
discretion, if not his delicacy, not to pry into
matters that would give her pain. She had
heard him converse with Mrs. Beckett, u}X)n
matters connected with her two marriages,
with the most admirable adroitness, which he
owed partly to experience in his profession,
partly to his own good taste, and partly to the
fact that he had long disencumbered himself of
curiosity ; and she took it for granted that his
present delay was caused by her hostess, who
had waylaid him upon his way to her.

(Here she was wrong. The lawyer had
business with the widow, as we know, upon her
own account, though it was true there was no
great hurry about that. She was not so eager
now concerning those matrimonial arrangements
respecting Uncle Ealph as she had been
when they concerned his nephew)

Of course, Mrs. Beckett Avould tell the story
of their quarrel in her own way ; but Mary
had confidence in the lawyer's astuteness to see
through what was false in it ; and if he did not
do so, what did it matter ? What did anything
matter ? Still, when she heard Simmons's step
upon the stairs, followed by a heavier tread,
the bruised heart of the poor girl beat more
quickly. Though she had been beaten on the
wheel so long she had not had her coup de
grace ; she was still sensitive to pain. The
door opened : ' Please, ma'am, Mr. Sotheran to
see you.' It was Charley.

The young man was very pale, and wore a
look of distress and pain that was very foreign
to his countenance.

Good heavens, i^Lary ! What is this ? ' he
inquired in tender yet excited tones.

What is \vhat ? ' said Mary. Her words
were cold and hushed as falling snow. She
had become frigid in a moment. It was the
miracle of Pygmalion reversed. The sight of
him, strange to say, had at once brought Edgar
and her dead love to her remembrance. To
speak of him in this young man's presence was
impossible.

'Why, your going away.^ your quarrel with
Airs. Beckett ? ' continued Charley. ' Is it not
true, then — what my mother writes me ? '

That there has been a quarrel ? No. That
I am going to leave Beckett House ? Yes. We
have agreed to part, that is all. It is a subject
I cannot discuss.'

Of course not ; why should you do so ?
As though I did not know on whose side the
fault les.'

There was no fault, Charley.'

She could not ignore his partisanship, or
rather the affection that prompted it ; but it

pained her. Perhaps he thought, now Edgar
was uprooted from her heart, that he might
replace him there. If so, it was a mistake
indeed ; nothing would ever grow where that
love had grown. Still Charley meant kindly.

There was no fault,' she answered ; ' or
rather, I should say, there were faults on both
sides. Mrs. Beckett said things which she
should not have said, which perhaps she already
repents of saying, and I forgot in my anger
that she had previously shown great kindness
to me.'

It did not cost her much, and she could
well afford it,' said Charley, bitterly ; ' moreover,
she was repaid ten times over, as I mean to
tell her. For once in her life she shall hear the
truth.'

Charley, Charley, remember what you owe
her.'

I do,' he answered grimly. ' I am going
to give her a present in return for it — a piece
of my mind as a parting gift.'

'You speak like a boy, and a spoilt boy,'

said Mary, severely. ' 1 will not urge that in
doing as you propose you will deprive yourself
of a powerful friend, for such an argument
would only make you more obstinate. You
imagine that you are about to make a self-sacrifice,
instead of which you are merely about
to indulge your inclination and flatter your own
independence by a display of indignation. I
am willing to believe,' she added more mildly,
touched by his pained look, ' that you are also
actuated by a regard for myself ; if that be so,
you will show it best by taking no action in
this matter, which concerns leers. Beckett and
myself only.'

I will never do anything you do not wish,
Mary,' answered the young man, humbly.

The diplomacy of this rejoinder, though
the probate clerk did not know it, would have
done credit to the Foreign Office ; for in
showing his obedience to Mary's behest he had
delicately indicated his own devotion.

In the letter from my mother,' he went
on, ' she spoke of Mrs. Wilder, who used to beat

Letcombe Dottrell, and who has apartments
to let near Russell Square. It is not so fashionable
as Park Lane, but very convenient.' Here
the young man blushed from the consciousness
that he lodged within a few streets of the house
in question. ' I have been to look at the place
this morning : it will be a great change from
this, I need not say.' And he looked round the
walls of the bright little room with a half-sigh.

I can get on without leather picked out
in gold, and a dado,' said Mary, smiHng. ' But
I am afraid even Mrs. Wilder's establishment
will be beyond my means, Charley.'

'Oh no ; here are her terms.' He produced
a card ; 'It's as cheap as — I mean quite
cheap and clean,' he said, with an earnestness
born of his narrow escape from the vulgar
metaphor. 'They're country people, you
know.'

'A thousand thanks; I'll think about it,
and let you know, Charley.'

Do, Mary ; remember, it 's very convenient.
Can I do anything more for you — anyihmg ? *

No, Charley, not at present. I must wish
you good-bye now. Mr. Jennie is coming to
see me on business.'

That gentleman indeed was at the door
as they shook hands at parting. He shot one
glance at the two young people — which erred
on the side of comprehensiveness, since it
took in somewhat more than had taken place
and settled down to business as the door
closed.

So you are going to " flit," Miss Mary ? '

The abruptness of his inquiry was more than
atoned for by the kindness of the lawyer's tone.
It made her understand at once that whatever
the widow had said to him it had not prejudiced
him against herself; while, on the other
hand, it freed her from all embarrassment ;
it was clear that no questions were to be asked.

Yes, Mr. Jennie ; if you will be so good
as to recommend some respectable lodgings, I
shall be deeply obliged ; T felt that I had no
right to trouble you on such a matter, but I had
no other friend to whom I could apply.'

I should not have thought that from what
I saw just now,' observed the lawyer, with a
twinkle at the corners of his mouth.

Oh, as to Charley,' said Mary, with the
least tinge of a blush, ' he is scarcely old enough
to be an adviser. I never even thought of him.
He called upon his own account — that is,, inconsequence
of a letter from his mother.'

To be sure : Mrs. Sotheran is of course aware
of your intention to change your quarters.'

Yes ; she has suggested that I should
make use of some acquaintance of hers who
lets lodgings ; but her terms are too expensive ;
very far indeed beyond my means.'

I should have thought Mrs. Sotheran would
have been as good a judge of that matter as
yourself; being a housekeeper, perhaps even
a better judge.'

Every one knows his own affairs best,'
said Mary, stiffly.

That is a principle which no lawyer can
admit for a moment, my dear young lady.
However, let us grant it to save time. I know
one or two lodging-houses that are not dens of

thieves. It is a question of price. What do
you wish to pay a week ? '

Mary named so small a sum that the lawyer
almost opened his eyes. ' I shall not require a
sitting-room,' she explained hastily. ' You must
know that I have a very slender purse.'

'Young people do not always understand
their own position,' said the lawyer, gently ; • it is
true that they generally exaggerate their revenues
; but sometimes they are unnecessarily
cautious.'

I understand my own position perfectly
well, Mr. Jennie.'

There was an involuntary bitterness in her
tone which did not escape the other's ears.

But you have friends — relatives, perhaps.
I hope that you will reconsider the matter — for
these things are serious — in case any tiff has
occurred. Pray do not think me impertinent ;
I speak as a friend.'

Xo doubt ; I thank you for it ; but I
assure you that you are mistaken. There is m>
one on whom I have the shglitest claim. I am
quite alone in the world. The kindness you

have always shown me emboldened me to ask
your advice. I heard you mention on one
occasion the case of some young lady who
earned her living by copying pleadings by a
certain method so as to be as clear as print.'

To be sure ; by the type-writer ; an ingenious
machine, but very dear.'

I have the money to buy one ; and from
what you said, I think I could quickly learn to
use it.'

'It is a poor way of getting a living, Miss
Marvon.'

It is not so remunerative as being a prima
donna, no doubt, but then I have no voice,' said
Mary, smiling. ' If you would put me in the way
of purchasing such a machine and of securing a
respectable lodging, you would greatly oblige
me, Mr. Jennie.'

Your first request is easy enough ; as to
the second, I do know of such a place,' said the
lawyer, thoughtfully ; it is a boarding house for
ladies only. That is so far suitable, and no one
is expected to take a private sitting-room. The

proprietor, one Tidman, and his wife are honest,
kindly folk ; but the fare, I dare say, is not
very luxurious, nor the apartments overwhelm
furnished.' And Mr. Jennie looked round the
room with a sense of contrast in his eve, as
Charley had done when recommending ]Mrs.
Wilder's establishment.

Beggars must not be choosers,' said Mary,
or I should say, rather,' she added (with what
the professors of the art of self-defence call
quick recovery '), ' that persons who have to
make their own way in the world, and who
find fault with plain lining and simple accommodation,
do not deserve to make it.'

The la^^er smiled. He had always liked
his glass of port and two high pillows.

And are you in a great hurry to migrate,
my dear young lady ? '

Yes ; I should like to do so to-day if
possible.'

Very good. If a bower is vacant in the
Tidman paradise you shall hear from me in a
couple of hours. You will not forget, however,

VOL. I. T

when you are translated into it ' — here he held
out his hand in farewell — ' that you have still
friends on earth.'

I shall never forget you, Llr. Jennie, nor
your kindness to an orphan girl.'

Tut, tut, don't talk like that ; it 's true I 've
done nothing for you. but the very suggestion
is injurious to my profession. The widow and
the orphan are its natural prey.'

As he spoke the last words, he turned his
back to her ; an act — for she was weeping —
that showed more true politeness than ten
thousand bows and simpers.

What a kind man he is ! ' thought poor
Mary, left to herself, ' and how delicate it was
of him to forbear to press me with interrogations
! A woman would never have been satisfied
till I had told her all, or quarrelled with
me for not telling her.'

'It's a sad case,' muttered the lawyer as he
drove away ; ' I saw from the first glance at her
face that compromise was out of the question.
Mrs. Beckett would have been glad enough

had it been otherwise ; she will soon wish she had
her "companion" back again, poor silly woman,
instead of the other ; but the girl is made of
sterner stuff. " I am quite alone in the world,"
she said. " There is no one on whom I have
the slightest claim." That's a strong thing to
say and to feel as I could see she did. I
have never known any one who has not had a
claim, real or imaginary, on somebody. The
poor girl must be illegitimate.'

T 2

CHAPTEE XVI.

THE PHILANTHROPIST.

Ix London, which is equal to half a dozen great
towns clubbed together, there are half a dozen
great towns, each so different from the rest that
it might well be in another hemisphere. In
some quarters, notably in the vicinity of the
Victoria Station, where blocks of buildings, each
emulating an hotel de ville, are numerous, the
astonished visitor exclaims, ' How foreign ! '
but in the district I have in my mind he
would make use of no such ejaculation. There
is nothing like it either on the Continent or anywhere
else : it is unique. Nor is that circumstance
to be regretted. The streets are narrow ;
the shops mean and dirty ; and the neighbourhood
is low. And the people. 'Ah! the

people.' It cannot indeed be said of them, in
the words of the poet, that —

They are neither man nor woman,
They are neither brute nor human :
They are ghouls —

but they are certainly very peculiar. ' The
British shibboleth ' of which Byron wrote is in all
their mouths, but by no means spoken with the
British accent. It is only the female portion
of the inhabitants that is native ; the male is
polyglot. Every nation under heaven, provided
only it ha a seaboard, has here its representatives.
That they are of the earth earthy, in
the spiritual sense, is only too true ; but materially
they are of the sea marine ; and everything
in the district smells — and smells very
badly — of their calling. Flags flutter from
every house-top as well as from the masts that
tower everywhere above the chimney-tops ;
nautical instrument makers, outsiders, ship purveyors,
abound. These represent the export
trade of the place ; but the imports are much
more remarkable. Shell shops, heathen idol

emporiums, wild beast menageries, are as
numerous as the establishments for the sale
of toffee and penny fiction elsewhere. Fiction
is here at a discount ; no one reads it,
though for the raw material of it there is a
glut in the market. Who can behold yonder
swart, ear-ringed Spaniard, that ringleted
Italian, that shivering Lascar (bound for the
opium shop), without the suggestion of a story,
not, perhaps, altogether suitable for family
reading. Negroes, Norsemen, Frenchmen, allas
far apart in character as in clime, but with
one thing common to all, a rolling gait — for
each has his sea-legs on. Very good fellows
some of them, no doubt; but others, as one
cannot help imagining, pirates or sea-robbers,
murderers of apprentices, plunderers of passengers,
settlers of ships. This, however, maybe
a morbid fancy. To the aesthetic mind it is
difficult to think evil of men who wear rings in
their ears, and are devoted to the fair sex. Of
the latter fact there can be no question, or that
the tender feeling is reciprocated. There is no

coyness among the ladies in this latitude, nor
is the 'absence of the sun' essential to the
interchange of endearment ; and there are
some very pretty quarrels in consequence,
arising from the same cause which provoked
the Trojan War.

Among the heterogeneous throng that crowds
the narrow pavements this sultry afternoon, a
tall white-bearded man is conspicuous, partly because
he has no sign of the sea about him, but
chiefly because he is well dressed. It would
have looked better had I written 'because of
his aristocratic air,' which, indeed, he possessed
in a remarkable degree ; but I have observed
that no aristocratic air can overcome the effect
of a bad hat, and it is well to give honour
where honour is due. In Pall Mall this man
would have attracted little attention ; his long
white moustaches hanging like stalactites from
his lip ; his far-sweeping beard, white and fine
as spun glass, would have been set down to
mere eccentricity, while his apparel would have
differed little from that of others. But in the

place where he now found himself the ordinary
garb of a man of fashion was a stranger sight
than the robe of the Lascar, or the pigtail
of the Chinaman. The ear-ringed, ringleted
sailors ; the boundless, slightly draped nymphs
of the neighbourhood ' standing at the corners
of the streets,' just as they did in Jewry in
King Solomon's time ; the vendors of calls and
charms lounging at their shop doors in wait for
the Superstitious, all turned to look at him ashe
strode by.

If they had known who and what manner
of man he was, they would have stared harder,
and not a few of them would have endeavoured
to make his acquaintance ; for he was in possession
of wealth which in their eyes would
have seemed boundless, and had a hand that
was ever open to the cry of the poor. On the
other hand, there was nothing strange to him
in those he met. The thieving Greek and the
sullen Mulatto, the bland Chinaman and the
grinning Negro, were all familiar to him ; he
had seen them, or their fathers, in their native

homes, and he had seen them here. He was
one of those rare citizens of the world who
know their own metropolis as well as though
they had been cockney-bred.

Some remarks, not altogether favourable,
are made on him from time to time in a tone
such as can hardly fail to reach his ear ; but
for all the notice he takes of them they might
have been addressed to Memnon. Only once
or twice, when some hulking sailor stops the
way, does he appear to be aware of any impoliteness
; then he walks straight on as though
no such obstruction existed, his massive
frame impinges on the churl's shoulder as it
seems by accident, but in reality with scientific
expertness, and the intruder is left gyrating.
His shaggy eyebrows give to the still clear blue
eyes beneath them a stem and almost fierce
expression, which is intensified on these occasions
as he walks on ; on the other hand, when
a child is in the way, his features soften ; if the
toddler looks at him, a smile relaxes his mouth,
and he stoops to pat some flaxen head, or drop

a coin, which is not copper, into some dirty-little
hand, which fills the recipient with the
wine of astonishment.

So he goes on his way, the observed of all
observers, but apparently quite unconscious
of the excitement he creates, till presently he
reaches a shop over which is painted ' Burton's
Museum ' ; which is his goal.

To judge from the contents of the place,
*Burzon, Astrologer,' would have been the
more appropriate title. From the low, dark
ceiling is suspended a stuffed alligator ; on
the floor lies an Egyptian mummy ; and at
the very entrance stand two globes, not such
as the lady of newly inherited wealth and
restricted education complained of as not
being ' a pair,' for they are both celestial ones.
The walls are hung with various nautical instruments,
which in a landsman's eye might
well be used for casting horoscopes ; while
the proprietor himself, in a high peaked fur
cap and a dressing gown of doubtful colour,
but which might be fitly termed ' the hue of

ages,' looked like the younger brother of ' sage
Strophe.'

The respect, however, with which he received
his visitor was such as it is not customary
for any reader of the planets to pay to mortal
man. He doffed his cap and bent his head
as to no ordinary customer, and murmured in
the Hebrew tongue some reverent words of
welcome.

Have you no one sith you, sir?' he inquired
presently, with a glance towards the
door.

No ; Japhet has got a day's holiday with
a friend who speaks his language.'

It is rather restful, is it not, sir ? Our
folks about here are a wild lot,' observed the
other, deprecatingly.

I have been used to wilder, and, for thar.
matter, to worse,' observed the other, smiling ;
and though I have lived so unreasonably long,
I can still hold my own with most men.'

Still, if they only knew '

What I had in my pocket ? ' interrupted

the new comer. ' But then, you see, they don't
know. It would, as you are doubtless thinking,
be much safer to transact these little affairs
through a banker's hands ; but I don't choose
that my banker should know of them, nor anyone
else save Eeuben Burzon.'

A grateful smile lit up the dusky features
of his companion.

May the God of Abraham so serve me
and mine and worse,' he answered solemnly,
if ever I betray your honour's secrets, though
He knows they are not things to be ashamed
of.'

Man, however, as I have good cause to
understand,' returned the other drily, ' takes a
different view of the matter. How is Yerda ? '

Well, or nearly well ; here is her last
letter from Beck. Her nerve, she says, which
she had feared had gone for ever, is coming
back to her again. She has promised, according
to your honour's request, never to perform
again without the net.'

And her father ? '

H IS ceased from all pursuit of her, and is
drinking himself to death.

That 's well,' returned the visitor, producing
two little rolls of coin, neatly packed in
brown paper ; ' tell her not to stir from the seaside
till she is herself again. And how are the
little Paris people ? '

Growing no bigger, and more popular
than ever. Antoine is taking fifty pounds a
week for them, which is put to their account
at your honour bankers every Saturday. I
think Herbert is choked off. His attempt to
farm them on the ground of being their uncle
utterly failed, and the Court's decision as to the
arrears has ruined him.'

But he is not in Paris ? It is impossible
that he can harm the children ? ' inquired the
old man quickly.

Quite impossible. He was given the
alternative, as your honour suggested, of a
prison or expatriation, and he is now in Sweden
at his old trade.'

'The ways of Heaven are marvellous,'

muttered the old man, knitting his shaggy eyebrows
so that they formed one hairy line across
his forehead.

And as merciful as they are marvellous,'
returned the other.

You think so ? ' observed the visitor,
drily.

I speak as I find, and in recollection of
how your honour found me' was the earnest
reply. ' I am forty years of age, so that it is two-and-thirty
years ago ; but I can never forget
it.' A shudder passed over the speaker's
frame.

I remember. Poor boy, poor boy ! It
was in Paris, was it not — at Montmartre ? '

'Yes, sir. Never did a child suffer from
the greed of man as I did. I never look at my
beasts there without thinking of it. They
called me the cat king. I can see myself now
in that dreadful cage with the wild cats, pretending
to be their tamer. How they flew
over me as I cracked my little whip, and
gashed my shoulder ! There was nothing but

ray flesh-coloured jacket to protect me from
their cruel claws. Yet what was the pain compared
with the terror of it? To this hour,
when I dream of it in my sleep, I seem to wake
in heaven.

And you are still grateful, Eeuben ? '
Ah, yes, I am still grateful,' returned the
other, taking the old man's hand, and carrying
it reverently to his lips. ' I remember the
angel that looked through my bars one day,
and beckoned me out, and purchased me from
my tyrant.'

He was your elder brother, was he not ? '
He was my brother. But I have not yet
learnt to say " God forgive him ! " '

Poor Eeuben, poor Eeuben ! Come, let
us forget him and turn to better things. Show
me your wild beasts.'

CHAPTEE Evil

AN INTERRUPTED BARGAIN.

The relation between these two men, arising in
the first instance from the rescue of the one by
the other from a childhood of misery, was very
curious. On the one side were affection and
reverence and a fidelity that never failed ; on
the other, a matter-of-fact acceptance of those
offerings of the soul. The Benefactor was not
the benefactor of one but of hundreds ; and
there were some, though it is true not many,
who had repaid him with the like loving service
; whose gratitude was not a sense of favours
to come, who did not look on his kindnesses
as mere stepping-stones to fortune, and
who, though they had been raised up from
the humblest of positions, were content. In

Reuben's eyes his visitor was an angel whom
he entertained by no means unawares ; whereas
in those of his visitor Eeuben was merely a
worthy fellow in whom lie confided and took
some personal interest. It was not, however,
altogether to please Eeuben that he had asked
to see the wild animals who formed the chief
portion of his stock-in-trade, and were the
pride and joy of his existence. They had an
attraction for Beryl Peyton — who had another
side to his nature than that which it most commonly
presented to the public — on their own
account.

Physical force, agility, strength — nay,
ferocity itself, perhaps, though he warred
against it — had peculiar charms for him. It
had been said of him by one who knew him
well, that though he was a philanthropist he
had narrowly escaped being a prize-fighter.
The alliteration had been too tempting for the
epigram-maker, for as a matter of fact money
would under no circumstances have been attractive
to this friend ; but he was by nature

VOL I. u

greedy of combat, as well as of dauntless courage.
In earlier times he would have been a
free-lance who would yet have disdained to
be a mercenary. It would, moreover, have
been necessary that the cause for which he
fought should be just. On the other hand,
his character was far removed from the Quixotic.
His passions were strong, yet were as
water unto wine in comparison with his prejudices,
which were violent, unreasonable, and
lasting. A cynical smile lit up his face when,
upon his conductor's unlocking a crazy door
that led straight out of the museum into the
menagerie, he was greeted by a chorus of snarls
and yells. He felt it to be a protest of the
brute creation against the human, suggested by
instinct, but utterly unfounded in reason, since
his companion was their feeder and their
friend.

The place was a mere stable fitted for the
temporary accommodation of the animals
brought to Eeuben from every quarter of the
world for sale. Here were lions in egg-boxes

(or dens that looked little stronger) and tigers
in rabbit-hutches. As for the less dangerous,
but still exceedingly formidable, animals, such
as pumas and hyenas, their cages lined the
walls, between which there was but just room
for a man to pass without touching then), or
being touched, just as though they were fowls
in Leadenhall Market. It was difficult for a
nervous person to admire what presented itself
to his gaze, from the consciousness of what
might be pawing, scratching, or even biting
him from behind. Eeuben himself, however,
was no more moved by these attentions on the
part of his four-footed and feathered friends
than if they had been stuffed.

There, sn% are my old acquaintances,' he
said, stopping and pointing to a cage which
from its slightness seemed to be made for
canaries, but which was tenanted by half a
dozen wild cats ; ' I give you my word that I
never see them even now without a shudder
of terror.' As they were showing their sharp
teeth and swearing like troopers, with every
v2

hair in their bodies, especially their tails, instinct
with hate and fury, his apprehensions
would have seemed to most people by no
means groundless ; but it was evident that he
was only affected by reminiscence or association.
' Think, sir, think,' he went on, ' what a
poor child must feel on first finding himself in
such company.'

Ay ; and think of the company that could
be gratified by seeing him there,' observed the
visitor, drily.

True, sir, true ; and of the brother* that
could put him to such a trade — his own flesh
and blood.'

Ay, ay.' These monosyllables were
uttered in a grating, almost menacing, tone.
It was plain that it was not only the museum -
keeper that was subject to the influence of
reminiscence.

What I say is, sir,' continued Eeuben,
raising his voice above the din of screech and
hiss and roar, ' that these wild cats themselves
are gentle creatures compared with such a
scoundrel.'

Mere purring domestic tabbies,' was the
quiet reply. 'I don't wish to hurry your
movements, Eeuben, but something is spitting
at my back.'

It is only the emu, sir,' answered Eeuben,
carelessly. He will spit, whatever happens.
Where he gets it all from I can't think. He
beats any sailor I ever knew at that ; and yet
he 's no tobacco-chewer, either. That 's a fine
creature, ain't it, sir ? '

He pointed to a magnificent Bengal tiger ina
wooden cage above their heads, in which he
was stretching himself (he could just do it, and
only just) at full length, with his huge mouth
distended in a prolonged yawn.

He looks big enough and strong enough,
but he 's not in first-rate condition, is he ? If
he was in India I should almost have said, from
the look of his skin, that he had taken to man-eating.'


Eeuben looked at his patron admiringly.
'Upon my life, sir, you seem to know almost
everything. The fact is,' he added, dropping

his voice to a whisper, ' the poor beast did commit
himself in that way on shipboard. It was
only a Lascar, so there was not much fuss made
about it ; but it shows what he 's made of.
However, he 's bespoke by a travelling caravan,
where he will be well looked after.'

Not the one my poor giant has joined, I
do hope,' returned the other, smiling.

No, sir, no ; he 's nothing to be afeared on
in the way of animals but a spotted woman.
She '11 have him in the holy bonds of matrimony,
if he don't look sharp, before the year 's out. —
What is it, my lad ? '

A sharp-looking little Jew boy had come in
from the museum to speak with his master.
Please, sir, the Don has come. He says he
will have no more shilly-shallying, but will you
take the Lady or will you not ? '

Very good ; tell him I will be with
him directly. I am afraid 1 must leave you
for half a minute, sir,' said Eeuben, apologetically.


Don't mention it,' said the visitor, carelessly.

But who is the Don, and, above all, who is the
Lady?'

Well, the Lady 's nothing, sir,' returned
Reuben, with a half-smile ; ' but as to the other,
he 's a very ticklish customer. They call him
the " Don " because of his looks and v/ays ; but
handsome is as handsome does, is my motto.
In my opinion, this tiger here is more to be
trusted. He 's a Mexican, over here for no good,
I reckon, though he has brought me a rare
piece of merchandise, that may, perhaps, turnout
trumps. The finest fellow to look at as
ever I clapped my eyes on, but '

I '11 see him,' interrupted the other,
abruptly.

'I think it would be better not, your
honour,' hesitated Reuben. ' If he only
guessed — — '

Tchut ! You needn't introduce me. A
friend from the country who wants a lion ; at
all events, who wants to see one. Come.'

Reuben shrugged his shoulders. He knew

by experience that it was vain to argue with
his patron, and led the way back to the
museum. A tall fellow was standing with his
back to them teasing some lizards in a glass
tank. He turned round with a frown that
gave way at once to an insinuating smile upon
perceiving that Eeuben was not alone. He
had not yet arrived at middle age, and even in
his formal English dress, with a coarse wide-awake
which made a poor substitute in point
of picturesqueness for his native sombrero, was
a splendidly handsome fellow. His fine eyes
sparkled like diamonds, his teeth shone like
pearls, his very beard had the gloss and shimmer
of silk, his smile seemed to light up his
fine features like a ball-room just prepared for
its guests. A caviller might have objected
that there was too much of brilliancy ; otherwise
he looked the head ideal of manly beauty.
His voice was low and melodious, and the
broken English in which he spoke gave it a
touch of tenderness.

I did not know you had a friend with you.

Mr. Burzon,' he said, raising bis hat for one
instant in graceful courtesy.

Eeuben's patron did the Hke ; the two men
regarded one another with great intentness.

I think we have met before,' said the
Englishman, iu no very conciliatory tone ; he
had the air of one who is endeavouring to call
something which is unpleasant to his own
remembrance.

It is possible ; everything is possible, but
it is not likely,' was the airy rejoinder; ' I have
been but a few days in England.' Then he
turned to Eeuben, as one who dismisses an uninteresting
subject, and in a dry, quick way
observed, 'Well, about the Princess? Is it
'' yes," or " no " ? I have other offers, and
cannot afford to wait.'

This is the lady this gentleman has come
about,' said Eeuben, throwing back the lid of a
chest behind him. ' She is three thousand
years old, he tells me.'

And as fresh as a daisy,' added the
Mexican, sardonically.

The individual in question whose face was
thus disclosed was very far from an attractive
object. It was a mummy, though not swathed
in bandages to the same extent as usual ; it
showed something of human form ; while the
features, which were exposed, had even some
tint of life. The hair, which was coal-black,
remained on the skull; the lower jaw had
dropped, showing the teeth and tongue. It
was a weird and ghastly sight.

You would hardly guess what that is, sir,'
said Eeuben, still addressing his patron.

I have no need to guess. It is an Inca
woman.'

Do you hear that ? ' said the Mexican,
triumphantly. ' The gentleman recognises the
lady. It is, you see, as I told you. Yes, she
is a princess of the Incas, and dirt cheap at
fifty pounds.'

Is she yours to sell ? ' inquired the
Englishman, quietly. ' This inscription on the
lid is a little suspicious.'

He told me that that was the Inca languages
said Eeuben, simply.

Nevertheless, it is what is now spoken in
Peru. How do you account ' — here the old
man turned to the Mexican with a stern look —
for the words " Belonging to Government'
which I see inscribed here ? '

I account to nobody retiu-ned the other,
his face aglow with passion and his hand
fingering his hip, as if for some weapon that
was not in its accustomed place ; ' the mummy
is mine ; I suffer no human being to interfere
with my affairs.'

Just so. You insist upon the rights of
property. You were not always, however,
such a conservative, if I remember right. Let
us hope your ideas upon the sacredness of
human life have undergone some change. You
show your teeth ; that is a mistake, my good
sir, since it reminds those who have memories
that you know only too well how to use them.'

It is difficult to imagine how a handsome
face can become hideous, but at these words of

the Englishman the Mexican's features became
not only terrible but loathsome. Every evil
passion that disfigures human nature seemed
to crowd itself into one concentrated look of
hate and rage as he replied, ' You are safe today,
my friend, but you will not be safe tomorrow
; you may be safe tomorrow, but you
will not be safe the next day: in my country
vengeance is a dish that we eat cold.'

He turned upon his heel and left the house,
though not as an ordinary man under the
influence of passion would have left it. He
walked softly, almost daintily, to the door, then
turned round to smile — such a smile as Nero
might have worn when the idea first struck him
to set Some alight — and swept his hat off, in
grim au revoir with the air of a natural Chesterfield.


I. think you will get your Inca princess
for nothing, Eeuben,' observed the old man,
with a dry chuckle.

I hope not, sir, for to get it so might be
to pay a great price for it,' was the grave

rejoinder. ' That you have made that man
your enemy is certain ; though why he should
have flown into such a passion, just because
you hinted at his being a thief, passes my
comprehension.'

It was not that, Eeuben ; nobody minds
one's knowing what everybody knows ; but I
have some private information respecting that
gentleman. I met him once in his native land,
where he was in hiding among the hills. He
had got into trouble, like Mr. George Farewell,
for murdering his uncle ; not that that is
thought anything of in Mexico, but there were
certain circumstances connected \vith his escape
which rendered him unpopular. In that happy
country no one is put to death for crime, but
is deported to an island off the mainland, and
which is the home of yellow fever. The
guards are changed every three weeks, which
is an expensive item ; on the other hand, no
convict is alive after three months at farthest.
Escape is considered impossible, as these men
are manacled in pairs, and the mile of sea that

lies between them and liberty is infested with
sharks. Our friend the Don, however, is not
one to be daunted by obstacles. He persuaded
his fellow captive to take to the water with
him, and together they swam across in safety.
His first act on getting to land was to kill his
companion in misfortune, because he was an
impediment to his own escape. But even then
he had not got rid of him. The chain that
united the dead with the living he found it
impossible to break, and therefore he took to
his teeth.'

You don't mean to say,' exclaimed Eeuben,
incredulously, ' that he bit through the chain ? '

No ; he remembered the fable of the file
and the serpent, and did not even try it ; but
he bit through his dead friend's wrist and by
that means obtained his liberty. His fellow-countrymen
are not purists in such matters, but
though they did not go the length of giving
him up to justice, they never forgave him
that expedient. They nicknamed him the
man eater," and that is why, I fancy, my

allusion to his splendid teeth put him out of
temper.'

It is no joking matter, sir,' said Eeuben,
earnestly ; ' you have made a most dangerous
and mortal enemy.'

I have made many such,' returned the
other, contemptuously, ' and over lived them all.
Tchut! He is not ^vorth a glance over the
shoulder. Let us look at your Japanese jars.'

Eeuben 's museum Alas in some respects like
human nature ; side by side with some revolting
things there were in it some very beautiful
objects the worth of which was only understood
by a very few persons.

The best I have are on commission,' said
Eeuben ; ' and here, as it happens, comes the
very man that owns them.'

While he was speaking there entered a
young sailor in a red shirt.

Well,' he said, addressing Eeuben and
bestowing an easy nod on the stranger, ' you 've
been an all-fired time, you have, in selling those
jars.' They were very handsome jars, with a

great deal of external work on them — cranes
and water-fowl among reeds — and standing
fully four feet high.

This gentleman is looking at them,' said
Eeuben, significantly, and with a look that
would have imposed silence on any English
vendor under similar circumstances But the
new-comer was of that nation of whom it must
surely have been written by prevision, ' the
tongue can no man tame.'

Let him look,' continued the American ;
they are things as can stand being looked at,
them jars. A hundred and fifty pounds the
pair is dirt cheap. It 's only because I am
afraid of those water-birds flying clean away —
for they're just as like as life — and leaving the
jars plain that I don't stand out for double the
money.' The possible purchaser here whispered
something to Eeuben, who, losing his habitual
caution for the first time, replied, ' Yes, Mr.
Peyton.'

Peyton, Peyton? ' exclaimed the American,

quickly, ' I know that name. Xow might you
by any chance be Beryl Peyton ? '

Beryl Peyton is my name, sir,' said the old
gentleman, drawing himself up with stiffness.

You don't say ? Wal, now, that 's strange.
Why, I knew your son Harry when he was in
New York quite well.'

Did you ? Then you knew one of the
greatest blackguards that ever drew breath ' —
with which unexpected reply Mr. Beryl Peyton
spat on the ground and walked out of the
house, slamming the door behind him.

Never did speech intended to be conciliatory
receive such unsympathetic rejoinder.

Wal, I am darned,' said the Yankee.
What on birth does it all mean ? '

It means,' said Eeuben, with a very blank
face, ' that we have made two enormous fools
of ourselves ; I for letting out that gentleman's
name, and you for having lost the best chance
you will ever have of selling those jars.'

End OF THE First VOLUME.
VOL. I. X

BPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-STRHBT BQUAHB

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

MODERN NOVELIST'S LIBRARY.

Each work, crown 8vo. price 2s. boards, or 2s. 6d. cloth.

BY THE EARL OF BEACONSFIELD.
LOTHAIR.
Endymion.
CONINGSBY.
SYBIL.
TANCRED.
Venetia.

HENRIETTA TEMPLE.
Contains FLEMING.
Alloy.

THE YOUNG DUKE.
Vivian GREY.

BYBRETHARTE.
IN THE CARQL^NEZ
WOODS.

BY MRS. OLIPHANT.
IN TRUST.

BY ANTHONY TROLLOPE.
THE WARDEN.
BARCHESTER TOWERS.

BY MAJOR WHYTE-MELVILLE.
DIGBY GRAND.
GENERAL BOUNCE.
THE GLADIATORS.
GOOD FOR NOTHING.
HOLMBY HOUSE.
THE INTERPRETER.
KATE COVENTRY.
THE QUEEN'S MARIES.

BY VARIOUS WRITERS.
MADEMOISELLE MORI.
THE ATELIER DU LYS.
UNAWARES.

Else AND HER Vulture.


Atherton PRIORY.

THE SIX SISTERS OF
THE VALLEYS.

THE BURGOMASTER'S
FAMILY.

THE NOVELS and TALES of the EARL of Beaconsfield,
Keg. Modem Novelist's Library Edition, complete
in 11 vols., price 33s. cloth extra, gilt edges.

London, LONGMANS & CO.

AUT C^S4R AUT NIHIL. Bj the Confess M. von
BoTHMEB, Author of ' Germain Home Life' &c. 3 vols, crown 8vo,
price 21s.

The purpose of this novel is a very earnest
one indeed, and very grave incidents and characters
are dwelt upon. The period of Russian
history chosen is the reign of the assassinated
Alexander II., whose personal character and
career are dwelt upon with remarkable freedom.
A great deal of information, of a kind
new to most novel readers, is afforded respecting
social and political life in Russia ; and to
these elements of the story are added representations
of the intrigues and ramifications
of that Nihilism which has excited so much
attention, fear, and disgust in later years.

The writer appears to have had exceptional
opportunities of tracing the working of this
organisation, so far as such an attempt can be
made by an outsider. Her characters are well
drawn and her descriptions are graphic ; her
general information is corroborated by all
that ha*! from time to time leaked out in the
judicial proceedings of various countries ; and
the impression likely to be left upon the mind
of a reader of these pages is that the writer
has throughout been dealing with facts rather
than fiction.' The Queen.

IN THE OLDEN TIME.

&e. 1 vol. crown 8vo. 6s.

'Few writers in search of a subject would
have recourse to this remote but eventful
period in the social annals of Germany, and
fewer still possess the necessary qualifications
for constructing a novel which like vin the
Olden Time will interest the majority of its
readers from the first page to the last. The
picture is a sad and gloomy one, but the story
IS far from depressing. History and fiction
are blended with a skilful hand and with the
most acceptable results. In the Olden Time
will probably be regarded as one of the most
agreeable novels of the season. The lives of
HiLDEMUlfD Dawn and the wayward and
gentle Dornroschen, the only child of the

By the Author of ' Mile. Mori '■

lord of Schloss T^urgstein, and the events
which revolve around them, are what interest
the reader most, and furnish the brighter and
most graceful elements of the graphic and
vivid narrative. The novel abounds in passages
of trenchant power, and in stirring descriptions
of picturesque incidents and scenes.
The action never halts ; the rise and progress
of the peasant rebellion are sketched in impressive
and suggestive outline. The interest
of the story is strong and well sustained. It
is carefully writ en ; the plot is ably conceived,
skilfully developed, and brought to a
felicitous consummation.'

Nottingham Guardian.

BECAUSE OF THE ANGELS.

crown 8vo. 12.".

By M. Hope. 2 vols.

'The contrast between Hester's high nature,
with its drawback of spiritual pride, and
the simple nature of her girlish sister Gladys,
is strongly drawn, with that absence of effort
which marks natural strength. The whole
story is attractive from its ease and simplicity
y. Some dark episodes, like the suicide
of Elias, the disappointed poet, and the
struggles of Alice, the sempstress, are contrasted
with farcical ones, like the unsuccessful

effort of n fashionable lady to walk the
waves in the style of a genuine apostle. carnegie
second wife, the completely worldly
Marion, supplies an excellent foil to the earnestness
of her stepdaughter. Daniel Escobar,
the princely Jew whom Eric meets in
the East, and his daughter Rachel are original
characters. The style of the book is fluent
and natural, with many touches of description
which are taking.' Athen^UM.

ARDEN. By A. Mary E. Robinson.

price 12s.

2 vols, crown 8vo.

'Miss Robinson must certainly be congratulated
on having Stored a success at the very
beginning of her career. Arden is an extremely
clever story, and, though it is one
merely of every-day life, yet the incidents are
so clothed as to appear fresh and new, and
the scent of the hay throughout is invigorating
and refreshing. The heroine, who gives
her name to the book, is a wild impulsive
creature whom one cannot help liking, in
spite of various weaknesses in her character.

Brought t up in Rome, on the death of her
father Arden returns to his native village
in Warwickshire, there to make acquaintance
with the truest and freshest country people
we have ever met on paper. The story is
simply that of Arden's life and marriage,
but it is never wearisome because of the sharpness
of the writing, and we have to thank
Miss Robinson for a vry good novel indeed.'
Whitehall Review.

London, LONGMANS & CO.

<r.

1^

S^i^^A^Ay^^a^^€^^yri^z<nyCy^

BY

JAMES Pain

Author OF 'BY P II O X T ' 'HIGH Spirit' ETC.

IX THREE VOLUMES

VOL. III.

LONDON

LONGMANS, OEEEN, AND CO.



All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOOUE AND i C, NEW-street SQUARE

AND Armament STREET

CONTENTS

OF
THE THIRD VOLUME.

CHAPTER Page

XXXV. THE ROMAN VILLA 1

XXXVI. Discordant Elements .21

XXXVII. DR. Bede 40

XXXVIII. AN EAVESDROPPER . 59
XXXIX. AN EXCITEMENT IN THE HAPPY FAMILY . . 74

XL. MR. RENNIE's LITTLE MISTAKE . 88

XLI. 'engaged' . . . . 110

XLII. Rose-coloured . , . .128

XLIII. CONSPIRATORS 142

XLIV. PULLING THE TRIGGER .155

XLV. THE INDICTMENT 168

XLVI. SCARSDALE's TESTIMONY . . .184

XL VII. SUSPICION 195

XLVIII. 'it can but Cost ME A CLIENT ' . .211

XLIX. A DISCOVERY 226

CHAPTER

L. AN EXPLOSION

LI. Lawyer AND CLIENT

LII. SEVERED

LIII. THE DISPUTED WILL

LIV. THE VERDICT .

V'AGIO








CHAPTER Xxxi.

THE RO:^L\X VILLA.

It is a well-known though unacknowledged
fact that diligent and hardworking persons can
always find time for special purposes, while
those who have nothing to do have rarely a
moment to spare from their absorbing occupation.
Thus it happened that at Letcombe
Hall, whose inmates had only to follow the
"bent of their own fancies, arrangements for
any expedition were made with difficulty, and
in most cases put off indefinitely at the last
moment. The treat which Professor Parks
had promised himself of acting as cicerone to

VOL. III. B

Mary in the matter of the Eoman Villa had
hung on hand for many weeks, and certainly
through no material obstructions. There were
vehicles in abundance at the Hall, at the disposal
of any guest : the ejaculation of ' more
curricles ! ^ attributed to the Indian Nabob
would have there found a ready response, butin
Mary's case not only man and horse were
needed, but a chaperon. It was impossible,
notwithstanding the eulogium passed upon the
Professor by his hostess, that he could escort
Mary alone ; the expedition was too fatiguing
for Mrs. Peyton, and the other ladies always
devised some excuse for absenting themselves.
The real reason was that they had been there
already, and suffered under the Professor's
patronage, and were not going to risk it — nay,
there was no risk, it was a certainty — to
undergo it a second time. Every one who has
visited the Eoyal Academy in company with
an art critic, or gone over the Docks with an
authority on statistics, will know why they
shrank from visiting the Eoman Villa in

custody of Professor Parks, xls a rule people
are wonderfully patient under the application
of information ; a very little of it, I confess,
goes a great way "^vith me, though I don't mind
a sprinkling ; but no one likes a douche bath
of it.

It may be naturally suggested that bliss
Adela Parks was the proper person to accompany
her brother and Mary to this interesting
spot, and indeed this was suggested to her.
With admirable presence of mind she threw
herself upon the protection of her host.

I correct Porson's proofs,' she said, ' but
need I listen to his lectures ? Are the obligations
of the tie of blood to have no limit ? '
This skilful appeal to !Mr. Peyton's prejudices
had the effect intended, and he threw the aegis
of his protection round her as regarded the
visit to the Eoman Villa.

One morning, however, to the astonishment
of the whole party, Mr. Beryl Peyton announced
his intention of going thither himself.
The revolution worked by this announcement in

the views of the Happy Family was very remarkable.
It was as though Louis XIV. had,
in the depth of winter, announced his intention
of going to dine in the open air at Marly.
What a moment ago would have seemed madness,
became the most natural, or at all events
the most delightful, proposition in the world.
The Professor found himself for once the centre
of attraction, and was reminded by everybody
of the last (and first) time he had been so
good as to act as their cicerone. They said
that they should never forget it — which was
very true. They paid this attention to the
Professor in order that Mary should not flatter
herself that she was the cause of Mr. Peyton's
unlooked-for resolve ; but in their hearts they
knew that she was the cause, and that he did
not care one farthing for either the Professor's
lecture or its subject. When the vehicles
drove round to the front door, they were
found to consist of two barouches and a pony
carriage, into the latter of which, amid the
hushed amaze of all beholders, the host quietly

handed Mary Aaron and drove away with
her, leaving the rest to follow, in a state of
mind by no means suitable to an expedition
of pleasure. The gentlemen shrugged their
shoulders, the ladies looked unutterable
things, and Miss Parks (who had thought it
best, ' for dear Porson's sake,' to make one
of the party after all) confessed to herself,
with her hostess's delicate state of health in
her mind, that Mr. Beryl Peyton might not
after all be quite so monogamous as she had
imagined.

As for sirs. Welbeck, in repMng with her
laced handkerchief to a flutter of farewell fi'om
Mrs. Peyton's window, she audibly muttered,
Poor woman ! ' Dr. Bilde alone wore a look
of content ; his habit of inflicting pain for
scientific purposes, which at first had only
jade him indifferent, had begotten a relish
for it ; and the spectacle of so many fellow-creatures
in the torments of jealousy, from
which he himself was free, gave him a sensible
satisfaction.

Though Mary Marvon was quite unaware
of the envy that she had thus excited, she was
conscious of the compliment her host had paid
her, and, to say truth, would have gladly dispensed
with it. It placed her in a position of
prominence from which she shrank. But the
pleasure and even triumph that had ht up Mrs.
Peyton's face when she said, 'My husband
intends to take you in the pony carriage,' had
prevented her from showing the least unwillingness
to accept his courtesy.

Beryl Peyton had an easy natural way
with him, however, which put those who were
themselves natural at their ease at once.
Pretence was pitiful in his eyes, and flattery
hateful, though his very good nature sometimes
prevented its due repression. He talked of the
country, its pursuits and pleasures, as compared
with those of the town, and gently drew out
his companion's views. Then he spoke of life
at Letcombe Hall, which he said he feared
was dull and gloomy to her — a question which
she combated with modest gratitude, speaking.

as well she might, of the kindness and consideration
she had met with at Mrs. Peyton's
hands, and of the deep affection which she
bore her. Then he spoke of his guests, not
cynically, or with the least breach of the laws
of hospitality, but in a manner that astounded
her, from the keen appreciation which he
showed of the characters of each. She had
hitherto been in doubt as to whether he was
hoodwinked by them, or absolutely indifferent
to their proceedings ; she now found that he
was neither ; though their personal feelings as
regarded himself seemed to have absolutely no
interest for him.

He who confers a benefit,' he said, ' and
looks for gratitude, gives nothing ; if he expects
subservience, he sells his favours at a
higher price than they are worth. It is said,
^iiss Marvon,' he added, with a pleasant smile,
that the way of transgressors is hard, but I do
assise you that that of the practical philanthropist
is still harder.'

This was a subject on which she could be

hardly expected to have an opinion ; she could
only murmur something about ' deserts ' and
'merits

It has of course been my object to discover
them,' he replied. ' My good people ' —
he pointed with his thumb at the two vehicles
behind them, as the proprietor of a travelling
circus might have indicated the contents of his
caravans — ' have all something to recommend
them ; most of them have originality and
talent, for which I can hardly be wrong in
securing a fair field. But I sometimes wonder
whether I am on the right tack ; whether
perhaps I should not do better in securing
the happiness of less eminent persons. I will
suppose, for argument's sake, that the worth
and genuineness of each class are equal, in the
latter case the benefits seem more certain, the
effect more practical. What do you say. Miss
Marvon ? '

The question did not embarrass Mary, as
perhaps he expected it would do, since he kept
his eyes averted from her as he put it. It had

in her eyes do personal reference to herself
whatever.

I am afraid I scarcely understand yon,
mr. Peyton,' she rejoined. 'I can hardly
think you can be serious '

I am quite serious in asking your advice
he put in quietly.

But if I may believe what everybody
tells me, Mr. Peyton, you already practise
the system of which you speak. It is not
only the wise and learned, but the poor and
friendless, who have reason to be grateful to
you.'

Tut, tut ! that is what fools call charity ;
the parting with a few coppers which one
doesn't want to people whose penury magnifies
them to crown-pieces. The rich man who
does not give to the poor is a mere chrysalis
devil. Xo, where I have erred, as I believe,
is in not having sufficiently given my attention
to the well-being of young people. I should
like, for example, to smooth for them the rough
of true love, and set those who are

worthiest of them independent of the frowns of
fate.'

'It is, at all events, a kindly aspiration,'
said Mary.

That is not very encouraging, Miss Marvon,'
replied the old man, with a strange smile ; 'but
it is an honest answer.'

Here they arrived where the road forked.
Would you like to see Dottrell Knob ? ' he
said ; ' it is not much out of our way.' And
without waiting for her reply he took the left-hand
road which led up to the downs. Here
they were on a high plateau, so level that the
elevation he spoke of, though of no great
height, loomed before them like an Egyptian
pyramid. No doubt it reminded him of this,
for he presently said, ' How little can men who
have not genius leave behind them to remind
posterity of their existence ! Their memory
fades out and dwindles day by day, when once
they have left the scene of their labours.'

Fortunately, that is an idea that troubles
few people,' said Mary, thoughtfully ; ' at least.

one's notion is that those who do most good
think least about it, so far as they themselves
are concerned, and thereby, without meaning
it, live the longest in the hearts of others.'

Still the hearts of others are not a very
enduring sepulchre. To know that to die
means to be forgotten makes death less welcome.
I can remember as a young man that I thought
I should never die. I seemed of such importance,
not only to myself, but in the scheme
of creation, that it seemed to me the very
Judgment day must needs happen first.'

Mary stared at him in wonder, not so much
at the monstrous egotism of which he spoke,
as at his confession of it, to a girl of her age
and in her position. She did not then know
that it was her companion's habit to indulge
every impulse, and especially that of confiding
to those who took his fancy the strangest and
most secret things. Still less did she guess that
this mark of favour was often the precursor to
the appearance of the name of its recipient in
Mr. Beryl Peyton's will.

They had now reached the Knob, a mere
huge hillock of green surrounded by fir-trees,
the only sign of vegetation on the whole
plateau.

It is supposed,' he said, ' though such cases
of solitary sepulture are very uncommon, that
one person only has been buried there, one of
those early British chiefs about whom the Professor
will discourse to you by the hour. I
have caused, as you see — he pointed to a large
fissure in the mound-side — excavations to be
made in it, but they reveal nothing. When I
die — or rather if I die before I have left written
directions to that effect — will you be so good
as to remember. Miss Marvon, that I enjoined
it upon you that I should be buried there ? '

Mary bowed her head ; she was speechless
with astonishment, and indeed with something
like alarm. She called to mind what Mr.
Jennie had once said of her present companion,
that though some people called him a philanthropist
at large, others thought he ought not
to be at large, being as mad as a March

hare ; and what he had just said looked really
very like madness. The next moment, however,
Mr. Peyton seemed to have forgotten all
about his last extraordinary request, and was
pointing with his whip to the spot in the valley
(into which they were abbacy descending)
where lay the object of their journey.

When they reached it they found the rest
of the party already arrived there, and awaiting
them at the entrance of the Eoman Villa ;
not from respect to their host, but because the
admission was sixpence a head ; and they
thought it just as well that that gentleman
should pay it. As nothing was paid for by
the guests at Letcombe Hall except their
washing, the habit perhaps had become fixed,
or, as they had all seen the place before and did
not want to see it again, they thought it only
reasonable that they should be admitted gratis.
The villa had been discovered on land belonging
to two small proprietors, each of whom
laid claim to the exhibition of it, so that in an
open turnip field there was the curious spectacle

of a couple of huts, each with a turnstile and a
money-taker, as at the Crystal Palace. Number
one claimed precedence and a superior attraction,
upon the ground that what he had to
show had been first discovered ; number two
had been later in the field, but had a greater
store of antiquities to offer. So, though their
names were Brown and Jones, they had been
dubbed by the Professor, Romulus and Remus.
To my mind there is always something disappointing
in antiquities ; so much has to betaken
for granted, so little is visible save to the
eye of faith. Even at Pompeii one has rather
to take the word of the learned than the
evidence of one's own observation. ' This was
a public house,' for example, they tell us.
Many dozens of amphoree, etc. (which have
all been removed) were found here.' Of course
one doesn't expect to see the ' potboy,' nor the
inevitable hanger-on of ' puts ' outside, waiting
for a job, but there is always a great deficiency
of detail. In this case, however, the Professor
supplied it. The first apartment in the villa.

for instance, looked uncommonly like a place
where an apartment was in course of construction,
but had not a5 yet got beyond the ground
plan. But for the Professor, Mary would hardly
have recognised the grey marl flooring for ' tesserae,'
seen ' evidence of the action of fire ' in the
centre of them, or the ' five flue tiles actually
171 situ' To her uninstructed gaze they resembled
rubbish which the workmen had left and
would presently cart away. Yet there was an
earthenware drain pipe fixed into the wall, unmistakably,
said the Professor, of Eoman make ;
besides a heap of charcoal and some pottery,
which, though broken, was brimful of archaeological
interest. Then there was the hypocaust,
which, though it had tiles and a flue, was not
easy to distinguish from a neglected hothouse
wherefrom the flowerpots had been removed,
and a magnificent example (said the Professor)
of a suspense, or suspended floor, though,
tired perhaps of its state of suspense, it had
vanished altogether. It is fair to state that
some apartments had really some ornamentation,

though the phrase 'wall paintings of
great beauty,' which the Professor applied to
them, seemed a little too flattering. Among
them was a faded individual with a lyre playing
to various blocks and splashes in mosaic,
which the Professor confidently asserted to be
Orpheus and the Brutes. He insisted upon
poor Mary's identifying some of these with
fauns, peacocks, and the like, and on her
making suggestions as to the rest. In a sort
of desperation, assisted perhaps by the association
of the creature with street music, she gave
it as her opinion that one was a monkey,
and thereby unwittingly established her reputation.


By jingo ! ' exclaimed the Professor, ' and
so it is ; but in no Orpheus pavement, though
we have many specimens of them in this
favoured land, has such an animal been heretofore
discovered. My dear Miss Marvon, I
congratulate you ; when I have finished my
work on " Prehistoric Britain " I shall give my
attention to these more modern matters, and

you will then find yourself, I hope, not
altogether unknown to fame.'

But are you sure it is a monkey ? ' observed
Mr. Xayler, cynically.

The Professor was furious ; to snatch a new
discovery from the grasp of an archaeologist is
to rol) the tigress of her last-born whelp.

It is a presentment of one, at all events,
sir,' he answered viciously.

It is most certainly a monkey,' said Mr.
Hindon, always prompt to acquiesce with the
last speaker.

'And there can be no one,' sneered
Dr. Bilde, who had no such instinct, 'who is
a better authority on such a subject than
yourself

If the Professor had not here interposed his
authority, as being in a manner ' in the chair,'
and proceeded to descant with great fire and
energy upon a copper coin (looking very Hke a
bad halfpenny) of the time of Honoris, there
might have been an unpleasantness.

'What does the Professor mean? ' inquired

VOL. in. c

Mary confidentially of Mrs. Welbeck, ' by a
coin being found in situ ? '

'Heaven knows, my dear,' answered that
lady, who did not quite perceive the point of
the observation, ' but I saw him take it out of
his pocket.'

Up to this point Mary had earned golden
opinions from the lecturer by reason of her
attention and intelligence ; but her reputation
was doomed to be shortened. They had now
arrived in the Chamber of the Four Seasons ;
that is, the chamber whose floor had in each of
its four corners a representation of the seasons,
but only one was left. It depicted a lady with
very scanty drapery, and the great question
was. Was she Summer or was she Winter ? It
was argued, with what might be literally termed
a decent probability, that nothing but a very
high temperature could have excused her
appearing in so very slight a garb ; she had,
however, an object in her hand which some
persons of imagination, among whom was the
Professor, contended was a starved bird, and

on the strength of this allegorical, design they
insisted upon it that she was Winter. The
Professor had just opened his brief upon this
favourite subject, which naturally required
delicate and euphemistic treatment, when a
terrible thing happened to Mary : she heard in
the next apartment her host speaking to some
newcomer in a tone of hearty welcome, and
then a reply in tones that had once been dear
to her, but which she had hoped never to hear
again.

You were quite right to come on here,'
said Mr. Peyton, cheerily. ' I owe you an
apology for not remaining at home to receive
you.' Then came the voice again, uttering
some commonplace courtesy, which nevertheless
set poor Mary's heart beating and her
pretty cheeks aflame. Of the Professor's
lecture she caught nothing : she knew that he
was appealing to her about the starved bird,
but did not know that he was calling the opponents
of his theory hard names ; she only
caught the one word parrot,
c 2-

Yes she said, with a pretence of earnest
conviction, ' no doubt it 's a parrot.'

There was a little shout of laughter, in
which the Professor did not join, a sudden
silence such as is caused by a new arrival, and
then his introduction to the various members
of the party by his host. Mary did not turn
her eyes that way, but kept them fixed upon
the starved bird till Mr. Peyton's voice addressed
her.

Miss Marvon, my friend Mr. Edgar
Dornay — one of the young people,' he added
in a whisper, ' I have asked to Letcombe, in
hopes to make the Hall more pleasant to you.'

CHAPTEE Xxxii.

DiscoRD.\xT elements.

How much more happiness there would be in the
world if only people were allowed to be happy
in their own way ! But even the best of men
and women, who really have at heart the
happiness of others, too often disregard this ;
they insist upon making people happy their
way, and fail egregiously.

Jones loves Smith, and Jones loves Brown,
but, not content with their reciprocation of his
affection, he wants Smith and Brown to be
devoted to each other. This, however, they
steadily refuse to be : Smith cannot imagine
what Jones sees in Bro^vn, and Brown cannot
imagine what Jones sees in Smith, and when it
is pointed out to them they deny its existence.

A very strong Jones might take Smith and
Brown and knock their heads together, but to
unite their hearts he will find impossible ;
and, if this coalition be difficult in matters of
friendship, how much more so is it in those of
love!

It was one of the weaknesses of Mr. Beryl
Peyton to be blind to this fact. He was masterful
by nature ; wealth and power had increased
this characteristic in him ; and when
he said 'Bless you, my children, love one
another,' to two young people, he expected
them to do it and not to be long about it
either.

He had conceived a great regard, as we
know, for Mary Marvon, and, thinking in his
princely manner over what he could do for her,
it struck him that he would make an heiress of
her and marry her to Mr. Edgar Dornay. He
had taken a fancy to Edgar, as being a young
man of intelligence and position who took an
interest in the affairs of other people ; and,
though development of artistic taste in the

middle classes did not seem to Mr. Peyton so
vital as it does to some people (for apart from
his own particular weaknesses he was a man of
sense), he admitted there was something in it,
and at all events was pleased to see one of our
golden or gilt youths, the young gentleman in
question, concerning himself with that question
instead of devoting himself exclusively to the
ballet and pigeon-shooting.

Of Mary's former acquaintance with Edgar
he had no suspicion, though, if he had taken
the trouble to reflect upon it, he would have
seen the probability of it. It was a subject on
which sirs. Peyton had her reasons for silence ;
and indeed in any case she would not have
ventured to trouble her husband with any such
matter, which he would have set down under
the general head of ' rubbish ' or ' tittle-tattle.'
He had, indeed, casually informed her that he
meant to invite Mr. Ealph Dornay and his
newly married wife to Letcombe Dottrell — an
intention, as we know, she had communicated
to Mary — but he had not said one word about

Edgar. Nay, what was curious, when one
remembers his views upon the tie of blood, he
had never asked himself the question whether
Ealph's society would be agreeable to his nephew
or vice versa.

Under the circumstances one can imagine
what a charming addition to the Happy Family
their relations to one another being such as
have been described — these three new-comers,
vdth their relations to one another, must needs
have been. That Charles Sotheran, no friend
of Edgar's, and an open foe of Ealph's, should
have also arrived on the same day, would in
itself have been an embarrassing circumstance,
but for the other entanglements and dilemmas,
which by contrast made that smooth sailing,
and threw its awkwardness into the shade. It
would have been only natural for Charley to
have put up at Bank Cottage ; but Mr. Peyton,
in pursuance of his notable plan of making the
Hall pleasant to Mary, had insisted on his
being his guest ; and it is fair to say that in
this he was not depriving Mrs. Sotheran of her

son's society, since he had obtained from the
authorities of the Probate Office a special
holiday for Charley, independent of his usual
vacation.

In the Eoman Villa Edgar and Mary had
met as strangers : the former, whatever his
faults, was a gentleman after all — albeit of the
superficial sort — and, perceiving her distress
and embarrassment, had confined himself to
the coldest civilities. He, of course, had been
aware that he should meet her at Letcombe
Hall, and perhaps had entertained a hope that
he had been invited thither not without her
cognisance, or even approval ; if it was so, her
manner had disabused him of that idea at once.
He felt that he had no chance ^vith her, that
his appearance had pained and annoyed her
exceedingly, and, to do him justice, he had
henceforth no other object than to make his
stay under the same roof as little embarrassing
to her as possible. Mr. Peyton, like the rest,
had taken them for strangers to one another,
and in driving home with Mary had spoken to

her of Edgar under that misapprehension. She
was thereupon compelled to tell him that they
had known one another before, but did not feel
called upon to say under what circumstances.
She could not conceal a certain awkwardness in
speaking of the matter, and this he set down to
a cause the exact contrary to that from which
it arose. He fancied that she was not indifferent
to Edgar, and that she had purposely
adopted an airy manner towards him to conceal
the fact, not only from others but himself ; it
might easily have happened that the difference
in their positions as to means had hitherto
placed, and still seemed to place, an insuperable
bar between them ; and hence her unwillingness
to encourage him — an idea which, as often
happens, fitted in with the wishes and intentions
of him who entertained it. It was one
of Mr. Beyrl Peyton's favourite occupations
to remove insuperable bars. He presently
informed Mary that Ealph Dornay and his
wife were coming to the Hall that very
day.

The raptures of the honeymoon,' he added
with a grim smile, 'are not, I suppose, quite
over, so they have preferred to travel by themselves
rather than in the same tram with
Edgar.'

Mary thought to herself that there might
have been other reasons, and even that if they
knew he had been invited they would not have
come at all.

In this, however, she was mistaken. Things
had happened since she had parted from Mrs.
Beckett of which she knew nothing ; and a
reconciliation of a somewhat skin-deep kind
had taken place. That a change had come
over Lady Orr (as she now termed herself) was
evident enough ; she was standing with Mrs
Peyton at the front door as the pony carriage
drew up, and hardly waiting for the expression
of her host's welcome, not only held out both
her hands to Mary, but, encouraged doubtless
by her forgiving face, drew her towards her in
an affectionate embrace.

Let bygones be bygones, my dear,' site
whispered ; and, as Mary kissed her, she felt
the other's tears upon her cheek.

'What can have happened' thought
Mary ; but she was well pleased at what had
come of it, whatever it was. She was human
enough in her resentment of wrong and insult,
but at the least show of penitence — and this
was something more, it was tender remorse —
her heart melted like wax. For the moment,
however, she attributed Mrs. Beckett's behaviour,
in part at least, to Mrs. Peyton's influence,
who was looking on at this little scene
with obvious satisfaction.

In the great hall they found Mr. Ealph
Dornay, examining the pictures on the walls
with a critical eye. His reception by Mr.
Peyton (who had never seen him before) was
sufficiently cordial, but by no means the same
welcome he had given to his wife. His manner,
though singularly courteous (when he did not
intend it to be otherwise), could boast of many
gradations. Ealph seemed to feel that there

was leeway to be made up, and was so profuse
in this compliments and his self-congratulations
at finding himself at Letcombe Dottrell that he
seemed to forget Mary's presence altogether,
till his host drew his attention to it.
Miss Marvon I think you know.'
'I have that honour,' said Ealph, with a
beaming smile, and touched Mary's hand with
his finger-tips.

He saw at once that she was in favour, and
that the scornful patronage with which he had
intended to treat her would be very injudicious
; on the other hand, he knew her character
too well to expect any advantage from
conciliation. To have gained a footing at
Letcombe Hall, even as Lady Orr's husband,
was a great step for Mr. Ealph Dornay ; and it
was an object with him to make it secure. He
had views altogether different from those he had
entertained in his bachelor days ; and in the
greeting which he presently gave to his nephew,
though studiously polite, it was easy to see that
the countenance of the ' head of the house '

was no longer of much consequence to him.
He had found his present pecuniary position a
much better passport to society, though somewhat
irregularly used, than the blood of the
Dornays. ' Openings in life ' are not for young
men only ; middle age has also its aspirations ;
and Ealph had in his eye, not only a ' position
in the county,' where his wife's country house
was situated, but a seat in Parliament. His
deportment had been always unexceptionable ;
but he now began to use a certain dignity,
especially to those he considered his inferiors.
When Charley Sotheran, for example, made his
appearance at the Hall just before the dinner-hour
(having dutifully passed his afternoon at
Bank Cottage), Ealph Dornay acknowledged his
somewhat cool ' How are you ? ' with stately
frigidity, and pushed out two fingers, as though
they had been the antenna of an insect, by way
of salutation ; whereupon Charley also pushed
out two, so that, instead of shaking hands, these
gentlemen appeared to be crossing swords with

their fingers — an action, as it tired out, which
might have been taken as very significant of
their mutual relations.

Of this last meeting Mary was not a spectator.
She had been glad enough to go to her
own room and stay there in quiet after the
occurrences of the day. She had not been
long occupied with her own reflections when
Mrs. Peyton knocked at her sitting-room door.
The house is now so full of people, my dear,'
she said apologetically, 'that I must snatch a
quarter of an hour with you when I can. How
did you like the Eoman Villa, or rather the
Professor's dissertation upon it ? I am afraid
you have had more than enough of it.'

I confess, dear 'Mis. Peyton, that I am a
little tired.'

There was something else to trouble you
besides the lecture, was there not, my dear ? '
continued the old lady, very tenderly. ' When
we were talking of a certain person the other
day, I little dreamt that we should see him
here : indeed, as you know, I was ignorant of

his identity. You may be quite certain it is
not my fault '

My dear Mrs. Peyton, it was nobody's
fault,' put in Mary. Then with a smile, which
to say the truth was a little forced, she added,
Nay, it is not even any one's misfortune. As
I told you the other day, I have got over that
matter : it is almost as though it had never
been.'

You say " almost," Mary ; now pray tell
me — for indeed I do not ask it without reason
what you mean by that word.'

'I mean that though I can never love
Edgar Dornay again, the sight of him did give
me some distress ; for a day or two it may still
continue to do so ; but — I am sure of this
from what I feel already — his presence will
affect me less and less. Of course,' she added,
if I thought he had come down here with any
idea of pressing his attentions on me, why then
I should go away.'

Go away ! Good heavens, do not talk
like that ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Peyton, with alarm.

You do not know what that would mean tome,
my daring. Of course he shall not press
them. I only wanted to make certain of your
own sentiments.'

They are as fixed as fate and quite unalterable,'
said Mary, with a touch of haughtiness.
On the other hand, I must needs absolve Mr.
Dornay, so far as I could judge by his manner,
of any intention of annoying me.'

Xo doubt, no doubt,' said the old lady,
thoughtfully. ' I feel sure he comes here with
no such intention : it was not his doing at all.
You must not mind if you are placed next to
him at dinner. I will let him know that it is
not your wish.'

That will be quite unnecessary,' said Mary,
drawing herself up and speaking very coldly.
Forgive me, dear Mrs. Peyton,' she added
tenderly, perceiving distress in the other's
looks ; ' I know I have no right to be proud,
but a girl's love — whoever she be — is her own
to give or to withhold.'

Quite true, quite true,' assented the old lady

VOL. in. D

Would that all girls were like you ! Then
men, perhaps,' she added with a sigh, ' would
be less sinful. All I wish to say is, that if
Edgar Dornay seems to be thrown in your way
here it will not be his doing.'

Thrown in my way ! ' echoed Mary, in
amazement.

Yes ; it may be so just for a little while.
If it is so, do not visit it upon him as if it were
his fault. Bear with it, darling, for my sake.
Oh ! why did they come, why did they come,
to vex you when we were so happy ? '

'Dear Mrs. Peyton, do not weep,' said
Mary, throwing herself upon her knees and
kissing the old lady's hands ; ' who am I that a
little inconvenience to me — for that is what it
all comes to, after all — should thus affect you ?
Why should we not be as we were before?
How long are they going to stay? '

I don't know, daring. I know nothing.
Perhaps for a week or two ; perhaps — but it is
impossible to say ; people come here for a week
and stay for years. Some one will come some

day and take you away from me. Or perhaps
I shall die and leave you to their tender
mercies. Oh ! Mary, darling, if I could only
see you married to the man of your choice ! '

But I don't want to be married,' said Mary,
laughing ; ' and I haven't made a choice.'

Hush ! ' cried Mrs. Peyton ; ' what is
that?'

Through the evening air there rang out the
cheerful notes of a key bugle. Some one was
playing it on the verandah that ran round the
house ; and it seemed to awaken the echoes
from a hundred hills.

I — I think,' said Mary, ' it must be
Charley ; at least I know that he does play the
bugle, and that the Echo Song is his delight ;
but he would surely never venture '

'Hark, hark ! ' murmured !Mrs. Peyton ; ' it
is my Henry's bugle. Dear, dear, if Beryl
were to hear it ! '

If Beryl did not hear it, Beryl must have
been as deaf as Marcomm, his mute. The key
bugle, played however skilfully, is scarcely

muffled music. There is small dispute as to its
being the most inspiriting of instruments. Even
Mrs. Peyton, despite the melancholy association
to which she had alluded, felt a sense of
sheerness, as she listened to it, to which she
had been a stranger for many a year. As for
Mary, the melody stirred her heart within her,
and seemed, like a wholesome breeze, to sweep
away the atmosphere of intrigue and greed
that permeated Letcombe Hall.

I suppose that confounded row means
dinner in half an hour,' ejaculated Ealph
Dornay, who had already retired to his 
; for his toilette, always elaborate,
now consumed more time than ever.

But the music meant nothing of the sort ;
it was simply a happy thought of Charley's,
who, having been informed by the garrulous
Mrs. Welbeck of the existence of his favourite
instrument somewhere in the house, had
ferreted it out at her request, and, without
leave or licence, was exercising its vocal
powers.

The Happy Family were astonished, but by
no means displeased : they foresaw that intaking
this unprecedented liberty one of the
new-comers had done for himself in the eyes of
their host and patron. Had they known that
this particular sound was connected ^^^th the
habits of his dead son, they would have beeii
jubilant indeed, since they would have felt certain
of its arousing his extreme resentment ;
but noise of all kinds they knew he hated,
and confidently calculated upon an outburst of
indignation.

As Mary left her room she met mr. Peyton
in the passage, and they descended the great
stairs together.

What charming airs some one has been
playing on the bugle ! ' she said.

Do you think so ? ' he answered quickly.
I am siu*e it will please the player to bear it.'

Mary blushed at this ; perhaps fur shame
at having spoken of Charley's performance so
diplomatically.

Mr. Peyton looked at her with a pleased

smile. ' Such a burst of melody was a little
alarming,' he said ; ' but, as you say, it was
very exhilarating. It is like the breath of
youth, and puts new life in this old house. I
knew Dornay was musical, but I had no idea
he played the bugle.'

Mary was silent, and, feeling that her silence
was almost an act of duplicity, blushed
again.

Nothing more was said on the subject until
they were seated at dinner, to which Edgar
took her in at Mrs. Peyton's request. Then
the host, looking across the table to the young
couple, observed in a loud voice, ' Your performance
in the verandah just now was much
admired, let me tell you, Dornay, by your fair
neighbour.'

Edgar looked up in some surprise. ' It
was not I, sir, I assure you ; I have not the
skill, nor even the breath for it.'

Then who on earth was it ? ' asked Mr.
Peyton, knitting his brow.

If you mean the key bugle and that row

in the verandah, sir,' said Charley, modestly,
I am afraid that was me.'

Then followed an uncomfortable silence,
broken only by Mr. Hindon's sympathetic
tones.

'A very candid confession, Mr. Sotheran,
though not quite grammatically expressed.
Your frankness does you honour.'

CHAPTEE Xxxiii.

DR. Bide.

As regarded the new arrivals at the Hall, and
the effects produced by them upon the Happy
Family, the result of the first day's innings —
and even of the next two or three — was distinctly
in favour of Charles Sotheran. It was
easily to be seen that Edgar Dornay, and not
he, was first favourite with Mr. Beryl Peyton ;
and to be not a favourite, and still more to be
out of the running,' was equivalent to popularity
with this very peculiar ' ring.' As Mr.
Peyton, however, was not actually hostile to
Charley, but only discouraging, some thought
it worth their while to play him against Edgar,
and to make friends with him on their own
account. His natural and outspoken ways.

SO different from the manner that they would
themselves have assumed had they been in his
position, gave them the impression of simplicity,
and seemed to adapt him for a cats-paw.
They took his satire, which was sometimes
sufficiently severe, for awkwardness, and
imagined, even while they winced, that he trod
upon their toes by mistake, and not by design.
To them Edgar's cultivated tone and greater
knowledge of the world made him appear, even
without his host's obvious goodwill, a much
more formidable rival.

Mr. Marks, indeed, who had a natural turn
for intrigue, and thought he detected in Mary's
manner a leaning towards Charley, determined
to use this guileless young Government clerk
for his own purposes, and laid himself out to
please him ; and what greater benefit (thought
he) could he confer upon him than to teach
him the science of metaphysics ? He therefore
took him out — as a philosopher of old might
have taken some promising youth into the
groves of Academe — into the woods and fields.

and discoursed of ' Kant's method,' to Charley's
obvious enjoyment. It was a stroke of humour,
as the young man well understood, of which
Fortune could not have many samples in her
bag, and he welcomed it accordingly. There
was a terrace walk within view, but out of
earshot of the house, which was Mr. Marks's
favourite training ground. Let us listen as
they discourse together ; one great advantage
in metaphysics being, that one can strike in
anywhere and understand from an isolated
fragment as much as may be gathered from
an entire system.

But where are our Categories ? ' inquires
Mr. Marks ; ' the rules which the Understanding,
by means of its own essential law, lays at
the foundation of Nature for joining all the
given Divinity in our consciousness — do you
follow me, Mr. Sotheran ? '

Charley nodded. As he certainly did not
keep up with Mr. Marks, it was allowable,
perhaps, thus to indicate that he followed
him.

It would be difficult, you see, my young
friend, to get on without the Categories.*

Very difficult,' admitted Charley, whose
head was revolving.

Moreover, our Category extends beyond
the Sensible.'

Most certainly,' said Charley, eagerly.
Whenever he could conscientiously agree with
Mr. Marks, he did it with effusion.

The fact is, if I take away all thinking (in
other words, what occurs through the Categories)
from an empiric cognition, there remains no
cognition at all, since by mere intuition nothing
at all is thought. Then, what is the question
that presents itself ? '

As the speaker here hovered over his
subject, Charley imagined that he was being
interrogated. 'Why think at all?' he hazarded.

For a moment mr. Marks regarded him
with severe suspicion ; but, perceiving in the
young man's face an earnest gravity (the same
he wore when interview by legatees in the
Probate Office), he answered, ' There is something

in that ; the conception of a Noumenon.'


I hope so,' said Charley, modestly ; ' but I
am not absolutely certain of what a Noumenon
is.'

'Well, it's a long story,' said Mr. Marks.
'A Noumenon, however, to state it briefly, is
the opposite of a phenomenon. That gentleman
yonder ' — he indicated Mr. Josiah Nayler,
who was approaching them with the object
of breaking up their conference — ' is a Noumenon.'


Mr. Nayler was jealous of the attraction
which Mr. Marks's conversation seemed to have
for Charley, and would fain have taught him
his great system of the unsubstantial of
things. But, unfortunately for his hopes of a
proselyte, he had offended Charley. After his
rejection by Mary Marvon, Mr. Nayler had
begun perhaps to have doubts as to whether
that young lady was not a presentment after
all ; at all events he treated her as if she had
no existence. To say that Charity resented

this was much to understate his indignation.
There were occasions (such as when Mr. Xayler
would ignore some remark of Mary's, or hft
his eyes in scornful indifference of it) when
Charley could hardly help ' going for ' the legs
of that lofty philosopher, for higher he could not
have hit him. In any other way than by doing
battle against Mary's enemies, poor Charley
could not slow his devotion. Xot only (hd she
herself offer him no encouragement, but Mrs.
Peyton had privately informed him that to pay
that young lady any marked attention would
injure her in the estimation of her host, ^rhe
even went so far as to hint to him that her
husband had set his heart upon an alliance
between her and ^Mr. Edgar Dornay — an idea
that would have been insupportable to him,
had he not been well persuaded that such an
event could never take place. Indeed, it was
not desired even by Edgar himself. ' First
love,' he openly observed in his light way, ' is
like a half-smoked cigar : when once it has
gone out the aroma is fled ; it will never take

the match again ; there is nothing for it but to
try another weed.'

Dr. Bilde nodded assent, but disbelieved
the speaker. His keen eye had detected that
previous relations of a confidential kind had
at one time existed between Edgar and Mary,
and, judging from his own resolute soul, deemed
passion to be less evanescent. He concluded
that, if Edgar had given up hope, jealousy of a
successful rival would at least remain with him,
and calculated upon his hostility to Charley,
and on his readiness to do him an ill turn.
The Doctor alone of all the Happy Family had
recognised in the young Government clerk, not
only an uncompromising antagonist, but a foeman
worthy of his steel ; but he was not on
that account made more particular as to his
weapons — the very last thing he thought of
w-as a fair fight.

It must not be supposed that Charley's free
and easy manner towards him, or even the
scornful way with which he ventured to combat
his most cherished theories, were alone the

cause of his enmity. There was a far deeper
reason for it; so deep that none but himself
ever guessed at its existence. He hated the
young fellow because he perceived that he
loved Mary, and suspected her of reciprocating
his love — for Dr. Bilde intended Mary for
himself.

It was true he despised her opinions, which
in her mouth made him furious. Her kindness
of heart, her gentleness to all about her, were
not only lost upon him, but even exercised
such an attraction of repulsion that he was
capable, if he had dared, of using the most
offensive language to her. It could not quite
be said of him —

He hated her-sith the hate of Hell,
But loved her beauty passing well ;

for his nature was rather cold than gross, but
his dislike of the best qualities of her heart and
mind were overpowered by his admiration for
her as a woman. Her independence of character
and obvious indifference to her own
interests, as regarded Mr. Peyton, exacted his

unstinted homage ; and he felt that, if he could
only win her, she con Id be made a worthy
mate for him. He looked upon her with the
eyes of an ornamental gardener, who sees
immense capabilities in a landscape when
certain objectionable features shall have been
carted away. Yet his spirit was so proud and
unbending that he could never swallow a single
prejudice, or bate one jot of a dogma, however
objectionable in her sight, to recommend himself
to her. One may be allowed to imagine
(though the idea never so much as crossed
Mary's mind), being such as he was as a lover,
what sort of a husband this cast-iron man was
likely to make.

In her presence he never stooped to pretence,
lest (looking, as his custom was, into the
future) he should one day give her an opportunity
of humiliating him ; but with others, in
order to obtain her, he had no such scruples.
I am afraid it even now suggested itself to him
that at no far distant time he would be in a

position to make her pay for her audacity in
opposing herself to him.

It was necessary to the success of his plans
to make friends with Edgar Dor nay ; and this
was not achieved without eating a leek or two,
and the Doctor did not Hke leeks. Like many
other young gentlemen, nowadays, who have
nothing to do, Edgar was ' devoted ' to Art,
and flirted with what he had the impudence to
call her ' handmaid ' Poetry. Indeed, within
the last few weeks he had published a volume
of poems, ' Heart Throbs,' which had made
some noise in the world ; the little world,
that is, in which he lived, for as to the general
public they paid no more attention to it thana
man who has no intention of travelling pays
to the thud of a fog-signal. The book was full
of harmonious echoes, the only exception being
a vehement lyrical attack upon the faithlessness
of the fair sex, evoked by that double rejection
with which we are acquainted, and really containing
some original and vigorous lines. To
those who knew the circumstances which occa-

VOL. III. E

signed it, it also showed great powers of the
imagination, for the poet represented himself
as not only being in no wise to blame in the
matter in question, but as having been treated
with much cruelty and deception. This book
Dr. Bilde, by an immense effort of intellectual
self-denial, and by sitting, as it were, upon all
the safety-valves of natural expression, actually
brought himself to praise, and thereby made a
short cut into its author's good graces.

By this means he put himself on friendly
terms with Edgar, and in the combat between
himself and Charley, which not seldom enlivened
the dinner-table, at least secured his neutrality.
The war was not only to the knife between
them, but generally about the knife : experiments,
and especially vivisection, were the
Doctor's hobby; nor, although he knew that
not only Mary herself, but Beryl Peyton,
regarded his views on these matters with
little short of loathing, could he restrain the
expression of them or conceal his contempt for
all objectors. The simplest observation from

the most ignorant inquirer was sufficient to set
him going ; nor, with all his wits, had he the
power to discriminate questions which were
put to him in good faith from those suggested,
as they often were by Charles Sot her an, for the
purpose of drawing him out and exposing his
natural callousness of heart.

Pain,' he would say, ' was nothing as
compared with the acquisition of knowledge.'

You mean the pain inflicted upon others
is nothing,' Charley would reply, ^ as compared
with knowledge acquired by oneself.'

And then there would ensue a contest so
bitter that presently Mr. Beryl Peyton would
himself have to interfere to stop it, just as in
the lists of old the king would cast down his
royal baton to prevent contest becoming carnage.
I am afraid Mr. Peyton took some pleasure in
these jousts, and I am sure Charley did.

I like to bait the brute,' he once confessed
to Lady Orr, who was remonstrating with
him upon the subject: 'only think how he
must have baited other brutes ! '

E 2 Library ^

"DIVERSITY OF WJHOW

Aud Lady Orr, who was always picturing
to herself her magnificent Alexander
legged down to a table, and slowly done to
death by this scientific miscreant, admitted
that he deserved all he got. If the Doctor
had but known when to hold his tongue, he
could, logically, have broken Charley across
]his knee ; but, as it was, he was like some
enormous whale spouting angry foam attacked
by a small but agile swordfish.

Once he had a bad toothache, which did
not tend to soothe him. In answer to kind
inquiries, he observed that lie had discovered
an abscess.

Then yij»u must be all right,' said Charley.
Pain is nothing as compared with the acquisition
of knowledge.'

At this Dr. Bilde forgot to maintain that
scientific attitude ' which he was always
recommending as the proper one for all persons
of sense ; in vulgar phrase, he lost his

temper.

My dear sir,' argued Charley, ' you tell us

tenderness of feeling is a proof of intellectual
weakness," and therefore I should be a fool to
pity you.'

It was a favourite pastime with this young
gentleman to egg on Mrs. Welbeck, who,
though in reality she talked for the sake of
talking, professed to be very desirous of informations
to ask the most absurd questions of
the Doctor, which, nevertheless, since they were
in connection with his hobby, obtained attention
and a reply.

For example : ' I do hope, Dr. Bilde,' she
observes one day, in her artless manner, ' that
you have never dissected a cat.'

I have dissected fifty cats, madam.'

Dear, dear, how shocking I and I am so
fond of cats.'

At all events, let me assure you that I am
not fond of vivisecting them. They scratch
and squeal so, that I had rather operate on any
other animal.'

At this there is a horrible silence, of the
cause of which Dr. Bilde is profoundly ignorant,

and to which, if he had understood it, he would
have been profoundly indifferent.

Then as to the poor dogs,' continues Mrs.
Welbeck, proceeding with her investigations,
do they not bark and bite ? '

They do in Watts's hymns,' returns the
Doctor, grimly, ' but not on the dissecting
table ; indeed, as to barking, we take care to
stop that ; operators who know their business
always make a point of dividing the laryngeal
nerve as a preliminary.'

Poor Alexander ! ' murmurs Lady Orr.
My prayer would be, if Dr. Bilde ever got
hold of him, that he should go mad and bite
him.'

The disgust and loathing expressed in Mary's
face are unmistakable ; there is a heavy frown
on Beryl Peyton's brow ; but Dr. Bilde, true to
his principles, scorns to express one syllable of
extenuation or regret. The bull excited by
the banderillos is becoming ripe for the tornado.

Useful as these little experiments on animals
may be, Dr. Bilde,' observes Charley, with the

air of a scientific inquirer, ' I suppose if practised
on human beings they would have infinitely
more significance.'

No doubt, no doubt, sir,' admits the
Doctor, deceived by the other's tone, ' There
is so much prejudice, however, abroad — or
rather at home, for things in France look much
more hopeful — that one despairs of science
having fair play.'

How about criminals ? ' suggests Charley.
At this fancy fly the trout rises with
vivacity.

'A very sensible idea, young gentleman,
which has, however, occurred to others. What
possible objections, save such as occur to folks
who have poached eggs for brains, can be urged
against thus utilising condemned persons, for
the benefit of the world they are about to
leave ? It is a plan that recommends itself to
every true thinker. On the other hand, there
is that troublesome question of relatives ' (here
he looked towards the host, as being certain of
his sympathy in that branch of his argument

at all events). ' Parents especially are sure to
make a commotion.'

How about pauper children who are or ,
plans, about whom no stir is likely to be
made ? ' inquires Charley.

Dr. Bilde is about to remark that public
opinion is not yet ripe for the ' utilisation '
of orphan children, when he catches Edgar
Dornay's eye. That gentleman has far too
delicate a taste to sympathise with brutality,
even under the guise of science, but he does
not approve of a man who can appreciate
Heart Throbs ' being turned into ridicule.
Dr. Bilde, thanks to his warning look, suddenly
discovers that Charley has been drawing him
out, and the entertainment is concluded for
that day.

But though Dr. Bilde had conciliated Edgar
Dornay, he could not persuade him to join him
in alliance offensive and defensive against the
man he took for granted was their common
enemy. Edgar had no liking for Charley, but
he had no animosity against him ; nor, although

Dr. Bilde took iiifiDite pains to delicately imply
that he was in fact his successful rival, could
he be moved to aggression. Without having
any claim to be called chivalrous, the fact was
that Edgar had — up to a certain point — the
feelings of a gentleman, which in Dr. Bilde's
case did not rise over his shoes. Born of ' poor
but honest ' parents, the Doctor had carried out
the usual programme of the self-made man of
the intellectual type. If money-making had
been his aim in life, he would of course have
come to town with half a crown in his pocket,
and swept out a shop ; but he had remained
in his native village and devoted himself to
study. It was a favourite boast with him that
he had learnt to write, in order to save paper,
on the polished thigh-bone of a horse (which
Charley used to suggest he had previously
dissected) ; and, in an education conducted on
such an economical scale, it is probable that
the proverbial extra twopence for manners had
never been paid. At all events he had none ;
and, being naturally devoid of feeling, ' the

instinct of a gentleman,' which is sometimes,
though very rarely, foimd in mannerless men,
was wholly wanting in him. Nor could he
understand its existence in others. Having
discovered, for certain, that for some reason
(to him inscrutable) Edgar Dornay would be
no party to a certain scheme of ' Thorough '
which he had resolved to put in practice against
Charley, he looked about him for another ally ;
and, somewhat to his surprise, found one very
ready to his hand.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

AN EAVESDROPPER.

A COUP d'etat, even though it may have the
completest success, has almost always some
unpleasant consequences ; it can never compare
with the gradual advances made by good sense
towards good government ; and this truth in
politics holds good in social life. By one bold
push Ealph Dornay had found his way through
insurmountable obstacles to the very height of
fortune, had gained a position which even in
his audacious youth had never entered into his
dreams, but yet he was not happy. But there
are always inconveniences in sitting on a pinnacle,
and in his case they were increased by
the consciousness of how he got there. If one
might venture on such a comparison in the case

of a gentleman who was practically in the
enjoyment of 30,000/. a year, he was like a
person who, having committed by a happy
impulse a most successful murder, has made no
arrangements for concealing the evidences of
his crime. His capture of the rich widow was
so suddenly conceived, and so promptly carried
out, that he had not had time to give due
consideration to his subsequent behaviour. He
knew, of course, that she had married him out
of pique, but, if he had been a wise man, he
Avould never have let her know that he knew
it. He might not have been able to convince
her of his own disinterested love, but to hint
that so far as that question was concerned he
and she were quits was most injudicious ; yet
on their first quarrel, which had taken place
within twenty-four hours of their wedding, he
had more than hinted as much. A woman of
sense will bear a good deal from a bad husband,
but she weill not stand being reminded of her
own folly in having married him.

Of course, their quarrel was about money

matters. Mr. Jennie had carried out the
widow's directions to the letter in tying up her
property, and even her income was supposed
to be at her own disposal ; but in this latter
matter the law lends itself to an agreeable
fiction. It places the money, indeed, in the
wife's hand ; but the husband, being the stronger,
forces her fingers open ^vith a gentle violence,
and puts it into his own pocket. The phrase
for her separate use and maintenance ' becomes
in short synonymous with ' robbery from the
person,' and there is no remedy. Ealph Dornay
wore a velvet glove upon his iron hand ; his
touch was gentle, but his grasp was full of
power. It was in accordance with his own
interests — that is, with his ambition to take a
high place in society — to behave with propriety
to his wife, and he showed her ever' external
mark of respect ; but at a very early date he
had decided — shortly and sharply too — the
great matrimonial question of Who shall be
master ? in his own favour. It is not too
much to say that from that moment his

wife detested him. When she looked in Ler
looking-glass she said to herself 'Fool!' but
when she looked at him (which was more
seldom) she said to herself ' Thief ! ' Outwardly
they were a well-behaved couple enough ; one
would have concluded, perhaps, from their
mutual behaviour, that their marriage had been
one of ' convenience ' : but, as Edgar observed of
them, ' one would not have guessed that the
convenience had been so entirely on one side.'

Except for that bitter speech, Edgar said
little against his uncle, though he probably
made up for that by thinking. He had, as we
know, been in a manner reconciled to him :
this had been brought about by Lady Orr.
Her husband had insisted on it, but we may be
sure she made no mention of that to his nephew.
She had written to Edgar requesting an interview,
and he had called upon her in Park Lane.
The bride had met him very frankly, except
that she dropped no syllable of that relation to
him which had at one time been ' on the cards,'
and had thrown herself upon his generosity.

There is nothing you can tell me,' she
said, ' of the ill behaviour of my husband
towards yourself, which I cannot guess. What
I am about to ask of you is for my own sake,
not for his. You will not humiliate me, I am
sure.'

This last phrase, while on the one hand it
revealed everything, presented the whole question
in a nutshell. Edgar bit his lips, but
bowed in acquiescence.

I know it,' she said ; ' whatever has been
amiss with you, you are a gentleman. Unfortunate
as my position is, through my own
fault '

He waved his hand just a Uttle, for which
she was very grateful ; she knew he meant to
signify that the fault was not all her own.

It will be made ten times more unfortunate
shoidd you stand aloof from us. You know
what the world is saying even as it is.'

I do not wish to stand aloof from you,
Lady Orr.'

It is of my husband that I speak ; you,

Edgar, are his nephew, his only relative, and
the head of his family. If you refuse to take
his hand because he has given it to me, it is I
who shall be the sufferer.'

Madam,' he said, ' my uncle is a scoundrel.'
She looked neither shocked nor pained, but
smiled a bitter smile that went to his very
heart. If she had said, ' Great heavens, do
you suppose I have not found that out for
myself?' her lips could not have spoken it
more plainly than that smile did. ' It is for
my sake,' she murmured.

Edgar Dornay was not a Dr. Bilde : he
had a heart which would have melted at any
woman's tears, and this woman had been kind
and dear to him. So for her sake he had
taken his uncle's hand, and there was peace
between them. Ealph did not trouble himself
to inquire how the reconciliation had been
brought about ; he thought that Edgar had
shown his wisdom in not ' quarrelling with his
bread and butter,' and accepted the result
without much thankfulness. The countenance

of the head of his house was, as we have said,
not of the same importance to him as it had
been ; but still it was important, and, now that
he found himself under the same roof with
Edgar, it was a matter of considerable satisfaction
to him that matters had been made
smooth between them.

Ealph's relations with Mr. Charles Sotheran
had seemed to him by comparison of small
consequence ; but as the days went on at
Letcombe Hall he altered his views on that
matter. It was plain that Mary Marvon was
the reigning favourite with both her host and
hostess, and it was no less plain that Charley
was in love with Mary. Charley, it seemed,
was not so popular with Mr. Beryl Peyton as
Edgar was ; it was even clear to Ealph's keen
eye that the old man was planning a matrji
between the latter and Mary — an arrangement
that would have been distasteful to Ealph,
considering the state of that young lady's
feelings towards himself. He knew enough of
her, it is true, to be sure that it would never

VOL. III. F

take place ; but in the meantime, and so long
as a chance remained of her complying with
Mr. Peyton's wishes, Mary was all-powerful.
Nay, it was not certain, even if she went
counter to them and accepted Charley, that
she would altogether lose her hold on the
old man's affections.

The very idea of this — that the girl who
despised him should marry the young fellow
he detested, and be prosperous into the bargain
was wormwood. None who knew Ealph
Dornay — or who knew, as we do, what had
been his conduct to his nephew — could call
him a warm friend, but on the other hand he
was a bitter enemy. Even in Park Lane, where
he had been but a hanger-on of Edgar's, he
had resented the being treated on terms of
equality by the young Government clerk: it
may be imagined therefore how, as the husband
of Lady Orr, and the practical possessor of a
princely income, he resented it now. I am
afraid, indeed, if there was any change in the
behaviour of Charley towards him, it was the

other way, as though he thought him a greater
sneak than ever. Of the two classes of individuals,
one of which ' thinks all the world
belongs to them,' and the other ' does not care
twopence whom it belongs to,' the latter has
clearly the advantage: they are equally independent,
aud have no ' position ' to keep up.
Ealph's assumed dignity never sat so ill upon
him as when he opposed it to the arrows of
Charley's scorn.

His host's tolerance of the young fellow's
impudence, as Ealph termed Charley's natural
ways, disgusted him ; Mrs. Peyton's obvious
tenderness for Charley, Mary's evident goodwill,
which might any day blossom into love, irritated
him exceedingly ; but what made him well-nigh
beside himself with rage (and the more so
because it was necessary to conceal it) was the
affection which Lady Orr herself, more openly
than all, showed to this young man. He had
always been a favourite vv'ith her, till he had
almost lost her good graces by his dislike of the
Dornays, and his partisanship of Mary's cause
p 2

against herself. The latter she had forgotten
and forgiven — nay, had even confessed to herself
that he had been in the right in the matter ;
while his views in the former case, being now
her own, were an actual claim upon her sympathy.
To her husband's eyes, all proofs of
her goodwill to Charley were a reflection upon
himself.

How right you were, my dear boy,' they
seemed to say, ' in your estimate of the man I
have been so mad as to marry ! '

Under these circumstances, it will easily be
understood in whom Dr. Bilde found an ally in
his plans against the young Government clerk,
and indirectly against Mary. It was, as I have
said, to his surprise, for the Doctor of course
was ignorant of Ealph's reasons for hating
Charley ; but, having found how the land lay,
he lost no time in putting his schemes into
effect. When scoundrels do agree, their unanimity
(till its particular object is attained) is
extraordinary.

Though her son was at the Hall, Mrs.

Sotheran herself was not a frequent visitor
there ; not so much because the Happy Family
were by no means to her taste, as from sheer
ten or of the possible consequences that might
arise at any moment from a certain matter in
which she had had an unwilling hand ; but
Charley was naturally often up at Bank Cottage,
and not the less so, we may be sure, that Mary
was a frequent visitor there. It was a characteristic
of the nervous little widow that she
had never spoken to the girl, since her arrival
at Letcombe Dottrell, on the matter of which
she had written to her from Park Lane. She
shrank from the subject, very literally, ' with
fear and trembling,' and it was one which Mary
also had no desire to broach. On the other
hand, it was a ' comfort ' to Mrs. Sotheran — that
morbid sort of satisfaction which persons of her
temperament feel in details of personal misfortune
— to talk about her own past life to the
girl. The scene of these conversations was
often the little churchyard, where, with their
graves around her, she would discourse of her

dead husband and her dead children ; of the
toiling and moving ' incident to supporting a
large family upon a small income ; of the difficulties
she had had in making both ends meet ;
and of the anxiety she felt about Charley's
future. He was the best son that mother ever
had, and instanced some examples — how, for
one thing, he had helped out of his scanty
salary to pay her debts — which certainly tended
to prove it.

I never doubted Charley's goodness,' replied
Mary, on one occasion, in answer to some
similar eulogy.

'Nor I yours, my dear,' answered Mrs.
Sotheran, with a deep sigh ; and then, very
inconsequently as it seemed, added, 'It is a
hard world.'

If one had filled up the hiatus between these
observations, it would have run thus : ' Being
two such excellent young people, what a pity
it is that cruel circumstances have put it out of
your power to become one ! ' I do not say that
Mary's blush proved that she had understood as

much, but she believed that sirs. Sotheran would
have been glad to call her daughter, save for
the obstacle of that stigma of her birth ; whereas
if she could have I'ead that lady's thoughts, it
was not its stigma but the peculiar circumstances
of it, at which she dared not even hint.
In comparison with this, the fact of the young
folks having no means to marry upon was a
small matter. As to Mary's own feelings with
respect to Charley, they had certainly changed
since the days when Mrs. Beckett had written
to his mother, ' You need not be alarmed about
Mary's falling in love with your boy.' She
had at that time, as we know, another attachment
; and though, even when that was broken
off, she had not looked on Charley with eyes of
love, she had of late begin to regard him very
favourably. His independent character, his
hatred of wrong and cruelty, and that courage
of his opinions which he never failed to display
against any odds, and to the danger of his own
interests, filled her with secret admiration. It
is probable, too, that the perseverance of his

devotion did not count for nothing : continual
dropping wears always the very granite, and a
maiden's heart is of the sandstone formation.
Nevertheless, Mary took care to reply to Mrs.
Sotheran's observation, ' It is a hard world,'
though it was obviously made with a particular
significance, in a general sense.

Yes,' she sighed, ' the world is hard, especially
to the poor. I often think that the good
people who eulogise work so highly do not
know much of over-work.'

Quite true,' assented Mrs. Sotheran. ' Poor
Sarah Dempster yonder (she pointed to a
neighbouring tombstone) was of your opinion :
her epitaph, unlike those of most of us, paints
her life as it really was. If you never read it,
it is worth your while to do so.'

The tombstone stood in a neglected corner
of the churchyard, overgrown with nettles
and long grasses, but its inscription was still
legible.

Here lies a poor woman, who always was tired.
Who lived in a house where help was not hired ;
Her last words on earth were : * Dear friends, I am going
Where washing ain't done, nor sweeping, nor sewing ;

But everything there is exact to my wishes,
For where they don't eat there 's no washing up dishes.
I '11 be where loud anthems will always be ringing,
But, having no voice, I '11 get clear of the singing.
Don't mourn for me now, don't mourn for me never,
1 'm going to do nothing for ever and ever.'

That may not be poetry,' observed Mrs.
Sotheran, with unconscious plagiarism, ' but it 's
true. There is nothing much worse than overwork.'


'Except shame,' said Mary, bitterly.

The sentiment, coming as it seemed from
the girl's very heart, could not be ignored.

There is no shame where there is no sin,'
put in the other in a trembling voice.

How can there be no shame when one hasa
past that one dares not look upon ? — when
one has a secret of which one dares not speak ? '

Hush, hush, for Heaven's sake ! ' whispered
her companion, vehemently.

Upon the late Mrs. Dempster's headstone,
which Mary was still regarding, there was projected
a tall shadow, and the harsh voice of Dr.
Bilde was heard exclaiming, ' Good morning,
Mrs. Sotheran : I hope I am not interrupting
your meditations among the tombs.'

CHAPTEE XXXIX.

AN EXCITEMENT IN THE HAPPY FAMILY.

The effect of Dr. Bilde's sudden and unforeseen
appearance was considerable upon both the
ladies, though very different in degree. To
Mary he was always objectionable, and the
present circumstances were little adapted to
set him off to advantage. His cynical face and
sneering tones seemed singularly out of place
in the quiet little churchyard, whither, to her
knowledge, he had never come before. She
would almost as soon have expected to see him
in the church itself. It has been said of
another gentleman with a scientific turn that
he would ' peep and botanist upon his mother's
grave,' but it is probable that Dr. Bilde would
have gone to even greater lengths in the cause
of science, without scruple. The idea of eavesdropping

did not occur to Mary in connection
with him, not because she did not think him
base enough, but because no motive for it
suggested itself to her mind ; but the recollection
of her own last words (not to mention that
Hush, hush, for Heaven's sake ! ' of her companion)
did make her not a little uneasy.

If he had heard them , whether by accident
or design, they could hardly have escaped
his attention, and she was almost sure he had
heard them. Mary's mortification and annoyance
were very great ; and, if she had been
at liberty to follow her own instincts, she
would have been content to acknowledge
the doctor's presence by a bow, and then
left him to ' meditate among the tombs ' by
himself. But the agonised and terrified expression
of Mrs. Sotheran's face was an appeal
she could not resist, and she resolved to
take the doctor ofi" the poor lady's hands at
whatever cost to herself. The consciousness
that she could do so very easily made the task,
however, no less disagreeable to her, but the
reverse. She knew instinctively — though he had

been always hostile in his manner to her rather
than otherwise — that she had some sort of
attraction for him ; and she did not hesitate,
for her companion's sake, to make use of it for
the first time.

We are looking at Sarah Dempster's
epitaph,' Mary observed, as if in reply to the
doctor's observation. ' Your habits of hardwork
will scarcely permit you to sympathise
with it, I fear.'

He came up to her at once and read the
lines aloud in his metallic voice.

That last line, " I am going to do nothing
for ever and ever," is a bold one,' he remarked,
and might well incur Mr. Wells's orthodox
probation.'

But consider how the poor woman must
have toiled and slaved in this life,' observed
Mary.

True ; but where the sting lay was that
she toiled alone ; the headstone says, " Sarah
Dempster, Spinster." She was forty-five, which
is my own age exactly ; and all these years she

had probably no one to sympathise with or
assist her, which is my own case

I should have thought you were the last
person to need sympathy, or, if I may say so
without offence, even to understand it,' said
Mary, frankly.

You may say anything to me without
offence,' returned the doctor, in his usual
measured tones. ' I am sometimes disappointed
with what I hear you say, but never offended.
As to sympathy, in the common acceptation of
the term, I confess I do not value it : it seems
to me a method by which one nature strives to
weaken another, at its own expense, by union ;
whereas the very intention of union is, or should
be, an accession of strength.'

'Please remember. Dr. Bilde, that, as you
told Mr. Hindon the other day, I am not
intellectually a swimmer, and therefore should
not be taken out of my depth.'

You would swim very well, Miss Mar von,
if you would only accept a little teaching,' said
the doctor, gravely. ' There is no woman I

have ever met of whose intelligence I have
formed so high an opinion.'

Mary made him a sweeping curtsey, with
the object not so much of acknowledging his
politeness as of having an excuse for turning
half round and discovering whether Mrs.
Sotheran had made her escape. To her great
relief, she found that she had done so.

If you imagine I paid you a compliment,
Miss Marvon, you are mistaken,' continued the
Man of Science. ' I would not do your noble
nature such a wrong.'

I am afraid, Dr. Bilde, that you overrate
my nature, or, rather, mistake it altogether for
something that it is not.'

Pardon me, it is you yourself who mistake
it. It has capabilities of which you do not
guess, if you would but give them a fair chance
if only you would accept of instruction.'

Thank you. Dr. Bilde,' said Mary, moving
away towards Bank Cottage as to the nearest
harbour of refuge, ' but my education is
finished.'

Nay, Miss Marvon, it is not even begun.
A day may come perhaps, and at no distant
date, when it may be more worth your while to
listen to me '

Worth my while, Dr. Bilde ? ' There had
been such an unmistakable menace in his tone
that it was impossible to ignore it ; and Mary
Marvon was not a girl to be menaced. As she
stood before him, with raised head and flashing
eye, she disproved the poet's dictum, that the
swan is born to be ' the only graceful shape of
scorn.'

I did not use the expression in a worldly
sense,' explained the doctor, earnestly. He
would have even touched her shoulder with his
hand, approvingly, had she not withdrawn
herself out of reach. ' You must not identify
me with those sordid, grasping souls among
whom we move down yonder. The time comes
to every one of us, though sometimes too late,
when it seems worth our while to be wise.'

He lifted his hat in farewell as he spoke,
for Mary was moving quickly away towards

Bank Cottage. His words lead altogether failed
to mitigate her indignation, or to do away with
the impression that he had meant to threaten
her. Nay, the very fact of his having endeavoured
to excuse himself, strengthened her
conviction, because excuse and apology were so
foreign to his tongue.

Of this, however, she said nothing to poor
Mrs. Sotheran, whom she found disturbed
enough at this meeting with Dr. Bilde already ;
only, instead of being indignant as Mary was,
she seemed almost out of her mind with terror.

What on earth could the man mean by
stealing after us in the churchyard like a cat ? '
said Mary.

Don't say a cat, my dear,' shuddered the
widow : ' the cat comes after mice. " How
can there be no shame," you said, " when one
has a secret of which one dares not speak ? "
Heaven grant he did not hear you ! '

And what if he did hear me ? ' asked Mary,
boldly.

Oh, my dear, don't speak of it ! ' cried

Mrs. Sotheran, wringing her hands with a passionate
distress that, to the girl, seemed exaggerated,
if not inexplicable. ' Let us hope
for the best, and try to forget it. Thank
Heaven, here 's Charley coming up the lane.'

Charley indeed could not mend matters —
could not even with prudence be informed that
matters wanted mending — but it was a comfort
to them both to see him. His pleasant face,
however, did not look quite so bright as usual.

I bring great news with me,' he said,
addressing his mother, but with a significant
glance at Mary, as though the ne^vs affected
her rather than Mrs. Sotheran. ' Mr. Jennie
has arrived.'

I am so glad,' cried Mary, clapping her
hands.

I dare say you are,' said Charley, viciously,
but you needn't show that you are glad : 1
call it positively indelicate.'

What do you mean ? ' inquired Mary.
Why should I not be glad that Mr. Jennie

VOL. III. G

has come ? He has been a very good friend
to me, and I Hke him immensely.'

This is what I call " owdacioiis ! " ' exclaimed
Charley, holding up his hands : ' a
most striking instance of that description of
gratitude which is defined as the sense of
favours to come. Is it possible you don't
know what he 's come about ? '

How on earth should I know ? '

Here 's an unconscious Miss Kilmansegg !
You understand, at all events, mother, why
Mr. Jennie has come down to Letcombe ? He
has been here often enough on the same
errand.'

Oh dear, oh dear ! ' gasped Mrs. Sotheran ;
I suppose it 's a new will.'

Well, of course it is, and Mary here is to
have a million.'

How can you talk such nonsense,
Charley ! ' cried Mary, laughing.

Well, of course I may be wrong as to the
exact sum, but I only repeat what everybody
else is saying. The 11 utter among the Happy

Family down yonder is something beyond precedent.
Even Dr. Bilde, whom I have just
met, and who is sure of his codicil, seemed
immensely interested, and turned back to the
Hall instead of going for his usual constitutional,
in hopes, I suppose, to pick up some
crumbs. I asked Mr. Nayler whether he
thought Mr. Jennie was a presentment, or a
flesh-and-blood solicitor, and you have no idea
how angry he was.'

How can you be so foolish, Charley, as to
make enemies of all these people ? ' observed
Mary, reprovingly. ' They may do you a bad
turn some day.'

Enemies ! ' replied Charley, comically ;
why, they are very dear friends of mine ; or
at least they were until just now. This news,
I suppose, has put them a little off their heads.
I did but ask Mr. Marks, a propos of Mr.
Jennie's arrival, whether personal property,
and how to dispose of it, was to be found in
the Categories, and he immediately lost his

G 2

temper. I never heard him express himself
so concisely before.'

I am afraid you must have said something
to anger Mr. Marks very much,' said Mary ;
you seemed such a favourite of his. It is a
great pity to quarrel with any one.'

'There couldn't have been a quarrel,'
pleaded Charley, ' because it takes two to
make one ; and I was as cool as a cucumber
throughout. At first, more like a physician
than a metaphysician, he gave me some most
excellent advice, and, at parting, what vulgar
people call a piece of his mind, which, when
one considers that he has none too much of it
himself, was, as I told him, a very generous
act.'

Mary looked very serious ; nor was her
distress alleviated by Mrs. Sotheran's whispered
assurance that if dear Charley had quarrelled
with Mr. Marks she might depend upon it that
it was on her (Mary's) account.

I shall go down to the Hall at once,' said
Mary. ' I am sure there is mischief going on

there, which may mean trouble to dear Mi's.
Peyton.'

Heaven forbid ! ' cried Mrs. Sotheran, fervently.


If Miss Kilmansegg will graciously condescend
to accept of my escort,' said Charley,
I '11 go with her. May I, Mary ? '

If you promise not to talk nonsense, you
may, sir.'

As soon as they were alone together the
young man became serious enough. He was
not to be shaken, however, in his conviction
that Mr. Jennie had been sent for upon Mary's
account, and described the excitement at the
HaU as something portentous.

I most sincerely hope and trust, Charley,
that you are quite mistaken,' said Mary.

So do I,' returned Charley. ' I should
be unworthy the name of man — which is a
synonym for selfishness — if I didn't.'

Why so ? '

Because if you are to have a million, or
even half a million, you will be " in a cloud of

gold, on a throne," no more to be approached
by humble mortals such as myself.'

How can you be so silly ? I don't believe
one word of such rubbish. But why should
Mr. Peyton think of leaving me anything at
all?'

Nay, 1 can't blame him for that : in his
place I should do the same, only much more
so. I should order a waggon and fill it with
title-deeds, and scrips, and shares for you at
once ; only, just as you were driving away
with them, I should say, " Hi ! you have forgotten
something ; it is not of much consequence,
but won't you take me into the
bargain ? " '

I thought you promised me not to talk
nonsense, sir.'

Quite true : I acknowledge it would
be a very foolish proposition,' said Charley,
humbly, and heaving a little sigh. ' Here is
the grand almoner coming up the hill to
meet you.'

It was certainly the fact that the lawyer
was approaching them from the Hall ; and
from the manner in which he raised his hat to
Mary, she felt an uneasy presentiment that she
was the object of his mission.

CHAPTEE XL.

MR. RENNIE's little MISTAKE.

There was a sadness in Charley's ' Good-bye,
Mary,' as he quitted her side and pkmged into
the shrubbery, before Mr. Jennie could bring
his glasses to bear upon him, that seemed to
give that gentleman's approach an additional
significance ; while the expression of the lawyer's
face as he drew near betokened that he
was the bearer of some important tidings.
For the first time Mary began to think that
there was really something of truth in
Charley's wild words, and the idea was very
far from giving her pleasure. Secure of the
affections of Mrs. Peyton, and living for the
most part in her society, life at the Hall had
been on the whole agreeable to her ; none of

the members of the Happy Family were, however,
to her taste, and what made them most
objectionable to her was the greed and expectation
with which they almost without
exception regarded their host-patron. She
was utterly unconscious of having already
excited their jealousy or apprehension, but
she foresaw that if it indeed were true that
Mr. Peyton entertained any beneficial design
in her favour, she would very speedily incur
them. She felt she had no claim upon his
bounty, nor (notwithstanding her experience
of the ills of poverty) did she seem to herself
to deserve it ; far from being one of those
natures with whom material advantage compensates
for everything, even to the loss of
self-respect, she would have been unwilling to
accept it, burthened with the envy of a single
fellow-creature.

The lawyer's greeting was very cordial. In
answer to her inquiries, he informed her that
his health was tolerable, but that in business
affairs he was unprosperous on account of the

loss of his chief copying clerk. His countenance
was so admirably preserved, that for
the moment she was deceived, and only expressed
a puzzled condolence. Then the
corners of his mouth began to twinkle, and
she perceived that he was referring to her own
professional services.

Oh,' she said, ' you mean the type-writer.'

To be sure I do. Do you suppose we
do not miss you at the office ? '

I can do some work for you now if you
are very hard pressed,' she answered, smiling ;
the machine is here.'

If Mr. Peyton knew of it, I fear he would
set you to work with it. He makes a will a
week or so, in ever so many folios.'

I don't want to have anything to do with
his will,' said Mary.

That is monstrous. Miss Mary, and, in an
inhabitant of Letcombe Hall, even unnatural.
What do people come here for except to be in
Mr. Peyton's will ? '

You are rather sweeping in your judgments,

Mr. Pennies said Mary, with ever so
little of a flush. ' Do you suppose that
Lady Orr, for example, wants Mr. Peyton's
money ? '

To be sure, I had forgotten Lady Orr.
She wishes, no doubt, that she had had less
money rather than more, poor woman. And
there 's her St. Bernard, Alexander. I admit
that neither of them wishes to be a legatee.'

'Well, surely Mr. Ealph Dornay has no
ambition of that sort ? '

Indeed I don't say that ; he has no expectation,
but I shoidd say he had a very
considerable ambition. It is difficult to choke
a dog with pudding.'

I am afraid his wife is very unhappy,' said
Mary, gently.

'Of course she is, being what the gentlemen
of my profession who are connected with
the criminal branch of it term " a Lifer."
Great as is her punishment, however, it is
hardly greater than the folly she committed.
Marriages may be made in heaven originally.

but I am inclined to think, after the first two
or three, that they are turned out in another
place. This third one of Lady Orr's certainly
was. By-the-by, Miss Mary, that is the
very subject I am come out to talk to you
about — though not, I am sorry to say, at firsthand.
It is a commission. Do you happen
to be thinking of marrying anybody, my
dear young lady ? '

What a question ! ' exclaimed Mary, with
a blush and a laugh.

Just so. If I were not such an old friend,
you are thinking to yourself, it would be almost
a rude one.'

'I think, Mr. Jennie, that you are incapable
of a rudeness,' put in Mary.

I am more obliged to you for that assurance
than I can express,' pursued the lawyer,
earnestly. ' I am most fortunate in finding
you alone. Would you mind stepping into
the shrubbery — there is a seat yonder, if
I remember rightly — so that we can speak
together without fear of interruption ? You

have good sense as well as good feeling, my
dear young lady, and you will understand that
in what I am about to say I am only obeying
the instructions of a very uncommon sort of
client. If his object were not to benefit you,
I should certainly not be his intermediary in
this matter ; but he was averse to speak of it
(as he might well be) with his own hips, and T
flattered myself that, since it must needs be
broached, it would be less distasteful from those
of an old friend. I need scarcely tell you that I
speak on behalf of Mr. Beryl Peyton. Since
you have been here so long, you can hardly
be surprised at any eccentricity on Mr. Peyton's
part. His impulses, though more rapid
than his prejudices, are not less vehement,
while in carrying them into effect he knows
not the meaning of the word " impossible."
You must promise me, my dear Miss Mary,
that as you will not be astonished, so you will
not be angered by anything he has made it my
task to say to you.'

I will do my best, Mr. Eeunie, to behave

as you would wish,' said Mary, gently ; ' but I
confess you a little alarm me.'

There is no necessity for alarm. All that
you need is to know your own mind,' said the
lawyer, impressively. ' It will not be moved,
if I have read it aright, by any considerations
of advantage, to do your woman's heart a
wrong. I am not expressing myself as I
would wish. Miss Mary. If I were drawing
up your marriage settlement I should feel more
at home.'

There is nothing amiss in your choice of
words,' said Mary, in a low tone. ' Since you
must needs do so, pray go on.'

It is something that the Court, so far, is
with me. Mr. Peyton has taken it into his
head that with a slight effacement of time, if
not of space, he can make two lovers happy.
You are one of them.'
'I!'

Certainly. You first and the other afterwards.
The feminine in this case is much
more worthy than the masculine. The flint

is, Mr. Peyton has taken an immense liking to
you, my dear Miss Mary, for which I do not
blame him in the least ; but, as always happens
when he has conceived an affection for any one,
he wishes to take matters out of the hands
of Providence, and to arrange them himself.'

That is to say, I suppose,' said Mary,
quietly, ' that I am to be made happy after his
own fashion, or that I am not to be happy
at all.'

No,' replied Mr. Jennie, quickly, ' to do
Mr. Peyton justice, this is not a question of
accepting his benevolence or losing his favour.
I wish you particularly to understand that.
You are altogether a free agent. I have, it is
true, a guerdon in one hand, but I have no
menace in the other. That is a position in
which I am unhappily often placed, but no
consideration on earth would induce me to
approach you with a menace. I asked you
just now whether you were thinking of marrying
anybody — a question, I perceive, not to be
answered. Still, the interests affected by your

reply are so enormous, that I am bound to be
importunate. Let me put it, with all respect
and delicacy and in the strictest confidence,
another way. Is there any one under Mr. Peyton's
roof who, you have reason to believe,
is attached to you, and whose affection, if
declared, you think it possible you might
reciprocate ? '

The question would have been an embarrassing
and even a distressing one to any
young woman, but to Mary it was peculiarly
so. She confessed to herself that there was
such a person at Letcombe Hall, but as she
had until lately experienced no such feeling
towards him, and had even forbidden him to
speak of love to her, how could she entertain
the possibility of becoming his wife, or even
speculate on such a matter to a third person ?
She therefore remained silent.

'Let me make it easier for you,' said
Mr. Jennie, gently. ' Is there any young
gentleman under yonder roof who at one time
flattered himself with the hope of securing

you, and whom only the consciousness, or
the impression, that there is no hope, prevents
from continuing his attentions ? '

To this most young ladies in Mary's position
would have replied, if they had made reply
at all, ' There may be.' It was characteristic
of that young lady that she answered more
directly, though in hesitating and unwilling
accents, ' Yes, there is.'

So I have been given to understand,' said
the lawyer, gravely. ' Xow, supposing that this
young gentleman should be encouraged to renew
his suit, is there any reasonable hope that
he would meet with better success with you?
Do not distress yourself by answering me, Miss
Mary,' put in the lawyer, after a little pause ;
your truthful face gives your reply. Since I
have obtained it, there is now no harm in
telling you the great things that are in store for
you. It was my duty, perhaps, to have spoken of
them earlier, but I well knew they would not
affect yoiu- choice ; and it is right to add that,
since the young gentleman in question is no

VOL. III. H

better informed upon the matter than yourself,
they can in no way have affected his. '

Into Mary's blushing face there stole a little
smile which seemed to say, ' That is an assurance
which I did not require.'

It is Mr. Peyton's intention to make your
husband an allowance of two thousand pounds
a year, and to secure to you absolutely by willa
sum of money, of which it is, perhaps, only
necessary to say that it is of very considerable
amount. My word for that,' he added, in reply
to a puzzled look on Mary's face, ' is sufficient,
is it not ? Or do you want the details ? '

My dear Mr. Jennie,' exclaimed Mary,
without paying attention to this last remark,
which indeed she did not even hear, ' your proposition
is so amazing to me from first to last
that I can hardly believe I am not dreaming.
If I could see the slightest reason for this extraordinary
munificence, I should be better able
to acknowledge it.' '

'Reason? That is the very last thing you
will get from Beryl Peyton. But I may tell

you, for your comfort, that I have known him
do much stranger things.'

Is Mrs Peyton aware of these intentions ? '
inquired Mary, earnestly.

It is very unlikely. Her husband is not
communicative to her on matters of business.'

Then, without her approval, Mr, Jennie,
beyond expressing my deep sense of Mr.
Peyton's unexampled generosity, which exceeds
alike my desires and my merits, I can
make you no reply to his princely offer.'

It was characteristic of the girl, and impressed
the lawyer very much, that the brilliant
prospect thus suddenly unfolded to her gaze,
while it naturally astonished, had failed to
dazzle her. It was not the first time by many
that it had fallen to his lot to inform persons of
some great and unexpected prosperity, and the
effect had been always rapture unalloyed by
scruple. The notion now conveyed to him by
Mary's behaviour was that the object of her
choice was not a favourite with Mrs. Peyton,
and he seized upon the opportunity (which

H 2

indeed he had long desired) to speak a word of
warning.

My dear young lady, it is to the last
degree unlikely, from what I know of your
hostess, that she will stir a finger to oppose
your happiness. On the contrary, even if she
has objections, she will rather stretch a point
and waive them in order to secure it. This is
a matter that can only be settled by your own
inclinations. If you are sure of them, well and
good ; if you are not sure — still more if you
have secret doubts of the man to whom you
are about to intrust your future — you will —
I hardly know how to speak of such a thing
without offence, and I know it sounds like an
address to a jury — but you will give yourself
the benefit of them.'

As to that, I am quite sure I have no
doubts,' said Mary, smiling faintly.

Very good,' replied the lawyer, though the
expression of his face was even graver than
before. ' It is not in my instructions, and
indeed would be directly contrary to the spirit

of them, to suggest impediments. You v:ill
have a bridegroom as handsome as his fortune ;
and there is this to be said, that the connection
will draw you still nearer to an old friend of
yours, whose friendship is worth having — Lady
Orr.'

Yes,' said Mary, smiling as a woman
smiles when she is speaking of those who
appreciate the man she loves, 'it is a great
pleasure to me that Lady Orr is so fond of
Charley.'

Fond of who ? ' said the lawyer, forgetting
his grammar in his astonishment 'Did you
say Charley ? '

I have always called him Charley,' admitted
Mary, softly. ' If — if matters should
turn out as you have proposed, there will be
nothing to wish altered, I am sure, as regards
Lady Orr.'

Oh, well, I don't know much about such
things,' said the lawyer : ' I suppose, as any
stick will do to beat a dog with, any term of
affection comes handy to indicate the beloved

object ; but, as a matter of fact, and as I 've got
it down in my instructions, the young gentleman's
name is Edgar.'

Edgar ! ' exclaimed Mary, turning scarlet.
'Do you mean Mr. Edgar Dornay ? '

Why, who on earth else should it be ?
Good gracious ! what have I done ? ' for the
blood had left the young girl's cheeks as
quickly as it had rushed into them. ' My
dear Miss Mary, I am sure that a sensible
young woman like you is never going to
faint. For my sake — for Heaven's sake —
don't faint ! '

Even the lawyer's agonised appeal might
have failed to restore Mary to herself, had not
her pride come to her aid.

There has been some terrible mistake,' she
murmured.

'But who else is there?' exclaimed Mr.
Jennie. His eyes were open wider than they
had ever been before, and yet he could not see
where his error lay. ' It isn't one of the Happy
Family, surely. Not Mr. Marks, not Mr.

Nayler; it can't be Mr. — what-his-name —
that lies so?'

No, Mr. Jennie, indeed it is none of those
gentlemen,' gasped Mary, between a sob and a
laugh. ' It 's Charley Sotheran.'

But I said the man was here, staying at
the HaU;

Well, Charley has been staying here these
three weeks.'

Then why didn't that ridiculous old
lunatic — that is to say, I mean my excellent
client — vouchsafe to say so ? ' exclaimed the
lawyer, with irritation. ' How should / know ?
I was never placed in such a false position
in the whole course of my life.'

Mary answered nothing, but perhaps her
face said, ' And the position you have placed
me in is not a very pleasant one for a young
lady to find herself,' for her companion continued,
in a less vehement tone, ' It is one of
the disadvantages flowing from an imperial
policy that even when these high-handed
gentry intend to do good, they as often as

not do harm from not taking into account
the feelings and desires of other people. I
owe you an apology, my dear young lady,
for having precipitated matters — for that is
the worst that can happen — with Charley.'

Good Heavens ! you will not do anything
so outrageous as to tell him, Mr. Jennie ? ' exclaimed
Mary, in consternation.

Of course not, of course not,' replied the
lawyer, with a promptness in itself not a little
suspicious ; and, in point of fact, the notion of
telling Charley had at once occurred to him as
the most obvious means of reparation for his
mistake. ' The secret shall be your own — as
long as you can keep it. Yes, yes, and I shall
take care that Charley's interests, since they are
also yours, shall take no hurt from this little
misapprehension. I have been made a fool of,
but I will not be made a tool of ; and though
you may not be made an heiress, you shall get
something out of the fire.'

Indeed, Mr. Jennie,' put in Mary, earnestly,
' I beg you will not dream of making

any application to Mr. Peyton on my account.'


Very good : that is as you please, young
lady; what I shall say to him then wWl be
upon my account. Business is business ; to
have been sent upon a fool's errand like this is
not what I bargained for. However, I have
one consolation, Miss Mary, which buoys me
up ; I '11 add it to the bill.'

In spite of Mary's distress of mind, which
was considerable, she could not repress a smile
at the old lawyer's indignation, and at his self-suggested
means of mitigating it. In his case,
whatever conflagration arose in the way of
trouble and misapprehension, it was clear the
fire-engines were always on the spot. The
very idea of a tine bill of costs seemed at once
to soothe him, and turn his thoughts into a
kindly channel.

There is one thing. Miss Mary, in this unfortunate
affair,' he continued, ' which, if you
will allow me to say so, gives me genuine
satisfaction. I am very glad that it is Charley.

It is true I don't know much about him, but I
am a believer in the doctrine of averages, and
the odds are that he 's a better fellow than
Edgar. He mayn't be much to look at — I beg
pardon, I mean so handsome as the other —
wrong again, am I ? ' — and indeed the expression
of his companion's face most unmistakably
showed that there were two opinions on that
point. ' What a precious mess I 'm making of
it ! ' exclaimed poor Mr. Jennie, wiping his
forehead with his pocket-handkerchief. ' If I
don't put it at three figures, may I be struck off
the Rolls ! What I wish to say. Miss Mary,
without prejudice (there, now I 'm at home
again), is, that Handsome is as Handsome does,
and you will do me the justice to say that while
dwelling on the personal advantages of Mr.
Edgar Dornay, I never uttered one word of
recommendation of him. As he is my client
no longer, I am free to confess that I think you
have done very wisely. I don't know why it
is, that a devotion to Music, Poetry, and the
Fine Arts should always make a man so infernally

selfish, but so it is ; and 'Mr. Edgar
Dornay is, in my opinion, no exception in his
worship of No 1.'

Here Mary looked so grave and pained
that the lawyer came to a full stop. Had he
known more of Charley he would willingly
have praised him ; but as it was, his means of
conciliation — or what he thought would have
the effect of conciliating — were confined to the
depreciation of Edgar.

I have nothing more to say. Miss Mary,'
he added, ' save to express my regret — and my
felicitations. If I could do anything to atone
for my involuntary error '

You can be silent, Mr. Jennie,' put in
Mary, significantly. ' Then the only person
who will have suffered from your indiscretion
will be myself.'

With that, she made him rather a ceremonious
curtsey, and resumed her way to the
HaU. Upon the whole, if it could not be said
that she did well to be angry, it was certainly
no wonder that she was annoyed at what had

happened. No young lady likes the expression of
her love to be wrung from her by a third person,
and especially by mistake : it is one of the things
she looks forward to, to tell that precious secret
to the beloved object with her own lips, and Mr.
Jennie had possessed himself of it — though, it is
true, involuntarily — under false pretences. On
the other hand, the lawyer by no means considered
Mary to be the sole person aggrieved.
The only person who will have suffered ! ' he
echoed indignantly, as he watched her moving
slowly, not to say haughtily, through the trees.
Upon my life she 's a cool hand. It is my
experience that girls always are cool, except
on those very matters when it most behoves
them to keep their heads. The only person !
As if the false position in which I have been
placed — a respectable solicitor acting upon the
most absurd instructions — was to count for
nothing ! How was I to know that it was
Charley and not Edgar, unless indeed I ought
to have taken it for granted that that wonderful
client of mine was making some confounded

mistake ? Then who could doubt that it was
Edgar, even from what the girl said herself?
Is there any one under Mr. Peyton's roof."
I asked, " who, you have reason to believe, is
attached to you ? " And again, " Is there nota
young gentleman who once flattered himself
with the hope of winning you ? " And to each
of those questions she answered " Yes." So it
seems that both these young men have asked
her to marry them, and are prepared to ask
her again. Do they always do it twice, I
wonder ? If so,' added the lawyer, grimly, ' I
can only say that I have done my best to
restore the average by never having done it
at all.'

Chapter XLI.

ENGAGED.'

At the court of a certain French king the position
of a person at table was an index of his
rising fortunes, and the nearer he was placed to
the Eoyal Transparency, the nearer he seemed
to be to heaven. It was the same in some sort
at Letcombe Hall, and certain changes at the
dinner table, on the day of Mary's interview
with Mr. Jennie, filled the minds of the guests
with speculation. By virtue of his office, Mr.
Peyton's physician always filled the chair at his
left hand, while the right, unless any special
reason — always set down to favouritism — arose
for other arrangements, was usually occupied
by the last comer. For many days Mr. Ralph
Dornay had sat there without much arousing

the common envy ; he had failed to improve
his opportunities as his host's next neighbour,
and, indeed, it was pretty well understood that
Mr. Peyton only tolerated him out of regard
to Lady Orr. Under other circumstances Mr.
Jennie would now have succeeded him, when,
lo and behold ! when the company took their
places, Mr. Edgar Domay held that coveted
place. It was almost as significant as though
Mr. Peyton had laid his hand upon the young
man's head, and announced in public ' this is
my heir' ; but then he had made so many heirs,
not one of whom had succeeded to a sixpence.
Moreover, the attention of the guests — in other
words, their envy, hatred, and malice — were
attracted in another direction ; for Mr. Charles
Sotheran now occupied Edgar's place by
Mary's side. This also, it was felt, was symbolical
of much, and aroused an equal apprehension.
Considering the learning and philosophy
in which so many of the party were wrapt, it
was amazing how prompt they were to comprehend
the circumstances : and, indeed, the only

person who did not understand them was
Mr. Charles Sotheran himself — a fact, however,
which did not at all interfere with his thorough
enjoyment of them.

J^ow I call this nice,' he murmured, as he
dropped into the arm-chair — they were all armchairs
in the Letcombe dining-room — indicated
to him by the major-domo ; and, as Mary did
not contradict him, it is probable that the new
arrangement did not displease her. To have
sat next to Edgar, after Mr. Jennie's revelation
to her, would at all events have been most
embarrassing, and, even cis matters stood, they
were rather trying. Not a word had escaped
her lips to any one as to what had happened
that morning, but she had no means of guessing
how much others knew; and that something
was known or guessed was obvious to
her. Mrs. Peyton's manner to her was even
more affectionate than usual, Lady Orr's more
cordial, and that of her host more significant
than all. Once he caught her eye, and raised
his champagne glass, while his fine face seemed

to glow, not only with goodwill, but with a
certain tender forgiveness. ' I have been mistaken,'
it seemed to say, ' and I am sorry; but
though you have declined my road to happiness,
I hope you will reach it by some other
way ; * indeed, he even glanced at her next
neighbour, as much as to say ' that way.'

I hope there is a great deal to eat,' said
Charley, as he inspected the menu.

I call that very greedy, sir.'

'You are right, as you always are,' he
answered. ' I should like to sit here for ever
and ever.'

Mrs. Welbeck, who sat on the other side of
him, though partial to her food, thought this
sentiment a little exaggerated, and appealed to
Miss Price about it.

'Mr. Sotheran says that he should like to
eat for ever and ever.'

How like a man ! ' replied that social
philosopher ; 'their aspirations are always of
the earth earthy. For my part, I hold dinner,
like war, to be a necessary evil'

VOL. III. I

Oh dear, I think that is going much too
far in the other direction,' said Mrs. Welbeck,
regarding the shoe of salmon that had just been
placed before her with all the rapture of anticipation.
' We are told in the Bible to take a
little wine for our — I mean medicinally — and
to enjoy — though for my part I can never
digest a pear — the kindly fruits of the earth.'

Such matters do not concern me,' said
Miss Price, contemptuously. ' I am thankful
to say my motto is Ad astray'

If it were mine, I wouldn't mention it,'
muttered Mrs. Welbeck, who was not classical.
The idea of a woman at her time of life having
'' led astray " for her motto ! What are you
laughing at, Mr. Sotheran ? Nothing ! I wish
I could laugh at nothing ; laugh, they say, and
grow fat, because it is healthy. Yet Mr. Ealph
Dornay yonder is very fat, and never laughs at
all.'

At this particular moment Mr. Ealph Dor-nay
was certainly not laughing. He was
furious at having been deposed by his nephew.

and still more furious at seeing Charley placed
next to Mary. Once or twice he looked across,
doubtless for sympathy, to Dr. Bilde, and found
noDC. That gentleman was going through his
dinner with that methodical enjoyment peculiar
to members of his profession, who, while
warning others of the dangers of the table,
seem to pluck from them the tower Safety.
(Is it, I wonder, that their skill holds them
harmless, or that, since hawks do not peck out
hawks' been, they know they can be cured for
nothing ? ) On the present occasion, indeed,
the doctor seemed even better satisfied with
himself and the ways of ' Order ' than usual.
Perhaps knowing that his codicil was secure, the
senatorial anxieties which were obviously consuming
those about him were not without their
charms for him : the pleasures of advantageous
comparison are, with certain natures, always
enjoyable.

Messrs. Marks and Nayler had no such consolation.
These philosophers had long ceased
to flatter themselves that the broad domains
I 2

and rich investments of Mr. Beryl Peyton would
fall to them en bloc. On the first revelation
of their systems to their host and patron,
they may, indeed, have entertained ambitious
dreams, but of late years they had confined
their expectations to mere ' pickings ' — the
thousands, or perhaps tens of thousands, that
form the fringe of a great estate, and, when not
swallowed up by that rapacious monster the
residuary legatee, fall, like the precious dew
from heaven, upon judicious outsiders. The
elevation, therefore, of Edgar Dornay to a place
so near the throne (which, besides, was not unexpected)
was by no means so distasteful to
them as the new distribution of Mr. Peyton's
lesser favours. It was clear to them that he
had given his sanction to Charley's addresses
to Mary, and that henceforth there would bea
coalition of interests between those two
young people. ' What is enough for one is
enough for two,' is a very pretty proverb, and
exceedingly encouraging to folks about to
marry ; but, as a matter of fact, Mary's claims

upon Mr. Peyton would be certainly more considerable
as a bride than in her former position.
It seemed to them, in short, that she was about
to be dowered at their (prospective) expense ;
and, what was the bitterest reflection of all,
their successful rival Charley would have a
share in the robbery ! Mary had been quite
correct in supposing that Charley had not only
lost the favour, but incurred the enmity, of
both these gentlemen ; but she did not know
that she herself had been the cause of
quarrel. It had always been difficult for the
young man to restrain his indignation when
they had been wont to speak of her in his
presence in their philosophic manner ; but the
arrival of Mr. Jennie, which, as they justly
concluded, betokened the advancement of her
fortunes with Mr. Peyton, had stung them into
saying things ' of that young lady which were
not only philosophic but parliamentary.
Curiously enough, they had taken the same
view, though from very different standpoints,
with regard to the effect of her prosperity as

Charley himself — namely, that it would place
her so high above his reach as at once to
extinguish his pretensions to her ; and, judging
his feelings from what their own would have
been under similar circumstances, they counted
upon his sympathy with their plain speaking.
The result was so deplorable that it would be
painful to describe, and impossible, if we retained
Charley's words, to print it.

Under these circumstances it is not surprising
that the dinner-table conversation
languished, and that Mr. Hindon found his
opportunities of agreeing with everybody uncommonly
few. In the drawing-room things
were but little better, though Charley, who
took his seat by Mary as a matter of course,
never noticed that there was a screw loose ;
on the contrary, that tendency to yawn which
sometimes besets a young gentleman over the
tea and toast was entirely absent, and he
thought it a most charming evening.

The climax of his satisfaction, however, was
yet to come. When the ladies retired, Mrs.

Peyton whispered that she had a word to say
to him in her boudoir, to which he repaired
with very commendable promptness. His
hostess received him with a most benevolent
smile, which had, nevertheless, a touch of sadness
in it. She could not help reflecting, perhaps,
that, had not fate ordered it otherwise,
she might have been about to confer happiness
upon a son of her own. Nevertheless, Charley
was dear to her, and the son of her dearest
friend.

My dear boy,' she said with a gentle gravity,
it is my mission to tell you that Mary Marvon
has somewhat disappointed my husband as
regards a certain scheme he had proposed to
himself for her future benefit. It was his hope
that she would have formed a union with Edcrar
Dornay, who, as you know, is a great favourite
of his, and who in other respects would have
been a very eligible suitor ; but from certain
information which has reached him to-day, and
into which it is not necessary to enter, Mr.
Peyton has come to the conclusion that such

a match would be distasteful to lier ; that there
is, in short, an obstacle to it. Can you enlighten
me as to what it is ? '

Charley was not given to blushing — ' I am
modest, but not shy,' was the account he was
wont to give of himself, and as to the shyness
he was certainly correct; but on the present
occasion he blushed like a blush rose.

'I should imagine, from what I know of
her character, that if Miss Marvon declines to
marry Mr. Dornay, it is because she doesn't
like him,' he answered simply.

But that is only a negative objection, sir.
My husband's apprehension is that Mary is in
love with somebody else.'

That is a question, my dear Mrs. Peyton,'
he replied, ' which I cannot venture to answer;'
and this time Charley blushed like a peony.

I rather thought you might have ventured,'
said Mrs. Peyton, drily ; ' it has struck me once
or twice that you had rather a fancy for her
yourself.'

'There you have wronged me, madam

said the young man, with a gravity that became
his pleasant face exceedingly. * It is no fancy
that I have for Mary Marvon, but a love that
will last my life.'

And is Mary herself aware of this ? '

Oh yes, it cannot but be so ; but she has
forbidden me to speak of it.'

I see,' returned Mrs. Peyton, smiling. It
struck her that there were other ways of hinting
at devotion than by speech, and that this
young man had not refrained from using them.
Still, though you may imagine that you know
your own mind upon this matter, you know
very little of Mary ; about her antecedents, for
example '

'My dear madam, such things may be
interesting to Professor Price,' put in Charley,
impatiently ; ' but where Mary comes from I
care nothing. All that is of consequence tome
is that she is here, and I am always
wondering at it, for she seems more fit for
heaven'.

'But, Charley,' said Mrs. Peyton, in slow

and sorrowful tones, 'there is another thing
which it is my duty to tell you. Neither my
husband nor Mr. Jennie are aware of it, but
it is only right that whoever seeks to be Mary's
husband should know it — Mary is illegitimate.'

If I was in the Registrar Office that might
have some interest for me,' said Charley, drily,
^ but, as it happens, I am in the Probate Office.
The incident appears to me to belong to another
generation, and does not affect me in the slightest
degree.'

If Mr. Peyton could have heard Charley
speak those words and seen the look of scorn
which was their fit accompaniment, it would
have shaken Edgar Dornay upon his throne ;
for no sentiment could have pleased the master
of Letcombe Hall so well. His wife, indeed, was
almost as much gratified, though from quite
another cause.

'You are a true lover, Charley,' she exclaimed
admiringly. Then she knocked at the
door which communicated with her own bedroom,
and from it there issued Mary herself.

The girl looked very pale and quiet, like one
prepared for any fate ; and though on catching
sight of Charley the colour rushed to her
cheeks, the next moment her eyes turned with
earnest steadfastness to Mrs. Peyton.

*I have fulfilled my mission, my darling,'
said that lady, tenderly ; then, turning to
Charley, she continued : ' It was imposed upon
me, as you know, by Mr. Peyton and not by
this young lady, who, having forbidden you to
speak of love, could indeed hardly have ignored
her own veto. From what I know of both
your hearts, you may speak now.'

'Mary knows I love her,' said Charley,
softly ; ' she has always known it.'

For one fleeting instant the expression of
trust and tenderness in Charley's face was reflected
in Mary's own ; then she turned again
to Mrs. Peyton and whispered tremulously,
'Does he know all — all that his mother told
you ? '

Mrs. Peyton nodded assent. It seemed as
if that nod had been some ingenious piece of

mechanism which released two expectant bodies
and caused them to rush into one another's
arms.

This precipitation, my dears,' observed the
old lady, in tones of amused reproof, ' is, for all
you know, the very height of imprudence. If,
as I must needs conclude, you consider yourselves
affianced to one another, does it not
strike you that, as a married couple, you will
have very little to live upon ? '

What I doat upon,' observed Charley, with
roguish gravity, ' is a long engagement.'

In the present case that is out of the
question, sir. In whatever he has resolved
upon, my husband is impatient of delay, and
it is his wish that you young people should be
married almost immediately.'

Rather than disoblige Mr. Peyton,' said
Charley, promptly, 'I will sacrifice myself at
the altar tomorrow.'

It will not be so soon as that, sir, but it
will be very soon. A certain allowance will
be made to you by my husband on your

marriage, and be continued during pleasure.
I am quite confident that it will never be forfeited
by any misconduct of your own, my
dears, but as you are not without you* enemies,
and it is possible that Mr. Peyton's ear may be
abused, I have requested Mr. Jennie to settle
(should occasion arise for it, or in case of my
demise) a little money of my own upon you ;
not much indeed, for I have not much to give,
but enough to keep the wolf from the door.
No, no, don't thank me,' she added hurriedly ;
don't speak of it. — My drops, Mary.'

With those words, uttered with feeble haste,
Mrs. Peyton had fallen back in ]her chair, with
a face so ghastly and significant of mental
agony that poor Charley, a moment before
almost beside himself with joy and gratitude,
was frozen with horror, believing that his
benefactress was about to die. Mary, however,
had found the remedy for which the
patient had inquired, and applied it on the
instant, and in a minute or two consciousness
and speech returned.

'I did not need this warning for myself,'
she murmured, ' but it will prove to you, my
dears, how uncertain is my hold on life. Mr.
Jennie must bestir himself at once to give effect
to my wishes.'

Mary threw herself on her knees and besought
her hostess not to disturb her mind with
anxieties on her account.

If we could but see you well, my dear
Mrs. Peyton, there would be nothing wanting
to complete the happiness you have conferred
upon us.'

Would that it were conferred, dear girl ! '
was her unexpected rejoinder. ' What little
span of life remains to me I would gladly give
could I thereby insure it. Though the sun
seems to shine on you to-day, the sky is full of
clouds that threaten all of us. To part from
you will be pain indeed, yet I would that you
were already in some little home with Charley.
So long as you remain beneath this roof, every
breath you draw is perilous, every step you
take is over pitfalls. I would warn you of

them, but I dare not Hush, hush I is

there not some one in my room ? '

Mary stepped in quickly and examined the
apartment. She, too, had fancied that she had
heard the rustle of a dress close to the half-open
door. But her search convinced her that
she had been mistaken. Mrs. Peyton's alarm
seemed also to have subsided, for, having dismissed
Charley with a maternal embrace, she
declined Mary's offer to share her apartment
for the night.

To have you near me, my dear, is a temptation
such as you cannot guess,' she said, in
trembling tones, ' but there is danger in it tous
both.'

What danger ? ' inquired Mar', wonder-nay,

you must not ask me that,' sighed
the old lady, with a strange, fond look, which
was at the time inexplicable to the girl. ' There
is danger in your asking why. There is danger
everywhere, both to you and to me.'

CHAPTER XLII.

Rose-coloured.

It was characteristic of Mr. Beryl Peyton, and
of his role of Deputy Providence, that he himself
never uttered one word respecting his good
intentions to the two young people whom he
desired to benefit. They were given to understand
by Mr. Jennie that any expression of
gratitude on their part would be even resented.
There were many who had cause (or thought
they had) to be disappointed with Beryl Peyton
as a patron, but no one could accuse him of a
broken promise, for he never made one. There
were hundreds who had reaped his favours, and
were still reaping them, but they were all
bestowed (as his wife expressed it) 'during
pleasure.' Sometimes his own right hand was

unconscious of what his left hand gave, sometimes
Mr. Jennie was the depositary of the secret, and
sometimes (when there seemed a necessity for
it) the information was shared by one or two
others. In the present case it would have been
better for the objects of his generosity had
it been made more public ; or rather, if its
moderate limits, which rumour greatly exaggerated,
had been understood. To some of the
members of the Happy Family it seemed as
though their all was in danger of being taken
from them at the eleventh hour by these youthful
interlopers, who had borne none of the
biu-den and heat of the day. To have tilled the
field of expectation, and sown it with the seed
of subservience, was no light labour, and to seethe
harvest reaped by hands that had done no
stroke of work in that way was intolerable.
Mr. Hindon alone could bring himself to congratulate
Charley on his brilliant prospects,
which (notwithstanding his own little attempt
on Mary's heart) he. did with much frankness
and effusion. An ordinary marriage gift, he
VOL. in. K

said, would not sufficiently express his sentiments,
but if its distance from the Probate
Office should not prove insuperable and the
young couple could arrange to live in the neighbourhood
of Great Grimsby, he had a house of
his own there, the title-deeds of which it would
give him sincere pleasure to make over to them
on their wedding-day.

Lady Orr's congratulations took a shape probably
more sincere, and certainly more practical.

My dear Mary,' she said, ' the good news
I hear concerning you has been from the first,
as you well know, the wish of my heart. I
was Charley's advocate, remember, when you
had not learnt to so thoroughly appreciate him
as you do now.' It was amazing how she kept
her countenance (and her colour), considering
the recollections which must surely have
occurred to her when thus alluding to events
that had happened in Park Lane ; but a lady
who has married three times is not easily ' put
out ' by any association of ideas. ' What I
should like to do (and what I would have done

had YOU taken my advice when it was offered)
would be to make you a really handsome dowry.
There, you needn't look like that ! As I am
not going to do it, you may-surely permit me
the cheap luxury of a generous intention.
Circumstances have occurred ' — here her brow
grew dark — ' which would make my now indulging
myself in such a pleasure difficult.'

There had been a stormy scene between
Lady Orr and her husband concerning this very
matter, of which Mary could not guess. He
had forbidden his wife to spend her own money
according to her own fancy. Xor was even
that, though it must have humiliated her, the
worst of it. In his hatred of these innocent
young people he had been so imprudent as to
show the seamy side of his whole character to
the woman who had hitherto, for her own sake,
abstained from investigating it. She had been
indeed conscious that there were seams, but its
rents and rags and patches had been displayed
and shaken menacingly in her face. The whole
fabric of his nature had given way ; not like a

K 2

woman's dress, ' at the gathers,' but in a manner
which proved the stuff was rotten.

I could do it,' she went on, in a sort of
passionate soliloquy ; ' and if it should ever be
essential to your happiness, I would do it ; but
it would be difficult.'

'My dear Lady Orr, it distresses me exceedingly,'
began poor Mary —

That 's my selfishness, my dear,' put m the
other vehemently. ' I ought to have known
that it would distress you. Let us say no more
about it. It annoys me indeed that I can only
give you trinkets, but, such as they are, you
know my love goes with them.'

She drew from her bosom (it struck Mary
with an icy horror that she had not dared to
bring it openly in her hand) a jewel case, and
handed it to Mary. As she did so, the case flew
open, and, in displaying its contents, stopped
Mary's thanks in the bud. She beheld a parure
of diamonds — a necklace with pendant, and two
bracelets, glittering like the sea in the sun.

My dear Lady Orr, it is impossible,' said

the girl, stepping back from the tempting
spectacle as though it had been some physical
danger ; ' these diamonds must have cost a fortune.
It is like your generosity to offer them ;
but consider how out of place they would look
on me.'

Whom should they become better ? '
answered the other, impatiently. ' It is your
pride which rejects them, Mary, and prevents
me from showing how much I love you.'

JS'o, Lady Orr, it is not my pride,' answered
the girl, smiling, ' but only my sense of proportion.'


I am afraid neither lady was quite truthful :
for in the case of the elder one, beside her love,
there was a secret desire to make reparation ;
while the magnitude of the gift was in reality
at the bottom of Mary's disinclination to accept
it.

It is a hard thing,' said Lady Orr, bitterly,
that I cannot give you what I would, and that
what I can give you will not accept from
me.'

Do not say that, I implore you,' pleaded
Mary : ' if you must needs give me something
costly, give me the bracelet you wear every
night '

I dare not,' interrupted the other, quickly ;
then, in answer to Mary's wondering look, she
added, in a hoarse and tenable whisper, ' he will
be sure to miss it, and ask where it is gone.
No, you shall have the pearls Sir Eobert
gave me. They will suit you best, for they are
associated with nothing but love and honour ;
and, alas ! they do not now suit me J

For the first time throughout her acquaintance
with her, Mary beheld Lady Orr in tears :
they were so foreign to her character, or rather
to the position she had so long occupied above
the stabs of Fate, that the sight distressed her
companion as much as a man's tears would have
done.

Do not weep for me, Mary,' continued the
other, vehemently ; ' forget that I have ever
shown this weakness, or, if you remember it, do
so as a memento that love and truth are all that

are worth a woman's living for ; ' then, pressing
her Ups to the forehead of the frightened girl,
she hurried out of the room.

It was understood, though no particular
time was fixed for the marriage of the young
couple, that it would take place at an early
date, and in the meanwhile Mr. Jennie was
very busy with deeds and parchments in a
certain room that had been for years set apart
for him at the Hall, and which Charley (little
dreaming that he should ever have any concern
with it.) had been wont to term the Letcombe
Probate Office. Prudence, as oue cannot but
have observed, was not a leading feature in
Charley's character. He was not ' as grave asa
judge,' nor were his utterances judicious.
Wien a humorous idea struck him, he expressed
it, no matter what subject suggested itself to
the play of his fancy. It is one of the penalties
men pay for the possession of humour, that it
carries them away with it like a runaway horse,
and sometimes over the flower-beds, or across
the cucumber frame. Nothing, as the dub

folks maintain, is sacred from them, by which
it is meant that they are not even restrained by
considerations of self-interest from having their
joke. The character of Beryl Peyton was one
which in many points appealed to the best
sympathies of the young Government clerk : he
had indeed a hearty regard and admiration for
him, and it need not be added a very keen sense
of his personal kindness ; but he had said
things of even Beryl Peyton in a good-tempered
way which were less reverential than amusing ;
and, what was worse, he had taken little heed
as to who were his hearers. It was the nature
of the young fellow to talk openly to everybody,
and, unless he knew a man for a sneak
and a talebearer, to take him for an honest man.
This was an attribute of Charley's which recommended
him to a few, but made him unpopular
with that large class of persons who, not daring
to be natural themselves, look upon naturalness
in others as a Liberty and an impertinence. And
it alarmed the more cautious of his friends.
Mrs. Sotheran indeed fairly trembled at her

son's light talk and independent ways. As his
mother she admired it, and was sometimes compelled
to laugh at Charley's fun in spite of herself,
but it was her private opinion that he had
not the money for it.

When you have ten thousand a year, my
dear,' she would sagely observe, • you may say
what you like ; but as it is, you talk too freely.'

To Charley, whose salary only increased at
the rate of ten pounds per annum, it is not to
be wondered at that this prospect of emancipation
seemed so exceedingly remote that it was
hardly worth regarding ; yet he was by no
means one of those young gentlemen who
'despise their mother when she is old.' Perhaps
he had even an uneasy sense that she was
right in this matter, but, at all events, he had
striven to moderate the freedom of his tongue
to please her. He might just as well have
attempted to alter the colour of his eyes.

It was not without some sense of triumph,
therefore, as well as of blissful content, that he
had brought her the news of his en^jjacrement to

Mary Marvon, and of Mr. Beryl Peyton's
generous intentions towards them ; and, indeed,
in spite of their frank and independent ways,
the young couple seemed to have done exceedingly
well for themselves. His mother folded
him in her arms, and expressed her joy in a
flood of silent tears. So far nothing could be
more natural or like herself; but he waited in
vain for one word of congratulation. There
was an expression of doubt and even alarm in
her eyes, mingled with their love and thankfulness.


Do you not believe me, mother ? ' he said.
Does my news seem too good to you to be
true ? '

Yes,' she answered, snatching eagerly at
his suggestion, ' that is it. I have not been
accustomed to good tidings.'

For the rest of your life I hope things will
be different, dear mother,' he said. ' Hitherto
you have only known loss : to-day you have a
daughter given to you.'

Not yet,' she sighed, with a look like a

hare who hears, or thinks she hears, the cry of
the hounds. ' There is many a sip 'twixt the
cup and the hp.'

Charley smiled and kissed her. It was not
very cheerful to be received in this Cassandra-like
style ; but he was accustomed to his mother's
ways, and always very patient and tender with
her. ' We must all die, my dear, if you mean
that,' he said ; ' but nothing short of death will
now separate me and Mary.'

I hope not ; I trust not,' she murmured.
But you tell me that Mr. Peyton has not yet
spoken to Mary. Does not that seem strange ? '

To me it seems uncommonly strange,' said
Charley, ' especially smce under the circumstances
he might even expect a kiss. Mr.
Jennie leads me to imagine (though that's a
secret) that Mr. Peyton means to allow Mary
500/. a year.'

And Mr. Peyton has not spoken to his wife
about all this.'

Well, I don't know why you should have
assumed that, but so it is. Of course such

behaviour is peculiar. When I am Mary's
husband I shall tell her everything I think will
interest her ; but then Mr. Peyton is peculiar.
If he has chosen to make Mr. Jennie his intermediary,
what is thai to us ? '

But there will be investigations — inquiries
? '

Mrs. Peyton and I have had a talk together,'
said Charley, gravely, ' and everything
has been said that needs to be said. She has
told me about Mary's parentage, and all that.
If the — well, what you have in your mind —
doesn't matter to me, how on earth should it
matter to Mr. Peyton ? Come, come ; don't
take such gloomy views, mother, on the
brightest day that has ever dawned on me.
We are to be married from the Hall, Mr.
Jennie tells me, and Mr. Peyton himself is to
give Mary away. Only think of that ! '

It was probable that Mrs. Sotheran thought
a good deal of it, for, long after Charley had
been dismissed with another rain of tears and
kisses, she sat rocking herself in her chair

alone, and murmuring, with frightened face,
To be married from the Hall, and given away
with his own hands ! It is terrible ; it is
frightful ! They are treading upon the edge
of a precipice.'

Chapter Xlii

CONSPIRATORS.

It will be easily understood that the terrace
walk on which Charley and Mr. Marks had
been wont to discuss metaphysics together now
knew them no more. Tutor and pupil were no
longer on amicable terms, though, strange to
say, the views entertained by Mr. Marks of
Charley were much less philosophic than those
with which Charley regarded him. The milk
of human kindliness must, however, flow somewhere
; and that of Mr. Marks, being diverted
from his lapsed young friend, turned to his
whilom enemy Mr. Nayler, and made quite a
pool about him. The terrace walk, as being
well out of earshot of the Hall, while on the
other hand it commanded a good view of all

intruders, was their favourite haunt. Side by
side they would walk for hours, apparently in
the greatest amity. It seemed, as Charley
said, as though the millennium had arrived,
when the weaned child and the cockatrice were
on visiting terms, and the Noumenon had laid
down with the Presentment. The bond that
drew them together was a common hatred,
which for temporary purposes, and while it
lasts, serves its purpose as thoroughly as the
tenderest tie. Nor was it confined to a single
object. They did not hate Charley, who had
declined their friendship, one whit less than
they hated Mary, who had declined their love.
It must be confessed that the young man had
given them some provocation by trifling with
their philosophy ; but this they would never
have discovered had they been left to themselves.
A friend, though scarcely a good-natured
one, had been so good as to point out
in each case that Charley had been amusing
himself at their expense. Such an outrage,
indeed, seemed almost incredible, but he had

contrived to convince them of it. Resentment,
of course, does not enter into the philosophic
mind ; so far as they were personally concerned
they would have been well content to
leave the offender to such punishment as Order
inflicts upon those who transgress her laws ;
but they could not remain deaf to the voice of
public duty.

I have no more personal enmity to this
young man than to yonder cow,' said Mr. Marks
to Mr. Nayler, as they trod the smooth gravel
side by side.

It is not a cow,' returned Mr. Nayler, who
piqued himself on his accuracy, and was not
near-sighted as Mr. Marks was : ' it is Japhet
Marcomm in a stooping position, gathering beetroot
as usual in the garden. But the sentiment
is independent of the metaphor ; I share it ; I
too can lay my hand upon my heart, and assert
that I entertain no feelings towards Charles
Sotheran other than those of disappointment.'

Feelings very natural and very justifiable,'
said Mr. Marks, warmly. ' I am told that the

manner in which he ridiculed your psychological
theories behind your back was most
reprehensible.'

Not more so, as I am informed,' returned
Mr. Nayler, ' than the amusement he created
in thoughtless persons by his imitation of your
metaphysical speculations.'

Which he was by nature wholly incapacitated
from understanding,' observed Mr.
Marks, severely.

Xo doubt, no doubt,' observed Mr. Xayler,
gravely. ' He even admitted that much, though
he fell into the error of supposing that they
were intrinsically unintelligible : one must allow
that he is sufficiently plain-spoken.'

He is the most impudent young man in
the world, sir, and at the same time the falsest,'
put in Mr. Marks, indignantly. ' To think that
he should have hoodwinked our excellent host,
and thereby secured that material success
which alone has any attraction for him, is
enough to make one doubt of the principles
of Order.'

VOL. III. L

Without committing myself so far as to
acknowledge them,' observed Mr. Nayler,
cautiously, 'and reserving my judgment upon
the whole matter as regards the entity of the
individual in question '

Entity ? How can you talk of entities
when he is going off with the money ? ' broke
in Mr. Marks, impatiently.

Let us say rather he is about to go off,'
returned Mr. Nayler : ' in human affairs there
is, properly speaking, no present.'

There 's a future, at all events,' observed
Mr. Marks, drily, ' and that will be made very
comfortable for him.'

That is not so certain, if Mr. Peyton should
discover the young man's unworthiness. Do
you remember his likening our esteemed host,
on account of his personal appearance, to Tar-quintus
Superbus ? '

Now you mention it, I do seem to remember
something of the kind,' said Mr. Marks,
with a keen glance at his companion.

The operations of the memory are most

interesting and remarkable,' observed Mr.
Nayler : ' creation and reproduction are so
nearly allied, that they may be almost said to
be identical. Let us try and remember some
more things.'

It must be said in justice to these two
gentlemen that plots and stratagems were by
no means in their line : the course of conduct
they were now about to enter upon had been
suggested to them by an individual of fix less
intellectual capacity, but of a more practical
thurn of mind — namely, Mr. Ealph Dornay. He
lead a theory about evidence, or rather as to
the production of it, which might have gained
for him a high position at the Old Bailey: his
notion was that the alleged utterances of an
accused person C should be rehearsed between
two witnesses, A and B; testimony thus received
a firmer shape and tone, and if A should
attribute what B had quoted from C's mouth
to C himself, it was an error on the right side,
and strengthened the case for the prosecution.
He had excused himself from all personal part

2

anticipation in the present scheme upon the
ground of delicacy of feeling: Mr. Sotheran
and he were known to be on ill terms, and he
could, therefore, take no immediate part in his
exposure and confusion. He had known the
young man (he explained) when he had been
paying his attentions to Miss Marvon under
other circumstances : she had been at that time
employed in a subordinate capacity by Lady
Orr, but was a favourite of hers, and had had
certain expectations. When these vanished, inconsequence
of the young lady's own misconduct,
Mr. Sotheran had promptly withdrawn
his pretensions, and, now that fortune once more
smiled upon her, he had again come forward asa
suitor. This was, briefly, the true state of
the case. With a good-nature that was under
the circumstances to be regretted, if not actually
reprehensible, Lady Orr had decided to let
bygones be bygones, which placed Mr. Ealph
Dornay himself in a position of mech embarrassment.
While unable himself to appear in
the matter, he could not in the interests of

justice withhold the above information from
those (as he understood) who where taking steps
to prevent the generosity of ]mr. Beryl Peyton
being abused. As to Miss Mar von, the fact
that she still enjoyed (however mistakenly) the*
favour of Lady Orr must seal Mr. Ealpli
Durnay's lips ; but Dr. Bilde was in a position
to supply them with certain facts concerning
that young person which would probably
make thei: course an easy one.

Dr. Bilde also kept , himself in the background.
It was contrary to his principles,
which were paramount, to mix himself u])
with any kind of domestic scandal : his profession
was that of a healer, and out of that
sacred calling he declined to step. It was
unnecessary to say that he was uninfluenced
by mercenary considerations, and indeed that
matter of the codicil seemed to make him
independent of them ; but he could not consent
to risk the loss of Mr. Beryl Peyton's
confidence in his professional judgment, by
allowing his name to be connected with what

no doubt was a most just and necessary inquiry,
but which might be misconstrued as an
intrigue.

So Messrs. Marks and Nayler danced
(metaphorically) upon the terraced walk together,
while Dr. Bilde and Mr. Ealph Dornay
deftly pulled the strings. The time was a slow
one, as was fit and proper with marionnettes
of a philosophic turn, and not a step was
taken without design. But as time went on,
the two gentlemen themselves grew very familiar
with one another, and discoursed together with
an openness that, had there been any possibility
of their being overheard, might have
been dangerous, and would have been described,
even by their allies, as too full of zeal. It
never crossed their minds that they were being
made catspaws ; nor indeed was there any
reason why it should be so, since neither the
doctor nor Mr. Dornay could hope for the
chestnuts. Their notion was that, having
opened Mr. Beryl Peyton's eyes to the real
character of the persons he designed to benefit,

they would lay him under an eternal obligation.
It is possible that they also calculated
upon receiving a fee in proportion to the
success of the operation ; and it was certain
that there would be a good deal of money
oroin(]r ' — that is to sav, that a larcre sum intended
for a certain purpose would be set free
for diversion into other channels. But this
was by no means the main motive of our two
philosophers. Their desire was to see justice
done — a noble instinct, but one that is nevermore
powerful than when we have a personal
grudge against those who are about to be its
victims.

Notwithstanding that time pressed, and
that in the meanwhile these righteous souls
must needs have been vexed by the contemplation
of the happiness of the young couple,
who, unconscious of their doom, and callous,
as it seemed, to all remorse, were enjoying
themselves exceedingly, it was not till long
after the indictment was prepared that the
mode of presenting it in the proper quarter

could be decided upon. Mr. Marks, whose
abstruse pursuits and speculations perhaps inclined
him to shrink from publicity, was in
favour of an anonymous letter, a mode of
proceeding which has this peculiar advantage,
that if it misses fire you can disown it, and
even lay its composition on somebody else.
But Dr. Bilde, who knew the excessive distaste
of his patron for all underhand proceedings, so
vehemently opposed this scheme that it was
abandoned in the bud. Mr. Nayler was for a
round-robin, which, being signed by each
member of the Happy Family, would compromise
everybody alike. But, as here again
Dr. Bilde pointed out, beside the actual
difficulty of getting the signatures, the affair
would thereby be only advanced a single
stage — it would all be allegation and no proof,
until Messrs. Nayler and Marks put themselves
in evidence ; in which case what would become
of the round-robin ? the only effect of whose
previous existence would be to weaken the
personal claim of the two gentlemen in question

upon Mr. Peyton's gratitude. These
arguments were unanswerable, or, rather, the
only answer which Messrs. Nayler and Marks
had to offer — namely, that any course seemed
preferable to them to taking the whole risk
of the enterprise on their own shoulders — it
was forbidden them to use. They had gone
too far to retreat or retract ; and indeed, when
on one occasion Mr. Marks exhibited most
unquestionable signs of jibbing, Mr. Ealpli
Dornay had taken him to task with a very high
hand, and expressed his opinion that it was
incredible that a man of his intellectual status
could be so deficient hi common honesty as to
allow his friend and patron to be imposed
upon, when he had the information in his own
hands which could prevent it. And when Mr.
Nayler eagerly corroborated this view of affairs
with his ' Very true,' Mr. Dornay turned on
him with no little indignation, and observed
that what he had been compelled to say to mr.
Marks was equally applicable to Mr. Xayler.
Nevertheless the disinclination of both these

gentlemen to bell the cat was so extreme that,
in spite of their backers' expectations, they
positively declined to appeal to Mr. Beryl
Peyton in person, but set down what they had
to say in an epistle marked ' Private,' and to
which their respective signatures were affixed
in a handwriting which was the reverse of
bold.'

The fact was that, however Mr. Beryl
Peyton was admired and revered by the
members of the Happy Family (concerning
which none who heard them speak of him
could surely entertain a doubt), there was not
one who was not secretly afraid of him, and
especially of those bursts of passion in which
(in common with less benevolent ' Deputy
Providence,' such as Peter the Great) he was
occasionally accustomed to indulge.

CHAPTER Xlii.

Pulling THE TRIGGER.

It was one of the privileges of those who
from time to time Mr. Beryl Peyton placed
in the forefront of his favours, to be admitted
into his counsels, and to have their advice
demanded upon this or that scheme of benevolence
; a circumstance which sometimes
proved the cause of their undoing.

First catch your patron,' may be an important
proviso, but it is useless unless you
possess the art of keeping him : and this is
the more difficult the more familiar you are
with him, inasmuch as he has thereby opportunities
to find out how much he was mistaken
in you. And thus it had happened to
more than one whom Mr. Beryl Peyton had

delighted to honour. They had been created
grand viziers, only to be bowstring, or at
all events to be banished from their master's
presence, and to have their names obliterated
from his will.

Up to this time Edgar Dornay had held
his place by the throne without misadventure :
partly perhaps because he did not take such
pains to keep it as some of his predecessors
had done. He was not blind to his own
interests, and, as we know, by no means disinclined
to the possession of great wealth ;
but he was not one of those who think
that gold can never be bought too dearly,
or who have a natural hunger for it. He
was neither grasping nor greedy, and much
too fond of his ease to seek wealth at the
sacrifice of comfort. His manners were
agreeable without sycophancy. To Beryl
Peyton, who was accustomed to the fulsome
arts of expectation, it appeared that the
young man had both independence and self-respect.
He had never fallen into the error

of making stepping-stones of others into ]mr.
Peyton's favour, nor fomented his anger against
them ; and his behaviour as Mary Marvon's
rejected suitor had been unexceptionable.
He had accepted his cone with such good
humour that Mr. Person, who was of course
in ignorance of his previous love-passages with
Mary, had complimented him upon it.

Well, sir, of course I am disappointed,'
Edgar had said, ' and the more so because I
see you are disappointed too. It would have
been easy to shrug my shoulders — impertinence
is always easy — but there is no reason,
because Miss Mar von refuses me her love,
that I should cease to respect her. For my
part, I think it a piece of great arrogance to
cut the throat of a young lady (as I read in
the newspapers often happens) simply because
one has failed to recommend oneself to her.
Th^U dog-in-the-manger notion of " If I can't
have her nobody else shall " seems to me, to
say no worse of it, both egotistic and contemptible.'


These generous sentiments were very
agreeable to Mr. Beryl Peyton, but he had
discovered expectation in so many garbs that
he was not quite certain of their genuineness.
An opportunity now arose to test it.

There came a certain day when to an
attentive observer the dinner party at the Hall
seemed to have a cloud upon it.

Mr. Charles Sotheran indeed was not aware
of its existence ; and if he had been, it would
scarcely have attracted his attention. He was
as independent of clouds as a man in a waterproof,
or rather there was a reflected sunshine
about him (emanating from his next neighbour)
which destroyed their influence. He
had understood from Mr. Jennie (still specially
retained on the premises) that dien he returned
to town to resume his duties at the
Probate Office, it was within the bounds of
possibility that he should take Mary with him ;
and this naturally afforded him an agreeable
topic of conversation with his proposed fellow-traveller.


Except that Mary looked forward with
unfeigned regret to her parting iron her
hostess, no two young people were ever more
thoroughly happy. It must be added, to their
honour, that all the ladies sympathised with
them ; even Miss Price, who had never been
wooed, and Mrs. Welbeck, who had been
wooed once too often. It is the attribute of
all women, not naturally bad, or soured by
disappointment, to feel a kindly interest in
turtle-doves about to mate. Their coo finds
a responsive echo in their gentle breasts as
surely as does that of a baby. As for sirs.
Peyton, her pleasure in the contemplation of
the happiness of her young favourites made
her almost oblivious of the vacancy their absence
would create in her heart and home.
Could she see them married, she could certainly
die happy ; and as to living, the time
for that she was well convinced would be but
short. If gloom intruded upon her, it was
cast by the dread of delay. As the time
drew near for the accomplishment of her

hopes, the least incident excited her fears ;
and it did not escape her notice that certain
of her guests were more silent than usual,
and seemed to avoid even exchanging glances
with one another. Had she watched them
more narrowly, she might have observed that
Mr. Ealph Dornay's manner was more frank
and debonair than was usual with him
since he had come into his wife's property,
and that more than once Dr. Bilde condescended
to exchange a few words with him
in his superior manner upon unimportant
subjects. It seemed as though, freed fora
while from their respective responsibilities,
these representatives of science and social
position had agreed to unbend, and even that
they made some point of impressing upon
society that for the moment they had nothing
of supreme importance upon their minds.
Mr. Marks and Mr. Nayler, on the contrary,
preserved an unbroken silence, and kept their
eyes fixed upon their plates, save that now
and then they snatched a furtive glance in

the direction of Mr. Beryl Peyton, who was
dispensing hospitality in his matter-of-course
manner, and conversing with Edgar Dornay
about the window-gardens of the poor.

Of the proverbial bad quarter of an hour
after dinner, the two philosophers had little
experience : they had not settled many dinner
bills, but they endured quite enough on the
present occasion to restore the average. Over
the dessert, when the ladies had withdrawn,
they suffered agonies of suspense and apprehension.
For though the bill of indictment
that had been formed against Charles Sotheran
and Mary Marvon had been placed that morning,
with their names affixed to it, in Mr.
Peyton's hands, he had not even acknowledged
its receipt. The pistol which had been
so skilfully loaded for them they had let off
with their own hands, yet no report had
followed. Had it missed fire aloof ether, or
what ? In that ' what ' lay the most terrible
contingencies. Was it Mr. Peyton's intention
to treat the matter with silent contempt, or

VOL. in. M

to visit them with his wrath and indignation?
Or was he only making inquiries into the
truth of their allegations before proceeding
to action? Had he taken that operation of
having his eyes opened in the very worst
part, he could hardly have hit upon a form
of punishment more severe than that which
he was at present inflicting.

It by no means mitigated their apprehensions
that, when they applied to Dr. Bilde in
their extremity, he gave them neither encouragement
nor comfort ; nay, what seemed
monstrous in a person of his profession, he
had not even advice to offer them. He only
remarked that to a well-regulated mid the
approval of one's own conscience, and the
conviction that we have done our best to
further the cause of moral order, should bea
sufficient compensation for whatever happens.


As for Mr. Ealph Dornay, he merely
shrugged his shoulders and smiled, as a man
with thirty thousand a year can afford to

smile at the pecuniary perplexities of his fellow-creatures.


When you go in for a great stake,
gentlemen,' he said, with his thumbs in the
armholes of his waistcoat, ' it is only reasonable
that you should incur some risk.'

To the observation that he had put the
thing into their heads, he replied that to reveal
what gentlemen said to one another in
casual conversation was a breach of confidence,
and that to make any use of it to
his disadvantage was held on all hands to be
so dishonourable that the injured person was
justified in giving a distinct denial to anything
and everything. This was said with the air
of a man who intends to act up to his
principles.

Even on a bed of down we are told
that conscience is uneasy. But still one is
unwilling to exchange it for a wool mattress :
and each of the two philosophers passed a
wretched night, from the reflection that it
might possibly be the very last time that

M 2

(left to his own resources) he would sleep ina
feather bed.

In Mr. Peyton's study after breakfast some
private theatricals ' took place of rather a
serious kind. As Edgar and his host were
smoking their cigars together as usual, the
elder gentleman threw an open letter over to
his companion, with a dry 'Bead that' It
was a missive of great length, and had not
come by the post, but had been placed in
Mr. Peyton's hands by his valet, ' With Mr.
Nayler's compliments,' on the previous morning.
It took some minutes to get through
it, and even when it was done Edgar remained
speechless, but full of thought. It is
possible that he was hesitating between honour
and self-interest: if so, it was fortunate for
him that he decided in favour of the former,
since if he had taken the course which looked
most to his own advantage he would have
repented it.

There were several of the Happy Family
for trial that morning, and among them (to

judge by the way in which Mr. Peyton looked
at him from under his large white hand) was
Edgar Dornay himself.

Well, what do you think of it, Dor-nay
? '

They are lying, sir,' was the quiet
reply.

You mean as regards the sir ? You
think it impossible '

I do not think, because I am quite certain,'
put in Edgar, vehemently, ' that Miss
Marvon has done nothing to be ashamed of.'

'But perhaps — long ago,' suggested the
old man, tenderly, ' under circumstances at
which we cannot guess, harassed by trouble,
pinched by poverty, tempted — who can tell ? '

/ can tell,' answered Edgar, quietly.
Never, never.'

mr. Peyton hid his eyes, for they sparkled
with pleasure.

But the lad,' he went on ; 'it looks bad
against the lad.'

They have made it look bad,' said Edgar.

His tone had changed ; it was still confident,
but had lost its fervour. The matter was
comparatively indifferent to him. On the
other hand, the man was his successful rival,
and it therefore behoved him (an idea which,
though they were so full of ideas, would never
have occurred to Mr. Marks or Mr. Nayler) to
say what good he knew of him.

'Still, if he said these things,' said Mr.
Peyton, pointing to the letter, ' it was most
ungrateful, and I hate ingratitude.'

Mr. Sotheran's nature is not, in my opinion,
an ungrateful one. I will even say ' — this with
a dead lift, but he did say it — ' that it is
incapable of ingratitude.'

• They say he called me Arminius Superbusus,'
muttered Mr. Peyton, pulling at his long
white beard.

I did not say that Mr. Sotheran was
incapable of an impertinence,' was the quiet
reply.

These gentlemen, to use their own words,'
said Mr. Peyton, • have " courted investigation."

I have caused certain inquiries to be
made, the result of which will be placed before
us. They have asked for justice ; they shall
have it. Will you oblige me by ringing the
bell?'

CHAPTEE XLV.

THE INDICTMENT.

Edgar Dornay was very far from wishing to
be a spectator of what was about to follow.
But an heir presumptive has his duties, and
it was a part of them in this case to stand
on the right hand of the sovereign while
administering justice. In the Letcombe Dot-tell
kingdom there was a still more significant
sign of heirship — namely, to be present during
Mr. Peyton's confidences with his lawyer ; but
to that topmost peak of expectation Edgar
Dornay had not yet reached. Though on a
very high rung of the ladder, he was still on
his promotion. Mr. Peyton had never to ring
twice except for a reason : when he did soit
produced not the footman but his valet.

Devoid,' he said, ' ask Mr. Marks and
Mr. Nayler to be so good as to favour me with
their company.'

Nothing coiikl be more stolidly respectful
than Mr. Derwood'? face as he left the room to
execute his master's orders, but directly the
door had closed behind him it became full
of expression. Sailors talk in their melodramatic
manner of ' the plank between them
and eternity,' but a great man's door is also
a plank of some importance, on one side of
which things take place that never occur upon
the other.

Here 's another row,' sohloquised the valet,
laying his finger to the side of his nose, as was
his habit when reflecting upon the changes and
chances of human life, of which, since he had
been some years at Letcombe Hall, he had
seen something: 'if the goose of them two
gents isn't cooked, my name isn't Sam Der-wood.'
Then, as if suddenly affected by a
reminiscence (though, in his case, it was the
absence of one), he added briskly, ' and a

good job too. I don't remember as either
of them ever gave me so much as would buy
a cigar with.'

If there is a mammon of unrighteousness
which it behoves persons who hive in expectancy
to make friends of, it is their patron's valet ;
yet Messrs. Marks and Nayler had entirely
omitted this precaution. They ought by rights
to have been millionaires, so slow they were to
part with their money. Mr. Marks, it is true,
had fee'd Scarsdale, because her evidence was
important to the present inquiry, and Mr.
Nayler (not to waste his means upon a mere
presentment) had chucked her under the chin ;
but the bribe in neither case would have been
sufficient to enlist her aid had she not been
disposed to help them for other reasons. Now,
though years of service had robbed Scarsdale
of her youth, they had enabled her (in compensation)
to put by a tidy sum of money,
whereof Mr. Samuel Derwood being enamoured,
he had proposed to her ; and, either in order
to make a cheap show of virtue, or to stimulate

Mr. Derwood himself to similar gallantries,
she had confessed in her own way (she had
even added ' he kissed me ') Mr. Xayler's
indiscretion to the valet.

His jealous indignation may be imagined.
What ! ' he cried, ' do you mean to say he
never gave you nothing to take the taste out
of it ? Scaly varmint ! '

Ignorant of this extraneous enemy, but with
sufficient apprehensions of danger from more
direct sources, the two philosophers were
ushered into the hall of audience. Mr. Peyton,
standing with his back to the fireplace, gravely
pointed out two chairs immediately opposite
that in which his young friend was already
seated. Never had involuntary spectator a
better view of any performance than the unfortunate
Edgar.

I have requested my friend Mr. Dornay's
presence here,' observed Mr. Peyton in explanation,
' because I have confidence in his judgment,
and also because he has some knowledge
of the previous history of the two persons

whom the document you have placed in my
hands concerns. He is already acquainted with
its contents, so that it will be unnecessary to
read it. Have you anything to add, gentlemen,
to the information which it purports to
afford ? '

Nothing, save that it is all true,' observed
Mr. Marks, in a solemn tone. It had been
agreed between the two accusers that Mr.
Marks should be their mouthpiece, and if he
had been appointed Speaker to the House of
Commons he could not have acquitted himself
with greater dignity and sedateness.

That is a bold thing to say of eight pages
of manuscript,' returned Mr. Peyton ; ' yet
even if it were true, I should have thought you
might at least have added that it was with
sincere regret you found yourself compelled to
make such allegations against two young
people whose future fortunes it was only too
likely to affect for ill. But perhaps,' he added,
with unmistakable irony, ' you never thought of
the future.'

This was very rough ou the philosophers,
whose silence (which had provoked this outbreak)
was in reality caused by the embarrassment
of their position. What Mr. Marks had
had it on the tip of his tongue to say was that
it was with a bleeding heart he had forced himself
to make these charges, but that, where the
interests of so dear and revered a friend as Mr.
Beryl Peyton were concerned, all other considerations
sank into insignificance. But such
sentiments are for a patron's ear alone. With
Edgar Dornay sitting within two feet of him, it
was really impossible to indulge in them. Far
from suspecting that that gentleman was almost
as uncomfortable as himself, he did him the
injustice of supposing him capable of exclaiming
Rubbish ! ' at the conclusion of some burst of
loyalty.

Mr. Marks did, however, manage to say
that he had only performed what was to him a
most unpleasant duty. He had noticed that Mr.
Peyton had showed considerable favour to Mr.
Charles Sotheran ; and the gross ingratitude

which the young man had evinced when
speaking of his benefactor, not to mention the
motives of self-interest by which he was evidently
actuated "

Never mind the motives,' interrupted Mr.
Peyton, drily. ' We can all supply those for
one another. Let us stick to facts. He was
disrespectful to me in his conversation, it
seems ? '

Very,' observed Mr. Marks.

And frequently, eh ? '

Always,' struck in Mr. Nayler.

Then it strikes me you must have
encouraged him,' suggested Mr. Peyton.

Nothing, averred both gentlemen, could be
more groundless than such an accusation. They
had been too appalled to stop him, and simply
let him run on. What must have been their
feelings, for example, Mr. Marks ventured to
inquire, with a glance towards the indictment —
what must have been their righteous indignation
when this young person had the

audacity to liken his patron to Arminius
Superbus ?

Why did he call me that, I wonder ? '
inquired Mr. Peyton-^vith a glance at Edgar.

Though white as Mount Horace

tien winter nights are long

suggested the young poet,

His heard flowed down o'er mail and felt,
His heart and hand were strong.'

To be sure — a very apt quotation,' observed
the old man, smiling. 'His other
remarks, however, it seems were not so complimentary.
Is this allegation literally true,
gentlemen, that Mr. Sotheran said " The old
fool " ' (he here read an extract from the indictment)
' " will settle some money on the girl
(meaning Miss Marvon), and then I will marry
her : " and again, " I wish the old fool was
dead?'

Those were the words Mr. Sotheran used,'
said Mr. Marks, with a slight cough, as if
something? stuck in his throat.

Is that your impression also, Mr. Nayler ? ''

He made use, if not of those actual words,
of words of a similar purport, sir.'

There was a witness once who said " the
prisoner cried ' Bill, Bill,' or words to that
effects'' ' observed Mr. Peyton, drily. ' I trust,
Mr. Nayler, you will be found to be equally
conscientious. I have made inquiries, however,
into this matter, and testimony will be produced
which does not quite bear out what you
two gentlemen have said. It tends to prove, I
am sorry to say, that though Mr. Sotheran
may have been indiscreet and disrespectful in
his language, a certain colour has been given
to it.'

Not by us, sir,' murmured Mr. Marks. A
dreadful suspicion crossed his mind that Ralph
Dornay and Dr. Bilde were acting treacherously
to them, and for some reason of their
own had turned informers. For to what other
testimony could their host refer ?

Mr. Peyton rang the bell, and by some intermediate
agency — for it is certain he could

never have heard it — it was answered by Japhet
Marcomm, the deaf mute.

Notwithstanding his height and strong
build, this man had usually the patient, apathetic
look which belongs to those who are
similarly afflicted — a gentle attentiveness, as if
they would fain listen to you if they could.
But on this occasion there was a severity in his
face that almost approached truculent.

'You have seen these gentlemen walking
on the terrace lately now and then, Japhet,'
said Mr. Peyton, indicating the two philosophers
with his finger.

Japhet's eyes shone ' yes,' as he inclined
his head with quiet confidence.

And from where you were you could hear
in your way — pretty accurately what they
said?'

Mr. Marks and Mr. Nayler smiled incredulously,
as indeed did Edgar himself. Japhet's
services were devoted to his master, and not
given to the public at large. K the Happy
Family ever bestowed a thought upon him, it

VOL. III. N

was to conclude (as indeed was the fact) that
his name was to be found among the lesser
blessed in Mr. Peyton's will. They knew that
his master and he had some mysterious means
of communicating with one another, and that
was all.

'You seem to doubt Japhet's powers,
gentlemen,' observed Mr. Peyton. ' Be so
kind, Mr. Domay, as to ask him a question
for yourself.'

Is the clock at the church, Japhet,' inquired
Edgar, ' faster or slower than the Hall
time ? '

The mute pointed to the timepiece over
the mantelpiece, and moved his hand with
great rapidity.

'• He says our time is faster,' explained Mr.
Peyton. ' If you had made the inquiry fifty
feet hence, and in a whisper, he would have
heard you equally well. If he is near enough
to see the movement of your lips, he can tell
what they say. If you doubt this, gentlemen,
you can make proof of it for yourselves, but

for my part I know it to be the case ; and
whatever Japhet has repeated to me of this
matter is, to my mind, I frankly tell you,
testimony to be relied on as surely as though
he had made a third at your interviews, and
every word you said had been addressed to
him.'

Mr. Marks's lips moved as if he himself
were dumb ; Mr. sailer gibbered like a ghost
or a detected presentment.

'Japhet has, at my suggestion,' continued
Mr. Peyton, ' written out a detailed account of
what he heard in the walled garden. It is
here, open to your inspection, gentlemen, and
if it can be refuted — to your refutation,
Japhet alleges that you agreed together that
there could be no harm in putting into Mr.
Sotheran's mouth the sentiments which you
took it for granted he entertained. For example,
since you supposed he would like Miss
Marvon no less for being well dowered, you
thought it a natural thing to make Mr.
Sotheran say, " The old fool will settle some

N 2

money on the girl, and then I will marry her."
Do you still maintain, gentlemen, that those
were the actual words Mr. Sotheran used ?
On the other hand, Japhet is confident as to
your own employment of this rather singular
phrase ' — here Mr. Peyton once more referred
to the manuscript — ' " By hook or by crook, we
must get both the boy and the wench out of
the house." '

'It seems to me, Mr. Peyton,' said Mr.
Marks, turning very pale and speaking in
quavering tones, ' that you have hardly behaved
quite fairly to us in discussing in the presence
of a third person ' — here he indicated Edgar
Dornay — ' a matter which was communicated
to you under the seal of confidence. Our
communication, if you will be so good as to
observe, was marked "private and confidential."
'

Good heavens, sir ! am I the Lion of
Venice,' exclaimed Mr. Peyton, angrily, 'that
I should take every charge for granted that
malice and ill-will may invent against an

innocent man? K I hesitate to confront him
with his accusers, do you suppose that it is for
their sakes, and merely because they have
expressed a ^vish — under the circumstances.
a very natural wish — to remain anonymous ?
What right have you to complain because I
take this gentleman here into my confidence ?
What hinders you from defending yourselves
because he is present ? '

It was rather difficult for poor Mr. Marks
to explain his position ; the statement that his
conversations with Mr. Xayler had been overheard,
which he did not in the least doubt,
had utterly overwhelmed him. He was conscious
of having said so many damaging things.
There seemed to him but one way of escape
for them out of the hole, just as the fox made
use of the goat in the well, namely, on the
shoulders of Mr. Ealph Dornay. He would
like to have said that the character that
gentleman had given them of Mr. Sotheran
had so utterly shocked their sense of propriety
that, they had taken what might

certainly seem somewhat extreme measures
to prevent Mr. Peyton's favour from being
abused. They had gone, perhaps, further than
they were justified in going, but not of themselves
— Mr. Ealph Dornay had given them the
momentum. This is what seemed their best
and, indeed, their only line of defence ; but
how could they take it in the presence of
Mr. Dornay's nephew ?

You must remember, sir,' said Mr. Marks,
wetting his dry lips as the serpent flickers with
his forked tongue, ' that there is another
person implicated in this unhappy matter, and
that a motive of delicacy, which you will, I
am sure, both understand and appreciate,
prevents its full discussion — ahem ! — under
present circumstances.'

Pray do not let your consideration for
Miss Marvon stand in your way,' replied
Mr. Peyton, coldly. ' If you have nothing
more to say against the young lady than you
have had to urge against Mr. Sotheran, it will
not distress Mr. Dornay, though he entertains

as high a regard for her as any one must do
who has the good fortune to be acquainted
with her.'

You must please to remember, Mr. Peyton,'
said Mr. Marks, hurriedly, ' that we have
personally made no charge of any kind against
Miss Marvon. We have only repeated, from a
sense of what was owing to yourself, what we
have heard of her from other sources, and
which a very little inquiry on your part Avill
corroborate or disprove.'

You speak of other sources,' said Mr.
Peyton, icily : ' be so good as to name one of
them.'

Permit me, sir, to mention Scarsdale,
Mrs. Peyton's maid.'

CHAPTEE XLVI.

SCARSDALE'S TESTIMONY.

At the name of Mrs. Peyton there flitted across
her husband's face an angry flush. Notwithstanding
his democratic opinions, and the
freedom with which he mingled with his
inferiors, Beryl Peyton was intensely proud,
though, as men of his class often are, only at
second hand. He himself, that is, had no
objection to be treated as an equal by any
human being ; but his belongings were
taboo.' He resented — and all the more
because he himself paid so little deference to
her opinions — the least disrespect shown to his
wife. Even the introduction of her maid's
name into the matter on hand annoyed him,
because it might be the prelude to the citation

Scared ale's testimony. 185

of Mrs. Peyton herself. Nevertheless, he was
not the man to suffer his private feelings to
interfere with the course of justice.

If Mrs. Peyton's maid has anything to say
to this matter, let her say it,' he said, and that
lady was summoned accordingly.

To Messrs. Marks and Nayler her appearance
gave a great relief, for they felt that in
her hands their cause was far safer than in
their own. As a junior, with the conduct of a
great case unexpectedly thrust upon his inadequate
shoulders, joys to see his leader suddenly
appear in court, and trusts that his mistakes
will be repaired and his lost ground recovered,
so did they hail the appearance of their
female ally. Though very far from being
innocents, they were ill adapted by nature for
plots and stratagems ; and if they had not
known as much half an hour ago, they knew
it now. They were conscious of having, sofar,
made a complete and deplorable failure of
the little matter they had taken in hand. On
paper — that is to say, while they were talking

the affair over between themselves — their plan
of the campaign had seemed to be perfect.
Each had only to corroborate the other's
story, and the thing was done. That the cause
should ever come to be tried in open court had
never entered into their calculations. It was
shameful that such doubts should have been
thrown upon two gentlemen's words, while as
for the unlooked-for intervention of Japhet
Marion, it was a circumstance little short of
diabolic. But what in reality more alarmed
them and put them off their balance than all
the rest was the tone and manner of Mr. Peyton
himself What they had looked for was
not indeed an upright judge : they had
imagined that, weighed down by the sense of
obligation arising from their disinterested
action, he would have leant very considerably
in their direction ; whereas it was now
evident that he was inclining to the other
side.

Hitherto, however, testimony had been
hostile to them : in the excellent Scarsdale

they felt sure of a partisan. She had spoken
to them of Miss Marvon with such bitterness
upon her own account that they were confident
nothing would be wanting to her accuracy in
the way of zeal. She was not beautiful, but
they did not require a Phryne to plead their
cause. Her high coloiu* suggested animus —
the right animus ; her set lips resolution ; nor
did her large black eyes abate their keenness
one whit, though she stood in the presence of
her master.

You have something to say, it seems, concerning
Miss Marvon,' observed Mr. Peyton,
quietly. ' What is it?'

About Miss Marvon ? Me, sir ? No, sk ! '

Her look was innocence itself, mingled with
amazed surprise.

Well, you have said something about herat
all events,' said Mr. Peyton, coldly. ' Is it
not so, gentlemen ? ' He addressed his remarks
to the two philosophers, but Scarsdale
answered it.

Not as I am aware on, sir. I have never

spoken of the young lady except in answer to
questions.'

If this reply was accidental it was a most
unfortunate one for the prosecutors, since it
suggested the process called pumping ; but if
it was intentional — designed, that is, to isolate
them and place the speaker herself in a position
of neutrality — their case was pitiable indeed.
Mr. Marks felt like an indifferent swimmer,
who, having just seized hold of some sapling
on the bank which promised safety, finds it
gradually coming up by the roots.

Mr. Nayler and I put certain inquiries to
this young person,' he explained, ' which were
necessitated by the circumstances of the case.
We knew that there was a secret — I regret to
say a shameful secret — connected with Miss
Marvon's past, and we thought, acting as we
were in your interests, that the most likely
person to enlighten us upon the subject washer
waiting maid.'

I am not Miss Marvon's maid,' exclaimed
Scarsdale, vehemently.

To a close observer this was the first sign
of naturalness which this lady had evinced :
hitherto she had been under the influence of a
severe self-restraint, but in these words she
broke away from it.

Of course not, Scarsdale,' put in Mr.
Marks, soothingly : ' you are !Mrs. Peyton's
own maid ; still, you have necessarily seen
much of her companion. Xow, what did you
tell me and Mr. Xayler here, on Wednesday
last, respecting her ? '

Nothing ; nothing, that is, as I particularly
remember.'

Oh dear, oh dear ! but you surely must,'
insisted Mr. Marks. The fact of his having given
her half a sovereign on the occasion in question
had impressed all the siu-rounding circumstances
so vividly upon his own mind that he could
not understand this plea of forge fulness in
another. ' You told us, you know, how very
intimate your mistress was with Miss Marvon,
so much so that it made the young lady " forget
her place," as you expressed it.'

'I don't remember,' reiterated Scarsdale,
stolidly. This second disclaimer was a mistake :
it is possible to make a false step in refusing to
take any step at all. It was clear to both Mr.
Peyton and to Edgar that the phrase in question
had been Scarsdale's own. This seemed even
to strike herself — or perhaps the glances they
exchanged with each other did not escape her
for she presently added, ' I don't say as missis
and Miss Mar von were not intimate.'

Just so, and very confidential,' put in Mr.
Marks. ' They talked together pretty often of
Miss Marvon's proposed marriage, did they
not?'

Sometimes.*

And your mistress seemed to be in a hurry
about it, did she not ? Now, why was that ? '

Because,' said Scarsdale, slowly, and with
her eyes on the carpet, ' missis felt far from
well, and seemed afraid she should never live
to see the marriage in which she took such an
interest take place.'

Will you swear,' inquired Mr. Marks, with

indignation, ' that the reason you gave to me
wasn't that there was something discreditable
about Miss Marvon which time might bring to
light, and that therefore she was in a hurry to
get the matter concluded, with Mr. Peyton's
sanction ? '

Scarsdale looked up to the ceiling, and half
opened her mouth (as though to depict or allegorise
an effort of memory), then shook her
head and answered rapidly, like a gentleman
used to taking official affidavits, ' Xo, I never
did!'

'Then perhaps you will also venture to
affirm,' said Mr. Marks, with the calmness of
despair, ' that you did not quote to me the
other day, "This house for you is full of pitfalls,"
as an expression used by Mrs. Pe)1:on to
Miss Marvon to denote the imminent danger
of her secret being discovered so long as she
remained at Letcombe Hall ? '

Miss Scarsdale's colour heightened, she cast
at her master a furtive inquiring glance, as
though she would have asked, ' Now what do

you think ? If I said " I didn't," should I pass
the extreme limit of that credulity a gentleman
owes to a lady's word or not ? ' Then boldly
answered, ' No ; I don't remember nothing
about pitfalls.'

It was an audacious stroke, but it failed.
I sympathise with her, because when I myself
have a story suggested to me I never can tell
it like one for which I am indebted to my own
fancy ; and Miss Scarsdale was acting under
instructions. Her instinct was to tell the truth
and more. She would have liked to have said
all she knew of Miss Marvon, and have added
to it what she thought of her. But Mr. Der-wood
had forbidden it. It might be thought,
since she was ten years his senior, that she
ought to have known best how to act, but his
youth — or comparative youth — was the very
thing that gave him so much influence with
her. It was probably her last chance of a
husband. 'The game is up, Maria,' he had
said. ' I can see by the governor's look that
them two gents are in Queer Street ; so whatever

you do, say nothing to back 'em.' And
this had been the secret of Scarsdale's tergiversation
— as simple as Columbus's egg trick, when
you came to know it, but to Mr. Marks and
Mr. Xayler, who didn't know it, utterly inexplicable.
It is no wonder she had not acted
naturally the role thus imposed on her. Who
could expect the villain of a piece to take a
virtuous part at a moment's notice, and play
it with any gusto ? At those words, ' I don't
remember nothing about pitfalls,' Mr. Peyton
leant across to Edgar, and, without taking much
pains to drop his voice, observed, ' This woman
is lying.'

Poor Scarsdale ! Left to herself she might
have scrambled on along the way of villainy
for life with considerable success, till she came
to the precipice whither we must all come, but
this solitary attempt to tread the path of virtue
(though it was altogether involuntary) was her
ruin. She had the misfortune to be afflicted
with the malady (not solely confined to females)
called a ' temper.' Bind with wrath, obvious

vox,. III.

of her betrothed and his ins unctions, and utterly-careless
of consistency, she hastened to retrace
her steps.

If you don't believe me, and want to hear
something as '11 make your hair stand on end,
you had better ask Miss Marvon herself.'

A very good plan,' observed Mr. Peyton,
in cold and measured tones. He might have
been a statue carved in granite, but that at the
same moment he nodded significantly to Japhet
Marcomm. It was not a moment too soon. As
the deaf mute stepped forward to put the
furious woman out of the room, she broke
out —

Miss Marvon, indeed ! You want to know
about her, do you ? Ask Mr. Ealph Dornay ;
ask Dr. Bilde ; ask Miss Innocence herself.
Hoity, toity ! here 's a fuss about a pretty face.

There 's no fool like an '

The rest of the proverb was lost in the
passage, but the application of it was preserved
by the contemptuous glance she cast,
before the door closed on her ejected format
Mr. Beryl Peyton.

CHAPTER XLVII.

SUSPICION.

Earnestness lias become so common a trade,
and also so mechanical a one, that the expression
of it has little effect on anybody. A touch
of nature, on the other hand (which nowadays
one meets with but seldom), goes home to
every heart. Miss Scarsdale might not have
been right in the opinion she had expressed, or
hinted, with respect to Miss Mary Marvon, but
it had been obviously a genuine one, and so far
had its merits. It may seem strange that the
wild words of an angry waiting-woman should
so move a man like Beryl Peyton, but the
truth was, that parting shot of hers, ' Ask Mr.
Ealph Dornay, ask Dr. Bilde, ask Miss Innocence
herself,' had pierced his very heart. Ito
2

had suggested — what is feared almost as much
by the patron as by the tyrant — a conspiracy.
To a benevolent man who has any knowledge
of the world, ingratitude in the individual is
nothing surprising. It is one of the drawbacks
to which the profession of philanthropy is naturally
exposed, as that of the farmer is to a bad
harvest, or that of the merchant to a bad debt ;
but when the objects of one's benevolence
band together, and conspire to hoodwink us,
the matter becomes serious, because it implies
something amiss in our private compensation
balance for setting the world to rights — something
rotten at the root of our own system. If
Mr. Ealph Dornay and Dr. Bilde knew something
discreditable about Mary Marvon, and
had suffered him, thought Beryl Peyton, to waste
his favours, and, what was worse, his affection,
upon an unworthy object, why might not others
know it ? It was true they had shown no liking
for her, but even that might have been a part
of their duplicity : they might have been in
league together none the less that they showed

no sign of alliance. On the other hand, he
was very unwilling to believe anything to
Mary's discredit. Her sweetness of disposition
had won upon him further than he cared
to acknowledge, and also in spite of himself.
Once before he had been moved very strongly
in favour of a young girl, in a somewhat similar
position in that very house, and she had disappointed
him cruelly. She had listened to
the unworthy solicitations of his own son,
which had proved the beginning of unutterable
troubles. Was it possible that he was about to
be disappointed and deceived a second time?
While these bitter thoughts were falling through
his mind like sleet, Mr. Nayler spoke. Up to
this time, and while matters had been going so
dead against him, that gentleman had been well
content to use Mr. Marks for a mouthpiece,
but now that things had taken a decided turn
in his favour he was moved to speak, as a
bii'd tunes his note in the sunshine after
showers.

You were saying it would be a good plan,

Mr. Peyton, to question Miss Marvon herself.
That strikes me as an excellent suggestion.'

Whether excellent or not, it was certainly
not an original one, for it had been proposed
by Miss Scarsdale. And this consideration,
among others, may have made it unwelcome
to Mr. Peyton.

Do you suppose I am going to send for
the young lady here' he exclaimed with indignation,
' to be examined and cross-examined
by you and Mr. Marks ? Or even that I should
expose her to the indignity of answering questions
of a private nature in your presence ? '

Certainly not, sir,' said Mr. Nayler, hurriedly.
To do him justice, he would have
shrunk from any such proceeding : what he
would have preferred was to have been an
unseen spectator of the investigation — like Lady
Teazle in the screen scene, only more virtuous
and to have disclosed himself at the denouement,
just as Mary was being turned out of the
house.

Then, I think, gentlemen,' said Mr. Peyton,

' you had better withdraw. You may be
assured of justice being done in this affair in
your absence, just as though you were witnesses
to its administration.'

We leave the matter in your hands, sir,'
said Mr. Marks, rising, ' With the utmost confidence
in your sense of right ; and whatever
may come of this investigation — the necessity
for which we deeply deplore — we feel assured
that you will give us credit at least for having
had no other end in view than the exposure of
unworthiness.'

I do not pretend to be a judge of motives,
Mr. Marks,' was the dry reply ; ' but the facts
of the case, you may rely upon it, shall be thoroughly
investigated.' Mr. Nayler drew out
his handkerchief — Mr. Marks had a dreadful
misgiving that he was about to burst into tears
and confess all — and wiped the perspiration
from his forehead. If it was a device to gain
time, in order to say a word or two on his own
account after the other had left the room, it
failed of its intent. Mr. Marks slipped his arm

swithin his own, and led him out like a lady,
but with a certain amount of vigour that forbade
delay.

Thus left alone with his young friend, Mr.
Peyton turned towards him with a grave,
pained face.

What do you think of it all, Mr. Dor-nay
? ' he inquired.

As respects Miss Marvon, sir, my opinion
is quite unaltered.*

I am glad to hear you say so. Still there
is some scandal afoot regarding her, which it is
necessary for her own sake to get to the bottom
of. That woman we have just seen believed
it ; those gentlemen believed it.'

'Let us say they wished to believe it, sir.'

Perhaps ; I am not sure,' returned the
other, gravely. ' We must give no verdict till
we have heard all the evidence."

It is quite impossible, however,' said Edgar,
apprehensively, ' as you were saying, to interrogate
Miss Marvon herself;' and indeed it is
but fair to say that Edgar Dornay would have

given up all his hopes of inheritance to Beryl
Peyton's wealth (though he knew them by this
time to be well founded) rather than have been
a party to any such thing.

Quite true ; but I must learn the truth,
and the whole truth,' said the old man. ' There
is something wrong. " Pitfalls," he murmured;
this place," she said, " is full of pitfalls."
Jennie knows her ; I will ask Jennie to speak
with her. I wish I had spoken to Vienne at
first.'

To one who knew Beryl Peyton this admission
of a mistake in the presence of another
person was full of significance, and augured
well indeed for the fortunes of his confidant.
The Catholic religion was one that would never
have attracted him to its fold, since it enjoins
the confession of errors : not even to himself,
when anything went wrong, was Mr. Peyton
accustomed to own that it had done so through
his own fault.

At all events there has been no harm
done,' said Edgar, soothingly. This was taking

a sanguine view of affairs ; for two philosophers,
a serving-man that is neither deaf
nor dumb, and an angry waiting-maid, with
a suspected but undiscovered secret amongst

ij them, are surely elements of disturbance in

any household. Heading something of this in
Mr. Peyton's face as he laid his hand upon the

/ bellrope, ' Don't you think,' continued Edgar,

that instead of sending for Mr. Jennie, it
will be well for me to go and fetch him ?
You could then consult together on what
would be advisable, without attracting public
attention.'

Eight, my lad, as you usually are,' said
Mr. Peyton, approvingly. ' You will find him
in his room, no doubt. Just ask him to step
round.'

Mr. Edgar Dornay's advice had been even
more discreet than his host had imagined it to
be. In offering it he had had his own enfranchisement
in view at least as much as anything
else, and when Mr. Jennie, after some interval,
made his appearance, he was alone.

Where is Edgar ? ' were Mr. Peyton's first
words.

Gone for a constitutional — at least, so he
said.'

Ah, that was his excuse : he did not wish
to intrude his presence without an express invitation.
AVhat I like him for is his delicacy.'

Perhaps it was that which made him feel
the atmosphere of the court a Httle oppressive,'
said the lawyer, drily. ' He seemed uncommonly
glad to get away.'

The whole proceedings were very painful
to him, no doubt,' assented Mr. Peyton. ' I
take it for granted he has told you what has
passed.'

The lawyer nodded gravely.

His own behaviour throughout has
been most admirable,' continued Mr. Peyton,
earnestly.

He told me that too,' said the lawyer ;
or at least led me to conclude as much.'

'You are very hard and very unjust, as
you always are, in the case of every one in

whom I take an interest,' said Mr. Peyton,
walking to and fro and speaking with great
irritation.

It 's such a waste of sympathy to take
your first view of them,' said Mr. Jennie,
since in the end you always find them
out.'

In Edgar Dornay there is nothing to find
ont,' observed the other, confidently.

At all events he isn't the subject of our
present discussion,' answered the lawyer, drily
You wish to speak to me, as I understand,
about Miss Mar von.'

Yes ; Marks and Nayler have put this into
my hands — a sort of bill of indictment ; and
here's Japhet's account of the matter, which
puts a part of it — that which relates to
Sotheran — in a very different point of view.
Just run your eye over them.'

When the lawyer had finished this examination
he looked up and observed quietly,
The thing 's plain enough in my judgment.
It is not the first time, my dear Peyton, nor the

second, that you have asked my opinion upon
a similar set of circumstances.'

You think it 's mere jealousy — the wish to
supplant ? '

How can you doubt it ? " By hook or by
crook we must get the boy and Avench out of
the house " is the key to the whole position.
Japhet is sure about the words, I conclude.'


'Quite certain. But both ]\Iarks and
Nayler assert most positively that there is
something in the girl's past of which she has
reason to be ashamed.'

T\nio told them that ? ' inquired Mr.
Jennie, quickly.

I don't know. Marks said "other sources,"
but declined to give his authority.'

Did he ? I should like to have him in a
witness box for five minutes. However, I can
do without him. It was Dr. Bilde.'

Then it 's true,' exclaimed Beryl Peyton,
sadly ; he was thinking of Scarsdale's testimony,
' ask Mr. Ealph Dornay ; ask Dr. Bildc'

But to Mr. Jennie, who was unaware of this,
the remark seemed singularly inconsequent.

I don't agree with your premisses, my
dear Peyton,' he answered bluntly ; but, as
it happens, I do with your conclusions. Miss
Marvon has a past of which she is ashamed.'

Then there is no such thing as simplicity
in women,' exclaimed the old man, sadly.
And you, too, knew it and never told me.'
He uttered a deep sigh and fell into his chair.
It is my fate to be fooled by every one in
whom I put trust.'

It is the fate of most people, my dear
Peyton,' answered the lawyer, quietly ; ' but, as
regards Miss Marvon, there is no cause, as far
as I know, for disappointment. I said she was
ashamed of her past, but not that she had
reason for being ashamed of it. She has
been weak, she is weak, but she is not
guilty.'

You would not say that if she was ten
years older,' said the old man, gloomily. ' It is
wonderful what extenuating circumstances even

a lawyer will find in youth, if the culprit is a
woman ! '

Mr. Jennie opened his eyes to an extent
that, upon his own account, they had rarely
reached before.

To make your cynic,' he murmured, ' there
is certainly nothing like you: thoroughgoing
philanthropist soured. What I meant, Mr.
Peyton,' lie added aloud, ' was that ]bliss Marvon
took a morbid view of her own position, which
is simply that she has the misfortune to be of
illegitimate birth.'

Do you mean to say that 's all ! ' exclaimed
the old man.

I will lay my life on it,' said the lawyer.
Dr. Bilde and the rest discovered something
wrong and hoped for the worst, whereas they 've
only found a mare's nest '

But it 's a positive advantage,' argued Beryl
Peyton. ' No family ties — no leeches. Why,
the girl is to be congratulated.'

Well, I didn't do that,' said the lawyer,
comically ; ' but upon the circumstances coming

to my knowledge, I did my best to combat her
own morbid views upon the subject.'

Poor thing, poor thing ! And who were
her parents ? '

The lawyer played with his watchman,
and answered with an indifferent air, ' Well,
the fact is, she doesn't know.'

Good heavens ! then they may be alive
now, and when she has got a little money
will be sure to turn up again. A woman
who is well off is never in want of relatives.'


They 're dead, both dead,' said Mr. Eeimie,
curtly.

How can she know they 're dead if she
doesn't know who they were ? ' was the quick
reply.

Somebody else knows — at least 1 suspect
so. The matter is kept secret from her, probably
for some good reason.'

/ must know ! ' ejaculated Mr. Peyton.
His face had suddenly grown dark and frowning,
and his lips trembled uneasily. They were

saying to his inward ear, ' What did that woman
mean by pitfalls ? '

It is a secret that in my opinion ought to
be respected,' argued Mr. Jennie.

You know it then,' put in the old man,
with a glance of keen suspicion.

I do not know it, Mr. Peyton ; nor, since
any allusion to it obviously gives the poor girl
pain, have I sought to discover it. Why should
you, of all men, who hold the ties of consanguinity
so cheap, be solicitous to do so?
Why should it not be sufficient for you to be
assured — as I do now assure you — that Miss
Marvon herself is without the shadow of reproach
? '

No matter why : it is not sufficient. You
have said that somebody else knows. You ville
so good as to furnish me at once with that
person's name.'

A flush came into the lawyer's face at the
other's suspicious manner, but he answered
drily enough, 'I thought I had already told
you I only suspected who it was. I will go to

VOL. III. p

that person, however, and if I have guessed
right will endeavour to obtain the information
you desire.'

It is some one in this house, then ? ' exclaimed
the other, vehemently, as the lawyer
rose to leave the room.

No, sir, it is not : it is some one out of the
house.'

As the door closed upon his companion,
Beryl Peyton drew a long breath of relief, and
as he passed his hand across his forehead the
furrows which angry suspicion had raised there
slowly smoothed themselves away. If the
some one who alone could solve this mystery
was ' out of the house,' that person could not
be his wife.

CHAPTER Xlvi.

IT Can BUT COST ME A CLIENT.'

Though the lawyer had quitted Mr. Peyton's
presence with an air of indifference, and as if
bound on an errand of small importance, this
was no indication of his real feelings : he had
left his client, indeed, far more at ease than he
was himself.

Though a man of few words, he gave
attention to the words of others, and with his
half-shut eyes saw more than any one suspected-during
his stay at Letcombe Hall he had acquired,
Without eavesdropping, or chucking a
lady's-maid under the chin, more information
than Dr. Bilde and the two philosophers together.
Unlike these gentlemen, however, he
had learned quite enough, and was very 
2

willing to push his investigations further. But
now it behoved him to push them. If Mr.
Peyton had been content to take things as he
found them, it would have been no part of Mr.
Jennie's duty to stimulate his curiosity ; but
once his client had expressed a wish to know
the truth, he had no alternative but, having
found it, to communicate it to him. And he
felt only too sure that whither his steps were
now leading him — namely, to Bank Cottage —
he was about to find it.

Mrs. ISotheran, as usual, was within doors :
like most women of her nervous and apprehensive
nature, she was a stay-at-home, content tolet
unfriendly Fate come to her own door
rather than go forth to meet it. Even in her
youth, when her step was elastic, and she drew
her breath without being conscious of the process,
exercise had had no charms for her. The
fresh air is not for the feeble ; the winds of
heaven visit them too roughly and only serve
to remind them of their weakness. And of late
she had other reasons for remaining under her

own roof. As the time drew near for her son's
marriage with the girl whom she had learnt to
love next to her son, a certain picture of a
mediaeval type was always presenting itself to
her morbid imagination — the figure of Beryl
Peyton coming up the hill towards her cottage
door with this inquiry coming crosswise out
of his mouth, ' Be so good as to tell me who
is the young person calKng herself Mary
Marvon ? '

That her son should be happily married
and no questions asked seemed too much bliss
to one who made such modest demands on
fortune as the poor widow.

When she saw from her window Mr. Jennie
leave the high-road and turn into the bridle
path that led to her dwelling, she knew what
he was come about as well as though he had
already told her. She might almost have
addressed him in the terms used by a lady of a
similar temperament, who at last found a burglar
under her bed, ' You are the very individual I
bave been looking for these twenty years.'

It is often the misfortune of this too providential
class to be miserable all their lives
about a catastrophe that may never happen :
on the other hand, they have certainly the
advantage of being prepared for it.

It was with hands that did not tremble,
though with a sinking heart, that she opened
the door for her visitor, before he knocked at
it, and ushered him into her neat little parlour :
she was in expectation of the worst, and had
strung her frail nature up to meet it.

'Why, one would really think you had
expected my visit,' said the lawyer, cheerfully.

I saw you coming up the hill ! ' she murmured
evasively, and her head, which was
still a pretty one, nodded spasmodically from
side to side.

'What a pleasant house and a charming
situation you have here ! ' said Mr. Jennie, who
knew very well what that movement meant.
For my part, I like this even better than the
view from the Hall,' and he regarded the landscape
through the window for a few moments

as though he would nke to buy it. ' I just
looked in for a word or two with you on a
matter of business. Can you give me five
minutes of your time, my dear Mrs. Sotheran,
and alone ? '

Susan is gone down the village, and Jane
is in the kitchen,' answered the widow ; and
with either of those young women she would
very gladly have changed places for the
remainder of her existence, if only the lawyer
would not have said another word.

Very good, then, since we are liable to no
interruption, I may say at once that the subject
of our conversation will be Mary Mar von. You
know aU about her, of course.'

I know something ; but what I know, Mr.
Jennie, I am not at liberty to tell,' said the
widow. The words came glibly enough, for
many a time she had rehearsed them in anticipation
of some such an inquiry, but all her
preparation could not keep her head from that
nervous shaking, nor her frame from trembling
in every limb.

*You are quite right to be reticent, Mrs.
Sotheran : nothing is more natural than that
you should say to yourself, " This is no business
of Mr. Jennie's," nor, indeed, is it. I am
here as the representative of Mr. Beryl Peyton,
and at his express request. It is not unreasonable
that he should wish to know something
about the antecedents of this young lady,
whom he is about to dower handsomely, and
concerning whom I may confide to you he has
also ulterior intentions. He wishes to be quite
certain that these benefits will be conferred
upon a person who is worthy of them.'

'I have known Mary Marvon from her
birth,' said the widow, confidently, ' and have
never seen aught but good in her. She is one
in a thousand.'

So far the Court is with you, Mrs.
Sotheran,' said the lawyer, smiling : ' if you
had said one in ten thousand — so far as I have
any experience of young women — you might
still plead justification. You say, however, you

have known her from her birth : it is of her
birth that I am here to make inquiry.'

She is a suppositious child,' murmured the
poor widow.

A what, ma'am ? '

A suppositious — dear, dear, what am 1
saying ! I mean a posthumous child.'

Just so : her father died before she was
born. Still, she must have had a father.'

There was a long pause : the widow stared
at her companion as a bird awaiting deglutition
stares at a snake, but uttered not a syllable.

T suppose I should not be far wrong,' continued
the lawyer blandly, ' if I called him
Henry Peyton.'

Gracious heavens, how did you know
that ? ' exclaimed Mrs. Sotheran in a terrified
whisper.

'I didn't know it till this minute, ma'am.
I only guessed as much. She is illegitimate, of
course.'

The widow nodded sideways, but she meant

assent. She was speechless with amazement at
the other's sagacity.

I am distressed to give you pain,' said the
lawyer, kindly ; ' but, as I am sure you will
understand, I have no choice. There is nothing
to be alarmed at — that is, necessarily. It is a
delicate case, but all will depend upon the treatment,
and it will be in my hands. Only I must
know the truth. Now, who was the mother ? '

Mrs. Sotheran's tongue seemed to cleave to
her jaws : she opened her mouth twice as if for
air, and then replied in the same hushed tones,
Jane Lockwood.'

That 's bad,' said the lawyer, mechanically.
The words escaped him before he knew it, or
he would have been careful not to add to
his companion's apprehension by any dismal
forecast of the future. ' That was the village
organist, was it not — the girl he ran off with ? '

Yes ; from Letcombe Hall.'

This local touch was full of significance : it
was evident that, in the widow's eyes, it added
to the crime of abduction, sacrilege.

Mr. Peyton took it very much to heart, as
I have heard.'

He did, indeed : it separated him from his
son altogether. It was a terrible time for all
of us, and nearly broke Mrs. Peyton's heart.
She never set eyes upon her Harry again.'

Was Mr. Peyton as angry with the girl as
with the young man, do you think ? ' inquired
Mr. Jennie, thoughtfully.

Not at first : at first he pitied her. But
when his son refused to marry Miss Campbell of
the Towers, which was the only condition upon
which he would forgive him — you know the
story, of comes — she became furious against
poor Jane, whose influence, he imagined, was
still strong enough to prevent the match.'

And was it so ? '

Heaven knows. The report goes that he
soon tired of her, and only refused to obey his
father out of obstinacy.'

But what do you think ? '

I only saw the poor girl once, when Harry
was in America. He may have deserted her

(for she had not heard of hmi for many
months), but she did not say so. Indeed she
could scarcely have thought so, since she was
so solicitous to obey his injunctions.'

'Now tell me, does Mrs. Peyton know of
all this?'

She does.'

Mr. Jennie's countenance fell.

How could I help it ? ' pleaded the widow,
pitifully. ' Would you have had me keep such
a secret to myself? I am not made of stone
or steel : and when she was pining away for
her dead son, how could I forbear to tell her
he had left a child behind him, her own flesh
and blood ? '

Mr. Jennie shook his head. What he meant
to imply was that it was but a natural child,
of which the law (which has but a bowing
acquaintance with nature) could take no cognisance.


Heaven knows,' continued Mrs. Sotheran,
that I would have brought up the child as my
own had that been possible ; but how could I

account for its possession, how bring it herewith
a daily, nay hourly, he on my lips ? Instinct
would have told the secret.'

Then on learning the child's parentage,'
pursued Mr. Jennie, ' Mrs. Peyton of course
found the means for her support ? '

She did. How could Mr. Peyton himself
blame her for that? But she never saw the
child, though she yearned to see her. She
was content, rather than incur her husband's
wrath, to ignore her ; content that Mary should
grow up an orphan waif, having no other
friend than myself. Oh, sir, you are a man,
and do not know a mother's heart, or you
would pity her.'

I do pity her,' returned the lawyer, gravely :
if nothing had happened more than this, I
could not blame her. But the girl is hereunder
her grandfather's roof, and without his
knowledge.'

I know. I know. Yes, that is terrible.
But Mrs. Beckett — there was a quarrel between
her and Mary — and the girl was suddenly cast

adrift in London, nameless and friendless : no,
not friendless, Mr. Jennie, for she has told me
how good a friend you yourself have been to
her. You will not desert her now. Oh, promise
me you will not desert her now.'

I am not thinking of her,' said the lawyer,
gravely. 'She has friends enough — means
enough, and an honest man to love her. I
am thinking of Mrs. Peyton.'

And I too, Mr. Jennie. Do not think I
have forgotten her even for a moment. Her
husband will never forgive her — never, never.
It wil kill her.'

Let us hope it will not be so bad as that.
But how could she have done anything so rash,
knowing what he is, as to bring the girl here —
under his very roof ? '

I have thought of that ; nay, I have
thought of nothing else from the first hour
she came. But having seen her — that was the
fatal step — shaving once seen her, she could not
resist it.'

'The lawyer stroked his chin. He knew

that Mrs. Peyton had made up her mind to
receive Mary as her companion before her
interview with her at Mr. Tidman's establishment
; but being a man, he felt it was not
worth while to hark back on that. It is only
women who cry over spilt milk.

It is certain that Mr. Peyton is very fond
of the girl,' he observed meanly.

How could he help it ? ' observed the
widow, naively.

And you are sure Mary knows nothing of
her parentage — guesses nothing, and is therefore
absolutely ignorant of the deception — for
such he will consider it — that has been practised
upon him ? '

'Nothing, nothing.'

Then I will bring them together,' exclaimed
the lawyer, vehemently, ' and tell the
whole story before them both.'

Oh, indeed you must not do that. You
do not know Mary Marvon, or how she holds
her mother's memory : that is sacred to her,
but for her father's unknown relatives she feels

only loathing and contempt. Directly she
found out in what relation they stood to her,
she refused to take another farthing from them.
That was another reason why Mrs. Peyton was
compelled to give her a home at Letcombe
Dottrell. She was bent on earning her own
living rather than receive their alms.'

I remember,' said Mr. Jennie, thinking of
the type-writer and his copyist. ' Mary is a
very resolute young woman.'

Resolute ! You don't know Mary Marvon.
She will tell Mr. Peyton to his face that his son
was a scoundrel.'

Quite right,' said Mr. Jennie, rubbing his
hands. ' I think I see my way. She couldn't
do better. It will only be a corroboration of
his own view.'

But she will spare nobody, not even Mr.
Peyton himself. She will tell him, " Your wife
has done all she could — because all she dared
to repair the sin of her son ; but you — you
have done nothing." '

But how could he, when he knew nothing ? '

said Mr. Jennie, smiling. ' A young lady maybe
resolute, surely, without being unreasonable.
At all events, I'll try it.' 'At the worst,'
muttered the lawyer to himself, ' it can but
cost me a client.'

VOL. III. Q

CHAPTEE XLIX.

A DISCOVERY.

Mr. Jennie had Ms hand on the door when
he suddenly recollected something.

By-the-by, you used a phrase a few
minutes ago, Mrs. Sotheran, which I should
like to have explained. It may be of no consequence,
but in a matter of this kind one
should not leave a stone unturned. You said,
and the remark showed your knowledge of
human nature, that Jane Lock wood could
hardly have imagined herself deserted by
Henry Peyton, or she would not have been so
solicitous to obey his injunctions. Now what
were those injunctions ? '

I — they — I cannot tell you,' gasped the
widow : ' I have told enough.'

'Pardon me, my dear madam, but you,
whose feelings are so manifestly interested in the
matter, can hardly be the best judge of that.'

She was on her deathbed when she spoke
to me, mr. Jennie. If you had but seen
her, and heard how solemnly she addressed
me, in the presence only of her unconscious
child ! '

1 wish I had,' said the lawyer, gently ;
for then it would have been unnecessary to
have put you to this pain. It is, remember, for
the child's sake that I plead.'

Would you have me break my promise to
the dead ? ' exclaimed the widow, clasping her
trembling hands. ' She may be looking on us
even now ! '

The lawyer crossed his legs and put his
finger-tips together — this attitude when instructing
counsel.

My dear Mrs. Sotheran, this matter has
been fully argued, fought out and settled. It
is the case of the pious founder. He was
generally anything but pious ; a scoundrel who,

having lived disreputably, sought, by a posthumous
liberality which cost him nothing, to
atone for his past misdeeds. But let us take
the strongest case, and suppose him pious.
Upon his deathbed (a very bad place, by the
way, to arrange plans for the benefit of
posterity) he made certain arrangements for
the public good. Twenty years afterwards (as
in the present case), or two hundred years — it
doesn't matter — the circumstances under which
he made these plans entirely alter ; what he
intended to be a benefit becomes a nuisance to
everybody, and the law very properly steps in
and makes them of no effect. No doubt Jane
Lockwood meant to do her best for her little
daughter, but how could she know that the
girl would be one day under Beryl Peyton's
roof, and engaged to be married to your son ?
You say that she may be looking on us even
now. She possibly may : that is a question
which not even the Court of Chancery has the
power to settle. But even supposing she is a
,^j[ spectator, she is not a Witness of whom we can

make much. She is unable to inform us of
her present wishes. We may take it for
granted, however, that they are in favour of
her child — that she desires us to do all we canto
insure her happiness. If what she said to
you has no tendency to do so, there will be no
harm done : what you tell me will then go in
at one ear and out at the other. I have too
much to do to interest myself, unless in the
way of business, in the affairs of any young
woman alive or dead. If, on the other hand,
what you have to say is of importance to
Mary Marvon, you may do her a very grievous
wrong by concealing it.'

It was Mr. Jennie's way to take a practical
and commonplace view of most things — in
which he now and then made a great mistake —
but, as it happened, he could not under the
circumstances have adopted a more judicious
line with his present companion. His coolness,
his confidence, and his total want of sympathy
with the morbid excitement under which she
laboured, tended to steady her nerves.

After all,' she answered, ' what poor Jane
Lockwood said to me was very little. But she
left behind her a sacred charge. It was a desk,
given her no doubt by the man who wronged
her, while she still believed in him, and in her
eyes of priceless value.'

Nevertheless it was not, I conclude, an
empty desk,' observed the lawyer, drily.

I don't know — that is, of course, I never
opened it, Mr. Jennie,' pleaded the widow,
vehemently, like one who is making his last
stand against overwhelming odds. ' I not only
gave my word to that dying woman, but took
heaven to witness that that desk should never
be given up, save to Henry Peyton.'

A dead man at the time you made the
promise, madam.'

'No matter : I cannot commit perjury.'

Still, unless you burn the desk and its
contents, which would be a very strong measure,
when you are dead and gone some one will
open it.'

'After my death you shall burn it,' said

Mrs. Sotheran, with the air of one who bestows
a favour.

You are very good, but that is a treat
which must needs be reserved for your executor.
Is it possible, my dear madam, you do not
perceive that Jane Lock wood laid this injunction
upon you under the impression that her
lover was alive, but that being dead you are
placed in the position of his representative ?
In not opening that desk, Mrs. Sotheran, you
have neglected a sacred duty for the last twenty
years.'

Heaven forgive me ! ' ejaculated the poor
lady, • I never thought of that ' — and she burst
into tears.

It is a sin of omission, my dear madam,'
said the lawyer, soothingly, ' which, considering
the amount of active misdoing we commit, is
not worth crying about. It is as it were but a
portion of that peck of dirt which we are ail
said to eat in our lives without knowing it.
Such an error would be serious, however, if,
being convinced of it, we did not make haste to

repair it. I conclude you have got the key as
well as the desk.'

I have worn it round my neck for twenty
years,' replied the poor lady.

'Dear me, that is being a trustee with a
vengeance,' exclaimed the lawyer, admiringly.
I should clank like a ghost if I took such care
of my clients' property as all that. The desk
I suppose you hardly — ah, in the sitting-room
upstairs, is it ? I will not trouble you to
fetch it : we will go together.'

After such work to catch his fish, the
lawyer was much too wise to let it out of his
sight. He had seen too many, apparently well
landed on the bank, disappear with a flap of
their tails into the river. From a cupboard in
the little drawing-room in which no one could
think of looking for anything of importance,
Mrs. Sotheran produced the desk, and gave the
key to her companion.

I have your permission, I conclude, to
open it,' said Mr. Jennie, with professional
caution.

I have nothing to say to it, one way or
the other,' replied the poor lady, wringing her
hands. Her superstitious fears, aroused by the
sight of the desk, seemed to have once more
gained possession of her. ' The matter is now
in your hands, and I will have nothing to do
with it.'

Very good,' rem-ned the lawyer, not displeased
with an arrangement which gave him
liberty of action, untrammelled by illogical
scruples. ' Henceforth I will take the whole
responsibility of it, and reserve to myself the
right of communicating to you my discoveries,
or withholding them.'

In the desk there was but one piece of
folded paper, which the lawyer opened, glanced
at, and then quietly placed in his pocketbook.


Mrs. Sotheran watched him with half-averted
eyes, as nervous folks look at a precipice.
But when he began, ' It 's only a memorandum,
which may or may not be of importance,'
she thrust her fingers into her ears.

I don't want to hear anything about it at
all,' she exclaimed with vehemence.

All right, madam, you shan't,' bawled the
lawyer. Then, dropping his voice, he added,
You are sure that it was in respect to that
slip of paper that Jane Lockwood enjoined
secrecy ? '

1 am quite sure.'

She gave you the idea, I suppose, of a
very self-sacrificing woman,' said Mr. Jennie,
thoughtfully.

Yes, indeed : she loved not wisely but too
well. She always seemed to me the gentlest
of created beings, and even to the last had not
one word to say against the man that wronged
her.'

That was so, was it ? ' said the lawyer,
thoughtfully.

And what are you going to do about it
all, Mr. Jennie ? ' inquired the widow, anxiously,
as her companion rose from his chair. ' How
grave you look ! Surely things are no worse
than they were five minutes ago.'

I don't know ; I can't tell,' said the other,
evasively. ' Let it suffice you to learn that
what I have found is of great importance and
ought to be known ; and that to have concealed
it would have been to Aston the dead
and the living.'

Thank heaven for that, and you for your
good advice,' exclaimed the widow, fervently.
I feel as if a mountain had been removed
from me.'

As Mr. Jennie moved down the hill towards
the Hall, you would have said that the mountain
had been shifted to his own shoulders.
His steps were slow, his brow was heavy with
thought, and his lips moved uneasily. ' K the
man were like anybody else,' they murmured,
we should have victory all along the line.
But as it is, no one can tell how he '11 take it.'

CHAPTEE L.

AN EXPLOSION.

The party were all at luncheon when Mr.
Jennie reached the Hall ; and, as he was far
too wise a man to suffer the cares of business
to interfere with the pleasures of appetite, he
joined them. As he took his usual seat by Mr.
Peyton's side, the latter flashed an inquiring
glance at him which also — such is the perfection
of the human telegraph — included Mary
Marvon. ' Sans peur et sans reproche,' whispered
the lawyer. ' I would have laid my life
on it,' answered the old man, and his eye rested
on the unconscious lovers at the other end of
the table with a well-satisfied look. He had
had so many disappointments in his proteges,
that a little triumph where his good opinion

had been justified was excusable. He regarded
his wife also with an unusual tenderness, born
of the consciousness that he had gone near to
wrong her in his thoughts ; so sensitive, so
sympathetic is the philanthropist at large, when
the bark of his benevolence has a fair wind
with her, and there are no chopping seas to
obstruct her course. Never had the host's
manner been more genial, never had his smile
warmed the cockles of the heart ' of every
member of the Happy Family, save two, more
than upon this occasion. It was true that his
eye avoided those of the two philosophers, who
shuddered like Lascars in the snow in consequence
; but, when they were not looking at
him, it regarded them with a glance that was
by no means devoid of humour. When the
meal was at an end, he beckoned the butler :
Markham,' he said, ' bring me a Bradshaw.'
Then, after consulting it carefully through his
gold spectacles, he observed with great distinctness
—

Mr Marks and Mr. Nayler, your train, I

perceive, starts at half past four. A carriage
v/ill be at the door for you at 3.20 precisely.'

The nature of this intimation, so delicately
conveyed, was understood only by those to
whom it was addressed. To them, if it had
been an imperial ukase, dated from St. Petersburg,
it could not have signified more plainly
that they were banished to Siberia — the Siberia
of personal expenses and landladies with lodging
accounts. They knew they were expelled
from Eden, and had incurred the curse of
Labour : that they were about to exchange a
land flowing with milk and honey for a barren
soil. You may tickle the public with philosophy
for many a year before it laughs with a harvest.

The offenders, however, took their punishment
with great dignity. One might have said
(if one had not known them) that nothing
became their life at Letcombe Hall so much as
their manner of leaving it. They only bowed
and smiled, as though their carriage had been
bespoken for them for an excursion of pleasure,
just as a Japanese noble, on receiving the imperial

commands to make himself scarce, proceeds
cheerfully to disembowel himself with
one of the two swords he always carries about
with him. It was not, however, their respective
systems of philosophy which enabled them thus
gallantly to meet the hour of trial. They had
beheld other members of the Happy Family
banished from their patron's presence — and
come back again like the sun in April. His
favour was capricious, and they by no means
gave up hope of once more basking in this
smile. I am sorry to say that their gentle confederate,
Scarsdale, who had received a similar
intimation through the mouth of the valet,
received her sentence with less resignation.
Perhaps she took shorter views, and was of a
less sanguine temperament, but the manner in
which she ' went on ' in the servants' hall, and
in the presence of the gentleman lie had
understood (but this, it now appeared, was a
mistake) had been betrothed to her, was quite
appalling.

Mr. Ealph Dornay's man, who had seen

something of town life, afterwards described
the scene to his master as reminding him of
what happens in a police court when some too
excitable lady, on receiving sentence, takes off
her shoe, and, with a few appropriate words,
hurls it at the administrator of justice. It would
have been impossible to imagine, had she not
mentioned him very pointedly by name, that
Miss Scarsdale's language could have been
applied to a person of such respectability and
position as Mr. Beryl Peyton. She was extracted
in a vehicle by herself, to the great
relief of her fellow-culprits, in whom the apprehensions
of her company had, not without
reason, greatly increased the terrors of exile.

At the conclusion of the midday meal, Mr.
Jennie accompanied Mr. Peyton to his sanctum.
The lawyer wore a cheerful countenance, but
beneath it there lay as much solicitude as a man
of business can afford to feel in the affairs of
others. His client, on the other hand, was in
high spirits.

So there was no great mystery about

the young lady, after all?' were his first
words.

I didn't say there was no mystery, Mr.
Peyton. I only implied, as we both expected,
that there was nothing to be ashamed of.'

There is a secret then, is there ? Well,
I '11 answer for it you have ferreted it out.'

I have,' answered the lawyer, gravely.
The question is, however, since Miss Marvon
is ignorant of her parentage, whether more
people than necessary should know it. Will it
not suffice you, Mr. Peyton, to have my word
for it, that your proposed bounty will not be
ill-disposed? Why seek to look into a matter
past and gone, the revelation of which can only
give pain to an innocent girl ? '

If you can give me the assurance that the
matter does not concern me,' replied the old
man — then, suddenly breaking off with a fierce,
imperious look, he added sharply, ' But I know
it does concern me. What is it ? '

That it has some " connection " with you,

VOL. 111. E

Mr. Peyton, I cannot deny ; though when I call
to mind your views, so often expressed upon a
certain subject, I can hardly say "concern." '

Mr. Peyton started to his feet as though
he had been five-and-twenty, and in a voice
shrill with hate and rage exclaimed, ' She is
that fellow's daughter who called himself my
son ! '

She is your son's daughter,' answered the
lawyer, quietly ; ' but remember, she does not
know it.'

That is a lie ! ' exclaimed the old man,
passionately : ' she is a treacherous, lying girl.
It is a conspiracy. Who is her confederate ?
Do you hear me ? '

It seems to me, Mr. Peyton,' said the
lawyer, meeting the other's furious look full
face, ' that you have not heard me. Since the
girl is unaware of the circumstances of her
birth, how can she have a confederate ? If,
however, you wish to know who was my
informant in this matter, it was Mrs. Sotheran.'

'Ay, I thought so,' cried the old man.

striking his hand upon the table. ' She sent
for her son here to marry my son's bastard.'

Permit me to observe that you sent fc>r
him yourself,' observed Mr. Jennie, drily. ' I
have your letter in which you say as much.
You even write in it that his coming will bea
pleasant surprise for Mrs. Sotheran. How,
therefore, could she have foreseen what was to
happen here ? '

It never will happen,' said Beryl Peyton,
grimly. Then, after a long pause, ' Who washer
mother ? '

Jane Lockwood.'

Beryl Peyton uttered a frightful imprecation.
' So her brat has been palmed off upon
me, has she, to be the prop of my old age and
the comfort of my declining years ! A Httle
too soon, however, as she shall find. Yes, I see
it all now : the woman Sotheran was always
hand in glove with the girl till she disgraced
herself and fled from this roof. She was sent
for when the girl died, and brought back a
lying tale of the child being dead too. It is a
b2

plot that has been twenty years maturing, and
promised a fair harvest, but the crop has failed.
As for her accomplice, Miss Marvon '

She is no accomplice,' said Mr. Jennie,
firmly.

Tool or accomplice, it is all one,' cried the
old man, vehemently. ' So help me Heaven, I
will never see her baseborn face again.'

It needed Heaven, it seemed, or some
power beyond his own, to help him in this
resolve, for his face worked and his eyes
softened as he uttered it. ' If the fraud
had lasted longer,' he continued bitterly, ' I
should have wasted more than what she
sought upon her, for I had almost learnt to
love her.'

'As to seeing Miss Marvon's face again,'
said Mr. Jennie, gravely, ' you may do that
and yet not break your oath, for she is not
baseborn.'

'What?'

Listen, and then be deaf to the voice of
nature if you please. When Jane Lockwood

lay a-dying, with her child beside her in its
cradle, she did the noblest thing that ever
woman did. Your son had left her, and had
long been dead, but she thought him living.
He had laid his commands upon her to keep a
certain document — I have it here — secret from
every eye except his own. She knew what it
was, and that the production of it would clear
her fair name from stan. Yet sooner than
disobey him, and by this disclosure destroy,
perhaps, the last hope of reconciliation with
yourself, she died, in Mrs. - Sotheran's presence,
patiently enduring her pity, if not contempt,
and consenting to be thought to be your son's
mistress, when she was his lawful wife. This
is the certificate of his marriage.'

A wolfish light came into the old man's
eyes as he murmured ' Give it me.'

No, I will not give it to you, Mr. Peyton,
till I learn what you intend to do with it.'

To tear it — to burn it ! ' cried the other, ina
voice half choked with passion. 'Bid the
girl leave this house at once: not a moment

longer shall it shelter one of that serpent's
brood.'

She is your son's lawful daughter, sir ;
your own grandchild,' said the lawyer, quietly.

I believe it ; that is why I hate her,'
shrieked the old man. ' Frail as her mother,
false as her father, bid her go, I tell you, or I
will push her forth with my own hands ; ' and
as he spoke he made a stride towards the door.

'Stay, sir, stay,' exclaimed the lawyer, with
dignity. ' If you are indeed resolved upon this
most unnatural and unjust proceeding, let it at
least be put into effect with decency.'

Do as you will, but bid her begone, spawn
of an ingrate, her and her lover too, and may
my curse go with them.' The vehemence and
rage of the old man's tone were terrible, but
not worse than the expression of his face, which
seemed to blaze with hate and fury. The
lawyer regarded him with a steadfast look.

If I thought you were master of yourself,
Mr. Peyton,' he said, ' I would say to you a
word or two of truth, though they should bethe

last I ever spoke to you. But as it is I
will but do forbidding : not that it is my
office, nor that of any man who respects himself,
to can out such infamous injunctions, but
because in my mouth they will be less offensive
to those who must needs obey them than in
yours.'

CHAPTEE LI.

LAWYER AND CLIENT.

Mr. Jennie, who knew his client and his
ungovernable passions well, felt that there was
no time to be lost in performing his unpleasant
mission to the young people. It was a wet
clay, and it was their custom of an afternoon,
as he remembered, to pass their time in such
weather in the library. Mary was fond of
reading, and whatever volume chanced to be
engaging her attention had a marvellous attraction
for Charley. A duplicate would not serve
his turn. She complained — though not bitterly
— that she could never get a book to
herself, nor even look at an illustration without
his shadow crossing it.

One lesson from one "book they read.

They were reading it when the lawyer
entered — that is to say, Mary was reading it,
and Charley, sitting on the arm of her chair,
was reading Mary ; studying her downcast eyes,
and would-be serious mouth, and steadying himself
for the task (for how can a young man
use application unless he is steady ?) with his
hand upon her shoulder — ' a sight to make an
old man young.'

Mary,' said the lawyer, gravely, ' I have
bad news for you — bad news for you both.'

Good heavens, what has happened ? '
exclaimed Charley.

A great deal ; far more than I can tell you
in the time at my disposal. Mr. Peyton has
just discovered that his son contracted marriage
with the young lady with whom, as you have
doubtless heard, he fled from this very roof
some twenty years ago.'

How can that be bad news ? ' inquired
Charley. ' Mr. Peyton must surely be glad to
find that his unhappy son was not so black ashe
has been painted.'

The lawyer shook his head. ' In marrying
Jane Lockwood he filled, in his father's eyes,
the cup of his filial disobedience ; in the keeping
that marriage secret he has crowned a life
of duplicity and deceit. Such, at least, is the
view which I conclude Mr. Peyton has taken of
it, for he is almost out of his mind with hate
and rage*'

But are they not both dead ? ' murmured
Mary, in a horrified whisper. ' In such a case
one forgives even a murderer.'

Yes, my dear girl, they are dead ; but I
know by sad experience that, where kin hates
kin, the tomb itself is no asylum. I am bound
to say,' continued the lawyer, not forgetful
even in that moment of keenest exasperation
that the offender was his client, ' that if Henry
Peyton could have had his will, he would
have doomed his father to a more dreadful fate
than death.'

And was he as bad a husband as a son ? '
inquired Mary, with a half-incredulous glance

at her lover's face, as if in the vain attempt to
picture him with a fault or two.

I cannot tell. He had a wife, I know,
whose self-sacrifice v»'ould have made her
worthy of the best of husbands — a loving,
patient woman, in whom duty survived death
itself.'

And could not her love plead for her
husband with his father ? ' said Mary, softly.

No ; when nature fails in us, my dear
young lady, good itself works for evil. It was
that very love which he could forgive in her
least of all.'

And yet Mr. Peyton has been so good tous,'
sighed Mary. ' It seems impossible to
believe such things of him. Oh, Mr. Jennie,
can all this be true ? '

It is quite true, and there is more and
worse behind,' answered the lawyer, gravely.
Mr. Peyton has heard for the first time
to-day that this unhappy pair left offspring —
an orphan daughter still survives them.'

Thank heaven ! ' exclaimed Mary, fervently
: ' in her he can retrieve the past.'

Quite right,' said Charley, cheerfully. ' I
see what your bad news amounts to now.
The heir is found ; the Happy Family breaks up
like the Found Table, and all have once more
to seek their fortunes. I have found mine,' he
added gently, stooping to kiss Mary's forehead ;
and if we have to wait a little longer for our
happiness, and, when it does come, to live upon
bread and cheese instead of kickshaws provided
by a rich man's bounty, Avhat matters ? I
thank him all the same, since it was through
him I won her ; nor do I grudge this newfound
Miss Kilmansegg her acres or her
guineas.'

The lawyer glanced at the young man
approvingly. ' If I had a daughter of my own,'
he thought, ' this is the sort of young fellow —
if he could only make a decent settlement —
that I should choose for a son-in-law.' ' No,
my good lad,' he said, ' this orphan will prove
no heiress, and robs you in another way. Her

grandfather has closed his heart against her,
and spurns her fi*om his roof. Mary Peyton,
for such indeed you are, my dear young lady,'
and the lawyer laid his hand upon her head
with great solemnity, ' I am here, though very
unwillingly, to bid you leave it.'

It 's a strange story ! ' exclaimed Charley,
in amazement, not unmixed with some incredulity,
for in his experience in the Probate
Office he lead known mistakes to be made even
by lawyers ; but Mary, who knew Mr. Jennie
better, burst into tears.

There is nothing to regret, my dear,' said
the latter, gently. ' Remember how long it is
since both your parents left all trouble and
sorrow behind them.'

To this word of comfort, which doubtless
owed its suggestion to the statute of limitations,
Mary replied by a grateful look ; but what
she was thanking him for in her heart of hearts
was the way in which he had spoken of her
mother. How reverently too had 'Mrs. Other an
always done so ; but no she remembered

with a pang, not Mrs. Peyton. Of the memory
of her son, indeed, that lady had shown herself
mindful enough, but of the girl whom, as she
believed, that son had betrayed, she had spoken
nothing. She had good reasons, as we know,
for never mentioning Jane Lock wood's name,
but poor Mary did not know them. She
naturally imagined that she ignored her. Mrs.
Peyton had endeared herself to the girl in a
thousand ways, and Mary loved her ; but at
this moment, when she seemed to have just
found her mother, she felt averse from all who
had turned a cold shoulder on her.

I am ready to leave this house at once,'
she answered calmly. ' Mrs. Sotheran, I know,
will take me in.'

Quite right — a capital plan,' exclaimed the
lawyer : ' take her up to your mother's house,
Charley, where she can await events. There is
no knowing how things may turn out here in a
day or two, though they look uncommonly
black at present. Let her put on her bonnet
and be off at once, lad,' he added earnestly, as

Mary, with a whispered word to her lover, was
about to leave the room. ' If her grandfather
sets eyes on her there will be a scene that they
may both repent, for the girl does not want for
spirit.'

She* wishes, however, to see her grandmother
before she goes,' said Charley : ' it is
but for a kiss of farewell.'

A dangerous thing at all times,' returned
the lawyer, grimly, ' but in this case midsummer
madness. Such an interview is not to
be thought of. If Beryl Peyton, whose head is
already full of jealousy and mistrust, should
find her speaking with his wife, he would suspect
some new conspiracy. Be off, be off with
you both.'

After having seen the young people safely
upon their way, with a facetious promise, intended
to sustain their spirits, that their personal
luggage should be respected and sent
after them, even if he should find himself
unable to protect their interests, the lawyer
returned to his client, whose state of mind he

had by no means exaggerated. The half-hour
of solitude which Mr. Peyton had passed
during the other's absence, so far indeed from
having allayed his excitement, seemed to have
increased it.

Is she gone ? ' he exclaimed with vehemence.
' Has the seed of that viper left the
house ? '

'If you mean your granddaughter,' said
the lawyer, drily, 'that young lady has gone
to Bank Cottage.' He purposely stated the
place where she had taken refuge, lest the
knowledge that she had quitted Letcombe
Dottrell should tend to familiarise the sense of
estrangement, and thereby make any act of
harshness that he might have in his mind more
easy for him. In the tumult of his hate and
passions, however, this hint escaped the old
man's notice. ' And her lover ? ' he continued
in a shrill, chill tone — ' the boy that under the
guise of frankness has been plotting to feather
his nest both for him and her — has the boy
gone too ? '

Charles Sotheran is also no longer a
burthen on your hospitality, sir.'

So far so good. Not a moment shall be
lost in making sure that neither of them shall
reap any benefit from me in any other manner.
Bring me my will.'

Which will ? ' inquired the lawyer,
grimly; 'there are half a dozen of them,
none of which, for some inscrutable reason,
you have allowed me to destroy.'

I have kept them, Mr. Jennie, as mementoes
of the baseness of mankind, and as guide-stones,
such as the coastguard use upon our
downs by night, to warn me against the depths
of duplicity and ingratitude.'

Let us hope they will keep you on the
straight road of common-sense for the future,'
was the lawyer's quiet reply.

Bring me my will, I say ; the will I signed
the other day, before I knew my confidence
was being abused, by which I made provision
for these harpies. As they have forfeited
my bounty while I hive, so shall they fall

VOL. in. s

to inherit one farthing of my wealth when I
am dead and gone.'

Then may I ask, Mr. Peyton, who is to
inherit it?'

The man to whom the half of it is already
bequeathed — Edgar Dornay.'

And is it your serious purpose to make
that young man, whom you have known but a
few weeks, and only as a casual guest, your
heir?'

Why not ? ' exclaimed the old man,
passionately. 'He is neither kith nor kin of
mine. There is no tie of blood — no blood-poison
— between him and me. Why not? I
have not known him long, 'tis true ; it is my experience
that the more one knows of men, the
more one regrets the knowledge. Yes, Edgar
Dornay shall be my heir ; and since he has
certain high flying notions, such as I had myself
before I knew the world, and of what stuff my
fellow-men were made, which may induce him
to share my bounty with certain unworthy
persons, I will thank you to so contrive it as

to put such misplaced generosity out of his
power.'

T will draw up no such ^\dll,' said Mr.
Jennie, firmly.

You will not ! How dare you say so ? '
cried the old man, imperiously. ' Can I not
leave my wealth to whom I like ? '

Father say, Mr. Peyton, to keep from
those you hate : nay — for you have not even
the excuse of personal antagonism — to keep
from the innocent offspring of one you hate.'

My money is my own,' answered the old
man, coldly.

No doubt : yet hear me. Beryl Peyton.
Whatever your faults, you have never been
ungenerous or ungrateful ; and since just now
it is vain to expect you to listen to reason, I
appeal to you to hold your hand in this miserable
business, as a friend to whom you owe
something, and for one thing, you* present
liberty; the power not only to perform what
you have in your mind, but the simplest actions
to breathe the free air of heaven, for 
2

ample. But for me you would be now in a
madhouse.'

I know it,' answered the old man, sternly.
And who would have placed me there ? My
own, my only son. If there had been a chance
of my being moved to weakness in this matter,
if some fond memory of that viper, when in
his childhood, and before he had begun to
waste his life, had stirred within me, and
pleaded for his child, that hint of yours would
have crushed it. I thank you for the reminder,
Mr. Jennie. You have been my
friend, I acknowledge it fully ; if I have not
given you material proofs of the gratitude I
owe you, that is not my fault ; you could have
had them if you pleased, and you can have
them still. But please to remember that while
you are my friend, you are also my lawyer.'

I say again, Mr. Peyton, that I will draw
up no such will.'

Then you have lost a client. This very
hour I will send to Morton for Macahster, and h-
shall have my instructions.'

Do so,' exclaimed the la"vvyer, laying his
hand upon the door, and flashing upon the
other a parting glance of hostility and contempt.
' Do so, and when that will is drawn, and
you are dead, and powerless to commit more
injustice, I '11 drive a coach and four through it.'

CHAPTEE Il

SEVERED.

At Bank Cottage the exiled pair were welcomed
with fear and trembling. With pale and terrified
face the widow listened to her son's
explanation of what had taken place at the
Hall, and, even while clasping Mary to her
breast, regretted her presence.

Her first words when he had finished were,
And what of Mrs. Peyton ? '

Mary wished to see her,' said Charley,
but Mr. Jennie would not hear of it. He
said that if Mr. Peyton found them together,
even though taking farewell, he would suspect
they were in league against him.'

And so he would,' murmured the widow.
Has not Mr. Peyton seen her since all this
happened ? '

Seen Mary?'

No, no ; his wife. Hark ! what is that ? '
There was a sound of galloping hoofs in the
lane beneath, and Mr. Flay flashed by on his
pony at full speed. The kindly little doctor
did not so much as raise his hat as he passed
by them : he looked Hke one who rides for life
and death.

There must be something the matter at the
Hall,' said Charley, apprehensively.

God help poor Hilda ! ' muttered the widow,
devoutly. That she called Mrs. Peyton by her
Christian name was itself significant of her
fears.

If anything has happened to — to grand-mamma,'
said Mary, earnestly, ' I must go to
her.'

Not for worlds ! ' exclaimed Mrs. Sotheran
You can do no good, my darling, and may doa
world of harm.'

'But she has been so good and dear to me,'
sobbed Mary, breaking down for the first time ;
and am I not her own flesh and blood ? '

'That is a plea that will serve you little,
my darling — save with her own sweet self. If,
as I fear, your grandfather's wrath is roused
against her, the sight of you would only add
fuel to its flame. I knew it would one day
come to this,' murmiu-ed the widow to herself.
How coiJd you — could you be so rash,
Hilda?'

The three stood at the open window in
silence, looking down the beautiful valley,
steeped in the calm of evening and the freshness
of the spring. But their eyes were fixed
only on that spot where the towers of the Hall
were visible. The air was full of quiet country
sounds, but their ears listened only to some
hoof-tread or footfall which should herald a
messenger from the great house.

Nevertheless, to one of them, for years to
come, that landscape, with its pleasant fields
and farms, was to recur again and again in
every detail of sight and sound — the cow that
stood by the gap and chewed the cud ; the
milkmaid, as unconscious of domestic catastrophe

as her patient charge ; nay, the very
creak of the unseen cart wheel in the
road.

After a weary hour of suspense and strained
attention, the news came. The doctor's pony
once more appeared over the brow of the hill.
As it drew slowly near, as though there was no
need for its rider to hurry now, he made with
head and hand a melancholy gesture. All
seemed to know the burthen of his tale before
he told it, and listened with bowed head, ' It
is the last chapter of the old story,' said Mr.
Flay, addressing the widow : ' I always told you
how it would end.'

Mrs. Sotheran hid her face and burst into
tears. Not so did Mary.

There must have been some cause,' she
said, putting aside Charley's encircling arm as
though it was no time for softness, and speaking
with earnest gravity ; ' even women do not die
of nothing.'

Poor Mrs. Peyton died of heart complaint,
from which she had suffered for years,' replied

the doctor, looking curiously at his interlocutor
; ' there was some shock, no doubt.'

Was my — was her husband with her when
she died ? ' inquired Mary.

Not at the moment — no ; just before, as I
understand.'

I thought so.' The accusation and conviction
in her tone were terrible.

Mary, Mary ! say no more,' whispered
Charley, imploringly. ' What good can come
of saying, even if it be so ? '

His argument, it is probable, prevailed less
with her than the sense of obedience one day
to be owed to him ; but she held her peace.
Of the fact, however — which was only too true
she felt persuaded, namely, that Beryl Peyton's
anger had killed his wife. He had spoken
daggers, but used none.

It would have been a satisfaction to the
believers in heredity, because a corroboration
of their theory, to see the set determined look
that took the place of Mary Peyton's smile as
she uttered those three words, ' I thought so.'

What she was sajdng to herself was what she
afterwards repeated to Lady Orr, who called
at Bank Cottage, full of sympathy for Mary,
immediately after the catastrophe, and on the
eve of her immediate departure from the Hall,
Well for him that he has disowned me, for
never will I own him for kin of mine ! '

Then, with all the woman once more m her
face, she turned to the weeping widow, and,
mingling her tears with hers, sobbed out, ' You
are my mother now ; the only one near and
dear to me in all the world ! '

Save Charley, my own darling,' answered
Mrs. Sotheran, soothingly.

There is no need to remind her of that,
mother,' said Charley, gently, ' for Mary and I
are one.'

What Charley thus stated, somewhat in
advance of the fact, was less so than he imagined,
for it is certain that in that hour of sorrow it
never struck him that Mrs. Peyton's death, by
giving him the means to marry upon, would
accelerate his own happiness.

For many a day, however, sorrow made
her abode with the little household at Bank
Cottage. It was dreadful to Mary, and hardly
less so to Mrs. Sotheran, to feel that Mrs. Peyton
lay unburied so near them, and they forbidden
to press one kiss of farewell on the cold
lips that had so often breathed their names.
Even the cross of white flowers they wrought
for her coffin hd was returned to them by Mr.
Peyton's orders.

From their windows only did they venture
to behold that long procession (albeit it comprised
no such true mourners as themselves)
wind along the road beneath them to the village
churchyard ; but Mr. Jennie, who, himself
unbidden, found place among the crowd, told
them all that passed. Though Beryl Peyton
stood alone and watched with tearless eyes the
vault shut in the dead — the faithful woman who
loved him to the last, and who would have loved
him more could he have hated others less — it
was the lawyer's conviction that the nerve which
sustained the man was strained to the uttermost.

* His will is iron,' he said, ' but bis heart
is wax. His hand will never clasp mine again ;
it is his own harsh error that has sundered us.
But this I will say for him, that no man has
taken more delight in making others happy,
has done more good without a thought of self,
has striven more to make the rough places
smooth for tender feet, than Beryl Peyton.
Wealth and power have been his ruin ; they
have made him draw too proud a breath. In
the plenitude of his greatness and in the certitude
of his own good intentions, he has forgotten
that, however well one may play the
part of Providence to the unthankful and the
evil, it is God alone to whom vengeance belonged.
He feels it now, though he will
never confess it ; and that conviction — I read
it in his face as it turned towards home to-day
will be his deathblow.'

The lawyer's judgment, even when it had
no connection with his calling, was seldom at
fault, and soon after Mrs. Peyton's funeral Mr.
Flay began to make professional visits to the

Hall with unwonted frequency. Charley had
long returned to town and his office duties, and
concerning her grandfather, whether for good
or ill, Mary's mouth was sealed. But the
widow, who, now that the worst had happened,
had lost her nervous fears of the master of the
Hall, was very curious to know how things
were going on there. The doctor's report of
his patient, though given with professional
caution, was gloomy enough. He described
him as passing entire days without speaking,
save by signs to the deaf mute, and, at the best,
as being very silent and apathetic. He still,
however, took the head of his table, and matters
went on much as usual, except that many
things which he had formerly looked after in
person were now superintended by Mr. Edgar
Dornay. It was understood on all sides that,
in case of anything happening to the Squire,
that young gentleman would be his heir ; butin
the meantime the Happy Family were entertained
as usual. The two philosophers, forgiven
doubtless because they had plotted against

the object of their patron's enmity, had had
their sentence remitted after a few days of
banishment, and were again in clover ; but
Miss Scarsdale, less wise in her generation, and
who knew not how to be patient under punishment,
was in exile presumably for life.

And what will become of them all, do you
think, Mr. Flay, when Mr. Beryl Peyton goes ?'
inquired ]airs. Sotheran.

Oh, after him the Deluge,' said the little
doctor, who had no love for those parasites,
especially for the philosophic ones. ' When
the sewers are flushed it is impossible, you
know, to tell where the rats go.'

Thus life ran its smooth round at Bank
Cottage till midsummer came round, with its
month of vacation (for a holiday granted to a
great man's protege counts for nothing) for
Charley.

I hope, my dear,' said Mrs. Sotheran one
day to Mary, with a little more simplicity, I 'm
afraid, than naturally belonged to her, ' that
you will not bring the dear lad all this long

way for nothing. You see the fare is of some
consequence to a poor Government clerk.'

Mary strove to look ignorant of the
widow's meaning, but her blushes belied her ;
indeed, considering what the burthen of
Charley's daily letters had been for some time
past, it was difficult to ignore it. She preferred,
however, to answer the latter part of Mrs.
Sotheran's speech instead of the former.

I don't see why Charley should consider
the fare,' she said evasively. ' Mr. Jennie was
telling me in his very last letter something
about the dividends being due this month that
would make him quite a Croesus.'

Charley's dividends ! Why, my dear Mary,
do you suppose that Charley would ever take
or touch one shilling of that money ? It must
be paid to him, I suppose, since it was left to
him, because poor Hilda dared not leave it to
you directly. But if you think that, except as
your husband, he will ever reap any benefit
from it, you do not know him as his mother
does.'

I never heard of such a thing,' said Mary.
The idea of his not taking his own money ! '

My dear, it is not his own. As Mr. Jennie
will tell you, all these matters depend upon the
intentions of the testator, and there is no question
in this case about them. Indeed, as poor
Charley writes to me, though he is too delicate-minded
to urge that plea with you, every day
you delay your marriage you are flying in the
face of your poor grandmother's wishes.'

But she has been dead such a little while,'
sighed Mary.

If she had had her will, you would have
been married while she was yet alive ; and I
am sure that it would distress her — if a saint in
heaven can be touched by trouble — to think
that the happiness of her dear ones is being
postponed for her sake. It is, at the best, a
very conventional view of duty, Mary.'

I am afraid these sentiments had not
originated in the widow's breast, but had been
cunningly suggested to her by another, with the
request that she should adopt them as her own.

VOL. III. T

Well, if you think so, Mrs. Sotlieran,' admitted
Mary, ' I am sure it cannot be wrong ; and
if Charley is so silly as to deny himself, unless I
share them, the comforts which I am sure my dear
grandmother meant him to enjoy, why '

Just so,' put in Mrs. Sotheran, her wits sharpened
by maternal love ; ^ it would, as you were
about to say, be acting very selfishly to Charley,
and even a little like the dog in the manger.'

So it was not ' for nothing ' that Charley
came down at midsummer ; only it was agreed
that since, if it happened at Letcombe Dottrell,
it would put Mr. Wells, the vicar, in an embarrassing
position as regarded his patron, the
wedding — in spite of the indignant protest of
Lady Orr, who wrote, ' If I were in your place,
my dear, I would be married under your grandfather's
nose ' — took place in London. It was
done in the quietest way ; but Mr. Jennie, who
gave the bride away, took very good-care that
the world should know all about it. The announcement
of the auspicious event not only set
forth Mary's parentage in a perspicuous manner,
but added (just as though he had had a title.

in wliicli case, even if he is but a knight, one's
grandfather always puts in an appearance),
and granddaughter of Beryl Peyton, of Let-combe
Hall.' After which assertion of the
bride's aristocratic lineage, the happy pair went
prudently into lodgings.

The money that good Mrs. Peyton had left
them did not produce ' an income to marry
upon ' in the eyes of fashion, but then Charley
and Mary (as I hope we have made sufficiently
clear) were not fashionable people. They would
have been very happy could they have seen
more of one another, but the Probate Office
took up most of Charley's day, and, though she
never told him so, Mary had rather a weary
time of it in his absence. There is no place, it
is well known, like home, but there is also no
place so little like home as London lodgings.
Notwithstanding which there were many palatial
residences, and especially a certain one in Park
Lane, where there was not one tenth of the
wedded happiness enjoyed by this unambitious
young couple.

T 2

CHAPTEE LIII.

THE DISPUTED WILL.

It was Charley's habit at breakfast time (no
doubt engendered by official duties, which
comprehend, I have noticed, a good deal of
casual newspaper reading) to skim over a
penny paper. One morning he found some
news in it of more than public interest — it was
a long obituary, headed ' Death of Mr. Beryl
Peyton, the philanthropist.'

The epithet would have made some men's
lips ciu"! had they stood in Charley's place, but
he had never nourished a bitter thought
against the old man. He had always discouraged
the suggestion that Mr. Peyton was
behaving in an unnatural manner, and had
shown himself to be Mary's enemy. He held

that Beryl Peyton's case was an exceptional
one, where nature had been ' expelled with a
pitchfork ' from what was otherwise a noble
heart, and that he was nobody's enemy but
his own. It was a subject on which he did
not talk much to his wife ; he understood that
her reverence for her mother's memory, her
indignation on her grandmother's account, and
the neglect with which she herself had been
treated in her youth, caused her to take
severer views of her grandfather. But now
that the man was beyond man's judgment, he
knew her gentle heart would have no room in
it for any but charitable thoughts.

My darling,' he said, ' your grandfather is
dead.'

She put down her tea-cup, rose, and, walking
to the window, stood there a moment or
two, looking out into the street, but seeing
nothing.

'God help him and forgive us all,' she
presently answered.

Amen,' said Charley. ' The poor old

fellow was found dead in his bed yesterday-morning.
The paper says he is to be buried
at Morton.'

In the cathedral ? '

Yes.'

'That was not his wish ; he enjoined upon
me, if he omitted to leave any instructions to
that effect, that I was to state that he wished to
be buried under Dottrell Knob.'

How strange ! The writer of the obituary,
however, can of course know nothing about
such matters yet. He speaks of the cathedral
as being the proper place for a man of such
public mark and usefulness in his locality to
lie.'

Nothing more was said ; and Charley went
his way, taking a somewhat graver farewell of
his young wife than usual.

His fellow-clerks at the office were full of
the news. ' The old fellow will not surely
carry his resentment beyond the grave,
Sotheran,' said one. ' He will cut you off at
worst with twenty thou, or so.'

What a day it will be for you when his
will comes in for proof, my lad ! ' said another.
You will be the first man I ever knew with a
million of money.'

These congratulations were not welcome to
Charley — not that he felt, or could be expected
to feel, much personal regret at what had
happened, but they were distasteful to him on
his wife's account, into whose mind no thought
of material advantage from her grandfather's
death had ever entered.

The question ' Who will be Beryl Peyton's
heir ? ' however, was one that excited much
curiosity, and the husband of his only relative
was naturally a subject for speculation.

On the third day Mr. Jennie looked in
upon the young couple, with a lugubrious face,
which to Mary seemed sufficiently accounted
for by the circumstances.

She spoke to him about her grandfather,
and, avoiding all unpleasant topics, reminded
him of what he had said of him on the occasion
of Mrs. Peyton's funeral ; how that no man

had taken more delight in making others
happy, or done more good without a thought
of self.

That is quite true,' said the lawyer,
gravely ; ' but when wronged (as though he
felt that he of all men least deserved to be so),
he resented it with extreme bitterness and
obstinacy. I am sorry to say, my dear Mrs.
Sotheran, that he nourished that resentment in
your case to the last.'

I am sorry too,' she gently said.

What she meant was that she was sorry
upon his account, not on her own ; but the
other mistook her, imagining her quietness of
tone to signify resignation to pecuniary loss.

Just so,' he answered, ' you are sorry, but
not surprised. I confess that I had hoped he
would not utterly have forgotten the claims of
his own flesh and blood. But I regret to say it
is so. I have seen Macalister. There are a
great many legacies, but none to those who had
most right to expect them. He has made
Edgar Dornay his heir.'

He might have made a worse,' said Charley,
generously.

And also a better,' sighed the lawyer. * I
can only say I did my best for you.'

Mary gave him a grateful smile, and Charley
wrung his hand.

That is the one thing we shall think of
concerning this matter, ]mr. Jennie,' he said —
'your great kindness. Of disappointment
there is nothing, for there was no expectation.
You have no idea how happy we are.'

Being a bachelor, it is probable he had
not. But ' It does not matter now ' was what
was in the lawyer's thoughts, 'but when the
children come, and this contented little firm
becomes an unlimited company, a few thousands
of Beryl Peyton's money would come in
extremely handy.'

Then they fell to talking about the funeral,
which Mary thought her husband ought to
attend.

Very good,' said Charley. ' I am not
fond of funerals, but it is to Beryl Peyton that

I owe you, my darling, and therefore I shall



would not, if I were you,' said the

lawyer, drily. ' You can do him no good ; and,

as no one believes in gratitude, your presence

will only be set down to expectancy.'

That 's a very hateful notion,' observed
Charley.

Yes, but I have noticed that many
people's notions are hateful. If you take
my advice, you will make no sign in this
matter.'

This was agreed to, and then Charley
inquired whether Mr. Peyton had left any
particular orders as to his interment: on
Mr. Jennie's replying that he had not done so,
he told him what the deceased had said to
Mary on that subject. The lawyer seemed
rather struck with it.

He wanted to be busied under the Knob,
did he ? I wish he had left that memorandum
behind him.'

But ought not Mary to speak ? '

Certainly not. The motive would be misconstrued.'


Motive ? What motive ? '

Good heavens ! what a pair of turtle-doves
you are ! Without the wisdom of the serpent
you might surely have guessed that such a
will, made by such a man, is sure to be disputed.
Do you suppose Edgar Dornay will
become the richest man in England without a
fight for it ? Beryl Peyton has made half a
dozen other heirs, to my knowledge. They '11
dispute his last testament, of course.'

Upon what ground ? '

Ground ? As if we lawyers, Hke a mere
Archimedes, could move nothing without
ground! But in this case there are acres of
it. Undue influence — madness, the latter
especially. That is why you must say nothing
about his wanting to be buried under Dottrell
Knob — an intention on the part of the testator
which certainly points that way. People would
say you wanted to prove him mad.'

And if we did, how could that benefit us? '

inquired Charley. ' If the last will was shown
to be invalid, then the last but one would hold
good ; would it not ? '

I had forgotten you were in the Probate
Office,' said the lawyer, drily. ' Still, I advise
you to say nothing about the Knob.'

At the end of the week came the funeral —
an affair of great pomp and magnificence. It
was a dull time in the journalistic world, and
therefore the papers were full of it. Reporters
described the scene, and delicately implied
that they were personally moved by it : ' Who
could hear that noble anthem, " When the ear
heard him then it blessed him'' peal over the
remains of such a man without,' &c. It really
was, however, an affecting scene. There were
more genuine tears at Beryl Peyton's grave
than were ever shed over that of prince or
warrior. Men were there whom he had raised
up from death — the death of indigence and
despair — to a life of honesty and content;
women whom he had saved from terrible
temptations ; orphans to whom he had been

a generous father. There was scarcely any
class of his fellow-creatures which did not
comprise a witness to his virtues. It was
stated that Mr. Edgar Dornay, the heir to the
deceased's great estates, and whose skill and
taste had so long been known in artistic circles,
was designing a magnificent monument to his
memory which would be intrusted to the most
eminent of modern sculptors. ' But,' added
the composer of the paragraph, with less of
originality than truth, ' Beryl Peyton needs no
monument : his work survives him and testifies
to his worth.'

Then when Eulogy, which has a short
breath, was exhausted, Slander took up the
tale. !Mr. Beryl Peyton had done some liberal
things, no doubt, but the catalogue of his vice
was endless, and also very curious. He had
himself dragged iniquity with a cart rope, butin
his son's case would not pardon a peccadillo.
Public sympathy for his granddaughter took
the more agreeable, because the more exciting,
shape of indignation against the stranger he

had made his heir. Mary Sotherau, as we
know, was excited by a special clause from
deriving any possible benefit from her grandfather's
will : if Edgar Dornay should attempt
to right matters ever so slightly, he lost all.
But the world at large knew nothing of that,
or credited nothing, and the sensitive Edgar
was the mark for ten thousand stings. The
golden salve of a million of money could not
cure them. And he had not got the money.
The will gave it him, but, as Mr. Jennie had
predicted, more than one person — ' parties ' —
disputed the will.

This is not the place to describe the great
Beryl Peyton will case, the cause celery of the
Court of Probate. It was said of the deceased,
as can be said of few rich men, that in his lifetime
he had neither been ostentatious nor
litigious, had not done much for either the
newspapers or the lawyers ; but he made it upto
them after his demise. The details of the
trial took the place of the proceedings in Parliament,
which fortunately (for the journals)

was not sitting ; and the gentlemen of the long
robe settled down upon his remains — that is,
upon what he had left behind him — like crows
upon an elm top. He had, it seemed, instructed
Mr. Macalister to destroy his fine collection of
wills, with two exceptions : the one, of course,
under which Mr. Edgar Dornay claimed to
succeed to the property, and a previous one,
executed but a few months before, by which
Messrs. Marks and Nayler came in for a considerable
cantle. The view of these philosophers,
supported by an enterprising firm of solicitors
who took up their case from motives of benevolence,
and because they thought it a very
good one, was first that Mr. Edgar Dornay had
exercised undue influence over the deceased,
especially in the few weeks preceding his death,
when, indeed, he had been paramount at the
Hall ; and, secondly, that Mr. Beryl Peyton had,
before executing his last testament, become non
compos mentis. He had certainly done some
very curious things. Gone to church, for example,
on a week day when there was no

service, and, after passing a couple of hours in
his pew alone, expressed himself as more gratified
with his experience there than he had ever
been in his life ; he had gravely suggested that
Dr. Bilde should write ' An Autobiography of
a Vivisectionist ' for the ' Animal World,' the
organ of the Society for the Prevention of
Cruelty to Animals ; and he had made proposals
in writing for the bringing out of one Japhet
Marcomm, a deaf mute, as a public singer.

These facts were dilated upon by no less
than five counsel, and denied upon Mr. Edgar
Dornay's behalf by five others instructed by Mr.
Macalister. They were not true, they argued ;
and if they were true, so far from being symptomatic
of alienation of mind, argued a high
degree of intelligence. As to that solitary
church-going, was not no sermon (to the ear of
criticism) often to be preferred even to a short
one ? As to the ' Animal World,' was not the
narrative of a life steeped in crime often found
to be more deterrent than goody-goody anecdotes
were found conducive to good conduct ?

As to the suggestion of bringing out the deaf
mute at Co vent Garden, had not a street organ
without a barrel turned out a great success
within the memory of an intelligent jury ? Or,
taking another view, was it not certain that
three fourths of the people who went to the
opera in reality were bored with the singing ?
and what was more natural than to suppose
that Beryl Peyton, whose life-long object had
been to promote the happiness of the greatest
number, should have had this also in view in
his last testament?

What the advocates on mr. Edgar Dornay's
side, however, most dwelt upon, was the eccentricity
of conduct which had marked the whole
course of the deceased's existence.

Good heavens ! ' cried the leading counsel,
with emotion, ' why, who ever heard out of a
story book of any other man going about doing
good on the same extensive scale without taking
indirect but efficient measures to have it properly
reported in the public press ? Of what
other man in a like position was it recorded

VOL. III. u

that, with his enormous local influence, he had
never exerted it for his own benefit, but had
plodded on (if he might use the expression) on
his 50,000/. a year, without asking the Government
for so much as a baronetcy? What other
man had exercised patronage and munificence
on such a scale, and never looked for his quid
pro quo in the way of flattery or even subservience?
Why, all this is so contrary to human
experience — I had almost said, gentlemen of the
jury, to human nature, that it might well have
aroused the suspicion — if the case were another
man's — of his having been stark staring mad !
Yet who of all the subjects of his benevolence,
and doubtless often undeserved benevolence,
has ever suggested that Mr. Beryl Peyton was
out of his mind ? It is true, his son made such
an allegation — that son of whom, remembering
the beautified injunction of the Latin poet, de
marquis nil nisi bo?ium, 1 will say nothing — but
why did he do it ? For the same reason that
the suggestion is made now : in order to gratify
his greed at the expense of justice. If eccentricity

is madness, then indeed my client is in
evil case, but in no worse case than our opponents.
Witnesses will be produced before
you who ^vill testify to many acts, anterior to
the will of the 10th of September last, on which
my learned friends on the other side have taken
their stand, fully as unusual and eccentric, but
doubtless quite as easy of explanation, as those
committed during the last months or weeks of
the deceased's existence.'

Whereupon !Mr. Eeuben Burzon was produced,
with such an unvarnished tale of Mr.
Beryl Peyton's proteges — acrobats, wild beast
tamers, and repentant thieves — as made the hair
of all the jury save one (who had none) fairly
stand on end with astonishment ; also a South
American gentleman imported at an immense
expense) whom the late Mr. Beryl Peyton had
thrown into a dock and left to drown apparently
for no particular reason ; also certain
waiters who had seen the deceased dinner
alone at a table laid for twelve persons, and

TJ 2

heard him returning thanks for his health
being drunk by nobody, in a most appropriate
speech.

To read all this for week after week was
very painful to poor Mary, though at the same
time it afforded her some comfort ; for, as
Charley observed with characteristic naturalness,
' If your grandfather was so queer as this,
my dear, in his ordinary relations in life, what
wonder is it that he was queer to his blood
relations ? If I were you, I wouldn't think anything
more about it — I wouldn't, really. It is
clear to me that he was touched in his head ;
and I only hope ' (here he kissed her, and
winked with a significant slyness which brought
the colour to her cheeks) 'that that sort of
thing is not going to be hereditary.'

Mr. Jennie also read the case with mingled
feelings : it was wormwood to him that Mr.
Macalister should have the conduct of it, but
very pleasant to reflect that he was not doing
it well. It was the lawyer's private opinion that
Mr. Edgar Dornay's counsel were overdoing the

eccentricity argument and getting on rather
dangerous ground for all parties.

The sympathies of the young couple could
hardly be said to be enlisted on either side,
though they would have certainly preferred
to see Edgar Dornay victorious than the two
philosophers ; and when the evidence was over
they probably took less interest in the decision
than many persons who were wholly unconnected
with the matter.

CHAPTEE LIV.

THE VERDICT.

It was December, and Mrs. Sotheran had been
persuaded with little difficulty to come up from
Letcombe Dottrell to pass Christmas with her
young people. The emptiness of the great
house made the neighbourhood dull, and the
lonely widow more triste than ever; and the
thought of returning home when the Hall should
have found an owner was very disagreeable to
her, since in no case would she have a friend
in her neighbour. Though she had never had
very cheerful matters to discourse about with
Mrs. Peyton, she missed her companionship
very much. There was even some talk of Mrs.
Sotheran coming to live with the young couple,
which, however, that lady, who was as wise in

some matters as she was simple in others, was
loth to do. On the other hand, a partnership
of income would enable her son to take some
modest home of his own a little way out of London,
which in view of a certain contingency —
the arrival of a little stranger — would be more
convenient than the living in lodgings. They
were discussing the pros and cons of this project
after dinner, when they heard the visitors' bell
ring : the wheels of his chariot they had not
heard, for there was a deep snow on the ground,
and when he entered he was hardly recognisable
by reason of his cloaks and ' wraps.' As no
one, however, took such care of himself (externally)
as mr. Jennie, they identified him at
once.

Oh, this is good of you ! ' said Mary. ' Why,
I thought you said the other day you had to go
into the country, and would not be able to see
us again till the New Year ? '

Well, yes ; but the fact is, something has
occurred to defer my visit, and I thought I 'd
just look in to — to wish you a merry Christmas.'

He filled his glass, and at his request they
all did the like. It was no conventional ' compliment
of the season ' (a phrase I detest above
all others), but an interchange of the heartiest
good wishes.

It would have been difficult to find four
people, so very different in character, who respected
one another more.

By the by, I Ve got a bit of news for you :
the verdict's out.'

They 've been time enough about it,' observed
Charley, composedly. ' The jury were
left deliberating at twelve o'clock.'

Well, you see it was a big case. Your
friends the philosophers have lost it.'

I am deuced glad of it,' said Charley
frankly.

I am afraid they cannot afford to lose it,'
murmured Mary, pityingly. ' Will not the
expenses be very heavy ? '

The costs are to be paid out of the
estate.'

Come, that 's very satisfactory. I may now

confess,' said Mary, ' that I am glad Mr. Dornay
has beaten them.'

Naturally ; he is an old friend,' said the
lawyer, winking with an unexampled slyness at
Charley. ' Still, if the others had won, they
might have cnven the " ricfhtfal heir " a douceur
of ten thousand pounds or so in the way of
compensation, whereas Dornay is bound by
the will from doing so. It was only the other
day that you were saying to me, Charley, how
very handy ten thousand pounds woidd come in.

I never spoke so disrespectfully of any
such sum,' said Charley, laughing, but with the
colour in his cheeks, and a little displeased that
his wife should hear of a wish that might suggest
discontent in him. ' I said that ten
thousand pounds seemed to me just the perfection
of a fortune, and that as to anything
more I should not know what to do with it.'

Then if you were left with a milton of
money, what would you do with the nine
hundred and ninety thousand pounds ? '

But you see I have not been left it.'

No, but your wife has been ! '

It was not Mr. Jennie's way to joke upon
business matters, but for the moment they all
thought him influenced by the associations of
the season — that he was slightly pantomimic-there
was a pause, and three forced smiles.

I am incorrect in saying that Mrs. Charles
Sotheran has been left this great fortune,' continued
the lawyer, gravely, ' except so far as the
law can be said to leave it. That fellow Mac-aster
(the solicitor ignored the five counsel)
has been hoist with his own petard. The jury
have decided that Mr. Beryl Peyton was not ina
condition to manage his own affairs or dispose
of his property anterior to the 18th of September
last, whereby both his last testaments
are rendered null and void. The whole property
consequently reverts to Mr. Peyton's next
of kin. He used to say that the proverb
Blood is thicker than water " was all rubbish,
but in the eye of the law, I am glad to say, the
old saw holds good. Lilies are deceitful, but
still I must needs congratulate you, Mrs. Charles

Sotheran, on being one of the wealthiest women
in England.'

It would be a proof of imagination in a man
of letters, indeed, if he could conceive the
feeling of an individual who unexpectedly finds
himself possessed of a million of money. I can
assert with confidence, however, that Mary
Sotheran was more astonished than gratified.
A sense of responsibility hung like a great
cloud over the brilliant future thus presented
to her, and dulled its brightness ; its contrast
with her past was too tremendous. She was
overwhelmed with the burthen to which she
had not been born.

It is like a terrible fairy tale,' she murmured
: ' I cannot grasp it as a reality.'

Well, I suppose we shall not now live in
lodgings, that 's certain,' observed Charley, with
the air of a man who has found firm ground, if
there was but a foot of it.

Heaven have mercy on us ! ' ejaculated
the poor little widow. ' Heaven have mercy onus
! ' at intervals, like minute guns. She was

SO accustomed to calamities that this amazing
prosperity had for her something of the nature
of a jBnal catastrophe.

In a month's time, however, they were all
living at Letcombe Hall, a ' happy family ' of
a very different kind from that which had
formerly inhabited it. Charley threw up
his clerkship in the Probate Office without
a struggle ; but it was averred by his former
superiors (after his elevation) that they had
never known a young official of such promise,
and that the country had sustained a severe
loss in his retirement from the public service.

If I forget to mention any one of those
persons who had shown kindness to Mary
Marvon in her need, we may be sure that Mrs.
Charles Sotheran did not forget them. The
whole of the old household at the Hall, except
the valet (who received the pension his late
master had intended for him), were retained ;
and if Japhet Marcomm did not sing for joy, it
was for a reason with which we are acquainted :
he had stood cause to do so.

Every intention of the deceased with respect
to legacies was carried out to the letter. Even
the two philosophers, though Mary had small
cause to ' remember ' them in the douceur
sense, were not forgotten, nor did Dr. Bilde
lose his stipulated honorarium for professional
attendance on his late patron, though the codicil
that had given it to him was, of course, wastepaper
like the rest. The whole Happy Family
were, in short, made at least as happy as they
deserved to be. Mr. Jennie thought his client's
conduct very Quixotic, but then, ' what else
was to be expected in a descendant of Beryl
Peyton's?'

This liberality was nevertheless in some
cases very far fi^om giving satisfaction to its
recipients. Mr. Marks published a pamphlet
entitled ' The Beggar on Horseback Ending
Sideways,' designed to lampoon his benefactress ;
but, unable to eliminate from the composition
the ' categories ' and the ' noumenons,' only
about half a dozen folks understood what he
was driving at, and, being themselves metaphysicians,

they were unable to explain it to
other people.

Mr. Nayler, whose circle of flesh and-blood
acquaintances had become, since his patron's
death, extremely limited, confined himself to
observing, with much bitterness, that he could
hardly have imagined any one so utterly false
and hollow as Mrs. Charles Sotheran, even if it
had fallen to his lot to make a presentment ; a
remark which the public (who conceived his
head to have been turned by the late trial)
imagined to be a reference to some grand

One of the first persons to whom Mary's
thoughts reverted, so soon as she found herself
endowed, as by a fairy wand, with the power of
doing good, was Mr. Tidman. That worthy
man is now the proprietor of one of the finest
hotels on the South Coast, that locality having
been chosen on account of the supposed delicacy
of his lady, who is more ethereal than ever, and
occupies the best apartments on the first floor,
as though she were a guest, and had even less todo

with the management of the establishment
than she really has. This improvement of
position only recalls more vividly the memory
of better days, and the associations in connection
with the late Sir Anthony Blenkinhouse,
Baronet, of the Manor, Slopton, over which she
still sheds copious tears. Her husband superintends
all matters of importance with great
diligence and sagacity, and only regrets he has
no time for everything. When he has half an
hour of leisure he locks himself in his private
parlour, and it is whispered (though he takes
the precaution to put paper in the keyhole)
gives himself up to details — takes off his coat,
and with the old superfluous energy transforms
the table into a mirror.

Miss Julia Blithers, although in no need of
pecuniary assistance, sent her warmest congratulations
to Mary upon her good fortune. ' My
book,' she wrote, in the highest spirits, ' is
coming out at last. You will gather from this
fact that poor dear Sarah is dead. I understand
that you are acquainted with Mr. Dornay

the poet. If you can get me his autograph you
will be conferring on me a great obligation, but
if not, I dare say I can procure it ' — which I
have no sort of doubt she did.

Edgar, deprived of his million, has taken
quite a high place among our Bards of Despondency,
and drawn tears from a thousand eyes, or,
to speak less vaguely (for his public is limited),
from two hundred and fifty pairs of them.

Mr. Ealph Dornay has not, I regret to say,
turned out altogether as we could have wished,
but his wife finds him less unendurable : the
fact is, they are separated. He has been induced,
thanks to Mr. Jennie's good offices, to
retire from Pcxrk Lane upon a very handsome
pension.

Lady Orr once remarked, in speaking of
him to Mary, ' You' grandfather, my dear,
used to say that there was nothing so difficult
to extricate oneself from as the tie of blood ;
but there he made a great mistake — there's
matrimony.'

Notwithstanding which assertion of her ladyship,

Mr. Jennie maintains that if anything
should happen to Ealph Dornay, he should not
be the least surprised to receive his widow's
instructions for another ' settlement.' ' One
talks of a " marrying man," ' he says, ' but
after an experience or two, he learns to know
better : a marrying woman nothing can cure.'

After a silence of a quarter of a century, the
great walled garden at Letcombe Hall echoes
once more to children's laughter. If Mrs.
Peyton from her abode in heaven is permitted
to listen to it, it is a music we may be sure that
will not mar for her the angel choir, nor will
it now jar upon her husband's ear, who, as
I trust, is now inhabiting the same mansion
in the skies. We vanish away, it is true, like
a breath, but on the glass of memory some
linger a Httle longer than others. Of all the
persons described in this little life-drama. Beryl
Peyton will live longest in human remembrance,
and in my poor judgment, with all his faults,
will deserve to live.

THE End.
VOL. III. X

SrOTTISWOODE AND CO., New-street Scald

AND PABLIAilENT 6TUEET

LADY Brasses's VOYAGE in the ' SUNBEAM.'
Quarto, with 60 Woodcuts. Price 6d. stitched, or Is. cloth.

The Rev. J. G. WOOD'S STRANGE DWELLINGS :

A Description of Habitations of Animals, abridged from
'Homes without Hands.' With 55 Woodcuts. Price Qd.
stitched, or Is. cloth.

Major G. J. WHYTE-MELVILLE's KATE
COVENTRY : an Autobiography. Price Qd. stitched.

Dr. G. HARTW^IG's ARCTIC REGIONS:

A Popular Description of Man and Nature Around the
North Pole, extracted from the Author's Work on the
'Polar World.' With 57 Woodcuts. Price 6d. stitched,
or Is. cloth.

TRENCH'S REALITIES of IRISH LIFE.
Price 6d. stitched.

Major G. J. W^HYTE-MELVILLFS THE Interpreter
: a Tale of the Crimean War. Price 6d. stitched.

Vol. I. of the SUNBEAM LIBRARY,

Comprising Lady Brasses's ' Voyage of the Sunbeam
Wood's ' Strange Dwellings,' and Earwig's ' Arctic
Regions.' With 172 Woodcuts. Price 2s. 6c?. bound in
cloth lettered.

Vol. II. of the SUNBEAM LIBRARY,

Comprising Whyte-Melville's ' Kate Coventry, ' Trench's
Realities of Irish Life,' and Whyte-Melville's ' The
Interpreter.' Price 2s. Qd. bound in cloth lettered.

London, LONGMANS & CO.

The WIT and WISDOM of BENJAMIN DISRAELI,

Earl of Beaconsfield. Collected from his Writings and
Speeches. New and Cheaper Edition. Crown 8vo. price
3s. 6d. cloth extra.

HOMES WITHOUT HANDS:

A Description of the Habitations of Animals, classed
according to their Principle of Construction. By the Rev.
J. G. Wood, Mea. With about 140 Vignettes on Wood.
New and Cheaper Edition. 8vo. price 10s. 6d. cloth extra.

WOOD'S BIBLE Animals:

A Description of every Living Creature mentioned in the
Scriptures. With 112 Vignettes. New and Cheaper
Edition. 8vo. price 10s. Qd. cloth extra.

WOOD'S INSECTS AT HOME:

A Popular Account of British Insects, their Structure,
Habits, and Transformations. New and Cheaper Edition,
with numerous Woodcuts. 8vo. price 10s. Qd. cloth extra.

WOOD'S INSECTS ABROAD:

A Popular Account of Foreign Insects, their Structure,
Habits, and Transformations. New and Cheaper Edition,
with many Woodcuts. 8vo. price 10s. 6d. cloth extra.

London, LONGMANS & CO.

^ ^S^U^/CuA/c^a/€<>o^i^^/ny^y^^

OF THE

University

or ILLINOIS

8Z3

pest

k2

BY

JAMES Pain

AUTHOR OF 'BY PROXY' 'HIGH SPIRITS' Et,

IN THREE VOLUMES

VOL. II.

LONDON
LONGMANS, GREEN, AND CO.



All rights reserved

SPOTTISWOODE ASD CO., New-street SQUARE

And FAKLIASIEST STREET

CONTENTS

OF

THE SECOND VOLUME,

CHAPTER PACK

XVIII. A Dois ALLY ' 1

XIX. THE SEMPITERNAL CLUB 12

XX. ' Tinman's ' . 'IS

XXI. A SYMPATHISER 56

XXII. A DEVOTEE OF LITERATURE . . . .78

Xxiii. AN AUTOGRAPH COLLECTOR 98

XXIV. ONE FROM THE SHOULDER . . . .114

XXV. THE WAGES OF TOIL t35

XXVI. A NEW POSITION 150

XXVII. 'why did she cry?' 163

XXVI II. THE JOURNEY DOWN 184

XXIX. COMING HOME 202

XXX. OLD FRIENDS 220

XXXI. THE HAPPY FAMILY 233

XXXII, THRUST AND PARRY 254

XXXIII. IN MEMORIAM . . . . . . . 268

XXXIV. SUITORS . 2S6

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/thickerthanwater03paynj

Chapter XYllL

A DUMB ALLY,

Such was the turmoil of hate and passion
produced upon Mr. Peyton's mind by the
mention of his dead son's name that he took
no thought of whither he was going, but
actually turned to the left hand instead of the
right when he left Eeuben's door. The present
with all its surroundings was forgotten ; the
streets and the motley crowd that thronged
them, if they were reflected on the retina of
his eye at all, conveyed no impression to his
brain ; he walked on like a man in a dream—
and an evil dream. He beheld again the boy
VOL. II. B

who had been the hope of his life becoming
with frightful velocity its despair, the flower of
his pride and joy devoured by a canker-worm
begotten of itself till it perished loathsomely,
leaving desolate the garden of his soul. He
called to mind the seventy-and-seven times that
he had forgiven his son for misdeeds that in
another would have been past pardon, and the
perjuries and ingratitude with which they had
been repaid. Two incidents of the young
man's vile and wasted life towered above all
others, and cast a blacker shadow than the rest
upon the tablets of unwilling memory : the one
was the seduction of an orphan girl, his mother's
frequent guest and life-long protegee , the other
an attempt which had been within a hairbreadth
of success to put himself, Beryl Peyton,
into a madhouse. This was not the last straw
that had broken the back of endurance, for all
hope of compromise or reconciliation had long
been at an end ; but it was the act that had substituted
for disappointment and disgust abhorrence,
and had turned his angry blood to gall.

Henceforth the name of Henry Peyton
was wormwood to his father ; lost but
not regretted, dead but not forgiven, the
memory of him was like some secret sin
accursed and never to be spoken of. All who
knew Beryl Peyton knew this ; any one who
did not know him, and who (as had just
happened) by accident alluded to this painful
subject, became in a manner involved in it and
shared some portion of his resentment.

A more wretched man than this master of
millions, as he walked on, thinking of these
things with bent head, was hardly to be found.
The Tjascar he passed upon his way in rags and
shivering in the summer heat ; the Chinaman,
poor as Job and as patient, enjoyed a happier
lot ; for a few pence could cause them to
forget their misery in an opium dram ; but for
such pain as Beryl Peyton suffered there was
no anodyne, for such reflections no oblivion.
The tumult Within him was such that for hours
he walked on without even consciousness of
fatigue, or of the heat of the sun, which, unlike

B 2

the fire within lira, had indeed spent its force.
He had long quitted the crowded thoroughfares
and the neighbourhood of the larger docks ;
the streets he threaded now were narrow and
squalid, and their inhabitants seemed to have
quitted them for the nonce for more attractive
scenes, for they were almost empty. Presently
he came to a creek, crossed by a swing bridge
protected only by chains, with a small dock on
the landward side. The tide was up, but there
was no vessel in it. Not a human being was
in sight; the road beyond led on to some
marsh land, which no attempt had been made
to put to any useful purpose. At this moment
Beryl Peyton heard rapid but stealthy footsteps
behind him ; he turned round with a mechanical
impulse, for just then no incident, except sofar
that it was an interruption to his thoughts,
had the slightest interest for him.

It was the Mexican, with something gleaming
in his hand. The old man faced him without
a tremor.

English devil,' cried the other as he

drew near, ' you will tell tales of me no
more.'

You dog with the teeth,' returned the
Englishman, ' you will be hanged like a dog.'

He had nothing but his walking-stick, and
it was by no means a stout one ; but it is
written even of the peaceful and occasionally
fraudulent counter-jumper — being English —
that on the approach of a foreign foe he will
strike with his yard-wand home ' ; and Beryl
Peyton was no counter-juniper. A man of
courage from his birth, who had been face to
face with death, afar from friends and home,
half a dozen times, he was not a man to blench
from any personal danger, least of all when
threatened by a scoundrel. What seems
curious, existence, which five minutes before
had appeared utterly valueless and a burthen,
grew suddenly precious to him. He had no
expectation of preserving it, and he would
have stooped to beg it of no man living, but
he was resolved to sell it dearly. He was old,
but the love of life was not dead within him.

It is not in those supreme moments in
which are about to be decided the issues of life
or death that sublime thoughts present themselves
; in personal combat the Vulgar prevails
over the Heroic.

At all events I will spoil this blackguard's
beauty for him,' was the simple but forcible
reflection that suggested itself to Beryl Peyton ;
but as it crossed his mind another thought (to
judge by the expression of his face) followed
it, caught it, and obliterated it. 'Mexican
dog,' he cried, ' look behind you.'

The warning would have been unheeded,
or taken as a ruse perhaps, but that at the same
moment there was a thunder of footsteps on
the wooden bridge. It was the tread of a man,
but it sounded like the tramp of a horse ; one
of those steeds of old, used for strength and not
for fleetness, but which for a short course
would carry a rider in complete mail at speed
in one of those mediaeval ' running-down ' cases
which were euphemistically called 'jousts.'
Against such an antagonist, with his steam up.

the slender Mexican, notwithstanding his long
knife, would have had no more chance than
had Saladin, pitted against the Knight of the
Leopard. Before he could turn and face him,
this moving tower of a man was upon him, and
would have crushed him like that of Siloam
had he been so minded. Only not being stone
and mortar, but flesh and blood endowed with
intelligence, he adopted another method : with
one hand he seized the Avrist of the Mexican
which held the knife, with the other the nape
of his neck, and forcing him to the bridge
chains toppled him over them into the deep
dock, before he had time to complete an
execration.

Beryl Peyton folded his arms, and looked
on with the air of a satisfied but unexcited
spectator who sees beforehand how things must
end ; nor, till the splash arising from the
displacement of the water had died away, did
he move or speak. Then he said, with great
deliberation and distinctness —

Why, Japhet, how came you here ? '

As quick as words, but with his fingers (for
the man was a deaf-mute), came the dumb
response, ' My mistress sent me.'

Beryl Peyton knit his brow.

Her commands were, sir,' the man went
on, ' that I was to be no spy upon your
movements, but that I was always to be at
hand in case of need.'

And how long have you been dogging my
footsteps ? '

I followed you until you entered the shop
yonder,' returned the other, indicating the
direction from which he had come, ' and when
you came out I followed that gentleman.'
Here he pointed with a contemptuous finger to
the dock beneath.

Well, well, my brave fellow, you disobeyed
orders, but Nelson did the like ; you have
saved your master's life, Japhet,' and Mr.
Peyton held out his hand.

The other, a broad-faced fellow, middle-aged,
but with a boyish look, caused by the
absence of beard or whisker, which, contrasting

with his great bulk, gave him a very peculiar
appearance, took his master's hand and raised
it to his lips. The movement, so strangely out
of character with his appearance, was not caused
by enthusiasm ; it was merely the result of
habit, which led him to. express all emotions
by signs.

As to this murderous scoundrel,' observed
the old man, quietly, ' the dock, if it were but
at the Old Bailey, would be the very place for
him. I suppose, however, one must not leave
him to drown.'

As you please, sir,' returned the deaf-mute,
with a look of indifference. ' Shall I go in
after him ? '

Certainly not,' replied the other, quickly ;
I would not risk the loss of my walking-stick
for such a cur.'

He leant over the bridge, and looked down
into the dock with the same sort of disgust that
one might contemplate a sewer with a rat in it.

The wretched Mexican, although, as we
know, a magnificent swimmer, had been injured

in his fall, and after a vain attempt to keep
himself afloat by paddling had contrived to
catch hold of a rusty chain that hung down the
steep slimy slide, for the accommodation of
boatmen. He was very quiet, no doubt from
the expectation — judging from what would
have been his own conduct had he been in
their place — that if discovered to be alive his
enemies would make an end of him. Nevertheless,
since to let go his hold was to drown,
he permitted himself to be dragged up by the
chain and deposited on the bridge, where they
left him without a word — a pulpy mass attractive
only to the paper-maker.

By Mr. Peyton the whole affair seemed at
once to be forgotten ; as he turned towards
home he again fell into gloomy abstraction,
and, tired as he needs must have been, would
have taken no notice of a wandering cab, which
by great good luck they chanced to meet, had
not his voiceless henchman drawn his attention
to it by touching his arm. ' I think you have
forgotten, sir, that it is the club night.'

True, Japhet, true,' he answered, with a
look to the full as grateful as that he had worn
on the occasion of the other's more practical
service, and entered the vehicle.

Japhet combed on the box beside the
driver, who, perceiving that he listened with
attentive silence to the history of his horse and
cab, the narrative of his courtship and marriage,
and many other interesting details of his
autobiography, set him down at the journey's
end as ' one of the right sort ' and ' excellent
company.'

CHAPTEE XIX.

THE SEMPITERNAL CLUB.

The termination of the cab drive was an old-fashioned
hotel in Jermyn Street, where Mr.
Peyton was accustomed to stay in town in
preference to occupying his own residence in
Portman Square ; a proceeding that would
have been considered eccentric in another man,
but which in his case awoke no surprise. The
days of astonishment among Beryl Peyton's
friends had long been over.

Upon entering his sitting-room an old lady
rose from her chair to welcome him, with a
quickness and anxiety that contrasted strongly
with her age and the general dignity of her
appearance. Her hair, like his own, was white
as snow, though scarcely whiter than her finely

chiselled, aristocratic face, which without doubt
would have exhibited those traces of blue
blood of which we hear so much and see so
little, if there had been any blood in it at all ;
but there was none. She gave one the impression
of one of those unfortunate persons
whose appearance has suffered change from
calamity, such as suspense or terror. From
the tone, however, in which she spoke it was
evident that she had considerable capability for
distress of mind still left.

Oh, Beryl, where have you been ? I was
beginning to be so nervous about you.'

Pooh ! pooh ! I am a Httle late, wench,
that 'sail.'

He went up to her and kissed her pale
cheek. It was no very lordly payment for her
having saved his life (which indirectly she had
certainly done), but of that of course she was
unconscious. All she knew was that, for the
first time since her Harry had angered his
father beyond forgiveness — now near twenty
years ago — her husband had kissed her. She

coloured like a girl, and the tears came into
her large grey eyes ; she knew him too well,
however, to permit herself to give way to
emotion.

Your things are all laid out in your
dressing-room, Beryl.'

On the very rare occasions when they left
home together this was always done, to the
great indignation of Derwood, the valet, by
Mrs. Peyton's own hands. If her husband
would not permit any exhibition of affection
on her part, if he could not forgive her the
tender sorrow with which she still regarded
her dead son's memory, she could at least
minister to his needs.

There is no hurry, Rachel,' returned her
husband, coldly, as if he already repented of
his recent display of feeling ; ' I have still
twenty minutes in which to dress, and my
fellow-guests will not be impatient.'

The last words, with which he left her,
were delivered with a certain grim pathos
which would have been inexplicable to ordinary

ears. Mrs. Peyton, however, understood it
very well. She sighed heavily, and, reseating
herself in her chair, took from her pocket a
note she had received but a few minutes before,
but which she had already perused many times.

Dear Mrs. Peyton, — I am very sorry that
I was not at home when you were so good
as to call on me. Will you come and take
afternoon tea with me at five tomorrow ? We
shall be quite alone.

Yours very truly,

Kate Beckett.'

'Pes. — I hear you made some inquiry as
to Mrs. Sotheran's protegee. She is no longer
with me, having left Park Lane some days ago
in consequence of an unfortunate disagreement
concerning which I will say at once, in order
to relieve your mind, that she attached more
importance to it than I did.'

It was strange how such ordinary tidings,
and conveyed in such a conventional style.

interested this stately dame. The hand which
held her double glasses, and the lips with
which, after the manner of old age, she dumbly-formed
the words, trembled as she read them.
Presently her husband's footsteps sounded from
the room within ; she thrust the note hurriedly
into her pocket with an affrighted look, and
rose once more to greet him. He was in
evening dress, but in place of that expectation
of boredom, which most people of experience
wear who are going out to dinner, his air was
grave and full of thought.

I am going to leave you to dine alone,
Rachel,' he said slowly.

Oh, that is of no consequence,' she answered
cheerfully ; ' I feel it so kind of you. Beryl, to
have brought me with you up to town. It
seems quite to revive old days.'

I hope not,' was the grim rejoinder.

The next moment he was striding across
the hall to his carriage, which whirled him
rapidly away. It took him to another hotel,
but of a very different stamp to the one in

Jermyn Street, in the neighbourhood of Covent
Garden. It had been a fashionable place of
residence in the days of sedan chairs and link
boys, but was now chiefly used for dining
purposes. It was evident that he was expected,
for the master of the house was at the door ina
moment to receive him, attended by several
waiters. He led the way up a broad staircase,
handsomely carved, into a large oak-panelled
room Ht by many wax candles, in which stood
a dinner table arranged for a dozen guests. It
sparkled with glass and silver, but there were
no floral or other ornaments such as would
have been found on any modem board of equal
pretensions.

Let Merton wait,' said Mr. Peyton, as he
took his seat in the chair of honour.

Merton is dead, sir, I am sorry to say,'
returned the landlord, with an air less of regret
than of reproof, as though such an act on
Merton's part had been inconsiderate, to say
the least of it.

Good heavens ! is he dead too ? '

VOL. II. c

Well, yes, sir, I am afraid so ; but there 's
Burton — he 's used to the club, and perhaps,
with a couple more, that is all that will be
necessary

Mr. Peyton inclined his head in grave
assent. It was very desirable that some person
should be included in the service in question
who was not altogether a stranger to it, for it
was a very peculiar one. Although the table,
as we have said, was laid for twelve persons,
and the dinner provided for the same number,
there was in fact only a single guest — namely,
Mr. Beryl Person himself. Every dish Alas
handed respectfully on the left of every vacant
chair, and was supposed, by no great stretch
of the imagination, to be declined. The wine
was proffered in a similar manner. Nor did
the chairman either eat or drink, as though he
would have atoned for the absence of his
convives. He tasted indeed of everything, and
put his lips to each glass, whatever it held, but
it was plain that he was only going through
the form of dining. His eyes, as they wandered

from chair to chair, seemed to picture
for him some absent companion, and now and
then an unconscious sigh would escape his hips
which spoke of regretful memory. Well might
he sigh, for every chair was as a tombstone,
since each recalled for him a dead friend.

It was fifty years ago since Beryl Person,
the youngest of that once jovial company, had
been admitted a member of the Sempiternal
Club, and he had outlived them all. It had
been their grim humour never to recruit their
ranks, when thinned by death, from the living,
and though year after year they had met in
diminished numbers, it was de rignem\ that, as
respected the feast itself, that circumstance
should be ignored. Dinner for twelve, as at
first, had always been provided, and, so far as
it lay in wine and mirth to do it, the dwindling
board had made head against the enemy. But
as, when we get beyond middle life, and befriends
who have joined the majority become
more numerous than those who still remains
with us, matters begin to look serious, so, as
c 2

the Sempiternal Club grew less and less impervious
to the shocks of time and chance, its
gatherings became less jovial. The gaps in the
double line grew larger and more frequent ;
the ranks closed up, till now the long table
stretched before the restless chairman like a
coffin. Last year he had had a single companion
of nearly his own age, a man of fashion
and of wit, to whom death, like all other
things, had been but a subject to make merry
with. Where were his gibes, his flashes of
merriment, now? There was mirth in the
room, indeed, though of a very different sort ;
behind the screen that hid the door Mr.
Biu-ton's two assistants would sometimes run
on pretence of some official duty, but in reality
to interchange their views of a proceeding
which was in their eyes irresistibly jocose.
What a game it is. Bob ! ' one would whisper
(alluding to the chairman's lonesome state,
whose game if any game was solitaire), and
then Bob would stuff his napkin into his mouth
and lean against the wall in a paroxysm of

pent-up enjoyment. ]mr. Burton, standing
immovable behind Mr. Peyton's chair, had
higher gifts ; nature had intended him for a
bishop, but somehow though he had won the
apron he had missed the mitre ; not a smile
betrayed his own emotions, but ever and anon
he would catch the eye of one of his myrmidons
in the act of offering still hock to some
invisible guest, and wink with such an intensity
of appreciation as drove the other to the very
verge of a guffaw.

To a looker-on this vulgar byplay would
have only made the sepulchral scene more sad
by depriving it of its decencies. The central
figure, however, was quite unconscious of it,
and sat wrapped in thoughts too deep for
words ; he was in the world, but no longer of
it, clasping the hands that had long been dust
and listening to the voices that were beyond
the stars.

When the cloth in old-fashioned way had
been removed, and the claret jugs had been
placed on the shining table — each double, jug

and shadow — the chairman exclaimed, ' Withdraw
' ; whereupon the servants left him. One
of them, I am sorry to say (indeed, I should
shrink from mentioning it had not the matter
become afterwards of some consequence), still
kept his eye on him through the keyhole ;
otherwise he was literally alone. After a
moment or two he rose, glass in hand ; his eye
glanced round the table with a very sorrowful
expression, and he murmured, ' To the memory
of the dead.' His mind was with them though
his body was above the earth, not under it,
as theirs were. The freethinkers, the scholars,
the wits, with whom he had conversed a hundred
times on ' fate, freewill, foreknowledge,
absolute,' had all gone to the place where
doubts are resolved for ever. Some had
thought there was no hereafter, others that
there might be a future world ; now all but
himself knew that there was one and what it
was Hke. By the time he joined them (so the
fancy struck him) they would all have been
accustomed to their position, just as some of

them in going to college had preceded him
from school. What strange things would they
have to tell him ; or would they be forbidden
to tell him anything ?

His thoughts strayed back through a long
vista of years, of which, by that strange inversion
to which human memory is subject, the
later were the least clear while the earlier had
the distinctness of yesterday. They were in
connection with ' the Club ' alone, and quite
free from that painful matter which had seized
his mind that afternoon. His son had had
nothing to do with the club ; and if he knew
of its existence at all had set down its members
as ' old fogies ' not worthy of the attention of a
man of spirit. But to Mr. Peyton they were
not old fogies. Once more they were young ;
some of them handsome, all of them wealthy.
Life lay before them, as it had been laid before
himself, full of pleasures that seemed inexhaustible
; the cup of enjoyment had been then
but tasted, and now it was emptied to the
dregs — to the very dregs.

The old man leant forward with his head
upon his hand, and in the heart of the polished
board caught sight of his own hoary face.

Good heavens ! how different were those
features from those it had first reflected.

Oh, youth, for years so many and sweet
'Tis known that you and I were one ;

I '11 deem it but a fond conceit,
I cannot think that thou art gone,

sings the poet, but his imagination did not
avail him ; how far less, then, can it avail those
who are no poets ? It was a very bitter hour.
As a rule Beryl Peyton was not given to
retrospection, save when that one cross in his
life of which we know was thrust upon his
attention ; but present circumstances were so
striking and peculiar that they mastered his
mind and compelled it to review the past. He
had been essentially a man of action — not
much of a reader, though somewhat (in a
vague way) of a thinker — and in his youth
the creature of impulse. On the whole his
impulses had been good. Of late years, indeed,

his life had been passed in acts of benevolence.
They were not, however, those of
Christian charity, as it is generally understood.
At the bottom of them there lay a certain desire
to redress the wrongs which Fate imposed
upon his fellow-creatures, and, however good
in themselves, his doings had had something of
egotism and even of arrogance. It pleased
him to play the part of a small providence,
and he did so with the secret conviction that
his system was an improvement upon that of
the Great Original — an opinion not unexampled
among the very rich, though by no
means so common as the idea that everything
is for the very best and needs no
mending.

He could lay his hand upon his heart and
honestly say that he had designedly wronged
no man ; and even as to woman he had not
much to answer for. The consideration of
personal merit, however, as regarded any reward
or punishment that might be awaiting
him, did not much trouble him. He had been

SO long not only a law unto himself, but a lawgiver,
the hinge on which the interests of so
many others turned, that the idea of his own
subordination to any higher power rarely intruded.
What was most importunate with
him just now was the feeling of isolation.
This was partly owing, no doubt, to the sense
that he had over lived his contemporaries, but
not wholly so. While we have those who
sympathise with us, no matter to what generation
they belong, we are not isolated. But
Beryl Peyton was one by himself. He had
indeed his wife, who in regard for him might
almost be termed a devotee, but there was a
shadow between them ; he knew that she
cherished in secret a memory that was hateful
to him. He had clients by the score, and
proteges not a few, but he had no friends. He
stood alone in the world, and, worse than
all, when he should fall, which in the course
of nature must needs be soon, there was none
to reign in his stead. And this — though he
would never have owned it even to himself,

since it would have given the victory to his
enemy — was his bitterest thought of all. It
has been said, indeed, by a philosopher, ' Why
regret the being forgotten, since before you
lived the world went on quite well without
you ? ' — a question that is unanswerable. Only
most of us are not philosophers, but merely
men and women.

CHAPTEE XX.

tinman's.'

There are two signs by which, in all human
habitations, the want of ready money in the
proprietor may be always recognised : the one
is business, the other is sleepiness. In the
former case there may be plenty of furniture ;
the beds will be bigger than they need be,
each with a surplusage of curtains and four
gigantic posts, the original use of which is fast
fading from the mind of man. (A time will
come when they will only be remembered by
the metaphor ' in the twinkling of a bed post,'
and annotators will cudgel their brains in vain
to explain what even that meant.) The carpets,
though threadbare, are plentiful ; the
doors which do not close tightly are lined

with list to remedy that defect ; the chairs,
though rickety and tasteless, are well
cushioned : to the eye, in short, in such places
everything is fairly comfortable, but the air
is rather difficult to breathe. Flue is everywhere
; there is a general flavour of mustiness,
and when you open a window, the one way to
keep it open — for the sash comes down again
like a guillotine — is to break it.

The second case is of a wholly different
kind : ' business ' is the characteristic of old
fashion, ' sleepiness ' of new. When a new
house is out at elbows it does not suffer from
want of ventilation ; it may be clean as a
lighthouse, though the damp is not always so
entirely confined to the outside, but a dreadful
air of incompleteness and insufficiency pervades
it.

This was unfortunately what was the matter
with Tidman's Private Hotel, Holloway, where
Mary Marvon had taken up her quarters on
the recommendation of Mr. Jennie. Why it
was called a ' private hotel,' except for the

reason that causes Mr. Smith to call himself
Mr. Smythe, it was difficult to conjecture. It
had no night chamberlain, no waiter, nor even
any resident boots. The whole work of the
house — and it was a large one — was done by
Mr. Tidman and two ' slaveys,' hired maidens
of tender years. They had also to wait upon
Mrs. Tidman, who was 'a lady in her own
right,' as her husband termed it, the first
cousin of a baronet, the niece of a member of
Parliament, and a person altogether superior to
her surroundings. It was for her sake that
Tidman dubbed his establishment 'Private
Hotel,' as being less obtrusively connected with
the licensed victualling interest than * hotel'
pure and simple, while it was more genteel
than ' boarding house ' ; but boarding house it
was, and that of a very unambitious kind. No
wine was sold on the premises — a circumstance
which, combined with a positive interdict upon
tobacco, restricted Tidman's guests to members
of the female sex ; while, on the other hand,
it justified the proprietor in applying to his

establishment the encomium of ' exclusive.'
The guests were mostly permanencies. Folks
did not come to ' Tidman's ' by misadventure ;
they did not, on finding Coleridge's full, fall
back discontentedly in their barouches with C
springs and murmur, ' Try Tidman's.' Tidman's
had a connection of its own, mostly
among country ladies of limited means, and
was never ' tried ' though it was sometimes
found wanting. The two Hisses Blithers, of
Bath, for example, who at present occupied its
principal apartments, used to turn up their
noses at some of its bedroom arrangements ;
Miss Fandango, of the West India Islands, who
talked of them as if they belonged to her, and
who had certainly an hereditary estate on one
of them, though it was doubted if it had anything
on it, used to smile bitterly at the brown
sugar which did not remind her of her native
clime. It was in the case of these detractors
that the uses of the lady of the house (which
would otherwise have remained unsuspected)
became manifest. She would inform the

Misses Blithers, upon the personal authority of
the first cousin of a baronet, that green blinds
were not essential to the furniture of a first-class
bedroom, and that the early sunshine,
though it might stream through their windows
and wake them at 5 a.m., was upon the
whole an advantage recognised by the aristocracy
and recommended by the most fashionable
physicians ; while, as the niece by marriage
of the representative of one of the
largest commercial constituencies in England,
she was able to inform Miss Fandango that the
finest crystallised sugar, though fair to see,
but too often sacrificed its saccharine qualities
to mere appearance. These were the only
boarders that at present ventured to complain.
Mrs. Tiffin, the Indian widow on the second
floor, took what was given her without a
murmur, though she inadvertently gave offence
on one occasion when a brown compound was
handed to her at dinner, of which she innocently
observed, ' This is very nice ; but I do
wonder, Mrs. Tidman, that you never go in for

cherries.' To which the lady of the house rejoined,
in an icy tone, '" I do not know what
you mean, my dear madam, by " going in,"
because it is a phrase that is not used in the
best circles ; but our cook is thought to have
some talent for the dish you mention and of
which you have just partaken.'

The unfortunate Mrs. Tiffin had placed
herself in the inextricable position of having
eaten curry without knowing it.

These three were at present the only guests
in the Tidman household, to which Mary
Marvon was therefore welcomed all the more
gladly, albeit the recommendation of ]mr.
Jennie would have insured her a prompt reception
in any case. A clean and airy room
was allotted her on the third floor, commanding
a view of at least one thousand chimney-pots
and the towers of a gaol. Instead of the glass
wardrobe of her Park Lane bower there was a
chest of drawers with two hang-nails, and a
little mirror which, perhaps from motives of
modesty, declined except upon compulsion to
tqL . II. D

be looked at, and always swung with its face
to the wall. The floor was bare save in the
centre, where a strip of carpet, such as is used
by street acrobats, left a free opportunity for
parquetry round its margin.

There was but one chair, but even ' the
highest in the land,' as Mrs. Titian (meaning,
T suppose, ' the broadest') pointed out and
corroborated by her personal testimony, could
only sit on one chair at a time ; and though
there was no table there was a capital mantelpiece,
where one could put anything one
pleased within certain limits as to weight and
area. What pleased Mary most, however, was
the fact that there was plenty of room for the
type-writing machine which Mr. Jennie had
undertaken to procure for her on favourable
terms, and by which she intended to earn her
livelihood. It was a very humble ambition,
but, like all aspirations after honest work, a
very self-sustaining one. It enabled her not
indeed to forget but to ignore her misfortunes.
It even caused her to reflect that the dream in

which she had suffered herself to indulge with
respect to Edgar Dornay had been not only
baseless but unreasonable, and that though he
had not behaved well to her, the punishment
which had been inflicted on her was not undeserved.
In the desire which now consumed
her to make a few shillings a day by manual
labour she recognised the absurdity of her late
pretensions, and beheld the width of the gulf
between her and him. It had been very unlike
her to have ever lost sisrht of it ; not that she
herself attached importance to social distinctions,
but because she so well understood
their value in the eyes of others ; for the future
she would bear in mind that her private views
on that matter were exceptional, and did not
one whit alter her own position as respected
the rest of the world. On the other hand they
did give her some advantage. Not even misfortune
can make us philosophic at one-an d-
twenty, but she was enabled to regard matters
objectively and from without. Instead of being

B2

depressed by the social atmosphere in which
she now found herself, she was roused by
it.

Mrs. Tidraan's reminiscences of the great,
the magnificence of the elder Miss Blithers, and
the airs and graces of Miss Fandango amused
her exceedingly. To some girls in her position
their patronage — for they all patronised her —
would have been intolerable; Mary Marvon,
however, was far from resenting it ; she understood
that it was a form of kindliness — unfortunately
the only one that occurred to them —
and it tickled her sense of humour. Human
nature is the same play, whether performed in
some barn in the provinces or at Her Majesty's
Theatre, and life at Tidman's Boarding House,
except for the accessories, was, she soon grew
to understand, only Park Lane over again.
Unhappily it is not until we reach middle life —
and sometimes, alas ! not even then — that we
thoroughly appreciate this fact. We are always
fancying that on this or that landing of the
great social stairs matters must be different, and

that the higher we get the nearer we approach
to heaven.

What poor Mary felt most acutely was,
strange to say, the same pain that Beryl
Peyton, her antipodes in the matter of wealth
and station, was suffering from — the sense of
isolation. One must be a humorist indeed to
enjoy to the full the weaknesses of one's fellow-creatures
without a soul to share our harmless
pleasures ; for the cynic it is easy enough, but
poor Mary was no cynic. When she ceased to
take an interest in what was passing around
her, and permitted herself to think, she was
very unhappy. She had not been accustomed
to the joys of home. The love of father and
mother, of sister and brother, had been denied
her ; but she had hitherto not been without
friends. At school she had formed several
attachments to girls of her own age, which,
though they are scoffingly spoken of as ' eternal,'
at least last their time and fulfil their office. A
girl without a girl friend is not to be envied ; a
boy stands upon a different footing, for there

are some boys, and those of a fine type, who
postpone their friendships till a later date, or,
what is more common, attach themselves to
their seniors on comparatively equal terms ;
whereas between a young girl and a grown
woman there may be affection, admiration,
respect, or what you will, but never friendship.
Upon leaving school Mary had felt the
pangs of separation from more than one loving
heart ; but the way to her affections was easy,
and Mrs. Beckett soon found it, and though
she could not supply the place of the companions
of her own age, had mitigated their
loss. Now she had lost both them and her,
while even her kind protectress, Mrs. Sotheran,
had somehow ceased to occupy the position
she had once held in her regard. She was
grateful to her for the personal tenderness she
had always exhibited, but she no longer stood
to her in the place of a mother ; she was only
the almoner of those from whose hands, had
the alternative been offered to her, she would
have accepted nothing. Perhaps also a false

shame tenckd to increase this feeling of separation
from the only person who, to her knowledge,
possessed the secret of her birth. On
the whole Mary's sense of loneliness was very
keen, and it was certainly not mitigated by
being in the populous waste of London.

It was impossible under such circumstances,
being young and very human, but that she
should take an interest in what of life lay
nearest to her ; such is the law of nature, save
with misanthropes and monsters ; if we are
alone to-day, some tie, however slight — the
interchange of a nod, a smile, a word of common
courtesy — binds us to some fellow-creature
tomorrow. The object of attraction in this
case was Mr. Tidman — a little grey man, as
weird to look at as the hero of a German
legend, but as alert and active as a German
waiter. Its cause was his capacity for work
which in her present condition of mind was a
somewhat exaggerated virtue in Mary's eyes,
if not the very highest good. In the Tidman
household the order of things as it generally

exists in such establishments, where the mistress
is the bread-winner and the master the
pipe-smoker, was reversed. Mrs. Tidman was
a mere drawing-room ornament of the establishment,
frail though chaste ; her husband.
Atlas-like, supported the whole of it upon his
shoulders, but with such ease and dexterity
that he seemed rather to balance it upon his
head, his nose, his chin. There was no domestic
duty too trivial or too menial for him to
undertake. He did not indeed make the beds,
though, as the elder Miss Bhthers observed, after
a snubbing administered to her by the lady of
the house, he had made his own bed and had
to lie on it ; but he did not disdain to light the
fires when negligence or inattention had caused
their extinction. He did all the catering for
the house, and ' saw to ' things which eye of
mortal man had never ' seen to ' before. He
superintended the arrangements for the laundress,
and knew the times and seasons when
the lace curtains should be substituted for the
chintz. He laid the dinner table, when Jane and

Ann were behind their time, with a celerity that
would have taken the breath away from Mrs.
Beckett's butler even to look on at it, emphasising
each knife and fork as he laid them
down, as though he were selling the goodwill
of the establishment by auction with every
blow. And whatever he did was accompanied
by ceaseless talk, delivered at the top of his
voice, whether his audience was up three pairs
of stairs, or at his elbow.

So much vigour and energy it would have
been difficult to find in one individual, and
they were accompanied by a humility that was
unexampled. ' I am nothing, I an't,' he would
assure the astonished Mary when she complimented
him on these Briareus performances,
and when I think of Matilda Jane ' (his wife)
I feel something wus than nothing.' He
chipped his words terribly, not so much from
vulgarity (though he had probably never
had more than a bowing acquaintance with
Lindsey Murray) as fi'om extreme volubility.
She was a born lady, as you know ' (Mary did

know. No one who had been under that roof
for twenty-four hours — nay, for twenty-four
minutes — could have failed to have heard of it),
but she married a pauper. She was a Blend
own niece to the late Sir Anthony
Blenkinhouse, of the Manor, Slopton, and
cousin to the present Sir Geoffrey. As sure
as Christmas comes she is asked every year
to the Manor and received as one of the
family. Of course they don't ask me ; that
would be a pretty thing indeed. Why,
none of them does a stroke of work — haven't
for centuries ; wasn't born to it, you know
and breakfast not on the table till ten
o'clock. Then by the mother's side Matilda
Jane is connected with the Blackbirds. John
Blackbird, the member for Peterborough, is
her cousin only twice removed. When they
come up to town they always send their
carriage for her once every season to drive her
round and round in the Park. It would be
enough to turn some people's heads for them,
but not Matilda Jane ; she 's a paragon, she is.'

And then the excellent fellow would set to
work upon whatever employment he was engaged
in with redoubled energy, as though the
recollection of his wife's relations had given
him new strength.

For persons of great natural stateliness like
Miss Blithers the elder, or who stood on their
dignity like Miss Fandango, ^Lr. Tidman was
too quick in his movements. He would rush
round the dinner table, and anticipate their
wants with the pepper-castor or the mustard-pot,
in a manner which would have been
flattering if it had not been so precipitate. He
was dexterous — that is to say, he never upset
the articles — but he banged them down with
a noise and sharpness that suggested the explosion
of a percussion cap. The maids handed
the dishes, but if his vigilant eye perceived a
guest wanted anything he would shriek out the
name of it interrogatively, ' Bread ? ' ' Beer P '
'Potatoes?' as in some energetic juvenile game,
and supply the demand upon the instant, before
it could be indicated by utterance. It was his

excusable boast, though expressed in somewhat
vulgar language, that when anything was wanted
he was ' all there ' ; and indeed he reminded
Mary of the poet's Abra, who would come not
only without bell-ringing but ' ere you called
her name ; and if you called another Abra came,'
which happened indeed with ]mr. Tidman very
often when Jane and Ann were not in the way.
Perhaps his greatest performance in point
of despatch was the saying grace, which he
never failed to do before the two chief meals of
the day ; such had been the custom, as his wife
assured him, at the Manor, Slopton, and it was
only respectful, as he most readily admitted, to
the memory of Sir Anthony (who had left her
ten pounds with which to buy a mourning-ring)
to keep it up. Only Sir Anthony probably had
taken very much longer about his grace. The
spirit and not the letter is fortunately what is
of importance in such cases, but no one of
Tidman's lodgers had ever yet heard what he
said on these occasions. This was not, however,
because attention was not called to it. Mr.

Tidman commanded it by a violent drumming
on the table with the handle of his knife and
fork, murmured some rapid and inarticulate
words, and without a moment's pause pointed
the blade of the carving-knife to his right-hand
neighbour with the inquiry, 'Beef?' It was
like that dreadful ' drawing-room game ' where
somebody throws a handkerchief in your face
and cries out ' Fire ! ' Sometimes there was
an alternative, such as ' Beef or Mutton ? ' and
the guests had to decide in such a hm^ry that
there was no time except for regret. Mr.
Tidman completed the whole round of the
table, keeping count as he went, 'One, two,
three,' &c., and filled every one's plate without
the least attention to a genteel request for a
small piece. Then he threw every one two
roast potatoes, directed to their plates with
great precision, and rushed round the table
begging every one with pathetic importunity to
eat ' greens.' ' ^Yhat ! not so much ? Couldn't
think of such a thing. Miss Bhthers. You
must ; they 're beautiful greens. They always

take greens at the Manor, Slopton, do they not,
Mrs. Tidman ? '

Thus appealed to, the languid and aristocratic
Mrs. Tidman, startled from a genteel
repose, would somewhat inconsequentially remark
that at the Manor, Slopton, there was a
beautiful greenhouse with more cucumbers in
it than the family could eat, and that Sir
Anthony had been wont to keep three gardeners,
at the remembrance of which hereditary magnificence
she would utter a gentle sigh.

'My wife was like one of those exotics
herself,' Mr. Tidman would break in explanatorily,
like a Greek chorus, ' reared, as you
may say, in the lap of luxury. I transplanted
her to a very different soil ; yet here she is,
you see, as ornamental as ever.' To mark Mrs.
Tidman as she folded her white hands and
shook her head deprecatingly at this compliment
was to behold a picture of humility — though of
the cottage-with-the-double-coach-house order
in a style of very high art indeed. Her
husband's humility was of another sort; he

had red hands, and was not infrequently in a
perspiration, so that he did not lend himself to
pictorial illustration ; but what there was of
him was genuine. His hospitality, indeed, so
rare in a boarding-house keeper, was almost
that of the savage in its importunity. ' Canst
eat any more, miss ? ' he would expostulate
with Mary, who, to say the truth, had very
Httle appetite in those days. ' Oh, you must.
I shan't take Xo. I want to fatten you.'

He spoke like an ogre, but he meant nothing
but good to her and good to all about him.

It is generally supposed that being ' knocked
about ' in the world — not ' knocking about,' for
that is quite another thing, which you do in
your steam-yacht or in your own carriage with
a courier — ' knocks the nonsense ' out of you.
Perhaps it may do so, but I have noticed that
a good many other things, such as gentleness,
and generosity, and all consideration for other
people, are also often eliminated in the process ;
whereas Mr. Tidman, who had been most
grievously knocked about (in the bankruptcy

and county courts among other places), had
contrived to retain those attributes and, what
was still more astounding, his native simplicity.
He was not very clever in keeping out of scrapes,
it must be confessed, nor was London the best
place for the development of his energies. He
never complained, but his ardent desire (which
there was no hope of being gratified) was for
the country and fresh air. His physical activity
was superhuman. If his superfluous force could
have been stored, it would have been a treasure
to science, and might have instituted perpetual
motion in itself without any further waste of
time as to the discovery of it. What became
of it Huxley only knows ; it was some satisfaction
to be assured by science that it could not
be lost ; but within the limits of his private
hotel Tidman spent his powers in vain, or to
little purpose, like some gigantic squirrel making
ten thousand revolutions per minute in a canary
cage.

In this personage, as we have said, Mary
took a great deal of interest. If the plain truth

was to be told, I think we should find that not
only the philosophers who ' thread the labyrinth
of the mind, and read the secret of the star,'
but those who ' observe ' the toad (without a
thought of the precious jewel in his head, but
simply for information), or who ' cultivate ' the
bee (sometimes in their bonnets), are not very
liable to social temptations ; they have either
discovered the deceitfulness of love and the
vanity of pleasure, or have no natural taste
for them ; and Mary perhaps ' observed ' j\Ir.
Tidman (though not under the microscope, for
he was extremely obvious to the naked eye)
because she had little else to do. She shrank
from her own thoughts and welcomed any
distraction from them, whereas the society of
her fellow-lodgers, and especially that of the
mistress of the house, compelled them into the
old channel.

Mrs. Tidman was importunate to be informed
how matters had been conducted in Park Lane,
and would point out with pathetic earnestness
how similarly the wheel of life had revolved at

VOL. II. E

the Manor, Slopton. At the same time she did
not hesitate to hint that she herself had not
been the fly on the wheel, as Mary had been,
but its chief motive power.

Poor Sir Anthony,' she was wont to sigh,
did nothing without me, and it was a curious
coincidence that he died within less than three
years after my marriage with Theodore.'

Then the other ladies would shake their
heads at Mr. Tidman, who would observe
significantly, ' Quite true, ladies,' in corroboration
of his wife's evidence, as though the guilt
of blood in hastening the demise of a baronet
of the United Kingdom had really been upon
his soul. Xo doubt it had been hard upon Sir
Anthony, for his niece was two-and-thirty years
of age when she had eloped, and he must
naturally have calculated upon keeping her
with him for the rest of his life.

The cross-examination to which Mary was
subjected as to what Miss Blithers called the
convenances ' of fashionable life was in its
particularity and detail not unworthy of a court

of law. ' I have been accustomed to pretty
good society myself,' that lady would modestly
remark, 'but there is one thing that puzzles
me : in the very highest circles do they, or do
they not, wear gloves at breakfast ? '

My sister, of course, means the ladies,' put
in Miss Juha. She never originated a remark,
but was very good at corroborations and deductions
when a subject was once started.

'I can only say that Mrs. Beckett didn't
wear gloves at breakfast,' said Mary, smiling.

Now I call that very satisfactory and conclusive,'
said Miss Bhthers, nodding and looking
around her as if she had been the humble
means of establishing an important fact.

Conclusive so far as it goes,' remarked
Mrs. Tidman. ' But we must remember, if
Miss Marvon will permit me to say so, that
;Mrs. Beckett, though no doubt a lady of great
wealth and position, did not belong to the titled
aristocracy. Xow at the Manor, Slop ton. Lady
Theresa Blenkinhouse, my uncle's second wife

E 2

*>•'""*

(she was the Earl of Stoppington's daughter),
always wore gloves at breakfast.'

What ! even in hot weather ? ' exclaimed
Mrs. Tiffin, with simplicity.

In all weathers,' replied Mrs. Tidraan,
with dignity. ' Good heavens ! do you suppose
that a person of Lady Theresa's rank suffered
from chilblains?'

This was liard upon Mrs. Tiffin who did
suffer from them, and so severely that she went
about the house from September till May in
woollen gloves and hist sappers ; but upon
questions of social rank and the tables of
degree Mrs. Tidman was merciless. Mrs. Tiffin
was dreadfully abashed. Miss Fandango, however,
who suffered, though in secret, from the
same complaint as Mrs. Tiffin, perhaps from
having been accustomed, like herself, to a
tropical climate, was stung into antagonism.
After all,' she said, ' the aristocracy of England,
whether titled or untitled, have no such
conception of what it is to be a privileged class
as have our great families in the West Indies.

Mrs. Tidman uttered an ejaculation which
cannot be here set down ; not of course that it
was improper, but because it was inarticulate ;
it had, however, a significance of contempt
equal to a folio. ' I say in the old times,'
repeated Miss Fandango, with a glow of indignation
upon her dusky cheek, but in faltering
tones, for, though naturally intrepid, she quailed
before Mrs. Tidman. Like the savage, with
bow and spear or the faithful and returning
boomerano- she had at first done battle with her
more civilised enemy with a light heart ; but,
having experienced the effect of the other's
weapons of precision, she now feared the contest.


I repeat,' continued Miss Fandango, ' that
the fine spirit of feudalism was kept up in my
native land to an extent undreamt of in England.
My grandfather had five mitred slaves,
male and female — not in livery, it is true, far
from it — but all devoted to his sovereign will.'

Disgraceful,' murmured Miss Blithers.

'You may say that,' corroborated Mrs.
Tiffin, directing to her hostess a frowning and
significant smile that promised a whole budget
of colonial information as the price of pardon.

If I am snapped up in this manner and
not permitted to go on,' protested Miss Fandango,
' argument is impossible.'

Sto one wishes to stop discussion,' observed
Mrs. Tidman, majestically, ' but I cannot at my
table permit any indecorous allusions.'

Gracious Goodness ! ' ejaculated poor Miss
Fandango, ' what do you mean ?

- ' I think wee had better drop the subject,'
said Mrs. Tidman, severely. ' Theodore, what
was I saying about Sir Anthony ? '

It was one of Mr. Tidman's multifarious
duties to act as a remembrancer in ordinary to
his wife, and to recall to her recollection,
which was weak, what she had last said ; but on
the present occasion he had seized the opportunity
of discussion among the ladies to biu-y
himself in pudding. He had few chances of

undisturbed enjoyment with Lis knife and fork
(for I regret to say he was using both), but,
when they came, he took advantage of them.
He was dimly aware that West Indian shivery
was the subject of discussion, but guiltily conscious
of inattention.

Theodore, wdiat was I talking about ? '
repeated his spouse in more decided tones.

Mary noticed his embarrassment and whispered
good-naturedly, ' Gloves.'

Why, let me see,' returned Mr. Tidman
with an effort of memory, ' the last thing you
said, my dear, was that Sir Anthony's slaves in
the West Indian Islands — or words to that
effect — always wore gloves at breakfast.'

CHAPTEE XXI.

A SYMPATHISER.

On the second day after Mary's arrival at
Tidman's ' came the type-writer, which amid
these unsympathetic surroundings was a relief
to her indeed. T have heard a young lady
describe the delight with which, from one of
those excellent persons who live for others, a
rich bachelor uncle, she received her first piano.
A box of good things to the schoolboy, when
half the term was gone and all his pocket
money, was as nothing, she assured me, compared
with that box of harmony. But even
out of a piano, unless you perform on it in a
very superior manner, you cannot get your
living. Now to Mary's eyes the great charm of
her new acquisition was that, like Pandora's

box, there was hope in it, and possibly independence.
It is probable that the great
majority of my readers are unacquainted with
this ingenious invention, which is the more to
be regretted since I cannot explain it to them.
Machinery of all kinds is unintelligible to me.
and the endeavors to understand it always
results in vertigo. When it revolves, my brain
begins to do the same, and that is the only
point we have in sympathy. The instrument,
however, is a circular affak ^vith type at the
end of vires, which start up like the hammers
of a piano and print things a great deal more
distinctly than some people write. There is a
keyboard, and keys, which are letters, which
require a sharp tap with the fingers. These
are arranged in detachments for the right and
left hand, but not — and this is the cru — in
their alphabetical order. They are divided as
equally as possible in relation to their probable
use, so that each hand, or rather finger of each
hand, may have the same anoint of work todo.
A proficient can play it like the piano.

only with twice the rapidity ; for my part (but
then I am not clever, and have had but five
years' practice), I pick-out the keys laboriously
with one digit, and generally Avrong. There is
no royal road to the type-writer, nor to some
people any road at all ; but for women whose
touch is delicate and sight is keen, the task
comes easy. In the first quarter of an hour
Mary contrived to print her own name, May
MAEYOX, pretty correctly ; and before the
afternoon was over could turn out a sentence
of ten words in as many minutes. This she
accomplished with both hands ; if she had used
one (as instinct prompted her to do), she would
have got on twice as quickly, and would have
remained an ignoramus at it for life.

It was marvellous what pleasure — if pleasure
is relief from pain — this close mechanical
toil afforded her, for, being such a novice,
while she worked at it she could think of
nothing else. What a divine nepenthe is work
and hope ! Gin and beer, though a much more
popular mixture, is nothing to it, while though

the brandy recommended by the philosopher
for heroes may be more excellent for them for
others its effect is deleterious. As these obstinate
letters grew tame under Mary's touch,
they began to spell for her, if not ' comfort,' at
least ' oblivion.' She forgot the stigma of her
birth, which whenever she thought of it pained
her in the cruellest manner, for though she was
proud, poor girl, she was not ' too proud to
care from whence she came.' She forgot her
lost love and his treachery — or rather his weakness,
for her generous nature accused him of
nothing worse. She forgot her disagreement
with Mrs. Beckett, the only friend of her own
sex she had in London. Nay, more than all
(for this is the very crown of honest toil), when
she had done her work, she felt stronger to
fight and fitter to endure whatever harsh Fate
might have in store for her ; nor was even that
faculty for the ens orient of pleasure which
work especially bestows denied her, though she
looked forward to no opportunity for its exercise.
Late in the afternoon a visitor called

upon her, and was shown into the room set
apart for such private interviews, and admu-ably
adapted for its purpose. There was no external
object in it which by grace or beauty was likely
to distract the mind, save one solitary picture,
lined by a departed lodger (and left, it was
whispered, in part payment of her account) of
the Titans' establishment itself. Genius had
glorified it, though it had failed in making it
quite perpendicular. It was represented as a
palatial structure, with a carriage and four
driving up to the door and two ladies driving
away from it in a barouche ; that they meant
to return again was subtly indicated by the
artist from the fact of their being without
luggage.

From a first glance at this apartment one
would have said, ' This is devoted to hair-cutting,'
but by an ingenious and inexpensive
device originality was preserved. There was
no mirror, and in place of the florid paper that
generally embellishes the bower of the coiffeur
the walls were (or had been) of pure white.

Mary's visitor, on finding himself alone,
looked round him with an intense expression
of wonder and disgust, and, moved by some
association of ideas, exclaimed, ' By Gad ! remanded
! '

]mr. Charles Sotheran had once had occasion
to visit some one ' in trouble ' in a certain
Government establishment, whom he had found
in an apartment exactly similar. In that case
there had been nothing surprising in it ; but to
think that the house that had its room of state
thus bare and wretched, with ground glass for
windows and oil cloth for carpet, should be the
dwelling of Mary Marvon, fresh from the splendours
of Park Lane, was amazing to him. The
next moment, however, the gloom of the apartment
was dispelled by the entrance of a sunbeam.


Oh, Charley, how kind this is of you I '

Considering their mutual position, and the
necessity for keeping him at arm's length for
his own sake, perhaps she should not have
welcomed him so effusively ; but for days Maiy

Marvon had seen no friendly face, and Charley's
was such a bright one.

Kind of me ! ' he echoed, holding out an
eager hand — ' kind of me ! If you only knew
what pleasure it gives me ! '

Does it indeed ? ' she smiled, already conscious
of her indiscretion ; ' then you must be
easily pleased, Charley. This is not exactly a
pleasure house, at all events of the Kubla Khan
description, is it ? '

I don't care the least about the house,'
returned the young man significantly.

Now that I call rude, Charley ; for though
/ may speak disrespectfully of Tidman's, it is
not for you to do so ; it will probably be my
place of residence for some time to come.'

'I am very sorry to hear it,' observed
Charley, gloomily. ' What are those papers
under your arm ? They look like law documents.'


They are law documents, sir,' replied Mary,
with dignity.

They are not title deeds of the establishment

? You are not thinking of buying it. I
do hope ? '

You are a very impertinent young man.
They are pleadings.'

Good heavens ! Portia ? '

'Yes ; I have adopted that line of business.'

Happy Antonio ! ' murmured Charley ;
still more happy Bassanio I '

I do not, however, go into court. Mr.
Jennie has sent me the papers — no, not for
my opinion, sir, though I don't see why you
should smile at that but to be copied out. I
thought you would like to see how I was getting
on in my new profession. What do you
think of that as a specimen of handwriting ? '

• But it 's print,' exclaimed Charley — • at
least a sort of print.'

Thank you, sir,' she replied, with a sweeping
curtsey ; ' it is, as you say, though with no
exaggeration of admiration, a sort of print. I
printed it with my type-writer.'

Shade of Spottiswoode I But what did you
do it for?'

That is a question, sir, between me and
my employer ; but, if you must know, for sixpence
a folio. At my rate of speed the first
day I calculated I might make a shilling a
week by it ; at that of yesterday, five shillings.
I believe with a little practice, and without
working what we call in the trade " overtime "
besides having my " Sundays out " (another
technical term) — I shall be able to earn quite
a large income.'

Charley's face was very sad and pitiful ashe
replied, in a tone that was in marked contrast
with her own studiously gay and playful
one, ' This is very strange news, Mary. Can I
see this wonderful piece of mechanism ? '

'No, sir, you cannot. The fact is that
Tidman's, though admirably adapted for social
life and intercourse, is on the American system
so far as private sitting-rooms are concerned.'

'Good heavens! Then do you actually
work in your own room, Mary, hour after hour,
at this what-you-may-call-it ? '

Type writer, if you please

At this type-writer, for the wages of a
seamstress ? '

Do I look like a seamstress, you silly bov ?

With fingers weary and worn,
With eyelids heavy and red,

and so on. You are certainly not in a very
complimentary humour.'

Charley rose from his chair and bepran to
pace the room.

You don't know how it pains me, Mary,
to hear of you" working in this way.'

You mean of my working at all,' she
answered, smiling, though far from untouched
by his artless pity ; ' that is because you are in
Government employment. Xow, for my part,
I like work.'

Some people do, I know,' admitted the
young man. ' Browne in our office — Browne
with the ^, as we used to call him, to distinguish
him fi^om squinting Brown, " Brown with
the eye '" — was very fond of work ; he is now
in a lunatic asylum. Mr Beryl Peyton — a

VOL. IT. p

fellow-feeling makes us wondrous kind, you
know — took a great interest in him in his
retirement. By-the-by, Mrs. Peyton was
inquiring after you only yesterday, Mary.'

After me'^ I did not know she had ever
heard of me.'

Nor I. She did, however, make very
particular inquiries. She had been to call in
Park Lane, and I suppose Mrs. Beckett had told
her about you.'

Perhaps,' said Mary, stiffly.

I know it 's not a pleasant subject,' said
Charley, gently ; ' but I wanted to say a few
words to you about Mrs. Beckett. It won't
annoy you, will it, Mary ? '

The frequency with which he employed her
Christian name was rather marked ; he felt a
pleasure, so subtle that he was hardly conscious
of it, both in the utterance of the word by his
own lips and in the hearing of it.

No,' she answered, ' it will not annoy me,'
then added with feminine inconsistency, ' since
I suppose you have some reason for it ? '

Yes, I have. I know — everybody knows
that Mrs. Beckett has behaved badly to you,
Mary.'

I never said so.'

Of course not ; you never say anything
severe of any one except to their faces.'

Here he smiled in spite of himself, for he
felt that in that sentence he was somewhat
anticipating matters ; the only person to whom
he had ever known Mary distinctly antagonistic
was to LIr. Ealph Dornay. He had seen her
sit upon him,' to use Charley's own expression,
rather heavily ' more than once.

'I know nothing of the cause of quarrel
between you and Mrs. Beckett,' he went on,
except that you were in the right ; but I now
know this, that she was in a position at that
time in which considerable allowance should be
made for her. She must have been troubled
in her mind as to a certain course of action
which, moreover, she was quite aware would
not meet with your approval. You don't know
p2

what has happened since you left Park Lane, I
conclude ? '

No harm to Mrs. Beckett, I hope ? ' returned
Mary, earnestly. 'I wish her nothing
but good.'

I am sure of that, and, what is more to
the purpose, I think she is sure of it also.
However, to my tale, as narrators say in books.
Mrs. Beckett is contemplating a change in her
position which, you will agree with me, is, to
say the least of it, an injudicious one. She is
going to marry Dornay.'

Mary did not reply, nor could she have
done so had reply been necessary ; she leant
back in her chair with hips and eyelids closed
like one dead, but her heart was beating fast.
To think that the man to whom she had given
it a few days ago should have thus bartered
himself to another for gold — though she was
aware that he had had the intention of doing
so — was a terrible blow.

I knew it would shock you,' continued
Charley, gently. ' Your opinion of Ealph

Domay coincides, I know, with mine. The
man is little better than an adventurer.'

That is rather a strong term,' said Mary,
gently. Tt is remarkable how good news —
personal satisfaction, indeed, of all kinds — inclines
us to be charitable. As regarded herself
Mary had given up all thoughts of Edgar
Dornay ; he was as one dead to her, though,
alas ! not forgotten ; yet the knowledge that he
was not to become !Mrs. Beckett's husband —
that it was uncle Ealph and not nephew Edgar
who had been chosen — was an intense relief to
her.

It is in this that men and women, save in a
few exceptional cases, are so different. ' If she
be not fair for me, what care I how fair she be ? '
(or, for that matter, ' what the deuce becomes
of her ') is the man's thought. The woman's
thought is different. It is one thing to be
deserted, and quite another to feel that the
deserter has enlisted elsewhere. That he has
been seduced from his allegiance by the bounty
money given by the enemy is small comfort.

I confess that I have not a high opinion of
Mr. Ealph Dornay,' Mary went on. ' People,
however, are the best judges of their own
affairs.'

I don't think women are,' said Charley,
boldly.

A person of your years and experience of
course ought to know,' said Mary, drily. She
had quite recovered herself by this time, and
was prepared to defend herself as well as other
people.

Mrs. Beckett at all events may urge that
plea,' said Charley, smiling.

Mary had baffled him, but he was not the
least put out. He had always good-nature — a
powerful ally in contests with the Amazons —
upon his side. ' Still I am afraid she has made
a mistake, and even that she already knows it.'

Indeed ! ' In her heart Mary thought
that last statement of Charley's very possible.
The whole matter was now plain to her : having
failed with Edgar, Mrs. Beckett had accepted
his uncle in pique and haste.

If such is the case, Mary, Mrs. Beckett is
surely to be pitied. Your own advice to me was
to remember her former kindnesses, and not to
give way to the indignation I felt against her.
I followed it because it was your advice.'

I am glad to hear it, Charley ; then you
are still good friends, I hope ? '

'Yes. And why should not you and she
be still good friends ? She was not herself
when she said to you whatever she did say.'

If she was herself she certainly forgot it,'
replied Mary, icily.

Those infamous words, ' Do you think
I do not know you, your pretence of modesty,
your mock humility, your innocence
forsooth, while all the time you* heart — no,
not your heart, your cunning, artful mind — was
fixed on making him your husband ? ' once
more rang in her ears. It is more difficult fora
sensitive nature to forgive an insult than an
injury.

Oh, Mary, do not be hard against her,'
pleaded the young man. ' I have not much

knowledge of the world, as you just reminded
me, but I know Alien a person is miserable,
and very, very sorry for what they have done
amiss. Mrs. Beckett said — and it was a great
deal for her to say to one like me — *' It is quite
true that I have behaved harshly and unjustly
to Mary Marvon." '

That must have been in reply to a reproach,'
said Mary, severely. ' What right had
you to reproach her ? '

This was a difficult question. Charley had
undoubtedly had a right to reproach Mrs.
Beckett, since the widow had always encouraged
his addresses to her young friend ; but to Mary
herself he could not advance that plea.

I did not exactly reproach her,' he answered
deprecatingly. ' You told me, you
know, to keep my temper ; so I only said that
she ought to be ashamed of herself, and that
to have presumed upon her beastly money —
no, I didn't say that' he put in precipitately, ' I
said to have thus presumed upon her wealth to
insult a young girl in your position was what

in a man would be termed the very basest
description of cowardice. I was very careful
after what you told me,' added Charley, humbly,
not to say anything offensive.'

Mary bit her hp, perplexed between a smile
and a frown ; she could hardly scold the young
man for his championship, though it annoyed
her exceedingly.

Poor Mrs. Beckett was so sorry,' pleaded
Charley. ' If it had not been for Number Three
that is to be I am sure she would have made
some effort to get you back again. But with
Ealph Dornay as master of the house she felt
you would never so much as look at it through
the area railings. But she was so sorry. K
she could make any kind of reparation, she
said — oh, pray don't look so like Medusa,
Mary ; she didn't put it like that ; it 's my awkwardness.
Perhaps I was mistaken in what she
meant.'

I hope so, indeed, Charley. I can hardly
think that Mrs. Beckett offered me money, as
though I had been a crossing-sweeper her carriage

wheels had run over in the street. I
hope not that indeed.'

Oh dear, no,' protested Charley, wiping
his forehead with his handkerchief ; ' nothing
was further from her thoughts, I 'm sure. She
wished to be of use to you, that 's all — only
when I heard of your working at the what-d'ye-call-it
for sixpence a sheet '

'A folio, Charley. Again I must remind
you that the type writer is not a sewing
machine.'

Why, dear me, it 's downright beggary ! '
exclaimed the young fellow, wringing his hands
in deprecation.

No, Charley, it would be beggary if I took
Mrs. Beckett's money. At my new trade I
shall earn quite enough for my modest needs.'

But these can't last for ever,' he urged,
pointing to the lawyer's papers. ' And when
you get to be an expert — it 's a mere question
of poetical economy ; I read all about it for my
exam." — the supply will exceed the demand.'

Then I shall go to the law stationers and

into the public market armed with my little
card, " Documents copied 's\dth punctuality and
despatch." T have thought of all that, I do
assure you.'

Well, if you really must, Mary — I mean,
if you have made up your mind to occupy
yourself in this way just at present, at least do
not work for those starvation prices. Why not
copy for authors instead of lawyers ? I know
a man who is always writing — poems and all
sorts of things — and who gives five shillings a
sheet — I mean a folio. He is always complaining,
since he himself writes so badly, that he
can't get his work properly copied out. It
won't be much, you know, but it 's better than
this sort of work.'

Charley ! Charley ! fie ! for shame ! ' said
Mary, reproachfully.

What do you mean ? ' he inquired simply,
while an innocent blush overspread his youthful
features.

Only that I don't believe in poets who
want their verses copied by the folio for five

shillings, or any other price. Your political
economy should have taught you better than
to advocate "bounties," Charley. No, I am
not angry with you ' — for he had hung his head
' far from it, Charley. The deceit of some
people is better than the plain speaking of
others. But there must be nothing of this sort
from anybody. And now, Charley, I must go
back to my work.'

The young fellow's simple device for adding
to her scanty gains had touched her, and she
was not strong enough just now to endure even
a mistaken kindness.

I may come again ? ' he inquired hoarsely.
'My mother, perhaps, may send some message.'


Yes, yes, only not just at present. Goodbye,
Charley.'

Good-bye, Mary.'

He pressed her hand with a quick, passionate
grasp, which she did not return ; but she
felt the parting and the loneliness that was to
follow ; nay, when he had gone she even wept

a little, for, as with poor Lucy in the ballad,
though she had no thought of him as a lover,
he

had been kind till her,
And that was the thought brought the tear to her ee.

CHAPTEE XXII.

A DEVOTEE OF LITERATURE.

When we are lonely, or separated from our
usual social circle, we are apt to respond to the
friendly overtures of strangers more readily
than under ordinary circumstances. We are
not so fastidious in our choice of a companion,
and feel grateful for civilities which, when on
our native heath and within call of our clan,
we should decline with thanks, or even without
them.

Throughout the day after Charley's departure
poor Mary was very depressed and
sad. It would have been a great comfort to
her if she could have looked forward to other
such visits, but for his own sake she had discouraged
them. She had, as it were, with her

own hand severed the only link between herself
and her old world ; and her new world, though
she courageously strove to make the best of it,
was by no means to her taste.

Of all the persons living under the same
roof with her perhaps Miss Julia Blithers
seemed the least calculated to attract her sympathies
; her opinions, as has been hinted, were
but the echo of other people's, and they were
always added, like an echo, when others had
had their say. Her form was portly and majestic,
which gave them some apparent weight,
but morally she was but the shadow of her
sister, of whom she stood in a fear that may
have been wholesome, but was a little abject.
The views of Miss Blithers the elder were dogmatic
and severe ; they were therefore ]\Iiss
Julia's views ; but the less mature lady had no
more knowledge of the tenets with which she
thus sympathised by proxy than Wamba the
son of Witless had of ecclesiastical Latin. Her
shibboleth, like his, would naturally have been
paxvohiscum, but fate had ordered it otherwise.

Mr. Tidmaii, in a moment of hilarity, which he
was made to regret, had dubbed the sisters
parson and clerk ; and what they most affected
was the Commination Service. Those unregenerate
and hopelessly ignorant heretics, Mrs.
Tiffin and Miss Fandango, cowered before Miss
Blithers's scourge (she was of the strictest sect
of Bath Pharisees), and to every crack of it her
younger sister murmured earnestly, ' Amen.'
Under such circumstances it was not likely that
Mary Marvon would be much attracted towards
Miss Juha Blithers ; and when that lady suddenly
developed an inscrutable attachment to
her, her first impulse was to shrink from it, as
one shrinks from the devotion of some very
retrousse-nosed pug-dog who insists upon following
us home.

In her peculiar position, however, the importunity
of friendliness from any one was hard
to be resisted, and almost without being aware
of it she found herself getting on a familiar
footing with Miss Julia. It was something in
her favour that her overtures were never made

in public ; she seized every opportunity — when
they met upon the stairs or in the passage — to
make the tenderest inquiries. Had Mary slept
well, or had she found her pillow like a wafer ?
(in the Titans' establishment the pillows reminded
one of the cognisance of the Prince of
Wales, though of corn-se he knew nothing about
them : they had each three feathers in them).
Did she ever have a long candle ? Bedroom
candles were used at Tidman's, as in Kino-alfred's
days, as a measure of time ; they were
designed, more or less accurately, for the period
of each guest's disobedient. If anybody was
accidentally longer than usual, through something
having got in a knot or other cause, she
generally found herself in the dark.

If you had a long candle,' said Miss Juha,
after several swallow-flights of talk, on an
occasion when she found herself alone with
Mary in the common sitting-room, ' I suppose
you would work at night, Miss Marvon ? '

Mary flushed up indignantly. Poor people,

VOL. II. G

and especially people who have not been used
to be poor, always think that their poverty is
being alluded to.

I never work at night she said. ' If I
wanted to do so, perhaps I could buy some
inexpensive sort of candles — what is called in
architecture " composite " — for myself.'

Oh dear, I didn't mean that,' quavered
Miss Julia.

Apart from her indomitable and autocratic
sister, she was very pusillanimous ; she looked
as frightened as Torquemada's secretary might
have done had he fallen into the hands of a
select circle of Jews.

I only meant to say,' she explained, ' that
when thoughts — great thoughts — come to meat
night, it 's so very sad not to be able to write
them down. Sarah wouldn't hear of it, even
supposing that I had a candle.'

I am not much troubled with great
thoughts,' said Mary, smiling in spite of herself.
The picture of Miss Julia on her thin pillow,
burthened with an inspiration which she feared

would escape her memory before morning,
tickled her fancy.

But you do write, don't you ? ' inquired
Miss Julia, eagerly.

Yes, I write,' said Mary. Xo one at
Tidman's knew of her type writer ; she kept
the instrument locked, and though every one
in the house had secretly had a look at its case
Mary had not chosen to gratify their curiosity
about it. What business was it of other
people's that she made her living, or proposed
to do so, by copying manuscripts ? She was
not ashamed of it, but she knew enough of the
world to feel that the publication of the fact
would not improve her position at Tidman's.
The use of the article therefore remained a
mystery. Some thought it a sewing machine,
others an harmonium ; Miss Julia alone felt
confident that it was a desk of peculiar construction
at which for five hours every day
Mary composed works of the imagination.

Is it prose or poetry ? ' whispered Miss
Julia, tremulously.

G 2

Prose.'

An expression of disappointment flitted
over the other's majestic features.

But you cadi write poetry ? '

Just as well as prose,' said Mary. This
was audacious, though not altogether incorrect,
for of course she was referring to the capabilities
of the copying machine and not to her own.

Dear me ! what a gift you must have !
You must know, dear Miss Marvon, that you
have a sister poetess in me ; but I 'm only
a beginner. I 've read, and read, and read
poetry all my life. I doat upon it even when
I don't quite understand it ; but I 've had such
difficulties to contend with : Sarah thinks it
wicked, so I 've had to read it on the sly.'

But is not that wicked. Miss Julia ? '

Yes, but I don't at all mind that. Lord
Byron was wicked, dreadfully wicked. Shelley
was rather wicked. I should think if one
knew what he meant (though 1 never can quite
make it out) that Shakespeare was wicked.
It 's a part of the poetic temperament.'

It 's very easy to be a poet so far,' said
Mary, smiling.

The simplicity of her companion was so
amazing, and her ignorance so stupendous,
that their combination with any such aspirations
as she hinted at seemed incredible ; yet
Miss Julia's desire to distinguish herself in
letters — that is, in print — was perfectly
genuine, and the line she had selected for
herself was poetry.

'I hope,' continued Mary, as the other
shook her head as though she had tried
wickedness and found even that not so easy,
that it wasn't your conviction of my being
wicked that led you to imagine that I wrote
verses ? '

Not at all, my dear Miss Marvon. When
Sarah has said that she was certain you had
not been sent away from Park Lane for nothing,
I could never bring myself to say, as
she expected me to do, " Of course not ; " and
when Mrs. Tiffin spoke of that young man
coming to see you the other day '

« I don't wish to hear what Mrs. Tiffin or
any one else said about me,' interrupted Mary,
scornfully.

I can easily believe it. What does the
poet care for the opinion of the world ? As
for Mrs. Tiffin, as Sarah says, she is a dancing
girl without her attractions, a broken-down
Eastern voluptuary on half-pay. My sister's
words are always well chosen, though she
doesn't always know what she is talking about.
Oh no, it was not your wickedness, my dear
Miss Marvon, that made me recognise in you a
sister bard. It was your conversation.'

Literature — much more poetry — is not a
common topic in this house. Miss Julia ; I
don't remember '

Of course not,' broke in the other ; ' it is
so natural to you to speak of these things — to
drop pearls, as somebody says, out of the
jewel-case of your memory — that you don't
know when you 're at it. I don't talk much, as
you may have noticed, but I observe ; I store
up, I study the great book of human nature,

because some day I mean to write about it
myself. Yes, some day, when Sarah 's dead
and I have got the money to bring it out, I
mean to publish my poems.'

Gracious Goodness ! ' ejaculated Mary.

Of course it surprises you to hear that I
contemplate anything of the sort,' said Miss
Julia, humbly ; ' I know everybody thinks mea
worm — a mere earthworm.'

Indeed, it was not that' said Mary,
apologetically, * but you seemed to look
forward so — or at all events to regard so
philosophically the prospect of the decease of
your sister.'

I hate her,' was the surprising rejoinder.
There, it 's out. I hate her. The poet (as
you are aware) is dowered with the hate of
hates, the scorn of scorns, but no poet ever
hated his sister as I do.'

It was impossible, hearing the tone in
which she spoke, to disbelieve her. The worm,
as she called herself, had shown its characteristic
capacity for turning in a most unmistakable

manner. Miss Julia Blithers had for once
indulged herself in an impulse, and in the
presence of a kindred spirit (as she fancied her
present companion to be) had laid bare her
soul. ' My dear Miss Marvon, you see before
you a crushed flower.' Stem and blossom she
stood five feet ten, and would have weighed
the scale down against an aloe tree, tub and
all. 'But for that woman my name would
have been inscribed in the rolls of fame ; but
for her it would have been written there that
circa — that 's the word, though I don't exactly
know what it means — that circa 1870 Julia
Blithers flourished. As it is I am far from
flourishing, but I can recognise genius in
another.'

But indeed, Miss Julia, I am no genius,'
remonstrated Mary, laughing ; ' you are altogether
mistaken about me

You might just as well say I am mistaken
about myself. I have genius too, but not to so
great an extent. If you were not a very great
genius, how could you stand up against Sarah ?

She has given up patronising you ; have you
noticed that ? '

I have,' said clary, ' and with considerable
satisfaction.'

Just so ; but it 's not because she likes
you. She hates you — that 's nothing ; she hates
everybody but herself — but she is also exceedingly
afraid of you. Do you remember how
you set her down about Jupiter and lo ? '

I remember that I set her right,' said
Mary.

That is setting her down' returned Miss
Juha. ' In the Gallery catalogue the letters
were both printed the same size, so she took
them for a one and a naught and called it
Jupiter and Ten. She had called it so to me
before, but I had not the courage to correct
her. I emy you many things, Miss Marvon,
but above all I envy you you* courage and
independence. Oh ! ' — here she threw up her
hands with passionate energy — ' if one only
knew while there was yet time, before the mischief
was done and one was made a slave for

life, how foolish it is to endeavour to conciliate
the cruel I What is the use of it ? Do you
think it pleases them ? Nothing pleases them ;
it only makes them feel how much you are
afraid of them, and encourages them to trample
on you.'

Tragedies are common enough among the
commonplace ; but here was a tragedy in
surely the very last place where one would
have looked for it. Unless Miss Julia Blithers
was an actress of the Siddons order (which
seemed improbable) she was speaking out of
the fulness of a bruised heart and from the
experience of a life of misery. ' I know what
you are thinking ; I know what you are feeling,'
she went on. ' You are saying to yourself,
" Even supposing what this woman says is
true, how can it excuse her conduct to others ?
Why is she so bitter ? why is she so brutal ? "
I will tell you why. She is a coward because
she wishes (though she knows it to be useless)
to curry favour with her mistress. If you had
been crushed as I have been, from your very

cradle, you would have come to be a coward
too.'

It was terrible to hear her. Self-humiliation
could hardly further go. Her tall form and
huge proportions seemed to make her abasement
more pitiable. So have I seen in school
life, where the system permitted of it, some
dullard of man's growth cowed and tormented
by some pigmy prig, whose turn for Latin
verses has given him ill-placed authority. But
even a turn for Latin verses is something,
whereas Miss Bhthers the elder had no gift in
that way, nor in any other.

It is very, very sad,' sighed Mary, compassionately.
Her natural impulse was to encourage
her companion to revolt ; but, unlike
some sons of freedom with whom I am acquainted,
principle was not everything with
her. She had a tender consideration for the
slave herself. ' I conclude,' she said, ' that you
are dependent upon your sister ? '

Miss Juha bowed her head. ' I have not
one farthing in the world,' she moaned, ' save

what she chooses to give me. My father
arranged it so because Sarah had always had
the management of me. He would not listen
to me ; he said I was as ignorant of the world
as a child ; but even a child knows when she
has been wronged. Oh ! cruel ! cruel ! '

But your mother ? '

Sarah killed her. Yes, I say Sarah killed
her. She was a delicate, sweet creature, with
gentle ways and without a vdll of her own.
She was superseded by my sister as the mistress
of her own house ; my father and she
ignored her very existence, and between them
they broke her heart. You have a tender
heart, Miss Marvon, too ; but then you have a
will of your own. Great heavens ! what
would I give for a will of my own — though,
indeed, what would be the use of it, since I
should have no power to use it ? '

Before Miss Juha had begun her confidences
— that is to say, a quarter of an hour before
it would have seemed impossible to Mary
that she should have taken any interest in her.

But throughout these revelations, spontaneous
as a geyser that finds for the first time an outlet,
and almost as vehement, Mary had been
drawn towards her more and more. That
account of her dead mother, and how she
came by her end, went home to Mary's very
heart, where it touched a sympathetic chord.
Of her own mother she dared scarcely think ;
but something whispered to her, when she
did so, that she too had been badly used ; and
had not she herself had a father whose memory
had naught of reverence in it ? '

I am very sorry for you, Miss Julia, very
sorry.'

I know that,' answered the other, rocking
herself in her chair, to the gTcat peril of its
dismemberment, 'I know that — the first person
that ever has been sorry for me. You would
help me if you could, I feel, but nobody can
help me. It was selfish of me to tell you all
this when I knew that, dien I know it could
only make you miserable for nothing. But I
did not mean to tell you when I began ; let us

talk no more of it. What were we saying
before ? Yes, it was about literature. Oh !
what a blessing it is to read and to forget our
own lives in the thoughts of others ! '

This was perhaps the most sensible observation
that Miss Julia Blithers had ever uttered,
and so far as she was concerned it was original.
If dull people would but confine themselves to
matters within their own experience and understanding,
they would be much better company.
What is genuine is scarcely ever wearisome.
The misfortune is that people conscious of
intellectual incapacity are prone to borrow the
thoughts of others without due appreciation
of their meaning. It is fair to say of Mss
Julia, that though she thus borrowed freely it
was never without acknowledgment ; but, from
a combination of various causes, the chief of
which was misquotation, it happened that she
often libelled the illustrious dead, and — to the
unlearned who chanced to listen to her — made
their illustriousness a subject of very natural
surprise and amazement.

Of course no one but yourself, my dear
Miss Marvon,' she went on with sudden cheerfulness,
' has any idea of my literary attainments.
I could often set people right upon
this and that, which would be a very great
satisfaction to me, if I only had the courage ;
but then Sarah would be sure to say, " And,
pray, how came you to know ? " '

Mary nodded adhesion ; lie thought such
an observation was very likely to be made.

Now the other day,' bliss Julia continued
complainingly, ' I might have distinguished
myself at the dinner-table. You remember
how poor Miss Fandango got laughed at for
alluding to Jane as a " youth," upon the ground
that youth was always masculine and never
feminine, except, as Sarah said, with her usual
bitterness — except perhaps in the West Indies.'

I remember that delicate stroke of satire,'
observed Mary, smiling.

Just so. Well, poor bliss Fandango was
quite right. It is poets who make the language,
and one great English poet has certainly made

youth " feminine. Coleridge in his " Youth and
Age " has done it. I haven't the book, but
I distinctly remember the words. Some old
woman is bewailing the days gone by when
she was a youth.'

Are you sure it was a woman, not a man ? '
inquired Mary.

Quite siu-e. It can't be otherwise, because
she says —

Life is but thought ; so think I will
That youth and I are housemaids still.

So you see that she and the other youth must
have been both housemaids.'

My dear Miss Julia,' said Mary, keeping
her countenance with a great effort, ' I think
you are mistaken. The words are almost
identical, so that your error is merely one of
ear, but what Coleridge wrote is not " housemaids,"
but " housemates." '

'But there is no such word in the dictionary.'


'Perhaps not; but then, as you have said,
it is the poet who makes the language.'

Dear me, I suppose you re right. What
a memory you must have for the least things !
I 'm very much obliged to you for the correction
; not that it much signifies : I have cried
over those lines again and again when I thought
it eras housemaids. Of course Coleridge knew
best, but I must say that housemates is not
half so natural. — Dear me, here 's Sarah,' added
Miss Julia, hastily. ' If she asks any questions,
pray remember we were talking about domestic
servants.'

VOL. IL H

CHAPTER XXIII.

AN AUTOGRAPH COLLECTOR.

The repose of a confidence— especially when
it is unsolicited — has the same effect as the
conferring of an obligation ; for the time, at
least, it knits together both giver and receiver.
It is probable that by no other means than
those she had taken, though she had done so
without premeditation or design, could Miss
Juha Bathers have drawn Mary Marvon to
herself. As it was, in her isolation and loneliness,
Mary began to take no little interest in
her new acquaintance. She sincerely pitied
her fate, and sympathised with it. She had
her own reasons, as we know, to complain of
Fortune, but she acknowledged to herself that
Miss Julia's case was more deplorable than her

own. The superiority of her position was not
indeed considerable, nor did it admit of affording
the other any material assistance, but what
help she had to give, in the way of advice and
comfort, she gave her ; and Miss Julia's gratitude
can only be guessed by those who have
awakened the interest of a fellow-creature for
the first time.

What somewhat interfered with Mary's
sympathy — and the harmony of our most
generous emotions is often marred by these
false notes — was the folly and affectation of its
recipient. Miss Julia was a bibhomaniac, but
one of a very anomalous kind. Bindings were
nothing to her, and one edition was as soot
as another: she loved them for their authors'
sakes. So far she stood upon a pinnacle ; where
she came down from it (and a very considerable
way) was that she had only the faintest
conception of their authors' meaning. One is
not astonished at the admiration for blue china ;
there is nothing in it, those who admire it have
nothing in ihem^ and the whole affair is in hard

2

mony. Stamp collectors are stamp collectors ;
they are in the same category with those who
amass walking-sticks ; their fancy, such as it isis
explicable. But fancy was the very last thing
in which Miss Julia permitted herself to indulge.
She was the very antithesis of the poet who
wrote of himself —

Not to admire is all the art I know.

She was one long note of literary admiration.

Among her secret treasures, kept in a box
under her bed, and guarded from Sister Sarah's
eyes by the modest folds of a flannel petticoat,
was an autograph book, in which the names of
great living writers were inscribed. In some
cases she had even got whole letters from them.
One day she brought this to Mary Marvon's
room and opened it with as much impressiveness
as though it had been the original MS. of
Hamlet.'

'If anything were to happen to this, my
dear,' she said with solemnity — ' fire, thieves,
or the moth — I really think it would kill me.'

It was really an interesting book, and contained
communications not only from persons
of literary eminence, but from some who, Mary
had heard, were very unwilling, in general, to
gratify curiosity such as Bliss Julia's.

And are these all really genuine ? ' inquired
Mary, involuntarily, for it had crossed her mind
that, like ]vir. Toots, Miss Julia might possibly
have passed her leisure time — of which she had
plenty — in composing letters to herself from
conspicuous people, and imitating their handwritings.


I thought you would be astonished,' returned
her companion, triumphantly, and not
in the least disturbed by what might certainly
have seemed a somewhat injurious suggestion.
Genuine? yes, every one of them.'
And all addressed to you ? '
Lor bless me ! no, not one of them.'
She turned to the other end of the book,
where there was a fine collection of envelopes
with different directions : ' Miss Graves, The
Grange, Land's End ; ' ' Mr. Winlass, shipmaster,

Newcastle,' &c., &c. 'These are the
people — that is, their addresses — to whom they
were written.'

But how on earth did you get possession
of them?'

Ha, ha ! yes, yes ! '

The cunning and exultation exhibited on
Miss Julia's ordinarily stolid countenance were
amazing to witness, and also a little alarming.
It seemed just possible to poor Mary that her
companion's mania might not be only for autographs,
but might have a wider range.

How did I get 'em ? That 's my secret, my
dear Miss Marvon. If you '11 show me that
funny desk of yours ' — and she pointed to the
type writer — ' then I '11 tell you how I got these
letters.'

The mixture of earnestness and simplicity
in her manner was remarkable. Her desire for
barter reminded one of that early example of
trading in our nursery annals, ' If you will give
me a bite of your apple I will show you my
chaplain.'

It is not a desk, it is a printing machine,'
said Mary, smiling, ' and I will show it you
(provided you promise not to speak of it to
others), without fee, emolument, or reward.'

Then she unlocked it, and, sitting down at
the keyboard, dashed off pretty rapidly this
specimen of typography : ' How did you maneag '
(meaning 'manage') ' to got those autographs?'

Why, it 's printed ! ' exclaimed Miss Julia,
in an ecstasy. ' Dear heart, if I could only
get my poems done that way I '

The passionate sincerity of the aspiration
was almost too much for Mary's gravity. At
first she imagined that Miss Jura wished that
her poetical effusions could be turned out mechanically,
and thereby save her spiritual nature
from the wear and tear of conception — prevent
the sword from wearing out the scabbard. The
next words of her companion fortunately undeceived
her, and prevented her from committing
herself to what might have proved an
unpardonable error.

You see my great difficulty, dear Miss

Marvon, has hitherto been the getting into
print. Nobody does justice to their own productions
when reading them aloud. " The
chariot wheels," as the poet tells us, "jar and
grate when we attempt to drive them forth'"

'That is not quite the correct quotation,'
said Mary, gently ; ' the line I think runs thus :
The chariot wheels jar in the gate through
which we drive them forth." '

Just so. What a memory you have ! I
thought it was "jar and grate"; the idea is
much the same, but it is better to have it quite
correct. Well, I don't like to spoil my poems
by reading them aloud, while my handwriting
at least, so say the few people to whom I
have ever shown my manuscripts — is very difficult
to read. Now, if it could be printed off
like this, there would be no excuse for them.'

There was a moment of hesitation with
Mary. She was disinclined to increase the sum
of human misery by making Miss Julia's poems
legible to her friends ; on the other hand, Miss
Julia's yearning look was almost irresistible.

I have no objection to lend you my
machine, and in time you will learn to print
for yourself said Mary.

/ learn ? Never I ' exclaimed ]\Iiss Julia,
confidently. ' I have never learnt anything in
my life. What I can do — such as poetry, and,
indeed, that 's the only thing I can do — comes
by nature. Oh, if I could but just see two or
three hues of my very o^^m in print I ' She
clasped her hands ecstatically, and cast her eyes
to the ceilings, as though she would have added
had she dared, ' I could then die happy.'

Well, I have my own work to do. which
takes up a great deal of time, but if it 's
only two or three lines,' said Mary, good-naturedly


Only two lines, just two, a couplet,' interrupted
Miss Julia, eagerly. ' I thought of
them last night just after I got into bed, and
kept repeating them to myself for fear I should
forget them, till Sarah called out snappishly,
*' Don't mutter," and drove them out of my
head. It was just like what happened to poor

Coleridge when the tax-gatherer called, you
know, and spoilt his dream of Bubbled
Khan.'

Kubla Khan, was it not ? ' suggested Mary.

Very likely. What a memory you have !

Could I revive within me
That sympathetic song, etc.

Thank goodness, I can revive it. It all came
again to me this morning. I had a dream of
the sea. A tremendous storm was lashing it,
as I have seen it do at Margate, when it wetted
Sarah and me quite through on the jetty. "The
league-long boilers," as Tennyson calls them,
were breaking on the beach.'

'sellers," I think, is Tennyson's word,'
smiled Mary.

Perhaps — what a memory you have ! But
they do boil as well as roll, so that don't matter.
Then there came a calm, and the contrast was
most impressive. I wrote more than fifty Hues
about it.'

'But the couplet,' said Mary, with her
fingers on the key board.

Just SO : I can't expect more than that,
else it seems a pity to mutilate the poem. Yes,
I think these lines are as good as any. " The
giant waves " — have you got that ?

And the giant graves, in their infant play ;

I think the anti-what-do-you-call-it, " giant
and infant," you know, rather striking.'

Is all that in the couplet ? '

Xo, no, I merely wished to point out the
anti '

The antithesis.'

Just so — what a memory ! It 's the very
last couplet of aU, and gives a sort of dying
farewell to the watery scene.

And the giant waves, in their infant play,
Flash like the flowerets of yesterday.'

Miss Julia was as obviously waiting for
commendation as a dog sitting on his hind legs
is begging for a bone. But Mary could not
give it : the most she could hope to do in the
way of favourable criticism was to restrain her
mirth.

It looks very well in print, does it not ? '
inquired the poetess. ' I had no idea it was so
good when I wrote it out.'

I am so glad you like it,' said Mary.

Like it ! I never was so delighted in my
life. The " giant waves " — one seems to see
them rolling in, or perhaps going out. Yes,
they are going out. I really don't see anything
to laugh at, Miss Marvon,' she added,
with severity. ' There is surely nothing ludicrous
in a picture of nature in repose after a
fit of scornful passion.'

It is not that, Miss Julia,' murmured
Mary, with the tears running down her cheeks.
'Pray forgive me — I was afraid I had spelt
flowerets with two ts.'

She had really no apprehension of that
nature ; but if ever a tarradiddle was excusable,
this slight departure from the main line
of truth must surely be held to be so, since it
avoided what must otherwise have been a most
disastrous collision.

I was also thinking,' added Mary, ' that

you are very cleverly getting out of telling me
how you got those autographs.'

Oh no, I have not forgotten my promise,'
answered ^iiss Julia, at once forgetting: her
mortification in this evidence of her companion's
interest in her affairs, one thought
expelling another in the narrow smoother of
her mind, like pellets in a popgun.

Xow, here 's ]\Iiss Graves, Land's End, for
instance. Well, you wouldn't think it, but
that 's me.'

But how can you be Miss Graves ? '

I assume the character : no one is hurt
by it, because there is no such person: she is
the offspring of my imagination. I select the
Land's End for her residence as being an out-of-the-way
place, and the least likely for anyone
to visit, and I write in her name to some
great philosopher or poet, thus : —

'• Dear Sir,^-I take up my pen at the
instance of a grey-haired and widowed mother,
who finds in your immortal works the best
solace for the troubles of a lifetime ; she has

heard that yon are about to honour the neighbourhood
by your presence

But, my dear Miss Juha.'

Just so, you are going to say that that was
not true, but I am not so sure about that.
Granting my premisses — starting, that is, upon
the supposition that I have a widowed and
grey-haired mother, how can you lay it down
that she has not heard that the philosopher in
question is not coming into her neighbourhood?
The whole affair is in the regions of
the imagination. Well, she writes (that is, /
write) : " If you are coming, it is my dearest
mother's most earnest wish that you should
make our little house your home during your
visit." I add something about fresh eggs and
the mild air of the Atlantic, to give the thing a
local colouring, and the trap is laid. In nine
cases out of ten it catches them.'

What ! do you write to more than one ? '
Certainly, I send the hospitable invitation
to half a dozen, like a circular. Some of them
are rude, or perhaps suspect something, and

they don't reply ; but others do. Here is one.
Upon this earth-planet of ours, hospitality
(dearest to those under another's roof-tree) is
perennial, an eternal verity," &c. &c. You
know who that was.'

But how audacious ! ' exclaimed Mary,
aghast at the other's complacent satisfaction
at her success. ' Suppose he had come ? '

My dear Bliss Marvon, he couldn't. There
was nowhere for him to come to except the
post office. Replies were forwarded to my
address at Bath. Perhaps my prettiest touch
was the epistle from the shipmaster at Newcastle,
Mr. Winlass. It was addressed to two
great men to whom I had written perhaps
fifty times before without obtaining a syllable
of reply. One of them, whom I had likened in
one of my previous communications to a golden
eagle, had sent me word through some secretary
or another that if he was an eagle he was an old
one, and not to be caught with chaff; he didn't
even sign the letter. But Mr. Winlass of Newcastle
caught them both "with this bait : —

" Dear Sir, — I know little of books in a
general way ; I have had no time for studying
them, my whole life having been passed upon
the stormy deep, where for months I have had
no volume in my hand save yours. My voyages
were successful, and in time I became a shipmaster,
with a certain share in each venture.
Unhappily, in my old age misfortunes have
crowded upon me. My last farthing is embarked
in a vessel about to be launched upon the
Clyde. If I could obtain permission from you
to call it by your name it would give me heart
and hope. May I ? " Well, one wrote back a
little curtly (but still he signed it), " Yes, you
may." The other — but you can read it for
yourself

Mary turned to the page indicated by her
companion. It was quite a long communication,
and from a well-known bard.

Dear Sir, — You are very welcome to what
you ask of me. I hope that the good ship ' —
here followed his own name — ' may have a
more prosperous voyage than its godfather can

boast of having met with on the sea of life.
What you say of my works is very gratifying.
But you use the word volume : my poems are
in forty volumes. The edition I always recommend
is that with my portrait, edited by
Cutter. Get it. If it is your intention to
furnish the vessel with a figure-head, my statue
by Carver, Ea., or the little bust by Chisels
(of Florence) in this year's exhibition, will supply
all that can be supplied by marble. I shall
look into the shipping intelligence for the next
few days with interest.'

I think that very neat and characteristic,'
observed Bliss Julia, complacently, as she restored
her precious book to its casket, the
flannel petticoat. 'They say he has not sent
any one his autograph for twenty years. —
That 's Sarah's knock at the door, I know, so I
must say good-bye.'

VOL. II.

CHAPTEE Xxii.

ONE FROM THE SHOULDER.

As time went on, Mary, whose fingers were as
apt as her observation was keen, became an
adept at her new calling. She performed surprising
feats with her type-writer. For one
thing, she challenged Miss Julia to a trial of
speed ; the latter with pen and ink to copy a
paragraph of a newspaper against her, wherein
print beat writing as easily as paper beats
papyrus. Miss Julia toiled after in vain, with
this manifest disadvantage added, that, whereas
what was printed at this high pressure was
clear and without mistake, her manuscript was
illegible. Mr. Jennie complimented Mary on
her work the next day in a letter which inclosed
the reward of her labours, and sent

her a fresh batch of pleadings — grist for the
mil.

To Miss Jiiha, who had almost perforce
been made her confidante, Mary Marvon's
contentment with these small mercies seemed
marvellous enough ; but the truth is, the discovery
that we are able tc support ourselves,
no matter how humbly, independent of outside
assistance, is to the independent spit a most
solid grain of satisfaction. If we cannot do
that (supposing there is need for us to do it),
we are at the mercy of fortune indeed, and
all the philosophy in the world can no more
comfort us under the deficiency than supply it.
It was fortunate that Mary had this consolation,
for she felt her isolated condition — to which
she could scarcely make up her mind whether
Miss Jura was a relief or not — more than ever.
She never now beheld the face of a friend.
Charley could not trust himself to come, or
thought his visits might be misconstrued, or
that Mary would resent his calling again so
soon. Mr. Jennie confined himself to epistle

2

lady communication, and Mrs. Sotheran did not
even write. There was good reason enough for
this, but Mary did not know it : she had the
charity (born of bitterness) to imagine that
her last letter had angered her old friend, and
produced a breach between them. Truly; has
it been written that the destruction of the poor
is their poverty ; since when we thus feel forsaken
and out of heart our behaviour unwittingly
tends to estrange us from the hand of friendship.


Still, in its pleasureless mechanical way, the
wheel of life was turning smoothly enough for
Mary, when there suddenly came a ' kink ' in it.
It was a small thing, but when we are in a
small way, small things that go against us are
catastrophes. In looking through one of her
pleadings, which she was wont to do before
starting with her machine, it struck Mary that
she had copied it before. The sense of the
matter was of course too wrapped up in repetitions
and technicalities to be intelligible to
her, but the names of the parties to the suit

Were the same, and she felt convinced it was
the same suit. Mr. Jennie had told her that
only one copy of the pleadings would be required.
It was natural therefore to conclude
that there was some mistake. But was there a
mistake ? was the question that disturbed poor
Mary, and brought the hot blood into her
cheeks. Her suspicions would not, perhaps,
have been aroused but for Charley's well-meant
but transparent device for supplying her
with bogus material ; but it now struck her
that Mr. Jennie might have no more work for
her at present — she had done a great deal for
him in a very short time — but was sending her
these pleadings, or some of them, out of mere
charity, to keep her employed. It is one of
the many disadvantages of a sensitive nature
combined with a keen intelligence that it rarely
experiences the bliss of ignorance ; it cannot
take good fortune for granted, but must needs
be inquisitive and solicitous as to whence it
comes. It has a tendency to jump at once to
the most unpleasant conclusions. Yes; Mr.

Jennie, out of a mistaken kindness, was treating
her as a child — nay, worse, was offering her a
dole under pretence of wages !

One feels how insignificant such a mere
detail must appear to many who read it — fine
ladies who loll in their arm-chairs and ' take
up a book ' during some bad quarter of an
hour, ere the carriage comes to take them to
the Park, or the opera. How unreasonable,
too, it must needs seem to others who receive
Fortune's favours without a scruple as to the
deserving of them ! But to poof Mary it
brought the heartache. Her little dream of
independence — no gorgeous vision at the best —
vanished at once, and gave place to that terrible
desire to know the worst which seizes on those
who are but too often the least qualified to
bear that knowledge. To write to Mr. Jennie
on such a subject was, however, most painful
to her. She resolved to go out at once and
make inquiries as to the supply of materials for
her calling, whither a true love of independence
(as she bitterly reflected) should have led herat

first, namely, to the open market. Lie
would apply to some law stationer for the
employment she required, and put herself, if
possible, out of the reach of such unwelcome
favours for the future.

It was getting late, tea had already been
served in the common parlour ; but such shops
she thought would still be open, and she felt
that she could never sleep with such an uncertainty
on her mind. Placing a specimen of
her work in her pocket, she rapidly put on her
bonnet and mantle and descended the stairs,
and, meeting no one on her way, let herself ow
at the front door. In her haste she had forgotten
her veil, but the omission did not trouble
her ; there are some girls in such sad positions
that they even forget that they have pretty
faces, and also so innocent that they are unaware
of the peril to which they expose
them.

Since she had been at the boarding-house
she had only been twice out of doors before,
each time in company with Mrs. Tidman and

at her especial invitation. As a rule, it is only
the hight-hearted that seek the sunshine and
fresh air — those who are out of heart, unlike
the warrior of old, prefer rather to ' hear the
mouse squeak than the lark sing.' Not that
there were larks of any kind to be found in the
neighbourhood of Tidman's, even had Mary had
a fancy for them. The streets for miles round
were of the same pattern — dull, decorous, depressing,
with here and there a waste piece of
ground which should have been garden. It
was only suburban in its inconvenience — its
distance from any genuine articles of food ; for
any hint of the country it might have been in
Cheapside. The calm of the summer evening
made itself felt, however, even there. Mary
felt its refreshing influence as she walked on.
Her goal was but a couple of streets away,
a shop she had noticed with ' Bernard, law
stationer,' over the door, and she soon reached
it. The proprietor, after the toils of the day,
was enjoying a short pipe in the doorway without
his coat. He was a little man, with eyes

and hair like a ferret, but without its keenness
of expression ; he had a dazed and subjugated
look, as of a ferret who had been kept in a bag
much too long. The appearance and attire of
his visitor, which in more civilised regions
would have passed unobserved, or have been
pronounced faultless, seemed to impress him
very much. As he stepped round behind his
counter to attend to her wants, he cast a wistful
glance towards the back shop, as though he
would have liked to call some one to come and
have a look at her, but was at a loss for a
pretext.

I want some copying to do, if you please,'
said Mary, coming straight to the point. ' This
is a specimen of my work in that way.'

Dear me ! Ahem ! ' said the man, the cup
of whose amazement seemed to have run over
at this request. ' Matilda ! '

The glass door at the back of the shop here
opened, and a woman, tall for her sex, but, as
compared with her husband, a giantess, came forward
with a child in her arms.

The young lady wants some copying todo,'
observed the Uttle man, deferentially.

What sort of copying ? ' inquired the tall
woman, regarding the applicant with great
severity and even suspicion.

Pleadings,' explained Mary ; ' that is what
they are called, I believe,' she added modestly.
She addressed herself naturally to the male as
the person likely to be best informed upon the
matter, but it was the lady who replied to her.
Pleadings ? Certainly not. We have nothing
of that kind here.'

The woman's manner was so disagreeable
that Mary shrank from her. She was not afraid
of her in the least, but perceiving that her intention,
however inexplicable, was to be offensive,
she ignored her.

Perhaps,' she continued, still addressing
herself to the shopkeeper, ' you could recommend
me '

She ought to have said ' refer ' me, but to
her annoyance and agitation she used the first
word that occurred to her — ' to some other
stationer.'

No,' said the tall woman, with greater
severity than ever ; ' we never give recommendations
to parties when parties are unknown
to us.'

Mary turned on her heel and left the shop.
It was her first experience of the relations between
employers and employed from the latter's
standpoint, and it did not impress her with the
dignity of labour. Why should this dreadful
woman have spoken to her in that insolent
manner, while her husband, on the other hand,
would not speak to her at all ? Was it possible
that there was anvthincr unusual or disgraceful
in applying for work as she had done ? Full
of humiliating thoughts, she was walking
rapidly home when she heard hurrying footsteps
behind her. It was the little shopkeeper,
still in his shirt-sleeves, but with a sip of paper
in his hand instead of his pipe.

The best establishment is that,' he gasped,
pressing the paper into her hand. ' It will be
open for the next two hours. Don't you mind
my Matilda : she 's an excellent creature, only

she will believe that every young woman who
enters the shop is coming after me'

Before Mary could reply he had vanished,
the thought that his Matilda might be on his
track no doubt lending him wings. His behaviour
was ridiculous enough ; but it was
clear to Mary that he had exposed himself to
no slight peril for her sake ; for who, to such
a man, is a more formidable source of fear than
such a wife ?

The paper in her hand bore the address of
a stationer in the Strand. The distance was
considerable, and it was nearly seven o'clock.
Prudence would have advised her going home ;
she had certainly had enough and to spare of
adventure for that night. But poor Mary was
not quite herself ; her doubts about those pleadings
were importunate, and even her late rude
experience tended to upset her usual sober
judgment, and put her in an excited and abnormal
state. She feared that a certain sinking
of her heart, which had already begun to oppress
her, would overwhelm her utterly if she

went home and let it have way. As she hesitated,
she was hailed by a passing omnibus
bound for the Strand, and she got into it.
There were few passengers, but to her fancy
they took more notice of her than was pleasant.
She had not been accustomed to that mode of
conveyance, or to the class who use it, and did
not understand that folks can lean upon their
sticks, or suck the handles of their umbrellas,
and stare at you like mesmerism, without in
reality being aware of your existence. The
journey with its delays seemed interminable,
and long before she reached its termination,
Charing Cross, she regretted having undertaken
it. Having got so far, however, it seemed folly
to return without accomplishing her object.
She walked hastily down the Strand, fuller at
that hour, perhaps, than at any other, till she
came to the street she was in search of. It was
unknown to her, and she stopped for an instant
to read its name, when a voice murmured close
to her ear, ' Can I help you in any way ? '
A gentleman of middle age, wearing a light

overcoat above his evening dress, had addressed
her. There vas nothing offensive in his looks
or manner, yet the girl shrank from him involuntarily.
There seemed to be something of
mock civility in his tone.

No, sir, I thank you,' she answered curtly,
and hurried up the street. To her great mortification,
on reaching the shop which had been
indicated to her, she found it closed. It was
really no great matter, but to her mind's eye
at present, as happens to those new to trouble,
each disappointment was magnified into a misfortune.
With a sigh and a weary air she was
about to retrace her steps when they were once
more arrested by the same person.

I am sure you are in some difficulty,' he
said : ' pray let me help you.'

Her heart beat fast, and even on that
crowded pavement she felt a sense of fear.
Although she had no experience of such
matters, nor had even read of them, she was
conscious that she was being subjected to insult.
Her cheeks burnt as with a living flame as she

brushed by him (for he had placed himself m
her way) and walked on as quickly as sh
could without reply. It is the fashion among
the smugly prosperous to affirm that if young
ladies meet with annoyance when they walk
abroad they have in some devisee, at all events,
themselves to thank for it. In this matter,
Smug Prosperity — always on wheels, and above
the reach of such annoyance — may sometimes
err through ignorance, but more often is a
wilful liar. Xot content with their own immunity
from such peril, it is the habit ^vith
many of the class significantly described as
carriage people ' to deny its existence as
regards their poorer sisters, or when they hear
of its occurrence even to scornfully lift their
eyebrows ; but as a matter of fact poverty has
no more cruel sting than the necessity it
imposes upon youth and beauty to walk in
London unprotected.

The path of the poor Is set with snares ;
What are joys to the rich to them are cares ;

and the very loveliness which fills the mother's

heart with pride in the one case, fills it with
fear in the other.

As Mary Marvon turned into the Strand
again she had to cross the box entrance of a
theatre, where for a moment or two she was
delayed by the usual crowd : a gentleman on
the pavement was offering his arm to a lady
magnificently dressed who was getting out of
her carriage. It was Mrs. Beckett, escorted by
Mr. Ealph Dornay. For an instant Mary Alas
in doubt whether she should not address her
and claim her protection. That such a thought
should have entered into her mind showed how
great was her alarm and perturbation ; something
told her that hateful man was still
pursuing her.

Like one that on a lonesome road

Doth walk in fear and dread,
And haying once turned round, walks on,

And turns no more his head,

she was somehow aware of his presence ; her
pride, however, sustained her ; she suffered
Mrs. Beckett and her companion to pass in
without recognition, and hurried on. She was

again delayed, though for a shorter time, at
the pit entrance, and as she stood there the
same cold insolent voice whispered in her ear :
I am sure we are not strangers ; I am certain
I have seen that pretty face before.' Her
limbs trembled beneath her with indignation
and fear, but she answered him nothing ; then
suddenly, with passionate eagerness, she exclaimed,
' Charley ! Charley ! '

Charles Sotheran was passing into the
theatre within a yard of her. He turned
round quickly, and she seized his arm : ' Some
man is annoying me,' she whispered. Charley's
eyes flashed round upon the crowd behind
her. ' Pray make no disturbance,' she pleaded,
but see me into a cab.'

He led her without a word into the next
street — a quiet one for that neighbourhood —
where there was a cabstand.

As he opened the door for her, she noticed
in spite of her agitation how deadly pale he
was. In his heart he had already committed
a murder upon ' some person unknown.' He

VOL. II. K

was about to give her address to the cabman
when the man in the Hight overcoat lounged
up. His object — as, unfortunately for him,
Charley guessed — was to hear where Mary was
going. It was an audacious thing to do, but it
is a popular error which asserts that scoundrels
are always cowards. This one, at all events,
was not, though of course he did not know
that Charley belonged to an athletic club,
where he was champion of the light-weights.
The latter had now no doubt about his enemy,
for he read the recognition of him in Mary's
frightened face. He knew that for her sake
there must be no disturbance, no explanation,
no row of any kind ; and he took his precautions
accordingly. He gave an address
about three miles from her real one, and close
at hand.

I will give you a sovereign,' said Charley
to the cabman with great distinctness, ' if you
will drive to Tottenham Court Road, and get
us there within five minutes.'

Then he turned. It did not take more

than a second — and in the next the cab was
rattling them up the street at the rate of ten
miles an hour — but in that second he did his
work with great completeness. It was really a
splendid combination of accuracy and despatch.

A dissolving view of a light overcoat on
the pavement with a man inside it without a
hat was all that Mary saw of it.

Oh, Charley, what have you done ? ' she
cried, not in any positive reprobation, it must
be confessed, but with a certain alarm and
horror at having been even the virtuous Helen
of so dire a combat. ' I really believe you
knocked the man down.'

I have an impression to that effect myself,'
said Charley, without moving a muscle.

But don't you think you may have hurt
him ? '

Certainly not. A man of that kind is
used, I should imagine, to be knocked down.'

Oh, Charley ! how can I thank you
enough ? ' said Mary, not in allusion of course
to that particular service, of which she could
k2

hardly be supposed to approve, but to his
having come to her assistance in so sharp a
strait.

There is nothing to thank me for,' he
answered simply. ' The obligation is on the
other side. I enjoyed the thing very much,
but I should like to have had a quarter of an
hour with that gentleman all alone. I am sincerely
obliged to you, however, for the opportunity
so far as it went. But how on earth came
you in the way of such annoyance, Mary?'

Then she told him, not without an involuntary
tear or two, the adventures of the evening.
He looked very grave and grim.

You think I am a foolish girl, quite unfit
to take care of myself, or to fight the battle of
life,' observed she, pitifully. ' But you see I
am so new to it.'

Their positions had suddenly been reversed
by this shock of experience : Telemachus had
become Mentor.

You must promise me,' he said, ' that
what has happened will be a lesson to you, and

that you will never go out on any such expedition
alone again.'

I will — I do,' she replied, with a shudder
of reminiscence.

When they came to the Tottenham Court
Road, Charley stopped the vehicle. * We will
get out here; he said, ' and take another cab.'

He thought it prudent, in case the gentleman
in the light coat had been dropped too
heavily, that the cabman should not be able to
trace them. That personage pocketed his sovereign
with almost as much admiration as
satisfaction. ' I never saw a man hit out from
the shoulder more neatly,' he observed at
parting ; a compliment which was accepted in
the spirit in which it was given.

As they neared their destination Charley
again stopped the cab. ' I will leave you now,
Mary, but you must let me come and look
after you occasionally.'

Of course she could not refuse him — her
heart was too full of gratitude to him for that ;
not only for what he had done, but for what

he had omitted to do. It had been very
thoughtful of him — it was no vanity on her
part to add ' and very unselfish ' — that he had
declined to see her home where his companionship
must needs have aroused curiosity, if not
comment ; and she felt too despondent, nay,
too crushed and humiliated, to bear up in her
old defiant manner against the shafts even of
petty malice.

CHAPTEE XXV.

THE WAGES OF TOIL.

What Mary Marvon had undergone in her
first ' struggle for existence ' was ' a lesson ' to
her in a far wider sense than that in which
Charley had used the word. She had not been
so simple as to imagine that skill and diligence
are necessarily passports to success, even of the
humblest kind ; but she now learnt, ' by harsh
evidence,' that there are obstacles to a woman's
earning her own livelihood which may well
dishearten the bravest. It is not good, we are
told, for man to live alone ; but it is not only
not good, but exceedingly difficult, for woman
to do so. If Mary had had a sister, or even a
friend of her own sex, matters would not have
gone so hard with her. If her mind had not

been so monopolised by lier own troubles, and
she could have given it, as of old, to abstract
questions, she would have understood now why
the young and friendless of her own sex so
often make such sad mistakes (as she used
charitably to call them) as to matrimony. — it
is necessity and not choice which compels
them ; they take the first hand that offers
protection and support, because they cannot
procure them for themselves.

Mary Marvon, however, was the last person
to sit down with folded hands and bemoan her
fate, while anything remained to be done in the
way of remedy. After all, as she said to herself
the next morning, when, if not joy, at
least renewed hope comes to most of us, she
was no worse off, as regarded the possibilities
of maintenance, than she had been yesterday,
though she had had some unpleasant experiences
in her first effort to procure it. She
resolved once more to call at the law stationer's
near the Strand ; only even in broad
daylight — so seriously had her nerves been

discomposed — she felt unequal to do so alone.
She was therefore compelled to seek the companionship
of Miss Julia, and. so far as the object
of her visit was concerned, to take that lady
into her confidence. She consented at once ;
nor did the confession of Mary's necessities
seem in the least degree to prejudice her
against her new friend. On the contrary, she
expressed a very lively sympathy and compassion
; misquoted with tears various couplets illustrative
of her situation, and secretly made up her
mind to compose a poem on the subject herself
(to be called the ' The Orphan Toiler ') which
should throw all her previous productions into
the shade. The unwonted excitement of this
affair indeed, and her temporary freedom
from Sister Sarah, raised Miss Julia's poetical
feelings to a higher pitch than ever ; she
more than once broke out into quotations in
the omnibus, which, being delivered as usual
with appropriate tone and gesture, made a
considerable sensation among the passengers,
and even caused the conductor to make a communication

through his hollowed hand to the
driver over their heads, to the effect that there
was ' a party inside who snowed how to patter
like Tommy Tompkins,' — some rival improves
as it would seem, in omnibus circles.
Even when they got out at Charing Cross,
Miss Julia was far from desisting from her
cuckoo notes, and, the season being midsummer,
was naturally reminded of Rogers's
description of spring in town.

I need scarcely recall to one endowed with
your marvellous powers of memory, my dear
Miss Marvon, that exquisite line suggested to
my recollection by this neighbourhood —

When April verdure blooms in Golden Square.'

Under other circumstances the notion of
Golden Square as a bower, and the ' furred
beauty ' coming to winter there, would have
amused Mary very much, but what the
neighbourhood suggested to her recollection
was of a much more personal and painful kind.
She almost expected to see blood on the pavement

before the stationer's door, and a knot of
people earnestly discussing the details of the
catastrophe of the previous evening. Nothing,
however, could be more commonplace and
everyday than the surroundings of the establishment:
Mary walked in, and made her application
to the shopkeeper, while Miss Juha, with
a delicacy that did her honour, waited outside.

You have a type-writing machine of your
own, I suppose, miss ? ' he replied, regarding a
specimen of her handiwork through his spectacles
with some curiosity. ' Well, that will
take the bread out of the mouth of a good
many people in time, no doubt ; but it 's a
precious dear article, as I understand, and it
must take a person a longish time to work at
it before he sees his money back.'

I don't mind work,' said Mary, modestly,
and I find I can do more and more " copy "
every day with less and less exertion.'

Um — ah, yes, it 's fairly done enough, and
beats our people's handiwork out and out,'
confessed the shopkeeper. ' You shall have

your share of the next batch of pleadings
we have sent in. You have references, of
course ? '

Mary uttered a cheerful assent ; she felt
so grateful to this man for doing what it was
his interest to do.

'We can only pay you, of course, at the
usual rate,' he added, with a glance at her neat
dress ; ' ours is not a line that requires fancy
work, or affords fancy prices. But you are nota
novice, and know what to expect, no doubt.'

I suppose it will be the same,' said Mary,
hesitatingly, ' as Mr. — that is, as the lawyer
who employs me, has hitherto paid me —
sixpence a folio ? '

Sixpence — sixpence a folio ! ' exclaimed
the man in amazement. 'You must have
chanced upon a very rich lawyer, and, what is
almost as rare, a lawyer who does not mind
spending his money. Why, that 's twopence a
folio more than he gets from his own clients.'

Are you sure of that — quite sure ? ' inquired
Mary. ' It is very sad news to me.'

The old shopkeeper seemed touched by her
dejected look and despondent tone.

Well, of course I 'm sure, young lady,
since I 've been in the trade this quarter of a
century. What the lawyers pay us is but
threepence ; and then he gets a penny profit.
If we gave threepence, therefore, what would
there be for us to live upon? Xo, no, it is
clear to me you 've got a friend in court, and I
recommend you to stick to him.'

But if what you say is true,' sighed Mary
from a heavy heart, ' one half of what I am
paid is mere charity.'

Tut — tut,' returned the other, good-naturedly,
' let him pay it. It 's like enough
you 're an orphan. Just so ; well, do you
suppose he hasn't had his whack out of
orphans ^ If he has a freak to put down
something in his ledger to their credit, don't
balk him. Avoid the open market where the
stock is low, and stick to your preference share
while it lasts. That 's my advice.'

The notion that Air. Jennie had selected

her as an exceptional orphan to be nourished
(at 6d. the folio) instead of being ruined in the
usual way by law expenses, though to a certain
degree gratifying to her amour propre, was
by no means satisfactory to poor Mary. At the
most, if the old stationer was to be believed,
she could hope to go only a very little way
towards restoring the average ; but, truth to
say, the idea of putting her employer at ease
with his conscience was very little consolation
to her. Upon the whole, though she gave
him credit for good intentions, she was very
far from pleased with Mr. Jennie's conduct,
the reason of which was only too plain to her.
He had evidently treated her from the very
first as a mere child, to be humoured and not
thwarted; and, feeling sure that she would
soon come to her senses and apply to her
friends for the assistance which pique or temper
disinclined her to ask for, he had for the present,
under the pretence of helping her to help
herself, paid her a fancy price for her services.
She no longer doubted that he had even given

her work to do twice over merely to keep
her employed — a cruel kindness indeed. Yet
was the operation of having her eyes opened
less cruel? It was now certain that threepence
a folio was as much as she could expect
for her work even if she got it at first-hand
(and how, except in mr. Eenuie's case, could
she get it at first-hands), a very scanty wage
indeed, which brought down her expectations
for the future fifty per cent. Xor was it to be
hoped for that increased skilfulness, or diligence,
could much improve her prospects.
The possession of the type-writer, as the
stationer had informed her, placed her in the
front rank of her humble calling ; and it was
anything but a consolation to her to learn that,
poorly as she might be remunerated, the bread
she did get would be ' taken out of the mouths '
of others.

Mary left her name and address with the
shopkeeper, for, however low the wages of toil
might be, they were preferable to those of
charity, and he willingly enough undertook to

send her work. She was still resolutely, almost
doggedly, resolved to gain her own living, but
the elasticity of mind with which she had commenced
the attempt was gone. There is no
doubt a very genuine nobility about independence
; but it is Nature's nobility, not Debrett's,
and the process of gaining it is often not only
rough and difficult but humiliating ; in the
more humble walks of life it is no more to
be attained without this drawback than the
glorious arts of Healing, or of Tendance, are
to be practised without the terrors of the dissecting
room, or the horrors of the hospital
ward.

The one item of congratulation for poor
Mary in the whole affair was that Miss Julia
was not a witness to her disappointment. He
must be a friend indeed in whose presence we
can endure mortification without feeling it an
aggravation of our woes.

Nor, when Mary rejoined her, did her
companion, though she noticed her depression,
importune her with questions. Garrulous by

nature, Miss Julia was accustomed to put a
bridle on her tongue in the awful presence of
Sister Sarah ; and she had sense enough to
perceive that Mary was in no mood for talk,
and respectfully abstained from it. She was
careful to run no risk of offending the only
friend she had ever made, and for whom she
entertained an attachment as sincere and subservient
as that of a dog for its master.

With the exception of a verse or two culled
from the poets, and cast upon some inappropriate
topic, like a garland on a hat-peg. Miss
Julia indeed maintained an almost unbroken
silence until they reached home, when something
at Mr. Tidman's door compelled fi'om her
an ejaculation of admiration.

Oh, Miss Marvon, did you ever r — a
carriage and pair with a coachman in a white
wig. It must be sirs. Tidman's uncle's equipage
come to take her for a drive in the park."

Very likely,' said Mary, with indifference.
Until lately such spectacles had not been portents
to her, and as to Mrs. Tidman, it was

VOL. II. L

only too probable, under the changed conditions
of the ' copy ' market, that she would
now have to seek a home with some less aristocratic
landlady.

Lor, Jane, who is it ? ' inquired Miss Julia,
eagerly, of the maid who admitted them.

It 's a lady to see you miss,' returned the
girl, addressing herself with respectful awe to
Mary : 'the name I can't remember if it was
ever so, but she 's been here an hour or more.'

They 've found you at last, Miss Mar von,'
exclaimed Miss Julia, dramatically. ' Something
always told me that you were not what
you seemed. You are the long-lost child of
somebody or another, you may depend upon it.'

Ridiculous as it was, poor Mary felt her
colour rise at this malaprop observation.

There must certainly be some mistake,'
she murmured.

No, miss, I heard the lady ask for you
with my own ears,' gasped the impressionable
Jane. ' The footman asked me first, but I felt
all of a muddle like ; the horses were going

champ, champ," as though they were eating
through their bits, and throwing the foam about
like milk out of a churn, and I do believe as
I answered " butter " or something, when the
lady beckoned me to the carriage window and
spoke to me with her own lips. I don't know
what she was like except that she was grey
and upright, but I am sure she was a real lady.
because she was covered \vith lace and spoke
so gentle. " Does Miss Marvon live here ? "
she says. " Yes, my lady," says I, " leastways,
she 's gone into the town with Miss Julia
Bhthers this morning." '

There was no need to mention me, Jane,'
interpolated Miss Julia, modestly. ' People of
quality like to be answered " yes " or " no." '

Well, I think this lady was different, for
she asked whether you were a friend of bliss
Marvon, and when I said " yes " she looked
pleased. Then when I said I didn't know
when you might be back, she said that was no
matter, for she would come in and wait. And
there she has been in the drawing-room ever

L 2

since, all alone, except that everybody in the
house, I do believe, has had a look at her
through the keyhole.'

Of all this, Mary caught only the general
sense that some strange lady whose business
was urgent had called upon her. Her face
was very pale and set. The conviction had
flashed upon her that this was one of her
father's relations — the very one, perhaps, that
had hitherto supplied the funds for her maintenance,
and who, having been informed of her
position by Mrs. Sotheran, had now visited her
for the first time to propose some arrangement
for her future. For such an offer, it might
well be thought, no hour could be more propitious
than the present, in which Mary had
just discovered for herself how rough is the
road of life to those who have to travel by it
without journey money, or friends to cheer
their way ; but though she had discovered this,
she had not experienced it. There is an
immense difference between expediency and
necessity ; and though the former affects

common natures, it is only under the stern
compulsion of the latter — if at all — that the
finer sort can be induced to swallow their
pride, which to their eyes wears only the
modest hues of self-respect. Never did Mary
feel less disposed for conciliation and submission
than when she entered the presence
of this unknown visitor, the knowledge of
whose wealth and station filled her with a sort
of antagonism, if not resentment, which to any
other creature beneath that roof would have
not only been unintelligible but seemed sheer
midsummer madness.

CHAPTEE Xxii.

A NEW POSITION.

A TALL, venerable looking woman, with a
grave and noble air, but with a certain trembling
in her limbs that betokened either weakness
or emotion, rose as Mary entered, and
came forward with outstretched hands to greet
her. The gentleness in her face, heightened
rather than detracted from by the dignity of
her mien, was indescribable.

'You know who I am, I suppose, my
dear.? ' she said kindly.

'No, madam, I do not.'

It was a brusque reply, but it was not
brusquely uttered. While feeling indignant
that it should be taken for granted that she
was aware of the identity of her unwelcome

patroness, the sweetness of the other's manner,
her age, her gentle looks, forbade any show of
resentment.

Her visitor answered nothing, but produced
her card-case, and perhaps from failing sight
turned from Mary to the bow window, where
with the slowness of old age she proceeded to
select a card. Then Mary noticed how in that
delicate face were written the autographs of
care or sorrow, and how time had dealt lightly
with her and fortune showered her gifts on her
in vain because of them.

The very cause of this, as she well understood,
might be a reason for her holding herself
aloof from her visitor : the woe that this
woman had suffered might be the loss of the
very son who had ruined Mary's mother in
name and fame, but she could not refuse hera
woman's pity.

That is my name,' said the old lady after
a long pause, and she put the card in Mary's
hand. 'Mrs. Beryl Peyton.'

Mrs. Peyton ! ' cried Mary, with an ejaculation

partly of relief at finding all her suspicions
groundless, and partly of genuine pleasure.
' I have often heard of you from Mrs.
Sotheran.'

And that is how T heard of you, my dear,'
was the quiet reply.

Oh yes, I recollect now,' said Mary, with
a faint flush. ' You are acquainted with Mrs.
Beckett, and she spoke of me to you — at least,
so Charley said.'

'Yes, she spoke of you to me,' said the
old lady, in an indifferent tone, that contrasted
strangely with a certain intent and lingering
look with which it was accompanied, ' and did
so in the highest terms.'

I ought to say, I suppose, that I am
obliged to her,' said Mary, coldly : ' at all
events it was generous of her, as we did not
part very good friends.'

Indeed ! Well, she did not go into that,
but I gathered from her that you had left her a
little unexpectedly — and it has struck me that
you might not have since succeeded in obtaining

a situation quite to your mind, but be still
in search of one.'

Mary bowe 1 assent. It was impossible for
her to anticipate in speech any offer from her
companion, who on her part showed no sign of
relieving her from her embarrassment ; indeed,
she looked not only at a loss for words, but
even for breath ; her expression was earnest
but perplexed, and though her lips moved it
was some moments before any sound broke
from them. Even then her voice was very
faint and low, and came in snatches, while from
time to time she pressed her hand against her
side with a distressful motion which reminded
Mary of some picture she had seen wherein a
woman was staunching with a handkerchief her
own heart's blood.

If that is so,' she went on, ' and you think
you could put up with the caprices of an old
woman. Miss Marvon, it has occurred to me
that you might come to me at Letcombe Dot-tell.
You will be near your old friend, Mrs.
Sotheran, you know,' she added hastily, almost

eagerly, * and we should do our best to make
you happy.'

But really, Mrs. Peyton, I scarcely understand,'
stammered Mary. ' Do you wish me to
occupy the same position as I did with Mrs.
Beckett ? '

Just so ; something of that kind. Only,
if there was anything distasteful, it can be
remedied. There is not much going on at
Letcombe Dottrell outside the Hall, but we
have our own society. I think I can honestly
promise you a comfortable home.'

The last two words appeared in Mr. Tinman's
prospectus, and were used to attract those
persons to whom the size and splendour of the
establishment (which were dwelt upon in
another place) might fail to allure to it ; but
common as was the phrase, it lost its conventional
sense as spoken by Mrs. Peyton ; her
voice was so gentle, her manner so earnest,
that it was clear when she said 'home' she
meant it.

Mary's heart was almost too full for speech.

The misery of her present position, which
would have caused her to spurn with a sort of
fierce despair any overt-es of assistance from
the quarter from which she had apprehended
it, made this proposal seem like a helping hand
reached down from heaven. The harsh experience
and disappointments of the last few days
had put her more out of heart and hope, as
respected her future, than she had acknowledged
to herself; and the eagerness with
which she had snatched at this prospect of
emancipation from her troubles brought home
to her for the first time how deeply she had
sunk in the slough of despondency, and how
hopeless she had been of extrication. She
would have welcomed gladly almost any
method of gaining her own livelihood that promised
peace and security ; but what had been
offered her was better than the best she could
have hoped for. At Letcombe Dottrell she
would be neighbour to one who, however she
might have erred in judgment, had ever proved
herself to be a loyal and loving friend ; and

just now any one who had showed her kindness
in old times, and was associated with her
late bitter experience, was doubly dear to her.
Of Mr, Beryl Peyton she had heard much, and
upon the whole what she had heard was greatly
to his advantage : his very eccentricities seemed
always ' to lean to virtue's side,' and become
exaggerated types of benevolence. While,
what was of much more importance to her, his
wife, her future employer, appeared to be the
very quintessence of gentleness and refinement.
If Mary had had any ' knowledge of the
world ' — a phrase which usually not only implies
an acquaintance with natures of the baser
sort, but a familiarity with them that fails to
breed contempt — she would have concealed her
joy, and affected to weigh her visitor's proposal
in the scales of advantage. If even she had
been of a reasonably practical turn of mind,
she would have made inquiry as to conditions,
prospects, salary. But being, for all her cleverness
and good sense, very simple, and unaccustomed
to express herself otherwise than

naturally, and being very thankful for what
had happened, when Mrs. Peyton mentioned
that word ' home ' so earnestly, poor Mary
fairly burst into tears.

This was foolish of her, and, as it would
seem, unfortunate, for it affected her visitor in
the most distressing way.

Oh dear, oh dear,' she cried, in a strange
frightened tone, ' this will never do ; ' then rose
and fled, as if to a sanctuary, to the bow
window, from which, with her back to Mary,
she held forth upon the necessity of the control
of the feelings. The advice was excellent, but
what slightly detracted from it was the occasional
break downs, uncalled-for pauses, on the
speaker's own part, during which it was evident
that she was ' giving way ' herself.

I am quite surprised at this conduct, my
dear — you can't help it, of course, but you
should try to help it ; because it 's a foolish
weakness, quite unworthy of you, or of any
person of sense ' (pause and sob). ' You must
have had a very bad time of it here, I fear, to

be so moved by such a commonplace offer ; a
hard and lonely lot' — (pause, and prolonged
weeping). ' Pray understand that I only came
here to make you a business proposal. It gives
me great pleasure to find that it meets your
views, my dear, but there's nothing, nothing'
(sob) ' to cry about on either side — it 's merely
a matter of mutual convenience.'

I see that, I know that, at least so far as
you are concerned, Mrs. Peyton,' said Mary,
recovering herself. ' I have no right whatever,
and it is, I feel, not only weak, but very impertinent
of me to — to '

Not impertinent — oh no, very natural, my
dear,' put in the old lady.

Yes, that must be my excuse,' said Mary,
eagerly, and brushing away the last tear ; ' it
was only natural that such unlooked-for kindness
in a stranger '

Mrs. Peyton, still standing with her back to
her, shook her head.

Perhaps I should have said " such kindness
in one who is personally a stranger " — yes,

it moved me, madam, more than was meet, I
know, but of late I have not been accustomed
to kindness.'

Poor child, poor child ! Pray don't ' —
here she held up her gloved hand for silence
' don't say another word. You must promise
me never to give way again — never, never — at
Letcombe Dottrell. Do you quite understand
that? We must be cheerful, and quiet, and
happy ! You very much distress me (without
your meaning it at all, I 'm sure) when you shed
tears.'

I am quite right now, Mrs. Peyton,' said
Mary, smiling. ' You needn't be afraid to look
at me.'

Afraid ! Why should I be afraid ? — And
now, when can you come ? '

She was once more standing face to face
with Mary ; her features pale as ashes, but not
more pale than usual, and all trace of emotion
swept away.

Whenever you please,' answered Mary.

Very good, Mr. Jennie will arrange about

that. I forgot to say that he is a friend of
mine, or rather of my husband's as well as of
yours. It was he who first mentioned you to
Mr. Peyton. You will clearly understand that,
if you please.'

Mary had not understood this, nor did she
see the necessity of so unimportant a point
being insisted on, but of course she nodded
adhesion.

'As to terms and duties,' continued Mrs.
Peyton, ' perhaps we had also better leave that
to Mr. Jennie ; that will make him responsible
for the whole affair, as it were. Mr. Peyton
prefers everything of a domestic kind to be
managed through his lawyer ; it will therefore
be more advisable, perhaps, not to speak to him
of my present visit. Not, of course, that we
have anything to conceal from my husband,
but he is very peculiar.'

Mary once more bowed her head ; nothing
that her visitor could have told her of Mr. Beryl
Peyton would have impressed lier more than
what sh "sad already heard from others. ' Peculiarity

' was, she knew, a very faint term indeed
by which to express his eccentricities.'

Still she hardly liked the notion of keeping
Mrs. Beryl Peyton's visit a secret from her
husband and her own future employer.

Mr. Jennie will arrange everything,' continued
her visitor, perceiving perhaps a trace of
discomfort in the young girl's face. ' You may
dismiss all doubt and trouble about this matter
from your mind. You will hear from me — no,
not from me,' she added, correcting herself
with a certain anxious earnestness — ' from him,
tomorrow or next day. Until then, or rather
till I see you, good-bye, my dear, good-bye.'

As she spoke she drew towards Mary with
a quickness of movement which could hardly
have been expected in one of her advanced
age, and, what was much more surprising still,
stooped down and kissed her. The next moment
she had left the room (scattering a little
crowd of curious watchers and waiters in the
little hall, who scuttled away at the noise of
her approach like rabbits into their burrows),

VOL. II. M

and opening the front door with her own hands
marched to her carriage, at which the footman
with a nut in his mouth (for he had been
whiHng away the hours with cracking and eating
those unkindly fruits of the earth) had
drawn himself up only just in time into that
attitude of senseless stiffness miscalled ' attention.'


CHAPTEE XXVII.

'WHY DID SHE CRY?'

Poor Mary, fluttered, astounded, kissed, knew
not what to make of it all. What had happened
to her within the previous eight-and-forty hours
had been strange and eventful enough, but
the occurrences of this last hour were Httle
short of miraculous. Nay, to her they actually
did seem a positive intervention of Providence
in her savoir". It is easy to smile at her ; but
there was faith and, what is sometimes better,
gratitude in it. There is a great question
nowadays about the power of prayer, about
which this only can be set down for certain,
that those who have proved its power will not
easily be convinced of its impotence ; but what
had occurred to Mary was not certainly owing

M 2

to any intercession, for she had used none.
For the time so utterly had she been disheartened
that it had almost seemed that no
power, human or Divine, could help her. But
now those noble Ones came into her mind concerning
Him who is ' more ready to hear than
we to pray, and is wont to give more than we
desire,' or have ventured to desire. She was
very, very thankful.

I knew a man once in very serious straits
who used not to pray but to dream, though in
his waking thoughts, of a certain enormous
benefit befalling him ; a particular benefit, yet
coming from no particular quarter, and no more
to be reasonably expected than the discovery
of a diamond mine in his back garden ; and
suddenly, as if from the clouds, that very stroke
of good fortune did actually fall upon his
favoured head. From that moment till the day
of his death, which was years afterwards, I don't
think he forgot it for a single hour, and it
shaped henceforth not only his life's course (for
that was of necessity), but I do verily believe

every movement of his miDcl. It remained in
his memory like a beacon on a lofty down,
seen from all points of it — and pointing
upwards.

What had chanced to Mary Marvon was by
comparison a cow-scratched, or let me rather
say (for there was reverence in it) some small
upright stone such as marks to some mother's
eye the resting-place of lier little child, by none
other remembered ; but she never forgot it.
She was fated to have experiences, good and bad,
of a far graver kind. But this one, whether
from its opportuneness or its unexpectedness
or possibly from the chain of events that followed,
and of which it was the first link, was
engraved on her heart for ever. The whole
scene — the scantily furnished room, the stately
stranger, her words, her looks, and especially
that seemingly impulsive, inexplicable kiss —
recurred to her a thousand times. For the
present, when her wonder had a Httle subsided,
what struck her most was the small place in
her memory which (even by hearsay) her visitor

had previously occupied. Of Mr. Beryl Peyton
she had heard much and from many persons,
but of his wife, though surely a remarkable
personage, she had heard nothing, not even
from Mrs. Sotheran, though she was, as Mrs.
Peyton had said, her near neighbour and lived
in the same village. Of the whole affair Mary
was naturally inclined to say as little as possible,
but what made her doubly reticent was
the injunction her visitor had put on her. ' It
will be advisable,' she said, ' not to speak to my
husband of my visit to you.' Though this did
not of course imply that she was to evade inquiry
by an untruth, it suggested an unpleasant
caution. And in speaking of the affairs of Mrs.
Beryl Peyton, of whom every one knew something,
it was clearly needful to use an exceptional
prudence.

In this matter, however, she reckoned not
only without her host, but without her hostess,
her fellow-guests, and indeed every creature in
the establishment. The nut-cracking footman
had been subjected to such an examination in

chief during Mary's late interview with his
mistress that he could scarcely have concealed
from them, had the curiosity of his inquisitors
taken that direction, the amount of his weekly
perquisites, or the state of the barometer of his
affections ^or the under-housemaid ; and he had
given up the name of his employer at the first
summons.

Well, my dear Miss Marvon, you have had
a visitor,' was Mrs. Tidman's observation as she
tripped into the drawing-room on the tiptoe of
expectation, and quite forgetful of the languor
that becomes a baronet's own niece and the
near connection of a member of Parliament.

I do congratulate you,' simpered Mrs.
Tiffin. ' That is my notion of real carriage
people — the coachman with a wig and the
footman with such beautiful silk stockings that
they seemed hardly silk stockings at all.'

So you have been amongst us all this time,
Miss Marvon,' said Miss Blithers the elder in a
complaining tone, ' and never told us that you
were acquainted with the Beryl Peyton.'

Concealment and finesse were thus rendered
unnecessary. Mary had only to tell the simple
truth that she had been offered an engagement
by Mrs. Peyton similar to that she had filled
in Park Lane. Upon the whole, though disappointing
as to dramatic effect, this news was
rather a relief to her hearers. Folks, however
fond of sensation, are not generally gratified by
the elevation of their friends to rank or station,
and the imagination of Miss Julia had pictured
to these ladies that Miss Marvon had been discovered
to be something ' in her own right '
and the heiress of tens of thousands per
annum.

Even when Mary had assured her to the
contrary, she shook her head and smiled incredulously.


I am never mistaken, my dear Miss
Marvon, in a presentiment,' she said. ' Matters
may seem to you as you describe, but, believe
me, you are on the threshold of great things.'

The interpretation of which dark saying
was that Miss Julia had selected Mary's supposed

good fortune for the subject of a poem,
and had already composed several couplets,
which only wanted what she somewhat prosaically
termed ' setting to rights ' ; and if her
lines were not of that class of which it has been
said that the world will not willingly let them
die, she herself was very disinclined to let them
perish immaturely, like tender twins, on account
of a mere misapprehension.

Great as was her satisfaction at having found
employment and the means of maintenance,
Mary's contentment was still more complete on
this account, that she was in no degree indebted
for her good fortune to her father's relatives.
They had made no efforts to assist her, and she
thanked them for it ; and she could now write
to Mrs. Sotheran to inform her of what had
happened, and of the pleasure it gave her to
think of becoming her near neighbour, in all
honesty and without reserve. It was, perhaps,
for the first time that she now perceived how
considerable had been that invisible barrier
which Mrs. Sotheran's communication respecting

her parentage had erected between that lady
and herself. Having found the means of
gaining her own livelihood, half the sense of
humiliation attaching to her birth was at once
removed, and she felt that she could resume
relations with her old friend on something like
the old footing.

What still troubled her somewhat, but not
so much — for when a great weight is removed
from us what is left seems by comparison no
burden at all — was the means by which Mrs.
Peyton had been induced to visit her. Mary
did not believe that it was in consequence, or
at all events solely in consequence, of Mrs.
Beckett's recommendation ; her pride no doubt
disinclined her to believe it, but surely, if it
had been so, Mrs. Peyton would have made
more than incidental allusion to that lady, and
she had spoken of her very little. Charley
Sotheran, though he might be credited with all
the will in the world to serve her, could hardly
have done so in this case. It was true that no
disparity of position, such as might naturally

have appeared to exist between himself and the
mistress of Letcombe Hall, would have deterred
the audacious Charley from applying to Mrs.
Peyton, or for that matter to her Majesty the
Queen, on Mary's behalf; but, while absolutely
free from any taint of snobbism, the young man
had a fine sense of true propriety, and a due respect
for what was worthy of reverence, and Mary
rightly judged that he would have shining from
making any such request as the one in question,
or even from dropping a hint of it, to a lady of
Mrs. Peyton's years. There remained, then,
Mr. Jennie, whose goodwill towards her had
already been manifested in so unmistakable a
manner, and whose intimate relations with Mrs.
Peyton might easily have afforded an opportunity
for putting in a good word in her
behalf. She had been inclined to be angry
with him on account of his well-meant duplicity
in the matter of the pleadings, and had even
contemplated addressing him with some little
resentment on that subject ; but her anger,
even then mitigated by gratitude, was now

utterly swept away, and she resolved to await
that visit from him which Mrs. Peyton had told
her to expect.

Nor had she to wait long ; on the very
next morning Mr. Jennie called upon her and
was ushered into that hall of audience with
which we are acquainted. Its nakedness did
not strike him as it had struck Charley ; perhaps
he had held professional interviews in
worse places, or perhaps he had matters on his
mind which prevented his paying attention to
mere surroundings. To judge by a certain dry,
wise smile on his face, he used on rare occasions
for private wear, and which never betrayed
itself to the clients who evoked it, he
had come on a pleasant errand.

How well you look. Miss Marvon,' he
observed, as that young lady presented herself
with beaming face ; ' the air of the suburbs
seems to agree with you even better than Park
Lane.'

Perhaps it 's the exercise,' returned Mary,
cheerfully.

The exercise, ay ; walking instead of
driving

No ; I mean the typewriter. Thanks to
you, my fingers have been kept well employed.'

Oh, that ; well, that was but a temporary
measure. Of course it could never have been
taken up as a serious occupation ; but the way
you " buckled to " at it, as I told Mrs. Peyton,
was something amazing. We had the same
difficulty in keeping you employed as with that
insatiable ogre in the fairy story. What did
they give him, ropes of sand to weave ? '

Mary curtseyed to the ground. ' Thank
you, su.'

Oh dear ! ' exclaimed Mr. Jennie in great
confusion, ' I had quite forgotten. It was not
an ogre, was it ? Tt was the '

Well, never mind,' interrupted Mary,
smiling. ' I know you meant it for a compliment
to my diligence ; indeed, the legend has
always seemed to me a sort of allegory — a
great employer of labour showing in his own
proper person how easy it is to work.'

Just SO ; and you seem to have found it
very easy. My people could hardly find work
enough for you, they told me.'

That is why they sent the same work
twice over, I suppose.'

Did they indeed ? ' returned Mr. Jennie,
coolly. ' Now I call that very clever of them,
very clever. I shall compliment ]vir. Jones
about that.'

I must say it was treating me rather like a
child, Mr. Jennie.'

But what a sagacious child you were to
find it out ! I should have thought one set of
pleadings would have seemed just like another
to you.'

Perhaps you thought I was also deceived
about the payment — my wages.'

Good heavens ! haven't you been paid ? '
exclaimed the lawyer, with well-feigned horror.
I '11 dismiss Mr. Jones tomorrow.'

Mr. Jennie, you are still trying to impose
upon me,' said Mary, half amused, half angry.

'A lawyer,' he exclaimed, lifting his eyes to

the ceiling (the whole scene, old and rusty ashe
was, was charming to him), ' a respectable
family lawyer charged by his own client with
deceit ! '

You know as well as I do, sir,' she continued
severely, ' that you paid me just twice as
much for my work as you ought to have done.'

'And even so we are not able to retain
your services,' pleaded the lawyer, changing
his ground. ' Here 's ingratitude ! here 's want
of proper feeling between employed and employer
! There are no feudal attachments in
these days. You know, of course,' he added ina
graver tone, ' that Mrs Peyton has sent me
here to treat with you for a new engagement ? '

I know some one who, whatever mistakes
he may have made, has always shown himself
a most kind friend to me,' said Mary, significantly,
' has been interesting himself on my
behalf with Mrs. Peyton.'

A look of blank astonishment came into
the lawyer's face. If it was acting it was the
very perfection of art, and, instead of being on

the roll of solicitors, Mr. Jennie ought to have
been on the boards.

'My dear young lady, you are labouring
under an entire misapprehension,' he answered.
I assure you that I never breathed your name
to Mrs. Peyton till she herself mentioned it. I
did not know that her own lady-companion

had left her, and even if I had ' He

hesitated.

'You would have been unwilling to part
with so cheap an employee as myself,' put in
Mary, incredulously.

Well, no ; I was about to say that the
Beryl Peyton s are the very last people with
whom I am acquainted in whose domestic
affairs I should have ventured to interfere.'

Then it is a most extraordinary and inexplicable
thing to me,' said Mary, her eyes
fixed upon the ground-glass window as if
the explanation of the mystery were written
on it.

The lawyer meanwhile regarded her with
half-shut eyes, but with great intentness; the

interest in her fair young face was not without
a reflection in his own.

• I took it for granted,' he said, ' that sirs.
Peyton had explained everything personally to
you.'

On the contrary, she distinctly gave me to
understand that I was to learn everything" from
you.'

Just so — as to the emoluments and the
duties. The former, supposing that arrangement
is agreeable to you, are to be the same
as you received from Mrs. Beckett ; and the
latter, well, you are expected to read to her a
little, and play to her — you do play, I know —
on the piano now and then ; and — well, I really
don't think there was anything else.'

It seems a very easy way of getting one's
livelihood,' smiled Mary, who was contrasting
it with another calling and its difficulties in her
own mind ; ' and what the housemaids call an
easy place.'

Xo doubt ; but you must have gathered
that much from 'Mrs. Peyton herself.'

VOL. II. >'

From her manner, yes ; she seemed the
kindest of employers. Her behaviour, indeed,
was gentle and considerate in a very remarkable
degree.'

It was not Mr. Jennie's custom to speak
when his object was to obtain information from
another, and he remained silent now ; his
grave and quiet smile, however, encouraged
his companion (as perhaps it was meant to do)
to go a little further into matters.

It seems ungracious and even ungrateful,
dear Mr. Jennie, to hint at such a thing, but
since we are talking, as I suppose, quite confidentially,
may I venture to ask if Mrs. Peyton
is not considered a little eccentric ? '

No, no,' he answered, with the air of a
man who is thinking of something besides what
he is talking about, ' not at all. Her husband,
many will tell you, is as mad as a March hare ;
but she, though she has had trials enough to
drive her mad, poor woman, is bane enough.'

I did not mean that,' said Mary, with a
quick flush. 'I am very sorry to have led you

to believe so even for an instant. But I
thought her manner a Httle strange ; it was
trouble, no doubt — of which of course I knew
nothing — that has so softened her heart to
others.'

Ah, she gave you that impression, did
she?'

Main nodded. The recollection of Mrs.
Peyton's kindness, and of that kiss at parting,
combined with what she had just heard,'
affected her very much. She was resolved todo
what in her lay to comfort and console this
gentle lady.

Cried a bit, perhaps ? ' suggested the
lawyer with a quick look.

I think so ; I am afraid so ; though she
strove to hide it. I suppose the remembrance
of her sorrow often recurs to her.'

Xo doubt. She lost her only child, and
the sight of any young person, like yourself,
for instance, is a reminder of it.'

But it was her son ? '

Yes ; and not a chicken either ; very
N 2

much older than you, for instance. Still,
women — I beg your pardon, mothers — are so
queer ; the least association of ideas is sufficient
to set them off.'

Poor woman ! poor woman ! ' sighed
Mary.

Yes ; that was it, " and nothing more," as
the poet says ; and, now I think of it, it must
have been upon Mrs. Beckett's recommendation
that she came here.'

She did mention Mrs. Beckett's name,'
said Mary, ' but not quite in that way.'

Of course not, and for this reason : she
lead heard of you from Mrs. Beckett, and heard
nothing but good ; but on seeing you she took
a fancy to you for your own sake. I don't say
it was not natural ; quite the reverse. Did it
not seem so, now, to yourself ? '

Perhaps it did,' said Mary, thoughtfully.
That was, no doubt,' she added with a forced
smile, ' why I thought her eccentric'

On the contrary, it was a proof of her
sound judgment. To me all 's as clear as daylight.

And, now that the preliminaries are
settled — for I suppose they are settled — can
you tear yourself away from Tidman's and
start to-sorrow for Letcombe Dottrell ? '

I could start to-day,' said Mary, confidently.
She was not one of those women who travel
with arks for luggage, filled not with pairs but
With two dozens of everything, and whose
movements are dominated by the punctuality
of a laundress.

Very good. The Peyton will go from the
Waterloo Station by the 10.10, and you will
meet them on the platform. One word more,
my dear young lady, which is quite between
ourselves. You '11 find a very queer collection
of human curiosities at Letcombe Hall ; to my
mind, all rubbish. Keep yourself to yourself,
and touch them only with your finger-tips.'

And with a kind smile and a hearty squeeze
of the hand the lawyer took his leave.

With his explanation of her relations with
Mrs. Peyton, Mary was on the whole satisfied ;
but Mr. Jennie himself left the house with his

chin in his hand, a sure sign of mental disturbance.
' The girl was right,' he mused.
How clever they are, these wouien, even the
youngest of them — up to a certain point ! It
was not Mrs. Beckett's eulogies that induced
Mrs. Peyton to seek out our young friend
yonder. There was something personal — personal,'
he repeated, striking the ferrule of his
umbrella upon the ground ; ' and yet what
could it have been ? I never saw the old lady
take a hne of her own before. ''• There is no
necessity," she said to the girl, " to trouble my
dear husband about it." A wife always says
dear husband " when she is about to deceive
him. That Mrs. Peyton, however, of all wives
in the world, should venture on such an experiment
amazes me. I wish she had not done me
the honour of taking me into her confidence —
though, indeed, she took me but a very little
way. Beryl Peyton is a dangerous man to
hoodwink, albeit he puts the blinkers over
his own eyes so often. What can be at the
bottom of it, I wonder ? I am quite sure, for

all their sakes, that 1 did right in quieting
Miss Mary's suspicions ; but I wish I could
quiet my own. The old lady cried, did she ?
It was a bright thought of mine to take that
for granted ; nine women out of ten can do it
at will, and the tenth can't help it ; but Mrs.
Beryl Peyton is one in a thousand. Why did
she cry?'

CHAPTER XXVIII.

THE JOURNEY DOWN.

There are few things so characteristic of youth
as its yearning for the country.

The wave of the meadow grass,

The shadows thin and cool
That fall and flicker and pass

Athwart the face of the pool,

seem to be a panacea to them for all woes.
For the mature, ' the wild joys of living,' especially
that of ' leaping from rock up to rock,'
are not so attractive. For my part, I confess I
have arrived at that period of life when, after
two or three days of Arcadia, the place begins
to pall. A wet day in the country, without
whist or with only the whist of the aborigines,
turns my thoughts in the direction of self-destruction.
But I can remember, alas ! when

it was not always so ; when the country
freshened me up instead of casting me down,
and the very thought of changing the murky
atmosphere of town for ' the cool sweet mountainous
downs ' (the Lake District was then my
passion) set my veins in almost as great a fer
rent as the sight of the fair object of my
affections.

As Mary Marvon lay awake that night,
thinking of the strange things that had
happened to her within the last twenty-four
hours, and of the new life that she was about
to enter upon, the reflection that it woidd be
passed in the country occupied the foreground
and gladdened her to the core. Until she went
to Park Lane she had never been in London ;
and her residence there, though short, had been
full of bitter experiences. In leaving town she
flattered herself she would leave her troubles
behind her, and that in country scenes she
would recover the peace and contentment she
had formerly enjoyed, and once more be her
old self. Mr. Jennie, indeed, had hinted at

the collection of human curiosities ' at 
Hall, and she had understood from
Charley and others that it was Mr. Beryl
Peyton's whim to fill his house with celebrities
of a somewhat miscellaneous kind ; but surely
they would have little to do with her ; she
would take long walks in the morning before
these eminent personages were astir, and her
duties and her own occupations would make
her wholly independent of them for the rest of
the day.

It is fortunate, perhaps, that while arts and
accomplishments increase and multiply with us
in all directions, the gift of prophecy is still
rare, and that especially the pictures we draw
of our own future are generally as little like it
as the putty-faced babe resembles the parent of
whom it is said, by those who wish to flatter
him but have a strange way of doing it, that it
is 'his perfect image.' The parting with her
fellow-lodgers at Tidman's did not, it must be
confessed, much distress Mary. The handshake
of Mr. Tidman himself perhaps affected

her most, for she knew it to be genuine. He
told her in confidence, but with an honest
candour that eliminated from the confession
anything too tender or clandestine, that she was
worth the whole lot ' of guests whom she left
behind her.

sirs. Tidman besought her to let her know
by letter whether things at Letcombe Hall were
carried on in the same way as she had many
times described them to be at the Manor,
Slopton, in the time of her uncle. Sir Anthony.

Miss Blithers the elder, who believed in
sortilegy, presented her with a tract — drawn at
random from a whole sheaf of them — against
gluttony.

The grass widow and the 
West India heiress each made a clean
pocket-handkerchief damp with their tears.
Miss Julia Alas too much affected to witness
her young friend's departure, but bade her an
impassioned farewell in her own bedroom, and
pressed into her hand a parting gift of priceless
value, the last leaf of her autograph book, containing

the envelopes addressed to her by eminent
personages under her various aliases.

You,' she said, struggling with her sobs,
' you, my dear, dear friend, will know how
to appreciate it.'

The whole household, except Miss Julia,
accompanied the departing guest to the doorstep,
on which they stood waving their handkerchiefs,
and so picturesquely grouped that Mr.
Tidman, struck with the splendid opportunity
of advertising his establishment, besought them
to retain their positions till a photographer
could be summoned. No sooner had Mary
Marvon arrived at the station — which, being a
very sensible young woman, she did some time
before the appointed hour — than one of the
most gentlemanlike persons imaginable, with
the mien of a bishop and the smile of a
diplomatist, addressed her by name.

I have orders, miss,' he observed, perceiving
that his sagacity had not deceived him as to
her identity, ' to relieve you of all care of your
luggage.'

That so superior a being should stoop to so
menial a task struck her as so incongruous that
it vas quite a relief to her mind to find this
done by deputy. An immense footman, with
a shoulder-knot like a drawing-room beU-pul
in hysterics, at once pointed out her little
possessions to the porter, and then ushered
her into a saloon carriage with ' Retained '
upon it.

The platform was presently pervaded by
the Beryl Peyton liveries : the horses belonging
to that philanthropic millionaire were
being coaxed into boxes and his carriages
fastened on trucks. Common curious people
flattened their noses against Maiy's carriage
windows to gaze upon the supposed possessor
of so much property and privileges.

It may be an ignoble aspiration, but in this
manner should I myself always like to travel —
at some one else's expense and as ' companion
to a lady.'

Within two minutes of the-starting of the
train, and when Mary, flushed and uncomfortable,

had almost made up her mind to own
herself an impostor and purchase a third-class
ticket, there arrived on the scene of bustle and
confusion the chief personages of the drama,
collected, cool, and indifferent, yet with the air
of the whole terminus, bookstall (though thatwsis
of course W. H. Smith & Co's), travelling postoffice,
and locomotive, belonging to them.
Mary thought she had never seen so remarkable
a looking man as upright, grey-bearded
Beryl Peyton in her life ; with his impassive
face and commanding air, which had nevertheless
a certain gentleness about it, he seemed to
her a sort of Eedgauntlct.

Who is this in the carriage, madam ? ' she
heard him whisper to his wife.

Then Mrs. Beryl Peyton, putting up her
gold eyeglasses and nodding graciously to
Mary, observed, ' I think, my dear, it must
be Miss Marvon, the young lady of whom I
spoke to you as having been engaged in Miss
Gwynne's place.'

The old man bowed in an old-fashioned

style, but stared a little hard, which made
Mary exquisitely uncomfortable and rather
frightened. His wife whispered something
in his ear.

Oh, indeed,' he said aloud, as if starting
from a reverie, ' an orphan ! ' then, holding
out his hand, observed in gracious tones that
he was glad to see her, and hoped she would
find Letcombe Dottrell to her liking.

There was quite a library of books and a
great pile of newspapers upon the table, from
which Mary was invited to take her choice.
She selected one of the latter at hazard, glad
to hide herself behind its ample columns, but
little inclined to read.

Mr. Beryl Peyton had also a newspaper,
and his wife a book ; and ever' now and then
Mary could not resist stealing a glance now atone,
then at the other of them : U was not only
that her fate was in their hands, but that they
themselves interested her immensely.

More than once she noticed that Mrs.
Peyton was regarding her husband with a lookin

which apprehension and affection were
strangely blended, and once she caught her
eyes turned upon herself with the same wistful
expression that she had observed in them on
the occasion of that lady's visit to her.

Presently Mr. Peyton filled a meerschaum
pipe of curious workmanship and retired into a
compartment communicating with the saloon to
smoke, and his wife and Mary were left alone
together.

'You found something, I think, in your
paper just now that interested you, my dear?'
said Mrs. Peyton, gently.

Mary was very pleased to be addressed thus
familiarly by her new employer, but the information
that she had been so closely watched
a little alarmed her.

It was a paragraph about Mrs. Beckett,'
she answered ; ' it seems that she is going to
marry Mr. Ealph Dornay.'

Dear me ! that will be a very unequal
match, will it not ? She must be twenty years
his senior.'

You are thinking of Mr. Edgar Dornay,
madam, Mr. Ralph's nephew.'

To be sure. I had forgotten he had an
uncle. My husband knows something of Mr.
Edgar — was concerned with him in some
scheme, I think, for improving the domestic
taste of the lower classes. It struck me that
your late landlord, Mr. Tidman, might have
benefited from the good advice of some such
society; the drawing-room paper was salmon
and blue.'

Perhaps Mr. Tidman would have defended
it upon the ground of appropriateness, since
salmon is accustomed to that tint,' said Mary,
smiling, not at her own little joke, but at the
idea of Mr. Tidman (in his shirt sleeves) listening
to a lecture on the ornamentation of his
drawing-room (on which he especially prided
himself) from the emissary of an aesthetic
club.

'You don't think much of ornament, I
fancy,' said the old lady, graciously, and with a
grave smile.

VOL. II.

'Nay, I like what is pretty, and I don't
like salmon and blue,' answered Mary ; ' but I
do think too much stress is laid on such things,
while matters of much higher moment, and
involving much higher consideration, are
neglected.'

Ay, my dear, " the ornament of a meek
and quiet spirit," ' murmured the old lady,
softly ; ' that is the best style of decoration,
is it not ? '

I think, at all events, the good taste of the
heart is more important than that of the eye,'
continued Mary ; ' and it is in the former, as it
strikes me, that the upper classes are themselves
wanting. They are often hard and
selfish, fickle and false.'

Mary was thinking of certain matters within
her own experience, but also with some reference
to the treatment of her own mother by
her father and his relatives, and her tone
had a bitterness of which she herself was
unaware.

They have no necessity to work, you see,'

said Mrs. Peyton, gently ; ' and idleness, as we
know, is the root of all evil.'

There are excuses to be made for them,
no doubt ; but what I resent is the affectation
that they do not need excuse, and their assumption
that they are better as well as more
fortunate than other people. I have heard it
said, by one of themselves, that, taken man for
man and woman for woman, they are morally
equal to any other class, which is as much as
to say that flattery and prosperity and idleness
have done them no harm at all ; or rather
that, being angels to start with, they have done
them only so much of harm as equahses them
with ordinary mortals who have by necessity
escaped those evil influences.'

It is God only who can weigh us fairly,
my dear,' said the old lady, solemnly, 'and
make allowance for the circumstances in which
we are placed.

The slave and tyrant alike account must render,
The one of his sceptre, the other of his chain.

He alone can judge us according to our deserts.



'Still; said Mary, thoughtfully, 'I think
the world would be a better place to live in
if the people in it would try to estimate their
neighbours at their true value, according to
the amount of genuine metal in them without
regard to the guinea's stamp.'

Your opinions are rather alarming, my
dear,' said the old lady, laying her hand upon
the young girl's shoulder. ' I am too old
myself to be a convert to anything — an old-fashioned,
foolish person, whose vote is not
worth winning — but I foresee one thing : you
will win Mr. Beryl Peyton's heart.'

It was already inclined towards her, to
judge by his manner when he came back from
the smoking-room. He was not so great a
philosopher but that he felt well inclined
towards youth and good looks, while the fact
of Mary's being an orphan told in her favour
with him in two ways : it awoke his pity for
her unprotected condition, and it cleared the
way for him for the exercise of benevolence
(his favourite pleasure), the chief obstacle to

which, as he always maintained, was the
existence of obnoxious relatives. Philanthropy,
as he afcmed, could do nothing for A because
of her drunken father, for B because he had
a son addicted to forgery, while D herself was
the very pink of propriety, but had a sister
who so restored the average that association
^vith her would have compromised the bench
of bishops — reflections which, though founded
on fact, in truth arose with him not so much
from general observation of life as from his
personal experience of it, and sprang from the
recollection of a worthless son.

As they drew near their journey's end Mr.
Peyton pointed out to Mary certain objects
of local interest — the river which, miles away,
ran through the park, and Dottrell Knob, the
great ' barrow ' on the downs, that towered
behind it. Though he had travelled so long
and so far, his native place was very familiar
to him. and he spoke of it ^vith an interest she
had never seen displayed in respect to inanimate
objects and with a pathos she could not understand.

All that eye could reach, to the right
hand and to the left, so far as man, the trustee,
could be said to possess such things, was his
own ; so it had been with his father, and his
father's father before him, but so it never
would be again. In a little while, in a few
years at most, the reins would drop from his
hands, and woods and fields and farms would
own — no. Nature does not own a human
master — would submit, let us say, in contemptuous
silence to a change of hands.

Of course he did not know who would succeed
him. Relatives, ' thank Heaven,' as he
would cynically say, he had none, but he had
made certain arrangements for the disposal of
his property — possibly final ones, though, as he
had made half a dozen wills before, this was
by no means certain — but arrangements that
gave him no satisfaction, and which he was
well aware would be bitterly resented by all
but the favoured few.

Mary was genuinely interested in all he
said, though his air of proprietorship in the

landscape affected somewhat perilously now
and then her keen sense of humour, while, on
his part, the old gentleman was charmed with
her manner (novel to him as his was to her),
agreeable as it was, without flattery or conciliation,
independent without self-assertion, and,
row that her shyness had disappeared, natural
as the trill of the song bird. He confessed to
himself that his wife had done well indeed in
the selection of her new companion.

What pleased him most, as sirs. Peyton
had foretold, was Mary's opinions upon social
matters, which now and then peeped out, as
opinions always will do when they are not the
echoes of those of others, but convictions. That
aspiration of hers for estimate by desert was
also his own — it had been the aim of his life to
encourage promotion by merit ; but as yet it
had with him no personal association with
Mary's own case. This it was perhaps which
secretly attracted him to her most of all. Under
the roof to which they were tendency there was
a score of people, guests and friends, as they

called themselves, but who, as he well knew,
were his clients, whose aim and end it was to
please him for their own advantage. At present
it was hardly likely that this girl could have
any such object, and therefore in thus pleasing
him she gave a tenfold pleasure.

Mrs. Peyton said nothing, but her ears were
open, and the signs of contentment in her husband's
face, which she could read so well,
though to others they told nothing, filled her
heart with secret joy.

An open barouche with four horses and
postilions — a mode of progress Mr. Beryl
Peyton always used in the country — met them
at the station, and whirled them, always ascending,
through deep lanes and wood-fringed roads,
to Letcombe Dottrell.

That is Mrs. Sotheran's cottage,' said Mrs.
Peyton softly as they passed by the widow's
door. ' Mrs. Sotheran is an old friend of Miss
Marvon's,' she added in explanation to her
husband.

The old man nodded with an indifferent
air.

'A good matron who has had her trials
said he. ' Though they have passed by, they
seem to have left their weight behind them.
She always gives one the notion of the woman
who learnt the Freemasons' secret by accident
and could never get it off her mind. Here are
our lodge gates, Miss Marvon. What is it ? A
glass of water ? By all means.'

It is not for me, sir ; I think Mrs. Peyton
is a little overcome by the heat of the
weather.'

Indeed, though her husband had not
noticed it, the old lady, whether prostrated by
the fatigue of the journey or by some other
cause, had suddenly fainted away.

CHAPTER XXIX.

Coming HOME.

The scene was rather a singular one — the
barouche with its four smoking horses ; the
postilions, their dread of their master overcome
by curiosity, turning back on loose stirrup with
a hand on their saddle, to gaze on what was
going on in the carriage; one obsequious footman
(the other had already started for the
village doctor) with a huge brown jug of water,
as though his mistress was to be treated hydro-pathetically
or be subjected to baptism by immersion
; Mrs. Peyton herself fallen back in her
seat, her whole face with a pallor on it like
flake white on dead white ; Mary fanning her
with one hand, while she sheltered her with a
sunshade with the other; and Beryl Peyton,

grim and grey as Time with his hom glass,
holding the glass of water, ready to administer
it by aspersion or otherwise, as Mary might
direct. For the moment the yoimg girl, who
had that gift of tendance with which her
sex is so often endowed, was mistress of the
situation.

She is getting better ; she ^vill be herself
directly,' she said in answer to the old man's
look of inquiry. Then, forgetting their unfamiliar
relations in her anxiety for the patient,
she added, ' Has she ever been so before ? '

Yes,' answered Beryl Peyton, his brow
darkening as he spoke. ' Why do you ask ? '

She had asked because she felt that if Mrs.
Peyton were subject to such attacks this must
be a more serious matter than she had at first
imagined — a deduction she would have been
loth to express in any case. In the face of
her companion's evident displeasure she now
remained silent. Perhaps he perceived that he
had frightened her, for he continued in a still
grave but gentler tone —

She has been attacked like this three or
four times ; not, however, for many years.'

He might have added, had he chosen to do
so, that all these attacks had been evoked by
the same source — which, however, could hardly
be the case in this present instance — namely,
some apprehension, or ill news, with reference
to her son. The last occasion had been a
curious one. Her son had been long dead, and
that circumstance had been notified by her
husband to his friends by a curt funeral card —
a method he employed to avoid unpleasant
questioning, and at the same time to mark the
relations between him and the deceased. Of
this, though she knew her Harry was no more,
Mrs. Peyton was ignorant, the whole subject
being rigidly tabooed to her. One day, when
unwinding some silk belonging to Mary's predecessor,
her late companion, she suddenly came
(disclosed by its last strand) upon this very
notification.

In memory of Harry Peyton ; died (in New
York) aged 25.'

Until that moment she did not even know
where her only son had died, and the unexpectedness
of the information had been a shock
beyond her powers of endurance, already sorely
tried. Life itself for some time seemed to have
fled from her, and the doctors had warned Mr.
Beryl Peyton that for the future his wife must
avoid all excitement ' — a phrase they have for
intimating that life hangs on a hair. Under any
other circumstances Beryl Peyton would have
been all anxiety and tenderness. If his dog
had had a fit he woidd have been more touched
than many men by the illness of their child ;
how much more, then, might he have been
expected to feel at this sign of weakness in a
wife who, but for one flaw, was in his eyes
dearer than gold to a miser. Unhappily it vas
this very flaw to which this shock had flown ;
she had broken down — as was only natural —
where she was weakest. And even in that hour,
when Death had seemed to reach out his hand
to her, her husband could not forgive her. It
was not weakness, he said to himself, but

wickedness to be thus affected by the recollection
of a worthless reprobate.

But what he did not say even to himself,
but bitterly felt, was that it was also rank disloyalty.
This dead lad had been not only his
bane but his enemy; it was from no lack of
will and malice that he had not doomed his
father to a life within stone walls. And yet
forsooth, at the mere reading of this scoundrel's
name, the wife of his bosom, Beryl Peyton's
wife, forgetting all wifely love and sympathy,
must needs swoon away.

It was the recollection of that incident, so
nearly a catastrophe, Which had made his face
grow stern when Mary asked, ' Has she ever
been so before ? ' But a minute's consideration,
in which he recognised his own unreason,
changed the channel of his thoughts, and he
became at once all gentleness and anxiety.
This attack, which could certainly have no reference
to the matter so distasteful to him,
must needs, he perceived, be all the more
serious on that account. The old warning

words of the doctor, from which he had
gathered that his wife's life was a precarious
one, rang in his ears ; and though there was
division between them — that Bluebeard's chamber
which he had forbidden to her, nay, bricked
it up as it were against all entry, but after which
she hankered — his heart beat tenderly for the
bride of his youth, the companion of his life for
half a century, and the only being (save perhaps
his faithful mute) who kissed his hand for his
own sake and not for what it held.

Thank God, she is getting better, is she
not, Miss Marvon ? ' he whispered eagerly.

Yes, sir, yes ; the attack is passing off.
Let us get home ; she will be better for moving
through the air.'

Quite right ; a sensible young woman,'
assented the old man, who often spoke, as menin
years and power do, without knowing, or perhaps
caring, whether he spoke aloud or aside.

In a few moments after they began to move
Mrs. Peyton opened her eyes with a murmurous
sigh.

She is saying something,' said her husband
with fretful impatience. ' Good heavens ! she
wants something ! *

Mary, who was sitting on the back seat,
leant forwards and with her quick young ears
caught the whispered word. It was ' Lily.'

That is what she calls her friend at Bank
Cottage,' explained Mr. Peyton. ' Go, Charles,
and fetch Mrs. Sotheran at once.'

In an instant the remaining footman had
jumped from his seat and was away upon his
errand. If the matter had been less urgent,
his speed would have been the same. Whatever
was done for Beryl Peyton was done
quickly.

The carriage whirled on without a check
till it drew up at the front door of the house.
Quite a little crowd of guests were awaiting
it beneath the portico, to welcome their host
and hostess.

Make way, if you please, ladies and gentlemen,'
said Mr. Peyton, raising his hat, but with
little ceremony in his tone ; ' my wife is somewhat

indisposed. Miss Marvon, you will be
kind enough to accompany Mrs. Peyton to her
room.'

Mary was conscious of a throng of strangers,
parting to left and right, as she passed through
the stately hall ^^^th Mrs. Peyton leaning somewhat
heavily on her arm ; but she little guessed
that their looks of interest and curiosity were
directed to her rather than to the lady of the
house. Mrs. Peyton was a known factor in the
establishment — if, indeed, a cipher can be called
a factor — but Mary Marvon an unknown one,
and therefore, where all was speculation, the
subject of very considerable comment.

Words are often of weight in proportion to
the importance of those who speak them ; and
so it was in this case. If Mrs. Peyton had
asked Mary to accompany her upstairs there
would have been little or no deduction to have
been drawn from that circumstance, but it was
Beryl Peyton's own hips that had put his wife
in charge of her new companion, which was
quite another thing.

VOL. II. P

Without at all understanding this, Mary
perceived that she had been placed in a position
of trust such as could hardly have been looked
for on such very short acquaintance with her
employer, and this feeling was intensified when,
on the prompt appearance of Mrs. Peyton's
own maid, her mistress thus replied to her
anxious inquiries : —

I have been a little faint, Scarsdale, thank
you ; but I am better now. You will in future
take this young lady's orders— Miss Marvon —
as from myself.'

Scarsdale shut her eyes and bowed her
head with Oriental humility ; but what she was
thinking to herself was not so Oriental.

Hoity toity ! what 's all this about ? Who
is this young person who is put over my
head, which Miss Gwynne' (Mary's predecessor)
never was ? '

Nor was this the only shock received by
the confidential maid. Scarcely had she removed
her mistress's travelling apparel when
Mr. Flay, the village doctor, was announced,

whereupon Mrs. Peyton observed : ' You will
be so good as to remain with me, Miss
Marion

At this Scarsdale's normally high complexion
rose to the hue of scarlet, and with an
obsequious obeisance she retired, muttering,
Well, I never ! ' an observation which, I am
sorry to say, when she got her breath again
(of which astonishment had deprived her), she
supplemented with, ' Drat the girl ! '

So difficult it is even for the best-disciplined
persons, and with the example of the highest
circles before their eyes, to restrain the emotion
of jealousy.

It was fortunate that 'Mr. Flay, who was
rather old and very stout, and had come at
great speed on foot on his errand to the great
house, was not called upon to undertake on
the instant any delicate scientific operation, and
it was a relief to him to have to listen to Mary's
account of what had taken place as regarded
his patient, during which he had only to gasp
p2

'Just so' and incline his head with much
intelligent significance.

Most accurately and ably stated,' was his
remark when she had finished her narrative.
If you will allow me to say so, Mrs. Peyton,
I think you have found a treasure in this young
lady.'

He said this partly because it was his principle
to lose no opportunity of making friends
with those who might be useful to him, and
partly to put his patient at her ease previous to
his more personal inquiries. So far from succeeding,
however, in this last object, it almost
seemed that his words had produced the very
contrary effect to that which he had intended.
Mrs. Peyton's face again grew pallid, and she
pressed her hand against her side as though in
pain.

'You feel the oppression of the weather
very much, I perceive,' he said soothingly ; ' I
have many similar cases among the higher ranks
just now.'

Mrs. Peyton nodded assent. ' I shall feel
better presently,' she said faintly.

No doubt, as the heat of the day defines.
Moreover, you have had a long and fatiguing
journey.'

Again she smiled adhesion. It was, so far,
one of those interviews between doctor and
patient in which each understands the otherwhile
tacitly agreeing to misrepresent the
matter in hand.

You had some slight attack of the same
nature, I remember, madam, some time ago.
Let me see,' said the doctor, affecting an effort of
memory : ' it must be nearly five years back.'

It was just five years.'

Ay, ay ; but this one has not been nearly
so serious. That is the normal course ; they
grow slighter and slighter till the constitution
asserts itself.'

The expression on the patient's face here
so changed its character, becoming, in short,
one of absolute incredulity, that Mr. Flay felt

some modicum of truth-telling to be imperative.
That is,' he added, ' if no mental disturbance
is experienced. Anything of the nature of a
shock is likely — ahem — to be detrimental.'

What Mr. Flay means,' said Mrs. Peyton,
turning with sudden gravity to the astonished
Mary, ' is that an old woman like me, my
dear, with a weak heart, is likely to go off
at any moment. Well, well, I know you will
do your best, doctor. Is it to be the drops
again ? '

'I think we cannot do better than the
drops, Mrs. Peyton. They are my own prescription,
but, if you remember. Sir Toby was
so good as to say they were what he would
have recommended himself.'

So the mask was dropped, for some reason
best known to the patient herself, and Mary
understood at once that her new employer's
life and her own fortunes (though of this latter
she thought nothing, her heart was too full of
sympathy for another) hung on a thread.

You must permit me to say, Mrs. Peyton,'

said the doctor, remonstratingly, ' that you take
a too cheerless view, which is itself depressing
and — yes, deleterious. Why should a lady in
your position, surrounded by all that can make
life smooth and delightful ' (here he looked
round the sumptuous room, and then through
the open windows, where as far as eye could
reach stretched ' the Peyton estate '), ' be exposed
to shocks ? You must not fidget yourself
about trifles.'

Hush ! is not that Mrs. Sotheran's voice ? '
interrupted the invalid, eagerly.

I think it is ; but why should that excite
you ? You are really very wrong, madam, toto
be so moved by nothing at all. It is an
injustice to yourself, hard upon your husband
(who holds you as the apple of his eye), and
hardly fair (if I may say so) to the humble
individual who has the honour to be your
medical attendant.'

I will try and be fair to you,' said Mrs.
Peyton, smiling ; ' but I really think, if you
will permit it ' (and she looked significantly

towards the door), 'a visit from dear Lily will
do me as much good as your drops.'

By all means ; take 'em both,' said Mr.
Flay, naively. ' If you will remember the
different positions of poor Mrs. Sotheran and
yourself — what she has gone through and
suffered, I mean, and your own comparative
immunity from trouble — and reflect upon it,
I think she will do you good. It will teach
you not to exaggerate any little unpleasantness.
Excuse my freedom, my dear madam,
but it is for your own benefit.'

I am sure of it,' said Mrs. Peyton, kindly,
holding out her hand. ' Mr. Flay and I, Miss
Maison, are very old friends.'

'Yes, yes, indeed, and I hope you and
I will be old friends,' said the doctor as he
made his adieu to Mary. ' There is something
in your face that I seem to remember, though
your name is unfamiliar to me. — You are not
as you should be yet, Mrs. Peyton,' he added
quickly but firmly. 'Is this brandy? Then
just take a little.'

He pointed out a few drops from a toilet
bottle of that liqueur, which by medical direction
Mrs. Peyton always had at hand, and put
it to her hips. The colour returned to them
at once. ' I am quite well now,' she murmured
; then added, smiling, but with evident
effort, ' I call you to witness, Miss Marvon,
that that brandy was administered to me by
force.'

'Miss Marvon must administer it to you
again whenever there is need for it — when
her colour goes as it did just now, you know,'
he added in a hushed parenthesis. ' I shall
look in tomorrow, madam, to issue my
bulletin of " Convalescent " ; until then au
revoir.'

On the great staircase he met Mrs. Sotheran
coming up useless, as was her wont, to her
friend's room ; she had been talking to the
lady's-maid on the landing, and looked more
frightened and nervous even than usual.

Now, what has that vinegar cruet Scarsdale
been saying to you, Mrs. Sotheran ? '

inquired the doctor, sharply. ' KilHng her
mistress before her time, no doubt? which
shows her to be a fool as well as a liar, since
it is slaying the goose that lays her the golden
eggs.'

'No, indeed, Mr. Flay,' remonstrated the
poor lady ; ' she was only saying that Mrs.
Peyton has a new companion, and somehow
doesn't seem to take to her, for which I am
truly sorry.'

'Why should you be sorry? It is a far
greater compliment to the young lady than if
she liked her. You may take my word for it
that Miss Marvon is worth a dozen of her predecessor
and a gross of Scarsdale. A very nice
ladylike girl, and full of common sense, of
which there is not a half pennyworth in this
house, and for that matter very little in the
whole parish ; ' and Mr. Flay nodded his head
defiantly as though he would have added,
Bank Cottage included.'

I am truly glad to hear you say so, Mr.

Flay — I mean as regards Miss Marvon ; lie and
I have known one another for years.'

I shouldn't have thought it,' said the
doctor, curtly. ' I wish you would take a leaf
out of her book. Now, for Heaven's sake,
when you go into that room yonder, Mrs.
Sotheran, don't be emotional. There 's only
brandy enough for one, and Mrs. Peyton herself
is far from well. You 've heard that, of
course. Well, there 's not much the matter at
present, but there may be a good deal ; and if
you excite her you '11 kill her, so there. — It
sounds brutal,' soliloquised Mi Fray as he
trotted downstairs ; ' but it 's no use speaking to
that poor lady in a crisis such as this like a
gentleman and a Christian. There are some
women who must be always treated as if for
hysterics.'

CHAPTEE XXX.

OLD FRIENDS.

Mr. Flay had in truth been cruel only to be
kind ; like the too impassioned householder, in
whose case the burglars had to resort to ' crowbars
and other sedatives,' it was necessary to
frighten Mrs. Sotheran very much to keep her
quiet. In moments of excitement it was next
to impossible for her to control her feelings;
she could not be pacified ; it was necessary to
terrify her, and in this Mr. Flay had succeeded.
She entered Mrs. Peyton's room with her heart
in her mouth, but with a composed countenance
and a resolute determination to postpone
the display of her feelings till she got home.
Mrs. Peyton, too, had her own reasons for
assuming an appearance of equanimity. She
had nerved herself, as it were, to avoid the

very semblance of having ' nerves,' so that, of
the three persons present in the interview that
followed, Mary herself was the one who showed
the most emotion and felt the least. Her position
was nevertheless one of considerable embarrassment.
She had not seen Mrs. Sotheran, it will
be remembered, since she had learnt from her
the secret of her birth, and on her part had
communicated to her the reasons for her departure
from i\Irs. Beckett's; neither of which
matters could be discussed of course in the
presence of a third person.

Mrs. Peyton's indisposition, however, which
was the immediate cause of the visitor's presence,
naturally formed the first topic of conversation
; and it was a great relief to Mary
that after one affectionate embrace, in which all
that a hug could convey was signified, Mrs.
Sotheran confined her attentions to the lady of
the house. The latter was on the sofa, and, her
preliminary inquiries having been put, the
visitor took her seat beside her and conversed
with her in a low tone, while Mary placed herself

with a book at the window. Even if she
had looked up from it, which she carefully forbore
to do, and had caught the two women's
faces fixed on her with an absorbing interest,
mingled in the case of the elder with a certain
fearful joy,' she would have been slow to
believe that she herself formed the subject of
their talk. Yet it was so.

Do you think I have done wisely, Lily ? '

I think you have done well,' replied the
other, evasively. ' It was surely the right and
natural thing to do ; I cannot think how anyone
could blame you.'

Mrs. Peyton shook her head. ' Oh yes, I
should be blamed, Lily. He would never,
never forgive me if he knew of it. I have
risked all that and more, I know. It was
simply that the temptation was irresistible.'

'You withstood it for twenty years,' murmured
the other ; then, as if reflecting that her
words involved a reproof, or at least a suggestion
of imprudence, she added, ' He would
surely consider that.'

No, he would not ; he would admit neither
excuse nor palliation, Lily. Detection would
be simple ruin.'

But how is it possible he should detect it ?
I am the sole person besides yourself who is the
depositary of the secret.'

Yes, and your face reveals it. It was my
husband saying that which made my heart stop.'

What P what ? ' If you have seen a hare
start up in her form when she first hears the
cry of the hounds, you ^\dll know what the
speaker looked like.

Of course he was not alluding to hers put
in Mrs. Peyton ^vith a glance at the unconscious
girl ; ' I should not have been alive to tell it
had he done that. He was speaking generally
about your secretive, frightened ways, and said
you always reminded him of the woman who
learnt the Freemasons' secret by accident, and
could never get it off her mind.'

It 's quite true,' sighed Mrs. Sotheran.
That is what I feel as if I looked like.'

Yes, but it 's very dangerous, Lily, and you

mustn't. Then what do you think Mr. Flay
said just now as he was wishing that dear girl
good-bye ? " There is something in your face
that I seem to remember." '

And so there is,' ejaculated Mrs. Sotheran,
tremulously ; ' you see the likeness yourself.'

Mrs. Peyton nodded gravely. ' Oh yes, oh
yes.'

'And your husband? Did it not strike
him?'

Thank Heaven, no. He stared a little
hard at her when they first met ; but the impression,
whatever it was, seemed to fade away
from his mind.'

'What moments you have passed, dear
friend, since last I saw you,' murmured Mrs.
Sotheran, pityingly. ' They would have killed
me outright.'

They may kill me, Lily ; but that will be
no great harm.'

Hush, hush. I can't bear it ; and if I once
break down '

You speak of " moments," ' put in Mrs.

Peyton in a passionate whisper. ' What are
moments, though they are moments of agony,
compared with the misery and solitude of
twenty years? What I have suffered with
the last six hours is as nothing matched with
their peace and joy. I seem to have almost
got my daring back again — my long-lost
daring.'

Hush ! hush ! Yet she is not like him.'

No ; that is true. She is her mother's
having image. I know what you are saying to
yourself, Lily ; I know what you are thinking
of me. You are saying, "This poor woman
is all wrong; she takes comfort from what
should be her shame." '

No, no ; I was not thinking it myself,
indeed I was not, but only that that is what
the world would say.'

The world ! Do you mean the people
under this roof? ' She paused with a gesture
of ineffable contempt. ' Well, well, let us say
the people outside it. What have they to do
with me and my miseries ? What have I to do

VOL. II. Q

with the world ? a worn and weary old woman,
near to death by nature's law, and liable to be
cut off at any moment by a fatal disease. I am
dead to life already. For years, I have only
asked for liberty to dream of the returning
past, and that has been denied me. My heart
is with my only son in his unknown grave. My
hope is in God alone, and you talk to me of
the world ! '

'Pray, pray calm yourself, my dear old
friend,' pleaded the other. 'Things are not
quite so bad as you describe. You have said
yourself that you have found some comfort.'

Yes, I have ; for she stands there. But I
have not found it ; I have filched it. It is a
stolen pleasure. I cannot boast of it ; I cannot
enjoy it except in secret ; and the penalty of
discovery is death. Yes, death ; for I could
never survive his wrath.'

'It was his own fault,' returned Mrs.
Sotheran, after a long pause. ' It was he who
took you up to town.'

It was ; and for what reason I cannot
guess. Even then, perhaps, I should not have

seen her — certainly I should not have won her
for myself — but for the accident of her leaving
Mrs. Beckett. To hear of her being alone in
London, making her own living, or failing to
make it, and I within a few streets of her — no,
Lily, it was irresistible.'

Poor soul ! poor soul ! '

Yes, I do not think God will blame me,
whatever man may do. On the contrary, that
things should have so fallen out seems to show
to me that it was His will that I should have
her with me.'

'It is so difficult to tell,' hesitated the
other. ' People talk of the finger of Providence
; but one does not know which way it
points.'

True, true. Oh, terrible world, so full of
trouble and doubt, how gladly shall I quit you ! '

For a better, my dear friend, for a better.'

Perhaps. But not if my boy is not there.

Think of that, Lily. Heaven without one's only

son ! Your boys are gone there, but my boy

may not have gone. Mr. Flay was just saying

q2

how miicli more I had to be thankful for than
you had. How little he knew ! I think I am
the most miserable of all womenkind ! '

Mrs. Sotheran shook her head. 'Many a
woman thinks that, dear. It is sometimes
hard to believe that we are intended to be
happy. You have not lost your husband.'

True, and I love him. I wish I could say
with the love that casts out fear. Yes, there is
Beryl.'

Consider too,' continued the other, ' though
wealth has no attraction for you, it is sad to
be poor — to live alone, unnoticed or despised ;
to feel so weary and still to have to work ;
to plan and plot to make both ends meet.'

You could have had hundreds — thousands,
Lily; Beryl is generosity itself; one word of
mine could get them still.'

I know it ; it must never be spoken. It
would be said that I was bribed to silence.
Moreover, there is one thing worse than poverty,
the bread of dependence. Above all, I could
never share it with my boy.'

Ah, your boy. Do not measure your
woes with mine when you can still speak of
him. Ah me, what some women can boast
of — a good son ! '

You are right, dear, you are right, and I
am wrong. Forgive me.'

There was a long pause, during which the
two women — victor and vanquished in this
struggle for the palm of woe — sat with their
hands locked together, gazing into each other's
eyes.

I saw Charley in London, you knows
said the elder, presently ; ' it was selfish of me
not to have spoken of that before. He came
to see me at the hotel. He loves her, Lily.'

What ! Loves Mary ! Oh no ; you are
mistaken there. I know from Mary herself
that there was another, though that is over
now, to whom she was attached.'

I am not speaking of Mary ; I am speaking
of Charley. Do you suppose I can ever
be blind a second time ? '

But if my Charley really loved her '

Oh, I see ; you mean he would be invincible.
True. It is so long ago, that I had
forgotten what it is to be a mother.'

Here ensued another pause. There were
some arguments or assertions on Mrs. Peyton's
part which, as it seemed to the other, were
unanswerable.

The dear girl will have a difficult part to
play here,' observed Mrs. Sotheran, presently.

On the contrary, she will have no part to
play ; she has only to be natural. It is there,
if anywhere, that our safety lies. Should she
have the least suspicion of her own identity, we
should be walking on the brink of a precipice
indeed.'

'That is too terrible to think upon,' observed
Mrs. Sotheran with a shiver : ' that she
should remain in ignorance I take for granted.
What I referred to was the mere difficulties of
her position here as your companion and confidant.
I am sorry to say that Scarsdale seems
already jealous of her.'

I cannot help that,' returned Mrs. Peyton.

I mean I cannot think of that when so much
worse things are to be apprehended. There
is one matter that is greatly in our favour.
Beryl has taken to Mary immensely. It almost
frightened me to see it, lest he should
recognise it for what perhaps it was.'

You mean the tie of blood.'

Mrs. Peyton nodded gravely. ' Why not ?
The blood which is thicker than water is said
to mysteriously assert its claims.'

The more mysteriously the better,' returned
Mrs. Sotheran, naively. ' Only fancy if
it should disclose them.'

Yes. That would be ruin. The tie
would snap at once. What I hope for, what I
count upon, is her winning my husband's affection
for her own sake, and on his remaining
ignorant of the connection to the last.'

I see. He would then provide for her, no
doubt, like any other stranger, which he never
would do if he suspected her relationship.'

She is no relation to him whatever,' returned
Mrs. Peyton, bitterly ; ' she is no relation

to any one. She is without name or race ;
in the eyes of the law a nobody, in that of
society a leper.'

To be sure, poor girl ; I had forgotten.'

Forgotten ? Oh, I wish I could forget it,
and above all the cause, the cause ! '

Mrs. Peyton sighed and covered her face
with her hands ; yet the shame she would have
shut from her view was not an open one; it
was buried in the grave. She was thinking of
her dead son, and of the wrong which, through
her mother, he had done to this innocent girl.

The sins of our fathers, it is well known,
are visited upon the children, but it often
happens, though is not so often spoken of, that
the sins of our children find us out ; and they
are harder to bear than our own sins.

CHAPTEE XXXI.

THE HAPPY FAMILY.

If to live on the best, and at somebody else's
expense, is (as in a moment of confidence it
was once described to me by a great social
philosopher) the highest happiness, the guests
at Letcombe Hall ought to have been well
satisfied with their position. They had nothing
to complain of as to food, or drink, or lodging ;
and common civility — for Beryl Peyton detested
flattery — was the only payment they had to
make for it. Moreover, they had unbroken
leisure ; and as almost aU of them were engaged
in some scientific or literary pursuit, or had
the general amelioration of the human race in
charge, this must have been the greatest boon
of all. If ever the great question of endow-merit

of research indeed has had a chance of
settlement, here was the opportunity. What
alone interfered with the perfect repose of these
gentry was the far-reaching qualities of their
minds, which, not content with the present
easy circumstances of their existence, were
always fixed on their perpetuation. Even the
most irreligious of them were occupied with the
idea of what would happen after death — not
their own deaths, which would have been a
paltry and egotistic matter, unworthy of their
attention — but that of their friend and host.
Beryl Peyton. The question of ' Who would
be heir ? ' was the speculation that intruded
more or less upon all these philosophers, accompanied
by the supplementary inquiry,
Why not myself.? '

They were not only conscious of this themselves,
but every one else was conscious of it,
including even the subject of their calculations.
The whole circumstance was as patent as in
that admirable anecdote of Miss Kate being
saluted by her lover with the beard —

I saw Esau kissing Kate,

And the fact is "we all three saw ;

For I saw Esau, he saw me,
And she saw I saw Esau.

There Alas no pretence, or, at least, no possibility
of concealment in the matter. Life at
Letcombe Hall was a sort of continuous competitive
examination, the prize for which was
Beryl Peyton's favour. The reward would be
something enormous ; could not, by the nature
of things, be long delayed ; and would almost
certainly fall to one of them. The chances of
Mrs. Peyton herself were discounted ; it was
known that she would have a large annuity,
but nothing at her absolute disposal. The
reason of this was that there were some faraway
cousins of Mr. Peyton whom for other
reasons, but especially for being his relations,
he detested, and if his widow should be ' got
at ' by them — so I grieve to say one of the
philosophers at the Hall (a metaphysician too)
expressed it — or died without a will, some of
his money might revert to them. Practically
speaking, the whole of Beryl Peyton's wealth

would go to strangers ; he had said so, and he
never broke his word ; and surely the stranger
within his gates had a better chance of succession
than the stranger without them. Under
the circumstances it is not surprising that even
in the Happy Family, as this little circle of
expectant guests had been termed, there existed
some little jealousy. The cynical observation
respecting the probable unwillingness of the
average Englishman to bend his thumb to save
the life of some Chinese mandarin unknown,
has its root in a selfish indifference ; but no
one at Letcombe Hall could be accused of that.
Each would have bent his thumb, and bent his
back, to insure the immediate demise of all the
others.

And this would have been done from no
mean or murderous motive, but on the highest
moral grounds. In the first place, each imagined
that he was, by his wisdom or aspirations,
peculiarly fitted for the possession of great
wealth ; and, secondly, he was convinced that,
of all people under the sun, these others whom

he had such excellent opportunities of knowing
down to their boots, were the most likely to
make an ill use of it. It is not to be credited
that a man like Mr. Marks, the metaphysician,
for example, could have cared for money for its
own sake. Money was not even dross to him.
The famous question, ' What is a pound ? ' in
his eyes took too much for granted. His initial
inquiry upon that subject would have been,
Is it a pound ? ' It would have been of no
use to show him the coin. He would only
have put it in his pocket and walked away with
it in a fit of abstraction. A tall fat man he
was, with a placid smile, such as you only see in
infants asleep, and with a face of such benevolence
that it looked like a petrified blessing.
It must be admitted that his philanthropy
was not practical ; but on that he plumed
himself. If any one had knocked him down
(and he ran more risks of it than he was
aware of), he might have exclaimed with
Hazlitt, ' It is no matter ; it is only ideas
that hurt me.'

If, however, Mr. Marks was obviously to be
acquitted of material views, how much more
innocent of them was Mr. Josiah Nayler. In
his eyes metaphysics was a gross and palpable
imposture, since, however slight and shadowy
were its principles, they were built in some
sort upon the pedestal of actuality ; and it was
against the Actual that Mr. Nayler warred.
It was his theory that life was looked at
through a sort of mental stereoscope, which
gave it apparent solidity, but that in reality it
had none. The whole universe and its contents,
he argued, were phantasmal, and had no
real existence ; that nothing was as it seemed
to be, or had any form or substance, and that
even the great majority of mankind were
merely impersonations (he called them ' Presentments
'), not composed of flesh and blood
at all, but only with the semblance of them,
and whose part on the stage of life was to trick
and deceive a certain select minority into believing
them to be their fellow-creatures. It
was unfortunately necessary for Mr. Nayler, in

order to secure a hearing from the public, to
stoop here to a little duplicity, for the select
minority which figured in the prospectus of his
system was, in his heart of hearts, restricted to
himself. His private conviction was, that he
was the one individual whom the whole forces
of nature and of humanity had conspired to
hoodwink ; that when they were not under his
immediate observation, the heavenly bodies,
their occupation (of imposing on him) being
suspended, collapsed and disappeared ; and
that when he left a room and closed the door
behind him, the company vanished into space.
As this theory, however, savoured somewhat
too much of egotism for general acceptance,
Mr. Josiah Nayler admitted a few people — the
most influential he could get — into his theory
in order, as it were, to make it a going concern.
Such was the general selfishness, that
he had found the notion of a single personage
surrounded with ' presentments ' by no means
attractive to the public (indeed, since, if his
theory were true, the public themselves were

but presentments, this was hardly to be wondered
at), and he had therefore placed the
business in the hands, so to speak, of a limited
company. All the great and good of his acquaintance
were admitted into the sacred circle,
and were invited to contemplate the universe
with him, like the visitors to a panorama, who,
the only living beings in the place, assemble on
the platform and listen to the showman as he
holds forth upon the objects on the canvas.
I am sorry to say that Mr. Marks (possibly
because he had objected to pay his entrance-money
to the panorama, viz. the price of Mr.
Nayler's work upon Presentments) was not
upon the platform ; and, indeed, when these
two great men spoke of one another, they used
language that would have been frightful if it
had not been unintelligible. Ideas did not
hurt Mr. Nayler as they hurt Mr. Marks. His
immense height and excessive thinness might
well have preserved him from all assailants ;
but as his enemies were mere presentments,
their ideas were necessarily but the shadows of

ideas, which he regarded 'vvith a sublime indifference.


Next, but after these two gentlemen, I place
Professor Porson Parks, the archaeologist ; not
that he was inferior to them in learning, far
from it — he was a scholar of such profundity
that information was only to be extracted from
him like water from a draw-well, you had to
wait for the windlass — but because their views
were already before the public in print while
his were still in embryo. He was a man essentially
of MSS., the wonder of a coterie, the
boast of a select circle of bookworms, the pride
of the Great Unpublished (and unpublished),
and, but for the assistance of Mr. Beryl Peyton,
would probably have remained for ever in that
chrysalis state. Thanks to him, however, the
first chapters of ' Prehistoric England ' were
now passing through the press at the rate of a
glacier, and Mr. Porson Parks was ' giving his
proofs ' (very literally) to whomsoever he could
persuade to read them. It is possible, though
the gate of Beryl Peyton's admiration was shut

VOL. II. R

against no branch of human industry or intelligence,
that archaeology alone would hardly
have made so respectable a niche for itself
in that gentleman's regards ; but Mr. Porson
Parks had another string to his bow in the
person of his sister Adela, whose championship
of woman's rights had a strong claim upon Mr.
Peyton's sympathy. Her devotion to the great
cause was disinterested, since she was upwards
of sixty years of age, and could hardly hope,
unless the compulsory marriage of all bachelors
was voted ' urgent,' to reap much advantage
from its success.

If it be true that a woman is as old as she
looks, Miss Parks indeed was a hundred ; nor
did she make the slightest attempt to mitigate
the ravages of time. She even used her age as
an argument for doing everything she pleased,
or omitting to do what was disagreeable ; a
course of conduct, so far as my experience
goes, absolutely unparalleled among the fair
sex. When Mi*. Nayler would have presented,
her with a copy of his treatise on Presentments,
she flatly declined it upon the ground

that she was too old to read new books ; and
rejected Mr. Marks's exhaustive work upon the
Under Soul,' with the observation that metaphysics
was arguing in a circle, and though she
had one leg in the grave she was not going
round and round it "sith the other to please
anybody. From which it may be guessed that
this excellent old lady, however highly principled
and well-intentioned, was in her manner
brusque.

In this last respect Mrs. Welbeck, another
lady inmate of the Peyton establishment, washer
antithesis. She had no particular mission,
nor even an aspiration, except that she should
never again set eyes upon her husband, but she
was mild, inoffensive, ana conciliatory. It
must be acknowledged that she had not Miss
Parks's mental gifts, but she was young and
rather good looking, attributes which in the
female sex outweigh, alas ! with some men, the
noblest yearnings after perfectibility and the
most marvellous capabilities for talking three
hours on end on the same subject. Her claim
b2

upon her host was simply that she had been
unfortunate and ill-used ; she had married in
haste, and repented, not at leisure, but with
equal rapidity ; and it was understood that
immunity from her husband's attentions had
been purchased at Mr. Peyton's expense. It
was curious, considering the mixed character of
his guests, and very significant of the estimation
in which his character was held, that
no one was so foolish — though many might
have been base enough — to attribute this act
of charity to any but the true one, namely, the
purest benevolence. Where they erred was in
imagining that Beryl Peyton could have thus
placed himseK in the hands of this lady's husband
to be squeezed like a wet sponge. He
had the eccentricity and philanthropy of a Don
Quixote, but without his folly, and redressed
grievances with a far stronger hand. The
truth was, he had made it his business to discover
that Mr. Welbeck had done worse things,
or things at least that the law frowns more
severely upon, than beating his wife, and was

kept at arm's length, and further, from his
injured spouse, by the fear of punishment
rather than by the sense of advantage. Mrs.
Welbeck had plenty of money of her own — a
circumstance absolutely phenomenal with an
inmate of Letcombe Hall; but even had this
not been the case, it is doubtful whether she
could have regarded Mr. Peyton's demise with
eyes that had any speculation in them. She
was simple to a fault — ' to the verge of idiocy,'
Miss Parks, I regret to say, expressed it — and
so easily satisfied, that she reminded one of
that pattern guest who only asked of his host
that the bacon at breakfast might be streaky,
and that the servants should be instructed to
hang up his great-coat by the loop.

Another remarkable member of the Happy
Family was Mr. Hindon, commonly called,
from the sweetness of his disposition and the
accommodating nature of his opinions, the
Dove. Strange to say, it was neither genius
nor misfortune which had recommended him to
Mr. Beryl Peyton, and procured him an asylum

which bade fair to be lifelong at Letcombe
Hall, but generosity of character. On a certain
occasion in Paris Mr. Peyton had got
himself into a very serious quandary through
mistaken benevolence ; he had adopted a
friendless desperado who took advantage of
his intimacy with the eccentric millionaire, who
had the entree everywhere, to make an attempt
on the Imperial Regalia ; and Mr. Louis
Hindon had proffered such services as, had
they been put into effect, might indeed have
earned the other's undying gratitude. As it
happened, the necessity for the self-sacrifice
had not arisen, but by Beryl Peyton the will
was taken for the deed. The whole behaviour
and conversation of Mr. Hindon was indeed in
accordance with his patron's view of him. A
more good-natured, generous, enthusiastic creature
it would have been difficult to find — so far
as professed willingness and the expression of
noble thoughts went ; but the detractors of Mr.
Hindon — and they were many — affirmed that
at words they stuck ; that he would not have

lifted a finger to help his mother (not that he
had ever done it ; they instanced it as a supposititious
case) unless he had seen some advantage
to himself in it ; and that as to that
offer of his to Mr. Peyton, he had never had
the remotest intention of putting it into practice,
and had only made it out of his passionate
and irresistible love of lying. This was hard
upon Mr. Hindon, and a poor return for his
endeavours to make himself agreeable to everybody,
which, if made (as was alleged) at the
sacrifice of truth and self-respect, ought surely
to have been all the more highly estimated.
He did his best to sympathise with the metaphysical
jargon of Mr. Marks ; he made the
most strenuous efforts to persuade Mr. Nayler
(whose system unfortunately he did not at once
completely grasp), first that he was a presentment,
and secondly that he was not ; and he
placed his services as an amanuensis unreservedly
at the disposal of Mr. Porson Parks,
though not, it was averred, until he had discovered
that that gentleman held his MSS. so

sacred that no one but his sister Adela was
deemed worthy to dust them with a feather
brush.

One other member of the Happy Family
alone remains to be spoken of, the most
important if not the most remarkable of all —
Dr. Bilde, Mr. Peyton's own physician. Between
the others and their host, as we have
shown, there existed some hold upon his sympathy,
or some claim to his favour, which it
was the object of each to render more close
and firm ; but with Dr. Bilde he was absolutely
antagonistic. Not an opinion the Doctor
expressed, nay, scarcely a sentence he littered,
was in unison with his patron's ideas. Yet his
position at Letcombe Hall was more assured
than that of any other person. The reason of
this was that his knowledge of Mr. Peyton's
constitution, and the skill with which he treated
it, made him indispensable to him, while on
the other hand he had nothing to gain from
Mr. Peyton's decease. That gentleman had
made a codicil to his will, or rather to all his

wills (for he had made a dozen), in which a
sum was left to his doctor which increased in
arithmetical progression with every year that
he should remain his medical attendant ; and
a very pretty plan it is of getting, if not the
best advice,' at all events the best of which a
scientific legatee is capable.

Dr. Bilde had been a man of some eminence
in his profession, and had distinguished himself
in various anatomical investigations which, if
not of much moment, he at least claimed to
be discoveries ; but what had interfered with
his advancement, and had put popularity out
of the question, was his harshness of demeanour,
insolence of manner, and a most unparalleled
capacity for quarrels.

A disruption with his hospital, with every
member of whose staff, from the senior surgeon
to the youngest dresser, he had impartially
fallen out, had originally caused Mr. Peyton's
attention to be drawn to him. He thought
him an ill-used man, and for a little while —
during which he had established his professional

reputation with him by his treatment of a
serious malady to which Mr. Peyton was
subject — had adhered to that opinion. The
doctor, with his high bald forehead, imperturbability
of feature, and keen but emotionless
expression, looked the scientific martyr — careless
of self, but zealous for principle — to the
life. He never inveighed against his opponents
unless tempted to do so by hearing others
defend them, nor attacked their theories unless
his own were called into question. On the
other hand, when these opportunities did occur
they were taken advantage of to the uttermost.
On the first occasion of his ' breaking out ' in
this manner — it was a tremendous philippic
against the Anti-Vivisectionists, with whom it
is unnecessary to say Beryl Peyton sympathised
very warmly — his patron and patient, stroking
soothingly his long white beard in a manner
peculiar to him on the rare occasions when he
deemed it necessary to express emotion, observed
gravely, ' Ah ! now I know why they turned
you out of St. Galen's Hospital.'

The doctor turned on him Uke a tiger.

Pooh ! pooh ! ' continued the other, contemptuously,
' I could strangle you before you
got your lancet out ; and besides, remember
the codicil.'

Possibly these arguments had some effect
upon Doctor Bilde, though they were far from
calming him. ' You are as ignorant, sir, as
you are insolent,' he replied ; ' you know
nothing at all either of the subject in question,
or of me.'

Quite true, doctor ; so far I owe you an
apology, and if I say you are the most
opinionated, ill-tempered, and impracticable of
human beings, you must understand that I do
not do so of my own knowledge (save from
what I have learnt of you just now), but merely
echo the opinion of everybody who has ever
come across you. I am now going to take
some of your excellent medicine, which I really
believe is doing me good. When we meet next
I hope to find you in better humour.'

Even a scientific martyr, with the temper

of one 'possessed,' is not absolutely blind to
his own interests, and this reproof the doctor
contrived to swallow. Without subordinating
his own opinions to that of his patron, Dr.
Bilde for the future abstained from thrusting
them down his throat ; at the same time he
did not hesitate, even in his presence, to perform
that operation upon others, nor did he
give himself the least trouble to silver the pills.
Somehow or other Beryl Peyton endured him ;
perhaps he used with himself that common but
fallacious argument, ' If this man is not honest,
what is he ? ' or perhaps just as a physician
will do his best for a patient, whether he be
bishop or burglar, he thought to himself. What
has a sick man to do with the opinions of his
doctor? There was certainly no love lost
between them, but on the other hand it was
shrewdly said by some, that, wearied of the
scented atmosphere of subservience that surrounded
him (like Louis XIV. among the
tuberoses) it was not impossible that Beryl
Peyton might after all seek shelter in the rude

independence of Dr. Bilde, and make that
codicil (which was a secret known to all) out
of all proportion to the will itself. With this
contingency in their minds, as a supplement to
the impression produced by his bad manners
and overbearing ways, it may be easily imagined
that Dr. Bilde was not a popular member of
the Happy Family. Mrs. Beryl Peyton herself,
whom it must be confessed he took little pains
to please, had a perfect horror of him, and
when indisposed always employed, as we have
seen, the services of the village aesculapius, who
had also a history of his own. She used to
say, with a fervour which amused her husband,
that she would not trust Dr. Bilde with a dog
of hers.

Quite right,' Beryl Peyton would reply ;
the fellow could never resist the temptation of
vivisecting it.' But he placed his own constitution
unreservedly in his hands, and had
certainly no cause to believe his confidence
misplaced.

CHAPTER XXXII.

THRUST AND PARRY.

When the heart, in the emotional sense of the
word, is hurt, the wound commonly takes long
to heal ; but when it is physically affected, the
contrary, if it heals at all, is the case. The
thing is soon over — until the next time. On
the morning after her seizure (for by no less
serious a term did Mr. Flay describe it in
professional confidence to Dr. Bilde), Mrs.
Beryl Peyton made her appearance as usual at
the public breakfast table. This, however, she
would probably not have done had it not
been for Mary's sake, whose first appearance
she was resolved should take place under her
wing ; and a very considerable flutter in the
poultry yard did the new arrival cause. Miss

Gwynne, her predecessor, had been no such
chicken ; though treated by her patrons with
their usual kindness, she had never won their
affections nor emerged by a single step from
her subordinate position. It had been seen
from the first that there was no danger of her
competing for Mr. Beryl Peyton's favour ; and,
indeed, she had not competed for it ; she had
concentrated all her small energies on securing
Mr. Wells, the Vicar of Letcombe Dottrell, for
her husband, and after long years of piu-suit,
diversified by frequent checks, during some of
which it seemed likely that he would escape
her altogether, she caught him. When she departed
from the Hall she left no void, nor did
any one of those concerned in that great case
(always proceeding and watched with exceeding
interest by many spectators) of ' Who shall be
heir ? ' feel his chances advanced one whit by
her withdrawal.

The appearance on the scene of Mary
Marvon was quite a different matter, and
aroused many secret apprehensions. Her

youth, her beauty, and the self-command
which she at least outwardly exhibited, and
which betrayed her acquaintance with the
world, were all, it was felt, formidable weapons ;
but when Mr. Beryl Peyton himself rose, contrary
to his custom, from his chair to wish
Mary good morning, it was understood to be a
danger signal indeed. The Happy Family
exchanged secret but significant glances with
one another, and in presence of the common
enemy almost fancied that they could be allies.
It was quite at the option of the guests at
Letcombe Hall to take his or her meals in their
own apartment, but, if they did condescend to
grace the common table with their presence, it
was necessary they should be punctual ; this
was the one regulation of the establishment
which was enforced with strictness. Beryl
Peyton had a theory (which has my cordial
adhesion) that since people can be always intime
in the case of levees and drawing-rooms,
they can be punctual, if they please, on more
private and social occasions. If through any

unavoidable accident he was late himself, it
was his injunction that he was never to be
waited for; and when he did come, always
made an apology, like the true gentleman he
was, for that breach of good manners.

On this occasion, as maybe easily imagined,
there was a full attendance. Mary had a place
assigned to her at her hostess's right hand, with
Mr. Porson Parks for her neighbour on the
other side. This gentleman was of small
stature, but had so enormous a head that he
resembled a comic initial letter ; ' he bore his
weight of learning like a flower,' in so far only
that the stem was very disproportionate to the
blossom ; and was, indeed, ungainly both in
speech and manner. To Mary, however, he
was as courteous and conciliatory as nature
permitted him to be. He condescended to
speak to her of Cassibelaunus as being a comparatively
modern subject and likely to interest
so young a lady, and inquired with interest
whether she had not been accustomed to spell
it with a h. There were unmistakable signs,

VOL. II. s

he informed her, of Cassibelaimus having visited
that part of the country, and also of its occupation
by Agricola (which in his character of a
husbandman there certainly were), and he was
good enough to give her an abstract of the
history of Dottrell Knob, the elevation on the
downs which had been pointed out to her on
her journey of the previous day. As she listened,
or tried to listen, with great patience,
Mr. Porson Parks set her down as an intelligent
young person, and resolved to recommend her
to the protection of Delays

a matter of fact, as soon as she found
that the last thing Mr. Porson Parks expected
was any interruption to his laboured eloquence,
even in the form of a question, Mary's attention
strayed away from these edifying themes to
what was going on elsewhere. She noticed
that there was little general conversation, but
that each in turn had his innings in the way of
monologue, and left the colloquial wicket very
well pleased with his own performance, but
without much tumultuous acclaim from the

spectators ; that he who spoke most and with
least satisfaction to his hearers was Dr. Bilde,
and that the only man who ever agreed with
him was Mr. Hindon. ' Yes, yes ; you may
well say that indeed, doctor ; ' ' Quite true ! '
and ' There you are very right,' were sentences
he constantly uttered without the least acknowledgment
on the doctor's part. His adhesion
seemed to be of no more consequence to that
gentleman than a bier at the back of Ms coat.
On the other hand, Mr. Hindon would now and
then evoke a frown by too extravagant an
eulogy such as ' You won't beat that, doctor,'
or ' You never made a more noteworthy observation
in your life,' which seemed to be deficient
in margin.

The appointments of the breakfast table,
which was supplied with an abundance of
dainties, were far more splendid than those
Mary had been accustomed to in Park Lane ;
but even at this early stage of her experience,
she could not help contrasting the magnificence

of these surroundings with the poverty of talk
among the guests. Had Edgar Dornay or even
his Uncle Ealph been present, conversation
would not thus have languished and been
rendered impossible. It was likely enough
that every member of the present company
had better brains, and had even used them
to more practical effect, than either of those
two gentlemen, but from a social point of view
they were inferior to them, and, in fact, failures.
This arose from the circumstance that, in forming
his menagerie, Mr. Beryl Peyton had, from
the nature of the case, selected lions only (with
the solitary exception of Mr. Hindon, who was
their jackal), each of whom wished to have his
roar to himself, unanswered save by the echoes.
Beryl Peyton alone put in a word now and
then which had the effect of a spur upon the
various speakers, who, like country actors in
the presence of a London manager, displayed
their abilities for his benefit only, though with
an eye to 'benefits' of their own to come.
When the ladies spoke, however, they were

compelled, in common civility, to throw a word
or two to their hostess.

After a panegyric upon female physicians,
for example, in which Miss Parks contrived to
describe a charlatan in terms which fitted very
neatly with the characteristics of Dr. Bilde, she
concluded with the remark that during her
customary walk before breakfast she had met
with Mr. Flay, who had given her, she was
glad to say, a cheerful account of Mrs. Peyton's
state of health. That lady herself was content
to acknowledge this attention with a courteous
incubation of her head and a gracious smile,
but Dr. Bilde took up the remark as if it had
been a gauntlet.

Opinion,' he observed, ' and especially
scientific opinion, was only valuable in proportion
to the wisdom of the person who
uttered it.'

The proof of the pudding is in the eating,'
said Beryl Peyton, drily ; ' my wife has good
reason to think highly of Play's professional
skill'

Dr. Bilde shut his eyes, smiled, and shrugged
his shoulders, in a manner which showed that
contempt could be expressed without utterance
in three different ways.

He is no doubt,' he said, ' a very excellent
lady's doctor.'

'By which I suppose you mean,' snapped
out Miss Parks, * that he knows how to behave
himself like a gentleman. For my part, I don't
see why manners should not be taught to every
medical man.'

Each looked down at his plate and smiled,
except the host, who laughed outright. I am
afraid that he took some pleasure in the growls
and roars of his lions.

You must really forgive me, my dear sir,'
said Dr. Bilde, ignoring his female antagonist
altogether, ' but as I am speaking of a member
of my own calling, I am justified in doing so
with some authority. The gentleman in question
had at one time, it is true, a position of
his own in London — he was at Guy's, if I
remember right — but it was forfeited by an

act which, if not of criminal negligence (which,
indeed, was never suggested), showed an amount
of professional carelessness quite inconsistent
with the eidogy you have just pronounced
upon him.'

He had a son who worked with him,
had he not ? ' inquired Mr. Peyton, parenthetically.


Yes, he was his partner ; but when left
alone his son ruined the business.'

Then he ruined it twice over,' said Mr.
Peyton, drily. 'The fact is, Dr. Bilde — as I
happen to know for certain — that the act of
professional misconduct of which you speak
was not committed by mr. Flay at all, but by
his son. In order to save him from disgrace
his father sacrificed himself, and took the blame
upon his own shoulders.'

'What a good brave man Mr. Flay must
be ! ' whispered Mary to her hostess.

Yes, my dear — hush.'

I have learned, however, this morning,
for the first time,' continued Air. Peyton,

harshly, ' that his so-called paternal instinct
has had the usual reward.'

There was a general murmur of adhesion
to this remark, amid which Mr. Hindon was
heard to say, ' A very just observation ; my
sentiments exactly.' As for poor Mrs. Peyton,
she kept silence, while into her eyes there stole
a sadness too deep for tears.

Speaking of natural instinct,' observed Dr.
Bilde, in his strident tones, ' there is no greater
illusion than the inclination felt by the vulgar
to place it among the virtues. I once attended
a woman in extremis who throughout her illness
had obstinately declined all medical aid. Her
object (in which she succeeded) was to prevent
it being discovered that she had been poisoned
by her own son.'

'Why didn't you tell, when you found it
out ? ' inquired Miss Parks, acidly.

'A very pertinent question,' observed Mr.
Hindon, approvingly, ' neatly put in with the
left, as they say in the prize ring ; a body
blow-the

point of the matter, to which it is
the object of all intelligent persons to restrict
themselves,' continued Dr. Bilde, *is that the
young gentleman in question did not evince one
spark of gratitude or remorse ; and afterwards
murdered somebody else.'

'Very right — I mean very natural,' observed
Mr. Hindon, with precipitation. ' Human nature
all over.'

'And a very pretty illustration of the ties
of blood,' remarked Beryl Peyton, grimly.

It was a habit of Dr. Bilde's, when, through
native obstinacy and dogmatic adhesion to his
own opinions, he had angered his patron, to
recover his footing with him by flattering his
peculiar prejudices, and as to the pain which
he thereby inflicted on his hostess it might be
said of it, as he frankly remarked of certain
torments he had inflicted upon the lower
animals in the cause of science, that ' it never
so much as entered into his mind.'

Throughout these narratives and their episodes,
Mr. Porson Parks had continued his

discourse upon Agricola without paying anymore
regard to them than a lecturer pays to
the opening and shutting of his class-room door.
His solitary pupil was suddenly recalled to the
consciousness of her neglected privileges by
the mention of her own name : ' So we may
consider that matter settled, Miss Marvon, may
we?'

I am not quite sure,' said Mary, diplomatically,
not having the faintest notion what
her learned friend was talking about.

Well, of course we must obtain Mrs.
Peyton's permission, but so far as you are
concerned I have your promise, remember, to
permit me to introduce you to the glories of
the Eoman Villa.'

Mrs. Peyton, thus indirectly appealed to,
nodded acquiescence with an amused smile.
You shall take my young friend some day,
Mr. Parks.'

The energies of that learned man, as she
well knew, when not occupied with ' Prehistoric
England,' were concentrated on persuading all

new-comers to the Hall to visit the Eomau Villain
his company. He had the same pleasure iu
introducing them to it that a country gentleman
feels in taking you over his stables — and
it lasted even longer.

CHAPTEE XXXIII.

m MEMORIAM.

Except at meals, Mary Marvon saw but little
of the gentleman guests at the Hall, and was
quite ignorant of the interest — an interest very-far
removed from sympathy — with which most
of them regarded her. In a very short time it
became evident that she had won the favour of
her host, who treated her with far more than
the kindness he always showed to those who
most stood in need of it. Mrs. Peyton regarded
this with a satisfaction that was not unmixed
with fear; she guessed the reason — or one of
the reasons — of her husband's regard for her
young protegee, and trembled at it.

One day when Mary was sitting as usual
with her in the boudoir, she startled her with
this inquiry : ' Is there any harm, dear Mrs.

Peyton, in my playing on the organ in the
picture gallery ? '

The organ ? yes — I mean no. Why do
you ask that question, my dear ? '

Because when I was in the gallery this
morning, I sat down, thinking no harm, at the
organ, and tried to play a little. There was an
organ at school, and the bigger girls used to
practise on it, though not much, and I wanted
to see if I had forgotten what little skill I ever
had in that way. After I had played a few
notes I suddenly heard Mr. Peyton's voice close
beside me. It startled me very much, and the
more so since I was sure by his tone that he
was displeased.'

" Who told you to play that organ P " he
inquired.

" No one, sir. I hope I am not doing
wrong."

" You are sure nobody told you ? " he
insisted.

" Certainly not, sir," I answered ; " it was
only that the fancy took me."

" Just SO." Then he smiled, and said very-kindly,
" You were quite right to give way toit,
because you are one of those who can be
trusted to follow your impulses." '

And then what happened ? ' inquired Mrs.
Peyton, eagerly.

' Well — he told me to go on playing, and
of course I did so ; but when I looked up he
was gone. Was it not very curious ? '

It seemed so to you, no doubt, Mary,' said
Mrs. Peyton, taking up her knitting needles,
which had dropped from her hands during this
narration, and speaking in a trembling voice ;
but the fact is that that organ has never been
touched for twenty years. One at that time
very dear to us, who is gone, used at one time
to play upon it, and no doubt it awoke some
memories which distressed Mr. Peyton.'

I am very, very sorry,' said Mary ; ' it was
very wrong of me.'

No, no, Mary ; as my husband said, you
were quite right. What was the organ therefor,
you naturally said to yourself, if not to be

played upon? What was it you were playing?'


An air from the Stabat Mater'

Good heavens ! ' ejaculated Mrs. Peyton ina
smothered tone ; ' why, my dear girl,' she
added aloud, ' that is enough to distress anyone.
How could you select such a piece?
You must have been very melancholy yourself
to choose it.'

If I was, I was very ungrateful,' said
Mary, tenderly. ' I am sure I have no business
to be melancholy with such kind friends as you
and Mrs. Sotheran.'

And my husband — you must not leave
him out,' said the old lady, smiling, ' for I am
persuaded he has a sincere regard for you. You
have told me what he said, Mary ; now, how
did he look?'

Well, at first he looked angry, but afterwards
he seemed pained. From what you have .
told me, I am sure he was pained. I am so
sorry. I will take care never to touch the
organ again.'

Nay, but you must ; now that the ice has
once been broken,' continued the old lady,
thoughtfully, 'it will be better to go on. I
have no doubt, however, that he will speak tome
about it, and then I will let you know.
Are you quite sure, Mary, he said, " Who told
you to play that organ ? " and not " Who taught
you"'

I am quite sure. What seemed to make
him angry was the idea of some one else having
suggested it. As soon as he found it was all
my own doing, he grew calm.'

Later on in the day Mrs. Peyton informed
her protegee that her husband had spoken to
her on the subject, and that Mary was to play on
the organ whenever she pleased. ' From your
having chosen such a melancholy air, however,
he is under the impression that you are not in
good spirits, and he is going to ask some young
people to the Hall to enliven it a little.'

But, my dear Mrs. Peyton, that is quite
unnecessary, do pray tell him that I am quite
happy, and more than contented. No, don't

tell him that,' said Mary, interrupting herself,
and flushing a little ; ' his great kindness makes
me forget myself and my position ; it is quite
monstrous that he should show me such consideration.
The idea of his asking people for my
sake ! I only mean, pray don't permit him todo
anything of the kind.'

Not permit him ! ' said Mrs. Peyton, smiling
gravely. ' My dear child, how little you know
Beryl Peyton ! If he has a fancy in his head,
he will gratify it, though it cost a fortune ;
and when, as generally happens, it is a fancy to
make some one happy, no human power can
prevent his indulging in it. I think he means
to ask Charley Sotheran down, which will give
a double pleasure to his mother and you.'

As she said this, sirs. Peyton smiled with
some significance, and looked at her young
friend with an interrogating air. If she expected
her to change colour, she was mistaken ;
it was without the least embarrassment that
Mary expressed her opinion that Charley's
coming would be very nice, but so far as her

VOL. II. T

own spirits were concerned, the administration
of him as a tonic would be quite superfluous.

He took a great interest in you, I thought,
in London, my dear,' said Mrs. Peyton, with an
air of tender perplexity ; ' a very particular
interest.'

He was as kind to me as kind could be,'
returned Mary, warmly. ' There are few people
I like better than Charley ; but, my dear Mrs.
Peyton,' here she smiled in her most pleasant
fashion, ' I can really manage to get on without
him.'

Well, now, I almost thought you couldn't,'
exclaimed the old lady, naively ; ' that was because
I heard only one side of the question, I
suppose. Not that Charley ever said anything,'
she added hastily, noting the girl's quick flush
of annoyance, ' that hinted of a mutual attachment.'


I am quite sure he did not,' said Mary,
quietly, ' because he is incapable of an untruth.'


Then in that case, my dear, you must bea

paragon, for the way in which Charley praised
you was monstrous. I could not suppose at
the time — because I did not know you, you
know — that he was justified by the facts, and
therefore set it down to the exaggeration of a
lover.'

Mary laughed and was silent. It was not
necessary to inform Mrs. Peyton that, though
she had no love for Charley, Charley entertained,
or thought that he entertained, a boyish
passion for herself. The old lady plied her
needles for some time in thoughtful silence, and
then observed : —

By-the-by, Mary — if it does not distress
you to speak of it — was there not some one else
who at one time was more fortunate in pleasing
you than poor Charley ? Mrs. Beckett hinted
at something of the sort, but I thought it best
not to go into it. I should not speak of it now
had you not won my old heart, and made me
jealous of your having any secret apart from
me. Don't tell me if it pains you, daring, but
was there not some ether young gentleman ? '

T 2

Yes, Mrs. Peyton, there was,' said Mary,
frankly. ' It does not pain me now to speak
of him, but there was a time when it would
have pained me very much.'

You loved him, then ?

I loved what I thought was he,' said Mary,
obliquely.

What Mr. Nayler calls a presentment,' put
in the old lady, smiling gravely. 'Yes, his
theory is right so far. How often we women
are mistaken in the characters of those we love !
When we come to know them, how their images
fade from off their pedestals, dissolve, and become
quite other men. You, however, found
out your error, it seems, in time.'

'Yes, yes,' sighed Mary ; ' that is all over.'
She was quite at home with Mrs. Peyton now,
and did not at all resent these questionings,
which were prompted, as she justly concluded,
only by an affectionate regard.

I had a letter from your hostess of Park
Lane this morning,' continued the old lady
after a little pause. ' She excuses herself for

writing during her honeymoon, on the" ground
that it is her third. What a queer woman she
is!'

Xot a bad woman, however,' remarked
Mary.

Yet I gathered from Charley that she was
capable of a meanness,' observed the old lady
significantly.

At all events she has had the generosity to
repent of it,' answered Mary.

I am glad to hear you say so. My opinion
of her has always been that, while possessing
the weaknesses of our sex in profusion, she has
some noble qualities rarely found in it. Then
consider her position.'

Quite true,' put in Mary, promptly ;
'her faults belong to it, her virtues are her
own.'

I suppose, my dear, if it was necessary,
you would not shrink from meeting these
people again ? '

Mrs. Beckett and her husband ? Certainly
not,' said Mary, cheerfully.

By-the-by, she 's no longer Mrs. Beckett,'
remarked the old lady, smiling, ' nor even Mrs.
Dornay. She has resumed her old title of
Lady Orr. She writes to me, as I conclude
she has done to ail her friends, to inform me
of this. Ealph, she says, has no objection ; and,
considering the peculiar circumstances of the
case, she returns to her first love, or at all
events to the use of his name. The " intermediate
" Mr. Beckett is to be ignored altogether.'


Dear me, how strange ! ' said Mary.

She felt a curious and not unkindly interest
in her old friend of Park Lane, which a few
weeks ago it would have seemed impossible for
her to have entertained. The power of time,
like that of the ocean wave, is inconceivable
until we have experienced it. ' I am trying to
think,' said a statesman of our own day who
was well acquainted with this fact, as he sat
with a certain woful letter in his hand, ' how
I shall feel about this, six months hence.' If
he could have so far projected himself into the

future, he knew that his trouble would be
surpassed.

The resentment which Mary had once felt
against Mrs. Beckett no longer existed. She
could in imagination replace herself in her old
chamber in Park Lane, with every picture and
ornament about her as of old, but the feelings
which had overpowered her there after that
last interview with the widow had disappeared
like last winter's snow. What becomes of all
the love and hate, the delight and fury, the
hopes and fears of us poor mortals, which
kindle our hearts without consuming them as
though they were the fuel of a gas fire ?

On the other hand, there are some things
that are never forgotten.

In the room occupied by Mary Marvon
there was a large chest ornamented with scrolls
of breastwork, and looking as though it contained
some collection of curiosities, but which was
always kept locked. It did not inconvenience
the tenant of the apartment, which, Like all the
guest rooms at the hall, was of considerable

size, each one also communicating with a private
sitting-room, so that every one had a home
of his own. When Mary had reached that
point of familiarity with the hostess where innocent
curiosity ceases to be impertinence, and
the repression of it does wrong to friendship by
seeming to mistrust it, Mary asked Mrs. Peyton
what this chest contained.

^ Eehcs, my dear,' she answered gravely ;
they should be in my room by rights, and not
in yours.'

Then she sighed heavily and turned away,
in a manner that forbade further questioning.

That same night, when Mary chanced to be
sitting up late in her room, she was surprised
to hear her door softly opened, and Mrs.
Peyton come in. She had no candle, which,
though thei" rooms were contiguous, seemed
strange, since she could hardly have expected,
at that time of night, to find a light in her
young friend's room. Mary started up, but
though Mrs. Peyton's eyes were apparently
wide open and fixed upon her, she took no

notice of her presence. She had a key in her
hand, and going straight to the chest unlocked
it ; then throwing back the lid she proceeded
to regard the contents with a look of unutterable
woe.

For the moment Mary imagined that the
poor lady had taken leave of her senses, but
this she soon found was not the case ; they
were only in abeyance. Mrs. Peyton was
walking in her sleep. Marvellous condition of
the human mind, wherein we move and think
and have our being in an unreal world ! Nut
only our senses, but in a manner our very soul
has fled from us, since being unconscious we are
unaccountable for what we do even to God
Himself. There is always something weird in
watching persons in this condition ; but what is
strange, the dearer and nearer they are to us,
the more ' uncanny ' is the exhibition ; the more
nearly they are bound to us, the more mysterious
appears this spiritual separation between
ourselves and them.

There was a table beside the chest, and

upon it, like one who was used to the matter
(as indeed she was), the sleeper arranged what
she took out of this sacred receptacle ; but every
object she first handled reverently, pressed to
her heart, and shed over it abundant tears, yet
all in an awful silence. First there were some
child's playthings, battered and broken, and a
pair of little shoes ; then some torn picture
books, and a whip with a whistle — the relics,
as it was plain, of infancy. Then came other
books, dog-eared and soiled, but each of them
carefully wrapped up, as though they had been
jewels, in tissue paper ; next a clasp knife with
many blades, and then a letter. This she
opened with great care and smoothed out the
folds, which bore token of age and use.

Who of us do not possess similar treasures —
their hiding place known to ourselves alone,
their contents precious only to our own eyes ?

This ' dead leaf that kept its green ' was
but a boy's epistle, written in large round text,
and telling, no doubt, some dull uninteresting
news from the schoolroom or the playground ;

but if it had been a dead lover's Dote, she who
held it could not have exhibited more distress
and emotion. She did not read it — perhaps
she could not — but that mattered little, since
she had every syllable of it by heart, but
fondled and caressed it as if it had been a dove
or a dormouse.

Mary's position was a most embarrassing
one; it pained her to be the witness of this
sacred emotion, which was certainly not intended
for her eyes, yet she feared the consequences of
awakening the sleeper. There was nothing for
it but to remain quite still : if she could have
averted her eyes from the scene before her, she
would have done so, but an irresistible fascination
compelled her attention. The contents of
the chest resembled the strata in a geological
cabinet ; they were arranged in chronological
order, but the last epoch — alas ! that of manhood
! — was of short duration. It was clear from
the nature of the relics that the departed had
died young. There was nothing that spoke of
old age, or even of maturity. A light walking-cane,

such as none but a young man would
have carried ; a picture or two of the kind
which takes the fancy of undergraduates ; a
cigar case worked by some feminine hand ;
and again more letters. These last were tied
up with black ribbon, and Mrs. Peyton did not
undo them, but held them in her hand at a
little distance from her, apparently lost in
woful thoughts ; doubtless the colour of their
fastening betokened their contents, and she had
not the heart to read them.

From the first, Mary had understood that
these things were all that was left to Mrs.
Peyton of her dead boy. She guessed, too, why
they were not, as the other had said, where
they by rights should be, in her hostess's own
room. Their presence there would have
aroused the anger of her husband, implacable
as ever against his graceless son. It was
probably considered a crime in his unhappy
mother even to retain them, much more to
mourn over them ; but Mary's mention of the
chest that day had perhaps recalled them to

the poor lady's mind and caused this unconscious
visit. It was an unspeakable reef to the gul
when her hostess had come to the end of these
memorials, and quietly proceeded to replace
every article in the place from which she had
taken them. Then she gently closed the chest
and locked it, and with a sigh that seemed to
come from her very soul, and shaking her head
in a slow and pitied manner, left the room as
silently as she had entered it.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

SUITORS.

As to that painful scene in her own chamber
of which Mary had been an involuntary spectator,
it is needless to say that she said nothing
to any one ; but the remembrance of it drew
her still nearer to her hostess, as to one who
stood in sore need of loving sympathy. 'Mis.
Peyton, on her part, though unconscious of its
motive, was quick to see this growing tenderness,
and reciprocated it with a demonstrativeness
which under the circumstances was scarcely
prudent, and which, for one thing, made Mrs.
Scarsdale Mary's enemy. Mrs. Peyton, as maybe
imagined, was by no means one of those
high-placed, heartless women to whom the
feelings of those beneath them are subjects of

profound indifference ; but her affection for
Mary flowed in so deep and quick a stream that
it carried her away with it, and she thought
little of its effect on those about her.

Moreover, Scarsdale, though she had long
been Mrs. Peyton's own maid, had never
enjoyed her confidence, and therefore perhaps
her mistress did not sufficiently credit her with
the resentment with which Mary's advancement
and her own effacement inspired her. She
was, in fact, consumed with jealousy. That
quiet "You may go now, Scarsdale,' with which
;Mrs. Peyton dismissed her every evening, while
Mary remained in her room for a private talk,
struck through the tight stays of her waiting-woman
into her very soul. What was poison
to her wound, she found herself for a longtime
without sympathisers. Her fellow-servants,
w with whom she was no great favourite, had not
only nothing to complain of in Miss Marvon,
but had all a good word for her. Her gentle
manners, and her carefulness to avoid giving
trouble, made her popular with them ; and

whenever they had a favour to ask of their
mistress they soon found that there was no
siu-er way of obtaining it than through her
new ' companion.' Mary knew nothing of the
great systems of philosophy, but she unconsciously
did her best to ' increase the sum of
human happiness,' which — with the exception
of its supplement, the ' decrease of human
misery ' — is perhaps to be recommended above
all others for general wear. She especially
interested herself in Japhet Marcomm, Mr.
Peyton's deaf-and-dumb attendant, whose sign
language she learned with great rapidity, and
who repaid her for her kindly notice of him
with an attachment only second to that which
he evinced for his master. Even to Scarsdale
herself she was as courteous, and would have
been as kind, as to the rest, but that lady
resented her civilities as though they had been
some odious form of patronage, and replied to
them in a manner that not only suggested ice,
but rough ice. From her fellow-servants, as I
have said, she received no encouragement in

this behaviour ; but her complaints reached the
ears of others in a higher sphere, and received
what she conceived to be their meed of sympathy,
but which was in fact a by no means
disinterested condolence. None of the Happy
Family grudged Mary Marvon her favour with
Mrs Peyton. That lady was, as it were,
shunted off the main line of their calculations,
and could neither assist nor obstruct them in
reaching the terminus of their hopes. But
Mary's obviously rapid advancement in the
good graces of their host filled them ^\ith
distrust and consternation.

She had indeed become so dangerous in the
eyes of some of them as to suggest conciliation
and something more. Under ordinary circumstances,
indeed, it may not have seemed unnatural
that, being so young and comely,
Mary should inspire admiration even in those
who deemed her interests antagonistic to their
own ; but in the case of a great metaphysician
like Mr. Marks, or of a transcendentalist such
as Mr. Nayler, nothing so gross and vulgar was
VOL. II. u

to be looked for ; the personal attentions which
they condescended to pay to her must be
considered, not as the evidence of any human
weakness within, but as a method of self-defence
— a desperate remedy. A keen observer
— who must, however, have had exceptional
opportunities of observing them, for their
demonstrations were very prudent — would
nevertheless have concluded that they were
making love to her ; and this was a conviction
that, in course of time, notwithstanding she
knew that they were such professed philosophers,
was borne in upon Mary herself. Of
course she was mistaken, as indeed it proved ;
but in the meantime their conduct was certainly,
to say the least of it, suggestive.

In the first place, Mr. Marks, when alone
with Mary, would voluntarily divorce himself
from his professed passion, metaphysics, and
converse, after an intermediate stage or two,
like an ordinary mortal : he confessed to her
that in her presence he forgot his Kant — by
which he was charitably understood to mean

his favourite author — and was tempted to exchange
his system for one more spiritual, such
as that which speculate upon how many angels
can dance upon a pin's point ; and then again
he would sigh as if struck by an afterthought,
and protest that there was only one angel for
whom he cared a pin, and that she was in his
immediate vicinity. This was not his first day's
work, we may be sure, nor his second, but this
is what it came to. He gave her to understand
that hitherto, for all his learning, he had been
as a blind man until her presence had opened
his eyes — a statement which caused poor Mary
(who thought him mad) to open her eyes to
their extreme limit. ' Yes,' he said, with an
air of profound conviction, ' until I saw you,
Miss Marvon, the revelation of the Beautiful
had not been vouchsafed to me, and it transcends
all expectation. The effect of it, as you
yourself cannot have failed to observe, is very
considerable, even in the lowest types of
humanity ' (here he glanced significantly at
v2

Mr. Nayler, who was looking such daggers of
jealousy at him, as, had he not been a mere
presentment, must have pierced him through
and through) ; ' you may judge therefore how
it thrills the soul of one who knows how to
think and feel.'

It was impossible to reply to such rhetoric,
and Mary used to nod from time to time,
thereby unconsciously giving him great encouragement,
and murmur to herself by way
of comfort, ' After all, he is quite harmless.'
But as time went on Mr. Marks grew so much
bolder and plainer, even to the dropping hints
of what a pleasant place Letcombe Hall would
be for them to live in should Mr. Beryl Peyton
have the good sense to leave it to one or other
of them, how likely it was that he would do so,
and how expedient it was for both of them to
co-operate to that end, that Mary had at last
to put her foot down and crush these
very unwelcome speculations. And then it
was that she was given to understand that
Mr. Marks had all along been talking metaphysics,

or, in other words, had not really
meant anything he said.

Mary's experience with Mr. Josiah Nayler
was slightly different. That gentleman had not
the sublime courage, or, as Mr. Marks's enemies
did not scruple to term it, the consummate
impudence, of his rival, and made Ins advances
with more caution. Conscious of his backwardness
in this respect, he presently informed
Mary, with every sign of a sincere remorse,
that it had arisen from a doubt in his own
mind as to the reality of her existence. There
was no test, as he explained to her, by which
you could be certain to detect presentments,
and the fact of her appearance in so angelic a
garb (here he bowed his long body in such a
manner as to suggest a note of admiration
becoming, by evolution, one of interrogation),
so far from satisfying him on this point, had
only rendered him the more suspicions. An
evil ' presentment ' revealed itself at once (poor
Mary, who knew nothing of this theory, thought
he meant a presentiment, and, eagerly snatching

at this straw in the way of intelhgibihty,
nodded adhesion) ; but a good, and especially
a beautiful, presentment had to be examined
with caution. He had, however, given his best
attention to her, and was convinced — here he
gently took her hand and pressed it tenderly —
that she was as palpable as she was pure.

With her strong sense of humour it was
difficult for Mary to keep her countenance, but
the remembrance of Charles Sotheran's remark,
that the inmates of Letcombe Hall gave it a
very strong resemblance to a private madhouse,
stood her, as in Mr. Marks's case, in good stead.
She felt a pity for Mr. Josiah Nayler which
made her bear with him with a patience that
would have been otherwise impossible, or even
culpable. There was a method, however, even
in Mr. Nayler's madness, and the time came
when he, too, ventured delicately to hint that
since two humans, male and female, the one
the type of thought and the other of comeliness,
had had the extraordinary good fortune to
make one another's acquaintance, it would be

madness indeed, in a world of presentments,
not to unite themselves together not indeed for
their own benefit (for such an idea was unworthy
of them), but for the advantage, and
possibly even for the preservation, of the human
race.

To this Mary quietly replied, that if ever
she married, it would not be upon general
principles, but from attachment to some particular
individual.

But suppose,' exclaimed !Mr. Xayler, ' that
you should take a fancy to a presentment ? '

I should prefer a presentment whom I
fancied,' was her audacious rejoinder, ' to ever
so real a person for whom I had neither fancy
nor respect.'

An observation which, indignant at his
philosophic mode of courtship (which she mistook
for impertinence), she accompanied with
such a look of scorn that lie could hardly be
in doubt of its personal apph cation.

Then, perceiving all hope of alliance was
over, Mr. Josiah Xayler descended from the

heights of philosophy and gave battle on the
level plain of practical common-sense.

It is clear to me, young lady,' he said with
an angry flush on his face, ' that you have
altogether mistaken my meaning. It is unnecessary
to make any future allusion to the
matter. If, under the delusion that I have
made you an offer of marriage, you should
think fit to communicate the circumstance to
Mrs. Beryl Peyton, I give you fair warning
that I shall deny it.'

Mary's unfortunate mistake with respect to
these students of philosophy — for it cannot be
conceived that two persons who had devoted
themselves to that special study should not
know their own minds — not only cost her
their friendship, but made them her irreconcilable
enemies.

As to Dr. Bilde, he had apparently despised
her from the first ; her gentleness and sympathy
were attributes that at once stamped her, in his
opinion, as a fool, while the indignation which

his sentiments occasionally compelled her to
express, offended him.

Against Mr. Hindon she had been forearmed
and forewarned. On the very next day
after her arrival, Mrs Welbeck, finding herself
next to Mary at tea in the drawing-room,
became extremely confidential, and narrated to
her (as her custom was whenever she coidd
find a listener) the whole woful story of her
married life.

If you will take my advice, my dear
young lady,' she concluded, ' you will never
place your happiness in the hands of faithless
Man. By-the-by,' she added, with no more
privacy than was involved by holding up a
very thin piece of bread and butter between
herself and the rest of the company like a fan,
has Mr. Hindon proposed to you yet ? Well,
he will' she continued, as Mary made a gesture
of alarmed negation. ' I believe he has
proposed even to Miss Parks.'

What is that you are saying, Mrs. Wei-beck

? ' inquired the maiden thus alluded to,
in quick sharp tones.

I am warning Miss Marvon against faithless
Man.*

'But, my dear Mrs. Welbeck,' interposed
Mrs. Peyton, with some seriousness, for she did
not approve of that lady's confidences, especially
when addressed to Mary, ' you must not
traduce the whole sex on account of the
behaviour of individuals.'

They are all alike,' urged Mrs. Welbeck,
confidently.

I am sure Professor Parks was never a
Don Giovanni,' said Mrs. Peyton.

And I would ask you, Mrs. Welbeck,'
said Adela, wishing to repay her hostess for
her compliment to her brother, ' has not Mr.
Beryl Peyton led a monogamous Use ? '

I don't impute it to him,' returned Mrs.
Welbeck, to whom long words were not so
familiar as to her interlocutor, the ornament of
many platforms ; ' if he has, let us hope it is
all over now. — Ahem ! '

This Warning cry announced the advent
of the gentlemen, and amongst them Mr.
Hind on, who, as it so happened, seated himself
next to Mary.

Now mark my words, he is going to do it,'
whispered Mi's. Welbeck in Mary's ear, as she
left her side to go to the piano, on which she
was an accomplished performer. And before
the second tune was played Mr. Hindon did
do it.

He was as confidential as Mrs. Welbeck
had been, and more so, for he had an imagination
to work with. He spoke of first love as a
sacred mystery, and then proceeded to disclose
it. He had painted it as many times as
Haydn painted his picture of Napoleon, and
was thoroughly at home with his subject.
From the general he slid into the particular,
and, scarcely knowing how it happened, Mary
found herself in lull possession of the facts of
Mr. Hindon's age and ancestry, and of the
figures of his income. If she had felt any
interest in the matter, she would have been

surprised to find him so young, and especially
so rich. It seemed so strange indeed that he
should be content to live as Mr. Peyton's guest
when he might have had a Letcombe Hall of
his own, that ]diary dropped a remark to that
effect.

True,' he said, ' but solitude is intolerable
to me ; and until to-day ' (here his voice
sank so low with excess of feeling, or because
he feared to be overheard, that it grew almost
inarticulate) — ' nay, until this hour, I had
never seen the being '

Since you have, it seems, monopolised
Miss Marvon, Mr. Hindon,' here again put in
Mrs. Peyton, who had doubtless a shrewd suspicion
of the tenor of this talk, ' perhaps you
would use your influence with her to favour
us with a song.'

The very appeal which I was making to
her,' was the unblushing rejoinder. 'As I
was just saying, 1 had never seen the being
whose countenance so distinctly suggested a
love of music as that of Miss Marvon.'

If the remark, confessedly made in haste,
*hat all men are liars, is to be credited, they
are at least not liars in the sam degree. Some
have a natural ^Ih that wav which art can
scarcely improve, and for audacity, exaggeration,
and a really remarkable faculty of impromptu
invention, Mr. Hindon might be
called a champion liar. What gave breadth
and splendour to his efforts was his contempt
for consistency, which saved him all that strain
upon the memory, and trouble of coveting,
which affects most men in his profession ; the
lie came as natural, swift, and instinctive to
him as the flicker of a serpent's tongue. On
the other hand, this habitual practice weakened
the effect of what he said, and after a day or
two, when he found an opportunity to renew
his suit, Mary knew enough of him to reject it
with an amused indifference, as though he had
offered her a wax apple instead of a real one.

END OF THE SECOND VOLUME.

6POTTISWOODE AND CO., SEW-street SQUARE

AXU Parliament STREET
