VOL. I.

AT ALL THE LIBRARIES.

Ralph EAEBUEN. By John Berwick Haywood,

author of ' Lady Flavian,' &c. 3 vols.

LOVE AND MIRAGE. By M. Bentham-Edwards, author

of ' Kitty,' ' Doctor Jacob,' ' Bridget,' &c. 2 vols.

THE DOUBLE Dutchman. By Catharine Child,

author of 'The Future Marquis,' 'A Maid called Barbara,' &c. 3 vols.

JOY, By May Crommelust, author of ' Queene,' ' Orange

Lily,' 'A Jewel of a Girl,' &c. 3 vols.

ON THE SPUE OF THE MOMENT. By John Mills,

author of ' The Old English Gentleman,' ' Too Fast to Last,' &c. 3 vols.

HURST & BLACKETT, 13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

% iflijti

BY

THE EEV. W. 0. Pile,

Author, OF " TAY."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDOIs^:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1885.

All rights reserved.

CLAY AND TAYLOR, PRTXTEKS.

P 551 OAT-vel


CONTENTS

OF

THE FIRST VOLUME.

CHAPTER

I. A Student of Physiognomy

II. Westss Past and Present .

III. Snakes in Arcadia

IV. Mother and Son
V. The Deputation -.

VI. Madam sends for the Rector

"VII. The Upheaval Begins

VIII. A Visitor in Britannia Street

IX. How Adolphus took it

X. The Angel of Death .

XI. Desdichado

'XII. An Ambassadress Extraordinary

XIII. Audience OF Lady Emily .

XIV. The New Squire
XV. A Ride on Hamlet

PAGE
















16.3













in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/westofswardhamno01peil

CHAPTEE I.
A STUDENT OF PHYSIOGNOMY.

rjlHE ladies have just filed out of the
-^ dining-room at Swardham Hall, and
the men have closed up to the end of the
long table where John West has taken the
seat vacated by his mother. Two only of
the guests are parted by an interval of
empty chairs and dishevelled napkins from
the ranks of burly squires and comfortable
parsons, who have already plunged into
general conversation, evidently of absorbing
interest to the party, and in which their
host is bearing his share.

VOL. I. B

Of the lonely pair, one is Francis Hole
rector of Swardham, a courteous
little man of middle age, comely features,
and prosperously neat appearance. The
rector would fain be attending to the topic
which is occupying his friends and neighbours,
but that he has promised the lady
of the house to ' look after ' a guest who
is the only stranger present, and no less
a person than the new Lady Woollen's
brother, on his first visit to Fleeces Park.
Never has request of his loved and honoured
friend Mrs. West failed of loyal obedience
from the rector, but it is with some trepidation
that he has buckled to the task of
looking after this lean yellow gentleman
with a strange accent, part Scottish, part
foreign, who seems indeed perfectly competent
to take care of himself. He has
begun by flatly declining to entertain a
suggestion timidly propounded, that they

should do as the rest have done, and
close up.

I find myself perfectly comfortable
where I am, thank ye,' said the yellow
stranger, all regardless of a wistful glance
which his companion could not quite suppress,
' perfectly comfortable ' — and with
that he fished with his long legs under the
table till he had secured a footstool, placed
for the accommodation of one of the departed
matrons ; swept a dish of olives
within easy reach, and settled himself back
in his chair, as one prepared to make
himself completely at home.

With mild astonishment the rector
watched eight olives as they successively
disappeared between those cadaverous jaws !

Holbrooke, I hope you are looking after
our friend,' says John AYest from his distant
seat. ' What wine are you drinking, Mr.
Auchmuty ? '

B 2

The stranger bows, and makes a feint of
appropriating half a glass of sherry left by
one of the ladies, but declines uplifting his
voice in audible answer.

This is '34 port,' says the rector, appealingly,
but Mr. Auchmuty only smiles ashe
impales another olive, and then utters
foul treason against the contents of the
Swardham cellars, and all vintages whatsoever
known to Englishmen — treason such
as never before had the rector heard at that
hospitable board.

*Ask a native of the Peninsula to taste
your ports and sherries,' the blasphemer
goes on unabashed, ' and his answer would
be mine. You have no wine, no natural
product worthy of the name, in this country.
And, if you had, you wouldn't drink it.'

After this there is nothing; to do but,
with all speed, to change the conversation,
though it was with faint hopes that Mr,

Holbrooke entered upon any further discussion
with so audacious a heretic. What
might not follow from a man who contemned
John West's best wine at his own
table ? Scarcely should the squire himself
be safe of due respect at the mouth of such
a fellow, and, courteous as the rector is,
there are limits ! He could not have sat
still and heard any of the Westss disparaged.

It is your first visit to this part of
Longshire, I understand,' he says gently ;
I hope you like our country ; the grass-lands
are considered second to none in
England.'

Well, sir, as you ask me, I must say
that for a small, over-populated island such
as this, I consider it a waste, just a wanton,
l^z^-mentable waste, that a district should
be encumbered with useless woods, policies,
and demesne lands as this is.'

But surely you would not have such

houses as this, for instance, or Sir Tancred's
at Fleeces, stand flush with a high-road,
with just ground enough behind them to
grow their garden-stuff '? '

The long, narrow eyes of Mr. Auchmuty
twinkled and then closed to mere slits, ashe
replied with much composure —

Aye, sir, but I would, unless it could be
proved that every man Jack among you,
gentle or simple, had ground enough to
grow Diis potatoes, and that there was still
enough to spare for these great useless
grounds

Alas for Sir Tancred ! why could he not
be faithful to the memory of good old Lady
Woollett, buried not twenty months since ?
or if constrained to take another wife, why
not have chosen among his kind, and the
good old stocks of Longshire or other midland
shires ? Terrible, however, must be the
retribution which had surely already overtaken

the easy-going baronet, constrained
to welcome as the brother of his mature
bride this ill-conditioned, parchment-looking
being ! It was almost sacrilege to
discuss Swardham matters with one who
had so plainly shown the cloven hoof, but
the rector was ever polite and loyal to his
engagements, and Mr. Auchmuty was now
condescending to put him through a pretty
vigorous catechism as to his parish, and the
family who so worthily ruled it.

Now the rector was a man without guile,
a man also whose lines had fallen in a
pleasant place, as it seemed to him, and
who was more than content with his lot.
To his mind Swardham was a model parish,
the rustics a model peasantry, John West
a model squire, and John West's mother a
saint on earth. So to all the stranger's
questions he was able to return glowing
answers, that came at least straight from

his honest heart. All the parish, he said,
with insignificant exceptions, belonged to
the squire, forming part of his broad
ancestral acres. Nothing could be more
satisfactory than the relations between landlord
and tenant in this favoured spot.
Nowhere were the poor less burdened or
more devoted to their lords, or more respectful
to the Church. Nowhere was such
a bright example of charity and every
virtue shown to rich and poor alike as
by Mrs. West. Mr. Holbrooke's unfeigned
enthusiasm is evidently entertaining to his
questioner, though his amusement only
peeps slyly from those Chinese eyes.

A queen dowager is all very well till a
queen consort appears,' he says maliciously,
and then out she goes, whatsoever her
merits, and your villagers will soon show
themselves courtiers enough to worship the
rising power. It's a wonder that such an

admirable Crichton of a laird has remained
a bachelor so long

Sir, no such change could make one
jot of difference in the veneration in which
we all hold the lady of this house. Indeed
it is well known that Mrs. West wishes her

:1^on to choose a wife, and I trust his choice
may fall on a daughter of some one of
our good old county families, known and
respected to us all.'

This with a keen sense of the wrong
done by Sir Tancred Woollett in his late
selection of a bride.

A limited choice,' croaks Mr. Auchmuty,
is one of the penalties of such an elevated
position, something like the case of the
princes of the blood royal.'

Of course the head of a family of long
descent and territorial importance should
mate with one of like degree,' says the
rector somewhat stiffly, 'and if there is

anything in the report that the Duke of
Hexham's daughter is to be future mistress
here, which I'm not in a position to assert,
nor to contradict, mind you ! it will be a
most suitable alliance, the families behoof
already related in blood.'

Why, man, ye talk of long descent, but
as far as anything could be gathered from
Sir Tancred's muddled talk, poor gowk that
he is at the simplest statement, it's but on
the spindle side that your Squire is a West
at all ! '

*Mr. Auchmuty, there never was a
truer West than the present squire ; he
has the form and features, aye, and character
and temper, of the best of the long line !
It's certainly true that his father was a
Woodvil, a second cousin of the duke's,
but he is the only grandson and the living
image of old Squire West, and never was
fitter representative of a worthy ancestry ! '

Quite unmoved by this little display
of vehemence, Mr. Auchmuty went on
musingly —

And the grandfather left the property
past his only surviving child to a grandson.
Will this be the secret trouble that I read
in the face of the old lady that sat up
yonder, or what else is it ? '

Horror and astonishment have quite
deprived the rector of breath, as he listens
to this little less than impious utterance.
Mrs. AVest a prey to secret trouble ! the
humblest, bravest, brightest of Christian
women corroded at heart by some grief
that could not bear the light of day ! and
this calumny spoken by a mere stranger,
and spoken to him, her pastor, her almoner,
her spiritual counsellor for thirty years ! It
was too much.

Sir, you speak at random ; you, as a
stranger, speak to me, an intimate, in a

manner unwarranted by fact and good
taste he managed to say at last.

But calmer than ever seems the other,
as he replies with deliberation —

It's just intimates that never remark
what is always under their noses. I have
made a study of p/iees,iognomj for some
years past, and am considered to have
become not inexpert in its practical application
; and I must adhere to my opinion
that Mistress West has a secret weiirhinj]:
upon her ; perhaps I should shock you if I
added that her face shows to me the handwriting
of remorse.'

And this,' cries Holbrooke scornfully, ' is
the result of how long a scrutiny ! ten
minutes in the drawings-room, and then a
glimpse or two from the stir end of this
table.'

I'll not say but what I might, in this
case, have found sufficient time, even this

evening, to make my observations and
deductions ; but the fact is that I was
present in your church on Sunday afternoon
last, and as you addressed your
sermon (as you'll doubtless remember) to
the young who had been recently confirmed
or are expectant of that rite, I, who am
not young, and have got on very well sofar
without the imposition of episcopal
hands, took the liberty of abstracting my
attention, and then of studying the most
remarkable face I could find in your church.
It was Mistress West's face, and she was
no more attending to your discourse than I
was ! The secret was claiming her attention,
Mr. Rector ; hidden remorse was leading
her, willy nilly, on an old weary dance !
She is not the woman, if I have any skill
in reading the lineaments, to be disquieted
about a trifle ; and unless the secret is one
that will die with her, you will remember

this little confidence of mine some day,
when this Arcadia of yours may be upheaved
with a genuine sensation. Now, if you
were a Roman priest you would have had
it all out long ago. By the bye, if you
must be priests at all, wasn't it foolish of you
to give up the father-confessor business ? '

Disregarding this objection to the tactics
of the Reformed Church, the rector, in tones
very unlike those usual to him, observed —

If your studies had been tinctured with
common charity, sir, you would scarcely
have conjured up such accusations against
an admirable lady, whom none that know
her could suspect of being under any such
influences as you fancy. And now, sir,
pray let the subject drop for ever.'

The last words were given in a cheerier
tone, as Mr. Holbrooke perceived that his
ordeal was over. Men were rising from their
chairs and straddling towards the door, the

last sip of sherry had been swallowed, the
last clink of a coffee cup had been heard,
and the longest sitting which the rector had
ever endured in that room was finished.
Never before had the proposal to join the
ladies sounded so rapturously in his ears.
Once in the drawing-room, he could feel the
task, which had taxed his loyalty and
temper, discharged, and fly to more congenial
company. Just one glance he gave,
when that asylum was reached at last, to a
bevy of girls clustering round the piano, to
make sure that his daughter, who has not
been of the dinner guests, has found her
way safely to the Hall. A nod from a
pretty little head with smooth coils of
brown hair rewarded that careful glance.

My girl wouldn't be the last a young
fellow would pick out, be her company
who they may,' thinks the fond father as he
seeks the side of a brother parson.

I could only catch a word or two of
what was said over the wine,' he begins
in an eager undertone, * but tell me, like a
good fellow as you are, Morgan, didn't the
young squire half promise to stand for the
county, as well as wholly engaging to take
over the hounds ? '

Mr. Morgan, a very stout and jolly-looking
man, nodded his head till his fat cheeks
shook about, and made answer, as he slowly
rubbed his hands —

Aye, aye ! Sir Tancred and old Lenham
put the thing in a way that was irresistible ;
and he's a fine fellow, the young squire,
and will be a credit to Parliament. There
will be a formal deputation by and by to
invite him to stand. As to the hounds, he
makes no difficulty, not a bit more than his
grandfather before him ; hell take them,
just whenever Cumby drops, and never ask
for a subscription, I warrant.'

The eyes of the two parsons met, well
pleased, and each, chuckled, as men who feel
that things are shaping just as they should.
To Mr. Holbrooke especially the weal of
the house of West stood second to no
consideration, not even the future of the
bright-faced girl yonder. It was delightful
to him that the head of that house should
be ready to assume such positions as the
worthiest of his forefathers had often filled.
Of John West's fitness for any position, or
of the likelihood of his being called, in
some such way as at present, by acclamation
of his neighbours to an honourable
eminence, the rector had never doubted,
but he had harboured a secret dread lest
the young squire's complaisance might not
be found equal to his undoubted capacity.
For it was indeed a fact, known to none
better than his old friend and tutor, that,
except from his mother. West was some-vol.

I. C

what intolerant of advice, that he was
confessedly somewhat wedded to his own
opinions, somewhat disdainful of what he
deemed twaddle ; bad in short to lead, ashe
was bad to beat. In such a matter as
this invitation to contest the division of his
county at the next election, a suspicion of
patronage, an attempt to pat him blandly
on the back, might so easily have sent him
off at a tangent, utterly mutinous and
impracticable. But it was plain that Mr.
Lenham and the baronet of Fleeces Park
(who were among the leading Conservatives
of the district) had been discreet so far
and wary, and great was the satisfaction
diffused by the news that West of Sward-ham
was to be the true blue candidate,
come next election.

Soothed and gratified as the rector had
been by this colloquy with his brother-parson,
and by the expressions of satisfaction

which he heard on all hands at the
present prospect, both sporting and political,
his thoughts reverted before the end of the
evening to the strange, uncomfortable man
who had spoiled his relish for his glass of
port that night, and who had ventured to
base strange, uncomfortable theories on
something which he professed to discern
in the face of the best woman in the world,
one

Half-canonized by all that look'd on her,
So gracious was her tact and tenderness.'

There she sat, her slim and upright figure,
all in black velvet and delicate point
d'Alengon, in high relief against the exuberant
outline and lightly-tinted draperies of
Sir Tancred Woollett's elderly bride. Her
white hair is smoothed from an unruffled
brow ; her finely-cut features, her placid
and gracious expression, are as serenely
admirable as they have appeared to Mr.

C 2

Holbrooke for half his lifetime. As he
prolongs his scrutiny the room is hushed
for a song, and while Lady Woollett falls
comfortably back to fan and listen, and all
eyes turn to the piano, where two pretty
girls are warbling a duet, he sees a sudden
change pass over Mrs. West's face, which
fills him with vague disquietude ; for in a
moment the peace of that refined, handsome
countenance seems to have fled. The brows
are slightly contracted, the eyelids droop
wearily, the lips are set painfully, and the
fingers of one thin, well-shaped hand are
nervously clasped and unclasped around
the other wrist. In a very few minutes
the song is over, and guests, minded of
long homeward drives, are making for their
hostess to tender their adieu. But they do
not see the face which has just troubled
the rector. In a moment Mrs. West is
herself again, calm, courteous, serene of

aspect, gracious in manner. It must have
been a passing qualm, on which none would
base comments but a prying, prating
stranger. It was rubbish, mere impertinent
drivelling on this Auchmuty's part ;
and yet, indignant as it made him, that
slander haunted the rector and set him
thinking.

'Mary,' he said, taking his daughter's
hand within his great-coat sleeve as they
started for the rectory, * you are an observant
little maid, and you love and honour
Mrs. West, I know ; do you see any change
in her of late ? '

Pretty Mary Holbrooke slackened her
pace along the smooth gravel as she collected
her straying thoughts to answer her
father.

*Any change, papa? I have never put
it before myself directly, as your question
puts it, but all this year I have had a

consciousness of something — what shall I
call it ? — of some sort of shadow, which has
fallen on her dear, noble spirit. She is as
good and delightful as ever, but not as
happy perhaps. What can be the cause,
do you think, papa ? ^

But, beyond an inarticulate groan, the
rector gave his daughter no answer. He
was indeed too dismayed to speak. How
was it that a change in his most valued
friend, a change palpable to babes and
sucklings, and to casual visitors, should
have made no impression on him ? But was
it not rather that, like his daughter, he
had never put any direct question to himself
on the point ? With uneasiness he
besfan to recall various indications that all

o

was not as it had been with Mrs. West. Not
since Easter (and it was now November)
had she knelt among the few communicants
around the holy table at which he ministered

; she who had been so regular in her
religious duties. Humble-minded as she
had ever been, and averse to hear herself
praised, there had been almost horror in
her manner when, on several recent occasions,
she had, with vehement self-abasement,
repudiated some encomium offered
to her charitable zeal. And to-night there
had been, while the attention of the rest
was distracted from her, that sad scared
look, so foreign to those calm features.
Alas ! he had deserved the sneer levelled
by this Scotch heathen at his priesthood.
A wiser, better man, though no Woman
confessor, might perchance have spared this
noble heart some suffering which now is
burdening it — suffering innocently incurred,
for of wronor-doing no taint could cleave to
Eachel West.

Thus musing: the rector hurried his child
through the darkling shrubberies, and stood

at last at his own porch ; and, like a good
girl as she was, Mary respected his meditations,
and kept discreet silence, till she
bid her father a filial good night.

CHAPTER ir.

West PAST AND Present.

rpHE Westss of Swardham were, as has
^ been intimated by the family's staunch
champion, the rector, a long-descended
house ; indeed their unbroken connection
with their hereditary acres could not be
paralleled in all Longshire, if elsewhere in
the Midlands. Exalted as was the rank
of the Duke of Hexham, the "Woodvils, a
family of the north country, had only been
in Longshire since George the First's reign,
when the then Earl of Hexham had married
the heiress of Marloes. As to the Fits
Raymond, the epoch was scarcely beyond

the memory of a few surviving patriarchs
when the eminent law-lord and founder of
that imposingly-named branch of nobility
bad bought Snugly, and christened the
Palladian pile, which he built on the site of
the old hall, ' Beausite.' Neither peerage
bad ever eclipsed the glories and the preeminence
of Swardham in the eyes of true
Longshire folk. As there was no larger, so
was there no better landlord than Squire
West, whether grandsire or grandson. The
fine old red-brick house, in its stately park,
was the scene of no intermittent hospitalities;
for if the Longshire folk appreciated
the Westss, they in turn made their only
home amid the Longshire grass-lands and
elms, leaving Swardham seldom and reluctantly,
and returning to it gladly and
with all possible despatch.

A worthy representative of his house in
all respects had been John West, spoken of

in these pages as the old squire. About
him, in the old hall where he himself was
born, there sprang children, of whom three
alone survived infancy, two sons and one
daughter, the same Rachel West for whom
the rector is, in her old age, growing anxious.
The elder son, John, was in all things the
counterpart of his father. To him, as also
to his sister, had descended the commanding
figure, the dark hair, and haughty,
regular features characteristic of generations
of Westss. The younger son, Adolphus byname,
resembled the family of his mother,
whose darling and youngest born he was.
Delicate from his childhood, he had been
spoiled and fondled by maternal partiality,
and grew up a fragile, wilful stripling, on
whom his father looked with little favour.
Never, so the old squire declared, had a West
been unwilling to look all the world full in
the face, till this saucy shaver appeared,

with his shifty blue eyes and receding chin,
his dandified ways and girlish petulance.
But John West loved his wife, and for her
sake took little apparent notice of the boy's
peculiarities, endeavouring to trust him ashe
trusted his other children. In due time
Adolphus went up to Christ Church, and
it was in his second term that his mother
died, commending her boy with her last
breath to her husband's forbearance, and to
the special care of his elder sister. Rachel
West indeed discharged her trust as far as
in her lay right loyally and lovingly, but
between Adolphus and his f\itlier a breach
presently opened which widened rapidly,
until a sad and unexpected ending parted
the twain for ever. At Oxford Adolphus
had done nothing to conciliate his sire or
enhance his own reputation. There were,
on the contrary, troubles without end for
the proud squire as long as his son's university

career lasted — money troubles to
begin, then rustication and other troubles
with the authorities, culminating in expulsion,
and, alas ! disgrace. Deeply stung by
his son s previous conduct, the father was at
last wounded to the quick by the announcement
that the lad was not only a gambler,
but a fraudulent gambler, a detected cheat.
In his agony of rage and humiliation he forbade
the name of Adolphus to be mentioned
in his presence, and swore to erase him
from his heart and consideration for ever.
It is questionable indeed whether relief did
not outweigh all paternal regrets when,
within three months of his expulsion from
Oxford, Adolphus died at a London lodging-house,
after a short illness, from which
dissipation, and possibly despair, forbade his
rallying. Wretched, however, as was this
closing scene of a misspent life, the dyino-
man was not abandoned to hireling hands.

His sister, then a bride of a few montis*
standing:, was in London with her husband,
and, when summoned to the sick chamber,
stayed there to the sad end, doing all that
woman's love could suQ:gjest to soothe those
awful hours. In her kind ear Adolphus
poured all his miserable confessions, and,
thanks to her sisterly consolations, he passed
away less comfortless than many a better
man.

Within two short years Eachel Woodvil
sat by another deathbed, but this time it
was her own husband whose eyes she
closed. Handsome, popular, and thriftless,
George Woodvil was probably saved by an
early death from the melancholy decline
and fall which overtakes most of his class.
As it was, the glamour of early love was
not yet dispelled from the young wife's
affections, and though Woodvil left behind
him, out of a once ample fortune, barely

sufficient to pay his debts, his widow's heart
never conceived a reproach against his improvidence,
and their boy was taught to
love his father's memory, although he
resigned after a time that father's name.
Ill, however, as in worldly gear she was
left by her husband, her father's love and
care shielded the widow and her baby son
from all nearer acquaintance with the woes
of poverty. The very day after Woodvil's
funeral, the squire brought his daughter
and the child home to Swardham, and the
old house rejoiced to find once more a
mistress. Nor was Rachel less cordially
welcomed by her only surviving brother,
who was still a bachelor, and took his full
share in making much of her and petting
his sturdy little nephew.

Thus in peace and amity the years passed
on, and the breaches torn by storms of
sorrow in the stalwart old squire had been

closed and well-nigh obliterated, when once
more his proud head was bowed before the
blast of adversity as he stood by the corpse
of the sole inheritor of his ancient name,
his eldest gotten and the son of his love.
John West the younger was a mighty
hunter, a fearless and judicious rider, one
skilled in all the arts of horsemanship, and
victor in many a trying tussle with half-broken
colts and stubborn beasts. And
yet for this man, so famed in the field, so
proof for over twenty seasons against all
accidents, it was reserved that he should
meet his death within the familiar enclosure
of his father's park, and by a fall
from a steady old hunter ridden for exercise
and old association's sake upon a summer's
afternoon. A feeble folk are the conies,
but it was one of these which, straying and
burrowing where none had strayed before,
caused old Tartar to come down amid his

easy swinging gallop as though he had
been shot, and pitched Tartar's master over
his ears, to light upon his head amid the
uncurling ferns. The old horse scrambled
up presently, shaking and shivering, and
limped with a strained pastern towards
his stable, but the rider never stirred
again from where he lay among the brake
with his head strangely bent beneath him.
They said afterwards that had he been
equipped as for the hunting field, his tall
hat might have broken his fall and saved
his life, but there could be no protection
in the light cap which he wore. It might
be, but John AVest was a heavy man, heavy
as well as tall, as they had reason to
remark who bore him on a hurdle to the
old hall door, where the father met the
bearers, and saw at a glance what had
occurred.

His neck is broken said the old squire

VOL. I. D

as he turned at last away, and withdrew
from men's eyes.

It seemed to him in that black hour that
the world was ended for him, and that the
dead only were to be envied their lot. But
the old squire lived on, lived to be cheered
by his daughter's constant tenderness and
his grandson's bright promise, lived till in
his latest days he would confuse at times
the living with the dead, and believe that
the John whose youthful presence he loved
was verily his own first begotten restored
from out of the past.

From the moment in which he besran too



recover himself from the stupor of affliction
that had weighed him down when his last
remaining son was thus suddenly taken from
him, the old man had designated as his sole
heir this last offshoot from the old stock,
and by his desire mother and son had at
once dropped their name of Woodvil for

that of West. It was then a comfort to
the squire that his grandson had inherited
nothings from his dead father save blood fit
to mix with that of the Westss' ; nothing
that could threaten to rival or diminish
Swardham's importance in its next possessor's
eyes. And on all hands it was admitted
that in young John West, as he grew
up to man's estate, no characteristic was
lacking that had distinguished the house of
Swardham ; that he was as masterful and
proud, as honourable and manly as any that
had come before him : a stiff-necked man
perhaps among his equals, but a kind master
and a good friend to the poor, for whom he
would always have a pleasant word.

Three years of energetic idling at Eton
saw young West's longest absences from
Swardham, for to college he resolutely
declined to go, and though his grandfather
would laugh at him and quote, ' Homc-

D 2

keeping youths have ever homely wits,' the
old man was secretly well content to have
his few remaining years gladdened by his
heir s constant presence ; while as to Rachel
West, she fondly thought her boy's passionate
attachment to his home yet another proof
of his superiority to all other youngsters of
like age. And so, beyond a little reading
of a lax description under Mr. Holbrooke's
gentle supervision, John West's education
was supposed to be finished when he left
Eton, where he had forgotten a little of his
small grounding in general knowledge, and
merely acquired a facility of knocking off a
copy of Latin verses. Fortunately, however,
for the lad, his mother Alas a well-read
woman, proficient in French, and not
ignorant of other European languages, and
the deep love which subsisted between the
pair made it easy for the one to impart
and the other to acquire a respectable

fund of knowledge more useful than the
knack of stringing together hexameter and
centimeters.

To her who had so well stood to him
in the stead of both parents, John West
felt that he owned all the culture of which he
could boast, and deficient as this may seem
to the learned youth of a more advanced
day, it sufficed to enable the young squire
to hold his own, and more, among the
chiefs of Longshire society. With most of
the squires it was enough that AVest was
a capital rider and shot, and had sound
ideas as to the management of an estate.
They would indeed have liked him. less and
feared him more had he been reputed overwhelmingly
book-learned.

The old squire had been gathered to his
fathers, after lingering on to a most venerable
old age, some two years before this
story opens, and John West was squire in

his stead, but as yet he had made no change
in his manner of life, well content to dwell
among his own people, and in no hurry,
though he had now passed his thirtieth
year, to bring a wife home to dispute his
mother's beneficent sway.

Admirably indeed did Eachel West fill
her station as lady of the Hall, and wisely
and well did she rule the great house, which
had been her home from birth to age, save
for those three short years of married life.
Not her old friend the rector only, but
many neighbouring clergy, and still more of
the neighbouring poor, held her as a sainted
being, living only to do good to all with
idiom she came in contact. Nor, amid her
ceaseless charities, was Mrs. West neglectful
of her social duties. It was agreed on all
hands that no more perfect pattern of a
hostess, no brig-iter ornament of the genial
society of the county, could be found than

the lady of Swardham, of whom it was
often remarked that she had made a hard
if not a hopeless task for any woman
who should succeed her as mistress of the
Hal.

CHAPTER III.

SNAKES IN ARCADIA.

TT was a Right morning a few days after
the dinner-party described in our first
chapter, and Swardham village was giving
proof that even in November it could look
pretty under a bright blue sky, in spite of
mud and fallen leaves. Though the tall
elms were all but stripped of their glory,
the sturdy oak on the little green retained
its foliage, now bleached to a pale russet,
until the first sharp frost should give the
signal for the leaves to come whirling down
upon the parish pound and the roof of the
little round-house, or lock-up for trivial

offenders. There were ivy-covered gables
too fronting the little street, and a few
monthly roses making a show still against
white cottage walls.

From the little wicket at the corner of
his garden the rector emerges, bound for
his schools, and with his daughter by his
side. A bright cheery girl is this Mary
Holbrooke, as she picks her way with elastic
steps among the puddles left by yesternight's
down-pour, and jokes with her more
heavy-footed sire. She has a fair skin and
the rosiest of checks. Her mouth is small
and pretty, and as she laughs often, it can
be seen that her teeth are beautiful — white,
small, and even. Decidedly her mouth and
dimpled chin, and the shape of her head
and outline of her face, have not a fault
to be found with them. Her head is well
set on too, and her fissure lithe and graceful,
though evidently robust. And if her

nose is something broader and her bright
eyes something smaller than might content
critics, at least her brown hair is smooth
and glossy, and her expression so cheerfully
animated, that it might well be forgiven
to her fond father if he took pride in his
only child's appearance, and loved to see
her always neat and trim, and thoroughly
well-dressed on fitting occasions.

Who in the world can that be standing

o

at the wheelwright's ? ' cries Mary suddenly.
Do look, papa ; did you ever see such an
oddity ? '

Odd enough certainly, as far as the back
view went (and they could see no more),
was the figure towards which they were
advancing. It was that of a tall thin man,
apparently absorbed in reading a printed
bill stuck on one of the wheelwright's
shutters. From neck to heel this form was
clad in a shiny casing of white mackintosh,

but over either shoulder and finally round
the waist, girdle fashion, a long plaid of
many-hued tartan was deftly arranged.
On the head was a quaint cap, with many
fur-lined flaps, now tied up by strings
which met over the crown in a sort of crest
or top-knot ; and finally, on the hands,
which were clasped behind the back and
held a huge and knotted staff*, were vast
gauntlets of fur and leather the like of
which Swardham had never seen. No
wonder that the men in the work-shop
were orrinnino: out of the door, or that a
small train of school-eschewing urchins,
truants or baby carriers, were gaping at
a safe distance on the other side of the
street.

Strangers were rarities in Swardham
street, and if the rector did not gape
himself, he went as near it as a mannerly
beneficed clergyman could go. But while

Lis eyes were fixed on the tall unknown;
the latter turned abruptly round, and revealed,
as he greeted the parson and his
daughter, the unwelcome lineaments of Mr.
Auchmuty. There was no mistaking those
twinkling eyes that gazed through apertures
contracted to mere slits, nor that yellow
lantern jawed visage, and if the rector had
considered these peculiarities objectionable
when the man was clothed in ordinary
evening dress, that puritan uniform which
gives such small scope for variety or display,
he found them almost offensive when
set off by the queer garb which has been
described. And there was a sort of look
of triumph in the man's face as he hailed
the unwilling rector, which the latter found
bad to bear, even while he murmured some
response to the other's greeting and strove
to pass on.

Not till ye're read this, if ye're in the

biggest of hurries. Why, it consumes you
deeply, minister I it's an attempt to enlighten
your flock, for which their pastor
should be grateful

Mary Holbrooke opened her eyes in
amazement as her father, most ungraciously
for him, turned to read the printed, handbill
newly stuck on the wheelwright's
shutter. It was headed, ' To the labouring
men and women and all toilers of Long-shire,'
and after some short and trenchant
lines to the effect that they who too
patiently bear the yoke do not deserve to
be free, invited every adult worker in
Swardham to attend a meeting to be held
on the nicrht next but one following; in Mr.
Hockrill's great barn, when a deputation
from the ' Rights of Man Assertion Society '
in Loughborough would be present, and the
meeting would be addressed by Messrs.
Barnett, Van Lennep, and other well-known

champions of the oppressed, and resolutions
proposed in condemnation and amendment
of the present land system, game laws,
payment of tithes, &c., &c., &c.

The malicious Auchmuty, as he narrowly
watched the rector's face during the reading
of this document, enjoyed so rare a treat
that he could scarce refrain from chuckling
aloud, and, his victim facing him at last
with ill-concealed annoyance and dismay,
he burst out —

Aha ! it does contain you then ! but of
course in a parish such as this of yours, so
unanimous, so blest in its temporalities and
speeritualities alike, these fellows will only
lose their pains, perhaps find themselves
back at Longborough with a flea in each
ear ; perhaps even make acquaintance with
your horse-pond first ! Odd though that
they should so easily secure a place for
their meeting, and that these bills should

be allowed to remain in every prominent
point of the place ! It's that that annoys
ye ! but you'll see how your fine faithful
fellows will put these rascals to shame and
confusion when it comes to an argument.
Yet their effrontery is irritating ! The idea
of their fancying that there was a promising
field for them in this little heaven below ! '
and Mr. Auchmuty uplifted his great gloves
towards heaven above, as if overcome by
the depravity of these intruders.

Mr. Holbrooke, who had by this time
regained outward equanimity, coldly made
answer that though this was a new and
unexpected development of a mischievous
activity, no immunity from such visitations
could be secured while Longborough, a
vile radical place, was only six miles
distant.

Neither is the owner of the barn here
mentioned, nor yet is his brother, who

has bought this wheelwright's business, a
Swardham man. They come from close by
Longborough, and are new settlers and
nobodies among us. I trust Sir Tancred
and Lady Woollett are well. Good morning
to you, Mr. Auchmuty, unless I can
be of any further service, for my girl and
I are overdue at the schools.'

Having, as he termed it to himself, taken
a glorious rise out of a prejudiced parson,
Mr. Auchmuty was willing to let him
depart, and with an angular bow to Mary,
stalked off in the opposite direction.

Now, Heaven forgive Sir Tancred,' cried
the rector when fairly under way again,
for bringing that man into Longshire !
Faugh ! he is worse than those wretched
agitators, who, one hopes, know no better.
If his sister is anything like him they'll
kill poor old Woollett between them

'He's very sarcastic, papa, and certainly

disagreeable, and most extraordinary to
look at ; but I don't think it follows that
Lady "Woollett is a bad sort of woman.
She seemed good-natured though she talked
more about "poor Mr. Fife' who was her
first husband, I believe, than I should quite
like, were I Sir Tancred. But you mustn't
be put out by people who are here to-day
and gone tomorrow, which is equally true
and comforting concerning Mr. Auchmuty
or the men from Gainsborough.'

The rector shook his head dubiously,
and being by this time at the door of his
schools, was parted from his daughter fora
while. He was soon seated as usual with
a circle of the elder scholars round him, and
the Scripture lesson was in progress ; but
never before had the class found so little
attention from their instructor. The rector
was always disposed to be lenient, but today
he actually allowed glaring errors to

VOL. I. E

pass unnoticed, and once or twice he was
suddenly roused by loud tittering to the
consciousness that something ridiculous had
been said or done of which he, dio was
responsible for the maintenance of decency
and order, was totally oblivious.

He said Bath-baby, please, sir ! that's
the way he's read Bethabara twice, please,
sir ! and you never said nothing. Bath
baby indeed ! ' and a giggle ran round the
circle.

Yet neither this candid appeal nor other
similar reminders availed to rescue the
rector from his brown study, or to restore
the damaged discipline of the Bible class.
The sight of this ill-omened man had
brought back to Mr. Holbrooke's mind all
his apprehensions with regard to Mrs. West.
He was an easy-going man, of a sanguine
turn of mind, and the fears aroused on the
evening of the dinner-party had been since

partially lulled. He had indeed only seen
Mrs. West at church, and for a moment as
she passed the rectory gate after service ;
but she had looked as well and cheerful as
usual, and he had been glad to persuade
himself that there was nothing amiss with
her. To-day, however, since his encounter
with Mr. Auchmuty, his doubts and fears
seemed to have revived, and considerable
as was his chagrin at the threatened in-^
version of Longborough demagogues, he
brooded rather over the man's mysterious
insinuations against Mrs. West's peace of
mind, than over any word which he had
uttered just now in the village street.

It was over at last, and the class dismissed,
the good boys and usual favourites
more or less dispirited for lack of appreciation,
the wilder spirits rampant with the
glee of unrebuked and triumphant naughtiness.
The rector sighed as he put on his

E 2

ILLINOIS LIBRARY

hat, and waited a minute or two for his
daughter to emerge from the room sacred to
the girls. Was there indeed some serpent
in his Eden ? and was he henceforth to live
in terror of finding its slimy track in all
the fairest places ? His heart swelled with
thankfulness as his daughter joined him,
blithe, rosy, and briskly inspired with a
sense of a good hour's work finished. Hereat
least he would defy any serpent to coil,
and while Mary was, as now, his own loved,
loving child, undimmed by care or sorrow,
black indeed would be the hour in which
her brightness would not shed sufficient
light, cruel the pang which she could not
cheat of its sharpness.

Were you thinking of going up to the
Hall for lunch to-day, my dear ? ' he asked,
as they turned into the road.

Lunch at the Hall was an informal elastic
meal, at which the rector and Mary usually

assisted twice or so in the week, dropping
in without special invitation.

And you'll come too, won't you, papa ? '

*Not to-day, dear, I think, not to-day.
But I'll walk part of the way with you.'

He longed yet dreaded to convince himself
by further observations of the truth
or untruth of the surmises of the student
of physiognomy, which had fallen on him
like a stone into the bosom of some quiet
pool, and hence came a state of indecision.

'Why,' says Mary, 'isn't this Willie
Turner ? and why are you not at school,
Willie, and what are these ? '

A flaxen-headed boy of twelve, in patched
corduroys and a large clean collar is confronting
them, in his hand a fluttering sheaf
of small hand bills.

Please, miss, father says it's time I art
summit, and I've got this job from Mester
'Ockerill. Will you be pleased to take one,

miss ? and you, sir, please ? they pay me
by how many I can get folks to take, and
trustees to my honour not to make away
with none, and pretend as how I have give
'em to folks

"With this, after handing over two of his
bills, the important functionary bustled
away to the other side of the road, where
he entered forthwith into a long complicated
and lively passage of arms with an
illiterate and very deaf old woman, who
resisted his proffer of a bill as a dire and
wanton indignity.

They are more notices of this precious
meeting tomorrow,' says the rector with
a snort of contempt, 'padded with quotations
from ribald, atheistical, chartist books.
Upon my word, things have come to a
pretty pass, when such trash is foisted on
one by one's own day-scholars in Swardham
Street,' and the rector crumpled up his

paper viciously, and jerked it over into
Widow Skerrett's pig-stye.

Put yours in your pocket, Mary, my
dear, and if they haven't heard of this
intrusion at the Hall, you can show them
the kind of thing that our very children are
being corrupted with.'

I'll take care of it, papa ; but I don't
suppose any of the children, even Willie
Turner himself, will wade through such ar
closely printed thing, and all so dull and
stupid too. I'm quite glad that anything
wicked should be so alluring,' and innocent
little Mary pocketed the wicked sheet
with all the grace imaginable.

Take special notice of dear Mrs. West,
Mary, when she thinks no one is minding
her, and so on. I shall want to know
whether you think there is a trace of that
shadow you told me of.'

Very well, papa ; I'm sure to watch her,

because I always do ; no one else is so well
worth noticing. But why don't you come
and make your own observations ? '

'Young eyes are sometimes better than
old, my dear says the rector, and trudges
back from the lodge-gate through the mud
towards the village, forgetful of his luncheon,
while Mary speeds gaily along the smooth
gravel to the old red Hall.

CHAPTEE IV.

MOTHER AND SON.

rpHE long lofty dining-room looks very
pleasant to-day, with the sunlight
streaming through its tall windows and
lighting up the many paintings which hang
on the panelled walls. It is just one of
those well-proportioned, well-furnished, perfectly
ventilated rooms which never seems
crowded by a large party, or ghostly whenas
now, there is but one guest to support
the mistress of the house. In thorough
keeping with her surroundings is Eachel
West. She is a tall woman, still as upright
as when she was a famous horse-woman,

and though her dark hair has become very
white, the lustre of her large brown eyes is
undimmed, and her pale complexion is untarnished
by sallowness, nor are there many
lines upon her ample forehead. She is
plainly but well dressed in black, and wears
a widow's cap, but a cap so worn and
fashioned as to be anything but unbecoming.
Mary Holbrooke has been from her childhood
a prime favourite with Mrs. "West, and
for some years past the pair have been
constantly associated in all those departments
of parish work which are best
undertaken by feminine tact and diligence,
and so successful are they in their endeavours,
that no poor woman in Swardham
need deplore the fact that her rector is a
widower. To-day, as the squire, who is
wont laughingly to taboo what he calls
parish shop,' has ridden over to Carlos,
Mrs. West and Mary have had it all their

own way, and the elder woman has encouraged
the girl to talk, looking now and
then fondly on her animated face. Their
meal and their chat have come to an end,
when Mary exclaims :

Oh, I nearly had forgotten that I have
in my pocket something most wicked and
shocking, which I'm to show you ! Don't
be alarmed, it's nothing that will go off
with a pop, and its wickedness isn't catching,
or papa wouldn't have intrusted it to me.
Willie Turner is up and down street putting
these things into the hands of the unwary
passer-by, and papa looked ready to box the
poor boy's ears.'

As she spoke she smoothed out the
hand-bill on the table, and passed it to her
hostess with a comical glance, and then
bent to reprove an importunate terrier, who
was begging at her side, and had presumed
to give her one or two impatient digs with

his shaggy paw. For a minute or so Mary
stooped over Waxy, and as she lectured
him stroked the hair over his bright eyes,
then raising herself, turned towards Mrs.
West to ask what the stupid deputation
meant which had almost made her father
cross. But the word died on her parted
lips as her eyes fell on her friend's face.
AVith the hand-bill laid in front of her on
the table Mrs. West sat rigid and speechless,
staring into vacancy, with a terror-struck
expression in her eyes. In a moment she
seemed to have aged and fallen away, and
the hands tightly clasped before here were
trembling painfully. In an instant Mary
was at her side.

You are ill, dear Mrs. West,' she cried,
trying to control her alarm, * do let me ring
and tell them to fetch Dr. Leith, or will
you lie down here ? — Oh pray speak to me,
and tell me what to do ! '

But Mrs. West was plainly unconscious
of her words if not of her presence, for she
still sat staring fixedly before her, till
suddenly, springing to her feet, she hid her
eyes behind her shaking hand, and cried
out, in a hoarse voice all unlike her usual
gentle tones :

Here ! here in Swardham 1 it is fated ;
and can I resist ? '

Then, as an ashen pallor overspread her
features, she rocked to and fro, and fell to
the ground in a swoon so sudden that the
terrified girl was unable to prevent her
measuring her length upon the carpet.
First flying to the bell, Mary knelt by
her friend and supported her head, and
there were soon helpers enough, who, with
many questions and ejaculations, moved the
prostrate lady to a couch in an adjoining
room. In marvellously short space, as it
seemed to Mary, both doctor and rector

were on the spot, and the former enjoining
perfect quiet for his patient, whose consciousness
had now returned, father and
daughter withdrew in unfeigned tribulation
of spirit.

I cannot tell ; I saw nothing to account
for the seizure, or prepare us for it,' Mary
had said fifty times in answer to anxious
inquiries, and now, alone with her father, she
could say little more. ' Of course it can have
nothing to do with it, but I lead just given
Mrs. West one of Willie Turner's hand-bills.
She certainly took it from me just before
she was taken ill, and up to that moment
was just as usual, indeed in better spirits
than she has often been of late. I don't
even know whether she read the thing, for
I was playing with Waxy,' (this in a tone
of compunction,) * and when I looked up
again, there was our dear Mrs. West looking
as though she had seen some fearful

apparition, and I was so frightened that
what else happened before she swooned and
the servants came I can't recollect a bit.
Whether it was the hand-bill or not, I shall
detest all such things more heartily than
ever, as they will always remind me of this
distress, and I should like to tear them all
down — look, papa, where they have stuck
them,' and Mary pointed with much disfavour
to a stunted apple tree, growing in a
garden hedge, which was decorated with
one of the small bills, offering indeed no
room for the larger sort upon its meagre
trunk.

The rector stopped and looked stolidly
at the unpleasing object, which, unpleasing
as it was, seemed to offer no just cause for
the sudden consternation and swooning of
the squire's mother. Indeed, from where
he stood Mr. Holbrooke could only read
two lines, in larger type than the rest.

and these merely gave the names of the
orators of the deputation — ' Barnett and
Van Lennep/ With a sigh and a shake of
the head the rector plodded onwards.

God forbid he said presently-^* God
forbid that this unaccountable seizure is a
symptom of grave danger ! If we should
lose her, none can ever make good the loss
to any of us. Perhaps, Mary, it was this
which has been hanging over her, and
causing that shadow which you fancied you
noticed where all used certainly to be
sunshine.'

Tender-hearted Mary pulled down her
veil abruptly as her eyes brimmed at the
suggestion, and could find no words in
reply, having indeed much ado to restrain
a rising sob.

The poor squire,' the rector goes on,
how distressed he will be at what has
happened in his absence I There was

nothing to be gained by sending a groom
to bring him home, because he will have
started from Marloes long since, and he
never lets the grass grow under his feet
Meanwhile the young squire, mounted
on his favourite hack, was hardly justifying
the rector's description, as he sauntered
along the lanes, evidently occupied with
his thoughts. Past many a spiny and
gorse he rode, along many a wide pasture,
within hearing of not a few purling brooks,
any or all of which might have suggested
trains of thought and roused reminiscences
in one who as boy and man had hunted
for some fifteen seasons in Longshire. But
it is not of the chase of wily Reynard, or of
his own prospects as destined master of the
familiar hounds that John West ruminates
to-day. He is contemplating a step far
more momentous than aught connected
with the hunt, nothing less indeed than

VOL. I. F

matrimony. And the lady whom he has
almost resolved to make his bride, is, as
the rector has hinted, no other than the
Duke of Hexham's eldest daughter, Lady
Emily Woodvil. He had left her an hour
ago in the conservatory at Marloes, somewhat
disappointed, if the truth must be
told, that the interview had ended without
her being absolutely asked to change her
name to West

He will write to your father, my dear,'
the duchess said to her daughter, who withheld
no confidence from her admirable
parent ; * there is a sort of fine old-fashioned
courtesy about Mr. West which would be
sure to influence him to write to your
father before speaking quite decisively to
you ; and really it's much to be commended
and quite uncommon in these days.'

Lady Emily pouted, as though she would
not have objected to the final disappearance

of all sncli old-fashioned ways, but resigned
herself to trust in her mother's superior
wisdom. From this glimpse at the privacy
of the high-born ladies of Marloes it will
be seen that John AVest ran no risk of ill-success
in his suit. It is indeed doubtful
whether a son-in-law less decidedly eligible
than the possessor of Swardham might not
have found favour, for the Lady Emily
was now eight and-twenty, and after ten
seasons, somewhat less sanguine of success
than when she had been presented. Though
the favourite, as she was the eldest child
of her mother, and endowed with a good
figure, a good complexion, and regular
features, Lady Emily Woodvil had officiated
as bridesmaid to many of ber compeers,
and lastly to her own sister, a chit of
nineteen, with a dark skin and a snub nose,
and no notion of her own dignity, who
during the past summer had been betrothed

¥ 2

and wedded to the eldest son of an earl.
Can it then be wondered that the stately
Emily was anxious not to return to London,
scene of so many disappointments, still unengaged,
or that her grace of Hexham lost
no opportunity of furthering her girl's
wishes ?

The duke's health had long been precarious
; his heir, the son of a previous
marriage, bore no particular love to his stepmother
and half-sister ; and the duchess was
well aware of the importance of making her
hay while the sun shone, as she could not
hope it would continue to shine on a
dowager with a jointure somewhat modest
for ducal maintenance of even widowed
state. So John AVest's visits to Marloes
had been made very pleasant to him, and
especially of late had been tolerably frequent.
The duke's interest for his impending
candidature, the duke's advice as to his

contemplated mastership of the hounds,
these had been excellent cards for a woman
of the world to play, and had given ample
cause for increasing intercourse between
Marloes and Swardham. And though the
duke himself, cooped up in a dull library,
and afflicted with asthma, had not after all
found much to say to his guest, still that
little had been so said as to convey to John
West only pleasant and friendly impressions,
and its brevity had been more than
counterbalanced by the reception always
accorded in the drawing-room.

*Your fathers were cousins,' the duchess

had said, 'so you are cousins, and it's

»

absurd to affect to make a stranger of you
here.'

It is questionable whether the cousinship
between the duke and poor George Wood-vil,
which indeed existed only in the second
or third degree, would not have passed

vanishing point in its transmission to their
children, had George's son inherited no
more than his father's deficient assets ; but
there is no question but that the duchess
reminded her visitor very gracefully of the
tie of kindred, and that 'Lady Emily
behaved very prettily to her relative. Huge
was the interest displayed in the young
squire's ambition, whether to represent the
county or bear sway over kennels and
huntsmen, touching the solicitude manifested
as to dear Mrs. West's well-beinor : and

CD ^

though the duchess was sometimes called
away by her invalid lord, or other duties of
her station, she never hesitated to leave her
child with her cousin, while Emily, when
so left, was for her part unwearied in her
attempts to make the hours pass pleasantly
for him at Marloes. Pleasantly, we must
suppose, the hours had passed, for as he
rides homewards to-day John West has

decided to ask in due form for the hand of
Lady Emily, and, so true a prophetess is
his future mother-in-law, to ask it in a
formal letter to the duke, before again
encountering his lady. Now it may be
that there have been true lovers who
adopted this method of declaring their
passion, but it must usually be concluded
that a gentleman who writes to a fair one's
whither, even be that father a duke, before
he has poured his petition into the fair one's
ear, is a little too formal if not too secure
to be very fervent. In the case of John
West at any rate this conclusion is warrantable.
No fervour characterizes his feeling
for Lady Emily, and he is quite sure that
she will accept him. Nevertheless he feels,
if not fervid, yet well pleased with himself
and his matrimonial prospect as he rides
home on this fine November day, that is
waning into moonlit evening. His barometer

was like to stand at ' change ' for
some time to come ; his quiet life of the
two years past in any case seemed ending ;
when would he find a better opportunity
for making yet another change in his condition
— a change which it was clearly his
duty to make some day ? '

Much as he loves Swardham, he feels
that, in the cultivation of honourable ambition,
meet for the lord of such an heritage,
Swardham may not claim all his days for
all his life. And if he is called up to
London by parliamentary duties, he will
especially need a partner to assist him in
maintaining the family dignity in the big
brazen metropolis. His mother is still, in
his estimation, peerless among women ; but
she is ageing — he could not drag her
from her loved home up to town, nay, he
feels that it would be a relief to her, even
at home, if she could resign into worthy

hands some of the tasks that fall to the
mistress of a great house, and lady bountiful
of a wide estate. She has been of
late scarcely in her wonted health and
spirits, but her son hopes to tell her news
in a day or two, which will fill her with
content, and dispel ailments and anxieties.
He has not a doubt but that the Lady
Emily is one who will grace the position
which he offers her. High-born, high-bred,
composed, dignified, handsome, all these
epithets are her due, and what more could
be sought in a bride even by West of
Swardham ? He pictures to himself that
fair stately presence installed at the head
of his table, or supporting the renown of
the house on any possible great occasion ;
but he never thinks of her as the sharer of
his cares or sorrows, the maker of his everyday
domestic peace I The one woman whom
he has known intimately (the only one

except little Polly Holbrooke, and she is buta
child !) is his mother, and she, though she
knows well how to bear herself in seasons
of state and ceremony, is so tender of heart,
so truly domestic, that he takes it for
granted that the atmosphere which she
diffuses is natural to every place where an
English lady makes her home ; nor does he
pause to analyse the constituents of that
atmosphere, and ask himself whether it is
equally likely to be breathed around such a
union as he contemplates. As to love !
John West shrugs his shoulders, he can't
fancy himself ever falling into that idiotic
snare, even were no suitable wife ready
to hand at Marloes. Mutual esteem and
liking, perfect suitability in position, and soon,
these he thinks are much more likely
factors of wedded prosperity than the fleeting
delusive love which poets and fools rave
about. There was old Lord Fits Raymond's

eldest daughter, a belle and beauty ten
years ago ; stir had committed the folly of
a love-match, running away with her penniless
cousin in the army, and a sad mess
they made of it ! Separated five years back,
after a career of debt and quarrels, and
now, lie has disappeared in ruin and disgrace,
no one knows where or with whom,
and she is the fastest and slightest of
English wanderers from one to another of
the gayer resorts of the continent. Shaking
his head scornfully John West settles his
horse into a slinging trot, and is soon at
his own lodge gate, where an eager curtseying
woman pours into his ears a tale which
quickly scatters his complacent musings for
the rest of the evening, and sends him
galloping up the avenue with an anxious
throbbing at his heart, such as could be
roused there by no proceeding on the part
of lady Emily Woodvil.

CHAPTER V.

THE DEPUTATION.

TTOCKERILL's big barn is so crammed
on this wintry evening with a crowd,
mostly of corduroy-clad labourers, that it
is lucky indeed that its crazy frame-work,
its gaping boards and weather-beaten thatch,
admit an abundance of the keen outer air.
The arrangements for the reception of the
deputation from 'the Longborough Association
for the assertion of the Rights of
Man,' have been of the simplest. The barn
being unused by its owner, there has beeii
no great need of clearing it for its unwonted
guests, but a bench or two has

been set out, and from the cross-beams
hang two hoops of wood, each bearing a
few tallow candles set in rude tin sockets,
whence foul uttering are sprinkled, as the
lights flare in fifty cross draughts, upon
the stolid rustics standing closely packed
beneath. At the upper end of the long
building is an old waggon, its broadside
turned towards the faces of the crowd,
and from this waggon, as from a dais or
platform, the orators are to launch their
eloquence. There are but five men who
occupy this post of pre-eminence, and of
these two only, the brothers Hockerill, are
known to Sward ham. They are tall hard-featured
men, who have scarcely reached
middle life, and the maltster, who is the
elder and the owner of the barn, has introduced
the deputation in a short speech.
Had there been found amon(y those rustic

o

hearers, to whose presence in such considerable

numbers Hockerill had referred
with pardonable pride, a few more cultured
spirits or quicker brains, some little tribute
of applause might surely have been rendered,
at the close of a speech which was in truth
terse, to the point, and well delivered.
But the Hockerills were but new-comers in
Swardham, where twenty years' residence
at least was required of any settler before
he could be admitted to be on a par
with the natives. Jacob Hockerill might
or might not be making money in his
malting business, which he managed after
a fashion condemned in Swardham as newfangled.
There might or might not be
disinterested zeal in his advocacy of the
rights of the oppressed peasant, his importation
of Longborough talent, his finding
house-room and dips for the present meeting;.
Time would slow ; meanwhile the
village sages had no objection to honour the

barn with their presence on a November
evening, when field-work and farm work
had been too slack, owing to the season,
for any one to be very tired. And where
the sages went followed the ignoble herd,
till the big barn overflowed. But as to
applauding a Hockerill, let his words be
ever so telling, as to clapping horny palms
together, or uttering some husky parody
on the parliamentary * hear, hear,' it was
unheard of. Such honours were not for
maltster or wheelwrights, prophets without
honour in their own country. So there
was a leaden and depressing silence as
Jacob Hockerill perforated with a really
spirited little appeal to the sterling manhood
and intelligence of a Lancashire labouring
man, and sat him down on the
head-rail of his wao^oron, after introducing
Mr. Abel Barnett as the next speaker.
Some boys, injuriously denied standing-room

within, were whooping and whistling
round the door and outside the barn ; some
old men in the front ranks were noisily
clearing their throats and other air ducts ;
somebody behind indulged in a lengthy and
most undisguised yawn, ending in a groan.
Jacob Hockerill, though he had told himself
that he expected nothing, felt as he pressed
his uneasy support, that the intelligence of
Longshire was scarcely up to its average
in Swardham, and began to have qualms
as to the success of the long-promised
deputation. If his own brief well-considered
speech had fallen so flat, what
should be the fate of longer-winded successors
? But the maltster need have suffered
from no such fears, for Abel Barnett is
already on his legs. Nothing daunts him,
nothing damps him ; he has gauged his
auditors, and in ten seconds will create
the bond of sympathy which has been

wanting as yet. Barnett is a short sturdy
man, with a bushy fringe of grizzled hair
around a bald shining poll, and an enormous
flexible mouth, stretched just now by a
good-humoured grin.

How many of ye capes a peg ? ' he
began in the broadest Longshire dialect,
and in tones of thrilling solemnity. Twice
amid the pause succeeding this unexpected
beginning did he repeat his question,
How many of ye capes a peg ? ' and
after the third repetition there was a
slight stir among the rustics and even a
rumble of low laughter. Then, discarding
the patois, the speaker dashed into a lively
but practical disquisition on pig-keeping, in
which he made it plain to the slow bucolic
mind that he had studied his subject, and
could give many a wrinkle to those most
skilled among them in matters porcine.
Not five minutes in all did Barnett waste

VOL. I. G

in tins trifling, and before the end of that
time he had the ear of every man in that
barn. So sound an authority on bacon
live and dead could scarcely fail to have
valuable ideas on other subjects, and Sward-ham
listened with profound and pleased
attention, while Barnett led them to the
topics on which it was his aim to enlighten
them. Why hadn't every man-jack of
them his pig, and ground to grow pig's
victuals after serving all his children and
his missis ? Why hadn't every pig a good
stye, and every pig's master a house as
much better than the stye as the man is
better than the swine ?

*ril tell you for wdiy/ shouted Mr.
Barnett, and his voice was now as thunder,
because you don't put head to head, and
hand to hand, to right yourselves ! What's
the stream that turns your mill ? Why ita
lot of water, millions and billions of drops

of water all joined into one strong current,
till the heavy wheel goes round, and the
grist fills the hopper. But supposing each
one of those billions of drops was perverse
enough to fly off* or hang back and separate
from the rest, so that they came spattering
against the wheel, one here, one there, like
a smart shower of rain, a precious lot of
grist your miller would grind, wouldn't he ?
a precious holiday that old wheel would
have ! Well, friends, you've been like those
drops so far, there are thousands and thousands
of you, all over this land, but what
power have you to help yourselves ? you do
plenty for others, for the few rich and great,
for the squires and parsons who rule all the
roost ; but who minds you if you grumble,
any more than I mind a splash of rain ?
But join together, stick together, pull together,
and there isn't a mill-race can turn a
wheel faster than you'll turn out the old

G 2

abuses, turn yourselves into respected and
self-respecting freemen, turn your homes
into places fit for freemen to inhabit, turn
the deaf ears of your old masters into fair
and civil attention to all j must demands ! I
tell you there is the power in you to do
all this, if you'll only pull together to use
it, and your squires and parsons could no
more keep you down than they could swim
against the mill-races

Rapidly then, but lucidly, Barnett went
on to sketch the probable consequences of
such movements as have since become sufficiently
familiar to old England in the
action of the agricultural labourers' union.
He showed the simplicity of the machinery
which was to work out such great effects.
He prophesied the absolute certainty of
success which would reward such organizations.


From small gains and small concessions

you'll work on to great, or your children
will,' lie cried ; * better wages and better
houses and gardens first, then the franchise,
a vote for every worthy head of a house,
voting by ballot too, without fear or favour ;
then repeal of the Game Laws, right to
destroy every beast and bird that is a
plague to the poor man's industry ; then
fair terms for every tenant of land, great
or small, no more holding at will, no more
shameful pocketing by the squire of the
fruits of a poor man's toil, that has taught
the wilderness to stand thick with corn ;
then, who knows ? a grant to those who
will make use of it of all the idle land
wasted in this teeming island, on parks
and pleasure-grounds and coverts for the
idle rich, who might just as well idle and
hunt and shoot in North America or
Norway, where there isn't a man to ten
square miles. This is a great work, and

a honor work it will be, for it means that
laws must be changed, laws that have stood
long and seem interwoven into the life of
the people, as these land-laws seem. And
in the doing, somebody must be made
very uncomfortable, that's clear — the squires,
I doubt, and the farmers, maybe, and you
labourers that are the men to set it a going,
yes, likelier than not; but are you to sit
still and rub on in the old rotten groove
for fear of somebody being upset, for fear
of being made to suffer for a while yourselves
? Not if I know the Lancashire
chaps. We want no violence, leave that
to the French ; but unless the farmers feel
what trouble is from you, their right
hands, when some fine day the hand refuses
to grip the plough for them, they'll
never see that it's tjoii and not the landlords*
that are their natural allies, instead of their
natural enemies. There's a blessing]: comes

to those who help themselves, and I want
you to earn it

In a few concluding sentences Barnett
urged his hearers to join the new union
society lately started in some Longshire
parishes by the efforts of himself and
brotherhood, of which he read the rules,
and then, mopping his forehead, which
smoked in spite of the cutting draughts,
sat down amid a storm of hoarse murmurs
of approbation, of rattling of old men's
staves, and thumping of broad hob-nailed
soles. He had roused, he had impressed
his stolid audience, and alas for the rector
and his vaunts ! he had sown geruis which
would never be purged away from Sward-ham,
last stronghold as it may have been
of feudal loyalty to its lords.

Jacob Hockerill is on his leofs again, in
capital spirits this time. Time being short
he will merely say that Mr. Van Lennep of

Longborough will now address a few words
to the meeting, and Mr. Van Lennep accordingly
advances to the front of the wain
which served for rostrum. He is a young
man of slight make and puny figure, with
regular but rather insignificant features and
a very receding chin. His pale reddish
hair is brushed up from his forehead into
a peak, not unlike a lambent flame, and
though he wears little or no whisker, there
sprouts below his chin a tuft, as though
designed to correspond with or balance the
peak before mentioned. From the opaque
pallor of his face he seems a town-bred man,
and the same impression is conveyed by
his shiny frock-coat and smart blue scarf,
wherein a golden pin is stuck ; and by
the gloves and thin-soled boots which cover
his hands and feet, of the smallness of
which he is disposed to be vain. Altogether,
what with his outlandish name

aud this appearance, Swardham is not
favourably prepossessed. Barnett was the
speaker ! and Barnett wore a rough suit
of hodden grey, and had huge red hands
that had stuck many a pig, no doubt
and lifted many a stone-weight. This
young man was evidently nervous too,
so Swardham settled itself down to be
critical, all the more for having: been
betrayed into emotion by the last speaker.
Van Lennep had a high-pitched voice,
and in his nervousness committed the
mistake of speaking much too fast for
the slow comprehension of his hearers.
It was not nervousness, however, but a
habitual ambition which led him to a choice
of words and epithets quite beyond the
rustic understanding, even if they had been
allowed to filter slowly through the rustic
ear. The new speaker gloried in polysyllables,
and was unconcealed mortified

when some brief unmanageable Saxon noun
escaped him before he could hit on an
imposing synonym. But the sages of the
village could make out that this slim-built
stranger was quite a terrible fellow, as
far as sentiments went. Nothing: would
content him short of 'impeaching' and
arraigning ' all the powers that be. First
he demolished and smashed the Established
Church, tithes, glebe, and all ; and not
content with general denunciations, must
needs challenge by name the rector of
Swardham to appear and answer for his
sins. What was it but his tithes that
made rents high, farmers stingy, wages
low ? and these tithes he went on to prove
to be national property, national provision
for the poor, on which lazy priests had
too long battened.

Poor Mr. Holbrooke had been, for thirty
years past, the kind friend of every soul

in that audience, but somehow it excited
no indignation — no, not among those who
had drunk his wine and soup for weeks
together in sickness — that he should be
branded as a robber and ' battered,' whatever
that miofht mean. It was new and
startling, but there might be something in
it, though it was the utterance of a whipper-snapper
chap in a whimsy blue neck-cloth.
Ha vino rolled the Establishment in the dust,
and trampled Mr. Holbrooke in particular
beneath the heel of fiery contempt, the
orator went on to tear down other idols,
and denounce the landed gentry and hereditary
peerage as locusts, as running sores
and plague-spots. By this time he had
got over his nervousness, and having clearly
read up his feints in some county history
or gazetteer, he began dealing tremendous
vengeance among the local grandees. The
FitzRaymonds indeed had bought their

property — but how ? a mercenary lawyer
gorged with bribes and fees, had finally
invested his hoards in broad acres, in order
to oppress his tenantry as he had oppressed
his suitors. But to the Westss belonged no
such shadow of rightful acquisition of their
broader domains. The hireling varlet of a
successful freebooter — such had been the
first West who came into Long-shire, his
prowess in robbery and murder rewarded
with a stolen estate ! Since this creditable
beginning, again and again had the Westss
swelled their rent-roll, sometimes by marriages,
but often by fresh grants of Crown
lands.

'Now, my friends and countrymen,' he
cried, ' what are these Crown lands that
have gone to pamper the Westss and a
hundred such families ? They are, as they
always were by rights, national property,
your property ! Weak or rascally princes

had no more right to give them away than
your parson would have to give your church
to the squire to keep hi hunters in ! If
all the squandered Crown lands were now
to the fore, they would produce a yearly
income such that taxation would be all but
unknown, even for the needs of present
wasteful governments ! and that, while
finding a holding for every man capable
of tilling it. I am no romancer ! I dare
your squire to give me the lie ! I challenge
him to disprove my assertions as to the
origin of his family estates — as to the
common land that has been stolen from
you! I call him to account for the sins
of himself and his fathers in their lust of
adding field to field — in grinding the faces
of the poor, whose right it is to live by
the land they till

As, with much gesticulation, the frenzied
orator poured forth this series of impeachments,

he might, if less engrossed, have
noticed a strange and sudden movement
in the crowd. There was a rustling, a
crouching and cowering away to the sides
of the barn, such as may be seen among
a flock of sheep when the shepherd's dog
trots through their ranks in the fold-yard.
At last the front row, mainly consisting
of elders seated on a form, was suddenly
agitated, men rose abruptly with shuffling
feet, and strove to move crab-wise aside.
The bench was upset, and at the noise
Van Lennep ceased to speak and turned
his eyes in consternation on a figure that
had emerged from the ruck, and now stood
close by the waggon wheel, confronting him
with haughty brow and gleaming eye and
sinewy frame, erect, powerful, and menacing.
For an instant they gazed upon each other,
the one in his cheap finery open-mouthed,
dismayed, shrinking, paler than his pale

wont, the other resolute, disdainful, a
stalwart Hercules in well-cut evening clothes
and all the seemliness of fine linen and
varnished boots. Then, stepping lightly up
upon the nave of the wheel, John West
caught the luckless orator by the collar
of his frock-coat, and swung him with both
hands, as though he had been a mere
dummy or bag of clothes, over the side of
the waggon, till, springing from the wheel,
he could set him on his feet upon the
earthen floor. Then, without quickened
breath or raised voice, he said, as he towered
over the terrified man —

Here I am at your side to answer,
let's have it all over again.'

But from those white lips, late so valiant,
came now no syllable in reply, only the voices
of Barnett and Hockerill were to be heard.

Have a care, sir, how you lay a finger
on one of us ! '

For God's sake, Mr. West, sir, respect
the liberty of the subject, and the right of
public meeting, sir ! '

Deigning no reply to these remonstrances,
nor even glancing at the party who now
swarmed over the wagroron-side and hastened
to support the almost fainting form of
their friend, John West faced the abashed
audience, and sternly took them to task
for that he found them in such company.

Were there not fools in plenty, such
as you are to-night, knaves such as this
fellow could not thrive ! Look at him,
has he ever done an honest day's work ?
He prates of toilers and their rights, but
what does he know of toil ? These are
the fellows who. would come uppermost
if you and all fools like you should be
bitten with madness stark enough to do
their bidding. And I for one should wish
you joy of your new masters. See how

his mouthing and frothing are silenced
when a man stands out ready to answer
him — not that I would lay a rough hand
on the fellow, but because lies always
skulk ! Doubtless he has promised you
fine things, if you will be catspaws for
him — well, if you give ear to him, and
do as he bids, when you want something
for your burnt fingers, where will his promises
be ? Vanished away like his charges
against me and mine, that he piled up
behind my back, but can't bring before
my face. Pah ! I won't talk about him.
Go home, you honest asses, and 1 hope your
wives, who have had the sense to keep away
to-night, will trounce you well when they
get hold of you, and bring you to your
better minds.'

Without a second glance at his vanquished
and overwhelmed antagonist, or his
muttering and angered supporters, John

VOL. I. H

West strode down the barn again, the
hinds shambling bashfully out of his path,
and tugging at their forelocks the while.
His last words had been full of his usual
good-humour, and the relieved rustics noted
that not so much as a leaf of the hot-house
flower he wore in his coat was rumpled by
the late affray. The young squire, like
a good fellow as he was (and lord ! as
stout as a bullock), wasn't going to remember
it again them after all ; but in
spite of these hopes of amnesty, there was
one consent in an immediate and unceremonious
rush from the barn. In vain did
Hockerill, in vain did stentorian Barnett
implore, command, taunt the retreating
assemblage ; there was never a chance for
the vote of indignation which they of the
rostrum were burning to propose aud carry.
Pell-mell, helter-skelter, every pair of hobnailed
boots made for the door, and before

Van Lennep had recovered a semblance of
composure, the guttering candles revealed
only vacancy, save where the little group
of five stood together by the forsaken
waggon.

'Never mind, Dolf ; he'd have been just
as overtook himself if that great arbitrary
swell had pounced on him as he did on
you, doing it so beautiful as you were
too.'

Such was the consolation offered to Van
Lennep as he returned later in a hired fly
to Longborough. Barnett had remained at
Jacob HockerilFs for the night ; but no
offer of similar hospitality had been made
to poor Van Lennep. In his disconsolate
retreat, however, he had the society of his
Achates, the third person, the persona
mute, of the deputation, one Harry Sole,
to whom his friend Dolf van Lennep was
still and always a model, regarded with

H 2

constant veneration, and who was ever
content to act as chorus to his friend and
pattern.

I'll have the law on him,' quoth Dolf,
too irate to be grammatical ; ' the bloated
oppressor shall rue the day when he laid
his hand upon me, taking me at a gross
disadvantage too. Such were the landed
classes who provoked the French Revolution
; let this fellow West beware!'

Harry did not in his inmost heart believe
that much success would attend on an
action for assault and battery against the
young squire, should his friend thus seek
vengeance for his wrongs, but none the
less did he dutifully echo his admired Dolf s
fulminations, and though he was more
than once roundly snubbed for his pains,
succeeded to some extent in soothing the
other's exasperation before, cold and weary,
they alighted in Longborough town.

CHAPTER VI.

MADAM SENDS FOR THE RECTOR.

rpHEEE was trouble and anxiety in
Swardham this year as Christmas
approached. In that primitive village community
the glad season was not wont to be
marred by meagre fare or scanty firing,
or lack of seasonable garments, nor indeed
was the usual supply of creature comforts,
showered from hall and rectory upon all
who needed them, in any wise stinted this
year. But the dole was not on this occasion
received from the familiar hand, or
accompanied by the kindly words which for
years past had enhanced it to the village

poor. Little Miss Mary at the rectory-was
indeed as good as gold, and Mrs.
Lavender much respected for one who
hadn't been housekeeper at the hall above
eight or nine year. The cloaks, the coals,
the beef, the rabbits, the hosiery, the tea
and tobacco were all of the accustomed
quantity and quality, but every one was
missing Madam West, and no one, nothing
could make up for the want of her active
presence. It should by rights have been
a time of extra festivity, for was not the
young squire about to wed a lady wife ?
and all Swardham knew how the squire's
mother would rejoice to welcome a worthy
daughter-in-law to the old hall ; and yet
not even for the oldest pensioner was there
sight or speech of madam.

'Eh dear a dear! it isn't like Christmas,
at alV sighed many an ancient widow
woman, as reluctantly she would depart

without the greeting, the smile, the kind
inquiries after her family, which she had
expected not less than her dole of flannel
or provisions.

It could not be, said village gossip, that
madam was merely ill. Sadly enough she
was reported to be looking by her servants,
but she would have no doctor nigh her,
and could not be got to speak of her health,
although she ate little and slept less. But
if not ill in body, what could have come to
Madam West? Forgetting all her usual
occupations, hastily committing to subordinates
her charities, she shunned, as far as
possible, the company of every living being,
and brooded alone in her own small sitting-room,
which opened from her bed-chamber.
There her faithful maid, lurking perplexed
and disconsolate in the adjoining room,
could hear her, hour after hour, pacing to
and fro. There was a picture hung in this

sitting-room, a family group painted more
than forty years before, in which Madam
West figured as a rosy handsome young
woman, one arm resting on her father's
shoulder, the other stretched to a leaping
setter. The scene had been laid in the
flower-garden of the hall, and by the
fathers side upon the same carved stone
bench sat the mother, fair-haired and
delicate, with roses on her lap. At the feet
of his parents the elder son was stretched
upon the grass, pulling the ears of another
favourite dog, and reproducing in his dark
animated features and stalwart limbs the
image of his sire. Singularly unlike his
brother was the boy who completed the
group ; but in his petulant pink and whiteface
could be traced a resemblance to his
mother, at whose side he leaned. There
were the same pale blue eyes and light
hair, the same thin well-formed nose and

retreating chin, though the expression was
in the mothers case all mildness, in the
son's all peevish haughtiness, a caricature
of the proud resolution stamped upon his
father's lineaments. Before this picture the
Abigail, peeping through the half-closed
door, would see her mistress pause at times
and noiselessly Wing her hands, or press
them to her brow as though bewildered,
before she began her restless walk again.

Neither the rector, her long-accustomed
friend, nor her favourite Mary had been
admitted to her for a fortnight past, and
for the same space of time it had been all
but impossible for her dependents to obtain
any orders from her, except a general one,
that she was to be denied to all comers of
whatever degree. The old servants shook
their heads and were at their wits' end.
The younger and more irreverent were sure
that mistress was taking on because a young

lady was coming to the hall, and began to
yearn for a bride's advent to relieve the
gathering dulness of the place. While such
was the dismay occasioned among all ranks
in Swardham by Mrs. West's altered state,
how did it affect him who was nearest and
dearest to her, the son linked to her by
bonds of no common love ?

Strange to say, John West was the only
person who was unaware of any serious
chancre in his mother ; but making all
allowance for the exigencies of his position
as a newly-advanced swain, and a candidate
for the representation of his county, it was
mainly due to the exertions of Mrs. West
herself that her son's peace was undisturbed
by apprehension. The old servants were
sharply forbidden to trouble the squire with
any reference to madam's health ; and every
morning when her son was at home (and
save in the morning he was seldom at home

just now), she nerved herself by a great
effort to appear at the breakfast table, or
to receive him in her own sitting-room,
when he had breakfasted alone and early.
For her seclusion and her wan looks she
accounted, making very light of them, by
declaring that she had taken a chill, and
felt that her only chance of avoiding a
violent cold for the winter lay in such
precautions as she was taking. With these
protestations she would content her son, dismissing
him almost eagerly to his pleasuring
at Marloes, or his hunting or canvassing
enoraorements. And the moment his back
Twas turned, she would retreat into herself
once more, and become the worn, restless,
haunted woman, who paced her pleasant
room so wretchedly, and gazed so strangely
on her girlish self and the pictured forms
of the dead who surrounded her image on
the brightly tinted canvas.

But of all those in whose lives Mrs. West
was a prominent object, none at this juncture
were more saddened than the rector
and his daughter. Mary indeed was toe
young not to be full of hope and capable of
distraction amid all her distress at the
strange eclipse which had befallen her godmother;
but Mary's father felt as if hope
were almost dead, nor could he think of
anything else than the puzzling distressing
message which forbade him from pressing
his claims as an ancient friend, or relieving
his anxiety by talking to the young squire.
It was just a little note, written in pencil,
and put for him in the vestry one Sunday.

My kind good friend,' it ran, ' don't be
alarmed if you don't see me at church
to-day, or for a while — don't come and ask
for me or about me — above all don't say a
word to John respecting me. You shall bethe

first I send for, when I send for any one.
Trust me so far. My fond love to Mary —
and don't let her think me unkind. God
bless you both !

That was all ; and of course the rector
obeyed, as he was always wont, and saw
that his child also kept aloof from her usual
haunts. But in Holbrooke's bosom there
was almost rage at the blindness of the
young squire, who could go his way rejoicing,
courting at Marloes, hunting here
and shooting there, or stumping the county
anon under the retiring member's auspices,
while at home things were so far wrong, and
the best of mothers, the most admirable of
women was, by some occult influence, struck
as with a sudden paralysis, and prisoned
with no companion but a secret woe. Alas
for the rector's proud repudiation of such

possibilities for his revered patroness!
Though he felt more than ever inflamed
against the presumption of the man who
had first suggested the hated thought, it
was but too plain to his affectionate scrutiny
that some hidden, some grievous pressure
there must be, which was blighting the
calm old age of Rachel West, poisoning the
religious cheerfulness which had helped her
to bear many a blow, numbing the active
benevolence which had for years made sunshine
in the parish, and rendered its rector s
work both light and blessed. Pattern and
pillar of the church and its services as she
had been so long, her estrangement was the
more grievous and galling. Why was he
there as priest of that parish, if not to
comfort his flock in dark hours ?

Always a diffident man, prone to distrust
his own efficiency, he found himself in this
sad time harping on the taunting words in

which Mr. Auchmuty had compared his
influence over the souls committed to his
charge with the subtler potency of the
Woman priesthood. A worthier, a more
spiritual, a wiser pastor would not have
failed (so he told himself) to have surmounted
all obstacles to perfect confidence
between himself and any afflicted member
of his flock, and having once attained to
such confidence, to have ministered counsel
and comfort. But here was he chafing in
useless misery while his oldest and clearest
friend suffered in solitude, unable to rely on
his high office or his undoubted fidelity for
one moment's respite from her woe I The
poor man felt himself too old to alter his
ways, which were indeed blameless enough,
but he was for the first time in his life
weighed down by a sense of utter inadequacy
to cope with his responsibilities. All
his honest pride and pleasure in his parish

was fled : he began to debate with himself
whether he was justified in retaining the
benefice in which his life had been spent.
It would break his heart to sever the tie,
but what matter if duty clearly called for
the sacrifice 1

Brooding in this melancholy fashion,
there is no possibility of knowing to what
course Mr. Holbrooke might ultimately
have been impelled. Probably he might
have sought an interview with John West,
and interrupted his engrossing round of
business and pleasure by sternly claiming
his attention for home matters, and the
welfare of a mother worthy of the most
absorbing devotion. At such a crisis the
usual softness of his tone towards the
young squire would not have prevailed to
the weakening of a message designed to
rouse and startle him from what seemed
unaccountable apathy. But while the

rector was revolving in his mind dreary
thoughts and unwelcome expedients, an
end came suddenly to this the most trying
passage in his life as yet. He received,
one snowy afternoon, a few lines from Mrs.
West, in which she made good the promise
contained in her first strange and oft-pondered
note, and bade her old friend
come to her without delay, and alone.
Never did exile welcome with more Gratitude
the sentence of his recall ; and though
as yet Mary was not to resume with him
her old position at the hall, the rector
nothing doubted but that all would now
soon revert to the old comfortable routine,
and started off in altered mood ready to
smile at his late depression. It was nearly
a month since he had set eyes on his valued
friend — the saddest month which he had
ever known at Swardham since his wife
was taken from him seventeen years ago.

VOL. I. I

What comfort had he then found in Rachel
West's sympathy and thoughtfulness ! Oh,
that he might now be alle, as from his
heart he was eager, to console in turn, if
need there were for consolation. The goodman,
as he hurried through the shrubberies,
put up a silent prayer that counsel and help
might be lent him from on high. Already,
in accordance with his temperament, he was
condemning as impious the doubts which
had so lately beset him. Within a few
minutes he was ushered into Mrs. West's
little sitting-room, and stood before his
friend once more, with a full heart.

They would have it that ]io more thana
cold ailed you he faltered, as he took the
thin hand extended to him.

His new-born cheerfulness was sorely
damped by the altered appearance of his
friend. Mrs. West's large dark eyes now
seemed too big for her pale and haggard

face — and under those eyes there was a
darkness, and upon that face a sickliness
of hue which distressed the rector beyond
measure.

How could you hide it from us, when
you have been so ill ? ' he murmured, as he
took a seat.

My friend,' Mrs. West replied, in low
but clear tones, ' it is not to talk of my
ailments that I have summoned you. I
am not aware that anything has ailed me
Id deed, further than can be accounted forby
the body's sympathy with a disordered
mind and distracted soul. Yes, my dear
old friend, I see you start, but I am describing
only too correctly my state for
months past — months which have dragged
like years. Tempted, tortured, conscience-pricked,
racked by doubt and terror, — compelled
to bear my burden alone and deceive
the dear loving eyes that sought mine, —

I 2

such has been my condition, till I could
bear it no longer, and have resolved to
share my load with you, my tried and trusty
friend, before its weight is known to all.'

In his indescribable agitation the rector
could not speak, as Mrs. West paused.
Two tears were already rolling down his
healthy cheeks, and his throat seemed
choked, but his eyes met his friend's gaze,
and she could read in them loving loyalty
that surpassed all words.

You never saw my brother Adolphus ? '
she resumed presently.

The rector shook his head, and his eyes
travelled to the picture, where the fair-haired,
disdainful lad stood at his mother's side.

At the time. of Mr. Holbrooke's coming
to Swardham rectory his patron's younger
son had been dead some six months, but
he was not ion or ant of the vouuo- man's
career of dissipation and disgrace.

'You have heard Mrs. West went on,
that he died and was buried away from
home. I nursed him for a whole month
before his death, in a mean lodmno^ near
the Gray's Inn Road. Poor, erring fellow !
he was our mother's darling, and well it
was for her that she was spared the knowledge
of his evil-doing and his end. '* May
God so deal by you, my Eachel, and your
children to come, as you deal with my
sweet boy," those were the last words she
spoke to me. It was not much that could
be done for him when at last he sent me
word of the retreat in which he had hidden
himself. It was plain that he was doomed ;
but at least he had one of his own blood
to tend him to the last, and my poor
husband's generosity provided everything
that he might fancy. The very first night
I sat with him, he astonished me with the
news that he was a married man — married

five months before to a girl who had waited
on him at a Wiltshire village where he had
stayed Then rusticated from Oxford, sly
first words, as soon as I recovered from my
surprise and distress, were urgent that he
should send for his wife at once, but he
would not hear of it. " Tilly's presence
would be anything but a comfort or pleasure
to me just now," he said, in his light way.
I don't want to be told that my 'ands are
'ot, or to hear a lot of snivelling when I ama
bit cross. Besides, the poor creature hasa
trouble of her own coming, so she tells
me, and must take care of her precious
health." It was plain to me that his fimcy
for the girl had already passed away, and
when I spoke of his duty and her rights,
he positively refused to give me her address,
declaring that she was " best as she was,
with the artful old slut of an aunt who had
let him in for his matrimonial honours." It

was not till the last week that he would
believe himself to be dying, and if less
flippant, he became bitterer towards some
for whom he should have had far other
feelings. Of our father especially he spoke
in a manner most painful to me, and declared
often that, if widow or child survived him,
he would prefer their starving to their
acceptance of any pittance from the squire.
And the morning before he died he exacted
from me a promise that I would never
betray his confidences to my father, or
reveal to any one except my husband the
existence of the young widow, who, as he
assured me, was as ignorant of the position
of her husband's family as she was unfitted
to take a place among its members. This
promise I have kept up to this day, and am
the only living person who knows that
my father's younger son left a widow, and
that there was posthumous issue of their

clandestine marriage. By Mr. Woodvil's
kindness I was enabled, immediately after
my brother's funeral, to journey down into
Wiltshire and break to the unfortunate girl
the news of her bereavement. 1 had found
some letters among my brother's papers
which gave me the necessary address — ill-spelt,
ill-expressed letters they were, so
filled with selfish repining and unreasonable
regrets that I ceased to wonder at my
brother's coldness, though I felt that no
effort must be lacking on my part to spare
the unhappy girl as much as possible. I
need not dwell on my reception in the
Wiltshire cottage, nor on the arrangements
which, thanks to my husband, I made with
the aunt for the niece's maintenance. It
is enough to mention that I undeceived
neither, when, in their selfish lamentations,
they alluded to Adolphus as a man without
fortune or expectations from any relative,

unless it might be from my husband or
myself, and loudly bewailed the rashness
which had committed a girl so attractive
as Matilda to so unprofitable a union.
Thankful indeed was I that I was bound by
a solemn promise to conceal from my family
their connection with such people, whose
coarse vulgarity of soul and absence of all
better feeling had thoroughly revolted me
during a stay which was made as short as
possible. In due time I was informed by
the aunt of the birth of twins, a boy and
girl, to my brother's widow, and was disposed
to echo her comment that, as they
were but weakly, it was hoped that the Lord
might see fit to take one or both. A hint
which was added that, in that case, her
niece might yet hope to do well in marriage,
half prepared me for a communication which
reached me six months later. It was from
a man, a stranger, and apparently what

would Le called a character, who informed
me that he purposed making Matilda West
his wife as soon as her year of widowhood
should have expired. But you shall
read his letter for yourself — I have it
here.'

The rector took from Mrs. West's hand
a sheet covered with queer, foreign-looking
writing, and read aloud as follows :

George St., Cunningham,

October 2, 18—.

Madam,

I intended making Matilda Smith
my wife before her aunt led her into the
mistake of marrying with your late brother.
Suffering as she does in consequence of that
mistake, I still repeat my offer, and she is
wise enough to close with it. But I have
made these conditions, that it is to be as if
the mistake had never been. Too-ether with
the name, every link, every remembrance,

every stiver arising of her former marriage
must pass away from her for ever. To this
you are not likely to object — but you will
say, what of the children ? Madam, it is
my belief that neither of those babes can
live to enter their second year — that the
boy especially will scarcely live till I become
his step-father. Very good. I sorrow not.
They are fruits of a mistake. But if either
or both should, in spite of present appearances,
survive infancy, I, being a man who
have a good trade and am a clever craftsman,
definitely undertake the maintenance
until adolescence of such child or children,
provided that he, she, or they are suffered
to grow up in ignorance of their true
paternity ; and engage to treat him, her, or
them in all respects as I would mine own.
To these conditions Matilda assents. If you
dissent there is one sole alternative — you
can at once adopt the children of your

brother, but no half-and-half course is possible.
My wife must be mine only, and
beholden to none but

(Signed) ' Erasmus van Lennep.'

As the rector finished this blunt and
straightforward epistle a soiled piece of
paper slipped from between its leaves, and
Mrs. West bade him read it also. It was
dated three days later than the other letter,
and was almost illegible, but Mr. Holbrooke
made out that the tremulous signature was
that of Matilda West, and that the scrawling
lines related incoherently the decease of
the writer's ' darling baby ' in convulsions,
at half past two that morning. Further
reference was made to a weddings which
must be postponed in consequence of the
sad event, and to the precarious state of
the surviving infant. As these papers were
handed back to Mrs. West, she went on

in the same low but clear and monotonous
tone with her recital.

Beyond a brief notice of the marriage,
which took place just fourteen months after
my brother's death, I never had another
line from these people — I could not say
for certain if they were still alive. Soon
after that time I had much trouble of my
own — and coming back to my old home a
widow began the long term of quiet and
peace which, save for my elder brother's
disastrous death, was unbroken while my
dear father lived. So seldom during these
happy years did my mind recur to the
events of which I have told you, that I
forgot them for long periods together.
Indeed, even the whole of my married life,
the three years which alone I lived away
from this house, has seemed to me almost
as a dream at times, with all its incidents
of bliss and woe, so contrasted with my

calm, uneventful course beneath this roof.
At length, in extreme old age, as you know
well, my father passed away, happy in the
belief that his estate would descend to a
grandson who, though not born a West,
had grown up beneath his eye, and re-produced
his excellencies. My dear friend, —
you are acquainted with our affairs, — were
the terms of my father's will known
accurately to you ? '

Except a general knowledge that your
son took the estate under the will, as everybody
expected and foreknew, absolutely
and unreservedly, I can't recall anything
as to its terms. It was all so regular and
in course that John should succeed the
squire, that I don't know that any one
talked about the details

So spake the bewildered rector, and was
all attention as Mrs. West once more, with
the same forced calmness, resumed her say.

I can tell you, however, the details.
My father had a great horror of will-making,
and never altered, except by an
unimportant codicil or two, a will made just
after my mother's death, in which he had
devised the estate first to my brother John,
or his heirs male absolutely ; next, failing
heirs male of John, to Adolphus and his
heirs male absolutely ; lastly, Cling heirs
male of Adolphus, to me, or to my eldest
son, if I should have a son of age, at the
death of the testator. Having long outlived
his two sons, both of whom he believed
to have died unmarried, my father did not
consider it necessary to make any alteration
in this will, which secured the succession
to my son in a manner quite satisfactory
to him — yes, satisfactory to all lout me ;
and why can I not die in silence ? wliy am
I compelled to ruin the son of my love ? '
Here the unhappy lady's voice rose

almost to a shriek, as she sprang from her
chair, and, standing with lier clasped hands
and streaming eyes before the picture,
moaned out piteously,

Oh, mother ! mother ! God so deal with
me and mine, you said, as I should deal by
your darling. Oh! what have I done ? what
must I do ? Ah me ! would that I had died
before my father! — died innocent and happy
with my hand in his, and my head on my
boy's breast ! — gone to meet a mother's
reproaching spirit, and feel her sweet
welcome on the other side the veil.'

Sinking upon her knees, this woman, of
old so calm and stately, was bowed as a
reed under her uncontrollable misery. Her
face indeed was hidden as she grovelled
upon the sofa at which she knelt, but a
braid of her white hair escaped from beneath
her cap, and fell forlornly on her
shivering shoulders. On God's earth could

110 more pitiable figure have been found
than the mistress of this stately house.
Nor yet on this earth could any heart have
swollen nigher to bursting than did that of
Francis Holbrooke to see this woeful sight.

Never yet had tale of distress failed to
find a way to his tender heart ; and at this
moment if by shedding his heart's blood he
could have shortened this woman's agony,
he would not have held the sacrifice too
dear. Softly, yet breathing hard, he knelt
beside his friend, and from his oppressed
soul there welled a simple yet noble prayer
to God for pity and guidance. Before the
last faltering word was uttered the agonizing
sobs, the almost frantic words were
hushed, and Each el West lay prostrate,
but meek in her grievous humiliation, while
into the rector's heart a ray of hope darted,
where all had been gloom and terror since
he suspected the drift of his friend's revels

I. K

tion ; and as he raised her by the hand,
and seated her on the sofa, he was able to
say almost cheerfully,

Thank God for this, that you shall no
longer bear your trouble alone. Let us face
it calmly together, and — who knows ? — it
may turn out no more than a dark shadow
after all.'

CHAPTER VII.

THE UPHEAVAL BEGINS.

'\rO U told me,' said the rector, soothingly,
after a while, ' that no communication
has passed between your brother's widow
and yourself since her marriage, at which
time one of her twin children (but whether
the boy or the girl is not specified) had
already died. See then how many chances
there are against the one possibility which
has distressed you so infinitely ! The second
child may have gone the way of the first,
or if otherwise, the survival of the girl
would in no way affect the young squire's
position.'

K 2

A shuddering groan escaped from Mrs.
West when she heard her secret terror take
shape in words, even though these were
chosen expressly to give no shock.

I had taught myself to think so,' she
said despondently at last. ' I had almost
taught myself to believe that if — if otherwise,
I could do no wrong in holding my
peace, and allowing my father's testament
to take such effect as he designed it should
take. But it was not the will of God. He
would not let me deceive myself into
happiness. I am as sure that my brother's
son is a living man as I am that you sit
here by me ! '

Her frame shook as with a palsy while
she pronounced, to her hearer's dismay,
these decisive words, but her voice grew
steadier, and she went on, —

You may remember that nearly two
years back, very soon, that is, after my

father's death, I went to stay with my old
friend Anna Murray and her husband, the
Vicar of St. Mary's, in Longborough. I
thought that a stay in that house among
such good and devoted people would keep
me from selfishness in my grief. Alas ! I
little knew how long a farewell I was to
bid there to peace ! Among the sick whom
the vicar was then visiting was a man
whose eccentricity and originality made a
considerable impression on him, and he
would speak to his wife and to me of the
startling: sentiments and daring conceits
which he heard from this person, a watchmaker
of Dutch extraction, and an advanced
radical, indeed, a Chartist and free-thinker
to boot, who had settled in his parish some
years before, and was now succumbing to
an incurable disease. Ah ! my friend, you
will have guessed already that this man
was the Erasmus Van Lennep who married

Matilda West, and brought her many years
after into Lancashire, as ignorant as she of
her first husband's connection with the
county. From the moment when I heard
the man's name I was a changed being. I
dared confide nothing to the Murray ; I
could not even venture to ask questions as
to Van Lennep's family, but I secured their
address from Mr. Murray's note-book, and
found my way alone to the street in which
they lived. Though I had armed myself
with an errand, carrying a watch which
needed repair, I could not bring myself to
enter the house, veiled as I was, and changed
beyond possibility of recognition by Matilda
should I encounter her. After walking once
or twice past the house on the other side
of the way I entered a little stationer's
shop, and making a small purchase, asked
the woman who served me for a srlass of
water, as I, truly enough, felt faint and

unwell. The woman, a civil, talkative
person, insisted on my taking a chair in
her back parlour, and proved, as I had
hoped, both able and willing to gossip
about her neighbours upon the slightest
encouragement. From her I soon learned
that the Van Lenses were people who
had, as it was thought, come down in
the world, having formerly had a good
business at Birmingham, and that the family
consisted of the sick man, his wife, and an
only son known as Dolf, and " somewhere
getting on for thirty." When I heard that
name and the description of the young
man's age, I felt that my doom was sealed,
and did not need the further confirmation
afforded by the woman's description of his
person. From that hour it has been ever
before me that it is my duty to snatch from
my son his place in the world, — the place
for which he was reared up, and which he

fills SO well, — and to see my boy replaced,
by the son of my brother's unacknowledged
union. I have longed, yes, I have even
dared to pray that I might die suddenly —
die and have made no sign. Sometimes I
have told myself that I do no wrong to this
young man by depriving him of that to
which accident alone has given him a claim,
to which he has never raised an eye, ^
hope, or thought. I have even resolved,
when such sophistries failed to quiet my
conscience, to bear the guilt unflinchingly,
and live out my days a cheat, till I pass
to a just God's recompense. But it has
been borne in upon me that, so doing, I
might bring a curse upon my noble and
innocent son, and his children to come,
whether or no detection of his mother's
fraud should follow. Better resign all at
once, with clean hands, than risk a stain
on that stainless honour ! Again, picture

to yourself, my friend, the feelings with
which I learned, a few weeks since, that
fate had brought the so-called Dolf Van
Lennep to this very place, had even produced
a collision between the cousins, unconscious
of their relationship or of the
complication which involves them ! What
I have suffered since that terrible day no
tongue can tell ; but I am conquered,
beaten to my knees at last ! and terrible,
heartrending as is the task before me, it
must be done without delay. And you,
my friend, must help me. When I think
of my son, and the blow that I must deal
to him, — my idol, the sun and centre of my
life and bliss, — I feel that it will kill me ;
but you must help me to be just in spite
of all my fears.'

Her voice died away in sorrow too deep
for tears, and her head drooped wearily forward
as the rector, almost in a whisper, said,

'What you bid me shall be clone, but
God help us all ! '

You will go then tomorrow to Long-borough
— I will give you the address — and
see these people. Convince yourself if you
will (I am convinced, and feel it can be
but an idle formality) of the identity of
this young man with my nephew, prepare
him and his mother for what is coming to
them, and bring them both — or him at
least — back with you, if they will come.
I shall have atonement to make for the injustice
already done, and when they see their
heritage, their gain, my loss, they will be less
hard perhaps on me and my boy. Ah, my
boy, my love, my pride — ' With a sudden
wail she broke off, and sinking back in her
seat, buried her ashen face in her hands.

For a time there was silence in the room,
but at last the rector found voice enough
for a few hesitating words.

Surely these people, this young man, if
the blood of the Westss really flows in his
veins, cannot be hard enough, grasping
enough to take full advantage of what you
mean to disclose ! Some compromise would
surely meet the justice of the case. Five
hundred a year, a thousand a year, anything
in reason ! It would be affluence to
them, and they may well be too wise to
covet a position for which they cannot befit.
Cheer up then, my dear good friend,
ever loved and honoured, and tell me that
I may hope for some arrangement which
shall avert a catastrophe.'

Without ao-ain raising; herself Mrs. West
feebly shook her head, and in broken tones
murmured,

You must not tempt me ! that and
every other possible expedient has again
and again occurred to me. But it cannot
be ! I have no hope of anything less than

absolute deprivation, ruin, and beggary for
my boy. And if there were no other objection,
how could I carry out any such
scheme without my son's knowledge, without
making him my accomplice ? and, my
friend, in all my woe I rejoice to think
that he would recoil with horror from
buying any worldly good at the price of
honour. Above his bride, above his every
ambition, his stainless honour stands, and
shall stand. No ; I know your heart, I
know that it is bleeding for us ; but you
must say no more. Leave me now and
tomorrow I shall see you on your return
from Longborough. To-morrow the worst
shall be known to all who are concerned.
Pray for me that I may have strength for
that bitterest hour ! pray for my son, that
he may never forget his noble nature under
this great adversity — and now good-bye ! *
A long clasp of the hand, a hoarsely-muttered

blessing, and Holbrooke passes
from the room, from the house, and, stunned
and confused, begins his homeward walk.
The wide park is peaceful in the wintry
twilight. Books are cawing sleepily from
the bare branching elms ; the fallow deer
crouch snugly among the withered brackens.
Can all nature be keeping her wonted order
so placidly? and can it yet be true, this
hideous story ? Fire, flood, axe, storm, — all
might do their worst upon this calm scene,
and yet what would the havoc be compared
with the desolation about to fall upon it ?
The gallant, chivalrous man, in the early
prime of his life and the first flush of his
honourable ambition, the saintly and revered
woman, who from youth to age had been
the ornament and good genius of the
ancestral home, — these are but intruders,
soon to be outcasts ; and in their place (oh,
can providence be slumbering ?) shall step

one, not merely meanly reared, but a sworn
enemy to the class among which fate's irony
is soon to number him — a demagogue, a
Chartist, a foe to all that the lords of
Swardham had cherished for generations.

It was a relief to Mr. Holbrooke, on reaching
the rectory, to find a gay, apologetic
note from his daughter, who had been
enticed away to spend the evening at the
parsonage in a neighbouring village, where,
amid a crowd of merry boys and girls, she
was certain to be detained till a late hour.
He could not face Mary without exciting
her alarm in his present over-wrought and
miserable mood, and determined to be off
in the morning before she should be stirring.
Poor girl ! it was well that she should enjoy
one more happy evening before she too
should be crushed in the ruin which was
hanging over the place lately so blissful.
The unhappy rector stamped his foot in

impotent wrath as there darted suddenly-through
his memory the mocking prophecy
of the hateful Auchmuty — ' Unless the
secret is one that will die with her, you
will remember this little confidence of mine
some day, when this Arcadia of yours is
upheaved with a genuine sensation.' Alas I
how soon it had come, this earthquake,
where all had seemed profoundly secure,
and what vestige of Arcadian joys was
likely to survive its ravages ! Sick at heart
and dazed with sorrow, the rector crept to
his room, there to count the slow hours till
the night should be gone, and it was time
for him to play his part in the wretched
tragedy, of which the curtain was to fall on
the ruin of those dearest to him, save his
own child, on this fleeting earth.

r CHAPTER Vii

A VISITOR IN BRITANNIA STREET.

TN a dim little back parlour, situate iu
Britannia Street, Longborough, an
elderly woman is fussing about a meagre
breakfast-table, and glancing often at a
cheap American clock, in a very red mahogany
case, decorated with a very gaudy
picture, supposed to represent the great
Exhibition of 1851. The woman's short
and dumpy figure is sparely robed in cheap
black stuff, and she wears a widow's cap,
between the ample borders of which her
small features look insignificantly forth,
though her cheeks are round and fat, and

streaked with faint pink. She heaves frequent
sighs as she puts the coffee-pot within
the fender, or peeps under a tin dish-cover
at a haddock which is cooling beneath, and
her expression is querulous, even when at
last a footfall is heard in the shop, and a
young man enters the room.

Morning, mother,' says the laggard ;
'breakfast's ready, I hope, because Harry is
to call for me at the half-hour, and we must
settle the programme for next lecture night
before noon, and a dozen other things.'

Your breakfast's been spoiling since half-past
eight, when I had mine,' replies the
woman in melancholy tones ; ' and I did
hope you were going to attend to your work
to-day. There's Mrs. Brown's watch, that
I got her to leave quite as a favour, I assure
you ; and that Rugg is not fit to be trusted
with it. You'll surely see to that first, as I
promised it by this evening, and she may

VOL. I. L

be a good customer with her large gov. ii-hip
family.'

Oh, bother the old 'hippopotamus says
the son with his mouth full of bread and
haddock ; ' the idea of her patronizing me
with her favours ! If Rugg s no good, what
do we pay him fourteen shillings a week for? '

The woman's answer comes from behind
her apron, as she sinks into a chair and
gives way to tears, which spring ever
readily to her eyes.

It's not much longer we shall be able to
afford a journeyman at all, at this rate.
And then what's to become of us ? The
workhouse, I suppose, for me — while you
go off after your lecturing and folly that
never puts a penny into your pocket. Oh
dear, oh dear,' — and she cries and sniffs ina
subdued and hopeless way, while her son,
shrugging his shoulders, goes on silently
with his breakfast.

Presently the little bell attached to the
shop-door jingles, and Rugg, the unappreciated
journeyman, thrusts his shock
head into the room and says,

Oh, it's young Soole called for Mister
Dolf.'

Come in, Harry,' shouts Dolf, glad to

put an end to the tete-astute, while his

mother, with a dolorous look and emphatic

shake of the head, betakes her up-stairs to

make the beds.

Dolf often snubs his Harry roundly, but
there is consolation in his ready deference
and artless admiration, when, as not unfrequently
happens, Mr. Doles serenity has
been ruffled by troubles of a sordid and
domestic nature. The great man and his
lieutenant have lately been prime movers in
the establishment of a young men's mutual
improvement society, of a tone at once
political and literary — a society which was

L 2

to be trammelled by the presence of no
Barnes or other despotic elders. Any
tyranny that might be found requisite in
the new and improved brotherhood was,
in short, to be exercised by Mr. Dolf Van
Lennep in person, who, ardent soul ! could
no longer brook the post of second fiddle to
any other performer.

Harry Soole was in high spirits this
morning, having prevailed on an acquaintance
who kept a small school for boys to
lend his class-room of an evening for the
purposes of the infant society.

I had to promise him that he should
recite sometimes,' quoth Harry ; * but think
what it will save us, just at first, in rent !
and we can always put him up at the
beginning of the programme, just to set
things a-start till folks are all seated.'

'And does old Maunder suppose,' says
Dolf, with clouded brow, ' or were you such

an ass as to let him suppose, that Tm going
to demean myself, and the society I have
founded, with the stamp of his mouthing —
to mar its nascent fortunes with a brand of
rhapsodical inferiority ? Not for a dozen
paltry school-rooms ! Nothing is more important
than an imposing commencement.
Old Maunder indeed ! — and you promised
him ! I'm amazed at you, 'Army Soole.'

Quite crest-fallen, poor Soole makes
humble submission for his indiscretion, and
after more talk the pair sally forth to call
on the deacon of a very small chapel
(denomination unknown), to whom was to
be offered the honour of affording a rostrum
for the aspiring orators of young Long-borough.
It might be imagined that no
constancy could endure a course of such
amenities as Dolf Van Lennep lavished upon
his friend ; but not only was poor Soole of
a meek and unselfish disposition, he also

had a sister, one Sally Soole, on whom the
mighty Dolf had deigned to smile, and it
was the wish of his heart to see pretty Sally
united to one of whose intimacy he was
proud, and of whose future he predicted
great things.

After the unceremonious departure of her
son, the widow Van Lennep (who had buried
her husband some six months before this
time) hurried through her household duties,
and passed into the shop. It was a low-ceiled,
old-fashioned place, with a little bow-window
on either side the front door. In
one of these windows, where hung a few
ancient time-pieces of dim and lumpish
appearance, sat Rugg the journeyman, inspecting,
through a black tube mysteriously
screwed into his eye the works of a dilapidated
watch. The other window had
recently been fitted with some shelves, on
which were displayed a few petty articles of

ironmongery — trivets, toasting-forks and
packets of nails and screws, which filled the
shop with a prevailing fragrance of brown
paper. After a sour glance at the untidy
and [phlegmatic assistant, the widow settled
herself at a desk on the hardware side of the
establishment, and began, with many sighs
and a most mournful countenance, to con
the pages of a ledger. She had not, however,
been long thus employed, when the
little bell's tinkling announced a possible
customer, and looking up, she saw a gentleman
in evident hesitation as to whom he
should address.

A church clergyman, I warrant him,'
thought the widow as she surveyed the
stranger, and threw an extra dash of chill
acidity into her inquiry, 'And what can
I do for you, sir, if you please ? '

A member for years past of a congregation
of Primitive Methodists is Matilda Van

Lennep, and unsavoury in her nostrils is the
aroma of the establishment, even as represented
by rosy portly little Mr. Holbrooke.
Not all the jeers and gibes of a free-thinking
husband, not all the neglect of a heedless
son, had availed so to school her that she
would forbear what she called her testimony
on every due occasion. It had been all
very well for the late Van Lennep, who
cared nothing what a man's opinions were
provided he could get him into an argument,
to encourage church clergymen about the
place during his tedious illness. His wife
had been bound to put up with it, as she
did with many other things ; but his widow
was not going to stand any repetition of
clerical patronage. So there was something
almost repellent in the tone with which she
repeated, * Sir, what can I do for you ? '

Shamefaced and embarrassed, the rector"
of Swardham stood before her, and in his

inability to find words, and his desire to
be diplomatic and conciliatory, was almost
minded to temporize, and gain a pleasant
footing by making a mild offer for the
battered watches or the toasting-forks.

At last, when the widow had come to the
conclusion that the man must be about to
beg of her for some of his church follies
and fal-lals, and was preparing to give him
a crushing answer, he managed to stammer
out that he had a matter of importance to
broach in private, and, with a quaint little
bow, presented his card. With a toss of the
head, Mrs. Van Lennep led the way to her
back parlour. No sooner had the door closed
upon them, and the rector began again.
'Madame, you have a son,' than the
widow, leaping to a fresh conclusion, completely
changed her tone. She had heard
from her Dolf an account, garbled for the
maintenance of his own dignity, of the

occurrences in HockerilFs barn, and his
encounter with John West ; and now, seeing
Swardham on the corner of the rector's card,
she was seized with terrors lest her headstrong
boy should be involved in trouble,
whereof this parson might be the herald.

Oh dear, sir,' she whined, ' it wasn't with
my good will that the lad went nigh your
place, and if it's anybody who ought to be
punished for what happened, it's that
Barnett ! I'm sure, sir, my Dolf will be
ready to apologize if he's hurt the gentleman
and I hope you'll take my word for it,
and succour the widow, sir, and the orphan,
as a true man of peace

Quite out of breath, she stopped, and
as she wiped away a tear, saw only mild
surprise in the perplexed face of her visitor.

^ I am sorry to have given a wrong impression
of my errand,' he said ; ' it is of a
very different nature — nothing to your son's

detriment — but ' (with an irrepressible sigh)
probably quite the contrary. Assuring
you that I have important reasons for the
question, may I ask whether you have been
more than once married ? '

Law, sir,' gaped the widow, and her
accent was altered, ' it's not what I like,
being catechized by a stranger, and what
my late husband would have strongly objected
to, I can assure you. However, I've
no reason to be ashamed of the truth. I
have been twice married, being left a widow
with twin babes when no more than a child
myself, since which I have been wife to the
late Mr. Van Lennep for eight-and-twenty
years.'

And your son, ma'am, — trust me, that I
don't ask out of idle curiosity, — is he the
son of the first or of the second marriage ? '

How the poor rector's heart beat as he
asked this question ! He scarcely knew till

this moment how strong within him lingered
hope that there might be a mistake, the
detection of which should cause all these
troubles to vanish away as nightmares before
daylight.

It's well, sir, for your chance of being
answered said the widow slowly, with
many nods of the head, ' that Erasmus — I
allude to the late Mr. V. — is no more. He
hadn't such respect for your cloth, fond ashe
was of an argument with any of you, but
that he'd have shown the door to any man
who asked him no more than you've asked
me. But he's gone, and I see no call to
make mystery about it. My son, sir, knows
indeed no better at this moment than that
he's son to Mr. Van Lennep, having been
brought up as such from the time he was
short-coated. It was his step-father's wish
and desire; but his own father was dead'
and buried before ever he was born — he and

bis little twin sister that was taken, sweet
lamb ! in her infant days — and his right
name is the same as his — Adolphus, sir,
and surname West, which was my name
before it was Van Lennep. And now, sir,
1 make l)old to ask, what of it ? '

Sharply enough the widow propounded
this natural inquiry, but slowly and dolefully,
with aching heart, did her visitor
unfold his marvellous tale.

It is my duty, ma'am, to inform you
that your son, in right of his father, supposing
there is no mistake, can claim a very
fine property in this county, in the part
where I live ; that is, of course, if you have
proofs of his birth and identity

The little dumpy woman had fallen back
in her chair, and with one hand pressed to
her side, lay staring at Holbrooke with an
almost painful gaze of astonished incredulity.


His father ! ' she gasped. ' Are you
sure, sir ? Why, he ran through all he had,
and often and often did he say to me.
Not a penny, Tilly, will you and I ever
pocket from my side, not to keep us from
starving ! " And after all these years, too.
There must be some mistake, I think ;
West's a common name enough.'

But not Adolphus West. There is
no mistake,' says the rector with a
groan ; ' and 1 come to you from your
first husband's sister. Do you remember
her ? '

What, her that came down to Ellington
after poor Adolphus died — and her real lace
fall and sable boa and muff? That I do
remember,' the widow cried excitedly.
And she's alive, is she ? I never thought
it. And sends a gentleman to me after all
these years, to say my boy's to come into a
fine property ! It's kind of her, that it is ! '

and rising, she dropped a flurried curtsey to
the ambassador.

Oh, ma'am,' with a full heart the rector
replies, 'she is indeed kindness and goodness
itself, and should she need kindness herself,
there is no one who has earned such a claim
to it. She is a widow, as you are ; and has
one only son, as you also have. God grant
your heart may be as tender as hers has
always been in her prosperity.'

Bewildered by the rector's impassioned
utterance, Mrs. Van Lennep stared again,
and faintly demanded,

But about the property, sir, that you
say is come to my Dolf ? It couldn't be
hers, of course, as she's alive ; who's it come
from, please ? '

Ma'am, you may have heard your neighbours
talk of Squire West of Swardham
all Longshire folks know the Westss.
Adolphus West, who married you, was the

younger son of old squire West — though
I dare say he told you true enough that
neither you nor he were likely to be a
penny the richer for his family. He had
disappointed his father, and the old squire
cast him off. Only his sister was kind to him,
and tended his dying bed — always remember
that, ma'am ! — and before he closed his eyes
he made her promise not to let the old man
know of his leaving wife or child. A solemn
promise to a dying brother she made and
kept I Well, ma'am, when the old squire
died, not three years ago, he had no living
son, and his only kith and kin, that he knew
of, where his widowed daughter and her boy,
who had lived in his house for years, and
were both near and dear to the old man. To
this grandson, John West as he is called, the
old squire meant to leave his estate, which
was in his own power to will to idiom he
pleased. It would have been just the same

if he had known of your son's existence ; or
rather, if he had known things could never
have come about as they are like to do.
For, in the belief that his two sons had died
unmarried and childless, the old squire
left unaltered a will made years before — a
will by which a son of either of those two,
if such a son there should be, takes the
estate before the daughter's son.

Stopping abruptly after delivering himself
of this horrid fact, the rector stole a
glance at his auditor, while he wiped his
troubled brow. Round-eyed and gaping,
the widow sat as one transfixed, and Hole
was meditating a second and more
lucid exposition of his tidings, when she
found voice at last.

The son's son before the daughter's son !
that's right enough, all the world over, that
is, whether the old gentleman left it so by
accident or not. That means my Dolf, if

VOL. I. M

you're telling me truth, before his cousin.
My Dolf a gentleman of property ! Oh,
God above us ! A-a-h ! ' and with a stifled
exclamation, and a flinging out of her fat
hands, the widow sank back upon her patchwork
cushion, and, to her visitor's unspeakable
dismay, fainted away without further
ado.

CHAPTER IX.

HOW ADOLPHUS TOOK IT.

r\ Great was the indignation of Mr. Dolf
^^ when, on his unexpected return home,
he found the shop deserted, and, diving into
the back parlour, was confronted by two
neighbouring matrons and a perturbed
stranger of clerical appearance. Never of
the sweetest or most placid temper, he had
this morning been tried by failure and contumely.
For the deacon, whom he had
stooped to solicit for the use of a building,
had not only flatly refused the accommodation,
but had flouted and gibed at the new
brotherhood as a gang of idle prentices and

M 2

good-for-nothings. Goaded and stung by
this rebuff, Dolf could no longer endure
the company even of his henchman, whose
presumptuous arrangement it might now
be necessary to ratify. Dismissing Soole,
he stalked gloomily to his home, there
intending to pour out his wrathful soul ina
letter to the radical paper of Longborough.

If only the editor would for once be kind,
he would surely make that grovelling deacon
sorry for his churlish insolence ! He had
worked up several very fine sentences on
his way to Britannia Street, and vast was
his displeasure to find his privacy invaded,
his journeyman fled, and his parent stretched
upon the horse-hair sofa in the back room.

Don't be frighted, Mr. Dolf,' says one of
the matrons ; ' yer mail soon be round again
as her colour's coming back every minute ;
though like death indeed when Mrs. Brett
and me was fetched in — as this good gentleman

can explain to you better than me
how it came about,' and the worthy lady
darted a look of yearning curiosity towards
Holbrooke.

At this moment Mrs. Van Lennep sat upon
the sofa, and turned a bewildered gaze
on the assembly, till her eye lit on her son.

My boy,' she cried faintly, ' my own
only son ! this gentleman has news for you
ah, such news ! '

In one minute after this intimation the
matrons were dismissed, indignant and unsatisfied,
to their own dwellings, and Dolf,
still somewhat morose and scornful, was
confronted with the herald of his amazing
fortune. How the poor rector loathed in
his heart, as he once more recited the necessary
facts, this ungracious young dema-
o'offue ! How he sickened at the thought
of displacing from his pedestal brave, handsome
Jack West, with his gallant bearing

and his haughty honourable spirit, to make
room for this man, so destitute of breeding
or presence, this sample of provincial radicalism
of the lowest type. Could the same
blood indeed flow in their veins ? Alas ! it
seemed hopeless to dispute the fact, useless
to blink the terrible consequences of an
old man's disinclination for re-opening that
which had been sealed, signed, and delivered
as his last will and testament. And so Mr.
Holbrooke gulped down his rising bile, and
strove to speak fair this strange scion of an
ancient tree, in the hope that magnanimity
might, after all, be found to dwell in that
narrow breast, and that more than strict
justice might haply be meted to his innocent
and most unfortunate kinsman by his puny
supplanter. The mother sat by her son, as
the tale was unfolded to his astounded ears,
and at first held his hand, which soon he
snatched from her, as excitement began to

master him. Once only did he turn and
look into the dim blue eyes that were fixed
on him so fondly ; when, namely, the rector
first touched on the secret of his parentage.

His hurried glance of inquiry being met
by a solemn nod of confirmation, he was
immediately absorbed again in the narration,
and seemed to forget his mother's very presence.
A breathless question showed now
and then how eagerly and closely he followed
the story — but towards the end he
sank back on the sofa, with a white face
and great drops standing on his brow, and
looked so likely to follow his mother's recent
example, and swoon away, that the apprehensive
rector began to look timidly round
for assistance, till an eager entreaty that he
would go on with the narrative induced
him to believe that Van Lennep was, as he
declared, ' all right.'

I think,' said Holbrooke, ' that I have

put you in the possession of the facts, Mr. —
Mr. West ; and your next step will, perhaps,
be to call upon Mr. Scott (you know Scots'
in Frigate, they are the Swardham
solicitors), whom I suppose you will find
in a measure prepared to meet you. And
now, Mr. West, I have, with a full heart
and heavy, ended the business part of ray
visit ; but I must ask your patience for a
few words in addition. Mr. AVest, I have
no friend in the world whom I respect and
love as I do Mrs. West, your aunt, Eachel
West, and there is no young man in whose
future I take more interest, and whose
merits I rate higher, than your cousin
John West's, whose place, it seems, you
are entitled to fill. Bear with me then
while I beseech you to deal very tenderly
with both in this their great and unexpected
reverse of fortune. Forget all else, remember
only that you come of one good old

stock, of which so few scions survive, that
each should have high value in the other's
eyes, and all the more that no one of you
has wilfully wronged another.'

The poor rectors halt and tremulous
eloquence was here checked by a sound as
of dissent from him whom it is as yet hard
to call Adolphus West.

In what year was it that John West's
grandfather, and — and mine, died ? ' asked
the young man in low, deliberate tones, ashe
bent back, pale and frail but determined,
on the cheap and vulgar sofa.

It was over two years ago,' muttered
Holbrooke, strangely discomfited.

Nearly three years ago ! ' rejoined the
other, with sudden and startling passion.
Then for thirty long months or more the
position which you came to-day to divulge tome
has been mine by right, if I may believe
your own tale. What though accident gave

the inheritance to the neglected outcast, the
disgraced son's disowned issue, instead of
to the proud young heir, son of the favoured
daughter — the law takes no cognizance of
an accidental element in a strictly legal
bequest, as your friends well knew, Mr.
parson I Nearly three years ! My God !
with the opportunities that should have
been mine, what might I not have done
with myself, my brains, my time, in these
years during which I have been grovelling,
tied to a hateful handicraft, brow-beaten
and kept under by the very tradesmen
who have crouched for the custom of
Swardham Hall And all this— this deadly,
irreparable wrong, these years stolen from
my prime —I am to forget, because tardy
justice is done — and beg, I suppose, my
kind relatives to keep, as a favour to myself,
what they please of the wealth of which
they have deprived me so long for their

own advantage 1 Oh ! I can spare you the
pains of your arguments, sir. Doubtless
you would say that it is a sad pity for
such ornaments of their rank to be ejected
for the sake of one bred as I have been
bred; but whose fault is it that I have
been condemned to so long obscurity ?
Small thanks do I owe Mrs. West for this
late rendering of justice ; slight compunction
shall I feel in ousting the haughty squire
her son from his feudal abuse of power.
And I scorn for one moment to disguise
the sentiments which do and ever will
actuate me.'

Sickened and dismayed, the rector darted
his glance from the hot white face of the
agitated young man to the mother's round
inexpressive countenance. A woman's heart
might still be touched by a sister's woes ;
and while alone with her, Holbrooke had
thought Mrs. Van Lennep not unkindly

disposed. But alas for his hopes ! the
ample cap-borders were shaken by quite a
tempest of indignation as the maternal soul,
long waxing hot, was at last relieved by-fiery
words.

She that seemed so grand and above
poor folks' temptations ! she that made
believe to wish us well ! she to keep my
dear boy out of his own these long years
last past, that we've been struggling so sore,
and going down-hill so grievous, struggle
as we might ! A right down wicked bad
woman I call her, and I won't mince my
words ; and mean too, if she would now
seek to be beholden to the forbearance of
them she has wronged so. But my dear
boy is right, as he always is, to make no
terms at all, but take all that the law gives
him. My clever boy, he'll shine among the
best yet ; and let me tell you, humble ashe
may describe himself, and wronged as he

has been, he has not wanted for education,
nor for profiting by it neither ! What is
right to be done he'll do it ; but it won't
be what you're sent here to beguile him
into, and so I make bold to tell you, church-minister
as you are.'

Quite out of breath the matron stopped,
and possessed herself once more of the hand
which her son had saved in languid deprecation
of her harangue. But though silent,
still she glowered at the man, doubly hateful
as priest of a state church and ambassador
of a presumably wily foe. She might
indeed have been somewhat mollified could
she have read the poor man's heart, or
known the utter misery and sick despair
which filled his breast as slowly he arose,
and, picking up hat and stick, prepared to
fly from the scene where his last spark of
hope had been quenched. He could not obey
Mrs. West's injunctions — he could not ask

these people to enter her presence or pollute
Swardham with their feet earlier than should
be absolutely necessary. And yet, wicked
and base and unfeeling as he deemed them,
he felt through all his horror of them a
persuasion that a more acute and diplomatic
person than himself might have succeeded
better in his mission.

I think,' he said, and his voice was sad
and subdued, and he felt quite old and
shaky while he spoke, ' I think that I had
better be going, unless there is any other
business topic on which I can afford you
information

If there is, sir,' replied the young man
loftily, ' I can seek enlightenment of Mr.
Scott, to whom 1 shall not fail to introduce
myself at once.'

Bowing stiffly the rector passed from the
house without another word, and turned to
go, he knew not whither — nor would it

have greatly concerned him at that moment
had an earthquake rent the pavement of
Britannia Street and engulfed him in the
bowels of a globe whence happiness and
order had fled for ever.

CHAPTER X.

THE ANGEL OF DEATH.

/^NCE more the rector and Mrs. West are
met, in the hide's little sitting-room
where hangs the family group. With dejected
looks, head bowed down, and tremulous
accents, Holbrooke has reported to his
patroness the result of his visit to Britannia
Street ; striving, as he told his tale, to avoid
all exaggeration, and yet wholly unable to
extenuate the impressions produced on him
by the mother and son. If aught indeed
could have lightened his task and his heart,
it would have been the gentle resignation,
the perfect patience, with which Rachel

West learned the disposition of these relatives
towards herself.

My friend,' she said, when he touched
on the vindictive feelings of Adolphus and
his mother, * they have suffered wrong, do
not forget that, and at my hands. What
reparation I can make shall be made, and it
shall be made clear to them that my son
has not injured them in thought, word, or
deed. Be jealous for his sake, but not for
mine. Let the world know that he steps
forth from this place stripped of all save
honour, but on that no spot ! Courage, my
old friend ; you are not afraid that truth
shall prevail ! Nerve yourself, and me too,
who in this matter lean upon you as my
trusty stay. There is but one more step,
and then I can say the bitterness of this, to
which death seemed pleasant a while ago, is
past ! Yes, you must break it to John, and
bring him to me. Mr. Scott will be in the

VOL. L N

house, indeed, I think he is now in the
library ; and when we are all calm enough
we can take counsel together as to what
must be our next move. John has been in
the steward's room with Ballard since his
breakfast, you must waylay him there.
Take him out to the end of the terrace, and
tell him there, — her gentle voice sank lower,
gentler as she went on ; — ' and then, as you
bring him in, I shall be here at my window,
and see how my boy bears it. He will
look up at me, I think he will look up and
smile love and forgiveness on his mother,
my own brave darling ! Now go, my faithful
friend. He will prompt you with most
meet words, Whom on my knees I will
beseech for mercy while you are with my
son.'

Wringing Holbrooke's hand convulsively,
Mrs. West, whose outward calmness had sofar
been astonishing, sank in the attitude of

prayer upon a low seat, against the liigli
carved back of which she leaned, and hid
her face upon her clasped hands. Thus the
rector left her, and with throbbing heart
descended in quest of the unconscious squire.

Half-an-hour afterwards two men were
leaning mournfully against the balustrade
of mellow-tinted brick-work which bounded
the terrace at Sward ham.

Hush a while,' said the younger in a low,
weary voice, ' hush, and let me think a bit.'

It was a bleak March day, and a keen
drying east wind swept over the park,
where the rooks tacked laboriously on their
voyages, and the withered ferns shivered,
and the elms tossed their great arms, as if
rejoicing that their buds could not as yet
suffer from the nipping blast. Jack West's
keen dark eyes roved over the familiar scene.
They looked as dry and bright as usual,
but they saw nothing. Never in his healthy

N 2

active life had his peaceful slumber been
disturbed by nightmare, or he might have
recognized in the tormented stupor which oppressed
him something akin to the troubled
sleeper's distress. Disinherited, ejected, a
sham for two years past, a nobody for the
future — he tried to shape these ideas, but
his stunned mind refused to receive definite
impressions, his brain seemed to whirl.

All at once there broke upon him an illuminating
ray, pure from all selfishness, and ashe
heaved a vast sigh and turned abruptly
towards the rector, all his heart spoke out
in the words, ' Mother ! God bless her ! ' He
checked himself abruptly to look in the
rector's face, which had by this time turned
very red, and was now bedewed by a tear
from either eye. Not a word could the
good man utter, indeed, he had much ado
to repress a rising sob, but he seized his
old pupil's hand, and nodding his head

violently, motioned with it toward the
house.

So you've been keeping this to yourselves
to spare me, you pair of conspirators,'
Jack said, with a husky little laugh, ' as if
I could not bear anything as long as site is
all right ; ' and he strode along the terrace,
head erect, a gallant sight for any woman's
eyes, one to be idolized by her that bore
him.

She's — she's at her window, watching for
you,' gasped the agitated rector, pulling at
the other's coat lapel ; ' let her see that her
prayers are answered as you look up.'

In another moment they were within
sight of the well-known casement, and Jack
West stood still and bared his head, letting
the March wind ruffle the black locks about
his broad temples. A big, brave, strong-limbed
man he always looked, and every
inch a gentleman, but as he stood turning

up his face with a sad tender smile, there
was lent to his features and to his whole
mien a something which had not been there
before — something which had never been
seen by his lady-love at Marloes, or it must
have quickened even the placid pulses of
the lady Emily.

Almost with awe the rector marked the
alteration, which brought to his mind
reminiscences of martyrs or heroes pourtrayed
by immortal hands in Italy of
yore. At that moment tie sun peeped,
Evan and sickly, from the grey cold sky,
and his beam lit up the gallant, uncovered
head, and glinted on the windowpanes
of the old red house. There was a
movement of the curtain, where Eachel
West knelt in the embrasure, and those who
were looking beneath saw two clasped hands
flung heavenward, as in rapture, and a
white head sink forward till it rested on the

window-ledge, where the faint sunbeam
crowned it with a silver halo. And so they
found her resting when they reached her
room, but the clouds had closed again over
the sun, and only the cold daylight illumined
the bowed head, the thin clasped hands, the
kneeling figure in its black array. Hole
had stopped by the door, meaning
to come forward presently, when he was
startled by a cry, a startled shout of horror,
from Jack West.

Eun, Holbrooke, quick, for God's sake !
get help ! let them ride off for the doctors !
she has fainted — in a dead fidnt she is.'

Hastily snatching at the bell-rope, the
rector ran to help West, who was trying to
get his mother on to the couch, and in so
doing, just as servants came in and called
off Jack's attention, he caught sight of
the face of his old friend, and in a moment
his heart seemed to stand still, for he felt

that it was death on which he looked.
It was not that any stamp of rigidity or
sign of mortal struggle was discernible,
rather was it the aspect of seraphic sweetness,
of unutterable repose and youth
renewed, which told the experienced parish
priest that this world's troubles were over
for Rachel West. While Jack was ^ivinfj
hurried directions to the butler, and the
elderly maid hovered round, weakly wailing
and wondering, Holbrooke laid his hand
reverently on the serene brow and pressed
down the half-closed eyelids, and as he did
so the room rang with the maid's sudden
screams.

Oh, my lady ! my dear mistress ! she is
gone, yes, she is gone ! '

Hurrying to his mother's side, Jack
fiercely bid the woman be silent and leave
the room, and stooping anxiously as he took
the passive hand, said,

What is it, Holbrooke ? why do you
look so ? She will come to directly.'

But the rector answered not, and Jack,
looking up with a vague numbness stealing
upon his heart, saw eyes of mingled awe
and pity, saw quivering lips, and a hand
that pointed upwards, and then, when his
eyes fell again, that still, white face, with
its changeless smile and holy passionless
calm. At once he comprehended it all, and
there broke from his lips an exceeding
bitter cry, —

God pity me ! He has taken her, and
left me alone.'

A man of physical gifts inferior those
of John West, whose splendid constitution
had suffered from no strain, might have
been at such a moment spared for a while
by the failure of his bodily powers from the
torture of the anguished soul. But to West
no such relief was for a moment possible

under the double blow that had befallen
him. With all the full powers and unimpaired
vigour of the prime of life, he began
to serve his apprenticeship to anguish and
woe, and cruel was the ordeal.

During the bleak days that followed Mr.
Holbrooke seldom left his former pupil, and,
in spite of the almost unbroken silence
maintained by either, the younger man felt
grateful for such companionship. He had
referred once only to his loss of fortune,
when he had been informed that until after
the funeral all would remain as it had been,
and had at once relapsed into the aching
gloom of his sorely wounded spirit.

In accordance with this intimation, Rachel
West's burial was marked with all the
solemn state which had been customary
when a master or mistress of Swardham
Hall was consigned to the vault where
generations of Westss were laid. Strange

rumours were indeed already rife, noised in
Longborough streets, and whispered in rural
villages, as to a new claimant for the great
Swardham estate, and a serious flaw in the
title of the present squire ; but by common
consent, all the world of Longshire agreed
to behave upon the day of the funeral as if
no such reports had been spread, expressing
thereby the sincere respect and honour in
which the deceased lady had been held by
her neighbours. More of sympathy than
might be expressed by such reticence none
was found bold enough to express, though
many were the chiefs of good old Longshire
houses, and many were the ancient tenants
who gathered round the grave of Eachel
West. Many also were the furtive glances
directed towards the tall figure of the chief
mourner, who stood alone throughout the
service at the coffin's head ; but such was
John West's aspect and demeanour that

none could venture to touch his hand or
murmur in his ear a word of condolence.
Calm as he was and tearless, there was that
about his set mouth and contracted brows
which misfht have held the most familiar
or the most officious at more than arm's
length ; and in many a Loiigshire hall and
homestead men shook their heads that nis^ht
in sorrow for the young squire, and feared
that evil days were indeed, as rumour had
predicted, fallen upon him whose best friend
had been gathered to her fathers, taken, in
God's goodness, from the sad days to come.
What Rachel West had suffered in the
last two years of her life no mortal knew
save her friend the rector. To her the
angel of death came a merciful visitant,
beckoning away the soul that was cleared
by timely confession of its heaviest burden.
And her last earthly feeling was a joy too
deep for words, lit at the loving eyes which

were the last to gaze into her own. The
struggle was over ; her son knew all, and
could smile upon his mother with new
tenderness. The heart that had, when
wrung with lonely terrors, continued to beat
and ache with pain, burst with the sudden
rapture of relief, and its pulses where stilled
for ever.

CHAPTER XL

DESDICHADO.

Meanwhile John West had turned
his back upon the desolate house
where already he had learned to believe
himself an intruder, and suffered the good
rector to lead him in silence to his home,
there to rest awhile until the weary new life
should be fairly begun, and the fallen man
could gather up his energies to rush forth
into the turmoil of the rough world and
lose himself Already indeed he seemed
inured to the stern conditions of loneliness
and poverty ; already had he
lived a weary while, compared with which

the smooth time past seemed as a short

dream. Ah, those inexorable moments !

when one that is young and strong and

unused to woe is roused by the grey dawn

to grapple afresh with the eating cares

which weighed him at last, after infinite

miserable tossing to and fro, into a few

hours' leaden slumber. Ah, those waking,

those quickening perceptions, astonished for

the first short interval that all should not

be well, then darkening, darkening, till as

by a lightning flash the wounded soul is

revealed to itself once more ! Never shall

John West foro-et the throes of those agonizing

hours, endured while all the world

around was unavvaked, in which his very

heart and soul seemed lost in black despair,

in sick abhorrence of the future, looming; so

long and dreary.

But though at heart no stoic, no more
invulnerable indeed than any other bruised

and hard-pressed sufferer in the grim battle
of life, John West made no audible moan,
and bore himself, as befitted one of his
descent, staunchly. And one there was to
whom he seemed in his encompassing distress
and fallen estate almost an ideal of
moral grandeur — a paladin, a paragon.
Mary Holbrooke's generous and innocent
heart thrilled, amid her deep sorrow, with
reverent admiration for the patient, silent
man whom, after the funeral, her father
brought to the rectory.

T know now,' she said to her sire in
private, * what a real hero looks like — the
sort of man whom nothing: on this earth can
drive from his own true, noble nature. And
I hope, yes, I trust and believe, that there
is comfort on the wins: for our hero from
the quarter whence it will be most welcome.
Ah ! I could almost envy Lady Emily her
chance of winning his heart over again.

Her beauty or rank may have had something
to do with it before ; but now she can
show him that these are a woman's least
charms ; now she can prove herself worthy
of even his love. And though of course
they will be poor, comparatively poor at
least, that will only add to her opportunity
of showing what a woman can prove herself
for true love's sake. And of course her
father — it's lucky he's a duke — can find
something for them which won't be unworthy
of the squire. He's sure to be looking
after something already, and then she.
can come to him and tell him. Oh, how
delightful for her ! don't you think so,
papa ? '

And for the first time for many days the
cheerful music returned to Mary's voice.
But no cheerful echo was provoked in the
rector's answer, as he sighed and slightly
shook his head.

VOL. I.

My little girl prates very precociously of
lovers' constancy,' he said. ' I will hope
that Lady Emily is all you picture her —
but girls of her class have less freedom in
disposing of themselves than you fancy,
and from what I know of the duke, or
rather of his wife, I'm not very sanguine.'

Freedom, papa! ' cries Mary indignantly;
that's just it, she's not free, and would not
be free for all the world, I'm very sure.
She is his, and all the dukes and duchesses
in these kingdoms could not come between
them now. Oh, father! it's the only thing
left to him ; how can you think so ill of
women as to doubt that she will be brave
and true, and help him to bear his burden,
and teach him in time to be quite happy
again ? '

My dear,' replies her father seriously,
you run on too fast in your good-will.
The squire, at any rate, thinks fit to offer

to release this lady from her engagement,
and though the step is not taken as yet, it
looks ill that no sign has been made from
Marloes since these miserable events have
been noised about. I know the duke is an
invalid, and to be sure he sent a carriage,
and that Captain something, who is his
agent, to the funeral ; but, my dear, I would
not have you expect much from that quarter.
It is a cold, hard world that great people
live in, for the most part — may you never
know more of it than at present !'

Mary was silenced for the time, but none
the less did her tenderly romantic soul
spurn her father's inference, at least as regarded
Lady Emily's probable conduct. If
there were indeed, beneath ducal coronets,
sordid and unfeeling brains, of what weight
could the crudest opposition of relentless
parents prove when balanced against a
suffering hero's love ? Doubtless from the



noblest motives lie might offer to cancel the
eno'airement — it was honourable — it was
like him ; but that such an offer could be
accepted by an affianced woman, Mary altogether
refused to believe. Even if (as was
unlikely) she had failed to love him as he
deserved in his prosperity, surely now from
this furnace of affliction her love would
come forth more bright and pure to recompense
the manly heart aching for the loss of
such a mother and such a home !

While Mary thus thrilled with hope and
sympathy, and West, wrapped in sad immobility,
endured the slow hours, there was
commotion and uneasiness at ducal Marloes.
At the first whisper (conveyed by the
captain-agent) that there was a screw loose
about the Swardham property, and the old
lady had not gone off' a week too soon to
avoid most unpleasant disclosures, the duke
had been importuned by his better half to

hasten in person to Loughborough, and there
demand from Scott the lawyer (who also
attended to the Hexham interests in the
locality) the truth of these sinister reports.

Our child's future may depend on your
Grace's instant action quoth the duchess
impressively ; but all her appeals, all her
eloquence, failed to draw the duke from his
lair, or even wring his consent to the
lawyers being summoned to Marloes.

Get Herriard to look to it,' he said at
last, peevishly; 'why should he not do something
to earn what he makes me allow him ? '

But Lord Herriard, who was the heir
of the house, was not on the most cordial
terms with his step-mother, nor so particularly
interested in his half-sister as to leave
his clubs for Lougshire in her behalf. This
the duke moreover knew so well, that his
answer must be considered in the light of
an evasion. Foiled in her efforts, at length

the anxious mother repaired in person to
Scott's office in Longborough, where she
was closeted for some time with the head
of the firm, and, it may be presumed, received
confirmation of her worst fears.

It's not as if your heart was in it,' she
said to her daughter on her return from
Longborough, in which town she had not,
in spite of divers precautious, escaped notice
as completely as she could have wished ;
it's most mortifying, but it's not as if your
heart were in it

Heart ! ' quoth Lady Emily bitterly, as
she tore strips from her pocket-handkerchief
; ' don't bother about hearts, if you
please, mamma ; but I believe I am the
luckiest girl that ever was born.' The
oppressed parent only making answer by
a shrug, the daughter went on with increasing
volubility, ' Of course I'm not
going to marry a hulking pauper — but

suppose, after all, things turn in his favour
there will be a lawsuit no doubt — he
can't be stupid enough not to make a fight
when he has been in possession so long,
and possession is nine points of the law,
they say. And then where shall I be ? '

You don't suppose, Emily, that I am
not anxious to get you a husband, or likely
to let this man slip if he were worth
having. I have taken every possible
trouble for you in the matter, — degrading
myself to wheedle that dreadful attorney,
and submitting to be stared at by his
vulgar clerks and all the rabble of that
odious town, — and you'll allow me to bethe
better judge, and I tell you you mayas
well make up your mind at once that
it's all over, remember that I '

Very well, mamma, very well,' cried
Emily, with a burst of angry tears ; * you
have committed yourself and me too, perhaps

— hut you remember this, that if I
have to give it up, I don't stir from here
ever again, or face anybody ! — how could
I, after asking Agatha Cates and those
hateful Venders to be my bridesmaids,
and settling about the diamonds being
reset, and all that. You have made a mess
of me, and a mess of it all, and I wish I
had never been born, that's all,' and here
she choked with her conflicting emotions.

I had best leave you to come to your
senses. Lady Emily,' said the incensed
parent, rising majestically; 'and one day
you may repent your thankless, stubborn
behaviour to your only friend.'

Shortly after this little scene came to
the duke John West's letter ; but in the
interval he had first ridden over to Marloes,
hoping to spare himself the writing of such
a letter ; hoping perhaps (for Mary's simple
trustfulness may have been contagious, and

she had ventured on just a word) that
beneath the roof which sheltered his betrothed
and his distant kinsman his crushed
spirit might find balm. West had called,
as so many times he had called at that door
during the months last past, but, for the
first time, the well-trained servants had
denied him admission. His Grace was at
home, but rather worse to-day. Her Grace
was not at home. In his recognized position
as affianced lover of the daughter of
the house, John West might have been
justified in asking for the Lady Emily,
but tokens of less significance would have
sealed his lips against another word. So
the letter was Written — a formal letter, as
had been that other in which he solicited
the honour of the lady's hand, and with
a sigh of relief the duke tossed it over
to his wife.

There — nobody need have bothered

after all : it's quite true that a rightful
heir has turned up, and all that — and of
course West is too much of a gentleman to
continue in a false position here. You had
better write him something appropriate, and
then look up the fortunate cousin who
steps into his shoes.'

With this parting sarcasm the duke
immersed himself once more in a treatise on
asthmatical affections, and was deaf to the
reproaches and bemoaning which assailed
him while the duchess lingered in his
room.

With reluctant tread the lady then
sought her child, who had fortified herself
in impenetrable sulkiness since the interview
last recorded between herself and her
mother.

You must return the riots and things,
Emily, and then it will be all over,' she said,
with an assumption of cheerfulness which,

spying in lier daughter's face a mulish look,
she could not feel.

You are all against me, it seems the
young lady muttered presently ; ' but I
know that lawsuits are never over in a
hurry, and I tell you, while there is a
chance I won't let him off, whatever papa
says, or you or he either.'

*But, Emily, the man must be answered,
and how are you to keep him dangling ?
you could not have the face to throw him
over, after that, as soon as he is absolutely
turned out of Swardham.'

'Just you let me alone, mamma. I'm
old enough to think for myself, and manage
my own affairs — and he shall fight it out :
it must be nine to one in his favour, whatever
you may say.'

Of all wrong-headed young women,
Emily, I think you are the most obstinate,'
cried the duchess, out of patience. ' I tell

you it is all settled without a fight, as you
call it ; he hasn't a leg to stand upon, or
more rio-ht at this moment in Swardham
than yow have, or are ever likely to have.
You don't suppose he woukl be fool
enough to give up such a property without
a struggle if he had the remotest chance
against this cousin ! '

Then is there no lawsuit ? ' said Lady
Emily, slowly.

Of course there is not ! Mr. West has
little money enough left to be willing to
squander it on hopeless litigation ; and
answered he shall be at once, and most
decisively, so let me have no more
nonsense.'

No lawsuit ! ' repeated the Lady Emily,
an angry light kindling in her cold blue
eyes ; 'then he just lets the other man turn
him out, and never lifts a finger ? I don't
believe it ; you are all in a conspiracy

against me, and he as well. But if it's
true, I despise him and hate him for his
poor spirit ! Why, the cousin might have
been glad to do something handsome in the
way of compromise if he had shown a bold
front, and threatened to fight him inch by
inch I I despise him, 1 do, the coward ! —
and I'm the most miserable girl in all
England.'

Once more a flood of tears came to end
this burst of vindictive eloquence, and the
duchess, towering above her daughter as she
sat crouching on her sofa, rated her with an
energy that might have surprised the polite
world in which she serenely moved.

And let me tell you,' so she wound up,
that, in spite of all his bad luck, in my
opinion he has a happy escape of you and
your tempers, Lady Emily, of which I ought
to be a judge after nearly thirty years' bitter
experience of both.'

CHAPTER XII.

AN AMBASSADRESS EXTRAORDINARY.

1\ /TEANWHILEjin unconsciousness (happy
unconsciousness it could scarcely be
called) of the contempt of Lady Emily
Woodvil, John West was steadfastly pursuing
that course which alone seemed
possible to him under the present aspect
of his affairs. Once convinced of the
identity of the so-called Dolf Van Lennep
with his uncle's lawful son, of which identity
no legal proof was wanting, lie had dismissed
all thought of battle or even of
compromise, and declared his willingness,
nay, his anxiety, to divest himself as soon

as might be of all that appertained to the
headship of his family, and to account with
minute accuracy for the arrears of which he
had innocently deprived his cousin. On
discussing with the legal gentry this latter
subject, he had at first been met by protestations
and assurances that, under the
circumstances, no claim could or at least
would be made for any such back payments.
But such protestations he had gravely put
aside, and made it clear that it was his set
purpose to refund, as far as within his
means it lay, every penny which he had
innocently appropriated since his grandfather's
death. As undoubted heir to his
mother, John West (no more to be called
the young squire) had succeeded to the
fortune settled upon her by her father, no
less a sum than twenty thousand pounds ;
and this money would, he felt with deep
thankfulness, suffice to replace all that had

passed through his hands of the family
revenue during his two years of squiredom.
The rector had been moved to tears in the
warmth of his deprecation of this step.

Will you strip yourself of all, to give
this man more who has too much already ? '
he said piteously. ' Oh John ! it will be
enough to make the old squire turn in his
crave, it will indeed.'

But John had firmly though affectionately
put the rector's opinion aside, reminding
him that his grandfather was, above all
things, a strictly just and honourable man.

I am young and strong,' he said, ' why
should I ignobly seek to cling to this
money, and begin a new life under a crushing
burden of obligation to my unknown
cousin ? Why should I not make my way
like another ? '

The rector groaned as he thought how ill-reared
and trained his old pupil had been

for beginning: the world as those others
might do. But he knew West's nature too
well to argue with him on the point, and in
this matter, as in all others, loyally carried
out his instructions in frequent interviews
with the Messrs. Scott. These gentlemen
had no notion of losing the Swardham
business because of a mere change of ownership,
and now appeared as zealous agents of
Adolphus West, Esquire, on whose behalf
they offered no further opposition to the
restoration of the last two years' income of
the estate. Many questions there were
indeed which might have been raised, and
which poor Holbrooke wished to raise, as to
monies expended in improvements on the
property, the sum paid as succession duty,
and so on — but into these questions John
West persistently refused to enter.

What though my cousin has, as you

represent, the whole benefit of this or that
VOL. I. p

outlay — I should not like another man to
spend my income for me, however judiciously
; and I'm only thankful that all this
occurred before I plunged into less remunerative
expenditure.'

He was thinking no doubt of his inchoate
candidature, of the promised mastership of
the hounds ; but on these subjects, or others
akin to them, he dropped no word while he
sojourned, a silent, secluded inmate, beneath
his old friend's roof. Concerning another
of the rosy visions which had faded the
same absolute silence had not been observed.

Mary Holbrooke, who thought little of
seats in Parliament or honours in the ,
thought, as was natural to her sex
and years, much of affairs of the heart ;
and as one who had been familiarly known
to John West since she could run alone,
had even ventured (as has been hinted) to
sound him on the subject of his engagement

with Lady Emily. Though a proud man,
West had none of the self-conceit which
might have led him to picture his aristocratic
betrothed as ready to sacrifice all else for
his sake. On the other hand, however,
though far from an ardent lover or expectant
of ardent devotion, he had no inkling
of the real sentiments which actuated
the lady, and was moved to considerable
distress when Mary, implicitly believing
every word she uttered, touched on the
anguish which must be the portion of a girl
in so trying a position.

You ought not to think so much of her
father and mother and rank, and all that.
They are all hard on her, I am afraid ; but
your duty is to her only, till she tells you
w^itli her own mouth that she rejects it, and
that will be never.'

Mary's eyes kindled as she spoke, and her

mouth quivered with pretty emotion, sop

2

that he wondered that he had never noticed
before how charming a girl his old plaything
and pet was grown.

I must think over this he said at last ;
I would spare her in every way, poor thing,
but it's a desperate lookout for us.'

Despair, however, found no place in ]diary
Holbrooke's vocabulary. It was a blow
when her hero was denied admission at
Marloes ; a blow when a hard little note
from the duchess arrived in answer to West's
letter ; but Mary built her hopes high yet on
Lady Emily herself, and after much pondering,
formed the audacious resolution of
seeking for herself an interview with the
daughter of ducal Marloes. It seemed to
her, this tender little creature, that these two
were in danger of drifting asunder, despite
their plighted troth. It seemed also that
shipwreck must be the sole end of such
drifting. And if she, poor mouse as she

was, could succour these noble animals in
the meshes that environed them, she must
forget her mouse-like shyness and hasten
to do and dare, offering herself, if need bea
sacrifice on the altar of true loyal friendship.
And had John West been in her
eyes of less heroic proportions, less god-like
in his suffering, it is certain that this determined
young woman would have been
equally devoted to his cause, if only for her
sake whom both mourned so passionately —
the mother and godmother whose loss had
drawn those who survived of her dear ones
nearer together than of old.

Once resolved, Mary was prompt in action
and silent as a genuine conspirator. In the
sadness and strangeness which had unhinged
all the pleasant old order of things at the
rectory, the comings and goings of the
daughter of the house were all unquestioned,
and the melancholy and pre-occupied rector.

only too thankful to be relieved by her of
all parochial business which a girl could
undertake, referred to such business her
absences from the house or the table. On a
certain Sunday then Mary quietly ordered
the pony-chaise to be ready after morning
service, and drove herself off, merely remarking
to the servants that she would not
be present at lunch.

'Ah,' said her father, when he heard the
announcement, ' she will have gone to ]airs.
Weavers at the Quarries ; I ought to have
gone myself before this.'

But it was not in the direction of the
Quarries that Mary was urging the smart
brown pony. There was, close to one of
the gates of the Marloes demesne, a new
church, served by a dapper little parson, of
High Church proclivities, at which, attracted
perhaps by the brevity of the frequent
services, the ladies of the great house had

of late been reported to attend when they
felt observant of the Sunday ; and this
church, in pursuance of her deep designs,
was Mary's present goal, as she whipped
her sure-footed pony through the lanes on
a faultless spring day. Small heed did she
pay to the carols of birds, the primrose
banks, and gambolling lambkins as she sped
along ; for all her simple wits were benton
the one object — how she might best serve
John West and advance the holy cause of
true love.

Of the hours of service at St. Michael's
Mary was by no means certain, but she
had a general idea that the whole gamut
ecclesiastical, from prime to compline, was
duly celebrated by the Reverend Mr. New-light,
and bravely purposed stabling her
steed with a friendly farmer hard by, and
sitting out any number of the ' offices,' till
perchance the Lady Emily might bestow her

august presence upon the scant rustic congregation.
The bells were tinkling briskly
as Miss Holbrooke took her seat on the
side of the church allotted to her sex, and
among the benches three bonnets only were
to be descried, no one of which could possibly
belong to a scion of our proud aristocracy.
From the distant vestry arose a hum
as of the voices of choristers, and now and
again a white-robed figure peeped into the
almost empty building. Things looked unpromising
for the young adventuress, as
the last bell ceased, and the tittering in the
vestry gave place to a chanted prayer, and
a shuffling of feet, as though the procession
were being formed. But, at the last moment,
an old man stationed at the door
hurried up the aisle, and poking his head
in among the choir boys, audibly announced
that some of the quality were coming in at
the gate. All the bonnets turned at once

forwards, and, with beating heart, Mary
also turned her head, though she held a
hymn book to her face, and beheld the
advance of a tall and splendid lady, with
beautiful fair hair and blue eyes, whom, at
due distance, a gorgeous flunkey followed,
bearing an umbrella and a very small ivory-backed
prayer-book. Mary had never set
eyes on Lady Emily Woodvil, but she felt
at once that this could be none other, and
while rejoicing at this fortunate chance of
her solitary presence, and yielding reverent
homage to her charms, felt a little disappointed
and discouraged that the distressed
damsel should prove so stately and mature
a personage. But had she been another
Queen of Sheba, she was John West's betrothed,
and Mary meant to have speech
of her before she should regain the ducal
roof.

Of course she is grand-looking,' said

Miss Holbrooke to herself while the chanted
prayer was once more rehearsed for the
great lady's benefit ; ' I can't expect a duke's
daughter to be a little body such as I, but
her heart is much the same kind of thing,
I dare say, as another girl's.'

Out filed the little string of choristers,
at their heels out came Mr. Newliorht in a

o

pea-green stole, neatly embroidered with
gold crosses matters, his joined palms protruded
from his narrow chest, and in a few
moments the service (function would be
Delight's term) commenced in swift monotonous
sing-song. I fear that Mary Hole
could have given but a poor account
of its nature or diversifications, but it was
at any rate soon ended, though it comprised
the catechizing of a few children by another
priest. The surplices disappeared as they
had come, and the few worshippers tarried
motionless till it pleased the Lady Emily to

pass forth. No sooner had the wearers of
the ancient bonnets risen in the wake of
the splendid apparition, than Mary darted
to the door, all impatience to get the first
horrid plunge over. But alas ! when she
reached the porch, it was to see Mr. New-light,
divested with wondrous speed of his
priestly raiment, bowing and smiling at the
lady's side, while he held her in conversation.
Mary lurked in impatience behind a
buttress, unconscious of the flunkey's patronizing
approbation of her appearance, and
counted the moments while Mr. Newligbt
inquired with solicitude after the health of
duke and duchess, and talked glibly of the
weather. Stupid little man ! how lucky
that, according to a red-lined notice on the
door, he had another function in half-an-hour,
and could not wander far from the
scene of his ministrations. At last, at the
little wicket, Lady Emily made a graceful

bend and turned from the enchanted divine,
past whom Mary shot without ceremony ashe
retraced his steps to his vestry door.

Now for it ! there was no human being
in sight save the sauntering footman ; and,
taking her courage tiojht in her two hands,
Mary stood by the side of the stately
daughter of the Duke of Hexham.

I believe I have the pleasure of speaking
to Lady Emily Woodvil,' she said, and met
the cool gaze of two fine blue eyes unflinchingly.


Who could it be that ventured thus to
waylay the quality ? — a lady, thus much
Lady Emily owned to herself as probable —
but ladies are now-a-days only too much
given to pestering the quality, in and
out of season, for subscriptions and soon.
Most likely a beggar after all in
cunning guise. Now Lady Emily had a
strong objection to charitable appeals, and

her manner was very chilling as she
replied,

I am Lady Emily Woodvil, but I cannot
recall that I have the honour of your
acquaintance

With a blush that rose to her forehead
Mary faltered out,

I beg your pardon — but T am the rector
of Swardham's daughter, and — and Mr.
West has been staying with us since he left
the Hall. T have known him all my life,
and would do anything to serve him, or —
or you either. Lady Emily.'

She had thought of all sorts of clever
ways of introducing the subject as she drove
along, and afterwards in church, but this
was all she could manage to say — ' blurting
it out so boldly,' as she immediately told
herself. With one sharp glance at the
glowing face Lady Emily turned to her
domestic and ordered him to walk on by

the nearest road to the house, and then
nodding to Mary, asked her if she would
mind a turn in the park. Joyfully acquiescing
in this proposal, Mary soon found
herself pacing along a walk which followed
the line of the park paling and was sheltered
by a belt of trees.

And am I to understand that you come
to me from Mr. West, Miss — I beg your
pardon ? '

Holbrooke is my name, Lady Emily ;
and I must at once avow that I am here
without Mr. West's knowledge or consent.
My one excuse consists in my fervent wish
to show gratitude to those dio have been
my father's best friends and mine, aud Mr.
West is now the only one left.'

Mary stopped, out of breath, and looked
up shyly at her companion, who merely
gravely inclined her head, but looked not
indisposed to hear more.

CHAPTER XIII.

AUDIENCE OF LADY EMILY.

rpHE truth was that Lady Emily, despite
her unruffled exterior, was just now
in a flutter of not unpleased excitement.
On the day previous she had received a
private letter from a friend, and had read
a paragraph in a public print, both of which
had furnished food for much pondering.
The letter was from one of * those hateful
Venders' whom she had bespoken as her
bridesmaids and conveyed to the writer's
dearest Emily the news that the writer,
Cecilia Vender, was about herself to appear
as a bride. The paragraph in the Illustrated
London News related to the will

of the late Mrs. West, which had just been
proved under twenty-two thousand pounds,
and which was farther stated to have enriched
by that amount the only son of the
testatrix. A few years back Lady Emily
would have scorned the idea of accepting
a man whose wealth was limited to a score
of thousands, but times were altering with
her ; and here was Cecilia, most odious
and stuck-up of dear friends, about to
embark in matrimony in company with a
younger son whose fortune must be of
even slenderer dimensions, and crowing and
cackling insufferably over her triumph ! If
anything could be wanting to intensify
Lady Emily's disgust with spinsterhood,
it would be the prospect of seeing this
her friend and confessed inferior a happy
wife.

Bertie has quite enough in hand to
work alone; with in decent style for the

next five years or so, and if by that time
neither his father nor mine has had the
grace to increase our means by dropping
off or otherwise, at any rate we shall have
had a jolly time of it before we are positively
ancient, and I never heard of a
peer's daughter in a workhouse, if the worst
comes to the worst. And so, dear, unless
you make very great haste indeed, I'm
afraid you'll have to look out for another
bridesmaid.'

Hateful creature ! ' the recipient of this
candid effusion had remarked to herself; 'I
know she has heard that things have gone
wrong with me, and she begins to give
herself airs.'

Then came the chance notice of the
paragraph in the Illustrated, striking, as
it were, while the iron was at its hottest.
Nobody, so ruminated the Lady Emily,
was more calculating than Cecilia. If she

VOL. I.

could make up her mind on the strength
of such arguments to venture ' for better
for worse' on her miserable little Bertie,
why not take a leaf out of her book and
call back John West, who had so luckily
been only half discarded, and who would
be, after all, a better match than Cecilia's
captive ! Twenty thousand pounds might
be made, with economy, to supply for some
years the brougham, the footman, and all
the etceteras which make wedded life tolerable
— and surely, for the distant future,
the Duke of Hexham's daughter's prospects
must be better than those of Miss Reminder,
with her jaunty repudiation of the workhouse
! But how to brings John West
back to her feet with speed and yet with
decorum ! That had been the problem, and
now the timely appearance of this little
person from Swardham seemed likely to
solve it most charmingly. How thankful

she felt that she had been obstinate with
her mother, making no visible sign of
acquiescence in West's dismissal ! How
vast the load lifted from her soul by the
thought that after all Cecilia might not
steal a march on hers nor condole with her
from the eminence of matrimony as she
recommenced her well-nigh hopeless career !
How soothing under these circumstances an
assurance of the constancy of her unlucky
betrothed ! Thus it was with blandness
scarcely tempered by condescension that
Lady Emily turned her eyes on the little
diplomatist and murmured some acknowledgment
of the zeal which she professed.
Much encouraged, Mary hastened on with
her mission.

You are still engaged to Mr. AVest, are
you not, Lady Emily ? '

I have certainly done nothing to cancel

our engagement, sad as are the clouds

Q 2

which have interposed between us. But
you probably know, Miss Holbrooke, that
Mr. West wrote — '

Yes, yes,' crie Mary rapturously ; ' I
know what he wrote — he thought it his
duty because he can no longer endow you
as he meant to do when he asked you
to be his wife ! But I knew also that
you would not accept such an offer of
release ; I was sure of it, and I am glad
to find I was right. You love him, and
he loves you, and nothing must be let to
part you''

In her joy at finding John Wastes affianced
love so true, as she thought, and worthy
of him, the impetuous child seized Lady
Emily's unloved right hand, and pressed it
to her rosy lips. A strange wild little
person truly, but likely to be useful, so
Emily only smiled serenely on her new
adorer, and waited to hear what would

come next, biding her time for some practical
proposal for future action.

'All, I need not tell you how noble he is
under his trials ! You knew dear Mrs.
West, and can understand how he grieves
for her, more deeply than for Swardham.'

Lady Emily still looked sweet, but kept
silence. She had viewed Mrs. West as a
prospective mother-in-law, with probably a
will of her own and frumpish notions, and
the removal of such an obstacle seemed to
her seasonable enough. Besides, the excellent
old lady had left behind her those
two-and-twenty thousands !

It is not wealth that he cares for,
though it is a sad blow to lose the dear old
place. With his talents he will, T am sure,
quickly make a name and a place in the
world when he feels that he has you to
work and hope for! And it is just that
which makes me thank heaven for your

noble constancy ! If you were lost to him,
as well as mother and home and fortune, he
might never put forth the power that is in
him, he might be content just to drift or to
sink — but for your sake he will be brave
and bright, and hew a way for himself : I
know it is in him ! '

Softly murmuring, ' You over rate my
influence I fear, dear Miss Holbrooke,'
Lady Emily wondered whether Mary knew
of the old lady's will, and would presently
mention it, or was she too gushing to beat
all practical ? At any rate things were
looking well for the meditated recall of the
suitor.

He has behaved so nobly,' Mary went
on at score ; ' he won't hear a word against
this cousin, and even means to have an
interview with him. And though papa
tried his best to dissuade him, and so do the
lawyers, I feel sure that you will think

him right in insisting on refunding all that
he spent while he thought Swardham was
his.'

Lady Emily turned cold with prescience
of evil, but her voice was gently modulated
as ever as she interjected, with sweet
surprise,

Eefundinor ? but how can he ? I thought
that he had lost his all ! '

And it makes no difference to you, of
course, that he lias nobly stripped himself of
his last penny ! He inherited all that dear
Mrs. West had to leave ; and some men
would have clung to it, and besought the
cousin's mercy, no doubt ! But that is not
in our Mr. West's nature — he rejoiced that
his mother's fortune sufficed to cover all
arrears, all that he spent innocently while
he was master of Swardham Hall, and has
made it over in full. Soon, soon may such
nobleness and talent be rewarded by twice

as much ; and that he will soon gain, if I
may tell him to-night that you are unchanged,
and will hope and pray for the
time when you can reward his perseverance.'
Colder and colder turned the Lady Emily
as she bit her trembling lips. Her instincts
had not then been in fault when she expressed
contempt for John West as a spiritless
prey in the clutch of the despoiler, and
at this moment she hated him for his
magnanimity. Gone ! given away ! the
thousands which were to have enabled her
to cry checkmate with Cecilia Vender !
Gone the last hope of being married and
settled at last, after so many weary seasons.
It had been a poor thing this last chance,
but it was the more humiliating to have
lost it, and in such a manner. She felt
that she hated West, and she hated this
gushing little parson's daughter who so
romantically sang his ridiculous praises, and

kindly invited her, the Duke of Hexham's
daughter, to linger on in the ridiculous
chains of a hopeless engagement, and employ
her leisure in praying for the happy hour
when she might wed a middle-aged barrister,
or perchance wine-merchant, as soon
as he should find means to furnish a villain
Camden Town ! When she could trust
herself to speak, it was in freezing tones
that she slowly addressed the girl by her side.
I am deeply pained, Miss Holbrooke, to
learn thus that Mr. West should have
thought fit to take a step so momentous
as this disposition of his mother's fortune
without consulting me, or apparently considering
me in any way. I may add that
my pain is not lessened by your mode of
communicating a proceeding which I should
have learned from Mr. West alone, and
which I can only characterize as most deplorable
— yes, most heartless and deplorable.'

Incredulous horror holding poor Mary
silent, Lady Emily went on with a severer
glance and increasing acrimony, —

Feeling that I am speaking to a partisan,
whom I cannot acquit of officiousness
in seeking an interview with me under such
deplorable circumstances, nor scarcely of a
most unbecoming desire to take me at a
disadvantage, I shall say no more, except
to request that you, Miss Holbrooke, at
once withdraw as you came, to repent, and
repent, I beg, in silence, the liberty that
you have taken.'

With a majestic inclination Lady Emily
was for turning her back, but she had
reckoned without her host if she thought
thus to abash Mary Holbrooke. Wheeling
promptly, so as again to confront the stately
form, she spoke such words as honest indignation
supplied.

If I understand you, and you understand

me, of which there's little doubt, I
will not say what manner of woman you
stand revealed. But mind ! I'm not a bit
ashamed of coming here ; it's you who ought
to be ashamed ; and I make no promise of
keeping what I have heard and seen to
myself. I am too much John West's friend
to do so, and I am no friend of yours, though
an hour ago I would have done anything in
the world to serve you. I am glad that you
have let me see what you are ; and it is
enough to make us that are Mr. West's
friends content that he has lost all else,
so long as he is safe from you ! Oh, to
think that he, of all men, should be valued
just for what he possesses, and not for himself!
Oh, I can never stand up again for
women when they are abused as mercenary
after the lesson you have taught me, Lady
Emily Woodvil ! "

Quite out of breath she stopped, and

faced unflinchingly the fork lightning flashed
from those blue eyes.

Out of my sight ! ' gasped the infuriate
aristocrat, stamping her foot, ' out of my
sight ! John West is a poltroon and a fool,
encouraged in his wanton beggary by you
and yours for your own base designs ! I
would order him to be turned out of this
park if he ventures here again, as I will
quickly order you I Insolent, indelicate girl !
it is plain enough that you are in love with
him and want him for yourself, and I wish
you joy of your pompous beggar

Crimson and panting, Mary strove to
detain her assailant till she could find words,
but the other twitched her skirts from her
hands, and with rapid steps made straight
across the sward for the house, from which
they were now not far removed. Left alone,
Mary leaned against a tree and gave way
to a passion of tears. The woman was all

that is base and false, and she could grudge
no suffering incurred in her detection. Into
what fresh misery, but for this dreadful
interview, might not her ill-advised championship
have betrayed her hard-pressed
friend ? But oh, the sting, the sting of that
vile charge, hurled against her father and
her no less innocent self ! Oh, those wicked
curling lips, that had lured John AVest with
soft speeches, what venom could they drop.
God above knows my heart,' sobbed
Mary : ' He knows how my love for my
almost mother has bound me to her son.
Why does He let such wicked slander take
shape in words ? I am innocent, innocent
of what she said ; but oh, if I thought that
he would hear that shameful charge, and
perhaps, even for a second, believe it, I
should pray to die !

CHAPTER Xii.

THE NEW SQUIRE.

TTTITH a warm Liberal, sir, at the head
of this great estate the balance of
parties in the county will be reversed, sir,
quickly reversed ; and who so fit a representative
of the cause of enlightenment and
enfranchisement as a Liberal squire of Sward-ham
! ril trust you'll think of it seriously.'
So spake a jaunty little man, Clark byname,
and by profession an attorney, and
junior of the firm of Scots' in Longborough
And as he spake, he rejoiced in having
for the time the ear of the new master of
Swardham, in whose own room the pair

were closeted. Civil as were all the partners
ia the Longborough firm, Mr. Clark was
more than civil to the new client, skilfully
contriving to infuse a dash of laud and
honour into the most dry of their business
discussions. Adolphus West (devant Van
Lennep) was already aweary of business
discussions, and not averse to Mr. Clark's
compliments as a diversion, and had accordingly
signified his pleasure that the
junior partner, rather than either of the
Messrs. Scott, should wait upon him when
such interviews were necessary. Nevertheless,
he was reclining rather listlessly in an
arm-chair (poor Jack's arm-chair), as he
listened to Mr. Clark, and made no very
encouraging answer to that gentleman's
flattering hints as to Parliament. He had
bid a long farewell to trade and penury.
He had just succeeded, unexpectedly but
by unimpeachable right, to a fine property ;

his patience had been tried by no protracted
litigation, by no death-struggles on the part
of the man whom he had ousted ; he had
even, by the scrupulous honour of this
cousin, been put in possession of a large
sum of ready money, which came very
handy for manifold expenses ; but already
he had been reminded that all is not gold
that glitters, and had found his new position,
in spite of its grandeur, no bed of roses.
First and foremost he was irked by the
existence, if not absolutely by the presence,
of the dispossessed cousin. The man,
arbitrary and domineering as he had informer
days deemed him, had behaved well,
undeniably, abominably well. But why
could he not go away and never be heard
of again ? Why, above all, was he capable
of proposing a meeting with his cousin ?
It was all very well to say that he had
certain favourite schemes for the weal of the

tenantry to commend to his supplanted
notice. It might be so, but he probably
also wished to see what figure the supplanter
cut in the garb which he had
perforce resigned. He must know that it
woidd make his cousin very uncomfortable,
and that was why he was bent upon this
interview. Then there was that unlucky
visit to Swardham in the train of old
Barnett, and under the auspices of those
Hockerills — what would Adolphus West,
Esq., not give to blot out from the
memory of his servants, humble neighbours,
and tenantry all remembrance of that
humiliating adventure. No doubt he would
always be (as Mr. Clark said) a warm Liberal
so far he could go without derogating
from his position — but he began already to
see the inexpediency of many of his ancient
notions, and to doubt the feasibility of
many long-cherished aspirations. Alto-vol.

I. R

gather, though he struggled to seem quite
at his ease, and had already disgusted tht'
old servants at Swardham by his quick
assumption of masterful airs, he was somewhat
disappointed with his own development
as a man of fortune, and less inclined
to resent advice than when first he sought
Scott's office in Longborough.

Then you think I ought to see him ? ' he
said after a pause, during which Ike tapped
his rather prominent front teeth with a
gold pencil case. ' I'd rather not, you know,
and it can do no good that I know of

My dear sir, if you'll excuse me, in your
prominent position, and with your ambition,
you must consider wdiat the public will
think, as well as your own inclination.
And the public will condemn you, it will,
indeed, to a man, here in Longshire, if
you refuse to see your cousin before he
leaves these parts

Adolphus West frowned and made some
pettish reply, conveying a hope that he
was above being swayed by the breath of
the mob ; bat of course he yielded in time,
and on the very next occasion of his
visiting Scott's office in Longborough, he
found himself by and by left in a private
room alone, whither presently entered a
tall grave man, with handsome proud features
and black hair, looking far older than
the young squire, who, one evening not
very long ago, had chucked Dolf van
Lennep over the waggon rail like an empty
sack in Hockerill's barn. Older, but not
less strong nor resolute, and with keen
anger Adolphus felt himself quail as the
other walked straight up to him.

Cousin,' he said, when he stood before
him, ' I hope that you acquit me of all
malice, even as you must acquit me of all
design of keeping you out of your own.

K 2

I pray that you may live long and prosper,
as former Westss have lived and prospered,
nt Svvardham. Will you shake hands with
me before I take myself off from Longshire
and let me hear that you wish me well, as
kinsmen should ? '

Unfalteringly he delivered himself of
this little speech, as of something well-learned
by rote, and at the end he stretched
out his strong shapely right hand, and met
his cousin's pale and rather shifty eyes.

Where have we met before V he exclaimed,
involuntarily dropping his hand.
Surely you were, — but no, that couldn't
be — ' He stopped, looking puzzled.

Yes, sir,' Adolphus said, 'with all the
dignity he could muster, * we //avr met once
before, when your physique and your position
were both brought to bear upon me, scarcely
after the fairest fashion, merely because of a
divergence in our political and social principles

and tenets and apparent standing.
But it's no use raking up bygones he
added hastily, as he saw the other change
colour and draw back.

AVith a great effort John West spoke
once more, in painful, measured tones.

To this moment I never suspected this ;
nevertheless, I beg you to believe that
I am still glad that we have met, and
I repeat all that I said at first. But all
else that I came prepared to say, to urge
on you indeed, had best remain unsaid.
The men of our family do not usually
swerve from their opinions, nor publish
them before they are matured, and remembering
the principles and opinions you
avowed on that unhappy night, I know it to
be useless to attempt the discussion of some
topics which I meditated, some notions which
I had meant to work out, and now thought
of commending to your consideration. I

am sorry that so it should be, but I'm afraid
we see things from opposite standpoints.'

I certainly hold advanced opinions on
certain points, and I am the last man to
accept the lines laid down by another for
working out my responsibilities,' replied
Adolphus, grandiloquently.

As long as you honestly treat responsibilities
as such, there is little fear of your
failing to content yourself and others.'

I fancy my honesty of purpose is indubitable,'
loftily put in Adolphus.

Far be it from me to doubt it,' said John
West earnestly, ' differently as your plans
may work from mine ; they are planned, I
will hope, for the same end as mine were —
the good of those who depend on you.
May they be wiser and better than mine
ever were. May those right good tenants,
always used to be made much of, and
tenderly treated as they deserve, find in

you a friend as well as landlord. And
now, cousin, good-bye to you ; we are the
only two left of an old stock, let us wish
each other a kind good-bye.'

A limp weak hind was placed for a
moment in John West's strong grasp, and
a pair of shifty light blue eyes studied the
carpet.

Good-bye,' said the lawful owner of
Swardham. ' Of course I know you had
rather I didn't ask you to stop, or anything
of that sort ; I shouldn't in your place. It
is best for us to say good-bye.'

Yes, it is best,' said John West, rearing
his proud head, and passed without speech
of any other into the busy street.

Mr. Dark, when he briskly entered the
room, found his client in no amiable mood.

There,' he said, savagely interrupting
the other's smooth address, ' I knew no good
could come of it. I knew he only wanted

to come over me in his confounded lofty
way. Courteous ! of course he was courteous
— too courteous by half. But I'm
thankful to think that I shan't set eyes on
him again in a hurry, and I'll soon send all
the pampered crew of old servants packing
after their pet squire. They must have
studied their way qf looking and speaking
from him, for all the world as if they could
punish me if they liked, but are too noble
and polite to take such an advantage.
Confound them all.'

Not all Mr. Clark's congratulations and
adroit flatteries could soothe the ruffled
spirit of the great man. He felt that somehow
his impoverished, disinherited cousin
had put him down, grandee as he was,
and he wrongly believed that it had been
his cousin's design to put him down. Nor,
as he was swiftly driven in his comfortable
carriage home to Swardham, did he

recover his equanimity. So many happy
thoughts, couching themselves in such happy
terms, kept presenting themselves to his
mind, any one of which would, so he
thought, have helped him to cut a better
figure, had it only occurred to him while
his cousin was by. Whereas, though he
racked his memory to recall his exact
expressions, he could recollect nothing
comparable to pearl or ruby to have dropped
from his lips.

Harry Soole himself could scarcely have
done it worse,' he muttered in his mortification.
' I might have no command of
language at all for anything I got out;
Vm uncommonly glad that there was nobody
to hear us, and if that old parson tries it on
with me on the strength of his friend's
report, I flatter myself that he will find
I'm not always tongue-tied.'

Refreshing himself by imaginary bursts

of eloquence, of which Mr. Holbrooke should
be the victim, Adolphus West strove to
regain his complacency, and especially to
prevent himself from thinking further about
the once inseparable comrade to whom his
thoughts had slightingly reverted. Not the
least indeed of the thorns which had irked
him since his aggrandisement had been
implanted owing to his connection with
the Soles. A few months back Dolf van
Lenoep had been glad enough to be the
guest of the well-to-do linen-draper in Long-borough,
whose only son was his fast
friend, and of whose only daughter all their
little world considered him the accepted
lover. But what had the Adolphus West
of to-day to do with such ties and associations
? It had been his painful duty, nt (ice
and decidedly, to cool towards the family
in a manner which had brought about
unpleasant scenes between former friends.

The linen-draper, an easy-going man in
domestic life, but a thorough man of business,
had not done much to insert this
rankling thorn in the side of the newly
enriched. He loved his girl in his way, and
thought highly of her, but he could not
venture to assert that she was a mate for
the squire of Swardham, and was ready to
withdraw from all pretensions to intimacy or
matrimonial claim, on a solemn promise that
the custom of Swardham Hall should be transferred
to his establishment — and perhaps
a trifle invested for Sally's benefit, against
she should pick up another young man.

But Sally and her brother would none
of such proposals, and it was their behaviour
which caused the thorn to rankle.
At first they pretended to think, unconscionable
creatures, that Dolf would be
always Dolf to them, in spite of all the
glories of Swardham. And when it became

plain that Dolf had vanished away, and
left no trace in Adolphus West, Esquire,
they refused to acquiesce in a result so
natural, and comported themselves in a
most irritating fashion. It was indeed a
relief when Harry Soole repudiated for
himself and his sister all desire for further
acquaintance, but his choice of terms, in
making this repudiation, was disgustingly
forcible and disrespectful. Pretty Sally
also, though she cried her bright eyes red,
showed a surprising spirit, and, when her
defaulting wooer hinted at the possibility
of secret interviews for the recreation of
the future, ordered him off as surely no
squire of high degree was ever dismissed
by shopkeeper's daughter since great estates
began to be. After all, humiliating as
some of it had perhaps been, the matter had
ended fairly, and he had slipped out of an
embarrassment without so much as having;

to unloose his purse-strings, of which unloosing
he had, despite his new-found
wealth, begun to conceive a holy horror.
Let Soole and his sister indulge in heroics
to the top of their bent, the squire of
Swardham could afford, in his vast exaltation,
to turn the deafest of ears to their
abuse. It might have been pleasant to
have humble friends whom his splendours
should dazzle, and just now, though callers
were plenty, friends where few ; but, after
all, there would have been sad incongruity
in doing the honours of the Hall for 'Army
and Sally, the shop-boy and shop-girl from
Longborough.

CHAPTER XV.

A RIDE OX HAMLET.

TN the big okl-fashioned drawing-room of
-^ her sou's bewildering: bio; house sat the
widow Van Lennep, trying to persuade herself
that she felt at home, and did not miss
her gossips in Britannia Street, or her incursions
into the front shop, where it was
always well to keep an eye on Rugg the
journeyman. At first Mrs. Van Lennep had
shown an inclination to spend some of her
abundant leisure in consultation with the
louse-keeper, and inspections of the linen-presses
and jam closets ; but in deference
to her Dolf's wishes, she had abandoned
these pursuits, and resigned herself to solitude

in the biggest room but one in the
big house. Here the poor old woman wouhl
have had a sad time of it had she not been
fired by a happy ambition, no less than that
of fashioning in fancy netting a pair of
curtains for each of the three huge windows
of the apartment. This afternoon she had
hitched her work to one of the bell handles,
and was becoming almost elated as she
pushed her chair further and further back,
to keep pace with the gradual lengthening
of her web.

If I live to finish 'em, please God, I'll
make a valance for each window as welland
then we can take down these shabby,
stuffy" old things in summer. There's nothing
so elegant to my mind as a net
curtain in a pretty fancy mesh like mine,'
and the widow concluded her soliloquy with
a scornful glance at the ample hangings of
time-honoured brocade.

An impatient rattle at the door-handle
caused her just then to jump and drop her
implements.

*Ah! Dolf, my dear,' she cried, as her
son entered, ' you're come to sit with me a
lit, I hope, and we'll have some tea. I'm
afraid to ask those solemn chaps for anything
unless you are by.'

The young man frowned as he replied,

If the butler or any footman in this
house fails in his respect to you, mother, or
neglects your orders, just let me know of it,
that's all, and it shan't happen twice.'

Law, my dear, don't fly off with that
notion ; they are respectful enough, but they
frighten me, especially him with the baldhead
that dresses like a church clergyman.
But there is one thing I should like seen to,
my dear, which is worse than the menservants,
and that's the pictures, at least
some in the dining-room and staircase.

They're not fit to hang in any Christian
man's house, I say, and how my sister-in-law
could stomach them so many years
passes my comprehension.'

'Do you allude to the family portraits,
ma'am ? they are — '

Gracious ! Adolphus ! they can't be ! at
least I hope not, for I would be ashamed
to think you came of such people ! There's
one in the dining-parlour, — a long row of
queer people without their clothes, with a
disgusting old fat man, as drunk as ever he
can roll, and children, that should be innocent,
squeezing grapes into his wicked old
mouth. That's bad enough, but some of
the females in other pictures are worse ;
I can't bear to think of such bare brown
trollops ; God forbid they should have been
Miss Westss, even in Papist days ! But the
frames are handsome enough — plenty of good

stuff in them, and as the paintings might
VOL. I. s

corrupt the servants' minds if we took 'em
out and laid 'em in the garrets ; wouldn't it
be best to fit each with a brass rod and a
few rings, and a nice neat curtain, green
baize or red, which would look very welland
save me from really not knowing whereto
turn my eyes at times.'

But in spite of this appeal, nothing could
be extracted from the master of the house
but an exclamation of —

Oh nonsense ! don't bother, mother.
At your age, what can such things signify ? '
Neither was the old lady's tea-table graced
by her son's presence. ' I'm going outriding,'
he remarked presently, ' but I shall
be back in time to dress for dinner, so we
shall meet again.'

The widow had dined at her solitary
lunch, and heaved a sigh at the thought of
the ordeal to come, when she would have to
shake her head at such a sinful number of

dishes, each proffered by the solemn servants
who terrified her. Dolf would bate nothing
of what he had ascertained to have been
habitual in the house — and his parent
was expected to behave in all respects
conformably.

Leaving his mother to recommence her
arduous task, Adolphus was soon equipped
and mounted, and rode pensively forth,
after a charming canter over the turf, from
one of his lodge-gates. It had been with
fear and trembling that he had first found
himself on horseback, but, thanks to the
discretion of his head-groom, he was furnished,
at a high price indeed, with a steed
of finished manners and amiable disposition,
and had, as yet, contrived to keep on excellent
terms with his beast (which was indeed
easy in his paces as an arm-chair), and to
enjoy himself amazingly, cantering upon his
own wide green sward. This afternoon,

S 2

for the first time, he ventured, unattended
as he was, upon the country roads, along
which, in meditative mood, he travelled at
a walk for two miles or more. At last his
horse, who probably had formed his own
opinion of the being astride his back, wearied
of such gentle progress, and broke into a
smart trot, which became all the smarter
and more persistent while the rider tried
first to pull him into a walk again, then to
urge him into a canter. Hamlet, however,
was minded to trot, and for once refused to
humour his new owner. Now trotting was
as yet most inconvenient, not to say detestable,
to Hamlet's master. It flurried him,
it bumped him, and made him hot and
uncomfortable. He tugged at the bridle,
wishing that he had been allowed a curb as
well as snaffle, but Hamlet only settled into
a more rough and business-like trot, and
seemed to delight in choosing; the hardest

parts of the road. Soon West's hat was
tilted over his eyes and his teeth were well
nigh chattering. Why had he dispensed
with an attendant groom ? — it was really
horrible to be shaken in this manner, and,
save by flinging himself from the saddle,
how was he to end such torture ? He had
a mind to have Hamlet shot, if he ever
reached home in safety, or at least he would
sell the brute and never see him again. Off
at last into the dusty road fell his glossy
tall hat, secured, alas ! by no string ; but on
trotted the relentless Hamlet, on towards
Snugby village. Heavens ! what a plight
for the squire of Swardham, to be hurried
hatless, breathless, dishevelled, by a trotting
horse of which he had plainly lost all
control down that long straggling village
street. Already was he nearing the crossroads
hard by the church and green, when a
little low pony carriage dashed out of one

of the converging lanes, a carnage with a
lady driving and a smart little groom
behind her, at sight of which, as it rounded
the corner, Hamlet suddenly stopped with
alarming suddenness, and stood stock-still,
gazing at pony and lady with much interest,
and well-nigh unseating his unhappy rider
by the jerk with which he brought to.
With shame and confusion AVest strove to
urge his refractory steed on, and escape if
possible unnoticed — but it was not to be.
Already had the pony been pulled up, and
a frank, silvery voice was crying out :

Can my servant be of any assistance to
you, or can I ? You must excuse your
horse, he's an old acquaintance of the
pony's, 1 think, and of mine too — aren't you
Hamlet, old boy ? '

Sulky and shamefaced as Adolphus West
felt and looked, he was unable to resist the
civilities of this lady fair and free. Fail*

she decidedly appeared as he peeped at her,
and saw smiling rosy lips and bold dark
eyes, and bewildering touched hair, crowned
by a coquettish hat ; and of her freedom he
felt no desire to complain ; she was much
nicer than the stiff specimens who had
honoured his mother and himself by calling
at the Hall !

Half a mile back, is your hat ! Then
take my advice, let little Will here ride
Hamlet back for it, he'll be there and
back like a bird, and you jump in beside
me, and we'll be jogging quietly along till
the lad catches us up. That's right ! in you

get

He had no idea who she was or where
she was taking him, but he was instantaneously
fascinated by this woman, so
unlike anything he had ever seen. He
tried to remember where Hamlet had come
from, but he could only recall the heavy

cheque which he had signed for his purchase.
Shyly glancing at his companion,
as she held in her pony at a sober walk,
and chattered gaily, as if she were beside a
friend, he noticed how small and delicate
was the ear, with a tiny golden splinter bar
pendent from its rosy lobe, which appeared
below a thick cluster of golden-tinted dark
hair — how small, too, the hand, despite its
stout leather glove, which held the reins !
He had opportunities, too, now and again,
of noting that the bold bright eyes were
set off by long lashes and wondrously
arched eyebrows of sable hue and accurate
outline — and all these things he admired
hugely, as well as the small aquiline nose,
the graceful neck, and marvellous waist,
to which a plainly made cloth jacket sat
close. He had scarce stammered a word
in reply to the flood of easy chat, mostly
about horses and Longshire roads, when the

little groom reappeared with Hamlet and
the missing hat. This the youth tendered
with an irrepressible grin.

There was a old cow a mouthing of it,
sir,' he said, as West took it in his hands,
alas ! ruined beyond repair.

True, one side of it was merely a little
dusty, but from the other the moist lips of
the cottager's cow had indeed for ever
robbed the glossy smoothness, while her
rough tongue had wandered with fatal
effect from band to crown in search of
delicacies of savour yet unknown.

Deluded old beast,' laughed the lady ;
how unfortunate that she should have
chanced on your hat ! — a brand new one
too ! But it's all the better for me : now I
shan't let you mount and away! I'm close at
home, and you must come in. My brother
will be delighted, and I dare say he can
find you a hat. He'll like to know what

you think of Hamlet, of course ; and it's
quite time you were acquainted.'

With this the fair unknown whipped
her pony and rattled in fine style down
Snugby Street, and round a corner, through
a lodge-gate which stood wide open, and
along a rather ill-kept drive, while the
groom followed on West's horse. Presently
a stately but dismal-looking Palladian pile
revealed itself from amid trees, and the
lady, pointing with her whip, observed :

There's where we live, you know, Fairy
and I ; room enough for two people,
shouldn't you think ! — in fact we want
cheering up with a few neighbours most
horribly, and, if I hadn't encountered you
to-day, I was screwing up my courage to
call, which isn't the least in my line, or
Fairy's either

She seemed to know who he was then,
but who could Fairy be ? — a sister, or a pet

of some sort ? He felt a little bewildered,
but very grateful, and far gone in the most
hopeless fascination. Soon the weedy drive
debouched into a great bleak clearing in
the midst of which rose the frowning stony
pile, looking big enough for two hundred
instead of two, and in another minute the
carriage rattled up to a small side-door,
stopping short of the vast portico, with its
long flights of discoloured steps.

Come in and be introduced, Mr. West ;
and I dare say you could do a ,
in which Fairy will be only too happy
to keep you in countenance.'

Through a gloomy basement vault, up a
dark and crooked stair, across a corner of
a vast but dreary hall, with statues and a
classically painted ceiling, he followed his
conductress, who ushered him at last into a
lofty room of moderate size, where the old-fashioned
furniture was in considerable

disorder, and a strong scent of tobacco-smoke
greeted the nostril.

We are pigging here just anyhow, you
know,' the lady observed, as she upset a fox-terrier
from a prim old arm-chair, and flung
her hat and gloves upon an open card-table
; * but I dare say it won't afflict you
much.'

Adolphus thought that nothing could
deeply afflict him while in so bright and
bewitching a presence. Talk of Sally
Soole's good looks indeed ; what was she
to this radiant, fearless creature ! He admired
her more, as she stood bare-headed,
than in her out door gear. Her hair, which
though dark-hued was pervaded by gleams
of gold, was arranged in a fashion quite
strange to him, but, as he thought, infinitely
becoming. It was cut rather short, and
curled or touched all over her head, much
as the hair of an untidy curly-headed boy

might be, but over the forehead there were
longer locks (not unlike the tuft which
grows between the horns of Highland cattle) ,
so disposed that between their lower rings
and the marvellously arched eyebrows aforesaid,
there showed a mere line, scarce a
nails-breadth of white skin. Then her
figure, as she stood upright, and set one
little foot on the fender to warm, was
more bewitchingly displayed than as she
had sat, wolf-skin on knee, in her little
carriage.

Ah,' she said, apparently unconscious of
his gaze, 'here is Fairy, come to save me
the trouble of a search.'

The door opened, and with astonishment
West beheld a man six foot in height and
broad in the shoulders ; a man neatly
dressed in somewhat tightly-fitting clothes ;
a youngish man with a fresh coloured face,
clean shaven save for a yellow imperial

which graced his chin, and rather good
features of a keen and knowing type.

Fairy, this is Mr. AYest ; we made acquaintance
in the lanes, and he's good-natured
enough to waive ceremony and let
me bring him in. Mr. West, my brother
FitzEaymond.'

In increasing bewilderment West looked
from one to the other ; if this tall fellow
were FitzEaymond, how or why was he also
Fairy ? — and which name could be shared
by this charming creature ? The tall man,
with a good-humoured laugh, came up and
shook hands, saying as he did so :

Very glad to make your acquaintance,
though I dare say my sister, who introduces
us, hasn't the least right to do so.'

The fair sister laughed musically.

Fairy sticking up for the conventionalities
— well done ! ' she said. ' Well, sir, since
you are now formally introduced to our

neighbour, you shall ceremoniously introduce
me to Mr. West, and then we'll be
done with that humbug.'

Allow me then,' replied the brother,
with mock solemnity, sto present to you
my sister. Lady Georgiana FitzRaymond.'

Adolphus bowed confusedly, as it rushed
upon him that the tall fellow, so puzzling
addressed as Fairy, must be none other than
the Earl FitzRaymond, and that the house
must be Beausite, of which he had often
heard, in common with all the dwellers in
those parts.

Mention has been made in these pages of
a certain old Earl FitzRaymond, who had
lived at Beausite in much quietude and
domesticity till his death, some six months
before West's visit. This old gentleman
had found himself, some twelve years back,
left a widower, with an only son and an
only daughter, the pair who now iu habited

the big house. But in these, his children,
the old peer had found little comfort or
sympathy. The son, better known than
trusted in all sporting circles as Lord Fair-ford
(whence the familiar abbreviation Fairy),
never honoured the paternal roof by bis presence,
which was bestowed on fast society
of the racing and sporting order; and of late
years never communicated with his father,
who had altogether declined to embarrass
himself or his estates for the benefit of his
extravagant and often insolvent heir. Neither
was the Lady Georgiana more disposed than
her brother to cheer her sire's declining years.
After a longish career as a spoiled and
wilful beauty, this lady had, to the old
lord's distress and chagrin, insisted on
marrying a handsome and penniless cousin.
The union proving unhappy, and a separation
ensuing, the father was not slow to
offer a home to his only daughter. But

Lady G. (as she was commonly called)
dreaded the humdrum existence at Beausite,
and being of no very dutiful turn of mind,
preferred a strange rambling life, mostly on
the continent, in the course of which many
tongues wagged at her expense, and not a
few scandals attached, falsely or truly, to
her name. Thus deserted by both children,
the old earl, a man of quiet and homely
tastes, found his loneliness unbearable, and
presently brought a new wife to Bernstein
the person of the sister of a neighbouring
rector. This lady, who was of gentle birth
but slender dower, bore him several children,
and made his latter days very happy indeed
; and for her sake and her babes, he
had charged the estate so heavily as to
excite the hearty maledictions of his heir,
who was indeed so deeply involved as to
need every shilling which could be raised
on the family property. The new earl

VOL. L T

found himself master of a great dull house,
full of old-fashioned furniture, and in some
need of restorations within and without, and
of an income which would have been somewhat
insufficient for the maintenance of his
position, even had he been free from the
terrible liabilities incurred during his career
on the turf. Nevertheless, he had come to
take possession, though without any intention
of permanently residing at Beausite,
and had summoned his sister, for whom he
had more affection than for any other living
creature, from her foreign rambles to share
his sojourn in Longshire.

'I suppose you'll try to let the place,'
Lady G. had said, looking with disfavour at
its size and faded appointments, so different
from her late surroundings in Wiesbaden
or Paris. ' It smells of that woman's nursery ;
yes, it tastes of her tea and tracts.'

I'd let it fast enough, if ^^^iV one could

be found fool enough to rent it,' her
brother replied ; ' I only wish for my part it
would be burned down before the insurance
runs out.'

Here then the pair had been living for
some months past, 'pigging,' as Lady G.
termed it, without any attempt at such
establishment as is usual in the mansion
of a peer, and doubtless finding Longshire
quite as dull as they had prophesied. To
their ears, as to all ears in Longshire, had
come the strange tale how that Squire
AYest was dispossessed of Swardham, of all
his acres, his income, and place in the
world ; and how that a new squire, and
truer West, had emerged from obscurity to
take his place. Now John West had l^een
no favourite with either of the Fitzroy
The lord called him a prig and a
stick, for John West disliked horse-racing
and betting and all the devices of the children

T 2

of the turf; and the Lady G. remembered
that he had never been numbered among
the adorers who fluttered round her, when
she burst on the world at the Longs-shire balls
long ago. So they both voted the changea
change for the better, and agreed that
it would be well to make some move towards
the new man. Till this day, however, the
move had remained unmade, for, though
the earl had sold him a horse, he had,
perhaps fortunately for Adolphus, dealt
only with the Swardham head-groom in the
transaction. But now fortune had delivered
this lucky beggar (as Lord FitzRaymond
called him) into their hands, and they
were inclined to make themselves ao-ree^ible
to the representative of so much money.
Accordingly the brandy-and-soda were produced,
cigars followed, and, Lady G. consenting
to just one cigarette, the time
slipped on in pleasant talk, till Adolphus

found himself hopelessly late for his dinner
and irretrievably fascinated by his new
friends, but especially by the reckless gaiety
of Lady G., who seemed to him the most
brilliant and enchanting of her sex. If art
had been called in by the ladj- to repair the
ravages of time (and perhaps dissipation),
innocent Adolphus was all unconscious of
that art. To him those pink-hued cheeks
and rosy lips, those pencilled brows, the
golden gleams that lit the dark curls, were
all nature's contributions to a sum total of
surpassing loveliness. And the continental
freedom of the lady's address, the absence
of ceremony and stiffness which reigned
round her, seemed to him simply perfection.
In short he was intoxicated at once,
and fell the easiest of her many captives, at
this Circe's tiny feet.

By Jove, Georgie,' quoth the earl, when
at last West had reluctantly departed, 'son

shall sell him two or three more of my
horses. How I wish I had kept Hamlet
till after this fellow had been so smitten !
I never saw such a case. Poor little cad !
he has a rough time before him.'

'He is a much better fellow than his
cousin anyhow, and a godsend. I mean
that he shall prove a real godsend to both
of us ; but he is my property, remember,
and I won't have you sticking him with
any screw of yours just yet. He shall be
more profitable than that if you'll leave
him to me at first, as you ought, for I shall
have all the hard work. Fancy calling on
his mother ! I must borrow a bonnet from
my maid, and hunt up a few of the pious
leaflets that woman used to dispense here.
They say the old maternal party has never
lived out of a shop, and wants to put all
the statues at Swardham into brown holland
drawers — but I dare say she's as good as

any of the frumps about here, and quite
as well-bred as our beloved step-mamma.
And now let's inquire whether any preparations
for dinner are making in that ghastly
old cavern down-stairs. My conquest has
given me an appetite.'

END OF VOL. I.

Clay and Taylor, Printers, Bungay, Suffolk,

-tJRBANA

^°^^2084216719

VOL. II.

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/westofswardhamno02peil

% ioijti

BY

THE EEV. W. 0. Pile,

AUTHOR OF " TAY."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. H.

LONDON:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.

1885.

All rights reserved.

CLAY AND Savior, PRINTERS.

CONTENTS

OP

THE SECOND VOLUME.

'H AFTER

I. Two Hearts Awake

II. What the World said

III. Beausite

IV. Flight

V. Phrenology to the Rescue

VT. Conway

VII. Adolphus takes a New Departure

VIII. Un Mauvais Quart d'Heure

IX. Leap-year Doings

X. John turns Ferryman

XI. Adolphus in want of a Mission

XII. On Board the Thyra .
















15«







I

CHAPTER I.
TWO HEARTS AWAKE.

N the pleasant garden of Swarclham

Rectory two people are pacing a lilac-shaded
walk on this fair evening of early
summer. One is a tall, grave man, with
strong limbs and fine presence, the other a
girl, fresh and fair as the flowers around her,
whose bright eyes often seek timidly the
man's face, and read there patient resignation
such as thrills the gazer's gentle heart.

It is best as it is, Mary,' he says quietly.
'I am reading all things by new lights

VOL. II. B

now, and though I thank you for your true
loyal friendship, I feel that neither I nor
my suit ever deserved such efforts in my
cause. Let us not blame Lady Emily.
She has acted according to her lights, and
it was not her fault, but mine, that in our
betrothal there was so little of that deep
lasting feeling which ought to have existed
between betrothed lovers, and which you
naturally gave us both credit for. I meant
her no harm, and she means me no harm ;
but it was all a fair-weather business, like
many other things among those of her class,
and it is best as it is ! I thank God that it
is not so with all. You and your father are
such friends as make a man rich who has
lost all else, and the thought of you will
cheer me when I have turned out into the
world, to bec^in the struggle of life.'

Tears sprang to the girl's eye, but she
kept them back, and after a while spoke in
low soft tones that tried to be very cheerful.
If you must go — and I feel that we
should not hinder you — there is one thing
that, if I am indeed accounted your friend,
I must venture to say before you leave us.
I believe that you will surely and quickly,
make a name and a place for yourself in the
world ; little as I know of it, I feel that
truth and honour and energy must surely
help a man on in it ! But I know also that,
in any career, just at first money is wanted,
and I hope you won't be angry with me if I
propose, with papa's knowledge and consent,
to lend you mine. Oh Mr. West ! what do
I want with money ? What good is it to me
here ? There is my poor mother's three
thousand pounds in the funds, saving up

B 2

against I am twenty-one — you will let me
lend it to you, will you not ? I wouldn't
presume to offer it as a gift, though you
would be welcome to it. But as a loan, papa
thinks, and I think, we couldn't do better
than get you to take it in hand for us — and
it might be useful, though it's not much,
just at first. Say you will allow us, or I
shall think we can't be such friends as you
said — please, please don't shake your head,
but oblige us by taking it.'

God bless you, little Mary,' John West
replied humbly ; ' God bless you, and the
good rector too. I .can never forget this ;
I thank you, yes, a thousand times ! But
I cannot take your money. I am no man
of business capacity, dear, to multiply
pounds into thousands, but if I were I could
not rob you. Why, Mary, this will be your

dower when you make some lucky fellow
happy as his wife."

He took her hand as he spoke, and looked
sadly and tenderly down at her drooping
head, from which the tears dropped fast
now. As he finished, for one moment she
looked up, while her quivering lips strove
to fashion the words * Never, oh never ! ' and
their eyes met. What was there in the
momentary glance of those moist, beseeching
eyes which thrilled the strong man to the
heart's core, and shook him with some new
strange sensation, mingled of exquisite pleasure
and almost despair ? Could this belittle
Polly Holbrooke, his mother's petted
god-child, his own merry plaything, always
sportive and unthinking as a kitten, in the
bright old days ? No ! this was a woman,
a woman mute and trembling before the

man whom she worshipped, whose heart she
had vfaked suddenly to the knowledge that
he loved and was beloved. Feebly she tried
to withdraw her hand, and veil her streaming
eyes, but as the little fingers slid through
his, his pulses quickened with swift rapture,
his sorrows and losses were forgotten ; he
only knew that he loved this girl whose
secret he had surprised, as men can love but
once in their lives.

Mary,' he said in a thick stifled voice,
and as the name escaped him, he drew her
slight figure towards him, and strained her
almost fiercely to his heart, *Mary, am I
mad, or have I won more than all I have
lost ? '

Her head was on his breast now, and her
hand lay still in his, but, as he repeated her
name she looked up at him again, with a

wild sweet joy banishing the tears, and
murmured low :

Oh, I am not worthy — not worthy of
this from you.'

Then on her astonished face, on her sweet
lips and wet cheeks there fell a shower of
burning kisses, such as never yet had John
West sealed on woman's face. For a few
enraptured minutes these two were in
Elysium ; but for him at least a reaction
soon set in, and, while still he held her in
his clasp, he asked himself reproachfully
why he had thus impulsively taken a bright
young girl to share his clouded path, and
waste her young love on one who must
fight a long up-hill battle before he could
claim his bride. But when he looked into
her eyes and saw her blushing face radiant,
he had not the heart to utter aloud his

misgivings, and soon abandoned himself
once more to the untasted sweetness of a
first passion. And when Mary had at last
fled from him, fled without another word to
lock herself in her own chamber for hours
of shy sleepless rapture, he determined,
before he slept, to seek the rector, and
acquaint him with the events of the evening,
and his hopes of being requited for all else
by winning Mary for his own. In his
study he found the good man, busied with
writing, and wearing a more cheerful look
than of late had been habitual with
him.

No, you will not interrupt me at all,'
said the rector ; ' sit down, and let us talk,"
since, for a wonder, a pleasant prospect has
opened before me to-day, and I know you
will bear with me if I am prosy about it, as

it may deeply concern an old favourite of
yours

With this prelude Mr. Holbrooke went
on to explain that he had that day heard
from an old friend, lately returned from
Australia where he had spent many years
and accumulated considerable wealth. His
friend, he went on to say, had an only son,
whom he had sent to England for his education,
and who, having passed through
Eton and Cambridge, was now about to be
called to the bar.

Little did I guess,' continued the rector,
that the smart young fellow who was
reading with Anstey all last summer was
my old friend Ted Herbert's boy ; as little
did I imagine, when I let Mary go so often
over to Cumby, that the child was particularly
welcome to anybody except Anstey 's

girls ! But it seems that the young fellow
fancies himself desperately in love with my
daughter, and has greeted his father, on
his arrival the other day in this country,
with the news that, unless he consents to
his formally proposing for Miss Molly, they
had both better ship themselves back to
New South Wales without further ado.
What Ted Herbert might have said to his
heir's passion for a poor parson's girl, under
other circumstances, I cant pretend to
guess ; but it seems that he has not forgotten
old days, and no sooner understood
that his son's flame was Frank Holbrooke's
daughter, than he gave his heartiest sanction
to the lad's wishes, and, like the impetuous-coldhearted
fellow he always was, opened
the siege at once with this letter, which has
fairly taken me by storm, and, 1 will own,

given me the first pleasant moment I have
known for many a month.'

The rector wheeled round to see his
friend's face, his own face wearing something
of the old genial, sanguine look which
had been chased from it by the events of
the past six months ; but John West's chair
was pushed away from the circle of the
shaded lamp's light ; and, though he seemed
to listen attentively, no word of surprise or
congratulation proceeded from him. He
only nodded his head, as the rector looked
round at him, and uttered a long-drawn
^Ah!'

This takes you by surprise Holbrooke
went on briskly ; * of course it does, I am
lost in surprise myself ; I have never realized
that any one could be thinking of my child
in that way, and you, I dare say, find it

hard to invest her in the dignity belonging
to a young woman for whom flattering proposals
have been made. But whether the
affair is to end with the proposal or no is
more than I can at present guess. The lad
is a modest fellow, it seems — none of your
fast specimens of the present day — and he
avows that, well as he knows his own mind,
he is in doubt whether Mary has discovered
his real feeling for her, and of course in
utter ignorance whether his preference is
returned. Ted Herbert thought I might
have an idea on the point — but he doesn't
know what a careless unsuspicious father I
am ! Well, I can't sound the dear child on
the point — it would be so different if she
were not motherless ; and the long and short
of it is, that on this sheet of paper I am
making a clean breast of my ignorance and

incapacity, and at the same time professing
my perfect readiness to give the lad a fairfield,
and perhaps a little favour ! '

Again the rector stopped, and West could
see that his face was almost the beaming
face which had been familiar to him. He
felt himself bound to say something, but
what could he say ? Once more he endeavoured
by some inarticulate sound to express
his interest in what he heard, and apparently
he was successful, for after a moment's
pause, his friend began again in more
serious tones.

Such favour, I say, as a father, who
would in no way bias his child, may show,
I am not disposed to withhold. I scarcely
think that Mary has as yet looked on this
young Frank Herbert as a lover, but when
he declares himself, as he soon will, why

should she not be won ? He is a fine,
handsome had, such as any girl might learn
to love, and he is the son of a valued old
friend, who speaks most highly of him, and
is anxious for the match. A year ago I
should have felt very differently, had anyone
sought to take my girl from me ; but
71010 I can rejoice. I feel that, if such a
thing should come to pass, I am the more
free to execute a design which has been
present to me for a month past, and is
taking a strong hold on me. My dear boy,
the happiest days of my life have been
spent here in Swardham. I thought to die
here, and be buried in the old churchyard
among my people whom I love. But all
that is at an end — the place is not the same
place, and never again can be — there is a
spirit abroad among the people, too, which

is changing many of them, and there needs
another man to cope with these altered
circumstances, and fight the Church's battle
as, I fear, I never could. I have thought
of exchanging, but the patron of this
benefice would have to be a party to any
such arrangement, and my knowledge of
your cousin's opinions and my experience of
his disposition towards myself, forbid my
approaching him on the subject. Were I
alone in the world, I should have already
resigned, and sought a curacy in some
distant place, but my private means are
small, and I could not bear to see Mary
deprived of the comforts to which she has
been accustomed. These things have cost
me many a sleepless night of late, while I
felt that my position here would soon become
insupportable, and yet saw no way out of

it, consistent with my duty toward my
child. But now there is a chance for us
both. Ted Herbert is a rich man and
generous, and if Frank contrives to find
favour in Mary's eyes, I need no longer
delay, on her account, to leave Swardham
for ever. And I thought, my dear boy,
that if your future is laid in London — that
great world where fortune awaits the patient
and resolute — I might be near my daughter
there, and near also to you, if indeed it
might not suit you to share my new home
for a while, where we might all be a consolation
to one another, and keep alive the
memory of the dear peaceful days that are
fled.'

The rector's voice trembled a little as he
finished, with an appealing glance at the
tall quiet figure in the shadowed corner.

Then John AVest rose to his feet, and

stepping forward took his old friend's hand ;

nor was there anything in his voice or

gesture to betray the struggle which had

raged within him as he listened. Well did

he remember the handsome stripling in

whose praise men and women had said

much during his short stay in a Longshire

i\ vicarage. And this youth, so manly and

modest, so sociable and gay, had fallen in

love with Mary Holbrooke, and could bring

to bear riches and hereditary claims for the

furtherance of his suit ! What was he,

John West, that he should bar the claims

of such an one ? Was the generous impulse

born of pure angelic pity, that had swelled

a girl's heart for a moment, to be used

selfishly against her, for the blighting of her

young life, and the disappointment of her
VOL. II. C

father s hopes ? What right had one who
had lost all else to keep the treasure which
he had surprised from an innocent child,
many years his junior. True, he could
never cease to feed upon the remembrance
of that moment when her head had been
on his breast, and her wet eyes had looked
so sweetly into his, and her cheeks had
suffered his kisses. He had known then,
for the first and only time, what it really
is to love. But with her, it would not
could not be so. How in the first flush of
dawning womanhood could she, impressionable
as she was, conceive of the passionate
depths of a man's nature, schooled and
tried as his had been? Rapidly but
decisively, as was his wont, he reviewed
the situation, and crushed down all pity
for himself It was his duty to remain forever

silent on the errand which had brought
him that night to the rector's study. It
was his duty to tear himself at once from
the sight of Mary, and spare no pains to
efface the impressions of that unguarded
moment, so rash and yet so precious, from
her young mind. He would apologize by
letter for his reckless selfishness, and begone
before she rose on the morrow. What
matter how it might wring his own heart
to do this ? Let her think him unworthy
of the treasure of her heart.

But what should the innocent child know
of love ? It was pity, no doubt, which
Mary guileless heart had mistaken for
love ; let her forget the mistake, and mate
with her equal in years, whom all things
combined to recommend as her wooer ! He
would never see her again, unless as the

C 2

happy wife of this most fortunate youth ;
for he loved her too well to claim her asa
sacrifice to himself, and a sharer of his
ruined fortunes. She must blot from her
memory that short twilight hour, and make
her father free and happy by her marriage
instead of adding to his embarrassments.
Filled with these thoughts, and strong in
his resolve, he stood holding the rector's
hand, and spoke in gentle sad tones, such
as were now habitual with him.

I thank you, dear old friend, for your
confidence, and I can well understand your
pleasure in this prospect which has opened.
God speed it ! say I, and grant your girl
and you all that shall be best for you — all
the happiness which you both deserve.
You will tell her, when the time comes,
how I prayed God bless her ; for I must

no longer delay my plunge into the great
strange world, where I have to shape a new
life for myself. I have determined to spare
myself the pain of a prolonged farewell,
and tomorrow, very early, I purpose to
leave you, with a grateful heart, which is
all the lighter that I leave you to fair
hopes of a brighter future.'

To all Holbrooke's pleading and remonstrances
against this sudden resolve West
remained impervious. He would write, he
said ; he had plans, but they were as yet
somewhat unsettled. Still they required
his immediate departure from the rectory.

1 hate to say good-bye,' he said at last ;
wish me good night — no more. Who shall
say how soon we may meet again ? Let
me depart, after my own whim, before the
house is astir. I will leave a little note for

Mary, my mother's little god-daughter, my
sister Mary

Hand in hand the two men stood for
some minutes, their hearts too full for
words, and then with a simple ' Good night,
then, and God bless you,' they parted.

CHAPTER IL

WHAT THE WORLD SAID.

TT7HILE the worthy rector of Svvardham
found in the changes which had
come upon his parish, and in his anticipations
of still further changes, cause only for
the profoundest dissatisfaction and sorrow,
there were not wanting others who were
also dissatisfied with the more recent course
of events, but for reasons vastly opposed
to those which swayed Mr. Holbrooke.

When it had first been made known, as
an undoubted fact, that the young Squire,

with his pride and his conservatism, had
been obliged to turn out, in favour of a
cousin, who, though born a West, was yet,
by breeding, a son of the people and a
handicraftsman, a radical to boot of the
most advanced school, great had been the
exultation, jubilant the prophecies of the
section of the village public of which the
Hockerills and Barnes were the representatives.
Heretofore this party had been
of small account in the village polity ; to
use the words of one of their champions,
they had groaned beneath the yoke of semi-feudal
tyranny ; but the tables were turned !
a new regime was inaugurated, and the
down-trodden radicals were eager for their
innings, as counsellors and help-mates of a
brother whom fortune had called to power
and wealth ! In this happy expectation

the Hockerill party, swelled each day by
fresh adherents, had been loud and
energetic in their joy. By them had the
arches been reared and the banners emblazoned
which gave to Adolphus West's
formal entry on his inheritance sufficient of
a triumphal character to read very well in
the local journals. By them had a con-congratulatory
deputation been got up,,
in which felicitations were skilfully mixed
with auguries of the sweeping changes at
once to be introduced on the Swardham
estate, in the direction of fixity of tenure,
reduction of rent, destruction of ground-game,
assignment of allotments, and, in
short, the institution of an era of liberty,
equality, and fraternity ! They had sounded
their hero's trumpet and their own with
no uncertain note, at no timid intervals ;

they had spared neither time nor trouble
in calling all men to witness what great
things would come to pass in Swardham
now that Swardham belonged to one of
their own order, brought up at the feet of
their Longboro' Gamaliel.

But months had passed, and as yet
nothing had been done to fulfil their
auguries or crown their exertions. The

o

park stretched as amply and as unproductively
around the old red Hall as when John
West dwelt there ; the birds, the hares and
rabbits, were no less strictly preserved ;
the foxes had not been bereft of an earth
or a covert ; the applications for longer
leases, with compensation for improvements,
were referred to Scott's in Lono^borouoh,
with no result in the tenant's favour ; the
allotment gardens were still dreams of the

future. Worse than all, the new land-owner,
the son of the people, on whose advent
such high hopes had been formed, was as
impracticable, as inaccessible, as the most
haughty and bigoted feudalism of his class.
Men of weight in Longboro' radical and
dissenting circles had been brought to bear
upon him by the disappointed men of
Swardham, but the weightiest and glibbest
of these had been as little able as the local
patriots to obtain speech or even sight of the
new master of Swardham HalL Moreover,
there were rumours, which did not fail to
reach the ears of the malcontents and embitter
their already exasperated souls. It
was commonly reported in Longshire that
Adolphus West, abandoning to his lawyers
and assents the management of his estate, had
chosen to employ his time and his faculties

in " dancing attendance " upon a certain
lady of high birth, but of questionable
position and antecedents, at whose instance
he was believed to have flung to the winds
the principles in which he had been bred,
and of which he had been an enthusiastic
exponent. Certain it was that his visits
at Beausite, a house to which an evil repute
had already attached, had become more and
more frequent, till they were with slight
exaggeration described as daily. Of the
doings " or " carrying on " within that
mansion, indeed, little or nothing transpired
for the delectation of that portion of the
outside world which is particular as to the
accuracy of its facts. But this did not hinder
a very much larger portion of the said
world from regaling itself greedily on a
copious supply of stories, which were

at least terribly probable if not quite accurate.


The least vindictive of these narratives
imputed to my lord and his cronies, if not
to my lady and the foreign Madams her
guests, Sunday gambling at cards and
billiards, and daily drinking, betting, and
profanity.

It was agreed on all hands that the
late Earl must have turned in his
grave repeatedly at such profanation
of the family seat, whence his widow
and her innocent brood had so lately departed.


Thus Longshire in general, crediting the
young Lord FitzEaymond and his sister
with all manner of naughtiness, was swift
to set a big black mark against any one who
encouraged these sinners, and how much

more against a personage of such local
importance as West of Swarclliam.

With his opportunities and his responsibilities,'
cried the public of Longshire, ' it
is disgraceful and disgusting that he should
join himself to such a crew.'

True it is that the unanimity displayed
in this condemnation would quickly have
vanished if the varying sections composing
the said public had compared their views as
to what ought to be done by a young man
situated as was Adolphus West. ' Choose
one of our girls,' Longshire squiredom and
its wife would have suggested, ^ to teach
him how to play the country gentleman.'
Stand forth for redress of all old abuses,
and ventilation of every burning question,'
the politicians, whom once he had affected,
would have dictated. ' Subscribe to our

restorations, our schools, and charities, and
make his peace with the Church, which is
ever the fast friend of his order,' the clergy
would have added. But whatever the
programme recommended m petty by each
section of the Longshire world, there was
but one opinion of the conduct and career
of the latest addition to its landed proprietors,
and that opinion briefly was that
Adolphus West was making a disastrous
mess of his position, and was in a fair way
to go to the dogs, as no squire of Svvardham
was recorded to have gone. That gambling
and drinking, and swearing and scoffing, all
manner, in short, of loose living and loose
conversation, were the daily pastimes of the
earl and his guests at Beausite, this much
was received as gospel by all dwellers in
those parts. And as it was known beyond

contradiction that West now lived more of
his time at Beausite than in his own house,
it was rapidly passing into an article of
faith that West was a drunkard and gambler,
a profane swearer and scoffer at religion and
morality, a loose and profligate liver, to
which pleasing catalogue the Hockerills and
their party would wrathfully add ' and a
renegade, a base deserter to those who love
to grind the faces of the poor.' ' He is tied
to the apron-string of that woman, who
made even foreign towns too hot to hold
her,' shuddered the matrons. * He is hand
and glove with that black-leg, who is the disgrace
of his order and a scandal even to the
turf,' growled their lords. ' He never enters
a church, has insulted his rector, and left a
letter from the Bishop unanswered,' sighed
the parsons. ' He is an oppressor of darker

dye than his predecessors, and a fosterer of
all corruption raged his former associates.
He is just what one might expect from his
low origin and antecedents murmured the
gentry. ' He has every vice hereditary in
the class to which he belongs foamed the
demagogues.

And just at this time two announcements
were made which further inflamed
the virulent, and staggered the charitably
disposed. The first was that the rector of
Swardham was about to resign his benefice
rather than submit to the proximity and
insults of a squire so scandalous ; the
second, that West's own mother had quitted
her son's roof, as unfit longer to shelter a
virtuous British female. As to the first of
these assertions the reader already knows
more than the bulk of the Longshire public,

VOL. II. D

whom the rector had certainly not admitted
to his confidence. Mr. Holbrooke indeed
always expressed great surprise at the
publication of a design, which as yet he
had scarcely matured, and declared that he
had authorized no one to make any such
statement. But he was a man with whom
concealment was very difficult, and he was
surrounded by excited watchers, anxious to
place on his every word such constructions
as would bear out their theories, and enrich
their stock of contributions to the tattle of
the hour. There had been a stormy vestry
meeting, the first stormy meeting known
in the parochial annals of Sward ham, at
which it had been proposed to bring forward
Jacob Hockerill, a born dissenter, a
reputed free-thinker, a radical, as people's
churchwarden, in place of old farmer

Hobbs, just deceased. And though West
was neither present nor immediately represented
at this meeting, it was felt that his
protection, or at least non-interference, had
encouraged the noisy party, who made
things very uncomfortable for the poor
rector, and moved him, in the bitterness
of his spirit, to give vent to expressions
which were eagerly caught up, and quickly
manipulated into the assertion that Parson
Holbrooke meant to shake the dust of
Swardham off his feet, and all along of the
new squire and his queer diversions. As
to the second announcement, on which
especially the censorious loved to dwell,
namely, that West's mother refused to live
with him any longer, it was unfortunately
but too correct. After the first flush of
triumph and delight in her dear boy's

D 2

magnificent prospects, the widow Van
Lennep had found her new-born grandeur
irksome, even with the resource of providing
the numerous windows of the Hall
with hangings netted in a fancy mesh. She
was, however, a woman who owned a sense
of duty, and would meekly have borne any
personal inconveniences for the sake of the
son of her affections. The tedious silence
and solitude of her days, the more formidable
visitations of men-servants and callers,
the uncomfortable sense of strangeness and
constant company dress and company manners,
all these she would have endured
uncomplainingly if she had seen her Dolf
progressing, as she would have had him
progress, along the road to distinction,
which now without let was his to tread.
And when first she began to be left alone

in the big rooms, morning and evening
alike, with increasing frequency, she took
comfort in telling herself that her boy was
among high people, earls and ladies, who
were doubtless fitter company for him than
his old mother. It was dull certainly, but
she could go to bed when she liked, pleased
with the thought that Dolf was valued intitled
society. But presently to her ears
there filtered tales which sorely shook her
complacency. Dolf objected strongly to
her little chats with the servants ; but when
he was so much away, what could be the
harm, after a long clay without a soul to
speak to, of having in the new housekeeper,
just before bedtime, and indulging in a
pleasant little gossip over a glass of negus,
which Mrs. Milligan compounded so nicely,
and was kind enough to bring in quietly

from her own room after the solemn butler
and his men had been dismissed for the
nio-ht ? Little relish, however, remained in
the negus after certain disclosures which,
with many sighs and an oft-shaken head,
leaked at last from the housekeeper, and
brought dismay to the soul of the
widow.

Wishing, mum, with all my heart that
I could say different, as one that has always
respected them whose bread T eat, and in
no way given to speak evil of dignities, as
why should I, that lived over five years
with the Dowager Viscountess Cheltenham >
to the day of her ladyship's lamented death ?
Still, mum, I will make bold to repeat that
the company at my lord FitzRaymond's is no
company for a gentleman in master's position,
nor for any one as values their repute,

and it is but right that you, mum, should
be aware of it, considering all the talk
there is about, more's the pity ! '

But oh, Mrs. Milligan,' gasped the
affected mother, ' he can't know what they
are ! he won't go again when he is told !
my son was never one to countenance
dreadful wicked ways ! '

Mrs. Milligan sniffed dubiously before she
replied,

'You know best, mum, of course, but
they do say as the lord's sister is no better
than the rest of the pack, and that master
just worships the ground that she treads
upon.'

And he'll be bringing; her here as his
wife,' cried the old woman with clasped
hands.

'Well, mum, there's no knowing the

truth of some matters, and if it's honest
courting that master's after, he mii^jht at
any rate take his lady away out of the
card-playing and horse-racing lot, and the
painted foreign madams that the place is
full of. But there ! folks will have it that
this lady Georgiana isn't free to marry,
having a husband wandered away somewhere
in outlandish parts, though she
hasn't set eyes on him, by all accounts,
for years. And if that is so, it's a bad
business for master to be crazy about her,
and all the people round talking about
nothing else for weeks and months past !
But it's past your bedtime, mum, and I'm
sure I hope you'll excuse the liberty I take
in detaining you from your rest.'

No rest, however, was possible to Mrs.
Van Lcnnep. Milligan had murdered sleep,

and her mistress, after a miserable night,
was quite justified in stopping her son, ashe
prepared to mount his horse for the
familiar journey to Beausite, by tidings that
she was confined to her room by serious
illness, and beo-g-ed to see him before he left
home. Impatiently he presented himself
in his mother's chamber, and there underwent
a most unpleasant interview, the first
of a series of unpleasant interviews, which
culminated in a breach between mother and
son, and a resolve on Mrs. Van Lennep's
part to quit the house into which she had
entered with such pride and triumph but a
few months before. Tearful and imploring
as the old woman at first appeared, she was
not to be soothed by vague assurances ;
and, her worst fears being confirmed by
her son's evasive and hasty answers to

lier questions, she displayed an amount of
persistency which at first disconcerted and
then angered him. Especially was his
wrath kindled by his mother's obstinate
determination to invoke the aid and counsel
of a certain nonconformist divine in Loughborough,
whose chapel she had attended in
her days of peaceful obscurity.

I'll have no oily ministers prying and
meddling in my affairs, and so I give you
fair warning, mother.'

'He that will not hear the Church,
Adolphus, let him be unto thee as a
heathen and a publican. Oh, my son, my
son, you will not listen to your mother,
but you will not refuse to hearken to the
Church.'

Church indeed,' quoth Adolphus, with
fine scorn, ' why can't the fellow stick to

his periwinkles, and let the Church take
care of itself?'

Alas ! it was too plain to Matilda Van
Lennep that her boy's corruption had
made terrible progress, that amid the pitch
of his new associates was already defiled.
True it was that the pastor of Eehoboth
chapel had in earlier days sought his living
as an itinerant vendor of shell-fish, but Dolf
knew well that for years he had been
esteemed a devoted and gifted preacher ;
and though at no time numbered among
the regular attendants at that lowly conventicle,
yet never before had he thus
openly scoffed at his mother's spiritual
guide.

For shame, Adolphus ! I grieve to live
to cry shame upon you ; but I will not be
overruled, and let you rush to your ruin.

To-morrow I send for that worthy man.
Heaven grant he may be able to come ; if
you will not hear him, he shall wrestle in
prayer for you.'

AVhite with rage at this unexpected resistance
to his sovereign pleasure, Adolphus
so far forgot himself as to hiss out an
oath, and once more peremptorily forbidding
that Mr. Huleatt should enter his doors,
flung out of the room, and hurried off to
the society of his enchantress. On the
morrow, nevertheless, Mr. Huleatt came,
fetched over from Lono^borouoh in the
brougham specially allotted to Mrs. Van
Lennep, and the result was a scene ; after
which the mother and son did not speak
while the former remained at Sward ham
Hall. And within a week, the observant
public was gratified by Mrs. Van Lennep's

taking up her abode in a furnished villa
of the highest respectability situated in the
best suburb of Longborough. Mr. Clark
indeed went about pooh-cooling the notion
of a quarrel, and asserting that the old
lady's change of residence was simply due
to her desire of ' sitting under ' her favourite
pastor, and that her relations with her son
were, as ever, of the most affectionate.
But the public refused to be hoodwinked,
and it was quickly noised abroad that the
mistress of Adolphus West's house had fled
from orgies which surpassed, if possible,
the 'doings' at Beausite, and so disgraced
the venerable Hall of Swardham that it was
no longer a home for any religious and
self-respecting female.

CHAPTER III.

BEAUSITE.

TT may be at once frankly stated that in
the manifold rumours circulated in
Longshire as to ' doings ' and * orgies ' in
two of its most considerable mansions,
there was not only much exaggeration, buta
vast amount of sheer invention, which
did much credit to the imaginations of the
gossips. Of the introduction of revellers
from Beausite or elsewhere into his own
house, Adolphus West was of course, in
fact if not also in intent, wholly guiltless ;
and of the ' doings ' in that desecrated

mansion, trivial as they were compared
with the rumoured enormities, he was
rather an indifferent witness, for the most
part, than a participator. Indeed, disappointing
as the admission would have been
to half the neighbourhood, a truthful
observer must have admitted that neither
in drinking, nor in gambling, nor in fast
conversation had * the misguided young
man ' learned to take any delight, though
he had become the daily frequenter of a
society which indulged in all these iniquitous
amusements.

But, alas 1 by his associates, from ancient
days, has a man been known and judged,
and it must be owned that Lord Fits
and his sister had gathered
around them a curious little knot of kindred
spirits, meet subjects for the tattling

tongues of Longsliire. Mrs. Milligan,
speaking with the tongue of rumour, had
alluded to ' painted foreign madams,' as well
as to horse-racing, gambling men, and true
it was that Lady Georgiana eras entertaining
beneath her brother's roof two dear friends
and continental acquaintances, who now
kindly consented to enliven her seclusion
in Longshire, and answered to the names
of Madame Meslin and the Baronne
d'Oisan.

Of these the titled lady was a large fair
Belgian or Netherlander, and the other a
skinny and vivacious little Parisian. Both
were very much dressed and carefully
cosmetiqued, neither was accompanied by
her husband, or embarrassed by any scruples
which might not have consorted with the
free and easy ways of the house. To

balance these fair guests there was no
lack of gentlemen, except about the time
of Doncaster or other distant race-meetings.


Slangy captains came and went, came
again and went again, and one bosom friend
of the earl, Jimmy Clancy by name, was now
almost as much at home at Beausite as its
noble owner. By the help of these guests,
male and female, many a bottle was indeed
emptied and many a box of Havana, and
many a game of loo kept up till daybreak.
But it was soon known among them that
the ever-present West could not be enticed
to lose more than a sovereign or so at a
time over the cards, nor so overcome by
liquor as to wax more pliable. He was not
indeed absolutely strait-laced or stingy, for
it was no secret that he had at any rate

VOL. II. E

found the cases of champagne which were
now broached so liberally, but he seemed to
prefer a quiet hand of piquet with his
hostess, or a chat in a corner, to the noisier
games and the badinage of the general
circle, and certainly had no eyes for the
charms of the recollected Baroness or the
sparkling Madame Meslin.

To these ladies indeed it was an enim-ma

o

why their dear Lady G. and her brother
were so untiringly civil to a person so
uncongenial as this pallid bourgeois man.
A few dozens of sparkling wine had been
an acceptable contribution to the rather
scanty cellar, but the cost must have been
a mere bagatelle to a wealthy English proprietor
; and it could surely be no fun
for a woman who had gone the pace in
Wiesbaden, Hamburg and Paris, to smile

on the clumsy homage of this rustic ! But
Lolotte and Marie, confidential friends as
they were, had not been by on a certain
afternoon when their beloved ' Georgette '
had found her new admirer ready to do far
more for her sake than submit to be fleeced
at cards, or mulcted of a pound or two over
some sweepstake. Never, indeed, had either
lady beheld ' Georgette ' as she appeared on
this occasion, when Adolphus, entering as
usual into the familiar room, had discovered
his radiant enchantress crouched disconsolately
on a sofa, red-eyed and dishevelled,
and scarce able to speak for gathering
tears.

Oh, it is nothings she said, ' nothing
that I must trouble you with, nothing but
what might be expected at any moment !
Only tomorrow there will be an execution

E 2

m the house. The descent of one flight of
harpies will be a signal to all the rest of
poor Fairy's foes, and I shall be cast on
the hard world again, without a home, just
as I had learned to be happy here, just as
I had come to value — bnt, it can be nothing
to you ! I am glad you are here,
for after to-day we have no house to see
our friends in, — we may never meet again,'
and she turned her face round upon the
cushions, and seemed to weep noiselessly.


AVest was by no means free with his
money, nor prone to lavish an incautious
generosity ; but at this moment, looking
upon the distress of the woman ^^ho had
enslaved him, he felt that, if it should cost
him half his fortune, he must come to the
rescue, and avert the horrid chance of

being bereft of Lady G.'s society. With
many protestations, and a voice that
trembled with yet unspoken passion, he
bade defiance to all sacrilegious intruders,
and besought the grieving lady to cheer
up, relying on his purse and good
offices.

Ah, my friend I ' she cried, as she took
his hand, ' you are too good ! too noble !
I hesitate to involve you in the troubles
of a most unfortunate and ill-used family ;
for my own sake, I could not accept your
generous offers, but my heart bleeds for
my brother. Brought up as he was, reared
in the expectation of wealth corresponding
to his place in the world, he has been
betrayed and beggared, — betrayed by a
designing woman who imposed on our
father's dotage ; beggared to kee23 her and

lier brood in luxury to which they have
no right. Poor Fairy ! you will find him
in the library, alone with his sorrow, and
there you will hear the particulars of this
menaced outrage, if indeed you are resolved
to help, and perhaps see your way to
sparing him an indignity

Adolphus would infinitely have preferred
doing business exclusively with Lady G.,
but there was no help for it. Her soul
evidently revolted from sordid details ; and
so to the library he presently repaired. In
this apartment, lined with the dusty legal
tomes accumulated by the founder of the
family, he found the earl smoking a big
cigar, and looking surprisingly equable and
unconcerned for a man on the brink of
ruin.

Before he quitted the room AVest had

signed a cheque for eighteen hundred
pounds odd, which would, as he was assured,
suffice to keep the bailiffs out of
Beausite, and for which he accepted Lord
FitzRaymond's note-of-hand.

Adolphus had made up his mind, as he
pulled out his cheque-book, to extract at this
crisis from his friend some definite information
on a delicate point. He had heard,
with affected incredulity, but with inward
uneasiness, his mother s assertion that Lady
Georgian a had a husband living in some
remote region, and he thought that now
was the moment for being enlightened as
to the truth of a report which traversed
his most treasured aspirations.

Often and often, in their many quiet confabulations,
had the question trembled upon
his tongue's tip, but it had remained unasked,

and the declaration of his passion, which
would have followed on a favourable reply,
was as yet unspoken. Now, however, when
conferring so remarkable a favour, he
thought that the moment had arrived for
ending all uncertainty by putting to the
earl the question which he had not put
to the earl's sister. Awkwardly and bashfully,
as he tore out his cheque, the question
was put, and an answer awaited with a
beating heart.

Is my sister free ? ' repeated Lord Fits
with raised brows, as he folded
the precious bit of paper. *Well, upon
my soul, that's more than I can answer
for her. I hardly think she knows herself
teas married, you know, though she
didn't change her name — married when
quite a child, to our cousin Aylmer — icou/d

have him, you know ! — a very good fellow
in his way Aylmer was, but the last man
to have saddled himself with a wife. Where
he is now nobody knows. I believe he is
dead, myself, dead of cholera somewhere in
Turkey ; but, even if he is alive, there is
no doubt that he has forfeited all right
to poor Georgie, who could have a divorce
if she chose to apply for it. Whether
she would, of course, I can't say. It would
be a bore, and it would cost a lot of money.'

The anxious listener murmured, as the
earl paused, a word to the effect that money
difficulties could be got over. But without
noticing that word the other went on in
blither tones, —

It isn't exactly a subject I like, but
you are a friend in need, and if what I say
puts you on a right tack, why I don't grudge

it. Ah, Lolotte ! ' (as the plump baroness
peeped into the room) ; ' don't run away,
we are quite done with business, and longing
for your cheerful society. What do you say
to toddling round to the stables ? There
is to be a grand rat hunt this afternoon,
and Jimmy has been ass enough to back
his cur against my Derrick. Won't you
come with us. West ? Well, ta-ta, then.'

And away sped the peer, like a schoolboy
released, to his congenial pastime. It
was not then an idle slander which had
caused West's disquietude ! The earl's
carelessly worded information had caused a
wild ferment in his brain, but he felt that
his passion for Lady Georgiana was burning
no less fiercely for the disclosure. The
more difficult his suit, the more ardent
became his desire of pushing it to a

successful event. He had hoped to win
her by the force of his passion and the
weight of his wealth — now he would still
offer to dower her with all his love and
all his money, if she would first permit
him to rescue her from a position which
could not fail to be painful. And without
money, and probably perseverance and
patience also, such rescue were impossible.
At any cost, by any expenditure of pains
and gold, the fate of this worthless husband
must be ascertained. Should proof of his
death be forthcoming, all difficulty would
surely vanish. Should he be traced to some
Oriental haunt, and found in life, and in
the exercise of such infidelities as the earl
had hinted, then he would be amenable to
the strong arm of the law, which would
unfetter the matrimonial chain so lightly

worn. Of desertion, at least, the man, if
alive, was clearly guilty, and West nothing
doubted that graver charges could be
substantiated. He had been furious with
his mother when she spoke of this
husband's possible existence ; he had been
wretched in his fears that her words might
be verified. But now, knowing the worst,
he found himself nothing daunted or
discouraged. To win this woman for his
wife had become his sole aim and ambition.
She had dazzled, intoxicated, enthralled
him ; but, great as were the advantages he
could offer to the penniless beauty, he had
trembled at the possibilities of a rejection,
a repulse which would blight his life. Now
he thought he saw the true cause which
had forbidden her to give him definite
hope ; but let the death or delinquency

of the wretch who had marred her youth
be proved conclusively, proved by Diis triumphant
exertions, then surely would
his devotion have its reward, and his
claims be found irresistible !

Adolphus bit his nails fiercely as these
thoughts coursed through his brain. She
should be his, if he had to serve for her as
long as Jacob served for Rachel ! — his, sooner
or later : if already a widow, then sooner ;
if encumbered by a tie which the law
would dissolve, then later ! But in any
case, his she must be. Of the voice of
offended society, of the horror and dismay
of a puritan mother, of the difficulties and
drawbacks attendant on marriage with a
divorced woman, he recked nothing at all.
His chances were better, perhaps, than if she
had been, as he thought her at first, a single

woman. Not every man, even in pursuit
of one so peerless, would undertake such a
quest as he had already determined to
prosecute. He must take the earl into his
counsels ; — how fortunate that he had the
means of conciliating the earl ! — and then,
if just a look, just a word, should be
vouchsafed him as earnest of the reward
he craved, he would start off to the
uttermost parts of the earth, if need be,
resigning all present ease and leisure, all
plan and purpose of his life, and never see
Swardham again till he could have the
prospect of sharing its state with the
woman who had inspired him with a
consuming and desperate passion.

CHAPTER lY.

FLIGHT.

TT7E must now, in order to follow the
fortunes of the dispossessed squire,
turn back to the morning on which, according
to his resolve declared to the rector
only, John West had quitted the Holbrookes'
hospitable roof. In his cruel pain and
irresistible yearnings after what might have
been but never could be, he had lain sleepless
through the short summer night, and
saw the first flush of dawning day with dry
hot eyes that ached wearily. Gently he

rose from his bed, and leaned from the open
window to look round, for the last time, on
the landscape once so dear to him. Therein
the soft grey light, he could discern each
familiar object — the spire of the old church
beneath whose chancel rested his mother
and his grandfather, with so many of his
ancient line ; the tufted trees of the park
which had owned him as its lord ; the lowly
roofs of cottages whose inmates still slept.
AVith the dull pain of a wound that is
growing old he viewed all. House and land
had slid from him, his kindred had gone
down into the grave ; — to these grim facts
he had waked morning after morning;, and
he could take his punishment as an English
gentleman, suffering but making no sign.

On this morning, however, there was a
new barb quivering in his breast ; he felt

a lonelier and more broken man, while he

clung unflinchingly to his resolve to hide

away his new-born love for Mary, to

strangle his one sweet solace in its very

birth. It was right, he thought bitterly, it

was nothing but just, that one who had in

days of boundless prosperity done despite to

the sweetness of true love, should in his

parching hour of adversity be allowed no

more than to put his lips to love's refreshing

cup, before it were snatched from him.

The false love, the wretched semblance with

which he had been content, had turned to

dust and ashes before the approach of

misfortune, and he had learned the taste of

true love, only to mourn its loss for ever in

his inmost heart.

Oh heaven! how blind, how mad had

he been in the old days, when he had
VOL. II. F

believed himself superior to every sentimental
weakness, proof against all tender
infirmity ! when, neglecting the pearl
that nestled close to his hand, he had
preferred to cast his eyes on tawdry tinsel !
Well, it was all one now — he would drag
down no one in his ruin ; he would, if it
mio-ht be, blot himself from all remembrance.


It was broad daylight now, and John West
was soon dressed, and had packed a valise
which held all that he had chosen to bring
away from the Hall, the few clothes and personal
belongings which were too valueless to
be surrendered to his cousin. Then he sat
down at a table, and biting his lips, wrote
with firm unfaltering hand his farewell to
Mary.

God bless her ! ' he murmured as he

folded the note. ' God grant that she may-take
it as I would have her, and forget last
evening as a dream

In a few minutes he was making swiftly,
by dewy field-paths, for a small station on
the nearest line of rails, distant some six
miles from Swardham. As he had hoped,
no one was astir till he had walked beyond
the bounds of the estate which had passed
from him. No pitying or curious eye noted
his flight. It was nearly six o'clock when
he reached the humble wooden sheds known
as Winbush Road station, and there was, ashe
had ascertained, an up-train due at a
quarter past the hour. * London — third
class — no, not return.* He winced as he
uttered the latter words — they sounded like
a knell.

But the new life was begun, ushered

F 2

in by the cheap green ticket, which entitled
him presently to the fifth seat on a
hard and narrow bench. The carriage was
low-roofed and dingy, the windows were
jealously shut by fat old women. Poor Jack
sighed faintly as he edged in between a
female with a baby and a shiny master-butcher,
and wondered how soon it would
come natural to him to live without any air
to speak of. He had intended to think
over his plans when once he should be
fairly started on his journey, but the
atmosphere was unfavourable to thought.
He found himself counting the buttons on
the baby's staring plaid cloak, and wondering
whether it would go on long nudging
him in the waistcoat with its worsted-clad
feet, and then he became drowsy. The
rattle of the window-frames and whirring

of the wheels merged themselves in a
soothing drone, and Jack slept, and
dreamed.

He was hunting; — he was mounted on
Cavalier, his favourite black horse — there
were the hounds in full cry, and not a soul
but he in sight. He chuckled gleefully —
and just then the fox got to earth — why
was that earth not stopped ? — and Jack was
resolved to dig him out. In a trice he was
through an amazing depth of sandy soil,
ad his outstretched hand was rashly
clutched upon a splendid brush— when a
most vicious dig in the ribs awoke him, and
a tart voice hissed out, —

If you don't sit up, sir, and let go of
my boa this instant, I'll complain to the
guard of you at the next station.'

In deep confusion Jack apologized to the

lady who sat opposite to him, in whose lap
it seemed he had been grovelling for the
moment last past, and once more applied
himself to think what he should turn his
hand to on his arrival in London. He was
hale and strong, but probably he could not
compete, if he sought a job where mere
strength would be a qualification, against
an ordinary day labourer. But if headwork
were the requisite qualification, he
would certainly be less a match for a trained
clerk at accounts than for a navvy at heaving
or pick-axing. There was the army — of
course he might enlist ! but Jack shuddered.
lie knew something of the private soldier
and his manner of living:, and he thought
that, on the whole, he would rather break
stones than take her Majesty's shilling.
Besides, even if he could join some exceptional

corps, he would never be safe from
comines into contact with some one amonoj
the officers or their friends who would know
him or know Longshire, and all the story
about the Swardham estate. That would
never do. Come what might — let his
descent in the scale be what it might — he
would never discount his misfortunes, never
endure words or deeds of so-called sympathy
from any living man save the old friend
from whose house he was flying.

There had not been wanting, while still
West tarried at the rectory, proffers of sympathy,
and overtures of helpfulness from
old friends of the house of Swardham.
Several had written, and begged the hapless
squire to let them know if they could
be of any service. Some had left their
cards at the rectory, and Sir Tancred

WooUett had been very persistent in this
attempts to see his neighbour in his trouble'
and devise some scheme to lighten it. But
to each and all, even to good-natured old
Sir Tancred, John West had proved invisible
and impracticable.

I think you ought to see old friends of
the family so the rector had urged, but he
urged in vain.

West was stubborn in his proud isolation,
and vouchsafed to no man better answer
than could be extracted from a coldly
formal note, 'returning thanks for kind
inquiries.'

Having in this manner repulsed all
succour of his acquaintance, and now cut
himself off from those whom alone he
allowed as friends, he was launching: himself
on a strange world, as solitary as he was

inexperienced in gainful arts, as poor as
proud. Beside a sovereign or two, lie lead
but a cheque on a London banker for fifteen
pounds eight shillings, being the balance,
as per account of Scott's in Longborough,
due to him after settling all claims upon
his mother's fortune. This slender stock of
cash, with a bare sufficiency of good clothing,
comprised the whole possessions of this
man, but late lord of broad acres and a fine
income, member of Parliament and master
of hounds in prospective, and accepted
suitor of a duke's daughter.

Jack began to think about Job, the much-enduring
patriarch, instead of applying himself
steadily to the problem of how to earn
an honest living. Ah ! of course there was
no comparison — never would be ! He chid
himself for irreverence, but could not dismiss

the train of thought. Surely poverty in
that pre-historic era was less hateful, less
vulgar, than in our artificial society. But
the sore disease ! the merciless friends I
these things, coming on the top of
other grave misfortunes (on which Jack
was less able to fix his thought), rendered
Job's case quite unapproachable bad. At
the same time, Jack doubted if in Job's
days there were any accompaniment of
coming down in the world as palpably disagreeable
as riding in a well-filled third-class
carriage.

How sleepy the closeness made him after
his sleepless night ! But the lady opposite
had her eye upon him, and hired implacably
if he did but nod.

How odd that he should feel drowsily
amused at this irascible female. Perhaps

Job, as he sat in silence on his ash-heap for
seven days and nights, did not think all that
time of his trouble, of his sons and daughters
crushed to death amid their revelling, or of
his fold desolated by the thunder-bolt, or
of his stalls emptied by nimble-fingered
robber-bands. Who shall say that his mind
never ran on such trifles as the shadows
moving and lengthening as sun or moon
rose and declined in heaven, or the quick
darting of the lizards among the stones, or
the pertinacious flies that buzzed around ?
Who shall say that it is not a special mercy
which slackens anon the tension of an overwrought
mind, causing some harmless trifle
to absorb for a short interval the faculties
which might be strained into uselessness if
continuously concentrated on a harrowing
and weighty topic '?

May I offer you the Field 1 ' says a
pleasant voice breaking on Jack's reverie.

A poor curate has got in at the last stoppage,
and he it is who extends the paper in
question, which Jack accepts with thanks.
It is of no use trying to think in this
carriage, and he may as well read. His eye
runs down columns of advertisements concerning
houses, moors, yachts, horses, carriages.
Plenty of keepers and gardeners,
too, wanting places — and not half as many
places advertised where such functionaries
are wanted. Ah ! what is this long advertisement
— of a most anomalous character,
truly. Why oughtn't it? Jack reads it

ao^am —

'Wanted, on an isolated estate in the
western highlands of Scotland, a sober man,
of some education and intelligence, who is

also a first-rate shot, as out-door assistant of
the owner — a naturalist and taxidermist.
Liberal terms to a suitable man. Apply
personally or by letter to Z., care of Fife,
Mckenzie, and Malcolm, 9, Andiron Lane,
in the city of London.'

'It's not like a keeper's place, where
there would be shooting parties, and heaven
knows who might turn up and recognize
one in the velveteen,' he ruminated. ' This
is some eccentric old fellow evidently, probably
almost a hermit. " Isolated estate ! "
that would suit me down to the ground.
First-rate shot ! " I dare say I might pass
muster among the best that Mr. Taxidermist
is acquainted with. I suppose he wants a
fellow to shoot all manner of strange fowl
for him to stuff ; well, I'm his man, if I'm
educated and intelligent enough. At any

rate Til make a note of the address, and
find my way to Andiron Lane tomorrow
morning. Likely judges of shooting the
denizens of Andiron Lane, I should say ! '

And then Jack forced himself, in terror
lest he miorht fall into trains of thought
which he had forbidden himself, to talk
with the kindly clergyman who had lent
him the paper. They chatted away till the
London terminus was reached at last, and
the parson took his leave with the impression
that he had enjoyed the society of a
most pleasant gentleman, inclined, if anything,
to be almost recklessly mercurial — a
man, probably, who had never known a care.

CHAPTER V.

PHRENOLOGY TO THE RESCUE.

/^H, it's nothing to me, sir, nothing at
all to me. A man with my credentials
hasn't no need to cast about long for a
good position. But I feel, sir, that it 'ud
be a disappointment to the gentleman if he
snowed he had missed me, when willing to
go, being recommended Scotch air by my
physician, as am confident that I am the
man for the place ; and if not engaged
immediate, there ain't a chance of my not

being snapped up elsewhere within a
week

The speaker is a hulking creature with a
purple nose, and great splay feet in nailed
boots, and, as far as a bad squint will permit
him, he is fixing with his watery eye
a little elderly gentleman, spare and
precise, whose hand strokes his lean
shaven jaws, while his eyes are bent
downwards during this harangue. When
the eloquence of the tall man, who
looked like a seedy keeper out of place
(which indeed he was), had subsided, the
spare gentleman heaved a sigh and rang a
bell.

You wouldn't grudge a cove his expenses
from Canning-town then 1 ' puts in
red-nose with a whine.

*Mr. Bland, show this person out, and

when he is outside the front door, give this
person a shilling.'

Beg pardon, Mr. Fife,' says the clerk
who answered the bell, ' but there's another
waiting. AVill you see him, or — '

Heaving another sigh, the head of the
firm of stockbrokers in Andiron Lane
replies,

I suppose I must, and God send it maybe
the right one.'

Gulping down feelings which if expressed
might have imperilled the promised shilling
the unsuccessful candidate lumbered from
the room, and met in the passage the competitor
just announced.

*rd say, 'ere's luck, mate, in a general
way ; but you won't make' nothing of the
party in there — not if you respects yourself
and your profession, you won't ; ' and with

VOL. II. G

a mistrustful eye he scanned a very athletic
figure. ' What, you're one of the 'forty 'uns,
are you ? ' he continued. ^ Bad luck for
such as me when gents such as you comes
after situations.'

If you want that bob you'd better look
sharp,' says the clerk ; and red-nose moves
off, having delivered himself of an exquisite
sarcasm, as he flattered himself, and made
poor Jack excessively uncomfortable.

He had arrayed himself in a coloured
shirt and a shooting-suit which had seen
service, and yet that brute had taxed him
with being a gentleman, and flung it in his
teeth that he was seeking to take the bread
out of poor men's mouths ! He scarcely
looked at Mr. Fife while he answered a few
questions. First, what was his name ? ' He
had thought of this as a probable preliminary

the evening before, while he sat in his cheap
bed-room at a coffee-house in the City
Road. West was a common name enough,
and would suggest nothing to a stranger ;
but what right had he now to the name of
West ? In his early boyhood he had been
taught so to call himself, his widowed
mother also resuming that her maiden
name, because his grandfather wished the
heir of Swardham to bear the same style as
for centuries had been associated with the
oldest place in Longshire. But Swardham
was no longer his, in possession or expectation,
and so neither should the name be his
any longer. His father's name was somewhat
uncommon, and decidedly too aristocratic
for a working man. He smiled
bitterly as he thought of Lady Emily's
probable horror of a cousin labouring for

G 2

weekly wage. No, he would bring no
scandal on the Hexham collateral. He
would just drop the last syllable of his
father's name, and as plain John Wood defy
all curiosity such as might have attached to
a Woodvil. As John Wood, then, he introduced
himself to Mr. Fife.

Next, what had he been, and with whom ?
From boyhood he had attended an old
gentleman in the country, who was now
dead, both in riding and shooting. He had
been in no other service, could give no
reference, and, finally, declined to mention
the name of the deceased old gentleman
or the neighbourhood in which he had
lived.

Oh, dear ! oh, dear ! ' cried Mr. Fife
peevishly, ' and I began to think you might
do ; but who ever heard of such nonsense ?

and what's the good of coming after a place
if you are dumb as to your past ? '

I know it must seem odd, sir, and go
against me probably ; but, on the word of
of an honest man, I assure you I have
nothing to conceal which should prevent
your engaging me, or my filling such a
place as you advertise competently

I advertise ! If it was for myself, now —
but, thank heavens, I never set foot across
the Border, and care nothing for sheldrakes
and garganeys. It's a brother of mine, who
chooses to spend his days in an inaccessible ,
island, and wants a man to shoot him rare
birds, that he may send a version of these
poor victims down to posterity, improved
out of all natural semblance by his stuffing.
I began to think you were the man ; but
how can I send niv brother a fellow who

refuses all account of his antecedents ? It's
preposterous ! ' and Mr. Fife looked genuinely
disappointed, while he scanned Jack closely.

The only decent one among the lot,' he
muttered ; * and a brute such as that last
had magnificent testimonials. Forged, I
dare say ; and this chap is at least guiltless
of that fraud.'

Summoning the same clerk again hj
means of a tube, into which he whistled
and then spoke, he said sharply,

If Mr. David has not gone out, ask him
to be good enough to step this way.
David,' he went on, as some one presently
entered, ' if your studies in phrenology and
so on are worth a rush, now is yoilr
time to prove it. Here's a man applies for
that birth in Sconsay, but declines to give
any reference except his own word as to

past conduct and experience. Should I be
justified, according to your Latter and
the other oracles, in believing him, and
taking him on trust ? or is it my duty, as
indicated by the bumps, to send him about
his business. ? '

All this was in a rapid sort of half aside,
but Jack heard every word, and darted
a half amused glance at the newcomer.
Heaven and earth ! where had he seen that
sallow face, those lantern jaws, before ?
Would he presently find himself recognized
with more certainty than he could
bring to bear on this spare stranger ? It
was a trying moment, and his eyes sank
as the other faced him. At Swardham !
yes, certainly in the far-off days at Sward-ham
he had encountered this man — but
how or with whom he had come to Sward-lias

West could not recall. He bit his lips
a little and flushed up as a bony yellow
hand pushed in among his thick black hair,
and passed over his poll — but it was a
relief to be treated thus unceremoniously.
Surely the man had failed to recognize him,
or he could not make so free.

The owner of this cranium spoke the
oracle harshly at last, ' should be capable
of nothing treacherous or mean. He is
probably too good to waste himself on
Eobert's vagaries, but that's his affair. As
to your risk, this testimony of phrenology
is worth all the written characters in the
world — so don't let the lack of them deter
you from engaging the man, if you think
him otherwise suitable.'

Mr. Fife fetched a deep breath, as one
• relieved, and said,

Well, at any rate, my responsibility in
the matter will be shared by you ! I'm
only too thankful to be spared further
trouble, unusual as it is to engage a man on
his own recommendation, and the strength
of his bumps ; but mind, if he makes
Sconsay too hot to hold him, it's on your
black arts the blame will rest.' Then turning
to Jack, he said, 'As Mr. Auchmuty's
verdict on you is favourable, I will overlook
your strange reserve as to yourself, and
trusting that your account is correct, engage
you on my brother's behalf for six months,
certain, if that will do.'

Auchmuty ! ' Jack chased the name
through the corridors of his memory, and
at last it flashed upon him that it was to
Lady Woollett's brother, the poor rector's
pet aversion, that he owed this good turn.

How lucky that in John Wood Mr. Auch-
duty recognized no trace of John West,
the squire of Swardham ! No recognition
at least peeped from those slits of eyes, or
lent an inflection to that deliberate and
creaking speech. In fear of detection, he
said as little as possible while Mr. Fife went
into details as to the place, the wages, the
journey, and so on, and escaped at last
in the full confidence that he had come
deathless through this his first ordeal.
Happily it was likely enough to be his last,
for the naturalist being; eao^cr for his assistant's
presence, he was to leave London for
Glasgow by the night express ; and once
safe in Sconsay, it was almost impossible
that he could be again startled by a face
that had belonged to any scene of that
played-out drama, his past.

CHAPTEE Yl.

Conway.

Q Conway is one of the inner Hebrides,
and nestles between the long bulwark
of Skye and the Ross-shire coast, from either
of which it is equidistant. It is a small
island compared with such as Kum or
Mull, and, offering no sport to the deerstalker
or salmon-fisher, nor any special
attractions in the way of crag, cliff, or
water-fall to the lover of the picturesque, is
unknown to fame, and ignored of the g^^ide-
books. Shaped something like to a figure

8, its northern half is mainly a mass of
barren and broken sandstone, intersected
by narrow gorges and boggy valleys, clothed
with the scarlet-seeded rush and the fragrant
gale, and dotted here and there with tarns
or lochs, the favourite haunts of many gulls
and other sea fowl. The southern portion,
on the other hand, is flat and fertile, presenting
marvellous expanses of the richest white
clover, which, on a warm day of summer,
breathes its sweet scent far over the waste
of tumbling: waters surrounding the isle.

o o

Just to the north of the narrow isthmus
which connects these two portions, the rocky
ridges curve apart and leave in the centre
a sort of sunken amphitheatre, open only
toward the south ; and here, on the only
level spot of any size in the northern
division, the Highland family who formerly

owned Sconsay had built a solid ugly house
of rough-hewn sandstone, thickly faced with
white sharing' or rough-cast, and further
fenced from the searching blasts by regiments
of sombre firs and alders. There was
no view from any window of the house, and
when Eobert Fife first bought the property
he was loud in his complaints against the
stupidity of the Acres, who had chosen
the site, instead of perching upon higher
ground whence they could have commanded
splendid prospects of the indented coast of
the mainland, and of the peaks of Skye and
the more distant islands. But after his
first winter in Sconsay Robert Fife complained
no more, allowing tacitly that the
Acres knew what they were about when
they chose the island valley for their dwelling
and daubed their walls with that thick coat

of ' bailing ' or white rough-cast, and planted
those sheltering firs. In fair weather it was
easy to scale the heights and enjoy the view
and fresher air, but in the long winter and
wet spring, the new proprietor found cause
to rejoice that he had come after a prudent
race, who bad viewed their rouo^b heritage
not with the eye of summer sojourners, but
as those who must dwell all the year round
beneath those fickle skies, and within sound
of those tremendous seas.

The eldest son of a successful London
merchant of Scottish descent, Eobert Fife
inherited a good . fortune, and at an early
age abandoned business to his younger
brothers, and after years of travel devoted
himself to his peculiar tastes in the seclusion
of Sconsay. Here for years he had dwelt,
accumulating a vast collection of birds and

their eggs, which it was his delight to raiige
in endless cases around the walls of his
house, and meditating, rather than actually
labouring at, a work on ornithology, which
was to be the authority of future ages on all
the wild fowl of the Hebrides.

Such was the man and such the domain to
which John West was introduced ' on the
strength of his bumps at the end of his
long journey from London, first by rail to
Glasgow, then by steamer from the Clyde
to Kyle Akin, and thence by a clumsy
sailing boat or ' scow ' to Sconsay. It did
not take long to introduce the new-comer
to the inhabitants of the isle. Besides his
employer, and his employer's niece, — who for
two years had lived with her uncle, and
contributed to the book of the future by
making drawings of the rarer specimens

which he obtained, — there were only a few
servants and outdoor retainers, who were
all natives of those latitudes, and but
imperfectly acquainted with the Southron

tongue.

Robert Fife was a shy, nervous little old
man, dry and spare as a chip, and, as it
seemed, with hardly an idea beyond his
favourite hobby. At first he was dreadfully
afraid of Jack, whom he treated with
much deference ; but soon finding that he
had gained a valuable assistant, who was
never stupid, and never missed anything
that ought to be shot, or spoiled a fine
specimen by clumsy shooting, he rubbed
his hands with infinite satisfaction, and
cherished but one remaining fear, that
Wood ' might presently tire of his present
existence, and leave the naturalist lamenting.

As to the niece, the orphan child
of a dead brother, Jack found her by no
means so easy to understand as her uncle.

Hilda Fife was a young woman of
twenty-seven, tall, thin, and active as a roe.
But no exercise, no amount of exposure to
sun, wind, or weather availed to lend a
colour to her pale face, seeming all the
paler for her black hair, which hung, straight
and lustreless, all round her head, and
rested on her shoulders. Her thin features
were correctly good, but her face was too
long for its width, and her grey eyes were
too closely set together for beauty. Some
people called Miss Fife a fine young woman,
but no one had ever thought her pretty,
or even attractive. With this young lady
John Wood had expected to have little or
nothing to do, but he soon found that he

VOL. II. H

was daily thrown unavoidably in her way,
both because, in so small a community,
each member was frequently obliged to
meet with all the rest, and because it was
Jack's duty, whenever he had bagged some
special prey, to consult Miss Hilda as to the
expediency of its being immortalized by her
pencil, and furnish for her guidance details
of its habits and haunts in life. Of all the
simple duties which it fell to his lot to
perform. Jack least relished these interviews
with Miss Fife.

*I don't know how it is,' he said to
himself, * but there is something I don't
like about that girl — something, I might
add, if it mattered to me a straw, that I
couldn't exactly trust.'

In her manner indeed, which was coldly
decorous, if less haughty than her bearing

toward other persons in her uncle's employ,
there was nothing to which he could justly
take exception. But he fancied that the
cold grey eyes watched him with an unpleasing
vigilance of scrutiny, and he was
always glad to escape from Miss Hilda's
presence after despatching, in the fewest
possible words, such business as might be
on hand. And yet it was to her that he
owed a resource without which his evenings
and leisure days would have become well
nigh intolerable to him. As he lay one
fine evening on a rock in front of the
cottage in which he had his quarters, and
looked wistfully at the fading coast of Loss,
while he sighed to think of the barren
hours which must elapse before he could
hope to sleep and forget himself, a tall
figure suddenly interposed between him

H 2

and the pale clear sky, and three o't
volumes were dropped at his fee t.

It's Montaigne's Essays' said Miss Fife's
calm cold voice ; ' I'm disappointed in them.
Probably they are beyond me. As you
don't seem to tumble off to sleep after your
supper, like James and Alick and the other
animals, you may like to try them.'

Before he could scramble to his feet, or
say a word of thanks, she was gone round
the corner of the cottage, but the books
were there 1 Little would the young squire
of Swardham have believed that a day could
ever come to him. when he would seize with
such rapture on three ancient books in
dingy brown calf, and find in their discursive
pages solace and company. It was an
old edition with parallel pages, giving the
original and also an English version. Perhaps

Miss Fife had contented herself with
the latter; at any rate Jack, who, thanks
to his mother's teaching, was a decent
French scholar, tackled Montaigne in his
vernacular, and found him excellent good
reading. Before he had half finished the
book, Mr. Fife, in his usual nervous, hesitating
way, made him free of the contents
of his library.

'There's very little besides works on
natural history, botany, geology, and so on,
but anything there is you may borrow
just as you like.'

Jack wondered if the niece had put the
old gentleman up to this welcome attention,
and tried to coax his gratitude to rise and
stifle his instinctive aversion. Wonderfully
as this new resource aided him as the days
began to shorten, and gratefully as he

acknowledged to himself the suitability of
his surroundings for one who had given up
ambition and all the battle of life, it was
yet a hard struggle, renewed at some hour
of every day, to keep up a brave heart and
forbear overt indulgence in miserably unavailing
regrets or in hopeless forecasts.
Do what he would, the poor fellow could
not hinder himself from picturing what
might now be going on at Swardham
rectory ; and, in the ingenuity of his self-torture,
he had quite settled that Mary's
only remaining sentiment for himself must
be a hearty contempt, in which she would
indulge herself at such times as her thoughts
were not all given to the ardent and handsome
Australian. Doubtless the wrong
had already made progress. What should
hinder a girl from lending; a willing ear to

a suitor of lier own age, rich to boot, and
favoured in his suit by the father on either
side ? Certainly no lingering kindness fora
ruined, saddened man, who had nothing
save love and brute strength to offer, and
who had run away from her in the very
moment of betraying his love. It was what
he had hoped and intended when he wrote
that miserable, evasive letter, when he
fled in the stillness of early morning, not
knowing whither he went. It was all riofht,
and as it should be, and yet — and yet — it
was torture to picture it all, as he pictured
it twenty times a day in his island solitude.
He had written to the rector from Glasgow
another evasive letter, in which he promised
to write again as soon as he should be
settled, and vaguely spoke of a berth in the
Highlands, which would suit him ' down to

the ground But as yet he had written no
more, and given his friend no opportunity
of answering his letter. He would watch
for the announcement of Mary's marriage in
the papers, and then it would be time
enough to renew correspondence with his
sole remaining friend. Well did he know
to what floods of dismayed remonstrance he
would expose himself as soon as he should
enlighten Holbrooke as to the manner of
his present existence.

The dear old rector,' he pondered often,
he ought to be wiser, after his experiences
as my tutor, but he persists in believing me
capable of all sorts of great things, and she,
poor innocent darling ! formed her ideas on
her father's estimate. They would think
it degradation that I should be a keeper,
no, fowler to an old gentleman who pays

me by the month. But I know myself — I
was "never fit for as much as my mother's son
should have achieved ; it was only money
and position that bolstered me up, and now
that my bolsters are gone to their real
owner (much good may they do him !) I
have found my level, and feel too old and
battered to struggle for a rise. I don't
think my mother will be less glad of me, if
I am permitted to meet her again in the
next world, because I have earned my bread
in the only way in which I am competent
to earn it.

Oh, mother I how you suffered for me !
but you are among the angels now, you
have no share of earthly sorrows. What
an insupportable business this life would
be if it were not for that one bright hope
of a tranquil hereafter, when death's work

will be undone, and hearts will cease to
ache. Till then, what matter how one
spends the remnants of one's days, so long
as they are spent in the fear of the merciful
God, who provides this hope when He takes
away all else. Help me, God, whom I
half forgot in my prosperity, to repine at
nothing, and prepare myself for a better
life.'

Thus he would pray in his loneliness, but
he could not kill the love, at once so sweet
and so bitter, which had sprung up and
flowered in one short hour of ecstasy, only
to be crushed down and trodden out of
sight, in obedience to the dictates of what
he believed to be his duty as a man and asa
friend.

CHAPTER VII.

ADOLPHUS TAKES A NEW DEPARTURE.

rpHE declining sun is streaming cheerfully
through the windows of one of the
more habitable drawing-rooms at Beausite,
and shows mercilessly the stains upon the
old Aubusson carpet, the holes, due to moths
or cigar-ends, in the frayed curtains and
dingy coverings of the furniture, the general
shabbiness of the once handsome room,
with its prim spindle-legged chairs and
tables of the Adams* period, and cumbrous
sofas of no period at all. x\t one end of

the room is a noisy group of three, who
are engaged in the intellectual pastime of
shooting with a puff and dart : their target
being a great pompous portrait of the first
Lord FitzEaymond, represented as in his
wig and robes, and pointing with a roll of
parchment to a foreshortened view of his
mansion in the background. Loud are the
screams of the Baroness d'Oisan when the
earl lodges his dart in the pupil of his
dignified ancestor's right eye, and thereby
cuts out the lady, who has only pierced a
curl of the full-bottomed wig.

Ah ! que tu es malin done, toi 1 you did
stand too close to the gros gran papa ; yes,
you did ; it is not fair, is it then, Jeemay '? '
but Captain Clancy is unable to answer the
fair Belgian's appeal, being just then seized
with a severe choking fit, caused by the

presence at the top of his wind-pipe of the
woolly-headed dart, which, in incautiously
fetching a vigorous breath, he had drawn
backwards from the tube into his open
mouth.

No more of these beastly things for me,'
he gasped at last, when he had dislodged
the intruder amid loud laughter and much
chaff from his friends ; * if we must pot the
old fogies, let's have a saloon pistol and
do the thing in style, instead of blocking
one's throttle with an infernal tuft of
worsted

At a distance from this noisy group
Madame Meslin sits at an ancient upright
piano, built in the days when Broadsword
wrote himself, * maker to His Majesty and
the royal Princesses.' Her thin fingers are
straying over the yellow keys, and making

queer tinkling music, and on one of the old
instrument's little brackets, designed for
the support of wax-lights, stands a tumbler
half-filled with sherry-cobbler, with a straw
immersed for suction. But neither her
music nor her beverage seem to be occupying
the lady's attention just now, for her
head is turned over her lean shoulder, and
she is smiling her sweetest on Adolphus
West, who stands moodily beside the instrument.


Yes,' she says softly, ' I depart ; tomorrow
I am en voyage, and she also,'
with a slight backward toss of the head
towards the baroness — * she depart. Have
she not told you ? No ? but she will ; she
have a design. Ah ! when have she not
designs? You, who are generous and rich
and good, and Minor and his sister, who

are too kind and too confiding, I suffer to
see a fat painted Dutch woman impose on
you all three ! And, as a friend, I counsel
you lend her none of your money ; believe
not what she will say ; that remittance
from Bruxelles, it is three years that she
expect it, all the months, and it come not,
it will arrive never ! This I warn you, as
your friend, I who have always been your
friend, yes, with Miladi G. also, when
Lolotte d'Oisan said you had " la mine
reverie " — that and other " injures " a thousand
times ! I am not like this Dutch
grow, I am honourable and I am true, and
say not I expect remittance when no remittance
will ever come. But I have been
unlucky — I have lost to that Clancy and
those others at cards much money — and
I ask you, who are rich and always my

fricDd, to make me one little advance ; but,
listen ! to make it on this only condition,
that I hand you my parure of amethysts,
superb ! matchless ! to be your security till
I can repay.'

Madame Meslin's voluble tongue ceased
at last, but she still struck random chords
on the tuneless piano, while she peered up
anxiously into West's face. It was intolerable,
he felt : it was sheer impudence on
this woman's part to try to pawn her
publishing jewels with him. Why had
the adorable Georgiana not presented herself
sooner, and saved him from the clutches
of this her unworthy friend ? But it was
something that the woman was ofoins: to
take herself off, who had for ever been in
his way.

If five pounds will be of service to you,

madam, I will place that sum at your disposal,
without depriving you of your ornaments.'


'Might I not hope,' says madame, persuasively,
' for three hundred francs ? it is
not a large sum, and the jewels '

I regret, madam, that I must abide by
my offer,' and he stalked away to the
window, disregarding the lady's effusive
thanks as she stowed away a note which
he had placed beside the tumbler.

Hallo ! West,' Lord FitzEaymond's cheery
voice shouts, * if you want Georgie, she's
been doing the lazy under pretence of a
headache, but I dare say she'll appear presently
— you'd better come round with us
and have a turn at pool.'

It was now acknowledged by the earl and
his guests that West ' came after Georgie '

VOL. II. I

on his almost daily visits, and none seemed
to trouble as to the probable sequel of his
attentions to a lady in so peculiar a portion.
No one, that is to say, in the free and easy
coterie which haunted Beausite. But for
ten miles round that ' tabooed ' abode, men
and women were still, as for months past,
much engaged in watching and discussing
the progress of Adolphus West's entanglement
or infatuation, as they delighted to
phrase it, and more than one attempt had
been made to 'open the eyes' of the new
squire of Swardham.

We have done our duty,' said the
Duchess of Hexham, solemnly — ' a most
ungrateful duty, but one clearly devolving
on us, and we have been compelled to wash
our hands of this unhappy young man, who
will bewail his ruin too late.' Which being

interpreted meant that, at the instigation
of Lady Emily, her Grace had more than
once written bland notes, in the duke's
name, bidding their new neighbour to partake
of the hospitality of Marloes, and had
experienced the mortification in each case
of a coldly worded refusal.

Was there ever such a transparent old
humbug ? ' had been Lady G.'s comment
when the bland notes were exhibited at
Beausite ; ' to be sure she may be pardoned
almost anything in the way of frantic
attempts to plant the daughter on some
unfortunate ; for, inanimate iceberg as she
seems in public, she has a frightful temper,
and has led the old woman an awful life
since her disappointment about your
cousin. Do take pity on her, Adolphus ;
she is not more than six-and-thirty,

I 2

and you see she has set her heart on
Swarclham.'

But Adolphus had protested, with glances
of unmistakable fervour, that one woman
alone in Longshire, or in the world, should
ever hold joint sway with him at Sward-ham,
and that she was in all respects the
opposite of Lady Emily Woodvil. Since
his conversation with the earl, on the day
when he had staved off an execution in
the house of Beau site by the sacrifice of
high teen-hundred pounds. West had sought'
every opportunity of coming to a definite
understanding with his enchantress, but he
had sought in vain. No character was ever
less tinged with sentiment than that-of
Lady G., and never again was she to be
found, as he had once found her under
stress of difficulties, in a tearful or even

serious mood. With wild gaiety, and
playfulness which charmed while it chafed
him, she had constantly repelled his advances,
which she was able the more easily to do
that she was never to be caught alone.
One or other of her foreign friends was
always within call, and was sure to be
summoned if West ventured to express inset
terms anything of his inconceivable
admiration. The baffled lover would fain
have complained of this treatment, but he
lacked a confidant, for of the earl, in spite of
his usual rough joviality, he stood somewhat
in fear, having discovered that there were
times when Lord FitzRaymond looked and
talked as quite another being than the man
who romped with Lolotte, and gloried in
the sport of ratting. The earl was in a
manner pledged to be his friend. He had

borrowed his money. He had approved the
idea of sending a confidential messenger to
the Black Sea, to ascertain, if possible, the
fate of Aylmer FitzRaymond. He had
furnished the said messenger (who was a
brother of the useful Mr. Clark at Long-borough)
with such hints as he could supply,
which to be sure did not amount to
much, as he had not seen his cousin for
years, nor ever heard from him. But he
had expressed a very decided opinion that,
till something definite resulted from Mr.
Peter Clark's mission, his sister must be let
alone on certain subjects.

It's a ticklish position for a woman, you
see, and though Georgie can take good
care of herself, no one better, I shouldn't
like her bothered. Of course you're awfully
kind and all that, and I wish you every

ultimate success ; but for the present just
bottle up your feelings, like a good
fellow.

So it came to pass that, though Adolphus
West was understood to be coming after
Lady G., no one at Beausite talked of any
sort of engagement or provisional pledge
between them, or accorded such facilities to
them as are usually granted to an engaged
pair. This was no doubt agreeable to the
lady, but far from pleasant to West, who
nevertheless continued to flutter round her
as a moth around a lamp, deriving little
pleasure from his visits, yet wretched if a
day passed without his presence in the
untidy rooms and amid the uncongenial
guests at Beausite.

On this sunny afternoon in early winter
West had presented himself in a most

dejected frame of mind, Laving just received
a long budget from Mr. Peter Clark.
This private detective wrote from Varna,
detailing a weary and fruitless pilgrimage,
in which he had learned nothing of the
recreant Aylmer, but had expended so much
money that he was constrained modestly to
apply for further supplies. How cruel a
fate it was, on such a day, to be denied a
consoling sight of that little figure, ever
trim and fresh among her dingy surroundings,
to miss the sparkle of those wicked
dark eyes, and the easy banter which,
though unsatisfying, was better than
nothing when it rolled from that rosebud
mouth. How odious by contrast was the
sallow French harpy, with her impudent
attack upon his purse. But if she were
really going, she and also the other woman.

perhaps on his next visit all would be
reversed, and he might enjoy an uninterrupted
hour with his goddess.

As he stood at the window, drumming
with his fingers on the panes, and gazing
discontentedly upon the weedy drive and
ragged grass plots, he saw Lady G. slip from
the little side door, by which she had first
introduced him to the house, and turn down
a path which led through shrubberies to a
walled garden. In a moment his moody
dejection vanished, and without a word to
the others who were still hangings about in
their noisy chaff and practical jokes, he
snatched his hat and started in pursuit.
Hurriedly he escaped from the house and
threaded the narrow walk, and in a few
minutes he was rewarded by catching sight
of his quarry as she sauntered beneath the

dark laurels. How graceful she looked ;
how elegant her gait. She had covered
her head with a wide-awake beloDorinor to
her brother, and her dark serge dress was of
the plainest fashion ; but as his eye dwelt
on her slim waist, her short clustering
curls and slender neck, he thought that no
splendours of apparel could have added a
charm, and his breast throbbed with fierce
longing to be done with delay and suspense,
and boldly claim her for his own. Another
moment and he had overtaken her, had
touched her cool small hand, and was
pacing by her side, while she talked to him
with her usual unembarrassed friendliness,
and in her usual liorht vein of frivolous

o

gaiety. But to-day he had no reply for
her, he did not hear what she was saying,
and presently she faced him, breathing

hard as he was in. utter dumbness, and
asked abruptly —

What's the matter with you ? '

He was a puny fellow, with little about
him to redeem the insipidity of his pale
complexion and pale red hair, but just now
he was terribly in earnest, and never had
he appeared more manly than when he
answered with a desperate cry.

I love you, Georgiana ! I love you !
Now you know it if you never guessed
it before, and I must have your answer.
Will you be my wife ? '

The rich colour deepened on Lady G.'s
smooth cheek, and then faded before his
vehemence. She looked distractedly on this
side and on that, but of escape or succour
there was no chance. The evil moment
had come : what was she to say to him ?

You have heard my story,' she murmured
at last, ' and yet you ask me to be your wife.
No,' interrupting a burst of passionate
protestation, ' that is not the point ; what
you feel, or what I might feel in return,[^has
nothing to do with it. The question is,
what would Aylmer FitzRaymond say if he
lives and could hear you ? '

Staggered, but not discomfited, West
then poured out his tale anent the embassy
of Peter Clark.

He has not got at absolute certainty
yet,' he concluded, 'but he is sure to do
so soon, and I must, yes, T must have
something to keep me up until the
suspense is ended. May I hope? say I
may hope ! '

For a long moment Lady G. was silent,
and when she spoke it was neither a direct

answer nor even a comment on the measures
taken, without her instance, to free her from
a wife's shackles.

Do you think you do well,' she said at
last in a hard and almost scornful tone, ^ to
seek to tie yourself to one whose love and
constancy towards a husband you rate as
low as mine ? Ah ! you are blinded now by
what I suppose you call your passion, but
one day you might not thank me, if I
encouraged you — if I were proved free to
encourage you.'

His face grew white, and his voice
faltered and grew piteous.

Because you have been wasted on a man
who did not prize you as he ought, are you
to waste yourself on to the end ? '

Waste ! ' she cried harshly, ' who talks of
such waste to me ? If I can kill each day

as it comes, and never have time to think —
it may be waste to the notions of some, but
it suits me, and I am fit for no other life —
even to the end, as you say. I will be frank
with you. I do not love the man who
married me — not now — not for years past —
No. If he is dead, so much the better. If
he lives, but is so living that I can legally
demand to be loosed from a tie that has long
in fact dwindled to nothing; but a lethal
fetter, I will not refuse my freedom if it is
offered to me. But, Mr. AVest, I do not
love you ; how can a woman placed as I am
love any man ? If you were wise you would
go this very minute, you would call in pride
to your aid, and bless your stars, this day
six months, that you had escaped. But I
can see that you arc at present proof against
the sager counsels. You say that I may

learn to love you ? Ah ! I am too old, I
think, to learn. But neither do I say I will
not listen to you as soon as I am assured
that I am free to hear such words. Meanwhile,
if your patience lasts and you do not
fling up the game, as, mind you, a wiser man
would do, there must be no repetition of
this ; we must, if we are to meet as usual, be
as we were, or as I thought we were, till this
morning. These, you understand, are my
terms, and I faithfully promise you a fair
hearing if all goes well and you abide
by them.'

Ah he said, reproachfully, ' you know
I can refuse no terms, neither can I keep
away from you. If the suspense lasts long,

I think I shall go mad.'

Now that's nonsense,' she returned
in her usual light and sprightly manner,

' which you, who have a thousand resources,
should blush to utter. ]\Iust I
find you occupation ? well, will you do as
I bid ? '

Of course he swore that he was hers to
command, even to the death.

'It's nothing deadly,' she said, laughing, .
and on the contrary, it will be very good
for you. You know that a general election
is impending, long as it has been delayed.
Well, you must stand for the county, as so
many Westss of Swardham have done before
you, and I'll make you the most killing
rosettes for your button-hole.'

'But they were Tories,' he said, aghast,
'rank Tories, and what is more, no one
but a Tory would have a chance of being
returned.'

And what else should you be ? ' she

replied with a pretty look of disdain ; ' you
can't suppose that I would look at a Radical
candidate

It had never occurred to him that Lady
G. had any political creed or sympathies ;
but now he took her word for gospel, and
was dumb-foundered to such a degree that
even his love-troubles were driven for the
moment from his head. Lady G. did not
fail to observe the effect of her random shot,
and fancying that she had found a way of
saving: herself from much of the awkwardness
of the near future, returned with such
urgency to the charge that sentiment was
driven from the field.

When Adolphus West rode home that
evening in the moonlight, he was grappling
with the tremendous fact that he had got to
turn his coat, that he was pledged to step

VOL. II. K

down into the arena of county politics, not
as a red-hot reformer, not even as the tamest
of Whigs, but as a true-blue Conservative
champion of all that in his ardent youth he
had cursed as the bane and canker of the
land, and devoted in many a public utterance
to speedy annihilation. Gulp it down
as he might, he was humiliated ; nay, almost
terror-struck in the abasement of his inner
consciousness. But he was no longer his
own man, and like a knight-errant of old,
was ready to do or die in fulfilling the
behests of his ' lady love.'

CHAPTER YIIL

UN MAUVAIS QUART d'hEURE.

rpHE dissolution of parliament, prophesied
by Lady Georgiana, actually took
place, to the rage and mortification of
almost every sitting member except the
mighty Liberal premier, within three months
of the conversation recorded in the last
chapter, within a few weeks indeed of the
resumption of political business in February.
' He might have waited over the
recess,' shouted a chorus of injured and
apprehensive representatives ; 'the fact is he

K 2

hates sportsmen and country gentlemen, and
would like to make it impossible for any
such to sit on either side of the house —
what else can he mean by plunging us into
a general election in the hunting season ? '
He has shown himself callous enough under
snubs that would have made some men
resign office six months ago — why can't he
rub on over another session ? ' ' Confound
these men of colossal genius, you never
know where to have them, unless there is
some practical chap to keep them well in
hand, and curb their confounded impulsiveness
— turn them off and on in short like
the gas.' ' Dear old Palmerston I he would
never have played us such tricks

But amid the varied notes of the arum-piers,
chafing uselessly against the will of
Britain's fate — the Inevitable, the Grand, the

Versatile chiefs elder — no wail proceeded
from the shakes seat's occupant expressive
of half the agony which tortured one individual,
who in the shuffling seemed to
have nothing to lose, if not any likelihood
of gaining much. It had been all very well
while a pair of bold dark eyes were flashing,
and a curly head was tossed so saucily, and
a delicious breath fanned his cheek, for an
enraptured mortal to surrender at discretion
or no discretion at all. It was perfectly
true, as those rosy lips had pertinently
urged, that instances of political tergiversation
have never been rare. Had not a
long-descended earl, a pillar of successive
Conservative cabinets, seen fit to recant the
opinions which had guided his own earlier
course and had been dear to his distinguished
sire and his forbears, and actually

SO to trim his sails that, with short interval,
he was presently exhibited to admiring
men and angels as a member of the Liberal
government ? Had not the amiable but
eccentric Oberon Gilbert, brother of another
great Conservative earl, and ex-minister,
passed, in one hour as it were, from sounding
into the ears of young Oxford that
tremendous warning (chosen for the motto
of his own creation the True-blue Club),
The mob lacks bridles, the throne loyalty,
the altar awe,' to a mission which expressed
itself in fraternal intercourse with day-labourers
and advocacy of opinions so
advanced as to find flavour for a season in
the eyes of the most radical borough in the
midlands ? And did not justice demand
for Toryism a set-off, a counter-poise for
these derelictions ? Such and such like was

now the burden of Lady G-.'s song as often
as her admirer sought her presence. Frivolity
seemed to have fled Beausite with the
baroness and the French lady, and to have
been replaced by that unquiet guest ambition.
Lady G. could plead a cause
eloquently enough when she had a mind,
and exhibited more acquaintance with
political metamorphoses than could have
been expected from a butterfly who had
flitted away to so many foreign shores.
She had conquered, and her victim dared
not shirk his penance, though in the
solitude of his great house he was keenly
and crushingly alive to his own utter
degradation.

Selfish and shallow as Adolphus West
was by nature, tinged as his early sentiments
had been by much that was ignoble

and petty, it was yet terrible to the man
to avow himself a turn-coat, and in the
same breath court the favour of the Long-shire
electors as a Conservative candidate.
He tried to take comfort in the undeniable,
not to say historical, instances quoted by
the Circe whose rod had smitten him, but he
felt sure, all the while, that neither the Lord
Slideley of Quarterstaff, nor Mr. Gilbert,
could have executed the ' right-about-face '
had the ranks they deserted been composed
of such folk as his own early friends, against
whom he was to turn traitor. Conservatives
he fancied to be a slack and sedentary race,
whose utmost wrath and indignation mio-ht
be borne without much discomfort. But radicals!
the radicals, especially, of Longborough ;
and how close, alas ! was Lon2:boroue:h to
Swardham. He quaked, and his teeth

almost chattered as he pictured to himself
the stinging taunts and crushing vituperation
of many a once familiar demagogue.
Happy were it for him if their disgust
stopped short at words ; but well he knew
of what excesses a Longborough mob is
capable ; and with a shudder he recalled
a scene in which an unpopular lecturer had
been hauled and hustled into helplessness,
then well-nigh smothered in red ochre, and
finally pitched into a dirty brook, not
innocent of sewage. Oh why, why must
the evil hour be thus precipitated ? Wherefore
could the premier not rest content,
even with a dwindling majority, and spare
him, if but for a season, an ordeal so
harrowing, so dangerous?

In the very miserable hours which must
perforce be spent under a roof sheltering

only himself and his hired servants, Adolphus
might have become ill, or downright
distracted, but for the frequent presence of
Mr. Clark the solicitor, from Lono^boroufrh.
The ex watchmaker would indeed, amid
all his troubles, have scouted the notion of
friendship between himself and a person so
humble as his legal adviser ; but solitude
being unbearable, and the attorney both
useful and unassuming, it so fell out that a
snug chamber in Swardham Hall was soon
known as Mr. Clark's room, and seldom
long lacked its tenant. And Mr. Clark's
devotion certainly seemed unbounded, while
it never trenched on undue familiarity.
It had led, indeed, to his secession
from the firm in which he had been
partner on a fixed salary of no very liberal
amount.

The Messrs. Scott were old-fashioned
people, somewhat prim and stiff, proud to
be accounted scrupulous. They had not
been indifferent to the advantage of retaining
their old connection with Swardham
under the new rule ; but they had soon
both given and taken offence in their
dealings with Adolphus West. The new
squire's treatment of his cousin, his absence
of finer feeling in the recovery of the arrears,
the peremptory dismissal of the old servants,
the stoppage of one or two small pensions,
were in the eyes of the Messrs. Scott
actions which must not be supposed to
have had their sanction. In Mr. West's
manner to themselves, and the tone of his
letters, they discerned ' much to which they
had never been accustomed in a long experiences
Thus it was that their displeasure

was not untempered with relief
when, their junior partner having respectfully
announced his intention of setting up
in business for himself, it was presently-revealed
that the Swardham business was
to follow the seceder to his smart new
office in Town-hall Street, where the most
was made, to be sure, of the japanned tin
boxes labelled with the honoured name of
West.

'Joy go with them,' old Daniel Scott
had said, magnanimously, as the boxes
were cleared from their old accustomed
nooks ; ' I don't grudge them to Dick Clark,
if he inclines to stomach their owner's little
ways

Clark was always a bit of a time-server,'
said his son and partner, looking rather
ruefully upon the shelves. ' Well, well,

he has his way to make, and perhaps can't
afford to be too particular ; but there maybe
things which even he won't stomach
from a client — not if he remembers his
training.'

Truth to tell there was much in Mr.
Clark's intercourse with Adolphus] West
which was not quite easy to digest. The
great man was supercilious, unreasonable,
often insolent, but, almost in spite of himself,
he was daily learning to depend more
and more on his confidential adviser, who
perfectly understood his patron's unenviable
plight, whether in affairs of love or party
war.

One evening, early in March, Clark had
driven himself over from Longborough,
intending to dine and sleep at Swardham
Hall. He was a neat, dapper little man.

rosy and clean-shaven, and presented a
creditable figure in his correct evening
dress, when ushered into the room where
West sat. This gentleman had not thought
it necessary to honour his guest by changing
his rough suit of coloured tweeds. His
feet were thrust into slippers of yellow
leather, and his pale red hair might have
been smoother, and, truth to tell, the hands
thrust into his side-pockets cleaner. Just
as he was, however, when he acknowledged
the other's greeting with a surly nod, he
presently shuffled into the adjoining room
whence dinner had been announced, leaving
his guest to follow him unbidden, and flung
himself into a chair to swallow his meal in
silence.

At railway speed dinner was despatched
under the auspices of a butler and two

nimble footmen, and the two men, declining
wine or dessert, returned to the
room (it had been John West's own sitting-room)
where they had met. After some
talk on fines, leases, and threats of distraint
or distress, during which West seemed so
preoccupied as scarcely to follow the other s
drift ; and a brief inquiry as to the present
whereabouts of the absent cousin Peter,
which was answered in terms most uncomplimentary
to that absent gentleman,
the approaching election became the
topic.

In spite of West's uneasy pride and constant
effort to keep his inferior at a vast distance,
he had not been able to conceal the
nature and extent of his terrors, though he
tried to make up for any damaging admissions
by an extra dash of scornful irritability.

To-night he was very hard on an address
to the free and independent electors of
Long-shire which Clark had composed and
now brought over for his approval. It was
not in fact a bad address, considering that
in it the best had to be made of a business
that could hardly be called good, but it
found no favour with him for whose mouth
the words were designed. In one breath
he stigmatized each paragraph as bald and
bombastic, as transparently false and absurdly
candid, as too trite and too abstruse.
Style, matter, length were all alike declared
faulty ; never was candidate pestered
with such a wilful and incompetent subordinate.


Poor Clark bore all these snubs and railings
with singular patience and temper, but
he cannot have been sorry when at last the

colloquy was interrupted by a disturbance
in the lobby on which the room gave. AVith
a scowl the master of the house flung down
the broad-sheet, and bidding Clark ring the
bell, applied himself to listen to sounds
which seemed to be approaching the door,
and suo^ojested a sort of scuffle between two
persons, one of whom was heard to exclaim
excitedly—

'No you don't! not if I know it, you
don't hope that door, you hunter-bred
intruders

Recognizing amid the profusion of aspirates
the voice of his butler, West himself
threw the door wide open, and in furious
tones demanded what the meaning of such
uproar might be. In the semi-darkness he
beheld his servant's back as it was slowly
propelled towards him by some person

VOL. II. L

unseen, round whose neck the man seemed
to be hanging in a vain attempt to stay his
progress. In this absurd fashion the pair
advanced, till, on hearing his master's angry
tones close upon him. the butler suddenly
unclasped his embrace, and wheeling round
unmasked the sturdy figure of his antagonist,
an elderly man with a shining baldhead
and a wide, good-tempered mouth —
a man clad in homely hodden grey, with
plenty of clay on his thick-soled boots.
Easily pushing aside the servant, who was
pursy and panting, this person stretched
out a huge hairy hand to the master, and,
his big mouth widening with a grin,
exclaimed heartily —

x\y, it's worth all the pother I've had
to get at ye, even lugging fifteen stun round
the neck of me, which is not far short of

some mill-stones, I'll warrant ; but there,
my boy, my old heart warms at sight of
you, that it does.' And Mr. Barnett, demagogue
and agitator as he was, looked as
though he spoke in good earnest.

As to West, for a moment he fairly gaped
open-mouthed at the old friend who was
violently shaking one of his puny passive
hands, then, partially recovering himself,
he fiercely bade the butler begone, aud,
dropping into an arm-chair began to bite
his lower lip, a trick which came all the
more natural to him in moments of perturbation,
from his buck-teeth and the receding
structure of his lower jaw.

Without appearing to notice his reception,
Barnett took a seat, and wiping his forehead
with a good-humoured " Whew," said,

with a glance at Clarke

2

I've got to apologize to this gentleman
for breaking in on his talk with my young
friend, to whom, as he is also an old friend,
I shan't offer an apology. It's not the first
time we have met in Swardham parish, is
it, Dolf, my boy ? '

Mr. Clark coughed, slightly bowed, and
looked towards his principal, who lay back
in his chair, covering with one hand his
working jaws, but, beyond breathing hard,
uttered no sound.

Nay,' Barnett resumed, without a change
of tone, ' I trust I have not offended by that
familiarity. The old name slipped out by
chance ; to have used it purposely were
neither right nor fitting, ?ww and /icre. But
I must begin on what brings me here tonight,
and if I am right in fancying you
would rather hear me and answer me (incase,

as I expect, you favour me with
audience and answer) with no third person
by, perhaps — " and he broke off and looked
at Clark.

From behind West's hand, however, came
a mumbled sentence which seemed to convey
his pleasure that Mr. Clark should by
no means withdraw.

Then,' said Barnett earnestly, ' I take it
as an omen that your reply will be such as
I fain would hear ; for if unhappily it were
otherwise, if you were not going to rebut
what scandal seeks to fix on you, you would
scarcely care to have a witness by to
hearken to your shame and to the indignation
it might provoke. But no,' he went
on in gentler tones (and, rough fellow as he
looked, he was orator enough to possess and
use at will stops as it were of almost tender

expression), 'no, I for one do not believe
in the possibility of that. That your head
should be a bit turned at first — that most
of your old associates, and some of your old
ideals, should seem out of all keeping with
your present surroundings — all that is
natural enough at your age, when things
have come about like a fairy tale, with you
for the hero of a transformation scene.
And if a woman is at the bottom of some
of the changes in you, why that's natural
too. But when they try to paint you real
black, when they make out that you are so
corrupted by a short spell of riches as to be
crushing and grinding those whom it is your
duty and privilege to lift and free, to be
living with wantons and sharpers, to neglect
every duty of your station, and even to
threaten, as a crowning act of effrontery, to

enter the lists as champion of all that your
life was spent in denouncing, and deadly
foe of all that you professed to hold sacred
and dear — why, my answer is, I will not
believe it, till from the lad's own lips I hear
it ! And now, Mr. West, my presence is
explained, and I crave your pardon if I
have transgressed in the warmth of my
language, and say, for God's sake, sir,
and your own fair fame, give me a plain
answer.'

But from Adolphus West no intelligible
answer came. He only lay there in his
chair and cowered, his heart beating: so
furiously as really to obstruct his speech
had always been a bit afraid of Barnett in
the old days, and now the man's coming
scorn seemed to loom upon him horribly.
Turnings his white face towards Clark, he

loosed by a look that gentleman's glib
tongue.

Now, really, really, my friend, you try
Mr. West's forbearance sorely, you do
indeed ; so much so that his self-control is
admirable in refraining from a severe retort.
When your tirade is reduced to a plain
question, and stripped of extraneous matter,
of which much should never have been imported,
I suppose it amounts to this : *' Is
Mr. West intending to stand for the county,
and if so on what platform ? Am I right
in sifting down your verbosity to this ? *

Sir, ' said Barnett slowly, while he
looked wistfully at the pitiful figure
crouching in the arm-chair, * I will take the
answer to that inquiry as a token by which
the answers to others may be interpreted.'

'Then, sir,' Clark proceeded briskly,

learn, since it concerns you, that Mr. West
is about to contest one of the seats for this
division of Longshire, and that, in accordance
with family tradition, and, I may add,
with the inherent fitness of things, it is as a
Conservative, and warm supporter of the
throne, the Church, and the ancient constitution,
that he will solicit the suffrages
of the electors, amonor whom I imagine that
you, sir, are not numbered

Disregarding this gallant attempt to
divert the stream of his wrath, Barnett
arose and stood over Adolphus West with
clenched hand outstretched. As he strove
to find words he saw the renegade shrink
away from him, and broke into a savage
laugh.

Nay, squire, Fm not going to strike your
cringing body with this fist, I leave violence

to paid ruffians round your hustings. But
if scorn can hurt, if the contempt and
disgust of every honest man in this county
can sting, you are like to be sore and
smarting for some time to come. I'll not
waste words on anything so base, your
silence and cowardly demeanour since I came
into this room has been more eloquent than
your friend here. I am answered, and I
will go back to my friends at Longboro'
(your friends once), and tell them, You were
rio;ht and I was wrongs. The fellow we
knew as Dolf Van Lennep loss an impostor,
and is a craven and degraded hound, a
traitor to his past, a disgrace to his present,
a byword for the future.'

Sonorously rolled the words of a voice
that had filled many a public hall, and
passionate was the final anathema.

Moderate your language, if you please,'
cried the scandalized attorney ; * you seem to
forget your disclaimer of violence. It is
to moderate men and moderate measures
only that the public looks for safety and
guidance

In his perplexity caused by the utter collapse
of his principal, Mr. Clark had quoted
a sentence of his address, and unexpectedly
enough the harmless platitude served to
turn aside the current of Barnett's wrath.

Moderate ! ' he cried in trumpet tones,
facing the dapper little man in his neat
attire, ' ay, that is the cry of you, men
who fatten on the rottenness of the old
worn-out codes ; but you will not impose
your cry on a public that reads and thinks.
Moderate ! Would you have your friend
moderately honest ? the soldiers and sailors

that fight for you moderately brave % your
wife moderately chaste ? Away with such
shams, and speak out your meaning ; " It
does not suit us to have you in earnest,
because you are down and we want to keep
you down." So we are to shut our eyes
and stop our ears and fold our hands, and
let old abuses reign for our day also, and
grovel on as we were born to grovel, and
for our reward we shall be told that we are
law-abiding, moderate, free from dangerous
extremes and revolutionary ideas ! Thank
you, lawyer, in the name of my fellows,
thank you. Had you not better study us a
little closer before you talk or write about
us ? I will charge you nothing for the hint,'
nor for another which should be worth
many a six-and-eightpence to your employer
there, which is briefly this. If he perseveres

in going to the poll this election as a true-blue
(God save the mark !), let this gallant
knight of the shire give a wide berth to
Longborough, or he may cut a more currish
figure than he cuts at this moment, and that
before a more mixed company

With this Barnett strode from the room
and the house, none staying him, and betook
himself home to Longborough on foot
as he had come, through mud and mire.

CHAPTER IX.

Leap-year DOINGS.

rpWICE had the heather bloomed amid
the barren rocks of Sconsay since John
"Wood's arrival in the isle, and the return
of August, attraction to the neighbouring;
shores of Ross many a sportsman intent on
grouse or stags, and many a steamer laden
with tourists, found Mr. Fife's fowler restless
and ill at ease. It was not that his
isolation had already become insupportable,
or his daily employments distasteful. His
inner man was still too stiff and sore with

the bruises of the past to have allowed this
luckless ci-devant to quarrel with homely
tasks and fare, or to peep forth even in the
shyest fashion from the island obscurity to
which he had fled, content to forget the
honours and luxuries of his former
life.

On two women, one in heaven, the other
in a distant Longshire rectory, which seemed
to him the sweetest spot on earth, the
thoughts of his lonely heart dwelt often
indeed and yearningly ; but his own loss
was so entirely his mother's gain, that he
could wait in patience till the veil between
them should be done away. Perhaps he
had not schooled himself to own as unreservedly
that his lost love also had, out of
slight and speedy loss, the loss of the lover
of an hour, reaped gain, permanent and all-satisfying.

But at least he told himself
over and over again that such was the case,
and that it would have been a mean and
selfish requital of trusting friendship if the
landless man, flung upon the world at
thirty, had availed himself of a sweet girl's
pitying impulse, and cheated his friend's
only child of a brilliant settlement in life,
by entangling her in a hopeless engagement.
It was not, however, from out of the past
that trouble had just now gathered over
John Wood. Neither from his mother's
grave, nor from Mary's betrothal to another,
nor from his lost inheritance could thoughts
arise to beset him which should knit his
brow with such well-nigh whimsical perplexity
as was now evident there.

He lay one hot forenoon stretched full-length
on a low cliff's edo^e. and as he

jerked the smoke from his pipe right and
left to daunt, if possible, the midges (the
torment of the region), he had no eye for
birds, rare or common, though hundreds of
gulls were on the wing, and sandpipers ran
along the strip of beach below him. There
was a shoal of gurnet, making a rough
patch on the level deep, which the gulls diA
not fail to note. There they clustered,
swimming upon the water that heaved with
the finny crowd ; but the listless watched
troubled himself with no speculations as t6
their doings — whether they bit pieces out
of the luckless fish who were forced above
water by their brethren below, or in what
other manner they made it worth their
while to wait upon the shoal. Far less
mysterious were the tactics of the great
white gannet who presently appeared. From

VOL. II. M

aloft his keen eye marked a fish, and, furlino-
his wings, down he shot headlong, like some
aerolite that has come within our globe's
attraction, and smote the water with a
heavy splash ; then in an instant had risen
with his prey and glided away. Neither
of these things did he take note, nor
had he any pleasure in the scent, aromatic
and refreshing beyond many highly-lauded
vegetable odours, drawn by the sunbeams
from the thick carpet of crow-berry on which
he lay — a carpet of myriad fragrant leaves,
resting on thick undergrowth as brown and,
apparently, sere as cocoa-nut fibre. Hard
by a little stream of amber-tinted water ran
to the cliff's edge in its channel, lowered in
spice-breathing gale (or bog-myrtle), and
jumped down the steep in whose ftice it
had worn a groove, a coi^jn of vantage for

many an exquisite tuft of fern. But to-day
lie heeded not the hurrying water, nor
peered down among the burnished fronds
rejoicing in the spray of the little cataract.
He was not even smoking as if he thoroughly
enjoyed his tobacco, for at last he allowed
his pipe to slip from his mouth and expire
upon the crowberry leaves, as he muttered
aloud —

I must get out of this. Yes. I must.
Oh, confound the woman ! I could almost
wish I had let such a wild uncomfortable
creature drown

He laughed a rather mirthless laugh ashe
ended his soliloquy, of which the origin
and occasion must be briefly told.

It had chanced, one hot afternoon in
July, that Miss Hilda Fife, bathing according
to her wont in a small bay set apart

M 2

for her use, was tempted bv her delight
in the newly-acquired art of swimming to
venture further out than was prudent, and,
in her return, was in such manifest difficulties,
that her attendant, a Highland
girl, presently began to make the shore
echo with her wails and shrieks.

It was lucky for Miss Fife that her maid
possessed sound lungs, and used them in preference
to swooning dumbly at sight of her
mistress' distress, for before the young lady
had ceased to beat the water with aching: and
fast-stiffening limbs, a man, summoned by
the screaming, appeared on the heathery
brow, and in a moment, taking the water
like a Newfoundland dog, swam to the
imperilled maiden.

John Wood was a strong swimmer,
but he had never before attempted to

save a drowning person, and his own

after impression was that his first essay,

though in the main successful, was a

bungling business. He was obliged, in

the first place, to be stern and peremptory

(if not rude and violent, as to himself he

phrased it) in dictating to Miss Hilda the

conditions (as to amount of clasp allowable)

on which alone he could possibly convey

her to shore. Again, he was sure that in

more practised hands the poor terrified

creature might have been more gracefully

and deftly handled, and spared perhaps the

swallowing of an extra pint or so of saltwater.

At any rate he was immensely

relieved when, after some yards of ungainly

progress by swimming, he ventured to let

down his feet, and, finding himself well

within his depth, walked ashore, half

carrying, half dragging Miss Fife, all
swathed in a voluminous blue bathing-dress.
He had kicked off his boots before
taking to the water, and hurt his toes
exasperatingly in floundering among the
stones. Stumbling and swaying, he could
scarcely hold on to the limp figure till it
could be thrust into the arms of the maid,
dio was capering wildly on the beach, and
boldly ran. ankle-deep into the ocean to
receive her mistress. This achieved, he
hobbled off to his boots and disappeared ina
trice. He had played his part — indifferently
enough, he considered — and the lady,
who was not seriously damaged, would be
glad to be relieved of his presence.

As in duty bound, however, Wood looked
in at his employer's in the course of the
afternoon to inquire how Miss Fife found

herself, act if there were any orders for
him. And so far was he from crediting
the affair with any romance, or himself with
any heroism, that he had made up his mind,
in case he saw the lady, to tender humble
apologies for his rough and unskilful usage
of her, which he really thought might have
provoked her displeasure.

It was a full week since he had had sight
of Robert Fife. The old man had been
poorly, and unable to interest himself in his
usual pursuits, or to enjoy a chat with the
treasure of a young man whom his brothers in
the city had found him, when he had wearied
of all the sons of Gael. John West was
not therefore surprised when he was shown
into a room where in solitary state sat Miss
Fife, robed in a wrapper which looked not
unlike the bathing-dress, and wearing a white

shawl flung; mantilla-wise over her straight,
lustreless black hair.

At sight of him she clasped her hands
tightly over her knee, and fixed her gaze on
him, but spoke no word till he had once or
twice asked if there were any orders. Then
she rose, and tottering to him, took his two
hands in her own, standing facing him. To
his dismay he saw her pale features working
in preparation for an unmistakable crying
fit, in terror of which he began to stammer
out a humble apology for disturbing her at
so improper a time.

But Hilda was not to be stayed. Wringing
his hands, she gasped, as tears rushed
from her eyes, * You have saved my life ! "
Noble, admirable man ! I shall live only to
requite you for risking your own life for
mine. And as she ended she swayed forward

in such fashion that she was almost
on his breast, her long straight hair even
swinging against his shoulder.

Miss Fife he said, in low distressed
tones, 'you are ill and agitated, you
are not yourself, and I — I am your
uncle's hired servant, who has done no
more than plainest, commonest duty, such
as is owed to the care of any living
creature in a master's possession,' and he
made an unsuccessful effort to release his
hands.

But, still weeping, Hilda burst out,
Nay, nay, I admire you the more for
your reserve, but I know all. Since the
week after your arrival I have known who
and what you really are, and ' (she added
with kindling tones and heaving breast) ' in
that knowledge I feel no shame to say, Take

me, if you will have me — my truth, my
devotion, and (what is less in value, but
to you most expedient), my fortune. All
are yours if you will, all are wasted if you
refuse.'

Trembling and shaking she loosed his
hands, and smoking into a chair, covered
her eyes with her own.

The bewildered man's first thought was
silently to dart a passing anathema at Auch-
duty the phrenologist and all Isis devices, his
next how he might decline, with equal resolution
and courtesy, this startling and unwelcome
proposal. Though his instinctive antipathy
was rife within him, he deeply pitied
the irrepressible emotion of this ionian
usually so cold and collected, and could not
but own that her purpose seemed as generous
as it was wild and impossible. In the

gentlest tones he could command lie
began —

Miss Fife, if you really know my story,
such as it is, you know that, no matter
what my birth and previous life have been,
I am at this moment simply what I appear,
your uncle's servant, with no reasonable
prospect of ever occupying a higher position.
Let this be enough to seal your lips for ever
as to the honour which, in an overwrought
hour of excitement, you have deigned to
extend to me. Let the fact of your having
done so be blotted from both our minds,
and spare me the pain of adding reasons
why, even if we were more equal in position,
no such thing could be between us

He bowed respectfully, and took a step
toward the door, but had to bear the brunt
of yet another appeal, more impassioned,

more theatrical as it seemed to him, than
the former.

There spake not the cool, brave man
who perilled his life this morning, who saw
the riojht elinor to do and did it unhesitatingly.
What ! content to grovel on amid
soulless hinds ? It must not be. What
though you cannot love me as you might
have loved some girl chosen in your prosperous
days, though I may not please your
eye as another might 1 should such things so
weigh with you that you will none of the
hand which could place you once more
among your peers, and reopen the gates o f
honourable ambition to you ? Take me
and mine, and 1 will warrant that you
shall never repent that you have either.
Nay, in a short year you shall love meas
you would not, after the same space,

love the choice of your untroubled
hours. '

She had risen to her feet as she spoke
with increasing animation and ardour, and
with outstretched hands she stood before
him. Never had Hilda Fife's lineaments
been lit up into anything so nearly approaching
to beauty ; but it was a far-differing
image which reigned in the
listener's heart and forbade his faltering

o

where many a man, fancy-free or otherwise,
might have succumbed, or at least
hesitated.

I have said my say,' he murmured, ina
pained voice, ' and grateful as I ought to
be for your interest in a ruined man, it
only remains for me to leave you at once,
and, for such time as I remain on this
island, spare you if possible any approach

which may recall this painful interview to
your remembrance

Then he retired, and this time the lady
made no sign or sound to detain him.
From that day the little world of Sconsay
had seen no more of the laird's niece, whose
outdoor activity seemed for a while to be
lost. It was rumoured indeed among the
boatmen, gardeners, and herds that Miss
Hilda was busied in tending her uncle,
whose indisposition proved more serious
than had been imagined.

Under these circumstances Mr. Fife's
fowler found his occupation gone, and
dreading the long idle days, bringing
nothing to beguile him from sad thoughts;
and the nights unblest by sleep, the reward
of bodily toil, became an energetic fisherman,
or worked at the oar, while Alick and Hamish,

in their clumsy boat, fished for ' lethe,
round submerged rocks, or, with a long dragnet,
swept a little bay of flounders and
soles.

There were days, however, when the ' soulless
hinds ' utterly refused to launch their
bark, preferring to make the most of unchecked
idleness while the rare luxury could
be enjoyed ; and such days, despite of Montaigne,
lagged terribly, for all the summer
skies, the smiling seas of blue, framed amid
bold stretches of rugged coast or peaks of
fantastic outline.

On such a day it was that John Wood lay,
as described, spurning the fragrant leafage
with restless feet, and longing for the first
moment in which he could have speech of
his employer, and arrange for speedy departure
from this island, which could no

longer hold himself and Miss Hilda Fife.

o

Twice, since he had fled her presence, had a
note reached him, brought in distasteful
stealth and secrecy by the handmaid. In
the former of these Miss Fife solemnly
adjured him to have done with false pride,
false shame, or whatever else had induced
him to reject her ofl'er. The precise value
of the offer was then more plainly stated.
The lady had, as it appeared, inherited from
her late parents no less a sum than fifteen
thousand pounds, and had for a dozen years
spent hardly a tithe of her income. Both
capital and accumulations were at her sole
disposal. With this fortune she again, in
precise and business-like terms, proposed to
endow the man who had saved her life, if
he wisely decided to avail himself of her
proffer.

It is a cool judgment and a shrewd
head which I desire to devote to your
interests,' she wrote, ' though you may
wrongly conclude that my present forwardness
is compatible with no such qualities.
I am not ignorant that you have suffered
from a woman's heartlessness in a time of
sore trial. Let another woman atone for
that fault, and reverse all that then befell.'

But on the advantages likely to accrue
from an alliance with Miss Fife's shrewdness,
or her thousands, John West dwelt
not for one moment. She was, to be
sure, unconscious that his heart cherished
a woman's image who was not Lady Emily ;
but that she should pursue a reluctant man,
whose secret she had surprised, or think
his resolution so easily to be sapped filled
him with ano^er and almost disgust, in

VOL. II. N

which all sense of her generosity was lost.
He returned no answer to the note, though
opportunity was given him for such answer.
And his anxiety to begone from Sconsay
increased. Then, at an interval of five
days, had come a second note. The former,
to his chagrin, began by addressing him as
Dear Mr. West : ' this had no formal beginning
; and ran as follows :

You are then one of those who, refusing:
to help themselves, justly forfeit all future
aid of Providence. In your fall, you seem
to have lost more than wealth and station —
and the best that can now be wished for
you is that no long tenure shall be yours
of an existence sunken and degraded, unredeemed
even by an instinct of self-preservation.'


This pelting of hard words indited in

spitefully spiky characters, but with unfaltering
fingers, came as a relief to the man
to whom the writer was most formidable
in her melting mood, and who dreaded a
renewal of softer addresses.

The danger then was over ! For that he
devoutly thanked Heaven. But it behoved
him none the less to spare Miss Fife the
aggravation of his presence. To what might
she not be goaded, where she to witness
much more of the * sunken and degraded
existence,' which she found so objectionable ?
There was no sting in such a taunt, for,
sunken as he was in worldly estate, he felt
that degradation would begin for him when
he should seek to regain material prosperity
by any dishonourable expedient, and among
all such expedients there was none more
hateful to him than such barter as is in

2

plied in a loveless match with a wealthy
woman. For the fiftieth time he was debating
with himself, this fair sunny day,
whether it might not be best to take French
leave, and, when next he should find himself
near to the coast of Ross, prevail on
his friends the fishermen to set him ashore.
He did not like the plan — especially was
he sorry to run away without a word of
farewell to the kindly eccentric old man,
whose bread he had eaten for more than
twelve months.

I can write to Mr. Fife,' he pondered,
and I don't think he will refuse me a
decent character, which is an important
consideration, even to the possessor of such
bumps as mine. Poor old fellow, I wonder
how he is farina in his sick room ! Heaven
forbid that he should suffer for my lack of

taste and discernment ; but it is just possible
that he finds that niece of his a trifle
more uncomfortable than usual — if not in
the mood of Montaigne's peevish gamesters,
whom the old Seigneur declares that he
has seen worrying the cards with their
teeth, and '' swallowing whole bales of dice "
in revenge for the loss of their money !
The silly creature ought to feel grateful
for the preservation of her money from
jeopardy — but — all the same, as Montaigne
says, the soul discharges her passions on
false objects where the true are wanting,
and I'm afraid poor dear old Fife isn't
exactly lapped in lavender, and has reason,
if he only knew it, to curse as heartily as
I do this new, astounding, and most idiotic
departure on the part of Miss Gildas
At this moment, the current of the

solitary lounger's thoughts was interrupted
by distant shouting. Glad of any diversion
or prospect of employment, he rose and
walked towards the road, which ran through
the * policies,' and presently made out that
he was being hailed by Alick, the boatman,
one of the soulless hinds, of whom it was
imputed to him that he was content to sink
to the level.

CHAPTER X.

JOHN TURNS FERRYMAN.

TOOONE, Jooone ! ' the red-headed Alick
continued to bawl long after John
Wood was within reasonable earshot. The
boatman was a broad-shouldered, thick-set
fellow, shock-headed and sharp-featured,
a fair sample, however, of his race. If a
very shower of beauty was really the earthly
dower of the poet's Highland girl, depend
upon it she was not a West-coast lassie.
Beauty, feminine or masculine, is rare in that
country, where the showers are but too

constantly out poured but not to the enhancement
of the charms of the humbler natives.
Eh, Boone ! we're away to Conchray to put
the doctor " wast " to the master — eh, but
he is just bad ! and we re not to come back
without the doctor, whatever ; and be as
quick as we can too ! — and the wind — there
miss no wind, you're seeing that yourself ; and
Parish said to me, " If Boone will tek an
oar with us in the ' Hawk ' it will be half
again quicker that we will put the doctor
^wast/"^

Distance, or rather direction, is always
conveyed by ' wast ' or * east ' in the native
vocabulary.

Here Alick stopped and grinned engagingly.
Sorry to hear of this aggravation
of Mr. Fife's malady, and not loth to forget
his troubles awhile in violent exertion,

Jack briefly nodded assent — and was soon
tugging at a clumsy pair of oars behind
Alick's broad back, the twain swino^insr in
unison as they got a good ' way ' on the
bluff-bowed boat. Hamish — sottish, sleepy
Hamish — lolled in the stern, with the tiller
loosely grasped. The fellow could have
steered a tolerably correct course to Conch-ray
with his eyes shut — almost in his
sleep. Southward they speed along the
broad frith that severs Skye from Wester
Loss, making for a point where no stranger
could have guessed that any further passage
could be open to them — a point marked
by the white shaft of a lighthouse. Presently
it can be seen that this lantern-topped
tower stands sentinel over an alley
as it were of water, a deep narrow channel,
giving access to the superb land-locked

sheet of salt water known as Loch Also.
The tide is with the rowers, and they fly
past the white houses of Kyle-Akin village
past the little quay with horses waiting for
the ferry-boat — past the rifted ruin standing
forlorn on the knoll whence once it dominated
the strait. No time had John to
observe the dark cloud of smoke, which
told of the steamer passing on its southward
way through Kyle Rhea. His boat
leaves that narrow passage (marking Skye's
last and nearest approach to the mainland)
to the steerer's right, and hurries
on till at last its keel grates on the
shingle, near the spot where the doctor's
house nestles under the careen hill of

o

Conchray.

Often during the next ten days did the
same boat's crew ceo and return between

Sconsay and Conchray, sometimes carrying
the worthy doctor, who was usually wanted
in eve places at once, at other times
bearing parcels of medicines for the sick
man, whose sickness defied the most skilful
treatment. The weather luckily continued
moderate, and no one of the * Hawk's '
passages was eventful or greatly protracted.
Sometimes the wind would serve, and the
boat go plunging along, outstripping the
waves, to which she sloped one of her sides
till the wash-boards were swept by the
green and frothing water. Then Jack
would stretch himself at ease, and watch
the red-brown sail bellying, or the clouds
lifting from those quaintly grouped pyramids
and buttressed masses, the hills of Skye, or
look up the fine rippling stretch of Loch
Carron where it cleaves the coast of Ross,

spanned now and then by a complete arch
of rainbow.

The doctor marvelled much as to what
manner of man this could be, who was
hailed as an equal by Alick and Hamish,
but yet, in his respectful inquiries as to
Mr. Fife's state, betrayed the accents and
address of a cultured gentleman. From
the first he had little hope to give to those
who were interested in this patient — the
innocent if eccentric naturalist, whose eyes
were never again to beam over feathered
spoils, whose feet were to tread no more
the short turf of the cliffs, whence he had
loved to watch the haunts and habits of
sea-fowl.

Soon came the day when the ' Hawk '
received a sadder freight than she had borne
before — a coffin on its way to the old kirk-yard

of Loclialsh. There was a little procession
on tins calm smiling: morning: of
roiio^li boats starting; from the small haven
of Sconsay. Unknown as he had been
beyond the limits of his own isle, Mr.
Fife's inoffensive life and real kindliness of
heart had combined with his reputation asa
born Scot and good pay-master to secure
him the brood-will of his humble neighbours,
and many of these manned their rough
vessels to follow the laird of Sconsay to
his last resting-place. The upper classes
were only represented by two or three
factors of neighbouring proprietors, a brace
of ministers, a Skye banker, and the writer,
or solicitor, as he has begun to call himself,
from Bradford. From Andiron Lane had
come two brethren of the deceased, and an
Auchmuty cousin — not the phrenologist, to

Jack's great relief, but a much younger
and less peculiar man — and with these
relatives there ' followed ' the tall figure,
cloaked and cowled, of the dead man's
niece, and sole companion of his later
years.

With stony immobility Miss Fife had
received her kindred at the end of their
long journey north. There was nothing
lacking, indeed, in the island mansion that
could be devised for the creature comfort
of these wearied London Scots — all honour
and respect due to next-of-kin was shown —
all that propriety demanded was done and
provided. But if young Archibald Auch-
duty had cherished any design of ingratiating
himself with his cousin Hilda — improving
thereby a mournful occasion — he
must speedily have abandoned all present

hope. After the first frigidly decorous
greeting lie scarcely looked at lier cousin,
let him curl his fine chestnut whiskers never
so insinuatingly with his stalwart hand.
She could not be got to talk, let the
conversation open never so befittingly with
a touching emphasis in the manly tones.
Well, well ! there were young ladies in
London town who seemed to find something

o

worthy their notice in a North British
gentleman of six feet in stature, who had
his foot on the ladder up which many of
his kindred had climbed to wealth — and
though Miss Hilda's purse might be a long
one (who should say how long till the will
shall be read ?) and herself a fine personable
lady, she might (so thought her cousin)
go farther and fare worse I The uncles
were anxious to bear their niece south with

them after the funeral, offering her all
manner of hospitality in comfortable suburban
abodes ; but Miss Fife, though she
said she thanked Uncle James and Uncle
Donald kindly, firmly declined their invitations.
She and her maid would, after the
funeral, return for a while to the desolate
house of Sconsay, and perhaps, if she felt
a change needful, or it became otherwise
incumbent on her to quit, they would cross
to Porter, and sojourn for a season in
apartments in that town.

Cold and unlovely is a Scotch funeral,
whether conduct*! after the rites of the
Established or of the Free Kirk. In the
house, whence the dead is to be carried,
prayers are offered at the discretion of the
ministers present ; but at the grave-side it
is not considered essential that a word

should be spoken in the way of farewell
or commendation. Or if zeal move a present
minister to ' offer prayer ' — it is but a
repetition of what has been already pronounced,
interspersed with Scriptural tags
and trite ejaculations, and cannot compare
with the beautiful and soul-sustaining
office of the English Church, the choice
product of hallowed study and biblical
research.

That funerals, such as they are, are highly
appreciated, popular indeed, among the
people of Scotland is not to be denied.
But it is rather as a social event than asa
religious ceremony that the Highlander
regards the burying of his neighbour. In
the sparsely populated western districts,
anything that brings together an unusual
gathering of distant cousins and clansmen,

VOL. II.

greens ' and neighbours, is a thing to be
made the most of. Neither is it in anyway
against the credit of a Highland funeral
that much whiskey should be consumed —
a fact which perhaps further accounts for
the popularity of these gatherings.

Though the whiskey and the crowding
were probably trials to the gentlemen from
Andiron Lane, they bore themselves meekly
(as befitted true nurslings of Caledonia)
under all, rebelling neither against the
subdued conviviality of the laymen nor the
long-winded oratory of the clerics. They
were doing their duty by poor Eobert ;
and however glad they would be to tread
London pavements again, they would make
the best of the old mother - country and
her quaint customs while sojourners in the
North.

The evening after the funeral was, for
the time of year, sultry, when, thoroughly
tired out and longing to be gone from a
scene which revolted his English prejudices,
John West strolled along the rocky shore
of Loch Also, where many boats were
moored, or drawn up into little sandy
coves, while their owners still lingered in the
enjoyment of conversation not untempered
with ' usquebaugh ' dispensed among adjoining
cottages of the crofters.

His own mates Alick and Hamish were
among the greediest of drink and gossip,
and had responded with anger and taunts
to his hints that they would be wise to
start for Sconsay before night fell. Was
an island proprietor, a laird of a sea-girt
realm of his own, buried every day, that
such hurry should be used, such curtailments



of the last honours tolerated ?
Luckily the abuse which sottish Hamish
poured forth against his ungenial fellow-servant
was couched in the Gaelic, of which
Jack had mastered a few phrases only.
With a shrug of his shoulders he passed
from the door-place of the low and frowsy
hut, reeking of dirt, peat-smoke, and sun-dried
fish, to the pure air of the deserted
beach, and bes^an to wonder where he would
bestow himself if all the Sconsay folk were
resolved to make a night of it on the mainland.
The gentlemen from London had
gone on to Balmacara to await the steamer
which should convey them to the Clyde,
and Miss Fife had retired to the manse,
where hospitality had been offered to
her.

'If it turns no colder than at present,'

Jack pondered as he stowed himself on an
inviting heap of dry sea nets in the stern
of a small boat, moored somewhat apart from
the rest, * I shall take no harm. Anyhow,
better freeze than sleep in one of those
dens.'

The poor fellow had had many a broken
night of late, and having besides done more
than his fair share that day in pulling an
oar in the heavily freighted * Hawk,' was
weary, and soon fell into a deep sleep,
dreamless at first, but latterly disturbed by
many fantasies. It seemed to him that
over broken and difficult ground his
mother's form moved ever in front of him
and by no effort could he come up with
her, or prevail on her to wait for him.
His heart was filled with all the anguish,
which, as a child, he might have felt in so

strange a plight, and sobbing and straining
he followed that beloved guide, who seemed
so unrelenting in ever eluding him. At
last he seemed, in spite of desperate
struggles, to be sinking in some quagmire,
but, as the cold slime lapped him round, a
hand was stretched to rescue him, and Mary
Holbrooke's sweet voice cried, ^ Courage !
for little Mary's sake, keep up ! We will
all be happy at home again at Swardham
if only you will keep up.'

Then in a kind of ecstasy he turned up
his sinking face and saw those two dear
eyes shining like stars, shining lovingly
down into his own. For a moment or so
of rapture he gazed, but soon something
like a black shadow fell in such wise as to
intercept his vision — a black cowled shadow
from which he shrank with horror as it

hovered close above him. With a violent
start he awoke, uncertain where he was,
and dazed by his disturbing dream. Cold
and shivering he struggled to his knees,
and to his surprise felt them wetted as in a
pool of water. The boat must be leaking ;
and yet, if he remembered right, it ought
to be left high and dry by the ebbing tide.
But what was that sound ? Surely the dull
creaking of oars plied gently — the boat was
moving ! Peering through the chill vail of
misty darkness, his eyes made out the slim
figure of a mysterious sculler swinging to
the oars — made out also that the boat was
hurrying through a waste of water. Could
it be a senseless trick on the part of one of
those half drunken people ?

Who are you ? ' he shouted, ' and where
are you taking the boat almost half full of

water ? ' No answer. * Oh confound it ! '
said Jack aloud, ' I dare say the fool has no
English — but I can't stand this sort of
thing

Advancing, he knelt on the thwart
immediately facing the rower, in such
fashion as to prevent further use of the
sculls, when to his amazement the figure
arose from its seat, and unshipping both
oars at once from the thole-pins on which
they worked, launched them with vigorous
hands right and left into the sea where they
vanished instantly into the environing gloom.
Angered by this additional folly. Jack
seized the wrists, and in doing; so became
aware that it was a woman whom he
grasped.

Are you mad ? ' he shouted in bewilderment,
' or how are we to make the shore

again, even if you know where we are, or
this leak can be stopped in time ? '

As he spoke he shook the woman's arms
impatiently, but dropped them, and recoiled
aghast as the voice of Hilda Fife, wild and
mocking but unmistakable, returned him
answer :

Whether I am mad or no matters little.
I am sane enough to have got you here,
where we shall cry quits. And I know
where we are — many miles from the spot
where you last trod the ground ! Ah !
you don't believe it ! but even you know
that the tide runs out through Kyle
Rhea like a mill-race, and that's where I've
taken you for my revenge. There is a thick
sea-mist, and I can only guess, but we
should be a good many miles now from
land, perhaps somewhere off the point of

Seat ! And as to the leak, it would be odd
if it could be stopped in time, as you say,
for I have pulled the cork out and thrown
it away. You would not live with me —
you could not be bribed to do it, dog's life
as you have to live without me. Well ?
you have got to die with me ! '

She stopped and laughed, a weird, blood-curdling
mockery of laughter. Before it
died away, Jack had sprung to his feet,
and groping in the darkness, prized up the
bottom boards which fitted, floor-wise, over
the hollow keel of the boat. It was as this
crazy murderous wretch had said. Right
amidships, his hand, feeling along the boat's
ribs in a cold pool which reached his elbow,
came upon a hole through which the water
was entering fast — a hole the purpose of
which was to drain the keel of lire

when securely held up to a yacht's davits,
or pulled high upon a beach.

Tearing off his boots and thick woollen
socks, he strove to plug with the latter the
place whence the cork had been stolen —
and when he found the influx abating,
began to bale out the water with a boot.
Fortunately for his chances of frustrating
his companion's design, the night was calm.
Otherwise this earless and rudderless boat
must soon have been overwhelmed by
waves, which would have had it (slight
thing that it was at best) at their mercy.
His heart was beating painfully, and he
felt himself sore indeed beset, but he would
not answer this detestable woman, whose
unwelcome love had soured, as it seemed,
into such virulent hate that she counted it
cheap to die by drowning, while she could

see the man who had refused her hand
engulfed at her side. He busied himself
in his efforts to keep the boat afloat — even
paddling, he knew not whither, with one of
the bottom boards. If they were really far
from land, some ship might pick them up,
and save this wretched creature from a
double crime. She was sjDcaking again —
but he strove so to occupy himself that
her words should not reach his ear. Then
she rose, and stepping towards him, where
he crouched twirling his board (fish-tail
fashion) over the stern, seated herself on
the nearest thwart.

Ah,' she hissed, as she thrust her face
closer to his, ' you are proud — proud to the
last ; a proud menial — ha ! ha ! but listen —
it is you strong swimmers that have the
greatest agony in drowning. / know what

it is to heat the water and heat the water
when you are tired out and can do no more.
You saved me that bout ; but this time I
am wiser. Look ! I have wrapped this thick
cloak round me — like a pall, isn't it ? — and
I shall go down, down quietly, without a
struggle, when this boat founders from
under us — as it must, for all your vain
labour. Ah, you are strong ; but strength
is no good here, — all the worse for you !
Better give up, better let me fold you in
this pall of mine, and go down with me
quietly ; but that I know you will not do !
I know you hate me — you are shrinking
away from me now — and I know that there
is some woman you love : not that false
woman, the duke's daughter they told me
of, but some one else. Ah, you will never
see her a^^ain, even if she is faithful to one

fallen so low — a hireling, a fellow-servant of
drunkards and boors. No one's love but
mine could stand that test, — and mine you
rejected, and have to pay for your folly ;
for I hate you now, and I have trapped you
to your death, strong man as you are. Yes,
you will never see daylight again, and you
will never see Iter. Mary, is it ? — you
muttered " Mary " in your sleep. Ah, ha !
Mary, Mary, where is your lover ? '

With fierce joy she felt that he winced
and recoiled from her last assault, and was
heaping further taunts when he broke out
violently :

Silence — wretch — madwoman ! I will
hear no more of this.' Then, as if ashamed
to have been betrayed into this outbreak,
he added — ' God have mercy on you, and
forgive you ! I believe you are not an

accountable being, and bear you no malice.
If I must die, let me die at peace withall.'


The miserable woman hearing; his softened
voice, fell into a sudden paroxysm of sobbing,
which she seemed to use all pains to
suppress, but which deprived her of speech.
Just at this time the first faint tinge of
morning light made its way through the
cold thick sea-fog which brooded on the
vast, still ocean.

All through this horrible night the fooled
lent its aid to the darkness that overarched
the helpless boat ; and now it
screened this miserable pair from all observation,
allowing the broadening day to filter
dimly, as through some tabernacle's sheets,
to Jack's straining eyes. Oh, if it would
but lift and give to his view some hill, some

rock, however distant ! How welcome
would the barrenness crag of Skye loom
through the mist ! How maddening to
think that some coaster or fishing-boat
might be close at hand, becalmed in the
windless dawn, and yet hopelessly muffled
in the fatal haze ! A poor thing truly was
the life he was like to lead, a broken-down
existence, loveless as landless ; but Jack's
thoughts were not all of this life that now
is. He felt unfit to die ; he longed for time
to prepare himself for his great change ;
time wherein to strive by repentance and
faith to be less unfit to meet his mother in
heaven. Listening intently, while his lips
strove to mutter a prayer, he thought life
heard a sound as of the gentle plash of the
tide upon a shore. They might have drifted
into some bay or loch ! There might be

some crosier's house within ear-shot 1 He
stood up and shouted hoarsely —

Help, ho !— help here ! '

These cries, little likely as they were to
bring the aid desired, seemed to goad the
desperate woman. She sprang from her
crouching posture and tore Jack's woollen
plug from the hole. Not content with this,
she snatched from its receptacle one of the
long iron thole-pins, and with furious violence
and marvellous dexterity forced it
between the slight timbers of the boat, till
one of them started and ripped, half-rotten
as it was. The water spouted through this
new wound and sprinkled Hilda Fife's face
as she knelt at her work, prizing the faulty
plank further away with a shrill yell of
exultation. Instinctively Jack grappled
with her to wrest the iron pin from her

VOL. II. P

hands, when, dropping her weapon, she
flung both her sinewy arms around him,
and muffling him in the folds of her cloak,
shrieked out —

Together — together we'll sink to the
bottom of the sea ! You shall be mine in
death, since you would not be mine in
life

As he struggled in her hateful embrace,
sounds seemed anew to surge in his ears,
half-swathed as they were in the cloak.
Could it be fancy, or did he hear the panting
of a steamer's engines close upon them ?
He raised a stifled cry, and disengaged his
head just in time to see the sharp prow of
a vessel shoot forth from the wall of mist,
and in an instant bear down right upon the
boat, now low in the water and rapidly
foundering. Before he could utter a second

shout the bows of the steamer, whose lights

blazed on high, had crashed into them

cutting the crazy boat clean in two and, as

it seemed, striking Miss Fife, for she relaxed

her grasp and fell dumbly, sucked beneath

the rushing keel, which barely cleared John

West. The surging of the water round his

head as he instinctively struggled for dear

life, an agonized look up at the hull as it

rushed past, a dim perception of a shouting

on board — and then, as he gasped among the

wash astern, a splash close to his head, the

splash of a life-buoy flung from the vessel,

which he grasped with numb hands. Such

were the experiences of the next moments.

Clutching the white circle to his breast,

he felt himself pulled rapidly through the

waters, while the vessel, with the way on

her though the engines were stopped, still

p 2

forged ahead. Then a boat, hastily launched,
approached him, and he was dragged up
into it by two eager, peering men, between
whose hands he swooned while endeavouring
to urge them to save his unhappy
fellow-passenger.

CHAPTER XL

ADOLPHUS IN WANT OF A MISSION.

rpHE new Parliament was installed, and all
men were full of the great Conservative
reaction that had changed the balance of
power, and frustrated the hopes in which,
presumably, the mighty Premier had dissolved
the previous House. Many were the
new men who now first took their seats in the
chamber of representatives ; but among the
list of victors the name of Adolphus West
was not to be found. To this ill-treated
young man only remained rage, mortification,

a fair share of ridicule, two or three suits
of clothes ruined by pelted mud and other
more fragrant substances, and last, but
not least, a long bill — as results and souvenirs
of his candidature. He had been horribly
abused and practised on — so he felt and
avowed — not so much by his old associates,
on whose demonstrations he had so counted
that the reality could scarce exceed in
badness his expectations. However, what
with the police and a hired body-guard
of stalwart fellows (facetiously dubbed
Longboro' lambs), he had not fared so much
worse than the average of Conservative
candidates in a very radical borough. There
had been one rather awkward scuffle, to be
sure, when he had quaked for his very life,
before a charge of most determined ruffians,
making for him with war-cries of — ' To the

black-ditch with the turncoat ! ' ' Duck
him ! drown the rat ! ' and such like ribaldry.
And really they would have had him to a
certainty, perhaps also drowned him, but
for the rather humiliating intervention of a
female, whom that stupid Clark made a
fuss over and compared to the Maid of
Saragossa ; but who was only Sally Soole,
armed with the key of her father's back
warehouse, through which she hurried her
quondam friend to an entrance in another
street, while the rabble knocked at a locked
door. Curious excitable creature Sally !
wouldn't shake hands, though she was
quivering all over with emotion.

But it was not the brutality of a mob
on which Adolphus West brooded with a
sense of injury. He felt himself to have
been abominably treated by the whole Conservative

party, and especially by the wire-pullets
thereof. For, for a while, a measure
of support and countenance, limited indeed,
but still a measure, had been vouchsafed to
the squire of Swardham as candidate for a
seat for Longshire. Though, as might have
been expected, Adolphus himself thought
any support accorded the most natural
thing in the world, and far less than his
deserts, Mr. Clark had been evidently surprised
and exultant, putting extra vigour
into his efforts, and taking: more sanguine
views of his patron's chances from the
moment when the oracles of the Carlton
uttered a guarded approval of West's campaign.
But when the election was already
nigh at hand, Mr. Clark's flow of spirit
was suddenly checked. Lord Herriard, the
Duke of Hexham's heir, unexpectedly and

suddenly consented to contest the county
in the Conservative interest, and the unseen
wire-pullers straightway ignored Adolphus
and adopted Herriard. The former could
not at first see that the entry of a lord
into the lists had wrought any formidable
change in the prospects that had
smiled ; and snubbed poor Mr. Clark
royally when he seemed to doubt the proud
assertion that, after all, an independent
candidate, promising a general but indiscriminating
support to a Conservative
ministry, would be the likeliest to succeed
in Lancashire. Even when it became
evident that the good Tories, who had
promised votes to the sole wearer of their
colours, let him be personally never so
distasteful, were immensely relieved to transfer
all their support to a better man,

Adolphus insisted on going to the poll.
To this pitch of heroism or obstinacy he
was impelled not less by growing belief in
his own value to the Tory cause than by the
urgency of the Lady Georgiana. She had hit
on the electioneering campaign as a happy
device for occupying her admirer s redundant
spare time ; and, this having had the
desired effect, it mattered little whether the
struggle should be fought to the bitter
end or abandoned a few days earlier.

That Adolphus would be chosen a knight
of her native shire never occurred as
possible to Lady G., who, however, was
surprised and possibly a little amused at the
wretched position which, after many hopeful
prophecies, he finally occupied at the
bottom of the poll — distanced by hundreds
by the Liberal candidate, an old and tried

representative, who in his turn was far
below Herriard.

'The duke can't possibly live many
months,' so augured the dark-eyed Circe ;
and then that stick Herriard will go upto
the other house, and you'll come in
triumphantly.'

But Adolphus was too bitter of spirit to
be cheered by any such prospect, or even
by abuse of his supplanter, and so snarled
and snapped at those with whom he came in
contact, that great was the joy at Beausite,
and greater at Swardham, when, in the
course of events, a valid reason was presented
for his taking himself off for a season from

o

the scene of his defeat.

It was late in the summer succeeding
the election that a letter came from Mr.
Peter Clark which, though written from

a bed of sickness, was written in a strain
of pardonable elation. Peter had at last
struck the trail of Aylmer Fits Raymond,
and though himself disabled by an aguish
fever, Peter could put any one in the way
of running that slippery customer to earth
within a week or so from date. The news
caused the heart of Adolphus West to throb
with excitement. Far rather would he have
been certified of the wanderer's death ; but
failing such good fortune, he would, at any
rate, soon be out of this horrid, this wearing
suspense. In person he would seek out
the man, and surely it would not be difficult
to induce him to surrender his legal rights
over the wife whom he had deserted. It
appeared from the agent's letter that Aylmer
had till recently been an officer in the
Turkish service, but had resigned his commission

in consequence of a gambling
scandal. A young Russian of princely
rank had, as it seemed, fallen among thieves
while on his travels in the region of the
Lower Danube, and his government had
taken up the case. Thus it fell out that
Aylmer's share in fleecing the reckless lad
involved him in exposure and disgrace,
such as had, to tell the truth, been his lot
previously in divers other and more westerly
countries of Europe. He had, however, on
this occasion, the resource afforded by the
presence of a sympathetic friend, not indeed
an acquaintance of long standing, but one
(as it was hinted) who had himself narrowly
escaped Russian interference in the interest
of the plundered prince, and who now
offered to ' Colonel ' FitzEaymond a passage
on his yacht to regions that might prove less

hot, less dangerous. Fortified by, who shall
say what, ' piles ' of undisturbed plunder,
FitzRaymond had sailed from Varna the
day before Peter Clark, in hot pursuit, reentered
the town. The obliging owner of
the vessel, which was named the Thyra,
was of Scandinavian nationality, though
by habits thoroughly cosmopolitan, and
Peter had good reason to believe that his
destination was a northern port, probably
Christiania or Copenhagen, though it
was supposed that the yacht would make
a detour and put into the Mersey, for the
sake of exchanging: her crew of Levantines
for Danish or Norwegian sailors in the port
of Liverpool. In the Mersey then it might
be possible to intercept FitzRaymond, or
failing that, it would not be difficult to
trace the further progress of the Thyra,

whose owner was known as Count Bjornsen,
and possessed a house or property in Norway,
of which he was accustomed to make
frequent mention. The acute Peter was
clearly of opinion that the court and his
guest were for the present anxious to shun
rather than to court the observation of the
public, and where could a safer seclusion
offer than in a Norwegian chateau ? The
rest of the letter contained practical suggestions
as to the best means of ensuring
speedy information of the arrival of the
Thyra in any port, British or foreign, and
in conclusion an expression of the writer's
satisfaction at having; earned his washes and
expenses.

Within an hour of the receipt of this
intelligence, Adolphus West was ushered
into the untidy room where Lady Georgiana

sat all alone. Shabby as the house had
been when first he entered it, things were
rapidly becoming worse, as will happen
where antique furniture is suddenly called
to boar the brunt of an ill-regulated mfnicifje,
given to bear-fighting, and the keeping of
many uncontrolled animals. A blind-cord
had snapped, and, lest inconvenient darkness
should result, the blind was simply
twisted round and round itself, till it assumed
an hour-glass outline, and obscured
only a few of the dingy panes. In front
of a sofa from which the stuffing protruded
in many places (rent by the earl's fox-terrier
pups), there was a huge litter of cartridges
and cartridge-cases, and the flooring of
polished oak was ruthlessly stamped with
little circles, impressed in this useful manufacture.
On the single disordered table lay

a pile of articles — pipes, parasols, whips,
battledores, withered button-holes, and
literature, represented by Bailey and Bradshaw
and some crumpled newspapers.
These had been pushed together to allow
a cloth to be spread over one end of the
table, on which, though it was afternoon,
were still to be seen the remains of breakfast
for two — a congealed morsel of omelette,
an emptied pint of St. Julien, an egg-shell,
and a tiny tea-pot. Hard by, on the floor,
were two saucers overturned amid a milky
patch on the ancient carpet, where the dogs
had quarrelled over their share of the
repast.

But amid all the disarray of her
room not a speck or soil clung to Lady
Georgiana. Nothing could be more becoming,
more admirable in its fit, than her

VOL. II. Q

plain dark gown. Her hands lay idle on
her lap as she sat in a great arm-chair, with
a yellow French novel tumbled at her feet
beautiful white hands, exquisitely tapering
fingers ! beholding them, this slight
shambling fellow with his pale face and
pale red hair, glowed with longing to press
them in his own, and cover them with
kisses, while he claimed this radiant graceful
woman, with her dark maze of short
clustering curls, her laughing eyes, her ripe
red lips, for his very own. Hungrily looking
at her, and knowing that he dared not,
now or, under existing circumstances, ever
indulge his unseasonable longings, he hated
himself for being so abjectly enslaved, but
knew that there was no strufr2:lincr with
this master-passion.

Unable to answer her careless greeting,

he put the letter into her hand, and sat
down opposite to her, intently watching
her while she read it. Would she be sorry
to learn that her worthless husband was
alive ? or, horrid thought, was there any
surviving spark of tenderness for the
wretch ? But Lady G. was not one to
indulge a spectator with any clue to what
passed in her bosom. One shapely hand
was pressed over her lips as she read, concealing
them and her dimpled chin, but
her brows were not knit, her colour neither
faded nor deepened, and her manner was
unaltered when at last she folded Peter
Clark's letter neatly, and looking straight
into her adorer's white-lashed eyes, simply
said —
Well ? '

He chafed under her undemonstrative

Q 2

way, but dared not provoke her by giving
passage to words that trembled on his
tongue.

Well,' he faltered, ' I am only waiting
for your sanction to start in pursuit of your
of this man. I have every confidence
that after he has heard what I shall have
to say to him, he won't put any obstacle in
your way. You will divorce him, doing
yourself the barest justice by so ridding
yourself. It will only be necessary to
prove a tithe of the facts of which I hope
soon to be in possession, and no judge can
refuse you such bare justice — and then !
and then ! '

Excited beyond measure as he approached
this climax, he flung himself on his knees
by her side, and snatched at one of her
hands, seeking to carry it to his lips.

Lady G.'s own beautiful lips parted, but
not to smile. Breathing short, she lifted
her hand out of his reach, and holding it
aloft looked liker to some sibyl charged
with boding words than to her wonted self

Sale and barter ! ' she cried, scornfully ;
\ if you are eager to buy, you credit Aim
with equal anxiety to dispose of this valuable
hand of mine. But, beware ! I have
heard of such a word as collusion — not to
say bribery and corruption — and any whisper
of such dealing would vitiate all arguments
for your scheme.'

Good God,' he gasped, ' you speak as if
you had no concern at all, no interest either
way in the scheme as you call it. Oh,
Georgiana, I have waited and worked ! you
are not going to throw me over after
all ? '

Nonsense she replied, less mockingly
however ; ' I come of a legal stock, remember,
and if I point out flaws, does it show
no concern in the proceedings ? But you
must own that the liberty which you desire
for me is, according to your plan, to be
surrendered almost as soon as secured.'

You shall have all possible liberty — you
shall do what you will with me and mine,
if you consent to make me happy.'

*Ah, yes,' she said, laughing now, 'you
are all the same — most devoted creatures !
It shocks you to hear me conjugate the verb,
'' I am selfish, thou art selfish, he, she, or it is
selfish, we are selfish," and so on ; but it
hits off everybody I have ever known to
aT.'

You shan't find me selfish, I swear it !
I know you have not been treated as you

deserve ; but that shall be ended if I succeed.
Give me some comfort, then, to take away
with me.*

His voice grew very pitiful, and his pale
blue eyes were moist. With a twitch of
the corners of her lips. Lady G., now quite
herself again, let her hand fall for a second
lightly on his pale red hair, and then she
rattled away —

Take my blessing, then, and much good
may it do you. It's unlucky that Fairy is
just off to the Cheltenham Autumn Meeting
because you can't expect me to promise
and vow myself away solemnly in the absence
of my sole relative and protector.
He might have given you some advice too
about your journey — Fairy is a first-rate
hand at spotting the right things for other
people. However, if you are in the same

mind when I am set free, as I suppose I
possibly shall be, and we are both alive and
so on, why, as the slavey remarked, I don't
know but what I might. Get up now,
there's a good fellow, I'm going to ring
the bell. Oh, thanks ! I'm really peckish,
and if anybody condescends to answer the
bell, we'll have up some lunch — there's a
ham, I know. What ! can't eat anything ?
That will never do, you know.'

Poor wretch ! he would have o^iven all he
was worth to catch her in his arms, as she
stood up and leaned her elbow on the
mantelpiece, to strain her to him and kiss
her mouth but once. But a pressure of a
cool small hand was all that was accorded
to him. It, at any rate, he did kiss feverishly,
and left the. room full of unsatisfied
craving — wretched, and yet not daring to

shape a grievance. As lie went down the
great echoing stairway, with its dome overhead,
from which the painted splendours
peeled, she leaned over the balustrade and
gave him a last vision.

You'll write of course,' she cried, ashe
stopped and looked up—' write to
Fairy if it's anything like business.
Ta-ta ! take care of yourself — and here's
luck ! '

She pulled off her slipper — wonderful
little slipper with a coquettish scarlet bow —
and flung it after him. Her laughing voice
rang in his ears as he crossed to the door.
He left Beausite more madly than ever
enamoured of this daughter of the house.
When alone in his own home he kissed and
mumbled the slipper which was worn by
her dainty foot. He would have liked to

set that little foot upon his neck, grovelling
on the ground before this woman, who,
though she gave him little encouragement,
nothing of the warmth he coveted, held him
as by a spell. Of her only he thought during
his interview with Mr. Clark, and his
preparations for the journey. There was
his old mother in her villa at Lonoboro',
ready enough to let by-gones be by-gones,
sure to be stricken with misery when she
should hear of his sudden departure. But
Adolphus West could not spare an hour for
the old mother, who had been, as far as she
knew how, a good mother to him. He
could not thiidv of Swardham, the great
prize which had fallen to his lot. He would
never care to see the place again, unless he
mio^ht inhabit it with Georgian as its
mistress. Fretfully he scouted the date

of Clark's accompanying him on his
quest.

Stuff ! what should I want with you at
my elbow ? your business is to see that five
thousand pounds is lodged to my credit
in Taylor's Bank at Liverpool, and for the
rest — do what I may instruct by letter or
telegram.'

It was useless for Clark to urge that,
under the most favourable conditions of
steaming, the Thyra could hardly have
reached Liverpool. Obvious as it was that
the mail conveying Peter's letter must have
outstripped a yacht of a hundred and
twenty tons, even if the latter put into no
port between the Black Sea and the Mersey,
West was impatient of the least dehxy, and
started for Liverpool within twenty-four
hours of receipt of the letter. Here he had

ample time not only to engage competent
persons to report the yacht's arrival as soon
as it was notified to the authorities of the
port, but to indulge in a surfeit of his idolatry
while eating his heart out in enforced
inaction. Under the new impulse given to
his hopes, he forgot his late wrath and disappointment
in the matter of the election ;
he forgot the past with its many mortifications
and its one signal aggrandisement ;
he thought only of his dark-eyed charmer,
and of the future to be spent with her. Of
his chances of sympathy or real union in
that future he made no account — it is questionable
if even his self-conceit could have
invested those chances with hopeful hues —
he only dreamed of the one prospect, he
would possess that being, the loveliest he
had ever beheld — the loveliest (he thought)

on earth ! Her very inaccessibility to tenderness
lent a greater value to that joy.
Site had kept him at a distance ; she was
but reserving herself; she was to be his.
After a long fortnight of feverish waiting,
of constant tension and rack, relieved only
by these visions, the news was brought to
him one morning in his bed at the hotel,
that the Thyra had come in late on the
previous night, and was lying off Nicholson's
landing-stage. West stormed at the
messenger.

Why had he not been roused at the
moment of the yacht's approach ? Why
had they let him lie till nine o'clock ? '

Pale and nervous, and untidy from haste,
he was presently driven to the landing-stage,
and rowed out to the yacht, a craft
painted all in dingy white with a white

funnel. Twice did his boatmen row round
the Thyra, hailing her in stentorian tones.
Seems as if there wasn't nobody aboard
one of the men were saying, when, from the
companion, a gentleman, in the correct garb
of dark jacket with gilt buttons and round
cap to match, leisurely emerged and leaned
over the taflf-rail. West's heart throbbed
violently, and then sank within him. From
the earl's description of his cousin he knew
Lin to be a tall fair-haired man, and this
man was short and black-haired, with
a jetty moustache. Courteously touching
his cap, the unknown inquired, in excellent
English just tinged with a foreign
accent —

What is your business, sir ? what can I
do for you ? '

Sir, you can do me the favour of informing

me if Colonel FitzRaymond, Aylmer
FitzRaymond, is on board this vessel.'

Ah replied the glib foreigner, raising
his black eyebrows, ' and you have business
with FitzRaymond ? A thousand regrets
that I have not brought him here, delighted
as he would doubtless be to encounter your
kind welcome. But, alas ! alas ! no further
than Malta had I the distinguished pleasure
of my friend FitzRaymond's company on
this my poor little boat. For at Malta the
colonel met with some compatriots, some
ancient companions of arms, who go to
travel in Turkestan, at whose persuasion
the colonel (speaking perfectly many
languages of the East) joined himself of
the party, and deprived me of the pleasure
of his distinguished society. By this time
he is assuredly approaching the confines of

Turkestan, and I — I only have the pleasure
of giving his friend of his news instead

of '

Here the Count Bjornsen (for such was
the style of the owner of the yacht) once
more lifted his cap gravely, and with a
gentle ' If you have, then, no further commands
for me ' was retiring, when Adolphus,
choking with disappointment, exclaimed —

You know, perhaps, where to write to
him — if you could tell me — '

Ah ! ' said the count, turning round at
the top of the companion — * it is true that
the postal arrangements of Turkestan are
incomplete — yes, decidedly rudimentary!
But, in awaiting the return of our distinguished
friend, I would suggest that Poste
Estate Constantinople will be an address
of the safest,' and with these words of

wisdom and a grave inclination of the head,
the count disappeared, leaving West almost
delirious with vexation and wild desires to
slay Peter Clark.

So crushed and baffled was this luckless
man at first, that he lay for hours helpless on
his bed at the hotel, and it was not till evening
that he felt impelled once more to visit—
the landing-stage, with some vague hope of
eliciting further information. Here he was
again disappointed. Missing the Thyra from
her berth he made inquiries, and found that
she had got up steam and dropped down
the river about an hour before. This swift
departure gave him an uneasy feeling that
he had somehow been beguiled by this
smooth-tongued count. Why had he been
so easily daunted ? Could he not at least
have insisted on boarding the ^^acht for

VOL. II. R

further conversation ? He almost wished
he had brought Clark with him after all.
As he was dejectedly taking himself to task,
he felt a touch on his arm. One of the
harbour officials, whom he had feed for
information, saluted and said — -

Ask pardon, sir, but here's a man as has
come off of that yacht, one as shipped
aboard her in the Black Sea — perhaps you'd
speak to him.'

A brown-faced man in a red cowl stepped
forward on this introduction and bowed low,
as West surveyed him anxiously.

If you can tell me anything about the
fair gentleman, the Englishman who left
you at Malta, I can make it worth your
while,' he said.

The man, a Maltese steward, smiled till
his little beady eyes were enveloped in

myriad wrinkles, and answered quickly in
very queer sounding English —

'You mean Colonel FitzRaimon ? I tell
you where he is ; you are a gentleman and
I tell you. Colonel is just where he was
this morning ; he is on board de yacht of
de count.'

West roared out an oath, while sweaty
broke out on his pale forehead. * That
count! that cursed glib liar!' The man
went on :

You are perhaps friend of de Colonel,
yes?'

The scoundrel ! ' West broke out at last,
at least I mean, I don't know him, I mean
him no harm.'

^ Ah ! ' the Maltese uttered a prolonged
sound, 'if he is not the friend of monsieur,
I will say sans wagon he is escroc ; he

R 2

afraid to be put in prison, that is why he
hide.'

Oh, outrageous fool that he had been !
Had his errand been plainly stated, had he
opened negotiations with the yacht more
astutely, this miserable failure and delay, this
loss of an invaluable trail, would have been
avoided ! He gnashed his teeth and swore
frightfully enough to have appalled any but
sea-faring men. But the Maltese touched
his red night-cap and respectfully began —

I know where the count goes at present
the count's valet was my friend, and he
tell me.'

Ah, here was a chance of retrieving ! a
chance worth fifty-thousand times the bribe
that would content this man, who might
surely be believed. In a few broken words
he assured the Maltese that he would pay

well for information, well — more than well !
The beady eyes twinkled with joy, and,
rapidly gabbling in his imperfect English,
their owner set forth that Bergen in
Norway was the port whither the Thyra
was bound, and that on a fiord somewhere
between that place and the Sonne Fiord
the count possessed a house, where he
proposed to sojourn, with the colonel as
guest.

West's first idea was to charter a steamer
and go in instant pursuit of the yacht.
But even his heated brain could presently
see the absurdity of such a course — the
Thyra was no pirate to be challenged and
boarded by a superior force on the high
seas. Conciliation and diplomacy must be
his weapons, when at last he should overtake
these shifty suspicious fugitives. High-handed

proceedings could only lead to
defeat. Dismissing the Maltese, well-contented,
he made some hurried inquiries at
a neighbouring packet-office, and soon convinced
himself that his best way would be
to cross England by rail, and take steamer
from Hull to Bergen, where he might hope
to arrive quite as soon as the yacht, which
must go far north, and might perhaps be
delayed in navigating the stormy waters
from which the Hebrides arise, or those
which toss between Duncansby Head and
the mainland of Orkney.

On this advice Adolphus West acted
immediately, quitting Liverpool within an
hour of his interview with the Maltese
sailor.

CHAPTER XII.

ON BOARD THE Tyrant

was long before John Wood (to continue
to call him what he called himself)
regained complete consciousness and the
full use of his senses. There were intervals
in which he was conscious of being fed and
subjected to other attentions, for which he
felt no gratitude ; but stupor quickly took
possession again of his mind ; and his exhausted
body, bruised and battered by the
collision, which had smashed the small boat
like a nutshell and stunned its other occupant,
craved a long spell of perfect repose

On the third day, however, after he had
been picked up, he began to ' take notice,'
and essayed to speak to a man who acted
as his nurse from time to time.

He remembered now all that had happened
: the funeral of Robert Fife, his
slumbers on the shore of Loch Also, the
strange awaking in the boat, the horrid
watches of the night shared with that
unhappy maniac who had gone to her doom,
the final catastrophe, and the manner of
his rescue. Though still languid and nerveless,
he had a faint wish to know whither
he was being borne in the vessel whose
narrow cabin was his sick-room. But his
sailor-nurse during his short visits was
taciturn, and plainly understood very little
English, and Jack was not up to any effort.
He felt that he owed a debt of gratitude

to the crew of this vessel, who were probably
doing their best for him (though
indeed the accommodation was anything
but luxurious for a man with bruised and
aching ribs), and he hoped soon to see the
captain, or some one in authority, to whom
he might express his thankfulness.

Meanwhile he did not trouble himself
about the future. It would certainly be
stern and hard enough when he should be
deposited on some strange shore, penniless
and indebted for his very clothing to the
charity of these foreign sailors ! He developed
a great capacity for sleep, which the
gentle motion of the vessel seemed to assist,
and lost all count of time. As his extreme
exhaustion passed from him, these slumbers
became lighter and admitted of dreams in
which he renewed his old life as squire of

Swardhara, and enjoyed once more his
exhilarating gallops in the Longshire pastures.
One forenoon he fancied himself
mounted on his favourite hunter, and waiting
for the fox to break at a well-known
covert-side, when he was scandalized by
some men who tvoidd play cards ! He was
just expressing his disgust at this novelty
in forcible language, when ' 1 mark the king
and win,' saluted his ear with such clearness
that he woke up, and became aware that
the door of his little cabin had swung open,
and that not far from the other side of ita
game of ecarte had really been going on
moreover, that the losing player was
expending fluent curses upon his luck intones
unmistakably British, and demanding
an alteration of the game to piquet !

Much interested in the presence of a

countryman, Jack leaned his head feebly
over the edge of his berth and launched his
gaze into a small dingy saloon, where two
men where shuffling cards at the table.
The man who demanded piquet sat facing
the cabin-door, and Jack studied him
curiously, feeling sure that he was a man
with a history. Undeniably an aristocratic-looking
personage — not old, but considerably
the worse for wear : his fair hair, of which
he grew a long beard, had deserted the top
of his head and was unkempt ; his well-shaped
nose had a pinched look, and was
rather red at the tip ; his eyes were moist
and blood-shot ; his large white hand was
decidedly unsteady. * A man who has
lived, who lives hard ; ' thought Jack — * I
scarcely think he is the skipper either.
The other man sat with his back to the

cabin-door. He was much smaller than his
companion, and his sleek, close-cropped head
was black. His voice was well-modulated
and pleasant, and he spoke English fluently,
though not without a foreign accent. They
played piquet — but with so little change
of luck that the Englishman growled and
swore incessantly as in turn he suffered
pique and repique.

^ I must have some liquor to take away
the taste of this luck,' he said as he handed
over the stakes.

My dear fellow,' rejoined the other
pleasantly, * I decidedly advise you to
wait till we lunch, when you shall have a
bottle of the Perrier-Jouet.

But this proposition was scouted, and the
Englishman with vehemence persisted in
his demand for instant brandy, growing

more and more rude as the other sought to
dissuade him, always courteously. At last,
with a shrug of his shoulders, the shorter
man rose, took a key from his watch-chain,
and opening a locker produced a bottle of
Cognac. Disregarding the clutching fingers
outstretched for the spirit, he leisurely filled
a gilded liqueur glass of fairy proportions,
at sight of which fresh execrations burst
from his friend.

'And you haven't even filled that
wretched thimble to the brim,' he ended
with many furious maledictions.

*My good sir, the glass is as full as is
reasonable at sea, even in fine weather and
in a steady hand.'

There was a sneer in these last words,
and indeed the man who grasped the glass
had to stoop over it with protruded lips

and eager haste to prevent the spilling of
the liquor. As he gulped it down his
friend watched him, and said in cool contemptuous
tones :

'You may as well understand, once and
for all, that I am not going to have a fellow
in delirium tremens on my hands, either
here or in my house. So ; if you can't
stomach my limiting you, you can take
yourself off, you know, the moment we
land.'

The Englishman, mollified perhaps by his
dram, only muttered :

Oh, all right, don't make a row ' — and
turning away took up a little book which
lay on the table.

There was a moment's silence, broken by
an exclamation from the last speaker :

Why ! where the deuce did you get this?'

Oh ! is it the fact of finding a book of
your English Church services on my table
that excites you ? Droll, I grant. But it
is not part of my marine library — that little
breviary was in the waistcoat-pocket of the
poor wretch we picked up the other day off
the Point of Seat — and they have had it
in the engine-room to dry

With another ejaculation the fair tall
Englishman rose and flung into the little
cabin where Jack lay, who, dreading a
possible scene in his weak state, had the
presence of mind to quickly close his eyes.
For he had recognized that little black book,
despite its sodden state, and he well remembered
its presence in his pocket. It
was a little Common Prayer-book, which he
had used for many years, and had taken
on the morning of leaving Soon say for the

funeral, that he might comfort himself after
the Scottish function by reading over the
beautiful office of his own Church for the
burial of the dead. And on the fly-leaf,
as now flashed upon him, were the words
written, 'John West, Swardham/ He had
gummed that leaf to the cover when he
resolved to drop the old name and disappear
from the old surroundings — not liking to
tear it out because a text in his mother's
handwriting was on its other side — but
the bath in salt water had, no doubt, unglued
the page. Who could this be to
whom those few words caused manifest
excitement ? The man scanned him closely
as he lay still and apparently sleeping — and
presently, after a low whistle, muttered :

By George it is ! There's something to be
made of this, or I'm drunker than drunk —

here, Eric, come in here if you can squeeze
yourself beside me — oh, you won't wake
him, he has never been conscious yet.
What should you say if I told you that
this fellow, that your sailors picked up,
with nothing worth twopence upon him,
is an English squire of old family and
as fine a property as there is in the
Midlands.'

With scarcely a pause — and in bantering
tones much unlike the flurried speech of his
friend, Eric answered :

What should I say ? I should say
characteristic — infernally, no ! admirably
characteristic ! Have I not heard of your
great Scotch earl, who was washed overboard
while voyaging as a common sailor
before the mast ? Do I not remember your

respectable priest, who, after all the country
VOL. II. s

was convulsed about his disappearance,
turned up in the guise of a cattle-drover ?
"What can I say then but most characteristic ? '

Before the end of this tirade the two men
had retired from the cabin back into the
wider space of the saloon, where they
resumed their talk.

When you've quite done talking rot
about people you don't understand, I'll tell
you who this is — unless you prefer my
keeping my discovery to myself.'

Ah, the good-hearted friend ! — he could
make so much out of his discovery without
me ! — he would be so thoroughly " en pays
de connivance " at Bergen with his invalided
friend ! — it is quite touching to witness
his confidence.'

You've a riling tongue, Eric, but you
have stood my friend both at Varna and

Liverpool, and you shall stand in with me
now. I tell you this ought to be a better
thing than young Sergiovitch — this man
has twenty thousand a year if he has a
penny.'

And we have Jam, you should add. Hem !
this is flotsam and jetsam indeed ! where
and when had you the privilege of acquainting
yourself with this eccentric's circumstances
? '

Considering that he belongs to my own
county ! — you needn't grin in that confounded
sneering way — I am of a leading
family, a titled family, broke as I maybe,
and when / speak of my own
county, any English gentleman knows
that Aylmer FitzRaymond is speaking
of Longshire.'

Oh, I know all about your nobility, my

S 2

friend ! — dates from the last century ! — noblesse
de la robe, highly respectable, no doubt !
I have even heard of the lord, the present
head of the distinguished house of Fits
But I am to understand,
then, that in Longshire you find room
also for this gentleman whose estates
produce the rental so appetising which you
quote ? '

Good heavens, yes ! — he is West of
Swardham. Everybody has heard of the
Westss. I wonder how many foreign counts
one might lump together without making
as big a man ! *

Admirably put indeed, my friend. You
convey to a nicety the sense of something
prodigious ; but indeed the needy foreigner
has long appreciated this English abundance,
even from the rude ages when Born my

forefather crossed this brine in his long ship
to harry your fat fields

At this point one of the sailors hailed the
speaker from the companion, and he hurried
on deck, followed more slowly by his friend,
who was indeed no other than Aylmer Fits
His own mention of the name
as belonging to him had relieved the innocent
eavesdropper in the cabin from
infinite puzzling. Never otherwise would
John West have recognized in this bearded,
haggard, tremulous man the handsome and
dashing soldier who had played havoc with
female hearts in Longshire ten or twelve
years back, and whose elopement with his
beautiful cousin had caused a genuine sensation
in the Midlands.

The young heir of Swardham had never
been intimate with the junior branches

of the house of FitzRaymond — Rachel
West had used her influence to bar
any such intimacy, dreading the potency
of Lady Georgiana's charms as much as
she disapproved of her conduct ; but he
had of course often met Lord Fairport
and his cousin, and had heard vague
rumours of the life of the latter, after he
had fled his native country a proclaimed
outlaw.

If birds of a feather always flock together,'
Jack ruminated, * I am in queer
company. However, I am in a position to
whistle in the highwayman's face, if ever
man was 1 I rather like the fellow with
the black moustache — the skipper I suppose
I must call him. I must see how he takes
it when he hears the truth, and finds himself
requested to furnish canvas breeches

and an old pair of shoes to the gentleman
of fortune whose life he was lucky enough
to save. Bergen, I think they said. Well,
at the worst I must try what sort of 
a Bergen doorstep may be when
we get there, so Til make the most of a
mattress while I have one.'

Turning his weary head round, he was
soon asleep, his achievements in that line
being prodigious at this period. He awoke
at last to find the swinging-lamp lit, and
somebody at his berth-side with a basin of
soup which smelled deliciously. No such
savour had regaled him since he had lain
there ; no such white, ringed hand had
spread a napkin or extended the porringer.
It was the skipper who bent over him,
scrutinizing his face with piercing grey
eyes, whose pleasant voice congratulated

him on having made a good recovery,
and being near the end of tedious confinement.


Please to take this broth,' he went on,
with a smile that showed beautiful white
teeth. *I am the Count Bjornseu, owner
of the yacht which has been lucky enough
to rescue you, and I hope to be able to
tempt your appetite with some variety tomorrow
or next day, when, if this wonderful
weather continues, we shall be on dry
land — Norwegian soil.'

Poor Jack supped up the excellent soup
after a grateful glance at the friendly
countenance, and, feelings all the stronger

' CD O •

for his food, essayed to thank the owner

of the yacht and his crew for saving

a life 'of small value to any one but
the owner,' he said.

The Count smiled and bowed as he said :
I believe I have the pleasure of addressing
Mr. West of Swardham in Longshire ;
and I imagine that the dwellers in that
famous county would demur to this estimate
of the life of one of their most respected

magnates.

With a sigh which in his weakened state
he could not stifle, Jack began his explanation.


I do not know what you will think of
me, Count, when I own that I overheard a
conversation (was it this morning ?) between
you and FitzRaymond. I was not asleep
when you both came in and looked at me,
though I did not feel up to much talking
just then. And I must lose no time in
removing a false impression about myself.
I am not a wealthy squire ; I am penniless,

destitute ; and was no more than a gamekeeper
before that accident which cost one
life, and would have ended mine had you
not picked me up.'

He stopped, soon tired by his earnest
disclaimer, and fixed honest eyes on the
face that had smiled so pleasantly.

Do you deny that you are the person for
whom Colonel FitzRaymond takes you —
the person whose name is in your little
book ? ' the Count asked, with a slight
abatement of geniality.

I do not,' Jack said, in a low, pained
voice ; ' but if your friend had been in
Longshire, or had been in a way of hearing
the county news within the year past, he
would know that I am just what I said —
that Swardham never was mine in fiict, but
my cousin's, who lives there now.'

A look of intelligence came into the
Count's face ; lie put this hand on Jack's
forehead and muttered something in his
native tongue, and then in blandest tones
besought him not to agitate himself or try
to do anything but sleep — with which
exhortation he stepped gently from the
cabin and closed the door. .

Oh hang it ! ' the poor fellow groaned ;
'he thinks I am light-headed, and doesn't
believe a word of my story — here's a pretty
state of things to go to sleep upon ; I wish I
could get up.'

However an attempt to struggle up only
bumped his head against the top of his
berth — and feeling dizzy, he resigned himself
to do as the Count had recommended.
That gentleman was meanwhile conferring
with FitzKaymond.

Hang it all this latter protested ; * without
being as well up in pedigrees as any-old
dowager, I do know about these Westss,
and can swear that the old boy whom I
remember as squire of Swardham out-lived
both his sons. One broke his neck, and it's
that elder one that this fellow reminded me
so strongly of, as he lay in his berth yonder
the other died long before, quite a young
fellow — and there was only the daughter
left, who was this chap's mother. He was
the only grandchild, and brought up as the
heir, as a matter of course ; quite a model
heir he was too ! He never had any cousin
on the West side, and it is all bosh, whether
he is raving, or, as is not impossible if he
heard all we said (hang him ! ), trying it
on a bit, with a view to getting off as
cheaply as possible from our clutches ! '

The Count's face darkened, and he nodded
once or twice.

Well he said abruptly, * time will show.
We have got him safe enough at any rate —
and, under the circumstances, I shall take
the yacht up to Bjornstrand, my own place,
you know, where there is excellent anchorage
in the fiord close under the house, without
putting into Bergen first as I had
intended.'

He stopped to meditate awhile — and went
on presently in his usual bantering tones.
History repeats itself. I dare say your royal
Richard, for all his Lion-heart, would have
been very glad to pass himself ofi" for some
petty squire when he was laid by the heels
in Austria, and to save thereby that magnificent
ransom for his own princely spending
! Meanwhile our cue is to treat our

captive as brain-sick. It would be cruelty
to turn the poor fellow loose till he comes
to his senses. And I have people at home
to nurse him admirably if needful, and take
the best care of him till he comes round ! '

END OF VOL. II.

Chin and Taylor, Printers, Bungay, Suffolk.

^

vii-^r.

M r^

fgitized by the internet Archive
in 2009 with funding from
University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/westofswardhamno03peil

YOL. III.

a 8»iiti

BY

THE Rev. W. 0. Pile,

AUTHOR OF " TAY."

IN THREE VOLUMES.
VOL. III.

London:
HURST AND BLACKETT, PUBLISHERS,

13, GREAT MARLBOROUGH STREET.
1885.

All rights risen-ed.

CLAY AND Tailor, Printers.

CONTENTS

OF

THE THIRD VOLUME.

I. Game Forge 1

II. Aquatic 29

III. The Good Servant that is a Bad Master 62

IV. Patient Griselda 84

V. Bergen 109

VI. Psyche, with a Difference . . . 124

VII. Darkest Hour before the Dawn . . 157

VIII. As IT WAS Meant to Be . . . .182

IX. The Provisional Will 209

X. ' Of Swardham still.' 239

h

CHAPTER I.
Game Forge.

TT was the harsh and hurried sound
caused by dropping anchor which first
roused John West to consciousness that
the voyage was over. So soundly had he
slumbered that he has since suspected the
Count of having administered some sedative
or opiate ; but, be that as it might, he felt
on awaking that he was himself aorain,
such as he had been before that terrible
night which seemed already to belong to

VOL. III. B

the dim past. Spite of his still distressful
plight, the strong man rejoiced in his
recovered vigour. Come what would, it
seemed good to be alive, even in absolute
destitution, while a sunbeam flickered
through the port, and the aches and pinch
of the last few days were no more than
troubled dreams, gone with the darkness.
He was soon on his feet, and peering from
the port-hole.

Could this be Bergen ? Why, it seemed a
solitude, a background of rocks and fir-trees
at no great distance from the yacht, and
rising sheer from the same dark waters on
which she rode. ILirk ! there was a boat
approaching ; he could hear, but did not see
it. Looking round the tiny cabin he caught
sight of a suit of tidy blue serge, a striped

shirt, and other toilette necessaries, disposed
where they would meet his eye. Oh, the
rapture of it ! — here was a truce to the worst
of his destitution. He was not long in
clothing himself, and not long in tumbling
up on deck, full of curiosity as to his whereabouts.
Xo one took any notice of him fur
a while, — for the crew were busy with their
visitors, whose boat with its enormous oars
floated alongside, — and he stared with all
his eyes around him.

Not a trace to be seen of the German
Ocean ! — the yacht lav in a land-locked
channel half a mile or less in width, of whose
steep sides, rocky and fir-crowned, he had
spied a sample from his port. But at a
little distance there was a bay, from whir-h
the stony barrier retired in a fine sweep,

B 1

leaving room for a sward or meadow of the
most brilliant tint of green. That flowery,
grassy nook seemed to John West as fair
a sight as he had ever looked upon. In
places on this beautiful expanse of herbage
there were clumps of birches, in others
patches of cultivated ground whence crops
of oats or rye had been cut. Near to the
water's edge were two or three wooden
houses, all gaudily painted, close to which
was a much higher and larger building, of
fanciful and pagoda-like appearance, likewise
all of wood. It had many gables,
from which projected the roof ridges in
great grotesque finials, arching outwards
like outstretched arms. In the centre rose
a sort of gabled turret, with a flag-staff.
The whole edifice, except the ground floor,

was covered with wooden tiles, looking at a
little distance like scales, and painted in
several shades of green. Further back,
upon a knoll studded with Scotch firs of
such beauty as to rival Italian pines, stood
a venerable but almost shapeless pile of
ancient stone, which seemed half ruinous.
In the remoter background more than one
waterfall descended from the heights,
tumbling in successive cascades that showed
white among the sombre spruces. The
Englishman scanned all eagerly, marking
with a sportsman's eye the capabilities of
the country.

I don't see a salmon river,' he thought,
but otherwise I should consider this place
a paradise for four months of the year. Is
the count a sporting character, I wonder !

I >

He looked to the stern, where Bjornsen and
FitzRaymond were engaged in reading the
Fetters brought to them by the shore-boat.
For the latter but one letter had been delivered,
but this seemed to have excited him
considerably. He had seized on his friend,
ruthlessly interrupting his perusal of his
own correspondence, and now the pair were
in earnest discussion over the open sheet.

I could fancy the skipper shooting
pretty straight,' Jack thought ; ' but as to
my compatriot, I should be very sorry to be
within ranee of his <2:un. How he shakes !
What a brute he looks, considering the
smart chap he once was ! I am not at all
anxious to renew acquaintance, and neither,
apparently, is he.'

There appeared, by the gestures of the

two men, to be some dispute or difference
between them, arising from the letter which
both had read. Violence on the part of the
colonel produced only the usual shrug of
the count's shoulders. He had said his
say, and at last stood contemptuously aloof
while the other, haorgrard and excited,
bustled into the boat which straightway
made for the shore. The count stood fora
while looking after the retreating oars
with no very amiable expression, and pulling
his black moustaches. Then he caught
short of Jack, and moved towards him with
a quick, bright smile.

Welcome to Bjornestrand,' he said, in his
low pleasant tones. ' I rejoice to see that
you are so far recovered that I can do the
poor honours of the place.'

Jack bowed and smiled in return, feeling
as much drawn to this man as repelled by
the other.

Honours,' he said, ' are no due of mine.
You have clothed the naked and fed the
hungry, whose life you had first been the
means of preserving.'

The count stopped him with a gentle
laugh and wave of the hand.

No gratitude is due of mine. There are
those of your countrymen who would
certainly feel none, and I rejoice to have
been of any slight service to one who, I
am sure, deserves the best efforts. Let us
talk of other things. Is this your first
sight of Norway ? Yes ; well, I wish it
were a more enchanting view. Ah I you
find it not without a charm ! But this is

but one of a thousand fiords — featureless
and poor compared with many — no show-place
visited by travellers. Yonder you seethe
crumbling ruin of the old tower of the
Bjornsens, with the few acres that alone
are left to us in these days. You wonder
perhaps what is that grotesque edifice
nearer to us ' (he pointed to the green
pagoda). 'It is a sort of parody of one of
our old churches — probably ancient parodies
in their turn of Byzantine architecture.
But that green monstrosity is no church.
Alas ! it is a summer-house — an inn without
customers, a folly of my poor father, who
thought to rival the Sonne or Hard anger
here, and built a house for tourists who
seldom did him the honour of approaching
it. Now and again in the summer season

it receives a strap traveller; on rare occasions
a party will steam up oar fiord ; but it is a
monument of failure, that sole attempt of
the Bjornsens to be enriched by commercial
enterprise.' Again he laughed pleasantly. 'At
any rate it can offer better accommodation
than the chilly vaults of our poor old dungeon
there, and such as it is I hope you will be
my guest in it as long as you feel disposed.'

Earnestly Jack thanked this good-natured
fellow for his hospitality, and then went
on to say —

I must be a burden on you only till I
can devise a way of earning my bread once
more. Perhaps you can help me to this ?
I will do anything that an able-bodied
fellow can undertake

Then you do not desire to return at

present to England the count asked, looking
attentively at him.

You would not wonder if you knew
my case that I have no wish to return to
En or] and.'

Perhaps I know more than you suppose.
Fortune has used you badly. You have
been hurled, bv no fault of your own, from
a proud position to absolute poverty ! You
Sloe that I am informed, no matter how,
of your past. What lapse of time and slow
decay has accomplished in the family which
I represent, one hour brought about for
you. I was ten years your junior when I
began my battle of life, as penniless as you,
und I have never gone under ; nay, I have
trampled on those who scorned me sometimes
; never have 1 been trampled on !

And are you — you to resign yourself to slave
and drudge amonor sons of the soil ? No,
you shall not. Father cast in your lot with
mine ! Listen, I will speak freely, for I
feel 1 may trust you. I am disappointed,
I am disgusted with FitzRayrnond. My
only desire is to disembarrass myself as soon
as possible of this man without self-control.
Let him end his miserable life in floods
of the brandy for which he would sell his
soul ; I am done with him. But in you I seethe
possibility of such camaraderie as I desire
you would be the ally for whom I seek.'

Warming as he proceeded, the count
urged this most unexpected proposal with
much vivacity. Though touched by an
offer of fellowship so surprising, Jack was
not a little bewildered. What was the

proffered position ? In what fashion was
the count's mysterious battle of life conducted,
which involved some trampling on
prostrate foes ? Still gratitude so far prevailed
over hesitancy that his answer was
not displeasing to his host.

Ah, yes said this latter, ' you will have
leisure in this dead and silent place to know
me better. I will unfold to you my plans
for next year — my campaign against the
enemy ! And when you weigh what I can
offer — a life of travel, adventure, society
against the lot of a mere toiler among
toilers, you cannot hesitate. Come, the
boat returns for us ; let us make for the
unwonted joys of terra firma, including,
perhaps, even a dessert of mutter-berries and
cream after our dejeuner J

In the course of half-author Jack found
himself at table in a fairly spacious room,
ceiled, floored, and walled with deal, and
furnished after the plainest fashion of a
provincial salle a manr/cr. The fare was
likewise simple, consisting mainly of fish,
fresh and salted, eggs, and oatmeal porridge
mixed with cream. These humble delicacies
were served by a young woman in red
bodice and double snood of the same colour.
FitzRaymond took his place at the board,
but, as the count observed, neither ate
much nor made agreeable conversation f<>r
those who were eating. West could feel no
surprise that his host should have wearied
of ' the colonel,' who was rude and insolent,
almost iii^norinof the third icuest, aud coarsely
abusing the viands, especially the rye bread,

which was indeed of a startling black colour.
It appeared that he was extremely ill-pleased
to have been delayed by his friend's hospitalities,
for he kept demanding a conveyance
for Bergen.

I ought to be there, or half way at any
rate, by this time,* he cried angrily, ' and
you keep me in this cursed hole, though you
know what is up, and what suspense I'm in.'

The count answered always with unruffled
equanimity, assuring his irritable and uncivil
guest that no horses for the land journey
were to be had, and that the person into
whose presence he was so anxious to
rush would undoubtedly arrive very shortly
at Bjornestrand, thereby saving him all
fatigue.

'Pray resign yourself.' he continued;

have a little faith in me, a little consideration
for the peculiarities of my country.
Be content, and take a cup of this excellent
coffee.'

FitzRaymond seemed to regard the coffee
as a mere excuse or vehicle for ample
additions from a flask labelled 'Trondhjem
Aquatic.' It was horrible to see how his
eyes glared at the spirit, with what frightful
intensity of craving he demanded more and
more of it, spilling his coffee into the saucer,
and hoarsely insisting that the cup should
})e filled brimful from the brandy-bottle.
Jack was moved to pity amid his loathing
for the man. Good heavens ! what was the
deepest descent from riches to penury,
what was the abruptness turn of Fortune's
wheel, compared with this abyss of degradation

into which he, who once seemed a
gallant gentleman, had precipitated himself?
The meal concluded, Fits Raymond began
restlessly to pace the gravel in front of the
door, bending his blood-shot eyes on a point
at the head of the fiord where he supposed
that persons approaching from Bergen by
land would first be visible. His haororard

CO

lips were working, his fingers twitching.

He was evidently a prey to an excitement

which had blotted from his mind all interest

whether in Bjornsen or in the man whom

he had recognized as of ' his own county.'

Leaving him to his own devices, the

count set himself to do the honours of his

patrimony to his new friend. First they

strolled through some other chambers of the

pagoda-like building, all alike finished in
VOL. in. c

wood and scantily furnished, of which one
had the fittings of a bar, with barrels and
bottles ranged on shelves behind. The
windows of the upper rooms opened on to
small balconies, whence were gained pretty-but
not extensive views up or down the fiord.
Next he led his guest across the beautifully
green sward to the ruinous old tower, and
showed its melancholy rooms, with their
rudely vaulted roofs and windows admitting
a minimum of light. These were the only
dwellings, save two or three peasants*
houses, on the property, and these were
well-nisfh deserted. More to Jack's taste was
the out-door aspect of the place — the copses
where they flushed the Norwegian grouse,
now exchanging its darker summer plumage
for delicate French-grey tints, soon to fade

into pure white at the near approach of

winter ; the brooks that promised trout ;

even the marshes, where some children were

busy picking the * motte-beer ' (mutter-berry

or cloud-berry') — a fruit twice as large as

our bramble-berry, and of yellow instead of

jetty dye. He wondered how the owner of

all these thing-s, the descendant of the

builders of that mouldering tower, came to

be such as he was — an accomplished citizen

of the world ; a slight, slim figure dressed

in well-cut clothes, fitter for Cowes pier than

for this northern solitude.

For hours they rambled on, enjoying the

free use of their limbs after the narrow

limits of the yacht, and engaged in pleasant

talk, which was a wondrous treat to Jack,

so long cut ois from the society of cultured

c 2

men. The count was full of interesting;

detail, of stories and legends respecting his

country, its customs and antiquities, its
fiords and sounds, mountains and inland

lakes. And he talked well, showing that

he could be a charming companion in the

presence of an intelligent being, silent and

curt as he had been with the sottish Aylmer
FitzRaymond. Amid the glories of a

magnificent sunset he conducted his o;uest
once more into the low vaulted hall of the
old tower. A huo^e fire of fir-looks and
cones blazed on the ancient hearth, and on
the rude table of black oak a simple refection
was set forth — flat broad, resembling
oat cake, salt butter, cheese, and cured
salmon, and a bottle of claret. With these
and some excellent cigars the pair regaled

themselves, and then, sitting in the gathering
cfloom on looks covered with reindeer
skins, chatted on before the blaze, with
increasing good fellowship. After a while
the count's easy flow of talk turned on his
own personality — mentioning incidentally
that his mother had been a French-woman,
and that his boyhood had been spent at a
Parisian lycee.

From my paternal line,' he said, ' I have
inherited little but the roving instincts of
the old vikings ; I have travelled much,
and, if it has been after a fashion singularly
unlike a voyage in the long keels of yore, I
too have spoiled the Southerner at times.
I have humbled the insolence of the rich on
that fairest of fields, greener and more level
than the ground we trod just now — the

board of green cloth, the modern battlefield,
round which gather Egyptian and
Hebrew, heroes and birds of prey

The man's eyes lit with unholy fire as he
made this vaunt ; for a moment they rested
on his companion, and then gazed outward
down the darkling fiord, as if yearning for a
sight of some illuminated fairy palace reared
by the blue Mediterranean to harbour the
accursed rites of which he was a devotee.

Mute and sorrowful the Englishman
turned away from the man whom he had
begun to like. A gambler, perhaps an
unscrupulous gambler, even a card-sharper !
such then was the wretched explanation
of his hints as to his feud with the world ;
such was the vile profession in which he
had sought a new partner. And this was

the true character of the man who had
spoken of honest manual toil as if it
could sully, nay as the most unspeakable
degradation !

Doubtless he had marked for his own one
whom chance had flung into his hands
naked and penniless — one whose rearing
unfitted him for labour, while it would
make him a valuable associate in the pursuit
of human prey. Could indignity go
further than this, that to him, the son of
Rachel West, should be offered the post of
decoy, of accomplice, the * bonnet's ' share in
the plunder of the free-lance his chief! It
revolted him to owe anything to the charity
of such an one as stood revealed in this
Eric Bjornsen ; and yet the clothes he wore
were his gift, yet he had eaten of his bread ;

yes, and he had felt the attraction of the
man, and still acknowledged it to such
degree that he could not despise him as
utterly as he had despised his sottish
colleague. But he would be beholden
to him for nothing further — he would
not sleep beneath his roof. On foot and
alone he must make his way to Bergen,
and there seek for employment. He had
risen and passed through the doorway into
the night, leaving the court to his day-dream
of Monte Carlo ; but now he turned
back, and accosted him, as he stood lost in
thought, in cold constrained tones, more
suggestive of the proud young squire of
Swardham than of Jack Wood the fowler,
the castaway.

If I have rightly conceived your meanings

tie said, ' I ought at once to say that
there is no calling so humble, no wav of
life so mean and poor, that I do not prefer
it to the most successful, most luxurious
career that ever fell to a gambler's lot. It
pains and grieves me to appear ungrateful
to you, but, after what you have o^iven me
to understand, I feel that I must leave you
at once. I could never accede to your
wishes or assist your plans, and it would
be mere presumption in me to inflict on
you my true feelings regarding them, or to
conjure you to abandon them for better
things

There was a winning, pleading tone in
the last words which banished the distant
stateliness of the beginning of this speech,
and which should have been touching,

vouchsafed by this manly, stalwart fellow
of six foot high. But the count, who had
looked a little vexed and nettled at first
(most probably at his own precipitancy),
smoothed his brow and laughed merrily.

Oh, you English ! toujours 8 au grand
series ; when I tell you that there is
nothing in my method to which your
fastidious honour can object ; when I repudiate
all designs on you save that of
securing your society, for a few weeks at
any rate, surely you will return to good
humour, surely you will repent of that
barbarous idea, nor leave me to the company
of that walking brandy-bottle, that
still for converting our honest aquatic into
curses and ill-humour.'

The friendless man found it hard to

repulse this indomitable cheeriness, to put
from him the sole hand outstretched in this
foreign land to help the penniless refugee
salved from ocean. But he had known ere
now what it was to endure hardness. From
more than one ordeal he had come forthwith
his English honour unsullied as his
sole possession, nor was he now for one
moment about to risk its tarnishing. To all
Bjornsen's cajoleries, entreaties, representations
of the impossibility of present escape,
he returned a steady, sorrowful repetition
of his former announcement, * I must go,
and go at once.' At last the count, invoking
curses in his native tongue on his own folly
in being premature, broke out suddenly,

Well, then, if nothing else will detain
you even one night under a sinner's polluted

roof, or cheat you of the pleasure of
slumbering on our " fjeld'' with the wind fora
curtain, perhaps family feeling, respect
for the chief of your clan, may alter your
decision. Know then that Adolphus West,
Esquire, of Swardham Hall in Longshire, is
even now (in all probability) making such
speed from Bergen hither as our roads and
our carries and the darkness will permit.
Remain then, if it is but to greet your
relative. Heaven knows, he may well
want a sturdy kinsman to back him up in
the interview with FitzRaymond, for which
he comes. With him, if you still insist,
you can travel to Bergen tomorrow or next
day. Meanwhile, my silence on certain
points shall respect your scruples.'

CHAPTER II.

Aquatic.

T EFT to himself the whole of this bright
autumnal day, Aylmer FitzEaymond
had experienced a change of mood, increasing
to ferocity the irritation and restlessness
of the morning. It was well for
the red-bodice damsel, well for the sturdy
fisherman patching a sail hard by, that
they understood none of the muttering
and incoherent exclamations of the stranger,
who roamed in and out of the orreen
hostelry aimlessly and incessantly. The
day had begun for him with a dawn of

hope — only the sordid hope of enriching
himself in a way from which a man should
have shrunk ; but hope of any description
had not visited this brutalized heart for
many weeks. He had at first sight conceived
the profoundest distaste for this
desert solitude to which his friend had
betrayed him. He was without means of
subsistence elsewhere, but he thought that
a winter in Norway, even in Norwegian
towns, would kill him. Turkey and Turkish
ways he had come to like, but this horrible
region, he could not away with it. Then
had come to him amid the first chill of his
disgust an astonishing letter, signed with
a familiar name — a letter dated Bergen,
September 15th, only three days previous!
If he might put faith in this letter, the

present owner of the Swardham estate, of
that rental which he had estimated so
liberally, was ready to pay down a thousand
pounds sterling, and to settle on him an
allowance or annuity to boot, on condition
that he would part with perhaps the most
valueless, the oftener forgotten possession
which remained to him. Gnome," his
pretty cousin, coveted for a while, possessed,
abandoned, all but utterly forgotten. And
now this wife whom he never meant to see
again had a rich fellow anxious to marry
her ! — lucky for Georgie, she must be passee,
and would never have sixpence. Why,
ani one should have been welcome to his
rights on any terms if a way of selling
them were made clear. But after all it
would be a trouble — legal formalities were

always a trouble — and perhaps a risk, if his
hiding-place should be published in English
newspapers ! With money in his purse,
though, he could quickly find fresh hiding-places.
What could be better for a man
with £1000 than America ? — and he felt sure
that some device — a commission to take his
evidence or what not — could be contrived
to spare him the dangers of appearance in a
court of justice. He had not forgotten his
fright at Liverpool, when he had peered
through a port-hole at that miserable cad
with whom Eric parleyed so readily, a
bailiff no doubt, or a detective, who had
tried to board them. How strange that
the unlikely story of this other West, this
big puritanical lubber with whom Eric
seemed unaccountably taken, should be

thus quickly and startlingly confirmed ! It
was well that he had been ousted by a
cousin whose blood must be hotter and his
notions less scrupulous.

With many such communing the man
whiled hours away, roaring now and then
to the tidy waitress for more brandy. The
oriel could not but understand his gestures
as he shook the empty flask at her ; but
to his disgust the liquor with which she
presently supplied him was a coarse and
inferior spirit. He gulped it down, however,
neat, and after many drams began to wax
less sanguine, more suspicious. The days
were long past when drink made Aylmer
FitzEaymond merry or maudlin — a ferocious
misanthropy was now the sure result of
deep potations, in which he became a

VOL. III. D

dangerous man, bad to cross, totally irrational.
What if this letter were, after
all, a snare, some plant ? He believed that
there were those in England and elsewhere
who would be capable of any guile to
entrap him, to bring him to justice, and
perhaps force him to end his days in a
convict's cell.

Hardened and seared as was his conscience,
insensible to remorse or shame, he
had still a memory charged with much
guilt, and the terrors of lingering retribution
often gathered thick around him, bathing
his temples with sweat, causing his
knees to knock together. It was not of
his mother's broken heart, of his father's
disgraced and ruined old age, that he
thought at such times. He had transgressed

the laws. In his desperate need to
fill his purse for flight he had outwitted the
usurers by dangerous means, and he dreaded
vengeance more practical than waits on
the curses of a father or a mother's agony.
As darkness came on his mood also
darkened, and he had worked himself into
distrust and hatred of alt things and all
men. There was no security in any land,
not even in this forsaken spot, for such ashe
! Even now Bjornsen might be betraying
him into the hands of justice, Bjornsen,
who always evaded the consequences of his
own misdeeds, and was now consorting gaily
with this cold, correct Englishman, of whom,
pauper and outcast as he deemed him,
Aylmer was secretly afraid. Into his heated
brain there flashed the mad suspicion that

D 2

there was a conspiracy against him — that
those who had sent the letter, and were even
now perhaps close at hand, were leagued with
his false friend. Scowling around him, he
walked stealthily to the door. The girl,
who had just brought in a lighted lamp,
was now chatting with the boatmen at the
door of one of the cottages. It was a
peaceful scene enough : dark clouds were
gathering overhead, but there was no wind
as yet to ripple the waters of the fiord,
where the yacht's light showed motionless
in the gloom.

But the quietude spoke no comfort to
the brandy-soddened wretch ; he closed
the door, and locked it ; next he shuttered
each window of the room, latching
a bar across the solid slabs of deal

seldom used except in the dead of winter ;
then, making a round of the ground-floor
apartments, he repeated in each his precautions.
The last room visited was the
bar, and here his eyes glared wolfishly at
sight of the kegs and bottles. Snatching
several of the latter, and bearing the lamp
cautiously, he mounted the stair and installed
himself in a small room, whose
balconied casement commanded the head
of the fiord, and the rude track by which
he had learned that travellers must approach
from Bergen. Meanwhile the count
and John West had parted — for the night
as the former prophesied, for ever according
to the purpose of the latter. When the
pair reached the water's edge a boat was
waiting at a rude landing-place.

Now think better of it Bjorasen said,
with one foot in the boat ; * you shall have
FitzEaymond's berth, which is fairly comfortable.
Let us have a last night on board
the old Thyra, which saved you from the
fishes. To-morrow or next day she must
go round to Bergen, where I hired her
eighteen months ago.'

Where is FitzRaymond then ? ' Jack
queried, without the least intention of
availing himself of this offer.

The count motioned toward the fantastic
inn.

Yonder he is, sublimely drunk by this
time, I dare say.'

'You don't mean to say that he has the
run of that place ? Knowing his propensity,
you do wrong to allow it.'

I am tired of keeping him from it. All
I could do was to forbid his being served
with more than one bottle of the more
seductive stuff — even he can't swill much
of the vile spirit these people extract from
rye, potatoes — what not ? Now are you
coming ? No ? then good night.'

Good-bye Jack answered, and turned
sadly away.

There was so much in this man that was
fascinating that he grieved to be running
away, as it were, thanklessly from his
hospitality. But in these days of his abased
state he was more than ever sensitive where
his honour might be compromised — it was
all that remained to him. He must quit
the company of a self-confessed gambler
with all speed, it was his duty to himself.

With another duty his mind was also
charged. He must go to the British consulat
Bergen and take measures for the enlightenment
of Hilda Fife's friends as to
her fate — too long left undisclosed by the
sole witness of it. The night had become
so dark, neither star nor moon being visible,
that during the short walk from the 
to the inn (where a light shone
in an upper chamber) Jack had convinced
himself that it would be useless to attempt
a lonely walk over an unknown country.
He would lie down in the room where they
had eaten, and start before any one should
be stirring, with the first gleam of dawn.
Feeling his way to the porch, he tried to
enter gently, but the door would not yield.
He shook it once or twice, and then turned

to look at the neighbouring huts. All was
dark and still. Plainly the peasants were
in the habit of going early to bed. Then
he went round the wooden building with
its many angles and quaint roofs, till he
stood beneath the window where the light
was. Here at least some one was stirring.
He could hear shuffling feet upon the little
balcony. Stepping a little back, he looked
up and essayed his sole Norse sentence, a
conciliatory * Ver sa gut — ' but stopped
short as a head leaned over the fanciful
balustrade. No features were discernible,
but, outlined against the lighted window,
the head looked unpleasant enough, with
wild hair fringing it in spiky disorder.
For a moment there was silence, then a
voice, huskily malignant, yelled out curses

and threats in an ugly mixture of many
tongues, amonor which English was dominant.
So hideous was the discord of blasphemy
and menace that the listener recoiled
into the darkness, failing at once to recognize
FitzRaymond's voice.

As he walked slowly away, however, along
the rough road leading inland, Jack was
filled with wrath against his late host.
Why had he brought this miserable man
here to abandon him to his madness ? Much
as he loathed Aylmer, he thought that he
must endeavour in some way, by invoking
some gracious Englishman, if such he could
find, to rescue the man from this place and
plight, and afford him such surveillance ashe
needed till his relations could be communicated
with. For himself, he did not

much dread a night in the open, though the
country was Norway and the month late
autumn. He would go slowly on till he
was quite tired, and then a short sleep
might be possible under the lee of a rock,
or, if he were lucky, in some shed. His
thoughts turned ever on Bjornsen. What
horror he had expressed, this man who
lived on the follies of his fellows, at the
prospect of one gently-nurtured stooping to
labour with his hands for daily bread ! It
reminded him of the misguided Hilda Fife,
with her taunts as to * soulless hinds,' and
her insane offers of release from their lot.
He could scarcely decide which would have
been more impossible to him — to sell himself
in wedlock with a woman he disliked,
or to cast in his lot with a gambler.

wandering from one resort to another of
knaves and their dupes ! Was there anything
in him, he wondered, which should
peculiarly provoke such base proposals, or
was it always the bitterest drop in the cup
of such as he, that the stamp of gentle
blood and rearing should be ineffaceable,
and should forbid belief that a penniless
gentleman could possess a sense of honour
or be self-respecting amid his destitution ?

Pondering gloomily, he made ways more
expeditiously than he had expected : already
he had climbed a ridge, and left the fiord
behind, descending into a long valley, where
the road was somewhat better. At last he
saw far ahead two moving points of light,
small and dim, slowly descending, as it
seemed, a steep hill and advancing towards

him. Encouraged by the prospect of encountering
wayfarers who might direct him,
he walked briskly on, ever nearing the
lights. While yet some distance intervened,
he could hear a voice, and soon discovered
with surprise that fretful exclamations were
being uttered in his own language.

In another minute he could make out that
two men bearing lanterns were approaching
him on foot — of whom the foremost was
silent, while the other was orroaninor over
the roughness of the way, and complaining
that his attendant did not assist him bv
holding his lantern low enough. Surely he
had heard that voice in the past, or why
did it stir his breast painfully ? It was the
voice, yes, and the figure of his cousin !
Once more had fate brought about an

unwelcome meeting with this man, whose
star was so adverse to his own.

Benighted and ill-appease, Adolphus was,
as Bjornseu had told him, making his way
to a meeting with the raving maniac,
Aylmer FitzRaymond. As he stood stock
still in the middle of the road, the man
who walked in front flashed his lantern full
upon his face, and in an instant his cousin
too had recognized the handsome features,
the towering head, which had confronted
him, once in Hockerill's barn, and a second
and last time (as both imagined) in Scott's
office at Lono;borouo[h ; had noted the broad
chest and stalwart arms which had once
seized on him as a hawk might seize a
chicken. The suspense, worry, and fatigue
of his life since he had left Swardham

\\athout companion or adviser, and not least
certain untoward events of the evening
had considerably unhinged Adolphus West,
whose temper, never of the best, was just
now at a gusty pitch. He had reached
Bergen, safe but prostrate with sea-sickness,
before the Thyra, an old boat, under-manned
and badly engine, had so much as rounded
Duncansby Head. Then had begun a
second spell of feverish waiting such as he
had endured at Liverpool. For the beauties
of Bergen, a really pretty place if the
weather is fine, or the study of Norse
manners and customs, he had not the most
transient relish, his every faculty being
engrossed in his mission, and in longings to
return to her for whose sake it was undertaken.
He had been introduced by the

keeper of his hotel to a polite merchant,
who spoke excellent English, and was acquainted
with Count Bjornsen, being indeed
the owner and lessor of the Thyra. This
gentleman in vain exhorted West to take
things easily, as the yacht was doubtless
doing, and to trust him to supply instant
information of her arrival. So long did the
delay seem to Adolphus that he began to
half hope half fear that the vessel might
have gone to the bottom. It would be
excellent that Lady G. should thus become
a widow, but then it might be difficult to
prove that her husband had perished on the
main. At last a revenue cutter came in
which had spoken and boarded the Thyra
only a few hours previous, and brought a
message to her owner, and a request that

letters might be forwarded from the Bergen
post-office to Bjornestrand. It was with
difficulty that adolphus was persuaded by
his friend to despatch a letter, instead of
starting at once in person for the count's
abode. But for the remembrance indeed of
his ill-success at Liverpool he could not have
been restrained an hour.

At last, however, he set off, having allowed
bare time for Aylmer FitzRaymond to land
and receive the letter. The sio^ht of a
carriole filled him with huo-e indignation ;
he was for sending away the ' big wooden
shoe on shafts and wheels,' and ordering
round a brougham, till assured that Broken
knew no broughams, and that to Borne
at any rate, no other class of vehicle
could possibly make its way. In a carriole

VOL. III. E

therefore, ill-contented, he started betimes,
following another carriole of somewhat less
slipper-like dimensions, which bore his valise
and a Norseman who spoke a little English,
and was to act as guide. For the very
timid or the very luxurious a carriole
journey of twenty-five miles over broads
in Norway is not to be recommended. Now
Adolphus was constitutionally timid, and
in these later days more prone to resent
discomfort than many another to whom
discomfort had never been of daily occurrence.
The Norwegian ponies are marvels.
Let them alone, and they never stumble
or do wrong, not in descending the
most awful hill, where the tenant of the
greatly sloping carriole loses sight of all
but the cream-coloured tail, and perchance

the ear-tips of his steed. But Adolphus
would not believe in the virtues of the
ponies ; he would give frantic tugs at his
reins, which the innocent beast was obliged
to resent : and far from becoming convinced
of his error as the day wore on, he comported
himself more and more outrageously at each
hill he descended, and suffered therefore
many things, including bruises and woeful
loss of time. Thus it betided that night
had fallen darkly when the carries arrived
at the brink of a sort of precipice, from
which the soul of Adolphus recoiled in
horror.

Bjornestrand,' said the much-enduring
guide in a mild and cheerful tone, and
pointed as he spoke to a distant speck or
two of light — far, far below.

E 2

UNIVERSITY OF
,LUN01S LIBRARY

But the cheerfulness vanished when the
Norseman was made to understand that his
convoy absolutely refused to proceed * down
a place like the roof of a house, in pitchy
darkness To Bjornestrand by all means,
but on foot ! Deaf to all the guldens expostulations
and growls, Adolphus insisted on
his leaving the horses and carries (which
he would scarcely allow the man to secure ina
little copse of birch), and preceding him,
valise on back and lantern in hand. Slowly
and painfully, with many an unpleasant trip
and wrench among the stones, and many
an execration, the owner of Swardham
hobbled on, thinking incessantly of the
pending interview, and the triumph to come
of it. There would be no attempt to evade
him on this occasion ; no misinterpretation

of his design ; he carried the golden key
which was to ensure respect and compliance.
The five thousand was banked at Bergen,
and he was prepared to be lavish in clearing
away all hindrances to his speedy
marriage with Georgiana. But for this —
and this was only a joy in prospect, as
yet untasted — how little pleasure or satisfaction
had the revenues of that Swardham
estate brought him whom man deemed so
marvellously fortunate ! But for this — and
what present torment he had had in compassing
this, this mere step to future bliss !
And did bliss really await him, when the
last obstacle should be swept away, and
that beautiful hand should indeed be his ?
Ah ! he refused, in a frenzy, to weigh probabilities.
She would be his — that was

enough. She, the most enchanting of all
beauties, his wife, his own ! without whom
house, lands, money were all worthless —
might as well still belongs to that old
haughty image who was wandered away in
poverty, none knew where.

At this very instant, as if invoked by his
passing thought, his cousin's form appeared
from out the deepening darkness — appeared
close at hand, with lips parted as if to
speak, and hands outstretched as if to bar
the way — appeared as though dropped from
the skies in this remote and desolate spot
to thwart his kinsman's purpose. There
still rankled in the heart of Adolphus \Yest
hatred against this man who had not
whined or cringed, nor in any way lost his
dignity under the most trying of reverses.

Even at this moment it flashed upon this
memory how, at that last interview, his
cousin had commended the Swardham
tenantry to his tenderest mercies. He had
resented such recommendation, and still resented
it, with Clarke's letter in his pocket
telling hint of the last audit, at which
most of the farmers, pleading the failure
of their crops, had begged hard and humbly
for an abatement of the full rent due.

Clarke's letter had been answered yesterday,
thus — ' I expect every penny that
is owing to me ; put on the screw if you
can't get it without.' Thus it was that
John West's apparition looked to him
reproachful, and he hated him for that
fancied reproach and for his inopportune
presence. How true is Thackeray's observation

that there is no character which a
low-minded man so much mistrusts as that
of a gentleman. And it is usually aggressive
mistrust. The secret terror of a
better gentleman ' breeds oftener irritation
than awe in the bosom, at any rate,
of the low-minded who has the pull over
his superior in the accidents of wealth.

Knitting his pale brows, the rich man
was for passing on with no more than a nod,
but the poor relation stretched a strong
arm across his path and began earnestly,

'Cousin Adolphus, perhaps you hardly
know me, meeting me here so unexpectedly ;
but I knew of your being in Norway, and
have just come from the place you are
going toward. And I trust you won't set
me down for a meddler if I beg you not

to think of seeing Aylmer FitzRaymond
to-night. Whatever your business with
him may be, he is in no condition to hear
it. Indeed, I fear that even tomorrow he
will scarcely be fit ; but to-night he is more
than unfit — he is positively savage.'

Adolphus snorted with displeasure, and
answered in would-be lofty style, — •

'Perhaps the savagery of which you
speak may have been due to some such
obtrusion of unsolicited advice or company
as you are now favouring me with. In
any case, sir, my errand with this gentleman,
however you come to know it so
accurately, is one that won't admit of delay,
and I wish you good night, sir, and business
of your own to mind.'

With these rude words of anti-climax he

was passing on, his puny figure drawn upto
its liveliest, when once more his cousin
sought to detain him.

*I beg you, go at least to one of the
cottages at Bjornestrand, not to the inn ;
you can stop the night in one of the huts.
The man is downright raving, I tell you
mad with drink.'

He laid his hand on the other's shoulder
as he spoke and kept it there, by a slight
pressure, when Adolphus wriggled and strove
to shake it off. But when he had finished
his sentence he plucked away his hand
with a mighty impulse, to bring it crashing
down in all its might on his cousin's pale
red head. Adolphus, acting as a spoiled
boy might in the clutch of a nurse-maid,
had rapped him smartly over the fingers

with the silver knob of his Talking-stick.
It was a mere nothing, viewed as an
assault, but for a second it was like to
have let loose on the striker such a
battery as would have marked him for
life.

But the second of roused ferocity was
over ; Adolphus was walking on, at a brisk
pace, toward Bjornestrand, and John was
standing still in the middle of the road,
gulping down the subsiding emotions (of
which he was ashamed already) and rubbing
his knuckles.

Well,' he said aloud, presently, ' I am
getting on. Not that it's much credit to
refrain from hitting back such a weed as
lie is — the chief of my clan, forsooth ! with
whom I was to journey so agreeably to

Bergen tomorrow. They say that " naught
is never in danger," and on that principle
Adolphus should come off unscathed ;
but if he really beards FitzRaymond tonight
he will certainly be frightened if
not hurt. Perhaps he will pay more attention
to my warning after all, though, than
he gave me to understand by his behaviour.'

He had begun to trudge forward again,
and for a time plodded on, climbing with
difficulty the steep hill on which he had first
spied the lanterns. Suddenly he stopped.

What a mean beast I am, after all,' he
broke out, * to take credit to myself for not
hitting that little chap, and let him walk
off into the jaws of — God knows what !
After all, blood is thicker than water, he
is my mother's brother's son ; and what

have the Westss come to if one lets another
run a risk alone in this fashion ? I will
just toddle hack, and if all goes quietly,
no one need be the wiser for my presence.
m be off again early. But if there is a
row I'll stand by the head of the family,
ill-conditioned weakling as he is, which
gives all the more reason for my loyalty,
by-the-bye/

And whistling a blithe tune, John "West
strode down the hill, with his face set once
more for Bjornestrand.

CHAPTER III.

THE GOOD SERVANT THAT IS A BAD MASTER.

Ruffled by his encounter with his
cousin, Adolphus West was so abominably
testy with his unfortunate guide,
that the latter had no sooner let fall the
valise with a flop on the doorstep of Count
Bjornsen's green pagoda (where a light still
shone in an upper window), than he walked
doggedly off without a word, regardless of
this employer's shouts, and was soon lost in
the darkness. He had his horses and carries
to look after, and he yearned for the

society of the dumb brutes by way of a
change. He knew every inch of the ground,
and struck into a narrow path, which would
take him by a shorter but steeper route to
the spot where the animals were tethered.
Perhaps by next morning he should find
the Englishman in a better temper. Meanwhile,
he knew of a hay-barn where to lodge
for the night ; and preferred supping on a
crust in his pocket to his chance of sharing
even a stalled ox in contentious company.

Left to himself, the exasperated Adolphus
began to thump loudly at the nearest door,
shouting for admittance. He did not believe
the account of Aylmer FitzRaymond's
state : it was an invention of that evil one.
Supposing the man should be rather drunk
he had seen plenty of drunken men. He

had seen Jemmy Clancy very drunk indeed,
and knew that at such times he would be
tearful and ready to promise anything.
To-morrow the odious cousin might return
(he said he had been at this place) aud
thrust in his interfering oar where it was
not wanted. Perhaps he thought it his
interest to keep him, Adolphus, from marrying,
in the hope of outliving him and
inheriting Swardham again ; whereas — ' Ah-ha
! ' Just then a window was opened, and
a drowsy, surly voice, an English voice,
demanded gruffly who was there ? West's
heart throbbed high ; he felt sure that he
heard the man whom he had sought from
east to west of Europe, the man who was
the present bar to his felicity.

I am here to see Colonel FitzRaymond,'

he called out in his best tone, ' on important
business much to his advantage, as set
forth in my letter. I am Mr. West of
Swardham.'

There was a pause ; some one leaned over
a balcony and asked suspiciously,

How many of you are there ? '

I am alone said Adolphus, gaining confidence
; ' the brute of a guide has gone off.
If you'll just let me in, I'm sure we can
settle our affairs most amicably, all the
better for no one else being by.'

You're sure there are no fellows hiding
anywhere round the house ? ' the voice replied
; and Adolphus protested vigorously
that there was no one.

Then he heard shuffling steps descend
a stair, and the door was unlocked, and a

VOL. III. F

head cautiously protruded from the blacker
darkness within.

I'm the man you want then, Mr. West ;
and you may come up,' was whispered
hoarsely.

And Adolphus, stepping inside, was bidden
to mount the stair towards a glimmer of
light, while the other locked the door again,
taking a long while about the operation.

The drunkard had fallen into a sleep
after his outburst of violence towards John
West, and was now in a half-stupid state,
in which his maniac ferocity smouldered
obscurely, latent for the moment, while his
mind dimly resumed the more hopeful attitude
of the morning. Stopping on the stairs,
he fumbled at his pocket, and found a bottle
half full of the vile brandy which he had

appropriated from the bar. Of this he took
a long draught, by way of clearing his
faculties for business, and then followed his
visitor into the room. Standing in the
door-way to reconnoitre, he saw a slight
figure stooping over the table, which, with
the oil-lamp burning brightly upon it, stood
between the two men. The stranger was
pulling papers from his pockets, and laying
them upon the table, and from his posture
FitzRaymond could see little of his appearance
except a shock head of pale red hair.
But in another instant the stooping figure
stood upright and faced him, and in that
same instant revealed the well-remembered
features of the ' cad,' the spy, bailiff, or
detective who had tried to board the Therein
the Mersey.

F 2

And did this hound think to pass for
West of Svvardham ? Death to him ! vengeance
on the conspirator ! Uttering a horrible
yell, and staggering with the drunken
fury that leapt up in him like a slumbering
tiger aroused, Aylmer FitzRaymond whirled
the bottle round his head and flung it at
that hateful face. But his aim was marred
by his very rage ; the bottle missed its mark,
and struck the lamp, which was broken and
hurled in fragments from the table. For a
moment there was partial darkness in the
room, but then, as the madman uttered
another yell and prepared to rush upon his
affrighted and cowering victim, a barrier
of fire arose between them.

The coarse mineral oil, flowing over the
boards and mixing with the spirit from the

shattered bottle, flashed into a sheet of flame,
which sprang at once upon the dry woodwork,
and made even FitzRaymond recoil
aghast. The table, the papers, the flooring
around were burning fiercely in a single
second. In another the partition was licked
by tongues of fire, and yielded its seasoned
planks of pine a ready prey.

Crazy with terror, Adolphus tore open the
window, and han^ino^ over the railing of the
little balcony, shrieked aloud for help. He
was minded to drop himself to the ground,
and actually clambered the railing and hung,
for an instant, by his hands, with dangled
legs. But the unknown depth of the fall,
all veiled in darkness, appalled him. He
drew himself, with shaking arms, back into
the balcony, scarce knowing whether he

dreaded more the flames or the terrible
haggard figure who had striven to brain
him. Of the latter nothing was to be seen
just now. He had heard him laugh a
demoniac yell of laughter ; but he had
disappeared, and the room was tenanted
only by the flickering leaping flames, which
seemed to bar the way. The draught
from the open window, the door of the
room being also open, had assisted the
spread of the fire, which, as it gained
strength, lifted up its voice in a sustained
and awful roaring. Smoke also, the pungent
smoke of burning fir-wood, began to roll
through the casement in volumes, stopping
the breath and blinding the eyes, and the
heat smote painfully on face and hands.
Redoubling his screams, Adolphus pushed

to the window behind him, and shut himself
out on the tiny balcony, a mere ledge of
less than two feet in width. He felt now
that he would gladly face the most furious
human violence, if he might only be delivered
from this more ruthless destroyer,
whose breath was already encompassing
him. Why had he not made a dash for the
door ere yet the pool of burning oil had
soaked the flooring ? Better have died in
the clutch of that murderous wretch than
perish by fire. Would no one come to
help ? Was this horrible place deserted of
all save one furious madman ? He thought
of John West's advice, and gnashed his
teeth. Hoarse with his cries, he continued
to strain his throat, while his flesh crept
with horror. The glass of the window

cracked with the increasing heat within,
and falling outward in pieces, let a hellish
blast upon him as of scorching wind. Voices
at last below ! voices and hurrying steps !

Help ! ' he cried ; ' I am here ! help, or I
shall be burned ! I am West of Swardham !
Squire West ! A hundred pounds ! five
hundred ! a thousand ! to any one who
will fetch a ladder and get me down safe

Frantically he repeated his osiers. Oh
God ! they did not understand a word he
said, these miserable peasants. Where was
that cruel guide, who might have told
them ? Surely there must be a way even if
they had no ladder — a way that money could
find, if they could only be made to understand
how much money he would give ?

But among the little group of bewildered,

half-sleepy people who had rushed from

the huts, wrapped in quilts and garments

hastily snatched, there was now one who

did hear and understand — a tall man

panting with the speed at which he had

hastened to the spot on hearing distant

shrieks, and seeing a strange light which

low heavy clouds were reflecting strangely.

As John ^Yest appeared on the scene his

unhappy cousin was making a last appeal

to the few stolid folk who stood and stared

like oxen. The more stirring spirits among

them had manned a boat and rowed off to

rouse the count, snug in his berth a quarter

of a mile away. Those remaining were

disabled by apathy or a sort of paralysis,

only holding up their hands and shaking

their heads when the figure at the window

vanished with a last howl of despair, as
denser smoke and flame poured through the
opening.

Perceiving that nothing was to be hoped
from the co-operation of the bystanders,
John West rapidly eyed the building, with
its locked doors and shuttered lower windows.
The upper casements were all lit up
now by the red glow within, and a wind
rising from the sea was driving thick smoke
before it and fanning the blaze. He must
break his way in ! The trunk of a fir lay
near — and when they saw him trying to
handle it, two lads came to his assistance,
and helped to wield it as a battering-ram
against the door of the bar-room. The
hinges gave way at last, and the door was
thrust inwards. Already was fire dropping

through the wooden ceiling, dropping on those
rows of kegs and barrels ; no time was to
be lost. The lads recoiled before the smoke
and heat, but John West ran through the
room to the foot of the staircase, and tried
to mount. He held his breath, he crouched
as he ascended, but every upward step was
more terrible. The heat, the smoke redoubled,
and he turned and rushed once
more to the outer air, not, however, to
abandon his efforts. Without a word, he
seized on a small sail which lay across a
bench, and dipped it in the cold water
of the fiord. Then flinging it round his
shoulders, he re-entered the doomed house.
Oh, heaven ! how terrible was the heat,
blistering even the lower steps of that stairway
; how the fire roared and crackled

overhead ! Muttering a prayer, he wrapped
the wet canvas round head and shoulders,
holding a corner between his strong white
teeth. On hands and knees he climbed the
stair, confused and agonized by the hideous
turmoil, but, thank God ! enabled by his
rude respirator to get his breath and to
ascend !

As his hands shrank from the wood that
scorched them, he clutched the sail tight,
bunching it under his palms, and peered
through the doorway, which he had at
last reached. His hair and eyebrows were
instantly scorched and frizzled : the place
within was a hell of flames which none
might penetrate and live. Must he retreat
once more, leavings his kinsman to this
horrid fate ? He thrust at the half open

door : ah ! there was something behind it —
something lying on the blistering planks
with flames already lapping it. Holding
his breath, he reached round the door and
clutched the object : it was the body of a
man, lifeless and limp, an unresisting prey
to the greedy blaze. In another instant,
which seemed honos from the frightful
exposure to furnace heat and darting
tongues of fire, he had grasped the figure
and dragged it round the door — wrapping
it, hugged by one arm to his own breast,
beneath the folds of the sail. Then, headlong,
almost swooning, but still crouching
close to the flooring, he launched himself
and his burden down the steep stair.
Desperately he crawled with his heavy
burden, bruised and burned, but still holding

tight. The bar-room was now aught, flakes
of fire raining into it through the rafters
above ; and as he crept through it, often
setting bare hands and bleeding knees on
hot embers, he had the horrible dread upon
him that he might be overwhelmed by some
vast mass of glowing wreck, some heavy-beam,
or net work of joists. Or what if he
were to miss the door ? His strength was
nearly spent. He was dazed and anguished,
and seemed to be swallowing the breath
of a furnace. Another minute must be
decisive. The sill at last ! a whiff of cooler
air! A last frantic drag, and his hands
touched the cool gravel. It was over ! He
was safe, still grasping his burden, from
whom the old sail dropped, all smouldering
and smoking. Then he felt himself seized

and pulled further into the air, the delicious,
life-restoring air. But the raw agony of his
burns, handled by the rude strength of his
succours, was too much for him. He
fainted before he could look upon the unconscious
form of him whom he had rescued.
Meanwhile the fire was asserting itself
more and more imperious and irresistible.
No honore content with devouring; the
entrails of the house, and looking from its
windows in red streamers or jets of stifling
smoke, it was soaring now in one strong
column from a great gap where a roof had
collapsed and gables fallen inwards. The
low black clouds, from which a few heavy
drops began to fall, felt its influence, and
flushed angrily before they could escape the
crimsoned circle which hung like an unholy

aureole over its jagged head. The central
turret of the edifice was not yet ablaze, but
its fate was plain. Though the rising
breeze swayed away from it the surging
flames that far out-topped it, its supports
were on one side sapped and gone. Already
its dark outline was all aslant ; in a few
minutes it must topple into that gap
towards which it leaned — the gap whence
rose triumphant that awful pillar of fire.

The bystanders watched, powerless and
dumb, till this plunge should take effect ;
they could see the flag-staff rock, it must
soon go down. But it was fated that a
more thrilling, a more horrible interest
should attach to this short watch. Suddenly
a dark shape was seen to emerge from the
turret's top, and fling an arm around the

flag-staff. Above the importunate clamour
of the conflagration could be heard defiant
yells, scarcely human in sound, and as his
perch nodded to its fall, a man was seen to
shake his clenched fist downwards, and
wave his arm wild! v. It was a sio;ht which
none who saw it could forget, a horrible
moment of hopeless suspense. As the
structure gave its final lurch, the wretch
seemed to loose his hold, and to dive headlong
into the chain of fire. For a moment
the upward current of flame was checked,
as the turret was hurled upon it, but the
next moment it soared higher than ever,
as if rejoicing to find amid its new fuel a
human being — to have its will of one of
the race who have made it their slave and
drudge.

VOL. III. G

Out of the gulf into which Aylmer Fits
went down a living man not a
trace of him, not so much as a charred bone,
was ever retrieved. ' His veins ran brandy
rather than blood,' said one of the fisher
people to another three days afterwards,
who vainly searched amid the ashes. These
were caked by incessant rains, which, beginning
the very night of the fire, lasted for
weeks without intermission. Vainly did they
sift with sieves the clotted dust, and thrust
aside with spades the crumbling ruin.

'Yes, brandy, not blood. We shall no
more find him than we shall find a stave of
the kegs that stood in the bar.'

This was Aylmer's epitaph. Of all mankind
there was not one to honour him with
better, to mourn his loss or cherish his

metnoiy, to ' lament for him saying, Ah, my
brother, or Ah, his glory.' From that early
day, when the well-born, handsome boy was
gazetted, to the last, when the haggard
and disgraced man had scowled, with dark
presentiment, upon the spot of earth where
his frame should be that night annihilated,
he had never fulfilled one duty honestly,
or done one deed of love or charity, or
struggled against a vice ; rather had he
never ceased to abuse his powers and opportunities,
and to squander in selfish devilry
the gifts which had been his. And now,
without one moment for a remorseful
thought, or a prayer of penitence, with all
his sins upon his head, he was gone to his
own place, earth retaining of him not so
much as the buried bones.

G 2

CHAPTER IV.

PATIENT GRISELDA.

T^O you know, Mary, that you have
become ever so disagreeable lately ? '
It was Miss Holbrooke's friend and neighbour,
Fanny Morgan, who tried to frown
as she thus impeached her friend in the
rectory drawing-room, and shook a little
tea-spoon at her. ' Yes, it's all very well
to raise your eyebrows : you have the
advantage of me there, because mine are
invisible white, and it's not a bit of use
my arching them ; but the fact remains.

You are not cross or in any way absolutely
horrid, because you couldn't be if you tried ;
but you have left off caring about everything
that you especially ought to find
interesting — there ! '

Mary hastened to assure her friend that
she had not left off caring for /ler^ which
brought on her a hug from the plump and
rosy Fanny, who, however, ran on —

No ; one can't .pick a hole in you or a
quarrel with you, you are quite provokingly
good ; but you were always as good
as anybody need be in the days when you
had plenty of fun in you too, and cared a
bit, like the rest of us, about dressing and
going out, and so on. Now, look here,
Mary ; a really good girl does far more
with her goodness when she is like what

you were than if she turns extra-super, and
can't care for such trivialities as enchant
poor me. So you see, as a matter of
influence and example, and all that, it's
quite a mistake, if not wicked, to forsake
the ways of your guileless youth for a
severer style.'

Why, Fanny, I don't know myself in

this new character of mine. Among the
unco guide " I never thought to rank ; and
as to holding myself a dove anybody or anything
familiar to me, if that is what extra-super
means, such a notion never occurred
to me. But one can't always be quite
merry and easy ; I wish we could. I think
no one in Swardham parish can carry
the light heart of the old time, least of all
poor dear papa. And when /le is sad,

Fanny, his only child must be saddened
too.'

Fanny shook her head.

My dear,' she said, ' life is not all

parochial, even for the parson and his

family ; the more there is in the parish to

distress your father and you (and I'm not

denying that all the changes seem greatly

for the worse), the more thankful you both

ought to be for a little enliven ment outside

the parish. Now, your father goes, at any

rate, to the rural dean's, and the clerical

book-club meetings, and dinners, and all that,

and you ought to go to anything social that

is in your line, whereas — Oh ! Mary, you

that did so love a dance ; you shirked the

Barbers, the j oldest hop this year, and as

you couldn't utterly shirk our little affair,

sat and played the piano after the first
two squares like the veriest old auntie,
and decamped at eleven. Oh ! Mary, and
you think you are not disagreeable ! '

Mary laughed at this enumeration of her
crimes ; Fanny looked so like the portly
rector her father as she shook her fat
cheeks, that she could not help laughing :
and for the remainder of the visit strove to
be as gay as her friend would have her.
But in so doings she was conscious of
effort.

Alas ! all her life had been an effort, a
struggle to play a part that was growing
more hard and spiritless every day since
the morning on which John West had
stolen away from the rectory, leaving
nothing behind him save that short note

of farewell. She might never tell any one,
not even her father, of the passage between
them, that strange short spell of bliss,
which had vanished and left no trace save
in the recesses of a girl's heart. Mary was
patient and uncomplaining even in communing
with her own sad spirit.

Many would blame the girl for tameness.
Continue to care for a man who told his
love one day and bolted the next ! She is
too lacking in spirit and proper pride to
deserve better luck.' In truth, this is no
age for patient Griselda. If such a character
be found, not admiration, but scoffs
and sneers are heaped upon it by female
critics. Mary's attitude of mind and spirit
before her love was full as lowly as
Griselda's before her perverse-seeming lord.

She would have cared nothing for the
verdict of nineteenth century maidenhood
had her fond clinging to that fugitive
love's memory been as public as it was
the reverse. She knew his nature so well.
Had she not all lier days been studying
him, and that dear mother whom he so
much resembled ? He could not equally
have sounded the depths of her own soul.
But the other day she had been to him an
insignificant child, a plaything at best ; and
though one marvellous moment had revealed
her tender worship to him in such fashion
that he had taken her into his heart of
hearts, it was not strange that he should
deem it possible for one so recently emerged
from girlhood to listen to another lover.
Children are so.

Time was when a youth, comely and
gentle, wealthy, and favoured by her father's
approbation, might have set Mary's heart
in a quick flutter, which might as quickly
have passed. But she was a woman now,
and she loved, once and for all. She could
wait, suffer, do anything but change ; so
she did not call her lover cruel, far less
false. She knew that his words had come
from the heart, that his kisses (she could
count those kisses) had been pledges of
love unfeigned and most honourable. It
was that honour, she readily believed, which
in its sensitiveness had urged him to crush
down his love just as it sprang up fair
and fresh ; but oh, the pity of it ! Why
could she not tell him all that was in her
heart ? She had never loved but him —

never could love another, be his wooing
backed by all the world and its wealth.
And it would make no difference if fate
refused her all chance of whispering her
fidelity into John West's ear. Ah ! fate
was hard, for it surely would have cheered
his lonely life of toil to know his Mary
faithful. She could not fear that Mary
was forgotten ; his was not the nature to
be light or fickle. He would leave her,
but not cease to cherish her in his true
heart. They would go down to their
graves, perhaps far, far apart, each loving
the other always, but with little hope or
none.

And yet she would not have given up
her romance, her momentary bliss with its
sequel of doubt and separation, for the

brightest lot shared with another. She

o

thought, as days followed days and brought
no news, that in heaven she would meet
Rachel West, and hear her whisper, ' We two
loved him best,' and the thought was sweet
to her.

As to young Herbert, his proposed offer
had never been made. The rector was so little
versed in secrecy or manoeuvre that the drift
of Mr. Herbert's overture leaked out to his
girl in the course of a single day. She had
been in some measure prepared for such
approach by the short, miserable note which
John West had left for her. Her love made
her quick to divine and understand. Jack's
abrupt departure, her father's pre-occupation
and little cheerful mystery, she soon put
these facts together. The note and the

departure had been an almost crushing
disappointment ; but Mary was young and
elastic, and before she had time to be
bent by adversity, before she had been
many hours in possession of that sad farewell
of her lover, lo ! his departure was
explained, and hope revived. It was not
that he repented of stooping to one so
unworthy of him. Surely he would not
go away so far that no word could reach
him. Surely he would ba left in little
doubt as to young Herbert's reception by
herself, if reception there should ever be.

Greatly was the good rector discomfited
at his own want of tact and finesse when his •
daughter calmly ended his blundering and
hinting by ' seeing ' (as he said) ' through the
whole elinor in a trice,' and begsfinor her

father to save her pain by at once informing
Mr. Herbert that his son's suit was impracticable.
Mary convinced the good man
at last that it was not owing to his
caution that the intended wooing had
miscarried.

If young Mr. Herbert, and old Mr.
Herbert too, had come here and staved
months, it would have made no manner
of difference, papa. And as you would
never do for a conspirator, it is very well
that you are spared the ordeal.'

The rector marvelled, but could not
grumble at his daughter's determination to
♦ remain by him ' for ever and always,' she
said. He had much, as the summer advanced,
to occupy him by turning his mind
from his own grievances to those of others.

It was a bad, nay, a disastrous season for many
of his most substantial and valued parishioners.
The acreage of Swardham parish is
pretty equally divided between arable and
pasture land. Thus in former years, if a bad
harvest had befallen, some compensation still
remained to the farmer in his beeves. If,
again, prices ruled unprofitably low for stock
and cattle, by the help of abundant grain
the depreciation would be tided over. Moreover,
in the event of losses out-balancing
profits, there was always safe recourse to
Squire West (no matter which of them it
might be), who never turned a deaf ear to
a genuine tale of distress, and would often #
go beyond the petitioner's request in according
timely relief. But in the present season
the farmers of Swardham were encountering

such adversity as they never knew before.
Their harvest was a failure, owing to a
terribly wet July and August, and alas !
there was not a yard in which murrain had
not attacked their beasts. The animals
unaffected by the pest might not be driven
to market or fair ; the very milk and butter
were suspected, and had almost to be
given away, to be re-sold by mere jugglers
to the lowest classes in neighbouring
towns.

In their affliction the farmers were mindful
of the one resource left to them. They
must invoke the clemency of their landlord.
He was indeed a man of strange and
unfamiliar type ; but he was, after alla
genuine-born West, grandson to the old
squire ; he could not refuse the prayer of

VOL. III. H

his tenantry in their direst day of trouble.
Many an old-fashioned gig and many a
stout cob or sinewy hunter passed up the
old elm avenue, bearing their brawny,
healthy owners, all bound upon the same
errand, to ' have it out ' with the squire.
Alas ! for their sturdy confidence ; the tall
windows were shuttered, the chimneys
smoJieless. A sulky stranger butler, arrayed
in the coloured clothes of servant's holiday,
scarce opened that side door, hard by the
old justice room and steward's room, to
which the tenantry had ever repaired on
their visits. The chain rattled as the indifferent
answer was flung in each weatherbeaten
face, —

Master's away, travelling. Back ? can't
say, I'm shaw.'

There was a speedy clearance ; whip and
spur plied in that old avenue as never had
they been plied by tenants leaving the old
home of the Westss. Some old faces looked
very pulled and sunken, as their owners
drove into the farmyards that day ; some
younger ones very reckless and desperate.
Apply to lawyer Clark ! Ah, to be sure,
they would apply, and tell a plain tale.
But did ever any good come of an application
through a lawyer ? So little was
the hope left to them when the house of
the Westss had kept its doors shut on them,
that the answer which came in time through
the lawyer from the absentee created little
sensation. Of course he would have no mercy,
this Squire West who left the old Hall to
turn chained doors and shuttered windows on

H 2

his own people when they went there in
distress.

Over two hundred year we have bin
on this farm, from father to son, under the
Westss,' so said old Everett of Danes farm,
and now we nun go, go and work for
wage.'

There was little invective, little outward
sign of their woe among; the hardest hit of
these men ; but their rector knew them,
knew their very hearts, and his own heart
bled for them. Here was indeed a trial
for a good man's faith. He taught others,
and was bound himself to believe that One
above orders all things sublunary for the
wisest and most salutary ends ; but ah ! it
was hard to include in that great rule the
event which had flung John West on the

world and raised Adolphus in his place.
And the parson was so powerless, so utterly
powerless. Even had the squire chosen
to remain in Swardham, and chosen to
receive him, he knew that his solicitude
would rather prejudice the chances of his
clients.

A less sensitive man than Francis Hole
would have been well aware that
for him Adolphus West had no love. It
lay, in fact, at the root of this dislike, that
the rector had first seen the new squire
amid the squalor of Britannia Street ;
he was besides a partisan of the old
regime, and as such to be kept at arm's
length.

The poor rector, as was usual with him,
blamed himself for not having created a

better impression on the new-comer. There
were gifted men, he thought, who might
have influenced for good a young man
suddenly elevated to such a position, no
matter what his temper or antecedents.
There was an archdeacon, there were one
or two rural deans and rectors of his acquaintance,
who might, he thought, have
coped with even Adolphus West, had they
held sway in Swardham parish. Dignified
men, yet strong in argument, suave, yet
very firm, they must at least have quenched
the stubborn rudeness over which he could
but sigh. For, alas ! his gifts were of no
such high order : he could scarcely maintain
a decent semblance of civility with his
dear Jack West's supplanter, as Jack would
certainly have had him do. True, it would

have been hard to live in amity with so
odd a character, but it might have been ;
and, ah ! with what possible happy effect
for these honest fellows, the pride of the
parish and the county, who must now
lose their holdings in bankruptcy and be
plunged in misery, mainly (so he told
himself) because their parish priest was a
poor blunderer — one who, spite of his high
office and calling, wielded no power for good.
In such strain was the poor rector wont
to fret, bemoaning his helplessness, not
selfishly, but for the sake of his loved flock.
But he wronged himself in imputing incapacity
to his ministrations. All that a
sympathetic presence could do for the
families who were pressed most sorely —
counsel, comfort, even cash, though tithes

were in sad arrears, were forthcoming from
the self distrusting pastor. It was a labour
of love as well as a most sacred duty.
Not only did he love his people, but in
doing his best for their needs he gave
expression to his consecrated affection for
Eachel West and her son. God had been
pleased to remove from him both. Then to
tend their former charges was all he could
still do for them. The difficulties of their
employers had reacted on the labouring
poor of the place, and in many a lowly
cottage, where the ^ master ' was out of
work, and the cupboard was empty, did the
rector bid hunger a vaunt from good wives
and children ; for many a stout hind did he
obtain a job in some less troubled neighbourhood.


It was in such occupations, and the
fond talk that would spring up among
these poor ones as to happier times, that
he now found his most cheerful hours.
When he was at home, not even Mary's
presence could keep his thoughts from sad
roaming through the vanished happiness
of the past, or sad excursions into the vague
unknown, always in Cj^uest of Jack West.
What was he doing ? Why did he not
write again ? When, oh, when would his
oldest friend be rejoiced once more by sight
of that fine lofty brow, that stalwart form,
those calm grey eyes ? Sometimes he would
recall, with a momentary feeling of indignation,
that was almost superstitious in
origin, the prophecies of that evil stranger,
which had been so strangely fulfilled. Alas,

for the Arcadia of the past, that pleasant,
untroubled region, happy alike in rulers
and subjects, where he had played his
peaceful part for so many sweet years.
How vanished was it, though its bare
outlines, its dead landscape and lineaments,
were left. Its loved and honoured
mistress (happiest in her lot) laid in the
tomb after a wearing spell of secret sorrow
that had preyed on her ; its gallant young
lord an exile, nameless and penniless ; its
time-honoured Hall deserted ; its farmhouses,
so well-punished and full of comfort,
invaded by poverty and disaster ; its
cottage-homes emptied or pinched by want ;
its quiet street outraged by noisy demagogues,
professional agitators, and insure
; its old traditions dishonoured.

Truly it was only a high sense of duty,
a determination to befriend his flock in
their hour of need to his utmost, that
enabled the mournful rector when he
pondered on these things to bear up, and
prolong for a season his abode in a place
which was no more the old familiar happy
home, the Swardham of Rachel West and
her son.

Father and daughter sat often silent for
hours, desiring neither to sadden the other
with the burden of heart-sickness which
each bore ; and then they would start to
find how long the silence had lasted, and
try to renew the old easy cheerful chat.
But it was hard to avoid touching on some
of the chancres in all their surroundings.
How should the atmosphere of the rectory

not be chariot too ? How should the
rector marvel that his child's blithe brightness
had disappeared, and that the kind
eyes which met his own should lack the
frank joyousness of past years ?

CHAPTER V.

Bergen".

rjlHE flanking mountains, thanks to which
Barren can claim to be the most
picturesque town in Norway, have also a
tendency which, to the thinking of some
luckless visitors, out-balances their charm.
Comely enough is the town, with its red-tiled
roofs piled on slopes, and relieved by
trees, its fringe of shipping, its suburban
villas and green gardens ; but when on those
land ward heights clouds brood for days,
and deluges of rain obscure the rocky isles

to sea ward, blot all colour from the landscape,
rush in torrents down the streets,
and hiss upon the grey sullen waters that
lap the quays, then one may ungratefully
wish that the bridge-spanned bay were less
narrow, or its barriers more remote.

In autumn especially is Bergen subject
to these long-continued rains, and little as
they may affect the natives, they are found
depressing by most sojourners in the place.
Depressing they certainly appeared to John
West, installed as he was in the best hotel,
and surrounded by every creature-comfort.
His crippled hands, his other burns and
bruises, soon ceased to be very troublesome.

Yours is the flesh that heals,' said the
kindly doctor who tended him, ' and I only
wish that my other poor patient was made

of the same stuff.' And then they would
quietly enter a large room, where, cased in
cotton-wool and drenched with, antiseptics,
lay the hapless Squire of Sward ham.

For days after his awfully disfigured body
had been conveyed on board the Twa
to Bergen, his life had been despaired of.
The shock to the system has been great ;
he may not rally.' The doctors shook their
heads over him, but did their best, and
were rewarded at the end of a fortnight
by his still retaining a hold on life.

If his wounds were only in a healthier
condition I should have good hope, for his
will is good,' said the doctor-inches; 'and
he desires to live.'

Yes, Adolphus West, maimed and shrivelled,
hideously disfigured as he was, was

anxious to live ; above all, since he had
learned (in answer to the first question
he had been able to frame) that Aylmer
FitzRaymond had perished. It was from his
cousin that he heard the news, who had
accompanied him on the yacht from Borne
and had since remained by him.

He knew that to his cousin he owed his
life, saved by jeopardy of his own, and
whether or no it was from gratitude for
this service, he now desired his presence as
much as he had lately shunned it. In no
other way, however, had Adolphus shown a
chancre of feeling. Though his weak voice
was ever demanding aid from those bandaged
hands, he was as querulous, as thankless, ashe
could have been to a mere hireling.
But of this John West, full of deep pity

and that interest which we lavish on those
for whom we have risked much, made light,
seeming unconscious of all hard words and
ungracious ways. Adolphus, poor fellow,
was not one, he thought, to be over-courteous
at any time, and now, in his terrible
condition of body, might be pardoned anything.
If his own trifling burns were so
painful, what must be the agony of one
whose features were thus marred, his flesh
eaten by flames ? He did not know that
the very extent of the injuries, the destruction
of the nerves, rendered his kinsman
less susceptible of pain for the present.
The doctors knew, but said nothing, only
assuring Jack that, as the patient so strongly
desired it, his presence was absolutely
essential for his chance of recovery.

VOL. III. I

Thus, in close attention to the fractious
invalid, days dragged slowly on, while the
rain beat on the window-panes, and the
heavy sky brooded low on all outside.
Jack had noticed how his cousin's spirits
had improved since he was aware of Colonel
FitzRaymond's death. He recalled the
rumours which had been already current
when he fled from Longshire, and guessed
easily at the truth ; but as no confidence
was vouchsafed to him, the name of Lady
Georgians was never mentioned between
them. Only the sick man was ever pining
and fretting to be taken back to England —
to Swardham. And his cousin Jack must
go with him ; he should die on the journey
otherwise. This prospect was a distasteful
one to poor Jack. He would sooner have

crept again through flames than have returned
thus to Swardham. Without savings
as much, he did beg hard to be excused ;
he would cross the sea with Adolphus, go
with him almost to his journey's end, but
not there ! not to his lost home ! not to the
parish whence Mary Holbrooke must have
gone a happy bride.

But Adolphus was inexorable, he excited
himself so much over his cousin's refusal that
the doctors implored Jack to submit. And
he submitted ; he bound himself by a solemn
promise not only to see his cousin safe in
Swardham Hall, but to abide there with him
for a season, till the other could do without
him. Writhing in spirit, he prayed that
this time miojht soon arrive, and resigned
himself, patiently and gently performing his

I 2

daily task ; suffering for want of the fresh
air and exercise which in all his thirty years
he had never foregone before.

Except the doctors, he saw no one with
whom to exchange a word, save on two or
three occasions, when he had brief interviews
with Eric Bjornsen, the self-confessed
gambler, whose company he had solemnly
forsworn. This man's anxious face it was
which he had first recognized when he
revived from his swoon, to find himself laid
on a homely bed in one of the cottages at
Bjornestrand. His care and concern for the
injured had since been infinite, both on the
passage and after their arrival at the Bergen
hotel. Jack had been angered with him
for the recklessness which had conduced to
so terrible a catastrophe, but he saw in him

such signs of sorrow and distress as removed
all traces of that displeasure. That he was
sobered and shocked by the fate of his
associate was evident, and Jack began to
hope that, late in the day as it was, this
might be the turning-point in the counts
career. When they parted finally, he could
not refuse to give the man an address where
he might write, and to echo his oft-repeated
We must not lose sight of each other.*
It was indeed most improbable that they
should meet again, unless the count's
manner of existence should undergo some
startling transformation ; but the two men
parted with mutual kindly feeling, and one
of the two resolved that the parting should
not be for ever.

After a weary while Jack's burden was

shared with a young surgeon who came out
specially from England to undertake the
care of the patient, especially upon the
homeward journey, when such exertion
should be possible. Under the skilful
treatment of the new-comer, Adolphus
West's case soon assumed a more hopeful
aspect ; and as a removal to a less rigorous
climate than that of Norway in winter was
judged expedient, his intense desire for
return to Swardham was sooner indulged
than could have been expected, considering
the terrible nature of his injuries.

There will be a certain risk, of course,'
the surgeon said to Jack ; * but where a
patient is set on a thing as Mr. West is seton
getting home, the greater danger lies in
thwarting him.'

Attempted, accordingly, and accomplished
the journey was, though not till the last
week of the year. The weather was fortunately
propitious during the sea passage,
which, by special arrangement, was made
direct from Bergen to London. Here a halt
of two days was necessary for rest as well
as a thorough overhaul of bandages and
dressings ; but the patient's strength remaining:
good, and his longing for home
becoming yet more intense as they neared
it, the little cortege started on the third
morning: for Lonorborouorh.

Poor Jack was, luckily, too busy in
attempting to satisfy a thousand querulous
exactions to have much time for reflection.
He felt himself turned into a mere machine,
an automaton placed unreservedly at his

cousin's disposal. What else could have
taken him back than loss of his own will ?
Now and then he was left at peace for a
minute, and then he thought of his last
journey on that line — the third-class carriage,
the crowded passengers, the kindly
parson with his copy of the Field. How
like a vision of the night was all that had
since happened. How little he dreamed of
any return, least of all in such company.
As little as of the ordeals of water and of
fire through which he was to be brought in
safety. He dreaded the stoppage at the
familiar platform of Longborough, but he
dreaded in vain. The saloon in which they
travelled was detached and run into a
siding before the rest of the train passed
into the station. No eye but those of a

few respectful porters saw these privileged
passengers, or the muffled form of the Squire
of Swardham as it was carried to his closed
carriage in the goods-yard hard by. All
the arrangements of the journey had been
thought out and perfectly arranged for
privacy : such was the pleasure of Adolphus,
and he had the wherewithal to ensure respect
for his wishes.

It was dark before they reached Sward-ham
; but no darkness, no drawn blinds,
could make much difference to John West's
perception of these localities. Each turn
of the road, each rise and dip, was felt by
him as the carriage (the big old carriage
in which he had been carried of an evening
to many a neighbouring Hall) passed along.
He winced and shut his eyes as the great

entrance of the park was reached ; truly
the worst of this penance was beginning for
him. His cousin had fallen into a sleep
or stupor, and when at last the horses
stopped at the old hall-door, he resolutely
busied himself in aiding, with infinite precautions,
in carrying the corpse-like form
to the room, a library, prepared on the
ground-floor. There was not a servant
about the place whom he had ever seen
before. This was a comfort. He would
not let himself look about him to-nis-ht.
After the long process of undressing, ,
dressing the barns, feeding and
laying the patient to rest — in all of which
the surgeon found his assistance indispensable
— he was conducted by a strange
man to a little room into which he had

seldom entered in the old days. Declining
refreshment, he made all haste to bed, and,

contrary to all expectation, sank quickly into

a sound sleep beneath the good old roof-tree,

which he had thought to have quitted forever

when it passed into the hands of his

unknown and unloved cousin Adolphus.

A

CHAPTER VI.

PSYCHE, WITH A DIFFERENCE.

Dog-cart was bowling along the

road between Snugby village and
Swardham, the same road along which
Adolphus West had ridden Hamlet on a
certain summer's day. This, however, was
a winter's night, black and still, and the
hour was late enough for every cottage to
be shut and dark as the lamps went flashing
by, and the sharp click of the hoofs
and rumble of the wheels passed all unheard
by tired rustic sleepers. There were

two people in the clog cart, of whom he
who so smartly put the big brown horse
along was the Earl FitzRaymond, and the
cloaked figure beside him was his sister's.
Very much against her will had Lady
Georgiana turned out on this winter's night,
and as the brown horse trotted swiftly
on, less and less did she relish the errand
on which she was bound. But for once
'Fairy' had been obdurate, and had carried
his point, as a man generally will
with an affectionate sister. Vastly as the
petulant beauty valued her limbs and those
of her only brother, she would have risked
breakage or contusion if the cart would but
have upset at some turning. There was,
however, little chance of an upset with
Fairy for driver — Fairy, who was sober asa

judge, and provokingly practical and
sententious to-night, though he had been
dining. For once his sister would have
preferred that he should have been deeper
in his cups, or even as his henchman
Captain Clancy, who ceased to have any-independent
will or judgment most evenings
by nine o'clock, and became maudlin
before midnight.

Ugh ! ' shuddered the lady, ' the more
and the nearer I look at it the less I like
it, I can tell you that.'

Well, Georges the earl answered, somewhat
indistinctly by reason of a cigar stump
between his teeth, * that's irrational, childish,
you know. The more I look at our
financial prospect and the nearer, the less
like it ; the more thankful I feel that

there is a loophole for you, at any rate.
I ara about stone-broke, that's what I
am.'

How often have you said the same
thing ? ' she muttered querulously.

'Never, my dear child,' he went on,
pitching away the end of the 'cigar, ' with
the same awfully solemn truth. Listen :
it certainly wants two months to Lincoln,
but no improvement of the shining hour
will make my settlement there less than a
smash-up. I plunged in the autumn, backing
Teagown for the Handicap, as I never
plunged before. And she ica% a moral,
you know, at six stone five — only she went
amiss. But now there's no hedging; she's
been knocked all to pieces ; slap out of the
betting, and is as good as a dead 'un. I

don't know what to back ; some rank outsider
is bound to win. So it's all U P
with this noble sportsman.'

He did not seem in the least depressed
by this melancholy prospect, and his sister
only gave vent to a short sigh or strangled
groan, as he whisked into a side entrance of
Swardham park, shaving the gate-post very
close indeed.

Consequently, my child, you will
shortly find yourself turned loose on the
staggering luxury of — how much is it a
year ? — the interest of your five thousand
pounds in the three per cents., which you
can t meddle with (why, you couldn't buy
gloves and bonnets with it !) ; unless indeed
you prefer to be mistress of all this ' (he
waved his whip on either side as they sped

through the dim width of the park), * encumbered
only by a man whom you can
turn round your little finger ; and all the
more if he is to be a bit of an invalid.*

A rare wife I should make to an invalid
she said savaorelv, feeling that in vouchsafinor
this very visit she was in a manner committing
herself to the man who awaited her.

AYhat is there against you ? ' her brother
rejoined carelessly ; ' you've no debts to
speak of — '

Because nobody would trust me then.
Ah, Fairy, let us run away together, if
your grief is so utter. Absence hast made
my heart grow fonder.'

Fonder,' he repeated disdainfully, as he
drew up in good style at the front door of
the Hall ; ' what awful rot ! as if any one

VOL. III. K

expected you to be fond of a chap like
that. Here' (handing her down), 'go in
and win.'

If the earl, speaking from his recollection
of Adolphus West as last he saw him,
deemed him little likely to take a woman's
fancy, what would he have said of the
object now feverishly awaiting his lady love ;
had he beheld, without its mask of cotton
wool, that ravaged face, hideously seamed
and scarred, bereft of an eye, could he have
sent his sister to confront it as that of her
future husband ? But no one outside the
sick-room itself had as much as an inkling
of Adolphus West's awful disfigurement, or
of the nature of his indisposition. Not
even his mother, though she was in the
house, and had once for a moment been at

the bed-side, was aware of it. The care of
the remaining eye made a jealously darkened
room essential, and the secret, thus religiously
kept, was unsuspected by any save
his medical man and his cousin. To the
inquiring public it was reported that the
Squire of Swardham had returned from his
tour on the continent with an attack of
ophthalmia ; and that he had further, in his
purblind state, met with an accident, a fall
or strain, which prevented his moving
about, even from room to room.

Mr. Clark, anxious as he was to see his
patron, had to content himself vdth. this
unvarying report, and to wait till he should
be summoned. And as JMr. Clark's budget
was not of a particularly exhilarating or
favourable sort, he brought himself to own

K 2

that it must stand over till Mr. West
should be in his usual health, and prayed
that with convalescence an unusual amount
of patience might be developed. In truth,
there had been much exhaustion, and some
renewed suffering, since the arrival at the
Hall.

*We ought to have stayed a full week
in London,' said Hale the surgeon, ' only
he is so plaguey pig-headed (if you'll excuse
the expression) that he would have fretted
himself into a fever. Now he clamours for
anodynes, and I dare not give him half as
much chloral as he wants. If it were not
for your help, Mr. West, and that your
patience makes me ashamed of myself, I
could hardly carry the case on.'

Poor Jack, living on thorns, desperately

binding himself down to his task, pained
and stirred by every inanimate object
around him, felt himself little deserving
of praise.

Do go out, Mr. West, while he is unconscious,
at any rate ; you look ill, and the
air will do you good.'

Jack was indeed sickening for fresh air
and a good stretch ; but, oh ! not in
Swardham park. He made light of his
own doings and his own looks, and strove
to encourage the sturdy surgeon, who was
indeed, spite of occasional grumbling, doing
his best for his patient.

At last, on the sixth day after the
arrival in Longshire, Adolphus West, waking
from a long sleep late in the afternoon,
pronounced himself much better, almost

well, in fact. Though the early twilight of
January was already darkening into night,
the Squire of Swardham insisted on despatching
an immediate message to Bernstein
which he implored his adored one to
crown and celebrate his recovery by coming
over to see him at once, ' evening being his
best time,' he said. His communications
with Lady Georgiana had been of the
scantiest since his * trifling accident,' as he
was pleased to term it. He could not
write, and did not choose to employ his
cousin as amanuensis. He had, however,
while still at Bergen, found means of informing
the lady that she was a widow, adding
that he would tell her more when he came
to claim his reward. Now he felt that the
time had come. She had not written to

him ; she had often declared that she never
wrote to any one but her dressmaker.

This did not discourage his ardour ; he
felt sure that she must melt to one who
had been brave in her cause, suffering as he
had suffered. And as to his disfigurement,
the hideousness of which he imperfectly-realized,
he had a plan to guard against
shocking her at first. After a while, after
they were married, she would, so he told
himself, think none the worse of him for
those scars. Those about him had had a
bad time of it since the messenger returned
from Beausite, brinorinor a short note from
the earl. ' His sister was out,' he said,
and though she would be home before
seven, they had guests whom they could
hardly leave. Under the circumstances.

however, they would start as soon after
dinner as possible, and hoped to be at
Swardham by ten o'clock

In expectation of this visit Adolphus
so fidgeted, that the exasperated surgeon
often assured him that, unless he controlled
his excitement, he would certainly be too
ill to see any one. No detail, however, in
the arrangement of the sofa, to which he
insisted on being transferred, or of the rest
of his properties, including a dressing-gown
of quilted satin in which his bandaged
limbs were draped, was so small as to
escape anxious pondering, for the production
of the best effect. Every trace of a sickroom
must be banished ; fragrant pastilles
must be burned in suffocating profusion ;
above all, the shaded lights must be so

disposed as not to alarm a visitor by too
great obscurity, and yet to reveal no more
of the principal figure than his outline.
All had to be rehearsed over and over
ao^ain. The visitor must be shown to a
chair just there! — all other seats were to be
banished to the dimmest corners lest a
mistake should be possible. He made his
cousin ao^ain and assail sit down in this
chair, and put him on his honour to describe
accurately the effect of his studied
pose as he reclined. Would a person, a
lady for instance, who had not seen him
for some time, be able to see any difference
in him ? Ought the cushions to be raised
or lowered ? Was the room so dark as to
frighten any one ? A hundred anxious
questions were poured out to which Jack

did his best to return soothing answers.
From his soul he pitied this poor agitated
creature, with his half mask of thin cotton-wool
through which one eye peeped grotesquely,
beneath an embroidered cap of
velvet. Surely a woman's heart might be
touched, even if her eyes were sharp
enough to penetrate the semi-gloom. The
hours lagged slowly, and the invalid was
fain piteously to beseech for cordials to keep
him up.

This is the rankest folly,' growled Hale
the surgeon, determining that he would
admit no more untimely visitors.

You promised me ! you promised me ! '
Adolphus gasped. 'Don't go further than
the next room when they come. I may
want you — both of you.'

At length came the sound of wheels, of
the opening door, of steps and voices in
the paved hall, and in another minute the
brother and sister were ushered into the
room.

Hallo ! old fellow ! ' such was Lord
FitzRaymond's playful salutation ; ' this is
blind man's holiday ! Moses with the candle
out was nothing to this ! — where are you ? '

He advanced warily as he spoke, a tall
gallant figure in his * pink ' dress-coat with
button of the Lancashire hunt, and white
waistcoat ; but the master of the house
had no eyes for the earl. In her brother's
wake Lady Georgiana softly followed ; her
arms wrapped in a white opera cloak, the
rose-lined hood of which was half slipping
from her dark hair. As he fixed his passionate

gaze on her, Adolphus thought her
more lovely than ever. How exquisite the
grace of her movements ! How those beautiful
startled eyes shone as she faced the
shaded lamp behind his sofa ! He tingled
all over his poor marred frame as he beheld
her, and thought that he had fairly won
her for his own. If those eyes were bright
with apprehension — if that bosom heaved
with repugnance — if those full red lips were
silent because they could find no greeting —
he knew it not in his short ecstasy. Something
he murmured, devouring her the while
with his gaze, about an honour which he
never could forget, and then there fell a
silence on the group, till FitzEaymond,
standing behind his sister's chair, with a
comical glance around, proposed to take

himself off ' to any place where he could
have his cigarette.'

I shan't be gone five minutes,' he said,
as he pulled his cuff away from her detaining
hand, patting her slyly on the shoulder
as he did so.

*Not there then,' said Adolphus, as
the earl made for the door by which he
had entered ; ' the door behind you ! — you'll
find two gentlemen and more lio:ht than
suits me — and you will be within call,' he
added, wishing to reassure his silent visitor.

The door shut and silence reigned anew.
His heart beat till he fancied that she
must hear its throbs above such sounds as
broke the stillness, the tinkling of cinders
falling on the hearth, the muffled drone
of talking; in the next room.

'You know that you are free he
whispered at last, leaning as much toward
her as he dared.

Yes, I know,' she said.

Her lips felt dry and her voice sounded
harshly to herself : she felt as though toils
were closing round her, and that there was
no longer any escape for her. He could
touch her with his outstretched arm, and
now he tried very gently to find her hand,
still muffled in the folds of the cloak, as he
went on :

Free to marry me, without anything of
that law-business beforehand — without anything
from which you shrank : ' she shrank
nevertheless under his touch and said once
more :

Yes, I know.'

'Then, why,' he murmured passionately,
* why, knowing this, refuse me this
hand ? '

As she clenched the hand beneath her
cloak, her brother's laugh, jovial, almost
boyish, reached her ear through the intervening
door. Ah, reckless fellow, sporting
on the brink of ruin, and always so unfit
to take care of himself! — who but she could
influence him, and of what use her influence
unless. Her hand came suddenly from
under the cloak and surrendered itself to
the frantic pressure of the feverish fingers
which caught it.

Darling ! ' he moaned, half stupefied by
his bliss — * mv own darlings ! '

His swimming head sank back on the
cushions. One moment to recover himself,

and lie would tell her all his plans. He
had thought it all out so often in his painful
sleepless hours ! He would surprise her
into a hasty, perhaps immediate, marriage.
While in London he had actually made
Hale procure him a special license — under
which, by the expenditure of twenty guineas,
no restrictions of time or place would
impede the ceremony. All seemed to be
oroino: as he desired ! Of course she was
nervous, agitated — any woman would be
that — but willing, oh ! manifestly willing !
Why should she leave the house this night
un wedded ? Why should she ever leave
the house ? Mr. Holbrooke or some other
parson could be fetched in half an hour,
and there were plenty of witnesses ! All
this flashed through his mind as he still

held her unresponsive hand. Stammering
with eagerness he began to propound his
scheme, while she hearkened dumb and
passive. Why not ? Why not ? Would it
be better to bear a month hence or a week
hence ? On the other hand, would not delay
make Fairy's extrication from that coming
ordeal more difficult ? To marry this man,
and then not be in time to rescue her
brother — that would be awful ! She had all
her life defied conventionalities — why not
startle the ranks she despised, all the Clan
Grundy, by one more eccentricity ? Emboldened
by her tacit acquiescence he
stopped to kiss her hand, designing presently
to summon those in the next room,
when suddenly the door by which his
visitors had entered was flung open, and

VOL. III. L

a woman's figure, short, stout, and trembling
with emotion, stood on the threshold,
letting the candle which she carried shine
full upon his face.

Old Mrs. Van Lennep had retired, according
to her wont, at ten o'clock that evening.
She was not wanted in that house — that she
felt keenly, and meditated departure on the
morrow. She was folding some dresses to
be packed when she heard the noises attendant
on the entry of Lord FitzRaymond
and his sister. Surprised and curious, she
stepped from her chamber, and peering over
the balustrade beheld a lady and gentleman
doffing their wraps in the hall, and presently
disappearing in the direction of her son's
room — that room from which her motherly
presence was all but banished. To descend

to the room of her friend the housekeeper
was her sole resource ; perhaps Milligan
miorht know what had not been confided to
her masters mother. Milligan knew well
enough, short as the interval had been for
gaining the knowledge, who the intruders
were. Now she understood why Joseph
had been sent galloping to Beausite ! —
why there had been a clearance of phials
and compresses in master's room ! It
was extraordinary, she quite agreed — still,
they had both been shown in. After some
friendly chat, wherein a low opinion of fast
ladies in general and of one in particular
was freely broached, Mrs. Van Lennep
retreated to her chamber once more, while
Milligan felt it her duty to make a little
tour. In ten minutes the housekeeper rushed

L 2

into the old woman's room in high excitement.
She had it from the upper housemaid
that Thomas had just taken spirits
and soda-water into the smoking-room,
where he had found three of them, the lord
as well as the ' two doctor men.' They
were alone then, her Dolf and this woman,
neither maid, wife, nor widow. Closeted
together at an hour when proper people
were seeking their beds ! But they were
reckoning without one person in the house.
On to her feet bounced the old lady,
speechless with wrath. Catching up her
candlestick she brushed by Milligan, and
paused not till she had flung open the
forbidden door. There she stood on the
threshold, all shaking, but aghast at the
countenance (she scarce knew whose) on

which her light fell full. The velvet cap
had slipped over one ear, pulling with it a
deep green shade ; the mask of cotton wool
which had covered the upper part of the
face hung loose, and in all their horrid
unsightliness, patched scalp, eyeless cavity,
ulcerous cheek were illuminated. On the
lips of this death's-head still played the
smirk of ineffable gratification, far uglier
there than the grin of any fleshless skull.
In one instant, while the old woman shrank
appalled, dropping the candlestick to the
ground, the room rang with Lady Georgiana's
shrieks. The next, the further door was
violently opened and Lord FitzRaymond
rushed to his sisters side, followed by
Hale and John West. The keen eyes of
the surgeon scanned the room, the open

door and the faltering figure of the old
woman, and at once comprehended the
situation.

Take me away ! take me this moment
from this awful room — from this house ! I
shall die if I stop a moment — if I ever had
to return ! ' screamed Lady G., clinging to
her brother.

What's all this ? ' the earl began, with a
furious scowl. ' Has yonder dog — "

No,' interrupted Hale, * he hasn't. He
has done nothing more than making an
exhibition of a head-piece which is a trifle
damaged — not so handsome as it used to be.'
He muttered something more into Lord
FitzRaymond's ear.

Oh,' said the peer sheepishly, ' I'm
awfully sorry. West ; and Georgie will be

sorry when she understands, — won't you,
Georgie ? '

He tried to lead her nearer to the prostrate
figure on the sofa as he spoke ; but
she broke from him violently, and in high,
quivering tones cried out :

No, never again, come what may ! It
made me sick, do you hear ? It makes me
sick now. I should swoon with loathing if
he ever touched me again, and that is my
last word to him. Fairy, take me away at
once, as you are a gentleman.'

The wild disgust, the intensity of horror,
expressed in her utterance, was indescribable.
There was no hushing, no soothing,
or gainsaying possible. Abashed and
speechless, her brother led her from the
room. As the door closed behind them the

sound of Mrs. Van Lennep's sobs was alone
to be beard.

Oh, my boy ! ' she moaned ; ' oh, my
only living child ! — what have they done to
you ? But your mother loves you all the
same — your poor mother that you would
not see, though for that wicked woman you
could lose your rest ; and '

Here Adolphus, who had lain as one
stunned, hiding his unhappy features amid
the pillows, burst into wild yells and
curses.

It was you, hag — wretch — she-devil ! —
you, with your meddling pretence of love,
who spoiled all.'

As he raved, John West pushed the forlorn,
weeping mother to the door.

He is delirious, you must not heed him.

We will fetch you when he is himself
again.'

He turned the key on her at last, and ran
to help Hale. The miserable patient, in a
paroxysm of frenzy, had rolled from the
sofa to the floor, and was madly tearing the
bandages from his wounds. The two men
had an awful time of it ; for the puny,
wasted form seemed to develop terrible
strength, and it was a hard strus^o-le, and
not a wholly successful one, to prevent his
inflicting on himself the most serious hurt.
At last a handkerchief soaked in ether and
chloroform was forcibly held to his mouth
and nostrils, and his wild writings and
hideous cries subsided till all was still, and
he could be put to bed.

And a fine wreck he has made of himself

said Hale the surgeon, gloomily. * But
it is partly my fault too. Why did I give
in to admitting visitors ? '

He said you promised him.'

Jack spoke wearily, for he was worn out.

^ Well, it has been all his cry whenever
he has had me alone, all along. " You must
get me well enough to meet my bride as
soon as ever we get home," he used to say.
He made me buy a special license for him
in London, — just think of that ! — and a
ring, — I give you my word, — and all kinds
of humbug I had to palaver before they
would let me have the license. That washer
shoe which he kept under his pillow.
You must have seen it, though he didn't
mumble and kiss it before you. Good
Lord ! a nice figure-head his is for a bridegroom

! I can't be sorry that his precious
scheme was spoiled, for to cheat a handsome
woman into such a marriage would
have been too disgraceful, unless they could
have lived ever after on the terms of Cupid
and his young woman — Psyche, wasn't her
name ? And I remember that didn't last
long. But, by Jove ! that uncommonly
pretty creature who was removed in hysterics,
or something very near, would have
envied Psyche in the same predicament.
Cupid took himself off for good and all as
soon as his missus set eyes on him ; your
cousin would not have had so much o^race,
he would have stuck where he was, an
obstinate and awkward fact for daylight.
The modern Psyche is too wary though. She
has bolted, and left her swain disconsolate.'

The surgeon chuckled over his classical
conceit, but met with no response. John
West's head had dropped on his arms as he
sat at a table, and he was sound asleep.

CHAPTER VII.

DARKEST HOUR BEFORE THE Daw.

'Integer, I tell you, never! if all the
earth were united to believe it and
proclaim it, we in Swardham know better !
It's no use bringing among[ us such a charge
against John West. We know him too
well, and we would scorn to alter our faith,
just because he is not here to clear himself.'
It was Mary Holbrooke, flushed and
trembling, all unlike patient Griselda to
behold, who thus raised her clear sweet
voice, shrilling in unwonted excitement.

Standing in her own pretty drawing-room,
she faced fat Lady Woollett, who extended
two black-gloved hands in deprecation as
she listened ; and for answer only made a
moan of perplexity.

My dear,' she said at last, with an
anxious peep up at those fair knitted brows,
my dear, it makes me miserable, I'm sure.
My poor Mr. Fife's own niece, you understand,
and a staid girl as ever lived, poor
thing, and thoroughly well off too. If she
has not been made away with, where is
she ? think of that. And if he had nothing
to do with it, why don't he come forward
and say so ? What between Sir Tancred,
who won't hear a word, and is angrier with
us all than I could have believed possible,
and all the Fifes, and my own brother, who

won't allow there can be a doubt, Fm
nearly distracted ; and if you or your dear
father could have thrown any light on Mr.
West's proceedings, to clear him, of course,
no one would be more glad of it than L'

The poor lady wiped away a tear and
shook her plumed bonnet dolorously.

Lady Woollett,' Mary resumed in her
usual tones, ' I know you have a kind
heart, and Sir Tancred, God bless him ! he
is a true friend. I only wish, ah ! how I
wish we could tell you where to find Mr.
West. But we cannot listen to your
brother's suggestion with common patience.
Mr. West is the soul of honour, — any one
in the county could tell you that, — and to
connect him with anything clandestine, and
worse, would be wrong and wicked if it

were not absurd. Depend upon it, he knows
no more of Miss Fife's disappearance than
I do ; dismiss such a notion from your
mind, you that have seen him and know
his history.'

Then, my dear,' said the visitor, solemnly,
it must be that some dreadful accident has
happened, and one or both of them have
lost their lives. You don't know what a
country it is ; I never could bear it myself.
There are places where scores of poor creatures
might perish unknown — crags and
rocks, and quaking bogs. Oh, why did
the poor girl choose to live in such a desert ?
Depend upon it, she has met her death
there, and perhaps he was killed in trying
to save her.'

Mary felt her knees knock together as

this gloomy description of the dangers of
Ross-shire was unfolded. Was it more
comforting to think of him as dead, laid
in some awful ravine, or sunk in some
morass, than even as the partner of this
girl's flight ? But she was outwardly brave
and incredulous.

Nay,' she said, ' there are other ways
of accounting for a person's disappearance,
surely many other ways.'

She stopped, chilled by inward dread.

Aye,' rejoined Lady WooUett, ' for one
person, and that a man, to have suddenly
gone away ; but two, a young man and a
young woman, both in one hour — if they
are not together in life, they are not far
apart in death, I sadly fear. Well, my
dear' (after a pause), 'forgive me for having

VOL. III. M

pained you ; it was my duty to inquire of
you ; but as no light is cast on this mystery
I will be going, with a heavy heart. The
Fifes are anxiously expecting a letter from
me, but it's little I have to tell. Good-bye,
my dear, good-bye. And you'll not be
annoyed with them, nor with my brother,
when you reflect what an awkward position
Hilda's kith and kin are in : they are in
the right to leave no stone unturned.
Though in my opinion it will be a sorrowful
satisfaction, if they come at the bottom of
the matter, still.'

The good garrulous soul had talked herself
out of the room at last, and Mary was
left alone to digest her strange and unwelcome
tidings.

John West a sort of gamekeeper to one

of these Fifes ! — that mis^ht have been a
sufficiently distasteful fact to swallow, for
in her inexperience, her romantic innocence,
she had pictured her hero as already halfway
up the steps to fame, though in what
special profession she had not made up her
mind. But she bestowed only a passing
thought on this first surprise, merged cis
it was and lost in what lay behind. Her
lover, the man who had strained her to his
breast in that garden outside (a sacred spot
thenceforth), accused of an elopement with
his employer's niece, and suspected of subsequent
foul play ! that stainless name bandied
on the Coarse lips of such as Mr. Auchmuty,
and associated with she scarce knew what
cri ue ! Oh, it was horrible ; but it was at
any rate false, false and baseless calumny.

M 2

What, however, if Lady WooUett's boding
should not be equally baseless ! What if
the destiny under which John West
had lost mother, home, fortune, place in
the world, were indeed relentless and
un sated, and had exacted yet another
fine— all 'that was left to him — even his
life !

Mary had fancied herself sad enough,
hopeless enough in her true love before
Lady WooUett's brougham stopped, a messenger
of fate, at the rectory door. But
what is the burden of hope deferred compared
with the survivor's anguish when
death has intervened between two parted
lovers ? Was he never to know then how
constant she had been ? Had he gone
down to a nameless grave ignorant and

unconsoled ? The poor girl broke down
under her new terror, feeling that she no
longer cared to show a bold front to her
little world.

The rector was in London, whither he
had gone on the day previous in the interests
of the Everett family. He had
suo:sestecl to the ruined farmer that, rather
than see his sons * work for wore,' he micrht
allow the young: men at least to emigrate.
The plan had been adopted with ardour,
and as the stalwart yeomen seemed to look
to him for the initiative in each necessary
step, the rector made an appointment with
a colonial absent, and took himself off to
town for three days.

Mary had longed for her father's support
when first Lady WooUett had opened her

arraignment. His indignation would have
been equal to her own, and he could (so
she thought) have rebutted this disgraceful
imputation far more effectually.

Now, however, that the glow of excitement
had passed she was thankful to be
alone with that sad heart which must not
l>e eased by confidence. She could not
for a while continue the usual routine of
her life and of the house. In her father's
absence it was betraying nothing, shirking
no duty, to collapse, to proclaim herself
unwell, her meals and her housewifely
functions in abeyance till further notice.
She would give herself the time until her
father's return for unrestrained indulgence
of her misery. After that dear father
should have rejoined her, she would force

herself to rise, and eat and drink ; to order
dinner and take interest in the parish — allas
before. That she would find no such
excessive joyousness in the rector's mood
as to jar with her own she was well aware.
He was never nierrv of late, and when he
heard of these slanders, and of his old
pupil's prolonged disappearance, he would be
both agitated and anxious in the extreme.

So Mary crept up-stairs to her room,
leaving the warm pretty drawing-room to
solitude, and lay down on her bed. The
neat parlour-maid soon found her there,
and heard her injunctions.

No doctor ; nothing at all till she rang ;
then only tea. At home to no one. Xo ; it
was not exactly a headache ; it was just that
she was not quite herself and best alone.'

'Dear, dear said the maid when she
reached the kitchen. ' Miss does look like
death, and with master away ; I should like
to have in the doctor, but I durst ; she
don't want no doctor, she says

The servants were justly fond of their
young mistress, but were not proof against
the joys of an unexpected holiday. Miss
particularly desired to be left in peace, and
food she turned against. So cook embraced
the occasion to go ' up-street ' and
visit a crony, and the other two had a very
pleasant afternoon making up new bonnets,
till cook returned and gave them crumpets
and a turnover for tea.

The bell had never rung, but Anne took
up a cup of tea, and returned rather
penitent for a few minutes.

She ain't looking no better : I don't
know what master will say.'

Bat, as cook observed, often a night's rest
had made her all right when she had been
never-so at bed-time. Youth and \ivA\
spirits soon prevailed, and the sufferer was
forgotten. Cook's friend, the baker's wife
up-street, was keeping her birthday that
evenings, and had said how o^lad she should
be to see any of the rectory servants.
There would be quite a party, with games
and mulled elder wine. Cook generously
offered to mind the house while the other
two went a pleasuring. But this the others
would not hear of.

At last it was agreed that cook should go
too, just for half-an-hour, taking the back-door
key in her pocket. Thus when about

nine o'clock Mary, forbidden to sleep by the
disquiet of her innocent breast, that teemed
with presentiments of precipices and abysses,
and all manner of lairs of sudden death,
conceived a sudden hatred of her bed, and
came softly down-stairs again, she found the
house deserted, though a lio;ht in the hall
and another in the kitchen were tokens of
the desertion being but temporary.

I ought to scold them,' Mary thought,
but I shall be up-stairs again presently.
I need not reveal that I know. Ah ! there
is one of them returning ; rather impudent
of her to come in by the study.'

The door of the rector's study was open,
and the light in the hall shone into the
room. Mary stood to see which of her
domestics was taking the liberty of entering

by the door window, sacred to her father
and his particular friends.

With quick alarm, and most unpleasant
realizing that she was alone in the house,
she saw a tall man's figure pass into the
room. Noiselessly she turned to flee up
the stairs, desiring: to lock herself into her
room and scream from the window, when
she heard a voice.

Holbrooke ! rector ! where are you ? ' it
said softly.

Once more Mary turned, her heart beating
furiously, her ears strained to catch another
word. But it was needless, she was quite
sure. \\T3 ether it belonged to a living
man or to a disembodied spirit, that voice
was John West's. He was in the study,
calling for her father.

Scarce knowing what she did, unconscious
of her limbs or gait, she went straight into
the half-lit room, where, sure enough, there
was the fio-ure seated in her father's chair.
Right up to it she walked, trembling but
resolute.

My father is away,' she said quietly ;
but I heard you call, and knew your voice
directly.'

Any nervous terrors which had' been
present to her, fostered by the ominous
talk of the morning, and her unprotected
and disconsolate state, went from her as
she spoke her little ordinary sentence. She
could hear the quickened breathing of him
who sat in the chair, and fearlessly she laid
a little hand on his, where it rested on the
chair-arm.

As it was grasped by that other hand,
warm and powerful, a great flood of thankfulness
rushed over her and swept away all
trouble, all discomfort of body or mind.
Her very joy took away all command of
words. All she could do, as he remained
still silent, was to repeat,

My father is away ; could I do as
well ? '

It was a little formula familiar to Mary,
often used when poor people called in the
rector's absence, dio usually found that
Mary ' did ' very well indeed. And this
poor fellow — wdiat did he make of the
rector's substitute ? Hoarsely he whispered,
holding still the little hand,

Not married, Mary ? ' He could feel
even by her hand how she shook her head,

her whole person, in dissent. * Not going
to be, Mary ? not engaged ? ' There was a
pause, and no shaking this time.

He breathed harder than ever as he
thought ' must he loose this hand for ever,'
after the next sentence. But then a voice,
divinely soft and sweet, answered him, —

I thought myself engaged once, just
for one happy night. But in the morning
I was told not to think so. That was by a
letter ; but, do you know, I have not felt
as though pen and ink could undo what had
been, and till the writer tells me that I ama
little silly girl for my pains (as I dare
sav I am), I shall never think that engagement
quite ended, certainly never, never
think of any one else.'

Had it been daylight, even good candlelight

]\[ary Holbrooke could hardly have
delivered herself of that which was in her
ingenuous heart. Amid blushes she would
have broken down in the first sentence.
Aye, and had she not known, as recently
she had known, of this man's descent in the
world's scale, of his living by his daily
labour, of his being now beset by slanders
and imputations, she might have been
far more reticent and coy, even in that
dim room. But in her deep love for him,
she felt that in his adversity any coyness
mio'ht be misconstrued, and so she ofave
him the truth in the simple words which
came first, faltering, but ringing very true.

First let her comfort him with all the
comfort that love could give him ; then
for the dispersion into thin air of this

wretched false story'. He should see her
perfect love and trust before she as much
as asked a question as to his marvellous
arrival in this old familiar spot.

And did she succeed in her guileless
plan ? As Jack West rose, before her last
word was well uttered, as he clasped her to
his beatings heart, he swore to himself in his
transport that all else was well lost for the
rapture of this moment. Ah ! it was well
that cook had yielded to those seductive
games, that cheering cup of mulled elder
wine. The other maidens vowed and declared
that Miss Mary would sooner have
their room than their company on this
particular evening, and, for a wonder, these
truant women were right.

Revel, jovial cook, in thy run of good

luck at ' all-fours ' ; laugh your loudest,
light-hearted house and parlour-maids at
the witticisms of attentive village swains.
Your gaiety is timely, your absence inspired ;
your young mistress will say nothing if you
keep it up till the midnight chime. It was
not till the end of a short sweet hour, that
ran by without a misgiving, and healed
every furrow of the past, that Jack roused
himself with a start.

But, my dearest, my own, I came hereto
persuade your father, whom I thought I
should be sure to find alone here, to come
with me to my cousin's sick-room. He is so
very ill that he ought to see a clergyman ;
and as the Hall servants are strangers, and
seem to know nothing of the rectory, I
came myself, meaning to be quite secret

VOL. III. N'

and unrecognized by any one It the good
rector.'

Mary was by this time such a very
different creature to the Mary of the morning,
of many mornings past, that she actually
laughed, a little happy trill, as she
replied,

I ought to beg many pardons for interfering
with such an excellent plan ; and I
ouQ-ht not to lauorh if Mr. West is so ill :
but, you see, it couldn't be helped ; I suppose
it was to be.'

Ah, yes ; of doubts and difficulties frowning
on them as darkly as ever she recked
nothing at all. Her weary waiting was
over ; her constant loyalty justified. ^ It was
to be.' He was actually going at last, after
how many false starts and delicious delays,

before she thought to ask him whether he
could satisfy the anxiety of a good neighbour,
and of a whole clan of Fifes in
the distance, by revealing aught as to a
missing lady, one Miss Hilda Fife ? So
serene was her mood, so perfect her content,
that she could put this question, after
all the morning's wretchedness, almost
lightly. He started violently, and she
saw a spasm of pain contract his brow
(they were now in the lighted hall) as he
replied, —

Good heavens ! I wrote six weeks ago —
wrote when it was pain and grief to me
to write, to her London relatives' address,
telling them of that unhappy creature's
melancholy fate. How can they possibly
have failed to get my letter ? ' Then in

N 2

answer to Mary's awed look of inquiry he
went on, — ' It hurts me to speak of such
a thing to-night, Mary, but Hilda Fife was
drowned — drowned at sea the night after
her uncle's funeral, and I alone witnessed
it. And her people have never heard !
Surely they don't — '

He looked down at the sweet face nestling
against his shoulder.

Ah ! no matter,' she said, ' what they
have thought ; all will be plain now, though
how sad, how miserable — '

Don't think about it,' he said with
energy ; * God knows there was none to
blame but herself. But this is no time
to tell a painful story ; it must be told in
the proper quarter without delay. I will
write again. Let no shadow rest on our

good-bye to-night, Mary There was no
shadow on the trustful, candid face which
he kissed fondly. ' The rector will have
a fine account to settle with me when
he learns of all this.'

If anything could make his joy in recovering
you more deep,' she murmured
bashfully, ' I think it would be this.'

CHAPTER VIII.

»

AS IT WAS MEANT TO BE.

'Erysipelas has set in.' Such was
Hale's curt answer, next morning early,
to John West's inquiries after the invalid.
Yes,' he added ; ' I have sent for Turner,
the Longborough swell, and telegraphed fora
still greater swell to London ; it's proper
in the case of a wealthy patient ; but, upon
my word, I don't believe there can be the
slightest doubt, or, for the matter of that,
the slightest chance.'

This sentence of doom came as a shock

upon the hearer. His kinsman was not
one whom he could love or respect, but
he was still young, and had only lately
entered on the enjoyment of a fine position
and corresponding income, That from
these he had himself been ousted in this
cousin's favour found no place in his present
thoughts. It was hard to die : was there
indeed no hope ?

With that unperturbed and matter-of-fact
way which is not callousness, though
sometimes imputed as such to medical menthe
surgeon explained to him something of
the nature of the newly developed disease,
and discussed the probabilities in this casein
particular.

There has been delirium, which may
recur, or, owing to the great exhaustion, he

may go off without another acute attack.
In either case the odds are that there will
be no conscious interval. We didn't think
when he was fussinoj about the smattering:
up of the room for his visitors, that we
were listening to this last sensible remarks,
ehr

Poor fellow I poor fellow ! do you think
that he would have pulled through if
all that unfortunate business had been
avoided. *? '

It's hard to say ; partly depends on
what you mean by pulling through. In
my opinion he could never have had any
satisfaction out of his life, but he might
have lived after a fashion, perhaps for some
years.'

A devoted woman's love might have

made his life bearable,' Jack said, out of
his full heart.

Hale raised his eyebrows as he replied, —

I'm afraid the woman he was set on
wasn't just that style. She'd have had to
make believe very hard," like the immortal
marchioness. Well, as you're ready to
relieve me, I'll get a few hours' sleep.
No immediate change is likely.'

In the course of the day both doctors
arrived, the distinguished provincial and
the yet more eminent Londoner. There
was a formal consultation ; but, as Hale
had anticipated, nothing was added to his
diagnosis but two confirmatory opinions.

Mr. Clark was in waiting with two
cheques, and the two great men returned
to catch up their arrears of engagements,

leaving the young surgeon and his amateur
assistant to watch the running down of the
mortal machinery. All through the afternoon
the condition of coma and collapse
was unchanged.

There will be no return of consciousness
Hale repeated, who was surprised that the
sands of life drained away so slowly.

At ten o'clock John West was again
alone with the dying man, having persuaded
Hale to go to bed, whence he was to be
called ^ if there was any change.' Poor
old Mrs. Van Lennep had also retired,
worn out with hours of weeping and piteous
prayer. Since her son had, in his bitterness
of soul, reviled and even cursed her,
she had been utterly crushed, and could
do nothing but cry inconsolably. Better,

she thought, the least prosperous days
in Britannia Street than this grandeur
which had corroded her boy's heart, and
exposed him to what was like to be his
death.

Left alone in the silent room, John ^Yest
strove to attune his thoughts to the
solemnity of the situation. If the rector
returned, as Mary had expected, he was to
come over to the Hall at once. He still
might come if he travelled by the down
mail, and his old pupil yearned to see his
kind face, and hear his reverent voice in the
prayers for the departing soul.

Though his newly-secured happiness as
Mary's lover encompassed him as with a
warm and elastic garb of well-being, he
would not permit his thoughts to luxuriate

ill detail amid his joys, or to attempt to
unravel the still tangled maze of his future
life. Neither his mother nor his grand -
sire had in their last hours admitted of
such a watch as now he was keeping
by his cousin's bed-side. The old squire
had expired of sheer old age, in his
elbow-chair. The manner of Each el West's
summons has been described in these
pages.

It was the first death-bed by which John
West had sat, and it was with awe that he
watched the leavings of the wave of life,
already so faint and feeble. But for hours
there was no change.

He has lived into another day,' the
watcher thought, as he rose to stretch his
chilled feet to the fire.

As he stood on the hearth he heard a
faint whisper of his own name, ' John A
hurried glance convinced him that his
cousin, contrary to Hale's prophecy, was
awake and apparently conscious, and he
bent over him with eager sympathy. It
was almost as though the words came from
one already beyond the veil. But the faint
syllables were, as it seemed, of no solemn
import, only,

My dressing-bag.'

He fetched the smart morocco bag which
had accompanied Adolphus on his travels,
emblazoned with crest and monogram, and
set it on the chair by the bed-side, on
which he had been sitting. It was locked,
and he turned inquiringly to Adolphus,
who motioned with his head upwards. Ina

fob there hung the sick man's watch, and
taking it out, John found a key upon the
chain. He could see that he was doing
right; and unlocking the bag, paused for
further direction.

Paper in the pocket,' Adolphus murmured.


Feeling among the silver-topped bottles
and fittings of the hm, he soon found the
pocket, and in it a folded paper, which he
held before his cousin's face, on which a
strange excitement now appeared.

Burn — burn it ! ' Adolphus said, in
much louder tones.

But, as the other stood up to obey, he
saw the endorsement on the paper. It was
a will — his cousin's will. Staying his hand,
he started back.

Adolphus,' lie said, ' I cannot destroy
your will. It would not be right.'

The poor blurred features worked terribly,
and the head rolled on the pillow — the
limbs already powerless.

You must ! you must ! ' he gasped ; ' I
know what I am about.'

Let me fetch Clark then, he is in the
house said John, dismayed, and keeping
the document fast.

Ah ! ' a long-drawn, piteous sigh ; * I am
so faint — give me wine.'

There was a liqueur-case on a side-table,
and a glass of green Chartreuse was soon held
to those dry lips, that drained it eagerly.

Stay where you are,' Adolphus resumed
more firmly : * by that will sie gets everything
— she who sat there and cried, ' It

makes me sick and fled from me as from
the plague. Ah, cruel! cruel! — she broke my
heart. Burn it, and all shall be yours, as
it was meant to be. Do you understand me ? '

Understand him ! Good heavens ! did he
not understand. In one lio^htninor flash he
saw all : as it was if this will stood :
a stranger — and such a stranger ! — enriched
by all the broad lands of the Westss, turning
his mother's house into a second Beausite :
as it might be if Adolphus died intestate,
the loss and suffering of the last two
years erased, himself restored to that proud
inheritance, a softened, chastened man,
blessed with the love of his mother's
cherished little Mary.

Of the fierce temptation of that moment
he never could think without a throe.

There was no detail of either fortune which
was spared him, vivid and real, as he
stood unnerved and anguished by the
ordeal. Alas it not right and just and
equitable that he should succeed ? But
ah ! the slur, the damning slur that would
attach to such succession ! The will's
existence must transpire ; and who would
believe his true account of the matter, who
not credit him with deep design, fostered by
his cousin's weakness, culminating in the
will's destruction ?

Ah ! you will do it ? T thought you
would.'

Was there a slight tinge of contempt in
the triumph of that faintly panted sentence?
Ere it was finished the tempted
man had won the battle.

VOL. III.

Less than before, cousin, is it possible todo
as you ask,' he said gently but resolutely,
and laid the will upon the pillow. * If you
order me I will fetch Clark at once : that is
all I can do

The dying man uttered a low terrible
cry.

Too late ! it will be too late I Burn it !
burn it now ! '

His lips parted for more words, but
could not frame them. The feeble breath
could do no more than blow idle bubbles
from that working mouth. And then in
the throat began, harsh and quick, the
warning rattle. But still there was a
pleading gaze in the eye that sought the
watcher's eyes.

So urgent was the moment that, reluctant

as he was to leave the room, Jack flew to
where Hale slept, near at hand, and shaking
him, bid him rouse Mrs. Van Lennep and
Clark and hurry them to the bed-side.
But when he returned Adolphus was in
the last agony. He had caught the paper
between his teeth, worrying it in his baffled
hatred of its purport, striving to rend and
deface it with its expiring efforts.

It was a harrowing spectacle ; but quickly
the will dropped from the falling jaw,
dented and gnawed and slavered, but unrevoked.
And from the dead man's breast
Mr. Clark removed it into the jealous
custody of the law, while yet the sobbing
mother knelt at the bed-side, and the two
men who had tended the frail still frame
stood by, with prayers upon their lips.



Then there was a slight stir at the room
door and the rector advanced, on tip-toe,
to find himself too late to execute his
solemn errand of commending to its Maker
and Judge the passing soul.

The mail train had been delayed many-hours
on its road that night by the breakdown
of its engine. No sooner had Mr.
Holbrooke reached home than his daughter,
relieved from an anxious vigil, despatched
him to the Hall. The good man's amazed
joy when he heard that beside the new
squire's sick bed he would find his loved
pupil, whom still in his heart he recognized
as the true squire, may well be imagined.

Even in the awe with which he presently
learned that Adolphus West had passed away
was mingled the thankfulness of his heart.

Even in that chamber, where he strove
to console the stricken mother of the deadman,
he could scarcely repress the rapture
of welcoming John West to his own assail.
For now surely there could, be no doubt !
Leaving: neither widow nor child, the sole
descendant in the male line of the old
squire had died, and who should bar the
right of Rachel West's son, the true destined
heir of Swardham, the noble-looking:
man who, sad and subdued, worn as though
by a weary struggle with adversity, surrendered
his hand to the clasp of his oldest
friend ?

Almost in silence John West agreed to
Mr. Holbrooke's proposal that he should
quit the Hall with him and take up his
abode for the present at the rectory. With

short delay the two friends were crossing
the park. They could find their way to
the rectory blindfold, and in the early
hours of this winter's day it was well for
them that such was the case. Once in the
open air, and alone with his old pupil, the
rector could not keep down the hopeful
tumult of his breast.

Oh, my dear boy,' he said tremulously,
God pardon me for seeming to rejoice in
the death of a young man, and one of the
Westss ; but how can I weigh it against all
that's on the other side ? Such indignity
as it has been for you ; such suffering and
woe for Swardham ; enough to make the
old squire come back from a better place.
And now it will all be righted ; you have
come to your own again. I have never

wished your dear mother among us again
till this hour.'

Lost in his prospects of recovered felicity
for his parish, the rector could find no space
for inquiring whence his friend had come,
or how he chanced to be in attendance
on his cousin. It was enough that he was
at home among his own loyal people again,
who would welcome him with ecstasy.

John West's heart was wrung as his old
friend's faltering sentences fell on his ears.
It might have been. All this happiness for
all these well-loved folks might indeed have
been dawning with this wintry dawn.
Adolphus had certainly wished in his last
moments that so it should be.

*As it was meant to be,' he had said,
acknowledging the perversity of the fortune

which had enriched him at his cousin's expense,
as well as the propriety of restoring
to him, with his dying breath, that whereof
mischance had bereft him. But this view
had developed too late. It had needed
the sting of wounded love, the sickness
of repulse and betrayal to quicken it, just
and natural as it undoubtedly was. And
the will, the embodiment of the writer's
wishes as they had been till that rude and
late awakening, had proved, frail scrap
of paper as it was, a barrier to all his
repentance.

Not for one instant did John West repent
of his own steadfastness in respecting that
barrier. If no other living person than
himself had at that moment been cognizant
of the will's existence, he would have

hastened to place it in proper custody.
Yet it was hard to answer his old friend,
dashing every hope.

Do you not know he said at last, ' that
my cousin has — had, I should say — full
power to dispose of the property as he
liked ? '

Bless my heart ! ' ejaculated the rector,
'but he couldn't leave it out of the family,
and there is no one but yourself. That old
mother, to be sure. Oh, preposterous ! '

Dear Holbrooke, I know that your feeling
for me as a landless man, a penniless
waif, has been full as tender as for the heir
or the young squire. That consoles me, for,
make up your mind to it, once and for all I
have ceased to be owner of Swardham. It
was a wrench, but it is over, and I accept

its consequence as irrevocable. There is a
will, and I inherit nothing under it.'

He pronounced these words, fatal to his
friend's new-born hopes, in no lugubrious
tone. The cold fresh air had refreshed and
revived him, seeming the more delicious
from his late deprivation of it, and his long
watches in a close sick-room.

John West was himself again, ay, and
a better, happier man than his old self of
the prosperous days. He had that within
him which could comfort and sustain him in
all struggles to come, a better cordial than
gold and lands, pride of place, and worldly
ambition ; and this his newly assured love,
all the more precious that he had long
cherished it in mistaken hopelessness, he
must not withhold from Mary's father.

He has not left it to charities ; no —
mortmain — he couldn't cried the rector,
almost choking. * Who, in the name
of—'

I Grained what knowledge I have of the
will in such a way that even to you I ought
not to reveal its purport. You will soon
know all about it. Meanwhile, here we are
at your garden wicket, and I — more shame
to me — no better off, no nearer to winning
an honest competence, than when we last
passed it together. Well, I was sore then,
and headstrong, and chock-full of unwarrantable
squire-like pride that made me morbid
about taking a helping hand, and wrongheaded
about the way to set to work. I'm
no richer yet, but I'm cured of my morose
folly, rector ; Tm not above doing anything

for an honest livelihood, and thanking anyone
kindly who helps me to it.'

By this time they were in the porch, and
as the rector, greatly amazed at this cheerfulness
under a fresh disappointment, was
fumbling for the latch, John West put his
two hands on his old friend's shoulders and
said softly, —

What do you think has wrought this
change in me ? For whose sake am I
emboldened to forget all else and make a
brave fio^ht, instead of shirking and lurking
as I have done ? '

The rector murmured inarticulately,
cheered vaguely by the other's evident
insensibility to Fortune's frowns. He was
full of sympathy, but how was he to know
who had o-iven John West new courage ?

He opened his door and motioned to his
companion to enter in front of him.

Nay ; I don't cross your threshold till I
have told you the great secret that is my
charm against misery and incentive to toil
for the future. Rector, I love your Mary,
and she loves me. I will never rest till
I earn enough to maintain her as my
wife

God bless my soul ! ' said the rector, ina
key how unlike that of his last similar
ejaculation. ' Mary, my little girl, going
to be Mrs. West, your wife ! Why, my
dear John — '

I know I am a shockingly bad match as
well as a good many years her senior,' John
put in with a rueful Senile.

Bad match ! The greatest honour that

could befall my girl or me, only it astounds
me how you came to think of that child, or
when or where ; but come in, come into the
study.'

Ah, that study ! memorable room ! any
other tete-astute within its walls was as vet

4/

a desecration.

Why, my dear father-in-law that is to
be, if you and I are to sleep at all before
broad daylight, we had better postpone our
chat till tomorrow. Do you know it is
four o'clock ? 1 have been selfish in disturbing
you with my confession to-night ;
but it would out as soon as we got outside
the house where poor Adolphus lies dead (I
mean no disrespect to him, poor fellow, if
I cannot forget my own consolation), and I
hope you will sleep none the worse for my

unbosoming. To-morrow, or rather at a
more seasonable hour of to-day, you shall
hear as much of my adventures as you
like.'

Sound and untroubled were John "West's
slumbers that nicjht beneath the roof tree
which sheltered his lady-love. Yet he had
within a few hours finally refused to accept
from the last male of the race those acres
and appanages of the Westss of which he
had been reared undisputed heir, which
he had for two years enjoyed as his own,
which he had ceded with promptitude indeed,
but with untold anguish, to their
legal owner.

Swardham was dear to him as ever, but
honour was now and ever dearer; nor for
the most priceless earthly inheritance would

lie live with a cloud upon that honour's
brightness, with the damning consciousness
that a whisper had ever gone forth that his
fair possession had been questionably won.

CHAPTER IX.

THE Provisional WILL.

nne body of Adolphus West was laid
in the family vault under the chancel
of Swardham church with all the pageantry,
ugly, unmeaning, and expensive, on which
funereal reporters are wont to dilate in their
most glowing or stilted phraseology. Of
all the useless pomp that ever (disgraced
semi-public obsequies nothing was bated.

*The arrangements reflected the highest
credit on our well-known Lonorborouorh firm,
who need certainly fear no comparison with

VOL. III. p

the most eminent undertakers of the metropolis


So said the Loughborough Gazette and
the tradesmen of the boron g^h to a man
endorsed the Gazettes opinion, considering
that nothing in the life of the last West of
Swardham became him as his leaving its
scene in three handsome coffins, amid indescribable
bedizened of feathers, hat-bands,
cloaks, and gloves, escorted by an
army of professional man and horse, and
sentinelled by fat black personages who
leaned on black broom-sticks, which had their
own head-gear of voluminous new crape.

As usually happens in such cases, both
before and since Jonas Chuzzlewit gave carte-blanche
to Mr. Mould, the trappings were
in an inverse ratio to the regrets of those

who bespoke them for the poor disfigured
corpse.

When the prudent Mr. Clark examined
in private the last will and testament of
his deceased patron, he found in that brief
but perfectly valid document no directions
as to the testator's burial, no provision,
modest or lavish, for the post-mortem
expenses.

Under these circumstances Mr. Clark was
justified in doing what he was in truth
itching to do. He at once, on the day-after
the death, chartered a fly and drove
out to Beausite.

*Well, well,' thought Mr. Clark, as he

jolted up the neglected drive and neared

the black-streaked and melancholy front

of the mansion, ' money is sadly wanted

p 2

here, no doubt ; as well as the supervision
of some thoroughly competent business
man

The earl was at home, so he learned from
a yawning and slatternly woman, who
opened the great clanking doors under the
classic portico ; and my lady was also at
home,^but she had been very sadly for sometime,
and would see no one. Mr. Clark
was content to see the earl in the first
instance, and was left by the solitary retainer
in the great chilly hall while the
earl's pleasure was ascertained, with not so
much as a chair to sit down on.

Just as he was waxing somewhat indignant,
quite tired of trying to make
out what the paintings of the dome had
represented before a third of their surface

had become obscured or peeled off, he heard
a lively whistling, and beheld Lord Fits
who strolled leisurely in with
his hands in his shooting-jacket pockets,
and perched himself easily on a corner of a
great marble slab.

If it's money you're after, Mr. Clark,'
he said carelessly, ' you might as well have
stayed in Longborough, and saved your
client the fly-hire.'

My lord ! it is money indeed, and
money's worth to an extent you little dream
of, which is the cause of my opening communications
with your lordship's family.'

The earl merely raising his eyebrows and
occupying himself with getting a cigarette
in working order, Mr. Clark went on ina
tone of offended solemnity, due to the

weight of his tidings and the scanty
courtesy of his reception.

I am, as you are perhaps aware, the
legal representative of the late Mr. West
of Swardham ; and it devolves on me to
acquaint your lordship and your lordship's
sister with that gentleman's testamentary
dispositions, and to request certain directions
which are immediately necessary.'

Seeing that his auditor was looking first
very blank, then puzzled and attentive, Mr.
Clark proceeded, in stately language, to unfold
his news, and put Lord FitzRaytnond
in possession of the purport of the will.

Cool and calm as the young peer had
ever shown himself in the many transactions,
mainly to his disadvantage, of his career,
he was fairly staggered by what he heard.

The cigarette fell unheeded from his lips ;
he stared in bewilderment at the attorney,
still sitting on the slab, and mechanically
swino^inor one leer to and fro. At last he
broke out, in vehement excitement, —

Good God, man ! put it in three plain
words : am I to understand that Adolphus
West makes my sister heiress to Swardham
and all he owned besides ? '

Disdaining the three words conceded to
him, Mr. Clark nodded a nod that was
almost a bow.

But can he ? could he ? is it legal ? will
it hold water ? '

My lord, the will by which her ladyship
takes the whole property is, though short
and informal, a perfectly good will, duly
attested, its provisions feasible.'

What is the date of the will ' sharply
inquired the earl.

It bears date, I fancy, August 26th or
27th last, I am not at this moment prepared
to state which

Ah 1 ' a prolonged ah, which ended in a
sharp whistle, ' that accounts. You are sure
he didn't make another — just before he died,
you know ? '

My lord, I am positive that my late
client made no other will.'

Then, Hallelujah ! ' said the earl, and
kicked both legs high in air. Instantly
resuming his impassive manner after this
outburst, be jumped from his seat. ' I will
save you the trouble of seeing Lady
Georgiana FitzRaymond, Mr. Clark. She
is not very well — scarcely up to admitting

a stranger ; and the news will come best
from me. Thank you for the trouble you
have been at. Good morning.

Secretly thrilling with disgust at his
shabby treatment by an insolent aristocrat,
Mr. Clark sent after the earl (who had
begun his retreat) such a resonant ' my
lord ! ' that he paused irresolute.

I come, as I hinted, not only to acquaint
her ladyship with important tidings, but to
obtain her directions for the obsequies of
my deceased client, who omitted the usual
or indeed any provisions on that head. As
one who will be accountable, I can give no
orders till I have her ladyship's sanction
for expenditure on such scale as she may
consider appropriate.'

The earl whistled asjain.

Here's a pretty go ; this is possession
with a vengeance, before the poor chap is
fairly cold. Why, of course, you may spend
what you like ; do the thing properly, by
all means.'

Again he tried, ungratefully of mortals,
to get rid of his visitor.

But Mr. Clark proved obstinate, coldly
declining to take the earl's permission, and
before he left the house obtained an interview
with the lady, in whom he saw a
future valuable client, better, by reason of
her sex, than the late squire, who (as we
now) had not always been amenable.

When he finally departed he carried a
full indemnity for any expenses to be incurred
in burying the remains of Adolphus
West. And being a Longborough man born

and bred, and not indifferent to popularity
where it could be obtained without private
outlay, he so interpreted the behest, ' to do
the thing properly,' that the funeral and all
its adjuncts were such as have been described,
a miracle of costly pomp, a precedent
fondly quoted for years by the
undertakers, silk-mercers, and job masters
of Lonsboroucrh.

After the ceremony, those who listed of
the followers were bidden by Mr. Clark to
return to the Hall, where the will would be
read. Out of respect to the name he bore,
some dozen of Longshire gentry had attended
the body of the last West of Swardham to
its resting-place. Others had contented
themselves with sending their carriages.

It was a short journey from the Hall to

the Church, and though the least direct
route was chosen for greater display of the
dismal splendours, no one's horses would bethe
worse. Of the tenantry more ' followed '
than might have been expected from their
grievances and depressed condition.

Poor fellows ! they had heard of such
things as a year's rent returned by will to
each of the testator's tenants. They expected,
moreover, with greater confidence
to see ' the young Squire,' as they still
called John West, which would be a sight
for sore eyes, and all the more salutary if
it were true, as rumoured, that he was now
to be reinstated in the old Hall, and to continue
the long line of Squires. The sturdy
farmers, some of them bent with age, some
in their ruddy prime, clustered near the

service-door of the dining-room, far from
the spot where Mr. Clark sat with a tin
box before him.

Neither John West, who had been chief
mourner, nor the rector of Swardham, was
present. There were three or four gentlemen
seated to right and left of the attorney,
whom curiosity or friendly interest
in John "West had attracted to hear the
will read. And, to the surprise of all,
there was Lord FitzEaymond, who had
both been in the church, and was now
ensconced on a window-seat, where he
busied himself in divesting his hat of the
yards of silk, enough to make a tidy frock
for a child, in which an obsequious mauled
that morning swaddled it.

To this audience Mr. Clark took up his

parable. The will wliicli he held (he told
them) was the undoubted sole testament
of the late Mr. West, though its execution
and existence had been unknown, till after
that gentleman's death, to his legal adviser.
It bore date August 26th, of the year
previous, and appeared to have been signed,
sealed, and executed at Liverpool, where
the two attesting witnesses were still waiters
at the hotel in which Mr. West was then
staying prior to his unfortunate trip to
Norway.

You will note, gentlemen,' said Mr.
Clark, 'that the will is a surprise to me
personally, but also (with a side-glance at
the window-seat) that the circumstances
preclude any allegations of undue influence
or lack of testamentary capacity. Gentlemen,

it was the expression of the deepest
sentiments of my late client's heart, sentiments
which, although a premature decease
forbade their consummation, have taken
abiding and solid shape, such shape, gentlemen,
as will do all that worldly abundance
can do to compensate the beneficiary for a
doubtless irreparable loss.'

The farmers looked stolidly anxious, the
gentry dubious ; only the earl, having restored
his hat to its normal form, preserved
his usual aspect of cool serenity.

The preamble thus accomplished, Mr.
Clark unfolded a small and shabby paper,
the very paper which he had taken from its
dead writer's breast. A paltry-looking instrument,
yet by it Adolphus West of Sward-ham
did give and bequeath to Georgiana,

daughter of the second and only sister of
the third Earl FitzRaymond, all property,
whether real or personal, of which he should
at his death be possessed. All the broad
corn lands and pastures (whereof the occupants
and tillers heard dolorously the transfer),
the snug farm-houses with their barns
and straw-yards, the woods, coverts, preserves,
orchards, the ancient mansion-house
with its contents, even to the family portraits
and the old plate ; the advowson,
with next and perpetual right of presentation
to the rectory of Swardham, and
one or two smaller benefices, the monies
at the bank, or invested in stocks, shares,
or otherwise — all these passed by that
poor sheet of paper to a stranger in blood ;
a Longshire woman indeed, but an alien

to the county and the traditions of its
ancient houses.

Brief as was the document, it contained
something more than the mere bequest.
Adolphus West, who had soothed his sick
honoris for his enchantress, during his
wait at Liverpool, by drawing up this will,
had begun it in the old-fashioned style,
which sets forth the testator's soundness
of mind and body, and had added a clause
as follows : ' Being about to undertake a
voyage, and considering the many perils of
such undertakings, I desire so to dispose of
my possessions as, in the case of accident,
to secure them to that person, who, if my
life is spared, will share it and them — and

whom, in case this provisional will should
take effect, I request to accept all that it

VOL. III. Q

conveys in token of my unspeakable love
and affection.'

Then followed the bequest, couched in
terms so plain and simple as to defy the
litigious. Not a legacy, not so much as a
few guineas to a servant ; no appointment
of trustees. Mr. Clark was named co-executor
with Lady Georgian a, but took
nothing for his trouble. It was plain that
there had been no room in the dead man's
breast for a thought of any other creature
than the one who had enslaved him, while
giving him such slight encouragement.

A dead silence fell on the room as the
attorney ended these few lines fraught with
startling import. The farmers were the
first to make a move ; all crest-fallen and
woe-bes gone, their hopes dashed and their

senses dazed, they shuffled out, speechless
before the quality, through the door leading
to the offices. They had no special knowledge
of the lady whose tenants they so
unexpectedly found themselves, but they
had * heard talk ' of the 'doings ' at Beausite,
and their hearts sank within them.

A wistful glance or two some stole at the
Earl, but there was nothing in his fresh,
handsome face from which anv auguries
could be drawn. He was looking imperturbably
at nothing in particular ; /le was not
mentioned in the will — why should they
seek speech of the likes of him ? — what had
they to expect from such an one ? So out
hurried the farmers, to loose their tongues
as they sought their horses, or tramped in

knots of three or four down the avenue.

Q 2

The gentlemen who sat by Mr. Clark
were also tongue-tied. They all considered
Lord FitzRaymond an immoral man, and a
blot on his order, but they had known and
respected his father, and felt neither right
to utter their deep discontent, nor desire
to wound the feelings even of a scamp.
As to his sister, to whom this windfall had
come, they were still doubtful if she were wife,
widow, or divorced woman, and prudently
concluded that in her case * the least said
would be the soonest mended.' And so,
though the thought of John West was
present to them all, none spoke his name,
or volunteered an opinion on his cousin's
treatment of him.

Had not the testator a mother living ? '
asked old Mr. Norton at last.

Sir, he has,' Mr. Clark answered politely,
who is otherwise sufficiently provided for.'

In fact, after his mother's departure in
wrath and dudgeon from his house, Adolphus
had insisted on buying an annuity, whereby
her allowance of five hundred a year
was secured to his parent in the manner
least irksome to him. There were some of
the thousands to the fore which John West
had surrendered to cover arrears, and in his
adorer he desired, bv one transaction, to
settle all scores with the declared enemy of
his darling project.

'Ah! indeed,' said old Norton drily.
Gentlemen, I think we had best get out
of this.'

No one had spoken to the Earl as yet.
He was, since his boyhood, a stranger to

the Longshire families, whom he had since
his residence at Beausite done nothing to
conciliate.

As Mr. Norton spoke, however, he stepped
from his window seat, and bowed, not
without dignity, to the men who were
risings from their chairs. There was not a
man who could bring himself to address a
word of congratulation to this bad son and
worse landlord on his sister's accession to
fortune, but his graceful coolness made
them uneasy. All made some awkward
movement in return of the Earl's salutation ;
some muttered a ' How-do ' or ' Good-bye '
in manifest confusion, and then with a sense
of cutting a sheepish and shame-faced figure
where it behoved them to exhibit impressive
severity, they also left the room,

iu little better order than the farmers, to
spread the unwelcome news each in his own
district.

Soon they were driving away, across the
park (' There won't be a tree in it soon, I
suppose ! ' said old Norton), and past the
churchyard, where masons were closing the
vault of the Westss' for the last time. None
noticed a young man who was leading a
cloaked female to a shabby taxed cart
waiting at the loch-gate. Yet there was
something unique in that girl in her
black frock. She alone of all the numerous
attendants at that day's ceremony had shed,
was still shedding, tears for the dead man.

How can you make such a fool of yourself,
Sally ? ' said the young man as he
pushed her up into the gig. ' He was as

bad to you, as bad could be. Worse than
to the rest of us

I know I am a fool, Harry sobbed the
young woman, * and you have been very
good to humour my folly. But I'd have
walked if you hadn't drive me — and oh !
I'm thinking: of the time he wasn't bad
at all.'

Harry Soole growled as he took the
reins, but said nothing more to cross his
sister. He was thinking that after to-day
Sally would surely be herself again, and no
longer refuse to look at a rising young
grocer who had lately been very attentive
to her ; and hoping at the same time that a
certain young person might be as faithful
to himself as his sister had been to her
traitorous first love.

Though it's the blackguards they are
fondest of, bless their silly hearts ! ' thought
honest Harry, with his sister beside him,
still sniffing behind her veil.

Of all fossil antediluvians, these Long-shire
squires are the most terrible specimens '
so opined Lord FitzRaymond, a trifle
nettled for all his unruffled exterior.

He was driving himself home to Eeausite,
and had Captain Clancy beside him, who
had eschewed the funeral as ' not in his
line and spent the morning between the
Hall stables and the village public. He
did not know very well what * fossil antediluvians
' might be, but chimed in with,
A muffin lot of screws some of the old
bufi'ers had tooled over
p ' But you'll soon wake em up in horseflesh

and other matters, eh, my boys ?
Rattle' good loose boxes there are yonder,
and, by Jove, you're the lad to fill them.'

Good Lord, Clancy, what a fool you are !
Do you imagine that my sister or I intend
settling down to rot among these rusty
stagers, with their stiff-necked old wives,
and loutish sons, and yea-nay girls ? Not
for ten thousand a year and cock shooting !
Not for Joe ! — don't think it, convenient as
you might find it. Neither of us would
have ever come near the place, only for
being so devilish hard-up ; and she is as
sick of it as I am. When matters are
arranged we shall both be off fast enough,
you'll find. And in the mean time, don't
talk rot ! '

Captain Clancy glanced sidelong out of

his little blood-shot eyes, marvelling what
had * riled ' his patron in this lucky dawn
of splendid fortune. Beausite had been an
uncommonly useful and pleasant resort to
him for a long while. The haphazard and
irregular style of the place just suited his
ideas, and it would be hard to resign these
advantages. ' He was never so rouorh on a
fellow, while he was down on his own
luck,' he thought in silence ; ' wouldn't I
be cock a- whoop and jolly if I had got out
of the h. le he was in !'

Relenting, as was his way, before the
meekness of his friend, the Earl soon said :

Here, have a weed, old chap ! ' and, as
they puffed in concert, further remarked
that * women are rummy creatures.'
^ Clancy assenting to this, as he assented

to everything propounded by the peer, he
went on meditatively —

My sister has less nonsense about her
than most. In fact, if any woman can be
called a real brick, she is the woman. And
yet ! you'll hardly believe the bother I have
had with even her. I suppose she is at
this moment the luckiest sjirl in Great
Britain, coming into such a pot of money
without having to take to anv fellow in
the bargain. I didn't really wonder at her
shying a bit, when it was a question of
running in double harness with the late
lamented, who was hardly the sort she had
been used to. But here she is, free and
rich for life — rid of Aylmer in the nick of
time too, and yet she could do nothing but
shudder and shake for hours after Clark

had gone away ! If it hadn't been for me,
and the frightful mess she knew me to be
in, I'm hanged if she wasn't capable of
chucking the whole thing up — what do
you think of that now ? — instead of blessing
her lucky stars.'

Captain Clancy, delighted at being restored
to favour, was not chary of expressing
this sense of Lady G.'s further luck in

having a protector with a head on his

shoulders, and opined, moreover, that the

waywardness of the sex extended even to

quadrupeds.

Look at Tea-gown ! She couldn't have

let us all in as she did, if she'd been a

he-male.'

This subject once started, the pair 'talked

horsy ' for the remainder of their drive, and

r

the Earl even made a vague half promise
that, if matters went as he hoped, he might
do something, on his henchman's behalf,
towards 'pulling him through after the
Lincoln handicap, if the mare cut up the
regular wretch they all expected.'

Though, mind you,' he added with
much solemnity, ' I dare say that it's on
the cards that she may be in the running
after all, now, though it was past all hope
while I was in such a beastly fix over the
thing. It never rains, you know, but it
pours. I dare say she will be in the betting
again by the end of the week.'

Then, please the pigs,' elegantly put in
the Captain, ' I'll hedge by the end of a
fortnight.'

CHAPTER X.

OF SWARDHAM STILL.'

TT was a mouth or more since Adolphus
West's funeral, but the hips of thrice
nine days had not caused the wonder
to subside with which his will had thrilled
all Longshire. There had been many
rumours afloat of the usual mythical character,
each in its turn eagerly discussed
and dropped for another distortion <jf
facts.

The will was to be disputed ! There was
an old entail by which John West was

bound to succeed in spite of a dozen wills !
There was to be a compromise, arranged by
the good offices of the rector of Swardham !
The rector had resigned his benefice in
disgust ! John West was about to be tried
for kidnapping a Scotch heiress, and afterwards
murdering her ! He was going to
take orders in the curacy of Swardham
parish ! He had vowed never to see the
place again ! Lady Georgiana's husband
had turned up and was to be bought off!
She was about, on the contrary, to contracta
second marriage with a wealthy peer !
She was gone melancholy mad — mad with
joy ! The Earl's debts were to be paid
in full — not a farthing was to reach the
Earl's creditors ! Thus through every note
of the gamut 'the shrewd pest' rumour

ran without let or abatement, while the
gossips and scandal-mongers enjoyed life
with unwonted zest

The chief actors in the drama were meanwhile
provokingly indifferent to the public
appetite for news. Beausite was shut up,
cleared of the ' crew ' who had harboured
in it, and no one but Mr. Clark knew
whither the FitzRaymonds had retired.
And as to the rectory folk, they kept themselves
to themselves most reprehensibly.

Certain it was that Mr. Auchmuty and

some of the elders of the Clan Fife had

been in the land, breathing threats against

Mr. Holbrooke's guest ; but they had

departed, apparently appeased, without

taking any one in particular into their

confidence. Sir Tancred Woollett could,
VOL. in. R

had lie chosen, have told how the matter
ended, but the worthy magistrate was not
in the habit of indulging the sensation
lovers, and justly considered that his wife's
relations would be best pleased by his
casting a veil over their injurious suspicions.
The amiable Auchmuty indeed
had professed himself ill-satisfied with John
West's statement, made as it was on oath,
but his propensity for making himself objectionable,
and proving his brother-in-law's
good opinion to be valueless, was opportunely
baulked by tidings from the far
north.

It transpired that the body of a female
had been found by some fishermen, entangled
in their drag net, off the coast of
Inverness, and quietly buried, in order that

the finders might keep certain valuables,
which had been on the body. A quarrel
had, however, arisen as to sharing the spoil,
and, after five months, the articles had,
through the police, reached the kinsmen
of Hilda Fife, and been recognized as her
property.

Even after this discovery Mr. Auchmuty
would have liked to test the correctness
of his estimate of John West's cranial
developments by bringing him to a fair
trial, but he found himself deserted by
the Fifes, who were, after all, Hilda's kith
and kin, while he was but a connection,
and so gave up the project, grumbling
sorely.

The matter had at least one issue, not contemplated
by jVlr. Auchmuty. Sir Tancred

E 2

was deeply moved, and began to cast about
how he could, with the aid of his neighbours,
do something substantial for a man
whom he believed the most ill-used by
unjust fate of all men on the earth. He
bore no malice because his good offices had
once been put aside by John West, and
now took earnest counsel with some of the
neighbouring gentry how they might best
testify their unalterable good T\dll. The good
old baronet was delighted to discover indue
course that his friend had found consolation
in Mary Holbrooke's love.

Confound the fellow ! ' he exclaimed ; * he
can't say us nay if we get up a wedding-present;
and it shall be something worthy
of the county to give, and of Jack West to
receive.

Full of his design, and rejoiced by the
heartiness of some of the neighbours whom
he canvassed, he at last approached the
rector, and took him into his confidence.
And then he was met by the astounding
intelligence that the rector himself, his
daughter, and her husband had decided, immediately
after the marriage, on emigrating
— going off, bag and baggage, to begin
life anew in Australia ! It was vain for
Sir Tancred, to whom the very notion was
horrible, to combat this resolution. The
rector quite laughed at him when he pathetically
pictured the hardships of a land peopled
with convicts and destitute of all resources
of civilization.

It's not half as bad as you make out,
Sir Tancred ; if it were, how wrong of

you to encourage our labourers to go
out!'

Ah, Holbrooke ! you were always a
sanguine man ; as if you and he could put
up with what may suit labouring men !
And if you are mad enough to resign your
living (I don't think the bishop could let
you hold it if you reside in Australia),
what have you left, or what has he ?
Capital, my friend ! capital ! that's the one
essential for higher class emigrants, and you
have none among you

Well, even in that respect we are less
short than you fancy. My girl and I can
muster a few thousands.'

Good Heavens ! Holbrooke, I implore you
not to be so rash ! Settle it, settle every
penny on her ; she may live to want it, poor

'of swardham still 247

clear girl. There's a trifle got or promised,
a sort, of wedding present I had hoped to
make it to the young people — but it won't
go far enough, nothing like.'

My dear old friend, I thank you withall
my heart for this, but you know Jack !
Altered as he is by adversity, with the gold
of his noble character refined by the fire, I
don't think he would like to be set up in
that fashion in his new home ; but, listen !
he is not to enter into the partnership
quite empty-handed. Did you not see
by the papers that Frederick Woodvil is
dead ? '

Fred Woodvil ! yes. But, alive or dead,
what profit can that selfish old scamp be to
his nephew ? Why, I know for a fact that
he sank all he had in an annuity years ago,

and you're not going to tell me that he
saved money and has left it to any one who
needs it ? '

What he left behind him would have
seemed a mere trifle to Jack in the old
days — would not have paid an election bill,
I don't doubt — but, such as it is, it is the
timeliest help ; the most heartening aid to
the poor dear fellow, who is buckling to his
work nobly, and from my heart I thank
God for it'

Frederick Woodvil was the only brother
of Jack's long dead father. He had inherited
and squandered a moderate fortune,
equal to that similarly dispersed by
his brother. But, unlike his brother, he
had never married, and he had an income
arising from a post in the Treasury.

Long years ago Join West could remember
his uncle as an occasional guest at
Swardham in the autumn, but Mr. Woodvil
ceased to care for sport when he arrived at
fifty, and professed a general distaste for
relations and the country.

For the last twenty years he had been
living a selfish solitary life in London
lodgings, caring only to resort to his clubs,
where he was known as a brilliant whist-player,
creeping away to Cheltenham or Paix
for a month when London was at its
emptiest, and living, as Sir Tancred said,
on an annuity, bought when he was paid
off" at his office, and eked out by the
winnings of the card-table. He had probably
long forgotten that he had a blood
relation in the world, and would certainly

not have crossed the street to rescue a
hundred nephews from perdition.

Thus it had indeed been a genuine surprise
to John West, when Mr. Scott from
Longborough presented himself one morning
in the first week of February at the rectory,
and informed him that he had better take
out letters of administration forthwith, as
his uncle was dead, intestate, and he was
the next of kin.

Whv, there can be nothing but his
clothes,' said the heir; *he didn't even, as
far as I know, own a chair or a table.'

True enough,' said Mr. Scott, with a
smile, ' but he owned a share in the London
and Bloomsbury Banking Company, and it
ought to fetch fifteen hundred pounds if a
penny, which is a nice little nest ^gg^ sir !

and I make bold to say I'm uncommonly
dad that it has fallen into such brood hands.

o o

There is money in the bank too, but there
may be a few claims against the estate —
nothing much though ; you never saw anything
so orderly as his papers, and he seems
to have kept strict accounts, though he
never thought of making a will.'

It was even so. Fifteen years previously
the London and Bloomsbury had been a
new and struggling; concern, and Mr.
Frederick Woodvil had grumbled fearfully
at accepting from a dabbler in such enterprises
this share, in lieu of his winnings at
whist at the end of one especially fortunate
week. He had finally taken it because he
thought he miorht otherwise ^^et nothing,
and he had refused to allow his acquaintance

to redeem it subsequently, because he
was of an unaccommodating disposition.

Then year by year it had become more
valuable, while its owner hesitated as to
selling, till the day came on which Frederick
Woodvil had to leave it, and all other
concerns of earth, and passed to his account.
John West's eyes beamed as he shook hands
with Mr. Scott.

To think that I should owe a good
turn to Uncle Fred ! ' he said ; * I suppose
it's nonsense to say I am obliged to
him, but I am infinitely obliged to you.
Fifteen hundred will go a good way in
sheep.'

^ Sheep, Mr. John ! why you don't mean
to rent grass-lands hereabouts ! '

And then Mr. Scott heard the great news

that John West and certain others, near or
dear to him, were speedily to start for New
South Wales. It had been the rector's idea
or inspiration, as Jack would have it.
He had given much thought to the affairs
of his ruined parishioners, the Everett, and
heard many fair accounts of the great island
from the London agents for the colony.
And when his much-loved pupil talked of
beocinninof life acrain in a merchant's office,
and working his way up to a salary on
which he could marry Mary, Holbrooke
burst out suddenly :

No, my boy, a thousand times no ! It
would be the death of you, and of me to
know it of you. Better be a squatter in
the Australian bush than be pent in the
city among people as unlike you as darkness

to light. What say you to our organizing
a trip to the antipodes V

Jack has always declared that his answer
and his frame of mind were counterparts
of those of Mr. Wilkins Micawber, when
that buoyant hero was invited to consider
a like proposition. At any rate he took to
the idea at once, with a renewal of the
energy and vigorous resolution of old
days.

When he clearly saw that the rector was
yearning to resign his benefice, and accompany
those he loved across the wide main,
he could urge none of Sir Tancred's prudent
cautions, being simply overjoyed at the
prospect.

Now he said, ' I can marry Mary offhand
with a clear conscience. I never

could have thought of you alone here without
a sense of guilt.'

'And I never could have endured my
life, in the deserted shell of the old home,
with a parish peopled with strangers, and
God only knows who at the Hall — but, as
it is, what with Mary and you and the
Everett, I can't feel that I shall be altogether
running away from my duties.
Wherever you may be, you will make up a
congregation for the old parson, who won't
let you forget old ways.'

God bless you for it, sir,' Jack said,
moved at the picture called up by these
words ; ^ your presence and your ministrations
will bring us His blessing, if anything
can secure it.'

The only flaw in West's happiness was

his penniless plight. In vain did the rector
expatiate on the immense value of such a
working-partner, and the absurdity of anyone's
expecting such services to be superadded
to a contribution of capital.

'I will indeed work my hardest from
this hour the younger man said, ' but I can
never be anything but your steward

Not even my son-in-law ? " retorted the
rector grinning ; ' and between near relations
what nonsense to apportion the
common stock in such fashion.*

On receipt of Frederick Woodvil's leavings,
however, this last cloud vanished from
Jack's horizon, and he could devote himself
with fresh ardour to his preparations for his
new life (necessitating much running up to
town), and to his love-making ; which latter,

Mary Holbrooke vowed, was a very inferior
matter, and relegated to mere odd half-hours.


How delightful it was to the lover to
rush back to Mary ! — how sweet was the
meeting ! — how charming was the girl's
brimming fun, later on, when, for the first
time in his life, John West found himself
chaffed, and enjoying it ; and pretended to
growl about familiarity and contempt.

I was a prig, Mary, in the old days.
Yes ! I know myself now for a solemn, stiff-backed
prig (who collapsed into utter craven
feebleness when he lost his padding and
had to get off his high horse), and then you
used to be respectful — whereas now ! '

'Whereas now I am enjoying a short

spell of freedom before undertaking to
VOL. ni. s

honour and obey a gentleman who gives
himself such an indifferent character. Are
you quite sure there is no danger in accepting
the uncle's money ? '

Ah Mary ! that invaluable money, for
which I sing a daily Te Beam ! — who could
have thought it within the compass of those
few poor hundreds to give such pleasure ? —
why one might once have spent them on a
horse or a picture, and been profoundly
dissatisfied ! Seriously, my pet, I know
7/ou, who have quickened me to real life,
have brought me luck also. Fortune could
not spite the man whom Mary was good
enough to prefer, and hence this gift from
the likeliest of quarters. Poor old uncle
Fred ! I wish it could do him some good
to have made me so happy.'

It was settled that John West and Mary
Holbrooke were to be married at Swardham
early in April, and were to spend the next
week in London, occupying themselves in
final preparations in lieu of a nuptial tour,
and that the rector was then to join them,
with the Everett family in the offing.
By which time they would all be ready
to embark on board a vessel bound for
Sydney.

Meanwhile a great impetus was given
to the scheme by the appearance on the
scene of the rector's old friend Mr. Herbert
and his son, all orlowinpr with enthusiasm at
the heroic intentions of the Holbrookes. It
was at first feared that some awkwardness
might attach to the reappearance at Sward-ham
of young Herbert.

S 2

Luckily, however, it transpired that the
strapping and inflammable colonial youth
had indulged in two or three grand passions
since Mary had refused him a hearing, and
was now about to return to Australia
perfectly heart whole, and eager for resumption
of the free life of the bush-squatter.
So far indeed from cherishing any jealousy
of John West, he conceived a vehement
friendship for that gentleman, and pledged
himself to do the impossible on his behalf,
on condition that he took up a most suitable
run, adjacent to his own, somewhere amid
the famous Darling Downs.

But, my dear fellow,' Jack said, who had
been struck with young Herbert's command
of money, and lavish orders of pedigree
rams ; * you must bear in mind that I hav e

not a five-pound-note where you have a
hundred pounds to lay out ! '

Herbert declared that the run in question
was the very thing for a man of moderate
means, and that in short such beginners
were always the people who did best. On
his further vowing that he should inevitably
go to the bad if disappointed of the neighbours
on whom his heart was set, Jack was
obliged to promise that he would give
Woombya Toombya the preference, in
choosing a location for himself and his
following. Of the dimensions of that
following he had little notion when he spoke.

One fine day, however, about a fortnight
before the wedding, he found on his return
from London an excited group assembled in
the rectory garden and awaiting him.

Surely I heard cheering,' he said to
young Herbert, as they drew near the gate ;
and as they emerged from the shrubbery
they were greeted with loud ' huzzahs ! ' by
some dozen young men, all born and bredin
Swardham parish, who, clad in their
Sunday suits, were rapturously tinting the
lawn with their nailed boots, while they
waved their hats and cheered more lustily
than ever when they saw their 'young
squire,' as he was still called in Swardham.

The rector and Mary were at the 
window, and behind them someone
who looked like Sir Tancred — and in
two minutes Jack was put in possession of
the origin of all the hubbub.

Here he is ! now speak for yourselves,
my lads ! * the rector shouted, as excited as

the yokels. ' Stop your roaring, and speak
up.'

Daniel Brown, a big burly fellow with
a shrewd face and a twinkling eye, was
pushed to the front, on this hint, and
delivered himself of a short speech.

God bless you, sir,' he said, ' and her
that's to be your wife ; that's what we all
say first ; — and then wee say, you being
so happy-like, starting for Australia with
your lady and all, we don't think you're
the one to refuse us poor chaps, that
you've snowed from boys, a bit of a
favour.'

The orator paused and fixed his shrewd
eye on Jack, who promptly answered :

It's little I can do, but if what you ask
is to be done, consider it done.'

More huzzahs broke out at this, and Daniel
shouted amid them :

Well, sir, we want to go with you, the
hull lot of us ! We ain't cripples exactly ;
we could do a tidy day's work a-piece, and,
as men you must lev out there, why not
them as you know, and as would pretty
well kill themselves to serve you ? '

The cheering had died away, and a
group of anxious faces were turned upon
Jack, who stood perplexed and deeply
moved.

My lads,' he said, ' I shall never forget
this — but, even with assisted passages, it
would cost more than I have to spend to rig
you and ship you out. I wish to heaven it
were not so ! — it would be almost like moving
the old place itself to have your honest faces

round me ; but I must not mislead you, I
fear it is impossible.'

To his surprise the men looked not
unpleased with his answer. They nudged
each other, swaying to and fro, and looked
past Jack into the drawing-room window
Then the agitated rector pushed Sir Tancred
Woollett to the front, who took up his
parable.

My dear boy he said — ' for boy you
are still to me, — I was calling on our friend
here when this deputation arrived. We
took the liberty of tapping them (so to
speak), and discussing their modest proposal.
And it occurred to friend Holbrooke that
the sole difficulty likely to arise — the money
difficulty — was one which, if you choose, I
can have the pleasure of quelling for you ina

trice. I express no opinion on this emigration
scheme, because you are all too far
gone in it to hearken to wisdom ; but if
you must yo, I should desire you to have a
few folks round you who at any rate were
never convicts. Look you here then ! Among
a few of your old neighbours and friends
a sum has been subscribed to buy you and
Mistress Molly here a wedding-gift. It is
three hundred pounds, and I have luckily
been too distracted by your eccentric proceedings
to have settled on anything ! You
cut all sensible ground from under a man's
feet with your ramping off to Australia. I
ran over all the usual lists of presents, but
I couldn't persuade myself that a silver
tea-tray and pair of wine-coolers would be
exactly the thing for the bush — so take the

cash and do what you like with it. And if
you like to buy outfits for these strapping
lads, and pay their passages or the balance
of them, why I am empowered to say that
in pleasing yourself you will best please the
subscribers.'

Gratefully pressing the old man's hand,
Jack turned to his sweetheart and asked :

Alary, what do you say ? This money
was a present for you ; what shall it be ? '

Mary's eyes shone with a ' happy mist '
as she said :

I choose what you choose, and I think it
will be — these'

She stepped forward, and stretching her
arms wide, lightly touched with her little
hands the cuffs of the foremost brawny
fellows, who were again deafening everybody

with their cheers. She knew them all —
knew them since she and they were mere
brats and urchins, and at this moment she
loved them for their loyalty.

Then she stood thrilling by Jack's side,
while in husky tones he accepted the men's
offer and Sir Tancred's proposal. He could
muster no flowers of speech ; but there was
an eloquence in his features which all who
beheld it comprehended, and his heart was
brim full of humble gratitude.

You trust yourselves to me,' he concluded,
' and God so deal with me as I with
you. You leave your old mothers, or fathers,
or homes, to go far away with me — may
I so thrive as I give your parents cause to
say you did well in trusting me ! If I can't
find work at a fair wage for you all at first,

here is one who will — Mr. Herbert, our
next neighbour that is to be, and son of a
gentleman whose helpfulness to me just now
is not to be told in words.'

There was a contented hum and buzz as
Jack's little speech ended. After a minute
Daniel stepped forward again.

Skin' your pardon, sir, but what might
be the name of the part where we're
going ? '

Jack smiled as he answered :

The district is known as Darling Downs,
and (set me right, Herbert, if I mull it) I
believe the sheep-run which is to be ours
is called Woombya Toombya.'

Mary and Herbert burst out laughing at
Dan Brown's comically puzzled face.

I doubt I can't come it, sir, not if I

troubled you to say it again. But if you'll
excuse a chap like me starting the notion —
why not take and call it after the old parish
here ? Adhere you are, sir, and the rector,
and Miss Mary, not to mention we chaps,
there's bound to be Swardham ; and, excuse
me, gentry all, but I'm blowed if this spot
didn't ouo^ht to lose the name, if so be that
there can't be no more than one Swardham
at a time.'

Daniel's mates interrupted him by their
loud assent to this position.

West of Swardham ! all the world over,'
they bawled : ' it an't Swardham without
e'er a West ! — and it'll be Swardham right
enough, wheresoever it be, if you're at the
head of it, squire ! '

The rector was fairly in tears by this

time. He seized his son-in-law's hand and
faltered out :

I add my voice to theirs ! Be West of
Swardham still. Let a new world drive
me that happiness which I had lost
here.'

And what could John West do but
consent ? He had distressed Mr. Holbrooke
by professing himself in doubt as to what
his own name really was — a doubt which
ill-became a man on the verse of marriage.
Born Woodvil, bred West, condemned by
circumstances to be Wood for a while, he
declared himself rather in favour of the last,
as most unassuming and suitable for a
sheep-owner in the colonies.

Now he looked into the rector's moist
appealing eyes, and felt that the question

was settled for him. The old familiar name
and style was to be his till death, and,
though he had clung not at all to departed
grandeur, and knew that his life would be
as unlike that of the Squires West as his
dwelling would be unlike the old Hall, he
felt proud of his title, and grateful to those
who had urged his assumption of it. For
at Swardham, where never more would a
Squire West reign, none knew who would
next bear sway.

The Hall and the broad estates Vera
already advertised by those famous auctioneers
Messrs. Fraser and Fib. And it
was not till John West with his wife and
the rector were on the ocean that Longshire
received the new owner in the person of
Samuel Swithinbank, Esq., the well-known

OF SWARDHAM STILL. 273

boiler-maker and engineer — a rich man and
a reputed Radical.

There followed an auction of the contents
of the Hall, for Mrs. Swithinbank, imbued
with Italian art-notions, intended to remodel
the interior, as she could not persuade her
husband to pull the whole pile down. A
clearance being thus effected, the lady laid
down * compo ' floors, and threw three
rooms into one, and generally did away
With all comfort or congruity with our
English climate. Even then, she so pined
for a loggia, that the indulgent Swithinbank,
who had fads about his water supply, consented
to add two towers to the poor old
house, which should conceal vast cisterns in
their upper parts, and gratify the lady with
a loggia apiece lower down.

VOL. III. T

This done, she discovered that the alliteration
in * Samuel Swithinbank of Swardham '
would be simply deadly, and never rested
till the name was changed. ' The Towers,
near Longborough,' is now the Swithinbank
postal address, and poor little Swardham
village is fallen into great obscurity. The
new landlord is not a hard man, though he
considers (and yearly with greater seriousness)
that he paid far too much for the estate ;
but there are people in Swardham who find
his practical good-sense a poor substitute
for ' Madam West's ' unforgotten tenderness
or * Miss Mary's ' cheerful presence.

Of course there is a new rector ! Mr.
Holbrooke's resignation did not legally take
effect till the sale had been completed, and
a cousin of Mrs. Swithinbank is his successor.

He is young and fervid, but this fondness
for an advanced ritual has at present
attracted little sympathy in the parish,
though his vestments and those of his altar
are Mrs. Swithinbank's own gifts, and certainly
enough to dazzle the most obstinate
Protestant.

Lady Georgiana FitzRaymond, to the
abiding mortification of Mr. Clark, invested
the greater part of the very handsome
sum obtained by selling Swardham in
French rentes and other foreign securities.
She has made her home in Paris, where she
has a beautiful Hotel in the Avenue Villars,
and is a personage of much consideration
in fashionable circles. She would have
been on a still higher pinnacle had the
days of the Empire been prolonged. The

T 2

atmosphere of that Court would have suited
her admirably, and with her wealth, beauty,
and * chic ' she would have been among its
brightest ornaments.

Her brother lives with her, and defies
her occasional plots to marry him. Were
it not for her desire to spite her stepmother,
Lady G. would take no step to give
the earl a home of his own, for he is most
useful to her, has given up ' plunging, '
and spends no more than she can afford to
allow him at his ' circles,' where he is a
great authority on racing. He has been
steward at Longchamps and Chantilly, has
won no end of ' Prix de Jockey-Club,' and
finds life not only bearable but pleasant,
thanks to an early acquaintance with the
French tongue.

Beausite is let, leased, to Lady G.'s
disgust, to the Countess Dowager Fitzroy
Under that gentle lady's auspices
all smirch and stain has disappeared, all
his been placed in due and decent repair.
She and her girls sing their hymns and
lead their religious lives, in the rooms
where the foreign ladies chattered, capered,
and puffed cigars. Her boys coming home
from Eton or Cambridge furnish her greatest
excitement, her sole connection '^dth the
world outside of Longshire.

Sir Tancred writes once a quarter, to his
exiles ' as he calls them still, and shakes
his head with a long sigh as his pen traces
'West of Swardham' on the envelope — for
he misses old friends — and there is no
Swardham this side of the slope !

In that far-away Swardham, in spite of
occasional checks by drought, and troubles
with ' free selectors,' a moderate decree of
prosperity is vouchsafed to the honest
exertion, unremitting and often anxious,
of John West.

It may be added, however, that whatever
his cares as squatter may at times
be, he has found none as yet which could
lessen his relish for his short restful hours,
cheered as they are by the best of
wives.

Mr. Holbrooke does great things as
parson of a vast though thinly peopled
region. Among his parishioners is one of
whom he has great hopes, though he has
not yet obtained from him a confession
of orthodoxy, a teetotal man who works

hard on a small run of his own, and is
invincibly cheerful under all circumstances,
though his pleasant wit sparkles most on
the frequent occasions when he is a guest
at Swardham. That man's name is Eric
Bjornsen.

THE End.

Cliiy and Taylor, Printer, BuHi/ai/, SuJIblk.

LIST OF NEW WORKS.

THE PICTORIAL PRESS : Its Origin and Progress.

By Mason Jackson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. With 150
Illustrations. Pigs.

THE MEMOIRS OF A CAMBRIDGE Chorister.

By William Glover. 2 vols, ci-onyx 8vo. 21s.

THE LIFE AND ADVENTURES OF PEG

WOFFINGTOX : With Pictures of the Period in which She
Lived. By J. Fitzgerald molly, Author of " Court Life
Below Stairs"' &c. Second Edition. 2 vols, crown 8vo. With
Portrait. 21s.

These volumes are very agreeably written. In dealing with the literary and
dramatic personages of the period, Mr. Molly is a faithful chronicler not only inspirit
but also as to facts. There is no prominent personage about whom a number
of characteristic anecdotes are not told. The author also gives a brilliant
sketch of life in the Irish capital half a century before the Union'' — St. James's
Gazette.

"Peg Washington makes a most interesting central figure, round which Mr.
Molloy has made to revolve a varied and picturesque panorama of London life in
the middle of the eighteenth century. He sees things in the past so clearly, grasps
them so tenaciously, and reproduces them so vividly, that they come to us without
any of the dust and rust of time. Horace Walpole, Lord Hervey, Colles Cibber,
Dr. Dora, Lord Macaulay, George Anne Bellamy, Macklin, and other authorities,
are laid undauntedly under contribution for the biographies which the author narrates
and the good stories that he tells; but he has a gift and a charm which are
peculiarly his oil' — G. A. S. in Illustrated London News.

"Asa story this life of Peg Wofflngton is excellent reading. The character of
the lively actress is fairly illustrated in those scenes in which she bears a part,
whether humorous, sentimental, pathetic, or tragic. Mr. Molloy has filled up the
pages intervening between his sketches with anecdotes, and has succeeded in
presenting a picture of the stage world in the days of the second George which
could not easily be surpassed. Of Kitty Clive, of Garrick, of Macklin, of Foote the
witty, and of Johnson the ponderous, many lively stories are told"' — Post.

A TWO MONTHS' CRUISE IN THE Mediterranean
IN THE STEAM-YACHT 'ceylon*' By Surgeon-general
Munro, M.D., C.B. Author of " Reminiscences of
Military Service with the 93rd Sutherland Highlanders." 1 vol.
crown 8vo. 7s. 6d.
"A frank, hearty record of an experience which those who shared it must
remember with cordial pleasure." — Pall Mall Gazette.

In this delightful cruise Dr. Munro saw much that was picturesque and interesting.
The book will give pleasure to many readers." — horning Pat.

This book is characterised by a simple-minded kindliness of tone which makes
it very pleasant reading.' — Graphic.

A brisk and pleasing description of what is perhaps as delightful a life as a
tourist could spent The author's narrative partakes of the cheerfulness of the
voyage. ■ — Daily News.

WITHOUT GOD: Negative Science and Natural

Ethics. By Percy Greg, Author of " The Devil's Advocate
Across the Zodiac," &c. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 12s.

Mr. Greg has condensed much profound thought into his book, and has fully
succeeded in maintaining the interest of the discussion throughout.' — Morning Post.

This work is ably written ; there are in it many passages of no ordinary power
and brilliancy. It is eminently suggestive and stimulating." — Scotsman.

'• This is the work of a man full of thought upon a number of highly important
subjects, and of strong convictions strongly enunciated, which no one can read
without benefit." — Morning Advertiser.

"Mr. Greg"s speculative works are always worth study, and this certainly not
the least of them. It is a powerful and instructive book for the doubter to read,
and the author has given us many discussions of great subtlety and depth'" —
Spectator.

SIBERIAN PICTURES. By Ludwig Niemojowski.

Edited, from the Posh, by Major Szulczewski. 2 vols 21s.

This book contains a good deal of interesting matter. M. Niemojowski's description
of Siberian game and the hunting of it is clearly valuable, and shows
that he really has lived among the people. His work is not without interest to
biographers, for it deals with almost every race that inhabits Siberia — tongues
and Tartars, Samoyedes and Sticks, the Burials of Lake Baikal, and the
Gilliacks of the Pacific coasts." — Saturday Review.

Major Szulczewski has done a service by translating from the Polish the interesting
account which Mr. Niemojowski has given of the dreary land in which
he spent so many years of exile. The book contains a number of very inter sting
stories." — Athenaeum.

"This book contains by far the most exhaustive and reliable account which has
yet been given in English of Siberia"' — British Quarterly Review.

REMINISCENCES OF MILITARY SERVICE

WITH THE 93rd SUTHERLAND HIGHLANDERS. By
Surgeon-general Munro, M.D., C.B., Formerly Surgeon of the
Regiment. 1 vol. demy 8vo. 15s.

This is a book of interesting recollections of active military campaigning life.
It is told in a frank, simple, and unpretentious manner." — Illustrated London Ifetcs.

"This book is not only bright and lively, but thoroughly good-natured. What
makes these reminiscences exceptionally readable is the amount of illustrative
anecdote with which they are interspersed. The author has a keen appreciation
of humour, with the knack of recalling appropriate stories." — Saturday Review.

"There is much in these interesting reminiscences that will gratify while it
pains the reader. A book like this, which portrays the horrors and not merely
the showy side of war, has distinct usefulness. Dr. Munro recounts many incidents
with pardonable pride." — Pall Mall Gazette.

THE FRIENDSHIPS OF MARY RUSSELL

Milford : As Recorded in Letters from her Literary
Correspondents. Edited by the Rev. A. G. Estrange,
Editor of " The Life of Mary Russell Mitford," &c. 2 vols. 21s.

"These letters are all written as to one whom the writers love and revere. Miss
Barrett is one of Miss Mitford's correspondents, all of whom seem to be inspired
with a sense of excellence in the mind they are invoking. Their letters are extremely
interesting, and they strike out recollections, opinions, criticisms, which
will hold the reader's delighted and serious attention." — Daily Telegraph.

In this singular and probably unique book Miss Mitford is painted, not in
letters of her own nor in letters written of her, but in letters addressed to her;
and a true idea is thus conveyed of her talent, her disposition, and of the impression
she made upon her friends. It seldom happens that anyone, however distinguished,
receives such a number of letters well worth reading as were addressed
to Miss Mitford; and the letters from her correspondents are not only from interesting
persons, but are in themselves interesting.' — St. James's Gazette.

NEW V^O?i,KS—Co?iti7iued,

MEMOIRS OF MARSHAL Bureau, From

His Pirate Correspondence and Original Documents, 1784: —
18-49. By the Count H. mandeville. Edited, from the French,
by Charlotte M. Yonge. 2 vols, demy 8vo. sos.

Marshal Bngeaud was a grand soldier, a noble-minded, patriotic citizen. His
Algerian career was brilliant, eventful, and successful, both as regards military
command and civil administration'" — Times.

This is a work of great valor to the student of French history. A perusal of
the book will convince any reader of BugeauJs energy, his patriotism, his unselfishness,
and his philanthropy and humanity He was, indeed, a general who
may serve as a pattern to all countries, and his name deserves to live long in the
memory of his countrymen. His sagacious, far-seeing opinions on military as
well as civil matters they will do well to ponder and take to heart " — Athenaeum.

"Miss Yonge has done well to edit for the English public M. dideville's life of
the conqueror of Abd-el-Kader. Marshal Bugeaud was worth knowing as a man
even more than as a soldier. 3L mandeville is both an enthusiastic and a veracious
chronicler." — Spectator.

Marshal Bugeaud was a more remarkable man than nine out of ten who have
been the idol of a biographer, and his career is fertile in episodes or incidents
characteristic of the times, and throwing light ou history'" — Quarterly Review.

The present biography of Marshal Bugeaud is very interesting, and it is so
well translated that it reads like an original work"' — Daily News.

"Readers will be thankful to Miss Yonge for having brought so entertaining
and instructive a work under their notice.' — Standard.

COURT LIFE BELOW STAIRS; or, London

UNDER THE FiRST Georges, 1714 — 1760. By J. Fitzgerald
MoLLOT. Second Edition. Vols. 1 and 2. Crown 8vo. 21s.
"swell written, full of anecdotes, and with its facts admirably grouped, this excellent
work will prove of the greatest value to all who desire to know what manner
of men the first Electors of Hanover who came here really were. Pictures of
Court life so drawn cannot fail to be very instructive. Some of the word pictures
are wonderfully well drawn '" — Daily Telegraph.

VOLS. IH. and IV. of COURT LIFE BELOW

STAIRS; or, London Under the Last Georges, 1760 — 1S30.

By J. Fitzgerald Mollot. Second Edition. 21s, Completing

the Work.
"The reigns of George the Third and George the Fourth are no less interesting
and instructive than those of George the First and George the Second. Mr.
Molioy's style is bright and fluent, picturesque and animated, and he tells his
stories with unquestionable skill and vivacity'" — Athenaeum.

"These last two volumes of Mr. Molloy's 'Court Life Below Stairs' are likely
to attain as much popularity as the first two did. The narrative is fluent and
amusing, and is far more instructive than nine-tenths of the novels which are
published nowadays." — St. James's Gazette,

GRIFFIN, AHOY ! A Yacht Cruise to the Levant,

and Wanderings in Egypt, Syria, The Holy Land, Greece, and
Italy in 1S81. By General E H. Maxwell, C.B. One vol.
demy 8vo. With Illustrations, los.
The cruise of the Griffin affords bright and amusing reading from its beginning
to its end. General maxwell writes in a frank and easy style — Morning Post.

WITH THE CONNAUGHT RANGERS in Quarters,

Camp, and ox Leave. By General E. H. maxwell, C.B.,

Author of " Griffin, Ahoy !" 1 vol. bvo. With Illustrations, los.

"A warm welcome may be presaged for General Maxwell new work. It is an

eminently readable book, quite apart from the special attraction it must possess for

all who are. or who have been, connected with the gallant Seth," — Daily Telegraph.

When General Maxwell made his debut in that capital book, 'Griffin, Ahoy I'

we expressed a hope that we should soon meet him again. This expectation is

now fulfilled, and again we have to congratulate the author on a distinct success-scarcely

a page in his volume but has its little anecdote, and these stories have a

real touch of humour in them"' — Globe.



GLIMPSES OF GREEK LIFE AND SCENERY.

By Agnes Smith, Author of " Eastern Pilgrims," &c. Demy 8vo.
"With Illustrations and Map of the Author's Route. 15s.

A truthful picture of the country through which the author travelled. It is
naturally and simply told, in an agreeable and animated style. Miss Smith displays
an ample acquaintance and sympathy with all the scenes of historic interest,
and is able to tell her readers a good deal of the present condition and prospects
of the people who inhabit the country." — St. Fairness Gazette.

Every lover of Greece must hail with pleasure each new book of travels in
that country which tends to increase the interest of English people in Greece, and
spreads the knowledge that it is not only delightful, but quite safe, to travel there.
Miss Smith's 'Glimpses ' are lively and pleasant'' — Academy.

These ' Glimpses ' are presented to us in a very bright and sensible fashion.
It is a very agreeable and instructive book. The chapter on the language and
character of the modern Greeks is well with reading for the sound judgment
and knowledge of the subject which it displays." — Pall Mall Gazette.

LIFE OF MOSCHELES ; with Selections from

HIS DIARIES AND CORRESPONDENCE. By His Wife.
2 vols, large post 8vo. With Portrait. 24s.

"This life of Moscheles will be a valuable book of reference for the musical historian,
for the contents extend over a period of threescore years, commencing with
1794, and ending at 1870. Moscheles writes fairly of what is called tho ' Music of the
Future,' and his judgments on Herr Wagner, Dr. Liszt, Ruben stein, Dr. von Blow,
Litolff, &c., whether as composers or executants, are in a liberal spirit He recognizes
cheerfully the talents of oar native artists: Sir S. Bennett, Mr. Mac-barren,
Madame Goddard, Mr. J. Barnett, Mr. HuUah, Mr. A. Sullivan, &c. The
volumes are full of amusing anecdotes." — Athenaeum.

MONSIEUR GUIZOT in Private Life (1787-

1874). By His Daughter, Madame de Witt. Translated by Mrs.
Simpson. 1 vol. demy 8vo. Miss.

"Madame de "Witt has done justice to her father's memory in an admirable record
of his life. Mrs. Simpson's translation of this singularly interesting book is
in accuracy and grace worthy of the original and of the subject." — Saturday Review.

WORDS OF HOPE AND COMFORT TO

THOSE IN SORROW. Dedicated by Permission to The Queen.
Fourth Edition. 1 vol. small 4to. 5s.

"The writer of the tenderly-conceived letters in this volume was Mrs. JuHue
Hare, a sister of Mr. Maurice. They are instinct with the devout submissiveness
and fine sympathy which we associate with the name of Maurice; but in her there
is added a winningness of tact, and sometimes, too, a directness of language, which
we hardly find even in the brother. The letters were privately printed and circulated,
and were found to be the source of much comfort, which they cannot fail
to afford now to a wide circle. A sweetly-conceived memorial poem, bearing
the well-known initials, 'E. H. P.', gives a very faithful outline of the life"— ^BnYts^
Quarterly Review.

PLAIN SPEAKING. By Author of " John Halifax,

Gentleman." 1 vol. crown 8vo. 10s. 6d.

"We recommend 'Plain Speaking' to all who like amusing, wholesome, and
instructive reading. The contents of Mrs. Crank's volume nre of the most multifarious
kind, but all the papers are good and readable, and one at least of them
of real importance"— 5<. James's Gazette.

WE TWO.
By Edda Lyell,

Author of " Donovan"' &c.

"This book is well written and fall of interest. The story abounds with a good
many light touches. and is certainly far from lacking In incident." — Times.

-We Two ■ contains many very exciting passages and a great deal of information.
Miss Lyall is a capable writer of fiction, and also a clear-headed thinker."
AthenseuiiL

'• We recommend all novel-readers to read this novel, with the care which such
a strong, uncommon, and thoughtful book demands and deserve' — Spectator.

'• There is artistic realism both in the conception and the delineation of the personages
; the action and interest are unflagging sustained from first to last and
the book is pervaded by an atmosphere of elevated and earnest thought" —
Scotsman.

By

THE BKANDRETHS.
the Right Hon. A. J. B. Beresford Hope, M.P.,
Author of " Strictly Tied Up."

In 'The Brandies" we have a sequel to ilr. Beresford Hope's clever novel of
'Strictly Tied Up," and we may add that it is a decided improvement on his
maiden effort Mr. Hope writes of political life and the vicissitudes of parties
with the knowledge and experience of a veteran politician The novel is one
which will repay careful reading." — Times.

'• 'The Brandies' has all the charm of its predecessor. The great attraction
of the novel is the easy, conversational, knowledgeable tone of it ; the sketching
from the life, and yet not so close to the life as to be malicious, men. women,
periods, and events, to all of which intelligent readers can fit a name'" — Spectator.

SOPHY:

OR THE ADVENTURES OF A SAVAGE.

By Violet Fane,

Author of-Denzil Place," &c.

•' ' Sophy ' is the clever and original work of a clever woman. Its merits are of
a strikingly unusual kind. It is charged throughout with the strongest human
interest It is, in a word, a novel that will make its mark." — World.

*• This novel is as amusing, piquant, droll, and suggestive as it can be. It overflows
with humour, nor are there wanting touches of genuine feelings To considerable
imaginative power, the writer joins keen observation." — Daily Sews.

MY Lord AND MY LADY.

By Mrs. Forrester,
Author of "Viva," "Mignon," &c.
This novel will take a high place among the successes of the season. It is as
fresh a novel as it is interesting, as attractive as it is realistically true, as full of
novelty of presentment as it is of close study and observation of life." — World.

"A love story of considerable interest The novel is full of surprises, and will
serve to while away a leisure hour most agreeably." — Dailij Telegraph.

HIS LITTLE MOTHER: and Other Tales.
By the Author of "John Halifax, Gentleman."

"This is an interesting book, written in a pleasant manner, and full of shrewd
observation and kindly feeling. It is a book that will be read with interest and
that cannot be lightly forgotten.' — St. James's Gazette.

"The Author of 'John Halifax' always writes with grace and feeling, and
never more so than in the present volume." — Morning Post.

Published annually, in One Vol., royal Bvo, with the Arms beautifully
engraved, handsomely bound, with gilt edges, price 31s. 6d.

LODGERS PEERAGE

AND BARONETAGE,

CORRECTED BY THE NOBILITY.

THE FIFTY-tried EDITION FOR 1884 IS NOW READY.

Lodge's Peerage and Baronetage is acknowledged to be the most
complete, as well as the most elegant, work of the kind. As an established
and authentic authority on all questions respecting the family
histories, honours, and connections of the titled aristocracy, no work has
ever stood so high. It is published under the especial patronage of Her
Majesty, and is annually corrected throughout, from the personal' communications
of the Nobility. It is the only work of its class in which, the
type being kept constantly standing, every correction is made in its proper
place to the date of publication, an advantage which gives it supremacy
over all its competitors. Independently of its full and authentic information
respecting the existing Peers and Baronets of the reahn, the most
sedulous attention is given in its pages to the collateral branches of the
various noble families, and the names of many thousand individuals are
introduced, which do not appear in other records of the titled classes. For
its authority, correctness, and facility of arrangement, and the beauty of
its typography and binding, the work is justly entitled to the place it
occupies on the tables of Her Majesty and the Nobility.

LIST OF THE PRINCIPAL CONTENTS.

Historical View of the Peerage.

Parliamentary Roll of the House of Lords.

English, Scotch, and Irish Peers, in their
orders of Precedence.

Alphabetical List of Peers of Great Britain
and the United Kingdom, holding superior
rank in the Scotch or Irish Peerage.

Alphabetical list of Scotch and Irish Peers,
holding superior titles in the Peerage of
Great Britain and the United Kingdom.

A Collective list of Peers, in their order of
Precedence.

Table of Precedency among Men.

Table of Precedency among Women.

The Queen and the Royal Family.

Peers of the Blood RoyaL

The Peerage, alphabetically arranged.

Families of such Extinct Peers as have left
Widows or Issue.

Alphabetical List of the Surnames of all the
Peers.

The Archbishops and Bishops of England
and Ireland.

The Baronetage alphabetically arranged.

Alphabetical List of Surnames assumed by
members of Noble Families.

Alphabetical List of the Second Titles of
Peers, usually borne by their Eldest
Sons.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Dukes, Marquises, and Earls, who, having
married Commoners, retain the title
of Lady before their own Christian and
their Husband's Surnames.

Alphabetical Index to the Daughters of
Viscounts and Barons, who, having
married Commoners, are styled Honourable
Mrs. ; and, in case of the husband
being a Baronet or Knight. Hon. Lady.

A List of the Orders of Knighthood.

Mottoes alphabetically arranged and translated.


This work is the most perfect and elaborate record of the living and recently deceased
members of the Peerage of the Three Kingdoms as it stands at this day. It is
a most useful publication. We are happy to bear testimony to the fact that scrupulous
accuracy is a distinguishing feature of this book." — Times.

"Lodge's Peerage must supersede all other works of the kind, for two reasons: first, it
is on a better plan ; and secondly, it is better executed. We can safely pronounce it to bethe
readiest, the most useful, and exactness of modem works on the subject." — Spectator.

"A work of great value. It is the most faithful record we possess of the aristocracy
of the day." — Post.

"The best existing, and, we believe, the best possible Peerage It is the Blanchard
authority on the subject." — Standard.

PUBLISHED BY HURST & BLACKETT.

KEEP TROTH. By W.u.ter L. Bicknell, Mea.

3 vols.
There are many passages in this clever and interesting novel which lead to
more serious reflection than works of Action, even of the higher class, are wont
to awaken." — Spectator.

THE MASTER OF ABERFELDIE. Bj James

Grant, Author of •' The Romance of ^ya^," &c. 3 vols."^
The graphic picture of the battle of Tel-els Kebir. which ilr. Grant gives in his
novel, augments the effect of a romance which bears witness to the authors
powers"' — St. James's Gazette.

THE PITY OF IT. Bv Mrs. M. E. Smith, Author

• of *• It Might have Been," " fit for Tat," &c. 3 vols.

'•A bright story. The principal character is fresh and lovable. The plot is
well worked out in all its details.' — Morning Post.

*• A very readable story. There is plenty of movement and mystery in the
latter part of the book. " — Daily Telegraph.

Nexus' Does. By Ida Ashworth Taylor.

3 vols.

' Venus' Doves ' is a graceful and well-written novel Miss Taylor's studies
of character are finished and delicate, and the actors are cultivated and refined
people. It is a pleasant book." — Athenaeum.

A very pretty story, very prettily told. We recommend it strongly as a tale
which is interesting as well as pure ana good." — Standard,

THE MAN SHE CARED FOR. By Few. Robinson,

Author of '• Grandmother's Money," &c. 3 vols.
"A genuinely pleasant tale. The interest accumulates as the story proceeds.
It contains some passages and some delineations of character which may compare
with Mr. Robinson 8 most successful work'' — Athenaeum.

WE TWO. By Edna Lyall, Author of "• Donovan'

&c. 3 vols.
"A work of deep thought and much power. Serious as it is, it is now and then
brightened by rays of genuine humour. Altogether this story is more and better
than a novel. ' — Morning Post.

TO Have AND TO HOLD. By Sarah Streamer,

Author of " The Fate of a Year," drc. 3 vols.
"This novel is strong and romantic It is a tale of real life, with incidents of
so stirring a nature that they cannot fail to arrest attention." — Morning Point.

OMNLV YANITAS : A Tale of Society, ^y Mrs.

Forester, Author of "Viva," &c. Third Edition. vol.
This book is pleasant and well meant. Here and there are some good touches :
Sir Ralph is a man worth reading about ' — Academy.

Donovan. By Edna Lyall, Author of '< We

Two," .Vc. 3 vols."
"This novel is thoroughly well written; it is full of scenes which prove the
author's powers of observation and description ; it contains variety ol incident,

and has much real merit The character of Donovan is powerfully drawn."

Morning Post.

A BEGGAR ON HORSEBACK. By :\lrs. Power

O'DosoGHUE, Author of '•' Ladies on Horseback," &c. 3 vols.
This story has a great deal of real pathos, and is interesting as a stay of
Hibernian character." — Atheism.

PUBLISHED BY Hurst & BLACKETT.
LOVE AND MIRAGE. By M. Bentham-Edwards,

Author of " Kitty," " Bridget," &c. 2 vols.

WEST OF SWARDHAM. By the Rev. W. O.

Pile, Author of " Tay." 3 vols.

CYCLAMEN. Hv Mrs. Randolph, Author of

Gentianella," "Wild Hyacinth," &c. 3 vols. (In November.)

RALPH RAEBURN. By John Berwick Haywood,

Author of " Lady Flavian," <fec. 3 vols.

THE DOUBLE DUTCHMAN. By Catharine

Child, Author of " The Future Marquis," &c. 3 vols.

"This very readable book is above the average of novels of its kind. It deals
brightly with scenes of modern social life"— Athenaeum. .

'• This novel is striking, amusing, and full of surprises. The story is graphically
written, and abounds in stirring incident. It is altogether a book that deserves
to be read'" — Post.

JOY. JBy May Crommelin, Author of " Queene,"

Orange Lily," &c. 3 vols.

"Miss Crommelin has here produced a powerful novel. It is as healthy and
pure as it is strong and orlgmal"— British Quarterly Review.

"A powerfully written tale. The plot is dramatic and full of human interest.
There is much to commend in this novel" — Morning Post.

ON THE i^PUR OF THE moment. By John

:Mills, Author of " The Old English Gentleman," (fee." 3 vols.
"There are many graceful and some pathetic scenes in this book. The chapters
on sport are bright, graphic, and full of movement"— i/orni»pr Post.

INCOGNITA. By Henry Cresswell, Author of

"•A Modern Greek Heroine," &c. 3 vols.

This novel has in it much to please and satisfy. Most of the characters are
finely drawn, but the heroine is more skilfully described than any of the rest" —
Athenaeum.

A clever, entertaining novel. It distances its predecessors by the same hand
in ability and invention." — Academy.

THE COUNTER OF THIS WORLD. By Lilies

Wassermaxx and Isabella Waddle, Authors of *' A Man of the

Day," " David Armstrong," &c. 3 vols.
A powerfully-written story. Many of the situations possess a strong dramatic
interest. The tale has a wholesome ring about it" — Globe.

"■ This novel is powerfully written, and will repay perusal." — Post.

LADY Water's COMPANION. By the

Author OF " St. Slave's," " Janita's Cross," &c. 3 vols.

"Pure in tone and abounding in incident, this novel deserves warm commendation."
— Morning Post.

"The characters are well drawn, and have the merit of being exceedingly
natural." — Guardian.

Hawthorne HALL. By John M. Fothergill.

3 vols.

The author has produced a good story, in which are found several characters
that show marked individuality." — Morning Post.

"'Gnythomo Hall' treats of a period of fierce political and social struggle ina
style replete with instruction and fascination." — Newcastle Chronicle.

"**• 8
