^y THE AUTHOR op

remiss Bayle's Rn,

mt:^J-L-W^^^'

L t E> R.AR.Y

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

^^^

>^'^^^/&^^

^^i«

*,„ i|./^-

w^#^^

mmmc^

^^ssimfwi

^ ^ji^ ''--"'^Vftti:

money, money, how blindly thou hast been worshipped,
and how stupidly abused ! Thou art health
and liberty and strength ; and he that has thee may
rattle his pockets at the Devil.' — Charles Lamb.

BY

The Author of
MISS BAYLE'S ROMANCE:

IN THREE VOLUMES.
I.

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in ©rbiitarB to ^£T ^tajtstg the Queen.

1888.

[AU Rights Reserved']

V. I

TO MY FRIEND,

-^ Hippolyta Adolph TAINE,

\ D.C.L. Uxor., o.iid Member ofthi French Acodeniy.

WITH HEARTFELT WISHES FOR Ris SPEEDY RECOVERY OF THE
HEALTH REQUIRED TO RESUME THE LABOURS WHICH
'>^ HAVE ELUCIDATED ENGLISH LITERATURE AND

Enriched THE LITERATURE OF FRANCE.

^^

CHAPTEE I.
In Athelstanee House.

A poor rich Man '

A great Brewer's Losses -

Something in the City

I was very poor then'

An unscrupulous Millionaire

Enter Thomas Baker










1:3

CHAPTER II.
Family Fables and Facts.

Mr. Argoll's Origin
Moral Suasion and Flogging
A Money-lender at School -
Young Jacob's Popularity -
Desires of the two Brothers
Argoll and Solar Partners -
Making financial Hay









CHAPTER III.
The Partners Marry.

PAGE

A Love Match - - - - - 31

The Speculator's Fate - - - - 33

Mr. Solar's Will - - - - - 35

Money and Health - - - " ?^

An Amateur Doctor - - - - 39

Mr. Byker startled - - - " '^?

Pride aping Humility - - - - 43

A haunted House - - - - - 45

CHAPTER IV.

The Younger Brother.

Almost a handsome Man - - - - 47

Artists and Patrons - - - ' J^

An unstable Artist - - - - 5 1

A Disciple of Mr. Ruskin - - - - 53

The Argoll Exhibition - - - - ^^

His Lady Admirers - - - - 57

Meets Miss Berta Solar - - - - 59

CHAPTER V.

Mr. Argoll at Home.

Mrs. Argoll and her Friends - - - 63

A domestic Martinet - - - - 65

An unsolved Problem - - - - 67

Light, more Light ' - - - - 69

The Heiress has her own Way - - - 71

Miss Solar's Studio - - - - 73

The House turned Topsy-turvy - - - 75

Lord John Cardonald, Ren. - - - 77

A venerable Lady-killer - - - - 79

The Duke of Fontainebleau.

Sir George Durham and Mr. Argoll - - 127

A Writer of Note - - - - - 129

A practical Philanthropist - - - - 131

A shy Novelist and Journalist - - - 133

A Sicilian Landowner - - - - 1 35

Count as well as Capitalist - - - 137

Caste and Common-sense - - - - 141

Mrs. Byker and her Boy - - - - 143

Mr. Byker's Disappointment - - - 145

VsLYSLgrsLph in Financial Star - - - 147

CHAPTER IX.

Miss Solar's First Offer.

Young City Snobs - - - - - 149

Lord John in Love - - - - 151

The Great Transporter ' - - - - 153

The Earl of Armadale - - - - 155

Letter to Aunt Irma - - - 157

Going to the Drawing-room - - - 159

'What a Day this has been ' - - - 161

A Director in Difficulties - - - - 163

Interview with Mr. Argoll - - - - 165

A painful Prospect - - - - 167

A dull Dinner-party - - - - 169

Her favourite Seat - - - - 171

'Are you proposing to me V - - 173

A Suitor rejected - - - - 175

Berta and Ella - - - - - 177

Miss Tacon's Delight - - • - 179

Miss Solar tells her Story - - - - 188

CHAPTER X.

The Artist's Dilemma,

Falling in Love - - - - - 183

London in a Fog ' . . . 185

An impatient Pupil - - - - 187

Traitors to Art - - - - - 189

Heine's Vengeance - - - - 191

A momentous Resolve - . - 193

A Director at Bay.

The Flying-fish Torpedo ' - - - 237

A Torpedo in a Tub . . . . 239

Floating a Company - . . . 241

Hiram B. Ogden's Tactics - - - - 243

It is all right, my Lord ' - - - - 245

Rival Torpedoes ^ - . . . 247

A dreaded Meeting - - - - 249

Mr. Jones's Friends - - - - 251

PecksniflSan Journalists . - . . 253

Messrs. Buster and Buster - - - - 255

•o^o»

CHAPTER I.

IX Athelstan HOUSE.

'An honest man's the noblest work of God.' — Pope.

The dark old place will be gilt by the touch of a
millionaire'— Tennyson.

T eleven o'clock, on a fine May
morning, Mr. Joseph Moses
Ar^oll was seated before his
writings-table in Athelstanee House. The
room which he occupied was very dingy
and dismal : the new-comer entered it with
a shudder, and left it with a feeling of relief
On the warmest day in summer it was as
cold as a charitable institution : on the
VOL. I. 1

brightest day in the year it was as gloomy
as the passages in the Royal Courts of Justice.

The building, of which this room was a
sample and formed a small part, was one
of the oldest and grimiest in the City of
London. It had been built to serve as a
royal palace. Merchant princes had lived
happily there, and in greater state than the
monarch who first inhabited it. Amongst
the many persons who had grown mouldy
and rich in Athelstanee House, none had been
more astute than Mr. Argoll in pursuing
the object of many a City man's ambition.
He was a living monument of industry and
thrift, of sharp practice and good fortune.

Though very rich in the estimation of
his fellows, Mr. Argoll accounted himself
comparatively poor. He was still relaxing
in the efforts which he had put forth during
a quarter of a century to obtain a sum sufficient
for his requirements. Since boyhood
his consuming desire had been to amass an
immense fortune. His desires had widened
with his years. When twenty, he made up
his mind to be satisfied with fifty thousand

pounds ; but no sooner was he the possessor
of that amount than he became a victim to
the fear of ending his days as a pauper in
the workhouse. He toiled on as if he were
working for a hvehhood. At thirty, he had
accumulated a quarter of a million ; but he did
not feel much happier or any more contented ;
that sum had been doubled by the time he
was forty, and then he determined to rest
perfectly satisfied upon increasing his fortune
to a million. On this May morning he was
in his forty-sixth year, and within measurable
distance of the goal of his hopes.

To be a millionaire in the English sense

o

of the term implies the possession of a
larger amount than would be at the disposal
of a French, an Italian, a German, an Austrian,
or an American millionaire. When a
Frenchman acquires a million francs, or an
Italian a million lire, he is but the possessor
of forty thousand pounds sterling. When
a German acquires a million marks, he is
but the possessor of fifty thousand pounds.
When an Austrian acquires a million florins,
he is but the possessor of about one hundred

1 — 2

thousand pounds, and when an American
acquires a million dollars, he is but the
possessor of two hundred thousand pounds
sterling. Thus an English millionaire is
infinitely the greatest man, if greatness can
be represented or measured by money.

Seldom had Mr. Argoll been more anxious
and restless than he was on this May
morning. He opened his letters with an
impatience and he glanced over them with
a haste which was most unusual ; in
Several he was methodical and collected
under all provocations or annoyances. An
excuse and explanation might be found in
the facts that he had slept little all night,
and that his nerves were unstrung. In the
course of a long and exhausting business
career, he had often experienced greater
cause for uneasiness than at present ; but
never before were his feelings in such a state
of tension. The last few seconds in a race
are the most exciting.

The realization of Mr. Argos's hopes was
now staked upon a venture of which he longed
to learn the result. He did not run an unusual

risk. Indeed, Mr. Arofoll had seldom
cause to dread losing money. He often complained
of losses, yet he could bear them with
equanimity. Whenever he failed to make the
profit upon which he counted, he complained
of having lost so much, and he bemoaned these
misfortunes so bitterly, that his friends sometimes
spoke about subscribing a small sum to
save him from having to sweep a crossing, an
occupation to which he said he would resort
before entering the workhouse.

Those persons who were not in the secret
used to wonder how Mr. Argoll could lose
such enormous sums without appearing to be
any the poorer. They would not have been
either surprised or puzzled if they had
known how closely his case resembled that
of ' a great brewer,' of whom Mr. W. S.
Lindsay tells the following story in his
History of Merchant Shipping : ' When I
was a member of the House of Commons,
there was a great brewer, a most excellent
man, who sat close to me on the cross
benches, who frequently complained of the
hesivj ^' losses " he sustained in his trade.

I ^yas under the impression that the brewing
trade was a very lucrative one, especially
to persons Hke himself, who conducted it on
a gigantic scale, and I was puzzled to understand
how, in the face of such " losses," he
could continue adding vat to vat, and rearing
fresh mountains of beer-barrels every
year in his brewery yard. Turning one night
to a mutual friend who knew him more intimately
than I did, I asked, in the simplicity
of my heart, if it really was the case that
the great establishment of which our friend
was the senior was a losing concern. '' It
is so," he answered, 'according to our friend's
way of calculating ; for every pound less than
seventy-five thousand per annum, which is
estimated as his share of the nett profits, is
booked as loss J' '

At present Mr. Argoll was the prime
mover in a scheme by which, if a success,
he would add at least one hundred thousand
pounds to his fortune. When that happened
he would be a millionaire. He expected
this May morning, on reaching his office, to
find a letter or telegram announcing that

the arrangements for floating The Riviera
Sanitatio7i Company were completed. As
neither had arrived, he feared lest the company
would not be constituted, and lest his
prospective gain would have to be classed
amongst his bitter disappointments and
crushing losses.

The firm of Messrs. Argoll and Solar, of
which Mr. Argoll was the surviving partner
and sole representative, was not an old one.
Its business, according to the ' London
Directory,' was that of merchants ; but, unless
a trader upon human credulity be a
merchant, the term is lacking in accuracy
and precision. A gentleman at large, who
makes an income without possessing any
capital or belonging to a recognised trade or
profession, is said to live by his wits. A
man who possesses a small capital, and
makes a large income by employing it in
some mysterious way, is commonly reported
to be ^ something in the City.' When he is
asked to give an explanation of the ' something,'
he will probably avow that he is ^ a
financial agent.'

It was as financial agents that Messrs.
Argoll and Solar had established for themselves
a position in the City which, though
far lower than that of such merchants and
magnates as the Rothschild and the Bearings,
was higher and slightly more enviable and
honourable than that of the multitude of the
financial agents who are on a par with
money-lenders and betting-men, who make
no parade of honesty, and who, if they
succeed in duping their fellows, boast of
their cleverness and glory in their triumph.

Mr. Argoll was a very dull companion,
and a highly moral man in his own opinion ;
he denounced with extreme gusto and unction
whatever savoured of knavery. He would
give rogues a short shrift and a severe
punishment. Being ready to state and defend
his opinions, he had no hesitation in
expressing his regret that the pillory was
abolished ; he would have contributed a
small sum and much talk to ensure its reestablishment.
It was a great treat to listen
to the beautiful phrases which fell from his
lips at a dinner-table ; he inspired all the

hearers who were ignorant of his doings
with entire confidence in his principle and
admiration for his sentiments. Joseph Surface
never stigmatized vice in more glowing
and pointed sentences than he. Neither
was Joseph Surface, before being exposed
and discredited, a more plausible and effective
moralist than Mr. Argoll.

Mr. Argoll entirely agreed with the
American sage who, after announcing that
honesty was emphatically the best policy,
added, ' especially when you are in a hole.'
He had never countenanced or connived
at an improper act which yielded him
no profit. When his bosom friends and
accomplices hinted that some episodes in his
career were at variance with the maxims
upon which he expected others to act, he
simply replied, ' I was very poor then.' He
thought that, though not so rich as he
desired to be, he was now rich enough to be
permitted to be inconsistent without reproach.
Indeed, the richer he grew, the
more illogical, stern, and unbending became
his morality.

He was admired by some persons and
envied by many in the City. He was
not beloved. Never had he shown pity
to a fellow-creature in distress, and when
asked to help anyone out of a difficulty
with anything more substantial than good
advice, his uniform reply was that he had
his own business to look after, and had no
time to attend to that of other people. He
never parted with money out of pure charity,
yet, when the names of the leading bankers
and merchants figured on a subscription list
which was advertised in the newspapers, the
firm of Aro'oll and Solar was always seen
there. This was a form of advertisement
which he would have deemed it folly to neglect.
On the whole, then, Mr. Argoll was a
consistent and conscientious professor of the
Gospel of Mammon, which, as interpreted by
Mr. Ruskin, is to this effect : ' Blessed are
the merciless, for they shall obtain money.'

Much of the wealth laboriously amassed
by Mr. Argoll had been obtained through
judicious spoiling of the Turks and the
Egyptians. He was active and foremost in

inducing the public to lend money to Egypt
and Turkey at hates which were ruinous to
the borrowers. As an intermediary, he
made money both out of the borrower and
the lender.

It is unnecessary at present to set forth
in detail the various methods whereby Mr.
Argoll accumulated money at other people's
expense. They betokened the hardness of
his heart and his head. He had earned for
himself a conspicuous place amongst the unscrupulous
millionaires of the world. He
enjoyed the supreme satisfaction of a quiet
conscience. He had uniformly done to
others what he took very good care that
others should never do to him. If some of
his transactions had been exposed, he would
have been shocked ; but a financial agent
who is found out must be a novice at the
game. His business is to make money with
the certainty of the gamester who plays
with loaded dice.

As even the foremost men in the City have
their detractors, so Mr. Argoll did not escape
accusations of unfair play. When he became

very rich, he could treat them with indifference
and contempt. A discerning public
pardons anything to a wealthy man, provided
he refrains from openly breaking the letter
of the law.

It would be wrong, perhaps, to suggest
or conclude that Mr. Argoll and his associates
are open to censure. As financial agents
they act after their kind. Some persons,
not wholly lacking in penetration, have
found in a few sentences spoken in the
House of Commons by Sir Philip Francis,
confirmation of their foregone conclusion that
he was the author of the letters bearing the
signature of Junius. Francis then said,
There is no such thing in existence as a
moral or immoral nation. The national
mind is formed by circumstances external toit,
not upon the internal principles.' This is
equivalent to the view taken and 23ronml-
gated by great writers and philosophers,
such as M. Taine and Mr. Herbert Spencer,
to the effect that all men are moulded by
their surroundings and are the creatures of
circumstances, and that they are influenced

in their character and actions by causes
beyond their control. Hence it may be
urged that a financier such as Mr. Argoll is
the product of a certain condition of City
Hfe, and that, if he had been a conventionally
good man, he would never have
become a rich one.

A slight knock at the door was heard by
him before it opened, and his chief clerk,
Mr. Thomas Byker, entered the room. Mr.
Byker knocked as a matter of form ; he held
too confidential a position to stand upon
ceremony. Suddenly raising his head from
the paper upon which he had jotted down
many figures as an aid in counting up his
money, Mr. Argoll said :

Well, Byker, has the telegram come at
last ?'

Yes, sir ; the syndicate is formed, all the
money is subscribed, and our terms are
agreed to.'

What, the highest figures V

Yes ; and the shares of The Riviera
Sanitation Company are already at a large
premium. I have sold all ours.'

The deuce you have ! Why, that means
an extra profit !'

Yes, sir ; we shall make quite twenty
thousand in excess of what we calculated.'

Mr. Byker handed the telegram to Mr.
Aro-oU, and left the room. After o^ancino^
at it, he made another entry on the slip of
paper before him, did a sum in simple addition
; then he laid down his pen, rubbed his
hands, chuckled to himself, and said aloud,
Now I've got over a million, and I shall
begin and enjoy life.'

FAMILY FABLES AND FACTS.

Howe'er it be, it seems to me
'Tis only noble to be good.'

Tennyson.

Parents first season us, then schoolmasters
Deliver us to laws.'

George Herbert.

R. ARGOLL was j^i'oud of his
ancestors, and he detested his
Christian names. His invariable
signature vas ' J. M. Argoll,' excepting
when reluctantly compelled to write Joseph
Moses in some legal document, and he never
forgave any correspondent who wrote his
names in full on an envelope. One of his
inexplicable and unredressed grievances was

that, whilst he miofht chase his surname as
often as he pleased, he could not vary or
get rid of the names given him at his
baptism. He was a member of the Church
of England, and as good and devout a
Christian as most of his friends ; but he
always lived in terror of being taken for one
of God's chosen people, whose only sacred
book is the Old Testament.

A story which Mr. Argoll never wearied
of telling, was to the effect that his family
was ancient and honourable and of purely
Huguenot origin, and that his ancestors were
nobles of an exceptionally antique kind.
Whether his father or grandfather was the
first to drop the title of Baron had not been
determined ; but it seemed, according to
him, that, if the title to which one or the
other had a claim were once relinquished, it
could not be resumed. His family's birthplace
was said to be a small village on the
frontier between Switzerland and Italy, in
which every male, born there many centuries
ago, had a right to the title of Baron.
The story is so far true that a village does



preserve such a tradition. Even if the story
had been a pure fiction it served its purpose.
Mr. Argol] had repeated it sa often
that he believed it to be a fact, and it is not
more fantastic than the traditions upon which
many family pedigrees are based. His carefully
dressed Majesty, King George IV.,
died under the belief that he had led a
charge of the Guards at Waterloo. He was
not there ; but, having begun by fancying
one day after dinner that he had taken part
in the fight, he ended by believing the fable,
which originally issued from a punch-bowl.

What is beyond dispute is that Mr.
Argoll's father left Bremen at an early age,
and obtained a situation in a Manchester
warehouse ; that he became a partner in
process of time ; that he married a Lancashire
girl who had neither fortune nor pedigree,
who made him an excellent wife, and
bore him two sons, the elder being christened
Joseph Moses, and the younger Henry
Jacob. There was a difference of two years
in the ages of the boys. When the firstborn
was ten years old their father died, leaving

VOL. I. 2

a moderate fortune. The total income from
the amount ^Yhich he left behind him was
about a thousand a year, of which the sum
of three hundred was payable to the boys'
mother during her lifetime. She died two
years after the younger came of age, so that,
when Mr. Argoll was twenty-five, he entered
into possession of a capital sum of fifteen
thousand pounds, his younger brother's portion
being ten thousand.

Mr. Argoll had resolved to spare no
money in giving his boys a good education.
He contemplated sending them first to one
of the public schools, and afterwards to
one of the universities. Till his death
they had been taught at home. Their
mother hesitated to send them to Rugby or
Harrow, Winchester or Eton. She had
read ' Tom Brown's School Days,' and she
dreaded the ordeal of a public school for her
children. The circular of a school for boys
not far from Manchester fell into her hands
by accident, and she was so much impressed
with the plausible statements in it, that she
determined to entrust her boys to the care

of its head-master. The school was styled
Lancashire Colleo^'e ; the head-master was
the Reverend Charles Sadden. He professed
in this circular to give his pupils all
the advantages of a public-school education
without any of its drawbacks ; to treat
them as they would be treated at home ; to
govern them by moral suasion, and never to
flog them without their consent ; to ground
them in the classics and instruct them in
modern languages ; to instil sound principles
into their minds, and to keep them in sound
health by permitting them to play as much
and as often as was good for them. After
perusing this document Mrs. Argoll pronounced
Lancashire College a school after
her own heart. Though the head-master
kept his word to the letter, yet there was
as much flogging at Lancashire College as
at the school where the Reverend Mr.
Shatter made Charles Reade's life a burden
to him and his brother. No boy at Lancashire
College was flogged more frequently
or severely than Joseph Moses Argoll.

His schoolfellows soon learned that his

2—2

Christian names were obnoxious to him, and
they gave him as much annoyance as they
could by dubbing him ' Old Mo ;' his brother
was commonly known as * Young Jacob.'
The two brothers were cast in such different
moulds that they seemed to belong to
different families. The elder was of a calculating
and saturnine nature ; he was slow
to learn, but able to retain whatever he had
mastered ; he was indifferent to play, without
being a lover of books. His inextinguishable
longing was to possess money, his one
aim in life being to get as much and spend
as little of it as he possibly could. A boy's
weaknesses were as fully developed in him as
in any of his comrades ; none of them liked
sweets of all kinds better than he, but, unlike
them, he would not waste his pocket-money
upon sweets. It used to be a common
joke amongst the boys to hold out a jam-tart
and say, ' Old Mo, wouldn't you like a bite ?'
and sometimes he was allowed to take one,
and then he secured a piece which was as
large as his mouth would hold, the result
being to tantalize and render him eager for

more. However, he exercised rigid self-denial
when he had to pay for the gratification
of his appetites, and he had the serene
satisfaction of always having money in his
pocket when all the other boys were penniless.


Old Mo ' early developed both predatory
and accusative instincts. Though he would
not spend his pocket-money on things which
he could do without, he had no hesitation in
lending it for what Old Trapbois, in ' The
Fortunes of Niger,' called ' a consideration.'
He was willing to let an impecunious boy
have two shillings, on condition of receiving
back two shillings and sixpence whenever he
was in funds, and though these terms are as
exorbitant as those of older money-lenders,
yet his fellow-schoolboys did not think them
excessive and unfair. What filled his pocket
the most rapidly was being flogged.

The Reverend Charles Sadden's theory of
governing by ' moral suasion ' involved much
corporal punishment in practice. Any failure
in saying lessons, or any breach of a minute
code of rules, entailed punishment in the form

of writing out so many lines of prose or verse,
and being excluded from the playground fora
given time. Those who preferred to compound
with a flogging had the option of
doing so, and the boys were the more disposed
to exercise their option in favour of
flogging, because every page which they
wrote by way of punishment was forwarded
at the end of each month to their parents.

Saturday was the day appointed for

punishing those who had elected to be

flogged. A list was kept of the culprits,

and they were represented on it by a

number. Now, though ' Old Mo ' was the

best-behaved boy in the school, and one who

never failed to repeat his lessons correctly,

he was flogged every Saturday. This arose

from his readiness to take the place of

any other culprit for the sum of five shillings.

He began by asking half-a-crown,

but finding his services in constant request,

he raised his price, and nothing but the

hopelessness of getting a still higher one

hindered him from demanding more. The

servant, who bore the name of Joe Master,

to whom the task of flog-king was delegated —
in order, perhaps, that the head-master
might say that he never flogged a boy in
any circumstances — knew nothing about the
demerits of those who passed under his
hands ; but finding that ' Old Mo ' regularly
presented himself for a flogging, he inferred
that he must be a very wicked boy, and
wielded the birch with the greater vigour on
his person. On Sunday, ' Old Mo ' found it
difficult to walk to church, and very painful
to sit through the service. Thus he learned
by agonizing experience that money-getting
is sometimes a trial to the flesh.

Young Jacob ' was one of his brother's
best customers. He was the most popular
boy, and the greatest dunce in the school.
No one was so expert at games, and so persistent
in breaking rules as he. Caring
nothing for money, he was always ready
to pay any price for a passing pleasure. He
was generous even to his brother, and when
he saw him look wistfully at a tart or a
piece of cake which he had bought with
some of the money borrowed from him, he

would reaciil}' share it, saying, * Never mind
the expense, Joe ; eat the whole of it if you
like : it's the only repayment you are likely
to get from me.'

If success in life were proportioned to
popularity at school, then ' Young Jacob '
ought to have carried everything before
him ; as it was, however, he seemed destined
to be numbered amongst the world's failures.
One liking was predominant and one faculty
fairly developed in him : he had a taste for
art, and he was skilful with his pencil to a
degree which made his companions envy
him, and his masters prophesy that he
would have a bad ending. He could represent
a cow with a few strokes of a pencil,
which no one would mistake, as often happens
when precocious youths begin to draw, for a
horse or a donkey ; and he made sketches
of his masters and school-fellows, which, if
not exact likenesses, might pass for clever
caricatures. He was as ambitious of fame
as his brother was of wealth.

The brothers left school possessed of a
little more knowledge than when they entered

it ; but they were not embarrassed or
over weighted with book-learning. Their
mother was puzzled how to dispose of them.
In her loving and uncritical eyes, they
seemed to be geniuses of the first water.
When her younger and favourite son told
her that he wished to become an artist,
she suggested that he should be apprenticed
to a photographer ; and she said this in the
belief that, as the producer of hideous photographs,
he might speedily be in a position
to earn an addition to his income. He
rejected the proposition with a mixture of
disgust and scorn, being too precocious an
artist to look upon an ordinary photograph
with patience. His wish was to become a
student at the Royal Academy, and perhaps
to proceed to Paris later, and continue his
artistic education there. Beings assured of
an income sufficient for his wants, he easily
got his own way.

The elder brother was anxious to go into
business, and, above all, to become a partner
in a firm which made money quickly. An
old friend of his mother's, having casually

learned what were the longings of her elder
boy, was able to find him the opportunity
which the boy desired. He knew that a
firm of Turkey merchants named Godfrey
and Turner wished some one to join their
firm with a little capital. The senior partner
had died, and his money was withdrawn from
the business : the surviving one was getting
too old to do all the work. It was agreed,
after a little negotiation, that Joseph Moses
should enter Messrs. Godfrey and Turner's
office, and learn his duties, on the understanding
that, on his coming of age, his
capital should be invested in the business,
and that he should then enter the firm as
junior partner. Athelstanee House was the
place where Messrs. Godfrey and Turner had
for many years carried on a safe and lucrative
business as Turkey merchants.

The same year that Joseph Moses Argos
came of age, Mr. Turner died, and the business
was wound up. Mr. Argoll, as he may
henceforth be called, then arranged to take
over the lease of Athelstanee House, and to
engage in business on his own account. He

was joined by a young German from Frankfort,
of Spanish extraction, whose name was
Gustav Solar, who had a few hundred pounds
of his own, and who was a clerk in the house
without salary. They both agreed that, whilst
calling themselves merchants, they should
confine their whole attention to financing.
Before the firm of Godfrey and Turner ceased
to exist, many osiers were made by their correspondents
at Constantinople to unite in
lending money to the Turkish Government,
which had just begun to civilize and ruin
Turkey by raising large loans abroad. Mr.
Turner did not understand or care for this sort
of business. Both Mr. Argoll and Gustav
Solar saw their way to profit by it. They
were merchants of the modern school, being
wholly devoid of ]prejudices, and being intent
upon making money at any cost, and in anyway
which was not against the law. Imbued
with this spirit, they founded the
notable and substantial firm of Arooll and

o

Solar.

Despite the divergence between them in
many respects, the two partners worked

well together. Of the two, Mr. Solar was
the bolder speculator. He was fraught
with the courage which commands success.
Mr. Argoll, on the other hand, was given to
hesitate on an emergency, and to doubt the
propriety of venturing much in the hope of
gaining more. In City circles he inspired
greater confidence than his dashing partner,
though the pluck of the other was unreservedly
acknowledged and praised.

After they had been several years in business,
and each had drawn large sums out of
it, Mr. Solar speculated even more daringly
on his own account. He was quick in
discerning the financial signs of the times.
At a period when new companies where
springing up and decaying like mushrooms,
and the general public went temporarily
mad, Mr. Solar kept a cool head and a
clear judgment, foreseeing the day when a
general crash would occur. On the terrible
'Black Friday,' being the 11th of May,.
1866, when shares and stocks fell to the
lowest point known for many years, when
banks suspended payment, and when the

shock to credit was so great that, for an
hour or two, even Consols were unsalable,
Mr. Solar made financial hay. Believing
that nearly all shares would fall, he had
acted accordingly ; when they touched their
lowest point, he bought them largely. By
selling them when they were unduly inflated,
and buying when they were unduly
depressed, he cleared large sums of money.

How much Mr. Solar made was never
exactly known. It was believed, however,
that he had not more than five thousand
pounds when he began to operate on a large
scale, and that when he reckoned up his gains,
at the close of the season of panic, he was the
possessor of two hundred thousand. He
soon took rank as a great capitalist. When
it was bruited about that a partner in the
firm of Argoll and Solar had made much
money at a time when other men and other
firms had been on the verge of bankruptcy,
the firm rose in the estimation of the City
public, its credit increasing and its success
being assured.

THE PARTNERS MARRY.

Of all actions of a man's life, his marriage does least
concern other people, yet of all actions of our life 'tis
most meddled with by other people.' — Selden.

Hotly after becoming the head
of the firm of Argos and Solar,
Mr. Argoll took to himself a wife.
He was too practical to marry for love
alone. His affections were intimately associated
with his pocket. Miss Jane Smith,
who became his wife, had no other attraction
than her great expectations. She was
the only daughter of his father's oldest
friend in Manchester, who was understood
to be very rich, and she was expected to
inherit a large fortune. As her father had

the reputation of being an upright as well
as a very shrewd man of business, he was
highly respected for his probity and his
wealth.

Miss Smith had the misfortune of being
a ^ spoilt child.' This was not her fault,
any more than the further misfortune of
a plain face. Her figure was as ungraceful
as her features. She was very short
and stout, and her one redeeming quality
was her placid temper. Geniality of disposition
w411 not compensate for bad looks
or bad manners, but it befits and improves a
woman as much as the softest voice. Miss
Smith admired Mr. Argoll chiefly because
he had curly hair — her other suitors had
the unpardonable defect in her eyes of
having lank locks — and she felt enchanted
when asked to become his wife. Her father
was pleased that his only daughter should
marry the son of his best friend. The match
was styled a love one. This was true in a
sense ; inasmuch as Mr. Argoll loved Miss
Smith's fortune, and she loved him.

Mr. Smith died suddenly a month after

the marriage. It was found that speculations
on the Stock Exchange had absorbed large
sums, that his affairs were in confusion, and
that, whilst his creditors might receive a
small dividend, nothing would be left for his
daughter. Thus Mr. Argoll became the husband
of a very homely wife, who did not bring
him the fortune upon which he had counted.
He regarded his marriage as partly a great
blunder and partly a very bad debt.

Mr. Solar married about the same time
as his partner. He found a wife in Frankfort,
his native city. Though as fond of
money as Mr. Argoll, he had more sentiment
in his composition, and his greatest
delight, upon entering into possession of a
fair income, was to marry the girl to whom
he had plighted his troth in the earlier days
when he was young and very poor. There
was nothing remarkable about his bride,
Berta Wagner ; she was not rich, or
highly educated, nor could she lay any
claim to beauty. Still, as the marriage
was one of pure affection, and as each was
perfectly satisfied with the other, there

was no desire on either side to notice or
dwell upon shortcomings. Their wedded
life was over-clouded once only, but the first
dark cloud heralded its close ; before a year
had passed away, Mr. Solar was a widower
and the father of an infant daughter. It is
possible that, if his wife had been spared to
him longer, he might have devoted himself
less exclusively to the task of money-grubbing.
As it was, he gave himself up heart
and soul to acquire wealth, and, as has
already been intimated, his success was both
rapid and extraordinary.

Those who make haste to grow rich
generally go down to their graves prematurely.
The miser who adds coin to coin
may live miserably, begrudging himself
almost the necessaries of life ; but he often
lives long. The speculator who strives to
make a fortune through operations in the
money-market, puts a great strain upon his
constitution. From day to day he is a
constant prey to anxiety. A sudden and
unexpected change may derange his plans,
and he may see the fortune which he had

VOL. I. 3

won with the labour of years melt away in
an hour. Even the most fortunate speculators
have a battle for life ; they may keep
their money and lose their health.

Mr. Solar was born with a frame which,
in ordinary circumstances, would have lasted
for many years ; but even his system broke
down before he was forty, when an incurable
internal malady cut short his life. Had
he survived a few years longer his wealth
might have been counted by millions. As
it was, he had accumulated half a million
sterling in addition to the sum invested in
his business. The whole of this sum passed
at his death to his daughter, Berta, who
was then in her eighteenth year.

When Mr. Solar felt that his days were
numbered, he made a will to the effect
that all his property was to be held on
trust for his daughter, and that his personal
estate was to be realized and invested
in Consols, with the exception of the
part remaining in the firm of Argoll and
Solar, which he ordered to continue thereat
interest till such time as the surviving



partner desired its withdrawal. He appointed
Mr. Argos his sole executor and
trustee, and requested him to act as guardian
of his daughter till her twenty-fifth year,
when she was to receive the whole income
from the trust fund, her trustee being empowered
to exercise his absolute discretion
till then as to how much she was to spend.
It was also provided that, in the event of
her marrying without her trustee's consent
before she was twenty-five, one half of the
entire estate was to be divided amongst
certain specified charities. Should Mr.
Argoll decline to act as trustee, or in the
event of his death, then his daughter was
to be made a ward in Chancery. Mr.
Argoll did not decline to act ; on the contrary,
he was ready to carry out the wishes
of his deceased partner. He took Berta
Solar to his own house and treated her asa
daughter.

Unhappily for Mrs. Argoll, she was childless.
She had obtained a grudging permission
from her husband to give a home
to an orphan niece named Ella Tacon, and

3—2

this girl had gradually come to be regarded
as an adopted daughter. Mr. Argoll did
not lavish any affection upon his wife ; but
he grew fond of her niece, whose presence
in the house became indispensable to both,
yet he never intimated that he would provide
for Ella. On the contrary, he uniformly
spoke about the necessity of marrying
her to some one who might be able to support
her. The truth is that Mr. Argoll
dreaded lest anyone should profit by his
labours by inheriting his wealth. If he
could but take his money away, death
would have had no sting for him.

Though as attentive to business as his

o

partner and as eager to acquire money, Mr.
Argoll had suffered less in health. This is
the more surprising, as for twenty-five years
he had never taken a longer holiday than
from Saturday night to Monday morning,
when he went to Brighton, Hastings, or
some other place within easy reach of
London. He had made a vow, on beginning
business on his own account, that he
would never absent himself on a working

day from Athelstanee House till he felt that
he had made enough money to justify him
in so doing. On a Bank Holiday, or any
other day when business was suspended in
the City, he had no option but to stay away,
and then he grumbled at his enforced leisure.
He detested waste in any form.

Mr. Argoll had a good constitution, without
being as strong physically as Mr. Solar.
He had always been careful about his health.
Even as a boy he objected to getting his
feet wet, and when jeered at as a milksop he
was careful not to take offence. As a man,
he thought nearly as much about his health
as about making money. His partner's
death gave him a fright, from which he
never wholly recovered. Till then he used
to vaunt the excellence of the climate in
the City, and he seemed to believe that
spending many hours there daily conduced
to longevity. But when Mr. Solar suddenly
broke down, he grew nervous about himself
From that hour he lived in a continual terror
of dying. As his wealth increased, his dread
of leaving the world became intensified.

One day, after taking a hurried luncheon
at the Gresham Club, he went to the 
to improve the few minutes he
could spare by rapidly absorbing the pregnant
pages of The Statist. By mistake, he took
up TJie Lancet, a journal which he had never
had in his hands before, and out of curiosity
he turned over its pages. He was so struck
with the title of a short paper that he read
it through, the subject being ' The Diseases
of City Men.' Whilst reading it, he found
many symptoms described which he had
experienced in his own person, and he learned
with a shudder that the results in the cases
of persons who were affected in the manner
set forth might prove very serious.

When he went home in the evening he
told his wife that he was far from well.
She was most sympathetic, and washed him
to take one of her favourite pills ; indeed
nothing gave her greater pleasure than to
act as a sick-nurse, and whenever her
husband was ailing in the slightest degree,
she showed herself a painstaking and devoted
wife.

Mrs. Argoll preserved an abiding faith in
her power to heal all rational maladies ; the
others she left to the regular practitioner.
She had never been seriously ill, and she
had an unbounded belief in the efficacy of
the simple remedies which were administered
to her in childhood for slight ailments. The
robust in health are the most addicted to
doctoring others. They never wholly understand
why anyone should be unwell, and
they are disposed to consider it sheer
obstinacy or bad taste ; for, when another
complains of being out of sorts, they are
convinced that if he or she will only take
something he or she will soon be all right
again. What the something may be matters
little, the chief things behoof to take it at once
and often, and to trust to Xature or Providence
for a speedy cure.

Mrs. Argoll's pet remedies were few and
simple. She affirmed that they never failed
to do good if used in time. They were
three in number, a pill, a liniment, and a
drink — the pill being that which is known
as compound rhubarb ; the liniment being

Opodeldoc ; the drink being oatmeal gruel
with a little port wine added to it. Mr.
Argoll had often taken his wife's pills ; when
he had an external pain he submitted to
have the part rubbed wich opodeldoc, and
when he had a cold in the head he complacently
drank a large quantity of gruel.

Now, however, though he never had
consulted a doctor in his life before, he felt
that the time had come for doing so.
Accordingly, he called the following day
upon Sir William Hartford, described his
symptoms, was carefully examined, was told
that he was not really ill, but that he would
do well to take the medicine for which a
prescription was given him. He did as the
great physician ordered, and he felt better
at once.

Unfortunately for his peace of mind, he
became a constant reader of The Lancet, and
he was continually fancying himself affected
with some horrible ailment. Instead of going
to the doctor, and taking his advice, he began
to drug himself There was scarcely a quack
medicine which he had not swallowed. He

was gradually rendering himself an invalid
by trying to get rid of an imaginary illness.
The only remedy which he had not tried
was that which he most needed — change of
air and scene. Having become a millionaire,
he now felt that he might take a holiday
and regain his health, which had really
become impaired by not taking sufficient
exercise and by taking quack medicines.

Before leaving Athelstanee House on the
day that he heard the good news mentioned
in the first chapter, Mr. Argoll announced
to Mr. Byker his intention of arranging
about going away for several weeks. No
secret which Mr. Byker had ever been told
by his master surprised him so much as this
piece of information. He doubted, indeed,
whether the last piece of good fortune had
not turned Mr. Argoll's brain.

Perhaps, as Mr. Argoll's visits to Athelstan
House may not be so regular for a
time as they had been during a quarter of a
century, this may be a fitting opportunity
for giving a few particulars about it. Not
having the fear of Mr. Freeman before my

eyes, I have written the name as it appears
in the ' London Directory,' and not 'athelstan,'
as the historian of the ' Norman Conquest
' would have done. It is an old building
in which our ancestors felt quite comfortable
and at home ; but in which there
are defects without number judging from the
modern point of view. The rooms are low
in the ceiling ; the windows are small ; the
staircases are narrow and dark. None of
the rooms are well furnished even for a City
office ; but the least luxurious is that which
is occupied by Mr. Argoll. In the others
there are strips of carpet on the floor ; in
this one the boards are bare. In the others
there are several chairs in a complete state
of preservation, Mr. Byker having a comfortable
one in his ; in this one all the chairs
are dilapidated and rickety, with the exception
of that used by Mr. Argoll. Persons
visiting him on business are struck with
the barren simplicity which prevails, and
they are not always unfavourably impressed
with the spectacle. When a financial
agent is surrounded with luxury, those who

deal with him think that they have paid
for it.

Whether it be affectation or a bad habit,
it is common enough for the chiefs of finance
to have their City offices very plainly
furnished ; the minor men go to the other
extreme. Great monarchs and generals are
noted for dispensing with comforts which
other persons appear to consider necessaries
of life. Their bedrooms are as bare as
those of a barrack ; their iron beds are
no better than those of paupers in a workhouse.
The visitors to their palaces or
mansions are impressed with the contrast
between the grandeur of the sitting-rooms
and the simplicity of those in which the
monarchs and generals pass their nights,
and these notable personages owe something
of their popularity to sleeping upon narrow
and hard beds. If they do this from choice,
they deserve neither pity nor praise ; if they
do it out of ostentation, they deserve to be
ridiculed. Whatever may be true of other
financial men of note, there was no fixed
design in Mr. Argoll's spending his days in

an office which had a squad look. He
simply grudged the expense of buying new
furniture. If anyone had laid down a carpet
and given him a set of cosy chairs, he would
not have objected. There is a good deal
of meanness in the man who becomes a
millionaire.

Mr. Argos's clerks did not approve of
their master's nisfo^ardliness, and many were
their requests for new furniture ; but so
long as a chair held together, or a table
would stand upright, Mr. Argoll pronounced
it serviceable, and he was always ready
to point to his own room as still less comfortable
than those in which his clerks
were badly accommodated. The clerks
were able to boast that Athelstanee House
was superior to any City office in one particular.
It had enjoyed the reputation
during' three centuries of hemg- haunted.
The Psychical Society had investigated the
phenomenon and pronounced that there
might be something in it, but this conclusion
did not elucidate the mystery. Xo one had
ever seen the ghost, but many persons had

heard noises which they confidently attributed
to it. Strangers who were taken to
see the sights of the City had Athelstanee
House pointed out to them as being haunted.
This interested and impressed them far more
than the tradition, which was assumed to bean
historical fact, that it had been the residence
of the first Protestant Lord Mayor of
London.

THE YOUNGER BROTHER.

But who can paint
Like Xature ? Can imagination boast
Amidst its gay creation hues like hers V

Thomson.

though Mr. Argoll was only
forty-six when he had attained
the object of his ambition, he
seemed many years older. He was short
and rather stout ; he had an old look and
an old-fashioned manner. When a boy, his
hair was abundant, nut-brown and curly ;
there were few curls on his head now, and
the sparse hairs were white. Men who
olive their nights to vice, and those who
spend their days in speculation, become

prematurely old. A bald head, in these
days of progress, has ceased to be a mark
of advanced years and large experience; it
generally denotes a life wasted or exhausted
before the time. A man of thirty may resemble
Nestor in face and figure, but there
is no other resemblance. Mr. Argoll's face
was clean-shaven ; if it had been covered
with gray hair it would have looked older
still. Worth makes the man. The hairdresser
corrects and improves upon Xature.

Mr. Argoll's brother, Henry Jacob, though
but two years his junior, seemed a young
man by comparison. He, too, had nut-brown
hair, which had remained unchanged in colour
and undiminished in quantity. It adorned his
face as well as his head, and despite irregular
and rather common features, he might pass
without too strict scrutiny as a handsome
man. He was nearly six feet in height ; he
was finely proportioned ; on foot and on
horseback he appeared to equal advantage ;
he could walk for hours together without
feeling" fatigue, and he could dance all niofht
without requiring sleep. By men he was

envied, and by young women he was
adored.

With physical advantages which are exceptional,
and with intellectual gifts which
are very rare, with enough money on entering
life to render the struggle for existence comparatively
easy and to smooth the pathway
to fame, Mr. Henry Argoll was what the
unthinking and uncritical would designate
an utter failure. His elder brother regarded
him as a disgrace to the family. As Mr.
Henry Argoll did not abound in the Christian
grace of charity, he looked upon his elder
brother with contempt. The brothers were
unequally matched and gifted.

Mr. Joseph Moses Argoll aspired from
his youth up to make money, and Mr. Henry
Jacob Argoll's sole ambition was to be an
artist. It is easier, however, to gain millions
in the City than fame at the Royal Academy.
Yet failure to achieve distinction deserves
pity rather than censure ; a man who has
once been animated with a noble ambition
is never wholly worthless and contemptible.

The ten thousand pounds which Mr. Henry

Argoll inherited had been invested so as to
yield him an income of a little over four
hundred pounds. His elder brother was
anxious that he should join him in business,
and he promised him that, if he did so, his
money would fructify rapidly, and that he
might be rich before he was middle-aged.
But Mr. Henry Argoll had a great repugnance
to business in any form ; indeed, he
undervalued those who pass their lives as
traders or merchants. In his youth he
would willingly have sold himself to Satan
in return for having his paintings hung on
the line at the Royal Academy.

Artists and other professional men are not
indispensable members of society ; but they
would find life even harder than they do,
and grumble with better reason, if others
did not devote their lives to different forms of
labour. The great Italian Masters, whose
paintings now fetch more than their weight
in gold, might never have been heard of by
posterity had they not had great Italian
merchants as patrons. They are now spoken
of as if they lived and laboured for fame. If

VOL. I. 4

their only nourishment had been the hope
of future fame, they would have died of
hunger.

Mr. Henry Arsfoll's satisfaction with the
income which he had, and his refusal to join
his capital to his brother's, were never forgiven.
The latter regarded the former as
worse than a fool. The contempt which
Mr. Henry Argos felt for City men was felt
in equal measure by Mr. Argos for artists.
The brothers saw each other at long intervals,
and they persistently hated each other
with a bitter fraternal hatred.

Mr. Henry Argos's artistic training was
as good as can be had by anyone who goes
thrush the usual routine. He became a
student at the Royal Academy; but he was
not diligent in his studies. He went to
Paris, and entered the School of Fine Arts,
where he had ample opportunities for gaining
knowledge and experience; but there his
chief acquirements were a fair acquaintance
with conversational French, and a closer one
with French men and women of his own
age whose sole aim was to enjoy the passing

hour. He visited the principal cities in
Italy ; he saw and admired many great
works of art, and he brought away with him
a smattering of Italian. It is true that he
made several sketches during his travels ;
but it is also true that his sketches did not
bear fruit. He was always preparing to paint
a great picture, and if he had succeeded in
placing upon canvas the ideas floating in his
head, he might have astonished the world.
An unstable artist's aims are far grander
than his powers.

He painted many pictures, and some of
them were not worse in drawings and colouring
than hundreds which are produced annually,
which pass muster in family circles,
and which are pronounced very creditable
by incompetent critics. Mediocrity never
seems very bad, and originality is often incomprehensible.
His works were neither bad,
nor good enough to be accepted at the Royal
Academy. For his inability to get a picture
placed on public view, Mr. Henry Argoll
had an explanation ready. The fault was
solely attributable to the blindness or

4—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

favouritism of the Academy's Hanging
Committee. He was convinced that his
powers as a painter were undervalued and
unappreciated. He never imagined that
there was any shortcoming on his part. One
of the privileges of youth is to believe that
whatever one paints or writes is a work of
genius.

Years and experience teach those who are
capable of learning that the productions of
genius are few in number and not eccentric
in character. Goethe acknowledged having
learned from Moser that the highest attainment
in Art is simplicity and repose, and he
concluded that no young man could be a
master. He expressed his view of the desire
of all men to be masters in the lines,

Das Woollen alle Herren sein
Und keener list Herr von such ;'

which may be concisely rendered : — ' Everybody
wishes to be a master, and none
acquires self-mastery.' Had Mr. Henry
Argos been dependent on his pencil for his
daily bread, he must have starved, and his
and might have been as tragical as Haydn's.

As it was, he could subsist upon his moderate
income, and patiently await the day when
others would value him at his own estimate.

Whilst waiting, he read the earlier works
of Mr. Ruskin, and became inspired by them
to make an experiment. He had not always
had a taste for landscape-painting, and if he
had been a better draughtsman and colourist
he might have reproduced some of the effects
in Nature which charmed his eyes. But his
works had the peculiarity of being unintelligible
to the ordinary observer, and repulsive
to the artistic critic. He was in advance of
a fashion in painting. In his day the Impressionist
School did not exist, and correct
drawing as well as careful finish were approved
and admired. After reading Mr.
Ruskin's writings, he resolved to aim at
truth only, and to represent in a picture
all external objects as they actually appear
in Nature.

He believed that he would attain the
object of his ambition by painting in the
open air, and he constructed a hut on Dartmoor,
where he spent the spring and summer

months. As his adventures are not so attractive
as those which have been delightfully
narrated in a well-known book, they will not
repay narration in detail ; suffice it to say,
then, that he brought back to London a
large number of canvases which astounded
his artistic friends. As they knew that he
was exceedingly sensitive to adverse criticism,
whilst not objecting to unstinted praise, and
that he had as firm a belief as Hay don in the
super excellence of his own work, they expressed
themselves in guarded terms, saying,
with perfect truth, what he heard with un-dissembled
pleasure, that some of the natural
effects in his paintings were extraordinary.
Indeed, they said that such clouds and sunsets
as he brought back from Dartmoor on
canvas had never been seen since Turner
had departed this life. They might have
added, had they not been afraid of offending
him and behoof misunderstood, that even
Turner had never produced anything like
them.

The Argoll collection of paintings was
placed before the public in a room hired for

the purpose, and the fact of the exhibition
being open was announced by advertisement
in the newspapers. As Mr. Henry Argoll
had a very low opinion of art critics, he did
not send invitations to any of them, and
none had the curiosity, perhaps some could
not afford, to pay a shilling to see his show.
With the exception of a paragraph in the
Art Gossip of The Athenian, to the effect
that an exhibition of paintings by Mr. H. J.
Argoll had been opened, no mention was
made of it. The room was never overcrowded.
Some of Mr. Henry Argos
friends and acquaintances used the tickets of
admission which were sent to them, and they
did so as a matter of courtesy ; but none had
the slightest inclination to praise, or the
least desire to purchase, any of the pictures.
Three persons from the country paid their
shillings, and spent a few minutes in the
room. At the end of a fortnight the exhibition
was closed, and the public never had
another chance of seeing these curious productions
of an earnest and enthusiastic
artist.

Mr. Henry Argoll did not manifest any
disappointment ; he was too well satisfied
with himself to feel annoyed at the indifference
of the public. His revenge was to
become a critic in turn. An acquaintance,
who had more money than experience, lost
the one and acquired the other by founding
a weekly journal called The Busy Bee.

During the journal's short life, Mr. Henry
Aro^oll acted as the art critic, and he have
vent to what he called wholesome truths
about painters and sculptors. Had the critiques
penetrated artistic circles, they might
have caused a profound sensation, and perhaps
they would have done all the good that
Mr. Henry Argoll hoped to accomplish. The
chief effect was produced upon himself. He
felt convinced that he was not only able to
paint remarkable pictures, but was equally
able to criticize the inferior productions of
his brethren.

He continued to paint pictures for posterity,
never dreaming that he might be
adding to the mass of canvases covered with
colour which sometimes agree with the strong

digestions of rats in a cellar or an attic.
His faith in himself had an unexpected reward.
The Sutherland Gallery was opened
for the exhibition of paintings by artists who
either would not send their works to the
Koyal Academy, or who wished to achieve a
more conspicuous position than they could
there obtain. Some of Mr. Aroroll's landscapes
were hung in the Sutherland Gallery,
and were ridiculed in the newspapers. The
more they were denounced as daubs, the
greater became the public curiosity to see
them. Some collectors bought them on
speculation.

There is generally a market for any form
of eccentricity in art or literature, provided
the picture or the book be emphatically condemned
by the critics. As the critics were
almost unanimous in declaring that Mr.
Argoll was an impostor, he soon had a circle
of admirers amongst the irrational public.
The ladies of his acquaintance were the
warmest admirers of his paintings. He was
a handsome man, and they were ready to
conclude that the artist who is attractive in

VOL. I.

person and manners must be a good painter.
They heard him called hard names, and they
jumped to the conclusion that he was the
victim of persecution. When a woman thinks
a man ill-used for whom she entertains a
personal admiration, she becomes his strongest
advocate. On the whole, then, Mr. Henry
Argoll's lot was not unenviable. As he remained
a bachelor, he was the object of the
warmest solicitude on the part of tender and
compassionate women.

He had travelled a good deal, having
crossed the Atlantic, and brought back
sketches from the principal places of interest in
the United States of America and in Canada.
It was a picture of Niagara Falls which attracted
most notice amongst those which he
exhibited in the Sutherland Gallery. His
last craze was to visit some of the least-known
parts of the American continent, and
to find amongst the Cordilleras or the Andes
subjects for his pencil as novel as those which
Bierstadt had found in the Rocky Mountains.

Whilst meditating a voyage to South
America, and a visit to some parts of it

which had been Httle explored, he made
the acquaintance, at his brother's house, of
Miss Berta Solar. He had frequently had
love-passages during his lifetime, and he had
once found his ideal woman in Italy. The
women who were ready to marry him did
not inspire love in return ; the Italian beauty,
whom he loved to madness, would not become
his wife. He had arrived at the conclusion
that he would never marry.

As Mr. Henry Argoll grew older he
became more critical. A bachelor of forty
is either more difficult to please than a
younger man, or else he may be more ready
to commit a piece of folly. A woman,
especially an astute widow, can procure a
husband of that age with greater ease
than she can tempt a younger man to fall
a victim to her charms. Men become
more susceptible to flattery as they grow
older, and the experienced woman of the
world has learned the weaker sides of the
other sex. Miss Solar was young and lovely,
and she knew little of mankind. Yet she
soon made Mr. Henry Argoll her slave.

He could not help admiring her. She unconsciously
flattered him in the subtlest and
most effective way. She, too, thought herself
an artist and a judge of art, and she
declared with perfect sincerity that no artist
of the day painted like Mr. Henry Argoll.

MR. ARGOLL AT HOME.

There's nothing ill can dwell in such a temple :
If the ill spirit have so fair a house,
Good things will strive to dwell with it.'

Shakespeare.

R. ARGOLL had a luxurious
abode in Palace Gardens. When
asked why he did not have a
house in the country as well as in town, his
reply was :

What the better should I be with a
country house ? I have as good a house and
garden here as I want ; besides, I can drive
to my office in an hour.'

His wife agreed with him, as she abominated
the country, and thought that she

had made a sacrifice in living where she did.
If she had objected more strongly to living in
Palace Gardens, he would soon have moved
elsewhere. She found that Palace Gardens
agreed with her as well as Manchester, and
this satisfied her. If she had suffered in
health by the change, she would have
worried her husband till he consented, for
the sake of peace, to live wherever she
would be quiet or resigned.

Since becoming over-anxious about his
health, Mr. Argoll was generally as clay in
his wife's hands. On one point only was
he immovable. Despite her entreaties, he
would not leave town for a longer time
than from Saturday to Monday. He had
resolved at all risks to stick to business
without interruption till he had gathered
together a million of money ; going daily
to his office had become a second nature.
He was always unhappy when obliged to
remain at home during the day, and Sunday
was to him a day of penance.

Mrs. Arofoll had few marked tastes, and
no expensive ones. Her father had given

her little money to spend in her youth, and
when she had large sums at her disposal,
she grudged parting with them. Though
brought up in the belief that she was an
heiress, she had been taught the virtues of
saving ; or perhaps, as not unfrequently
occurs, the pleasure of having money in her
pocket was far greater than that of buying
whatever she fancied. The years which
had passed away since her marriage had not
added a charm to her face or figure, neither
had she learned by experience how to make
the most of herself Had she only learned
that simplicity in apparel is most becoming
to the elderly as it is to the very young,
she would have eschewed the bright colours
and costly materials with which she loved
to bedeck her unattractive person.

Yet those who were repelled by Mrs.
Argoll's homely appearance found to their
surprise that her society was not to be
scorned. She took a personal and unwearying
interest in the welfare of her friends and
acquaintances, and she was never so happy
as when giving them medical advice. Both

young and old were always welcome visitors
at her house. When anyone had an illness
her solicitude was unfeigned and unremitting,
and if she were rather too anxious
to physic her friends, they forgave her for
this because they were convinced that she
meant well. Everyone who knew and liked
Mrs. Argoll thought that her husband must
be a happy man.

In his own house Mr. Argoll was an
intolerable martinet. He was severely methodical,
as much for the annoyance which he
gave to others as for the pleasure which he
experienced himself. The slightest omission
on a servant's part to carry out instructions
incurred his displeasure. He always seemed
dissatisfied when nothing went wrong. He
never had a word of praise for services welland
faithfully rendered. If a bell were
left unanswered, or a door not shut when it
should have been, he stormed and spoke as
if the order of Nature had been violently
interrupted.

Mr. Argoll held that, in a properly constituted
household, everything should go on

according to a fixed rule. In his house, as
the clock struck eight in the morning, the
gong sounded for breakfast, and the table was
cleared as soon as breakfast was over, those
who had not come down before getting
nothing till luncheon ; at one o'clock the
gong sounded for luncheon ; at eight for
dinner, and at eleven for going to bed.
Mr. Argoll had an apparatus in his bedroom
whereby the gas throughout the house
could be shut off, and at midnight there was
not a light left burning, as far as he knew.

Though not hospitable, Mr. Argoll gave
many dinner-parties. He did not care to
welcome his friends and acquaintances at his
table ; but he found it useful, as a matter
of business, to entertain them often and
lavishly. His own tastes were simple, or,
rather, they were unformed. He was no
judge of good fare, and, whilst having a
liking for wine, he thought the cheapest
was the best. The worst wine in London
was placed before his guests.

When Mr. Argoll promised Miss Solar
that she would find herself at home with

VOL. I. 5

him, she naturally concluded that she would
be as comfortable and independent as in her
father's house. After her arrival at Palace
Gardens, a change speedily took place, for
which her guardian was unprepared. He
had been accustomed to have his own way
in his household. Miss Solar was in the
like case. Though in her father's house the
dinner hour was fixed to suit his convenience,
everything else was ordered according to
her will and pleasure. She had no stated
time for doings anvthino\ If she had a
weakness, and this she did not deny, it was
for lying in bed till a late hour in the
morning. Miss Solar was not lazy. Indeed,
no well-constituted vouno- girl will admit
that she is a sluggard who requires a lesson
from the ant. But Miss Solar liked to
meditate and sometimes to read in bed.
When she had been at a party the night
before, it was her custom to make breakfast
and luncheon one meal.

As Miss Solar did not appear at breakfast
the first morning which .she spent in
Palace Gardens, Mrs. Argoll sent a message

to know whether she felt ill. If the answer
had not been that she was quite well and
would be down soon, Mrs. Argoll would
have hastened to her room with a box of
pills. When she came down at ten o'clock
she found the breakfast-room deserted, and
she wondered exceedingly. In her turn she
feared that something was wrong, and she
hastened to Mrs. Argoll's boudoir.

I am glad to see you, my dear,' was the
somewhat stiff and cold greeting. ' I hope
you have had a good night ; but you look
pale. There must be something the matter ;
won't you take a little medicine ? I am sure
it will do you good.'

Thanks, Mrs. Argoll,' was the reply, * I
am very well ; and I should prefer some
breakfast to pills ; I am rather hungry.'

Mrs. Argoll was at a loss. No member
of the family, who was not in the doctor's
hands, had ever been allowed to breakfast
after the appointed hour. She did not like
to tell Miss Solar how the matter stood ; so
she rang the bell and ordered the servant
who answered it to see that breakfast was

n 9

repaid, saying to Miss Solar, after so doing,
that the servants mio^ht have thought she
was ill, as she did not appear. Miss Solar
was surprised, but made no remark. As
Mr. Argoll had gone to the City, she did
not see him till the evening. Nothing was
said on the subject then, and, after an evening
spent in the usual humdrum way, everybody
went to bed at eleven.

Shortly after midnight the bell communicating
with Miss Solar's bedroom rang as if
the house were on fire. Mrs. Argoll jumped
out of bed, and thinking that the new-comer
had now been taken ill, rushed to her room
with a pill-box in one hand and a bottle of
opodeldoc in the other.

Nothing serious, I hope, my dear Berta,'
was her exclamation as she breathlessly
entered Miss Solar's bedroom ; she added,
without waiting for a reply, ' I felt sure you
would have been the better for a pill this
morning, and I have thought so all day.
Take one at once ; it will do you good. If
you have any pain, let me rub a. little of this
on the place ; it will relieve you instantly.'

I really don't require any medicine, Mrs.
Argoll ; what I want is a light. The gas went
out as I was reading, as I generally do for an
hour before undressing. I thought there was
something wrong, so I rang the bell.'

Mrs. Argo llwas puzzled what to say ; she
was half ashamed to tell Miss Solar the reason
why the gas had been turned off by her considerate
and parsimonious husband. She
evaded the difficulty by saying that the gas
sometimes goes out when no one expects
such a thing, which is true enough ; and she
added, what might also be true, but which
was not :

There may be something wrong with the
pipes. I will leave this candle, and I must
see what can be done tomorrow.'

Miss Solar took the candle and the explanation
as a matter of course. She could
not know that the only candle allowed in the
house by Mr. Argoll was the one in the
bedroom occupied by his wife and himself
She insisted upon having one, so as to be
able to light it in the event of sudden illness
during the night.

Mrs. Argoll groped the way to her own
room, and there she found her husband
waiting to hear her account of what had
happened. Had she been a strong-minded
wife, now was the opportunity for giving her
husband an appropriate curtain-lecture in
the manner of Mrs. Caudle. Yet she was
so much accustomed to humouring him, or
rather he had been so much in the habit of
having his own way as regards the household
arrangements, that she did not dream
of ofivinof him what Mrs. Caudle would have
called ' a bit of her mind.' She simply stated
what had occurred, and she next told him
what had happened in the morning after he
had breakfasted and left the house. His
only reply was ' Indeed I' He then turned
on his side, not to sleep, but to reflect upon
what should be done in circumstances which
were alike novel and unforeseen.

When Mr. Argoll agreed to become
trustee and guardian of his partner's only
child, he did so with a firm determination to
perform the duty conscientiously, and byway
of partially repaying his partner for the

many advantages which had accrued from
association with him. But, when inviting
his ward to hive with him, he had not
counted the cost or the consequences. This
does not mean that he performed an act of
charity in giving Miss Solar a home. He
made a charge for the accommodation which
was provided, and this he thought it reasonable
in fixing at a thousand a year. It was a
small amount to be deducted from an income
exceeding twenty-five thousand.

What had not occurred to Mi Argoll
was that, as an inmate of his house, and
contributing largely towards its expenses.
Miss Solar was entitled to a degree of
independence which might be denied to any
other person. Of course he could insist
upon her conforming to the rules of his
house ; but, then, she might elect to leave
it if these were irksome to her.

Mr. Argoll did not wish Miss Solar to
go elsewhere, neither did he wish to alter
his mode of life ; but, in the circumstances,
he had no option except to yield, and he
reluctantly made up his mind to do so.

Accordingly, he told his wife in the morning
to make whatever arrangements were necessary
to accommodate Miss Solar as regarded
breakfast and luncheon. The dinner-hour
was to remain unchanged, as was the hour
of going to bed. Nor would he give up his
hobby of plunging the house in darkness at
midnight. He said, however, that a lamp
should be placed in Miss Solar's room ; and
he assigned as a reason, when he saw her
and expressed his regret at her being inconvenienced
by the gas going out, that she
might find a lamp healthier than gas in a
bedroom. This apparent care for her health
made Miss Solar think the better of her
guardian.

He had another trial to bear before his
ward settled down in Palace Gardens. Miss
Solar was passionately fond of painting, and
she had a room in her father's house which
she called her studio. Such a room she now
desired to have at her disposal. As has
already been explained, Mr. Argoll regarded
art and artists with contempt, it might even
be said with loathing. Besides, if he disliked

one thing more than another, it was
the smell of jDaint, and he supposed that a
house in which there is a studio must be
pervaded with a sickly odour of fresh paint.
It was a relief when he learned that Miss
Solar had taken a liking to an unused and
unfurnished apartment over the billiard-room
which was an addition to the house,
and was reached through a passage. He
thought that, if the doors were kept shut,
the dreaded smell of paint would not pass
ito the house ; and when he bargained for
the door into the passage being closed with
a spring, he was told that his wish was
most reasonable, and would be attended to.
Miss Solar liked the room both on account
of its isolated position, and also because it
was lit from the top by a large sloping
window facing the north.

A year had elapsed between Mr. Solar's
death and his daughter coming to live with
Mr. Argoll. She had spent that time with
her paternal aunt in Frankfort, who, as far
as she knew, was her sole surviving relative.
During his lifetime Mr. Solar had provided

for his sister, buying and settling upon hera
house in the new Kaiser Strasse, of which
she let the greater part, thereby deriving
a sufficient income for her wants. She
was a sensible and contented middle-aged
lady who gave her niece useful advice.
Indeed, it was at the instigation of her aunt
Irma that Miss Solar went to live with her
guardian, her aunt feeling confident that todo
so would have been most pleasing to her
niece's father.

As a consequence of having his ward in
his house, Mr. Argoll gave more dinner-parties
than he had previously done. He
had to consent, moreover, to her accepting
the many invitations which she received, and
also to her going frequently to the theatre
and opera. His wife was glad to act as
chaperon to the heiress and beauty. Mr.
Argoll seldom accompanied them. He would
have stopped all this gaiety if he could, not
only because he objected to the others enjoying
themselves, but also because his rules about
going to bed and turning off the gas had then
to be suspended. He grimly told his wife :

My dear, this house has been turned
topsy-turvy since Berta entered it.'

As Mrs. Argos relished the change, yet
did not wish her husband to suspect this, she
replied :

Well, J. M., everything is still new to
Berta ; it is very good of you to let her have
so much of her own way.'

It should be explained that Mr. Argoll
had forbidden his wife to address him by his
Christian names, so that she had resorted to
^ J. M.' as a compromise. Perhaps it should
be stated also that Mrs. Argoll was ignorant
of her husband's desire to retain the custody
of his ward, and that he submitted to let her
have her own way chiefly out of dread lest
she should go off to her aunt Irma, at
Frankfort.

Mr. Argoll's wife, his ward, and his niece
had nearly always a gentleman to fill the
vacant seat in the carriage, and to keep them
company when they went to an entertainment.
Since Miss Solar was an inmate of
Mr. Argoll's house, his brother had become
a regular visitor. Previously he called at

rare intervals, and he generally selected an
hour for calling when his brother was in the
City ; when asked to dinner for form's sake,
he was obliged to decline on account of an
engagement which he could neither specify
nor postpone. Now, however, he was constantly
calling at luncheon-time, and staying
during that meal, and he was fortunately
disengaged whenever he received an invitation
to dinner.

Another frequent visitor was Lord John
Cardonald, the only brother of the Earl of
Armadale. As the Earl was childless and
a confirmed invalid, the chance of Lord John
succeeding to the earldom gave him an importance
which he would not otherwise possess.
The drawback was that the title and
property were Scotch, and that the income
from the family estates was small.

Lord John Cardonald had served in the
navy, had attained the rank of post-captain,
and retired on half-pay. He entered the
service at an early age, and when he left it
he was not an old man ; but the exact number
of his years was a secret to those of his

acquaintances who reckoned his age by his
looks. His hair was scanty, yet it was jet-black
; his whiskers were black also, but
his eyebrows were of a reddish tinge. In
youth his hair had an indefinite shade of red.
Had he been a woman, the colour of his hair
would have been called auburn by those who
were disposed to flatter ; when he was a
boy he bore the nickname of ' Carrots.' The
marvellous change took place after his retirement
from the service, and when he had
resolved to get a wife who was rich and
young.

Lord John Cardonald had been introduced
to Mr. Argoll by a mutual friend, with the
request that he would find some easy and
honourable occupation for him, which should
occupy his time and add to his income.
Mr. Argoll was ready to do his best, as he
loved a lord as dearly as all City upstarts, or
as Tom Moore.

He introduced him in turn to the skilful
promoters of companies who were on the
look-out for good decoys in the shape of
directors. Lord John soon became a director,

as it was found that the name of Lord
John Cardonald, Rex., not only looked well
on a prospectus, but served to inspire ignorant
and credulous investors with confidence.
His services were in great request. He first
became a member of the board of The Flying
Fish Torpedo Company, second of The
Improved Lightning Cable Company, third of
The Universal Shipbuilding Company, and
fourth of The Universe Steam Shipping Company.


Though a fairly o^ood seaman, Lord John
had no special qualification for conducting
the business of any of these companies,
all of which struo-o^led on so honos as the
capital lasted, in all of which the directors'
fees were regularly paid, but in none did the
shareholders receive any other return than
empty promises. Lord John was pleased
with his position and his fees, his income
being quadrupled.

As soon as Lord John saw Miss Solar, he
felt certain that his long-cherished vision of
married bliss was about to be realized. She
was the beauty of his dreams, one whom he

had never yet seen in his waking hours.
Her fortune was large beyond his hopes.
He determined to make her his wife. Miss
Solar did not lend her aid to the completion
of his programme. She disliked him from
the outset, and she manifested this in a way
which was intolerable, always appealing to
him as an old man who was hackneyed in
the world's ways, and qualified for giving
advice to the very young and inexperienced.
Lord John plumed himself both upon being
a lady-killer, and upon his youthful appearance.
It was gall and wormwood to him to
be courteously and uniformly treated as a
venerable sage.

f;^^

Bertha AND ELLA.

If you be, what I think you, some sweet dream,
I would but ask you to fulfil yourself.'

Tennyson.

Provided that nothing like useful knowledge could

be gained from them, provided they were all story and
no reflection, she had never any objection to books at
all'— Ji^NE Austen.

ISS Beets SOLAR had not been
long in Mr. Argoll's. house before
she formed more than a girl's friendship
with Miss Ella Tacon. The position of
the latter was uncertain and unpleasant : a
poor dependent never feels at home in the
abode of a rich relation. Even if she should
be most kindly' treated by the heads of the

family, the servants generally contrive to
make her understand that she dwells jn the
house on sufferance. Miss Solar soon made
her power felt in Palace Gardens ; she was
liked by all the household because she was
generous and usually amiable, and, as it soon
became known below-stairs that the best way
to please her was to treat Miss Ella Tacon
with respect, the poor dependent's position
underwent a great and sudden change for
the better.

Inherited instincts have the best chance
of development in children who are left
almost entirely to themselves. It is with
some children as with plants. There are
certain plants which flourish better in a wild
state than when cultivated, whilst others thrive
only in a hothouse. Hence, the absence of
parental training may be as advantageous incertain
cases as it is indispensable in others.
Miss Solar might have been an excellent
daughter had her parents watched over and
cared for her from her childhood ; but in
that event she would have become a different
and, possibly, a less attractive young woman.

VOL. I. 6

There was nothing of the hothouse-plant
about her. She was a hardy and charming
wild-flower, without being wild.

It was inevitable in the circumstances that
she should chafe under restraint or direction.
So long as she had her own way, no one
had much reason to complain ; but whoever
thwarted her found that she had an unpleasant
side. Happily for those with whom
she came into contact, she was readier to
show herself in an agreeable light than to
give occasion for offence, and her instincts
were all admirable.

Miss Solar's aunt Irma, with whom she
passed many of her early days, was a worthy
woman, who lessened her sorrow that her
mother had not survived. Not a few children
owe much to their maiden aunts. The latter
have a tenderness for their nephews and
nieces which no stranger can feel, and they
are better custodians of children than the
heartless mothers who treat children as their
natural enemies, or the foolish ones who spoil
their children till they become intolerable
pests. In the story-books, and sometimes

in reality, uncles act wickedly and cruelly ;
but very bad aunts are happily rare both in
fables and in the flesh.

Now, aunt Irma was one of the best of
her class. She had not cared to marry,
and she was not soured by remaining single.
She was perfectly reconciled to her lot ; a
smile frequently lit up her features ; she
was unselfish, and she was never so happy
as when doing some act of kindness.
Throughout early life her income had been
limited, and she was thrifty and even a
little parsimonious. It was scarcely possible
for her to realize how rich her brother really
was. Wealth such as his was as difficult for
her to estimate as it was for her to number
the stars. All that she knew with ]precision
was that he was very rich. Her niece learned
from her example, far better than she could
have done from any precept, how to live so
as to be happy with little, and the simplicity
which sat so gracefully upon her aunt seemed
to her far more desirable than the ostentation
of the ladies with whom she associated in
London. She was never more pleased than

G — 2

when praised by aunt Irma, and as aunt
Irma was judicious in bestowing praise, it
had a positive vakie. The young girl who
is always told that she does everything well
never aspires to do anything better.

From the age of sixteen Miss Solar had
kept her father's house. Till then she had
been in the hands of masters, as her father
would not send her to school. He did not
object, however, to her attending lectures at
Queen's College, Harley Street ; on the
contrary, he encouraged the desire which
she manifested to complete her education.
Neither did he object to her taking lessons
at the School of Design in South Kensington
; and Ashen she expressed a wish to
take painting lessons, he unhesitatingly consented.
Her education had not made hera
brilliant specimen of her sex. She did not
know many things thoroughly. Her chief
passion was for music and painting, and
though she might never be a first-class performer
on the piano, or an accomplished
painter of pictures, it cannot excite regret that
her idle hands were not otherwise occupied.

She spoke German fluently, and had read
many books in that tongue ; the works of
Schiller being her favourites. From her reading,
and perhaps as the result of talks with
her aunt Irma, she had formed a high ideal
of love.

Miss Solar knew that she was an heiress,
and she shuddered at the thought that she
might be sought in marriage for her money.
Love in a cottage had the charms for her
that playing at being a dairymaid had for
Marie Antoinette. She had a morbid dread
lest any compliment addressed to her by a
young man should be actually aimed at her
purse. Yet she had a right to compliments
in virtue of her beauty. That she was
blessed with crowd looks was no secret to
her ; a young girl may not know or may
affect to ignore that she is plain, but she is
always quick enough to discern that she is
handsome.

The only adverse comment ever passed
upon Miss Solar's beauty was to the effect
that it was almost superfluous, as a great
heiress can dispense with good features and

a fine figure. She was tall and slender ; her
hair and eyes were black ; but there was
a violet tinge in the eyes which was inexpressibly
charming. Unlike most brunettes,
her complexion was clear and brilliant, whilst
there was none of that dark down on the
upper lip which gives a masculine air to the
face. Her features were regular ; the nose
was rather too prominent, resembling that
organ in the otherwise most attractive faces
of the Ladies Landgrave in Sir Joshua
Reynolds's admirable picture. There was
something statuesque as well as fascinating
in her bearing and beauty. She appeared
too like a goddess of antiquity to be approached
without deference by any of the
children of men.

Yet Miss Solar's manner was too cordial
and her smile too winning to repel an
admirer. Before she had spoken a sentence
anyone in her company felt at ease, unless
she were made the theme of personal compliment,
and then she was apt to indulge in a
biting retort. Lord John Cardonald had
a bitter experience of this at his first interview

with her. In his capacity of lady-killer,
it was his rule to tell any lady whom
he admired that she was very beautiful.
He seldom found that the lady whom he so
addressed took offence. To Miss Solar he
had said :

Permit me to tell you that I think you
are the most beautiful woman I ever saw.'

Lord John,' she replied, ' I have this
moment made your acquaintance ; but, if
you wish it to continue, please don't repeat
that speech. You may be chaffing me or
you may be in earnest ; in either case, I
cannot say you show good taste.'

Pray don't be offended. Miss Solar,' was
his answer ; * T could not help saying what
I did.'

Well, then, try and restrain your unruly
tongue the next time ; and now let's follow
the others, and let's talk of something
more interesting.'

The occasion was a dinner-party at Mr.
Argoll's house, at which Lord John had
been requested to escort Miss Solar to the
dining-room. After they were seated at

table the conversation took another turn, and
one most mortifying to Lord John, as Miss
Solar persistently kept treating him as an
old gentleman when he tried to pose as a
very youthful one.

Mr. Henry Argoll found immediate favour
in Miss Solar's eyes. He saw her for the
first time at luncheon, and the talk was of
art and artists. He had learned that Miss
Solar had a studio in his brother's house,
and he expressed a wish to see it. The two
went thither after luncheon. He examined
the finished and unfinished paintings hanging
on the walls, and lying on the tables.
She waited anxiously for his criticism ; but
he looked at each work in succession without
making any other remark than —

Well, you have a capital light here ; I
didn't think my brother had a room which
was so well adapted for a studio.'

^ Yes,' she said, ' the room is just such an
one as I've always wished to have. There
was nothing like it in my father's house.
But you've not told me how. you like my
paintings.'

Perhaps, Miss Solar, you may think mea
bad critic, as all my friends do ; they say
I am far too difficult to please. However,
as you've asked for my opinion, I may say
that you have not had a good teacher.'

You mean, I suppose, that my paintings
are wretched daubs !'

I did not say that ; but how do you like
living here V

She would not take the hint and change
the conversation, so she continued :

Of course I know what you mean, and
you are the first person who has not praised
everything I've done.'

She spoke without a tincture of bitterness,
and she did not manifest a shadow of displeasure.
On the contrary, she felt better
pleased with Mr. Henry Argoll than she
chose to admit. She added :

Now, as you have acted the critic, perhaps
you wouldn't mind acting as a master.
Do give me a few lessons. I don't suppose
I shall ever do anything half so fine as you
can, but I should so like to try. I've never
yet succeeded in pleasing myself

Though perfectly sincere, she had done to
another what she dished another to do to
her. Mr. Henry, though a stern and ruthless
critic, was also a mere human artist to
whom praise is as the breath of his nostrils.
Never in his career had he enjoyed so
nmch as at present the tacit acknowledgment
that he was a great painter. He was
even more ready to give lessons to Miss
Solar than she was to receive them. A
lovely heiress is always an acceptable pupil.
The master and pupil were charmed with
each other.

Nature delights in contrasts, and deserves
hearty thanks for this. If Nature were
otherwise minded, the world would be as monotonous,
arid and wearisome as the desert ; a
place through which one could not j^ass too
quickly — one not only of probation, but of
woe. Variety is the salt of life. The more
human beings differ from each other the
greater is their common enjoyment. It is
as true in some cases that opposites agree,
as it is in others that like lifelike.

Still, though differences in human beings

are always noteworthy and are generally
welcome, it is often startling as \vell as
puzzling when two women, both of whom
are charming, differ as greatly as night from
day. A difference scarcely less extreme, and
(quite as marked, existed between Berta
Solar and Ella Tacon ; between the great
heiress and the pauper orphan : between a
brunette who was divinely tall and the
blonde who was almost dumpy ; between the
light-hearted girl to whom every pleasure
was available that wealth could command,
and the downcast one who could enjoy no
pleasure save by accident and on sufferance.
Each girl was a beauty ; yet, in the eyes of
many men, the one would seem incomparable,
and the other almost unworthy of notice.
The only natural charms which appeal with
equal force to all minds are those in which
there is no thought of sex — a sunrise or a
sunset, the starry firmament or the magic
light of the moon ; but no man is the
cynosure of all women, nor is any woman
the ideal of every man. Many men would
drive their lives for the love of Ella Tacon

who would gaze unmoved upon the finer
features and the exquisite figure of Berta
Solar.

Mrs. Argoll's only sister had married
against her father's wish. Mrs. Argoll
heard by chance that her sister's husband
was one of her father's mill-hands ; that the
pair went to live in Bury ; that after marriage
the husband had taken to drinking, had
died shortly after a daughter was born to
him, and that his wife had died soon after
her own marriage with Mr. Argoll, leaving
a daughter aofed fourteen behind her. This
was Ella Tacon.

As has already been said, Mrs. Argoll
received her husband's consent to give her
niece a home. At first it was intended to
train the niece to be a governess, and to
gain a precarious livelihood by communicating
her own semi-ignorance to children slightly
more ignorant than herself. Gradually the
niece became an indispensable companion to
her aunt, and a favor-ite of Mr. Argoll's.
His wife could not play any games, and
would not if she could, having been taught

by a foolish mother that all games were
sinful. Her niece, Ella, was an adept at
several games, and at backgammon in particular,
of which Mr. Argoll was very fond.
His custom was to have a game with her
every night before going to bed. As Miss
Tacon played fairly well on the piano, and as
she knew most of the old English melodies,
which Mr. Argoll liked better than any
other pieces of music, it was a part of the
evening programme that she should play on
the piano for an hour after dinner. Whilst
she did so, Mr. Argoll meditated over the
events of the day on a sofa, with his eyes
shut. If she played for an hour, he roused
himself from his meditation and thanked
her. If she stopped sooner, he spoke cross
words, as if he had suddenly ceased to
slumber.

It would not be an exaggeration to say
that Miss Tacon's education had been neglected,
her only accomplishments being a
limited knowledge of games and music. The
language of her native land she spoke and
wrote as correctly as many girls who are

regarded as well educated ; unlike them, she
did not even possess a smattering of foreign
tongues. She had not the advantage of
these girls in learning the ways of the
wicked world in the pages of French novels :
but she had read English novels by the
hundred, and had created for herself an
ideal world, one peopled with men and
women who did not resemble those whom
she had ever beheld. She was as childishly
romantic as Catherine Morland.

Miss Tacon was a prey to griefs purely
imaginary, and she was filled with hopes
which could scarcely be realized. Till
meeting Miss Solar there was no one to
whom she could tell her troubles with the
probability of sympathy being aroused and
manifested. If she had ever hinted to her
aunt that she was miserable, she would
have been called silly and ungrateful, and
ordered to take a pill. If she had described
her day-dreams, she would have been considered
out of her mind.

Though oppressed with unsatisfied longings,
Miss Tacon did not seem very miserable.

She was never gloomy and morose ;
she never grumbled at her lot except in her
Diary. Those who did not know, or who
could not divine her feelings, would have
thought that she was perfectly contented.
Indeed, many girls would have gladly exchanged
places with her, and considered
themselves fortunate to enjoy, as they
thought she did, all the luxuries of life. If
those who regarded her with envy could
have perused her Diary, they would have
been astounded. It is not necessary at
present to give any extracts showing the
state of a mind ill at ease. Suffice it, then,
to intimate the nature of the latest entries,
which showed how Miss Tacon had at last
discovered her Prince Charming. According
to her, he possessed every manly grace
and virtue, and he was a hero of the purest
water. The original of the fancy sketch
would not have recognised his own features,
and he would have marvelled at the merits
attributed to him. His real name was
Lord John Cardonald.

Miss Solar kept up a regular correspondence

with her aunt Irma. As her aunt
was imperfectly acquainted with English,
she wrote in German. A letter written a
fortnight after she became an inmate of
Mr. Argoll's house may be quoted, as it
gives her impressions of the new life which
she led. In translating this letter and
others, many of the superlatives which
abound in the originals have been omitted ;
though not out of place there, they would
appear strange if literally rendered :

Dearest Aunt Irma,

I promised, last week, to tell you
more of this house and the people I have
met, as I did not like to say much about
them upon a short acquaintance. My guardian
seems a different man in his own house
to what he was when I used to meet him in
my father's. He is very kind, and I am
pleased to be with him, but I do not think
he is much liked in the house. Such a
precise and fidgety man I never saw before,
though, perhaps, he is not much worse than
your old friend Herr Weighed, who was

always telling me when a child to sit with
my hands folded, and who grunted out very-unpleasant
speeches whenever I moved on
my chair. Mrs. Argoll is a quiet and
pleasant woman, who seems afraid of her
husband, whom she always addresses as
J. M." This seems funny, and I am
often tempted to ask her the reason. Perhaps
I shall do so some day.

There is a girl called Ella Tacon, about
my own age, whom I like immensely. She
is very pretty, one of those fair-haired
beauties I so much admire ; I only wish I
had her hair ! She is a perfect picture of
Heine's Lorde ; and if I could paint figures,
I should make a picture of her seated and
singing on a rock. We became friends at
once. She is a niece of Mrs. Argoll's, who
was left an orphan, and who was to have
gone to be a governess ; but this seems to
have been given up, and she now helps in
the housekeeping. I cannot think she
would have made a good governess, as she
is not well educated and has none of the
German notions, which you instilled into

VOL. I. 7

uie when I was young, about self-improvement.
She is always reading novels and
poetry, but she knows nothing of my
favourite Schiller, and she thinks all the
stories she reads are quite true. However,
I have not known her long enough to
acquire her confidence, as she is very shy
about telling me her heart-story, if she has
one, which I rather suspect.

I outfit to hare told you that Mrs.
Arofoll reminds me of you, dearest aunt, in
one thing. You used always to be afraid I
was ill when I did not have an appetite, and
wanted to send for the doctor. Mrs. Argoll
is constantly asking after my health, and is
anxious for me to take some pills, which she
thinks will cure everybody. Ella tells me
that when she first came to live in this
house she took pills to please her aunt, till
she became really ill, and the doctor had to
be called in, who said she must on no account
take any more ; and her aunt could not
understand this, as she was the first person
whom her favourite pills did not cure.

I have made the acquaintance of two

gentlemen, both of whom are continually
calling. The one is Mr. Argoll's - younger
brother. Ella tells me that the two brothers
do not agree, and that till I came, Mr.
Henry — foi' that is his name — very seldom
called. He is an artist, and paints beautifully.
I fell in love with his pictures when
I first saw them in the Sutherland Gallery.
They are perfectly lovely [gan himmliscK],
but the critics find fault with them ; why, I
cannot tell. He is much younger than
Mr. Argyll'

Miss Solar did not then know that there
were only two years between them.

He is a handsome man, and his manners
are charming. He is the first person who
has pointed out faults in my painting, and has
promised to give me lessons, so I hope to improve.
The other gentleman is a great friend
of Mr. and Mrs. Argoll's. He is Lord John
Cardonald, and the brother of a Scottish earl.
He was in the navy, and he always talks of
the wonderful things he did when he was in

7—2

command of a frigate. I dislike his manners,
especially his ridiculing Mrs. Argoll for
always asking about his health, and whether
his cough is better. She means well, and I
think it very ungentlemanly of him to speak
of her as he does, even though she may
forget that, though he once had a bad cough
which made her uneasy about him, it has not
troubled him lately. I fancy he is an old
man, but he speaks as if he were a young
one, a kind of affectation which you know I
despise. I like men to be straightforward,
and say what they really think, as Mr.
Henry Argoll always does. You must have
had enough of my gossip, so I shall now sign
myself,

Your most loving niece,

Berta.'

THE RIVALS.

These two hated with a hate
Found only on the stage.'

Byron.

F the thoughts which burned in the
breast of Lord John Cardonald
with relation to Mr. Henry Argoll
had found vent in a phrase, it would
have been no secret that he considered him
a ' conceited ass.' Mr. Henry Argoll never
hesitated to express his conviction that
Lord John Cardonald was 'a consummate
fool.' Neither had ostensibly done the
other any harm. Both were undoubtedly
wicked in thinking ill of each other. Men

are more prone than women to be circumspect
in their behaviour when they fall in
love and are thwarted, being ashamed to let
their feelings be suspected. Yet, though
they give no open token of what they experience,
they are none the less upset and
affected. They are apt to think that
the creation is unsettled because they are
miserable. ' Go and get an atmosphere of
your own,' was Sir Anthony Absolute's
angry remark to his son. What he said in
his wrath, a candid rival would say to another
in cold blood, and perhaps he would not
mind whether the other breathed another
and a far hotter atmosphere, provided he did
not breathe it himself

Lord John Cardonald was not long in
perceiving that Miss Solar preferred Mr.
Henry Argoll to himself; nor was Mr.
Henry Argoll so short-sighted as not to detect
almost at a glance that Lord John was
profoundly smitten with Miss Solar. Neither
of them knew the exact position of the other ;
each feared the worst, and was reluctant to
ascertain how far he was right in his supposition.

To all outward appearance they were
on the best of terms. Some men can dissemble
as cleverly as women when it suits
their purpose, and when they are almost
driven to distraction. But there is a limit
to the capacity of most men for turning
their cheek to the s miter. They can banter
a rival, but they usually do so in a half-hearted
and clumsy way, which betrays their
real feelings. Women are much cleverer
players at the game of dissimulation. They
can say, with apparent affection, 'my dear '
to those whom they hate, and give an
elusive kiss to those whom they are longing
to strangle.

Lord John Cardonald had a seeming advantage.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Argoll would
have rejoiced had he married Miss Solar,
and both were as ready to help him as the
infamous Lady Wollaston was to aid Lord
Fellamar in becoming the husband of the
lovely but utterly insipid Sophia Western.

This marriage project was one of the few
topics which Mr. and Mrs. Argoll discussed
together, and about which they were at one.

Ill general their discussions were battles
royal, one being of opinion that the other
was blindly and inexcusably in the wrong.
In general, also, Mr. Argoll had the better
of the argument, insomuch as the discussions
came to an end by his declaring, that, no
matter what his wife might assert, he was
wholly in the right and meant to have his
own way. But, when the husband and
wife did agree, their unanimity was as wonderful
as that which, according to Mr. Puff,
is sometimes to be witnessed on the stage.
It was the earnest desire of both to get on
in the world by entering that charmed circle
wherein ' Society ' is supposed to enjoy unalloyed
bliss. They had one of the finest
houses in London. Mr. Argoll was rich,
and on the his^h-road to be enrolled amongst
the monarchs of finance ; many great and
titled persons ought to have been at his feet
with as great reason as the high-born once
gravelled before a vulgar Railway King.

Mr. Argoll was known by sight to many
persons ; hundreds whom he did not know
personally would have gloried in making his

acquaintance. Indeed, a visit to his house
in Palace Gardens would have pleased many
a City man, who envied with his whole soul
the good luck of Mr. Argos, and the power
which he wielded. However, he saw enough
of such persons in the course of business, and
he had no desire to entertain them at his
own table. Other persons, whose presence
in his house he would have accounted an
honour, would resent an invitation from him
as an insult. One of the reasons which made
Mr. Argoll lay Lord John Cardonald under
an obligation was purely personal and selfish.
It consisted in a hope, if not an intention, to
employ him as a go-between, or a sort of
bridge from the world of finance to the
world of fashion. Lord John was wily, and
wise in his generation. He had seen enough
of the world to understand that every commercial
man has his own game to play, and
that no favour is bestowed in the City without
an equivalent being expected or demanded.


When Lord John first made the acquaintance
of the Argoll family, he was constantly

invited to their house, and his presence was
regarded as a great attraction. He did not
enjoy himself, but he knew that, if he declined
accepting the invitations and acting
as a Hon, he would no longer be able to count
on Mr. Argoll's interest in Citj^ circles ;
therefore he drank Mr. Argoll's villainous
wine and ate his dinners with groaning and
gnashing of teeth.

Yet Lord John's chief objection to these
entertainments was that they were too
much matters of business. People whom
Mr. Argos wished to dazzle or conciliate
were invited to meet Lord John, whilst Lord
John writhed at having' to be on his best
behaviour in the company of those whom he
despised. Mr. Argoll's acquaintances chiefly
belonged to the worst class of City men.
The better class, which is both large and
fastidious, kept aloof from him ; few would
have entered his house on any consideration.
But the men who readily accepted
his hospitality were far less obnoxious and
troublesome than their wives. - Women who
are both rich and vulgar are irreclaimable.

One can laugh at the contortions of a
vulgar rich man, but the speech and ways
of his wife cannot easily be borne. Lord
John did not hesitate about being rude to
the men, nor did they resent his bad manners ;
but he felt it his duty to treat their women
with a show of respect, and their wives
worried him almost beyond endurance. They
fawned upon him till his nerves where set on
edge ; they were almost indecent in suggesting
that he should visit them in order to be
introduced to their daughters. They thought
him a good catch, to use their phrase, simply
because he had a title. They often suggested,
not in the most delicate way, that he
should play in their houses the useful and
degrading part which he played in that of
Mr. Argoll. What annoyed him the most
were the fulsome compliments with which
they overwhelmed him. He was fond of
being treated with deference, but he did not
relish compliments which were laid on with
a trowel. He was perfectly well aware that
the same women would turn their backs upon
him if he were not the son and brother of

an earl, and the heir-presumptive to an earldom.
His self-denial might be commended if
his provocation had been less. The daughters
of these ladies were all certain of bringing
large fortunes to their husbands. He resisted
the temptation of marrying a rich wife,
because he felt it impossible to endure the
prospect of having one of these ladies for a
mother-in-law.

However, when Miss Solar took up her
abode in Palace Gardens, and when dinner-parties
were given in her honour, Lord John
did not think it so great a penance to be
present at them. He became respectful to
Mrs. Argoll, and cordial with her husband.
He had no difficulty in ingratiating himself
with Mrs. Aro-roll. He told her he did not
feel well, and had a slight pain in his chest.
She said to him :

Oh, I am so glad to hear it. Lord John !
I don't mean, of course, that I am glad you're
suffering, but that you have come to me.
My liniment will do you a world of good.
Please take a bottle away with you.'

You are very kind, Mrs. Argoll,' was his

reply. ' I shall gladly take a bottle ; and
perhaps you will let me have a recipe for the
gruel which you told me about. Only don't
trouble yourself on my account.'

I am sure I shall be most happy to let
you have it, Lord John ; and please don't
speak of trouble. I only wish you were
staying here, as I should then make sure
that the gruel was properly made.'

Many thanks ; you are really most kind,'
was his reply. If he had said what was on
his lips, he would have added that he was
thankful he did not stay in the house, as he
had no intention either of applying the liniment
or swallowing the gruel.

As Mrs. Argoll could not let the opportunity
slip for' enlarging on her favourite
topic, she went on to tell Lord John about
her success as an amateur doctor, especially in
her own household — how she had physicked
her servants till none ever complained of
hoeing ill. The truth is, they were so much
afraid of her doctoring them, that they carefully
avoided saying they were ailing.

Mr. Henry Argoll was often present at

his brother's parties since Miss Solar's arrival
at Palace Gardens, but he did not make a
good impression upon his brother's guests.
They regarded him with a mixture of suspicion
and compassion. A modern merchant
or trader cannot quite understand why professional
men should be ranked above them
in the social hierarchy ; and they are apt to
think that the professional man who acquires
riches has no right to them. Even when
these merchants and traders do not regard
the professional man's gains as ill-gotten,
they consider that he has obtained them
without trouble. They regard nothing as
easier than for a physician to write a prescription,
or a barrister to give an opinion,
and nothing appears to them more unfair
than for a hior-h charge to be made when the
service rendered is performed in a short
time and without apparent labour. It does
not occur to them to make due allowance
for the preliminary training. But, if their
estimate of members of the regular and
recognised professions be low and disparaging,
it is fair compared with the manner in

which they regard and weigh the work of
artists and men of letters. They, fancy
painting pictures and writing books to be
quite as simple and amusing as looking at
and reading them. Of course, when a man
has attained eminence, he is valued in the
City for his name. Even aldermen are not
always ashamed to sit at the same table with
a popular artist or author.

Mr. Henry Argoll had not become notorious
or great enough to be countenanced by
the mere City man. His name was well
known in the narrow circles of those who
write or paint, and he might even be said to
enjoy the reputation of being an eccentric
artist and a slashing critic. Indeed, since
his first essay as a critic in The Busy Bee,
he had obtained employment in the congenial
columns o^ The Weekly Rasper, where
he indulged in the delightful pastime of what
may metaphorically be described as scalping
his rivals.

The younger men, who liked to see their
names in the papers, were the chief victims
of his pen. At first, public notice is balm to

an artist or author ; it deludes him into the
belief that he is distinguished from the crowd
of nonentities. But the day soon arrives
when he becomes either indifferent or supersensitive
to notice. Should he be a philosopher,
and never read any critique about
himself, and should this become generally
known, then his tormentor is annoyed beyond
measure. There is no fun in flogging either
a dead horse or a living philosopher of this
stamp. Should he read all that is written
about him, then his tormentor will gladly
continue the game of detraction. No artist
understood this better than poor Benjamin
Hay don, who said in his Academy lecture
on public criticism : ' It is no doubt pleasant
to read printed praise attached to your name ;
but if you live long enough, you will find
your name in the papers in a form that will
make you wish it out aofain.'

Mr. Henry ArgolFs critical performances
did not contribute to render him beloved inartistic
circles, neither did they serve to
make his brother and his brother's friends
look upon him with respect, and this was

wholly owing' to their entire io-france of
them. Had they known that Mr. Henry
Argoll was a power, and somewhat of a
Satanic power in the world of art, they
would have esteemed him ; for, next to
Mammon, the City man worships power,
which, indeed, is another form of Mammon-worship.
As the German saying runs,
Whoever has money enough can see the
devil dance.'

As Lord John Cardonald's rival, Mr.
Henry Argoll had one great advantage : he
got on better with Miss Solar ; but, on the
other hand, he suffered from the drawback of
not being in the good graces of his brother and
his sister-in-law. Since his name appeared
in the newspapers, Mr. Argoll had taken a
greater interest in him ; and since he had
added to his income by selling some pictures,
he regarded him as not wholly despicable.
Yet the elder brother had never forgiven
the younger for not entrusting him with
his small fortune, and he still deemed the
career of an artist, which he had chosen to
follow, in the light that a pious Methodist

VOL. I. 8

would regard a brother who went on the
stage.

Mrs. Argoll was not much more charitable
and kindly disposed towards him than her
husband. She cared as much for art, and
understood it as well, as the majority of her
countrywomen. Of course she went regularly
to the Royal Academy, and always
formed one of the crowd which pressed to
see the last picture of which everybody was
speaking ; her desire being to say that she
had seen it. She also enjoyed, like other
women of her class, meeting her acquaintances
at the Academy. This constituted her
appreciation of the paintings which hundreds
of industrious men labour to place before a
public which can tell black from white, but
cannot tell good art from bad.

Moreover, Mrs. Argoll had a personal
grievance in relation to her brother-in-law.
Mr. Henry Argoll not only gloried in robust
health, but he laughed rather irreverently
when Mrs. Argoll was eulogizing the beneficent
character of her pet drugs. When the
elder brother groaned over one of his many

imaginary maladies, the younger was so unfeeling
as to tell him to think of something
else, to take more exercise or else change of
air.

I am never ill,' Mr. Henry Argoll
used to say, ' why should you be ? Most
people fancy themselves ill to encourage the
doctors.'

But, Henry,' his brother was accustomed
to reply, ' you would think differently if you
could not sleep at night and had no appetite.'


If you can't sleep, why don't you take
a night cap? A good stiff glass of grog w411
make anyone sleep like a top, and I cannot
understand what it is not to eat and sleep
well.'

That's the difficulty. As you are always
well yourself, you have no feeling for others.'

No, indeed,' interposed Mrs. Argoll,
Henry is perfectly unfeeling. When I
suggested that Berta should take a pill the
other day, he actually advised her to do
nothing of the sort, and this I call most
unkind.'

Such is a specimen of the talk which went
on when the three met and wrangled. When
Mr. Henry Argoll was absent, and he was
the subject of conversation, husband and wife
united in saying bitter things about him,
agreeing that he was a scapegrace and a
scoffer.

Miss Solar had a pleasant enough position
between Lord John Cardonald and Mr.
Henry Argoll. Each contributed to her
happiness. When she expressed a desire
for anything, each was ready to do his
utmost to gratify her. One day Mr. Henry
Argoll having remarked that a reception
was to be given at the Sutherland Gallery,
she expressed a wish to be present. As he
knew that every obstacle would have been
placed in his way if he proposed to take her
alone, he suggested that they should all go,
including Lord John who was present, and
he undertook to get the necessary invitations.
His brother begged to be excused,
as he did not care about attending receptions
or looking at pictures. Mrs. Argoll
was carefully nursing a slight cold, and could

not go out at night. It was agreed, then,
that the party should consist of the two
gentlemen and the two young ladies.

As Miss Solar intimated before they
entered the carriage that Mr. Henry Argoll
must keep her company and explain the
pictures to her. Lord John had to resign
himself to the less welcome task of escorting
Miss Tacon. By the latter, however,
this arrangement was regarded as a special
and most delightful dispensation of Providence.
Lord John did not take any pains
to conceal his vexation.

Though indisposed to talk at first. Lord
John gradually became conversational, almost
cordial. Miss Tacon had not attracted his
notice previously ; he had seldom exchanged
words with her, and he was now surprised to
find her so ready to converse with him, and
what was better, to listen with evident
pleasure to what he said. He was a fluent
speaker, and he considered few things sweeter
than the sound of his own voice. As they
entered the gallery one of the first pictures
which they saw was a sea-piece, in which a

steamer and a sailing vessel were the principal
objects.

What a fine ship !' exclaimed Miss
Tacon ; she added, ^ how delightful it must
be to sail over the sea and visit unknown
countries !'

Lord John, who was ever ready to display
his knowledge, replied :

Let me tell you. Miss Tacon, that the
sailing-vessel is not a ship, but a barque ;
and also that sailing on the ocean is not at
all so pleasant as you think.'

Why, I thought all vessels were ships !'
was her natural exclamation. She continued
: * Please tell me the difference.'

Lord John did as he was requested ; the
result being that though Miss Tacon thanked
him for his explanation, she had no clearer
view about the difference between a ship
and a barque at the end of his statement
than at the beginning. As the conversation
had turned on nautical topics, it continued
in the same line. Lord John was
questioned about his adventures. He had
a stock story, with which he wearied his

friends, concerning a water-spout which
nearly overwhelmed the gunboat of which
he was commander, and this story he repeated
at length to Miss Tacon, making the
water-spout larger and more menacing than
it had ever been before, and drawing forth
from his listener exclamations of sympathy
with him when in danger, and of pleasure at
the good deliverance which he recorded.
His feelings were thus expressed to Mrs.
Argoll when he next had a chat with her.

Dear Mrs. Argoll, your niece appears to
be a most intelligent girl ; she likes the sea,
and that is a good sign. Most of the young
ladies I have met have their hearts set on
soldiers.'

Mrs. Argoll turned the conversation, not
caring to encourage Lord John to think
about her niece, yet being glad to hear him
praise her.

Miss Tacon made the following entry in
her Diary that night : ' Went to Sutherland
Gallery with Mr. Henry, Berta and
Lord John. Spent a delightful evenings
John escorted me, and told me a

wonderful story of his escape from a waterspout.
He is such a dear good man, and
so brave ; and he was attentive to me, but I
fear he is always thinking of Berta. She
won't speak about him. Perhaps she is
afraid of vexing me. I am so miserable
when I think she may marry him.'

Nothing worthy of record occurred at
the Sutherland Gallery between Mr. Henry
Argoll and Miss Solar. They spent their
time examining the paintings, and Mr.
Henry took pains to point out how very
bad most of them were.

You are a severe critic, Mr. Henry,'
was her remark ; ' I am glad, however, that
so many other people paint as badly as I do.'

No, Miss Solar, I am not severe ; but I
have a regard for truth which other critics
do not possess. They privately say quite
as harsh things as I do about many of the
works which they praise in print. If we had
better critics, we should have better artists.

Well, then,' said she, with a smile, ' there
is hope for me yet, as I have a good critic
in you.'

No flattery, Miss Solar, if you please.
I detest it as much as you say you do, and
you are the first woman whom I ever found
objecting to it.'

Mr. Henry was sceptical about Miss
Solar's aversion to compliments, and he said
even harsher things than he felt about her
efforts at painting in order to see whether
she would not resent them, and he was
rather annoyed to hind his condemnation taken
in good part. He grew more and more fascinated
with her, without losing his senses
so completely as to be blind to the imperfections
of her pictures. Had he extolled them
to the skies, she would have distrusted and
perhaps ceased to admire him.

Lord John imagined a simple and, as he
thought, an effectual scheme for putting
Mr. Henry Argos to shame. He had heard
him say, one day, that he did not like
the sea, and inferred that he was a bad
sailor. Accordingly Lord John invited all
the party to accompany him on a cruise
round the More light, in a steam yacht
which a friend had lent him, the excuse for

doing so being to see a match promoted by
the Koyal Thames Yacht Club. Mr. Argoll
and his wife emphatically declined ; both
had a horror of salt water, and both were ill at
ease even on board a Thames steamer. The
others went, and Lord John was glad to
find, on reaching the mouth of the river,
that a fresh breeze was blowing, and that
there were white caps in the distance. Just
as the sea became rough, and as the yacht
began to roll and pitch, he suggested that
they should adjourn from the deck to the
saloon, where luncheon was prepared. Miss
Solar was an uncertain sailor ; she had sometimes
been quite well when crossing the
Channel, and sometimes she had suffered
greatly. It was with hesitation, then, that
she went down below ; she had not been
there many minutes before declaring significantly
that she must instantly go on deck.
Mr. Henry Argoll followed her, and, after
trying to make her comfortable in a snug
corner, he went backwards and forwards
with delicacies to tempt her appetite. She
begged to be left alone, saying that she

would soon be better, and she also begged
that he would return to the saloon. Miss
Tacon ate her luncheon with zest. She had
never been on the sea before, and she never
felt better. As a general rule, women are
either very well or very ill on the water,
and it was clear in Miss Tacon's case that
she was quite fitted for a home on the ocean
wave. This made her the more attractive
in Lord John's eyes. He was terribly vexed
when he found that Mr. Henry Argoll was
as good a sailor as himself.

Why, Argoll,' he said, ' I thought you
didn't like the sea. Yet you seem to enjoy
yourself How's that V

Oh ! I have nothing to complain of
except my appetite, which is so large that
I mays shock Miss Tacon ; but I really must
ask for a third helping of that cold beef I
don't care for the sea itself, as I told you.
My sketches of it are the worst things I
have done. I don't mind sailing over it,
however, and I am really obliged to you for
this treat.'

Lord John had miscalculated, as a jealous

lover frequently does. Instead of punishing
his rival, he had made an exhibition of his
lady-love's weakness. He cherished a sailor's
contempt for a woman who is sea-sick.

When the party returned to town, Lord
John Cardonald was cordially thanked by
Mr. Henry Argoll and Miss Tacon for the
pleasant day that they had spent in his company.
Miss Solar was too honest to say
that she had enjoyed herself, and too good-natured
to express her regret at having
accepted Lord John's invitation. She excused
herself, on the plea of a headache,
from appearing at dinner, and she resisted
Mrs. Argoll's j^i'^ssing request to take a
pill before going to bed. Nobody seemed
perfectly happy except Miss Tacon, for
whose good graces neither of the rivals
cared to contend. She assured her aunt
that she had spent a charming day, and
that Lord John was most kind. He overheard
the pretty speech, but he was too
deeply chagrined to take pleasure in it.

THE DUKE OF FONTAINEBLEAU.

We may be pretty certain that the persons of either
sex whom the world treats ill, deserve entirely the
treatment they get. The world is a looking-glass, and
gives back to every man the reflection of his own face.
Frown at it, and it will look sourly upon you ; laugh at
it and with it, and it is a jolly companion.' — Thackeray.

^jl^^HE Duke of Fontainebleau inherited
a arose fortune, a fine intellect,
and a great historic name.
He was an honour and a benefactor to his
native land. Having merited his country's
gratitude, he was sent into exile. He plays
so small a part in this story that an account
of his character and career would be out of
place. He lived a good deal in England ;

he spoke English fluently, and he was nearly
as well versed in its literature as in that of
the nations of antiquity and of France. The
chief reason for introducing the Duke is the
fact that he became acquainted with Mr.
Argoll, and that the result had a marked
influence over Mr. Argoll's life.

Amongst the large circle of the Duke's
English acquaintance no one enjoyed more
of his confidence than Sir George Durham,
Bart., M.P. The owner of vast possessions.
Sir George gave up much of his time, his
thoughts and his money, to the construction
of docks. This was his hobby, and he
had enriched himself by gratifying it. One
of the best arranged and lucrative docks to
be found within the British Isles belonged
to him. Wherever a dock has been completed,
from the Thames to the Clyde, every
detail of it is familiar to Sir George Durham.
Now the Duke of Fontainebleau had
a desire to build a dock on a part of his
property in Sicily, and he was advised to
obtain Sir George's advice and assistance.
They met for the first time at Churchill

House, where his Royal Highness the
Prince of Cyniru brought them together.

Mr. Argoll had engaged in many large
financial transactions along with Sir George
Durham, and they were close friends. One
day, in the course of conversation, Mr.
Argoll said :

Why is it, Sir George, you never ask
me to meet your illustrious friend, the Duke
of Fontainebleau ?'

The truth is, Argoll, I should be delighted,
but the Duke very seldom dines
out now ; when I want a chat I have always
to call upon him. But I will try and get him
to dine with me, as he has often promised,
and I shall hold out the inducement of
meeting you. That will fetch him, I think.'

Mr. Argoll felt flattered, though Sir
George had no intention of paying him a compliment.
Mr. Argoll was still better pleased
when told, a few days later, that the Duke
had accepted the invitation on condition
that no other City man than Mr. Argoll
was asked to meet him, and that he should
have as fellow-guests men who were better

known in the world of letters and art than
in that of finance. ' But,' added Sir George,
when telling Mr. Argoll this, ' I am hard
put to it, as the season is in full swing, and
it is difficult to get the people one wants at
a short notice. However, I shall do my
best.'

Those persons ayIio read the account of a
dinner-party at which noteworthy persons
are present, enjoy perusing the list of the
guests' names, and of the good things which
they ate, and the fine wines which they
drank. Curiosity of this kind is as harmless
as it is futile. When notable persons meet
each other at dinner, their chief wish is to
get away as soon as possible afterwards.
Neither viands nor wines taste better in the
best of all company. No doubt it is satisfactory
to boast of having been at the same
table with a royal or an illustrious personage ;
but as far as enjoyment is concerned, the
royal or illustrious personage frequently detracts
from it. Generally he is a wet blanket.
He has little to say that is worth hearing,
and those who can speak well are afraid to

open their lips lest his attention should be
distracted from the animal pleasure of eating
and drinking.

The Duke of Fontainebleau was not only
of illustrious ancestry and birth, but he was
also a writer who had attained through
merit a high place in the Republic of
Letters. It was a pleasure for authors
and artists to be in his company. He understood
them ; they appreciated him. There
was no trace of, nor any excuse for, patronage
or superciliousness on either side. This
dinner was but one out of many at which
the Duke of Fontainebleau had met, and had
enjoyed associating with, those who were
his equals, j^^n in hand, and who were as
competent to criticise him as he was to
criticise them. They respected each other.

For a full list of the guests the reader is
referred to the columns of The Post-Boy. A
mere catalogue of names is the driest of all
reading, except in the inspired hexameter
of Homer. Still, a few of the more notable
out of the twenty guests may be mentioned.
A small number had a claim not

VOL. I. 9

much inferior to that of the Duke to recognition
and particular notice.

The most interesting personage, next to
the guest and the host, was Sir Henry
Weyborough, a middle-aged man of fortune
and fashion, many years of whose well-spent
life had been passed as a silent member of the
House of Commons. No member ever gave
better dinners than he. Parliament had been
left by him to its own devices long before the
time this dinner took place. He unhesitatingly
avowed that, since he ceased to be a member
of the House of Commons, the quality of
legislation had greatly deteriorated. He considered
himself to have been a pattern legislator
; it is true that he seldom spoke in the
House, and that he voted for a Liberal
Government with the precision of a .
Every member whom he invited
to dinner loved him afterwards.

Sir Henry Weyborough's constituents
loved him at all times, his popularity
amongst them being as unbounded as his
liberality. He was their terrestrial providence.
He was always ready to shake the

men cordially by the hand, and to kiss their
wives and babies as affectionately as if they
had been akin to him. A legislative measure,
which he disapproved but was powerless
to prevent, disfranchised the constituency of
which he had been the ornament and the
pride for many years. He vowed that he
would never enter Parliament for any other
place. His disfranchised and disconsolate
constituents recorded their unavailing regret
in the form of a statue which cannot be
matched in England, or even in America,
where fine sites are desecrated by hideous
statues. The statue represents their beloved
ex-member and second father in the act of
thrilling an imaginary audience with an undelivered
speech. Though divorced from
Parliament without being guilty of any misconduct,
he did not take the less pleasure
in acting as a practical philanthropist. His
dinners were as frequent and as choice as
in the days when he assembled his fellow-members
at his table, and won their regard
through the medium of his cook.

Sir Edmund Marlow, a burly knight of the

9—2

pen, represented various forms of literature,
whilst a notable member of Parliament, Mr.
Aberdeen, M.P., concentrated the shipping
interest in his own person, being the chairman
of the great India, China, and Australia Shipping
Company, commonly styled the I.C.A.
Baron Parkhirst, a youthful but experienced
darling of society, who had been entrusted
with a special mission from the
Emperor of Hungary, of which the purport
was a profound secret, graced the gathering
with his presence. The Duke conversed
affably during the evening with the Baron
on his forthcoming work relating to the
affinities and divergences between the Magyar
and the Welsh languages, the subject being
one to which the Baron had devoted many
years of his life, and on which he was the
greatest living authority, with the possible
exception of Professor Max Miller. Truth,
in the person of its only living representative,
had emerged from its well for that night only,
and sat at the table, and was less congenial
to some of the party than the moralist would
desire.

If Mr. La Salle were only here,' said Sir
George to Mr. Argos on his arrival, * we
should have another man whom you would
like to meet ; but, unfortunately, another
Duke has engaged him to dinner this evening.
I am very sorry,' he went on to say,
that I could not get any of the eminent
poets and historians of the day to meet you
and the Duke; but I have secured the
presence of a great novelist, whom you will
find a host in himself

The eminent novelist beamed upon the
company through his spectacles, and seemed
to appreciate his position of superiority.
Mr. Withal was the only representative of
the London Daily Press, which is, or is
supposed to be, ' a terror to evildoers, and a
praise and protection to them that do well.'
He said little, being of a modest and meditative
disposition ; but, whenever he spoke,
there was a general silence, all the guests
being eager to catch the pearls of wit and
wisdom which fell from his lips.

Two distinguished actors were amongst
the guests, but as the dislike of publicity is

the distinguishing mark of those who charm
the public on the stage, it would grieve them
if their names were disclosed. Suffice it to
repeat that the party numbered twenty in all,
and that each person, probably, had some
claim to be noticed and eulogized, or,
what is still more certain, thought that he
had.

Before dinner, the Duke of Fontainebleau
was introduced to each of the party ; or it
might be more in accordance with etiquette
to say that each guest was presented to him.
He had met, or heard of, nearly everyone
before, and had a pleasant phrase for each.
It is very easy for a royal duke to gratify
those whom he meets if he take the slightest
pains. He has but to say, ' I am glad to
see you.'

During dinner the presence of the Duke
of Fontainebleau did not make any addition
to the happiness of the company, whilst the
company, with the exception of a few, could
not do anything to entertain him. The
Duke was seated at the right of the host,
Mr. Argoll was on the left, and the talk of

the Duke was divided between Sir George
Durham and Mr. Argoll.

It should be explained that, a few weeks
before this dinner was given, Mr. Argoll had
obtained the final object of his ambition. He
was now contemplating enjoying life, after
having gained upwards of a million of money.
Enjoyment is a relative term. The sailor in
the story thought it consisted in an unlimited
supply of tobacco ; the rustic, in swinging all
day on a gate. Mr. Argoll was not quite
sure in what form he would take his pleasure,
but he thought that a holiday and a trip
abroad would form a good beginning. He
had not made up his mind where to go or
what to do. A casual remark of the Duke
of Fontainebleau's determined his course, and
opened up a new vista to his imagination.

The Duke of Fontainebleau had a large
property in Sicily, from which he derived a
considerable part of his income. Much of
his land was laid out in vineyards ; the wine
produced was much liked, and its sale yielded
him a large profit. He found, however, that
he would have to invest a great deal of capital

in order to develop the property as a
whole, and he had all but determined to dispose
of a portion, in order to obtain the
capital wherewith to develop the remainder.
Having mentioned this to Sir George Durham
in the course of conversation during
dinner, and added that he thought the investment
not only a good one, but that it
would yield the purchaser a title, as well asa
fair return for his money, the Duke continued
:

Now, Sir George, if you have not any
work in hand which will absorb your spare
cash, you might buy this property. I promise
that you shall have the first chance,
and the best terms.'

Sir George Durham, like other large
capitalists, always protested that he had no
money available.

^ If I had,' he said, ' I would jump at
your Royal Highness's offer. I should not
mind being a Count. What do you say,
Argoll V

Mr. Argoll, who had overheard the conversation,
was greatly struck with the opportunity.

He had several thousands at his
command, and he had a fancy for investing
them in a vineyard. A City friend who
did so had obtained a very large interest on
the capital sunk. Besides, it sounded well
to be a Count as well as a capitalist. The
result was that Mr. Argoll asked the Duke
to let him have some particulars, and an
appointment was made for the next day to
talk the matter over.

After seeing the Duke at his hotel in
Berkeley Square, Mr. Argoll returned home
with the determination to go to Sicily. He
would thus get a holiday, visit the Continent,
and, possibly, do a good stroke of
business. It was one of the conditions of
his bargain with the Duke, that no money
should be paid till he had seen the property
and found it to his liking. The sum asked
was half a million francs, or twenty thousand
pounds. Now, Mr. Argoll could part with
this sum without trenching on his million.
The last hit which he made had left him
with a sum to deal with far in excess of the
coveted amount. Thus, he might become

the proprietor of a vineyard in Sicily, a
Sicilian Count, and still remain a millionaire.


There was no overpowering desire in Mr.
Argos's mind to become a Sicilian landowner.
Indeed, he knew nothing of the
Island of Sicily, except that it was noted
for a burning mountain, and its wine. What
attracted him was the thought that, if he
bought the property, he would have a right
to the title of Count; and he knew how a title,
even a foreign one, is valued in the City
circles wherein he moved. All who desired
to pay court to him would be careful to
address him by his title, so that, though
having no legal right to it in England, he
would be practically as much of a Count in
the City as any English peer is a Lord.

Deep in Mr. Argos's heart of hearts lay the
desire for some external distinction. He was
fond of repeating, as has already been stated,
that his remote ancestors were all nobles,
and he doubtless did this in perfect good
faith. Fables are current because they gain
credence by repetition. ' The mixture of a

lie,' as Bacon wrote, ' doth ever add pleasure ;'
hence, perhaps, there is no drier reading than
tables of statistics, which are unadulterated
facts. But if Mr. Argoll could only lay
claim to an indisputable title, he would be
far happier than in prosing about one which
was altogether nebulous. Therefore he was
almost inclined to close at once with the
Duke of Fontainebleau's offer, and exchange
twenty thousand pounds for an estate in
Sicily, and the title of Count. However,
his caution was too extreme to allow him to
act on impulse, and he set to work to arrange
his affairs so as to enable him to be absent
from business for a longer space than he had
ever done since he enofao^ed in it.

In one respect Mr. Argoll closely resembled
the late Baron Lionel Rothschild.
Like him, he would not tolerate any of his
clerks giving an answer respecting any business
matter without first obtaining his permission
and advice. Even Mr. Byker, his
trusted and trusty confidential clerk, had
to go through the form of asking what
should be done in each case. He feared

that, if he left Mr. Byker behind him, this
rule would have to be relaxed. He could
order the other clerks simply to do nothing
except mere routine work till his return ; but
he could not trust Mr. Byker to display a
submissive inactivity. He resolved, therefore,
to take his chief clerk with him.

Having formed this resolution, Mr. Argos
said to his chief clerk :

Byker, you must arrange to start for
Sicily with me before the end of the month.'

As his habit was on all such occasions,
Mr. Byker simply replied :

Very well, sir.'

He knew by long and somewhat hard
experience that Mr. Argoll could not bear
contradiction, and would not respond to any
inquiry, and that the best way to manage
him was to assent implicitly to his wishes or
commands. But, as he told his mother the
same evening, his feeling on being addressed
by Mr. Argoll was that his master had gone
out of his mind.

Mr. Byker was born rather than made a
clerk. He was an invaluable servant. He

had no ambition, and he possessed a perfect
knowledge of business. It is probable that,
if he had risen to be a partner, he would
have proved a failure. Though the East
Indian ideas and rules of caste are offensive
to European minds, yet they are less irrational
than may appear at first sight. At
bottom they mean that the round man should
be in the round hole, and the square man
in the square one. The fundamental objection
to them is that they stereotype humanity,
and hinder change and progress ; for progress,
in the development of human beings, enables
the man who was born to fill the round hole
to adapt himself to the square one, and also
to fill it with ease to himself and advantage
to others.

The last thing that an ambitious but incompetent
man learns, is his adaptability
to the position for which he sighs and toils,
and it is generally too late that he discovers
his incapacity. A member of the Bar, who,
having a large practice as a stuff-townsman
and junior, thinks that he ought to aspire to
something higher, takes silk only to find,

probably, that as Queen's Counsel and leader
he cannot conduct a case. His power consists
in following, not in leading. An army
officer who can command a regiment, and
even a brigade, may demonstrate his incompetence
when placed in supreme command.
What is true of the highest place in the
social hierarchy is equally true of the lowest
also, and Mr. Byker was an exemplification of
this. His great merit was in recognising the
fact, and contenting himself with the post of
chief clerk in Mr. Argoll's office. He had
been asked to become a partner, and had
declined.

Mr. Byker s first words, on entering the
small house at 16, Brixton Park, where his
mother and he lived, were :

Well, mother, I have some strange news
for you.'

Law, Tom !' was her startled exclamation
; ^ you've given me a turn. Surely
you're not going to be married at last ?'

Never fear, mother ; there is not much
chance of my trying that game again, since
Sally Tompkins jilted me

Interrupting him, she exclaimed :

Yes, Tom, you were badly treated by
Sally. I never liked the girl, though that's
neither here nor there now. Besides, she
has been well served. It is said that Jim
Collins, whom she took up with and married,
beats her quite dreadful, and I must say she
do look as if he starved her also.'

^ Let's say no more about that, mother,
I hope the gossip isn't true, and, in any
case, I should be sorry were Sally to suffer ;

she was a good girl, though ' and rapidly

changing a topic which was an unpleasant
one, he went on to say : ^ But you've not
guessed the news ; it is that Mr. Argoll is
going to Sicily soon, and says that I'm to go
too.'

What, my boy !' exclaimed his mother,
who, though he was over fifty, always called
him her ' boy ' when she was deeply moved.
Do you mean to leave your old mother
all alone ? I never expected this. I am sure
I shan't get over it.'

Now, mother, don't take on so. I don't
think we shall be long away. Master said to

another clerk that he would be back in a
fortnight.'

That can't be true ; nobody goes to the
Indies and comes back in a fortnight. Please
don't try to impose on your old mother.'

^ But, mother, Sicily is not in India ; it is
close to Italy, and one can get there in three
or four days.'

Well, that's different ; I thought you were
going to the Indies, and then I should never
see you again. My rheumatics have been
very bad lately, and I'm sure I shan't get
through the next winter.'

Mrs. Byker was upwards of seventy, and,
though suffering now and then from rheumatic
pains, she was very hale for her years.
She did not think so, however, and she was
in the habit of prophesying, when out of
spirits, that she would not live many months
longer. For ten years she had been convinced
that her life was not worth a week's
purchase, and there was no apparent reason
now for her gloomy forecast being accepted
by her son. He had become so accustomed
to hearing that the following winter would

be her last, as to pay little heed to her
prognostic.

He was an excellent son. His father had
died twenty-five years before the date of this
story, and he had lived with and supported
his mother ever since. There was a time
when he was tempted to marry ; indeed,
Sally Tompkins had not only consented to
become his wife, but to live in the same
house with his mother, who was really
anxious to have her for a daughter-in-law.
But, within a few days of the date fixed for
the wedding, and after the necessary arrangements
were completed, Sally intimated that
she had chased her mind. The reason for the
change was shown in her becoming the wife of
Jim Collins. The blow was a severe one to Mr.
Byker, who resolved that his mother should
continue to keep house for him.

Mr. Byker was an efficient clerk, and had
deservedly acquired his employers' entire confidence.
Mr. Byker's father had been a clerk
in Athelstanee House before Mr. Argoll joined
the firm ; he died shortly before the firm
ceased to carry on the business of Turkey

VOL. I. 10

merchants and took to financing on a large
scale. The younger Byker began his career
under the new order of things, and he was
familiar with all the details of making money
by floating foreign loans, forming syndicates,
and engaging in other combinations, whereby
City men become millionaires. Mr. Byker
was not ambitious, as has been said already.
His income more than sufficed for his wants,
and he had accumulated enough for his old
age ; his savings being partly invested in
the funds and partly in house property in
the neighbourhood where he lived. His
education had been one which fitted him for
his duties ; after he had learnt his business,
he gave much of his evening leisure to self-improvement.
He had taught himself to
read French with ease, and he could manage
to make out the meaning of a German letter
or a German newspaper ; he once had spent
a week out of his fortnight's annual holiday
in a trip which extended as far up the Rhine
as Strasbourg. He went thither by way of
Antwerp, and returned home by way of
Paris and Bouloo^ne. After his return it

became a tradition in Athelstanee House that
he could speak German and French. Mr.
Argoll, who knew no language but his native
one, was under the impression that his chief
clerk Alas a first-rate linguist. Mr. Byker
did not boast of his mastery over foreign
tongues, but he knew enough to conceal his
ignorance, and to let people suppose that his
knowledge of them was extensive and profound.
In taking Mr. Byker with him to
Sicily, Mr Argoll fancied that he was securing
the invaluable services of a faithful
interpreter.

The Duke of Fontainebleau's intention of
parting with a portion of his Sicilian estate
was not kept a secret. The impending departure
of Mr. Argoll for a holiday trip was
an event of great interest in City circles.
As the subject was frequently spoken about,
it is not surprising that a paragraph should
have appeared in the Financial Star to the
effect that the head of the great financial
house of Messrs. Argoll and Solar was about
to visit Sicily for the purpose of purchasing
a large tract of land there.

10—2

MISS Solar FIRST OFFER.

Never marry but for love, but see that thou lowest
what is lovely.' — William Penn.

GREAT heiress has less difficulty
in obtaining an offer of marriage
than in selecting a husband. The
girl whose face is her only fortune is a comparative
drug in the matrimonial market.
The girl who has inherited much money is
liable to become the prey of adventurers.
Plain damsels are allowed to enjoy more
single blessedness than they covet. Even
the absence of good looks and youth maybe
counterbalanced by well-filled moneybags.

A rich woman can always find some
man to marry her. The woman who is
young, lovely and rich has all the marrying
men at her feet.

Those who were acquainted with Miss
Solar did not concern themselves as to
whether she would ever be asked in
marriage, but as to whom she would accept.
The sons of Mr. Argoll's City friends were
assiduous in their attentions to her. They
posed as men of fashion, according to the
custom of the younger sons of those who
owe everything to the City, but who are
happiest when they are out of it. These
young men profess to be in their element
at the West-end, being never better pleased
than when they are riding in the Row, or
dancing in the house of a leader of fashion.
Their general ignorance is as thorough as
that of the noblemen who, according to the
late Lord Beaconsfield, never read books.
Yet they think themselves as irresistible asa
peer or a peer's son, which is a confirmation
of their ignorance. The least estimable
English peer still enjoys an advantage from

his rank which no City man or his son can
compass with his millions.

It was not in Miss Solar's nature to
despise the class to which her father belonged
; she found it easier, however, to
tolerate foolish or pretentious young men than
to like them. Behoof a thorough woman,
she had a weakness for well-born and well-connected
men ; but, possessing acuteness
and talent, she liked those the best who
seemed cast in the same mould as herself
Stupidity repelled her under all forms and
disguises, and it was her greatest trial to
find that most of the men whom she met
were either actively or passively stupid,
making a parade of their inanity, or else
having nothing to say that any rational
being would care to hear.

Though from the outset Miss Solar had
done everything in her power to discourage
Lord John Cardonald, he would not abandon
his efforts to impress and mollify her. He
was really in love for the first time in his
life. He had known many women intimately,
and had been greatly struck with

some ; he had often spoken the language of
love without feeling or really meaning what
he said. His head was heated whilst his
heart remained cold ; his love-making had
been a form of condescension, a concession
on his part to feminine weakness and susceptibility.
Love in the true sense means
self-abandonment, and Lord John had never
ceased to have his feelings and affections
under perfect control.

He beg-an the sieo^e of Miss Solar full of
confidence that he would achieve an early
and easy victory. He persevered in the
hope that, sooner or later — and he hoped
that it would be sooner rather than later
success would be his reward. It puzzled
him to understand why he should ever fail.
When he began, he thought more of Miss
Solar's fortune than herself The result of
his unavailing efforts was that she had
become dear to him for her own sake. Her
charms had conquered his heart.

Before Lord John was led captive by Miss
Solar's beauty, he had foolishly boasted atone
of his clubs of his power over her, and

spoken of his marriage as a mere question
of time. He was a member of the Senior
Carlton, and of the Service Club, and it was
in the smoking-room of the latter that he
was wont to speak openly of his easy and
frequent triumphs over fair ladies. The
members of the Senior Carlton are not given
to encourage such talk. They are always
thinking of preparing for political battles and
sieges when they are not wailing over their
ruined and distracted country. Amatory
combats are beneath their notice.

Lord John did not feel at home in the
Senior Carlton. He was a strong party man,
and he was as anxious as any Tory to save
his country by getting into office. He had
once been a candidate for a seat in Parliament,
and his failure had disgraced, as well
as angered, his party. At the request of
the party managers he stood for a purely
agricultural constituency. It is true that
he did not profess an acquaintance with
agriculture ; indeed, he said in his first
speech amid applause — and he repeated the
saying until his hearers were sick of hearing

it — that he knew more about ploughing the
sea than the land ; but, in the long-run, his
ignorance proved his ruin. He gave ludicrously
absurd answers to simple questions.

What do you propose to do to benefit
the agricultural labourer ?' was one of them.

Transport him at once to the Colonies,'
was the ready answer, which was not badin
substance and intention, but Which was
most unfortunate in form.

The other side took advantage of the
wording of this answer to insist that Lord
John meant to revive transportation for life,
and really meant to treat the poor labourers
as hardened ruffians. He was nicknamed *the
Great Transporter,' and he lost the election,
his opponent getting twice as many votes as
himself At the Senior Carlton he was
sneered at as a blunderer, and blamed for
the result ; hence he seldom showed his face
there, being at once indignant and ashamed.

In the Service Club he felt hajipy and at
home, being amongst old cronies there.
They all knew each other's weaknesses, and
they listened with complacency to each

other's threadbare jokes and frightful, as
well as hackneyed, stories. Happily, they
were not all true.

Shortly after making Miss Solar acquaintance,
he had, as has already been
said, intimated to his friends that he would
marry her. When they greeted him in
the smoking-room with the speech, ^ Well,
Johnnie,' for so he was familiarly called,
^ how goes the wooing V he was in the
habit of replying, ^ First-rate.' But, after
weeks had elapsed and no day had been
fixed for the wedding, he felt sore when
addressed on the subject, and abruptly
turned the conversation. When too late,
he repented of having spoken at all and
at random, and he was vexed that he had
been premature and over-sanguine in his
avowals. His friends could not understand,
as they phrased it, ' what was the matter
with Johnnie ;' he had lost his gaiety as well
as his heart. He grew morose in proportion
as he became dispirited.

Lord John was on friendly terms with
his sister-in-law, the Countess of Armadale.

Indeed, he got on better with her than with
his brother. The two brothers did not often
meet. The Earl of Armadale had a spinal
complaint, and spent much of his . time in
bed, and in a Bath-chair when out of it.
He took little interest in public or family
affairs, having enough to do bearing his
sufferings, which were often intense and
exhausting. Yet he was ready to help his
brother in any way within his power. He
believed that his brother would not disgrace
the title if he succeeded to it, and he felt
sure that he would not outlive him. The
Earl of Armadale believed also that, if his
brother were enriched and became Earl, he
might be created a peer of Great Britain.

The Earl of Armadale had a seat in the
House of Lords as one of the Scottish
Representative Peers, and though now disabled
by infirmity from attending the House,
he was none the less anxious to have the
right to do so without being elected for
each Parliament by his brother peers in
Scotland, who voted as their leader dictated.
One of his lifelong grievances had been that

no Prime Minister would recommend him to
the Queen for a British Peerage. No
ground was assigned for the refusal ; but it
was supposed, probably with reason, to be
owing to his comparative poverty.

At Lord John's request the Countess of
Armadale offered to present Miss Solar at
Court. Being a rich and beautiful heiress,
it was considered proper that she should
attend the Drawing-room. The Countess
declined to visit the Argoll family ; she had
the pride of poverty as well as of birth in
overflowing measure, and there were few
persons of humble rank and origin with
whom she would condescend to associate.

When Miss Solar was asked whether she
would like to be presented, she replied that
she did not care about going by herself, but
that she would be pleased to go if Mrs.
Argoll and Miss Tacon kept her company.

This intimation was unexpected, and caused
a dead-lock. Lord John was at his wits'
end, and he did not know how to act. Miss
Solar continued to send a weekly letter in
German to her aunt Irma, and some extracts

from one written at this time may be translated
and given in order to show what her
feelings were, and why she had refused to goto
the Drawing-room alone :

Dearest Aunt Irma,

My life goes on in the usual fashion ;
when there is no company here I go out
somewhere every night. I am having far
more gaiety than when I kept house for my
father, and I must say that I am rather
tired of it. The season will soon be over,
and then I shall have a rest, which I really
shall enjoy. Mr. and Mrs. Argos are most
kind, yet I wish that I had more leisure
hours. My reading is getting far behind,
and I have little time for painting.

Mr. Henry Argoll continues to give me
lessons ; but he will not admit that I make
any progress, and I am sure I do my best to
follow his instructions. I have often told
him I shall give up painting altogether, and
then he says that is the way of women, as
they cannot persevere in anything, so I have
kept at it, though not with the same spirit

as when I began. Mrs. Argoll and Ella Tacon
both go into raptures over my paintings.

^ One day Mr. Henry was present and
heard them, and he said after they were
gone, '' What a pity it is women have no
judgment; they are always praising or blaming
something without rhyme or reason."
He is not complimentary to our sex, but he
is quite as severe when criticising his own.
Indeed, he is one of the few men who never
play the hypocrite, and I admire him for
that, even though his speeches sometimes
make me uncomfortable. I like Ella Tacon
better every day. She is such a sweet-tempered
girl, and seems so grateful for any
kindness. Her aunt is sometimes out of
temper with her, and Mr. Argoll, who is
easily put out, gets very cross with her for
no reason that I can see. I try to make up
for this by insisting on her accompanying
me wherever I go, and Ella enjoys going
out immensely.

I learned the other day that Ella has a
great wish to go to Court. I have been
asked whether I should not like to be

presented, and I have refused to go unless
both Ella and Mrs. Argoll do so also. I
am sure Mrs. Argoll would like it, as she
has often told me she cannot understand
why her husband has never arranged for
some of his titled friends presenting her to
the Queen. She said Mr. Argoll told her
that as he had never been at a Levee, he did
not see why she should go to a Drawing-room.
There is some reason for this which
I have not been able to find out. However,
now that Lord John Cardonald has settled
with his sister-in-law to present me, I suppose
that the matter can be arranged; yet
from what I hear there is a difficulty in the
way. When I told Ella what I had said
she was wild with delight, and Mrs. Argoll
was even more gracious than usual. This is
quite enough about a subject which is the
important one in this house, and I shall now
go on to narrate things which will interest
you more.'

As the matters which interested aunt Irma
are too trivial for repetition, there is no need
for giving further extracts.

It is scarcely necessary to add that Miss
Solar had her own way. Lord John pleaded
with his sister-in-law till she relented and
agreed to present the three ladies, on condition
that she was not to have any further
intercourse with Mrs. Argos. She would
neither visit nor be visited by her. The
Countess disliked rich plebeians.

When Miss Solar returned from the
Drawing-room she exclaimed :

I must say I am thankful it is all over.
I have never been so tired in my life.'

Mrs. Argos was quite as tired ; but she
was far better pleased, and she replied :

Well, Berta, I cannot agree with you.
The sight was beautiful, and I'm so glad to
have been presented to the Queen. Didn't
she look well !'

I did not see enough of her Majesty to
be able to judge,' was the reply. ' I was
thinking all the time about my train ; certainly
it is far pleasant drinking tea here
than struggling through a crowd and feeling
so faint. Besides, the waiting in the carriage
and being stared at was horrible.'

Miss Tacon said nothing. Her heart
was too full for utterance. What she felt
was thus expressed in her Diary : ' What a
day this has been ! Never have I enjoyed
myself so much. Oh ! it was most kind of
Berta to arrange for my going to the 
with her. And Lord John was
also so kind in getting the Countess to present
me. My head is in a whirl still.
Everything was as fine as I have ever
fancied. My dress did not cost so much as
Berta's, but aunt Argos let me have the
one I liked. As we went in the carriage,
everybody looked as if they admired us. I
cannot quite remember all that passed after
we entered the Palace, I was so glad to be
there ; but I shall never forget how Lord
John, who accompanied us, helped me into
the carriage as we came away, and said as
if he really meant it, "I hope you have
had a pleasant day. Miss Tacon." He said
nothing to Berta. I do not think he really
cares for her. What a darling man he is, so
kind and considerate ! I shall never forget
to-day.'

VOL I. 11

Poor Ella ! She little knew how annoyed
Lord John was that she formed one of the
party. As the three ladies and their trains
filled the carriage, there was no room for
him. Had two been there, he would have
had a seat inside ; as it was, he followed the
carriage in a hansom, and he wished Miss
Tacon at the bottom of the sea. If he had
kept a diary, the entry that day would have
"contained some lanofuaofe which Miss Tacon
would not have considered complimentary.

A phrase casually dropped by Mr. Argos
to the effect that business might oblige him
to leave London for a short time, moved
Lord John to ascertain his chance of becoming
Miss Solar's husband. He thought
it best to speak to Mr. Argoll first. Indeed,
'he had taken steps for learning his position
and powers as her guardian, having gone to
Somerset House to read over Mr. Solar's
will. He did this immediately after making
Miss Solar's acquaintance. -
» Though Lord John had fallen so completely
in love that he was all but ready to marry
Miss Solar without a dowry, yet he was also

in a situation where her money would be of
the utmost service to him. The joint-stock
companies with which he was connected
were not flourishing. As the chairman of
two and the director of two, he had received
so much in fees as to enable him
to live in greater luxury than was possible
upon his small income as a younger
son, and his half-pay as a retired post-captain.
Indeed, the total fees formed three
fourths of his present income, and he spent
his money freely. Moreover, he had incurred
debts which it would require much
self-denial and saving to discharge. It was
his habit never to pay a bill unless compelled
to do so. He knew that if his fees
as a director were cut oJ0P, he would be in
what he called ^a tight place,' and he feared
that his companies were about to expire. A
pleasant way of escape from his embarrassment
would be through marriage with Miss
Solar. Her money would make him as
light-hearted and as happy as her love.

Mr. Argoll had always shown himself so
gracious, if not subservient, to Lord John

11—2

that he was not apprehensive of a rebuff
now ; still, he felt doubtful whether Mr.
Argos's consent to the marriage might not
be coupled with some unwelcome conditions.

The interview which Lord John sought
was readily accorded. Mr. Argoll was too
keen-eyed not to perceive what it implied.
He spared Lord John any troublesome explanation
by speaking first and to the point,
taking care, however, as his manner was, to
be scrupulously and almost slavishly particular
in my-lording him.

Well, Lord John,' he began as the latter
entered his study, ^ I think I can guess what
brings your lordship here. All I ask is that
you will be perfectly frank with me, and, in
the first place, tell me how the companies
go on.'

Lord John answered the last question at
once, and with the familiarity of address
which he knew to be gratifying to Mr.
Argoll, who, like other City upstarts, was
always pleased when peers or their sons spoke
to him without any formality. ' I am sorry
to say, Argoll, that all these companies are

detestable concerns ' — the epithet actually
used was more condemnatory than detestable,
and began with the same letter : ^ the
torpedoes won't explode at the right time,
and the patent vessels won't float at all ; I
wish them at blazes

That is unfortunate, Lord John ; but I
hope things may not turn out so badly
after all

'They have turned out badly enough
already, as my colleagues have proposed to
give up taking fees, and there is a talk of
liquidation. I fear I shall be hard hit.'

We must see what can be done ; I shall
speak to some friends who understand how
to manage these things, and they can at
least give you good advice.'

Thanks, Argos ; good advice is the only
cheap thing in the City, but I don't find it
goes farther there than in other places.
But what I want to ask you now is whether
you object to my marrying Miss Solar. I
think she would make me a good wife.'

She is certainly a good match, my lord ;
and if I were her father I should be glad to

have you for a son-in-law. Perhaps you
know that she will have a large income
when she is five-and-twenty, and that her
money is under my control till then !'

Lord John knew all this, both because he
had read Mr. Solar s will, and also because
he had ascertained the amount of property
upon which probate duty was paid ; but he
did not wish to appear as if he were simply
a fortune-hunter, so, instead of replying to
the question, he said :

I shall be glad if you will tell me all about
the conditions which are attached to her
marriage. I suppose she will have some
money of her own ; but I am not thinking
about that.'

^ Some money of her own !' exclaimed
Mr. Argoll, half inclined to retort, ' You
are a sly fox. Lord John, only you cannot
deceive me.' But, instead of saying this,
he continued : ^ Yes, you are quite right, my
lord ; but as you do not appear to care
about her fortune, I shall not refer to it.
My own position is, that till she is twenty-five,
I have the power to let her have

what sum I think proper out of the income
from her property ; and that if she should
marry without my consent before that age, I
must distribute half of the property amongst
certain specified charities.'

You will understand, Argoll, that I
should not be here now unless I wished to
have your entire approval. If you object, I
shan't say a word to Miss Solar.'

I am obliged to you. Lord John, for
your confidence in me, and your lordship
may rely upon my doing what I can for
you. As you are not thinking of money,
it will be time enough to make the necessary
arrangements as to her fortune when
Berta has given her consent.'

Many thanks, Argoll,' said Lord John,
with emphasis ; yet he did not relish Mr.
Argoll's repeating that money was no object
in the negotiation, and he was in doubt
whether this was sarcasm, or whether Mr.
Argoll really entertained some diabolical
plan for letting him marry his ward, and
keep control over her entire income till she
was twenty-five. He thought it better,

however, not to let any trace of his feelings
appear in his speech or manner, and he left
Mr. Argos with the promise to communicate
with him as soon as he had arrived at
an understanding with Miss Solar.

Whilst dressing for dinner, Mr. Argoll
told his wife what had passed between him
and Lord John Cardonald, and said :

'You must contrive, my dear, to leave
Lord John and Berta together this evening.
He will propose, if he have the chance.
I can't quite make him out. He is not
well off, yet he spoke to me as if he cared
nothing about her money. I don't quite
think he was in earnest ; but I shall take
uncommon good care that he is prevented
from making ducks and drakes with Berta's
fortune.'

'You are quite right, J. M.,' was his
wife's reply. ' I shall try to arrange
matters after dinner. Don't you think that
I might give Berta a hint that you approve
of the match V

Say nothing to her on any account. If
you do she will think I have planned the

whole affair, and then she may say '' No "
out of that spirit of contradiction which,
as you've often told me, is so natural to
women.'

Mrs. Argoll was annoyed at this speech.
On another occasion she would have warmly
protested against the imputation upon her
sex, and she might even have denied saying
the words attributed to her. As it was,
however, there was no time for a matrimonial
squabble. Besides, Mr. Argoll
always lost his temper if contradicted whilst
dressing for dinner, and continued cross for
the rest of the evening. Accordingly, Mrs.
Argoll displayed more than her usual prudence,
and held her tongue.

The only guest at the dinner-table that
evening was Lord John Cardonald. He was
depressed and absent. If he had not what
contemporary novelists style * a far - away
look,' he certainly had a far-away manner.
Mr. Argoll, on the other hand, was more
cheerful and conversational than usual. He
once tried to make a joke, and he was not
offended when he saw that no one noticed

this unwonted eftbrt. Mrs. Argoll was
anxious and nervous. Indeed, a stranger
might have supposed that she and Lord
John had been quarrelling, and were meditating
what to say next. Miss Solar and
Miss Tacon were the only unconcerned
persons of the party. Lord John sat next
to Miss Solar, who rallied him upon his
silence. He was awkward in his replies,
being afraid to commit himself, yet anxious
to be agreeable ; and he felt relieved when
the ladies left the room.

When the two gentlemen had joined the
ladies in the drawing-room, Mr. Argoll
asked Miss Tacon to play something, and
as soon as she began, he suddenly remembered
that he had left some important
letters unwritten, and he went off to his
study. Generally when he left the room,
Mrs. Argoll followed him in order to learn
whether he were ill, whilst Miss Tacon
ceased playing, as her aunt did not encourage
her to continue when her husband was
absent. To-night, however, Mrs. Argoll
remained seated with a piece of worsted

work in her hand by way of pretence at
not being idle. Moreover, when her niece
rose from the j^iano, she asked her to go on
with her music, and said :

Dear me, Ella, how you've improved ! I
have not heard you play so well before ;
please go on.'

She kept her niece at the piano, playing
piece after piece, to her niece's great surprise.


Miss Solar had a favourite seat in the
conservatory, adjoining the drawing-room.
When strangers were not present, it washer
custom to go there with a book as
soon as Miss Tacon began to play and
Mr. Argoll to sleep. When Lord John
was the only visitor — neither he nor Mr.
Henry Argoll being classed amongst the
strangers — he commonly talked to Mr.
Argoll and kept him awake, whilst Miss
Solar was reading or working in the conservatory.
This evening he entered it a few
minutes after she had sat down and taken up
the first volume of a new novel called ' Blue
Grass,' one of those productions which young

ladies supply for the gratification of other
young i^ladies^who are no wiser than themselves.
She had just read a few pages, and
was about to lay the book aside with the exclamation,
' More rubbish ! When will the
Libraries select books that deserve to be read?'
when Lord John stood before her and said :

^ Industrious as usual. Miss Solar. When
not painting you improve your mind with
books. Surely you don't intend to read all
these V pointing, as he said this, to a large
pile of newly-published works from the circulating
library.

I am flattered with your remark, Lord
John,' was her reply ; ^ but if you only knew
how worthless most of these books are, you
would not speak about my improving my
mind with them. I am looking over them
to see which is the least stupid. Three or
four out of the hundreds published every
season are really worth reading.'

I fear you are too particular ; I find all
books, especially novels, much alike, and
I can always read any of them when I
haven't anything better to do.'

Happy man, Lord John ! I wish I were
as easily pleased as you are !'

Do not says that, please. Miss Solar ; I
am really most unhappy ; besides, I am as
fastidious as you, but about better things
than books. Indeed, I have been looking
for years to find a woman who came up to
my ideal, and I have only now succeeded.
You know that sailors are licensed to speak
bluntly, and this is my excuse for asking you
at once to be my wife.'

What !' said Miss Solar, as she rose from
her seat, ' are you proposing to me V Then,
after a slight laugh, she continued : * Really
this is as absurd as anything in the silliest
of these novels. Of course, you cannot be
in earnest. However, as I don't like jokes
of this kind, let's go and listen to Ella's
playing.'

Please spare me a few minutes' talk, Miss
Solar. I am in earnest. I would not offend
you for the world, and I hope you will pardon
me if I have done so unintentionally ; but I
repeat that no other woman has realized my
ideal till I saw you.'

That is, I suppose, why you called me
beautiful at first sight.'

At any rate you have a good memory,
Miss Solar, and I'm pleased that you've not
forgotten my first speech, though I must now
apologize for having displeased you by it.'

You were forgiven long ago both for
speaking in that way to me, and ridiculing
Mrs. Argoll about her fondness for doctoring
people.'

Please forgive me again for speaking about
Mrs. Argoll ; I see your memory is too good.'

No, you need not flatter me, even indirectly
; I have not a good memory, but
some things I try hard to forget, and this
conversation will be one of them. Now let
us go.'

^ Do you refuse me absolutely, then V

Pray, Lord John, quit this subject, which
is really unpleasant to me. If you insist
upon a formal refusal you shall have it.'

Interrupting her in order to spare further
words, he said :

I assure you. Miss Solar, that I shall
never trouble you again.'

They entered the drawing-room together.
Miss Solar went and sat beside Miss Tacon
at the piano ; she was perfectly cool and
collected, and no one could have inferred
from her manner that she had had her first
offer, and had rejected a suitor. Lord John
asked Mrs. Argoll where her husband was.
On being told that he was in his study, he
said he would join him there, and quietly left
the room. Mrs. Argoll was deceived by his
manner. She thought that he went to tell
her husband that he was engaged. She was
confirmed in this supposition when Miss
Solar rose, as Lord John left the room,
saying that she had a headache, and wished
to go to bed. Mrs. Argoll did not offer
her a pill ; she had given up all hope of
having Miss Solar for a patient.

The conversation between Lord John and
Mr. Argoll was very brief The former said :

I've come to say good-night, Argoll ; I
don't think I shall be able to call here again
for some time.'

What's the matter, my lord ? surely
Berta has not rejected you ?' .

Both in manner and speech, she unmistakably
made me understand that she
would not have me. I don't understand it
at all. She is the first woman on whom I
have failed to make an impression. I am
disappointed in her.'

Perhaps there is some mistake,' urged
Mr. Argoll, who was more anxious than
ever that Lord John should marry his ward.
He had several reasons for this, and he
never had entertained a doubt about Miss
Solar consenting. He said : ' Wait a day
or two. Lord John ; I will talk the matter
over with Berta.'

^ I would rather not,' was his reply. ' I
feel certain that she will not change her
mind — I saw that in her look and manner;
but still I am at a loss to know why she has
an evident dislike to me. Good-night, Argoll.
When I next want to see you, I shall call at
Athelstanee House.'

Miss Tacon knocked at Miss Solar's door
as she passed it on her way to her own
room, and asked whether she could do anything
for her. The reply was a request to

come in, and on opening the door, she saw-miss
Solar seated at her writing-table.

Do I disturb you, Berta V said Miss
Tacon, adding, ' I thought you were in bed.
I hope you feel better.'

My headache was only an excuse, Ella,
to leave Mrs. Argoll, whom I saw watching
me. Can you keep a secret V

Ella immediately replied :

Of course I can, Berta.'

Neither she nor any other woman would
have given a different answer, as in that
case she would have lost the pleasure of
hearing the secret, and the still greater one
of communicating it to some one else in the
strictest confidence. Miss Solar continued,
after a pause, during which Miss Tacon's
curiosity was raised to the highest pitch :

Lord John Cardonald proposed to me in
the conservatory.'

It was Miss Tacon's turn to be silent ;
she could not find words to reply, and she
seemed as if about to burst into tears.

What's the matter ?' exclaimed Miss
Solar. ' You look ill ; is anything wrong ?'

VOL. I. 12

^ Nothing, Berta ; only a slight spasm
came over me, as often happens when I am
surprised, and I am surprised at the news.
I thought you did not care for him. However,'
and the words cost her an effort, ' I
hope you'll be very happy.'

Yes, dear, I am happy enough, now that
it's all over. I can't say I ever expected
he would propose. I thought he knew
better. I am glad to be spared his meaningless
compliments.'

And you've not accepted him then ?' was
Miss Tacon's eager inquiry.

Accepted him, Ella ! How could you
suppose that ! Surely you have often heard
me say I couldn't endure him.'

Miss Tacon looked paler than before, and
Miss Solar, fearing that she was about to
faint, went and got a glass of water and
handed it, saying :

Drink it quickly; it will do you good.
Perhaps I'd better ring and ask my maid to
call up Mrs. Argoll. I think you want her
doctoring.'

Please don't,' saul Ella in a beseeching

tone. ' I don't require my aunt's pills. I
am better now. Something must have disagreed
with me. So you've rejected Lord
John ! What will Mr. and Mrs. Argos
say ? I am sure they wanted you to marry
him.'

Did they ? I never thought so ; but if
they did, they must console Lord John. I
think you had better go to bed now. I
wish to finish this letter before doing
so.'

Miss Tacon went off to bed in a happy
frame of mind. First, she was delighted
that the marriage between Lord John Cardonald
and Miss Solar, which she had foreseen
and dreaded, would not take place ;
second, that she had not disclosed her own
secret. She made an entry to that effect in
her Diary ; but as the fact is all that is
now necessary to be known, there is no need
for extracting the high-flown passage in
which she recorded it.

Miss Solar's letter was addressed to her
aunt Irma.

12—2

^ My dearest Aunt,

This is not the regular day for
writing to you ; but I send you this note
both by way of answer to your letter, and
also because I have something curious to
tell you. It is strange you should have
asked me in your letter whether there was
no likelihood of my marrying ; I thought
your question an unnecessary one, as I am
perfectly happy as I am. I may now tell
you, however, I might marry if I pleased,
having had an offer this evening. The gentleman
is the Lord John Cardonald, of whom
I have often written to you, and who is nota
man to my taste. Shortly after meeting
him for the first time I heard him tell his
neighbour at a dinner-table, loud enough for
everyone to hear, that his maxim was to
marry for money as well as love, and that
love-matches were all very well in books,
but did not pay in real life. Had I not
taken a dislike to him before, that speech
would have made me hate him.

I write to tell you at once of his
proposal and my rejection of him, as I

should not like the news to reach you from
any other quarter, and so this matter is
settled. I am as glad, however, that your
servant Katchen is going to be married as
that I am not. I am sure Katchen will
make a good wife. When I told Mr. Henry
Argoll that I had once found her copying a
piece of poetry from the Gartenlauhe, and
that she said she copied all the pieces she
liked, in order to get them by heart and
repeat them during her work, he would
scarcely believe me, and he said that no
English servant knew any other verses than
the hymns of Dr. Watts, which she might
have been taught when a child. I should
like to make Katchen a present, and perhaps
you will let me know what she would find
most useful. — Your loving and unengaged
\iinverlobte~\ niece.

'Berta.'

THE ARTIST S DILEMMA.

Our doubts are traitors,
And make us lose the good we oft might win
By fearing to attempt.'

Shakespeare.

I'll taste the luxury of woe.'

Moore.

!^7^^0 use a vulgar but expressive
phrase, Mr. Henry Argos was ina
regular fix. He had a sublime
confidence in himself, and no pity for the
weaknesses and imperfections of his less
highly gifted fellow-men. It was instructive
to hear him playing his favourite part of
Sir Oracle. Few laid down the law with
greater vigour and fluency. For him to error

be guilty of any human failing seldom
presented itself to his mind as a possible
contingency. He was a law unto himself.

Yet Mr. Henry Argos was a mere mortal
after all. Though he could scarcely realize the
fact, he was neither infallible nor impeccable.
Like meaner mortals, he had fallen in love.
At the outset he was unconscious of this.
When unable any longer to shut his eyes
to the fact, he was astounded and perturbed.
For the first time in his life he
hesitated how to act. The man who hesitates
in certain cases is falling in love.
Good resolutions are worthless whenever
there is the slightest pause m giving effect
to them.

The impression which Miss Solar made
upon Mr. Henry Argoll when they first
became acquainted was not wholly favourable.
He thought her rather flighty ; he did
not consider her very beautiful. Her open
admiration of him as an artist was naturally
pleasing to his self-love ; indeed, no artist
rejects praise, though the select few like it
best in moderate doses. She was lavish of

it, and, were she not evidently sincere, he
might have found her superlatives repulsive.
It was with real pleasure that he began to
give her lessons in painting, and his enthusiasm
did not grow cold when he learned
that she was a most obedient and reverential,
if not an apt pupil.

Mr. Henry Argoll soon perceived that
painting was not Miss Solar's vocation. Her
ambition was to imitate what she admired,
and her utmost efforts were directed to copy
the manner of the last painter whose productions
had taken her fancy. Since knowing
him personally her heart had been set upon
striving to paint as he did. His own works
had deeply impressed her ; but he had never
seen any reason to question their perfection
till seeing the tricks of his manner reproduced
and exaggerated by Miss Solar. His
critics, or enemies, as he called them, were
wont to say that he dashed a brush charged
with colour against a canvas, and gave a
fanciful name to the result ; Miss Solar's
canvases looked as if several paint-tubes
had been emptied over them.

An unusual incident occurred soon after
meetings Miss Solar at his brother's house.
This was the sale of a painting upon which
he had set a high price, and which the
critics pronounced to be more than usually
absurd. It was entitled London in a Fog.
There was a consensus of opinion that the
picture displayed plenty of fog, but very little
London. Yet it was bought. Mr. Henry
Argoll learned, upon inquiry, that the buyer
was Lord John Cardonald. Why Lord
John should have purchased it was incomprehensible.
However, having sold his
picture, Mr. Henry Argoll could afford to
laugh at the critics who intimated that
they were not surprised at the supply of
fools having money to part with being un-exhausted.


The mystery of the purchase was
fathomed by accident. One morning, between
breakfast and luncheon, Mr. Henry
Argoll was in Miss Solar's studio, ready to
give her a lesson, the day being one which he
had named for the purpose. She was not
there, being detained by a dressmaker who

had called to try on a new ball-dress. Having
nothing else to do, he looked at the canvases
which were scattered about the room. Going
behind the easel, he saw a picture with a
curtain before it ; he withdrew the curtain,
and saw his London in a Fog. He instantly
divined what had happened. Miss
Solar had employed Lord John to obtain
the picture for her, Mr. Henry Argoll
began to suspect that other works by him,
which had unexpectedly found purchasers,
were acquired by her also. He was right
in this supposition. They covered without
adorning the walls of her bedroom.

Mr. Henry Argoll made this discovery
with mixed feelings. He had nursed the
notion that the public had suddenly grown so
conscious of his artistic merits as to purchase
his paintings, and it was a disappointment to
find that the increased demand for them was
chiefly due to an admirer who was more enthusiastic
than critical. He thought of the
Frenchman who made it the business of his
life to expend money in buying so many pictures
yearly, and whose house was found after

his death to be crammed from attic to cellar
with the mediocre works of contemporary
artists. He did not desire such a fate and kind
of fame. Yet he could not blame Miss Solar ;
if he had more admirers like her, he should
be the most popular artist of the day.
Indeed, every artist has a kindly feeling for
the person whose appreciation of his merits
is practically shown by buying one of his
pictures. He determined to say nothing
to her on the subject. The immediate result
of his discovery was to make him more
captious and exacting during that day's lesson.

Miss Solar was not fiery-tempered, and she
had a strong desire to please her teacher ;
but she could not bear the strain of his
conduct that day.

Well, Mr. Henry,' she exclaimed impatiently,
' I really cannot satisfy you, whatever
I do. Surely I cannot always be
blundering !'

Xo, Miss Solar,' he replied, ' you now
and then blunder more than I should have
imagined possible. That tree is quite out of
drawing; it looks like an umbrella gone mad.'

Though greatly vexed, she simply replied :

You said when you saw it last week
that I had greatly improved it, and I haven t
touched it since.'

If I said so, I must have been thinking
of something else ; or I cannot have looked
at it carefully. Perhaps you have done
enough for to-day.'

I quite agree with you,' she remarked,
in a tone which betokened the annoyance
which she could no longer repress. As he
did not wish to be disagreeable, and as he
felt that he had gone too far, he replied in
his most conciliatory manner :

Pardon me, Miss Solar, for having
spoken harshly. You know well enough
that I am a rather severe critic'

As her esteem for him was genuine and
as she was convinced that he really meant
kindly, even when he spoke harshly, she
replied in a mollified tone :

Probably I am too impatient to-day.
Indeed, I do not feel disposed to paint, as I
am too tired after last niofht's ball. It was
nearly six when I got to bed this morning.'

Resuming his lecturing manner he said :

Ah ! going to balls and painting pictures
are not amusements that can be pursued together.
It is easier to dance than to draw
correctly, and if you really wish to be an
artist you must give more of your mind as
well as your time to it.'

Happily, I don't mean to exhibit a
picture, Mr. Henry, so you will never have
the pleasure of criticising me in The Weekly
Rasj)ev!

Now, Miss Solar, you are repeating what
I have often told you is not fair to me ; it
isn't the case that I like to find fault, but
what am I to do so long as people who
cannot either draw or colour will exhibit
their wretched failures ?'

I should leave them alone, if I were you ;
they don't do any harm.'

No harm. Miss Solar ! Surely you are
not in earnest ! Why, of all the wicked
people who exist, bad artists are the worst !
They are traitors to art : they deserve the
lowest place in Dante's " Inferno." '

'Tell me, now, do you like being criticised?'

I can't say I do ; but that is because the
critics are such awful duffers ; they have no
discrimination. I don't say my paintings are
quite perfect ; but they are far better than
anything these fellows can turn out.'

^ Well, we needn't argue the matter, as
you know far more about it than I do ; only,
if I were a critic, I should always try and
see how much there was to praise in a work.'

*Then you would make a mistake. Chateaubriand
said something of the same sort,
but that was because he was afraid of being
criticised. If I were always praising pictures
no one would read my critiques. By the
way, your mention of Dante puts me in
mind of some verses of Heine's. He was a
splendid artist in words, and the most savage
critic who ever wrote.'

I have read a few of his verses, but I
like his prose writings far better ; as you
know, my favourite German poet is Schiller,
and T don't think anyone can admire Heine
and Schiller equally. But what are the
verses you mean ?'

I shall bring' you the volume containing;'

them, and I recommend you to read it
through. I am not sure that I can repeat
the lines correctly, but I think they run :

^ennft bu Me ^oTIc \>t% dante nid^t,
Die [d)rectlid)en Scrjetten ?
eben ba ber 2)id)tcr t)inein9efpcrrt,
sen tonn !ein pott mcfjr rettcn—

sein (pott, !ein v!^eitanb erioft it)n je
2ru§ biefen fingenben glimmer !
Sfiimm bid) in Qd]t, ba voix. bid nid)t
3u folc^er .sole oerbammen !'*

I have read enough of Heine to believe
that if he threatened this he could keep his
word. However, as you have quoted these

These lines may be thus rendered in prose :

Do you not know Dante's Hell,
The terrible triple rhymes ?
Whomsoever the poet imprisons therein
Is beyond help from any god —

No god, nor Saviour can ever rescue him
Out of these singing flames.
Take care, then, lest we should
Condemn you to a like Hell'

Heine wrote thus to let the King of Prussia, who took
pleasure in the plays of Aristophanes and in sending
sundry living poets to jason, understand that the living
poets had it in their power to take a revenge on him
which he would rue.

THE ARTISTS DILEMMA.

lines, let me tell you of a phrase written by
Madame de Refusal which struck me the
other day : " The habit of censure sharpens
the mind rather than enlarges it." So you
see what may be your fate as a critic. I wish
you would paint more pictures like London
in a Fog. That would be far better than
ridiculing artists in The Weekly Rasher!

Mr. Henry Argoll was at a loss fora
reply. Miss Solar both flattered and
annoyed him. He thought it best, in the
circumstances, to say no more ; and, under
the pretext of an engagement, he bade her
good-bye. He was half inclined to acknowledge
that she had told him some wholesome
truths about criticism in return for
his wholesome, but rather indigestible, truths
about her painting.

He did not soon forget his discovery, or
this day's talk. The more he reflected, the
more firmly was he of opinion that he must
give up teaching Miss Solar. He found
her a different pupil from what he had
expected. He did not dislike her expressing
and upholding opinions and views of

her own which were opposed to his. On the
contrary, he was all the happier when he
had opposition to encounter, when another's
mind served as the flint to his steel. He
always considered persons who agreed with
him in all things to be unworthy of his
regard. His nature, in this respect, was
akin to that of Dr. Johnson, who avowed
that he liked a good hater.

The appointed day for giving Miss Solar
a lesson again was a week after the conversation
which has been recorded. Mr.
Henry Argoll then went to Palace Gardens
fully determined to terminate the lessons. He
had forgotten, however, to prepare a pretext
beforehand. This was an oversight. A
wise man would not have been guilty of
such an omission ; but, then, if men were
uniformly wise, they would not fall in love
and be rejected, or commit robberies and
murders and be found out. The leaven of
folly in human nature has its use and value.
Life would be intolerably monotonous if
everybody did what was right.

I fear, Miss Solar, that I cannot give

VOL. I. 13

you a lesson to-day,' was Mr. Henry
Argoll's greeting.

^ I am so sorry 1' was her exclamation ;
and it was uttered in a tone which left no
doubt that she felt what she said. She
continued, ' I have taken great pains with
the tree since last week ; IVe done it twice
over, and I do hope you will like it better
now.'

'The truth is. Miss Solar,' was his reply,
which was spoken in a grave tone, ' I have
been thinking over what we spoke about
last week, and I am sure it will be better if
I give up teaching you. Perhaps I am too
severe a critic, as you say ; and I certainly
feel that I am not cut out for being a
teacher. I wish I hadn't offered to give
you lessons.'

Don't think, Mr. Henry, that I am
ungrateful for the trouble you have taken ;
it's all my fault, as I am far too stupid to
profit by your teaching.' Pausing a moment,
as the thought occurred to her that he might
think he had given her offence, she continued
: ' I hope you don't suppose I object

to your advice. After thinking over the
matter of our last talk, I saw you were in the
right. I don't always understand what you
mean at the moment. The tree was really
out of drawing, but I had worked at it so
often that I did not perceive this till I had
put the canvas aside for a day or two.'

How could he persevere in his resolve to
give up so obedient and charming a pupil ?
Yet he felt it hopeless to go on as before,
having convinced himself that unless a change
came over Miss Solar she would not make
any progress. A happy thought occurred
to him.

you've not seen the National Gallery since
the pictures were re-arranged. Wouldn't it
be a change to study the Old Masters there ?
If you approve, I should be glad to go over
it with you. I should like to see it myself

Then I shall be delighted to go. I so
wish you would explain why Mr. Ruskin
finds such fault with Claude Lorraine, and
praises Turner.'

Well, as there are plenty of Turner's
paintings and some fine Claudes in the

13 — 2

Gallery, I shall be able to do what you
desire, only you must know that I don't
swear so much by Mr. Ruskin as I once
did. I have never found any critic infallible.'


Neither have I,' was Miss Solar's quick
retort, her manner implying that, if he
thought proper, he might make a personal
application of the remark. Thus, for the
time being, Mr. Henry Argoll got out of
his difficulty, changing to the critic who
interested his hearer from the teacher who
tormented her.

She listened to his comments, some of
which were very shrewd and just, and she
treasured them up. Of art in the widest sense
she was wholly ignorant, and she was willing
to learn. Though painting in an eccentric
fashion, and criticising sharply and
dogmatically, yet Mr. Henry Argoll had
made a serious study of art, and he was
able to converse about it as one really
having authority. It has already been said
that he visited Italy in his younger days.
What he then learned had fructified in his

mind. If his views were peculiar and his
judgment often hasty, his knowledge of
painters and painting was comprehensive
and complete. He had several opportunities
of perceiving that Miss Solar was profiting
by his learning. When any art topic was
discussed in his hearing and she was present,
her remarks were echoes of his own. She
had unwittingly assimilated his ideas and
prejudices. He considered her a remarkable
woman, being unconscious that what impressed
him when it fell from her lips was
but his own views in another form. Many
women who associate with clever men give
back in pretty fragments what they receive
in large slices, and by doing so they get the
credit of being very clever also.

But Miss Solar did more than unconsciously
impress Mr. Henry Argoll with her
ability ; she stamped her image upon his
heart ; it haunted him ; he could not think
of anything else. One morning, after a
restless night, he asked himself, ^ Can I be
in love ?' * Of course not,' was the natural
answer, as no one makes such an admission

till the matter is beyond dispute ; and the
fact that the question has been put is a proof
of there being still a doubt on the subject.

Upwards of twenty years had elapsed
since he was madly in love with an Italian
girl, and time had not cooled the feelings
with Which he regarded her. He never
saw her again ; had he done so, his passion
might have died out. As it was, he had
idealized her, and treated his attachment asa
precious memory. He was happy in his
dream ; he might have fled from the developed
reality had he witnessed it. But
the higher his appreciation of his youthful
charmer, the more fastidious was he in
judging other women. He brought an
imaginary standard as the test by which to
try a living being, and he could never satisfy
his craving for an ideal which existed in his
remembrance.

Miss Solar was the first girl who did not
fall short of this ideal. Something in her
classical features recalled the sharp-cut outlines
of the Italian face which was ever
before his mind's eye. He had struggled

against admitting that she was the equal of
her whom he had loved and lost ; but the
struggle was beyond his strength. Innumerable
trifling things rendered her more
dear to him : she evidently prized his
opinion beyond that of anyone else, and,
whilst quick in contradicting others, she was
always ready to accept his decision as final.
Her intellect was as remarkable as her
beauty, the only evidence of its imperfection
being too great readiness to admit the superiority
of his. No man, however critical and
exacting, thinks the worse of the woman who
thinks too highly of him.

When in the smoking-room of the Artists'
Club one evening, he was startled to hear a
stranger, who had been dining with a member,
say to his entertainer :

Johnnie has put his foot in it ; the
beautiful heiress won't have him.'

I don't know Miss Solar except by sight ;
but I should think the man a lucky fellow
who gets her for a wife. Such a face and
figure I never saw since I was in Rome, and
then only once.'

Mr. Henry Argoll was on tenter-hooks
after hearing these words. He waited with
impatience till the stranger had left, and
then, addressing the entertainer, he said :

I say, Edward, who's the " Johnnie "
your friend was speaking about V

^ Surely you ought to know,' was the
reply. Edward added, * Of course it's Lord
John Cardonald. I hear he has been very
hard hit.'

^ Thanks, old fellow ; I ought to have
known this, as you say. I was thinking of
some one else.'

Mr. Henry Argoll was now in a dilemma.
It was clear that Miss Solar would not
want offers ; it was gratifying to learn at
the same time that she had rejected Lord
John. Should he propose, and be rejected
in turn ? Or would it be fair to make love
to his brother's ward without first informing
his brother ? It now occurred to him for
the first time that, as Miss Solar might bean
heiress, his desire to marry her would be
attributed to a wish to get a rich wife. He
had never thought of this before. Throughout

life he had given no heed to monetary
considerations, and he had been satisfied to
have enough to Hve upon. To be wealthy
himself, or to cultivate the acquaintance of
wealthy people, had no place in his plan of
life. On the contrary, he had much of the
artist's contempt for those who have more
money than brains ; and he was also prone
to forget or overlook the undoubted fact
that it requires brains to get money as well
as to mix colours.

He now remembered to have heard Miss
Solar spoken of as an heiress. If she were
one, he would shrink from marrying her, even
if she were prepared to accept him. Perhaps
he allowed this consideration to weigh upon
his mind. He would prefer to marry her
without a penny ; but to ask her to relinquish
her money in order to prove that
he was no fortune-hunter seemed to him not
fair to her. Few other men would have
tormented themselves with the dread of
having a lady-love who was over-burdened
with wealth ; but, then, Mr. Henry Argoll
was always regarded as a strange and incomprehensible

being. He was too chivalrous
to be at his ease in an age of Mammon. He
was an artistic Don Quixote.

The conclusion at which he arrived was
to leave England, and carry out his long-projected
plan of visiting South America
with the view of finding fresh material for
his brush. He contemplated reproducing
on canvas the scenes and sunsets of which
he had read in Humboldt's pages. He
would see Miss Solar again and bid her
farewell, and do so in the belief that, when
he returned, she might have made some
other man happy.

He called at Palace Gardens, and was
shown into her studio. She was not there.
A sight met his eye for which he was wholly
unprepared, and which made a startling impression
upon him. In a conspicuous place,
and in a good light, was placed his London
in a Fog, and on the easel lay a copy of ita
better piece of work than anything Miss
Solar had yet done. His critical and captious
tastes were gratified in a new fashion. That
she should have taken so much pains to

copy his picture was not more flattering to
his vanity than her success was agreeable
to him as her teacher. Whilst intently
scrutinizing the copy, the door opened, and
Miss Solar entered. She said nothing, but
remained standing and silent till the exclamation
had issued from his lips :

I must say that is surprising ! There is
the making of an artist in the girl after all.'

Please do not say any more, Mr. Henry,'
was Miss Solar's comment ; upon which he
started, turned round, and said :

Miss Solar, I was thinking aloud. If
I have unintentionally complimented you,
please forgive me. I could not help it.'

I am too happy to bear malice, Mr.
Henry, and I shall never forget your first
compliment ; but now let me have your
criticisms again. You say they do me
good, and I should not like you to give
up being a philanthropist in the guise of an
art critic'

Mr. Henry Argoll was in no mood to
continue in the same strain ; he could
neither take nor indulge in banter ; he was

now too much absorbed in his project, and
yet words failed him for the moment. Miss
Solar awaited his reply with a smile ; his
praise had inspirited her, and she felt as if
she could stand the target of his criticism
with unusual equanimity.

Well, Miss Solar, I wish I hadn't seen
that picture. It renders my present task
the harder.'

He paused again, as if weighing his
phrases, or seeking for words ; whilst her
smile changed into a look of anxiety. She
feared that he was about to cancel his praise,
and indulge in some bitter censure. Under
the influence of this supposition she hastily
spoke, and said :

Pray don't hesitate to say what you
may think unpleasant. I have often thought
since we last talked about painting that I
had better give up trying to do anything
worth looking at, and since I have studied
the Old Masters with you I have been confirmed
in this. I assure you that anything
you say about me cannot be more severe
than what I think.'

Mr. Henry Argoll seldom smiled ; but,
when he did, his smile had seemed the reflection
of some remorseful thought, and
there was no look of gladness on his features
when he smiled now, and slowly said :

I have not come to praise or criticise
you. Miss Solar, but to say good-bye.'

A vague sense of some painful revelation
took possession of her. She dreaded to
question him, though eager to learn what
was really the case, and with a full heart
and eyes which seemed as if the shadow of
tears lay upon them, she inquired, in tones
which pierced him to the quick :

I do hope there is nothing wrong. I
am so sorry you are going away. Can I
help you ? If I can, please let me.'

^ You cannot help me. I must go away
because I love you.'

Her beseeching attitude instantly changed.
She stood upright with her hands tightly
clasped. She seemed to breathe with difficulty,
and her face was deadly pale. As he
looked he feared that he had mortally
offended her, and in order to make his

peace he began to speak with an animation
and earnestness which were in contrast to
his ordinary manner.

I could not help telling you what I have
just said, nor can I retract it ; but I really
had no intention of making such an avowal
when I came here to-day. I did intend to
says good-bye, and nothing more. You may
think me presumptuous, as I feel myself to
be ; only please give me credit for not meaning
any harm. If you only knew how often
the harsh speeches I made were merely
uttered to prevent my saying the reverse,
you would pity rather than blame me. I
love you, although I may never see you
again. I shall never cease to do so. And
now it is best that I should go. Let's shake
hands in token that you are not angry with
me.'

He held out his right hand. She at once
placed hers in it ; her look had regained its
sweetness, her face its colour, and her voice
was soft when she simply said :

Won't you remain, Henry ?'

He stood irresolute for a few seconds ;

then he suddenly kissed the hand which remained
in his, and answered :

If you wish it, Berta, I will.'

She looked an assent, which he sealed on
her lips.

They sat down on the sofa, and then came
a part of Mr. Henry Argoll's task which
was most repugnant to him. As he began
to talk, the gong sounded for luncheon, and
this obliged him to compress what he had
to say. He told her, of course, how he had
been struck the first time he saw her. This
pleasant fiction is commonly indulged in by
lovers ; even the widower who is about to
marry for the third time is not ashamed to
aver that his intended bride is the only
woman whom he has truly loved. He went
on with greater correctness to state that he
had an invincible aversion to marrying
except for love, and to seeming to take
advantage of his opportunities to marry his
brother's ward. These avowals made him
the more estimable in Miss Solar's eyes. She
was as convinced of his unselfishness as of
his devotion, and when he informed her

that he must have his brother's consent to
their union, she intimated her approval.
Indeed, they perfectly understood each other.
She did not share his doubts as to his
brother approving of the match, and she
told him that he was far too gloomy and
desponding in his forecast. Before they
went from the studio to the dining-room,
he heard from her lips these words, which
made him ready to face any ordeal and to
bear the worst that might befall, as far as
his brother was concerned :

Henry, you may trust me. I can wait.'

THE Rolls IN CONCLAVE.

What dire offence from am'rous causes springs,
What mighty contests rise from trivial things !'

Pope.

CASUAL remark by Mrs. Argoll to
the effect that her husband talked
of going to Italy filled Mr. Henry
Argoll with astonishment. What could his
brother mean ? Did he intend to take Miss
Solar with him ; in short, why should he
now go abroad for the first time, and what
was the key to his conduct ? He exhausted
himself in conjectures, arid then he had to
admit that the mystery was beyond his power
to fathom.

VOL. I. 14

His conclusion was, that he ought to see
his brother, and have an explanation with
him before his departure. Since the day
that he had declined his brother's request to
entrust him with his capital, and become a
sleeping partner in the business carried on
at Athelstanee House, he had never spoken
to him on business except once. He was
most reluctant to do so now. He had an
irrepressible fear of being misunderstood,
and of being not only repulsed but maligned.

When two brothers reach middle age,
without having learnt to make due allowance
for each other's failings and feelings, they are
fated to remain apart for ever in sympathy
and spirit. As years passed away, the
brothers Argoll had not grown fonder or
more confiding. Each retained the early
dislike to the other, yet the antipathy between
them was keener on the side of the
elder. Had the younger one ignominiously
failed in the battle of life, and been reduced
to utter misery, the elder might have given
him plenty of sound but inapplicable advice,
and a little needed help. He would have

kept him outside the threshold of the workhouse,
in order that he might serve as the
specimen of a man who had gone wrong, and
a having example of fraternal love. Once
only had they conversed on business, since
the day when the younger declined to do
what the elder wished, and then the younger
asked the elder to lend him fifty pounds fora
month.

^ Henry,' was the answer, * I never lend
money ; but if you tell me exactly how you
stand, and if you are really in want of it, I
shall give you the sum.'

^ Thank you for nothing, Joseph,' was
Henry's contemptuous reply. ' I am not in
actual need of the money. I have advanced
the amount to a friend, and I find my
balance at the bank is lower than I supposed ;
but I had rather go without my dinner for a
month, than receive a lecture from you, even
if you handed me double the amount at the
end of it. You needn't fear my troubling
you again.'

This speech rankled in Mr. Argoll's mind.
He actually intended complying with his

14 — 2

brother's request ; but he wished to do soin
his own way, and he resented his brother's
tirade as an unpardonable insult. Indeed,
he almost persuaded himself that he had
given or promised the money, and he certainly
felt convinced that his brother was under
an obligation for not having given him a
flat refusal. Many philanthropists plume
themselves upon intending to be charitable,
and they take their will as an adequate
substitute for their unexecuted deed. They
also take effective precautions against their
right hand knowing too much about the
performances of the left. The left has no
secrets to communicate, for it is kept in a
state of masterly repose.

After Mr. Henry Argos's name was
frequently mentioned in the newspapers in a
manner to arouse curiosity, his brother disliked
him the more. He had made up his
mind that his brother would prove a failure,
if not an outcast, and he could not endure
admitting that he had wrongly estimated his
powers and his chances. He was mortified
when notable City friends expressed their

desire to meet his brother, and treated him at
his table with great deference. The man who
has made his mark as an artist or a critic hasa
certain value even in the City. He is regarded
with the unintelligent curiosity which
makes people go to the Zoological Gardens.
But Mr. Argoll was too deeply prejudiced
even to regard his brother with the interest
which he might take in a polar bear or a
gorilla. He did not wish to do him an
injury, but he would rather squander some
of his money in charity than do him a
favour.

Mr. Henry Argoll was vaguely conscious
of his brother's feelings towards him ; in fact,
he seldom gave the matter a thought. As
has been said already, he looked with disrespect
upon money-makers, finding spendthrifts
far pleasant company. He was accustomed
to patronize both his brother and
his rich friends, and to treat them as persons
who were well enough in their way, but not
desirable companions.

You know nothing about art in the City,'
was a frequent saying in his mouth, and he

gave utterance to it in a tone which implied
that such ignorance was almost wicked. Now,
if Mr. Argos resented any thing more than
another, it was being patronized by those
for whom he had an aversion. He was no
match for his brother in sarcasm, and he
generally evaded an encounter with him, because,
when he began to reply to his brother's
bitter and not very courteous remarks, he
usually lost his temper, and with it the power
of making a stinging retort. His most frequent
utterance on such an occasion was :

I don't know, Henry, what makes you
artists speak as if you were so many King
Solomon. I am sure you haven't anything
to be proud of

Thereupon his brother used to reply :

I am not so well acquainted with the
Old Testament as you, Joseph ; but I
thought that Solomon was the original
millionaire, and most artists are poor men,
so I cannot see the point of your remarks.'

There was nothing clever in the statement
; but it irritated Mr. Argoll beyond
measure. It was most offensive to him to be

told that he was well versed in the Old
Testament.

Such being the relative position of the
brothers, the application which Mr. Henry
had to make was really trying to his temper
and his nerves. Expecting to be insulted as
well as rebuffed, he prepared himself for a
stormy interview.

The meeting took place in Mr. Argos's
study, a few days after that between Mr.
Argoll and Lord John Cardonald. It had
not been pre-arranged. His brother simply
entered the room on the evening of the day
that he had declared his love for Miss Solar,
and at the time before dinner when he knew
that he was almost sure to find his brother
there. The hour was badly chosen. A man
is often irritable shortly before dinner-time.
On the day in question, Mr. Argoll was
more than usually fretful. On getting up
in the morning he had felt certain pains,
which, he feared, portended a malady that,
if it did not prove speedily fatal, would at
all events interfere with his journey to
Sicily.

Before going to Athelstanee House that
morning, he had taken a dose of his last
favourite quack medicine, one which was
warranted by the concocter to remove all
pains in the loins or chest, the head or feet ;
but he had not felt any the better, and now
he was worrying himself with the belief that
his illness was serious. Being in this frame
of mind, and not having recovered from the
disappointment which Miss Solar's rejection
of Lord John Cardonald had caused him, he
was obviously unfitted to give a dispassionate
attention to his brother's request. His first
words to his brother after he entered the
room were :

What do you want here ? I am not ina
mood to talk at present. Come back
another time if you have anything to say.'

I shan't keep you long, Joseph,' was his
brother's reply, as he seated himself with the
air of one who had something to say, and
was resolved upon saying it.

Go on, then,' was the snappish remark,
a remark which was not rendered the more
amiable by the addition, 'you seem determined

to trouble me at a most inconvenient
time.'

Perhaps, then, I had better be brief. I
have come for your consent to marry someone
in this house. You know whom I
mean.'

Had his brother asked for the half, or
even the whole of his fortune, he would not
have been more startled. The shock made
him forget his pains, if it did not wholly
cure them. Being a cautious man in all
business matters, and careful never to say
anything which might indicate that he was
taken aback, he paused before replying, and
in the seconds which elapsed before he spoke,
it flashed across his mind that his brother
had a mind to marry his wife's niece, Ella
Tacon. He had no objection to getting rid
of her. However, as he wished to be sure
of his ground, he thought it better to proceed
on that assumption till he found himself
mistaken. Hence he quietly said :

Your request is quite unexpected ; and
you certainly have blurted it out in a startling
fashion. But what makes you think of

marrying ? Haven't you always preached
that if a man does not marry before forty,
he deserves to be shut up in a lunatic asylum
if he does so afterwards ? Besides, you are
the declared enemy of unequal matches, especially
in age. You told me the other day
at table, when I didn't like to contradict
you before my guests, that you never changed
your opinions, so I cannot think you can be
in earnest now.'

All this was perfectly true, and most galling
to the younger brother. His failing was to
vaunt about never altering his opinions, and
when, as often happened, he was charged
with inconsistency, he tried to reconcile contradictory
utterances with the effect of convincing
himself alone that he had succeeded.
At present, he could not indulge in that
course. He could not deny or explain away
the fact that he had repeatedly proclaimed
the folly of men marrying after forty, and of
mating with those between whom there was
a great disparity of years or social status.
Almost for the first time in his life he had
to admit to his brother that he had changed

his mind ; and now he heartily regretted
having ever uttered some hasty and ill-considered
words. He prefaced his remarks
with a compliment, knowing well that his
brother loved flattery in any form which did
not necessitate acknowledgment and immediate
repayment in cash.

Well, Joseph, there is no denying that
you have a marvellous memory. I wish
mine were half as good, and I must say that
I cannot deny having often said something
like what you have recalled. I think differently
now, and that is why I am asking
you for your consent to my marrying.'

Assuming that his brother desired to
marry Miss Tacon, Mr. Argoll replied :

^ But can you keep a wife ? Haven't you
also maintained that a wife was too expensive
a luxury for an artist.'

Probably I did ; but when I said that I
had a smaller income than I have now.'

This was the first time the younger brother
had intimated to the elder that his income
was greater than what he obtained from his
invested capital, and Mr. Argoll was confirmed

in his supposition that it was the
poor Miss Tacon, and not the rich Miss
Solar, upon whom his brother had set his
heart. Accordingly he became more gracious
in his manner, and, as his custom was,
when the opportunity offered, he launched
out into some stale and commonplace moralizing.


I quite approve of men marrying, even
at our aofe.'

His brother did not protest, but he inwardly
winced at this remark, which implied
that he was no longer young — his greatest
aversion, next to bad pictures, being to bethought
old. Besides, when a man contemplates
marriage, especially if his years
are many, he does not like to be reminded
that the days of his youth have Long departed.


Being quite unaware of the bitter feelings
which his words had excited, Mr. Argoll
continued, with his usual fluency and self-sufficiency,
as follows :

I hope when you are married, Henry,
that you will settle down and begin to work

hard. You will find a wife a great responsibility
and a costly luxury ; and it will not
do for you to idle your time away any
longer when you have some one dependent
upon you.'

Again his brother was on the point of
protesting, but he exercised self-command
and held his peace. It was one of Mr.
Argos's pet notions that no artist did anything
in the shape of real work, and that an
artist painted pictures by way of amusing
himself and occupying his leisure. He had
often said something to this effect, and whenever
he did so, he had to brave an indignant
explosion from his brother. He was now
pleased to have the opportunity of prosing
on in peace, and expressing what he knew
would give annoyance. However, Mr.
Henry Argos bore the infliction of his
brother s platitudes with unwonted patience
and self-possession, consoling himself with
the reflection that he would never again
afford his brother the chance of speaking to
him in a like strain.

Mr. Argoll was well pleased with himself;

he felt that he had gracefully performed an
unpleasant duty, and he was on the point of
declaring that he would give Miss Tacon a
dowry ; but he refrained in time from this
piece of rash generosity. All that he said
which might be taken to imply an intention
to loosen his purse-strings was :

I may tell you, Henry, you have acted
so well in this affair, that I shall not forget
it, and perhaps I may some day show this
in a way which will be satisfactory to your
future wife and yourself However, as it is
nearly time to dress for dinner, we must
postpone further talk till afterwards.'

His brother was in good humour and
high spirits, and replied :

Well, Joseph, you are really a first-rate
fellow after all. I have always said so to
those who did not speak as kindly of you as
you would like to hear. But you will find
me warmer in sounding your praises. Indeed,
I feel sorry now that I have sometimes
been unjust to you.'

Mr. Argoll graciously accepted the apology.


Don't say anything more about it,' he
observed in a pleasant tone. ^ There may
have been faults on both sides. However,
as we now perfectly understand each other,
it is no use dwelling upon these matters.'

As Mr. Henry was on the point of leaving
the room, he stopped, turned round, and
remarked :

It occurs to me, Joseph, that you had
better break the news to Miss Solar, or
Berta, as I may now call her. I am sure
she will take it very kindly from you.'

You mean Ella — that is. Miss Tacon,
Henry. Surely love has sent your wits a
wool-gathering !'

Ella !' retorted the younger brother ; ' it
is you who are in a fog. I have never
spoken a dozen words to Miss Tacon in my
life ; besides, as you would say, she is far too
young, as well as not suited to become my wife.'

Half angry, half perplexed, Mr. Argoll
exclaimed :

There must be some misunderstanding.'

There can be no mistake. I asked permission
to marry some one in this house —

meaning your ward, of course — and you have
given it with a kindness which I shall never
forget

What did you mean, then, by speaking
about supporting a wife, if you thought to
become Miss Solar's husband ? Do you
know how much money she will have ?'

I neither know nor care ; I don't mean
to marry her for her money.'

That's all very well ; but I don't believe
a word of it ; and let me tell you, Henry,
that I shall never give my permission.'

I may tell you in return, Joseph, that I
don't intend to marry her without it whilst
you are her guardian ; so you have no right
to reproach me with wishing to take any
advantage of her or you.'

An ominous silence ensued. Both the
brothers were losing their temper, and a
hasty word on either side might cause an
outbreak. Of the two, Mr. Argoll was
the more excited ; he imagined that a trap
had been laid for him, and he forgot that
the misunderstanding was entirely due to
himself However, having trained himself

for many years to restrain a momentary
impulse, the effect of his training was now
shown. He curbed his temper with a firm
hand, and it was in measured, as well as
cutting, accents that he said :

Perhaps you are counting a little too
soon upon Miss Solar agreeing to become
your wife. She refused Lord John Cardonald
the other day, and I am almost certain
she has no intention of marrying at present.
A girl of her age who refuses a nobleman
must be difficult to please.'

^ I know that she rejected Lord John,
and I respect her for doing so. A younger
son of a poor Scotch peer is no great catch ;
besides, he is older than I am, and, if I were
a girl of any sense, he is the last man I
should marry.'

Now spare your sneers at the peerage.
Lord John may be the Earl of Armadale
some time or other, and I should be very
glad to be on an intimate footing with such
a noble family. You have lived long: enough
to know that commoners have no chance
against noblemen.'

VOL. I. 15

Yes, Joseph, I know that ; but your
memory is not so good as I thought it was.
Surely you used to harp upon our family
being one of the oldest in Europe ; that we
all used to be or ought to be Barons ; that
we had something to do with the Crusades,
perhaps as camp-followers, or something of
that sort !'

This was a retort for which Mr. Argoll
was not prepared. He could not parry it.
Like most other men in his situation, he
lost his head and charged his brother with
having plotted against him, and used underhand
means to gain his ward's affections.
He forbade him visiting the house, and curtly
said :

^ You shall not marry my ward with my
consent.'

Henry replied :

I have already promised not to do so
without it, and you will see that I can keep
my word.'

As a parting shot, Mr. Argoll shouted :

'You know, I suppose, that Miss Solar will
not be independent till she is twenty-five ?'

I can wait till then, and she has told me
she will wait also.'

You can wait, can you ? How old will
you be seven years hence V

With these vicious words ringing in his
ears, Mr. Henry Argoll dashed out of his
brother's study.

Mr. Argoll fancied himself ill when he
got up that morning ; he nearly had a fit
before he went to bed. He ate and talked
little during dinner, appearing to be preoccupied
and absorbed. This was a common
mood of his. He often sat through dinner
without uttering a word, and it was almost
as frequently his habit to complain that
there was nothing on the table fit to eat.
In fact, his loss of appetite was generally
laid upon the cook's shoulders when the
fault was entirely his own. Even a millionaire
likes to pose as a martyr when it
costs him nothing but a grumble.

When the ladies rose from the table he
did not follow them into the drawing-room —
returning to his study and sending for his
wife to join him. As soon as she came,

15 — 2

he gave vent to his feelings in language
which made her apprehensive that his
reason was leaving him. He was both
violent in speech and excited in manner.
He began :

You know, my dear, that I always
thought Henry a worthless fellow, whose
chief delight was to make me unhappy ; but
I never believed him to be so bad as he is.'

Surely, J. M.,' she replied, in a tone
which betrayed the anxiety which she felt,
Henry is not in debt, and asking you to
help him ? I like him very well, but I have
always been expecting this.'

No such luck, my dear ; if he had been
head over ears in debt I should not be sorry,
and I might, then, give him good advice, to
which he would not listen at another time.
But it is something far worse.'

You terrify me, J. M. Has he robbed
or murdered anybody ? I do hope not ;
but one never knows in these days what a
man will do who hasn't a wife to look after
him.'

^ A wife to look after him !' indignantly

exclaimed Mr. Argoll. ' What business hasa
beggarly artist with a wife ? He has
always boasted about being wedded to his
art, and much good may it do him. In my
opinion, artists are all humbugs, and Henry
is one of the worst.'

But what has he done that he is so
wicked V

Why, he has had the impudence to propose
to Berta, and he has actually asked
me to consent to the marriage. He marry
Berta, after she refused Lord John, who will
be an Earl some day !'

Mrs. Argoll felt the force of this illogical
reasonings, and she was relieved : but she
was afraid to tell her husband that she
thought his brother would make Miss Solar
a good husband. Interpreting her silence
as equivalent to concurring with him, he
went on, in softened tones, to add :

Fortunately, things have not gone too
far yet, and I don't think he will persevere
in his absurd project. Berta is too rich to
be a poor artist's wife. She ought to
marry a peer, and, if I can influence her.

she will certainly do so. Henry has promised
that he will not marry her without
my consent, and, though I think he has
acted very foolishly through life, I don't suppose
he will break his word. That is the
best point about him.'

Shall I say anything to Berta ?' inquired
Mrs. Argoll.

No ; leave her alone till I have settled
what to say. What we'd better do is to
arrange for her going somewhere with you,
or to her aunt at Frankfort. So long as
she is out of Henry's way she'll be safe
enough. He won't come near this house
if I can help it.'

Mrs. Argoll had no objection to offer.
The season was almost over, and it would be
easy and natural for Miss Solar to leave
Palace Gardens.

No long time Avould elapse before Mr.
Argoll was to start on his visit to Sicily,
and thus the family circle would be broken
up. He had refrained from speaking to his
wife about his departure, being half afraid
to do so. He dreaded a scene, even though

he was quite confident of carrying out his
plans. What influenced him was the difficulty
of making his wife understand the
necessity for his journey. When she had
gone to Westbourne, or any other seaside
place, he usually joined her from
Saturday to Monday. He had never left
her for two weeks at a time since their
marriage.

They were not an affectionate couple, or,
rather, it would be more correct to say that
Mr. Argoll felt no need for a wife. He cared
nothing for the things in which his wife took
an interest, and she was often reproaching
him with neglecting her. She liked money,
as all women do ; but she did not see why
the acquisition of it should occupy her husband's
thoughts almost exclusively, and she
complained that she had not more to spend,
however much he might obtain. The truth
is that, as his wealth increased, Mr. Argoll
became more indisposed to part with any of
it. He grudged the outlay, as a rich man,
which he regarded as a thing of course when
he was comparatively poor.

Well, my dear,' he said, after intimating
what he meant to do about his brother, ' I
may tell you now that I am going abroad fora
few days, and as the house will be empty,
it will be a capital opportunity for your
getting the painting done which you have
so often talked about

What, going abroad, J. M. ! I never
heard of such a thing. Why can't you come
with me to Westbourne ? It will do you far
more good.'

Perhaps it would ; but I have business
which obliges me to take a trip to Sicily.'

To Sicily ? Where next, I should like
to know ? Surely something must be really
the matter with you, J. M. Won't you take
a pill ? I shall go and get the box.'

Don't trouble yourself, my dear. There's
nothing wrong with me except being worried,
and the doctor tells me I shall be all
the better for a change. I shall not be long
away, and Byker goes too ; so you see it is
really a matter of business, otherwise I should
take you with me.'

As Mr. Argoll spoke in the tone he employed

when his mind was made up, his wife
felt that it was useless protesting, or trying
to argue with him. She was not reconciled,
however, to his going away. They had
lived together on as good a footing as the
majority of married couples who have begun
their union on a false basis. Mr. Argoll had
never forgiven his wife for not being the
heiress he expected ; whilst she had found
him harder and more unsympathetic than
when he courted her for the sake of her fortune.
Still, though there was no love lost
between them, they had grown accustomed
to each other.

As Mrs. Argoll grew older, she became
very exacting, and, without any other reason
than a foolish fancy, she was inordinately
jealous of her husband. Though he entertained
no other thought than how to increase
his possessions, she pictured him asa
gay Lothario, always looking after every
woman but his wife. The more he denied
that he was unduly susceptible to female
charms, the firmer grew her conviction that
he was imposing upon her. She felt certain

that his trip abroad was due to his desire to
get away from her careful supervision.

Mrs. Argoll had a weak side, and her
husband knew how to play upon it. She regarded
her orphan niece with an affection
which was almost maternal. She had often
asked her husband to make some provision
for Miss Tacon, in order that no unexpected
accident might cause her to be left to the
world's tender mercies, and he had promised
to please her in this respect, without giving
her any assurance that he had done so. He
now resolved to give effect to his promise,
and thus reconcile his wife to his departure.
Accordingly he said to her :

Let's change the subject, my dear, and
talk of Ella for a few minutes.'

^ Are you going to do anything for her,
poor girl ?' began Mrs. Argoll, when her
husband interposed with emphasis, and without
a trace of bad-humour :

^ Don't be so impatient, and let me finish
what I want to say. I have not told you
yet that I fancied Henry came to ask my
approval of his marrying Ella, and when I

found that he was thinking of Berta, when I
supposed him to be speaking about Ella, I
was the more annoyed. However, I shall
carry out my promise, and settle ten thousand
pounds upon trust for Ella, on condition
that she is not to receive the income from it
till she marries, or after my death. Will
this please you ?'

Mrs. Argoll rose from her seat and kissed
her husband, saying :

I must say, J. M., that you are the
kindest of men.'

He did not return the embrace or compliment,
and simply said :

I think you'd better return to the ,
my dear. But don't say a word
to Ella of what I mean to do for her.'

She gave the promise, which she meant to
keep, and left the room.

CHAPTER XII.

A DIRECTOR AT BAY.

With his back to the field, and his feet to the foe.'

Campbell.

ORD JOHN Cardinal

lived to curse the day upon which
he had become the director of a
joint-stock company. He fancied himself at
home on the quarter-deck, whereas in the
City he felt like a sailor on horseback or a
fish out of water. All his intentions were
strictly honourable. If he erred at all, it was
through ignorance. His mistake consisted
in undertaking duties which he could not
discharge with credit to himself and profit
to others. Yet he was not wholly to blame

on account of the companies with which he
was connected proving failures. The shareholders
who lost their money by them lost
their manners and their tempers also, and
harshly styled them utter swindles. The
worst of them was The Flying Fish Torpedo
Company.

There was nothing novel in the formation
of the company. As a matter of course, its
promoters had taken good care of their own
interests, and where perfectly unconcerned
about the fate of the shareholders. Innocent
and trusting investors enter the City
like unshorn lambs ; they leave it fleeced
and experienced.

Mr. Hiram B. Ogden, of the United
States of America, was the ingenious inventor
of the flying fish torpedo. His
admiring countrymen praised it to the skies ;
but they were too sagacious to invest money
in it. ■ Mr. Ogden crossed the Atlantic with
a sheaf of eulogistic notices in his pocket,
and a working-model of the new instrument
of destruction in his trunk. Judging from
the model, nothing more perfect could be

devised for the annihilation of a fleet. The
principle consisted in several small torpedoes
issuing forth at a given moment, and shooting
in the desired direction. They were
named ' flying fish.' If they hit the mark,
they would act as flying fiends.

Mr. Ogden had a letter of introduction
to Messrs. Argoll and Solar, which he delivered
immediately after reaching London.
Mr. Argoll did not give him a warm reception,
promising, however, to consider the subject,
and give him an answer when he had
done so. He commissioned a Stock Exchange
friend, Mr. Import, who professed to know
something about everything, to examine the
working-model and report to him about it.
Mr. Import wrote an enthusiastic report
to the effect that ' The flying fish torpedo
will fetch the public, and I am certain if
your firm start the company, the House will
go into it blindfold.' After some haggling
about terms, the company was formed by
Messrs. Argoll and Solar. 'The House,' that
is, the Stock Exchange — was in a mood to

look with favour upon an old intoxicant or a
new explosive, having a strong speculative
affection for anything in the form of beer
or bombshells.

As Messrs. Argoll and Solar never engaged
in operations on a small scale, the
capital of The Flying Fish Torpedo Company
was fixed at half a million sterling. It was
considerately arranged that the uninstructed
public should see and judge whether the
new torpedo were efficient and practical. A
flying fish torpedo in a tub of water was on
view at Athelstanee House for a week before
the company was advertised. Intelligent
newspaper reporters examined and praised
it. Before the public had an opportunity
to subscribe for shares, all the shares were
under-written, and the private applications
were largely in excess of the number to be
issued.

Mr. Ogden's terms were high, yet they
where accepted without demur. He was to
receive fifty thousand pounds in cash, and
one hundred and fifty thousand in fully-paid

one-pound shares if the company were floated.
The promoters contented themselves with
fifteen thousand pounds in cash, and as many
in shares, exclusive of brokerage, undertaking
in return to pay all expenses up to
allotment. A clause in the prospectus stated
that the directors hoped and anticipated the
profits would not be under fifty per cent,
per annum, and they pledged themselves
not to declare a smaller dividend than
twenty per cent. This was interpreted by
the investing public to mean that the
directors counted upon paying twenty percent,
dividends, the explanation being that
the investing public seldom scrutinizes the
promises in a prospectus with due care till a
company is on the verge of being wound up.
The floating of The Flying Fish Torpedo
Company was a notable event in City
circles. Such a Monday as that on which
the list was opened has seldom been seen.
The excitement was great and general. The
prospectus had been advertised in Sunday's
Onlooker and the morning papers, where it
was stated that subscriptions would be received

on that day at Athelstanee House
between ten and four. As it was a forlorn
hope to apply for shares, the applications
were innumerable. By mid-day the capital
had been subscribed ten times over. A
yelling mob seethed before Athelstanee
House, each person forming part of it
hoping that his application would be favourably
entertained. The shares were quoted
at fifty per cent, premium when the
Stock Exchange opened on Monday ; before
the House closed the premium had risen
to one hundred and fifty per cent.
Fishes,' as they had already been nicknamed
on the Stock Exchange, were the
only things in demand. The chief sellers
were the brokers who acted for Mr. Hiram
B. Ogden and Messrs. Argoll and Solar.
Mr. Ogden was satisfied with obtaining a
moderate premium for his shares, still the
amount in cash which he netted altogether
was the respectable sum of two hundred
thousand j^^^^^^^s. Mr. Argoll did not
order his shares to be sold till late in the
day, and then they fetched one hundred
VOL. I. 16

and twenty per cent, premium. What with
the payment in cash, and the sum realized
by selHng his shares, Mr. Argoll's modest
gain from The Flying Fish Torpedo Company
was nearly forty thousand pounds. Having
secured this profit, his interest in the company
ended.

Lord John Cardonald, as chairman of the
company, was in a position to favour his
impecunious friends, and he did so with
great goodwill. As they pocketed from
five hundred to a thousand pounds each
without risking a penny, they regarded
Johnnie ' with feelings of profound respect.
They had always thought him a good fellow ;
now they were unanimous in saying that a
better fellow than ' Johnnie ' never lived.
He did not apply for a share ; he accepted his
qualification from the promoters, which was
equal to five hundred pounds, the obsolete
practice of qualifying directors being then
regarded as a matter of course. His salary
as chairman was five hundred a-year ; it was to
be trebled on the company paying a dividend.

The floating of this company was attended

with much heart-burning and recrimination.
When the shares in a new company rise to
a premium, all unsuccessful applicants consider
themselves robbed ; successful applicants
entertain the like opinion when the
shares fall below par. The City article of
The Morning Paper was studded with complaints
from those who had failed to
secure an allotment of shares in The Flying
Fish Torpedo Company ; these disappointed
persons professed to be pond-side investors.
As a matter of fact, they were persons for
the most part who had sold shares which
they did not possess, in the hope that the
price of these shares would fall to a discount,
and that they would be able to profit
accordingly. They had to fulfil their engagements
by buying them at a premium, and
they lost the difference which was represented
by the premium. This they considered
grossly unfair to them. When a man in the
City fails to make money at other people's
expense, he considers himself unjustly
treated.

Neither Mr. Hiram B. Ogden nor Mr,

16 — 2

Argoll made any complaint. Both were
reviled by less shrewd and fortunate men.
However, they bore the vituperation with
the meekness and fortitude of the Early
Christians. The larger a man's balance at
his banker's, the more callous is he to hard
names. Super-sensitiveness and poverty are
almost synonymous. Insinuate that a rich
man is a scoundrel, and he will smile at your
folly ; call a poor man a scoundrel, and he
will bring an action for libel.

Within six months after the floating of
The Flying Fish Torpedo Company the
shares were virtually unsalable ; they had
fallen to seventy-five per cent, discount.
The holders were no longer rich City speculators,
but poor investors. City rats know
how to leave a ship long before it is supposed
to be in danger of sinking. Lord John's
troubles now began. His popularity waned
with the price of the shares. When the
company seemed on the high-road to fortune,
no one was estimated more highly than he ;
it was then that he joined the boards of three
Her companies, which attracted investors

chiefly through the prestige of his name.
The director of a successful company is
highly valued as a decoy.

It is simple justice to Lord John to admit
that he did his best for all the companies of
which he was director. He never missed a
Board meeting, and he cheerfully signed his
name whenever asked.

Is it all right ?' he would say to the secretary,
who would deferentially reply, ' It is all
right, my lord,' and the signature was affixed.

But even had Lord John been well versed
in business, he could not have done much
better. The company's capital was soon sunk
in establishing works for the manufacture of
the flying fish torpedoes, and some experiments
had been made with them on a large
scale, which were regarded as very satisfactory
for first attempts. It is true there was
an annoying uncertainty about the action of
the torpedoes ; they did not explode when
they were expected to do so, and they suddenly
exploded at the wrong times and
places. All these mishaps were explained
away on the ground of inexperience in using

them. Even if they had been free from defects,
they would not have fulfilled the hopes
of the company. They were superseded by
a new invention before they were ready to
be supplied to those Governments which are
prepared to expend money upon the newest
machines of war.

The new torpedo was named TJie Shark,
and its special merits were to make mincemeat
of the flying fish torpedo, as well as
blow up any ironclad. When the directors
of The Flying Fish Company heard of this
formidable rival, they communicated with
Mr. Hiram B. Ogden, who was quite equal
to the occasion. He produced a model of
The Sivord Fish, an improved torpedo, which
was guaranteed to split and sink The Shark.
It was clear that The Flying Fish had no
longer any value, and that all the money
sunk in making machinery for its manufacture
was thrown away. As Mr. Ogden
asked a high price for his last invention, it
was necessary to raise fresh capital in order
to comply with his terms.

A meeting of the company was held, at

which Lord John Cardonald explained that
if fresh capital were not subscribed, the
company must be wound up ; he had to
admit, with sorrow and shame, that the
original torpedo, for which so much money
had been given, was wholly worthless. The
shareholders were suspicious and indignant.
They would not listen in silence to the
chairman's explanation, calling him hard
names, and charofing;- him with indefensible
conduct. It was in vain that he assured
them he was not responsible for The Flying
Fish having been superseded by The Shark
and The Sivord Fish. They alleged that
he must have neglected his duty by permitting
this to occur. The most vicious and
uncompromising shareholder was a man from
the country who had bought one share, and
paid two pounds for it. Thus he had two
pounds at stake. He made a long and
rambling speech, depicting the directors asa
set of rascals who were enriching themselves
at the expense of poor shareholders
like himself.

Where are mv dividends V he asked in a

loud voice, amidst applause, intermingled
with shouts of ' That's what we want I '
'Where is the twenty per cent, you promised?'
The meeting evidently sympathized with him,
and when Lord John rose to reply he could
scarcely get a hearing. When the uproar
ceased, he said that whilst he regretted that
the shareholders had not received any dividends,
he thought the previous speaker had
suffered but little, seeing he held one share
only. The meeting ceased to feel so friendly
towards the shareholder from the country.
He was unabashed, however, and made a
diversion by asking Lord John how many
shares he held, and what he had paid for
them. Lord John had to admit that the five
hundred shares representing his qualification
as a director had been presented to him.
This confession was received with groans.
Nor did he get due credit for the statement,
which was perfectly true, that he had never
speculated in the company's shares. Some
of his colleagues had been more astute and
unscrupulous. They had made enough by
buying and selling shares, and improperly

using their private information, to enable
them to regard the company's fate with indifference.
One director sold all his shares
before they fell to a discount, and thus ceased
his connection with the company when he
saw that the end was at hand. His name
was never mentioned and he escaped censure,
though he was far more blameworthy than
Lord John.

The result of the meeting was the appointment
of a committee of investigation, and,
in the course of a few weeks, this committee
presented a report which informed the shareholders
that they had lost nearly all their
capital, and that there was little prospect of
recovering anvthinof. A meetings then
called to determine whether the company
should be wound up, or whether any arrangement
could be effected for carrying on its
affairs. Before this meeting was held, an
event to which Lord John looked forward
with a trepidation which he would not have
felt had he been on the point of engaging
an enemy's ship, he laid the case before Mr.
Argyll, and asked for his advice.

Do not concern yourself about the matter,
Lord John,' was Mr. Argoll's consolatory
reply. ' It is no fault of yours that the
flying fish torpedo is utterly useless now ;
and as for the company being wound up,
why, that is a trifle I'

^ But, Argoll, I fear that my other companies
are in a bad way also.'

I think I can help you with regard to
them, too, especially if there is a little money
left. There are ]Plenty of people in the City
who make a good income by wrecking and
then winding up companies, but they are
chary about attacking or taking a company
in hand when nothing is left for them to
pocket. As you tell me that each of yours
has not lost everything, liquidation will be a
simple matter. Here is a note for Messrs.
Buster and Buster ; they will keep you
harmless if that be possible, and if it suits
their purpose, and also save you from unnecessary
trouble.'

It was surprising, indeed, how little further
vexation was caused to Lord John. Each of
his companies went smoothly into liquidation.

All the appointed meetings were held.
A shareholder attended each, and sjDoke in
almost similar terms. He began by denouncing
the directors ; then he sympathized with
his fellow-shareholders and companions in
affliction ; he hinted that, if the proper steps
were taken, something would occur to benefit
them, and he ended by proposing that the
company should be wound up, and a liquidator
appointed. His proposition was supported
by another shareholder, who complimented
him upon his business-like speech.
A third got up and said he was so much
impressed with the transparent honesty and
sound sense of the first speaker that he considered
him a fit and proper person to be
liquidator, and hoped he would consent to
act. The first speaker, who gave his name
as Mr. Jones, intimated that, though he
could bear his own loss, he was deeply
afflicted to think how his brother-shareholders
had been duped ; he added that he
did not seek the office of liquidator, and
that he was in the hands of the meeting ;
but that, if chosen, he would do his best to

A DIRECTOR AT BAY.

save something out of the fire for distribution
amongst the ruined shareholders. The
shareholders present took comfort when they
heard this, and they unanimously voted that
Mr. Jones should be appointed liquidator,
and should receive a fee of one hundred
guineas for his trouble. He was a clerk
in the employment of Messrs. Buster and
Buster. The other speakers were his
fellow-clerks, and they all had acquired a
single share in each company, in order to
attend the meetings. The four companies
were duly wound up ; none of the shareholders
received a farthing ; but Messrs.
Buster and Buster, who were appointed by
the liquidators in each case to act as solicitors,
made a considerable addition to their
income.

Lord John Cardonald had escaped from
the toils in which he was entangled ; but he
did not feel quite happy after his release.
His friends and acquaintances considered
that he had acted shamefully. So long as
they made money by the shares in the companies
with which he was connected, they

regarded ' Johnnie ' as a man after their
own hearts ; but when they found their
shares turn into waste-paper, then they denounced
' Johnnie ' as a fool or a robber.
He tried to soothe them by explaining how
it had all happened ; but, as he did not quite
understand the matter himself, he could not
make . it clear to them. Besides, none of
his explanations led to the return of their
money.

In truth. Lord John was too punctilious
and ignorant to be a model director. Though
he would not consciously lend himself to any
piece of sharp practice, yet he had unwittingly
helped a few City brigands to
levy black-mail upon defenceless investors.
Those who knew him intimately acquitted
him of guile ; but the public at large looked
upon him as a monster of iniquity. In the
financial journals, where lavish professions
of high morality are as common and frequent
as in the mouth of Mr. Pecksniff, violent
attacks were made upon Lord John. He
was depicted as a corrupter of City morals.
He was held up to public scorn as a specimen

of the young sprigs of nobility — the writers
did not know Lord John's age — who impose
upon innocent and confiding investors, and
it was suggested that he should be prosecuted
by way of example. In the same
articles Messrs. Buster and Buster were
named as suitable persons to take Lord John
in hand, and make him feel the rigours of
the law. Subscriptions were invited for the
purpose of putting him in the dock on a
criminal charge.

When Lord John read these articles, he
again became apprehensive for the consequences.
He was horrified at the story of
his wickedness. He called upon the firm
of solicitors, and saw Mr. Buster, the senior
partner, and learned from him that the
matter was a very serious as well as delicate
one; that he and his partner owed their first
duty to their clients ; that they would bitterly
regret doing anything which might prove
unpleasant to Lord John ; and that nothing
but professional etiquette would induce
them to take any further steps. Mr. Buster
was polite and ambiguous to a degree which

made Lord John at once angry and nervous,
and he left the office of Messrs. Buster and
Buster in a terrible state of uncertainty as
to what might occur. Happily for him,
sufficient funds were not forthcoming to
justify Messrs. Buster and Buster in taking
proceedings against him. It was their rule
not to work without being well paid.
Besides, they had no case, and they
knew it.

It was with a feeling of intense relief and
gratitude that Lord John received a private
note from Mr. Buster, senior, to the effect
that his firm had carefully considered the
matter since his call, and had been delighted
to ascertain how nobly Lord John had
behaved from first to last. He added that
this had been his own view from the first,
and he was glad to learn how correct he
had been in his forecast ; but he could
not deny that a different view prevailed in
other quarters, and that the matter would
have gone into Court unless something had
happened to prevent it. What that something
was Mr. Buster did not think fit to

disclose. Lord John's opinion was that
Messrs. Buster and Buster had shown him
great kindness, and that his escape had been
a narrow one. He wrote a note of warm
thanks in return for their letter, and expressed
his extreme satisfaction that the
management of the business had fallen into
such good hands. Not to be outdone in
courtesy, Messrs. Buster and Buster acknowledged
the receipt of his kind note, and intimated
that few things would give them
greater satisfaction than to be honoured by
having him as a client.

TWO LOVELORN MAIDENS.

Maidens withering on the stalk.'

Wordsworth.

Still from the fount of Joy's delicious springs
Some bitter o'er the flowers its bubbling venom flings.'

Byron.

ISS SOLAR could not marry the
man upon whom her heart was
set ; Miss Tacon sighed in vain
about a man who never had a thought for her.
They w-ere companions and confidantes in
misfortune ; they mingled their complaints
and their sighs. Since Miss Solar told
Miss Tacon of the offer which she had received,
they had no secrets from each other.
Each had all the consolation which could
VOL. I. 17

be derived from mutual sympathy. Unhappily,
the most genuine sympathy cannot
cure a broken limb or a broken heart ;
still less can it compensate for love which
is unrequited, or love which feeds upon
hope.

Oh, how I envy you, Berta ! You will
be so happy some day,' was Miss Tacon's
oft-repeated exclamation.

Miss Solar's reply generally took this
form : ' Well, Ella, I cannot say I am
happy now. The day you speak of may
never arrive. I really don't think there's
much to choose between us.'

As a matter of fact. Miss Tacon did not
think that her friend was an object of pity.
She had the exaggerated opinion which
those who have no money entertain respecting
those who have plenty, and she
could not heartily believe that a great
heiress could be long or seriously miserable.


If I only were rich,' she often said to
herself, ' Lord John would then propose tome.'


She did not consider that his proposing in
these circumstances would not be wholly
creditable to him or complimentary to her.
She knew nothing about Mr. Argoll's intention
to make her independent of the
sordid cares of life. Even if she had been
aware that she was no longer penniless, she
could not call upon Lord John to marry her.
What she accounted her greatest trial was
not to see him so often as she used to do.
It was a delight to be in the room with him,
and hear him talk, even when he did not
single her out as the object of his attention.
Since Miss Solar rejected him, he had not
called at Palace Gardens. When he wished
to see Mr. Argoll, he visited him at Athelstan
House.

Mr. Henry Argoll stayed away from
Palace Gardens also, and he did so greatly
to the chagrin of Miss Solar. Yet they
sometimes saw each other. The arrangement
for their first meeting was suggested
by Mr. Henry Argoll, who wrote to her as
follows immediately after the interview with
his brother :

17—2

Dearest Berta,

^ I have seen Joseph, and left hmi ina
towering passion. Though his principles
are so much better than mine, yet if a knife
or pistol had been handy, I do not think I
should be writing to you now. He was
never very affectionate, but now I think he
hates me. You are the mischief-maker, so
you see it is not critics only who set people
by the ears ! Cannot we meet ? I do not
mean to call at Palace Gardens till your
amiable guardian gives me leave. If Miss
Tacon and you care to visit the National
Gallery tomorrow after luncheon, I could
give both, or one of you, a lecture on the
Old Masters.

Henry.'

They met next day in the National
Gallery. Miss Tacon understood what was
expected of her, and she played her part well.
In the course of the two hours during which
Mr. Henry Argoll may or may not have
been pointing out to Miss Solar the beauties
of the Old Masters, she studied them as

intently as if they interested her, and she
did so at a convenient distance from the
lovers.

Nothing which is noteworthy passed between
Miss Solar and Mr. Henry Argoll.
She heard his story with sympathetic attention,
and she expressed the opinion that her
guardian was alike hard-hearted and ill-judging.
She hinted that whatever might
be the consequences of her marrying without
her guardian's consent, she was prepared
to face them. Neither she nor Mr. Henry
Argoll were acquainted with the exact terms
of her father's will. It had never occurred
to him, as it naturally did to Lord John,
to go to Somerset House and learn its
tenor. She told him that she would speak
to her guardian and ascertain how matters
stood. He dissuaded her from saying or
doing anything. Nothing would induce
him, he affirmed, to break his promise to his
brother, nor would he sanction any sacrifice
on her part of which she might repent in
calmer moments and later years. It is
certain that he was Quixotic in his way, as

she was in hers. They were too romantic
a couple, from a pm-ely worldly point of view.
Both of them, indeed, were ready to marry
for love, yet her fortune was an obstacle
instead of a stepping-stone to their marriage.
Perhaps he was over-scrupulous, and
neither may have been worldly-wise. But it
will always remain incontestable that the
wisdom of the world is foolishness to spirits
of the sublimer type.

^ Now, Bert a,' said Mr. Argoll, when, at
his request. Miss Solar came to his study to
enjoy a private talk with him, ' you must
not think me unkind for disapproving of
your marrying Henry. He may have some
good points, though I have not discovered
them, and he certainly has shown great want
of consideration for me.'

I do hope,' she replied, ' that Henry has
not acted wrongly towards you ; I'm sure he
has a warm heart, and he has always spoken
most affectionately of you.'

That may be quite true, Berta, but a
girl like you does not know much of business
matters ; besides, your worthy father

trusted me implicitly as far as you are concerned,
and I am sure he would say that I
had acted for the best.'

It seems very hard, Mr. Argoll, that you
should treat me like a child. When I was
much younger my father let me have my own
way in everything. He was always kind.'

That is quite possible ; but then, Berta,
you did not think of marrying in those days.
It is a very serious matter, and I wish you
to realize the importance of your not making
a mistake.'

But didn't you approve of my marrying
Lord John Cardonald ?'

Ah ! that was a different matter. He
will probably be an earl one of these days,
and you would get a fine position in society
as his wife. We are very humble persons —
at least, we are now, though, as I have
often told you, my family once belonged to
the oldest nobility in Europe ; and, I think,
you would be far happier as Lord John's
wife than the wife of Henry, who is only
an artist, and who paints pictures which I
can't make anything of

Please, Mr. Argoll, don't say anything
against Henry's pictures. The' are wonderful,
and few people can appreciate them.'

Then, Berta, I am not one of the few ;
but, as I have already told you, it would be
far better to marry Lord John and buy
Henry's pictures, if throwing away your
money gave you any pleasure.'

At any rate. Lord John wants to marry
me for my money ; whilst Henry does not
know how much I may have, and he says
he does not mind. He is a noble fellow.'

I don't wish to hurt your feelings or
say anything against Henry ; but, if it be
true that he doesn't know all about your
father's will, then he is a still more unbusinesslike
man than I supposed. I don't believe
that Lord John is so ignorant about your
expectations.'

I quite agree with you, Mr. Argoll.
There is no sentiment in Lord John which
has not to do with cash ; I was always convinced
of that.'

Well, Berta, it is no use arguing any
longer. I shall try to do what I can to

please you, but you must give me credit for
doing what I consider right. I suppose
Henry has told you that he promised me
not to marry you without my consent ; at
least, till you are beyond my control, which
will be when you are twenty-five.'

He did, and I am certain he will keep
his word, and I can wait.'

'Well, then, I hope you won't find the
time hang heavy on your hands.'

Having uttered this kindly sentiment,
Mr. Arofoll rose and told his ward that she
had better go back to the drawing-room.
Miss Solar went there only to say goodnight
to Mrs. Argoll ; thence she proceeded
to her own room, and wrote the following
letter to her aunt :

Dearest Aunt Irma,

I am so wretched, that I almost
wish I were dead. When I was little I
used to repeat some nonsensical words, which
I either read somewhere or heard from someone,
and they were "die Welt list runt, so muss
ici throne " [I must cry because the world

is round], and you used to laugh at me, and
tell me I should have reason to cry some
day, though, perhaps, the reason might not
be any better. This came into my head as
I sat down to write to you, and I am not
sure whether you weill think I have good
cause for crying now. However, I may as
well tell you the whole story, and then you
can judge for yourself

I have often said in my letters to you
how very kind Mr. Henry Argoll has been
since I first saw him. He is very different,
both from his brother and Lord John Cardonald,
and quite unlike the friends of Mr.
Argoll, who treat me as if I were a kind of
golden calf Before coming here I had
often heard of Mr. Henry Argoll, and had
admired his pictures in the Sutherland
Gallery. They are quite different from
those of the other artists, who seem to copy
each other, whereas his are perfectly original.
The critics say that he cannot draw or
paint, and he is convinced that the critics
who write to this effect cannot distinguish a
good picture from a bad one. For a longtime

he was always abused, but lately he
has been sometimes praised, the reason being
that he has become a critic also, and other
artists are afraid of him, as he can write
very unpleasant things about them. He
often tells me that art critics are always
most considerate towards those who know
how to defend themselves. I think that he
is too bitter and severe, and I have told
him so ; but his reply is that he cannot
help writing what he thinks, and that he
does not mind what others say of him. At
any rate, he is not a commonplace man,
and he is the only one who has never flattered
me.

It was a new sensation to be told by
him, as I was the first time he looked at my
pictures, that I did not know how to draw
or paint. He gave me several lessons, and,
though he was always finding fault, he confessed
at last that I had made some progress.
The oftener I saw him, the more
was I convinced that he resembled the hero
of my dreams. He is rather older than I
am, but he does not look nearly so old ashe

is ; I can scarcely believe him to be
only a few years younger than my guardian,
who has the look of a very old man.
Making money in the City seems to be a
trying kind of business, as it killed poor
papa when he was quite young. Perhaps
you have already guessed that Mr. Henry
Argos has asked me to be his wife. I was
greatly surprised, never dreaming that he
had such an intention ; but I did not hesitate
about accepting him.

Now, you will perhaps think me absurd
for beginning this letter by writing that I
am unhappy ; but the fact is my guardian
will not consent to our marrying, and Henry
dear Henry, as I may now call him — is
too proud to marry me without his brother's
approval, so long as he has a right to give
it. When I am twenty-five — that is seven
years hence, which seems an eternity — I
shall be free to do as I please. Henry
is ready to wait, as I am, too, though I
think it very unkind of my guardian to be
opposed to the match. I have heard that
Mr. Argoll is going away for some time,

and that Mrs. Argoll and dear Ella, who
has her heart-troubles too, poor thing 1 are
going to stay at Westbourne till he returns.

^ I do not think that Henry has made any
plans. The last time I saw him he said he
might go abroad. Now, I think of paying
you a visit and having a long talk over my
troubles. There is no knowing but that
Henry might call at Frankfort when he
visits the Continent, and then I could introduce
him to you. Please let me know
whether you think of staying in Frankfort
during the summer, and if not, where you
think of going.

Your loving but most unhappy niece,

^ Berta.'

Aunt Irma sent a short reply by return
of post, in which she expressed her strong
wish to see Berta and talk over her engagement,
and also said that, though she
contemplated going away, she would postpone
her departure till Berta joined her.
She added that she had despatched a short
note by the same post, requesting Mr. Argoll

to consent to Berta paying her a visit. As
Mr. Argoll made no objection, her niece
intimated that she would join her aunt at
Frankfort.

This arrangement did not suit Mrs.
Argoll, who had relied upon Miss Solar
keeping her company till her husband's return
to England. She had grown very fond
of Miss Solar, and they agreed very well,
notwithstanding their having little in common.
Mrs. Argoll had no liking for art or
artists ; she read few books, and the literature
of Germany, for which Miss Solar had
a strong love, was as foreign to her as that
of Russia or Hindostan. She enjoyed reading
the loathsome details of a horrible
murder, and she had an unhealthy fondness
for divorce cases. Miss Solar would not
waste her time upon such repulsive trash.
Mrs. Argoll was fond of fine clothes, and
she spent much time and money in shopping.
Miss Solar dressed very simply, and she
never entered a shop unless obliged to do so,
and then she hastened to make her purchases
and leave it. Worst of all, from

Mrs. Argoll's point of view, was the uniform
robust health with which Miss Solar was
blessed ; she preserved it by eschewing
quackery.

There was a charm in Miss Solar's manner
which made women take to her as well as
men. She abounded in sympathy with her
fellows, and she manifested an interest in all
the things which interested them. Hero



own likes and dislikes never interfered with
her doing her utmost to give pleasure or
render a service to others ; and, with the
exception of swallowing one of Mrs. Argoll's
pills, she would do anything to oblige her
which lay in her power. A girl as beautiful
as Miss Solar might be forgiven for playing
the part of a goddess careless of mankind.
Though a goddess in look, she was a charming
human being in sentiment and conduct,
being prone to indulge in the gentle charities
which gladden and sweeten human intercourse.


One of Mrs. Argoll's pleasantness traits
was her readiness to labour amongst the
poor, and to help those who could not help

themselves. She had countless pensioners,
and the hospitals and associations which
dealt with sick women and children found in
her a patroness whose purse was always
open, and who was ready to give her personal
help to further their objects.

In these beneficent works she had a willing
helpmate in Miss Solar, and many an ailing
infant and woman had their hard lot
brightened when this beautiful girl paid a
visit to the wards of the hospital where they
lay, helpless and weary. She brought flowers
to give them a glimpse of the world from
which they were shut out, and her sweet
smile, and as sweet words of comfort, seemed
to the poor sufferers like a foretaste of
heaven. It cannot be a matter of wonder,
then, that Mrs. Argoll felt it almost as hard
to be parted from Miss Solar as from her
husband ; and it may be added that, when
Miss Solar learned how vexed Mrs. Argoll
was at her going to Frankfort, she was on
the point of giving up visiting her aunt
Irma. In order to gratify Mrs. Argoll, she
promised to shorten her visit to the Continent,

and to return to England sooner than
she would otherwise have done.

In the course of a talk with Miss Solar,
the feelings of Mrs. Argoll with respect to her
disappointment were exhibited in a manner
which would have displeased her husband had
he been present. Having changed her mind,
she now thought her husband entirely in the
wrong for objecting to a marriage between
his ward and his brother. This alteration
in her views was no unfrequent occurrence.
Mrs. Argoll was given to agree with the
last person with whom she conversed, and
whilst she seldom contradicted her husband,
she often said behind his back what she
would not have ventured to express to him
in person.

She thus intimated her altered view :

I must say, Berta, I think you have been
badly used. I did wish you to marry Lord
John Cardonald. I like him, because he
came to consult me about his health the last
time he felt ill, and he seemed pleased to get
my advice and medicine ; but, of course, if
you did not care for him, you were quite

VOL. I. 18

right in saying so. I really thought it would
be a match. You appeared suited for each
other.'

Miss Solar replied, in a tone of vexation :

Please, Mrs. Argoll, do not harp on that
subject. I don't wish to say anything for
or against Lord John, nor is there any reason
to do so now.'

Well, dear, I shall not torment you about
him, because I now think you will be happy
with Henry. He is just the man who understands
art, and that sort of thing, in
which you are so wrapt up.'

I would rather not speak about him
either, Mrs. Argoll. The prospect of my
marrying him is very remote, and I must
try and bear my disappointment.'

'Now, Berta, if you do not mind my trying,
I think I can help you. Before Mr. Argoll
goes away on this foolish journey — why he
has taken it into his head to go to Sicily,
unless it be to vex me, I don't understand —
]^l^all have a serious talk with him, and tell
hin how you feel. If he would only give
his consent to your marrying when he comes

back, we might go to Westbourne with Ella,
and that would be so nice.'

Again I must beg of you, dear Mrs.
Argoll, not to interfere. I think it better
for my sake and Henry's not to say anything
at present. I know he would not
like it. Besides, I don't believe it would
do any good now.'

Well, dear, I shall not distress you by
referring to the matter any more.'

Having said this, Mrs. Argoll turned the
conversation into another channel. She
did interfere, however, and made an appeal
to her husband, which had the effect of
making him very angry. Like his brother,
who plumed himself upon never changing
his mind, Mr. Argoll was stiff in opinion,
and he was so especially in his own home.
In the City he varied his opinions to suit
his purpose and his purse. He seldom persisted
in error when he was certain to lose
money by so doing.

Mrs. Argoll could have governed her husband
with ease had she possessed a little
tact, but she was too impulsive and vehe-

18 — 2

ment alike in her affection and aversion ;
besides, she had a stupid longing both for
having her own way, and making it clear
that she had succeeded. Her husband was
ready enough to do what pleased her, provided
he was regarded as master. Just ashe
objected to any clerk giving an answer
to a question without consulting him, so did
he object to his wife doing anything of which
he had not intimated his approval. All she
had to do was to suggest whether a certain
thing should not be done in a particular way,
and then await his decision and accept it ;
the chances being that he would assent to the
suggestion as his own. But if, as was her
custom, she said, ' Now, J. M., I think you
must do this or that,' then he invariably
raised some objection to which she would
not listen ; a dispute followed, and the result
was that he obstinately adhered to his own
way, and had it.

On the present occasion, Mrs. Argoll said
to her husband :

I am sure, J. M., that you are quite
wrong about Henry. He would make a

capital husband for Berta. I wish you would
consent to their marrying when you come
back.'

His reply was given in a tone of anger
and disgust :

I wish, my dear, that you would not
mention this matter again. I thought you
agreed with me that Henry has acted infamously.'


I did nothing of the kind, J. M. I
didn't contradict you when you told me
what you thought ; but now I feel certain
that you are quite mistaken.'

Has Berta asked you to speak to me on
the subject V

No ; she has not. Poor thing ! she is
bitterly disappointed, I am sure, and I really
think you are treating her badly.'

Let me tell you, for the last time, not
to trouble me with your opinions about
Henry and Berta. My mind is made up,
and I shall do my duty.'

A man like Mr. Argoll always enjoys
doing his duty when it gives pain to other
people.

This was not the only result of Mrs.
Argoll's well-intended but badly-managed
appeal. She was so nettled at her husband's
hardness of heart that she went on to upbraid
him for rendering everybody miserable.
He tried to soften and stop her, by saying
what he had done for her niece Ella, but
without effect ; now that Ella was provided
for — indeed, she knew that her husband had
settled upon her the sum he had promised —
she cared no more about that matter ; and
she gave her mind to acting the part of
an ill-used wife. She renewed her objections
to his going away, and averred that he did
so simply to annoy her. He was conscious
of doing nothing of the sort. He felt, however,
much less disinclined to go than he
had recently done. His wife's bad temper
was unbearable, and he thought that his
absence from home for a time would be
better for them both. She was so out of
humour as to care little at the moment
whether he remained or went. Thus the
arrangements for his departure were carried
on as if there were no reason for his staying,

and the approaching break-up in the Argoll
household was regarded by most of its
members with a feeling of satisfaction.

Almost at the last moment, before starting"
for Frankfort, Miss Solar received a note
from Mr. Henry Argoll, in which he told
her that he was on the point of starting for
South America. The unexpected news made
her heart very heavy. She thought that
everything and everybody conspired to
render her unhappy.

THE Patagonians SYNDICATE.

Get money ; still get money, boy ;
No matter by what means.'

Ben Jonson.

Immediately before Mr. Argoll's
departure for Sicily, some
friends laid before him a scheme
for making money which, in City phrase, they
styled a very good thing, and they asked him
to take part in it. An intelligent and impecunious
native of South America, named
Senor Baracallos, had arrived in London
with a grand project for enriching all who
shared in and forwarded it, provided the
necessary capital were obtained. He had

discovered, at least he said so, that great
mineral wealth existed in the little-known
region of the South American continent to
the north of the Straits of Magellan. Not
only did these riches abound in the mainland,
but there were many islands in the
straits containing large deposits of valuable
minerals. The inhabitants of the country
were, he said, about to assert their independence,
and the Republic of Patagonia would
soon be added to the many republics which
successfully display a travesty of popular
government in South America.

Senor Baracallos had impressed and inflamed
the imaginations of many moneyed
men in the City, who are as easily deluded
with fables as our remote and simple-minded
ancestors were impressed with the tales of
Sir John Mandeville, and as our children are
with the tales of Fairyland. It was arranged
by those persons who approved of the scheme
to form a syndicate, wherewith to supply the
capital necessary to make explorations in
Patagonia, and to verify the statements of
the sanguine Senor Baracallos. Mr. Argoll

agreed, after some persuasion, to join the
syndicate, and he contributed one hundred
pounds on the condition that he should
receive back one thousand out of the first
profits. His friends wanted his name quite
as much as his money, as they kne^Y that if
they could say, ^ This is a first-class affair ;
Argoll has joined it,' they would be certain
to get others to follow Mr. Argoll's lead.
Twenty thousand pounds were required ;
within an hour after Mr. Argoll had put
down his name for one hundred, the entire
amount was subscribed.

The next question to be decided was as
to the persons who should form the expedition,
and Mr. Argoll's advice was asked.
All he knew about Patagonia was that its
inhabitants were giants ; he was unaware
that the romantic stature of the Patagonians
is a fiction, which Commander Musters has
exploded in the interesting account of his
wanderings through their country. His
friends were not much better informed. The
theory and practice of exchanges had no
mysteries for Mr. Argoll ; but his knowledge

of geography, and of the innumerable facts
which were familiar to Macaulay's schoolboy,
was lamentably imperfect. There is
more general ignorance amongst great
financiers in London and Paris, Vienna and
Berlin, Frankfort and New York, than
amongst any other class of men which is
regarded as well educated.

Mr. Argoll had a happy thought which
did him credit. Lord John Cardonald was
in great monetary straits, since the companies
of which he was a director had ceased
to supply him with fees. He had stated his
case to Mr. Argoll, who now said to himself
:

Lord John is the very man to head such
an expedition. He can be trusted, and I am
certain that he will do his duty thoroughly.'

He wrote to Lord John, asking him to
call at Athelstanee House.

Well, my lord,' was his question as soon
as Lord John entered the room, ' I hope
that things are going on better with you
now. I heard that Buster and Buster have
arranged matters.'

I must say they have, but I am none
the happier. I expect to end in the Bankruptcy
Court. I thought I had plenty of
money, and no\\' I find that it will take
several years' pay to clear off my debts, and
how I am to live in the meantime God only
knows. '

I am very sorry to hear it. You fast
youno^ men think nothing of running into
debt.'

Lord John felt flattered to be classed
amongst the young men, although he would
gladly have acknowledged being middle-aged
if by so doing he could have wiped out his
liabilities. Mr. Argoll continued, in the
style and tone of a Sunday-school teacher :

I consider it wrong, my lord, to incur
liabilities which cannot be met. I have made
it a rule throughout my life never to owe
anything, and I wish that young swells like
you would take a lesson from an old fogey
like myself However, I suppose it's no use
preaching now. Are you inclined to do anything
?'

Of course I shall only be too happy todo

anything which will bring me in money ;
but no more director ships, if you please.
I've had more than enough of them. I
would rather go to sea again, or take a long
turn on the treadmill.'

So you wouldn't object to leave London
for a time V

Object ! why, I should think not ! I
have been thinking of taking a trip to Scotland.
I believe there is a sanctuary in Edinburgh,
near Holyrood Palace, where no
creditor can touch a debtor. I have a great
mind to go and live there. But the infernal
Radicals may have abolished such a jilace of
refuge for gentlemen in difficulties.'

Mr. Argoll was unaware that an Alsatia,
such as Sir Walter Scott has depicted in The
Fortunes of Niger, but less vulgar and rowdy,
existed till recently in the Scottish capital,
nor did he like the notion of a gentleman taking
refuge in such a place from his creditors.

Not to display his ignorance or his
squeamishness, he diverted the conversation
by saying :

I have heard of something which may

possibly suit you, my lord ; some friends of
mine are planning an expedition to South
America, and they wish a gentleman of experience
like yourself to head it.'

Lord John's reminiscences of South
America were confined to a short stay at
Rio de Janeiro, a city which he found greatly
to his taste, and he cherished tender feelings
towards many South American beauties
whose acquaintance he had enjoyed when
there. To revisit that place, or one resembling
it, would please him above all things,
so he replied :

If you wish me to go back to the more
civilized part of South America, I am at
your service. Only you must make it worth
my while ; I can't afford to go for love.'

There is no love in the case, my lord ;
we never think of such a thing in business
matters. If you go you will be well paid —
at the rate of, say, a thousand a year
and your expenses. Besides, you may have
half your salary in advance.'

The offer is certainly tempting. When
do you wish me to start ?'

At once ; the business cannot be concluded
too soon ; the sooner you start the
better.'

All right ; I am quite as willing as the late
Sir Charles Napier to go off at a moment's
notice, though I want more luggage than he
did, which was a collar and a tooth-brush.'

You can have at least a week to prepare
; besides, you are not going alone.
You must look out for some artist to accompany
you. My friends want sketches
made of the country, as well as a report on
it which you can write. I need scarcely add
that what my friends desire above all things
is a faithful statement of facts.'

They shall have it as far as I am concerned.
We old naval officers are not likely
to draw up fanciful resorts of what we have
seen, and we make a point of looking at
everything with our own eyes. Our training
taught us that. But you have not said
where you wish me to go. South America
is a pretty big place.'

I understand that you are wanted to explore
and report upon the country to the

north of the Straits of Magellan. Have
you ever been there V

Yes, I've sailed through the Straits, and
I must say that a more God-forsaken country
than the land on either side I never saw.'

We are told that there are rich deposits
of minerals on the mainland, and quite as
valuable deposits of nitrate of soda on some
of the islands. Your mission will be to find
out how far this is true, and bring back the
information which you collect.'

I hope I am not going on a fool's errand.
I don't believe there is anything in that
part of the country worth having ; and as for
the natives, they are the most repulsive
beings I ever set eyes uj^on.'

You can begin making preparations, my
lord, and I shall tell my friends that you
will go. We shall have an agreement prepared
for you to sign. I must have 
before I start for Sicily.'

The proposition to send Lord John Cardonald
pleased the members of the syndicate,
and they thanked Mr. Ai'goll for having
persuaded him to go. A friend of Lord

John's, to whom he mentioned the matter
the same evening, told Mr. Henry Argoll of
it an hour or two afterwards. The latter
was struck with the news. It at once occurred
to him that nothing would suit him
better than to join the expedition. He had
long wished to visit that out-of-the-way region
of the earth, and sketch or paint its
wonders. He did not like Lord John when
he was a rival for Miss Solar's affections, but
now he had no personal objection to him ;
indeed, he had heard his praises sounded by
those who had served with and under him.

He called the following day at the Service
Club, of which Lord John was a member,
and was so fortunate as to find him
there engaged in playing pool, at which he
was an expert, and from which he sometimes
brought away enough wherewith to pay for
his dinner. Lord John relinquished the
game to see him, and he at once stated what
had caused him to call at the Club.

^ My good fellow, you are the very man I
most wanted to see,' was Lord John's warm
greeting ; ^ come and let's talk this matter

VOL. I. 19

over. Perhaps you can introduce me to
some of your artist friends. I can sketch a
little, but those City people will want something
better for their money than anything
in that way I can bring home.'

Perhaps I may tell you at once, Lord
John, that I am your man, if you will have
me. I think I can draw and paint well
enough to please these City folks, who, between
ourselves, know no more of art thana
cat ; besides, I have long wished to visit
South America.'

I suppose you are prepared to rough it V

Of course I am ; I am as sick of what is
called civilization as Rousseau pretended to
be, and I wish to see the children of Nature
at home.'

Now, take my advice, and don't expect
too much. The Indians are picturesque
enough to please you artists, but their smell !
why, it's something dreadful !'

I am ready to judge for myself, so that's
settled. I can start whenever you are ready.
I shall go off and order a portable sketching
apparatus.'

The pair parted better friends than they
had ever been. Lord John wrote a note to
Mr. Argoll, saying that he could leave for
Patagonia within a few days, and that he
had engaged an excellent artist to accompany
him ; but he did not mention his
name.

No one was better satisfied than Senor
Baracallos when the arrangements for the
expedition were completed.

He was both greatly surprised and pleased
at his success, never having expected to achieve
so easy a victory over the hard-headed financiers
of England. It is true that his stories
were plausible ; but they had the greater
merit of exciting cupidity. In one respect
he resembled Captain John Smith, the Father
of Virginia. The adventures of John Smith
were incredible ; his discoveries were marvellous.
Yet no one regarded them critically
till Fuller wrote a notice of him, wherein he
said : ' It sounded much to the diminution
of his deeds that he alone is the herald to
publish and proclaim them.' Senor Caracalla
was his own herald. Happily for him,

19 — 2

there was no person in the City who submitted
his allegations to minute criticism.

He had now to perform the part of the
agreement which consisted in communicating
all the information as to localities that he
possessed. He had to hand over a map on
which the various spots were marked where
mineral riches were to be found on the mainland,
and on which the islands were indicated,
where beds of nitrate of soda had
been discovered. He had plenty of valuable
specimens wherewith to dazzle the eyes of
Mr. Argoll and his associates. If these
specimens actually represented existing mines,
then Patagonia had silver deposits as rich as
those of Mexico, gold veins as rich as El
Callao in Venezuela, diamond deposits as
rich as those of South Africa and Brazil.

The members of the Syndicate felt confident
that, if only one of the properties
turned out as well as they hoped, they would
be enriched to their heart's content. They
may be considered over-sanguine and wanting
in caution, yet they were not more credulous
than those who were ready to embark

their capital in the diamond fields of Arizona,
and the tin mines of Dakota. Tell a cautious
City man that he will get five per cent, for
his money in a foreign and unknown land,
and he will refuse to invest it there ; but tell
him that the return will be forty or fifty percent,
and he will eagerly part with it.

Senor Baracallos was very careful about
bargaining that, if Lord John's report proved
favourable, and if a company were floated on
the strength of it, he should be paid a large
sum. This showed his good faith ; at least
some persons thought so. But he could
await an unfavourable report with composure,
as he insisted upon a sum of ten
thousand pounds being paid in cash for the
information which he had given. The remaining
ten thousand pounds, being the other
half of the sum subscribed by the Syndicate,
were to be devoted to defraying the expenses
of the expedition, and to making preliminary
payments on the spot to the possessors
of the valuable j)i"<^perties. Lord John, as
has been said already, ,was paid a thousand
pounds and his expenses ; Mr. Henry Argos

was to receive eve hundred pounds and his
expenses, and both were perfectly satisfied
with the terms. They were accompanied by
Mr. Pendragon, a Cornishman, who professed
to know all about mines and mining, and
who was to help them with technical knowledge.
His fee was seven hundred pounds.
A Cornish miner works for a pittance at
home ; when he goes abroad to inspect a
mining property, he expects to be highly
paid for his labour.

Mr. Henry Argos had met, and said goodbye
to Miss Solar before he was offered the
mission to Patagonia. He had all but arranged
to take a trip to the Continent, and
he had promised, in the event of visiting the
Black Forest with a view to sketching, that
he would stop) at Frankfort on the way.
She told him that she was anxious he should
see her aunt Irma, and that her aunt would
like to make his acquaintance. He did not
object. It was on the eve of her departure
for Frankfort that she received the note from
him to which reference has already been
made. It ran thus :

Dearest Berta,

My plans are suddenly changed.
You know how often I have talked of going
to South America, and bringing back pictures
of Nature on a grander scale than is to
be seen in our part of the globe, and you
more than once told me you wished I should
do so. An unexpected opportunity has occurred.
My brother has some scheme on
foot for making a second fortune in Patagonia,
and he has asked Lord John to go out
to make inquiries for him there. Lord John
wishes me to accompany him as an artist,
and, what is better, the journey will not cost
me anything, as some City people have taken
it into their heads to pay all the expenses,
and to give me something handsome besides.
I have agreed to go, and we start next week.
I am really sorry to go so far away from you,
but I do not think my worthy brother, your
esteemed guardian, will cry bitterly when
he hears that I am going. Perhaps he
would not mourn long if I never came back.
But I shall do so, were it only to spite him
and please you. Whenever I can I shall

write. I hope to be able to receive letters
from you. As soon as I know an address to
which to write, I shall let you know, and I
hope that you will send me a letter now and
then. God bless you, darling, and do not
forget your own

Henry.'

Miss Solar's reply was still shorter than
Mr. Henry Argoll's note :

My dearest Henry,

I cannot tell you how vexed I am
to get your note. I do not know how to
answer it. I really wish you would give up
the dreadful expedition. What is the use
of it ? You can find plenty of good subjects
for sketching in the Black Forest. I
never thought you were in earnest when you
used to talk about painting the scenery of
South America ; and I am sure I bitterly
regret ever encouraging you in such a mad
project. However, I suppose it is no use
expecting you to alter your plans now. Only
do take care of yourself for my sake, and do

write often, and please do not marry a savage
woman. I sincerely hope you will not forget
your disconsolate

Berta.

Pes. — I wish there were no money or
guardians in the world ; then you would not
go to Patagonia, and I should be as happy
as the day is long. — B.'

Miss Solar left Palace Gardens in a more
downcast mood than it had been her lot to
experience since her father's death. It is
true she no longer felt alone in the world
and uncared for. She had been happier
there than she ever expected to be. The
desire of her heart had been gratified in
finding some one whom she could love with
her whole soul. Moreover, she had found
kind friends in Mr. and Mrs. Argoll. They
had laboured to please her in all things, and
if Mr. Argoll had not approved of her marrying
his brother, this was the only bitter
drop in the cup which had been so pleasant.
In Miss Tacon she discovered a friend only
less dear than her lover.

Much as Miss Solar bemoaned her lot,
her feelings were far less acute than those
of Miss Tacon, to whom she told the purport
of Mr. Henry Argos's note. That he
should go to Patagonia or to the world's
end, gave her no concern ; but that Lord
Cardonald should venture his precious life
amongst savages, whom she fancied to be
bloodthirsty cannibals, was a dreadful
thought.

Poor Lord John !' she exclaimed on
hearing the news ; * what a shame to let him
go there ! He will never come back. I shall
never see him aofain.' She was inconsolable.

Miss Solar tried hard to comfort her,
although she, too, regarded the expedition as
foolhardy and dangerous.

^ Don't give way so, Ella,' she said ; ' they
will all return well, and soon. Nobody is
devoured by cannibals nowadays, and there
are no theatres to go on fire in Patagonia.
There is far more risk in sfoinsf to the theatre
here than in going to South America.'

It's all very well for you to speak in that
way, Berta,' was Miss Tacon's reply. ' You

are engaged to Mr. Henry Argoll, and he
will be sure to come back ; he will take care
of himself for your sake, whilst poor Lord
John has no one to care for, and he will run
risks and be killed. He is such a good and
brave fellow.'

It is possible that Miss Tacon's high
opinion of Lord John was well founded ; but
it is certain that her conception of him differed
in many respects from the reality.
She had created an image of him which was
more flattering than correct. As a matter
of fact, he had many failings ; in her eyes he
was the type of manly beauty and the soul
of chivalry. She put the best and kindest
interpretation upon all his actions. One
thing only would have lessened her admiration
for him, and that would have been his
marrying another. Happily for her peace
of mind, he had been rejected by Miss Solar.
She was quite positive that Miss Solar would
not have made him a good wife. So long ashe
remained unmarried, the crowning of her
hopes was always possible, and she sedulously
cherished the expectation that the day might

come when she would be permitted to make
him happy. As it was, the mere sight of
him at intervals gave her, as has been said
already, no small gratification.

But as all hope of soon seeing Lord John
again was now removed. Miss Tacon was
deeply grieved. She had imagined every
possible contingency save the one which was
about to occur. Lord John's long journey to
an almost unknown land seemed to her as
only less terrible than his death. And that
he would surely die appeared to her inevitable.
In any case, he might be smitten with
a dreadful illness, and return home crippled
and infirm. Miss Solar did her utmost to
reason with Miss Tacon and cheer her up ;
but she failed to divert the current of her
gloomy thoughts. Both the girls were
miserable, and little could be done in the
circumstances to restore their vanished happiness.
Their parting was embittered by
their situation. But Miss Tacon thought
her case the worse of the two. She envied
Miss Solar for having the solace of a complete
change of scene.

Oh, if I were only going abroad, Berta,'
she exclaimed, ' I should not so much mind
the bad news ! You have nearly everything
you can desire.'

Well, Ella, I should be delighted if we
could go together, but you know that cannot
be arranged now. You must come with me
to Frankfort some other time. Don't think,
however, that I am really so much to be
envied as you suppose.'

Yet there was some sense in Miss Tacon's
considering Miss Solar's lot the preferable
one. The journey to Frankfort did divert
her thoughts, and the meetings with aunt
Irma again was a source of delight. Her
aunt gave her an affectionate welcome, and
the pair had so much to talk over that Miss
Solar forgot her affliction for the time, and
thought the world not such a bad place after
all.

The change from the splendid house in
Palace Gardens to the small set of rooms
which her aunt occupied was a great one.
Her father's house was small and ill-furnished
compared with Mr. Argoll's, and he did not

keep a large staff of servants or a carriage.
Indeed, Mr. Solar became a rich man so
rapidly that he had not time to live up to
his means. His simple ways of life, his
plain meals, and his quiet house, had their
charm for him. His whole thoughts ran
upon business and speculation ; and, having
lost his wife, there was no one to urge him
to change his habits and his style of living.
Thus, when Miss Solar went to stay in
Palace Gardens, she entered a new world ;
when she revisited her aunt in Frankfort,
she returned to an old one.

The conversation between Miss Solar and
her aunt Irma largely dealt with matters
which have been set forth and explained, so
that it had not enough novelty to deserve
record. Her aunt was not disposed to condemn
Mr. Argoll's conduct. She thought
her niece quite young enough to be married,
and she was not convinced that her attachment
for Mr. Henry Argoll was wholly wise.
Indeed, she regarded it in the light of a
girlish or a very romantic freak. It is true
that she kept this view to herself, and did

her utmost to console her niece, and soothe
her with the possibility that all would come
round right in the end. This view commends
itself to middle-aged rather than to
young people, impatience being the characteristic
of those who know little of life,
and resignation of those who know too
much.

It was a disappointment to aunt Irma not
to see Mr. Henry Argoll, and form her own
opinion of him. She had never met him at her
brother's house in London ; indeed, she had
met Mr. Argoll very seldom there, and then
on formal occasions only. The fact of Mr.
Henry Argoll being an artist did not prepossess
her in his favour, as Germans of the
middle-class agree with their English brothers
and sisters in thinking artists doubtful members
of society. If Mr. Henry Argoll had
risen to a high place in his profession, and
made a large income by his brush, then
aunt Irma would have held him in high
esteem ; she had the common failing of
worshipping success. On the other hand,
his departure for South America on an expedition

in which hardships would have to
be borne and perils faced increased her respect
for him. She liked a man who showed
pluck, and on this head she was ready with
her praise, somewhat to her niece's dismay.
This was the only part of Mr. Henry
Argoll's conduct which Miss Solar could
not sanction. She regarded it as in some
measure a desertion of herself

The aunt and niece agreed to leave Frankfort
together. Being" out of health, aunt
Irma had consulted a doctor as to the best
place wherein to pass a few weeks with the
view of undergoing a * cure,' and she was
ordered to go to Franzensbad, in Bohemia.
Miss Solar wrote to Mrs. Argos, urging her
to visit the same place, and to bring Ella
with her ; but she could not persuade Mrs.
Argoll to leave Westbourne, as the latter
had promised her husband to remain there
till his return from Sicily. Besides, Mrs.
Argoll had a dislike for Continental ,
and felt quite at home in Westbourne.


Before Mr. Argoll's departure from

London, his confidential clerk, Mr. Byker,
came to him and requested to be allowed to
remain behind.

What, Byker, leave you behind ? I
can't think of such a thing. Besides, you
know, I have arranged to take you, and I
have given you notice enough.'

The fact is, sir,' Mr. Byker said in his
most insinuating manner, ' my old mother
cannot bear the thought of my going to
these foreign parts. I cannot get the notion
out of her head that you intend to take me
to the Indies.'

And if I did, what then ? It is easy
enough to go to India in a P. and O.
steamer nowadays. Why, it is a mere
pleasure-trip !'

Mr. Argoll, who had never left England
before, and dreaded the sea, now spoke as
airily about a trip to India as if it were an
everyday occurrence with him. But he
spoke more jauntily than he felt. He was
more reluctant to go away as the time fixed
for doing so arrived. He wished that he
had never thought of the subject, and above

VOL. I. 20

all that he had not said a word about it to
his friends. If he drew back now, they
would think there was something wrong.
It annoyed him the more to find Mr. Byker
raising the objections which chimed with
his own feelings. He had to assume an indifference
which he did not feel, and to laugh
at the forebodings of Mrs. Byker, lest he
should have to admit that he shared them.
He took credit for having reserved a surprise
for his wife. It was his confident expectation
to return as the proprietor of an
estate in Sicily, and to have the right to
the title of Count. He thought that his
wife would have an equal right to the title
of Countess, and he felt sure that she would
be intensely pleased with this. Indeed,
before parting from her, he said :

Now, my dear, if all goes well, I hope
to bring you a fine present.'

Her heart was still hardened against him,
and she regarded his departure as a slight
upon herself, so she simply replied :

You know, J. M., that I don't care
about presents. You had much better stay

at home, and then you would not have any
need to trouble about them.'

Mr. Argoll did one thing which , partially
softened his wife, and which made her speak
more kindly towards him than she would have
otherwise done. He asked her for a box of
her pills and a bottle of opodeldoc. She
provided him with both in abundant measure ;
the pill-box was the largest she could procure,
and the bottle held about a quart.
He did not omit to provide himself with a
medicine-chest. It was on a gigantic scale,
and contained drugs enough to physic a
regiment, or to enable an apothecary to setup
shop.

Mr. Argoll was very glad that his brother
had joined the expedition to Patagonia.
He did not regret the possible dangers
which he might encounter ; on the contrary,
he was rather inclined to exult when
he thought of his brother suffering amongst
savages, and in danger of being killed. It
was a satisfaction to think that in any case
his brother would encounter hardships.

I am very glad,' he said to himself, ' that

20 — 2

I am not in Henry's shoes. Nothing would
ever tempt me to run such risks. It is
a blessing that there are no savages in
Sicily.'

END OF VOL. I.

selling 4 SONS. PRINTERS, GL'ILOFOMD. ,.

G., C. d' Co.

OF THE

University

Of ILLINOIS

-^

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY BOOKSTALLS.
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO a";;^^^.VEO FROM SUB Scribes .N SETS ONLY.

TERMS

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A Country BOOm All ^^^^^

£0 12 • • 1 1 ^

^r'^^JJ!n''Jr?]^TTL yo^;:^s .r^'nct ox^'^^/i^ this class .fSu.sa^.ft^^n.)

I
■ /TN ^

For THREE Volumes

For FOUR

For SIX

For TWELVE



1 8
1 15


2 2

2 10

3 3
6 5

money, money, how blindly thou hast been worshipped,
and how stupidly abused ! Thou art health
and liberty and strength ; and he that has thee may
rattle his pockets at the Devil.' — Charles Lamb.

BY

The Author of
MISS BAYLE'S ROMANCE:

IN THREE VOLUMES.
II.

LONDON :
RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

publishers in (Drbimtrg trr ^)cr majesty) the (^mtn.

1888.

fall Rights Reserved

CHAPTER XV.
A Son of the South.

Well known to the Police

Serves in the Army

Carlo as a Soldier

Visits France and England

Brigands no Criminals

An enterprising Brigand -

Adheres to the Family Calling

A Chip of the old Block

A Brigand's Hunting Ground

Carlo takes a Drink

An rehearsed Part

Brigands at Supper

Cutting up a Captive

Trembling Captors

A Brigand's syndicate

Carlo N crone's Resolve

;3
















CHAPTER Xii.
Carlo at Nicata.

PAGE

The old Home - - - - - 35

A Mother's Advice - - - - ' 37

A Brigand's Wedding - - - - 39

Dull times for Brigands - - - - 41

The Hotel des Etrangers - - - - 43

Peripatetic Spinsters - - - - 45

Miss Snoswell departs - - - - 47

Sad Accidents - - - - - 49

Greedy Travellers - - - - 51

A Sicilian ' Inferno ' - - - - 53

A warm Welcome for mr. Argoll - - 55

CHAPTER XVII.

Mr. Argoll Abroad.

At Victoria Station - - - - 57

Partners in Business - - - - 59

OldMrs.Byker - - - - - 61

An inconsolable Mother - - - 63

Suffers from Sea-sickness - - - - 65

A suspicious Medicine-chest - - - 67

Mr. Byker as a Linguist - - - - 69

Instructing a Cabman - - - - 71

In the ' Rue Vivienne ' - - - - 73

Riviera Sanitation Company ' - - - 75
Going into Liquidation - - - - 77

What can he be up to ?' - - - - 79
A startling Story - - - - - 81
Brigands in Sicily - - - - - 83

CHAPTEE Xvii

Paris to Xicata.

PAGE

A City Automaton - - - - 85

Eno;lkh and French Houses - - - 87

MrT Argoll tells his Plans - - - - 89

A Scheme for Money-making - - - 91

Railway up Mount Etna - - - - 93

Mr. Byker in Paris - - - - 95

The Practice of Interviewing - - 97

The Interviews snubbed - - - - 99

A Journalistic Triumph - - - 101

A rapid Journey - - - - - 103

Guides and Hotel-porters - - - - 105

Visit to Pompeii - 107

An Alarm about Brigands - - - - 109

A plausible Acquaintance - - - - 111

Carlo Nerone's Welcome - - - - 113

CHAPTER XIX.

Mrs. Argoll at Westbourxe.

A beautiful Town - - - - - 115

A few old Pensioners - - - - 117

Old Betty Simmons - - - - 119

Ella's Fastidiousness - - - - 121

Christians at Loggerheads - - - 123

The Rev. Basil Tepper - - - - 125

Miss Tacon and Mr. Tepper - - - 127

Teaching bearing Fruit - - - - 129

A most estimable Man - - - . 131

A natural Orator - - - - - 133

A Sermon . . . . 135

Eloquent Words - - - - - 137

Pretty and Beseeching - - - - 139

A startling Proposal . . . . 141

Confidential Talk - - - - - 143

A Collision at Sea - - - - - 145

CHAPTER XX.

The Ladies' Bath.

Life at Franzensbad - - - - 149

Music and Mineral Water - - - 151

Frau Decker appears - - - - 153

'So that's your Friend, Auntlrma ' - - 155

An unruly Tongue - - - - 157

Good Sort of People - - - 159

A young Russian Lord - - - - 161

Russian Authors and Artists - - - 163

The Modern Columbus - - - - 165

Fear and Fascination - - - - 167

Her Heart was not free . - - - 169

A Muscovite Minister - - - - 171

Prince Schonhausen - - - - 173

The Prince's English Speech - - - 175

Making People happy - - - 177

Personal Experience - - - - 179

An extinct Volcano - - - - 181

One of Saphir's Stories - - - - 183

CHAPTER XXI.

A Crisis in the City.

Unscrupulous Spectators - - - - 187

Drainage at San Cruzel - - - - 189

Riviera Sanitation Company - - - 191

The Penalty of Success - - - - 193

A long-standing Feud - - - - 195

PAGE

Scalping one's Foes - - - - 197

An Appeal for Mercy - - - - 199

Mr. Tuson's Fate - - - - - 201

Well-informed Persons . - - - 203

The Evening Detective ' - - - - 205

Dives, the Robber - - - - - 207

Wicked Financiers . . , . 209

Blumenheim and Caradoc act - - - 211

Mr. Argoll disgorges - - - - 213

A true King of Men - - - - 215

CHAPTER Xxii

Miss Solar's Return.

Sympathy in Sorrow - - - - 217

Something Wrong - - - - - 219

A State of Suspense . . . . 221

The Joy of Success . . 223

A real Heroine - - - - - 225

Visits Athelstanee House - - - - 227

Is it the Ghost ? - - - - - 229

Mr. Bandol flustered - - - - 231

What News of Mr. Argoll ? - - - 233

Mr. Hutton puzzled . . . . 235

Mrs. Argoll displeased . . . 237

Mr. Tepper and Miss Solar - - - 239

Miss Solar's Character . . . . 241

Mr. Tepper's Offer - - - - 243

Startling News from Sicily - - - 245

CHAPTER XXIII.

A Millionaire in a Garret.

First Impressions - 247

Are there Brigands here 1 - - - - 249

Fate of the Medicine-chest - - - 251

Brigands being physicked - - - - 253

CONTENTS.

English Prejudices respected
An unpleasant Surprise -
Mr. Argoll in a Fever
Where is the Medicine-chest ?
On a Sick-bed
Exacting Brigands -
Mr. Byker goes a-fishing -
How to extort Ransom
An erratic Fever -
Twenty Thousand refunded
London preferred to Sicily

PAGE













CHAPTER XXIV.
A Catastrophe.

A poor English Sailor

Jack Robinson, King of Labno

Leaving a Sick-room

Mr. Byker in a Garret

Mr. Argoll's Consternation

The Hotel surrounded

Interview with Mr. Argoll -

Unemployed Brigands

Which is the Millionaire ? -

Ransom or Torture

Rejoicing amongst the Brigands -

Mr. Byker's Flight

Robin; down the Inferno -















A Moderns" Brigand,

•©•^o*

CHAPTER XY.

A SOX OF THE SOUTH.

By woodland belt, by ocean bar,

The full south breeze our foreheads fann'd,
And, under many a yellow star.
We dropp'd into the Magic Land.'

Lord Lytton : Owen Meredith.

Know ye the land where the cypress and myrtle
Are emblems of deeds that are done in that clime ;

Where the rage of the vulture, the love of the turtle,
Now melt into sorrow, now madden to crime V

Byron.

lARLO NERONE was thirty years
old. He was five feet six inches
in height, and slender in figure ;
his shoulders were too broad for symmetry, but

VOL. II. 2 1

broad enough for strength ; he was muscular
and agile, alert as a rabbit, and cunning as a
fox. He weighed one hundred and thirty-seven
pounds. His hair was as black asa
raven's wing, and his countenance was as
swarthy as that of a North American Indian.
His features were regular, but not refined ;
he had the look of a man possessing a determined
character, and the bearing of one
with whom it would be hopeless to argue
and dangerous to trifle. Born in Sicily of
an old but humble family, he had an experience
of the world such as few Sicilians of his
class had enjoyed and profited by.

Still fewer had turned their inborn shrewdness
to better account. Nature had endowed
Carlo Nerone with a cleverness which enabled
him to make the most of his opportunities,
and his knowledge of life had largely supplemented
Nature's gifts. He was regarded
with something like reverence by his neighbours
and intimate friends. It was rumoured
that he could speak French and English in
addition to his mother-tongue, and rumour
in this case did not lie.

The small hamlet of Nicata, on the lower
slope of Mount Etna, had the honour of
being Carlo Nerone's birthplace. His
family was very poor, very ancient, and had
long been well known to the police. All
his ancestors were brigands on a small scale,
and few of them had lived to be full of years
and to die in their beds. When Carlo was
sixteen his father ended an agitated life two
months after being sentenced to imprisonment
for ten years, the cause of his death
being wounds received at the moment of his
capture.

A garden which had been in possession of
the Nerone family from time immemorial
supplied enough fruit and vegetables to
meet its wants, and left a surplus for sale in
the small town of Nicalosi, about three
miles distant. The garden was cultivated
at irregular intervals, as the principal members
of the family devoted most of their
time to lying in wait for travellers and
disburdening them of their portable property.


The active members of the Nerone family

21 — 2

and their associates were popular in the
neighbourhood. They confined themselves
to robbing strangers, and they were so
thoughtful and considerate as to guarantee
the poorer people in the vicinity from
plunder by rival brigands, on condition of
receiving a moderate annual payment in
advance. They found, as Rob Roy did,
that it was a mistake to be too exacting or
merciless. The moderate black-mail which
they levied was paid with greater readiness
and punctuality than the rents of many an
Irish or English landlord. It is true the
sums were not large, the average amount
being eve lire, a very few being as high as
twenty.

The payments were punctually made twice
a year. The Nerone family never pressed
for the black-mail in money if the peasants
alleged they had none ; in that case payments
were generously accepted in kind,
and the quantity of eggs, butter, or vegetables
which was given instead of cash
often far exceeded the cash sum in actual
value. Habit had made this exaction appear

as natural to the peasants as any impost
levied by the Commune or the State, the
result being that, when Carlo's father was
sent to prison and died there, the payments
were continued to his widow, who was thus
enabled to rear her family of two sons and
one daughter. Carlo was sixteen at that
time ; his younger brother, Eduardo, was
fifteen, and his sister, Lucia, was twelve.

This interesting family had a severe
struggle for existence ; nevertheless, all the
members of it managed to survive, and the
eldest son duly entered the army at the age
when he was compelled to serve as a soldier.
Like all his ancestors, he could neither read
nor write. Indeed, none of the inhabitants
of Nicata, except the priest, had acquired
either accomplishment. Partly on this account
they regarded the priest with profound
respect. The National Schools which
now abound in Sicily did not then exist.
Compulsory service in the Italian army has
an advantage and an effect which are generally
overlooked. The soldiers who cannot
read or write are taught to do both before the

end of their term of service. Moreover,
they are taught something about their own
country. Carlo learned, as a soldier, that
Sicily was much smaller than Italy, and
that Italy was not the world. Before leaving
his native island, it was the world to
him.

The Italian army has helped to render
Italy a united kingdom in a double sense,
and the more important service of the two
which it has performed is that of practically
teaching the Italians to understand each
other. A result has followed resembling that
which was the consequence of Pitt's policy
after the last rebellion in Scotland. Till then,
the Highland chieftains were the all-powerful
lords and masters whom Sir Walter Scott
has depicted, and the favourite pursuit of
their followers was fighting. The abolition
of the heritable jurisdictions deprived the
chiefs of their positions of authority and
their followers of employment. To the
astonishment of his contemporaries, Pitt
enlisted the wild Highlanders in the army
of the King ; he sought for merit, as he

said, ' wherever it was to be found. It is
my boast that I was the first Minister who
looked for it, and I found it in the mountains
of the north ;' in other words, he existed
the rebels in the ranks of the royal army,
and thus converted them into the trustworthy
servants of his sovereign, ' who served
with fidelity as they fought with valour.'
To the Highlanders themselves, their military
training and discipline constituted a
kind of liberal education. They retained
their courage whilst losing their savage
habits, and no regiments have better upheld
the honour and renown of the national flag
than those which were raised in that corner
of the British Isles which was once the
theatre of ruffianism and rebellion.

The Highlander of a century and a half
ago, who came to London as one of King
George's soldiers, did not experience a
greater change than Carlo Nerone did whenas
a soldier, he was quartered in Florence,
Turin, or Rome. He had a difficulty in
understanding the common speech of many
of his comrades ; the dialect spoken in Piedmont

differing far more widely from that
spoken in Sicily than the peasants' speech
at John Groat's House does from that at
the Land's End. As a result of the school-teaching
in the army, the natives of the
various parts of Italy all learn to speak a
form of Italian which approximates to that
of Tuscany, so that the power of understanding
others, and of making himself
understood in all parts of the country, is
one of the gains of the soldier who is discharged
from the army which he entered
without speaking or understanding any other
tongue than his rude native dialect.

Carlo Nerone did not return home when
his three years' term of service expired. His
conduct had been exemplary, and he was
offered a subordinate place in the Customs'
department, which he accepted — partly because
the pay seemed to him so high that
he might be able to save something out of
it to send to his mother, and partly because
he had acquired a taste for seeing the world.
He was sent to Ventimiglia, on the frontier
between Italy and France, where he remained

two years ; and where, being brought
into constant communication with the French,
be learned to speak their language fluently
and to read it easily. Since his curiosity had
been excited by education, he beguiled his
leisure with books and newspapers ; the consequence
of his reading being to make him
feel a new man, and to open a wide horizon
before his eyes.

Having once tasted the joy of change and
novelty, he became restless, and an opportunity
occurring, he went to Marseilles after
applying for and obtaining his discharge.
At Marseilles, he obtained employment as
hotel porter in a house which was chiefly frequented
by Italians. He made the acquaintance
of other hotel porters, and from them he
learned that even better openings were to
be found in Paris and London. Proceeding
to Paris, he learned that his ignorance of
English was a drawback to employment ina
hotel of the better class, and then he
resolved to go to London in order to acquire
it. He spent three years in London as a
waiter in some of the Italian hotels and

restaurants which abound there. In one of
them, where he got a situation after he had
picked up a Httle English, he was brought
into contact with English and Americans,
by whom it was largely patronized, and his
knowledge of the language increased so
much with frequent practice that he became
able to express himself nearly as fluently
and correctly in English as in good Italian.

Carlo's younger brother, having also
served his three years in the army, joined
him in London, and he, too, made rapid
progress in the English language. But
Eduardo was less enterprising and ambitious
than Carlo, the latter having no intention
of passing his days as a waiter. He was
anxious to become keeper of a hotel or
restaurant ; but he lacked the necessary
capital. He was saving in the extreme ;
still, as he remitted half his earnings to his
mother, the sum which he put aside was not
large.

Having perused many books and newspapers,
he had learned much from them
which was entertaining and unprofitable.

The Italian, the French, and the English
newspapers taught him that many persons
in Italy, France, and England are guilty of
robbery and murder, and this was a fresh
and an unpleasant form of knowledge. Till
he left his native Sicily, he thought that
people were good upon the whole, and that
crimes were comparatively rare. Of course
he did not class brigands amongst criminals ;
as a member of the oldest family of brigands
in existence, one which flourished before the
ancestors of the greatest nobles in England,
France, and Italy had emerged from the
common herd, he naturally gloried in it and
its exploits, and as naturally he saw no harm
in either. A pickpocket or a murderer he
regarded with detestation. That his father
should have been apprehended and cast into
prison was, in his eyes, a misfortune equivalent
to that of the soldier who is taken prisoner
and who dies in captivity. He regarded
brigands and the police as enemies, who constantly
waged war with each other, and if he
had not been too young at the death of his
father, he would have instantly taken his

place and carried on the campaign. He
considered brigandage to be an honourable
industry, which was both misunderstood and
underrated. In his opinion killing was no
murder when performed by a brigand.

Accident threw in Carlo Nerone's way a
small book by the late Edmond About. He
found it on a table in the restaurant of
a French hotel where he was a waiter, immediately
after a customer had eaten his
dinner, paid the price, and left the room.
He followed him into the street with the
book, and he was told that he might keep
it. Taking it to his room he read it at his
leisure. Its title was Le Roi des Montagues
that is, ' The King of the Mountains.'

It is scarcely necessary to say that in
this book, as in another one, Edmond About
dealt out hard measure to the Greeks, and,
perhaps, it is a misfortune that his humorous
exaggerations have been taken too seriously
by the Greeks themselves. However, this
is not the place for a criticism upon About
and his writings. They have served their
purpose and had their day.

Carlo was delighted with Hadgi Stairs,
The King of the Mountains.' In his eyes
Hadgi Stavros was a sensible and enterprising
brigand who had moved with the
age. He kept an account at a London
bank ; he speculated on the Stock Exchange,
and he was thoroughly civilized in the way
he dealt with his money. Carlo rose from
the perusal of the book with a number of
novel ideas in his head. He felt that the
time had arrived for organizing brigandage
on new lines and an extensive scale, and that
he was the man for the task.

Till reading The King of the Mountains,
Carlo had some doubts as to the course he
should follow. His mind was now made up.
He had received news from Nicata to the
effect that his mother was dangerously ill,
that she was not likely to live long, and
that she wished to see him before she died.
He also heard that Caterina Colla, to whom
he had plighted his troth before leaving to
serve in the army, was anxious to know if
he meant to return. As neither his mother
nor his betrothed could write, and as their

friends and neighbours were unable to do so,
the parish priest had been requested to convey
this information to him. He replied
to the effect that he hoped to return soon,
and he sent a special message to Caterina,
assuring her of his continued fi deity and
affection, and that she would not have much
longer to wait for him.

Indeed, Carlo had only remained away so
many years with the view of saving money.
By dint of great economy and self-denial, he
had accumulated three hundred pounds, and
whilst so doing, he had remitted enough to
his mother to enable her to live in comparative
comfort. She stood the more in
need of her son s help, as she had grown too
injSrm to work in the garden, and also because
the peasants in the neighbourhood had
ceased one by one to pay the black-mail,
which had been to her a sort of outdoor
relief The younger peasants had less respect
than their conservative sires for the
good old customs ; besides, as they were no
longer tormented by brigands, they saw no
reason for paying black-mail.

The refined and mild kind of brigandage,
which consists in keeping a hotel in those
parts of the Continent to which strangers
resort in summer and winter, had many attractions
for Carlo. He had learned all the
tricks of the trade. But youthful memories,
to say nothing of inherited tastes and aptitudes,
proved too powerful, and after reading
and pondering the story of The King of the
Mountains, he decided to adhere to the
family calling. Being more intelligent, and
far better educated than his predecessors, he
contemplated making some innovations in
the conduct of affairs. What chiefly excited
his ambition was to reconstitute brigandage
throughout Italy, and to render it a safer if
a less lucrative career. He had a vein of
philanthropy in his nature, and the hard lot
of some of his fellow-men, and of the brigands
who had retired from business in particular,
gave him much concern, and led him to
form a plan to which he proceeded to give
effect.

In no part of Italy, outside of Sicily, has
brigandage become, in American phrase, so

much of an ' institution ' as in Calabria, and
in that part of the country none had
achieved greater renown or had a longer
career than the venerable Bardolo. To have
been one of Bardolo's band was accounted
an honourable distinction. He played a part
amidst the mountains of Calabria as famous
and uncontested as that played by Hadgi
Stavros amidst the mountains of Greece.

Bardolo was a prudent as well as a very
famous brigand ; he had attained the ripe
age of seventy without ever falling into the
hands of justice. Most of his followers were
acquainted with the inside of a prison, but he
had never even seen the outside of one. He
had lived a secluded life from his youth up.
He had no desire to roam or leave the comfortless
habitation near the summit of Mount
Morati wherein he first saw the light, and
where he expected to end his days. His
followers accounted it a favour to do his
bidding, and a still greater one to be admitted
to his presence.

This venerable and astute brigand was
brave to the utmost limits of discretion.

Very few persons could charge him with
being present when a traveller was rifled and
robbed of his money and valuables, or of
personally mutilating one for whom a ransom
was asked, and asked in vain. All these
unpleasant and compromising details he
left to his subordinates. He preferred
issuing orders and hoarding booty. He was
a widower, but not a disconsolate one. His
wife died soon after giving birth to a son,
and he did not regret her decease, as she
had ragged him without ceasing whilst she
lived. He discouraged marriage amongst
his followers, holding that brigands, like
priests, should devote themselves body and
soul to their arduous and profitable calling.

All the hopes and affections of the aged
Bardolo were concentrated upon his son,
who was in the prime of life, and to whom
the leadership of the band had been entrusted
for several years. Luigi Bardolo was the
worthy son of his father ; but being more
venturesome, he had once been captured by
the police. This was due to his rashness,
and to a curiosity which sometimes leads

VOL. II. i^'3 22

men as well as women astray. He had
visited Naples in company with a brother
brigand, and entered a cafe there. One of
the customers had been seized and rifled by
some of Bardolo's followers a few weeks
previously, and he recognised Luigi at a
glance. A message was sent to the police,
and Luigi was ignominiously overpowered
before having had time to draw his knife,
and enjoy the satisfaction of stabbing somebody
previously to being overpowered.

When his capture occurred, a Neapolitan
banker was in Bardolo's clutches. Luigi's
companion escaped whilst the police were
occupied in manacling Luigi, and he hastened
to bear the sorrowful tidings to his revered
and aged chief. A message reached the
banker s friends soon afterwards, to the effect
that, if Luigi were instantly set free, the
banker would be allowed to return home
without paying a ransom, and these terms
being agreed upon, Luigi revisited his
mountain home. The police had arranged
to recapture Luigi after the banker's safety
was assured, but the plan miscarried, as the

brigands were on their guard, and proved to
be far the sharper of the two.

The spot on Mount Morati, where Bardolo
dwelt in dignified seclusion, was well known
by repute to Carlo Nerone. He had heard
his father describe it ; indeed, one of his
earliest recollections was a story told by his
esteemed father of a visit which he paid to
Bardolo, and of a promise made to him by
the kind and respected brigand. It was to
the effect that he would always be delighted
to welcome either of Nerone's two sons, and
give him good advice. He had stipulated,
both to prevent mistakes and also as a
means of identification, that when either of
the sons paid the visit and was asked his
name, he was to reply Carlo or Eduardo
Nicata.

It was on the afternoon of a beautiful day
in the early summer that Carlo Nerone
walked along the picturesque valley leading
to Mount Morati. This valley was a
favourite place of resort for adventurous
tourists, who explored it to admire the
scenery. It was one of several hunting

— 2

grounds of Bardolo's band, who went thereto
capture the delighted sight-seers. One
of Bardolo's wise maxims ran thus : ' Never
render any one place a constant terror to
strangers and travellers. The place which
gets a bad name is little frequented.' He
considered it right, in his own interest, that
strangers and travellers should sometimes
enjoy the benefit of a close time. Thus no
brigands belonging to Bardolo's band were
seen for months together in a locality which,
during certain periods, was infested with
them. As soon as it was spread about that
the brigands had disappeared, the strangers
and travellers returned in shoals to the
places which they had shunned.

The lovely valley through which Carlo
Nerone now walked happened to be a resort for
brigands at the time of his visit, and he had
been warned not to enter it. As he wished
to meet them, he expressed himself obliged
for the hint, and added that, so far from
fearing brigands, he was desirous of making
their acquaintance. He was regarded by
the hotel-keeper and the hotel-porter to

whom he said this as a presumptuous and
fooHsh man, for whom Providence and
brigands had a punishment in store.

At a turning in the road, where the view
was lovely. Carlo stopped to admire the enchanting
prospect. He was not qualified to
look upon Nature with an artist's eye ; on
the contrary, he had been trained to regard
natural scenery from the brigand's point of
view, just as a sportsman contemplates a
Highland moor not in order to admire the
tints of the heather, or the effects of light
and shade when the shadows of the clouds
sweep over its surface, but with the view of
estimating the probabilities of its abounding
in game. The present glimpse of the valley
reminded Carlo of a corresponding spot near
Nicata, and therefore the scene gladdened
his sight ; moreover, there was a spring of
water at the road-side, resembling one near
his father's house. Being very thirsty, he
stopped, and bent his head to drink.

On raising his head, he was startled to
see several long gun-barrels gleaming in the
sunshine through the bushes on either side.

and pointed towards him. He involuntarily
ducked and turned to run, when several
bullets whistled past his ear. Italian
brigands are bad marksmen ; they can
handle knives more skilfully than rifles.
Carlo's foot struck against a stone, and he
fell : on his face, after running a few paces.
Whilst lying helpless on the ground he was
surrounded by five men, each of whom seized
some part of his person. Not a word was
spoken till one of the eve said :

^ Bring him along.'

The others raised him ujd and dragged
him after them.

Carlo was too much taken by surprise to
know at the moment what to do or say. He
had made up his mind to meet brigands, and
to make friends with them ; but he was as
unprepared for capture as he was for sudden
death. He had often been present in his
youth when his father's followers treated
the lonely traveller as he had been treated ;
but this experience profited him nothing.
An onlooker never really understands the
rigour of the game. The greatest counsel

often makes the worst witness in a court of
law. He feels himself in a false position
when in the witness-box, and he does not
relish the torment which he had repeatedly
taken pleasure in inflicting upon reluctant
and timid witnesses. In like manner a
brigand cannot thoroughly enjoy playing
the part of the inoffensive and unarmed
traveller. It is both novel and puzzling to
him. He feels like an actor who has not
rehearsed his part. Carlo's first impulse
was to protest in strong language ; happily
he did not commit this mistake. Brigands
do not suffer their captives to open their
mouths without permission ; besides, they
fear lest their captives may cry aloud, attract
the notice of the passers-by, and be rescued.
One of the four men who dragged Carlo
along, rapidly tied a handkerchief over his
mouth the moment he perceived that he was
about to open it and say something.

If Carlo had been allowed to walk alone,
he would have had no difficulty in traversing
the narrow and stony path up which he was
taken. The path was the bed of a mountain

torrent, in which there was no water. Every
time he tripped over a stone he received a
tug or a blow, as a hint not to do so again,
just as a poor horse is lashed whenever he
stumbles. Never, till then, had Carlo regarded
brigands as inconsiderate and cruel
men, and never did he forget the tortures to
which he was subjected whilst journeying
towards Bardolo's abode. If the punishment
had lasted much longer, he might have
grown ashamed of his ancestors, and felt
scruples about pursuing their calling. Certainly,
he saw brigands from a new point of
view. He felt doubtful whether ancestral
brigandage were really a much more creditable
occupation than keeping a hotel. Personal
experience, if unpleasant, often plays
havoc with the finest and most cherished
principles.

It was nightfall when the party reached
their camping-ground, a spot on a slope
below the plateau whereon Bardolo kept
house. This venerable brigand, who was
thoroughly conservative in his views and
regular in his habits, adhered to a rule never

to transact business after sunset. Accordingly
the prisoner could not be taken before
him until the morning.

Carlo Nerone was hungrier than he had
been since his boyhood, when he never could
get enough to eat, or when what he got was
not to his liking. His hands where tied behind
his back ; his mouth was still closed
with a handkerchief, so he could not indicate
by word or sign how greatly he longed for
something wherewith to stay his stomach.
Moreover, he had the mortification of seeing
his captors sit, or rather squat, down to partake
their evening meal of polenta and dried
fish, and appear to enjoy it. Their appetites
were as keen as his. One of them observed
the eager and wolfish look which he cast
upon the simple and indigestible fare, and
said to the others :

Give the prisoner something ; he seems
dying of hunger. And the Master ' — for so
they styled Bardolo — ^ is always sorry if a
prisoner is starved the first night. He may
never have another meal.'

The others agreed to give him food, in order

that Bardolo's humane rule, that a captive
should not be done to death fasting, might
be strictly observed. Before feeding him they
determined that, unless he signified by a gesture
he would not speak after the removal of
the handkerchief, he was to be left to starve.
He understood their speech, and one of them
said in the best Italian he could command :

The signor will be fed if he bows his
head in token that he will not utter a word,'
and added an expressive pantomime to the
same effect, with the addition of a sign that
if he did speak his throat would be cut.
Carlo at once bowed his head with all the
emphasis at his command. The handkerchief
was then unfastened, and one of the brigands
thrust portions of polenta and dried fish into
bis mouth. They would not unbind his hands
in case he might give them further trouble.
As soon as he shook his head in token that
he could not eat any more, the handkerchief
was replaced, and he had the satisfaction of
lying in an uncomfortable position and listening
to his captors' stories, whilst smoking
their pipes. He gathered from their artless

talk that he was taken for an Englishman.
This was owing to his having bought a
tourist suit of the heather-mixture pattern in
London, and worn it since then. His captors
speculated how much ransom their revered
leader would exact, and whether, in the event
of none being forthcoming, he would order
the prisoner to be instantly thrown over the
precipice or slowly dismembered by way of
giving the younger men practice in cutting
up a captive. He was disgusted at their
vindictiveness. Had he been apprehensive
of becoming a victim, he would have been
terrified. As it was he was struck with the
simplicity of getting rid of unremunerative
captives by casting them over a precipice.
He made a mental note of this for future
guidance, the method being quite new to him.
He thought it both judicious and practical,
as the supposition might be entertained, when
the captive's corpse was discovered, that his
death was due to an accident.

Carlo passed a weary and uncomfortable,
but not an anxious, night. He rejoiced when
the morning broke, and he was ushered into

the presence of the Master. His hands were
still tied behind his back ; but, when the
handkerchief was removed from his mouth,
he at once exclaimed, on seeing Bardolo :

Honoured and illustrious Master, I am
Carlo Nicata ; I pray you to order your sons
to untie my hands.'

His sons, as Bardolo affectionately styled
his followers, did not wait for a command.
They recognised by Carlo's speech that he
was not an Englishman ; they inferred from
his manner that he was no stranger to their
chief, and they trembled for their mistake.
Speaking slowly, Bardolo said :

Do I see before me a son of the honoured
Nerone V And then, crossing himself, he
piously added, * May the Holy Virgin take
pity on his soul !'

Yes, master ; the great Nerone was my
father.' Crossing himself in turn, Carlo
added, * Mother of God, have mercy upon
him!'

The old brigand and the deceased brigand's
son were now alone ; Bardolo's followers had
vanished, dreading what he might do in his

wrath, and fearing lest he should order one
of them to be cast over the precipice, as his
custom was when his anger was kindled.
Happily for their sakes, his son, Luigi,
was their leader, and the brunt of their
chief's anger would fall harmless upon him.
Though Carlo was comparatively inexperienced
as a brigand, he yet knew enough
of the customs of the craft to be equal to the
emergency ; so, before engaging in further
talk, he before forgiveness for those who had
taken him captive, and he pleaded that they
had only been guilty of excessive, but not
reprehensible, zeal. Nor did he make any
complaint about his treatment, as he recognised,
though against the grain, that his
captors had only done their duty. When
two men fight a duel and one is wounded,
both are disposed to shake hands to display
their good feeling, but this touching token of
restored friendship does not materially abate
the physical sufferings of the wounded man.
Carlo's captors were quite ready to forgive
him for not being their lawful prey, but he
remained unreconciled to having been taken

for some one else and made to suffer severely
owing to a misapprehension.

Carlo Nerone spent the days with the
worthy Bardolo, and was feasted with the
best that Bardolo's cave, or rather, his hut,
contained. He was escorted on his way back
by the great chief's admiring followers, who
were now anxious to make all the atonement
in their power, and who loudly expressed
their sorrow at the unfortunate accident,
shedding many tears and kissing Carlo most
affectionately at parting. Carlo's visit was
not only an unpleasant piece of personal
experience, but it was made in vain.

It would be a waste of space to fill it
with a detailed account of the interview between
Carlo and Bardolo. Carlo's notion
was to induce Bardolo to assent to a scheme
for placing brigandage upon a new and
entirely modern footing. He had learned
that, when great capitalists wish to make
money on a large scale and with more
thorough disregard than they usually venture
to display for the precepts of morality
and the traditions of fair dealing, they forma

syndicate, and he thought that, if the
brigands of Sicily entered into a syndicate,
they, too, might do business on a grander
scale and with very profitable results. He
fancied that the shares in such a company
would yield large dividends, and that they
would be eagerly subscribed by investors who
do not mind running a slight risk in the hope
of reaping enormous profits.

Bardolo confessed that he was too old to
understand or care for novelties ; that he gave
much of his time to preparing for another
world, and that he was too full of penitence
for crimes which he had refrained from committing
to be ready to introduce sweeping
reforms in established practice.

He enjoyed getting money on the old and
simple plan which he had learned as a boy,
and of taking care of it by concealing it in a
hole in the ground, or in the rock. He knew
nothing about shares, nor could he comprehend
what was meant by dividends. Still he
listened patiently to all that Carlo urged in
favour of his Brigand's Syndicate, and before
Carlo's departure he gave him the following

good advice, which was based upon the matured
experience of a long life which had
been laboriously spent in the regular exercise
of brig^andao^e :

Remember, my son, never to miss a chance.
When you are as old as I am, you will see
how foolish it was to be over considerate and
disposed to think that, if you let a person off
without ransom, you would be more fortunate
another time. The other time may never
arrive. Oh ! if I had only insisted upon my
rights in all cases, and sent everyone over the
precipice who could not, or would not, pay mea
proper sum, I should be richer and happier
now ! But regrets are vain ; therefore I advise
you never to give yourself any grounds
for regret. Your syndicate may be made
very profitable, but I shall leave that matter
to Luigi. He may understand it, and when
he succeeds me, which may be very soon, as I
am getting feeble, you may come to an arrangement
with him, which may benefit all
my children, and our dear country. Go, then,
in peace, my son, and take an old man's
blessing with you.'

Carlo Nerone was deeply moved. He
knelt with the intention of kissing Bardolo's
hand, but the worthy old brigand raised him
up, and kissed him on both cheeks. Though
thwarted in his project of founding a syndicate,
Carlo was gratified with the latter part
of his visit. He vowed never to forget the
counsel of the venerable Bardolo, and to
avoid burdening his conscience with neglected
opportunities, and showing mercy through
weakness.

He turned his back upon Mount Morati,
inspired with an ambition to prove himself
worthy of his race and training, and to maintain
untarnished the honour of his family,
and the splendour of its traditions. It is
always gratifying to see the scion of an old historic
house fully conscious of the responsibility
which he has inherited. Carlo Nerone was
not perfect, yet he was imbued with the filial
piety which atones for many shortcomings,
and with the desire to excel in his ancestral
vocation, which is a virtue that generally
commands respect.

VOL. II. 23

CARLO IN NICATA.

All the comforts of life in a tavern are known
'Tis his home who possesses not one of his own;
And to him who has rather too much of that one,
'Tis the house of a friend where he's welcome to run ;
The instant you enter my door you're my lord,
With whose taste and whose pleasure I'm proud to

accord ;
And the louder you call, and the longer you stay,
The more I am happy to serve and obey.'

Crabbe.

There is no place like home, especially
when one is far away from
it, or cannot return. When some
Esquimaux were brought to Europe, they
pined for their icebergs and snow-houses,
their walrus and seal hunts, and their delicious
meals of blubber. Indians and Africans do

not consider the green fields and trees of
England, adequate compensations for the
broiling heat of their homes, whilst Englishmen
who have withered for a time under a
blazing sun at the Antipodes, or in the Tropics,
account a London fog a most delightful break
in the monotony of existence. Londoners,
on the other hand, would prefer a little more
sunshine, but they, like other people, generally
get the least of what they like the best.
During Carlo Nerone's stay in France and
England, the charms of his native Nicata
haunted his waking and sleeping hours. He
saw no spot which had so many attractions
for him. On returning to it, he found drawbacks
there which he had not noticed before.
He rubbed his eyes, and exclaimed,

Can this be the place which I left a few
years ago ?'

The small hamlet consisted of a few humble
cottages, scattered over a considerable area.
Large blocks of lava hindered the inhabitants
from ranofinof their abodes in regular order.
A small water-course, which was almost dry
during the greater part of the year, divided

23—2

the hamlet into two parts ; the bed of the
stream formed a double curve, so that the
house at the upper eut was not visible, as
one entered the opposite extremity of what
was called the principal street. In this house,
or hovel, the Xerone family had lived for
centuries.

Though the principal person in Nicata,
Carlo's house resembled the cottages of the
poorer peasants, who had paid black-mail ; it
contained three rooms on the ground-floor,
and the upper part, to which access was
gained by means of a ladder, was the one
where the members of the family slept, the
beds being separated by curtains. Since her
illness, Carlo's mother had a bed made for her
in the room on the ground-floor which was
set apart for visitors, and which, at other
times, was occupied by the master of the
house. When Carlo had to mount to the
attic with the rest, he looked back with regret
to the barrack which he thought so
dreary when he was a soldier, and to the
small rooms in the hotels and restaurants of
France and England, which he had occupied

when a waiter. His home comforts were
privations, when compared with what he had
grown accustomed to.

Carlo's mother did not Hve many days after
her son's arrival. She brightened up at her
first interview with him, and she seemed as if
she would be soon able to leave her bed again,
but her revival was only the last flicker of
life's taper, and within a week after welcoming
her favourite son, she was carried to her
last resting-place. Carlo's sister had been
married to Pietro, the son of his father's
oldest and most trusted comrade, so that, after
his mother's death, Carlo had the house all to
himself

His mother felt, and expressed, intense delight,
when she learned that her son bad
resolved to resume and continue the family
calling.

My darling boy,' she said, * I hope to live
and see you walking in your father's steps ;
the place does not seem the same since his
death ; there is no longer any excitement, but
you'll change all that, won't you, my Carlo V

Yes, dearest mother, I shall do my best

for the honour of our family. I once thought
of taking a hotel or restaurant, which is a
little in the same line as ours, but since I am
back again I feel a longing for the old trade.
Perhaps I may manage to combine the two.'

Surely, Carlo, you could never think of
being anything but a brigand ! I was often
afraid of it, but now I shall die happy in
thinking that you will prove a worthy son of
your dear father.'

But, dearest mother, there is much more
of the brigand in hotel and restaurant-keepers
than you suppose. It is the form which is
different.'

^ Well, my own son, I am too old to understand
these things. It is enough for me that
you take the right course at last. Oh, if I
could only live to see you as much feared as
your dear father was !'

Do not fret, dearest mother, you will live
to nurse my children yet. Caterina Colla is
quite ready to marry me, and as soon as you
can leave your bed, the wedding will take
place.'

The death of his mother caused the wedding

to be postponed for a few weeks. It
was then celebrated, at the express desire of
Caterina, who was tired of waiting, whilst
Carlo did not object to gratify her.

The wedding brought together a larger
concourse of neighbours than the funeral. It
was known, besides, that Carlo was organizing
his baud, and this gratified his elder neighbours,
who had missed the brigandage, which
helped, as they said, to circulate money.
After the ceremony, many shouts were raised
in honour of Carlo, the noble and grand
young brigand. He thanked his friends, and
promised to do his utmost to merit their good
wishes.

He found it a hard task to restore the state
of things which had ceased at his father's
death. Some of the peasants were reluctant
to pay him black-mail ; they were inoculated
with new and revolutionary ideas ; they even
spoke of appealing to the police for protection.
This conduct was strongly reprobated
and censured by the older and more conservative
peasants, who entertained more respect
for brigands than for policemen, and who were

sticklers for preserving and walking in the
old-fashioned and ancient ways. Public
opinion made itself felt through the medium
of what is the Sicilian equivalent for * boycotting
' ; the peasants who hesitated about
paying black-mail, soon changed their minds,
and tendered it to Carlo, who expressed both
his thanks and his satisfaction at being spared
resorting' to extreme measures.

Carlo Nerone was a humane and considerate
brigand, who preferred moral suasion to
force, when the gentler method served his
purpose as effectually as the harsher. When
he did resort to physical force, the victim
usually lost his life as a fitting penalty for
his obstinacy.

He had determined never to kill a captive,
unless it were absolutely necessary to show
beyond all possibility of doubt that he was
not a man to be trifled with ; yet, even then
he was careful to act by proxy. He had no
personal objection to inflicting pain, or taking
life, but he nervously shrank from being found
out, and subjected to imprisonment for murder.

In former days the brigands of Nicata

preyed upon their countrymen, who ventured
to pass it unarmed. It was then near a highway
or rather a path, over which there was
much traffic. Of late years other roads have
superseded this one, and the number of
travellers who pass near Nicata has diminished
by three-fourths. Moreover, since the death
of Carlo's father, the Sicilian police exercised
a much stricter supervision than they did
during his lifetime, and they were rigorous
in avenging the capture of a native Sicilian,
more especially if he belonged to the Maffia,
a secret society which has largely contributed
to substitute an unwritten code of injustice
for the law of the land.

If a stranger from any part of the world
fell into the hands of brigands at Nicata he
or she received little sympathy and no redress.
The prevailing sentiment was that strangers
deserved whatever fate might befall them.
The Englishman or the American on his
travels is not a popular person in the remote
and ruder districts of Italy and Sicily. He
is regarded as a bird of passage who has come
to be plucked.

Now Carlo did not wish to quarrel with
the constituted authorities of his native
island. He dreaded meetings at their hands
the treatment which caused his father's premature
end. He was enrolled in the ranks
of the Maffia, and thus he could do much
mischief with impunity. He thought it safer
and more profitable as a brigand to count
upon strangers for patronage and support,
than to run greater risks by plundering his
countrymen. Besides, he had learned how
to deal with the English and the Americans,
and he felt sure that they would yield more
profitable spoil and give him far less trouble
than his poorer and less submissive fellow-countrymen.


He devoted the three hundred pounds
which he had brought from England to
improving his house and making it fit for the
reception and entertainment of travellers. It
had no resemblance to a brigand's cave. A
less enlightened brigand, such as the venerable
Bardolo, would not have felt at home in it.
The upper part was converted into rooms,
separated from each other by wooden partitions,

and the ladder which led to it was
superseded by a rude and rather steep stair.
A sign-board was placed over the door, on
which large letters conveyed the information
that the house had become the Hotel des
Etrangers.

A hotel without customers is not more
useful or remunerative than a cart without a
horse. It is sometimes easier to buy a horse
than get custom ; yet what an expenditure
of money does in the one case an expenditure
in the form of advertising may effect
in the other. Carlo Nerone had learned
during his travels the uses of advertising, and
he now turned his knowledge to account.
An advertisement appeared in English and
American guide-books and newspapers to the
effect that the Hotel des Etrangers had been
opened at Nicata, the most picturesque and
most salubrious spot in Sicily, and the one
best fitted for beginning the ascent of Mount
Etna ; that arrangements could be made for
being boarded there at from five lire a day
and upwards, and that Carlo Nerone, the
proprietor, could speak ' the English perfectly

and with fluency.' He spoke English better
than he wrote it.

Shortly after this hotel was opened the
proprietor had an unexpected piece of good
luck. An American journalist, who wished
to ascend Mount Etna, visited Nicata, saw
Carlo, and was provided by him with a guide.
As his band of brigands was not completely
formed and trained, he did not treat the
stranger as a captive ; on the contrary, he
gave him the best fare in the house and let
him depart after charging a very small sum
for his entertainment. This visitor not only
recounted his experience in the journal with
which he was connected, but he also sent a
few lines to the London Morning Paper,
giving an account of his experience. His
letter was copied into other journals, and the
multitude of idlers of both sexes on the lookout
for some place where living is cheap and
the life is new, made further inquiries about
Nicata.

The first arrival after the journalist was
Miss Snoswell, an English spinster of ripe
age, wide experience, and exacting tastes.

She was accompanied by a dog. In England
and in America also, there is a large surplus
of spinsters who do not spread pleasure
wherever they go, and who are always going
somewhere. Each is as restless and unamiable
as the wandering Jew. She appears to
be the victim of a hidden sorrow, and she
victories others out of revenge. One of
them is always to be found tormenting her
neighbours and entertainers in the most unlikely
places, and no corner of Europe or
America is an asylum where her presence is
unknown. If a few of these peripatetic
females had been sent to plague Pharaoh he
would have immediately consented to let the
Israelites go, provided they went with them.
When Miss Snoswell arrived at Nicata and
had an interview with the landlord of the Hot
des Etr angers, she agreed to pay five lire a
day for her board and lodging. She was
called upon to pay a month's board in
advance. After some hesitation and a vain
attempt to persuade Carlo to modify his
terms, she paid the money and prepared fora
month's sojourn amidst novel scenery.

Miss Snoswell was fond of botanizing, and
she took great interest in investigating the
flora around Nicata. She considered the fare
in the Hotel des Etrangers simpler than she
liked ; but, as the landlord promised to improve
it, she patiently awaited the result.
On the evening of the third day of her
sojourn, she was returning to the hotel with a
number of plants for her herbarium, which
she had collected during her walk, when she
saw three armed men at the corner of the
road ; her dog barked at them in passing,
whilst she quickened her pace, and was breathless
on reaching the hotel. She had too much
sense and strength of mind to faint : but she
could not repress a great fear.

Can these be brigands ?' she said to herself,
as she shook like an aspen.

Carlo was absent, and his wife could not
speak English, or understand Miss Snoswell's
Italian. The wandering spinsters who discredit
their sex, have a great capacity for
speaking foreign tongues badly, and they are
always complaining of being insulted when
their gibberish is not understood.

Miss Snoswell awaited Carlo's return with
anxiety and impatience. As soon as he appeared
she rushed forward, saying :

Mr. Nerone, can these men be brigands
whom I saw V

'What men, Miss Snoswell?' was his inquiry.

Why, these men with guns, daggers, and
tall hats with feathers in them, whom I
passed at the turning of the road before
getting here !'

I saw them, too, and that is why I have
come back sooner than I intended. I think
they are brigands ; if so, we must prepare for
the worst.'

Oh, Mr. Nerone, do let me get away at
once. I cannot sleep here another night.'

Carlo Nerone procured someone to carry
Miss Snoswell's luggage, which was neither
large nor heavy, as far as Nicolosi. He never
saw her again. He had received payment fora
month, at the rate of five lire a day ; she
had stayed three days in his house, and by
her leaving precipitately, he was largely the
gainer.

Other visitors stayed longer at the Hotel

des Etrangers than Miss Snoswell, and, in
some cases, the brigands, of whom Pietro,
Giovanni, Greg:orio, and Enrico were the most
active, had to do more than merely show
themselves ; however, the invariable result
was to cause the departure of visitors before
the time had expired for which they had paid
their board and lodging in advance. Some of
them spread the report that Nicata swarmed
with brigands, and letters to that effect appeared
in English newspapers. Paragraphs
denying this appeared in some Italian papers.
As no Italian had been captured and robbed,
the Italians held that the foreigners were
calumniating their country by inventing and
spreading false reports about brigandage.

Carlo Nerone was equal to the occasion.
He collected the paragraphs out of the Italian
papers, and sent them, with a few lines
written in intelligible, though not correct,
English, to The Morning Paper, with an appeal
to the editor's sense of fair play, which
led to their insertion. Thus Carlo dispelled
all rumours about brigands haunting Nicata,
and got an excellent advertisement for his



hotel there. On the whole he prospered ; but
he was not content with amassing money
slowly. He longed to make a great hit. He
was impatient to be rich.

Sad accidents occurred near Nicata, which
were regarded as inexplicable. Several persons
who went there never re-appeared. The
explanation given was that they had been
foolhardy ; had tried to ascend Mount Etna
without guides, and had perished on the way
down. As a matter of fact, there is no difficulty
in making the ascent of Mount Etna
without a guide, but persons living near it
refuse to admit this. In one case, suspicions
were aroused by the presentation, at the office
of Messrs. Palmaroo and Yilani, bankers in
Catania, of several circular notes, for ten
pounds each, issued by the London and Westminster
Bank. These notes had been obtained
from the Temple Bar branch of the
bank, by Mr. J. Sutton Smith, barrister,
before his departure from London at the beginning
of the long vacation. It was known
that he had reached Sicily, that he had expressed
his determination to ascend Mount

VOL. II. 24

Etna, that he had stayed some days at the
Hotel des Etrangers, in Nicata, and had then
vanished.

The circular notes were endorsed by Mr.
Smith, and had it not been that a notice regarding
them was sent to all the correspondents
of the London and Westminster Bank,
their payment would not have been the subject
of question. However, Carlo Nerone
was interrogated as to how they came into
his possession, and his answers were noted.
An application was made to the police, who
returned the answer that Carlo was quite innocent
of Mr. Smith's death. His own statement
was that Mr. Sutton Smith said he
wished to make a journey through a part of
Sicily where there were no banks, and asked
him to cash ten of these notes, which he did.
On the face of it, the story was credible, as
there is nothing uncommon in an hotel-keeper
giving change for circular notes.

It is quite true that the deceased Mr.
Smith did ask Carlo Nerone to change these
notes ; it must be added that he did so chiefly
because Carlo offered him a far higher rate of

exchange than any banker would have done.
Like many travellers abroad, Mr. Smith succumbed
to the temptation of getting a higher
rate, and he asked for more money than he
really required. Both men and women who
travel make it a business to get their notes
or coin exchanged to the best advantage, and
think that they have shown great cleverness
when they can boast of obtaining a few more
pence or shillings on exchanging a given
amount than their friends or acquaintances.
Carlo knew this, and his custom was to tell
visitors that he would give them five percent,
more for their English or American
money than any banker. By accepting such
an offer Mr. Smith lost his life.

After Mr. Smith had endorsed the notes,
Carlo said that he had not enough gold at
hand, but that he would get it in an hour's
time. He suggested that, if Mr. Smith
wished to occupy his time in the interval,
there was a curious natural phenomenon not
far behind the hotel, which he could visit,
and that he would send a guide to show him
the way. He said also that as Mr. Smith

24—2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILUNUlii

had a mind to ascend Mount Etna and to do
so alone, it might be well if he learned the
best starting-point, which he would do by
proceeding to the place indicated. Mr. Smith
went. After traversing the upper part of the
valley behind the hotel, Mr. Smith and the
guide, who was the brigand Pietro, reached
a part where there were many irregular
blocks of lava and a quantity of stunted
shrubs through which narrow paths had been
cut. The best of the paths ran straight in
front. Pietro turned aside, saying, ' Follow
the path before you, and I shall meet you
farther on.'

Mr. Smith knew enough Italian to understand
what he said. He walked quickly forward.
Suddenly his foot slipped at the top
of a steep slope which he had not perceived ;
he tried to stop himself, but the impetus was
too great, as he half fell, half rolled, down the
slope till he disappeared in a wide crevice
from which smoke issued. This was one of
those openings on the lower slope of Etna
which are doubly dangerous. The mephitic
vapours from them suffocate the incautious

person who approaches too closely. No one
who has fallen into such a crevice has issued
from it alive. Sometimes the remains of the
person who has fallen in may be observed from
an elevated point near the crevice ; but, after
the lapse of a few days, the whole mass disappears.
Mr. Smith was never seen again.
Pietro returned to say that he had disappeared.
Carlo retained the circular notes
and the gold, which he would have handed
to Mr. Smith had he come back. He went
to Nicolosi and gave notice to the police that
an Englishman named J. Sutton Smith, who
had started from his hotel to ascend Mount
Etna, had not since been heard of The
police registered the fact, and, when an investigation
was ordered, they intimated that,
as Carlo had given them notice of what had
happened, he could not have had any hand in
it. Carlo felt that he had done everything
decently and in order, and he was satisfied
with himself. Moreover, he was proud of
having converted the crevice on the mountain-side
to so useful a purpose. The place was
known in the neighbourhood as the Inferno.

The repeated disappearance of persons who
had stayed in the Bote! des Etrangers at
Nicata began to excite comment, and Carlo
felt that he must be specially circumspect.
Rumours were current that the ascent of the
mountain was to be forbidden to all those who
were unaccompanied by guides provided with
a license. This was regarded by Carlo as
an unfair interference with private industry
and enterprise. He never liked the police,
and now he was more than ever anxious to
be let alone by them. Still, he thought it
right to be prepared for emergencies. He
was quite ready to leave Nicata if he had
sufficient money wherewith to begin business
afresh. He had gathered from his reading,
and from conversing with strangers, that a
banker was a person who could make a large
fortune out of a small capital. By a banker
he meant what is known as one in France,
Germany, and Italy — that is, a man who is
half speculator and half stock-broker, and nota
man who is a banker in the English and
American sense. He resolved, indeed, to
give up his present occupation, if only for a

time, so as to lull suspicion, whenever he had
found some rich traveller from whom money
could be extracted on a large scale.

Carlo had become the father of a lusty
boy, and the fresh responsibility rendered
him the more desirous of gaining money.
He was disappointed to learn that his brother,
Eduardo, would not join him. and that he
had elected to remain in London. He had
found an English girl who was ready to
become his wife, and he purposed founding an
Italian restaurant. But, though Eduardo
would not leave London, he was ready to
help his elder brother with information which
mio^ht interest and be of use to him. Eduardo
read in the papers that Mr. Argoll and his
chief clerk were on the point of going to
Sicily. The papers which specially occupy
themselves with the private affairs of conspicuous
persons added the reasons for Mr.
Argoll's journey. These facts were communicated
to Carlo, who prepared to give
Mr. Aro-oU a warm welcome in the event of
his visiting Nicata.

MR. ARGOLL ABROAD.

Travel, in the younger sort, is a part of education ; in
the elder a part of experience.' — Bacon.

iO few Englishmen in good circumstances
have not visited the Continent,
before they are middle-aged,
that it is difficult to realize what Mr. Argos's
feelings were, when going thither for the first
time, after having long passed his fortieth
year. To him an expedition to discover the
North Pole would not have appeared more
difficult or noteworthy. He had often looked
upon the sea, and he had been upon it for a
short space, with the result of feeling very
ill and very frightened. He had heard much

about the misery experienced by those who,
being bad sailors, crossed the Channel in
stormy weather, and he grew so nervous as
heartily to regret his imprudence in planning
the trip, when the day fixed for his departure
arrived.

Having a strong faith in the efficacy of
medicine to cure or prevent maladies, Mr.
Argoll bought several specifics against seasickness,
and he began to use them before
driving to the railway-station, where he was
to enter the train for Dover. He had thought
of nearly every thing when making preparations
for his journey, except one, which never
occurred to his mind till he had to take
tickets to Paris for himself and Mr. Byker
at Victoria Station. Mr. Argoll reached the
station before Mr. Byker, and he went at once
to the office, and asked for two tickets for
Paris.

First or second V was the clerk's inquiry.
Mr. Argoll said ' First,' got the tickets, and
then he asked himself whether his chief clerk
and himself were to travel and live together
on a footing of equality.

The pair were on intimate, but not familiar
terms. Mr. Argoll had no business secrets
from his clerk, simply because he could not
keep them to himself, and was obliged to
open his mind to him. Being of a reticent
temperament, Mr. Argoll was disposed to
keep his own affairs locked in his bosom ; yet,
finding this impossible, and being compelled
to make a confidant of Mr. Byker, he had the
satisfaction of feeling that his confidence had
not been misplaced, or the trust abused. Indeed,
he accustomed himself to regard his
chief clerk as a second self. Nevertheless,
a second self is sometimes superfluous, and
may be highly inconvenient. It is quite as
bad as a second conscience, one conscience
being generally more than enough to occasion
anxiety and remorse.

Men meet daily in the City under the
same roof, and when they leave their office
they are as much strangers to each other's
ways and doings as if they had never met,
or heard the sound of each other's names.
Two partners may work together during half a
century, and never see each other out of their

place of business. This may be attributable,
in part, to the one living in the southern,
and the other in the western suburb of
London ; yet even if they live in the same
or the next street, they may still remain utter
strangers to each other out of business hours.
It is often as well that their intimacy should
cease when their office-door is closed behind
them. Should they keep it up afterwards,
they might find reason to regret doing so.
Two partners may agree to differ, and by a
rare chance they may remain bosom friends ;
but the wives of two partners are almost certain
to quarrel, and, even in the improbable
event of their wives remaining good friends,
their children, if they have any, will undoubtedly
be at daggers drawn. Jealousy
and uncharitableness may be called the note
of personal intercourse between City folks.

Two partners in business recognise that
they are on an equal footing socially, even
should the one be much richer than the other.
But the relation between the partner in a firm
and one of the clerks, is as different from that
between the partners themselves as that between

the commissioned and the non-commissioned
officers in a regiment. There is a
recognition of inequality on either side. They
never expect to meet as members of the same
club, or to dine at each other's table ; and
should a partner, by way of exception, invite
one of his clerks to dine at his house,
no clerk ever dreams of returning the invitation.


This condition of things is not peculiar to a
country in which the social inequality of all
men is the rule ; for the clerk in a business
house in the Republic of France, the Swiss
Confederation, and the Republic of the United
States of America, stands in the same relation
to his employer that such a man does in
the Monarchical City of London. Perhaps, if
Mr. Argoll had given the matter a thought
when arranging to start for Sicily, he might
have arranged that Mr. Byker and he should
not travel together ; and he could have averted
any difficulty by sending him on before, or
making hint follow by a subsequent train.

Mr. Byker was rather late at the railway -
station, owinof to the reluctance of his old

mother to part with him. She cried bitterly,
and there is something very pathetic and
painful in the sorrow of a feeble woman of
seventy. Her son was too much affected
himself to be able to console her. He knew
not what to say. Again and again he was on
the point of announcing that he would not
leave her, even if he had to sacrifice his situation
as a penalty for staying behind ; but his
early training, and his strong sentiment of
duty, proved superior to his filial affection.
His whole nature revolted at the thought of
allowing Mr. Argoll to travel alone, after
promising to keep him company. Besides,
he was unable to imagine how his master
could dispense with his counsel. He sincerely
believed that Mr. Argoll would be utterly
helpless without him.

In addition to being an excellent and trustworthy
clerk, Mr. Byker had an opinion of
his own value and importance which, perhaps,
was slightly exaggerated. He admitted his
employer's abilities, and he did not begrudge
him his fortune ; but he was firmly convinced
that his own services had chiefly contributed

to render the firm of Argoll and Solar rich
and famous. That no delicate piece of business
could be properly or successfully conducted
without him, was a fact which he did
not consider open to doubt. He was not
given to boasting. Indeed, no one had ever
heard him ascribe praise to himself, even when
the entire credit of a brilliant transaction was
clearly his due. He constantly spoke of ' our
house,' or * our firm ;' but he never even implied
that he was other than a subordinate in
the house or the firm. Yet, like many other
men, his inmost thoughts did not find an echo
in words, or, rather, his feeling of self-sufficiency
was too profound and pervading to
permit of being voiced forth.

Though it was a great wrench to leave his
mother, he strongly felt that he had no option.
His heart-strings were wrung, yet he remained
master of his feelings. In addition
to the conviction that Mr. Argoll would be
helpless without him, he entertained a wish
to make the journey. His short trip to the
Continent had sharpened his appetite for
travel. He had not much imagination, but

he had a longing to behold with his own eyes
the places about which he had heard so much
in the way of business, and to visit some of
the firms on the Continent with which he had
corresponded. He had heard that Mr. Argoll
purposed stopping in Paris in order to have
an interview with Messrs. Blumenheim and
Caradoc, the members of a great financial
house there, with which the firm of Argoll
and Solar had transacted business on a large
scale for many years. Mr. Byker felt very
curious to see them and their office.

Mr. Byker had made an arrangement for a
friend of his mother, who lived in the north of
England and who was always glad to stay in
London for a few weeks, visiting and remaining
with her during his absence. At any
other time this would have pleased his mother
greatly, but now she seemed solely concerned
about the circumstance that her son was going
away, and, as she repeatedly said, was going to
the Indies,' or some place quite as outlandish
and remote. She refused to be comforted.
He waited by her side, speaking words of
love and comfort, till he feared that he would

be too late for the train. At last he had to
kiss her with fervour and affection, and tear
himself away.

The train was on the point of starting as
Mr. Byker entered the station, where he
found Mr. Argoll fuming and fretting.

^ Come along, Byker,' he said. ' I thought
something had happened to you. Here's
your ticket.'

Mr. Byker had so little luggage that he
could place what he had in the compartment
of the carriage. He was surprised when, on
looking at his ticket, he found it to be a
first-class one, and he was still more surprised
when Mr. Argoll beckoned him to take a
vacant seat beside him. Mr. Argoll seemed
ill at ease. Mr. Byker felt entirely out of
his element. Both would have been more
comfortable and contented apart.

Nothing happened during the trip to
Dover and during the passage across the
Channel which deserves special mention.
Mr. Argoll had taken no less than three
specifics against sea-sickness ; one before
entering the railway-carriage, one during the

run to Dover, and one on embarking. The
natural result followed. Before he had been
ten minutes on board the steamer he was
helplessly sick, the infallible preventives
appearing to hasten and increase his suffering.
Mr. Byker remained perfectly well, and tried
bo console his master, who, in the bitterness
of his heart, recklessly exclaimed that he
would give fifty thousand pounds to be put on
shore that moment. When the steamer
reached Calais harbour and Mr. Argos felt
better, he made a rash vow and said :

Catch me ever crossing the Channel again J
I've had enough of it.'

Mr. Argoll continued depressed and ill
during the journey from Calais to Paris.
Perhaps if he had not poisoned himself with
so many specifics against sea-sickness, he
might never have suffered at all, or he might
have entirely recovered on leaving the
steamer. He heartily wished himself back
in London, and, if he could have got there
without re-crossing the Channel, he would
have returned immediately.

He was soon rendered more uncomfortable

VOL. II. 25

and unhappy in another way. Two of his
fellow-travellers in the compartment were
Englishmen who occupied themselves for a
time in reading the French papers which
they had bought. One said to the other ina
loud tone, and with entire indifference as
to whether any person in the compartment
overheard him or understood what he said :

^ T say, Charlie, here's a paragraph in the
Canard about The Riviera Sanitation Company
; it seems there's going to be an inquiry.
I always thought it a fishy affair.'

The other replied :

'I'm glad, Dick, I've nothing in it ; I
warned my clients not to touch it with a pair
of tongs.'

The two men were youthful and ill-mannered
stockbrokers out for a holiday. They
went on to speak in uncomplimentary terms
of the firm of Argoll and Solar, and they said
many things which made Mr. Argoll wince.

This was not the first time Mr. Argoll had
learned that there was discontent amongst
the shareholders in The Riviera Sanitation
Company, and it was his intention to confer

on the subject with Messrs. Blunienheim and
Caradoc, in concert with whom his firm had
founded the company. As was stated in the
first chapter, the large sum which Mr. Argoll
derived from establishing that company had
rendered him more than a millionaire. Both
he and Mr. Byker knew only too well that
the shareholders had good grounds for being
intensely dissatisfied.

Mr. Argoll's next excitement occurred at
the railway station in Paris, when his luggage
was examined. He had never seen the process
before, and he did not approve of his
portmanteau and bags being opened and
searched. The Custom House officers were
very strict with him. One of the first things
upon which they placed their hands was his
medicine-chest, and this they regarded with
suspicion ; the large bottle of opodeldoc next
excited their curiosity.

Tell them,' he said to Mr. Byker, ' that
it's my medicine-chest, and that I'm an invalid.'


Mr. Byker did his best to communicate
these interesting facts, with the result of

25—2

puzzling the Custom-House officers and surprising
Mr. Argoll. The officer insisted upon
opening the bottle ; he tasted the contents,
and made a very wry face. After having
satisfied himself that the bottle did not contain
a pleasant liquor, he suffered the media
containing the bottle of opodeldoc,
to pass. He was confirmed in his opinion
that the English who carried such things
with them were eccentric to the verge of
lunacy.

What surprised Mr. Argoll was that Mr.
Byker did not appear to understand the
officer's French, and that the officer was
clearly unable to understand his. Till then,
he had regarded Mr. Byker as an accomplished
linguist.

What's the matter, Byker '?' he said. ' I
thought you knew French as well as English.'


*Well, sir,' was the reply, 'I am rather
out of practice, and could not get the officers
to understand why anyone should carry so
much medicine about with him.'

I hope you'll get on better another time.

I look to you to act as interpreter, you
know.'

Mr. Byker did not know anything of the
kind : he had never dreamed that this was
one of the reasons why Mr. Argoll desired
his company, and he had not the courage to
explain that his knowledge of colloquial
French was very scanty. He could speak a
few phrases with a perfect British accent, but
he could scarcely make out a word of what was
said to him. He felt intensely relieved when,
on reaching the Grand Hotel, he found he could
get on when he spoke English. Yet he dreaded
lest at any moment he might be compelled
to expose his ignorance before Mr. Argoll.

Mr. Argoll had no desire to see the sights
of Paris. He wished to have an interview
with Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc, and
then to continue his journey. The time being
early in August, most of the people who
could leave Paris for some watering-place
had done so. Indeed, M. Blumenheim and
M. Caradoc had returned from the sea-side in
order to meet Mr. Argoll. Their wives did
not regret their departure, as they were confident

of amusing themselves during their
husbands' absence.

On the morning after arriving at the Grand
Hotel, Mr. Argoll and Mr. Byker started for
the office of Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc,
in the Rue Violence. They had studied the
map before leaving the hotel, and they were
glad to see that they would not have far to
walk, that the road seemed almost straight,
and that it was scarcely possible for them to
lose their way. After crossing the street at
the corner of the Place de F Opera, they could
not fail to reach the Vice Vivitnne if they
only went along one of the streets in front of
them. Instead of proceeding in the direct
course they turned into a side-street which
seemed a near cut. After walking round and
round for a time and getting no closer to their
destination they were puzzled.

Surely,' said Mr. Argoll, ' wee ought to be
there by this time !'

Yes, sir,' replied Mr. Byker, ' we should
have been if the routes on the map had been
correct ; but the routes on a map do not make
allowance for crossings and turnings.'

This seemed a reasonable explanation.
However, after walking along for some
minutes longer and appearing to return to
the place from which they started, or some
place very like it, they hailed a passing cab,
and Mr. Byker gave the driver instructions
where to go. Either the driver was stupid
or else Mr. Byker's French was unintelligible ;
in any case the driver did not seem disposed
to start. Annoyed at his hesitation,

Mr. Byker said sharply, 'Allez ,' and after

a short pause to collect his thoughts or recall
the words he wished to use, he added, ^ au
Diable'

Best le hon Diable vous voudrez dire, bourg

Byker rashly said ' Qui ;' the driver
replied ' Bon,' turned on his seat, whipped
his horse, and off they went.

About a quarter of an hour elapsed, and the
Rue Vivienne was not reached.

What can be the matter, Byker ?' exclaimed
Mr. Argos ; * we surely ought to be
there by this time. No map can have omitted
all these turnings, and we seem to be on the

opposite side of the river now. When I
looked at the map, the Rue Vivienne was on
the same side of the river as the Grand
Hdtei:

Mr. Byker was both puzzled and out of
temper; he charitably conducted that the
driver was drunk. Putting his head out of
the window he asked :

Oil sommes nous, cocher f

The driver pointed with his whip and
replied :

Nous y sommes, best tout pres, bourgeois ;
la boutique est au coin de cette rue en face!

Mr. Byker imperfectly translated this reassuring
phrase to Mr. Argoll. In a few
minutes' time the cab stopped in front of a
large ready-made clothing warehouse, where
there was a sign of a large black Devil, with
horns and hoofs, and on which there figured
in enormous letters the words 'An bon Diable.'
Both got out ; neither knew exactly what todo.
Mr. Argoll said there must be some
mistake. Mr. Byker could only reply :

I'm sure I can't understand it.'

Neither can 1/ remarked Mr. Argoll.

Then he took a card out of his pocket and
wrote the name and address of Messrs.
Blumenheim and Caradoc in large letters, and
motioned to the driver that he wished to go
there. The driver motioned in turn for them
to re-enter the cab, muttering, ' Mon Dieu,
comme les Anglais sont hates /' and drove
straight to the desired number in the Rue
Vivienne.

It was half-past eleven o'clock in the morning
when they reached it. Two clerks were
in the office, one of whom could understand
English and speak it so as to make himself
intelligible. When asked whether either
partner was in, he replied that both had gone
to breakfast. When asked whether the chief
clerk was in, he replied that he had gone to
breakfast also.

When will any of them return V asked
Mr. Argoll.

Near to two o'clock, sir,' was the reply.
He left his card, with a message that he
would return at two.

He was so astonished that he forgot the
misadventure with the cab.

This would not do at Athelstanee House,
Byker V

No, sir ; we keep better hours there. But
then Paris is a city of pleasure

It looks like it, Byker. How busy men
like Blumenheim and Caradoc can keep
things going and be away for hours and let
their principal clerk go too, is more than I can
understand !'

Mr. Byker agreed with his master ; he
was not sorry that his master's thoughts were
diverted from his own mistakes.

Neither knew that each partner had been in
the office at nine o'clock, and had done between
nine and eleven as much business as Messrs.
Argoll and Solar would do between eleven
and one, when they, too, would have thought
about going to luncheon. The only real
difference is that the time occupied by Frenchmen
at their breakfast is rather longer than
that which English City men allow for their
luncheon ; on the other hand, as the Frenchmen
stay at their offices to a later hour, the
actual time during which business is transacted
is nearly the same on both sides of the

Channel. This information was gained later
by Mr. Argoll ; at the moment, however, he
was pleased to pride himself upon being the
harder worker.

Mr. Argoll saw the partners at two
o'clock ; the senior one had visited him in
London ; the junior he had not met before.
The senior partner spoke English well, and
the other could make himself understood in
it. The chief piece of news they had to
give related to The Riviera Sanitation Company.


This is a very unpleasant business,' they
said to him. ' We did not think matters
were nearly so bad as they seem to be.'

Now, Mr. Argoll's rule was never to retain
any interest as a shareholder in a company
which he had established. If he received
cash for promoting it, he put it into his
pocket ; if he received shares, he sold them at
once, and then he had no further concern in
the future of the company. His mind was
kept easy, as he said ; the company's failure
or success neither depressed nor excited him.
Some people reproached him with this indifference

to his financial offspring. He bore
their censure with a light heart.

Mr. Argos had made the calculation that
three out of every five of the companies to
which he had acted as sponsor, or of which he
was the father, had proved disastrous failures,
and he argued that, if he retained an interest
in them all, he mio^ht lose in the three far
more than he could gain in the two ; whereas,
if he contented himself with taking what he
could get out of each at the outset, he would
always be the gainer. Tt was not, then, a
matter of personal concern to learn that The
Riviera Sanitation Company was in financial
straits ; he constantly heard of companies
being wound up, and this was one reason why
he preferred floating foreign loans to promoting
joint-stock companies. But what made
him uneasy was to hear that there was a likelihood
of an investigation into the way in
which Tke Riviera Sanitation Company had
been placed before the British public.

Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc had
tried, without success, to get French investors
to put their money into this venture.

They spent much money in getting it puffed
in the French papers, but investors held
aloof. Then they introduced it to the
British public, in conjunction with Messrs.
Argoll and Solar, and the British public,
acting with its wonted folly in money
matters, had readily subscribed the required
capital.

Unlike Messrs. Argoll and Solar, the firm
of Blumenheim and Caradoc had retained
many shares in this company, and, as there
was a liability on these shares, the firm would
have to pay a large sum in the event of the
company going into liquidation with debts
which could not be met with the assets in
hand.

Surely,' said Mr. Argoll, ' the capital cannot
all have been spent yet V

No ; we believe there are still a few
thousand pounds left, and that the amount
in hand would meet nearly all the liabilities.
But some shareholders seem to have found
out that no expenditure could ever make
the concern pay, and they appear to have
either seen or heard of a letter which it

VOL. II.

is alleged was penned to that effect before
the company was advertised.'

I hope none of them have seen such a
letter,' exclaimed Mr. Argoll ; but, recollecting
himself, he hastened to add : ' I mean
I hope things are not so bad as all that.
I suppose, however, as this is holiday-time,
nothing will be done for some months.'

The senior partner, who wished to have a
private talk with Mr. Argoll, invited him to
dinner that evening, and then they discussed
together what to do in the event of the company's
affairs taking a troublesome turn.
There is generally more than one grizzly
skeleton in the cupboard of a successful
financier.

Whilst M. Blumenheim and Mr. Areoll
conversed together, M. Caradoc talked with
Mr. Byker. The latter asked to be shown
over the office, and the contrast between the
light and airy, the well-furnished, and artistically
decorated rooms in this office, and those
in Athelstanee House, produced a great impression
upon him. He thought that if he
had one of these rooms to sit in he would

find his work far easier. But, if he could
have made an exchange of offices, he would
still have remarked a difference between them,
unless he could also have taken the clear atmosphere
of the Rue Vivienne to brighten
the narrow lane in which stood Athelstanee
House.

Before Mr. Argos and Mr. Byker left this
office, the whole party engaged in general
conversation.

When do you return home, Mr. Argoll V
was the question which M. Caradoc put,
more for the sake of saying something than
because he cared when he went.

Mr. Argoll replied :

^ I am only at the beginning of my travels ;
I mean to visit Sicily before my return.'

The two partners exchanged glances, which
signified, ' What can he be up to V

They knew that Mr. Argoll had never left
London before, and M. Blumenheim used to
say every time he saw him there :

Now, Mr. Argoll, when will you visit us in
Paris r

To which the reply invariably was :

I promise to pay you a long visit there
whenever I am able to get away from business
for a few days.'

M. Blumenheim thought that Mr. ArgolFs
present visit was in fulfilment of that promise ;
but when he learned that Mr. Argoll was
going as far as Sicily, and was taking his
chief clerk with him, he was filled with
wonder and curiosity. He was too well bred
to put a direct question then, yet he hoped
to elicit more information after dinner in the
evening.

You are not afraid of brigands, are you ?
was the question which M. Blumenheim not
unnaturally put, the belief being common in
Paris that brigands abound in Greece and
Italy.

Not in the slightest. The Duke — I mean
I was told by a friend that none have been
seen in Sicily for ten years. Nerone, the
last and worst of them, died in prison at
Naples, and no one has taken his place.'

M. Blumenheim noted the slip of the
tongue, and he felt the more curious about
Mr. Arofoll's mission and as to who thu

Duke was of whom he spoke as a friend.
To keep the conversation in the same
groove, M. Caradoc interposed with the
remark :

I should think, my dear sir, that the
Italian brigands cannot be half so bad as the
police in Servia. Have you seen the account
in this morning's paper V

Neither Mr. Argoll nor Mr. Byker had
done so ; M. Caradoc handed the paper to
the latter, saying, as he did so :

The story is worth reading, and if you
care to take the paper you may.'

Mr. Byker took it and thanked him. When
they returned to the hotel he read the story,
and told Mr. Argoll the substance of it. As
has been said already, Mr. Byker could read
French, though his power of speaking it
was far less than he supposed, and did not
give him any appreciable advantage over
those who acknowledged their inability todo
so.

The story was to the effect that at Pilot, in
Servia, many persons were never seen again
after being taken into custody by the police.

VOL. IT. 26

All these persons were understood to have
money in their possession. Suspicions were excited,
and there was an outcry for an investigation.
At last the police were arrested, and their
office was carefully searched, with the result
of seventeen skeletons being found buried indifferent
parts of the yard behind it. Large
quantities of clothing were also found in
the rooms occupied by the police, and the
clothes were identified as having belonged to
merchants who had left their homes with
considerable sums in their pockets, and of
whom nothing had since been heard. Mr.
Argoll's remark, after hearing the story,
was :

'Well, Byker, it is fortunate that we are
not going through Servia, though, if we
were, I should not tempt anyone by carrying
gold with me. I hope the Italian police are
better than the Servia, and I shall not
trouble them any more than I can help.'

I hope, sir, we shall not be troubled by
brigands or police ; but don't you think it
would be safer to make inquiries before we
go farther V

Nonsense, Byker ! I am certain the Duke
would not have said that there were no
brigands left in Sicily unless he were quite
sure of it. He often goes there himself, so
he ought to know. Besides, it would not
suit his book to let me proceed there on a
fool's errand.*

Mr. Byker was silenced, but not satisfied.

26—2

PARIS TO Nicolai

am a part of all that I have met ;
Yet all experience is an arch whereto'
Gleams that untravelled world, whose margin fades
For ever and for ever when I move.'

Tennyson.

R. ARGOLL^did not intend spending
more than one day in Paris.
His purpose in remaining thereat
all was business, and not sight-seeing ;
besides, he took no pleasure in churches and
picture-galleries, in monuments, or museums.
He accounted time passed in sight-seeing as
time wasted. Besides, he cared for none of
these things. His mind had got into and
moved in a groove. Dr. Johnson said of

the mediocre poet and estimable physician,
Sir Richard Blackmore, that ' he had Kved
in the City till he had learned its note and
he said this after quoting some sentences
which the poet had couched ' in language
such as Cheapside easily furnished.' Though
Mr. Argos did not live in the City, he was
far more of a City man than Sir Richard
Blackmore, who did. Indeed, he had grown
into a kind of City automaton, which responded
to the fluctuations of the Money
Market.

Yet, though caring little for Paris, he
prolonged his stay there far beyond the
brief space he had determined upon. Having
accepted an invitation to dine with M. Blenheim,
he could not well refuse one from
his partner ; and then the partners proposed
that he should spend another night in their
company at Bignon's Restaurant, in order
that they might let him understand how
strangers are entertained in Paris. If they
had shown him the bill which they had to
pay for the dinner, he would have opened
his eyes, and learned that the strangers must

have very long and full purses who enjoy
themselves in fashionable Parisian restaurants.
Neither M. Blumenheim nor his partner was
in the habit of frequenting restaurants, and
both considered the charges excessive ; but
they consoled themselves with thinking that
they had made an impression upon Mr.
Argoll. What was still better, they had
entered into a bargain with him which they
hoped would repay them many times
over.

The fine house in Palace Gardens, which
Mr. Argoll occupied, never seemed so fine
to him as after his visit to that of M. Blenheim
in the Boulevard Haussmann. The
latter had only a single flat in the large and
lofty mansion which looked so commanding
from the street, and yet he paid as much rent
as he would have done for a whole house ina
fashionable London square. When he contrasted
M. Blumenheim's rooms with his
own, Mr. Argoll felt that he was the more
fortunate of the two. The French banker
or merchant could not exist in the gloomy
and stuffy office in a narrow street where

the English banker or merchant spends the
greater part of each day; on the other hand,
the Englishman could not sleep in the small
bedroom which the Frenchman occupies
during the night. When M. Blumenheim
showed Mr. Argoll his bedroom, the latter
made a mental note to the effect that his
own dressing-room was much more spacious,
and he felt surprised that anyone should
inhabit such a room and live.

But, whilst he did not envy M. Blenheim's
home-comforts, he felt differently when
he visited his partner, M. Caradoc, at Saint
Denis. It is true the house itself was on a
smaller scale than that in Palace Gardens ;
still it was not less comfortable. Mr. Argoll
was greatly impressed with the garden. He
had no knowledge of gardening, or any taste
for it ; but he much preferred the fruit and
vegetables which had been grown under his
own eye. Amongst the many quack systems
which he had tried, that of living upon fruit
and vegetables had attracted him for a time ;
and, whilst he was full of faith in its virtues,
and before he suffered in health, his hobby was

to grow the fruit and vegetables uj^on which
he barely existed. Though now eating meat
again, and feeling the better for it, he still
retained a fondness for fresh vegetables and
fruit ; and he spent much money in growing
both at Palace Gardens, the fruit behoof crown
in a hot-house, the vegetables in the open
air. This was a hobby which caused frequent
collisions between him and his wife. Mrs.
Argos greatly preferred the products of
Covent Garden market. She was less
ignorant, perhaps, than one of Mrs. Gore's
heroines, who fancied that cucumbers grew
in slices ; yet she knew nothing about the
cultivation of vegetables and fruit, and her
conception of a garden was a place set apart
for the growth of flowers.

In M. Caradoc's garden at St. Denis,
Mr. Argoll saw fruit as well as vegetables
flourishing in the open air, and he looked
with envy upon the clusters of fine grapes
hanging from vines trained against the wall,
and the ripe plums and peaches upon the
trees. That so attractive a display of fruit
was possible so near Paris gave him a better

and more favourable notion of the climate
than any number of statistics.

The purpose of Mr. Argoll's journey was
made known to his first entertainer after a
copious dinner. He did not mean to tell
either partner anything about his plans ; but
the best resolutions sometimes fade away
at a dining-table. Almost before he knew
what he said, he had explained to M. Blenheim
why he had resolved to visit Sicily.
As Mr. Argoll's purchase of an estate from
the Duke of Fontainebleau would not interfere
with any of M. Blumenheim's schemes,
he perfectly approved of what Mr. Argoll
meant to do. He told his partner about it,
and they both agreed to show further attention
to Mr. Argoll, with a view of getting
a service in return.

Both the partners occupied a place in
the Parisian world of finance corresponding
to that occupied in London by Mr.
Argoll. Neither firm was in the highest
circle of financial sanctity, and each was
ready to enter into business which the
best houses would hardly condescend to

VOL. II.

entertain. M. Blumenheim was supposed
to be of German or Austrian origin and
parentage ; but no two persons were agreed
as to the place of his birth. He was
also supposed to be one of the unappreciated
but lucky children of Israel, who
have obtained almost supreme control over
the Press and the money markets of the
Continent, and who are making their influence
felt in England and America ; but, then, he
ostentatiously professed himself an ardent
member of the Church of Rome and an
ultra-patriotic Frenchman. It is possible
that he had been baptized and naturalized,
and that his religious zeal and patriotic
fervour were the consequences of a change
in his creed and nationality. He had the
great advantage of knowing how to ingratiate
himself alike with Jews and Gentiles, and
this faculty he may have owed to his early
training and his conversion.

His partner, M. Caradoc, was a Breton,
who had all the astuteness of the Hebrew
and the suavity of the Frenchman, and who
never forgot to be sympathetic and polite

when driving a hard bargain, or when taking
undue advantage of his neighbours. In all
their dealings with Mr. Argoll the partners
had found him more than a match for them,
and they admired him accordingly. He was as
little encumbered with inconvenient scruples
as either of them. The two firms knew and
respected each other's strong points. Both
M. Blumenheim and M, Caradoc liked Mr.
Argoll as an ally, and they would have
feared him as an adversary or a rival.

When they entertained him at Bignon's
Restaurant, their purpose was to make a
proposal for his co-operation in a scheme
which they had in prospect, and which had
relation to Sicily. When dinner was over,
and they were drinking coffee and smoking
cigarettes, the senior partner began :

We should be glad, Mr. Argoll, if you
would pay some attention to a little matter
when you are in Sicily which interests us,
and in which you might possibly like to take
part. You know, I suppose, that there are
not much more than five hundred miles of
railway in Sicily, and that only the principal

coast towns are connected together by rail.
Now some correspondents of ours have
pointed out that there is a good opening
for branch hues to develop the internal
resources of the island, which are very
great. If concessions for these lines could
be obtained on favourable terms from the
municipalities, we might do a good stroke
of business.'

I never thought of such a thing,' was
Mr. Argoll's reply. He added, ' Indeed, I
don't know much about Sicily ; but, if I get
this property, I should like to see plenty of
railways made.'

Well, then,' said M. Caradoc, ' perhaps
you might make some inquiries on the spot.
If money should be required to strike a
bargain, we are ready to advance ten thousand
pounds, and we can instruct Messrs. Palmaroo
and Vilani, our correspondents in Catania,
to let you have that sum on application,
provided you let it be reckoned to our joint
account, and apportioned when these Egyptians
are settled.'

When I get there I shall see what can

be done ; if I remember rightly I shall have
to visit Catania on my way to or from the
property I mean to look at, and then I shall
call upon your correspondents.'

Before you leave Paris said M. Blenheim,
' I can send you some memoranda on
the subject. A part of the scheme is to
make a railway up Mount Etna. Judging
from the one up the Right and Mount
Vesuvius, such a line ought to pays. It
would start from a place called Nicata,
where you will find the Hotel des Etr angers,
which is often advertised in our papers.'

Mr. Argoll made a note of this in his
pocket-book. He was not displeased at the
likelihood of his trip to Sicily proving a
remunerative one. Indeed, he fancied it not
impossible that he might make more profit
out of these concessions, if he obtained them,
than he would have to pay the Duke of
Fontainebleau for his property and the title
of Count. The conversation took another
turn which had less general interest, relating
as it did to an Egyptian loan, which both
firms had the chief share in placing before

the public. The English firm contented
itself with pocketing a handsome commission
; the French one held thousands of the
bonds, and that firm was now mortified to
find that the payment of interest upon them
had been suspended. Mr. Argoll readily-consented
to try and make some arrangement
regarding these bonds, and he was
offered liberal terms if he succeeded. So he
promised to give careful attention to the
matter on his return to London.

He was charmed with his visit to Paris.
He believed that he saw his way to increasing
his fortune, and this bright prospect
put him in good humour. Messrs. Blenheim
and Caradoc were delighted to have
interested him in their projects, as they
knew by experience that few things which
he seriously took in hand failed to yield a
profit to the promoters and their friends.

Mr. Byker had not been invited to accompany
his master to the dinner-parties
given by Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc,
nor was he sorry. He would have felt out
of place at the tables where he sat as a

guest ; besides, he did not regret being free
to enjoy himself in his own way. With a
view to improving his French, he went
nightly to the places where it was spoken
and sung. Though most of the theatres
were shut, the Eden Theatre was open, and
there he found things and persons to interest
and amuse him, whilst he had other opportunities
for doing so at the Cafe Chantants,
where passing strangers are always welcome.
He regretted when, on the morning of the
fourth day, Mr. Argoll told him to prepare
for starting in the evening, and asked him
to make inquiry as to the best route for
reaching Messina. After a careful study of
the map and the time-tables, Mr. Byker
reported that there was a choice of routes to
Naples, the one by way of Marseilles and
the Riviera, the other by way of Turin, and
Mr. Argoll selected the latter, as he was
reluctant to go nearer the French Riviera
than he could help. When told that the
journey from Naples to Messina would have
to be made by sea, and that the trip would
occupy a night and part of a day, he intimated

that he would not go at all. His
remembrance of the Channel passage was
still vivid. Happily, Mr. Byker found that
by taking the train to Reggio, the trip
across the Straits of Messina would occupy
less than an hour, and then Mr. Argos
resolved to continue his journey.

Before leaving Paris a thing happened to
Mr. Arof'oll which he deemed very strange,
but which, unfortunately, is becoming a
matter of everyday occurrence. The waiter
brought a card to his room, saying that the
bearer desired to see him. On the card was
printed ' J. Mendel.' Had Mr. Argos been
at Athelstanee House no one would have
been admitted to his presence till he had
first made known the nature of his business ;
but Mr. Argos's curiosity being aroused, and
Mr. Byker being out of the way, he ordered
the visitor to be shown in. Mr. Mendel
bowed, and said that he was ' the representative
' of Le Jour.

It is one of the peculiarities of some
highly civilized people to have reverted in
one particular to the condition of their

barbarous forefathers. Araonofst savages
there is neither secrecy nor privacy. At one
time it was considered fitting for a civilized
man to keep his private affairs to himself,
and most unbecoming in him to parade
them before the public, or to permit others
to do so. In England it is still thought
improper, if not highly impertinent, for a
man who is a stranger to another, to take
him to task and examine him as to his
opinions and the events of his life. But a
man calling himself * the representative ' of
some newspaper arrogates the right to put
any question he pleases to an utter stranger,
and to communicate the answers to the
readers of his paper. This personage calls
himself, and is called, an interviewer.

In the United States of America, where
interviewing is largely practised, it may be
regarded as a survival of the times when
swarthy savages were the lords of the soil,
the white men who ousted them having
perpetuated their inquisitiveness. The
English people, as a body, have not yet
ceased to draw a distinction between what

VOL. II. 27

is purely personal and what is a public
matter, though strenuous efforts are making
to cause them to abandon their reserve and
their liking for retirement. But, then, as is
often said, the English people are not progressive,
and they have a confirmed belief
that each man should mind his own business.
In France, where the practice of interviewing
has lately been introduced, the claim of
^ the representative ' of a newspaper to elicit
information and publish it has been generally
recognised. French people enjoy reading
tittle-tattle. Anyone professing to have
authority can have much of his own way
amongst them. They enjoy being looked
after, and ' the representative ' of a newspaper
is regarded by them as a journalistic
policeman, and is treated with corresponding
respect.

Mr. Argos did not understand what business
^ the representative ' of Le Jour could
have with him, unless it were to ask him to
subscribe to it. He at once said to him :

^ I really don't require your paper, as I
can't read French.'

Mr. Mendel was a Franco American
journalist, being a French Canadian by birth
and well versed in both French and English.
He was surprised to hear Mr. Argos's remark,
and he hastened to say :

^ I think, sir, there must be some mistake.
I have come to see you as a journalist, feeling
sure that our readers will be glad to learn
your opinion on many points.'

Mr. Argol] was more puzzled than before ;
he could not understand what consequence
his opinions could be to the readers of Le
Jour.

On seeing Mr. Mendel take out his notebook
and make ready to write, it occurred
to him that he was to be subjected to interviewing.
He then said, after glancing at
the card in his hand in order to learn ' the
representative's ' name :

^ Mr. Mendel, you will excuse me if I
object to talk farther with you. I wish
you a very good-morning.'

Mr. Mendel had never before been treated
so rudely. Though amazed at Mr. Argos's
audacity in treating a newspaper * represents



native ' in this summary fashion, he had the
good sense not to expostulate, as he perceived
that Mr. Argoll was in earnest ; so, putting
his note-book in his pocket, he rose, said
Good-morning, sir,' and left the room.

The matter ended there, so far as Mr.
Argoll knew. He left Paris that night. A
copy of Le Jour was sent to Athelstanee
House by some attentive friend, and there
it was consigned to the waste-paper basket.
Mr. Mendel had been rebuffed, but not checkmated.
An interviewer's occupation would
be gone if he ever admitted that he had
failed. If he cannot extract facts from the
person to whom he applies, he trusts that his
imagination will supply them. Mr. Mendel
filled a column with an account of his interview.
The narrative was introduced by the
following remarks by the editor :

Having learned that Mr. Argoll, the
eminent English financier, and senior partner
in the well-known firm of Messrs. Argoll
and Solar, was in Paris, we deputed one of
our representatives to call upon him and
gather the valuable information which we

have much pleasure in laying before our
readers.'

The representative then went on to tell his
story. As is the custom of his kind, he devoted
many sentences to a useless description
of the room in the Grand Hotel which Mr.
Argoll occupied, noting the colour of the
wall-paper and of the carpet, the style of the
furniture, the number of chairs and tables.
He then depicted Mr. Argoll, noting with
equal minuteness what clothes he wore,
and what his features were like, giving a
clear picture of his semi-bald head. Then
he set forth, as a fresh piece of information,
that Mr. Argoll was not a constant reader
of French newspapers ; and the account
ended with the statement that Mr. Argoll
expressed his admiration of the French newspaper
press and of Le Jour in particular,
and then courteously bade 'the representative
' farewell. Such an account is one of
the triumphs of modern journalism. Nothing
more worthless could be found in the newspapers
fifty years ago. What will they not
contain fifty years hence !

If Mr. Argoll had stayed another day in
Paris he would have been visited by ' the
representatives' of several other newspapers.
Some of them wrote nothing when they
found that he had departed ; others, of a
more imaginative temperament, wrote accounts
purporting to be interviews with him,
and in which he was made to say many
things which might never have entered his
head, and which, if they had, would never
have issued from his lips. A purely fictitious
interview is always the most readable.


A paragraph in The Daily Messenger — an
English paper published in Paris — was
founded upon fact. The writer remembered
what had appeared in a London journal relative
to Mr. Argoll's intended journey, and
he stated that the English financier was on
his way to Catania in order to buy a property
belonging to the Duke of Fontainebleau.
This paragraph was translated, and appeared
in some Neapolitan newspapers, from which
it was copied into those of Sicily, and came
before the eyes of Carlo Nerone.

Having no further business to transact in
Paris, Mr. Argos was impatient to depart,
and having the prospect of turning his
Sicilian trip to profitable account, he was most
anxious to get there without delay. Besides,
he had telegraphed for all his letters
to be forwarded to the 'Poste Restante at
Catania. Mr. Byker, on the other hand,
would gladly have prolonged his stay, and,
having a greater curiosity than his employer
to see foreign parts, he hoped that they
would break their journey at Turin, Genoa
and Rome. But Mr. Argoll insisted upon
proceeding at full speed to Naples, and Mr.
Byker had to obey orders. After an exhausting
journey, during which Mr. Argoll
slept nearly the whole time, Naples was
reached, and he declared his intention of
resting there.

Though the Stock Exchange and the life
which revolves round it had the chief interest
for Mr. Argoll in any city, yet he was
greatly struck with Naples, and, for the first
time in his life, he gave up several hours to
the toil of sight-seeing. He had read few

books since he was a boy. The daily and
weekly papers, share lists and prospectuses of
new companies had been his sole mental food
for twenty years. If the reading public
were composed of persons of his peculiar
tastes, modern authors would have to seek
admission into the workhouse, and Mr.
Muche would have to close his library.

Probably it was owing to having read so
little since boyhood which was worth reading,
that the contents of the few books
which Mr. Argoll had perused were engraved
on his mind. Amongst them was one by
Buller Lytton ; it was entitled TJie Last
Days of Pompeii. Of all the writings of
the late Lord Lytton none has a better
chance of surviving than this. He was
fortunate in his subject. It appeals to the
readers of all ages and both sexes, being at
once a pretty and a thrilling story. The
final catastrophe is grander and more appalling
than that which the imagination of any
novelist has ever conceived. In his boyhood
Mr. Argoll had an intense longing to
see the actual locality which was the theatre

of the occurrences described in the romance.
Now that he was in Naples, the old longing
revived, and he determined to visit the ruins
of Pompeii.

He desired Mr. Byker to make inquiries
as to how best to get there. Mr. Byker
had a very vague notion about Pompeii ; he
knew the name, but that was all. The
hotel porter advised him to engage a guide.
This was not really necessary, yet it is the
fixed belief of hotel porters, especially in
Southern Italy, that no Englishman can find
his way — perhaps it should be written, ought
to find his way — anywhere without a guide.
Certain it is that guides are nearly as
plentiful and pertinacious as beggars, and it
is not impossible that a good understanding
prevails between guides and hotel porters.

The guide explained to Mr. Argoll that
as it was best to start by an early train for
Pompeii, he had better postpone his visit till
the foUowinof morning;' ; and he added that
the afternoon might be usefully employed in
visiting the National Museum, where the
articles found during the excavation at

Pompeii are collected and shown. The
advice was sound, notwithstanding that it
was dictated by a desire on the guide's part
to be employed on two occasions instead of
one. It is not necessary to dwell upon the
visit to the National Museum ; suffice it to
say that Mr. Argoll was greatly struck with
what he saw, and was rendered still more
eager to visit the ruins themselves. On Mr.
Byker the effect was less marked ; he had
no relish for antiquities, and he had not the
memories of youthful dreams to impart
interest to the remains of old Roman days.

When they went to Pompeii itself, Mr.
Byker was the more impressed of the two,
Mr. Argoll expecting to find a city more
closely resembling that described, or rather
reproduced, by the novelist. But when Mr.
Byker saw the ruts in the stone pavement
which had been worn by cart-wheels rolling
over it two thousand years ago, he marvelled
exceedingly, and admitted that the place
was indeed a strange one. This impression,
which was made after entering, grew stronger
when he was shown the marks of the feet of

the Roman maidens who used to draw water
at the well, the baker's shop in which charred
loaves were found, and the paintings on the
walls of private houses looking as fresh as
if they had been finished yesterday, and
being as brilliant in colour as any modern
works of art.

Mr. Argoll's first disappointment passed
off as he explored the ruins, and some of his
boyish fancies became realities. For the
moment, the crust of his City life fell off and
his mind became freshened and receptive of
new impressions. He returned to Naples
without once speculating as to the possible
price of Consols, or as to how he could add
to his store of money. The beauty of the
day had some share in diverting his thoughts
and raising his spirits. He had never before
seen the sun shine so brightly, or the sky
appear so blue, neither had he beheld a sea
which was still bluer than the sky. If the
new ideas which coursed through his brain
that night could have been contrasted with
those which ordinarily did so, he would
have appeared a new man. The spirit of

the place had entered into and illumined
his soul. He had even forgotten that he
ought to feel ill and have an excuse for
taking medicine. Indeed, he had not taken
a single dose since he vainly had recourse to
drugs to ward off sea-sickness. The change
of air and scene had transformed him. He
read in a guide-book the phrase, ^ See Naples,
and die.'

What stuff !' was his ejaculation. ' If
the fellows who write guide-books were here
to-night, they would say, " See Naples, and
live." '

He rose the following morning in a more
sedate and commonplace frame of mind.
The responsibility of possessing a million
sterling oppressed him. The passion for
adding to it resumed its sway. He desired
Mr. Byker to see when the first train started
for Reggio, and to make arrangements forgoing
by it. Again Mr. Byker was disappointed.
He was quite as loath to quit
Naples as he had been to quit Paris.

Mr. Byker learned from the hotel-porter
that the express started at 2.5 in the afternoon,

and arrived at Reggio the following
morning at 10.30. He learned also from
the hotel porter that there were many brigands
in Sicily, and that sensible persons
remained in hotels at Naples instead of
going there. Both Neapolitan hotel porters
and hotel proprietors are given to advise
visitors to prolong their stay, and they are
apt to use the bugbear of brigands to hinder
visitors from leaving their hotels. Mr.
Argos had been warned of this by his
friends, and when Mr. Byker reported what
he had been told, he said :

Don't be alarmed, Byker. If there are
brigands in Sicily we should have heard of
them from the Duke.'

Mr. Byker recollected reading about the
capture of Mr. Mons in Southern Italy,
and that Sicily was a far more dangerous
place, and he was very reluctant to run any
risk. After thinking for a few moments
Mr. Argos said :

Well, Byker, if you are afraid of falling
into the hands of brigands, and being killed
because you have no money, I'll tell you

what I shall do. Let's change names whilst
we are in Sicily. If we should be captured,
they will take care of you as being the rich
man ; and if they let me go, I can make arrangements
for your ransom. You couldn't
do so for me if they thought me a prize.'

You are very good, sir,' was Mr. Byker's
reply. He felt sure his employer would pay
a ransom for him, and he thought if he were
supposed to be a rich man his life would
be in no danger. He was really pleased,
then, that Mr. Argos should have made
the offer, whilst Mr. Argoll much preferred
the prospect of his clerk remaining in the
brigands' clutches to being there himself
They agreed to pass under each other's
names after reaching Messina.

The journey to Messina was less arduous
than they had expected. Somewhat to his
own surprise Mr. Argoll did not suffer from
sickness during the trip across the Straits.
It so happened that the sea between Reggio
and Messina was exceptionally smooth. If
the wind had not been quite still he would
have been tossed about in a way to make

him think the English Channel a mill-pond
by comparison.

They took the train from Messina to
Catania, and put up at the Alberto Orientale.
Not long after arriving, a Sicilian, who spoke
very fluent English, entered into conversation
with them. As he appeared to be well
informed and to know the country, Mr. Argoll
conversed with and questioned him. He
was rather taken aback to find himself addressed
by the stranger as Mr. Byker. The
truth is, the stranger had been present and
had watched them as they entered their
names in the hotel register. When Mr.
Argoll asked how he knew his name, he
replied :

I saw you write it a few minutes ago ;'
he added : ^ You need not be surprised,
gentlemen, at my speaking your language ;
I have lived in England, and I like your
country and people very much. Englishmen
are all rich and generous.'

It is always pleasant for Englishmen
abroad to meet with foreigners who speak
their tongue, and who make appreciative

remarks about there and their country.
The result in the present ease was to make
Mr. Argoll more communicative than he
would otherwise have been ; he told the
stranger whither he meant to go, and asked
for his advice.

Curiously enough,' was the reply, ^ I
purpose going to the same place tomorrow
morning ; if you do not object, we can go
together. I can arrange for a conveyance
which will take us all.'

The proposition was accepted with hearty
thanks.

How fortunate !' said Mr. Argoll to Mr.
Byker. ' We may save money by this, as
we shall not require a guide. I like the
man's looks. He seems most intelligent,
and he is extremely polite.'

Mr. Byker was of the same opinion.

The party set off early the next day, and
after a drive of several hours their destination
was reached. The carriage stopped at
the door of a small house with the sign in
front of Hotel des Etr angers.

Mr. Argoll said :

Is this the place ? It seems very small.'

The stranger remarked :

I hope to make you feel at home, gentlemen,
and that you will find the hotel comfortable,
though small Then, making a low-bow,
he added, ' I am entirely at your
service. Perhaps, as you may not know
my name, you will accept my card.'

He handed a card to Mr. Byker, who
read on it :

Carlo Nerone, proprietor, Hotel des
Mr anger Sy Nicata.'

VOL. II. 28

MRS. ARGOLL AT Melbourne.

Of our amusements ask You 1 — We amuse
Ourselves and friends with seaside walks and views,
Or take a morning ride, a novel, or the news :
Or seeking nothing, glide about the street,
And so engaged, with various parties meet ;
Awhile we stop, discourse of wind and tide.
Bathing and books, the raffle and the ride :
Thus with the aid which shops and sailing give,
Life passes on ; 'tis labour, but we live.'

Crabbe.

ESTBOURNE is a pleasant and
much-frequented watering-place.
It has grown rapidly and large
without ceasing to be attractive. The modern
builder, who is nearly as foul and terrible a
fiend as any dragon of fable, had not been

permitted to work mischief at Westbourne.
If he had been suffered to have his own
way, every tree would have been cut down,
and every green and open space there would
have been covered with hideous bricks and
mortar.

The Duke of Derbyshire, who was the
owner of much land at Westbourne, had
resolved that the new houses should not be
eyesores to make the intelligent observer
grieve that they had ever been erected-melbourne
was built after a plan, and the
plan was both sensible and praiseworthy.
The old trees, which stood there before roads
were laid out and houses constructed, have
been carefully preserved ; they line the roads
and lend shade and beauty to the open spaces
in the middle of which they stand, and from
which the streets branch off. Patches of
garden-ground filled with flowers are in front
of most of the houses, and the abundance of
trees and flowers prevents Westbourne having
that town look which is the chief drawback
of Brighton.

Mrs. Argoll not only thought Westbourne

28—2

beautiful, but she felt at her ease there, being
more at home than in Palace Gardens. She
had visited it very often, always returning
with pleasure and leaving it with regret.
Her suite of rooms in the Cavendish Hotel
seemed as much her own as any in her
husband's house. She liked them better in
one respect. She might keep the gas burning
in them all night without any complaint
being made, or any other notice being taken
than an extra charge in the bill, which she
did not begrudge.

Mrs. Argos always had a carriage at her
disposal, but she seldom made use of it.
Her besetting dread was lest she should
become too stout, and she walked in order
that her health might continue good and her
waist small. By taking plenty of regular
exercise, she had no need for pill or potion.
Indeed, she had never swallowed one of the
pills which she ardently recommended as
specifics. She was too enthusiastic a doctor
ever to take any of her own medicine. The
wise and experienced physician delights to
prescribe for everybody except himself When

really ill, he becomes a patient, and is doctored
in turn.

Having often visited Westbourne, and
stayed there for many weeks at a time,
Mrs. Argoll had gradually formed a small
circle of acquaintances amongst the regular
inhabitants and those who, like herself, returned
there aoj-ain and ao^ain. Amongst the
latter were some of her husband's City friends,
who were pleased to meet her and cultivate
her society. As her manner was, she sought
out the poor and suffering, and did her best
to relieve them. She had a few old pensioners
who looked forward to seeing her with the
same confidence that they did to see the sunrise.
During her residence in London she
regularly forwarded to the vicar of Saint
Cuthbert the sums which helped to render
the lives of her pensioners a little less dreary
and hard.

Mrs. Argoll had more money at her command
when in Westbourne than when in
London. At home her husband gave strict
personal attention to the weekly bills. He
never refused to let her have any reasonable

amount, but she had always to ask him for
money and explain what she wanted it for ;
whenever she said that her intention was to
spend the whole or a part in charity, he
was apt to protest against her bad habit of
pauperizing so many people. Mr. Argoll
was indisposed to give anything away. He
was too rich to be charitable. No one, he
used to argue, gave him anything — why,
then, should he give something to others ?
It was not easy to return an answer to this
question which he accounted satisfactory,
the truth being that he was only too anxious
to have an excuse for keeping his purse-strings
closed. He was cursed with the
rich man's avarice.

When Mrs. Argoll was at Westbourne
she received whatever money she required
without applying to her husband, Mr. Byker
or Mr. Bandol being entrusted with the
duty of forwarding to her any sum which she
might ask for. Hence she was able, whilst at
Westbourne, to be generous without having
to submit to admonition or reproof One of
her pensioners was always called Mrs. Argoll's

old woman. Her name was Betty Simmons.
She was a widow, and she had neither friend
nor relation when Mrs. Argoll first met her
staggering along the road under the burden
of some sticks which she had gathered.
Mrs. Argoll took compassion on the decrepid
old woman, and learned from her lips that
she preferred death to accepting relief from
the parish. Yet Betty had no objection to
take anything a kind lady chose to give her,
and she gradually became almost entirely
dependent upon Mrs. Argoll. According to
Betty, her age was very great ; she was
nearly a hundred ; how near to her century
she might be was not clearly known.

A very old and withered woman is
nearly as great an object of interest as one
who is very handsome and young. Betty
Simmons was one of the sights of Westbourne,
scarcely a day passing during the
summer season without one out of the many
persons who walk to Beechy Head stopping
at her cottage on the way. To each
visitor Betty sounded Mrs. Argos's praises,
and thus the latter acquired a notoriety

which, whilst not distasteful to her, as no
woman objects to play the part of Lady
Bountiful, had the drawback of entailing
applications for relief by the score. If Mr.
Argos had objected to almsgiving on the
ground that the more one gives the more
one is importuned for help, he would have
raised an objection which has greater plausibility
than that which he deemed sufficient.
The more money Mrs. Argos distributed
amongst the poor, the larger was the number
of indigent people who held that they had
a claim upon her purse. ' Give me something
because you have given something to
him or her,' is thought by the poor of all
countries to be a perfectly legitimate demand,
and one which it would be wrong to
resist.

Though Mrs. Argos had a sincere affection
for her niece, yet she could not excuse
Miss Tacon's dislike to helping her in
good works. Miss Tacon had no vocation
for philanthropy. She objected to visiting
the poor and comforting the afflicted,
greatly preferring to stay at home reading

silly books, or going to Derbyshire Park and
playing lawn tennis. Of course she accompanied
her aunt when desired, but a young
lady who does anything against the grain
can always make another recognise that she
is a minor martyr. Mrs. Argoll reasoned
with her niece, but in vain.

You know, aunt,' was the invariable
reply, ' I cannot bear bad smells ; they always
make me sick, and the poor do smell most
horribly.'

Her aunt was shocked to hear such an
avowal of fastidiousness, and replied :

Ella, dear, it is very wrong of you to
go on in that way ; besides, the smells you
speak of would not seem at all unpleasant
if you took an interest in the work. We
never know what we may come to, and you
ought really to try and be of some use in
the world.'

Well, aunt, I should like to do good, but
I don't see why anyone should be made
uncomfortable without reason. Why can't
you send the money to the people instead
of going yourself V

In addition to a repugnance to visiting
the poor, Miss Tacon did not share her
aunt's passion for the clergy. When at
Palace Gardens, Mrs. Argoll saw little of
the clergy out of church, as her husband,
though a regular church-goer, did not care
to invite any of them to his house. His
reason was a dread lest his wife might form
too great an admiration for them, and be
disposed to contribute too often to the funds
which they were always raising. He restricted
his own contributions to the lowest
possible point. At Westbourne, however,
Mrs. Argoll was on terms of close intimacy
with the resident and visiting clergymen.
The Reverend Paul Madron, the vicar of
Saint Cuthbert, was her ally in relieving
the needy and distressed. He was an aged
and infirm man, who, on this occasion, was
absent in Switzerland for the sake of his
health. Some of the visitors and residents
wished that he might never come back, and
that the Reverend Basil Tepper, his curate,
might succeed him. Others had a great dislike
to the curate and a strong love for the vicar.

Indeed, there were two parties in Westbourne
whose antagonism was solely caused
by a divergence of opinion about the two
clergymen at Saint Cuthbert. The men
themselves were on the best of terms, but
their flock did not consider it unseemly to
squabble over them and their ways. The
vicar was an old man, with old-fashioned
notions ; the curate was less than half his
age, and was imbued with the spirit of
change. The vicar was emphatically a man
of peace, one who liked the things which had
lasted his time, and to which he had grown
accustomed ; the curate was never so happy
as when he was the cause of discussion and
dispute. He had no wish to stir up strife ;
on the contrary, he professed to be as truly
a man of jDeace as the vicar ; but, then, he
could not submit to countenance that which
was contrary to his own fancy, or which, ashe
put it, was not in accordance with the
practice of the Primitive Church.

The vicar was as good and as thorough a
Churchman as his curate, but he was not
given to proclaim the fact with the same

emphasis, and he abounded in that charity
towards Nonconformists in which his curate
was lacking. Mr. Madron thought it a sign
of good feeling and good taste when, at a
public festivity, the toast of ' The Clergy of
all denominations ' was proposed and drunk ;
Mr. Tepper regarded such a toast as an
intolerable scandal, if not a sin. It would
require too much space to set forth in detail
the differences between the two men ; their
characters and experiences would repay a
longer study than can now be given to them ;
but, for the present, the foregoing references
will suffice to show why those who were
devotedly attached to the vicar should not
be equally impressed with his curate, and
why the admirers of the curate accounted
the vicar a worthy but weak old man. Mrs.
Argoll was devoted to the Reverend Paul
Madron ; he fulfilled her ideal of a parish
priest. During her previous visits to Westbourne
he had been there also ; now she
had the opportunity of becoming better
acquainted with the Reverend Basil Tepper.
It was not long before the energy of the

curate in ^ working the parish ' excited Mrs.
Argoll's admiration, and, whilst retaining
her king for his venerable superior, she
began to think highly of him. She thought
that if Miss Tacon and he were to know
each other, his precept and example might
have some effect upon her, and rouse her
from her apathy with regard to the poor
and the sick.

Lest any project of marriage might be
supposed to have entered Mrs. Argoll's
mind, it should be added that Mr. Tepper
was not more constant in upholding the
supremacy of the Church than in proclaiming
the superiority of a celibate clergy. A
priest should never marry, was his decision.
He thought the Church of Rome was quite
right in prohibiting the marriage of the
clergy, though wrong on many other points,
and he refused to join the party which
advocated union with the Greek Church
because the clergy of that Church were
permitted to marry once.

Though Mr. Tepper's conscientious objection
to marrying was well known, he was

none the less the idol of young ladies, each
of whom believed that she had been sent
into the world to be a good wife to him.
Had he been a priest of the Romish Church,
no female members of his flock would have
regarded him as a possible husband and
father ; whilst all priests are men, a Roman
Catholic priest is a man with a difference ;
he really labours under a certain disability
whilst exercising, or professing to enjoy, a
peculiar privilege. Sydney Smith made unhallowed
fun of a bishop in love, and exercised
his ingenuity in devising a method
for his popping the question. A Roman
Catholic priest can never be personally concerned
in such a matter, yet the most vehement
celibate who is a Church of England
clergyman may, at any moment, be the
victim of a dilemma when his views with
reo-ard to marriage fill one scale and a fascinating
young girl is in the other.

Being resolved never to marry, and having
devoted himself heart and soul to the
Church, the Reverend Basil Tepper felt that
he could treat a young girl as a father, and

give her sound advice without fear of any
consequences or controversy. He did his
best to instil proper notions into Miss
Tacon's mind. He met her arguments,
which, after all, were idle prejudices, with
others which he considered convincing and
conclusive. Still, she always recurred to
her initial objection, after seeming to be
impressed with his reasoning, that she did
not like the smell of poor people, and that
she did not see why she should trouble
herself about them.

The greater the difficulty in bringing Miss
Tacon round to his own way of thinking, the
more vigorous were Mr. Tepper's appeals to
her. Her state of mind interested as well
as grieved him. He had never before failed
in persuading any one of the fairer sex to
assent to his propositions. On the contrary,
he had found the process of conviction far
too easy.

Oh ! Mr. Tepper, I shall only be too
pleased to do what you suggest ;' or, ^ Oh !
Mr. Tepper, I am so much obliged to you
for telling me what to do,' was the form

which the answer nearly always took whenever
he had to request any female member
of the congregation to take some part in the
business of the church or the parish. Had
Miss Tacon simply said ^ No,' he would have
been less troubled and annoyed. He would
then have changed his tactics and brought
other arguments to bear. As it was, however,
she assented to all his statements, and
then recurred to her original objections as
if nothing had been said on his part or admitted
upon hers.

Without intending to flirt with him, and,
indeed, never dreaming of such a thing, Miss
Tacon made a peculiar and unexpected impression
upon Mr. Tepper. She made him
feel his superiority.

Of course you know these things far
better than I do ;' or, ' I'm sure I never
met anyone like you before,' was the phrase
which frequently fell from her lips, and
flattered his self-love. A priest of any
church does not object, any more than a layman,
to be placed upon a pinnacle of excellence
by a young and attractive girl. Human

nature appreciates flattery the most when
protesting against it.

Now, though continuing to take no share
in the work of the parish, and though only
accompanying her aunt because she was
asked to do so. Miss Tacon began to be
more regular in church-going, seldom missing
a service, and appearing to delight in being
present. Her attendance at the morning*
and evening service on Sunday would not
have attracted Mr. Tepper's notice ; but
when she formed one out of the small number
who attended Saint Cuthbert's every morning
during the week, he could not help noticing
her. Naturally he was gratified, and fancied
that his teaching was bearing fruit. It is
always pleasant to persuade one's fellow-creatures
to do what one accounts right, and
when the fellow-creature is as beautiful as
Miss Tacon there is a special charm in the
task.

Well, Mrs. Argoll,' said Mr. Tepper,
when conversing with her about a fortnight
after she had confided her wishes to him, ^ I
must say that I think you will soon be per-vol.

II. 29

fectly satisfied with your niece. She is
getting to understand the case which I have
put before her.'

I'm glad to hear it was the reply ; Mrs.
Argoll added after a short pause, ' I fear,
however, Mr. Tepper, that Ella is still far
from being quite satisfactory. When I gave
her the option yesterday of going with me
to see poor Betty Simmons, or to play lawn
tennis with her friend Miss Jones at Derbyshire
Park, she said she would rather play
lawn tennis. Now that was not right, but
what am I to do ?'

Have patience, dear Mrs. Argoll ; I
think your niece only requires a little gentle
management. I see my way clearly. She
attends early service regularly, and that is a
good sign.'

I thought so at first ; but when I spoke
to her about it, and said how pleased I was
with her for doing so, because I like to see
her take an interest in anything, though,
as you know, I don't approve of early
services myself — Mr. Madron says they are
innovations — she told me she liked getting

up in the morning, and that going to church
gave her an object.'

Let us hope, Mrs. Argoll, that your
niece will soon do on principle what she now
professes to do from a meaner motive, and
let me add that I hope you may yourself
think differently as regards early services.
Mr. Madron is a most estimable man, but
he is sadly ignorant of the practice of the
Primitive Church.'

I told him so, Mr. Tepper, one day after
you said the same thing to me, and his
answer was that he was not educated in
the Primitive Church, but in the Anglican
Church of the Fathers.'

Well, we need not discuss these matters
at present, Mrs. Argoll ;' and as he said this
Miss Tacon entered the room.

Mr. Tepper left the Cavendish Hotel ina
less satisfied frame of mind than when
he entered it ; he found that his opinions
with regard to Miss Tacon were too rose-coloured.
Still, he did not despair of bringing
her into a more satisfactory frame
of mind, and he redoubled his efforts to

29—2

mould her views into harmony with his
own.

Opposition to his views always stimulated
Mr. Tepper to greater efforts in diffusing
and upholding them, and the more reluctant
Miss Tacon was to accept his teaching and
act upon it, the more determined did he
become to persuade and prevail. He preached
at her from the pulpit, as well as lectured
her in private, and a sermon which he prepared
to meet such a case as hers was
accounted one of the most effective which
he had delivered.

It was in the pulpit, indeed, that the
curate had the greatest advantage over the
vicar. Mr. Madron was a man whose genial
talk and presence rendered him a most
acceptable companion, and produced a most
pleasing impression upon everyone with
whom he came into contact. Yet, like
many devout and kindly men, he was a dry
and ineffective preacher. When he entered
the pulpit he became a stick. His manner
was cold, his voice was weak ; and though
the substance of his sermons was excellent,

everybody seemed pleased, himself included,
when one of them came to an end.

Mr. Tepper, on the other hand, had
many of the orator's gifts. His voice was
powerful and melodious. He was thoroughly
in earnest, and it was impossible to listen
to him without feeling that he was no
ordinary man. He was tall and slender,
and he looked commanding in the pulpit.
The greatest orators are almost necessarily
good actors, their gestures suiting and
emphasizing their utterances. As Mr. Tepper
could recall nearly everything that he had
written, he was not obliged to read his
sermon slavishly, only requiring to glance
occasionally at the manuscript. Thus, whilst
delivering his sermon, he could look the
congregation in the face, and by so doing
he commanded their attention to an extent
which is impossible when a preacher keeps
his head bent over the sermon which
he laboriously reads from a badly-written
manuscript.

It would be unjust to say that Mr. Tepper
composed his sermon solely with a view to

influence Miss Tacon. He was too highly
impressed with his divine mission to think
or act as if his position were to be turned to
any personal account, or used in order to
achieve a personal triumph. Still, the most
earnest clergyman is not wholly free from
human feelings and weaknesses ; he may
think himself the superior of his fellows and
act accordingly ; nevertheless, he would be
recreant to his mission if he used his position
solely to gain a private advantage. It
was, then, not as a result of an appointed ora
chosen opportunity, but as a part of the
line which he had taken and followed, that
Mr. Tepper's sermon seemed to meet the
case of Miss Tacon and to overcome her
objections to the course of action which he
had pointed out to her as the right one to
follow, and had done so in vain.

To quote the sermon at length might
not conduce to edification. Mackworth
Prayed wrote that ^ many people read a song
who will not read a sermon.' Perhaps it
would be more correct to say that many
would prefer anything, even a Blue-book, to

the finest sermon ever written and printed.
The speech of the greatest statesman or the
sermon of the greatest preacher cannot
produce half the effect in print and divorced
from the place in which it was delivered,
that it did at the time when an entranced
audience palpitated in response to his
eloquence. Yet it may not be improper or
inappropriate to give an outline of what Mr.
Tepper said.

The text was taken from the words of
Saint Paul to the Philippians, ' Not as
though I had already attained, either were
already perfect.'

These words,' Mr. Tepper said, ' were
written by Saint Paul when he might have
seemed justified in exulting over having
fought the good fight, and Ashen he might
fairly have held that his reward was sure.
Though the Apostle had done so much, he
accounted the end as afar off, and he was
still striving towards that perfection which
he was conscious of not having attained.
Others may have admired his strength,
yet he was painfully aware of his frailty.'

Mr. Tepper went on to enlarge on the
theme that, whilst yet good works avail
little of themselves, they might well help
to train us for the never-eeasinof struofofle
to win a heavenly crown, and that those
who systematically practised them were
more likely to be treading the heavenward
path than those who did not. He
set forth the marvellous spiritual benefits
which accrued from practising the
virtues of charity and long-suffering ; he
contended that thoughtfulness and care for
others conduced to the suppression of
egotism and selfishness in one's own person,
and he maintained that those who were the
most persistent in well-doing were better
citizens of this world, and the best candidates
for another. Several of his remarks
and illustrations were identical with those
which he had often used in conversation
with Miss Tacon. She recognised the familiar
phrases, and she was more struck with
them when uttered from the pulpit than she
had been when they were addressed to her
alone. Never before had she been so greatly

moved by Mr. Temper, and so much inclined
to give heed to his exhortations and
devote herself to the course of life which he
counselled.

The other members of the congregation
were greatly impressed also, but they did
not take the words and advice so much to
heart as Miss Tacon. Still, the preacher
produced a greater and more lasting effect
than he had ever done before. He spoke
not only as one who had authority, and who
believed in the sacredness of his mission,
but also as one who was pleading a cause
which he was resolved to gain, and in which
success would yield him extreme gratification.
It was with a sigh of relief from a
tension which had become almost intolerable
that the whole congregation heard the last
of Mr. Tepper's well-chosen and stirring
words.

Miss Tacon had never before regarded Mr.
Tepper in the same light which she did on
the evening of the day that he preached this
sermon. She felt disposed to accede to all his
suggestions ; she was inclined to do so if it

were only to please him ; but she could not
make up her mind. On the following morning
the preacher's words had not wholly ceased
to operate, even though she was no longer
under the wand of the enchanter.

Mr. Tepper had seldom a moment to spare
from his parish duties ; but when Mrs.
Argoll requested him to go with her for a
drive on the Monday afternoon, he readily
consented. He was tired, and he thought
that a few hours' rest would enable him to
resume his accustomed round of labour.
The party, which consisted of himself, Mrs.
Argoll and her niece, drove towards Beachy
Head. Mrs. Argoll did not care to leave
the carriage when the point was reached at
which those who wish to go to the verge of
the cliff proceed on foot. Mr. Tepper proposed
going to see the view ; Miss Tacon
accepted the invitation to accompany him,
and Mrs. Argoll said :

Well, then, if you young people don't
mind a walk, I shall drive back and stop at
Betty Simmons', and you can follow and
join me there.'

As the young people raised no objection,
the plan proposed by Mrs. Argoll was followed.


On the way back Mr. Tepper remarked :

Miss Tacon, I saw you in church yesterday.'


Her reply, which was delivered in a
manner to which no words can do justice,
was to the effect :

Yes, Mr. Tepper, I was ; and I have
never been so glad to have been there
before. Your sermon kept me awake the
greater part of the night. I now feel that
I should so like to do good !'

She spoke in a perfectly natural strain,
and she had no motive for couching her
words in a form which was sweet to the
ears of her hearer. He looked at her with
pleasure ; she had turned her face towards
his as if she wished for further enlightenment.
He had often looked upon that face
and admired it. He had good reason to do
so. Yet never till that moment had it appeared
so pretty and beseeching.

Miss Tacon,' he began in accents which

were perfectly natural, ' you should not
speak in such terms. I hope, however, that
flattery has no effect upon me when it is
directed to my priestly duties. I am but a
weak and humble servant of the Church. I
have no right to feel elated by praise even
from one whom I value so much as I do you.'

Mr. Tepper did not mean to speak, as he
had done, with the passion of an ardent lover.
His intention was to reject Miss Tacon's
praise in a somewhat curt style ; but when
he gazed upon her face and saw her eyes
turned wistfully toward his, he almost unconsciously
employed impassioned language
in answer to her.

She replied :

^ Oh, Mr. Tepper, what a wonderful
preacher you are ! I could have listened to
you for hours. I really must go to the
hospital the next day my aunt goes, and I
shall do what I can for the poor people.'

Miss Tacon's words produced an effect
which she never intended, though it was
not so much the words themselves as her
look and tone which gave them an instantaneous

power. The words and look
acted like sparks falling upon tinder. Instead
of simply and coldly relying that he
was gratified at the impression produced by
his sermon, Mr. Tepper exclaimed :

Dear Miss Tacon, if you would become
my wife we might carry on together the
work which I am glad to think you now
value.'

At the moment these words were spoken
the two were moving down the slope, and
Miss Tacon had put her hand in Mr. Temper's
arm for support.

She stopped suddenly, and nearly fell as
she did so, when he had ceased to speak.
A flush overspread her face, and it was succeeded
by deathly pallor. He was startled
and afraid, as he remarked her look.

Pray don't speak, if you feel uncomfortable,'
were his first words to her ; indeed, he
had regained his presence of mind, and felt
angry with himself for having momentarily
lost it and suffer ed words to jDass his lips
which, in a cooler moment, would never
have found vent.

Please, Mr. Tepper, let us turn into
Betty Simmons' cottage, which is at the
corner. I think my aunt will wonder what
has become of us.'

He did not wish her to say more, and yet
he felt that he ought to ask for an answer.
A man who requests a woman to be his
wife cannot well allow the question to be
treated with absolute indifference. Though
not desirous of Miss Tacon saying, ' Yes,'
Mr. Tepper was still anxious that she should
say something decisive. Hence he said :

^ I hope that I have not offended you.'

Not at all,' was the emphatic reply.
Indeed, no woman is offended by being asked
in marriage by any man who is in the possession
of all his limbs and his senses, though
many women are annoyed by not being asked
to marry the man they love. After a brief
pause. Miss Tacon added, ' You are very
good and considerate, Mr. Tepper ; please
don't be angry if I say that I can never
marry you ; but I hope to learn from you
how to do good. I really wish you to
teach me.'

I am always at your service, Miss Tacon,
and, if you will kindly forget what has just
passed, we shall, perhaps, understand each
other all the better hereafter.'

As he said this, and received Miss Tacon s
assent, the cottage of Betty Simmons was
reached, and there was an end to this confidential
talk.

The feelings of Mr. Tepper on returning
to his lodgings that evening were of a mixed
kind. He was out of temper with himself
for having given way to a momentary impulse,
yet he was mortified that he should have
been met with a flat refusal from Miss
Tacon. Had she accepted him, he might
not have been perfectly happy. What he
should do, so far as Mrs. Argoll was concerned,
gave him matter for anxious reflection.
He had no reason to think that Miss
Tacon would keep it a secret that she had
received an offer from him, and he came to
the conclusion that he had better intimate
to Mrs. Argoll the fact of his proposal, and
thus deprive her of any excuse for charging
him afterwards with underhand dealing. Accordingly,

he sat down and wrote this note,
which he resolved to leave at the Cavendish
Hotel on the following day :

My dear Mrs. Argoll,

I think it my duty to inform you
that I have made a proposal of marriage to
your niece, and that she has not thought fit
to entertain it favourably. In these circumstances
I think it may be better that I
should not continue my visits to you for the
present. Of course, if you should desire to
see me, I shall always be ready and willing
to obey your summons. Believe me to be
very faithfully yours,

'Basil Tepper.'

It was after breakfast the next day that
Mrs. Argoll received this note. She was in
her bedroom at the time, and after reading
it, she returned to the sitting-room, where
she had left her niece. Her intention was
to talk with her on the subject. She entered
the room with the note in her hand. A few
minutes before her appearing. The Morning

Paper had arrived from London, and Miss
Tacon had looked over it. When Mrs. Argos
saw her, she was crying bitterly.

What's the matter, Ella ? Nobody dead,
I hope ?'

Oh, aunt ! I'm so wretched. The Cosmos
is lost, and everyone drowned !'

The Cosmos ! my dear. What has that
got to do with you V

Here's the paper ; you can read the
telegram for yourself

Mrs. Argoll took the paper, being puzzled
as to what her niece meant ; and she was
not much the wiser after readings the following
telegram :

The Flying Dutchman has just reached
Liverpool, and reports having been in collision
with the steamer Cosmos, which was almost
cut in two with the shock, and sank before
any of those on board could be saved.'

This is very sad, Ella ; but I ask again,
what has that to do with you ?'

Don't you remember, auntie, dear, that
VOL. II. 30

Lord John Cardonald and Mr. Henry sailed
in TJie Cosmos from Liverpool V

^ Oh, I had forgotten that. Dear me,
what a terrible loss ! Poor Henry and poor
Lord John !'

To Mrs. ArgolFs intense surprise, her
niece exclaimed, in a voice half choked with
sobs :

^ I shall never get over it. I did love
him so !'

THE LADIES BATH.

II est convenu que la vie aux eaux est fort pratique,
et qu'on y trouve des aventures de toute sortes, surrounded
aventures de coeur. . . Si la vie aux eaux est un
roman, c'est dans les livres. . . II est statement convenu
qu'aux eaux la conversation est extremest spirituelle,
qu'on n'y rencontre que des artistes, des hommes superiors,
des gens du grand monde ; qu'on y prodigue des
idees, la grace et Elegance, et que la fleur de tous les
plaisirs et de toutes les senses y vient s'epanouir. La
verite est qu'on y use beaucoup des chapeaux, qu'on y
mange beaucoup de peaches, qu'on y dit beaucoup des
paroles, et qu'en fait hommes et d'id^es, ou y trouve
a peu pres ce qu'on trouve ailleurs.' — H. Taine.

ISS SOLAR had visited Homburg
and Wiesbaden, but she was quite
unprepared for the sight of such a
watering-place as Franzensbad. She had
also spent several weeks during the summer

30—2

months of several years at such English
watering-places as Harrogate and scarborough
in the north of England, Ilfracombe
and Penzance in the west, Comer in the
east, Hastings and Sidmouth in the south.
Hence, she was able to contrast some of the
most popular watering-places in Germany
with some of the most popular in England.
Yet none in England or Germany had prepared
her for this Bohemian Bath.

At all the watering-places which she had
previously visited, persons of both sexes were
to be seen in almost equal proportions. At
Franzensbad, on the other hand, there was buta
single man to every twenty women. Few
of the men whom she saw were patients,
most of them beings escorts of an invalid wife,
sister or daughter. Not only were women in
the majority, but all the arrangements were
made subservient to them. The principal
cafe closed its doors at seven o'clock in the
evening because women did not frequent it
later.

Though a father might be seen taking care
of his daughters, or a brother keeping his

sisters company, it was much rarer to see
wives accompanied by their husbands. The
wives did not appear to be either too much
alone or to wear an air of sorrow for their
Other halves. Indeed, just as grass-widows
form a large part of the society at Simla, so
do they constitute the majority of the fair
visitors to Franzensbad during the season.

Not being a patient, Miss Solar was the
better able to act as a critic. Her aunt, on
the other hand, having visited Franzensbad
for the sake of her health, was resolved, with
true German thoroughness, to act the part of
a patient in its minutest details. She gave
up her whole mind and time to drinking the
mineral water at the prescribed hours and in
the appointed quantities, and to bathing in
the way that Dr. Gross had ordered.

Had not Miss Solar accompanied her aunt,
the latter might have lived in rooms which,
though good from her point of view, were far
from being luxurious. Before the aunt and
niece started from Frankfort, Miss Solar proposed
that she should pay for their lodgings,
and thus have the right of choice. It was a

matter of indifference to her whether the
charge amounted to one or five pounds a
week ; to her aunt, on the contrary, the difference
of a few marks or florins was a material
consideration. It was agreed after a Httle
amicable discussion that Miss Solar should
pay three fourths of the price, and have her
choice of the house in which they were to
sojourn. The result was that they proceeded
to the Konig's Villa and found comfortable
accommodation there. Its situation is convenient
for those who wish to get as easily as
possible to the springs where the water is
drunk and to the Kaiserbad, where baths are
taken.

Most of the best rooms were occupied by a
family that did not seem to care how much
was paid, provided everything was well
arranged and suitable. Count Geierstein, the
head of this family, occupied the high and responsible
office of Secretary for Foreign
Affairs in Muscovy. Homburg has become
a favourite place of resort for the English
since some members of the English Koyal
Family have frequented it. When a distinguished

Muscovite Prince was alive and
regularly visited Baden-baden, the number of
Muscovites who passed the summer months
there was very large. Since Count Geierstein
has found Franzensbad a place where he can
recover health and energy during his holiday,
the number of Muscovite visitors has largely
increased. Mineral baths and waters appear
to gain in efficacy, and they undoubtedly gain
in popularity, when they are taken in concert
with crowned heads or their favourite
Ministers of State.

At the health-resorts on the Continent of
Europe it is the rule to swallow mineral
water to the sound of soft music. In America,
where there are plenty of excellent mineral
springs, music is not regarded as a necessary
adjunct to the water. It is doubtful whether
the frequenters of mineral springs in Germany,
Austria, and France would think that
they were fairly treated if a band did not
play whilst they were drinking or bathing in
them. This necessity is not generally recognised
in England, where patients may
bathe in the sea or drink any quantity of

mineral water without their ears being regaled
with sounds from stringed or wind instruments.
Yet an exception has been made in
England as regards royal personages, who are
not supposed to be happy or on the highroad
to health unless the National Anthem is playing
wherever they enter the sea or drink
mineral water for their health's sake. When
George the Third went to Weymouth for
sea-bathing after his first serious illness,
Fanny Burney records that, ' A machine
follows the royal one into the sea, filled with
fiddlers, who play '' God save the King," as
his Majesty takes his plunges.'

Happily, perhaps, there are English 
where the music of a band is
seldom heard, as at others the band playing
out of time and tune adds one more misery to
the dull daily round of life. At Austrian
health-resorts the band is an addition to one's
pleasure. This was keenly felt by Miss Solar
at Franzensbad. As she did not drink the
mineral water, she would have found it very
dull at the springs in the morning and
afternoon, had it not been for the excellent

music of the band conducted by Herr
Tomaschek.

Her aunt Irma began drinking mineral
water at seven in the morning. From eleven
to twelve she was engaged in taking a moor-bath,
from five to six she was again drinking
mineral water ; the intervals were occupied
in walking and eating, and, after a light
supper between seven and eight, she went
to bed at nine. Her aunt's chief relaxation
consisted in chatting with acquaintances
and friends. One of aunt Irma's friends,
Frau Decker, met her at the springs on the
morning after her arrival at Franzensbad.
Miss Solar wondered greatly when she saw
her aunt's old friend for the first time and
listened to her talk.

Whilst Miss Solar and her aunt were walking
along the alley between the Laquelle
and the Franzensquelle, a rather tall and thin
lady suddenly stopped before them, held up
her hands and exclaimed in a loud tone :

'Is it really possible ! What can have
brought you here, my dearest Fraulein Solar?
Who would have thought to see you ? And

how are you 1 and who is the young lady
with you ? And where are you stopping ?
I am at the Hotel Gisela, but I find it rather
a long walk ; still, Dr. Bamberger said I
wanted plenty of exercise ; besides, the air is
far better up there than nearer the springs.
What do you drink, and how do you like it ?
I am taking the Stahlquelle this year, and
baths too of the same water. How funny
the water is ! It's like being in a big basin of
champagne ! But I can't listen to you any
longer now. There is the clock striking, and
I have got to drink my third glass. I must
run off, as it won't do to be late. Dr. Bamberger
says that if one does not drink the
waters at regular intervals they do one harm.
He told me, too, not to speak much, as the
irritation in my throat would never be cured
unless I kept very quiet. So you must let
me listen to you, as you know I'm so fond
of doing. Why, I declare ! there is the clock
again. Mercy me ! What shall I do ? It's
half an hour since I drank the last glass, and
I was not to let more than a quarter of an
hour elapse between each of them. I really

cannot listen to you any longer now. You
will excuse me for a few minutes. I shall
come back as soon as I have had another
glass, and then you will give me ail the rest
of your news.' Thereupon Frau Decker suddenly
turned away and stalked at a rapid
pace in the direction of the path leading to
the Stahlquelle.

So that's your friend of whom you
have often told me, aunt Irma !' remarked
Miss Solar, as soon as Frau Decker's back
was turned. ' I must say that for one suffering
as she says from an irritated throat,
she manages to wag her tongue very
freely.'

Well, Berta, no one who does not know
her would think there was much the matter
with Frau Decker's throat ; but she thinks
that is her weak point, and she is greatly
offended when anyone, and especially a doctor,
says there's nothing the matter with it. She
also complains of debility and loss of appetite,
and that is one of the reasons why she
has come here, to get tone by drinking steel
water, though she eats more than anyone I

ever saw, and can walk all day without ever
seeming tired.'

Well, aunt, I can only say that if we see
much more of her we shall be talked to
death. My ears are ringing still from her
loud and long speech. What is the use of
her asking so many questions '?'

As the aunt and niece interchanged these
remarks, they had walked in the direction of
the Stahlquelle, and just as they turned the
corner at Cartellieri's bath-house, they were
suddenly confronted with Frau Decker, who
was striding along as if for a wager.

Oh ! I'm so glad to see you again,' she
exclaimed ; ' I quite forget what you told me
about coming here, and where you are staying,
and the springs you are drinking, and
the baths you are taking, and the latest
news of Frankfort. It's a week since I left
it. I suppose you've just arrived V

She paused with a jerk, and looked upon
them as if she meant it to be understood that
she would stand no nonsense, and would begin
again unless humoured with an instant reply.
However, as aunt Irma was used to Frau

Decker's ways, she was not so taken aback
as her niece, who thought that Frau Decker,
having once begun to talk, would not pause
so long as she had breath or they were near
her.

It is not easy,' said aunt Irma, ' to tell you
all the news at once, and I don't quite know
where to begin. This is Miss Solar, my niece
from London, of whom I have often spoken
to you.'

Frau Decker said nothing, but put out her
hand and shook that of Miss Solar ; apparently,
she could not trust herself to make an
observation, lest her tongue might go off
at full speed. Accordingly, she vigorously
bridled that unruly organ in order that she
might receive some information. In a few
sentences, aunt Irma told her all that was
needful about her visit to Franzensbad.
The clock having struck again, Frau Decker
could not contain herself any longer, so she
exclaimed :

'Now, then, I am so glad to have seen
you. It is quite a treat to have had a
pleasant chat again ; I always like to listen

to you. I said to Frau Beckinann the other
day, " What I like about Fraulein Solar is
that one can always depend upon her telling
a long story so nicely, and one has never to
ask any questions, everything is so well put
together ;" but I must really go. This is
the morning of my visit to the doctor. I
shall not be easy till I find out whether there
is much harm done by allowing half an hour
instead of a quarter to elapse between the
glasses ; besides, my throat is very troublesome
this morning, I have great discomfort
in speaking, and I mean to have it examined.
So, dearest friend, I cannot listen to you a
moment longer, and your niece — can she
speak German, by the way 1 f should so
much like to have a further talk with her.
You will excuse me then ; I cannot help it ;
I must go.'

Having said this in a tone of despair, she
turned round and went off like a bolt from a
cross-bow, or rather a mass of stone from a
catapult. Miss Solar drew a long sigh of
relief, and said :

Well, aunt Irma, I wish that Frau Decker's

throat would get well, and then she might
speak less. The disease in it seems to lead
her to strain it. How she manages to sleep
at night is a puzzle to me !'

Please, Berta, do not start the subject
about sleeping at night before Frau Decker.
She says that she has not closed an eye
during the night for years, though I must say
when we were together once at Homburg,
she snored so loudly that an Englishman,
who also complained of sleeplessness, told
the landlord that he would have to leave
the hotel. However, she is a good sort of
person after all ; only you require to know
her better, and then you will make allowances
for her.'

I don't know, aunt, how it is in Frankfort
; but in London many of the most disagreeable
persons I have met are always said
to be so very nice when you get to know
them. It is something like the frightful
dishes you used to give me when I was a
child. You said they were very wholesome
when I thought them very horrible. I really
don't much care to know more about disagreeable

people ; but T hope that Frau Decker
will find some other friends whose conversations
she enjoys as much as yours, and then
you will not have to talk with her, and I shall
not have to listen.'

It was in vain that Miss Solar prayed to
be delivered from Frau Decker. The latter
was too closely attached to her aunt Irma to
miss any chance of talking with, or rather to
her ; hence Miss Solar was the frequent
witness of interviews like that which has
been recorded. Happily, Frau Decker's
three weeks' ' cure ' came to an end before
Miss Solar and her aunt were more than two
weeks in Franzensbad, and then Frau Decker
started off to enjoy an * after-cure ' in Ischl.
She tried hard to get a promise that aunt
Irma would visit Ischl also, but she could
not succeed. Indeed, Miss Solar said that
she would not go near Ischl if she thought
that Frau Decker were within ten miles of
it. She even said that her liking for Frankfort
would diminish, now that she knew this
dreadful woman,' as she called her aunt's
friend, lived and might be met there. Aunt

Ionia did not like her niece's comments
upon Frau Decker, being so much accustomed
to her peculiarities as to think nothing
of them. Indeed, she mio^ht not have thought
so much of her if she had been different. Some
eccentric persons receive extra attention and
consideration on account of their eccentricities.
The bad or weak qualities of certain
people insure for them an amount of consideration
which is denied to the good and
exceptional qualities of others.

Miss Solar became acquainted with another
visitor who interested her far more than her
aunt's impulsive and talkative Frankfort
friend. This was a young Kussian nobleman
who was atFranzensbad, not as a patient, but as
an escort to his mother and sister, who were
undergoing treatment. Miss Solar had read
German translations of the principal Russian
novelists, and her desire to know more about
the Russian people and society had been
stimulated by her reading. On this head
she did not agree with Mr. Henry Argoll.
He had no curiosity to see Russia or to meet
Russians.

VOL. II. 31

I care nothing for Kussian writers of
fiction,' he used to tell her; ' they may be
as admirable as yon say, but I have little
time for reading novels, and there are plenty
ot stood ones in French and English which I
should like to go through before falling back
upon Russian ones for amusement.'

But, Mr. Henry,' she always replied, ' the
Russian novels are instructive rather than
amusing,'

'All the worse, then; I don't care for instruction,
unless it has something: to do with
art. Besides, you know that I read German
with some difficulty, and 1 cannot enjoy all
German books as you do.'

I wish you would let me tell you more
about them, and then you would be able to
judge for yourself.'

Mr. Henry Argoll always expressed a desire
to hear more some day or other ; but the
some day was long deferred ; in fact, it may
almost be called the English equivalent for
the Greek Kalends. Their discussions on this
subject usually occurred between the intervals
of lessons on painting, when there was a pause

in the course of instruction, owing to Miss
Solar wanting a rest. Mr. Henry Argoll did
not approve of suspending the lessons longer
than he could help, being accustomed to say,
after a short period of repose :

Now, Miss Solar, let's return to business.
That's better than conversing about novels
and their writers. After all, there's nothing
like painting, and how many Kussian painters
are there whose works are worth notice, I
should like to know ?'

As Miss Solar was ignorant of the progress
and success of Russian artists, she had no
reply ready ; therefore she held her peace.
Yet she returned again and again to the subject,
and her persistency had its reward in
exciting Mr. Henry A rgoJl's curiosity as to
one of her favourite personages, that is,
Eugene Basaroff, in Tourgenieff 's Fathers and
Sons. What was her surprise, mixed with
delight, to find in Count Paul Kataroff, the
young nobleman just referred to, a man who
recalled many of Basaroffs traits and aims.

She first met Count Paul at Holder's restaurant,
where he and his mother and sister

31—2

occupied adjoining tables. They met a^fain
at Hiibner's restaurant, where chance threw
them together. The ladies bowed to each
other ; when they sat together one morning
at the concert, they interchanged a few words,
and thus a speaking acquaintance was formed.
At the time of the day when the Russian
ladies and aunt Irma were taking baths, Miss
Solar and Count Paul were waiting either in
the large hall of the Kaiserbad, or in the
grounds outside, where they conversed together.


Count Paul had lost his father a year before
his visit to Franzensbad. He had been carefully
educated, and nothing had been omitted
to render him an attached and a useful subject
of the Czar. His father held an appointment
at Court, which brought him into
immediate contact with his sovereign, and
he was a fanatical upholder of that sovereign
and his policy. Everything that savoured of
change was repugnant to him. He had accepted
the great reform which abolished serfdom
throughout the Russian Empire, but he
did so because the Czar was its advocate, and

not because he approved of it himself. He
had never been unhappy whilst his peasants
were in the position of slaves ; nor could he
understand why they should be happier when
they ceased to be bound body and soul to
their master.

Young Count Paul had been thrown into
the company of others of his own age, who
talked with contempt of the old ways and the
old times, and who were the more disposed to
dislike them because their fathers praised and
regretted them. He read new books, and he
imbibed new ideas. His father read nothing
save official documents, and he was satisfied
with old traditions and customs. The father
set too great store upon the past ; the son
cared too little for it, being desirous of change
chiefly because he wished to live in a new
world. The days for discovering new continents
are over. The modern Columbus is the
man who opens up new vistas to the youth of
an old one. In no part of the European Continent
are more discoveries to be made in the
illimitable realm of ideas and methods than
throughout the vast Russian Empire.

Miss Solar was pleased, at first, to find reproduced
in Count Paul the notions which
TourgeniefF had put into the mouth of Eugene
Basarofi*; but, when she found that her new
acquaintance was far more advanced than her
hero of romance, was desirous of making a
clean sweep of everything, and professed views
which she thought sanguinary as well as
startling, she began to fear him. Few
women love social firebrands. Most women
are conservatives by nature. They like
variety in pleasure, whilst shrinking from any
violation of the social order. Even in the
most frenzied days in Paris, women did not
begin by creating barricades ; yet, when the
barricades were thrown up, and the streets
were running with blood, then women became
the most desperate defenders of the barricades,
and contributed largely to the slaughter which
ensued. In most women there is the energy
and the determination of a Maid of Saragossa,
once the danger is imminent and the fighting
has begun. Long after the last man has fled
from the post of danger, the woman who was
there at the beginning is conspicuous by her

ardour and her undaunted mien. She acts
and looks Eke a fury.

Possibly, then, had Count Paul and Miss
Solar been side by side when there was fighting
in the streets, she would have shamed
him by her wild courage ; yet, when he
calmly spoke to her about exterminating the
Czar and his Ministers with some infernal
machine, she shuddered at the prospect, and
shrank from his side. Still, she continued to
listen to his mad and bloody projects. She
confirmed by her conduct what Macaulay
wrote in his Prophecy ofCapi/s:

And maids, who shrieked to see the heads,
Yet, shrieking, press more nigh.'

The more ghastly the picture drawn by Count
Paul, the greater was its fascination for her.

He was fascinated in turn, but in a different
way. Besides being filled with youth's
enthusiasm and recklessness, he was sensitive
to all tender impressions, and the face of Miss
Solar became more attractive in his eyes everyday.
He would have sacrificed everything to
call it his own. She had the power to turn

him from his dubious ways. She was touched
with his homage ; it was at once humble and
genuine. He treated her as if she were a
goddess. If an incendiary and assassin at
heart, he was a gentle and most submissive
lover in manner.

On the evening of a lovely day they walked
together through the park, after the concert
had been held, in the direction of the 'Konigs
Villa,' where aunt Irma had invited Count
Paul's mother and sister to take coffee in her
room, and then it was that the feelings of
Count Paul gained expression in a few passionate
sentences, and he declared his love.

Miss Solar felt sad and startled beyond expression,
and she could but exclaim :

Poor boy ! I am so sorry for you.'

He was her own age, but a girl of eighteen
looks upon a young man who is no older asher
junior ; and, indeed, the girl is the more
developed of the two in many respects. She
has ripened faster. However, the process is
at an end in her case, whereas, though the
man takes longer to reach maturity, he is far
more advanced than the girl when he does so,

both in the world's ways and in the knowledge
of life. Count Paul begged hard for time
during which to prove himself worthy of her;
he promised to follow her bidding in everything;
indeed, he would have been as wax in
her hands. She felt all this, yet she could
but repeat :

Poor boy !' and add, ' T ought to have
told you before that I am already engaged
to be married. I wish now that I had
done so.'

He was stunned and grieved at the speech.
Such a contingency had never occurred to
him. He thought that his opinions might
displease her ; he feared that she might have
a prejudice against his nationality ; he was
apprehensive lest a religious difficulty might
be raised ; yet, in the ardour of his feelings,
he fancied that all possible objections might
be removed or compromised, and he was
sanguine enough to hope that his suit might
not be rejected at once and for ever. He
thought, too, that if he gained time he might
win the prize. But when he heard that
Miss Solar was not free, his heart sank

within him, and he felt disposed to reproach
her for having refrained from telling her
secret earlier.

Count Paul KataroflP framed an excuse for
leaving Franzensbad on the following day.
His mother was pleased when she heard that
he had made up his mind to accept an
appointment at Court which would bring
him into immediate contact with his sovereign.
Till then, he had refused to enter
into any employment under Government or
at the Court.

The persons whose acquaintance one makes
at a watering-place, on board a ship or in a
railway carriage, may be on a familiar footing
with one for a month, a week, or an
hour, and then vanish into oblivion. It is
rare, indeed, that one hears their names
mentioned again. Miss Solar never expected
to see or get any news from her young
Russian lover. If she had never learned
anything more about him she would have
indulged in curious speculations as to his
fate, wondering how different he would
become when years and riper knowledge had

produced their effect upon him. It would
have been better for her peace of mind had
she never learned his painful end. It was
with grief and regret tinged with remorse
that she read a few months afterwards
how another attempt had been made upon
the Czar's life, how the Czar had escaped,
his assailant being shot dead. The would-be
assassin was young Count Paul Kataroff.

A pleasant memory of Franzensbad washer
intercourse with Count Geierstein, the
famous Muscovite Minister, who occupied
rooms in the Konig's Villa. Though 
has been almost entirely monopolized
by ladies, yet a few men have had the courage
to go and drink and bathe in the waters there,
and Count Geierstein is one of them.

Staying under the same roof as the Count
and being regarded as a rich English beauty,
Miss Solar was an object of interest to him ;
he easily got on speaking terms with her and
her aunt Irma, and he invited them to join
his party at breakfast under the trees in the
public park. Breakfasting in the open air
is looked upon as part of the ' cure ' by the

visitors to most of the Bohemian baths. The
feathered inhabitants of Bohemia approve of
the practice, and they attend in flocks to feast
upon the crumbs which are lavishly supplied
to them. Thus Miss Solar and the others
had the double pleasure of breakfasting in a
pleasant way, and of giving the congregated
birds an ample repast.

A still greater personage than Count Genere
visited Franzensbad, and caused great
excitement there. This was the notable
Prince Schonhausen, who desired to confer
with the Count as to the conduct of the
Albanians, who had suddenly become obstreperously
independent. Miss Solar took
no interest in the business which brought the
Prince to Franzensbad, being as ignorant of
Continental politics and as indifferent about
the Eastern Question as any other well
educated and healthy English girl ; but she
had all a girl's curiosity to see one of the
greatest men of the day.

Owing to their associating daily with
Count Geierstein, she and her aunt had
come to be regarded as members of the

Count's party, so that, when the Prince was
invited to dine at the Konig's Villa, they were
invited to meet him. The gratification of
her aunt was even greater than hers, as her
aunt longed to see, face to face, the man who,
next to the Emperor, was the greatest power
in Germany. Moreover, she was certain to
enjoy giving Frau Decker an account of her
good fortune. Miss Solar, whilst delighted
to be introduced to the Prince, would have
rejoiced far more if she could have met
another German prince, that good and brave
Crown Prince for whom she, in common with
everybody who can appreciate what is noble
and estimable in men, entertained a sympathy
in his sufferings which would not have been
keener or more heartfelt had he been her
father, her brother, or her lover.

Miss Solar spoke German with her acquaintances
in Konig's Villa, and she did
so in order that her aunt could follow or join
in the conversation. On being introduced
to Prince Schonhausen by the Count, she
was described as a young lady from London,
and the Prince addressed her in English, which

he spoke with great ease and accuracy. They
sat together at table, and the Prince conversed
with her the greater part of the time that they
were together.

She was not wholly surprised that he
should speak English so well, as she had met
Mr. Northampton at dinner in London, and
he had told her, when the talk turned upon
the Prince, that he was a perfect master of
English. She now said to him, using the
form of address which the others did :

Your Highness speaks our language
wonderfully well ; I have been told you
did, but what puzzles me the most is to see
how aptly you quote phrases from English
writers.'

I suppose you have read some compliments
about my English in some of our newspapers,
which, when they are not abusing me, go to
the other extreme and flatter me, which is much
worse. The only compliment of the kind I ever
valued was Lord Beaconsfield's, whose praise
was worth having, though I expected that
he and his distinguished colleague would not
have visited Berlin without knowing more

than they did of German and French. They
both seemed delighted to find that I could
converse ^vith them in English, and, perhaps,
Lord Beaconsfield was the more disposed on
that account to say what he did.'

Miss Solar replied :

My information came from Mr. Northampton,
who used to know you at Frankfort.
I don't think he is given to flatter anybody.'


So you know Mr. Northampton ! I remember
him well, and I should like to meet
him again. We used to have what my
American friend Motley called *' a good time "
at Frankfort. Those were happy days.'

Do you remember, Highness, making a
speech at an English club there ? Mr.
Northampton told me that he was surprised
how well you spoke English ; and as he is a
first-rate speaker himself, he must be a good
judge.'

Oh, yes ! I remember doing so ; and what
surprised me most was the way in which
my speech was received. You English people
always seem to think it a miracle when a

foreigner can make an after-dinner speech in
your own tongue. The French take it as a
matter of course when a foreigner makes
himself understood by them. Perhaps, if I
had not practised English with Motley when
at Gottingen, and afterwards with the English
people whom I met at Aix-la-chapelle, I
should not have got it up so well. Practice
is everything ; I suppose you have had a
good deal, Miss Solar, as you seem to know
our language almost as well as your own.'

But then, Highness, though a Londoner
by birth, my mother and father were Germans,
and I ought to understand German.'

Where did they come from ?'

From Frankfort, which I have often visited
since.'

After a short pause, and with half a sigh,
he said :

They were happy days, indeed, when I
was at Frankfort. I was always fighting
with my colleagues there, and getting the
best of them. And in the intervals I used to
have such talks with Mr. Northampton and
other Englishmen, though he was the man

whom I liked the best. He could not drink
as much beer as I did, but he was quite as
able to sit up and smoke, and discuss all
sorts of things the whole night. I wasn't
troubled with stupid critics, or neuralgia, or
rheumatism in those days.'

But, Highness, you can now do as you
like, and surely you ought to be very
happy !'

I have no doubt, Miss Solar, you can do
as you please, but are you always happy V

She did not reply, and he continued :

I thought not. Nobody is perfectly happy
in this world. And as to doing what one
pleases, that seems the more difficult when one
is thought to have his own way in everything.
People seem to get stupider every year, and
the numbers increase of those who object
to whatever I am in favour of. Young
ladies like you have no idea how hard it is to
try and make other people happy, not by
marrying, but by legislating for their good.'

Why, then, do you give yourself so much
trouble for nothing ? If I were a Minister
of State, and the people were ungrateful, I

VOL. II. 32

should resign, and let some one else do his
best

I have no doubt. Miss Solar, if you were
an English Prime Minister, or a German
Chancellor, you would be popular and happy ;
a lady can generally do what she likes best,
and can make men do what suits her, but I
have no such magic at my command. I
shouldn't be much better off if I retired, because
I might then be annoyed at seeing
things going wrong without having the power
to interfere. It is best, after all, to die in
harness like my venerable sovereign.'

Immediately before quitting Franzensbad,
Miss Solar wrote the following letter to Miss
Tacon, the first she had sent to her since
arriving :

Dearest Ella,

You have been very good in keeping
your promise to write often, and I cannot
wonder that you scold me in your last for
treating you shamefully. I really have meant
to write day after day, and send a large
budget of news j but, somehow or other, I have

kept putting off till this is almost the last
chance, as my aunt's *' cure " will be finished
the day after tomorrow, and then we leave.

I heard that Franzensbad was a quiet place,
and it is quite true ; yet I have had a good deal
of excitement one way or other. First, perhaps,
I should tell you of a proposal I have
had from a young Russian Count. Don't
start ! It was a very harmless affair, so far
as it concerned me, and I think he will soon
get over it. The poor boy, for he looks quite
a lad though he is eighteen, was bored to
death, so I suppose he wanted me to marry
him by way of a little variety.

Do you remember Mrs. Ruskin, who
came to dinner at Palace Gardens, and wore
that queer thing, half turban and half cap, and
who talked every moment that she was not
putting something into her mouth '? I never
thought I should meet such another woman,
yet we had not been a day here before an old
friend of my aunt's stopped us near the springs
and poured out a torrent of words, or, rather,
a long string of questions. She never seemed
to care for answers. Happily, she stayed a

32—2

few days only : I think I should have had to
leave if she had remained longer, for she
was always running after my aunt to have, as
she said, a little talk with her. How thankful
I am that I never met her in Frankfort
! It seems that she has a dislike to
call upon people, and expects her friends
to call upon her. That is the best trait in
her character.

During the last three days all the people
in Franzensbad seem to have lost their heads.
This was caused by the visit of the great
Prince Schonhausen to Count Geierstein, who
is staying in this house, and who is a most
pleasant man. I was introduced to the Prince,
and he talked a good deal. I shall never forget
my aunt's face when she was introduced
to him, and he said that he was always
pleased to meet ladies from Frankfort. She
looks upon him as a greater person than any
Emperor, or any living man, and she tells me
she could hardly believe her eyes when she
saw him before her, and speaking so pleasantly.
He must have been very striking
when a young man, though I do not think he

can ever have been exactly handsome. He
looks far more stern than he is, and I have
never met any man who seemed to enjoy a
joke more, or who is so different in manner
from what you would think him to be from
his appearance. They say that he is very
different with men, but I can only speak of
him as I found him, and I am really pleased
to have had the opportunity of meeting the
great and most agreeable Prince.

I have not yet said anything about the
place, because there is not much to say. The
houses are all in a park, or else looking upon
one. The country round about is flat. The
only thing that attracts visitors is the Kama
an extinct volcano. When I spoke
of it to the Prince, he said he wished Lord
Beaconsfield could have seen it, as he would
have then understood what the Radicals
must be like, whom he likened to extinct volcanoes.
I had never heard of this, so I could
only say, '* Oh, indeed," and talk of something
else. Then we went to see it, but were not
much the wiser. Now I think I have made
up for my long silence. I hope we shall

THE LADIES' BATH.

meet very soon. I do not intend staying at
Frankfort more than a day to rest, and then
I shall go on to Westbourne. Give my
kindest love to Mrs. Argoll. I hope she has
had good news from her husband.

Your loving friend,

Berta.

'Pes. — I forgot to tell you of a slight
adventure which we had when coming here
from Frankfort. Aunt Irma refused to go
first-class, as I wished, and though I offered
to pay the fare she refused, saying she was in
the habit of travelling second, and did not feel
comfortable in any other class. I thought it
best to please her, and we got into the second-class
ladies' compartment. The day was
hot, and the dust was something awful. Being
almost stifled with the dust coming in at the
window on my side, I shut it nearly altogether.
There was only one other lady in
the carriage, and she was a strange-looking
person. I seldom speak English to my aunt,
but not wishing my remark to be understood
by that lady, I said :

" What an odd-looking person ! Did you
ever see such a bonnet ?"

My aunt said nothing, but gave me a look
which conveyed both that she understood
what I said and agreed with me. I think
the lady fancied we did not admire her. At
all events, she looked as cross as two sticks.
Now, when I partly closed the window, she
at once pulled down the glass, saying, in
German :

" You ought to ride third-class, that's the
place for you."

I had bought a copy of the English Saturday
Gazette at the Frankfort station, and
had read a paper on Saphir, one of the German
Jewish writers, who said as clever
things as Heine. I at once repeated to her a
passage in that article, and did so in German,
which was to this effect in English : *' Dear
madam, in the first-class the passengers are
rude to the guards ; in the third the guards
are rude to the passengers ; and in the second
the passengers are rude to each other."

She said nothing, but gave me a look of
surprise and anger, and at the next station

she bounced out of the carriage, muttering
something which I did not catch, but which
was probably not complimentary.'

The day after this letter was written and
posted the London Morning Paper arrived,
containing a telegram about the collision between
the Flying Dutchman and The Cosmos,
and the foundering of the latter. Miss Solar
was stunned as she read it. She had never
anticipated that Mr. Henry Argoll ran any
serious risk in going on the expedition to
Patagonia. Hence the news of the loss of
The Cosmos was the more terrible. Whilst
grieving bitterly over what she had read,
there came a knock at the door, and on her
saying 'Come in,' a messenger entered,
handed her a telegram, and requested her to
sign a receipt. As soon as he had left the
room she opened the paper and glanced first
at the place from which it had come, which
was Westbourne, and then at the signature,
which was * Ella.' The message ran thus :

Aunt has got a sad letter about Mr.
Argoll. Would so like you to come to her.'

A CRISIS IN THE CITY.

Can such things be,
And overcome us like a summer's cloud,
Without our special wonder '?'

Shakespeare.

^^I^SHE lives of speculators on the
^rn K^ Stock Exchanges of New York
^4^1 and London, Paris and Frankfort,
Bern and Vienna, have a certain resemblance
to those of untamed American Indians. When
an Indian has plenty to eat, he patiently and
slowly digests his food in his wigwam, where
he is a far less interesting object than a cow
ruminating in a meadow. As soon as he is
relieved from the oppression of the huge
meal, he again stuffs himself to repletion.

In a state of nature he is a water-drinker
and a glutton. When he has come into
contact with civilized men, he becomes a
glutton and a drunkard. At either stage
he goes on the war-path when he is moved
by a sudden craving for scalps, and he takes
to hunting when his larder is empty. In
the event of surviving and being successful,
he returns to his pestiferous abode covered
with glory and laden with the proceeds of
the chase.

When speculators have made a great hit
on the Stock Exchange, they remain as dormant
as the wild Indian after a triumphant
raid and a prodigious feast, and they wait
with patience for another opportunity to
renew their operations. They count their
gains, and calculate their chances in the
enforced interval of unwelcome leisure. They
cannot always operate, any more than the
Indian can always eat. When no business
is doing in the Money Market, they have
either to fold their hands or else prey upon
each other. If the public possessing capital
remain aloof from the Stock Exchange, the

speculator's occupation is suspended. He is
then an unwilling sluggard. He resembles
the highwayman of other days on a deserted
and desolate heath, where there is nobody to
rob.

By common consent there is generally a
truce to speculation on the Stock Exchange
during that part of summer when everyone
takes a holiday who can get and afford it.
During this period rival speculators usually
cease from troubling. Yet the truce of
Mammon is not always religiously observed.
Just as the crafty Indian digs up the tomahawk
and goes on the war-path without
notice, so do wily and unscrupulous speculators
sometimes take unfair advantage of
the holiday season to create a panic for their
private ends.

Now, during the absence from town of
Mr. Argoll and other great financiers, the
minor and poorer members of the world of
finance thought the occasion opportune for
precipitating a crisis, and they succeeded in
their object.

They circulated a report that war was

imminent, though there was not the shortest
chance of the most belligerent nation beginning
hostilities at that time. However, the
ignorant and timid public grew alarmed.
Orders to sell stocks and shares poured in
from all parts of the country. As there
were few buyers, owing to the absence of
the principal capitalists from London, the
prophets and workers of evil did their worst
for a few days. The collapse of many financial
houses was predicted, and a general feeling
of distrust was created. At this time
a special meeting of the shareholders of The
Riviera Sanitation Company was held in
order to hear the report of a committee of
investigation. The gist of the report was
to the effect that the shareholders would
probably lose all the money which they had
subscribed, and that there had never been
any likelihood of the plausible promises in
the prospectus being fulfilled.

When the prospectus of The Riviera Sanitation
Company was issued, the public was
led to suppose that the company had obtained
concessions and contracts to improve

the sanitary condition of the chief towns

along the coast of the Mediterranean. It

was implied rather than asserted that the

profits would be enormous. It was found,

however, that the municipal authorities of

these towns refused to have any dealings

with the company, and that the binding

contracts and valid concessions referred to

in the prospectus applied to one place only,

which was a small fishing village called San

Cruzel. In the others, the authorities either

contended that the sanitary condition was

perfect, or else that there was no reason for

spending money in making changes, seeing

that strangers were attracted by the bright

sunshine, and submitted, without more than

English grumbling, to the bad smells. At

San Cruzel there were few visitors ; the

people themselves did not appreciate drains,

and the proprietor of the single hotel there

would have to pay the cost of making them

in the event of the Commune deciding that

they should be introduced. Nearly all the

capital of the Company appeared to have

disappeared in negotiations which led to

nothing, or in experiments at San Cruzel
which yielded no return.

The fact of one company being insecure
and a thorough swindle would not be of
much consequence, provided its own condition
and fate were alone involved. But
where one large concern is, or is thought to
be, on the verge of bankruptcy, others are
suspected of being unsound also. Once
suspicion is aroused, great and irreparable
damage is caused. Companies which are
struggling have to be wound up because they
cannot get further credit, and even those
which are honestly conducted are little better
off than those which are not.

What intensified the panic on this occasion
was the circumstance of the Stock Exchange
being taken by surprise. One member
of it after another hastened back to town ;
the capitalists who had not lost their heads
bought largely, and prices mounted nearly as
quickly as they had fallen. The storm was
short though severe, and proved to be only
a summer squall.

As the excitement subsided, and the whole

matter was looked at calmly, it was seen that
much ado had been made about a trifle ;
that some companies had been forced to go
into liquidation a few months earlier than
they would have done in the course of
nature ; whilst the one fact which remained
conspicuous was that The Riviera Sanitation
Company had been ordered to be wound up.
This attracted the greater notice because
many strange stories were afloat concerning
its formation, and sensational revelations were
expected now.

As its promoters in this country were
Messrs. Argoll and Solar, and as that firm
occupied a conspicuous position in the City,
it was not surprising that many who had
no interest in the company itself were greatly
concerned about its affairs and its fate.

It has already been intimated that Mr.
Argoll was not popular in City circles ; all
men were glad to join him in any enterprise
because he had a happy knack of succeeding
; nevertheless, few cared for him on his
own account. The younger members of the

Stock Exchange detested him. He could
VOL. n.

not bear their free and easy ways, whilst
they were unable to endure his pompous
manner and acrid speeches. Nothing delighted
them more than to do him a bad
turn. As their time was less fully occupied
than that of their elders, and as they were
inspired with personal vindictiveness, they
now took advantage of Mr. Argoll's connection
with The Riviera Sanitation Company
to depict his character in the worst light,
and to charge him with iniquities of which
he was wholly innocent.

One of the peculiar dispensations of Providence
is the uniformity with which success
excites malice and uncharitableness. In
statesmanship, science, letters, law and
finance, the man who becomes noteworthy is
almost certain to be calumniated. The
mere fact of his rising to the top is against
him. Had he remained amongst the unknown
and undistinguished multitude, he
would never have been charged with any
fault, though he might then be more deserving
of censure than he was after becoming
conspicuous and powerful. It is not till

ran get on in the world that candid friends
clearly detect and delight to enlarge on their
shortcomings.

Mr. Argoll was paying the penalty of
having got on only too well. He had his
faults, but he was not quite so bad as he was
now painted. He had offended many persons
; but he was not a monster of depravity,
as one man after another declared him to be.
He was not Mephistopheles in the flesh under
the disguise of a bald head and a vulgar
look.

Many of the companies which Mr. Argoll
founded had failed ; yet there was nothing
remarkable in this. No man in the City can
always insure the success of every concern
with which he is connected. Neither was
Mr. Argoll utterly indifferent to the success
of the ventures which he had fathered
and fostered, for if they all turned out badly
he would be utterly discredited. His own
contention was that, out of the joint-stock
companies and public loans which he had
promoted or floated, a larger proportion

VOL. II. 33

had proved remunerative to investors than
was the case as regards those for which rival
financiers were responsible. If this had not
been true he would have been shunned as a
leper instead of being surrounded by toadies
nd sycophants.

At present he could not answer the
numerous charges against him which were
current, as he knew nothing about them,
and his friends were not self-sacrificing and
active in defending him. A financier's City
friends are never inconsolable when he is
unfortunate ; they have a lurking notion
that when he is discredited and falls out of
the ranks it may be their turn to take his
place and to Hne their pockets. But, even
if Mr, Argos's friends had been his warm
and vigorous upholders, they laboured under
the disadvantage of not knowing all the facts,
and of being unable to communicate with
him in order to learn them. Had he been
in the City it would have been easier to
take his part, chiefly because he was well
able to hold his own, and men are always

eager to back up those who can defend
themselves without any assistance. Giants
have no trouble in getting feeble folk to fight
under their banner.

Few persons had got the better of Mr.
Argoll in controversy or speculation. He
was a very shrewd man, who had made the
weak points of his fellows a serious study,
and, not being over-scrupulous, he could
revenge himself upon those who had offended
or thwarted him. An instance of this was
honos remembered.

Mr. Robert Tuson was a member of the
Stock Exchange, who, like Mr. Argoll, was
given to aid in floating companies ; but,
unlike Mr. Argoll, he was a hybrid in City
circles, being one half stockbroker and one
half financier. Mr. Argoll confined himself
to the work of finance, and employed brokers
to do his business on the Stock Exchange.
Between Mr. Tuson and Mr. Argoll there
was a long-standing feud. How it originated
neither could tell. They had begun
by disliking each other without any obvious

33—2

reason. They had often been rivals in
financial transactions, and thus a spirit of
antagonism was excited, and they had come
to regard each other as enemies. Each took
a savage and childish delight in trying to
counteract and checkmate the other. They
seemed to glory in opposition and contradiction.
If the one were known to be trying
to depress a particular security, the other
was certain to be working in order to raise
its price. This was so well understood that
people did not ask whether a certain stock
were falling or rising, but whether Tuson or
Argoll were bearing or ruling it.

In finance, as in politics, the man who
has made himself notorious and powerful
becomes the head of a party. A certain
number of City men whose lives are spent
in buying and selling shares and stocks
followed the lead of Mr. Tuson or Mr.
Argoll, and on many occasions the Money
Market resembled a battle-field in which
armies manoeuvred under the respective command
of Mr. Argoll and Mr. Tuson, both

sides striving for victory, and the killed and
wounded being represented at each bi-monthly
settlement by those of their followers who had
made money and those who had lost it.

Speculators were likened at the outset of
this chapter to wild Indians. It is the
Indian's endeavour and gratification to gain
an unfair advantage over his enemy. To
fall upon a sleeping village, scalp all the
males, and carry off the women and children
is the North American Indian's notion of
successful and honourable warfare. To checkmate
a hated rival and to upset his schemes
is accounted in London, New York, Paris,
Berlin, Frankfort and Vienna, a great and
glorious feat. Mr. Argoll had all the craftiness
of an Indian, and all the skill of a
past master in the game of speculation.
His rival, Mr. Tuson, was a man of infinite
resource ; but he lacked coolness ; he was
usually over-sanguine, and he was not blessed
with Mr. Argoll's wariness. His combinations
always contained a large margin
for what, in default of a more accurate term.

is called * luck :' Mr. Aro^oll never left anything
to chance. If he intended to checkmate
a rival, he so laid his plans that
there should be no chance of escape.

The account of how he checkmated Mr.
Tuson would require the use of technicalities
which might puzzle the ordinary reader.
Suffice it to state that Mr. Argoll was careful
not to ignore the principles of morality
recognised amongst his fraternity. These
principles are not indeed very exalted ; the
essence of them is, to make money ; their
sanction is, success.

Mr. Argoll won the day. He added
a hundred thousand pounds to his fortune,
and had the satisfaction, which he relished as
greatly as an Indian relishes the tortures of
the victim whom he is roasting to death
before a slow fire, of knowing that his rival
had been probably reduced to beggary. A
word from Mr. Argoll would have postponed,
and might have averted, the catastrophe.
When no other hope was left, Mr.
Tuson wrote a short note, saying :

'Dear Sir,

If you give me a few weeks
only, I shall be able to settle with you,
and I promise ever after to help you
in all possible ways. Though we may not
agree, we might do a large business in concerts


The temptation to be merciful was the
severest to which Mr. Argoll had ever been
exposed. He felt the strain, and he all but
succumbed. He was certain that, if he
and Mr. Tuson combined, it wo aid be easy
to control the Money Market, and that
both might then grow very rich without
risk or difficulty. Yet he heroically resisted
the temptation with a fortitude which very
few men could display. He was sustained
in his resolve by the possession of a twofold
grievance, and he gloated over the prospect
of a double revenue.

Not only had Mr. Tuson been his keen
and daring rival in the City, but he had
also succeeded in obtaining a place in society

for which Mr. Argoll vainly sighed and
laboured. They were near neighbours at
the West End. In some way unknown to
Mr. Argoll, his ideal had become a favourite
with the great. His house, which he called

Windsor House,' was the scene of gatherings
at which princes of the Blood Koyal
were conspicuous. It was rumoured that
Mr. Tuson's only daughter would marry a
member of a noble family, and that the
arrangements for the wedding were all but
completed. He knew that Mr. Tuson, asa
comparative pauper, would cease to bethe
man whom noblemen graciously styled

a good fellow,' and whom princes condescended
to honour with their company.
He made no other response to Mr. Tuson's
appeal than the contemptuous one of returning
his note. Mr. Tuson felt that his
doom was sealed. He had a paralytic
stroke the same night. He lived several
years afterwards, but he was as helpless asa
child, and he was even more miserable
than the infant which begins to lisp and add

words to its vocabulary day after day, for
his power of articulate speech had departed.


Such in a rough outline was the fate of
Mr. Tuson, and those who were acquainted
with it dreaded an encounter with Mr.
Argoll lest they, too, might be victims of
his wrath and his ruthlessness.

When a buffalo or wild horse is smitten
with years and is on the point of death, the
wolves eagerly watch till its strength has
almost gone in order that, without risk to
themselves, they may hasten its end, and
then enjoy a sumptuous feast upon its carcase.
In American phrase this would be
called having ' a good square meal.' The
City financier who has been hard hit is
metaphorically in the position of the dying
animal on the Pampas, the Prairies, or the
Steppes. His last gasp is eagerly awaited
by those who hope to profit by his departure.
Some onlookers have no finer feelings than
the beasts of the field, and they rejoice when a
man whose position has been a high one falls

from it, and when a reputation has been
besmirched.

There is a tendency in human nature
which the influence of Christianity has
failed to repress and has proved incapable of
eradicating, and that is to repay a fellow-creature
in kind. The desire is almost universal
to see a man punished in the way in
which he has been the instrument of
punishing others. When it was reported
in the City that Mr. Argoll, despite his
caution, had committed a rash blunder, and
despite his skill at concealment had exposed
himself to a painful reprisal, there
were many who hoped that his fate would
be that which had overtaken Mr. Tuson,
and that he, too, might sue for mercy, and
sue in vain.

The well-informed people who abound in
every great city, and who know everything
about that which has never happened, were
ready to communicate full particulars concerning
Mr. Argoll. They had been told
on the best authority, at least they said so,

chat he had gone to Australia, the story of
his going to Sicily having been concocted
with a view to defeat the ends of justice-these
well-informed persons said (but without
having any foundation for their statement)
that they knew there were many acts of Mr.
Argoll's which would not bear investigation,
and they predicted that there would be a
great sensation when the whole truth was
made public.

Less attention would have been given to
Mr. Argoll and his affairs at another period
of the year. In the dead season any scandal
or controversy is doubly welcome. It gives
people something to talk about, and it gives
journalists, who are at their wits' end for
subjects, an opportunity of writing paragraphs
which will be read with morbid
interest. Still, the case of Mr. Argoll was
too trivial to supply much aliment in the
form of news or much material for scathing
comment. The facts were few and bald.
He was charged with having been in the possession
of some important information when

he floated The Riviera Sanitation Company,
and it was alleged that he made a profit of
between fifteen and twenty thousand pounds
out of the company. Moreover, it was
supposed that he had gone to Sicily or some
other place in order to escape from justice.
To these facts must be added the conclusion
that, as nothing had been heard from him
for weeks, his departure and silence were
suspicious.

Whilst the journals which confine themselves
to their proper functions of printing
the news of the day and commenting upon
it dismissed the case of Mr. Argoll after
having set forth and made a few remarks
upon the actual facts, the subject was discussed
in a very different way and spirit by
The Evening Detective. The conductors of
this print differ from other journalists in
having been entrusted in some unknown, if
not miraculous, way with a mission to set
the world rio^ht.

There was a time when the conductor of
a newspaper was regarded as a simple

mortal, and he was actually a common
printer. Probably he was not inferior in
education to any of the divinities who now
shape the world's ends from their editorial
chairs. Indeed, it is quite certain that
Henry Sampson Footfall, the conductor and
printer of The Public Advertiser was as well
trained as Junius.

At a still earlier time the newspaper, or
news-letter,' as it was called, consisted of a
small sheet of gossip, which was largely
designed for the edification of people in the
country. In those days, when the fabrication
of news had not attained its present
excellence, the writers were often hardly
pressed for something to say. Whether all
the news then ofiven were as authentic as
that now made public cannot be determined
; but there is reason for fearing that
the old news-writers may sometimes have
drawn upon their imaginations for their
information. One ground for thinking sois
the following passage in a letter from
Horace Walpole to his friend Mann, which

was written in 1742 : 'I am so put to it
for something to say, that I would make a
memorandum of the most improbable lie
that could be invented by a viscountess
dowager : as the old Duchess of Rutland
does when she is told of some great casualty :
Lucy, child, step into the next room and
set that down." " Lord, Madam," says
Lady Lucy, " it can't be true !" " Oh, no
matter, child ; it will do for news into the
country, next post"' In these days it is
not uncommon for the country to send
strange news to town.

However, some modern journalists have
souls far above collecting, sifting, verifying,
and commenting upon news. They conduct
investigations for the public benefit. Though
the assertion may be alike dangerous and
audacious, I venture to state that it is still
an open question whether a Court of Justice
is not a better tribunal for the public redress
of injuries than the columns of a daily newspaper.


The readers of The Evening Detective were

gratified when they saw an announcement
to the following effect :

In our next number an article will appear
headed : Dives, a True Story of Modern City
Life. As the sale is expected to be very
large, all applications for additional copies
should be made early in the morning to
the publisher.'

As the appearance of the article made a
sensation, and as the number of readers
was really large, it may be assumed that
some persons who read these lines are
familiar with its substance. To those who
are not acquainted with it, as it is possible
that everybody may not be a constant
reader of The Evening Detective, the following
summary of the article will be serviceable.
The opening sentences were as follows :

'As usual, the bull-dogs of the press are
shirking their duty. It is left to us to
expose a matter which has been the talk
of the City for some time. We have spared
no pains to ascertain the facts, and we venture
to say that our narrative will be found

both horrible and interesting. We may
add our conviction that the evil-doers will
not escape merited punishment now that
they have fallen into our clutches.' The
story told was to the effect that ' the Representative
' of The Evening Detective had seen
the liquidator of The Riviera Sanitation Company
^ and had learned from him that the
company could never succeed in the work
which it had undertaken, and that the promoters
were aware of this from the outset.
This ' Representative ' saw a letter bearing
out this serious allegation. The letter was
said to be a copy of one actually in existence.
In a Court of Justice the original would
have to be produced, and its authenticity
placed beyond doubt ; in a court of journalism
there is more laxity in proving, or
professing to prove, a case. The rules ina
Court of Law have been elaborated todo
justice between man and man ; the
rules of modern journalism are far more
elastic, and conduce better to the success
of sensational articles.

That Mr. Arsfoll had the leading share in
offering The Riviera Sanitation Company
for public subscription could not be denied.
Why, then, did Messrs. Ar^oll and Solar
give their help to founding and floating such
a company ? The article in The Evening
Detective put this point clearly before its
readers, and stated that their sole object
was to make money. That the design was
entertained no one could question. How
much money they made could not be settled
off-hand. The ' Representative ' of The
Evening Detective laid down a law, or rather,
perhaps, expressed a dictum, to the effect
that the promoters of The Riviera Sanitation
Company were men to whom no mercy
should be shown, though they had sheltered
themselves behind the forms of the law.
The ' Representative ' went on to say :

I learnt that Mr. Argoll had gone away
to Sicily for a holiday. On making inquiry
could not find anyone who had ever heard
from him since his leaving* London. The
clerk at Athelstanee House, who said he was

VOL. II. 34

in charge of the office during the absence of
Mr. Byker and Mr. Argoll, declined to make
any statement. I went to Palace Gardens,
and found the house closed. I went to
Westbourne, and, after much difficulty, saw
Mrs. Argoll ; she cried bitterly, and said she
hoped I would excuse her. The fact of her
being in tears was, to my mind, conclusive
as to the intentions of Mr. Argoll. Indeed,
the general view in the City is, that he is a
man who would not stick at anything to
advance his objects. I am sorry to have to
add that his moral character is very low, for
he nearly always lets his wife go to the
seaside alone.'

For a short time Mr. Argoll was the talk
of the City. Perhaps, if he had known what
was said of him, he would have felt annoyed;
as it was, he was perfectly unconscious of
being styled and regarded as ' Dives.' Probably,
if a copy of The Eve dug Detective had
fallen into his hands, he would have read it
through ; but the sight of any English newspaper
was one which he had not enjoyed for
weeks.

Though few of the members of Mr. Argoll's
household knew what was said about
him in the City, and though none of the
clerks in his office knew how to ensure a
letter or paper reaching him, he did learn
something about the position in which he
had been placed during his absence. Messrs.
Blumenheim and Caradoc were aware of the
brief panic in the City, and they had read a
verbatim report of the proceedings at the
meeting of The Riviera Sanitation Company.

As has been said, they had retained many
shares in the company, and this made them
anxious to know what ground there was for
the allegations of The Evening Detective,
It was incredible to them that any correspondence
relating to the promotion should
now be in existence. It was possible, of
course, that when the company was formed,
some of this correspondence had accidentally
fallen into the hands, first, of the committee
of investigation ; and, second, into those of
the liquidator. Wise and experienced men
were not likely to make such a mistake ; but,

34—2

on the other hand, it was quite possible that
the promoters might have forgotten all about
it, and Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc
feared lest the promoters might have been
very heedless.

As soon, then, as Messrs. Blumenheim
and Caradoc learned that the conduct of
the promoters, as regarded The Riviera Sanitation
Company, had been seriously called in
question, they sent a letter to Messrs.
Palmaroo and Vilani, their correspondents
at Catania, with an enclosure which they
requested them to forward at all hazards
and without delay to Mr. Argoll. They
insisted upon an immediate answer being
returned.

The result was that a clerk from the firm
of Messrs. Palmaroo and Vilani reached the
Hotel des Etrangers at Nicata with a letter
from Mr. Argoll's Paris correspondents ; it
was the first letter which he had received
since arriving there. The reply was short,
but sufficient. Messrs. Blumenheim and
Caradoc were empowered to intimate, on

Mr. Argoll's behalf, that, so far as he was concerned,
he would return all the money which
the liquidator said that he had received from
The Riviera Solicitation Company. Though
that sum was stated as behoof between fifteen
and twenty thousand pounds, the amount of
twenty thousand was fixed by him as that
which he was ready to refund, on condition
that the offer should be regarded as having
been made voluntarily and without prejudice.
It was stipulated, moreover, that unless an
assurance were given in due form to the effect
that a public apology would be made in open
Court by those who might be proceeding
against Mr. Argoll, and that no further steps
would be taken, the offer was to be withdrawn.
This letter was signed by Mr. Argoll. It was
accompanied by a note from Mr. Byker for
transmission to Mrs. Argoll.

The liquidator of The Riviera Sanitary
Company was only too ready to close
with the terms offered. He might prosecute
the promoters ; but he would gain nothing by
so doing. By obtaining so much money, he

could pay off all the liabilities incurred, and
he could give the shareholders an unexpected
if not a satisfactory dividend of a fraction of
a penny. It is true this dividend was not
very large. But how many liquidators ever
distribute anything ?

Thus the crisis was at an end so far as
Messrs. Argoll and Solar were concerned.
The Evening Detective chronicled and commented
on the fact, without knowing that
the person referred to had never seen a
line about him which had appeared in its
columns :

We are glad to be able to announce that
'* Dives" has behaved liberally, and that our
self-imposed and persistent labours in the
cause of virtue and morality have been
crowned with another triumph. Whether the
Legislature and the Courts of Law should be
wholly superseded by an evening newspaper
may still be a subject of doubt on the part
of the half educated ; but that the Press,
properly conducted, should leave to the Judges
and Legislators nothing more than to register

and sanction its proceedings seems to us to
be no longer open to serious question. We
think that the case in which ^' Dives" has
refunded, owing to our unaided efforts, must
convince the most incredulous that the competent
editor of a London daily journal is a
true king of men. '

MISS SOLAR S Return.

Xo peace nor ease the heart can know,

Which, like the needle true.

Turns at the touch of joy or woe,

But, turning, trembles too.'

Mrs. Greville.

HOUGH a few weeks only had
passed away since Mrs. Argos
parted from Miss Solar, yet they
stood in a different position to each other
when meeting again, or rather, perhaps, they
regarded each other from different points of
view. Both of them had always got on well
together, though the points of sympathy and
resemblance between them were few.

Mrs. Argoll admired Miss Solar, and she

felt that if she had a daughter of her own,
she would be delighted if her daughter were
as lovely and clever, and, what was quite as
much to be desired, as amiable and considerate
as she. Miss Solar thoroughly-appreciated
Mrs. Argoll's few good qualities,
and made due allowance for her many weaknesses
and drawbacks. As has been said
already, they had found a common ground of
agreement in ministering to the sick and the
poor.

Now, however, they met on a new
footing. They seemed to be drawn together
by the tie of a common sorrow and mutual
suffering. Those who rejoice together
because they are happy have no such community
of interest and sympathy as is
formed between those who are partakers of
a like misfortune, and who are smitten with
the same grief.

They had not corresponded since they last
met. Mrs. Argoll was a bad letter-writer,
finding it difficult to express her thoughts
pen in hand, so she spent much of her time
in thinking about the letters which she ought

to write, and about those which she had
not written. Miss Solar had not a similar
excuse or bad habit to ursfe in defence of her
omission. She wrote easily and well ; but
she had an inexplicable dislike to address a
letter to a comparative stranger, and she
always postponed writing to Mrs. Argoll,
simply because she had never written to her
before. Besides, she had always been very
busy, or thought she had, since leaving
Palace Gardens. A young lady who has
nothing else to do than to please herself is
naturally unable to find time for doing that
which may not suit her.

Yet nothing was said on either side about
omission or forgetfulness in sending the
letters which each had promised to write.
Mrs. Argoll was too depressed and anxious
to think or talk about anything save her
husband ; Miss Solar s thoughts chiefly ran
upon the loss of the Cosmos with all onboard.
She was curious, however, to learn
about her guardian, and she soon heard from
Mrs. Argoll all that she could tell, which,
indeed, proved to be very little.

The chief grounds for Mrs. Argoll's uneasiness
were that three weeks had elapsed
without any news coming from her husband.
He had sent her a message from Paris to
the effect that his letters were to be forwarded
to the Poste Restante, Catania, and
he had written to her from Naples, describing
his visit to Pompeii, and saying that he
was about to start for Reofmo, where he
would cross to Messina. He promised in
that letter to write again as soon as he had
reached his destination in Sicily ; but he
omitted to state where it was or what was
its name. As day after day passed without
any letter arriving from hiui, and as the
time during which he said he should be
absent had expired, Mrs. Argoll felt convinced
that something was wrongs, nor did
the letter which she had received relieve
her feelings, though it ended a state
of suspense which was growing unendurable.


She handed Miss Solar the few lines which
were addressed to her by Mr. Byker, which
ran thus :

Mr. Argos desires me to say that, though
still unable to write, he is better now. The
letters which I have written will have prepared
you for this. He hopes to be able to
write himself soon. I have his permission
to add the request that you will be so kind
as to send a line to my mother at 16, Brixton
Park, S.W., to say that I am quite well,
but have been detained longer than I expected.
A messenger is about to carry this
to Catania. As he says he will not wait
longer, I cannot write more.'

The common saying about no news being
good news may be justified on the ground
that it is better to hear nothing at all than
to hear half news which may be incomprehensible.
If Mrs. Argos had not heard
anything from or about her husband, she
would have continued to hope for the best,
and she would have imagined several valid
reasons for his silence ; but when she heard
that he was ill, that he had written letters
which she had not received, and that he was
obliged to send a message to her through the

medium of his clerk, she was unnerved and
half distracted.

What can be the matter with him V was
the thought which gave her no peace. She
knew her husband well enough to conclude
that something serious must have happened
to oblige him to employ another to write a
letter to her instead of penning one himself.
Besides, why was it, she repeatedly asked
herself, that none of his letters had reached
her? It flashed across her mind that he
might have been disabled by an accident, or
that a severe and sudden attack of illness,
such as a paralytic stroke, had rendered him
helpless. The last supposition gradually
took possession of her mind, and she tortured
herself with fancies about his having completely
and permanently broken down. The
more she thought of it, the more did the last
notion appear to her to be the true explanation
of the mystery.

When a fixed idea enters and takes possession
of the mind, no rational corrections of it
can gain attention or admission. The dominant
idea holds its ground. The more

improbable it might have been considered
when the mind is calm, collected, and capable
of analyzing and weighing contingencies,
the less can any contrary supposition be accepted
when the conditions are reversed.
Mrs. Argoll recalled With pain and horror
many incidents which appeared trifling at the
moment, but which were now invested by her
perturbed imagination with ominous significance.
One night before going to bed she
had remarked that her husband had a
difficulty in walking upstairs, and that, on
entering the bedroom, he stumbled and fell
heavily. He was an abstemious man at all
times, and on this evening he had taken less
wine at dinner than was his wont. She
helped him up, saying :

J. M., are you hurt 1 — what can be the
matter ? Let me send for the doctor.'

• Don't,' he said in a tone of annoyance ;
it is nothing. I have been worried to-day,
and I shall be all right when I have had a
sleep.'

She helped him into bed, and he went to
sleep.

There seemed to be an unnatural pallor on
his face as she watched him, and his breathing
sounded like that of a person gasping for
air. In the morning he professed to be all
right, and, when she asked him to remain at
home that day, he refused, saying that a most
important piece of business obliged him to goto
the City, but that he would return earlier
than usual. He returned fin hour before his
usual time, and he then looked quite himself
again.

The fact is that a most hazardous speculation
had been pending for several days : its
failure would have caused him not only to
lose a very large sum of money, which he
could afford, but would make him the
laughing-stock of his associates, which he
could not brave ; and the strain upon his
nervous system almost caused an attack that
would have prostrated him upon a bed of
sickness, and might have made him a helpless
invalid for the rest of his life. On the
following day all danger of what he had
feared was unexpectedly removed ; the joy of
success proved an instantaneous remedy, and

thus he returned home in a state not only to
reeve his wife's fears, but to enable him to
make light of them. More than once afterwards
she had been apprehensive of his
breaking down again, and now she pictured
to herself that the dreaded attack had come,
and that he was lying prostrate and helpless.
To argue with her was useless. Miss
Solar tried to make liofht of her fears and
induce her to hope for the best ; but she had
not Mrs. Arson's knowledge of what her
husband had gone through. Still, her firm
bearing was not without some effect. She
was wretched herself; she would fain institute
inquiries about the loss of the Cosmos ;
but when she found Mrs. Argoll in the depth
of sorrow and despair, she bravely placed her
own troubles on one side and gave her whole
mind to the task of consoling Mrs. Argoll in
her affliction. Miss Solar always thought of
others first and of herself last. She was one
of the rare and noble women to whom self-sacrifice
seems to come naturally. Women
such as she leaven as well as adorn their
sex.

At the moment when real sorrow has to
be faced, a true and noble woman appears
as the ^ Ministering Angel ' of whom Scott
wrote in lines which, though hackneyed, are
none the less just and beautiful. For a
woman to sit and weep and wring her hands
is as easy as it is futile. The mourners at an
Irish wake and the hired mourners at a
Turkish funeral can make plenty of noise
which is as hollow as it is stupid. Those
who experience the pressure and the trial of
a great calamity, yet do not allow their
feelings to overpower and unnerve them, are
amongst the salt of the earth : and the women
who can keep their sorrows under control at
a critical period are as few, and deserve as
much praise, as those who uniformly keep
their tempers. Miss Solar showed herself a
real heroine when put to the test. Whilst
Mrs. Argoll and Miss Tacon were exhausting
themselves in aimless lamentation, she was
ready to act and endeavour, as far as lay in
her power, to learn all that could be ascertained
about Mr. Argoll. It seemed to her
that Mr. Byker's note was an inadequate

VOL. II. 35

foundation for the superstructure of woe
which Mrs. Argoll had erected.

Miss Solar began by asking Mrs. Argoll
whether she had sent the message to Mrs.
Byker. Of course this had been overlooked,
and Miss Solar at once wrote a note to her
in which Mr. Byker's message was copied.
The tidings were received with thankfulness
by Mrs. Byker, and, it may be added, they
surprised as well as relieved her. She
thought, when bidding her son farewell, that
she was looking upon his face for the last
time. She did not lament more bitterly as
the days went by and no letter arrived, nor
was she greatly moved when the time fixed
for his return passed without any sign of his
existence. That he had gone never to return
was the one thought in her mind. Now that
he sent a message saying he was well, she was
cheered and inspirited to hope that she might
see him again. Her gloomy forebodings were
dispelled. Miss Solar's note gave her a fresh
lease of life.

'Well, Mrs. Argoll,' said Miss Solar on
the morning after she reached Westbourne,

I shall go to town to-day and inquire at
Athelstanee House what news they have had
there ; you see this note has been forwarded
by Mr, Louis Bandol, who was to fill Mr.
Byker's place during his absence ; at least I
think Mr. Argoll once said that such was
the arrangement I will take my maid with
me and I shall be back in time for dinner.'

My dear, I never thought of that. Perhaps
they may know at Athelstanee House
all about what is going on in Sicily. I shall
go with you.'

No, Mrs. Argoll. Let me go alone. You
and Ella can keep each other company till I
come back.'

Miss Solar thought that if anything really
unpleasant were known at Athelstanee House,
the shock to Mrs. Argoll would be worse if
she abruptly learned it there, than if the bad
tidings were gently broken to her at Westbourne.
Her will prevailed. She was one of
those women w4io without being aggressive
in tone, or masculine in manner, usually accomplished
what she wished ; she spoke softly
and pleasantly ; yet when she announced her

35—2

determination, this was done Avitli a quiet and
impressive earnestness which compelled consent.


Never till now had Miss Solar entered
Athelstanee House. She had often gone to
the door in a carriage to brincj her father
home ; but he had never asked her to
enter the place where he made his fortune,
nor had she ever cared to do so. The place
was too repulsive externally to excite her
curiosity to penetrate within.

Now, however, she had to mount the
creaking and filthy stairs ; to grope her way
along the dark passage and to enter the only
room which was not marked ' Private,' and
which she fancied must be the one in which
inquirers were permitted to make their wishes
known. A small boy named Jaggers was
seated on the top of a high stool, and was so
deeply absorbed in the pages of a * penny
dreadful,' entitled The Monarch of the
Prairies; or, Twelve-Toed Jack, that he did not
notice her presence till she asked him —

Is Mr. Bandol in ?'

The boy looked up with a start, and when

he saw a lady he jumped down from his stool ;
this was the first time he had seen one in
Athelstanee House, and for the moment he
fancied that she must be the ghost of which
he had heard. However, as there was
nothing weird in her appearance, he recovered
from his temporary fright, and replied : ' Yes,
miss, but he's eno^ao-ed.'

Miss Solar did not know that it was a
rule of the firm for the partners to be always
engaged when anyone called who had not
made an appointment beforehand. In some
other houses in the City the partner is always
said to be out, like Madame Benton in M.
Sardou's play. That the partners should be
engaged makes it look as if they had plenty
of occupation ; when they are always said to
be out, it saves them from being troubled by
importunate and unwelcome callers.

She said to the boy, who now looked at
her as if she had no business there and was
unduly keeping him from finishing an exciting
chapter :

Here is my card ; please hand it to Mr.
Bandol when he is at leisure.'

The boy took the card, and before going
off he glanced at it. When he saw the name,
Miss Solar on it, he stopped, and as if
struck with a new and happy thought, gave
a suppressed whistle, muttered ^ Oh crikey !'
and turned back. The name had the effect
upon him that ' Open sesame' had upon the
door to the robbers' cave. He shivered
from head to foot with dread lest it should
be reported to Mr. Bandol that he had
been found reading a story-book, instead
of decorously doing nothing, as was his
duty.

Please, miss,* he said in as pleasant a tone
as he could assume, * won't you come in and
take a seat V and as he said this, he raised the
flap in the counter and motioned her to enter,
or, rather, he stood as if he expected she
would do so. Miss Solar passed within the
bar. There was no other seat than the high
office stool, and this stool was dragged
forward by the boy in the hope that she
would mount upon it. He did not wait to
see if she could perform the gymnastic feat of
ascending the stool, but rushed off to the

room in which Mr. Bandol was seated in
silent dignity.

In the excitement of the moment, Jaofgrers
forgot to knock. As Mr. Bandol was then
engaged in reading The Morning Paper, he
felt annoyed at being interrupted, and he
exclaimed :

Now, Jaggers, what do you mean by
bursting into the room in this way ! Haven't
I told you never to disturb me when I am
busy V

'Please, sir,' he said in a penitent and
flurried manner, * Mr. Solar wants to see you ;
he is in the outer room.'

What do you mean, you young fool 1 you
have mistaken the name !' As he uttered
these words, he looked at the card on which
Miss Solar's name appeared, and he, too, was
taken back : ' What are you thinking of ?
it's a lady !' he exclaimed. * Show her in
this instant.'

He was as flustered as the office-boy.
Never before in his experience, which spread
over nearly twenty years, had a lady appeared
in Athelstanee House, and that the

daughter of his late master should be the first
was a starting incident. He thrust the newspaper
into his desk, took a pen in his hand,
which had never been dipped in an ink-bottle,
as is frequently done by a Secretary of State
when he receives a deputation, and then he
went to the door to await the entrance of
Miss Solar. She made a slight bow as she
entered, said ' Mr. Bandol, 1 believe V and
walked into the middle of the room, which
was that usually occupied by Mr. Byker,
and which contained one of the best chairs in
Athelstanee House. Most of the chairs in
Mr. Ardours room, except his own, lacked a
leg or an arm ; but this wooden one was
complete in all its parts. Making a profound
bow and remaining standing, Mr.
Bandol said :

Pray, Miss Solar, forgive that stupid boy ;
he is always making some blunder or other.
I am very sorry that you have been kept
waiting.'

Miss Solar's mind was too intent on the
object of her visit to notice any failing on the
boy's part ; besides, she was not experienced

in the ways of City offices, so she at once
began :

I wish to know, Mr. Bandol, what you
have heard about Mr. Argoll. We are all
very uneasy.'

We have had nothing except a few lines' —
it should be understood that, as now representing
the firm, Mr. Bandol talked as if
he were the firm in his own person — ' from
Mr. Byker, and the note which I sent to
Mrs. Argoll at Westbourne according to his
instructions.'

But where is Mr. Argoll, and what is he
doing ? Is he quite well ? and Why does he
not write himself? Surely you must have
heard from him !'

Mr. Bandol had been trained so strictly
not to reply to any question without Mr.
Argoll's sanction, that he hesitated before
answering at present ; besides, he was unable
to give a satisfactory reply to any one of
the queries which issued from Miss Solar's
eager lips. Having now to rely upon his own
unaided resources, he tried to say what might
conceal his ignorance.

Well, Miss Solar, the intimation sent
here came through our Paris correspondents,
Blumenheim and Caradoc, and had a
peculiar business character, indicating that
Mr. Argoll is closely watching the progress
of events

Interrupting him, she said :

^ Then I suppose if Mr. Argoll were notable
to think of business he could not have
sent these orders to you.'

I am sure of it, Miss Solar and he said
this in a tone which showed he was convinced,
and which carried conviction to her. Indeed,
Mr. Bandol could not fancy Mr. Argoll giving
instructions to pay away a large sum of money
unless he had all his wits about him.

Miss Solar felt relieved. It at once
occurred to her that pressure of business
was the explanation why Mr. Argoll had
not written ; besides, had he not gone to
Sicily on business ? Accordingly she was
prepared to go back and assure Mrs. Argoll
that she was fretting without a cause. But,
as soon as her mind was easy with regard to
Mrs. Argoll, she felt an irresistible desire to

learn something more about the Cosmos, and
she asked Mr. Bandol if he could tell her
anything about it. He had not observed
the teleo^rani announciriQ^ the collision between
the Flying Dutchman and that vessel, but he
offered to go to Lloyd's and ask one of the
underwriters there with whom he was acquainted
what the facts were, and Miss Solar
thanked him for suggesting this. On his
way out he told Jaggers to inform Mr.
Hutton, the clerk next in seniority, that he
had gone to Lloyds, and that he was to
answer any questions which might be put
during his absence. Jaggers, who had not
quite recovered from his fright, gave the
message to Mr. Hutton as follows :

Please, sir, Mr. Bandol says he is gone to
Lloyds, and you are to answer any questions
till he comes back. Miss Solar is sitting in
his room.'

Mr. Hutton questioned the boy, but could
not get anything more definite from him, and
he remained in a state of perplexity as to
whether it was his duty to go to Miss Solar
to answer questions or to wait till she sent

for him. Before he could make up his mind
as to what he should do, Mr. Bandol returned
and told Miss Solar :

^ I find that nothing more has been heard
about the Cosmos, and nothing is expected
for a week or two, as it is necessary to give
the vessel time to have reached the other
side before concluding that she is lost. At

o

any rate, the underwriters have agreed to
jut off paying the insurance till something-more
definite is known.'

This intelligence did not disprove the telegram,
yet it was so much better than Miss
Solar had expected that she took it to mean
that all was right. In his fine eulogium upon
his wife, Edmund Burke wrote of her that
she discovers the rio^ht and wrong: of things
not by reasoning, but by sagacity.' In like
manner Miss Solar, instead of reasoning
about the matter, jumped to the conclusion,
with a lady's impetuosity, that the Cosmos
was afloat simply because there bad not
been a confirmation of the story of her
foundering. She left Athelstanee House in
high spirits. If she had brought Mr. Argoll

and his brother back with her to Westbourne
she could not have been more cheerful and
demonstrative than she was when she
returned to the Cavendish Hotel and emphatically
assured Mrs. Argoll that her
husband was quite well, but was probably
overwhelmed with business.

Now, whilst Mrs. Argoll was prepared to
accept any reason for thinking that her
husband's life was not in danger, she did not
relish being told by Miss Solar that he was
too much absorbed in business to be able to
write to her, or to reply to any of the letters
which she had sent. She did not wish any
harm to befall him ; but she would have been
more contented if illness had been the reason
which caused his silence. She could not
accept the plea of business as an excuse for
his indifference. As to the Cosmos, she
listened to Miss Solar's story without caring
to inquire whether it were reasonable or not.
She was too much preoccupied to give any
thought to Mr. Henry Argoll's possible
safety.

However, after Miss Solar's return, life at

Westbourne resumed its old course, with this
difference, that she accompanied Mrs. Argoll
on her charitable missions instead of Miss
Tacon, who was allowed to read her books
and nurse her grief alone. The Reverend
Basil Tepper was introduced to Miss Solar,
and he soon found that no one could surpass
her in a sick-room or a hospital. He had
met with many young ladies who were full
of enthusiasm and eager to do good, but
who Averse generally quite unpractical, and
soon became wearied in well-doing. But
Miss Solar was as persevering as she was
sensible ; she never spared herself, and she
never complained.

Mr. Tepper's only objection to her was that
she did not treat him with that deference
which other young ladies had shown towards
him, and which he had come to regard as his
due. She spoke to him as an equal, who might
know more of certain things than she did,
but who had no special mission to teach or
guide her. Now a clergyman does not like
self-assertion on the part of one of his flock.
A shepherd would not be wholly pleased

if his sheep always walked in the right way,
and stood in no need of being kept by himself
and his dog from straying. Nor could
Mr. Tepper repress a certain feeling of
annoyance that Miss Solar never made the
slightest comment on his sermons. They
were really effective : they deserved praise ;
probably she admired them as much as anyone
else, but she refrained from comment or
laudation. Other female members of the
church never failed to make some remark
on Monday about the sermon of the preceding
day, and it seemed strange that so
sensible and charming a person as Miss Solar
should never allude to any of them. The
truth is, Mr. Tepper had been a little spoilt
by the women amongst whom he moved.
Miss Solar acted upon him like a tonic, and
he did not like the effect.

Still there was no more cordial admirer of
Miss Solar than Mr. Tepper. He resumed
visiting the Cavendish Hotel at short intervals.
He treated Miss Tacon in a paternal manner,
speaking to her as one who required to be
well looked after, and he made her feel that,

somehow or other, the result of the short
love-episode between them was due to some
fault of hers rather than to any failing on his
part. Indeed, he contrived to make her
realize that she had done him a wrong, and
that he was piously forgiving the injury.

The episode between them had been
related to Miss Solar by bliss Tacon, and
Miss Solar's verdict was that her friend had
acted wisely. She was not one of Mr.
Topper's many fair captives. He could not
chain her to his car. She looked at him
with the critical eyes a clever woman uses
to see through the man for whom she does
not cherish a tender feeling. Perhaps she
judged him rather too harshly. A female
critic is apt to be too severe or too eulogistic.
Men are either angels or demons in the
estimation of impressionable Tvomen.

Now, Mr. Tepper had little of the angel
in his character. He was an enthusiastic
man, of great talent, with a somewhat unbalanced
mind. He had, as has been shown
in a previous chapter, the gifts of an orator —
he could move an assembly by his tongue ;

and he had an orator's shortcomings. There
is a feminine side in all great orators ; they
are liable to let their feelings overpower their
judgment ; they are oversensitive to impressions,
and they are unstable in their
conclusions. The more emphatic their
enunciation of a given view, the greater is
the likelihood of their abandoning it. They
see all things for the time through the
medium of their excited feelings. Their
nerves vibrate, like an aeolian harp, to every
gust of passion.

Miss Solar had an artistic sense of proportion
; she liked everybody to be orderly in all
their thoughts and actions. In a very small
measure, yet to an appreciable degree, she
was endowed with that gift which makes
Goethe a man who is not only a head and
shoulders above his fellows, but who seems
isolated from them — the gift of feeling deeply
without being over-mastered, and of receiving
impressions without mistaking their character
and influence. Such a nature is better fitted
for admiration than love ; yet when, as in
Miss Solar's case, rare physical beauty is

VOL. II. 36

combined with it, then the possessor is really
a person whose supremacy both men and
women tacitly or openly acknowledge.

It was with much reluctance Mr. Tepper
acknowledged to himself that he had found
in Miss Solar the mistress of his destiny.
He succumbed to her charm whilst battling
against it ; he determined never to yield ;
yet he fell prostrate at her feet. This was
in a metaphorical sense only. He never
avowed to her his feelings and desires.
A painful discovery hindered him from so
doing, and it made him both wretched and
heartsick.

When grieving over her husband's fate,
Mrs. Argoll had requested that prayer should
be offered up for his recovery, and at the
request of her niece she desired that the aid
of heaven should be invoked for his brother
and Lord John Cardonald, then both in peril
from the sea. As soon as Miss Solar brought
the news to the effect that Mr. Argoll was
not in danger, Mrs. Argoll gave notice to
cease the public supplication on his behalf;
but she requested Mr. Tepper to desire the

prayers of the congregation for Mr. Henry
Argoll and Lord John Cardonald.

Mr. Tepper was ardent in his congratulations
when he learned that her husband was
understood to be well. He had shown one
of the good sides of his character on hearing
from Mrs. Aro^oll that she feared for his life,
having volunteered to go to Sicily and learn
the truth. Had not Mrs. Argoll been in
ignorance of where her husband could be
found, she would have accepted the offer ;
as it was, she both thanked and felt more
kindly disposed towards him for making
it. When she told him that it was not
necessary to continue the prayers for her
husband, he asked for some particulars about
the other two for whom she wished the prayers
of the congregation to be invoked, and then
she told him that Miss Solar would be greatly
distressed if anything happened to Mr.
Henry Argoll, as she was engaged to be
married to him.

Words are inadequate to depict Mr.
Tepper's feelings when he heard this. He
could not refuse to pray for and ask others

36—2

to pray for Mr. Henry Argoll, yet, if his
inmost thoughts could have been disclosed
they might have been accounted unholy, and
it might have been seen that the real desire
of his heart was not that Providence should
bring the Cosmos safely through the dangers
of the deep, but that the vessel should never
be heard of again.

Till Miss Solar had been several days at
Westbourne the love story of Miss Tacon
did not reach Mrs. Argoll 's ears. Partly by
accident Mrs. Argoll learned her niece's mad
and apparently hopeless passion for Lord
John Cardonald. She was told this by Miss
Solar, who candidly stated her regret that
Lord John should not have been blessed
with a wife who would worship him. Mrs.
Argoll had never contemplated an attachment
in that quarter ; but she now understood
the cause of her niece's exclamation
when she read the telegram about the loss of
the Cosmos. Likings Lord John as she did,
and having a sincere affection for her niece,
she would have been delighted had they
become man and wife. But, as she dolefully

said, her regrets were probably vain. She
was now more interested than she had been
before in the fate of the expedition to
Patagonia.

The party did not spend all their days in
vain regrets, or in visiting the poor and aiHng.
Westbourne was a new place to Miss Solar,
and she was interested in seeing the points of
interest in the neighbourhood ; from Beachy
Head, where the view is magnificent, to
Hurstmonceaux, where the sight seers look
upon the ruins of the least picturesque building
in the British Isles. Days passed ; no
news came, and then their old fears revived.
One evening, as they were about to sit down
to dinner, a telegram which had been forwarded
by Mr. Bandol was placed in Mrs. Argoll's
hands. It contained startling news from
Sicily.

Chapter XXIII.

A MILLIONAIRE IN A GARRET.

Such is lilian nature that some persons lose their
abhorrence of crime in their admiration of its magnificent
exhibitions. Ordinary vice is reprobated by them, but
extraordinary guilt, exquisite wickedness, the high
flights and poetry of crime, seize on the imagination, and
lead them to forget the depths of the guilt in admiration
of the excellence of the performance or the unequalled
atrocity of the purpose'— Daniel Webster.

HEN Mr. Argoll entered the Hotel
des Etrangers at Nicata he was
pleased to find it much more
comfortable than he expected, or rather,
not so bad as he feared. Carlo Nerone
bowed gracefully to Mr. Byker, and said : ' I
hope to be able to make you feel quite at
home, sir.' Both Mr. Argoll and his clerk

had been told that the place was far out of
the beaten track, and that they must be
prepared for submitting to wretched fare and
much discomfort ; but this warning was not
justified by their first experience. They
could not deny that Carlo Nerone appeared
to be a most attentive landlord, who spoke
English fluently and fully understood English
wants and ways.

After entering the hotel the landlord produced
a book, asked the new-comers to write
their names in it, and handed the pen to
Mr. Byker. The latter hesitated before
using it, and gave a look, which Mr. Argoll
acknowledged with a gesture signifying, ' All
right ; write my name.' Accordingly, Mr.
Byker wrote 'J. M. Argoll, merchant,
London.' When Mr. Argoll's turn came he
wrote, * T. Byker, clerk, London.'

The look which Mr. Byker gave had not
escaped Carlo's sharp eyes. He had suspected
from the outset that something was
Avrong, and he had observed that Mr. Argoll
was treated by Mr. Byker with a deference
which a master does not generally show to

his clerk; moreover, Mr. Argoll had more
than once addressed his clerk by his real
name, and it did not need Carlo Xerone's
penetration to detect the endeavour which
they made to pass under each other's names.
Nor was he in doubt as to the reason.

He took special pains not to let it be
supposed he had detected that the clerk was
the master and the master was the clerk ;
on the contrary, he was most careful in
always addressing each by the name under
which he wished to pass. However, he
surprised both of them by the simple
question :

'Gentlemen, will you favour me with a
look at your passports V

Neither had a passport, never having
thought of bringing one, and no question
had been asked about passports till then.
Mr. Byker, playing the chief part, now said :

We were told that passports are no
longer necessary, and that is why we haven't
got them.'

Well,' said Carlo, ^ they are not absolutely
required ; but the want of them will

probably put yoa to some inconvenience.
For instance, if you apply for letters at the
Poste Estate, in Catania, where you say
your letters are addressed, you will be asked
for your passports in order to prove your
identity. Besides, the police have been very
strict lately, since some strangers complained
about brigands infesting these parts.'

Surely,' exclaimed Mr. Argoll, in an
agitated tone, ' there are no brigands here V

Not always,' was the reply. ' There
were none for several years. If the police
come here to inquire about the persons in
my house, and if I cannot vouch for them,
they may suspect me of harbouring brigands.
I have no doubt, gentlemen, you are honest
and rich Englishmen, yet you see I am
obliged to take precautions, in case I should
be blamed by the police, whom I may tell
you I do not like so much as yours in
London. I was never troubled by them
there. However, if you will tell me when
you expect letters, I shall be glad to go to
Catania and try to get them for you.'

They were both pleased to hear his coma

MILLIONAIRE IN A GARRET.

aliment to the London police, and they
thanked him for his courtesy ; yet they felt
uncomfortable, not because they were likely
to be suspected by the Sicilian police, but
because it seemed probable that brigands
must have reappeared in the neighbourhood,
otherwise nothing would have been said
about them. Mr. Argoll made an inward
resolve to leave Nicata as soon as possible.

When he counted over the lu2rQ:ao^e of
himself and Mr. Byker, he missed his large
and valuable medicine-chest. That it had
been strapped behind the carriage at Catania,
on the top of a large box, was admitted by
them all ; but it could not be found now, nor
could any of them imagine what had become
of it. Happily for Mr. Argoll's peace of
mind, he had a small supply of drugs in his
hand-bag, amongst them being a quantity
of sulphate of quinine, which he had been
strongly advised to take with him, for use in
the event of suffering from fever.

There were many persons Jn the vicinity
of Nicata who had reason to remember the
Englishman's medicine-chest. It fell into

the possession of Pietro, who may be designated
Carlo's chief of the staff, although,
when it suited Carlo's purpose, Pietro was
put forward as the leader of the band. Now,
as the chest had been insecurely fastened,
and as the jerking and jolting in ascending
the steep and rough path near Nicata would
have tried and perhaps disarranged the
strongest cords or strips of leather, it is not
surprising that it should have slipped off
when an unusually severe bump was made
against a projecting stone at a very sharp
turning in the road. Pietro, who was intently
watching the progress of the carriage,
from a spot Adhere he could see it without
being seen by its occupants, noticed the chest
tumble off and he hastened to pick it up.
In the fall the lid was twisted, so that it
could easily be opened. He thought that it
was a dressing or jewel case, such as he had
seen before, and he carefully concealed his
prize till he should be able to return and
examine it. For the moment he had to
remain within hail, lest his chief might have
any orders to give.

When Mr. Argos and Mr. Byker entered
the hotel, and when their luggage was taken
from the carriage, and the carriage itself sent
back to Catania, Pietro hastened to regain
his prize, and he took it to his hut, where
some of his comrades were awaiting his
return. Several women and children were
gathered near the hut discussing the great
event of the day, the arrival of two rich
Englishmen. Business had been dull at
Nicata for some time, and several meetings of
the unemployed had been held. Pietro had
expressed his discontent, complaining to his
chief that when he worked every day in the
fields he earned far more than he had done
since giving himself up to brigandage. His
chief soothed and sympathized with him, and
told him to keep up his spirits, as the prospect
of obtaining a rich booty was not, he
thought, a remote one.

It was with bitter disappointment that
Pietro found bottles and boxes in the
chest, which he considered to contain sweetmeats,
in place of the silver ornaments and
articles which he hoped to secure. One of

the onlookers suggested that perhaps the
contents were valuable in their way, as no
Englishman would have put worthless things
into such a handsome case. They all thought
there was some sense in this, and as they found
some of the sweetmeats very pleasant to the
taste, they ate a portion of them greedily,
and distributed the remainder amongst the
women and children. These were lozenges
very pleasant to the taste, known as Tamar
Indien, which Mr. Aro^oll sometimes swallowed
when he was more than usually unwell;
they were very rapid and powerful in their
operation. After eating and enjoying them,
and feeling thirsty, the brigands tasted
the contents of some of the bottles, but none
of these were to their taste ; the opodeldoc,
of which Pietro drank a small glassful — a
medicine-2rlass behoof amongst the contents of
the chest — was pronounced by him to be
filthy stuff. After enjoying themselves in
this simple fashion, they all went to bed.
Early to bed and early to rise was their
practice as well as their motto. They never
had suffered from insomnia, and they seldom

took medicine till they were on the point of
death.

It was late in the afternoon of the following
day that Pietro called at the Hotel des
Etrangers. His habit was to call early in the
morning and have an interview with his
chief before the other inmates were up.
What's the matter, Pietro ?' was his chief's
greeting. He intended to scold him for not
having come sooner, but Pietro looked so
woebegone that Carlo felt alarmed for him.
His face was pale ; his back was bent ; he
appeared to be in great pain, he moved with
difficulty, and he spoke as if his heart were in
his mouth.

I really could not come sooner, master ; I
have had great difficulty in coming now.
These beasts of Englishmen ! They have
poisoned the village. Everybody vows that
they must be killed.'

A question or two elicited the facts. Carlo
was able to emphasize his orders against
taking anything from travellers whilst they
were in his custody, and he did not accept as a
valid excuse the fact upon which Pietro relied :

that he found a chest on the road, and had not
taken it from the carriage. He also explained
to Pietro that the English were in the habit
of taking strong: medicine for their amusement,
but that other persons suffered
severely who did so ; and then he told him to
go home and lie down. Nearly a week elapsed
before those persons who had sucked the
pleasant Tamar Indien lozenges were able to
eat their ordinary food, and before the sensations
and the sounds of suffering ceased
in every street and every hut.

Shortly after Mr. Argoll and Mr. Byker
entered the Hotel des Etrangers, the landlord
announced that their dinner was ready.
When doing so he deferentially said to Mr.
Byker, 'I hope, sir, that you will not object
to sit down with your clerk '? I know your
English prejudices, but unfortunately the
accommodation is limited, so I cannot let you
have a private sitting-room, and you might
not care to take your meals in your bedroom.'


Mr. Byker was embarrassed and scarcely
knew how to reply; he could not intimate

that he had none of the prejudices to which
Carlo had referred, nor could he venture, in
Mr. Argoll's presence, to play the part of
master; therefore, with a glance at Mr.
Argoll, he simply said :

We shall be very glad to eat something
wherever we can get it

Indeed, both of them were hungry and
were not then disposed to discuss points of
ceremony. Accordingly, they sat down to
a plain but satisfying repast, Mr. Byker
occupying the head of the table, and being
served first. Carlo acted as waiter. Mr.
Byker felt the^constraint of his position more
than Mr. Argoll, who was really anxious to
eat what was set before him, and then go to
bed.

The room into which they were shown on
arriving was the best in the house. Mr.
Argoll remarked to Mr. Byker on entering it :

Well, I did not expect to get so pleasant
a bedroom : the view from the window is
splendid, and the bed seems all right. I
think I shall do very well here for a day or
two.'

After the repast was over, and Mr. Argoll
said that he must go to bed, Carlo came
forward with a candle, saying :

• I will show you your room.'

What V he exclaimed. ' I thought the
one you showed us first was for me.'

No,' was Carlo's emphatic remark ; ' that's
the best in the house, and is for your master ;
yours is upstairs.'

Mr. Argoll was on the point of protesting ;
but just in time he recalled the remark about
passports, and he feared lest he might get
into a scrape with the police if it should be
discovered that he was there under an
assumed name. He felt that he must take
the consequences of what now seemed to him
a piece of senseless folly ; whilst Mr. Byker
would gladly have declared who he was, if
his master were to give him a hint to that
effect.

Carlo led the way, candle in hand, up the
narrow stair leading to the attic, Mr. Argoll
reluctantly and slowly trudging after him.
He was shown into a small and poorly-furnished
room, one far smaller and more

VOL. II. 37

uncomfortable in appearance than the cramped
quarters which he had occupied as a schoolboy.
It matters little to a schoolboy where
he sleeps, provided he be allowed to lie in bed
as long as he pleases ; but for a millionaire
to be relegated to a garret seemed a new and
subtle form of torture.

Mr. Argoll had not lain many minutes on
a narrow and hard bed before he felt that he
was not alone. A legion of insects gave him
a new sensation. But, despite their vigorous
and repeated attacks, he soon slept. His
head was unusually heavy ; his eyelids seemed
to be made of lead. He had horrible dreams ;
he fancied that he was standing at bay amidst
a multitude of armed men ; that he tried to
parry the strokes which they levelled against
him, but that the points of their weapons
touched him in many places at once, yet
without killing him. He awoke to find his
whole body smarting. Again he fell asleep,
and he remained unconscious for many a day.

Mr. Byker, who had passed a very goodnight,
rose early, as was his wont. He was
surprised when nine o'clock struck and there

was no sign of his master. Breakfast was
ready, and he was ready for it, but he hesitated
to begin till Mr. Argoll appeared.

Carlo asked him more than once if he
might not go and tell his clerk to come down ;
but he did not venture to allow Mr. Argoll
to be disturbed. At ten o'clock he could not
wait any longer, and went to Mr. Argoll's
room and knocked at the door, saying :

It's ten o'clock, and breakfast is ready,
sir.'

As there was no response, he was alarmed.
He had observed there was no lock to the
door of his room ; he supposed that in such
a primitive and probably virtuous part of the
country locks and bars were never used ; and
rightly thinking that Mr. Argoll's room door
might not be fastened from the inside, he
gently opened it. He saw Mr. Argoll lying
asleep in bed; he spoke to him, but his heavy
breathing continued ; he touched his hand,
which was hanging out of bed, but still
Mr. Argoll did not stir. His hand was
burning hot. Mr. Argoll was in a high fever,
and unconscious.

37—2

Mr. Byker went downstairs, and said to
Carlo, who was at the bottom :

Is there a doctor here ? Mr. Argoll is
very ill.'

You mean Mr. Byker, sir,' calmly remarked
Carlo, who proceeded to say that
there was no doctor within many miles, and
that the only person who gave medical
advice was the parish priest. He added :
If you do not object, sir, I shall go up
and see your clerk ; I've seen many persons
suffering from the fever which strangers often
catch coming here. I don't know what you
call it in English, but our name for it is
fehhre acute. I think you would call it a
sharp fever.'

Mr. Byker could not object. Carlo went
to Mr. Argoll's room, felt his forehead and
his hands, and said :

I'm almost certain your clerk has got
the fever I told you about ; I told him last
night to cover himself at sunset, as he might
get a chill, but he refused to do so, and now,
you see, he is suffering, though, perhaps, he
may have had the seeds of the fever for some

days. I thought he seemed ill, as he talked
strangely yesterday, and sometimes mistook
your name for his.'

Mr. Byker repented him of visiting Sicily
as well as of changing his name ; he was
quite unmanned, and was almost terror-stricken.
He did not know the differences
between fevers ; to his mind they were all
fatal maladies. ^ If anything should happen
to Mr. Argoll, what was he to do V was the
question he asked himself internally. Carlo
was cooler; but he, too, was uneasy. He
had not bargained for his house being turned
into a hospital. Suddenly Mr. Byker said :

If we could only find the medicine-chest ;
perhaps you will look for it again. ^

The search was fruitless. Carlo did not
then know that it had fallen into Pietro's
possession, or that a part of its contents had
caused him and others a good deal of surprise
and personal inconvenience.

What is good for this fever V Mr. Byker
asked.

'The priest always says that nothing is
so good as quinine,' was the reply ; Carlo

offered to go and inquire whether the priest
had any.

During his absence Mr. Byker thought
himself justified in searching Mr. Argoll's
bag to see whether there were any medicine
in it ; and he had the satisfaction of finding in
it a small leather case, resembling a portable
dressing-case, which contained several boxes of
pills, and a bottle labelled 'sulphate of quinine.'

Just as he made this welcome discovery,
Carlo returned, and reported that the priest
had not a grain of quinine left, and he offered
to send a messenger to Catania for some.
However, this was no longer necessary.
The next question was how much to give
the patient. After they had both decided
as to the quantity which seemed to them a
suitable dose, their next difficulty was to
induce Mr. Argoll to swallow the powder
dissolved in water. After trying to persuade
him to do so, but with the only result of a
futile struggle, he suddenly raised himself in
bed, shouting :

Give me something to drink ; my mouth's
on fire !'

He then eagerly drank off the potion,
exclaiming, * I'm poisoned !' and sank into
a lethargy.

For several days there was no appreciable
change in Mr. Argoll's condition. He did
not grow worse, and that was the only consolation
which Mr. Byker had ; whether the
doses of quinine which he administered as
often as his master could be induced to take
them had any good effect was a problem
which he could not solve. Now and then
Mr. Aro^oll seemed himself assail. He then
wished to leave his bed : he said that he was
hungry as well as thirsty, and Mr. Byker
thought that the worst was over. But, after
a few hours of seeming health, he suddenly
relapsed into an uneasy slumber, with a hothead
and hot hands. Even when he wished
to get up, and said that he was able to do
so, his desire proved to be in excess of his
power. He was too weak to stand upright,
and he could not dress himself.

Carlo's concern for Mr. Argoll was scarcely
inferior to that of Mr. Byker. He had
obtained convincing confirmation of his suspicion

that the master was the clerk, and the
clerk the master. It was of no avail to hold
Mr. Byker responsible for having fallen
into his power. He knew Englishmen well
enough to understand that it was utterly
hopeless to demand a large payment by way
of ransom from the clerk to a millionaire.
He also knew human nature too well to
attempt making a claim for payment upon
Mr. Argoll in his prostrate and unconscious
state. He went to church with praiseworthy
regularity, and he invoked his patron saint
to hasten Mr. Argos's recovery. He vowed,
at the same time, that as soon as Mr. Argoll
should be able to realize his position, he
would be called upon to pay such a sum of
money as should compensate him for his
anxiety, if not render him rich for life.

The brigands, who acknowledged Carlo
Nerone as their chief, were becoming impatient
and discontented, and they gave him
much trouble. As no Sicilian of their class
has any confidence in his fellows, each of
them, and Pietro in particular, wearied him
with questions about the rich Englishmen.

They owed him a grudge. The contents of his
medicine-chest had made a painful and lasting
impression upon them. Being naturally
suspicious, they fancied that the chest had
been intentionally placed in their way, with
the object of killing them on the spot or by
inches. If it had contained jewels or other
valuables, they might have had no objection
to having secured and rifled it. A rat may
think kindly of the person who provides it
with a large piece of cheese, till it finds, after
eating the cheese, that it cannot get out of
the trap.

Besides, they were vexed and irritated to
see the immunity which Mr. Byker enjoyed,
and they protested against his remaining so
long unmolested in the Hotel des Etrangers.
Other strangers who had been attracted
there were disposed of, as a rule, within the
space of a week, being either allowed to
depart after paying a fair sum for their
entertainment, or else disappearing in the
'inferno.'

Carlo Nerone found his authority in
jeopardy. He began to fear lest the rashness

and irritability of his indignant and
unruly followers should lead them to commit
a precipitate action, which would frustrate
his design for making Mr. Argoll pay a
large ransom. He confidentially told Pietro
the whole story, and Pietro repeated as much
of it as he thought advisable to his comrades
; but these rude and unemployed
brigands were not given to practise the
virtue of patience, and they longed to do
something, even if it were sheer mischief.
It was only after Carlo had assured Pietro
that, if he would bide his time and restrain
the others, his reward would not be less
than twenty-five thousand lire, or a thousand
pounds sterling, that Pietro consented to
counsel the others to exercise forbearance,
and, if necessary, to keep them in check by
making an immediate example of the most
unruly. He regarded the promised payment
tis a large fortune. When Carlo empowered
him to promise that each of the others would
have at least a hundred lire each for his
share, or four pounds sterling, they unanimously
agreed to await further orders from

their chief, and to starve rather than disobey
him.

Mr. Byker found the time hang heavy
upon his hands. He wrote many letters,
which the landlord promised to send to the
post, but which never left the hotel ; he read
the few books he could lay his hands upon,
and once he went a-fishing. He had often
fished from a punt on the Thames, and he
enjoyed that elaborate way of doing next to
nothing. The small stream running down
the valley in which Nicata was situated contained
a few fish; but Mr. Byker did not
contrive to catch any. For a great part of
the year the stream was almost dry, two
or three pools remaining here and there ;
indeed, most of the river-beds in Sicily are
either filled with rao^ingf torrents or with a
heap of dry stones. After one day's trial
Mr. Byker gave up all hopes of catching
Sicilian fish. He could see them swimming
about quite distinctly, and they could see
him ; and he was not sufficiently versed in
the mysteries of angling to know how to
catch fish in a clear stream or pool.

He found a book in his bedroom, which he
read with great., nay, almost painful interest.
This was the copy of Edmond About's King
of the Mountains, which had proved so instructive
to Carlo Nerone. Mr. Byker shuddered
at the thought of being in the position of
Hermann Schultz, and being subjected to
refined and terrible tortures. He could not
think of anything but brigands after finishing
it, and he started whenever he met a man
with a long-barrelled gun in his hand and a
dagger in his belt. More than once he saw
such a person, and he always breathed more
freely when the armed man turned abruptly
away. If these men were brigands, they
appeared to avoid him, and he felt thankful
that, for some incomprehensible reason, they
did not seem to like his looks.

Having little wherewith to occupy his time,
he was glad to converse with the landlord.
Perhaps it would be more correct to say that
the landlord questioned him, and obtained all
the information he desired. Mr. Byker spoke
about the project of making a railway up
Mount Etna, and he injudiciously intimated

that ten thousand pounds were at Mr. Argoll's
disposal in a bank at Catania, wherewith to
acquire the necessary concessions, and to make
other preliminary payments. Carlo Nerone
was extremely Q'lad and relieved to hear this.
He had speculated as to how he should
subject his millionaire to ransom without
having arrived at a conclusion satisfactory to
himself. He could not follow the custom of
his colleagues and predecessors, when they
captured a person residing not far away, and
cut off first one ear, then another, then the
nose, and ended by cutting the throat of the
prisoner, should each sample of his person,
which they forwarded by special messenger,
fail to move his friends to ransom him. He
fully realized that it would be no use sending
one of Mr. Argoll's ears by post to
London, and asking for a remittance in a
registered letter by return. The ear might
turn bad before it arrived, and the demand
might be misunderstood. An explanation
would be called for, and before the
whole business could be amicably adjusted
much time would be wasted. Besides, he

wished to be secure of his money without
risking detection, and without giving his
prisoner leisure or opportunity to retaliate.
Now that he learned that Mr. Argos had ten
thousand pounds in a bank at Catania, he
thought that he saw his way clearly, and
he was doubly anxious that Mr. Argoll
should speedily recover and become fitted
for discharging the duty which would be
required of him.

Carlo still lent himself to the fiction that
Mr. Argoll was the clerk, and Mr. Byker
was the master, bat he did so simply because
Mr. Byker did not appear disposed to avow
the truth.

Both of them were surprised one day by a
messenger arriving from Catania with a
despatch for Mr. Argoll, and with peremptory
orders to await a reply. As has been previously
intimated, the bankers at Catania
had been requested by Messrs. Blumenheim
and Caradoc to forward to Mr. Argoll a
document which they enclosed, and to let
them have his answer as early as possible.
The lessen-er asked for Mr. Argoll, and

was introduced to Mr. Byker ; as the one
could not speak English, and the other knew
nothing of Italian, the landlord acted as
interpreter. Mr. Byker opened and read
the letter ; having done so, he remarked that
he could not give a reply before consulting
Mr. Argoll, and he left the room. This slip
of the tongue did not, of course, escape Carlo's
notice.

Mr. Arofoll, though still as weak as a
newly-born babe, was sufficiently recovered
to converse about matters of business. He
had been ill twelve days. A well-regulated
fever does not run its course under twenty-one
days, but this one was an erratic and
ill-conducted fever, and appeared to have
completely abated on the twelfth day. It is
possible that the large doses of quinine which
Mr. Byker administered may have had some
influence on the result.

Though much better, Mr. Argoll was too
feeble to be moved, otherwise he would have
been seated downstairs in the room occupied
by Mr. Byker, who had resolved to give it
up to him, no matter what the landlord

mio'ht think, as soon as Mr. Arooll could be
safely carried to it.

Mr. Byker read the letter to Mr. Argos
containing: the information which Messrs.
Blumenheim and Caradoc were so anxious
that he should receive. It told the story of
The Riviera Sanitation Company in its latest
development, and how the promoters were in
danger of proceedings being commenced
against them. They appealed to him to come
to terms with the liquidator of the company,
and said that proceedings might lead to disclosures
that would damage the business which
they carried on ; and they offered, if he did so,
and also brought about the settlement of the
last Egyptian loan in a manner favourable
to them, that they would bear half the loss.
They further assured him that they had good
reason to believe the liquidator would not
take further proceedings if a voluntary return
were made at once by Mr. Argoll. and also
that by doing so he would make a good impression
upon the public at large.

Even when in perfect health Mr. Argoll
was not of a belligerent nature. He abominated

litigation. He hated lawyers and their
bills. Now that he was weak and unnerved
he said to Mr. Byker that the money must
be refunded, at least as much of it as the
liquidator could discover to have been obtained
directly from the company. The total
profit was known to Mr. Argoll and Mr. Byker,
and it was six times greater than the amount
of money which had been received from the
company. Accordingly Mr. Byker wrote a
letter to the effect that, though the sum
charged for expenses and commission was a
perfectly fair and legitimate one, yet rather
than involve the company in litigation, and
on condition that all imputations should be
withdrawn, and that no further proceedings
should be taken, Messrs. Argoll and Solar
would make a voluntary return to the liquidator
of twenty thousand pounds. The necessary
instructions for giving effect to this were
enclosed, with a view to their being forwarded
by Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc to Mr.
Louis Bandol at Athelstanee House. Before
the messenger left. Mr. Byker penned the
few lines to Mrs. Argoll which caused so much
VOL. II. 38

excitement when they reached her at Westbourne.
Of course Mr. Byker had no reason
to suspect that none of his letters had left
Carlo's custody. Had he done so he would
have written differently.

Both he and Mr. Argos were pleased that
they could now look forward to leaving
Nicata at any early day. They had seen
enough of it. Mr. Argoll did not care to
make any inquiries about the feasibility
of making a railway up Mount Etna.
He purposely omitted referring to this
in the letter to Messrs. Blaraenheim and
Caradoc, which Mr. Byker penned and which
he signed, lest they should draw back from
their offer to bear a part of the loss in The
Riviera Imitation Company. Nor did the
possibility of becoming the proprietor of an
estate in Sicily, with the title of Count, have
the old charm for him. He was longing to
return to Athelstanee House. He bitterly
regretted having taken a holiday, and having
exchanged the mirk and mud of London for
the blue skies and acute fevers of the South.

I must say, Byker,' was his remark when

they discussed their j^lans, ' there is no place
like the City, after all, for those who really
know how to enjoy life. They used to tell
me that the air was very bad there, but I
always found it pleasant enough. Besides, I
could make a little money there, and I can't
do anything here.'

Yes, sir,' replied Mr. Byker with a point
which was due, no doubt, to his careful
perusal of Edmond About's novel, and with
an emphasis in which there was no artifice,
I would rather die in London than live in
Sicily.'

^

sa

CATASTROPHE.

Per me si va bella cotta dolente :
Per me si va nell' sterno colore :

Fascinate agni speranza, voi ch' estate.'

Dante.

Swift bu boat) felbjt in's warn gcgangen.

Goethe.

T was on the afternoon of the
twelfth day after falling ill that
Mr. Argoll could be transported
from the misery of his garret to the comparative
luxury of the room Which had been
occupied by Mr. Byker. The help of both
Mr. Byker and Carlo Nerone was required
to guide and support him down the steep and

narrow stair which led from the upper to the
ground floor. Carlo treated him as tenderly
and regarded him with as much apparent
affection as if he were his father.

The feeling of affectionate interest which
animated Carlo Nerone was shared by everyone,
both in the Hotel les Strangers and in
the village. The knew that the sick man's
life was precious to them. They had prayed
with great fervour for his recovery. They
would have considered his death at that time
as great a calamity as an earthquake or a
flood, an eruption of Mount Etna or an outbreak
of cholera.

Once upon a time a poor English sailor
was the sole survivor of a shipwreck in the
Pacific Ocean. The waves which drowned
his comrades cast him upon the island of
Labno in an unconscious state. Immediately
after leaving the wreck he was dashed against
a floating mass of wood, and he did not regain
his senses till lying upon the soft sand with
the sun beating upon his head. The natives
of Labno, though savages, were most hospitable.
They took him up carefully ; they

gave him as much food as he could eat, and
an abundant allowance of Ky Wa, an intoxicant
which they ingeniously manufactured
from the breadfruit-tree. He ate
till he could eat no more, and he went to
sleep after drinking much more of the sickly-tasting
and heavy liquor than was good for
him.

He awoke with a terrific headache and
aching in every limb. Ascribing his pains to
the liquor which he had swallowed, he formed
the wise resolution never to drink it again —
first, because he disliked the taste ; second,
because he disliked the effects. He had
often drunk too much of the intoxicants prepared
by his civilized brethren, and had lost
his senses without suffering the penalty of
excruciating pains on regaining them. When
he was offered more Ky Wa he made signs of
disgust and refusal. The kindly natives were
pleased. They acted upon a rule based upon
an old tradition, that the man who, having
drunk Ky Wa once, refused to drink it a
second time, was to be elected king at the
first vacancy. The king of the island had

recently died, greatly beloved and relished by
his subjects, and a successor was looked for
with anxiety. Few but strangers ever refused
to drink of the cup. The natives preferred
drinking of it too often to beings eligible for
election as kinsr. The kino was forbidden to
drink anything but water. It had been found
by experiments frequently renewed that the
flesh of water-drinkers was more juicy and
palatable than that of those who drank too
much Ky Wa.

Jack Robinson, the poor shipwrecked sailor,
found the position of king most enjoyable.
He was feasted to his heart's content, and, if
he had understood the language at the outset,
he would then have found that he was
flattered to the skies by all his subjects.
They literally worshipped him. He gradually
acquired a knowledge of the language,
and at the close of a year he could make out
what was said, though unable to express himself
with fluency.

The inhabitants of Labno prepared a great
feast to commemorate the anniversary of the
happy day upon which Jack Robinson had

assumed the royal dignity. He regarded
this as a fitting hoiDao^e to himself. He was
quite sure that he had done his duty, which,
as far as he could gather, was never to missa
meal and always to eat twice as much as
anyone else. He had learned that the King
of Labno ought to grow fat at the expense of
his subjects. He had done his best to give
them satisfaction, and they were delighted
with the result.

The nio^ht before the Errand festival he
overheard two of his attendants discussing
the noteworthy event which was to take
place on the morrow, and mentioning him
in terms of praise of which the substance
was :

He is a good man — a very good man ;
how fat he is ! and his skin is smooth and
fair, and his flesh seems beautifully soft.
What a treat we shall have after he is
roasted tomorrow ! It will be long before
Heaven sends us another kino as (rood and
fat as he.' These words dispelled a mystery
which had haunted him. He had seen preparations
on a large scale for roasting the

fatted ox; but, when he asked where it was,
he was always told :

Your most gracious Majesty will learn in
good time."

It now flashed across his mind that he was
to be the feast. What happened afterwards
needs not be narrated now ; but if the story
had been familiar to Mr. Argoll, neither he
nor Mr. Byker would have puzzled themselves,
as they frequently did, about the
extraordinary interest taken in their welfare
by all the people of Nicata. They
thought that these people had a special love
for Englishmen, and they were right ; but
they had not divined the reason why this
love was entertained and displayed.

Mr. Argoll found it a great treat to leave
his garret. An invalid is always benefited
by changing from one room to another whenas
in the present case, the change is from
a narrow chamber in which one can scarcely
turn round or stand upright, to a room in
which there is plenty of space to raise one's
head and move about. Mr. Argoll had
reason to rejoice. Not the room only, but

everything which he saw, appeared fresh and
delightful. When he stepped outside into the
sunshine, and breathed the sweet air again,
he felt what Gray has so admirably depicted
in the lines :

See the wretch, that long has tost

On the thorny bed of pain
At length repair his vigour lost,

And breathe and walk again ;
The meanest floweret of the vale,
The simplest note that sells the gale,
The common sun, the air, the skies,
To him are opening Paradise.'

Had Mr. Argoll been acquainted with
Gray's poem, he might have been tempted
to say that he, too, had a glimpse of Paradise
in his changed condition. He had
eaten and relished his dinner. Carlo Nerone,
ever mindful of the tastes of Englishmen and
the comforts to which they are accustomed*
had provided a bottle of Marsala wine as a
special treat. He and his neighbours preferred
the rough red wine of the district.
Carlo thought that a class. of the Marsala
with which Mr. Aroroll was familiar would
be beneficial to him. He judged rightly.

Mr. Argoll drank more than one glass with
great gusto ; and he passed the best night in
bed that he had done since leaving home.
He awoke refreshed in the morning.

Mr. Byker was less comfortable than his
master. If he had begun by occupying the
garret, he would not have grumbled, but to
go to it from his pleasant bedroom was a sore
trial ; a still greater one awaited him from
what Dr. Wolcott, better known as 'Peter
Pindar,' called ' the hopping natives of a
hard, hard bed.' Mr. Byker was very
sensitive to the attentions of the industrious
insects which have very sanguinary tastes.
His mother used to waste as relentless a
war against them at IG, Brixton Park, as
the late Mrs. Carlyle did at 5, Cheyne
Eow. To him, then, it was a bitter misery
to pass a night in the room where Mr.
Argoll had passed several. He consoled
himself by thinking that as Mr. Argoll and
he would probably depart on the morrow, he
would not groan on this bed another night.

Exhausted with a honos strucro^le against
unseen and unrelenting foes, Mr. Byker fell

into a deep slumber towards the morning.
He was suddenly aroused by a hand being
laid heavily upon his shoulder. Starting up,
he saw before him one of the men armed with
a gun and a knife whom he had noticed
during his walks abroad. This man shook
him, and motioned to him to get up and
dress. After speaking for a few minutes and
seeing that he was not understood, he had
recourse to signs, which Mr. Byker could not
misinterpret. As soon as Mr. Byker had
dressed himself, he was pushed out of the
room and down the stairs by this man, who
was Carlo's lieutenant, Pietro. At the bottom
of the stairs other armed men were standing,
with Carlo in the midst of them, in the
attitude of a prisoner. His hands were closed
together behind his back, as if they had been
tied.

'What is the matter, landlord? was Mr.
Byker's question.

I am very sorry to say, sir,' was the
reply, * the brigands have taken possession of
the house. It seems they have been planning
this attack for several days. I have begged

them to spare your clerk, as he is just recovering
from a severe illness, and they say he
may remain where he is.'

It may be stated here that Mr. Argoll was
awake and thinking of getting up, when the
door opened and Giovanni, another brigand,
entered the room and carried off all his
luggage and clothing. Mr. Argoll was
naturally astonished. There was no bell in
the room, and he could not summon help in
any other way than by calling out at intervals
for some one to come to him. Carlo said to
Mr. Byker : ^ The brigands say you may goto
the door and tell your clerk that if he
remains quiet no harm will be done to him ;
but the brigands who have taken possession
of the house will not allow him to leave it.'

Mr. Argos's consternation on hearing this
message was indescribable.

Pietro tied Mr. Byker's hands behind his
back, and then, knife in hand, Pietro and two
others forced him to move towards the door
and out of the house.

'Do what he tells you, Mr. Argoll,' was
Carlo's recommendation ; he added, ' They

will treat you better if you make no resistance
: they say I am to remain here. When
they allow me to leave I will visit you.'

Mr. Byker was obliged to traverse a path
along which he had often walked, and which
led to the head of the valley : a small hut
stood at the left side of the stream on the
rising ground, and there he was driven and
shut in. Some of the villagers who were
spectators of the occurrence called out vicious
things which Mr. Byker did not understand,
their enmity being largely the result of the
contents of the medicine-chest being put in
their way, as they thought, with the object of
poisoning them. They would have greatly
enjoyed administering to him a dose of still
more powerful physic.

When the brigands entered the hut after
Mr. Byker, they unbound his hands and
ofave him something: to eat and drink which
one of them had brought from the Hotel des
Etrangers. But Mr. Byker had no appetite.
He shook his head to indicate that he did
not wish for any breakfast. The brigands,
who had preserved their normally keen

appetites, ate and drank what had been
provided for him by the thoughtfulness of
Carlo Nerone. Two of them remained on
guard at the hut when Pietro left it to see
his chief and to arrange what should be done
next.

Meanwhile Carlo Nerone had talked over
the whole affair with Mr. Argos, whom he
still professed to take for Mr. Byker. Mr.
Argoll's clothes had been returned to him,
and he had dressed himself and breakfasted.
He went to the door of the hotel with the
intention of walking out, when he noticed an
armed brigand on guard who motioned that
he must return ; he went to the window of
his bedroom, which opened so low down that
he could easily walk out when the two halves
of it were thrown back, and he thought of
going out that way : but again the sight of
an armed brigand caused him to change his
mind. He was convinced, indeed, that the
house was surrounded, and that he could not
escape. Moreover, even if he had been free
to go when he pleased, he could not have
proceeded far. The excitement and slight

exertion had already proved too much for
him in his enfeebled state, and he had to lie
down on his bed and rest. Whilst lying
there oppressed by sad thoughts, he received
a visit from Carlo Nerone.

Carlo was a good actor ; indeed, a Sicilian
of any rank and class may be said to be born
with the histrionic gift. Yet even if he had
been the greatest of bunglers, he would have
found it easy to impose upon Mr. Argoll.
The latter had not the remotest suspicion of
the Hotel des Etrangers being a brigands'
cave formed on an improved pattern.

Mr. Byker, this is a bad business,' was
the first remark of Carlo dien he entered
Mr. Argoll's room ; he added, ' I shall be
ruined. Since you and your master have
been here not a single person has visited the
hotel, and now that brigands have appeared,
I don't know what to do. When the police
come, as I suppose they may do soon, I
shall have to tell them that you and your
master had no passports, and they will probably
arrest you on suspicion of being in league
with the brigands.'

This intimation did not comfort Mr. Argoll.
He prayed to be delivered from the Sicilian
police. He was as afraid of them as of brigands.
He was still reluctant to admit that he had
passed under an assumed name, lest he should
be imprisoned for doing so. When Carlo
went on to tell him how Mr. Byker had been
bound and carried off to a hut, where he
was to be kept, and probably tortured, till
he agreed to pay ransom, he was rather
pleased that he had changed his name. He
was sorry for Mr. Byker ; but he shuddered
as he thought that he might have undergone
the same fate if his real name were
known.

Carlo told him that Pietro, the nominal
leader of the band, had not decided what he
should do with his captives, though, if he had
chosen, he could have given a shrewd guess as
to what course would be followed. He then
left Mr. Argoll to his reflections, saying that
he was told by the brigands that he must goto
the hut and interpret what they had to
say to Mr. Argoll. He promised to report
in the evening what had occurred.

VOL. II. 39

Mr. Byker was allowed to sit outside the
hut and smoke his pipe in the open air. The
view before him was an extensive one.
Across the narrow valley there was a path
which ran up the mountain-side, and by
which the ascent of Etna is generally made.
Lower down was the cleft in the mountain
out of which puffs of white vapour issued now
and then, and which Carlo had often told him
was a dangerous place, which must on no
account be approached without a guide.
This was the Inferno,

As the valley wound round like an 5, not
many of the scattered houses of Nicata
could be seen, the most conspicuous and the
one nearest the hut being the Hotel des
Etrangers. Farther off and at a lower level
was the small village church. Two roads
led to it. The one wound down the valley,
following the course of the stream ; the other
ran almost in a straight line to the left of
the cleft already mentioned. Mr. Byker had
no eye for scenic effects; but the view
fascinated him for the reason that he longed
to be moving down the road which led to the

plain and to be leaving Nicata on his way
homewards.

His eyes suddenly fell upon Carlo and
Pietro, who were walking towards the hut
from the hotel. Pietro seemed to treat Carlo
with a deference which a captor does not
usually show to his prisoner. As soon as
they noticed Mr. Byker, Pietro clutched
Carlo by the collar, making a pretence of
dragging him along.

They motioned to Mr. Byker to enter the
hut, where they all sat upon the ground, and
Pietro began a rather long speech. When
he had finished, Carlo communicated its substance
in English, which was to this effect :

The brigands, of whom Pietro was the
chief, had been very unfortunate and unhappy
for some time ; few persons had visited
Nicata who yielded adequate ransoms, and
they now looked to the rich Englishmen who
had last arrived to compensate them for
their trouble and disappointments. Unemployed
brigands,' he added, ' were apt
to become exacting, and these were very
angry owing to the trick played upon them

39—2

by you in leaving a box containing things
which had made them and their wives and
children so ill that they thought they would
all die.'

What does he mean V interrupted Mr.
Byker. * I never heard of this before ;
besides, I have never given these people
anything. How, then, can I have made
them ill T

Oh replied Carlo, ' perhaps you have
forgotten your medicine-chest, which Pietro
says he picked up ! It seems that he and
the others have taken a good deal of its
contents, and have suffered for doing so.
They think that you intended to let them find
the chest and poison themselves by taking
what was in it.'

I sincerely wish they had never got the
chest ! I am sure I was most anxious to find
it, as it contained plenty of medicine for my
master. You must remember how we looked
for it everywhere. Please tell him so.*

Carlo said something in Italian, and then he
continued in English :

• He won't believe what I have told him.

However, it is no use saying anything more
about that. You may Hke to hear what his
conditions are for letting you go. He says,
as you are an English millionaire, that you
can pay a large sum for ransom, and that,
till you have arranged for his receiving ten
thousand pounds at a place in Catania which
he will appoint, he will keep you and your
clerk in custody, and torture you till you
pay.'

Me a millionaire !' exclaimed Mr. Byker.
I am only a poor clerk ; he has made a
mistake ; it's my master who has got all the
money.'

Surely, Mr. Argos,' said Carlo, in a
slightly sneering tone, ' your name is entered
in the book at the hotel, and Pietro has
seen it there. However, I will tell him what
you say.'

After a few minutes' talk between Pietro
and Carlo, the latter continued in English :

He says he cannot tell which of you is
the millionaire, but he is determined to get
the ransom, or else you will have to take the
consequences. He threatens to punish me.

too, unless you ^ranb his terms. The only
advantage I am to have is being killed
last.'

But what can he mean about killing V was
the question which Mr. Byker put, in real
trepidation, and with the remembrance
vividly brought to his mind of all he had
read concerning Hadgi Stavros.

Carlo replied : ' He will not kill you unless
you refuse to make the arrangements I have
suggested ; he says also that you can get as
much money as you may require from the
bankers in Catania.'

This last remark staggered Mr. Byker ; he
could not understand how Pietro had acquired
this knowledge, and he was more than ever
afraid of him.

Please ask him,' he said in a pleading
tone, * to give me time and let me talk to my
master at the hotel. I really don't know
what to do ;' and then he ejaculated in a half
whisper, ' my God, this is awful ! My
poor mother ! How she will suffer when she
hears of this !'

Carlo again spoke to Pietro, who rose

from the ground and began to move off, and
Carlo said to Mr. Byker :

He will give you time, as you ask for it ;
but he will not allow you to see the gentleman
whom you call your master. He is
certain that one of you must be able to do
what he asks. Till you write the necessary
papers ordering the money to be paid to him
by the bankers in Catania he will draw three
teeth out of each of you every day — one in
the morning before breakfast, one before
dinner, and one before going to bed. He
says that he won't begin till tomorrow
morning, and he now insists upon my going
to the hotel to interpret what he says to
your clerk. Of course, I am very sorry to
have to say anything so unpleasant, but as I
am a prisoner like you, I must do what he
tells me, else he will cut my throat. I am
sure I should not mind that so much as
having one of my teeth drawn. I am told
the pain is dreadful.'

Mr. Byker was left alone in the hut ; two
brigands remained on guard outside. A little
later in the day one of them brought him

some meat, bread, and a bottle of wine.
This was his dinner. He had taken no food
since the previous night, and he was now
glad to eat a piece of meat and bread and to
drink some wine. Then he lay down and
bitterly thought of the morrow.

Pietro did not go to Mr. Argoll ; but
Carlo had a talk with him that evening, in
the course of which he said that his master
was to be tortured by Pietro until he wrote
the lines which would ensure ten thousand
pounds being paid to him at Catania. Mr.
Argoll did not wish Mr. Byker to be maltreated
or mutilated, neither did he wish to
part with so large an amount of money. He,
too, wished to gain time. He avowed to
Carlo who he was, and the latter said that the
brigand would not accept his statement, adding
that when he told Pietro what Mr. Byker
said in the morning, Pietro replied he would
postpone drawing out their teeth, provided
that one of them wrote the necessary document.
Mr. Argoll urged, what was perfectly
true, that he had been so weakened by his illness
as to be scarcely able to use a pen, and that

he had great difficulty in signing his name to
the letter which Mr. Byker wrote when the
messenger came from Catania with the request
for an immediate answer to a despatch.
He also said that, if Mr. Byker were brought
to him on the following day, he would be
able to act as his amanuensis. Carlo thought
at first of volunteering, and then he reflected
that he could not write English half so well
as he spoke it, and that a document in his
handwriting might excite suspicion when
presented to the bankers. Accordingly he
was prepared to bring Mr. Byker and Mr.
Argoll together on the following morning,
and he sent a message to that effect to
Pietro. The latter was delighted at the
prospect of getting his twenty-five thousand
lire so soon and so easily, and there was
much feasting and rejoicing in Nicata that
evening on the good news being circulated
that the rich Englishmen had consented to
pay a very large ransom.

Mr. Byker could not sleep. He was nota
coward, but the prospect of having a sound
tooth drawn in the morning before breakfast,

and of other tortures in the future, was
enough to appal and unnerve lira. He was
not fertile in expedients, and he could not
think of any means for getting out of the
difficulty, till the thoughts which passed
through his mind in the morning whilst
gazing on the view now recurred, and he said
to himself : ' If I could but get to the church
down there, I might persuade the priest to
send a message to the bankers in Catania,
and they would arrange to rescue us.' He
never took into consideration that when he
reached the church he would have as much
difficulty in explaining what he wanted as
the priest would have in understanding him.
In truth, some vague recollections of his
schoolboy lessons, to the effect that in Roman
Catholic countries churches were regarded as
sanctuaries, caused him to think that he would
be safe from the brigands in the church at
Nicata. He was not apprehensive about his
master, knowing well that, rather than suffer
the slightest physical pain, he would sign
anything.

All night his mind was a prey to conflicting

and harrowing ideas. He asked himself
whether it would be wise to try and escape,
as it might happen that his fate would be the
worse when recaptured. He shuddered to
think of his hair being torn out by the roots,
of his fingers and toes being cut off in succession,
of his nose and ears being cut off afterwards.
After a restless and agonizing night,
he rose at daybreak, gently opened the door
of the hut, peeped cautiously out, and was relieved
not to see any sign of the two brigands
who had acted as his guards. He stepped out
and looked on all sides without perceiving
any trace of them. He did not know that
they were sleeping soundly in the company of
their families, after a night spent in carousing
and rejoicing over the booty which the two
Englishmen would yield.

Mr. Byker looked again with eager eyes
upon the scene which had attracted him the
preceding day. In the distance, but not far
off, to all appearance, stood the village church.
Oh, if I could but reach it !' he exclaimed ;
and then he began to descend the slope leading
to the bottom of the valley. He slowly

clambered up the opposite slope, reached
the top, and, though somewhat exhausted by
his exertion and his fears, breathed more
freely and felt in better heart.

Whilst Mr. Byker was moving off. Carlo
and Pietro were approaching the hut with a
view to take him back to the Hotel des
Strangers in order that he might act as
amanuensis to Mr. Argoll. They congratulated
each other upon the near approach of
a settlement which would make them both
happy. On reaching the hut, and entering
it, they were surprised to find it deserted ;
then, as they came out, they saw Mr. Byker
at the top of the slope on the opposite side
of the valley. He had just got there, and
he was pausing to take breath. Carlo called
to him in English, ' Come back ; it's all
right.' He heard the words, but he was
resolved not to return. Indeed, he was
terror-stricken at being discovered, so he
continued his flight in the direction of the
church.

Pietro and Carlo rushed after Mr. Byker.
Both could easily outstrip him in running.

A City clerk, who has passed middle-age, is
seldom fleet of foot or sound in wind. Pietro
gained upon him rapidly ; Carlo was not far
behind. He was really anxious to shield
Mr. Byker from harm ; his life had become
most dear to him, and he kept shouting,
Stop, stop; you will hurt yourself !' — but the
louder he shouted the more terrified grew
Mr. Byker, and the faster did he run. With
blank dismay Carlo saw him proceed in the
path which led direct to the Inferno. Again
he shouted, ' Turn aside at once, or you will
kill yourself!' and then he called to Pietro in
Italian, ' Do not let him go farther, or we are
all lost !' Pietro increased his pace, and got
close to Mr. Byker just as he had reached
the brink. Making a desperate effort, Pietro
succeeded in clutching hold of him as he was
about to slip over. Mr. Byker would have
been drawn back had he not made an almost
superhuman effort and leaped forward, dragging
his pursuer after him. Pietro made a
vigorous attempt to disengage and save himself,
but in vain. They went over the brink
together, and rolled down the slope. Pietro,

knowing his danger, made convulsive clutches
at the stones on the way without arresting
his descent. A small column of white smoke
rose in the air as both of them disappeared
for ever.

END OF VOL. II.

BILLING « SONS, PRINTERS, Guildford

G.,C.<k C9.

THE TEMPLE BAR MAGAZINE.

Serial Stories by the following Writers have appeared in the pages of
this Magazine :
The Seven Sons of Mammon, by George Augustus Sala.— For Better, for Worse,
edited by Edmund Yates.— Aurora Floyd, by Miss Braddon.— The Adventures of Captain
Dangerous, by George Augustus Sala.— The Trials of the Tredgolds. —John
Parchment's Legacy, by Miss Braddon.— Broken to Harness, by Edmund Yates.—
Paid in Full, by H. J. Byron.— The Doctor's Wife, by Miss Braddon.— David
Chantry, by W. G. Wills.— Sir Jasper's Tenant, by Miss Braddon.— Land at Last,
by Edmund Yates.— Archie Lovell, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.— Lady Adelaide's Oath,
by Mrs. Henry Wood.— A Lost Name, by J. Sheridan Le Fan.— Steven Lawrence :
Yeoman, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes —Kitty, by M. E. Bentham-Edwardes.— Vera.— Red
as a Rose is She, by Rhoda Broughton.— Susan Fielding, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.—
A Race for a Wife, by Hawley Smart.— The Bird of Passage, by J. Sheridan Lc
Fan. —His Brother's Keeper, by Albany de Fonblanque. — The Landlord of
the Sun, by W. Gilbert. — The Poison of Ass, by Florence Marryat. — Goodbye,
Sweetheart ! by Rhoda Broughton .— Ought we to Visit Her ? by Mrs.
Annie Edwardes.— The Illustrious Dr. Mathews, by Mem. Erckmann-Chatrian.
The Wooing o't, by 'Mrs. Alexander.' — The Deceased Wife's Sister, by
sidney Mostyn.* — The New Magdalen, by Wilkie Collins. - Uncle John, by
W. Whyte-Melville. — A Vagabond Heroine, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes. — My
Beautiful Neighbour, by W. Clark Russell.— Leah : a Woman of Fashion, by Mrs.
Annie Edwardes.— Patricia Kimball, by Mrs. Lynn Linton. — Philip Leigh.— The
Frozen Deep, by Wilkie Collins.— Bitter Fruit, by A. W. Dubourg.— Lilith, by W.
H. Pollock.— Ralph Wilton's Weird, by 'Mrs. Alexander'— The Dream Woman, by
Wilkie Collins. — Basil's Faith, by A. W. Dubourg. —The American Senator, by
Anthony Trollope— Her Dearest Foe, by 'Mrs. Alexander'— Victoria Contain, by
A. W. Dubourg.— The Two Destinies, by Wilkie Collins.— An Old Man's Darling, by
A. W. Dubourg.— Cherry Ripe ! by Helen Matters.— A Blue Stocking, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes.— The Ordeal of Fay, by Mrs. Buxton.— The ' First Violin,' by Jessie Others
-Two Handsome People, Two Jealous People, and a Ring, by Miss Laplace.—
Jet, her Face or her Fortune, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.— Auld Robin Gray, by Mrs.
Godfrey.— Probation, by Jessie Fothergill — Ebenezer, by C. G. Leland.— Vivian the
Beauty, by Mrs. Annie Edwardes.— Celia, by Mrs. Godfrey.— Adam and Eve, by Mrs.
Parr.— The Portrait of a Painter, by Himself, by Lady Pollock.— A Little Bohemian,
by Mrs. Godfrey.— The Rebel of the Family, by Mrs. Lynn Linton.— Kith and Kin,
by Jessie Fothergill.— The Frees, by 'Mrs. Alexander'— Marie Dumont, by Lady
Pollock— The Beautiful Miss Roche, by Mrs. Godfrey-Wild Jack, by Lady
Margaret Majestie.— Robin, by Mrs. Parr.— A Ball-room Repentance, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes.— Unspotted from the World, by Mrs. Godfrey.— Belinda, by Rhoda
Broughton.— lone Stewart, by Mrs. Lynn Linton.— Uncle George's Will, by Lady
Margaret Majestie.— A Perilous Secret, bey Charles Reade.— Zero : a Story of Monte
Carlo, by Mrs. Campbell Prayed.— Mrs. Forrester's Secret, by Mrs. Godfrey.— Peril,
by Jessie Fothergill.— Mitre Court, by Mrs. Liddell.— A Girton Girl, by Mrs. Annie
Edwardes.— A Bachelor's Blunder, by W. E. Norris-put Asunder, by Mrs. Godfrey.
Pastor Carew, Miser and Millionaire, by Mrs. Lj-nn Linton. —Red Spider, by the
Author of ' Mehalah,' etc.— The Dangers Jewels.— Loyalty George, by Mrs. Parr.— A
Village Tragedy, bv errs. ^^ Woods.— Out of the Fog, by W. M. Hardinge.— Moor
Isles, by Jessie Fothergill.— The Rogue, by W. E. Norris.

To be obtained at all Bookstalls.

Jl grilling 'g^onf^Ip '^^aQa^ine.

TO BE HAD OF EVERY BOOKSELLER IN THE EMPIRE.

Who does not welcome TEMPLE BAR I'—John Bull.

One can never help enjoying TEMPLE BAR.' — Guardian.

Among shilling magazines TEMPLE BAR keeps the leading place, which it has
held from its commencement, more than a quarter of a century ago ' — Life.

TEMPLE BAR is always the best of the monthly periodicals. The editor seems to
hare a knack of getting the brightest articles, the most exciting tales, and the most interesting
reminiscences of any magazine conductor.' — Dublin Union.

At the head of the Light Brigade, as usvial, stands TEMPLE BAR, with its knack
of being always vivacious and amusing.' — Globe.

'TEMPLE BAR offers a wide choice of entertaining reading.' — Literary World.

TEMPLE BAR is always good holiday reading, be it for the winter's fireside or the
summer beach or lawn.' — Isle of Wight Guardian.

TEMPLE BAR. — ' The articles and tales fully sustain the high reputation of Messrs.
Bentley's deservedly popular magazine.' — County Gentleman,

TEMPLE BAR is one of the few magazines that never flags in brightness.' — Pall
Mall Gazette.

' In all respects TEMPLE BAR more than maintains its high reputation in the front
rank of literary ventures.' — Dartmouth Gazette.

TEMPLE Bar—' This favourite magazine for town and country r^zdtrs.'— Burnley
Express.

TEMPLE Bar—' AH the contributions are of an able character, and no surprise caa
be felt at the increasing favour shown towards this very excellent magazine by the public.
Ya-mouth Gazette.

'TEMPLE BAR has a high literary Qa.vonT.'—Fertkskire Constitutional.

Tn TEMPLE BAR may be enjoyed one of those excellent boiling down of books
which is a speciality of the magazine.' — Graphic.

TEMPLE BAR has abundance of readable fiction. ' — Illustrated London News.

TEMPLE BAR. — 'The historic gateway is gone, but "Temple Bar," the magazine,
remains. We have managed to survive the loss of the former with equanimity, but life
would be distinctly less worth living if we were deprived of Messrs. Bentley's admirable
magazine.' — County Gentleman.

TEMPLE BAR is always readable. It is one of the few magazines we may take up,
if going on a journey, with the assurance that it will provide amusement.' — Illustrated
Sporting and Dramatic Neii-s.

TEMPLE BAR is full of readable matter, grave and g3iy.'—Vork Herald.

TEMPLE BAR is invariably superior to the fluctuations of literary skill which
sometimes afflict its contemporaries.' — Dublin Mail.

TEMPLE BAR furnishes its readers with interesting reading. ' — Wigan Examiner.

TEMPLE Bar—' There has generally been one article worth all the cost of this
magazine.' — Hearts Guardian.

'TEMPLE BAR is generally interesting'— .S"^. James s Gazette.

TEMPLE BAR is always amusing, and contains literary food adapted to all tastes.'
—John Bull.

TEMPLE BAR. — 'An enormous shillings-worth, both for bulk and quality.' — Manx
Sun.

'The average of excellence in TEMPLE BAR is high'— Illustrated Sporting and
D ra m a tic Ne-jus.

TEMPLE BAR.— 'This admirable serial maintains the reputation for excellence
which it has steadily gained for many years.' — Yarmouth Gazette.

Va

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS

V.3

«^ /-^^^C^«,fpr>«J>^-^ *»Cli' ^^wif T-^w^

cl^^

W. H. SMITH & SON'S
SUBSCRIPTION LIBRARY,

186, STRAND, LONDON,

AND AT THE RAILWAY X BOOKSTALLS.
NOVELS ARE ISSUED TO AND RECEIVED FROM SUBSCRIBERS IN SETS ONLY,

TERMS.

FOR SUBSCRIBERS OBTAINING THEIR BOOKS FROM A COUNTRY BOOKSTALL—

6 Months. 11 Month".

For ONE Volmne at a time £0 12 1 1

fAtveU in mart than One Volume art not ttvailabUfor this class c/ Subscription,)

For TWO Volumes „ 17 6 1 11 6

(^'cvels in more than Two Volumes mrt net available sr this class of Subscription.)

For THREE Volumes ,. 1 3 3 2

For FOUR 1 8 2 10

For SIX 1 15 3 8

For TWELVE „ ., 3 6 6

iy

money, money, how blindly thou hast been worshipped,
and how stupidly abused ! Thou art health
and liberty and strength ; and he that has thee may
rattle his pockets at the Devil.' — Charles Lamb.

BY

The Author of
'MISS BAYLE'S ROMANCE:

IX THREE VOLUMES.
TIL

LONDON :

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

^ttblislters in (Drbinarg to ^cr ^Euj^stja th OJucen.

1888.

fall Rights Reserved]

CHAPTER XXV.

Out of the Toils.

^ Retaliation dreaded
.^ A chivalrous Brigand
V Two happy Husbands
^ A howling Mob at the Door
^ A touching; Scene -
^ A generous Brigand
Carlo's Account -
Mr. Argoll's Reflections -
Prepares to Start
I am a Christian
Torturing Captives
The Funeral Service
Ransom or Death
Brigands and Financiers -
Mr. Argoll checkmated -
Diamond cut Diamond
That is all Right -
Return to Catania
A startling Surprise
Oh, the Blackguard !' -

PAGE























CHAPTER XXVI.
At Westbourne and Naples.

PAGE

Back in the Gran Bretagna - - - 43

Mr. Byker's Successor - - - - 45

A Newspaper Story - - - - 47

How the Story originated - - - 49

A fabulous Hero - - - - - 51

Painful Uncertainty - - - - 53

Mr. Argoll's Letter - - - - 55

Poor Mrs Byker ! - - - - 57

Berta goes to Brixton Park - - - 59

A sad Meeting - - - - - 61

The Doctor sent for - - - - 63

A serious Case - - - - - 65

A peaceful End - - - - - 67

How Mr. Argoll took the News - - - 69

Miss Tacon's Grievances - - - - 71

A Budget of Gossip - - - - 73

CHAPTER XXVII.

A Trip to Naples and Back.

Business on the Brain - - - - 77

Mr. Bandol's Start in Life - - - 79

An old Man of the Sea - - - - 81

Mr. Argoll's Condition - - - - 83

Conflicting Views - - - - 85

Self-reliant and Self-possessed - - - 87

Weeping Maidens - - - - 89

Unkind Speeches - - - - - 91

Travelling in Comfort - - - - 93

Miss Solar joins Mr. Argoll - - - 95

This is Beautiful ! - - - - 97

Moral Reflections - - - - 99

Two Classes of Newspapers - 101

Painful Memories - - - - 103

Comparing Notes - - - - 105

The Matin-hour in Bond Street - - - 107

Mr. Argoll Sight-seeing - - - - 109

Mr. Palestine's Mission - - - - 111

News from South America - - - 113

CHAPTER XXVIII.

Back in the City.

Husband and Wife - - - - 115

A dismal Dinner-party - - - - 117

So he is not drowned ! - - - - 119

Mr. Henry's Letter - - - - 121

A mysterious Statement - - - - 123

Mr. Byker missed - - - - 125

The true Policy - - - - - 127

Providence and Millionaires - - - 129

We are all proud of him - - - 131

Where is your Medicine-chest 1 - - - 133

Mrs. Argoll and her Niece - - - 135

Miss Solar's Troubles - - - - 137

Master greatly improved - - - - 139

Groundless Suspicions - - - - 141

Letter to Aunt Irma - - - - 143

A good Resolution - - - - 145

CHAPTER XXIX.

News from Patagonia.

Conventional Christianity - - - 147

Christmas at Palace Gardens - - - 149

PAGE

An unpleasant Conversation - - - 151

Revolution in Patagonia - - - 153

An obscure Telegram - - - - 155

Patagonians at Home - - - - 157

An enterprising Widow - - - - 159

An uninteresting Country - - - 161

Curing Headaches - - - - 163

Magnificent Sunsets - - - - 165

Mr. Pendragon's Opinion - - - - 167

Effect on Mr. Argoll - - - - 169

Lord John's Return - - - - 171

Unscrupulous Financiers - - - - 173

CHAPTER XXX.

More Love-making.

Lovers in the Conservatory - - - 177

The Gifcst of the Evening - - - 179

Lord John changed - - - - 181

The Charms of Music - - - - 183

So she is Independent - - - - 185

Amateur Doctors - - - - 187

Industrious Miss Tacon - - - - 189

I was Sick of the Place ' - - - 191

Will you marry me ? - - - - 193

What is the Matter ? - - - - 195

Lord John's Reflections - - - - 197

Matrimony at its Best - - - - 199

A regular Trump - 201

A magnanimous Suitor - - . - 203

A Rise in the World - - - - 205

A Wedding announced - - - - 207

Miss Solar's Despair - - - 209

CHAPTEE XXXII.
Knots Untied.

Eruption of Mount Etna - - - - 247

Nicata overwhelmed - - - . 249

Financial Magicians - - - - 251

A Candidate for a Peerage - - - 253

Miss Solar disconsolate - - - . 255

The Angel of Death - - - - 257

Mr. Henry re-appears - . . 259

A detestable Hole - - - - 261

Account of the Journey . - - - 263

Misunderstandings.

Impediments to Marriage - - - 277

A painful Courtship - - - - 279

Circumstances alter Cases - - - 281

Making and spending Money - - - 283

Ways and Means - - - - 285

A Pair of Simpletons . . 287

Bewildered Lovers . . . 289

Hand over the Cheque - - - - 291

Taking Care of Money - - - - 293

Women's Fancies - - - - 295

A gloomy Prospect - - - - 297

Henry Argoll 'turned off' - - - 299

Off to the North Pole - - - - 301

A horrible Woman - - - - 303

A speaking Likeness - - 305

•o^o*

CHAPTER XXV.

OUT OF THE TOILS.

Now will I show myself to have more of the serpent
Than the dove ; that is, more knave than fool.'

Marlowe.

^AELO NERONE, like many other
Sicilians, was no believer in the
sanctity of human life. He had
as little scruple about killing a man as
about killing a fly ; but he would not kill
either a man or a fly unless enraged or
irritated.

He thought that life was an evil which
should be ended without unnecessary delay
VOL. III. 40

when any human being caused him personal
inconvenience, and that death was the fitting
penalty for the person who, in his opinion, was
a cumbered of the ground. He was a genuine
utilitarian, and an active agent, according
to his lights, in ensuring the survival of the
fittest. The drawback of natural selection, as
practised by him, was that unfortunate and
unintended mistakes might occur now and
then.

That suffering should follow from his rash
and ill-considered action gave Carlo little concern.
He might have said, if challenged
for a scientific explanation and capable of
giving it, that suffering was the rule in a
world which the human race enters without
any desire to appear therein, and manifests
an unphilosophical repugnance to leave at a
moment's notice. No trustworthy statistics
are extant as to the number of persons who
had prematurely quitted this world owing to
the action of Carlo Nerone. He was satisfied,
however, that he had always tried to hold
the balance true, and to act as a terrestrial
providence for his own advantage.

Others before Mr. Byker had lost their Ives
in the same way as he, without Carlo feeling
the least surprise or experiencing any remorse.
If he gained anything by a murder, he was
pleased ; if he lost nothing by it, he did not
care. For the first time in his life he was
horrified at the sight of two men engulfed in
the Inferno before his eyes. He dreaded lest
his own existence should be imperilled owing
to their deaths.

In Sicily, as in Corsica, men who shed
blood are liable to be killed at any moment
by the relatives of the victims. Though Carlo
had not planned Pietro's death, and though
he sincerely regretted it, he was apprehensive
lest it should be attributed to him;
and lest, being held responsible for it, he might
be slain by way of punishment and compensation.
Murderers and brigands have an intense
desire to enjoy life. They fear to die
chiefly because they exist in terror of the devil.
They account their own lives very precious.
Carlo trembled at the thought of having to
face his widowed sister; and what was still
worse, Pietro's younger brother Giovanni.

40—2

He did not know that Giovanni had been a
witness of the catastrophe, having returned to
the hut after the others had left it, and
watched the flight, the chase, and its tragic
ending. Giovanni hastened with the sad
news to his sister-in-law.

Pietro was very popular in Nicata. He
had not been absent from it so long as Carlo,
and his period of service in the army had
left him as thorough and prejudiced a Sicilian
as any of his neighbours. He was a brigand
who delighted to do his duty with punctuality
and despatch ; in other words, he never
hesitated to take the lives of those who
neither could nor would pay the sum asked
by way of ransom. If a brigand once allows
the promptings of mercy to influence him,
there is an end to his usefulness. His task
consists, first, in making rich men prisoners ;
second, in making them disgorge a large sum
of money ; and third, in despatching them if
they obstinately refrain from paying their
captors a suitable remuneration for their
trouble.

Pietro had often to labour diligently with his

hands, and to go exhausted to bed when rich
strangers were scarce. He felt it hard if a
stranger who could pay declined to do so, and
he considered that he was subserving the
design of Providence in giving a recalcitrant
captive a lesson as well as a punishment by-cutting
oflp his fingers and toes, his nose and
ears, and ending matters by cutting his throat,
or inveigling him into the Inferno. He would
have considered himself insulted if he had
been stigmatized as a butcher. In his own
opinion he was executing a good work, as well
as continuing the glorious tradition of his
craft, by ridding the world of those who would
not pay their ransom when they fell into his
power. If they could not, they were deemed
still less worthy to live.

Many persons in Nicata looked upon Pietro
as the incarnation of chivalry. He never
lifted his hand against a woman, and he never
hesitated to stab or shoot a man whom he
had injured. He was feared as well as
admired. There was no nonsense about him,
if such a phrase may be employed by way of
translating the equally idiomatic Italian one

which his many admirers used to employ.
When Carlo Nerone returned from his
travels, resuscitated the band of valiant
brigands of which his father had been chief,
and appointed Pietro his second in command,
it was the general opinion that Pietro
would do honour to his calling, and might
even surpass his chief on momentous occasions.
The forecast had been justified. A bolder,
more unscrupulous and bloodthirsty brigand
than Pietro had not been known in Nicata
since the lamentable death in prison of
Carlo's esteemed father.

It is easy to imagine what a blank was
occasioned when this accomplished and exemplary
brigand lost his life. Pietro 's death
fell upon the village like a thunder clap. He
had presided the evening before at the feast
which was held to celebrate the restoration
to health of the rich Englishman, whose
enforced gift was to make them all richer
than they had ever been before. It was
supposed that Carlo's share would not be
small ; but, as he had contracted the bad
habit since being in England of keeping his

own counsel, no one knew how much he was
to receive. If any of them had known the
amount, Carlo would have been rendered
uncomfortable. He quite understood his
position and its chances, and he did not
confide his secrets to a soul. His own wife
knew nothing of his plans and expectations.
This was politic on his part. Had she been
called to bear witness concerning him, she
would have had nothing to tell to his detriment,
because she was really ignorant of his
movements and calculations.

Pietro and Carlo had become happy
husbands on the same day. The wedding
festivities were carried out at their joint
expense. Their wives were bosom friends.
If they had any quarrel, it was over a matter
for which neither was responsible. Both
hoped to be mothers of young brigands, but
Carlo's wife had a son, whilst Pietro's child
was a daughter. Pietro's wife was envious
of her sister-in-law for a few days, and then
they both resumed their habits of affectionate
intercourse.

Pietro's partisans continued to say as much

as they could in his praise, and as much as
they dared in disparagement of his chief.
Pietro rebuked them for speaking harshly
of Carlo, yet he did not disrelish their
eulogium.

If anyone had even hinted that Carlo had
a hand in Pietro's death, Carlo would have
been stabbed to the heart before an hour had
elapsed. The brigands never shot each other
or strangers when a knife would do the
work of a bullet. Gunpowder was dear, and
they did not like to waste it. They were
economical by necessity as much as on principle.
A single knife, well sharpened, would
kill a man as effectually as a bullet, and it
might be used for years. There is no use
wasting powder and shot when cold steel
will serve the purpose.

A Sicilian brigand is as attentive as an
English millionaire to ways and means. He
will not waste money unnecessarily, even
when committing murder. Perhaps, if he
were a little less niggardly, he would make
his money go much farther. But he hesitates
about spending it upon weapons of the newest

pattern. The old flint gun with which his
father shot down policemen who pursued him,
or killed prisoners who would not pay ransom,
is still regarded by him as a serviceable
weapon. Very few of them possess revolvers.
Pietro and Carlo were amongst the exceptions.
Their comrades were afraid of handling and
being exposed to weapons which shot so
often and so quickly. The knowledge that
Carlo possessed two revolvers and a repeating-rifle
which he could fire fifteen times in succession,
made his followers treat him as a
superior being, and dread incurring his wrath.
He knew their feelings, and he thought that
if he had the opportunity of availing himself
of his revolver and his repeating-rifle he
might face all his followers in rebellion. He
breathed freely after he reached his hotel and
had assured himself that his deadly weapons
were loaded. A few minutes later a howling
mob was at the door.

Mr. Argos trembled, but he was not so
uneasy as Carlo. The latter knew his
countrymen, and feared for his life; the former
had no inkling of what might happen, and

such a case is one of those in which ignorance
is tranquillizing. Besides, he was unaware
of what was said. Carlo's dread
subsided, and he was entirely reassured when
he learnt what the mob meant. There was
no wish or intention to kill him ; but it was
intimated in menacing tones that if the
Englishman, meaning Mr. Argoll, did not
pay his ransom speedily, he would be sent
after Pietro and Mr. Byker. Till then Carlo
had not realized the impression which the
death of Pietro had made in the village.
He was now perfectly cool, genial and
delighted.

Opening the door, Carlo went forth to
meet his fellow-villagers. He assumed the
air of one struggling against a great grief;
he spoke a few words, then his voice failed
him, and he sobbed aloud. The others
melted into tears, and no one could utter an
articulate word for several minutes. Carlo
was the first to regain self-possession, and
then he addressed the crowd to this effect :

My poor and honoured friends, I shall
never forget the loss of the good Pietro. I

loved him as my own brother. I feel his
loss as much as my sister, his unhappy
widow, must do. I cannot think how I shall
exist now he is gone.' Again he broke
down ; Pietro widow began to cry more
bitterly than before, and Giovanni, the
brother of Pietro, seemed in an agony of
grief. It was a touching scene. These
honest and bereaved brigands appeared devoted
to each other. The only man who
was not deeply affected was Mr. Argoll.
He looked on in as stolid a fashion as a man
may do when the house of the neighbour
whom he hates is on fire.

Carlo recovered, or perhaps it would be
more accurate to say he never quite lost his
coolness, whilst the others were still beside
themselves with grief. He continued his
address, to the following effect :

The Englishman tells us that he will pay
his ransom.' A chorus of sounds which, in
English, would be termed loud applause,
greeted this announcement. Mr. Argoll was
cheered to the echo. Carlo continued : 'Each
of you will have his share ; but I undertake

to double the amount promised, and Pietro's
widow will get a thousand lire as her
portion.'

This generosity softened and won all
hearts. Pietro's widow was enchanted. She
had never possessed one hundred lire in her
life, and to obtain a thousand was equivalent
to being rich beyond her utmost hopes. She
did not know — indeed, she could not know,
for her deceased husband had kept it a secret,
with a view of giving her a pleasant surprise
— that he would have received twenty-five
thousand lire in the event of the ransom
demanded from the English captives being
paid.

You, my poor and trusty Giovanni,'
Carlo went on to say, ' will receive a thousand
also.' Giovanni was taken aback at his
master's generosity, and felt less regret than
he should have done at his brothers untimely
end. The climax came when, with a
knowledge of his associates which rendered
him worthy to be their chief, Carlo added :

I mean to give a thousand lire out of my
small share to the good father, our priest, to

say masses for the repose of Pietro's soul ;
and I shall give him a hundred to perform
a service for the dead near the spot where he
was last seen in life

Everybody was half crying, half applauding
when Carlo ceased to speak.

How good !' — ' How gracious !' — ' How
considerate !' were the phrases which issued
from their lips. Pietro's widow rushed
forward and kissed her generous - hearted
brother ; Giovanni did so also ; the others
wished to follow suit, when he motioned
them back, spying, ' I must now go and
settle matters with the Englishman.'

There was little mourning in the village
that night.

Carlo was puzzled : he could not understand
why the news of Pietro's death should
have produced so slight an impression. Had
he been acquainted with the facts, he would
have been spared much uneasiness. It sometimes
happens, however, that even a brigand
chief, or an hotel-keeper, may be mistaken in
his calculation. Carlo Nerone had disquieted
himself without reason.

He did not know how the news of Pietro's
death had been received by his widow.
Giovanni, her brother-in-law, did not resort
to any periphrasis in announcing the doleful
tidings to her ; but he said, as soon as he
saw her :

Poor Pietro has disappeared in the
Inferno ; he continued : ' The tall English
m3dor has gone down there too ;' Mr. Byker
being known as the tall Englishman, and
some supposed him to be the wealthy one.

Pietro's widow was shocked. If Giovanni
had said that the Englishman had forced
Pietro in, and been the cause of his death,
she would have at once called for vengeance
upon the murderer and his friends ; as it
was, she asked Giovanni to give her full
particulars of how the catastrophe had occurred.
He related what he had seen ;
he added that the master, meaning Carlo
Nerone, had appeared to be overwhelmed
at the sad spectacle, and she never thought
of laying her husband's death at Carlo's
door. Had Giovanni even hinted that Carlo
was to blame, Pietro's widow would have

demanded his life as a sacrifice. Though his
sister, she would never have forgiven him.
As it was, she and her neighbours agreed
that they could do nothing more than proceed
to the hotel, and learn what Carlo
purposed to do next. When they assembled
before it, and made Carlo feel uncomfortable,
they were howling out of grief, and not for
vengeance.

Carlo related his version of the facts to
Mr. Argoll, who listened to the narrative
with dismay.

What happened,' he said, ' was that your
clerk — whom I used to suppose to be you,
and who was taken away by Pietro when the
brigands surrounded the house — left the hut
before Pietro and I reached it this morning.
We went to bring him here, as was agreed to
last night. At first we could not think what
had happened to him, and the guards whom
Pietro had placed over the hut had gone
home. Perhaps they had heard that the
Englishman in the hut was not the rich one.
Well, then, we looked about, and saw Mr.
Byker at the other side of the valley; I

called to him to stop, but instead of doing
so, he began to run. Pietro and I ran after
him, and when I saw the direction he was
taking, I called out again to warn him, but
he only ran the faster. The brave Pietro
made a desperate effort, and got up to him
just as he reached the mouth of a great hole
in the ground which the people here think
goes down to the middle of the earth, and
which they call the Inferno. It was then
too late to stop Mr. Byker, and in trying to
save him Pietro was dragged down, and both
are big cinders now.'

'But what can have made Byker runaway
V was the question which Mr. Argoll
put, and to which Carlo could not give an
answer.

It seems very suspicious,' was Mr. Argoll's
comment. * Indeed, it looks as if Mr. Byker
wanted to leave me in the lurch ; yet he has
got the worst of it now, and I suppose his
old mother will torment me about him.
However, he ought to have saved enough for
her to live upon, so she will get over it soon.'

Mr. Argoll said this in a low tone, as

if speaking to himself, whilst Carlo stood
by, not making any sign that he heard what
was said or cared to understand what it
meant. Mr. Argoll's reflections were not
creditable, yet they were quite characteristic.
He owed much to Mr. Byker, and even if he
had been a complete stranger to him, his
sudden and tragic death might have excited
his compassion.

Instead of grieving for his clerk, he was
thankful that he was not in Mr. Byker's
place. Edmund Burke, in his ' Letter to a
Noble Lord,' writes that ' nothing can be
conceived more hard than the heart of a
thoroughbred metaphysician. It comes
nearer to the cold malignity of a wicked
spirit than to the frailty and passion of a
man. It is like that of the principle of evil
itself, incorporeal, true, unmixed, dephleg-
mated, defecated evil.' A modern millionaire
of the type of Mr. Argoll is no better than the
City men of Burke's day, of whom he said that
their ledger was their Bible, and that Mammon
was their God. Neither is such a man
any better than the thoroughbred meta-vol.

III. 41

Vr

physician whom Burke pilloried. Indeed,
he whose life has been spent in making
money in the City, whose only ambition is to
be richer than his fellows, to whom the
acquisition of wealth represents the sole aim
and end of existence, cannot cherish any of
the finer sympathies of humanity. He is an
animated money making machine, which has
not much more resemblance to a human being
than Babbage's Calculations Machine. It
is absurd to look for feelings in a mass of
steel or a set of iron wheels and rods ; and if
Mr. Argoll did not manifest any pity for his
unfortunate clerk, it was because he was not
much softer or more impressionable than a
piece of iron or steel.

Oh !' he suddenly exclaimed, after a
moment's reflection, ' are you quite certain
that Mr. Byker's body cannot be got
out?'

No, sir ; any person who goes down the
Inferno disappears altogether, though sometimes
a glimpse may be had of the body as it
is slowly falling to pieces under the heat.
One has to stand on a high spot and look

down, because, if one goes too near, one is
suffocated with the smoke.'

What a misfortunes said Mr. Argoll, in a
tone of deeper feeling than he had yet shown.
My clerk had most of the money with him ;
he must have had two hundred pounds in
circular notes of the London and Westminster
Bank, and if he has disappeared they must
have gone too. How vexatious ! Indeed,
it was too bad of Byker carrying this money
away with him.'

Carlo quite agreed with Mr. Argoll. If
he had known that Mr. Byker had such a
sum in his possession he would have taken
greater precautions to prevent him running
off. He, too, began to feel and lament Mr.
Byker's loss quite as keenly as Mr. Argoll.

The conversation ceased on Carlo's beincj
called away. Mr. Argoll commenced putting
his things in order, as he purposed quitting
Nicata on the following day. Now that
Pietro, the brigand chief, was dead, he
fancied that there would not be any further
attempt made to detain him and to exact
ransom. He was glad that the brigand who

41—2

stood on guard outside the window of his
room and the other who stood outside the
hotel door had both disappeared. Besides,
he observed that Carlo walked about unmolested,
so he inferred that he need not be
any longer uneasy about brigands. Thus
thinking, he was the more anxious to get
away before they reappeared.

He had a good appetite for dinner, and his
spirits rose ; he seemed quite able to undertake
the journey to Catania, and he told
Carlo to have his bill prepared and to engagea
carriage for him the next day.

I do not think, sir, that you should start
tomorrow ; but you may do so the following
day.'

What's the matter now ? Surely there is
nothing to hinder my leaving ! I've got
money enough to pay your bill, though I
shall never forgive Byker for not leaving
those circular notes behind him.'

Carlo was glad to hear that Mr. Argoll
had some ready-money left; he feared lest
Mr. Byker had kept the purse. Instead of
referring to this, he said :

Of course you shall have your bill, sir, as
soon as it is made out. But when I said
you might stay over tomorrow, I meant that
a funeral service is to be held as near the
mouth of the Inferno as possible ; and though
you do not care for these things, as you are
not a Christian, still, the people here would
consider it a mark of respect if you were
present.'

I am a Christian,' replied Mr. Argoll,
though I am not a Roman Catholic, if that's
what you mean.'

Now Carlo had been trained, like other
Sicilians, not to regard any person as a
Christian who did not belong to the Church
of Rome, and he meant no offence by his
speech to Mr. Argoll. The latter was not
disposed to stay ; he did not understand the
use of the service, still less did he see the
need of his attending it ; but his opinion
underwent a change when Carlo added :

I suppose the police will come and investigate
this affair, and it will not look
well, seeing that you have no passport,
for them to hear that you rushed away

and even refused to be present at the funeral
service.'

What nonsense !' was Mr. Argoll's peevish
remark. When he reflected, however, that
by attending this service he might save
himself from being troubled by the police
and suspected of brigandage or murder, he
consented to stay.

He continued to converse with Carlo, the
subject of brigandage forming the staple of
their talk, being: the one which had the most
interest for him.

These rascals did not give you much
trouble this time,' was his remark to Carlo,
which he followed up by the question, ' Have
you ever suffered anything from them ? Are
they so cruel as people say ? Are not the
stories greatly exaggerated ?'

Carlo overlooked, though he did not pardon,
the first words which Mr. Argoll uttered,
and he went on to frighten him as much ashe
could, his object being to prepare the way
for another and a peremptory application for
ransom.

It is not very long ago,' he said, in an impressive

tone, ' since T was taken prisoner in
Calabria and suffered frightful tortures. I
was gagged ; my arms were tied ; I was
forced to go up a steep road where I
stumbled at every step, and afterwards I
had to lie on the ground without food.'

But how did you get away V

Why, I had the option of paying a fixed
ransom, and I happened to have a sufficient
sum with me, or else I should have been
thrown over a precipice. But the brigands
of Calabria are far behind those of Sicily.
We — I mean the brigands — have made many
improvements here in treating prisoners.
They torture them scientifically. Poor Pietro
was very fond of drawing the teeth of those
who refused to pay, and he used to boast,
at least so I have heard, that he knew how
to make the operation very painful by
twisting the teeth out slowly. His brother,
Giovanni, who will probably succeed him,
has a preference for cutting off ears and noses,
fingers and toes, one after the other, and
he puts boiling pitch on the wounds to stop
bleeding and make them more painful.'

Oh ! the monster. Surely the police,
who seem to be so particular, according to
you, about people who have no passports,
ought to hunt them down.*

^ Other persons who have fallen into their
hands have said the same thing, sir ; but
perhaps you don't know that there is a secret
society in Sicily called the Maffia, and those
who belong to it are seldom troubled by the
police ; and both the chiefs of the police and
most of the brigands are members of it

I never heard of that society,' remarked
Mr. Argoll; but the Government ought to
put it down.'

I have often heard that said, too, but I
don't think the Government will find it easy.
However, I hear my wife calling me, so I
must now leave you and say "Good-night."
I shall tell you early in the morning at what
time the service is to be held.'

Mr. Argoll noticed that there was a greater
freedom of manner about Carlo than when
he first met him. He spoke as if he were
the master, and could order his guests about
as he pleased. Mr. Argoll did not like being

dictated to, and he resolved to let Carlo
understand this, and he half repented him
of having promised to attend the service.
Yet, after all,' he said to himself, * it is
better that I should go. The affair may get
into the papers, and it will look well if I am
present.' Mr. Argoll stood in greater fear
of a newspaper — in other words, of public
opinion — than of God or the Devil.

The funeral service for Pietro was not an
imposing ceremony, yet it had an element
of grandeur. The venerable parish priest
took up a place as near as he could with
safety to the mouth of the Inferno; his
parishioners were grouped behind him.
Pietro's widow was loud in her lamentation,
and the women present wailed in unison.
After the ceremony was over, all the men
who had guns, and most of them were armed,
fired them off. This was a custom of the
district which had prevailed since the introduction
of firearms, but which is not practised
in other parts of Sicily.

Mr. Argoll felt relieved when the ceremony
was ended. When all the people knelt down

he was disposed to stand by way of protest,
either against the service itself or against
the form of region which the priest professed.
Carlo whispered to him that if he
did not kneel one of the young men would
thrust a knife into him, and then some of
the others would cast him into the Inferior,
so he instantly adopted kneeling as an attitude
of discretion. The armed men, after reloading
their guns, escorted him to the hotel,
which some of them entered, and one of
them, Giovanni, followed him into his room.
Mr. Argoll was surprised and uneasy. He
had not long to wait before learning what
was expected of him.

Carlo entered the room and said :
Mr. Argoll, you will have to make up
your mind either to pay the ransom at once
or take the consequences. The brigands
are furious. If Pietro had died and Mr.
Byker had escaped they would have killed
him on the spot, but as they do not think
you had a hand in Pietro's death they
have agreed to spare your life provided
you pay the ransom. This is his brother,

Giovanni, who has succeeded to the leadership.'


But what do they want ? I thought that
I was not to have any more trouble with
them, now that Byker and Pietro have gone
down that infernal hole. Didn't they look
upon Byker as the man who had all the
money V

'They did so, but they have found out
their mistake, and they say that they are
very sorry Mr. Byker took so much money
away with him. Happily, Pietro had nothing
of value about him, so his death is not
so serious a loss as your clerk's.'

What is it they want, then V

They either mean to have a pledge that
you will pay ten thousand pounds, and Giovanni
will never leave you till you have
handed over the money; or, if you refuse,
they will carry you away and send you after
Pietro and Mr. Byker, but they will take
your clothes off first, in case there might be
money in your pockets.'

Ob, the brutes ! But I cannot get ten
thousand pounds, even if I could afford to

part with so much money if I had it. How
do they know I've got anything ?'

If you say you haven't any money,* re-pied
Carlo, with a perceptible sneer, * I
will translate this to Giovanni and the
others

Calling to the brigands who crowded round
the door, he said a few words. When he
had finished, Giovanni stepped forward and
seized Mr. Argoll, being aided by the others,
and they began to take, or rather to tear, his
clothes off.

What do they mean to do V he cried out.

They are going to strip you, and then
carry you and throw you down the Inferno ;
I have tried to pacify them, but it's no use.'

Tell them to stop ; I will pay the money ;
but they shall suffer for it afterwards, the
villains !'

At a sign they ceased stripping him, and
Carlo said aloud :

I am in danger also, Mr. Argoll ; for,
after despatching you, they will take all I
have and then set fire to the house. But I
advise you, for your own sake, not to threaten

to do anything afterwards. Some of them
guess what you mean, and all of them expect
you to have your revenge if you can ; but
take my advice and keep cool now.'

It's all very well for you to speak about
keeping cool ; but I am not used to this
treatment. Oh ! why did 1 ever leave
London ? There are no brigands in the
City.'

We need not discuss that now, sir, but I
have read in your papers that some of your
financiers are as great brigands as those of my
country, only I hope that you are not one of
them.'

We never put people down an Inferno, as
you call it.'

'No; but I heard a man once say that the
brigands of sour City, who are there called
financiers, make it a hell upon earth for
many people.'

Whilst Mr. Argoll and Carlo carried on
this conversation, the brigands had dispersed ;
Giovanni remained, however, and he addressed
a few words to Carlo, who said to Mr. Argoll :

Giovanni insists upon your writing out

an order at once for the ten thousand pounds,
and handing it to him. ^Yhen he has got it
he will allow you to go off, and he will escort
you as far as Catania. He also says that he
does not object to my accompanying you.'

Of course I shall be glad of your
company,' said Mr. Argoll, ' as I can't speak
the infernal lingo, and I shouldn't know how
to get on with the rascally people whom I
might meet on the way.'

Carlo was too astute to display any annoyance
at the uncomplimentary terms which
Mr. Argoll applied to his mother tongue and
his countrymen. He was as resigned as
Uriah Keep to being insulted, provided he
received an adequate compensation, and in
this case he expected to receive a sufficient
number of hard coins to make amends for all
these hard words.

How does this scoundrel know asked
Mr. Argoll, 'that I can get any banker in
Catania to give money in exchange for my
order ?'

• I cannot tell you, sir ; all I can say is that
he tells me you can get that sum from a bank

in Catania at any moment, and he will be
quite satisfied with your order.'

And how in the name of heaven can he
have learned that ?' said Mr. Argoll. Indeed,
he was startled to hear this. ' No one,' he
went on to say, ' but Byker knew this, and T
cannot believe that Byker was in league with
these accursed brigands.'

He did poor Mr. Byker a cruel injustice ;
but he probably spoke in his haste, and did
not really mean to impute to that excellent
and only too faithful servant a charge which
he was the last man to deserve. However,
the statement had the effect of making: Mr.
Argoll feel himself checkmated, or, as he was
wont to express it, 'in a hole.'

Well, Mr. Nerone,' he said, after a short
pause, ' I suppose there is no help for it.
Give me pen, ink, and paper, and I will write
the order, which you can translate to that
ruffian.'

As I do not wish to be accused of misleading
you, sir,' said Carlo, in a sanctimonious
tone, 'you had better follow your own impulse,
and not act upon any advice from me.

As I have told you, I may suffer also ; but if
you choose to pay a little more than I should
charge you for accommodation here, T don't
mind running the risk, and also giving you a
hint as to how to get the better of that
'* ruffian," as you call him.'

Can you really ? If you only tell me how
to trick him, I don't mind making a sacrifice.
T have about three hundred pounds left out
of the five hundred which I brought with
me ; that fellow Byker had two hundred of
them when he went to blazes — and I shall
gladly let you have two hundred in payment
of your bill, on condition that you show me
how to get off paying this preposterous
ransom.'

To cheat the brigand whilst professing to
accept his terms was one of those feats in
which Mr. Argos took delight. Carlo was
not less pleased to make sure of two hundred
pounds in ready money ; his bill could not
have amounted to more than fifty, according
to the conditions which he laid down the day
that Mr. Argoll and Mr. Byker took up
their abode in his hotel.

Carlo's counsel to Mr. Argos was as
follows :

First write the order, let me see it, and
then I will translate it to Giovanni. Should
he distrust me he may go to someone else to
learn if it be correct before releasing you, so
that there is no use in writing one which the
bankers could not act upon at once. But
you can at the same time write a note to the
bankers which I shall deliver before the
order is presented to them ; the police will
then be called in, and Giovanni will be
arrested.'

That's a capital suggestion,' exclaimed
Mr. Argoll. He added in a cheery tone,
If you should come to London, Mr. Nerone,
you shall have a place in my office. You are
the very man for me, and I am sure you will
find it far pleasant to live in London on a
good salary than to remain here amongst
these cut-throats.'

Carlo did not thank Mr. Argoll, or take
any notice of his offer. The latter did not
wait for him to say anything ; and he wrote
an order to this effect :

VOL. III. 42

'Pay the bearer the equivalent in Italian
money to ten thousand pounds sterling.

'J. M. Argoll.'

This was the form agreed upon by Messrs.
Blumenheim and Caradoc before Mr. Argoll
and Mr. Byker left Paris. As his custom
was in such a case, Mr. Argoll asked Mr.
Byker to copy the words for future use. His
illness had affected his memory, and he could
not now recall them. But Carlo helped him
by repeating the words, which, in order to
end the discussion, Mr. Argoll copied. It
was in conversation with Mr. Byker, whilst
Mr. Argoll lay on a sick-bed, that Carlo
learned from him the form for obtaining
money from a banking firm in Catania,
wherewith to arrange for making a railway
up Mount Etna. Mr. Argoll's signature, as
well as a copy of the form, had been forwarded
to Messrs. Palmar and Vilani, the
object being to enable a payment to be made
without question, in the probable event of
there being a pressing need for the sum being
paid without inquiry or delay. At the same

time he wrote a short note, addressed to the
bankers, which ran as follows :

Gentlemen,

I have given a brigand an order
on you for ten thousand pounds. When he
presents the order, please send for the police
and have him arrested. I wrote the order
under compulsion, and I do not wish you to
honour it.'

He handed this to Carlo, who, after reading
it, said to himself: ' Siam a cavalloj
meaning, — ' Now I'm all right,' — and then
said aloud :

That must be delivered before the order.
They know me, and will attend to what 1 say.'

Many thanks, Mr. Nerone ; you are
really a first-rate fellow. I shall never forget
your kindness.'

I deserve no thanks, sir. I am only
doing my duty ; and it is a pleasure to
serve a real gentleman like you,' was Carlo's
modest reply.

The party started early the following day
in a carriage which was engaged for the

42—2

purpose. Carlo and Mr. Argoll sat inside,
whilst Giovanni sat beside the driver. Giovanni
appeared to be unarmed. Mr. Argoll
noticed this, and mentioned it to Carlo, who
replied :

It is true that he has left his gun behind
him; but he has got his long knife concealed
under his clothes ; and if he were to
suspect you of playing him false, he would
stab you to the heart. The older brigands
seldom carry pistols, and they do not understand
how to use revolvers. Besides, the knife
has the advantage of making no noise, and
despatching a man with perfect certainty
when properly used.'

Mr. Argoll was not disposed, after hearing
this, to do anything at which Giovanni might
take umbrage. He spoke little during the
journey ; and when the carriage was stopped
to water and feed the horses, he kept as close
to Carlo and as far from Giovanni as he
could. He did not like Giovanni's looks,
and he trembled lest he should draw and
plunge his long and sharp knife into him.

When Catania was reached the party

drove to the principal hotel. It was late
in the evening, and, as Carlo sensibly remarked,
the bank would then be closed, so it
was no use going there till the morning.
He offered to deliver Mr. Aro^oll's note as
soon as the bank's doors were opened in the
morning. At half-past nine Carlo came to
Mr. Argoll's room and said :

I am going to await the opening of the
bank at ten, and I shall hand your note to
the senior partner before anyone else can be
served, so there will be no chance of the
order which Giovanni has got being paid.
I run a great risk, as you may suppose. If
Giovanni were to suspect me I should be
stabbed on the spot. If he thinks you know
what has been done, you will as certainly
be stabbed also ; so I advise you to keep
indoors to-day, and I shall return to Nicata
immediately after delivering your note.'

^ You are most considerate, Mr. Nerone,
and I really do not know how to thank you
sufficiently. As I said before, if you care to
come to London and settle there, I shall be
able to make you some return for what you

have done for me. Pray think this over ;
and now good-bye.'

For the first time since making his acquaintance,
he shook Carlo by the hand.
The latter appreciated the compliment, and
assured Mr. Argos that he should always be
most welcome at the Hotel des Et rangers in
Nicata, and that, if he ever visited London,
he would not omit to remind him of his
promise. They both parted with apparent
feelings of esteem for each other. Mr.
Argoll said to himself: ^ It is a great comfort
to have met that Nerone ; I like him so
much that I should be sorry if he were stabbed
by that brute, Giovanni.'

Being slightly uneasy, Mr. Argoll engaged
a guide and went to the bank in the afternoon.
He found it shut earlier than usual,
the day being a holiday. On the following
morning he returned and saw Signer Palmar,
who said in excellent English :

Our varied correspondents have written
to us about you, and we are most pleased
to make the personal acquaintance of so
distinguished a financier. Let me hope

that you have enjoyed your visit to Sicily,
and that you will stay a few days here and
partake of my modest hospitality.'

Many thanks for your kind wishes and
offer,' was Mr. Argoll's reply. He was
gratified to find that no interpreter was
required. He continued: 'But I am now
anxious to get home as soon as possible. I
have not been well, and I cannot say that I
have enjoyed myself

Perhaps, then, you will not require to
draw upon us for more money ; but we are
quite at your service if you should do so.'
Making a profound bow, he added : ' We
have never before been honoured by serving
so distinguished a client.'

Draw upon you for more money ! What
can you mean ? I have no use now for
the ten thousand pounds at my credit. Of
course, the order which T gave under compulsion
has not been cashed. I sent a note
explaining the matter, but so long as the
money is safe I do not care to prosecute the
scoundrelly brigand.'

You are under a misapprehension, my dear

sir,' was the reply, which was spoken in a
courteous tone.

Then, calling to a clerk, Signor Palmaroo
said :

Did not we pay away ten thousand pounds
in Italian money yesterday, to the landlord of
that hotel at Nicata ? I force his name.'

o

Yes, sir ; we did. Signor Nerone presented
the order, which was in Mr. Aroroll's
handwriting, and you may remember you
carefully compared it with the form sent from
Paris, and you found them to correspond in
every particular.'

Mr. Argoll stood aghast. He could scarcely
trust his ears. He exclaimed :

It was a rascal called Giovanni to whom
I was forced to give the order ; but I sent
a note by Mr. Nerone. saying that you were
not to pay the money.'

We know nothing about that, my dear
sir. It is Signor Nerone whom we believe
to be at the head of a band of brigands, only
we dare not say so publicly, as he has so
many friends amongst the Majfia. This man
entraps strangers in his hotel at Nicata. It

was he who got the money. Giovanni is
probably one of his followers, and simply
carrying out his orders.'

Oh, the blackguard ! — the consummate
blackguard ! So I have been done, after all.
That infernal plausible landlord has victimized
me ! And I was fool enough to think him an
honest man !'

Mr. Argoll went on in this strain for
several minutes, and he uttered many words
which were emphatic and condemnatory, and
which, though often uttered by men in their
haste, are seldom printed in full. He was
released from the toils, but he had left a
trusty servant behind, a loss to which he
could easily reconcile himself, and ten thousand
pounds, a loss which was equivalent to
much life-blood.

AT Melbourne AND NAPLES.

To each his sufferings ; all are men,
Condemn'd alike to groan, —
The tender for another's pain,

The unfeeling for his own.' — Gray.

R ARGOLL returned to Naples,
and put up ao^ain at the Hotel
Gran Bretagna on the Chiaja ; but
how he got there from Catania was a vague
reminiscence rather than a clear memory.
Both partners in the banking firm of Messrs.
Palmaroo and Vilani had accompanied him to
the steamer for Naples. He had not lost his
horror of the sea ; but he had a greater
horror of Sicily for the moment, so he could
not be induced to remain an hour longer in

Catania than he could help, and left it on
the afternoon of the day that he had an
interview with the bankers, and learned how
Carlo Nerone had tricked him.

He was very ill on board the steamer.
Messrs. Palmaroo and Yilani telegraphed at
his request to the proprietor of the hotel in
Naples at which he had stayed before, and to
which he wished to return, asking him to
send a person to meet Mr. Argoll on the
arrival of the boat. Often, when in the
Hotel des Etrangers at Nicata, did he wish
himself back in this Neapolitan hotel, and
returning to it now seemed almost like returning
home. He arrived late in the evening,
and went to bed at once. He had not
slept so soundly for several weeks, yet he
was not wholly refreshed on awaking in the
morning.

Being now in perfect safety, he was the
better able to review his conduct with calmness.
He felt both vexed and angry — vexed
that he should have lost so much money,
angry that he should have fallen into a trap
with his eyes open.

'Oh, that blackguard Carlo !' he kept repeating
to himself; he added, ' To think that he
should have had the impertinence to hint
that I was a prior-and of a different kind, bat
as bad as any of the others ! I wish more
than ever he would come to London. Yet,
perhaps, it is as well that I should not see
him again. The rascal may carry as long a
knife as Giovanni, and know as well how to
use it. If it had not been that these bankers
seemed so frightened about the Maffia^ as
they called it, and brigands, I should have
stayed to prosecute him. But it's no use
lamenting now. Thank heaven, I am out of
Sicily safe and sound !'

It is not surprising that Mr. Argoll fell
ill again, that he was disinclined to eat his
breakfast, that he was at once irritable and
languid. He was anxious to see a doctor,
and hearing from the hotel porter that Dr.
Murray, an English physician, lived not far
off, he sent for him. The doctor told him
that he chiefly required rest. He had been
subjected to a strain, and his nervous system
was shattered. He advised him also not to

travel for a week or two, as he was in a very
weak state, and said that he could not do better
than remain quietly at Naples. Mr. Argoll
was really exhausted, and was not in a condition
to travel. His worst symptom was
general debility and a disinclination to do
anything.

Having to rest at Naples and be thankful,
he wrote a letter to Mr. Herbert Bandol at
Athelstanee House, whom he had fixed upon
as Mr. Byker's successor, and ordered him
to start for Naples as soon as possible after
receipt of the letter, and to send a message
to Mrs. Argoll at West bourne before
leavings.

This letter gave Mr. Bandol both pain and
pleasure. He was sorry to learn that Mr.
Byker was dead. None but a brigand or a
monster hears of the death of a fellow-creature
with whom he has associated on
intimate terms without beinor startled and
grieved ; and even a brigand regrets the
sudden decease of a fellow-brigand who was
his father, brother, or son, and a monster like
Caliban might be similarly affected if he lost

anyone who had the misfortune of being his
relative.

Yet, on the other hand, Mr. Bandol had
sat in Mr. Byker's room for several weeks ;
he had been treated with the deference which
was due to one in such a position of trust
and authority ; he did not wish to return to
his subordinate position and duties, therefore
he was most anxious to succeed to Mr.
Byker's post and salary. On the whole, then,
whilst professing regret for Mr. Byker's untimely
death, Mr. Bandol could not repress a
feeling of satisfaction that his own lines had
now fallen in pleasant places. His fellow-clerks
soon made him feel the change. They
showed in many small ways that he had
risen in their estimation since possessing
more authority over them. It never occurred
to him that if he, too, were to die suddenly,
the clerk who was junior to him would rejoice
at the prospect of possible promotion. All
men are able to bear up bravely against a
stroke of heaven which smites their neighbours
and benefits themselves.

The news that something had happened

to Mr. Argoll was circulated in the City.
Almost simultaneously with the arrival of
the letter from him to Mr. Bandol, a few
lines appeared in The Morning Paper from
the Neapolitan correspondent of that journal.
The correspondent wrote :

I hear that Mr. Argoll, the eminent
financier, has returned to Naples from Sicily.
He is not in good health. His confidential
clerk, who accompanied him to Sicily, has
met his death after trying to ascend Mount
Etna without a guide. The principal newspaper
in Catania, Which has just come to
hand, states that the late Mr. Byker, for that
was the clerk's name, insisted upon making
the ascent alone. Pietro, one of the principal
guides, who is in the employment of Signor
Nerone, the well-known and highly esteemed
landlord of the Hotel des Etrangers at Nicata,
where Mr. Argoll and Mr. Byker were staying,
learnt, when it was too late, that Mr.
Byker had undertaken this mad venture, and
followed him in the hope of saving his life.
Unhappily, the guide, who was highly respected
in the neighbourhood, perished in

the effort to rescue Mr. Byker. This has
cast a gloom over the locality. It is pleasant
to have to record that Signor Nerone has
made ample provision for Pietro's widow.
Doubtless Mr. Argoll will be equally
generous towards Mr. Byker's wife and
family. Such is the substance of the statement
in the Sicilian paper, which professes
to have been written in accordance with
information received from Signor Nerone and
Mr. Argoll. I may add that Mr. Argoll is
now prostrate on a bed of sickness, and may
not be able to leave Naples for several weeks.
He is attended by an English physician, who
states that he is suffering from a nervous
affection, partly due to the shock which he
must have received at Nicata when he learned
that his confidential clerk had lost his life,
and partly to the great exertion which he
made, notwithstanding the impaired state of
his health, to recover the remains of the
deceased.'

Probably it is unnecessary to explain how
the story appeared in the Sicilian journal, of
which the correspondent of The Morning

Paper gave the above accurate summary.
Carlo Nerone bad always been very careful to
report to the police authorities of the district
the disappearance of any of the English or
American visitors at Nicata, and to explain
that the missing person had started to ascend
Mount Etna, and had not returned. He was
always careful to add that a search had been
made for the body, but in vain. An entry
was made in the police books that such an one
had left the Hotel des Etr angers to ascend
Mount Etna, and had lost his life, so that
wien disconsolate survivors made inquiries
about the missing man they were always
informed that he was dead, and they where
further told how he died, and that his remains
were irrecoverable.

On the present occasion Carlo had taken
greater pains than usual to disseminate his
version of the story regarding Mr. Byker.
A friend of his, who was a contributor to a
newspaper in Catania, and who, like himself,
was a member of the Alaffia, happened to meet
him on the evening of the day he bade Mr.
Argoll farewell. Carlo told his friend about

VOL. III. 43

the accident, as he called it, to Mr. Byker.
His friend wrote a paragraph embodying
the information, and it appeared in the next
number of the newspaper to which he contributed.
There was not much fear of any
person in Nicata writing to the editor to
point out any inaccuracy in the account, first,
because the newspaper was seldom seen there,
and secondly, because no one but the parish
priest could have read it if a copy reached
that small mountain village.

The other London daily morning journals
made no reference to Mr. Argoll's adventures
and Mr. Byker's death. As the information
had been communicated to the public in the
columns of The Morning Paper, their conductors
could not be supposed to have seen
it, nor, indeed, was it necessary, as the information
had reached the public eye. But as
the evening papers had no reason to ignore
what had been published in any morning one,
paragraphs were written on ' A Catastrophe
in Sicily,' which conveyed to the readers
much information about Mr. Argoll and
his clerk's death, but which did not contain

any clear indication of its source. One of
the triumphs of modern journalism is to get
early intelligence ; another is to furbish
intelligence to give it the look of being both
early and exclusive. Gipsies used to be
famed for their cleverness in dressing up
stolen children so as to make them pass for
their own. Some newspaper editors display
equal skill in appropriating and treating
paragraphs of news.

In the City the fate of Mr. Byker
attracted no notice, but Mr. Argoll was the
object of much sympathy. He was supposed
to have suffered greatly ; indeed, a story
got current about the heroism which he had
displayed when his clerk's life was in danger,
a story which was as well founded as many
other tales of daring: adventure and heroic
self-sacrifice.

In accordance with his master's orders,
Mr. Bandol sent the following message
by telegraph to Mrs. Argoll at Westbourne
:

Letter just arrived from Mr. Argoll. I
start in the morning for Naples. He desires

43—2

LIBRARY
'!M'V'FR.S!TYOFn.lfNniJ?

me to say that he has got safely back to
Naples, but that Mr. Eyker is dead.'

This was the message which was delivered
to Mrs. Argoll as she and the other two ladies
were sittings down to dinner in the Cavendish
Hotel ; its perusal took away their appetites.
So little was said about what they most wished
to know, that their anxiety was increased
rather than allayed by reading it. There was
no use sending to Mr. Bandol for further particulars,
as he had stated he was to start early
in the morning, consequently he would not beat
Athelstanee House when a telegram arrived
there. In the absence of definite details each
formed her own theory, and placed her own
interpretation upon the words of the message.
Mrs. Argoll was convinced that something
terrible had happened to her husband, and
that the truth had been suppressed. She was
disposed to think that Mr. Byker was alive,
and had written a letter to Athelstanee House,
and that Mr. Argoll was really dead, but that
the fact was kept back. Miss Solar did not
share this opinion, her sympathies being
excited bv the statement that Mr. Baker had

left his old mother to mourn for him, and she
felt for the poor woman. Miss Tacon had no
personal opinion, being ready to accept the
views of Mrs. Argoll and Miss Solar, and
to lament with them both.

The three ladies passed a miserable evening
and a restless night. The uncertainty-was
the hardest to bear. In the midst of her
grief Mrs. Argoll could not refrain from
thinking and avowing that, if her husband
were actually alive and safe at Naples, his
duty was to have written directly to her.
She considered it an unpardonable offence
on his part, having addressed a letter to a
clerk before writing to his wife. At one
moment she was crying over him as if he
were dead, at another she was mentally
reproaching him for treating her shamefully
if he were alive. She was in the habit of
rising early. On the following morning she
got up earlier than usual. Miss Solar and
Miss Tacon were both in the sitting-room
when Mrs. Argoll entered it in tears, and
exclaiming : 'I'm sure something dreadful
has happened. My poor husband !'

Do calm yourself, Mrs. Argos,' exclaimed
Miss Solar, in a tone of deep sympathy ; ' it
is probably not so bad as you suppose. The
first post has just come in, and here is a letter
for you, in Mr. Argoll's handwriting, and it
has the Naples postmark on it.'

Mrs. Argoll dried her eyes and took the
letter, saying :

^ It is as I thought ; my husband thinks
more of his business than of me. I-^ '

She was about to utter something uncomplimentary,
though not lifelike, but she
checked herself in time. She then opened
the letter, began to read it, looked confused,
if not ashamed, and said :

Isn't breakfast ready ? Ring the bell,
Ella.'

Why aunt,' Ella said, ' we are an hour
earlier than usual ; that is why the breakfast
is not on the table.'

Miss Solar looked out of the window.
She had the tact to understand that Mrs.
Argoll wanted time before she recurred to
the letter, and she said to Miss Tacon :

Come and look, Ella ; I declare there is



that old man with the little door acfain ; if
he wishes to sell it, I think I shall buy it.'

How can you dream of such a thing,
Berta ! What will your poodle do if he
finds he has a rival in your affections V

What Miss Solar may have thought of her
poodle's feelings in the case suggested cannot
be learned, because, when she was about to give
her view of the matter, Mrs. Argoll called out •

Come here, girls. You may like to hear
what is in my husband's letter. It is not
very long, but I am very glad to get it.'

Being short, it may be given in full :

" My dear Wife,

'' I suppose you have received all the
letters which Byker wrote to you from Nicata
when I was down with fever there, so that I
need not repeat what you have already heard.
I take the first opportunity to write to you
from Naples, yet, as you may be at Westbourne,
I shall tell Mr. Bandol, to whom I
mean to send a letter after this is written, to
telegraph to you that he has heard from me
and that I am safe here." '

*0h, then interrupted Miss Solar, 'this
letter could not have been delivered here so
soon as the one sent to London ; how kind it
was of Mr. Argoll to think of that, and telling
Mr. Bandol to telegraph !'

Mrs. Argoll said nothing. It was not her
custom to admit that she had been hasty in
speaking ill of her husband. She resumed
her reading :

" I am sorry about Byker having lost his
life, but, thank God, I am safe and sound,
though I have run great risks. I hope that
old Mrs. Byker will not trouble me about her
son's death ; he was often talking about her,
and he spoke as if I were doing him an
injury in bringing him away from his mother.
However, when he fell down a hole they call
the Inferno, he had some of my money in his
possession which I cannot recover, so I have
the greatest reason to complain. I have had
to send for a doctor, and fortunately there is
an English one here of the name of Murray,
whom I rather like. He tells me I must
rest for two or three weeks before continuing
my journey, and I have sent for Bandol, who

will take Byker's place. You will hear from
me soon again. Being weak, I feel it very
hard work to write. I hope Berta and Ella
are with you, and, with compliments to
both,

" I am, your faithful husband,

*''J. M. Argyll"'

Poor Mrs. Byker I Whatever will she
do V exclaimed Miss Solar, in pitying tones.

Mrs. Argoll added :

I am sorry for her, poor woman ; but I am
glad to hear that my husband is not seriously
ill.'

Won't you go and see her V asked Miss
Solar.

I think not, my dear ; I will send a line of
condolence to her, and that is enough.'

Surely not, Mrs. Argoll,' said Miss Solar,
with more warmth than was habitual to her.
The poor woman must stand in need of something
more than a few lines of sympathy ^
Besides, you have always told me that the
poor think far more of personal attention
when in affliction than any other form o^

help. I think you ought to go yourself to
Mrs. Byker.'

But how can I, Berta ? This is my day for
visiting Betty Simmons, and, poor body, she
will be sadly disappointed if I don't appear.
I really cannot go.'

It should be explained, perhaps, that
though Mrs. Argoll really sympathized with
her poorer and less fortunate fellow-creatures,
and was ready to take much trouble about
them, and to treat them with great generosity,
yet she liked to do these things at her own
time, and in her own way. Had Mrs. Byker
lived round the corner, Mrs. Argoll would at
once have put on her bonnet, and paid her a
visit, but she did not see any reason why she
should make a journey on her account from
Westbourne to Brixton Park. When a manor
a woman dies in the street in which one
lives, one feels sorry for either, even if the
deceased should be an utter stranger ; but, if
a hundred or a thousand persons die suddenly
in Hong Kong, the most soft-hearted person
in London does not think of making any
other demonstration than to say, ' How very

sad r Distance alters the view, in addition
to lending enchantment to it.

Well,' said Miss Solar to Mrs. Argoll, 'if
you will not accompany me, T must go alone.
I am so sorry for poor Mrs. Byker. Perhaps
she knows nothing of her son's death, and it
will be very sad if she has no one to comfort
her after she gets the news.'

Perhaps,' urged Mrs. Argoll, who was
almost inclined to make a sacrifice, and go to
the mother of her husband's confidential clerk,
Mr. Bandol may have written to her ; and
after all, nothing more can be done to soothe
her, except to osier her money, and I am sure
my husband \vill have done that.'

Judging from Mr. Bandol's telegram, he
can have had no time to write to Mrs. Byker ;
and if he had, he may not have thought of
doing so. I will go to town by the first train
in the morning, and I shall be able to tell
yon how the poor woman is.'

Mrs. Argoll made no objection ; if she had,
it would not have altered Miss Solar's
purpose. She started for London early in
the morning, and on arriving there, she drove

from the station in a flj direct to Brixton
Park. Mrs. Byker was at home. Indeed,
she had not left the house since her son's
departure. Her rheumatism hindered her
from moving farther than from one room to
another, and even this was not easy. She
had suffered so much of late, that she feared
lest she should have to take to her bed for
the rest of her life.

When the servant told her that Miss Solar
wished to see her, she was then in her bedroom,
and she could not understand the
message.

'You must have mistook,' she said to
Emma, the young maid of-all work ; ' Mrs.
Solar died a long time ago.'

But it's a young lady, ma'am,' replied
Emma ; ' she says she must see you, and has
come all the way from Westbourne.' Mrs.
Byker sent a message to the effect that she
would come and see the lady as soon as
possible.

It should here be stated that Mrs. Byker
had no one staying with her ; the friend
from the North had been obliged to return

home a fortnight before. But Mrs. Byker
was so cheered by the message from Westbourne
to the effect that her son was well, that
she no longer required anyone to comfort her,
and she was patiently awaiting his return.
When she entered the small parlour in which
Miss Solar was seated, she expressed her
regret to have kept her so long, saying :

I could not come sooner, miss, as my
rheumatics are so bad that T can only move
slowly at present. I know your name well,
but I have never heard tell of anyone of the
name since Tom's master died.'

'I am his daughter, Mrs. Byker.'

Lawks, miss, you don't say so ! So you
are the beautiful young lady Tom has said
was his master's daughter ? Don't sit on
that hard chair. Please try our sofa. Tom
often used to say it was like a feather-bed
compared with anything in Athelstanee House.
Really, it's most kind of you to call on me.
I hope you are in good health, and bring me
good news.'

Miss Solar was readier to cry than to
speak ; she wished she had not come. Yet,

having undertaken a painful duty, she was
determined to discharge it. With a voice
quivering and low, she simply said :

Mrs. Byker, I am very sorry to have to
tell you bad news of your son. A message
came about him last night.'

Mrs. Byker listened to every word, and
her maternal ear noted that Miss Solar said
about ' and not * from ' her son, and she also
inferred from Miss Solar's gentle but constrained
manner that something was wrong.
She exclaimed, in a tone of suppressed
anguish :

'Please, miss, don't keep anything back.
Is my boy dead T

Miss Solar could not restrain her tears at
the sight of the old mother's anguish, and it
was with a scarcely suppressed sob that she
said :

Mrs. Byker, I would give anything to
say that he is alive.'

The poor old woman almost fell forward as
she heard these words, and exclaimed, in a
half-articulate voice :

Oh ! my boy, my boy !'

Miss Solar rang the bell, which was close
at hand, went forward and took Mrs. Byker's
hand in hers, and said to the servant who
entered the room :

Help your mistress to the sofa.'
They put her on the sofa with difficulty,
where she lay almost unconscious, the tears
rolling down her withered cheeks, and the
words, ' Oh ! my boy, my boy !' being moaned
forth without ceasing.

Is there a doctor near V she asked the
servant.

Yes, miss. Dr. King, who has been
about mistress's rheumatics, stays round the
corner.'

Then run and tell him to come at once.'
Dr. King was at home, and came in the
course of a few minutes. Miss Solar told
him what had occurred. He examined Mrs.
Byker, and said :

We must give her a stimulant, and get her
to bed at once. I fear the shock will kill
her. It is the hope of seeing her son back
soon which has kept her up lately. I was
afraid of her slipping through my hands.'

With considerable trouble, the three carried
Mrs. Beaker to her room and put her to bed.

I wish, doctor, you would get a nurse ; I
can wait here and look after Mrs. Byker till
you find one. The fly which I got at the
station is outside, and you had better take it
now.'

Then I shall go off in the fly, and be back
as soon as I can. I quite agree with you
that a nurse is required.'

He returned with one at the end of an
hour. After his return, Miss Solar asked
him to speak with her in the parlour.
Handing her card to him, she said :

Perhaps you ought to know who I am V
Having looked at the name on the card, he
bowed, and she continued :

1 wish you to tell me if I can be of any
use to poor Mrs. Byker. If I can, I shall
gladly stay here.'

I think, Miss Solar, that you can do no
good at present. On the contrary, the sight
of you is bad for her now. What she requires
is a sound sleep. I hope, if you can call again
tomorrow, you will find her more composed

*Very well, then, doctor, I shall come
again after breakfast tomorrow. I am very
anxious about her, and if you wish for further
advice, do not hesitate to say so.'

Dr. King replied : ' I fear the best medical
skill can do little for Mrs. Byker ; all that can
be accomplished is to keep up her strength
with stimulants, and I doubt whether she
can recover except by a miracle. But if
I see the slightest hope of benefit from a
consultation I shall arrange for one tomorrow.'


Miss Solar drove from the house, grieving
bitterly. She knew that she had as much
money as she required for any purpose,
though she had no clear notion of the extent
of her actual wealth ; yet here was a case in
which she was ready to part with her money
freely, and yet doing so would avail little.
She resolved to go and spend the night in
Palace Gardens, and she returned there, to
the annoyance of the servants, whose private
arrangements were thereby interfered with.
She sent a telegram to Mrs. Argoll, saying
that she had decided to remain in town,

VOL. III. 44

and asking her to send her maid to Palace
Gardens.

There was little change in Mrs. Byker's
condition when Miss Solar called the next
day. At her request one of the chief
physicians in London was asked to meet
Dr. King in consultation, with the result
of a verdict being given that nothing could
be done by medicine for the patient. She
lingered for three days, gradually sinking
every hour. Every day Miss Solar spent a
few hours in the house, bringing Mrs. Byker
fruit and flowers, and doing everything that
the most thoughtful sympathy could devise
to cheer and comfort the poor old woman.
More than once Mrs. Byker recovered from
her lethargy, and talked to Miss Solar. It
was on the third day, almost at the same time
that Miss Solar had told her the sad news,
that Mrs. Byker seemed to revive. Then
Miss Solar, who was seated reading at the
bedside, rose, took her hand, and said :

Is there anything you would like, Mrs.
Byker V The latter replied slowly, in a distinct
tone :

Nothing, miss ; you've been very good
to me. May God bless you !' Then she
closed her eyes, and said in a scarcely audible
whisper : ' I'm going to join my boy,' and
passed peacefully away.

Miss Solar had learned from Dr. King
that he was a friend of Mr. Byker's, and that
when Mr. Byker was going to be married
several years previously he had made his
will, and appointed the doctor one of his
executors, the solicitor who drew the will
behoof the other. Now that the tidings of Mr.
Byker's death had reached them, the necessary
steps would be taken for authenticating
the death and obtaining probate of the will.
He assured Miss Solar that there was no
lack of money to pay all the funeral and
other expenses, and that her offer to be
responsible for them was not required. She
insisted, however, on attending the funeral,
which took place at Brixton Cemetery.
Mrs. Byker was laid in the vacant space
in the grave which had been bought at the
death of her husband, and where her son
used to say that he too would repose by the

44—2

side of his father and mother. She ordered
a plain tombstone to be put over the grave,
with the names of the husband and wife,
and with the addition of the words, * This
stone is also erected to commemorate the
death, in Sicily, of Thomas Byker, the son
of the foregoing, who was for many years
the confidential and valued clerk in the firm
of Messrs. Argoll and Solar.'

An announcement of Mrs. Byker's death
appeared in The Morning Paper, and there
it was stated : ' She did not long survive
the sudden death, in Sicily, of her son,
Thomas Byker, who for many years was
the confidential and valued clerk in the firm
of Messrs. Argoll and Solar.'

Mrs. Aroroll read this notice, and she
remonstrated with Miss Solar, saying :

I do not think, my dear, that there was any
occasion for the announcement in The Morning
Paper. Mr. Argoll is sure to see it, and
he will not like it. I have often heard him
say that some people make too much fuss
about their clerks.'

Miss Solar's reply was :

I am sorry you do not like what I have
done, but I could not help it. I am sure
that if papa were alive he would have done
the same thing. I remember him often
saying that Byker was a perfect treasure,
and he was always most kind to his clerks.
Besides, I could not help being sorry for
poor Mrs. Byker. He must have been a
good son to her.'

Nothing more passed between them on
the subject. Mrs. Argoll was right, however,
in her supposition that her husband
would be displeased. When he read the
account in The Morning Paper he first said :

Well, old Mrs. Byker is gone at last ; so
much the better. I was afraid she would
bother me about her son when I got back ;'
and then he went on to remark in very
savage accents, * I wish I knew who had
the impertinence to put this in the paper
about Byker. It is utterly preposterous
and disgraceful. If anyone in Athelstanee
House has done it, he will catch it.' Then
he ordered Mr. Bandol to write and inquire
as to who had drawn up the announcement.

The answer came back that Miss Solar had
sent it, with instructions to have it inserted.
Mr. Argoll thought it discreet to say no
more, and to let the matter drop.

Life at Westbourne went on with its
accustomed monotony. The summer season
was over, but those who like to spend the
autumn at the seaside had arrived, so that
the place was not empty, and even if it had
been, it would have been more enjoyable
than when crowded with cheap trippers, as it
generally was in the summer months.

The Reverend Paul Madron had returned
from Switzerland, to the great delight of Mrs.
Argoll, and the Reverend Basil Tepper had
gone for a holiday, greatly to the relief of
Miss Solar, and much to the sorrow of many
young ladies of whom he was the idol. Miss
Tacon did not take so much interest in this
important event as her aunt and her friend.
She was pleased to go to church ; but she had
not learnt to appreciate clergymen in private
life. As she said :

'I hate being lectured by clergymen ;
they always seem to think that I deserve a

good talking to, and yet I've done them no
harm.'

She had grown irritable of late, and her
personal sorrow was rendering her unjust and
disagreeable to others. She spent more time
alone, and she wrote at greater length in her
Diary than she used to do.

Whilst Miss Tacon was at Palace Gardens
her time was fully and profitably employed,
as her aunt entrusted her with a part of the
housekeeping, whereas in the Cavendish
Hotel she had simply to amuse herself as she
best could. As she would not help her aunt
in her charitable duties, she had more leisure
than she could turn to rational account. If
extracts from her Diary were given, it would
be seen that she regarded herself as an ill-used
and unhappy young woman ; but it would be
difficult to justify her complaints, and impossible
to read them without thinking the
worse of her.

More interesting than Miss Tacon's Diary
were Miss Solar's letters to her Aunt Irma ;
out of the number, the following one may
serve to show what the others were like,

and what were her views of the life which
she led :

'Dearest Aunt Irma,

I cannot help feeling anxious to get
away from this place, as I feel so unsettled.
At Palace Gardens I had my studio to go to
when I was bored generally. I have tried
sketching to pass the time, but I put it aside
after a few days, as I never took up my
pencil without thinking of Henry, and I
cannot help being sad when I think of him.
Several weeks must still elapse before anything
definite can be learned about the
Cosmos.

I cannot answer all your questions about
poor Mr. Byker, as Mr. Argoll has not sent
us particulars about his death. He writes
that it is an unpleasant story, which he
cannot tell now, and that is all we have
been able to ascertain. Mrs. Argoll did not
approve of my making "so much fuss," as
she called it, over the poor mother. It is
very strange that, though very kind and
charitable, and always visiting the poor

and giving them money — indeed, there is a
very old woman, named Betty Simmons,
whom she keeps altogether — but I don't
believe that Betty Simmons is so old as she
says, that is, about a hundred — yet Mrs.
Argoll says she never interferes with persons
like Mrs. Byker. Her father used to leave
his work people to shift for themselves in
their trouble, and her husband has an objection
to interfering in the private affairs of hia
clerks. You know that my dear father did
not think so, as he often spoke about a clerk
getting married or being ill ; and in either
case he always sent a present, or inquired
how he was getting on. However, I am not
sorry to have done what I could for Mrs.
Byker. The doctor who attended her knew
her intimately, and said she was an excellent
wife and mother, and everybody spoke in the
highest terms of her son. When T see Mr.
Argoll I shall try and get at the bottom of
the mystery of his clerk's death.

The great event of the day is that the
Reverend Basil Tepper has gone for a
holiday, and that the Reverend Paul Madron

has come back from one ; the first is the
curate and the second the vicar, and the
people who go to church here are divided
into two parties about them. I do not care
for either clergyman, and I do not get on
well with Mrs. ArgolFs visitors, as I am
unable to agree with any of them in
worshipping their idol. I hope Mr. Argoll
will soon be back, and then we shall remove
from this wearisome place to Palace Gardens.
Your loving niece,

Berta.'

A TRIP TO NAPLES AND BACK.

swallow, swallow ! flying, flying South,
Fly to her, and fall upon her gilded eaves
And tell her, tell her what I tell to thee,
O tell her, swallow, thou that knowest each —
That bright and fierce and fickle is the South,
And dark and true and tender is the North.

O tell her, brief is life, but love is long.
And brief the sun of summer in the North,
And brief the moon of beauty in the South !'

Tennyson.

RS. ARGOLL received the following
note from Mr. Bandol after he
had been a fortnight at Naples :

Madam,

I take the liberty of writing a line
to you at the request of Dr. Murray, who is

in daily attendance upon Mr. Argos, and
who says that his friends ought to be told
that he is not making satisfactory progress
towards recovery, and that he specially
wants rousing. He will be all the better
for a longer sojourn here ; but it is of great
importance that he should be amused, and
that his mind should be diverted from always
dwelling upon business. These are Dr.
Murray's words, as exactly as I can reproduce
them, and I hope you will pardon me
for sending them to you. I am, madam,
with great respect,

Your obedient, humble servant,
' Louis Bandol.'

Mr. Bandol hesitated long before he wrote
this note. When Dr. Murray suggested that
he should do so, he strongly urged that
Dr. Murray should write himself. The latter
replied :

If I were the family physician I should
have no scruple about writing ; but I have
only been called in as there was no other
medical man at hand, and I might be

unjustly suspected if I were to interfere.
Undoubtedly, if the case were desperate, I
should not hesitate ; yet there is nothing
serious about Mr. Argoll's case, and all he
wants to hasten his cure is a little rousing.
The presence of his wife or daughter would
do him a world of good. If he had a son in
his business I would tell the son to keep
away from his father at present. He has
business on the brain. What he requires,
more than medicine, is that he should not
dwell so much upon it.'

Before writing himself, Mr. Bandol tried
to insinuate to Mr. Argoll that he should
allow him to write to his wife. Since Mr.
Bands arrival, Mr. Argoll had dictated
every word of his letters, employing him
simply as an amanuensis. His custom
for years had been to tell Mr. Byker the
substance of what should be said, leaving:
him to express it in his own words. He was
a keen and shrewd judge of men. He had
perceived that Mr. Byker was wholly devoted
to him, and that he had no ulterior
object in view. That his forecast was

correct became clear when Mr. Byker refused
the offer to be taken into partnership.

Mr. Bandol was nearly ten years younger
than Mr. Byker, and was wholly different indisposition.
He knew his work, and he did
it honestly and well. He was a faithful and
efficient clerk ; he took pride in Athelstanee
House, and was proud of everything connected
with it, from the ghost which nobody
saw to the wealth of its head by which
nobody benefited. He had a good reason for
this. He was looked upon with respect by
the vast army of clerks in the City of
London when it was known that he occupied
a high place in Athelstanee House. City
clerks glory in belonging to a prosperous and
respected firm, just as soldiers glory in
belonging' to a regiment which has seen
service and gained renown in every quarter
of the globe.

Mr. Bandol's rise had been rapid. He
had a great advantage over his fellow-clerks
when he became one of their number. His
father was a Frenchman from Provence, who
had taken refuge in London after the 2nd of

December, 1851 ; had worked as a silversmith
in a leading Bond Street firm, and had
married an Englishwoman. He had taught
his son to speak, read, and write French ;
and when the son determined to be a clerk
rather than a handicraftsman, and Mr.
Solar was asked to get the lad a place in
his office (Mr. Bandol senior having been
brought into contact with Mr. Solar when
the latter had some silver ware made to his
order, and the task was put into Mr. Bandol's
hands), the lad's acquaintance with French
was the reason why he was immediately
taken on trial. He gave so much satisfaction
that, at the expiry of a month, he was
given permanent employment. It was his
knowledge of French, and his great use in
conducting the correspondence in that language,
which led to his rapid promotion,
until he first filled the place next to Mr.
Byker, and then stepped into the place
which Mr. Byker's death rendered vacant.

Yet, though Mr. Aro^oll valued Mr.
Bandol's services, he was loath to give him
his confidence. He suspected him, probably

on insufficient grounds, of betraying some of
the secrets of the office. Asa matter of fact,
Ml*. Bandol was innocent ; but Mr. Argoll
would not believe this. Moreover, Mr.
Argoll took Mr. Byker'sloss the more calmly,
not only because he did not care about anyone
else losing his money or his life so long
as his own was retained or preserved, but because
he felt somewhat afraid of Mr. Byker.
The latter knew things which Mr. Argoll
could not bear to have published for half
his fortune ; besides, Mr. Byker had grown
so necessary that it was difficult, if not
impossible, to run counter to him. Indeed,
the policy of Athelstanee House was laid
down and carried out by Mr. Byker as much
as by Mr. Argoll. The latter felt that it was
vain to stand out against his chief clerk once
he had made up his mind as to the propriety
of a particular course. It is true that Mr.
Byker was generally in the right, and that,
when Mr. Argoll rejected or would not listen
to his advice, the consequences were disastrous.
This was one of the grievances which simmered
in Mr. Aroroll's bosom, but which

never rose to his lips. He was afraid of
saying anything at which Mr. Byker might
take offence. In order to prove his independence,
he elected now and then to risk money
in his own way rather than make ifc in the
way Mr. Byker indicated. In other words,
Mr. Byker had become to him a benevolent
and well-meaning but most intolerable Old
Man of the Sea. Mr. Argos breathed freely
when he heard that Mr. Byker was in the
Inferno.

As he had resolved never again to become
the bondsman of his chief clerk, he did not
take Mr. Bandol into his confidence or let
him know any more of his private affairs and
his personal aims than he was obliged to do.
To use his own words, he made Mr. Bandol
know his place and keep it. He was confirmed
in his course of action by the belief
that, if he gave Mr. Bandol the opportunity,
he would become far more self-asserting
and intolerable than Mr. Byker had ever
been. The former was very ambitious, and
he had an overweening sense of his capacity.
He felt it a degradation to occupy a subor-

voL. III. 45

dilate post. His aim was to be a partner,
and if he obtained any hold on Mr. Argoli
he would use it to force his admission
into the firm. But, as has been said already,
Mr. Argoli was quite as sharp and skilful in
reading and counteracting his clerk's game
as his clerk was in playing it.

Though afraid to commit himself, Mr.
Bandol ventured to write the letter quoted
at the outset of this chapter without informing
his master of what he had done. He
hoped to enlist Mrs. Argoll's sympathy by
displaying so much devotion to her husband,
and he counted also upon Mr. Argoll's forgiveness
if he learned that his action had
been dictated by an anxious concern for his
welfare.

Yet Mr. Bandol had miscalculated in an
important particular. His note made Mrs.
Argoli very angry. She resented hearing
from him instead of from her husband ; she
was so ungenerous as to imagine that her
husband had told his clerk to write in order
to excite and increase her concern.

My husband is too bad,' she remarked to

Miss Solar and Miss Tacon, when she had
finished reading the note. ' He won't even
write to me with his own hand, when he
could have done so if he liked. I shall take
no notice of his clerk's note.'

Mrs. Argoll was, however, mistaken. She
had abused a woman's privilege of judging
by intuition. She never doubted that she
could discern the truth with unerring accuracy.


The simple truth was that Mr. Argoll
could not write to her, his illness having
taken a form which made it impossible for him
to use his pen. As soon as he began to write
he seemed to lose the physical power of continuing.
The words which were in his mind
did not proceed from his pen ; his ideas were
confused, or else he could not express all that
he wished to say. He had told Dr. Murray
of these symptoms, and it was their presence
which made the doctor counsel Mr. Bandol
to write what he did. The doctor felt convinced
that the symptoms might pass off if
Mr. Argoll's mind were divorced from business,
and he was as strongly of opinion that

45—2

if he did not soon get rest and relaxation the
symptoms would become chronic and more
serious.

Miss Solar was far quicker than Mrs.
Argoll in sympathizing with those in distress.
Her mind was of a finer texture, or rather it
was more sensitive to impressions. Besides,
Mrs. Argoll disliked being ^ put out as she
phrased it. She delighted in doctoring the
sick, and she was not less pleased when those
who were well took her medicines, but she
objected to doing good, even as an amateur
physician, in any other way or at any other
time than her own. Hence it was that she
would not go and see Mrs. Byker when the
painful news of her son's death had to be
communicated to the lonely old woman, and
now Mrs. Argoll was only too ready to grasp
at any excuse for not going to join her husband.
Had he been at Westbourne, she
would have nursed and over-dosed him with
unremitting care and complete self-confidence.
Had he arrived at Palace Gardens, she would
have gone thither by the first train ; but as
for changing her habits and the regular

round of her life by making a journey to
Naples, that was a step which she was incapable
of taking. Besides, she refused to
admit that her husband was really ill. She
cherished the notion that he was revelling in
pleasure at Naples, that he had enjoyed himself
so much in Sicily as to be reluctant to
return home at once, and that he was lingering
on the way at Naples, and alleging his
impaired health as a plea for his scandalous
conduct. It would be as unjust to her as she
was to him to deny that, if she believed her
husband was on his death-bed, she would
have hastened to him.

Many of the thoughts embodied in the
foregoing sentences found expression in her
own words. She had made up her mind,
and the more Miss Solar tried to reason with
her, the more was she fixed in her determination
to reject any view save that which
chimed with her own. At last Miss Solar
said :

Well, my dear Mrs. Argoll, it is no use discussing
the matter any longer ! I feel certain
that Mr. Bandol would not have written this

note without a good reason, and I am really
uneasy about my guardian. I cannot help
this, any more than you can help thinking
otherwise. If he were my father I know
what I should do, and as he is occupying a
father's place I shall do the same thing. As
soon as I find out when the trains leave I
shall start for Naples, and I shall telegraph
now that he may expect me any day.'

Without waiting for an answer from Mrs.
Argoll, she rang the bell ; and whilst the
waiter was coming she pencilled these words :

• Start for Naples by first train with maid.
Secure rooms. — Berta.'

And on the waiter appearing she told him
to see that the message was sent off at once.
Mrs. Argoll thought much but said nothing ;
nor did she quite know what to say. She
would not admit that she was wrong, and she
could not deny that Miss Solar was acting ina
kindly spirit. When she did speak, it was
as follows :

I must say, Berta, that you are very

impulsive. When I was your age I never
did things in so great a hurry, and I don't
think that it ever answers to act upon first
impressions. If I could stop you, I would ;
but, as I suppose you will have your own
way, do be well advised for once, and take
a large box of my pills and a bottle of liniment
with you. I am sure you will be the better
for taking a pill now and then ; and you may
give my husband a few pills, which will
probably be the kind of change which he
really requires.'

Miss Solar simply replied :

If taking the medicine with me or giving
it to anyone else will please you, Mrs. Argoll,
I shall do that, but you must not ask me to
take any myself I shall go and see my
maid, and give orders about packing.'

As Miss Solar had been accustomed to
have her own way from a child, she was self-reliant
as well as self-possessed. Had she
been carefully nursed and tended by an
anxious mother, she would have hesitated
to cross the street unattended. The reason
why American young girls astonish their

more staid as well as pampered European
sisters is that they are both permitted and expected
from their earliest years to take care
of themselves. Of course, too much independence
in a young girl may spoil her
quite as greatly as too little freedom ; and
had not Miss Solar possessed great strength
of character, as well as much common-sense,
she would have become a semi-masculine
young woman, who is quite as offensive a
being as a semi-feminine young man. As
it was, however, when she thought it her
duty to go to Mr. Argoll, she determined to
go at once, without troubling herself about
any escort or needing any other companion
than her maid, Pauline, who was a few years
older than she, and who was sent into the
world to repel rather than attract the opposite
sex by her looks, but who was a faithful
and excellent servant, who would go anywhere
with her young mistress, and do most
cheerfully whatever she was told.

When Miss Solar entered her room, and
before her maid had answered her summons,
Miss Tacon came in and said :

Surely, Berta, you cannot be in earnest !
Do you really think of going to Naples all
by yourself? I am sure I should never
dream of doing such a thing.'

Why not, Ella ? What is to prevent my
going ? Nobody will run away with me ;
besides, you know, I'm engaged.' As she
said this her voice almost failed her, and she
added, with a sigh : ' Poor Henry, I wonder
what he is doing now !'

This remark went to Miss Tacon's heart,
and she burst into tears. ' Oh ! if I only
knew that Lord John was alive, I should be
perfectly happy. I think of him night and
day.'

The painful subject which had been casually
introduced made both girls very sad, and
caused them both to relieve themselves by
weeping bitterly. But, on Miss Solar's maid
knocking at the door, they recovered their
composure instantly, as women, both old and
young, have the happy faculty of doing when
they please, and they began to talk when the
maid entered as if nothing had made either
of them shed so many tears. The discussion

as to what clothes to take and what to leave
behind soon turned their thoughts to the
commonplace and indispensable realities of
Hfe.

Everything was got ready with unusual
speed, and there seemed no reason why Miss
Solar should not start by a very early train
and arrive in time to cross the Channel by
the morning mail-boat. Indeed, she had
made up her mind to do so, despite some
suppressed grumbling from her maid about
the supply of clean linen being imperfect.
So she went to the sitting-room with the
intention of saying ' Good-bye,' as well as
Good-night,' to Mrs. Argoll, not wishing to
disturb her in the morning. Mrs. i\rgoll
said to her :

Well, my dear, as you have resolved to go,
there is no use trying to stop you. I am
sure my husband will be surprised, and not very
well pleased.' She paused for a moment, and
then she gave Miss Solar one of those cuts
which the most good-natured woman is apt
to inflict upon a sister when she is a little
out of temper :

I have no doubt, my dear, that the change
will do you good in one respect, as you apparently
cannot settle down to anything, and
I do not wonder at it, when you must be
anxious for news which is a very long time incoming.'


Now it was quite true that Miss Solar was
restless and unsettled, and this was not
strange. It miojht be that her sudden resolve
to start for Naples was as much due to long-inch
for a change, which mio^ht brings relief
from the thoughts which haunted her, as to a
very strong desire to nurse Mr. Argoll. However,
Mrs. Argoll might have spared her the
implied reproach and the veiled sneer ; but,
then, even a kindly matron like Mrs. Argoll
is a real woman when, as she would phrase it,
she ' is put out.'

Miss Solar was quite capable of parrying
au attack, and though much younger and
less experienced, she was a match for Mrs.
Argoll in making herself disagreeable when
she chose. So she took her revenge, not by
retorting that perhaps Mrs. Argoll would goto
see her husband if her presence would put

him in a better humour — she could not say
anything so cruel — but she replied :

Thank you, Mrs. Argoll, for your kind
interest in me. I am a little unsettled and
troublesome, and it is very amiable in you,
bearing with me as you do.^

Mrs. Argoll was at a loss for a reply which
should not display her vexation, when the
happy thought struck her to ask Miss Solar :

But what about money, Berta ; have you
enough for your journey V

Dear me ! I quite forgot that.' Then she
took out her purse, and found that it contained
a few sovereigns only ; Mrs. Argoll had not
much more, and Miss Tacon had nothing.

On ringing the bell, and asking the waiter
to inquire if a cheque for a hundred pounds
could be cashed, the answer was :

The clerk is very sorry, miss, but he has
not enough in the till, as all the notes and
gold have been sent to the bank ; but he will
be happy to let you have the money when the
bank opens in the morning.'

^ How provoking !' said Miss Solar.

How provoking !' echoed Mrs. Argoll, in a

tone which implied the reverse of the words
themselves. So the journey had to be postponed,
and the ladies spent another quiet
evening in each other's company.

In nothings have the rich a more marked
advantage over the poor than in the greater
ease and facility with which they can move
from place to place. Those who have enough
to live upon, but nothing for superfluous
enjoyment, have to be packed in railway
carriages and steamboats so closely that
travelling, especially by night, becomes a good
preparation for purgatory. The very rich
and the eccentric, like the late Duke of
Brunswick, may escape sea-sickness by crossings
the Channel in a balloon. Those for whom a
voyage in a balloon would have no attraction,
but who wish to enjoy the maximum of
comfort, engage whole compartments or saloon
carriages for themselves on the railway and
private cabins on board ship. Miss Solar,
though not given to spend her money out of
ostentation, was wise enough now to expend it
on her own comfort, and thus the journey of
herself and her maid to Naples was neither

fatiguing nor eventful. There was no one to
annoy her on board the steamer, because she
occupied a private cabin ; in the train she engaged
and paid for a compartment, so that no
one could annoy her there. Indeed, her
journey, which Mrs. Argoll deemed an
adventurous one, and which Miss Tacon
thought equivalent to rushing into the jaws
of destruction, was not more trying in itself,
though rather more fatiguing, than that
between Westbourne and London.

Having nothing else to do the evening
before her departure from Westbourne, she
had carefully examined the several routes
from London to Naples, and she determined
to proceed thither by way of Calais, Basle,
Milan, and Rome. She spent three nights on
the road, and a week after the time of her
resolving to go to Mr. Argoll she was shaking
hands with him in the Gran Bretagna Hotel
at Naples. His first words were :

This is very good of you, Berta ; but I
wish you had not given yourself so much
trouble. I suppose my wife could not leave
her charitable occupations, and I am not sorry

that she has not troubled herself on my account.
Now that you have come, I hope
that I shall soon get all right. I am really
glad to have some one to talk to, as I do
not wish to converse with Bandol except on
business.'

Miss Solar was shocked when she first saw
him. He looked many years older than when
they parted in London.

Don't speak of trouble, Mr. Argoll,' she
replied ; * you have been very kind to me, and
I am only too happy to be of any use to you.
1 don't think Mrs. Argoll is quite well, or she
would have come too.'

This last remark was well meant, but it did
not produce a favourable impression. Mr.
Argoll was in the habit of regarding his wife
as the incarnation of selfishness, and he would
have been disappointed if she had made a
sacrifice on his account.

Though really anxious to do her best to
make Mr. Argoll comfortable, Miss Solar
was also inspired with a desire to visit
Naples. Indeed, her desire to see it was
high strung. The weather was not very fine

as she and her maid journeyed from Calais
to Basle ; when crossing the Alps they found
it bitterly cold ; when crossing the plains of
Lombardy rain fell in torrents ; it was fine
and warm in Home, and Miss Solar expected
that the weather in Naples would be finer
still.

She had a front room in the hotel which
looked on the public garden, and from
which there was an exquisite view over the
sea, with Mount Vesuvius as the striking and
most conspicuous object in the background.
Miss Solar was assured that the view was
lovely ; when she looked out in the morning
neither blue sea nor burning mountain was
visible; the air was thick, the sk}^ was
leaden. The murky atmosphere of London
might be more gloomy, but it could not be
more depressing. What is called a Scotch
mist shrouded the prospect. Those persons
who visit Naples for the first time never
expect to find a Scotch mist there ; but one
of the advantages of foreign travel is that
one learns how much one country resembles
another when the atmosphere is thick and the

rain falls. If the air had been chilly and rain
falling in torrents in the Garden of Eden on
the day Adam and Eve were expelled from
it, and if the sun had shone brightly and the
air had been balmy outside, they would not
have thought their lot so hard at the moment.
The weather is an important factor in
pleasure. When it is fine and enjoyable, a
human being can almost dispense with the
blessings of a well-filled purse, a sound body,
and a good conscience.

For a week Miss Solar scarcely left the
hotel. The porter, the proprietor, and everyone
she spoke to had never known such
weather before ; indeed, it was no part of
their function to recall unpleasant experiences
; they added that it could not be fine
always, which did not console Miss Solar for
its not being fine then. However, when the
change did come she was enchanted. She
had never before beheld such a prospect as
that which met her eye from the window of
her room.

This is beautiful !' she exclaimed ; ' I can
now understand the rapturous strain in which

VOL. III. 46

Naples is spoken of. This is something like
a terrestrial paradise !'

Whilst weather-bound in the hotel, both
Miss Solar and Mr. Argoll had the more
leisure for conversation, and each had much
to ask and to tell. Till she came and talked
over all that had happened since they met,
Mr. Argoll had not heard of the reported
loss of the Cosmos. He was greatly shocked
and grieved, not so much because the vessel
might have foundered with all on board, but
because the lives of Lord John Cardonald,
his brother, and the mining expert had not
been insured.

I suggested that this should be done,' he
said to her, ' but my friends did not think it
necessary I knew I was right, and I am
vexed not to have insisted upon it. If their
lives had been insured, and nothing had been
heard of them again, we should each have
got our money back. As it is, we may have
lost everything.'

His loss would have amounted to one
hundred pounds — a sum which should not
appear serious to a man whose income

exceeded fifty thousand a year ; but to him,
as to all very rich men, the loss of one
hundred pounds appeared a terrible calamity.

*But, Mr. Argoll,' urged Miss Solar,
think of your poor brother,' and as she said
this the tears started to her eyes, while she
had to exercise all her self-command lest she
should break down and make a scene, which,
as she knew, Mr. Argoll hated beyond
measure.

Yes, Berta, it will be sad if they should
be drowned ; but then we must all die some
day, and it is no use fighting against fate.'

He was correct in his sentiment, but inexcusable
in his manner of expressing it : his
tone conveyed what he really felt ; indeed,
he would not have regretted to hear of his
brother's death. Like other men who bear
with fortitude or indifference the deaths ot
their friends or relatives, Mr. Argoll was in
abject terror of dying. He admitted, of
course, that he was mortal ; yet he could not
realize Athelstanee House existing without
him, nor could he understand how he should
ever cease to be the ruling power there.

46—2

The saying of the late M. Tiers, when
upwards of eighty, might have been uttered
with equal truth by Mr. Argoll, if he had
been capable of saying anything which deserved
to be remembered or quoted : ' We
know that we must all die, but we don't
believe it.'

The harsh, cynical tone in which he
regarded the possibility of all the members
of the expedition having gone to the bottom
of the sea made Miss Solar shudder. But
she had not then seen much of Mr. Argoll
except when he was on his best behaviour,
and she would have been pained to learn that
a man whom she had been wont to regard
with respect was really a cold-blooded cynic.

In the course of their talk, she expressed
a desire to hear the facts about his visit to
Sicily ; but he evaded her questions. She
had preserved a copy of The Morning Paper
containing the passage which has been quoted,
and she said to him :

*Do tell me, Mr. Argoll, how much of
this is true. I should so like to know, T
wish I could learn the facts about poor Mr.

Byker, whose mother seemed such a dear old
body.'

Well, Berta,' he replied, ' it is difficult to
tell you how much is true and how much is
false in any newspaper report. The whole
subject is a painful one, which I do not care
to discuss. But the accounts in the papers
are more puzzling to me than they can be to
you.'

Taking a copy of the Financial Observer
out of a bundle of documents on the table, he
said to her :

Read this, and tell me what you think
of it,'

It should be explained, perhaps, that two
classes of newspapers have sprung into existence
of late years ; the one class contains
more or less accurate accounts of actual
occurrences, the other detailed accounts of
what never occurred. The latter class — of
which successful specimens are to be found in
London, Paris, and New York, amongst
other places in Europe and America — has
many attractions for the public. A news
manufactory is more easily conducted than a

newspaper, and it pays far better. Neither
the cunning fabricators nor the skilful vendors
of false or adulterated news profess any
aversion to truth in the abstract ; but they
must live, and if the concoction and dissemination
of graphic falsehoods should
enable them to live in luxury, why should
others censure them ? To a philosopher they
have their place and function in the scheme
of creation. They represent the survival of
the fittest, provided the least worthy are
those whose tenacity of life is the greatest,
and whose staying power lasts the longest.
After reading the account, Miss Solar said :
Surely, Mr. Argoll, you deserve great
praise for acting with such bravery and
generosity

He was there described as lavishing money
to save Mr. Byker, and rising from a sickbed
for the purpose, and also as offering a
reward of many thousands of pounds to anyone
who should recover his body. Indeed,
he was depicted as being at once a modern
Bayard and a millionaire. He had no objection
to the flattery, but he was in dread

lest the facts should be disclosed, and his
conduct set forth in its true colours. So he
turned the subject by saying :

'Perhaps, Berta, when we are at Palace
Gardens again, I may tell you the whole
story ; only do not press me now, as it is one
upon which I cannot dwell without feeling
wretched.'

She did not require a second appeal to
prevent her recurring to the subject. She
gave him credit for mourning the untimely
death of Mr. Byker so keenly that she did
not like to revive or intensify a painful
memory. What still weighed upon Mr.
Argoll's mind was, first, that Mr. Byker
should have taken two hundred pounds with
him when he was engulfed in the Inferno,
and second, that Carlo Nerone should have
tricked him into paying ten thousand pounds
by way of ransom.

Mr. Argoll turned Miss Solar's presence
to profitable account. His bodily weakness
was so great that he still used a pen with
difficulty. He wished to write confidential
letters to Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc,

and others, and he did not desire that Mr.
Bandol should learn what he said to them.
Accordingly, he employed her as his amanuensis;
she gladly wrote at his dictation, and
what he said did not make the slightest
impression on her mind.

As everything in Naples was new to Miss
Solar, and as she had a greater desire to seethe
sights than Mr. Argoll, he had to exert
himself to gratify her, and the exercise did
him good. They drove from place to place.
Those who are acquainted with the points of
interest in Naples do not require to be told
where they went ; those who are not will
find enough in the guide-book of Murray
or Bedecked to enable them to form a fair
notion of what they saw. But what maybe
recorded here is not to be learned in
any guide-book, and that is, that Miss
Solar was driven almost frantic with the
noise. Mr. Argoll was so much accustomed
to the roar of the London streets
that he was not impressed or annoyed by the
din of those in Naples — a noise which seemed
to increase in intensity towards midnight,

when the streets in the heart of London are
slowly but perceptibly growing silent. The
noise in Naples begins at an earlier hour
and continues to a later one than in any
other Italian city save Genoa ; and in Genoa
the pandemonium of human voices is not
perceptible at a moderate distance from the
port.

Mr. Argoll revisited Pompeii, and he liked
the second visit better than the first, when
Mr. Byker accompanied him. Mr. Byker
had to be told all about Pompeii. Miss Solar
had read The Last Days of Pompeii, She
was overjoyed to find that there was one
book she liked with which her guardian was
familiar. She compared notes with him,
plied him with questions, and started topics
about which he was ashamed to confess his
ignorance. She displayed a curiosity and
enthusiasm far greater than his own, and it
deprived him of the supreme pleasure of
teaching her something — a pleasure which he
might have enjoyed if she had not read the
novel and remembered its contents even
better than he did.

Mr. Argoil stood in a slight dread of his
ward. She had read books by the hundred
of which he did not know the names ; she
could speak modern languages fluently of
which he could not pronounce a word correctly
; she was, in short, far too cultured for
his taste. He preferred young ladies like
Miss Tacon, who had no superfluous knowledge.
Nor did Miss Solar's interest in the
Aquarium find a response in his breast. She
went into raptures over the sights there presented.
He had visited the Aquarium at
Brighton, and thought it a gloomy and dull
place ; he admitted that the Neapolitan one
was much brighter, larger, and finer ; yet what
was the use, he said, of having fish swimming
about in a tank 1

Surely, Berta, fish look far better in a
fishmonger's shop. Besides, they are of some
use there : they can be bought and eaten.'

Oh, how can you say so, Mr. Argoil 1 I
cannot bear the sight of dead fish, unless they
are cooked, and then they do not look like
fish. The only disappointment Lord Beaconsfield's
novels ever gave me was with reference

to fish exposed in a shop. I suppose
you've read '' Lothair'''^

Mr. Argoll had not ; but, after professing
a full acquaintance with a novel by Lord
Lytton, he was ashamed to avow to his ward
that he had not read one of Lord Beaconsfield's.
Instead of saying ' No,' he replied :

He has written so many that I cannot
remember them all, and I've quite forgotten
the one you name. But what about it V

Why, I was so struck with what he said
about a fishmonger's shop in Bond Street at
what he called the " matin hour," that I once
persuaded aunt Irma to get up and go with
me before breakfast to see the sio^ht. I have
not a good memory for passages of the kind ;
but this one I have never forgotten. It runs
something in this style : ^' The palm, perhaps,
would be given to the fishmongers, with their
exuberant exhibitions, grouped with skill,
startling often with strange forms, dazzling
with prismatic tints, and breathing the invigorating
redolence of the sea." Well, the
sight and the smell were not at all agreeable.
When I got home and found there

was sole for breakfast, I could not eat a
morsel. Now, to see fish in the Aquarium is
quite different ; they are really lovely. There
is nothing I should like so much to have as
an aquarium on a large scale.'

Everyone to his taste, Berta. I like fish
boiled or fried in a dish on a table far better
than swimming about in an aquarium.'

So the days passed agreeably away. In
the evening they played at draughts, which
he knew, and at dominoes, which she taught
him. The weather continued heavenly. Mr.
Argoll's strength and spirits slowly returned,
and three weeks after Miss Solar's arrival
he felt quite a different man. Dr. Murray
informed him that he had made sufficient
progress to be able to return home by slow
stages.

Once in motion, Mr. Argoll felt disinclined
to halt. Yet, at Miss Solar's urgent request,
he took a rest at E-ome. She wished him to
continue his journey to Paris by way of the
Riviera, as she desired to behold the coast from
Genoa to Nice, of which she hai read glowing
accounts ; and she had a great desire to stop at

Monte Carlo, and see, first, whether the place
were as wicked as it was painted, and, second,
what a wicked place looked like. But this
foolish or morbid curiosity, as some persons
mio^ht terra it, was not gratified. Mr.
Argoll had a greater dislike than when
he left England to journeying along the
Riviera. So the pair went to Paris by way
of Turin, and they took a rest in the city of
light and the capital of civilization before
returning to the capital of England.

In Paris, as in Naples, Mr. Argoll had to
spend much time going sight-seeing to please
his ward. He did not object to driving about ;
but he considered it a frightful infliction to
spend hours in museums and picture-galleries.
Miss Solar was enraptured when he was
groaning in spirit. Yet, though this enforced
sight-seeing did not conduce to his
pleasure and did not add anything to the
knowledge which he cared to retain, he was
physically benefited by it. His mind got
farther out of a groove ; his thoughts were
diverted more completely from business.
Though Mr. Argoll did not enjoy the ten

days which he spent in Paris, he felt all the
better for this visit. What he bore with
least repining was going to the theatre and
the opera. He did not understand French,
and he did not like operas ; but he could
sleep soundly throughout the performance, and
thus the evening passed away at the theatre
or the opera to his comparative satisfaction.

Of course he saw and had much serious
talk with Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc.
They were greatly concerned about an
Egyptian loan, in which they held a large
interest. They had heard that Mr. Palestine,
an eminent English statesman, was
about to visit Egypt with a view to make
arrangements for the bondholders being paid
what they considered their due, and they
pressed upon Mr. Argoll the importance of
fretting" Mr. Palestine to sive close attention
to the class of bonds of which they and their
friends were large holders. In order to
stimulate Mr. Argoll's ardour, they entered
into an agreement according to which one
hundred thousand pounds would be received
by him in the event of this Egyptian loan

being ranked amongst those which were to be
included in the settlement which was in contemplation
between the Government of Egypt
and its creditors. It was most gratifying
for them to learn, before many months
elapsed, that Mr. Argoll's personal representation
had proved effectual : it was not less
gratifying to him when the promised hundred
thousand pounds were placed to his credit.
Moreover, he obtained high praise as a benefactor
of the bondholders.

Mr. Argoll and his ward dined at the
houses of both partners in the firm of
Blumenheim and Caradoc, and both were
smitten with her. Each regretted that he
was not a bachelor, as Miss Solar's person
and purse attracted him. Their wives did
not like her. As they could not speak
English, they could not talk to Mr. Argoll,
and they had to converse exclusively
with Miss Solar, and their supersensitive
and patriotic ears were tortured by
her German accent. Indeed, as she had
been taught French by a German, and had
enjoyed few opportunities of speaking or

hearing it spoken in France, it is not strange
that her accent should be peculiar. Her
beauty and reputed wealth were no recommendation
in the eyes of these ladies when
they learned that she was engaged to be
married. Each might have forgiven her
German accent if she could have made her
the wife of one of her sons.

Before starting for London, Mr. Aro^oU
wrote to his wife, asking her to go back to
Palace Gardens, and set everything in order
for him. His command was grudgingly
obeyed. His carriage was in waiting for
him at Charing Cross station. As he drove
through the London streets, he felt livelier
than he had done for months, and the sight
was a pleasure to his eyes. He said with
perfect sincerity to Miss Solar, as they drove
through the gate leading to his house :

Well, Berta, I now feel there's no place
like home after all.'

She was more indifferent than he ; indeed,
she would gladly have prolonged her stay
abroad. Yet she, too, had her spirits raised
to fever height when, on the hall-door beincr

opened, Miss Tacoii rushed forward to meet
her in a state of uncontrollable excitement,
exclaim minor :

Oh, Berta, there's a letter just come for
you ; and I think it's from South America !'

VOL. III. 47

BACK IN THE CITY.

Ye're a young gentleman,' Bailie Nicol Jarvis replied,
'and an Englishman, and a' this maybe very fine to you;
but for me, wha am a plain man, and ken something o'
the different values of land, I wadna gie the finest sight
we hae seen in the Hieland for the first keep o' the
Gorbals o' Glasgow ; and if I were ance there, it sultana be
every full's errand, begging your pardon, Mr. Francis,
that sold take me out o' sight o' Saint Mungo's steeple
again !' — Sm Walter Scott's Roi Roy.

^^^HOUGH Mrs. Argoll was glad to
see her husband asrain, her manner
conveyed an opposite impression.
Her greeting was distant and constrained,
implying that she did not mean to commit
herself by any excess of enthusiasm.

It has been said already that Mrs. Argoll

was a good-natured and kindly-disposed
woman ; it should now be added that she was
not uniformly good-natured, and that her
best qualities were often in abeyance. So
long as it suited herself and her plans, no
one would do more to serve another. She
was charitable, but at her own time and in
her own way. When suddenly called upon
to subscribe to a fund for the relief of
distress, she was quite as capable as her
husband of giving an emphatic refusal. Yet
she was not so consistent as he in declining
to help or relieve a neighbour. After
refusing to give money when asked, she
would forward a contribution to some other
charity for which her support had not been
solicited. Much of her goodness, then, was
manifested by fits and starts. The more
unpleasant side of her nature was shown
when her husband arrived. One of the first
phrases which she addressed to him was :

I hope, J. M., you have had a lesson, and
will take my advice the next time you think
of leaving home. Had you come with me
to Westbourne, we should both have been

47—2

happier. I am not surprised to see you
looking so ill.'

Well, my dear, I am very glad to be back
in my own house and to see you ; so do not
spoil my pleasure by fault-finding. You will
lose your trouble if you try and frighten me
about my health. I never felt better in my
life;

As the gong sounded for dinner, an outbreak
of hostilities between the husband and
wife was postponed.

Mrs. Argoll thought herself aggrieved at
having had to leave Westbourne at a very short
notice. She had made many arrangements and
appointments which would have occupied her
another week, and she entertained an ill-founded
notion that her husband had returned
a week sooner than was necessary in order to
annoy her. Thus she was in no mood to
give him a cordial reception. She had the
two-fold grievance that her husband had
stayed away too long and returned too soon.
A double grievance gives a woman a terrible
power of annoyance, as she will never admit
that both parts can be adequately redressed

and atoned for. If the one half be disposed
of, the other remains to represent and be
treated as the whole.

Everyone was stiff and constrained at the
dinner-table except Miss Solar, who, though
she spoke little, seemed in capital spirits.
Miss Tacon was manifestly anxious. She
had not managed to have a talk with her
friend before dinner, the latter having said :

Wait till afterwards, Ella ; I have so much
to say that I don't wish to begin now. I
shall go to my room as soon as dinner is over,
and you may come to me there.'

This did not satisfy Miss Tacon's anxiety
to learn what was in the letter from South
America ; on the contrary, it kept her in a
state of half suppressed uneasiness.

When the dessert was on the table, and
the business of eating did not occupy the
whole thoughts of the party, Mrs. Argoll said
to Miss Solar :

Is it true, Berta, that you have received
a letter from South America ? Ella said she
was sure you had, but I forgot to ask you
sooner, as I could not think of anything but

the pleasure of having my husband back
again.'

Her husband heard what she said, but he
refrained from origins: utterance to the remark
which rose to his Hps : * I did not fancy, my
dear, that you were delighted to see me back
again.'

Addressing Miss Solar, he said :

So you've had a letter, Berta. I hope
Lord John is all right.'

Berta did not care whether Lord John
were all right or the reverse, and she noticed
that her guardian carefully and, as she
thought, spitefully avoided even acknowledging
the existence of his brother. This was
characteristic of him, no doubt ; but she did
not like it. Indeed, she was gradually
arriving at the conclusion that Mr. Argos
was alike heartless and selfish ; yet she instinctively
shrank from admitting this to herself.
She liked to have a good opinion of the
people she lived with ; she had once regarded
Mr. Argoll as a model of all the minor virtues,
and she naturally dreaded being disenchanted
and compelled to see him in another and less

estimable light. It was to humour him,
rather than to give expression to feelings
which where stirring in her breast, she
refrained from mentioning that Henry had
written to her, or that he was well and happy,
so she quietly replied :

I am glad to say that Lord John Cardonald
has been enjoying himself.'

So he is not drowned after all !' observed
Mr. Argoll, and added, 'Thank God for
that ! I am glad now that we did not insure
his life and those of the others, because if we
had, the money would have been thrown
away ; besides, the premium would have
been no joke. I hope he will have the sense
to send his report by post, so that if anything
should happen to him on his return journey
we shall be no losers.'

But what do you mean about insuring
Lord John's life V asked Mrs. Argoll, to
whom all such matters were mysteries.
That wouldn't keep him alive, surely !'

No, my dear ; but if he died, we should
get back enough to save us from a loss.'

I don't understand these things, J. M.,'

was Mrs. Argoll's truthful comment ; she
added, ' I suppose you know best what todo
; as it is, I am very glad to hear he is
alive and well, even though his life is not
insured.'

Miss Tacon, who said nothing, was in the
seventh heaven of delight. It was enough
for her to hear that the hero of her dreams
was well instead of having become, as she
had feared, food for the fishes.

The party separated without meeting again
in the drawing-room. Mr. Argoll went to
his study to look over a pile of papers which
had accumulated during his absence, and he
was so absorbed in the task as to sit thereafter
twelve o'clock had struck, and to forget
his own rule about turning off the gas at that
hour. Mrs. Argoll went to bed, there to
meditate upon her wrongs. She was convinced
that few women were so ill used as
she, and she was not sorry to think that she
was a victim. Women who are endowed
with a considerable measure of silliness find
nearly as much gratification in fancying that
they are misunderstood and badly treated

as sensible women find pleasure in making
the best of life.

When Miss Solar told Miss Tacon that
she would read to her Mr. Henry Argoll's
letter, she was inexpressibly grateful. As
the letter is not long, and does not contain
any love secrets, it may be given in full
without filling too much space and without
any breach of confidence. The letter was
posted at Punta Arenas, within the Straits
of Magellan, immediately after the arrival of
the expedition :

Dearest Berta,

'I have but a few minutes for writing.
There is just a chance of a letter catching
the Liverpool steamer which has stopped
and sent a boat ashore. There is a postoffice
here. What makes me the more
anxious to write is that I have seen a copy
of the Buenos Ayres Standard, which one
of the sailors has bought on shore, and in
which there is a telegram about the Cosmos
having been run down and sunk at sea. I
suppose that vessel was one of the " ocean

tramps " which go from place to place to pickup
freight, but it is not the Cosmos of the
line from Liverpool to Valparaiso, belonging
to Messrs. Shute and Stanwick, in which we
sailed. We were all well, and looking forward
to much harder work than eating four or five
meals daily on board ship, which was our
principal occupation during the voyage here.

Lord John is in splendid health ; he has
been in his element, and enjoyed the respect
paid to him by everyone on board, from the
captain downwards, as being both a lord and
a captain in the navy. I like him better
than I did. He is quite another fellow on a
ship than on land, and I may say we have
become o-reat friends. He often tells me
that I am a lucky dog, and I agree with him.
When you see him again, you will remark an
extraordinary change in his appearance. I
must not say what it is ; but you will soon
find it out. He has promised to call at
Palace Gardens immediately after his return,
as I have told him that you will now be very
glad to meet him again. The man says that
I must give him this note, otherwise it can't

go in the bag, which is kept open for it, so I
can only add that I hope you are not forgetting
your own

Henry.'

Oh, Berta I what can be the matter with
Lord John? was Miss Tacon's anxious
remark, after the letter had been read to
her.

Miss Solar did not care, so she replied,
with an indifference which was not assumed :

I really cannot say, Ella. I should not
think it can be of much consequence.'

Miss Tacon was on the point of bursting
into tears, when it suddenly occurred to her
that there might be a lady in the case, and
she grew still more uneasy. * Surely Lord
John was not engaged to be married,' yet
she thought that it was quite possible ; indeed,
the remark about his calling at Palace
Gardens seemed to imply that Mr. Henry
Argoll had no longer any excuse for jealousy,
and it seemed to her that his engagement
or marriage must be the explanation of the
mysterious statement.

I wish I had never heard your letter !'
was her piteous exclamation.

She was more wretched than she had
been when fearing lest her paragon amongst
men had been drowned. She considered
it cruel in Mr. Henry Argoll making such
a mystery about a matter which might be
life or death to her. She had always regarded
him as a disagreeable man ; she was
now of opinion that he was a very wicked
one.

Till Mr. Argoll went to Athelstanee House
the next day, he had not realized how dark,
dingy, and uncomfortable it was. There was
not much difference between it and other
offices in which City magnates spend several
hours daily and amass large fortunes. Since
seeing the comfortable and well-Ut office of
Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc, he was
struck with the contrast. Had he been
absent for a fortnight only, he might not
have been so much impressed as he now was
after an absence of three months. Having
grown accustomed to the bright sunshine
and clear sky of Italy, he felt it a great

hardship to labour in the dirty and comfortless
room in his office, where the sun's rays
never entered, even on the rare occasions that
they were visible outside.

Quite as annoying as the squalid look of
the place, where he had spent so many years
without remarking anything objectionable,
was the absence of Mr. Byker. He now
missed him as he never thought he should
have done. He had not realized how serviceable
he was till he lost him. Mr.
Bandol did the work required of him quite
as well as Mr. Byker; he stood on far
greater ceremony, never entering the room
without permission, and never hazarding
an opinion. Whilst Mr. Byker lived, Mr.
Argoll often wished for such a state of
things, and felt annoyed that his confidential
clerk should be far too confidential.
It is true that he could keep business secrets
from Mr. Bandol which he would not have
ventured to have kept from Mr. Byker ; on
the other hand, this entailed more labour
upon himself, and he found the labour irksome.
What specially irritated him was

that he could not help putting the question
to himself at every moment :

What would Byker have thought of this V
or, ' How would Byker have acted in such a
case V

The conviction was brought home to him
that Mr. Byker was really his right-hand
man, if not the leading person in the office.
By trusting him so long and so much, he
had lost confidence in his own judgment, and
there were very many important questions
about which he found he was ignorant. Now,
indeed, he would have given a large sum of
money to restore Mr. Byker to life, and now,
for the first time, he most sincerely deplored
his death.

Mr. ArgolFs whole position in the City had
undergone a change. He felt himself a more
important personage, because he was treated
with increased deference and respect. This
was partly due to his action in handing over
twenty thousand pounds to the liquidator
of The Riviera Sanitation Company. The sum
itself sufficed to pay the company's debts
and to give all those concerned in the liquidation

larger pickings than would otherwise
have fallen to their lot. These persons and
their friends were loud in Mr. Argoll's praise.
Though the shareholders had lost so much
they were ready to affirm that he had acted
most handsomely, and with a liberality which
did him honour. It is so rare for a financier
ever to disgorge, unless compelled by law,
that Mr. Argoll's voluntary act was regarded
as a piece of magnanimity. People never
reflected that, if he had not done so, he might
have had to pay more or to suffer severely at
the hands of justice ; nor could they know
that, after making such a large payment, he
remained a very large gainer. As it was,
Mr. Argoll profited by the course he had
taken, and he rose far higher than before in
the estimation of fellow-citizens, those who
hold that honesty is the true policy when it
brings grist to the mill.

Mr. Argoll was enabled to do his City
friends a service which endeared him to them.
He had just reason for thinking that his
representations would have great effect upon
Mr. Palestine ; and, indeed, he was confident

that the distinguished English statesman
would take good care that the holders of
Egyptian bonds received their full pound of
flesh from Egypt. In view of this contingency,
Mr. Argoll saw his way to make
much money. At that time, all classes of
the Egyptian loan were very low in price,
and the price of the unrecognised class, in
which Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc were
interested, was the lowest, proportionately, of
them all. If the arrangement were effected
in the manner Mr. Argoll desired and hoped,
each class would rise in value, and the last
one would have the greatest rise of any. He
acted upon this calculation, and he gave his
friends and acquaintances a significant hint
to do likewise.

Those who were not the friends of Mr.
Argoll — and, like other good men, he had a
few enemies — thought it their duty to run
counter to him, and they were selling, or in
City phrase 'bearing,' Egyptians, whilst he
and his friends were buying, or * bulling,'
them. Mr. Argoll proved to be in the right.
The scheme finally agreed to was that which

suited his purpose and views, and he became
a much richer man. Indeed, the million
which he had regarded as the one object of
his life and ambition to possess was nearly
multiplied by two as the result of his speculations
in Egyptians. His friends were
enriched and enthusiastic also. His enemies
lost their money and their tempers ; what
was better, as far as he was concerned, they
gave up the struggle with him. The man
who is recognised as too strong for his
neighbours becomes a deity in the City.
He is worshipped as blindly in the days
of his recognised power as he was opposed
in the days when he struggled for the
mastery. In the world of finance, might, in
the concrete form of a long purse, can always
prevail. Providence is on the side of the
millionaires.

There was a danger, indeed, of Mr. Argoll
becoming a person as legendary as Jack the
Giant Killer. He obtained credit for feats
which he had never performed. He was regarded
with the esteem and awe which in
the country of savages are displayed towards

VOL. HI. 48

medicine-men. The true story of his
adventures in Sicily was not known ; but an
imaginary one was generally accepted as the
truth.

As Mr. Argoll was in the habit of saying,
'Poor Byker I I miss him sadly' — being
moved to do this by the greater trouble he had
to take now that Mr. Byker was no longer
within call — it was supposed that a generous
sympathy for his faithful clerk had urged
him to perform heroic deeds in a vain effort
to save his clerk's life. Those who were
well informed, and anxious to ingratiate
themselves with Mr. Argoll, used to speak in
his presence of the noble way in which he
had striven to rescue Mr. Byker from death.
It was cited, in proof of Mr. Argoll's kindly
feelings and tender nature, that when Mr.
Byker died he caused a notice to be inserted
in The Morning Paper vv^hich was most complimentary
to his deceased clerk. Mr. Argoll
neither contradicted nor confirmed these statements.
All he used to say was :

These are unpleasant matters, about which
I don't like to talk.'

His hearers took this to be a confirmation
of their belief that his mind was highly sensitive,
and that he shrank from dwelling upon
anything which was painful, and they gave
him credit for extreme delicacy of sentiment.
Even Mr. Aro^oll's enemies were obliged
to admit, as they listened to these fables :

Well, that fellow is better at bottom than
we should have supposed. Though we don't
think he always acts on the square here, he
seems to have shown himself a regular trump
in Sicily.' They were almost disposed to
add, ^ We are all proud of him.'

It was an abiding satisfaction to Mr. Arofol]
that nothing appeared to be known about
his having had to pay ten thousand pounds
for ransom. He felt certain that his prestige
would diminish if the story of his dealings
with Carlo Nerone were made public. He
would then appear in the character of a dupe,
and a financier who has to admit that he has
been the victim of another is as much discredited
and disgraced as a general who loses
a battle owing to his incompetence. If the
ease with which Carlo imposed upon Mr.

48—2

Argoll had been understood, he would be
regarded as a fair object for plunder. As it
was, he received credit for preternatural
sharpness, and none summoned up courage to
grapple with him. Burglars do not try to
break into a house which they know to be
well guarded. The City man who has a
reputation for great astuteness is spared from
the assaults of the swindler.

It was not quite easy for Mr. Argoll to
give a plausible explanation why he had
returned without acquiring a Sicilian estate
and the title of Count. He had boasted,
rather foolishly, of obtaining both. He had
no trouble with the Duke of Fontainebleau, to
whom he wrote, saying that after visiting
Sicily he had changed his mind as to becoming
a landowner there. He added that he
had been very ill during his visit, and the
Duke naturally concluded that the attack of
illness had prejudiced him against the island,
and he replied with an expression of regret,
and a hope that Mr. Argoll was restored
again to his usual robust health.

And here it may be noted that amongst

the most remarkable changes in Mr. Argos,
none was more extraordinary than the improvement
in his physical condition. Having
recovered from the fever and the shock in
Sicily, he seemed transformed in other
respects. This was due to following Dr.
Murray's advice. That physician soon perceived
that Mr. Argoll was a victim to quack
medicines, and he advised him to try and
break himself of the bad habit of drugging
himself As he could not get some of his
favourite medicines at Naples, he had to do
what Dr. Murray suggested. By ceasing
to take medicine when he did not require
any he regained much of his lost health.
Open air and sunshine undid a large portion
of the harm which had been wrought by close
confinement in gloomy, unwholesome Ethel
stane House. Indeed, he had almost forgotten
that it had been his custom to dose
himself night and morning, when his wife
sharply said to him the day after his return :
I have looked everywhere, J. M., for your
fine medicine-chest, but I cannot find it.
You have lost half your linen, just as I expected,

and your clothes are in a frightful
state, but you cannot surely have lost your
beautiful medicine-chest, and that large bottle
of opodeldoc in a wooden case which I got
expressly ; and I don't think you would give
it away

My dear, the medicine-chest is lost, I am
sorry to say. It was stolen from me in Sicily.
However, don't talk about it. I am very
well, and that's the chief thing.'

'You may think yourself well, J. M., but
if you don't take care you will be worse than
ever. I wish you would now try some of
my pills. You've vexed me enough of late.
Do this to please me.'

I shall think of it, my dear ; but let me
wait till I feel in want of them.'

Mrs. Argyll sighed to find that her husband
had returned with an extraordinary aversion
to drugs. This confirmed her in her opinion
that he was greatly changed for the worse.

There is very little to relate that is worth
recording as to the lives of the household in
Palace Gardens after its members were
reunited. A good many dinner-parties were

given. The young men who were amongst
the guests admired Miss Solar as much as
ever, but they did not venture to give expression
to their feelings, as they had heard
that she was engaged to be married. If any
of them had supposed that Miss Tacon would
have a provision when she married, and
might have a chance of receiving a further
sum from Mr. Argoll, they would have
pressed their attentions upon her; but, as
they believed her to be a poor dependent,
they were able to resist the attraction of her
good looks.

Miss Tacon found an unexpected sympathizer
in her affliction. It has already been
said that Miss Solar told Mr. Argoll at
Westbourne how greatly her niece had been
smitten with Lord John Cardonald. The
more Mrs. Argoll reflected, the more she
became convinced that a marriage between
Lord John and her niece had been designed
by an overruling Providence. She gloried
in the anticipated pleasure of becoming
closely connected with an old and aristocratic
family ; she was confident that such a connection

would gratify Mr. Argoll also, and
she fancied that he would readily open his
purse-strings again if, by so doing, he could
bring it about. Therefore, when she found
her niece moping a few days after hearing
the letter read which Mr. Henry Argoll had
sent to Miss Solar, she said :

What's the matter, Ella? You don't
look well. It's no use my offering you any
medicine, because I know you won't take
it ; but, perhaps, you would like to see the
doctor T

No, aunt, I don't want to see the doctor.
He can't do me any good. I'm so unhappy 1'

Don't cry, child,' replied Mrs. Argoll,
who went on to question her, and learned
from her own lips all she had to tell about
Lord John.

Mrs. Argoll was touched with the simple
tale, and she cheered as well as astonished
her niece by the motherly interest which she
displayed. Miss Tacon expected that her aunt
would scold her; instead of doing so, her aunt
soothed her in the kindest wav : she bade
her take comfort and be of good cheer, and

rendered her almost happy. This was a
pleasant omen. Miss Tacon felt more benefited
by her aunt's sympathy than by all
the affectionate speeches of her friend Berta.
She knew that the latter detested Lord
John, and that the former had a strong liking
for him, and she believed that Mrs. Argoll
was genuine in her sympathy, whilst Miss
Solar was only trying to be cordial.

Yet Miss Solar had her troubles also.
When at Frankfort or Franzensbad, Westbourne
or Naples, she had other things to
think of than her own misfortunes, but in
Palace Gardens she found that she could
think of nothing else. She had taken an
aversion to painting. She hated entering
her studio. The past was full of happiness.
The present was dreary : — the future was dark.
Oh, if he would only coaie back I should
be less miserable !' was the frequent exclamation
in which she indulged ; and as weeks
passed away, and there were no further
tidings of Mr. Henry Argoll, she began to
be seriously uneasy. She had never entirely
believed in the loss of the Cosmos, So long

as details were wanting, she was buoyed up
with hope. Even had no letter arrived she
might havre remained cheerful and repining,
but the short letter which came had the
effect of increasing her longing for fuller
particulars. No address was given to which
to forward a letter, so she could not indulge
in the relief of pouring out her soul on
paper. She really became nearly as wretched
as Miss Tacon, and she had no one to comfort
her, as Mrs. Argoll carefully avoided referring
to her engagement, and Miss Tacon
had her whole mind occupied with the
possible condition of Lord John Cardonald.

No one in the household at Palace Gardens
had done any other an injury, yet there was
a sensation of domestic thunder in the air.
Whether the brooding storm would burst or
blow over was a problem. Each one seemed
to be unsettled and uncertain what to do.
Mr. Argoll, though the master of the house,
was less of an autocrat than in the days
before his visit to the Continent. Many of
his rules about the internal management of
his house seemed to have been tacitly suspended.

He had not repeated his orders
with regard to the hours of eating, drinking,
and going to bed. This pleased the servants,
who used to groan under their master's
irrational tyranny and fidgetiness. They
thought * master ' greatly improved. Mrs.
Argoll grew more puzzled as to why he was
so different.

Mr. Argoll was the readier to submit to
what he once would have condemned as
foolish laxity, as ho found that he was not
less comfortable than before. It is fitting
that a clock should keep correct time, but a
house in which everything moves like clockwork
is as repulsive as a prison. If Mr.
Argoll had seen the world before beginning
to keep house, he might never have tried to
lay down rules which were at once dictatorial
and senseless. It was easy for him to turn
off the gas at midnight ; he little knew that
by so doing he caused an expenditure on
candles below-stairs which increased the
waste that he deprecated. Mrs. Argoll used
to groan under the hard-and-fast rules which
her husband laid down and enforced. Yet

she had become accustomed to them. Now
she groaned as audibly as she used to do inspirit.


I wish, J. M., you had never gone to
Sicily,' she said more than once.

I agree with you, my dear,' was his reply ;
and he added, with truth and fervour, ' I hope
never to go there again.'

Mrs. Argoll had not succeeded in getting
her husband to tell her the true story of his
experience. He always shirked the task,
being either too busy when she came to him
in his study before dinner, or too sleepy when
she spoke to him before going to bed. Being
inclined to see visions and dream dreams, she
imagined that her husband had something
disgraceful to conceal, that he was both
wicked and ashamed. Her mind was filled
with the baseless suspicion that her staid,
unattractive, unimpressionable husband was
a very naughty man. If she had read the
works of Richardson and Byron, she would
have styled him a compound of Lovelace
and Don Juan. When she upbraided him
with sins of which he was innocent, and

charged him with having fallen a victim to
fair charmers in Sicily and Italy, or, what
was still worse, of having broken the
hearts and ruined the lives of many ladies
abroad, his protestations were not accepted
as conclusive. On the contrary, they were
held by her to be evidence of his guilt.

Unhappy man ! He had his failings, but
those with which his jealous wife charged
him were the last of which there was a
shadow of reason for even suspecting him.
Yet Mrs. Argoll professed to be perfectly
happy now that her husband was home again
and under her own supervision. Mr. Argoll
often wished himself back in the Gran
Bretagna on the Chiaja in Naples. But he
never had any wish, even when his wife
tormented him almost beyond endurance, to
return to the Hotel des Etrangers in Nicata.

Autumn was succeeded by winter, and
winter was passing away, yet nothing more
was heard from South America. Mr. Argoll
never showed any desire to learn the fate of
his brother, but he repeatedly said :

^ How strange it is that Lord John does

not write. I wish, after all, that his life had been
insured. I begin to fear something is Wrong.'

Miss Solar was in greater anxiety than he.
It did not conduce to her contentment to
observe the studied indifference which Mr.
Argoll displayed as to the possible fate of all
the members of the expedition. He seemed
to think that if their lives where insured, it
would not matter if they were eaten by the
fishes or by cannibals.

Miss Solar had been disposed to pay her
aunt Irma a visit at Christmas, and if her
aunt had not replied that Frau Decker might
think of calling at that time, she would have
proceeded to Frankfort. Her prevailing impressions
can be ascertained with perfect
accuracy from the following letter which she
wrote to her aunt, and to which she received
the reply relating to Frau Decker which
determined her to spend Christmas mournfully
in Palace Gardens :

'Dearest Aunt Irma,

I should so much like to see you
again, and unless you have arranged for

anyone to visit you, I shall spend the
Christmas in Frankfort. I am very wretched.
Everybody in this house is quite changed.
There are more parties than there used to be,
yet they do not give me any excitement.
Mr. Argoll says he is obliged to ask the City
friends who have taken so much interest in
him ; and a strange lot they are. I never
thought so many stupid men could have been
brought together, or that so many men could
have found wives to match them. The
younger and unmarried men think it their
duty to be agreeable to me by making
speeches which show that they know that I
am engaged. I hate to hear of my engagement
! What is the use of it 1 Henry is
away amongst the Patagonians; he may have
married one of them by this time. As for
Lord John Cardonald, I have no doubt that
he has a large harem and is happy. I hinted
this to Ella the other day, and she went
almost frantic. For Lord John to do anything
but what is right, seems to her to be
one of the impossibilities of life.

Mr. Argoll seems to have some grievance,

and Mrs. Argoil is nearly always out of
temper. She used to be most placid in
manner, but she seems to have heard something'
to the disadvantage of her husband
which renders her snappish to a degree you
can scarcely conceive. I have tried to paint
again, but had to give it up. My studio
seems a strange place to me now. I never
enter it without thinking of the time when
Henry was so good and charming, and the
contrast is painful. I wish I knew where he
is, and what he is doing. I had no fear for
him whilst he was at sea, but now that he is
travelling in Patagonia, and must really run
great risks, I am oppressed with the dread
that something may happen to him.

I told you, I think, that Ella is bemoaning
Lord John. Thus, what with my
misery, Ella's grief for a man who cares
nothing for her, Mr. Argos's grumbling and
Mrs. Argoll's crossness, wee are anything but a
happy family here. However, 1 live inconstant
expectation of the postman bringing
o- me a letter which wall render me indifferent
to the sorrows of my neighbours; not

that I think Mr. and Mrs. Argoll have any
reason to be put out, only they seem to
torment each other for want of anything else
to do. I shall not act so to Henry when he
returns. If he should not, I must turn for
consolation to you, dearest aunt. I feel sure
you will do your best to comfort your disconsolate
niece,

'Berths

VOL. III. 49

NEWS FROM PATAGONIA.

The sounding cataract
Haunted me like a passion : the tall rock,
The mountains, and the deep and gloomy wood,
Their colours and their forms, were then to me
An appetite ; a feeling and a love,
That had no need of a remoter charm
By thoughts supplied, nor any interest
Borrowed from the eye.' — Wordsworth.

Accuse not Nature, she hath done her part :
Do thou but thine.' — MiLTON.

,Christmas was not a season of
jollity in the Argoll household.
The great Christian festival had
never been to Mr. Carroll's taste. Business
was suspended too long to suit his views.
He had no children,' was the phrase which

issued from MacduflTs lips, when the news
reached him that Macbeth had slain his wife
and little ones, the words being probably aimed
at Malcolm, who, whilst sympathizing with
him, could not, according to Macduff, sorrow
so keenly as himself, because he was without
wife or child. Mr. Argos had a wife, but he
had no children, and the absence of little ones
was a reason why Christmastide was always
so gloomy in his house. Christmas without
children is like spring without flowers.

Perhaps, however, it was just as well that
Mr. Aro^oll had no children. Their little
lives would have been rendered wretched
by him. As a thoroughly practical man, Mr.
Argoll had always deprecated Christmas
holidays ; as a saving one, he had set his
face against giving Christmas-boxes. If the
ordering of the world's affairs had been in his
hands, no one would have enjoyed any pause
in the round of daily duties. It was only his
conventional Christianity which had hindered
him from protesting against Sunday being
observed as a da'' of rest. As he could not
do business at his office on that day, he had

49—9

vigorously opposed the opening of picture-galleries
and museums. He was resolved
that if he could not enjoy himself in his peculiar
fashion, no one should have his help in enjoying
themselves at all.

Miss Solar's training had led her to regard
the Christmas week as a bright spot in her
existence. As a child, she looked forward
with eager expectation to the Christmas-tree,
which, in accordance with inherited custom,
her father had set up in his house every Christmas
Eve, after his marriage and her birth.
In this respect Mr. Solar followed the tradition
of his own childhood. It vas his custom
and delight to give his daughter some unexpected
treat on that occasion, and he was
moved to do so by remembering the pleasure
with which, when a boy, he had then received
gifts from his parents. It is true his father
and mother were too poor to load the small
tree in their house with costly toys ; the gifts
which they provided for him and his sister
were simple and useful, yet he always valued
the new cap or pair of shoes which he received
on Christmas Eve far more than things of the

same kind when given to him at another
season.

The first Christmas Eve after her father's
death was spent by Miss Solar with her aunt
Irma at Frankfort. Though she was no
longer a child, her aunt thought that the sight
of a Christmas-tree would be a treat ; and she
not only prepared one, but she had worked
some things with her own hand which she
knew her niece would value as coming from
her, and which her niece accepted with the
greater pleasure because they were presented
as Christmas gifts. If Mr. Argoll's opinion
had been asked, he would have pronounced
this sheer tomfoolery. According to him
life was far too earnest to be passed even for
one evening in the year in a childish fashion.
The whole duty of man, in his opinion, consisted
in making money, and the chief end of
women was to make men happy.

Miss Solar's German extraction and semi-german
training had not fitted her for taking
kindly to the sombre notions and arrangements
which prevailed in Mr. Argoll's house
at Christmastide. She could not understand

why he seemed annoyed when she spoke of
the Christmas season as one of mirth and good
fellowship. She combated his objections,
but without convincing him that they were
untenable.

'When you are as old, Berta, as I am, you
will think differently,' was his rather ungracious
speech.

I don't mind getting old, Mr. Argoll !'
was her reply ; ' but when 1 am, I hope that
I shall feel as I do now.'

When I was young,' he went on to say,
I used to think as you do ; but experience is
a great teacher, as I think someone has said.
I am always thankful when Christmas is
over, and then I am glad that business will
go on regularly for twelve months without
any interruptions but the wearisome Sundays
and Bank Holidays.'

I must say, J. M.,' interrupted his wife, ' I
quite agree with Berta. When I was her age
I thought as she does, and I still think so.
You didn't object going off to enjoy yourself
abroad for three months, and you shouldn't
grudge other people a holiday now and then.'

Mr. Argoll said nothing ; but he gave a
grunt to signify that he regarded such
speeches with contempt. Besides, the
memory of his holiday was very different
from what his wife supposed. She knew
from long experience that when he was in a
carping and contradictory mood she either
had to hold her tongue or be prepared for a
scene. Having a headache, she was not in
the humour then for grappling with her
husband. Miss Solar had uttered all that
she cared to say, so she did not wish to
prolong an unpleasant conversation. Miss
Tacou, who was present, wisely said nothing,
and her silence caused Mr. Argoll to think
that she was a sensible girl who agreed with
him.

Weeks followed each other, and the current
of existence pursued its sluggish course in
Palace Gardens. Every member of the
house was anxious or weary, except its head,
and he had nothing to complain of His
health continued good ; he had not resumed
the practice of taking quack medicines and
calling upon his physician whenever he

fancied himself ill ; his business flourished in
the City ; he was gaining money and popularity
with unprecedented speed.

What has happened to you, J. M. V was
Mrs. Argos's frequent question ; ' you seem
quite an altered man. I could not have
believed that your visit to Sicily would have
changed you so greatly. I hope that nothing
is going to happen.'

It should be noted that Mrs. Argos had a
theory that, when men or women were in
robust health, and never took any drugs,
they were running a risk of which they
would repent some day. So long as they
were ailing and drugging themselves, she
regarded them as living a natural and comparatively
healthy life. When condoling
with her husband for continuing so well in
health, he gruffly replied :

Don't distress yourself about me, my dear ;
I shall let you know as soon as anything is
wrong ; but I don't see any need for medicine
when I eat, and sleep, and feel so well as I
do now.'

He tried novv^ and then to make his wife

understand that the improvement in his
bodily condition, which gave her such concern,
was largely due to his journey and stay
abroad. But she always rejected this explanation
as utterly absurd. She feared that
if that notion were implanted in his mind,
he might again start for Sicily whenever he
felt ill, and enjoy himself there in some
improper way. She was certain that his
reticence about his sojourn at Nicata was
due to some attraction which he dared not
avow.

On a morning early in February Miss Solar
came down to breakfast sooner than usual.
The gong had not sounded; if it had, Mr.
Aro^oll would have entered the room before
it ceased to vibrate, and taken up The
Morning Paper, through which he always
glanced whilst swallowing his breakfast.
Being alone, and having nothing else to do,
Miss Solar looked over the newspaper.
Whilst so doing, her eye rested upon a
telegram from Bio de Janeiro, which was
headed, ' Be volution in Patagonia.' She
read the telegram, which ran thus :

The Anaconda, of the Shute and Stanwick
Line, has just arrived, on its way from
Valparaiso to Liverpool. It took some
passengers on board at Punta Arenas who
bring startling news. The Tehuelches, after
resolving to declare their independence, have
now joined together, and established the
Republic of Patagonia. Some Englishmen
who have been travelling in their country
give them hopes that England will recognise
the new Republic, and lend money to it.
Chief amongst them are Lord John Cardonald,
an eminent naval officer, and Mr.
Henry Argos, one of the leading British
artists, both of whom are on their way home,
and an agent of the Patagoniann Republic
accompanies them.'

When Mr. Argoll appeared, Miss Solar
rushed forward in a state of excitement quite
unusual to her, and thrusting the newspaper
into his hand, she said :

'Do read that, Mr. Argoll! Oh, I'm so
glad !'

He slowly read the telegram, and did not

seem either elated or pleased ; he simply
remarked :

It's very strange that Lord John has not
cabled me.'

That he was affected by the news was
shown by his unconcealed desire to finish his
breakfast and start for the City. On reaching
Athelstanee House he found a telegram for
him, dated Bio, and sent by Lord John;
it ran :

Coming home ; mines bosh ; nitrate
splendid ; all right.'

This did not gratify him or satisfy his
curiosity. However, he had practised the
virtue of resignation till it had become almost
a second nature, and he was prepared to
await the return of the expedition, and hear
from Lord John's own lips all that he had to
tell.

A few days later Miss Solar could communicate
to him a great deal more information,
having received a very long letter from Mr.
Henry Argoll. This letter had been posted
at Punta Arenas, in a steamer bound direct

for France, and it reached England when the
party, which had embarked on the Anaconda
was still sailing from Rio to Liverpool.
Within ten days after the letter's arrival, the
wanderers returned. Yet, as they had little
more to tell of their personal experiences
than is contained in Mr. Henry Argoll's
letter, the more instructive passages may be
extracted from it.

Dearest Berta,

We are back at Punta Arenas safe
and sound, and, though we have had a few
differences of opinion, we all agree in wishing
ourselves home again. I wish I had read
Commodore Muster's book before leaving
England, as, if I had, I should probably have
gone to the Black Forest, instead of taking
part in a wild-goose chase. The others may
have less cause for grumbling, as it seems
not unlikely that something may come of the
expedition which will repay its promoters.

I have only time to give you a rapid
sketch of my adventures ; all the particulars
are written at length in my Diary, and that

you may read, should you care to do so,
when we meet again. I was bitterly disappointed
with the scenery on entering the
Straits of Magellan ; there is nothing grand
in the outlines of the rocks on either hand,
the most striking thing of all being the
distant view of snow-clad Mount Sarmiento
in Tierra del Fuego. But the snow and the
cold wind were not what I expected to find
here. I had pictured South America down
to Cape Horn as a tropical paradise, whereas
I have found it to bear some resemblance to
the coldest and most desolate part of North
America, which I once saw. Indeed, there
was much in our passage through a part of
the Straits of Magellan which recalled a
miserable passage I made in the autumn
through the Straits of Belleisle.

And what about the people, you will ask ?
Well, they are not so big as I had expected ;
a Patagoniann is only the ordinary height of
any other man. However, the swarms of
vermin exceeded anything I could have
fancied. The natives are not dirty in their
habits, but it would seem that the more they

wash themselves the more are they overrun
with irritating insects. I found them very
hospitable, and those with whom we travelled
to explore the country were especially so.

Perhaps I had better tell you at once that I
have had no little trouble in returning home
ready to marry you as soon as my brother
withdraws his objections, or when I can do
so in spite of him. The truth is that an
energetic Patagoniann widow insisted upon
marrying me ; she announced her intentions
in the most unblushing way, and my refusal
might have led me into a scrape, as her
friends would have killed me if I had insulted
her by a point-blank refusal. Happily forme,
the prospect of a fight with a hostile
tribe caused the overtures to be broken off,
and I had an escape, though a narrow one.
My case was the reverse of that of the hero
of '' Locksley Hall," as a dusky woman
wished to marry me, and I had the strongest
possible objection to wed her. I hope that I
shall never have any reason to regret my
escape. She would have made a capital
housekeeper, being skilled in pitching a told

that is what the North American Indians
call a wigwam — and in cooking: meals at a
moment's notice. So there is a hint for
your guidance. I shall know where to find
a devoted bride whenever I care to return to
Patagonia, if the enterprising widow has
failed to find a husband.

'You will probably like me to give you
some notion of the appearance of the country
through which we travelled. I have filled a
book with rough sketches, being best able to
make notes of my observations in that way,
and you will form a better idea from my
sketch-book of what I have seen than from
all that I have written in my Diary. Besides,
the accounts given in the book I have already
mentioned, and in Darwin's " Voyage of the
Beagle" both of which I read on board the
Cosmos, are most accurate. I recommend
you to read both books, as they give far better
notions than anything T can write. I may
copy three rather lumbering sentences from
the first of these works, which give a correct
view of what I saw.

^ " The pampas of Patagonia occasionally

present a tolerably even and uniform succession
of rolling plains covered with coarse
grass, but more frequently the surface, even
when unbroken by hills and suddenly yawning
ravines, is sterile, with a sparse vegetation,
consisting of stunted bushes and round thistle
clumps, and even these are often wanting,
and nothing clothes the bare patches of clay
and gravel ; elsewhere, it is strewn with huge
round boulders, and again rugged with confused
heaps or ridges of bare, sharp-edged
rocks, many of them of volcanic origin : this
particularly applying to the northern part of
the country. The only uniformity of appearance
is afforded in the winter, when the
white sheet of snow covers the rocks, grass
and shingle ; but one accompaniment is the
same, whatever be the nature of the soil or
surface; and the word Pampa invariably
recalls to one's shuddering memory the
cuttings blasts which sweep almost without
interruption from various points, but chiefly
from the west, over the high country, till
reaching the heated atmosphere of Buenos
Ayres, the cold Patagoniann wind becomes

the Pamper, the sudden and terrific blasts
of which cause so many disasters among
the shipping. The descent from the Pampas
to the valleys, or more sheltered and fertile
level ground bordering the banks of the
streams and rivers, so commonly called
Barranca ' or bank, from the scarped slopes,
varying in depth from fifty to two or three
feet, and in angle prove an easy to an almost
perpendicular descent, but often fissured by
ravines or gullies, affording roads, down all
of which, however, the native riders gallop
with equal recklessness."

I was disappointed with the country, and
thought it most uninteresting ; I could not
have believed that anything would have more
closely resembled the picture in the first part
of Dante's great poem. I told you once, I
think, that Heine, whom I admire more than
you do, threatened to make the King of
Prussia suffer the penalty of the damned by
pillorying him in a poem. If Heine had travelled
through this region, he would have been
perfectly pleased if the king whom he hated
had been condemned to live in Patagonia.

VOL. iir. 50

We had enough to eat when guanacos could
be killed, or the eggs of an ostrich were found.
It was no easy matter to kill guanacos, which
fill the place here which antelopes do on the
prairies of those western parts of America
where they have not been exterminated like
the buffalo, only the way of killing them is
by a bolas, Which is a Patagoniann form of
the slings with which David killed Goliath.
I learned to use a sling when a boy, so I
managed to handle a bolas even better than
Lord John, who has a keen eve, but who
could not succeed in whirling the balls across
his head, and hurling them straight so well
as I could, whilst, as he had been trained asa
middy to throw ropes, he displayed a skill
with the lasso which I envied.

It has occurred to me that in telling you
that guanacos fill the same place in Patagonia
that antelopes do in parts of North America,
I may make you think there is a similarity
between them in other respects. That is not
the case, with the exception of the flesh,
which has a certain resemblance. They are
not picturesque-looking animals, being like

an ass, on longer legs, and with a long neck.
If I remember rightly, Darwin called them
the " South American representatives of the
camels of the East."

When we did not have guanacos to eat,
we were feasted on mare's flesh, which the
Patagonians esteem as much as we do Dartmoor
mutton. Whenever a child is born or
anyone dies, the Patagonians kill several
mares, and stuff* themselves for days together
till they cease to joy or grieve, and are then
as fully occupied as an alderman in digesting
the vast quantities of food which they have
swallowed.

'You have often heard my brother complaining
of headache after coming home from
the City ; at least, his wife has frequently
told me that if she had not kept him well
primed with pills, he would suffer from headaches
even more than he did. I am happy
to say that I do not know what they mean.
If I did, I should prefer the treatment of the
Patagoniann medicine-men to that of my
beloved sister-in-law. Whenever one complains
of headache here, the Patagoniann

50—2

doctor, who smells strongly enough to make
his treatment as severe a trial as the worst
surgical operation, takes one's head between
his knees and gives an unearthly yell, or
rather several yells in rapid succession, to
frighten the devil out of one's head. I suppose
that the devil cannot stand the awful dinas
the patient at once declares that the devil,
meaning his headache, has left him.

I think that 1 have now told you the
principal things you would care to hear about
my adventures. When I show you my
sketch of the widow Who was so anxious to
marry me, you will not feel at all jealous, and
will think that I deserve to be congratulated
upon having made my escape. I must add
that nothing gave the widow greater pleasure
than smoking a pipe, and the stronger the
tobacco the more she seemed to enjoy herself.
I know that you do not mind me smoking,
but I hardly think that you would relish
trying to keep company with my Patagoniann
widow in a smoking-match.

Before finishing this rambling letter, which
I scarcely think you will read through, or

saying anything about the special object of
the expedition, I may add that, though I
found the create detestable, the people as
savage as I had anticipated, and even less
pleasant to associate with and to smell, and
found their customs quite as trying, even
when they meant no harm, as they could
have been if they had been devised to
frighten or sicken me to death, yet now and
then I was not sorry to have made the
journey. The sunsets were magnificent. If
I could reproduce them on canvas the art
critics, who do not understand what they
write about, would ridicule them as they did
London in a Fog, which was painted direct
from Nature. Still I could only admire those
sunsets, and bitterly regret that it was almost
impossible to transfer them to canvas. What
I admired nearly as much, and perhaps
enjoyed still more, was to arrive, at the close
of a long day's march, at what the Patagonians
call the " Eyes of the Desert," which are
circular springs, bubbling up from the white
sand. Everybody enjoyed sitting on the
margin of these beautiful fountains, with

their feet in the water, and watching the
small fish flashing about. It was almost a
reward for our weary journey to come upon
these beautiful fountains of living water.

Whether the result of the expedition will
gratify my brother I cannot tell. Lord John
says that one thing may prove remunerative.
His report will be. placed before the Syndicate.
I suppose it will be*both able and interesting.
He has written it over several times, and it
is because he wishes to present it in. a final
and perfect version that he will riot send it by
the steamer which takes this epistle, but will
bring it with him. I fancy he will require a
porter to carry it to Athelstanee House, if it
be as voluminous as I should expect, judging
from the time and pains he has expended
over it.

In case this gets to England first, and my
brother is anxious to hear a few facts, you
may tell him that Mr. Pendragon, the mining
expert, says there is nothing of value in the
mines which he has visited. If anything
valuable were ever in them, which he doubts,
it has all been taken out. He also says

that there is a deposit of gold near Punta
Arenas which is very rich, but this is not
included in the property which the Syndicate
was to acquire. There is also a coal-bed
which would more than repay all the money
which has been expended, but this, too, he
thinks, is not included in the property. A
bed of nitrate of soda which he saw, and
which the new Patagoniann Republic wish to
give by way of security for a loan, he considered
to be of immense value. As regards
the Republic, I cannot say any more than
that an Italian named Malero seems to be the
moving spirit in founding it, and that a Patagonia
called Chupato is the President — this
fellow Malero being the Secretary of State,
Chancellor of the Exchequer, and all the
Ministers rolled into one. The Republic is
said to have been established in a part of
the country over which Chili and Buenos
Ayres have contended for the supremacy,
and which the Patagonians maintain is their
own. At any rate they have founded a
government, which Malero says has been
recognised by the United States on the ground

that if the United States did not do so,
England would. He says that even if England
should refuse, he is sure to find some
people in the City to advance money to the
Patagonians who are struo^alino: to be free,
and who have plenty of nitrate of soda to
pledge by way of security for paying their
debts. I do not profess to understand
these things. Lord John avers that he
will not meddle in them. Unfortunately,
Malero sticks to me far closer than any
brother, as far as my experience goes ; he
promises me plenty of money if I introduce
him to my brother, of whom he has heard.
I have had to consent to introduce him,
whilst making a condition that I shall
have nothing' to do with his loan, and
that I am not to receive any payment for
what I may do for him. I shall be satisfied
if my brother adds to his wealth by helping
this authorized representative of the Patagonia
Republic, and I shall be still better
pleased when Malero ceases to bother me and
to call me his dearest friend. The worst of
it is, that the fellow counts upon my acting as

interpreter for him. He took to me because
I would speak Italian. That, you see, is
one of the disadvantages of knowing any
other language than one's own. If you areas
tired of reading this as I am of writing it,
you will sleep soundly. If you do, I hope
that you may have pleasant dreams of your
devoted and loving

Henry.'

When Mr. Argoll heard that Miss Solar
had received the foreo^oino^ letter from his
brother, he made no other remark than
Indeed !' When she asked him whether he
would like to read the letter, he replied :

I am very busy, Berta, but if yoxi put it on
the table in my study, I may perhaps find a
moment to glance over it.'

He had not the candour to avow that he
was dying to read it, or the honesty to admit
that, when he entered his study and found
the letter there, he read it through at once.
The impression made upon him was great and
unexpected. He had cherished the notion
that his brother was a harum-scarum fellow

who painted pictures or criticized them as an
interlude in a rollicking existence, that he
was deficient alike in steadiness and commonsense,
and that he had not the faintest turn
for real business in any form. A perusal of
this letter changed his mind.

'After all,' he said to himself, ' that fellow
is no fool. He writes in a clear and straightforward
style. Byker could not have done
better.'

This had become Mr. Argos's highest
kind of praise. Since Mr. Byker s death his
merits were recognised and magnified to an
extent unknown during his lifetime. Though
thinking thus, Mr. Argos was too proud to
admit that his opinion had been altered or
modified, or to say a kindly word to Miss
Solar about his absent brother.

After keeping the letter three days he
returned it, saying:

I have just managed to skim the letter,
Berta. As far as I can judge, Henry has
been quite in his element ; he was always a
wild and wanderings fellow.'

This was unjust, as Mr. Argoll well knew,

yet he had not the smallest compunction in
saying it. It cut Miss Solar to the quick,
but she could dissemble her feelings ; so
instead of giving Mr. Argoll the opportunity
to add something still more bitter in reply to
the defence which he expected her to offer,
she simply said : * Thanks, Mr. Argoll,' and
left the room, bravely repressing her tears
till she was in her bedchamber. She had
gradually ceased to like Mr. Argoll ; she was
now bess inning: to hate him.

When Lord John Cardonald arrived and
handed his report to Mr. Argoll, the latter
found little in it which he had not already
read in his brother's letter. Lord John
had not lost his official style of putting
things, and the official style is admirably
designed for making a document a piece
of rigmarole. Even if the report were as
light and sparkling as one of Elia's essays
it would be unnecessary to do more with
it at present than to extract the conclusion,
which was that the story told by Senor
Barcallos was, in the main, a fiction sparsely
sprinkled with facts. Lord John added that

as the Republic of Patagonia had sent an
agent to England, further details could be
obtained from him.

Had it not been that an agent empowered
to borrow money for the Republic on the
security of the deposit of nitrate of soda
which the Government possessed, or at least
laid claim to, had returned with the expedition,
the expedition itself would have been
an utter failure. However, Mr. Argoll was
in high spirits. He was to issue a loan for
the Republic of Patagonia, and he counted
upon obtaining a large sum by doing so. It
somewhat annoyed him to find that Signer
Malero would not settle anything unless
his brother were present, and either interpreted
what was said or translated what was
written.

Confound the fellow !' thought Mr. ArofoU.
The next thing I shall hear will be a
demand from Henry for a share in the commission.
What business has he to interfere
with my profit V

Mr. Henry Argoll was profoundly annoyed
to have to go into the City and help Signor

Malero, whom he warmly wished in Patagonia,
or an equally unpleasant place.

Mr. Argos used all his influence to get
the Foreign Secretary to recognise the independence
of the new Republic. The United
States had done so promptly, in order not to
be anticipated by the United Kingdom.
Indeed, the great Republic of the West is
always ready to hold out the right hand of
fellowship to a petty republic in any corner
of the globe, whilst the United Kingdom of
Great Britain and Ireland, though sympathizing
with nations struggling for liberty, is
sometimes slow to admit that their freedom
has entitled them to the privileges as well as
the powers of self-government.

There are financiers in the City of London
who have no scruples about raising a
loan for any state or republic, however
petty and contemptible. The public finds
the cash ; they pocket the commission.
Sometimes they pocket the whole. One
little South American State piteously complained
that, though it was held responsible
for a loan of upwards of a million

sterling, not a farthing was ever paid to it,
all the money obtained from the English
public, on its behalf, being intercepted by the
financiers. Mr. Argoll condemned this as
being sharp practice ; he disapproved of keeping
to himself and distributing among his
friends any more than what he considered to
be a fair share of the proceeds. The Patagonia
loan was for a million and a half sterling;
the financiers and their friends showed
so much self-denial as to content themselves
with pocketing half a million for their trouble
in asking the public to subscribe the money.

MORE LOVE - MAKING.

Venus. Sweet shepherd, didst thou ever love ?
Paris. Lady, a little once.
Venus. And art thou changed ?
Paris. Fair Queen of Love, I loved not all at once.
Venus. Well, wanton, wert thou wounded as deep as
some have been.
It were a cunning cure to heal, and rueful to

be seen.
George Peele — The Arraignment of Paris.

"^^^^IWO days after the return of the
expedition from Patagonia, Mr.
Argos asked his brother and Lord
John to dine at Palace Gardens. The
party was given in honour of Sign or Malero,
with whom Mr. Argoll desired to keep on
good terms. Being unable to converse with
him, he could not ask him alone, so he

had to invite his brother to act as interpreter,
and he requested Lord John to join them.

Never, since Miss Solar had become an
inmate of her guardian's house, was she so
excited as on the day of this dinner-party.
As for Miss Tacon, her state cannot be
described in sober words. She was half
hysterical all day, though she was not
naturally given to lose her head and make
what is called an * exhibition of herself.'
She was able to control her feelings and to
retain her composure in ordinary circumstances,
not giving vent to her emotion in
any other form than that of entries in her
Diary.

Mr. Henry Argoll had not seen Miss
Solar since his return ; however, several
notes had passed between the engaged
lovers : Miss Tacon had neither seen nor
communicated with Lord John Cardonald.
Mr. Henry Argoll and Miss Solar agreed
not to give Mr. Argoll an excuse for harsh
conduct or still harsher sayings by meeting
in London without his consent. They had
arranged between themselves that she should

pay a visit to her aunt Irrna, and that he
should then have a pressing call to Frankfort.
To both it was an agreeable surprise to have
the opportunity of meeting, with Mr. Argoll's
knowledge and at his own instance, under
his roof. They little knew that, if he could
have prevented this, he would have done so.
Not only were they pleased, but they were
both disposed to think that he had relaxed in
his opposition to their marriage.

By some mistake, owing possibly to his
watch having been affected by the sea-voyage,
Mr. Henry Argoll arrived at Palace
Gardens half an hour too soon. Neither his
brother nor his sister-in-law was in the
drawing-room to welcome him, yet he did
not find the half-hour at all wearisome, as
Miss Solar, having finished dressings for
dinner much sooner than was necessary or
customary, was seated in the conservatory
reading a volume of Heine's poems. She
was not startled when Mr. Henry Argoll
entered, and he was pleased to notice that
she had taken to read one of his favourite
German authors. What they said to each

VOL. III. 51

other has little interest to anyone else. The
time passed so swiftly that before they thought
they had been together five minutes, half an
hour had elapsed, and the others who were
to form the party had assembled in the
drawing-room.

Mrs. Argoll's reception of Lord John
Cardonald was most cordial. He shook
hands with Miss Tacon, who looked at him
with an amazement which she could scarcely
conceal. The excitement had brightened her
up, and she looked her best.

By Jove, what a devilish pretty girl she
is !' was Lord John's inward comment ; perhaps
his own words, which he audibly repeated
afterwards to Mr. Henry Argoll
after dinner, may be reproduced without
offence.

He was specially impressionable at the
moment ; besides, he had not given any heed
to Miss Tacon's looks whilst his thoughts
were directed towards Miss Solar. The
latter was most gracious to him. She was
too natural, as well as too happy, to be shy
and stiff; indeed, she had almost forgotten the

episode between them when they last met, so
she held out her hand and said :

I am glad to see you back, Lord John.
How well and young you look !'

Thanks, Miss Solar,' was his reply ; he
added, in a tone of which she felt the
meaning :

It is your turn to pay compliments. T
must say I do not object to them.'

They said no more, as Mrs. Argoll desired
Lord John to sit on the sofa and tell her all
about his health. Somewhat to her disappointment,
he assured her that he had
never felt better. Their conversation ended
almost as soon as it had begun, as dinner was
announced. Sig-nor Malero, behoof the ofuest of
the evening, took Mrs. Argoll in to dinner ;
they had to communicate with each other by
signs, as neither knew a word of the other's
lano^uao^e.

Lord John was appointed to escort Miss
Solar, and they went off and sat together
without either of them displaying the
slightest embarrassment. Indeed, whilst descending
the stairs, Lord John said a few

51—2

words which made his peace with her, and
almost made her regret having acted or
spoken unkindly to him.

I hope, Lord John she said, ' that you
and Mr. Henry Argoll got on well together.'

If we had not,' he replied in cheery and
evidently sincere strains, ' the fault would
have been entirely mine. He is a first-rate
fellow, and we are now great friends. No
one can help getting on well with him.'

Though this was as complimentary a speech
as Lord John had ever addressed to a woman,
and Miss Solar had an invincible repugnance
to compliments, she would now have admitted,
if closely pressed, that complimentary speeches
sometimes gave her pleasure when they were
properly put. She made what amends she
could by saying everything that she thought
would please Lord John, and she even
referred to his favourite story of the ' Waterspout,'
one which she had often heard, and
about which she had ridiculed him behind
his back.

No, Miss Solar, even you won't tempt me
to tell that story again. I suppose I must

have told it badly or mixed it up somehow,
because one day, on board the Cosmos, as we
were nearing land, I passed the smoking-room
door and heard some one say, " Lord
John ain't a bad fellow if it were not for that
beastly ' Water-spout ;' I wish it had drowned
him and his ship ;" and I made an inward
vow never to tell the story again.'

The change in Lord John was not confined
to his manner of paying compliments and
telling stories ; it was as marked in his
personal appearance. It was the latter to
which Mr. Henry Argoll referred in the
letter which occasioned Miss Tacon many
perplexed and dreary hours. The truth is,
he had ceased to be the dark-haired Adonis
that he was before his departure. His beard
and moustache had grown to a fair length ;
he used to be clean shaven, with the exception
of small whiskers trimmed after the naval
model. A moustache or a beard changes
the look of a man's face ; but when hair
which was jet-black becomes a light red
tinged with gray, the change is still more
striking. Strangely enough, he did not look

older; on the contrary, he now appeared
younger than his years, the colour of his skin
harmonizing with that of his hair.

Miss Tacon could not keep her eyes off
Lord John. In her opinion the change in
his looks was due to the hardships which he
had undergone, and she both pitied and
admired him the more on that account. She
was the subject of a talk between Mrs. Argoll
and Lord John when the company assembled
again in the drawing-room, and when Mrs.
Argoll resumed her questions about his health.

But, dear Lord John, have you never
suffered all the time you have been away V
she asked him, with a genuine desire to learn
the truth.

Not once,' he replied almost unfeelingly,
have I had an ache or pain.'

She felt sorry for him, sighed, and remarked
:

Well, I don't know what is happening to
you men. You know that you used to be
often ill, and I am most thankful that my
medicine did you so much good.'

Lord John was too wary to interrupt her,

and avow that he had carried her medicine
away with him but had never taken any
of it.

She continued :

There's my husband, now. Before he
went to Sicily he was always complaining,
and I used to cure him. He took a arose
medicine-chest with him, and he lost it ; and
since he has come back he never will take,
one of my pills, and yet he seems quite well.
I really don't understand it.'

Lord John did not care to hear any more
of the same facts, and he knew that when
once Mrs. Argoll began to ride her hobby it
ran away with her. Miss Tacon had sat
down to the piano as Mr. Argoll requested
her ; and he did this because he thought that
whilst she played there would be no need
for carrying on a fragmentary conversation,
through the medium of his brother, with
Signer Malero. For lack of any more
original remark. Lord John observed :

How well your niece plays ; she seems
to have made great progress since I last
heard her.'

This was flummery ; he had never paid
any heed to her playing before, and his
knowledge of music was confined to knowing,
or rather inferring, when the National
Anthem was performed. However, Mrs.
Argoll, as her manner was, chose to invest
Lord John with all good qualities, and she
said :

I am very glad you think so. I have
noticed that Ella is improving, and as you
agree with me there can be no doubt of it.'

She had not paid any more heed to her
niece's playing than Lord John, and she was
nearly as bad a judge as he. Their combined
knowledge of music would have been
correctly represented by a minus quantity.
However, if literal truth had to be spoken
in a drawing-room immediately before and
after dinner, the conversation would flag
still more than it does when the aid of
fiction is freely invoked. Having looked
attentively at Miss Tacon, and being again
struck with her good looks, he inquired :

Is not your niece changed since I saw her
last ? She seems to me really a pretty girl now. '

You men have sharper eyes than any
woman for these things, Lord John ; though
perhaps it is because I see Ella day after day
that I don't notice the improvement in her.
Poor thing ! she has been out of spirits lately.
Indued, since she refused the Rev. Basil
Tepper at Westbourne she has not been at
all the same crirl.'

Refused a parson, did she ? That shows
her good sense, Mrs. Argyll'

Lord John entertained a sailor's prejudices
when there was a question of marriage between
a clergyman and a charming girl ;
both sailors and soldiers thinking that Providence
has ordained that all the pretty girls
should fall to their lot.

But I am glad to say, Lord John, that
my niece can choose for herself, now that
she is quite independent.'

The music ended ; the guests moved about,
and the talk between Mrs. Argoll and Lord
John ended also.

By Jove !' he said to himself ' So she is
independent, is she '? That alters the case.
I always thought she hadn't a rap ; but

perhaps old Argoll is going to adopt her.
And she is deucedly good-looking, upon my
word.'

The subject occupied his mind again, and
after reflection he arrived at the conclusion
that Miss Tacon's style of beauty was really
more to his taste than Miss Solar's.

The image of Miss Tacon was impressed
on his mind when he returned to his rooms in
Duke Street that evening. He could think
of nothing else when he sat at breakfast the
following morning, and the more he thought,
the more firmly did the conviction take root
that she could be the wife to him which he
wished to possess, and for which he had
sought in vain. He was now doubtful
whether Miss Solar would have made him
happy ; first, because he was half afraid of
her ; second, because he had not the remotest
chance of becoming her husband. John
Locke says that however much a man maybe
in love with a princess whom he is not
allowed to approach, he manages to get over
his passion, and to find a sufficient satisfaction
in a wife of a lower rank. Whatever is out

of reach cannot be worth troubling about, is
a maxim which would suit a fox, a philosopher,
and a forlorn lover.

As the result of carefully considering the
matter, Lord John came to the conclusion
that he ought to see Mrs. Argos again and
have a further talk with her. He could
easily enlist her sympathy by alleging that
he had been seized with a sudden and inexplicable
pain. She would have no hesitation
in providing a remedy in the shape of
her favourite pills to be swallowed, and of
her liniment to be applied externally. She
had the abiding belief, in her nostrums which
was characteristic of tht ages of faith. No
failures ever made her blame the physic ;
the fault always lay with the patient if no
food result followed from taking it. She
was certain in such a case that the patient
either did not employ the remedy in time, or
else did not persevere in using it. An inestimable
advantage possessed by amateur
doctors over those who are trained and
experienced is that they are too ignorant to
be cognizant of their own blunders.

Inspired with a desire to perpetrate a
pious fraud upon Mrs. Argoll, Lord John
went to Palace Gardens about the hour of
luncheon. He used to be welcome there at
that hour, and he inferred that, on the
present occasion, he would not be sent empty
away. After his reconciliation, or, rather,
tacit understanding with Miss Solar, there
was no longer any reason why he should
not resume his old habit of calling at Palace
Gardens when he was not otherwise enoraored,
and passing an hour or two as unprofitably
there as he might do in any other house or
at either of his clubs.

The footman who opened the door ushered
him into the drawing-room as a matter of
course. Lord John did not ask any question
about Mrs. ArofoU behoof at home. The footman
supposed that now, as in former days,
he came by invitation. If he had inquired
for Mrs. Argoll he would have been told
that she had gone out. As her custom was,
she was taking a walk before luncheon for
her health's sake, having latterly made it a
rule not to use her carriage tiU after luncheon.

Her increasing tendency to grow stout had
alarmed her, and caused her to indulge in
violent exercise as a prophylactic.

Miss Solar was in her studio intently
turning over the sketches which Mr. Henry
Argoll had made in Patagonia, and she
was looking forward to reading his Diary,
which he had forwarded aloof with them
that morning. Miss Tacon, who had no
new book to read, was seated at the piano
in the drawing-room practising some of the
pieces which would have a sedative, if nota
soporific, effect upon Mr. Argoll in the
evening. She did not hear the door open
and the footman announce Lord John. Not
seeing Mrs. Argoll or Miss Solar, he quietly
advanced to the piano and said :

Industrious as usual, Miss Tacon.'

She looked up and gave a start.

Pray don't move,' he added ; ' 1 should
like you to continue playing. I have heard
so little music for some time that listening
to you will be quite a treat.*

Though enjoying the compliment, Miss
Tacon was too nervous to go on practising.

She really could not play any more,
so, rising from the piano, she said, with an
unsteady voice :

How you startled me, Lord John !' and
then went towards the button of the electric
bell, saying : ' I will inquire whether Mrs.
Argoll has come in. I am sure, if she had
dreamt of your calling, she would not have
gone out for a walk.'

He quickly said :

Pray do not trouble yourself to ring,
Miss Tacon. I am in no hurry, and I can
wait til] she returns ;' and then, being somewhat
at a loss what to say next, he added, ina
confused manner : ' I really didn't know
that Mrs. Aro^oll was not at home.'

Speaking rapidly to conceal her agitation.
Miss Tacon said :

Oh, Lord John, I am sure my aunt would
be very sorry if she came in and found that
you had called without seeing her ; perhaps,
then, you will stay till she comes back? I
don't think she will be long ; luncheon will
be ready in a few minutes. I cannot tell
why Berta is not in the room ; she has not

gone out. May I go and tell her that you
are here V

Please do not trouble yourself, Miss
Tacon. I shall not weary till Mrs. Argoll
and Miss Solar come back.'

Lord John was not easily nonplussed.
Indeed, a more collected man or a cooler seaman
did not exist ; yet, for the moment, he
was at a loss for words. Miss Tacon was
painfully nervous, and her dominant desire
was to rush out of the room. After a short
pause, which seemed an eternity to her, he
began to speak, and said : ' So I hear you
have been staying at Westbourne. I rather
liked the place for a short time, but I soon
found it tiresome, as the people were always
squabbling over their favourite clergymen.
Does that still go on V

Yes, it's worse than ever, I should say. I
was sick of the place, and of the clergy too.'

Surely, Miss Tacon, you have no dislike
for clergymen ? I have always heard that
young girls prefer them to soldiers and sailors.
Isn't that true V

How can you say such a thing, Lord John !

For my part, I think clergymen perfectly
horrid — out of church, of course

Well, Miss Tacon, I like them best in
church also, so then we are of the same
mind ; but I rather think you are too strong
in your phrases. I know some clergymen
who are capital fellows.'

Then, Lord John, you have never been
lectured by them. Those at Westbourne
seem to think me very wicked because I do
nut care to spend my days amongst poor
people, who smell so horribly.'

If you dislike bad smells, you would not
do to spend much time on board a ship where
there is much bilge-water. All the poor
people you have visited would never make
you feel so uncomfortable.'

Oh, that's quite another matter. I love
bad smells on board ship. And sailors are so
different from clergymen.'

Please don't flatter me, Miss Tacon ; you
forget, perhaps, that T am a sailor.'

Oh, don't be offended, Lord John ; I did
not mean it.' She said this with an extort ; her
tongue had run on faster than she had intended,

though it faithfully reproduced her
inmost thoughts. Her manner, her enthusiasm,
her evident sincerity, and even her
confusion, worked upon Lord John in a powerful
yet not an uncommon fashion, the result
being that he partially lost his self-possession,
and said, almost without knowing or being
aware of it :

Then, Miss Tacon, would you marry a
sailor V

Yes,' she instantly said; and then, blushing
at her impetuosity, she added : ' I mean I
should prefer to marry a sailor rather than a
clergyman.'

I hope, then, you will not refuse to marry
me.'

You ! Lord John !' she exclaimed, with
as great surprise as if she had been told that
the world was to come to an end the next
moment, adding : ' Surely you cannot be in
earnest !'

I am always in earnest, Miss Tacon,' was
his reply ; and as he said this he took her by
the hand, and he might have kissed her, when
the door opened, and Mrs. Argoll appeared.

VOL. III. 52

Lord John had regained his self-control,
and his natural assurance stood him in good
stead now. He at once said :

I am very glad you have come, Mrs.
Argos. I have been kept in painful suspense
to know whether your niece will become my
wife, but I hope she will soon relieve me of
my pain, and make me one of the happiest
of men.'

Give you pain, Lord John ! not for
worlds !' was Miss Tacon's exclamation ; and
being unable to control her feelings, and half
crying out of excess of joy, she rushed out of
the room. The gong sounded for luncheon
in the course of ten minutes. She came into
the drawing-room a few minutes later ; her
aunt rose from her seat, kissed her, saying :

I congratulate you, Ella ;' and added, * this
is your seat now,' placing her next to Lord
John, who seemed glad that he had no other
speeches to make. Miss Solar was absent,
being so greatly absorbed in Mr. Henry
Argoll's Diary as not to have heard the gong.
The footman was sent to tell her that
luncheon was ready. She came in hurriedly,

and, glancing at the faces of the other persons
in the room, said :

Dear me, you all look upset. I hope
nothing is the matter V

Lord John, Who had risen as she entered,
stepped forward and said :

Allow me to dispel your fears, Miss
Solar ; nothing very sad has happened. Let
me now have the pleasure of presenting to
you my future wife,' bowing, as he said this,
to Miss Tacon.

Miss Solar went up to her in her dignified
manner, and said, as she kissed her :

Dearest Ella, this is good news. I am
sure you will be very happy.'

Not much luncheon was eaten by anyone
except Lord John, who was neither too excited,
nor so overjoyed as to have lost his appetite.
When it was over he took his leave,
as he saw by the manner of the ladies that
they did not desire him to stay longer. He
promised, at Mrs. Argoll's request, to return
to dinner.

It is my turn now,' she said, ' to have a
chat and give you good advice.'

52—2

He agreed to dine, but he inwardly prayed
that Mrs. Aro^oll mis^ht not insist on his
taking a course of her pills as a preparation
for his marriage.

He thought it prudent to see Mr. Argoll
before the latter had a conversation with his
wife, as he wished Mr. Argoll to suppose
that no hint of Miss Tacon being other thana
penniless orphan had reached his ears.
Lord John was largely endowed with the
cautiousness of his race and native land.
He always took thought for the morrow,
and for eventualities which might affect his
interests. He now said to himself :

Argoll is so infernally suspicious, and he
seems to think that nobody but himself
should think of getting a little money in anyway.
When I wanted to marry Miss Solar
he moralized about the iniquity of being a
fortune-hunter, as if it were the worst of
crimes. I don't think he is quite the man to
refrain from marrying for money if he had
the chance. However, if he is generous for
once in his life, I shall not be badly off.
Ella seems really a nice girl, and I don't

think she will ever develop into such a
dictatorial damsel as Miss Solar, who has
an unpleasant way of taking the conceit out
of one. You will find that to your cost one
day, Henry, my boy, or I am very much
mistaken.'

Whilst thoughts like these were coursing
through Lord John's mind, a hansom was
conveying him to Athelstanee House. On
arriving there he found Mr. Arofoll disengaged
and in a good-humour, having just
had a message from the Foreign Office to
the effect that the recognition of the Republic
of Patagonia would take place very soon.
He knew that when this recognition was
announced there would be an instant and
great rise in the price of Patagoniann bonds.
He had profited by the loan in a double
sense. He had been still further enriched by
issuing it, and he had bargained for his firm
having the control over the deposit of nitrate
of soda which was the security for its repayment.
By controlling the working and sale
of this deposit he saw his way to making
a further profit. Moreover, he was lauded

VOL the papers as a public benefactor, inasmuch
as the price of the nitrate of soda
brought from Patagonia was to be nearly
one-half that charged for the same fertilizer
from other places, and thus the struggling
British farmer would be benefited by his
patriotic action. Mr. Argoll enjoyed the
rare and happy consciousness of both making
money and getting undeserved credit for
doing a service to his fellow-countrymen.

Well, Lord John, do you want to be a
director of a company again V was his greeting,
uttered in a cordial strain.

God forbid, Argyll ! I'd rather go back
to Patagonia.'

If you care to do so I can give you a
chance. I shall want some one to superintend
the working of this deposit of nitrate
of soda; but that, my lord, may not be in
your line.'

No, indeed ! I mean to make the best of
my small means to live here. I have never
been an economical chap, and I am going to
try an experiment which a friend once tried,
and found it answer. When he could not

make two ends meet he took a wife, and she
managed to make him comfortable. To be
sure, he had to give up racing and all sorts of
amusements, and this he did not like at first ;
but now he seems to be reconciled ; and
though he never plunges as he used to do, he
enjoys a quiet rubber every afternoon at the
club, and says he can afford it, which was not
the case before his marriage.'

Mr. Argoll was not greatly edified by this
speech, which was a much longer one than
he had heard before from Lord John Cardonald.
His reflection took this form :
What on earth can he be driving at ? If
he is fool enough to marry, what is that
to me V Instead of saying this aloud, he
remarked :

I quite agree with you, my lord. Your
sentiments are those upon which I should
act were I in your place. I was a poor man
when I married, and I have had no reason
to regret it.'

Lord John had not the argumentative
advantage of knowing that Mr. Aro^oll had
married his wife thinking her to be a great

heiress, and regarded himself as a victim
when he found at her father's death that
the anticipated fortune was non-existent.
He continued :

Perhaps, Argoll, I should not trouble
you with my own affairs ; but I thought you
might like to know that I have proposed to
Miss Tacon to-day and have been accepted,
and I hope you will not object to a connection
which brings our families together.'

What, my lord, do you mean to marry
Ella'? Wonders will never cease — I never
dreamt of such a thing !'

Nor did I till I came back from Patagonia,
and saw what a very pretty girl she
was. I may have been foolish and rash in
proposing to her, but that can't be helped
now. Somehow or other I don't think I
shall have any reason to repent it.'

Mr. Argoll rose from his chair, went to
the one where Lord John was sitting, shook
him heartily by the hand, and said :

You will never regret it, Lord John, if I
can help it. Ella is an excellent girl ; and
though I do not mean to make any rash

promise, I may assure you that she will have
something which will help you to keep
house.'

You are a regular trump, Argoll,' was
the cordial reply.

A clerk knocked at the door, and when
called to come in, he brought the card of a
man whom Mr. Argoll wished specially to
see, so he said to Lord John :

You will dine with us to-night, my lord,
and then we shall have another talk.'

Lord John left Athelstanee House more
convinced than when he entered it that the
nice girl whom he was to marry would not
prove a penniless orphan.

Mr. Argoll went home earlier than was
his custom, as he wished to have a talk with
his wife before meetings Lord John at dinner.
She told him what had occurred, so far as
she knew. He told her what Lord John
had said to him.

I think,' was her reply, * it will be a good
match for Ella, as, notwithstanding Lord
John is so poor, he belongs to an old family,
and that is always something.'

You forget, my dear he replied, * that
my family is quite as old as Lord John's,
only there is less known about it. Perhaps
when he marries Ella we shall get the position
in society to which we are entitled.'

Curiously enough, Mr. Argoll had become
increasingly anxious to get what he called a
position in society, since his wealth had
multiplied. He now saw his way to making-plenty
of money, as the more he had the easier
he found it to add to his store ; money breeds
money ; the chief difficulty is at the outset.
A supply of eggs cannot be ensured till one
has a sufficient number of cocks and hens ;
after the poultry have been procured, the
eorcrs come without further trouble. Mr.
Argoll now felt that he was a power in the
money-market, wherein thousands who have
small sums become the victims of the few
who gather large ones. A wealthy financier
is in the position of the keeper of a gaming-table
: the larger the number of players the
greater are his gains. He runs no risk ; his
profit is an absolute certainty.

As the uncle by marriage of Lord John

Cardonald, who might any day become the
Earl of Armadale, Mr. Argoll would be a
still more important personage in his own
estimation, and in that of those persons who
constitute society, than he had been before.
Hence he told his wife, as the result of his
reflections since his interview with Lord
John :

Mv dear, this marriage must be made the
most of I think better of Lord John than
I have yet done, seeing that he is ready to
take Ella without a penny. I am convinced
that he has no mercenary motive. I thought
he had in the case of Berta ; but then he
knew she was an heiress. I hate persons
who marry simply to see how much they can
get by it. The curse of the young men of
the present day is that they are always
thinking of rich matches. If I had not been
sure that Lord John knows nothing about
what I intend to do for Ella, I should not
think so highly of him ; but now there can
be no mistake. He is evidently smitten
with Ella's good looks, and I do not wonder
at it. She is different from Berta, but to

my mind she is far prettier. What I mean
to do is this. Instead of the interest on the
ten thousand pounds which I have settled
on Ella being all I shall pay, I mean to
make it as many thousands; and I rather
think Lord John will be nearly as well off
as his brother, who I suppose is as hard upas
most peers at present, and Scotch ones in
particular.'

His wife kissed him, and said :

'J. M., you are a real daring. I have
always thought you the best husband in the
world, and the kindest of men.'

Then say no more now, my dear,' was his
comment. He enjoyed the praise, and no
man felt more keenly than he how pleasant
it was to have his good intentions properly
appreciated.

After dinner, when the ladies had left
the dining-room, Mr. Argoll repeated to
Lord John what he had told his wife, and
Lord John felt perfectly satisfied with his
day's work. When he and Mr. Argoll returned
to the drawing-room Miss Tacon was
not there. Miss Solar had left her accustomed

seat in the conservatory, and Miss
Tacon took it. Lord John found the place
a convenient one for making himself agreeable
to the lady of his heart, who listened
with dissembled rapture to all his speeches.
Before she had been many minutes
in her bedroom that night, Miss Tacon
realized that she was a more important
personage than she had been when she got
up in the morning. Mrs. Argoll had a maid ;
Miss Solar had one also ; but Miss Tacon
had to shift for herself Sometimes Mrs.
Argoll's maid, Fanny, would condescend to
help Miss Tacon to dress or undress on the
occasion of a great entertainment, but she
did this grudgingly, and only because her
mistress ordered her. Mrs. Argoll had told
her niece to make use of Fanny's services
whenever she required them, but she had
never ventured to ask Fanny to help her,
preferring to appeal to Pauline, Miss Solar's
maid, who was always willing and ready to
attend upon her, even though she were but a
poor dependent. To-night, however, Fanny
came into the room and beo^ored, almost asa

favour, to be allowed to help Miss Tacon
to undress. The other servants were as
marked in their change of manner to one who
was to be Lady John Cardonald very soon,
and might become the Countess of Armadale.
Servants are not behind their masters and
mistresses in worshipping success.

To express Miss Tacon's feelings is impossible.
She could not do so herself She
tried to add a paragraph to her Diary, but she
was unable to hold the pen. She was so
happy that she could do nothing but cry, and
never had she passed a more restless night,
even when she thought herself the most
Wretched of created beings. She felt remorse
as well as unbounded joy.

To think,' she said to herself, * that I
should have once envied Berta I Now I
would not exchange places with her, and
I can never forget her kindness in refusing
darling Lord John.'

Miss Solar was undoubtedly unhappy,
though she was not plunged into the depths
of despair from which Miss Tacon had suddenly
emerged. She was perfectly sincere

in congratulating" her friend. Her last talk
with Lord John had elevated him in her
estimation, and she was nearly as gratified
as Miss Tacon that the marriage would take
place. Whilst not convinced that Lord John
would prove a model husband, she was confident
that Miss Tacon would be a pattern
and loving wife to him.

As her custom was when she had anything
to write which would interest her aunt
Irma, she penned a few lines to her before
going to bed :

Dearest Aunt Irma,

'A wedding is to take place in this
house, though I am sorry to say it is not
mine. Of course, you remember all that 1
have told you about Lord John Cardonald,
and how my friend Ella has been dying to
marry him. That she would ever have had
the chance was what I never thought possible,
and yet they are engaged ; and at dinner today
Mr. Argos drank their health and much
happiness as man and wife. I was afraid
that Ella would do some foolish thing when

Mr. Argoll was speaking ; she looked as
if she could jump off her chair with uncontrollable
delight. I hope, poor thing, she
will not lose her head altogether. She keeps
saying, " I am so happy, I don't know what
to do." I have no doubt she will make
an affectionate little wife, and I must say
that I think better of Lord John than I
did, as he seems much less affected — his hair
is now its natural colour, which greatly improves
his appearance. I confess I do not
quite understand how he can afford to marry,
as he has got little except his half-pay,
which is small, and Ella has got nothing.
Mr. Argoll may give her something, but
I have learned enough of him by this time
to know that he will never part with a
farthing unless obliged, or unless he will get
something in return by doing so.

Though not going to be married yet,
I am far happier than I was when I wrote a
week ago, as Henry has come back looking
the picture of health ; indeed, I cannot
believe that he is not ten years younger
than his brother. He really does not seem

a year older than that poor young Kussian
who, as you may remember, always followed
us at Franzensbad, and who was not twenty.
Henry has brought home a large number
of most interesting sketches ; but he does
not seem inclined to begin painting the great
picture which he wished to do before he went
on his voyage. He is terribly worried by
his brother about some scheme for making
money. He says that he wishes he had
never gone near Patagonia. So do I. We
have only once had a good long talk since his
return, and he is more convinced than ever
that his brother will always refuse his consent
to our marriage, so we must wait patiently
for many years. Oh ! if my poor papa had
known that Mr. Argoll was so hard-hearted
he would never have placed me in his power.
The worst of it is that he appears to think he
is acting for my good.

How I envy Ella, who has no money, and
who is going to marry the man on whom her
heart is set ! I cannot go on here as I am.
I have told Henry, and he quite agrees with
me that I shall be much more comfortable
VOL. III. 53

with you, dear aunt ; so I intend telling my
guardian that I mean to pay you a very long
visit. He cannot object, I am sure. Only I
must bargain for not seeing Frau Decker
very often ; if I do, I shall have to return at
once to Palace Gardens. Henry says that
when I am with you he will pay a visit to
Frankfort, so you will be able to see him
often, and I am perfectly certain that will bea
great treat for us both. When my plans
are completed, I will write again. Meanwhile,
I am still your attached and unhappy

niece,

Berta.*

A STRUGGLE FOR LIFE.

Which way shall I fly
Infinite wrath, and infinite despair 1
Which way I fly is hell ; myself am hell ;
And, in the lowest deep a lower deep,
Still threatening to devour me, opens wide.
To which the hell I suffer seems a heaven.'

Milton.

R. ARGOLL had never written a
line to his brother till now. For
this reason his brother was greatly

surprised when he received the following note

from him :

'Dear Henry,

I shall be glad if you will call at
Athelstanee House tomorrow morning between

53—2

ten and eleven. I wish to talk with you about
business. As you said the last time you
called here that you hated to be kept waiting,
I shall arrange for your being shown
into my room the instant you arrive, provided
you do so between the hours named. You
need not be afraid of being asked to interpret
again for your friend Signer Malero : I have
done with him for the present.

^ Yours truly,

J. M. Argoll.'

My friend Signer Malero, indeed !' was
Mr. Henry Argoll's angry exclamation after
reading this note. ' Why ! he is the plague
of my life. I wish I had never met him, or
heard anything about his confounded Republic
or its affairs. I have been well punished forgoing
to Patagonia. And now I am asked to
go to the City, which is nearly as detestable
a place !'

Yet he sent to the City, reaching Athelstan
House between ten and eleven o'clock,
and being at once ushered into his brother s
room. He was curious to learn what his

brother had to say, and he was determined
to let him know that he had resolved never
to act as interpreter again, or take part in
any business which concerned the Republic
of Patagonia.

I am glad to see you, Henry ; you are
punctual for once. Now don't be angry, and
let me talk for a few minutes.'

This was Mr. Argos's fraternal welcome.
Mr. Henry Argoll replied, in his most unamiable
fashion :

I shall keep my temper, Joseph, and be
patient, if you will refrain from saying unpleasant
things. I know you have an absurd
notion that only City men are punctual, and
that artists and others either cannot afford
watches or else never think of looking at
them. I have protested against this before,
and I repeat that if you make any more of
your unpleasant speeches I shall leave the
room.'

Mr. Argoll thought it discreet to take no
notice of this outburst. It could not be
denied that he always tried to say something
which his brother would dislike to hear, and

he thought it his duty to do this to one
whom he would persist in considering a
scapegrace, because he had become an artist
and entertained no respect for the City or
City men. Perhaps it should be explained
that Mr. Argoll considered himself to be
about to display unexampled generosity.
He was, or at least he plumed himself on
being, an eminently just man, and he always
took special pains to prevent anyone from
complaining that he had not received what
seemed to be fair treatment at his hands.
It is true that he never did more than
sufficed to let him affirm that he had acted
handsomely, and he had now made up his
mind to deal justly, as he thought, with his
brother. He knew very well that, if ibis
brother had chosen to introduce Signor
Malero to any other firm of enterprising-financiers,
he would have been offered a large
share in the profits as a matter of course, and
he did not wish to be fairly chargeable with
treating his brother worse than any other
financier would have done.

Mr. Argoll had considerable difficulty in

estimating the share in the profits of the
Patagonia loan which it would be right to
offer his brother. He naturally shrank from
giving him too much, and he was anxious to
escape the charge of being stingy ; his own
profit was very large. If he had offered
his brother ten thousand pounds he would
not have been absurdly generous ; if he had
fixed the amount at twenty-five thousand,
it would not have been impoverishing himself;
and if he had even said : * Here, Henry,
is a cheque for fifty thousand pounds,' his
brother would not have had a disproportionate
share of the proceeds. Mr. Argos
decided to offer him five thousand pounds,
and to make a nice little speech when he
did so.

He made the speech, which ran as follows :
You know, Henry, that when our father's
property was divided, your share was ten
and mine fifteen thousand pounds. This was
in accordance with an arrangement over
which neither of us had any control. I
thought it rather unfair at the time, and that
was the principal reason why I was so

VOL. III.

anxious that you should put your portion
into my hands in order that I might be able
to let you have a larger income. You
refused, much to my disappointment, and I
have always thought that you did not appreciate
my kindness. Now, please don't interrupt
me. I know you are going to say that
you objected to having anything to do with
business, and that sort of thing ; but let me
finish. As you have really been most useful,
and T may say kind, as regards this Patagonia
loan, I think you ought to have a fair
share in the profits which are commonly
made out of such things, and I have drawn
a cheque for five thousand pounds, which will
thus make sou exactly as rich as I was when
I first began life.'

Keep your cheque, Joseph ; I don't want
it,' said Mr. Henry Argoll rather brusquely.
He continued, ^ Since acting as an interpreter
for Malero, I have learned how you people
do business, and I must say it looks to me
something very like . . . well, I won't use
hard words, but I don't wish to touch your
money.'

Mr. Argoll was not so angry with his
brother as some might expect ; had his
brother taken the cheque and called him
a robber, he would have fired up ; as there
was a pleasant prospect of not having to part
with any money, he meekly bore the harsh
words, replying in a conciliatory tone :

Well, Henry, please yourself. I cannot
force you to take the money ; but if you do
you are welcome to it, and I think you have
fairly earned it. How long will you be
painting pictures before you can earn such a
sum ?'

If I could paint a picture which would
fetch that amount I should be delighted ;
there is no shame in getting a reward for
honest work, but I do not see any fun in
humbugging the Patagonians and the English
public simply for the purpose of filling your
pockets.'

I see, Henry,' continued Mr. Argoll, in
the same placid mood, ' you do not understand
finance or the common forms of business
; if you did, you would not speak so
foolishly.'

Thank God, Joseph, I do not either
understand or practise what you call financing.
However, we need not dispute about
that matter. You can keep your cheque
and I shall preserve my ignorance. By the
way, as I am here, I may say it will be no
use sending messages to my rooms, as I am
going abroad for some months. So goodbye'


He was at the door w-hen Mr. Argoll
exclaimed :

Wait a minute, Henry ; I do not know if
you have heard that there is to be a wedding
in Palace Gardens soon.'

What ! a wedding !' said Henry, in great
surprise, if not consternation, his blood running
cold at the notion that Miss Solar had played
him false, and was to be married to another.
His brother observed and enjoyed his confusion
; but he speedily and considerately
reassured him by saying, in a mocking
strain :

No, no ; the heiress is all right, and will
wait patiently till she is twenty-five, which
will be about seven years hence ; you seem to

have turned my ward's head so that there is
no hkehhood of her marrying sooner. The
bride is to be Ella, and Lord John is the
happy man

Drawing a sigh of relief, the younger
brother replied :

I am very glad to hear it, Joseph. T
have got to like Lord John ; he is a much
better fellow than I had supposed, and Ella
seems a nice girl, though rather too milk-and-water
a one for my taste. If you are at a
loss what to do with that cheque, hand it to
her ; she and Lord John will not be overburdened
with money, but they will be none
the worse for that.'

And yet you have proposed to marry
Berta, who certainly has got some money.'

^ I wish she had not. Joseph ; and I hope
for both our sakes it won't be much.'

Have you any notion how much she will
have some day V

I have not, and do not care to know.
Only I may tell you that Lord John seemed
to know all about it, judging from what he
would insist upon telling me, though I begged

him to change the subject. I should fancy
she may have about one or two thousand a
year when she comes of age, which is ample
for anyone of common-sense. I suppose you
have heard of Sheepskins, who presented so
fine a collection of pictures to the nation ?
Well, he had no more than fifteen hundred a
year, and he lived at Rutland Gate. If he
could collect these pictures, and live in good
style as a bachelor on fifteen hundred pounds,
any married couple should be able to do so,
and present the nation with many children on
two thousand.'

Whilst Mr. Argoll patiently listened to this,
he said internally : ' I always thought you a
fool, but now I am sure of it ;' and then
he repeated aloud :

You may have thought me unkind, Henry,
but I really objected to your marrying my
ward simply because I was doubtful if you and
she would hit it off. I don't want to make a
bargain, but if you will do me a great favour,
I may reconsider my decision.'

If it has nothing to do with financing,
which is a business I neither understand nor

like, I am ready to oblige you, Joseph. Only
let me tell you that I don't appreciate your
kindness so far as it has gone, and I think I
can speak for Bertha also.'

Bertha is too young and inexperienced to
understand these matters, Henry ; besides, I
am sure you have no idea of my responsibility
as far as she is concerned.'

Perhaps I have not, Joseph ; but I have a
very lively notion of your capacity for making
yourself disagreeable.'

*Now, Henry, give up saying savage things.
They don't pay, let me tell you. Now listen
to me.'

I don't mind doing so, Joseph, when you
give up doing unpleasant things. You forget
that I am the sufferer, whilst you are
having your own way — and a very bad one I
think it.'

Had it not been that his great success in
making much money, and in getting credit
for having done much hypothetical good,
had lately rendered Mr. Argoll more angelic
in temper than was in accordance with his
nature, there would have been an explosion

on his part, and the two brothers would
have parted in a state of angry antagonism,
which was nothing new. For once, however,
and happily for himself perhaps, Mr.
Argoll's angry passions did not rise and
overpower him. He mastered his temper,
and he had his brother at a disadvantage
accordingly. His brother thought to himself,
What can have come over Joseph ? He
seems to have taken a lesson out of the book
of his namesake in the Old Testament when
tempted in another way.' Then he said to
his brother, in a temperate tone :

AVell, Joseph, if you have anything interesting
to tell me, I shall listen without
remark. I don't hesitate to admit that you
mean well, even when your manner to me
is most ao^o^ravatinof.'

Mr. Argoll was gratified with this implied
avowal that his brother had been too hasty
as well as unjust. Besides, a desire which
had vaguely floated through his mind now
took definite shape, and he did not wish to
be balked in his purpose. He specially
wished his brother to help him, and therefore

he forced himself to appear amiable and
forbearing. Self-interest acts as a powerful
curb on a bad temper.

I am about to tell you he began, ' something
which occurred when I was in Sicily,
and which I have not mentioned to a soul.
I think you will sympathize with me. If
you don't, please keep the story to yourself
I know I can trust you to do that.'

Mr. Argoll went on to give his brother
a truer as well as fuller account of his
adventures in Sicily than had appeared in
the newspapers. He admitted to him how
much ransom he had paid, and why he did
so. He depicted Carlo Nerone as a blackguard
of the worst kind. He told the story
of Mr. Byker's death, without omitting to
add how annoyed he felt on finding that
Mr. Byker had two hundred pounds in
circular notes of the London and Westminster
Bank when he disappeared, yet
characteristically concealing the further circumstance
that, on giving an indemnity to
the bank, he had been repaid the amount.
He ended his story by saying :

Now, Henry, I am a man of peace, as
you know ' — Henry knew nothing of the
kind, beyond the fact that his brother would
not fight when he was a boy, and was
generally regarded as a coward — * and I
think I may say that the chief object of my
life has been to live in charity with all men.'
Henry could not deny this, provided it meant
that his brother carefully refrained from
giving charity to any man.

Mr. Argoll pausing, his brother said :

I am sorry to hear, Joseph, that you
suffered and lost so much ; but I am chiefly
vexed to hear of poor Byker's death. That
rascal Nerone ought to suffer.'

'So I think, too,' said Mr. Argoll with
emphasis. ' The question which puzzles me
is how to get him punished as he deserves.
Of course there is no hope of getting any of
the money back, yet I should be pleased
beyond measure to think the blackguard had
been punished for robbing me. Besides, he
had the audacity to hint that I was a brigand
also ; that was nearly as bad as cheating me
out of my money.'

I suppose you left instructions in Sicily
to proceed against him V

No ; I was too ill to be able to do
anything when I was there, and to this
day I cannot tell how I got from Catania
to Naples.'

Do you purpose doing anything now V

When you told me a few minutes ago
that you thought of going abroad for a time,
it occurred to me that you might not object
to go to Sicily and do your best to get Carlo
Nerone sent to prison. I can give you introductions
which will smooth matters, and 1
shouldn't mind paying a thousand pounds
for a reward, if that was necessary. As you
will not take this cheque, I think I can
afford spending that sum. Besides, I will
pay your expenses.'

Well, Joseph, I don't mind tr3dng what
I can do. I have often wished to have a
look at Sicily. As I have been spending
little of late, I can easily afford to pay for
myself, though I shall readily undertake to
apply the thousand pounds you propose to
offer as a reward.'

VOL. III. 54

That is settled, then. I can only say,
if you succeed, Henry, I shall consider you
have put me under an obligation for the first
time in your life. Come and dine with us
this evening. Lord John will be there, I
suppose, but he will not care to talk with
either of us. I must say I never saw a man
so suddenly fall head-overseers in love in
my life. And now that we have arranged
this matter, you may like to have a chat
with Berta. I shan't mind your calling
again at Palace Gardens as you used to do.'

The brothers parted till the evening. Mr.
Henry Argoll drove to Palace Gardens, and
went direct to Miss Solar's studio after
entering the house. As he opened the door
of the room he said, in response to her exclamation
of surprise :

'Don't be frightened, Berta. I am hereby
leave of the higher powers. I have
something to tell you.'

He repeated to her what his brother had
told him. She was greatly interested, this
being the first time her natural curiosity had
been gratified.

She exclaimed, ' Poor Mr. Argoll ! And
did he actually pay ten thousand pounds to
these brigands ? No wonder he has been
complaining about being badly off since then.
The sum was an enormous one to lose.'

She thought so, because her notions about
the value of money were rather vague, and
also because she had not the slightest idea
that the sum which seemed stupendous to
her was much less than half her own income
and one-twentieth of Mr. Argoll's. She was
still more affected by the story of Mr. Byker's
death and of the funeral service at the mouth
of the Inferno. She moved her lover in turn
by telling him the sad tale of old Mrs.
Byker's end, saying as little as possible,
however, of the kindly part which she had
played. Indeed, this part of the story was
so indistinctly narrated, as to lead Mr. Henry
Argoll to suppose that the chief part in comforting
poor Mrs. Byker had been played by
his sister-in-law.

After they had talked over these matters
he said :

Now, Berta, 1 should like to go to Sicily

54—2

to try if I cannot bring this scoundrel to
justice. I should like to punish him, even
if m doing so I did not give my brother a
sort of revenge. Do you object to my
going V

No, Henry; go, by all means. If I were
a man I would go with you ; and if we were
married I should certainly go. I don't wish
you to run risks, and I am very sorry to part
with you ; but I should feel happier if something
were done to the brigand who was the
cause of poor Mr. Byker's death. If Mrs.
Argoll were here, she would tell me that these
are not Christian sentiments, but I cannot
help that.' Miss Solar did not misrepresent
Mrs. Argoll. Yet unchristian sentiments are
not always unnatural.

You are a noble girl, Berta, was Mr.
Henry Argoll's exclamation, which he accentuated
in a manner that needs no explanation.
So the younger brother started for
Sicily on an errand of vengeance.

Mr. Henry Argoll took an introduction to
Messrs. Blumenheim and Caradoc in Paris,
who gave him letters to Messrs. Palmaroo and

Vilani in Catania. He had one to the English
ambassador at the Italian Court, who stated
the case to the Italian authorities, and they
agreed that a company of soldiers should be
sent to Sicily with orders to capture Carlo
Nerone. Mr. Henry Argoll had to spend a
few days in Rome whilst these arrangements
were making — Government officials in Rome,
as in younger cities, conducting themselves ina
methodical and exasperating fashion. He
was not gratified by revisiting Rome after
the lapse of twenty years. His feelings maybe
best understood from the following short
letter, which he sent to Miss Solar :

Dearest Berta,

I have been well received here by
our ambassador, and introduced by him to
the Minister of Justice and the Minister
of War, both of whom agreed to do their
utmost to put down brigandage in Sicily.
They were greatly impressed when they were
told that my brother had been a victim.
*' What !" they both said in substance, '* can
the senior partner in the great house of

Argoll and Solar have been subjected to such
indignities ? Why, Mr. Argoll has been one
of Italy's best friends when loans have been
issued !" So you see a financier does inspire
some people with gratitude ; probably they
may wish to keep on good terms with him,
so as to receive future favours.

You did not stay long enough in Rome to
see it properly when you stopped on your
way to and from Naples. Can you believe
that I wish I had not revisited it ? The
city may be changed for the better ; but it
is not the old Kome which I knew. In my
day there was no Via Nationale, and the
Cafe Greco, where the artists meet, has
quite a different look. Many persons say
that Rome has been greatly improved ; certainly
it is completely changed, but I do
not think so much of the improvement as
those persons who like everything to look
as if it had been built last week and painted
yesterday.

When I entered my studio, after returning
from Patagonia, T found that my
servant had employed her idle hands in

putting things to rights, as she called it.
Everything was put into its proper place ;
there were no more dusty corners, and order
reigned supreme. Yet I thought the studio
most uncomfortable. I had grown to like
the dust and enjoy the disorder, and to
know where to put my hands on everything
when they were not in their proper places.
It is with a similar feeling that I regard
Kome. I wish it had not been swept and
garnished, and made to look almost as
modern and monotonous as a Western city
in America. From what you told me, I do
not fancy that Naples will be spoilt in the
same way, and that I may still find it noisy,
dirty, and picturesque, and in all respects an
almost perfect hotbed for beggars and the
cholera. But I shall not stay there, as I
wish to proceed as quickly as possible to
Catania. When Carlo Nerone is caught, I
will send you a lock of his hair. It may
interest your generous guardian. He will
then think the better of

Your loving

Hearts

On reaching Catania, Mr. Henry Argoll
found the company of soldiers there, and prepared
to proceed to Nicata. Messrs. Palmaroo
and Yilani were most attentive to him.
They were pleased in their own interests to
find that a vigorous blow at brigandage was
impending, and they gave Mr. Henry Argoll
their advice and assistance with great
readiness and genuine satisfaction. He was
so much struck with the city that he would
have resolved to linger there and see its
antiquities, had he not been informed that, if
anything effectual were to be accomplished,
no time should be lost. The soldiers were
impatient to go forward. They were to
receive a lira a day extra pay as soon as they
reached the enemy, or in other words, were
at the headquarters of the brigands. After
leaving Catania he pressed forward, and after
a fatiguing journey he reached Nicata, and
took up his abode at the Hotel des Strange's,

Only one incident occurred during the
journey thither. Almost at the very turning
in the road where Mr. Argoll's huge
medicine-chest fell off the back of the

carriage, a woman with a child in her
arms was standing at the top of the slope
on the left-hand side. The horses were
dragging the carriage slowly up the steep
and stony path, which resembled a dry
watercourse more than a road. Just at
the corner where a jerk had caused the
chest to tumble off, the child gave a leap
from its mother's arms and rolled down the
slope upon the roadway. With a loud
scream the mother rushed after it. Yet
before the child had been touched by the
fore-feet of the horses, Mr. Henry Argoll,
who had watched the incident, sprang out of
the carriage, took the child in his arms, and
handed it unharmed to the almost frantic
mother. She could scarcely find any other
words to thank him than invocations to every
saint in the calendar to reward him for his
brave and kindly act. He simply said in
Italian :

The child is not hurt, I hope V
No, the saints be praised !' she replied ;
and added, * may heaven reward you, signore,
for I cannot ;' and then she turned away.

A more wretched fortnight than that which
Mr. Henry Argoll passed in the Hotel des
Etrangers at Nicata he had not known even
in Patagonia. He was not merely uncomfortable
— that would not have caused him to complain
; but he was wearied to death with doing
nothing useful and seeing nothing done. No
tidings of Carlo Nerone could be obtained;
he seemed to have disappeared, and yet no
one could tell in what direction. Morning
after morning the rugged country was scoured
by the soldiers, whom Mr. Henry Argoll accompanied.
None of the inhabitants had seen
or heard of him. No resistance was offered.
The peasants professed themselves ready to
aid the soldiers, but their help was in words
which were not translated into deeds. Each
had much difficulty in making the other
understand what was said. They were all
subjects of the Italian crown, yet they were
as much separated in speech and ideas as if
they were natives of countries which had no
connection with each other. The soldiers
were all North Italians. They had no sympathy
with brigands, and no affection for

Sicilians. The Sicilians spoke of them as
foreigners.

There was no lack of industry and ardour
on the part of the soldiers. They had been
told that the reward would be divided
amongst them in the event of Carlo being
captured alive. More than one peasant
would have been shot had not this been
clearly understood. Many a peasant was
chased under the supposition that he was
the brigand chief If each soldier had
not been afraid to lose his share of the
reward, he would have shot every person
who seemed to bear a close resemblance to
Carlo Nerone.

Mr. Henry Argoll grew tired of a never-ending
chase after a man of whom there was
no trace. He began to doubt whether such
a man as Carlo Nerone had ever lived at
Catania, and whether his brother did not labour
under a hallucination ; he was unaware that
the poorest peasant would not have betrayed
Carlo to save his own life. The loyalty of
these peasants to him was as genuine as that
of the poor Highlanders to the Pretender.

Each of them was his friend or admirer.
Even those upon whom he had levied ransom
did not wish him to fall into the hands of
the foreign soldiers. If southern troops had
been employed, Carlo's life might have been
in greater danger. These soldiers would,
perhaps, have come to an understanding with
the peasants to divide the reward ; after
catching him and obtaining it, they might
have connived at his escape. At the end of
a fortnight Mr. Henry Argoll said to the
officer commanding the company :

It is no use, Captain, my staying here
any longer. I shall leave in three days' time
unless Carlo is captured. I am not authorized
to distribute any part of the reward unless he
should be captured, and let me impress upon
you again to have him taken alive. You had
better repeat this to your men, and then they
will know what to expect.'

Two out of the three days had expired, and,
though the soldiers strained every nerve to
get hold of the brigand, they still failed.
They took nearly every inhabitant of the
village into custody who seemed a suspicious

person ; but as a clerk in Messrs. Palmaroo
and Vilani's bank, who knew Carlo Nerone by
sight and had been brought for the purpose
of identifying him, declared in each case that
a mistake had been made, the prisoner was
instantly set free.

On the morning of the third and last day
Mr. Henry Argoll rose early, as was his
custom, in order to write his Diary, and to
sketch before breakfast. This was his only
quiet period of the day. Later he was
worried by false reports and alarms. He
occupied the room in which Mr. Byker had
spent several days whilst his master was
suffering with fever in the garret. The
window opened on a patch of ground at the
back of the hotel, which was called the
garden ; but which contained as many blocks
of lava as thorny plants and flowering shrubs.
As the weather in early spring was as warm
there as in England during August, the window
remained open night and day. Whilst seated
at a table with his back to the window, Mr.
Henry Argoll was startled to hear a voice
say ' Good-morning, sir,' in fair English, and

with a very slight Italian accent. Turning
round, he saw a man before him who resembled
an inhabitant of the village, and
who stood hat in hand awaiting his notice and
reply.

Good-morning,' Mr. Henry Argoll said in
turn ; and added, ' what brings you here, and
who are you ?'

I am Carlo Nerone, at your service,' was
the answer.

Mr. Henry Argoll was not wanting in
pluck or nerve, but he was thunderstruck
for the moment ; the other went on without
waiting for him to speak, and said :

You need not be afraid. I don't think
you are ; at least you don't look so. I have
two loaded revolvers and a large knife here,
and if I wished to kill you, I should not
have given you warning, but have attacked
you when you were seated with your back to
the window, and did not hear my approach.'

But what do you want, and why do you
come now V Mr. Henry Argoll naturally
asked.

Listen to me for a few minutes, sir, and

I will tell you ; only you must promise not to
call out. I know there are soldiers outside
who would come the moment you gave the
signal, and I know also that you can do so in
Italian. But it is enough for you to give
your word. I don't really like English
people, and if I ever said I did it was to
flatter them, but I think I can trust you.'

'I shall not betray you whilst you are in
this room; but I can only promise that you
will be undisturbed for half an hour. My
coffee will be brought then. If you prefer to
speak I tab an, though your English is excellent,
you may do so, as I understand it.'

Carlo Nerone did prefer the speech in
which he was not more fluent, but in which
he felt more at home, and he poured forth
a tale of his experiences which greatly interested
and impressed Mr. Henry Argoll. He
narrated simply and truthfully Mr. Arg oil's
visit and Mr. Byker's death, and his tale
commended itself to his listener, even though,
it differed in some material particulars from
that which his brother had communicated to
him. He was relieved to hear that Mr.

Byker's death was purely accidental, and
he felt half ashamed of his mission. Wbv
should he be the instrument for sending
Carlo Nerone to imprisonment for life, which
is the fate of murderers in Italy ? The man
did not seem so bad after all, and he did not
appear to be a much worse robber than his
brother, the esteemed and powerful financier.

But what can 1 do for you, Signor Ne-one
V he asked ; adding, * in a few minutes'
time some one will be here with my coffee,
and if you are in the room the chances will
be against you, even if I hold my tongue.'

Carlo replied, in tones which went to Mr.
Henry Argoll's heart :

I have met many Englishmen, some of
whom were good and stupid, like Mr. Byker,
others who were cunning and venomous, like
your brother ; but T have never met one
before who was a good soul, and who was
more like one of ourselves than one of your
countrymen.'

Now, Signor Nerone,' said Mr. Henry
Argoll, ' stop your flattery ; it will do you
more harm than good.'

I did not mean to flatter you, sir — indeed
I did not ; and let me tell you, in order
to prove it, that if I had chosen, you would
never have seen your country again. I could
have killed you like a dog, or got some of my
followers to do so, if I had pleased. But I
have spared your life because you saved the
life of my little boy Enrico.'

Tears which were not forced rolled down
the brigand's cheeks as he said this. Mr.
Henry Argoll was moved also ; but he could
not understand what Carlo meant, and he
asked him, after a moment's pause, to explain
himself

Perhaps you have forgotten snatching a
little child from under the horses' feet when
you were on your way here. That was my
darling Enrico, my only child. For doing that,
sir, not a hair of your head would be harmed
by me, or anyone I can command.'

Mr. Henry Argoll had forgotten the circumstance
till it was now recalled to his memory.
He merely said :

'Pray do not exaggerate what I did. I
should have done the same for anyone.'

VOL. III. 55

But perhaps other persons might not have
a brigand's gratitude, and hence it is that I
have spared your life when I could easily
have taken it. If you knew all that I could
tell you, it is possible that you right not
think me much worse than many others. I
should not have induced your brother to pay
so large a ransom if I had not had a dream
of beginning brigandage in modern style,
which consists in robbing the public in a less
direct way than was understood and practised
by my ancestors. But this dream is at an
end. I must be a brigand of the old school,
such as was the rule when my ancestors, as I
have heard it said, looked upon the Athenians
who were prisoners in the quarries of Syracuse,
and when the old families of which your brother
talked to me were never heard of. My present
plan is to join a band in Calabria, of which
the venerable Bardolo was the head. 1 heard
of his death the other day. I think that
I can teach his son something, and I wish
to leave this place, which is not what it
used to be before schools were common in the
island.'

Mr. Henry Argoll listened patiently to
this long speech. At its close he asked :

How, then, can I help you, Signor
Nerone ? I suppose you are in earnest ?
But my brother will not believe me if I
should repeat your story to him when I am
back in London.'

But he will believe this,' holding up a
small packet. ' This contains half his ransom ;
the other half I shall keep, or, rather, a part
of it, because I have had to give a good deal
away. The rest I have given to my wife to
put aside for our little boy, in case he should
not be able to follow m}' career, which seems
to be an unfortunate one, though it has
attractions which you cannot understand.'

Mr. Henry Argoll took the packet, offered
his hand to Carlo, and said :

^ I am really sorry for you, Signor Nerone,
and you may rely upon my going off to-night
and taking the soldiers with me. But I
advise you for your own sake to go away
also. The police are ordered to keep a watch
over this place such as they have never kept
before.'

55—2

Carlo simply said, 'Thank you, sir,' and with
a grace which no Englishman of his condition
could imitate, he kissed Mr. Henry Argoll's
hand, adding, ' If ever I can repay you in anyway,
you will not ask me once in vain.'

There was a noise at the door, as of someone
entering, and Carlo rushed out at the
open window. A soldier was watching there;
another, who had overheard voices, entered
the room, and he, too, ran after the brigand,
who disappeared round the corner of the
house. Mr. Henry Argoll called out to
them in Italian, ' Stop ! it is a friend.' The
soldiers repeated the cry of * Stop 1' but Carlo
did not heed it. He knew every inch and
turning of the path, and he was determined
to get away from the soldiers, who, stimulated
by the prospect of capturing the brigand
at the last moment, and gaining the reward,
appeared on all sides. It was in vain
that Mr. Henry Argoll called out to them
to stop ; they were resolved to approach
the flying man and ascertain who he was ;
they thought he might really be the chief of
the brigands.

Carlo distanced his pursuers, and ran towards
the Inferno. His intention was to
turn aside by the narrow and difficult path
leading towards the church, which Mr. Byker
wished to follow, but failed to find. As Carlo
turned sharply towards it, a soldier confronted
him ; Carlo fired his revolver, which he carried
in his right hand, but missed the soldier ;
the latter fired his rifle and disabled Carlo's
right arm. He turned quickly round, with
the intention of finding a means of escape on
the opposite side ; but the ledge was narrow ;
he felt faint owinof to the shock and the
blood streaming from the wound in his arm ;
his foot slipped, and as it did so he gave
a shriek of anguish which rang through the
air, and thrilled everyone who heard it. Carlo
rolled rapidly down into the Inferno, and was
seen no more.

VOL. III.

KNOTS UNTIED.

La philosophie triomphe amusement des maux passes et
des maux a venir, nimis les maux presents triomphent
delle.' — La Eochefoucauld.

Whate'er he did was done with so much ease,
In him alone 'twas natural to please.'

Dryden.

R. ARGOLL seldom spoke at his
breakfast-table. He had no inclination
to make himself agree -
His mind was fully occupied with
schemes for circumventing a rival during the
day. Besides, he was busily engaged in
swallowing his breakfast, and the contents of
The Morning Paper. He first read the City
article, and then the telegrams from abroad.

The other contents of the paper, more
especially the comprehensive and exhaustive
leading articles, he reserved for careful reading
in the evening.

Greatly to the surprise of the others at the
table, Mr. Argoll exclaimed one morning :

How extraordinary ! I never heard of
anything like this before ;' and then he read
aloud a long telegram headed, ^ Eruption of
Mount EtncL Mr. Argoll was not aware
that the event which surprised him took
place on the evening of the day upon which
Mr. Henry Argoll saw the last of Carlo
Nerone.

The telegram was from the Naples correspondent
of The Morning Paper, where it
may be read in full. A summary of it may
suffice for the present. After explaining
how he had learned that Mount Etna was ina
state of activity, and that the eruption
promised to be on the largest scale known
this century, the correspondent added that he
had lost no time in visiting Sicily, and that
the spectacle was one of extraordinary
grandeur. I first beheld it from the sea.

A lurid litxht was reflected from the vast
mass of molten lava. At intervals the jets,
or rather pillars, of fire from the crater
ceased, and it seemed as if a black column
had taken their place and was ascending
into the air. This was a dense body of
smoke and ashes ; then the crests of flame
gained the ascendency again, and the lava
torrent began to roll down the mountain-side.
The hery mass sometimes made its
way by fits and starts, pausing for five or ten
minutes, and then resuming its destructive
career by leaps and bounds. At Catania 1
could not obtain full and trustworthy details
of what had happened, so I pushed on to
Nicolosi, which is the place nearest to the
torrent of lava, and where the inhabitants
are trembling for the issue. Immediately
after the great explosion which announced
that the mountain was becoming active,
there was a heavy fall of fine ash in Nicolosi,
and if this had lasted a few minutes honore
most of the people would have been suffocated.
When I reached the place, the air was heavy
as well as hot, and I breathed with difficulty.

Fugitives from the mountain villages have
fled here for their Ives. A few soldiers, forming
part of the expedition sent after a notorious
brigand named Carlo Nerone. have arrived
from Nicata, a mountain village which is well
known to English travellers in Sicily, but the
soldiers cannot tell whether the rest of their
comrades have escaped. They fear that
everybody who was in the village except
themselves have lost their lives. It seems
that simultaneously with the first and loudest
explosion there was an outburst at an opening
near Nicata, which is locally known as the
Inferno, and in which many persons have
perished when trying to ascend the mountain
without a guide. The ashes and stones
ejected from this dangerous fissure in the
mountain-side overwhelmed the greater part
of Nicata before the torrent of lava reached
it. The fiery flood has approached to within
a thousand yards of this place, but its progress
appears to be arrested. Indeed, the general
belief seems to be that the worst is over.
Nothing authentic is known about the loss of
life ; it must be very large, whilst the destruction

to property is incalculable. The lava
flood has covered and desolated a tract extending
over five miles.'

When Mr. Argoll had finished reading, he
exclaimed, with an unwonted show of feeling :

^ Poor Henry ! there is no news from him ;'
then, recovering himself from this partial
access of human weakness, he continued :
To be sure, he is not given to act in a
business-like way. He will probably have
written instead of telegraphing to say that
he has escaped. We shall doubtless hear
from him tomorrow or next day at the
farthest.' Having done his duty as a brother
by making this reflection, Mr. Argoll went
off" to Athelstanee House in his usual self-satisfied
frame of mind.

That day he had more interesting things
to occupy his attention than the condition of
Nicata and the fate of his brother. A
vacancy in the representation of the City had
suddenly occurred. Many persons were ready
to fill it ; but the prevailing opinion was that
if Mr. Argoll would consent to become a
candidate he would be returned without

opposition. He was regarded as just the
man for the City. His popularity had
increased as his means for distribution
favours had multiplied. Of late he had been
lavish in giving members of the Stock Exchange,
and other persons who go to the
City to make money, and whose views
represent public opinion there, special opportunities
for adding largely to their wealth.

A requisition inviting him to become a
candidate had been signed by those persons
who knew him intimately, and by others
who, knowing nothing of him except by
report, were satisfied that he was both a fit
and proper person, not only to represent the
City in Parliament, but also to enter the
Ministry and display himself as a heaven-sent
Chancellor of the Exchequer. A man
who has made his own fortune in the City
is supposed to be well fitted to make the
country's fortune, though history and experience
show that the most successful custodians
of the nation's purse have never, from William
Pitt to Mr. Gladstone, been engaged in
business, and have always been free from the

failings and blindness of those who have had
a commercial training. Yet practical men
always command a respect in City circles
which is not readily accorded to theorists,
however eminent. The former are the persons
of whom Buller Ly eton wrote, in his England
and the English, that, * When they say that
they are plain practical men, I know they are
going, by the fact that one and one make two,
to prove the theory that two and two make
seven.'

Neither general considerations of a rational
kind, nor a knowledge of English history, had
any influence over Mr. Argos's City friends
and admirers. His City virtues were having
their reward. Those who knew him best and
admired him the most were appreciating him
at what they considered to be his true value.
He was as happy and satisfied as a cat which
is gently stroked the right way. Perhaps he
was not sufficiently grateful for his mercies,
being rather too disposed to accept them as
matters of course.

Mr. Argoll considered as his due all the
honours and fine speeches of which he was
the recipient. He had not laboured at Athelstan

House in vain, and the struggles of
many years were gradually being recompensed
in the way which he deemed proper. Money
he had acquired ; now, he was thirsting for
fame. Whilst gaining a fortune he had
never dreamt that he ought to obtain anything
else. A large fortune having been
won — a fortune, too, which he felt could be
increased, without risk or labour, almost
beyond the limits of his sanguine thoughts
in early youth — he grew ambitious of that
social distinction which gilds the life of a
millionaire. So far everything had gone
well with him, and he thought himself created
for obtaining anything upon which he set his
heart. He laughed at his old desire to
become a landowner and a count in Sicily.
There was no reason, he said to himself, why
he should not become a peer of Great Britain.
He was convinced that his virtues and wealth
qualified him for upholding the peerage and
adorning the hereditary chamber.

To enter Parliament as a member for the
City of London was the first step towards
taking his seat in the House of Lords.

When the requisition was handed to him
on the day that he read the telegram in The
Morning Paper, he returned an immediate
reply to the effect that he would cheerfully
sacrifice himself in order to serve his fellow-citizens.
He added that the pride and
purpose of his career as their representative
would be to foster and maintain all the institutions
of the country, and to act as a
pillar of the State. His self-denying and
patriotic sentiments gave general satisfaction.
He was elected in due course, and the City
of London was congratulated upon having
sent another pattern representative to the
Grand Council of the Nation.

On returning home in the evening, he
found his household in a state of gloom,
which the news that he would shortly be
returned to Parliament did not completely
dispel. It is true that his wife was delighted.
She entertained an exasperated notion of the
honour which would accrue to herself as the
wife of a member of Parliament. Miss
Solar did not take any interest in the matter.
Her thoughts were concentrated upon the

and since passing through Catania on his
way to Nicata.

Ah ! this is a bad business !' was his
ejaculation. In his frame of mind at the
moment, he would have readily given a few
pounds to save his brother's life.

All that day the gloom deepened over
the Argoll household. The Angel of Death
seemed to be hovering over it. Everyone
spoke in whispers. All the women were in
tears. Something like remorse agitated Mr.
Argoll when he saw his ward bearing up
against the blow which he feared had
blighted her life. Of course, he had acted
for the best ; he had done so all his days ; he
gloried in always doing what was right, and
he could defy anyone to prove that he was
chargeable with open wickedness. He had
usually been too careful of appearances to
commit a glaring and unmistakable fault.
Besides, he had the supreme satisfaction of
feelings that whatever he did, even if obnoxious
and painful to others, was performed
on strictly Christian or business principles.

No letter arrived on the morning of the

VOL. III. 56

third day, and now the last vestige of hope
had disappeared. At last Mr. Argoll tried
to speak words of comfort to his ward, even
though he did not believe that his brother
was alive. Yet he thought it right to do
what he could to make amends for his harsh
conduct. She did not repulse him, even
though she felt that he was trying to delude
her with vain hopes. She was placid and
resigned. Her grief was none the less intense
because it was subdued. She could
suffer in silence, yet the strain of her
endurance would be the more terrible in its
results. In her case, as in that of Calantha
in Ford's tragedy, The Broken Heart, it
might be said :

They are the silent griefs which cut the heart-strings.'

Mrs. Argoll and Miss Tacon strove in all
sincerity to console Miss Solar. She begged
of them, however, to leave her to weep and
suffer alone.

Mr. Argoll went to Athelstanee House
that day less disposed to transact business
than he had ever been since he first entered

it. He did not greatly care whether Consols
were firm or falling, whether stocks and shares
were calm or agitated. His thoughts had
been diverted from their ordinary channel,
yet, having made several appointments, he
had to receive the persons who called, and
he strove to impose upon them with his
usual skill. Still he was not quite himself,
and he narrowly escaped entering into a
transaction from which he would not have
gained any profit, when a clerk brought him
a message which gave him an excuse for asking
the stockbroker who was in the room to call
again later in the day. The message was to
the effect that Mr. Henry wished to see him.

Mr. Who V he asked with more than his
wonted acerbity of manner.

^ Your brother, sir,' was the clerk's reply.

Then show him in directly he said.
The stockbroker left at once, Mr. Henry
Argoll walking into the room as he passed
out. ' Glad to see you back, Henry,' was
Mr. Argoll's greeting. ' This is an unexpected
visit. Why did you not write or
wire, saying you would call X

56—2

Mr. Argos really felt more than conventionally
glad that his brother had returned ;
but he kept his emotions well in hand, or,
perhaps, being never overpowered by them,
he easily remained quite cool. His brother
sat down in the chair which the stockbroker
had vacated, being the only one in the
room upon which any person could venture
to sit without fear of its falling or breaking
down. Mr. Argoll began to write, whilst his
brother watched and waited. The few lines
which he wrote and put into an envelope did
not occupy him many minutes. As soon
as the envelope was closed and addressed,
Mr. Argoll rang the bell, and told his clerk
to give the letter to the messenger with an
order to go off at once and deliver it. The
short note was addressed to his wife, and
ran thus :

Henry has arrived ; he seems well, and
will probably be with you at luncheon.'

Mr. Henry Argoll was usually restless and
impatient ; and when visiting the City on
business, he was always anxious to despatch

it and depart. At present he made no sign
of being annoyed or flurried, neither did he
get up, as he had done on previous occasions,
and leave the room out of a feeling of vexation
at not being attended to. As soon as
Mr. Argoll had given the letter and a
message to the clerk, his brother returned
his greeting, and said :

I do not wish to trouble you, Joseph,
or hinder you for a moment from making
money ; but I wish to get rid of this packet,
and then I shall go away with pleasure.'

But when did you arrive, Henry, and
where were you last V

I arrived this morning, and I have
travelled without stopping from Nicata. I
wish I had never gone there. It is a detestable
hole.'

I quite agree with you. I wish, too,
that I had never seen it. Thank Heaven,
neither of us will ever see it again !'

I should think not. At least, I have no
intention of returning there.'

'Don't you know that the place is
destroyed V

It was not when I left. Only it may
comfort you to hear that Carlo Nerone will
never rob anyone again.'

I should think not, indeed ! At any rate,
he will not do so at Nicata, as there is no
such place left.'

What do you mean by no such place being
left 1 It was all right when I was there a
few days ago, though Carlo will never entrap
anyone again at the Hotel des Strangers

That I quite believe, as there is neither an
hotel nor any other house there. Haven't
you heard of the eruption V

^ You mean the Inferno, I suppose ? I saw
it in full swing when Carlo went down.'

No ; I mean the eruption of Mount Etna,
of which I read a full account in The Morning
Paper.'

I seldom read the papers at home, Joseph,
and I never look at them when I'm abroad ;
so I don't know what eruption you refer to.'

Why, Henry ! we thought that you had
felt as well as seen the eruption. Nicata
is covered with lava, and most of the industrious
inhabitants are smothered.'

How and when did all this happen,
Joseph ? Judging from what you say, the
world seems turned upside down during the
tew days that I have been travelling homewards
at full speed.'

What happened, Henry, was a sudden
outburst of Mount Etna, of which I read
an account in The Morning Paper about
the beginning of this week. Let me think
for a moment. This is Saturday. I read it
in Tuesday's paper, so it must have taken
place last Monday evening.'

Well, Joseph, I left on Monday morning
about ten o'clock, after seeing the last of Carlo
Nerone at seven, and handing the reward of
twenty-five thousand lire to the officer in
command of the soldiers. I got a mule, rode
to Catania, and reached that place just in time
to catch the steamer for Naples. I went down
below and slept nearly the whole time of the
passage, as I was very tired. I took the first
train from Naples, and I have come on here
without stopping longer than was necessary
to change from one train to another. T
travelled so quickly because I wanted to

hand you this packet which I got from Carlo
shortly before he disappeared down the Inferno.
I have not opened it. He told me
it contains half the ransom which you paid
him.'

Mr. Argoll was too much astonished to
say a word. He was slightly sceptical about
any money being in the packet. On opening
it, he was still more astonished to find that
it contained a bundle of Italian bank-notes.
He counted them carefully and slowly, and
found that they represented five thousand
pounds in English money.

And you got all this out of that ruffian
Carlo, did you V

Of course I did, Joseph, otherwise you
would not have the packet now.'

^ Well then, Henry, I can only say that
you are the cleverest fellow I have ever met
with.' He paused till he had re-counted the
notes and found that he had not made any
mistake, and then he added : ' Forgive me,
my boy, if I have ever said any unkind things
to you. I understand now that you know
how to deal with rascals better than anyone

I ever heard of. Oh! why did you not join
me here instead of wasting your time in
painting pictures 1 What a heap of money
we should have made together !'

Mr. Henry Argoll heard with indifference
the compliment to his cleverness and sagacity
as a detective, nor did he regret that he had
chosen the thorny but honourable path which
leads to the Temple of Fame in preference to
the far easier one which ends in the Cave of
Mammon.

Always prudent and thoughtful, Mr.
Argoll had rung the bell and said to a clerk :

Take these notes to Mr. Bandol, and tell
him to see that they are cashed at once, and
at the highest rate of exchange he can get,
and to place the proceeds to my account at
the bank.' Turning to his brother, he continued
: ' I always like to make sure of these
things, to prevent mistakes. The notes might
be forgeries. However, if the money is got
for them, it will be handed over to you ; I
will draw a cheque the instant after Mr.
Bandol reports that the sum is paid into the
bank.'

Don't concern yourself about that, Joseph.
I hope the notes are good ones, for your
sake. I got the money entirely on your
account. Do you often offer persons from
the West-end cheques for five thousand
pounds ? for if you do, I can send plenty of
persons here ! But I must refuse your,
offer to day, as I did the last time you made
a similar one.'

What an extraordinary fellow you are,
Henry ! I have never been able to make
you out. One would think, to hear you talk,
that you cared nothing for money, and were
ignorant of its value.'

What you don't understand, Joseph, is
very simple after all. I have never had too
much money. If I had, I should be less indifferent
to it. But I have always had
enough to go on with, and if I had a desire
to get more, it would be as an artist, and then
what I earned would show that I had done
honest work.'

'Then you won't object to take payment
for a picture V

Of course not. The greatest of the Old

Masters was not dishonoured by being paid
by a patron, but no artist who respects himself
will accept anything which he has not
fairly earned.'

Did you ever paint a portrait, Henry V

Yes ; I have painted several, and if my
heart had not been set on landscape-painting,
I should have made money in that way. My
harshest critics praised my portraits, though
they may have done so because they were
not capable of appreciating my landscapes.'

As you have not read the papers lately,
you may not know that I am going to
be elected a member for the City. Now, my
friends have suggested that I should have
my portrait painted and presented to the
City Carlton Club. I rather think they
wish me to pay for it. At any rate, there is
no talk of a subscription being raised. Now,
I cannot quite make up my mind what to do ;
but I think I shouldn't object to sit if you
will paint it. You may find it good practice.'


Mr. Henry Argoll did not reply immediately.
He had no hesitation about painting

his brother's portrait ; indeed, he had a
lurking wish to show his brother what he
could do as an artist, but he was not disposed
to encourage his brother's meanness by
making him a present of the portrait. He
thought that he had better put an end to the
project by saying he must be paid, and then
naming a prohibitive price. So he said :

You know, Joseph, or, if you don't, I mayas
well tell you, that Sir John, who is the
fashionable painter, will not accept less thana
thousand guineas for a portrait; and
though I am glad to say that I am not a
fashionable painter, I won't take less.'

You have often told me, Henry, that I
know nothing about art and artists, so you
may be good enough to enlighten me on one
think:. Is it the case that the higher the
price paid for a picture the more the public
admire it T

Yes ; that is quite true, and it shows
what geese the public are.'

You may be right about the public being
geese, though you are not very complimentary
; yet there must be something in

what you say, as I remember my wife raving
about some picture at the Academy which
had been painted on commission for a higher
price than had been given since the Academy
was founded. I half thought of going to seethe
wonderful picture myself, only I have no
time to waste in looking at pictures.'

Except on bank-notes,' added his brother,
with something not unlike a sneer.

'And very good pictures they are, too, let
me tell you, Henry. They are much better
worth having than your works of art.'

'Well, Joseph, I am sorry to confess the
public do like pictures best which cost high
prices. I once made that craze the subject
of a paper in The Weekly Rasper. I proved
that art in England is more a question of
money than of genius.'

To return to what I said about money.
On second thoughts I think that I should
deduct the reward of a thousand pounds from
the sum you have brought back, and which
you have squeezed out of Carlo Nerone in
some unaccountable way. Now you are
justly entitled to the four thousand. I shall

not miss it, as I had written off the whole
ten thousand pounds as a bad debt, and never
expected to see a penny of it again. If you
won't take the four thousand as a gift, will
you take them as payment for painting my
portrait? I should think that when the
portrait is exhibited, and it is known that it
was painted on commission for four thousand
pounds, you will get praise enough. Your
other artist friends are sure to envy you, and
that, I suppose, will be a satisfaction.'

The offer was wonderful and tempting.
There would, indeed, be a sensation in the
world of art if it were announced that Mr.
Henry Argoll had received four thousand
pounds for painting a portrait. Artists are not
insensible to the money value of their works;
indeed, they never think they can be appraised
too highly. Sir Joshua and Turner are not the
only great English artists who have driven hard
bargains with their patrons, and have shown
as much fondness as Mr. Argoll for hoarding
money. The matter was settled between the
brothers by Mr. Henry Argoll saying :

Well, Joseph, if you insist upon it, I will

paint your portrait for the sum you mention.
I have no doubt the public will appreciate
the work when they hear the price. The
critics are sure to praise you, so you will have
the satisfaction of being likened to a Pope of
Kome or a Grand Duke of Florence, who
fostered artistic merit and understood the
value of artists. I know their ways so well
that I can anticipate almost the very words
they will use. I only hope they won't praise
me ; for if they do, I shall think that I have
disgraced myself.'

Mr. Henry Argoll reached Palace Gardens
shortly before the hour of luncheon. The footman
who opened the door gave a start at the
sight of him. It was not yet known throughout
the household that he had returned from Sicily.
He was a favourite with the servants, partly
because he was so unlike his brother, and partly
because he had always a kind word for them
and took an interest in their affairs.

Very glad to see you back, sir,' was the
footman's remark, to which he replied :

I am very glad too, John. I have had a
tiresome journey.'

It's a good thing it was no worse, sir.'

Mrs. Argoll and Miss Tacon had the
delicacy to keep away from the drawing-room.
When Mr. Henry Argoll entered it,
he was met half-way across the floor by Miss
Solar, who clasped him round the neck, and,
for the first time since she had known him,
she could not speak for the emotion which
choked her utterance ; when she found her
voice, she said :

Oh, Henry, why did you not write '? We
had almost given you up. I am so glad you
have come back,' and she emphasized these
simple but heartfelt words in a way which is
not permitted to a man and woman till they
are engaged, and which is not constantly
practised, when they may do it without
hindrance, after they are married.

A few sentences from Mr. Henry Argoll
sufficed to satisfy Miss Solar ; she was so
gratified to see him return, as it were, from
the dead, that she was not exacting or indisposed
to accept his explanation. Of course
he would have telegraphed if he had known
what his silence implied ; but as he had only

heard of the final catastrophe at Nicata after
arriving in London, he might be excused for
not having sent a telegram or written a
letter. Besides, on reckoning up the time
which a letter would have taken to come, it
was found that Mr. Argoll had miscalculated,
and that it was a mistake to have expected
one a day before his appearance in person.
This was consolatory. She insisted upon a
promise that he would never again go away
alone on such an errand. He was not only
ready to give the promise, but to add that he
would never think of going away with anyone
but herself

Oh I if that were only possible, how happy
should I be !' was her fervent exclamation.

So should 1/ was his response, and then
the expression of further lamentations or
hopes was stopped by the gong sounding for
luncheon.

He had a cordial welcome from Mr.
Argoll and Miss Tacon, as well as from Lord
John, who had become a standing dish at
luncheon and dinner. They all regarded
him with renewed respect. His journey

VOL. III. b7

seemed to them a sort of marvel, and when
he narrated his experience, they listened with
intense interest. At the close of the story
Lord John expressed the feelings of others
besides himself when he remarked :

Well, old fellow, that Carlo Nerone was
not so bad after all. If being: a member ot a
very ancient family be as great an advantage
as your sister-in-law thinks, then he was as
good as any of us.'

Miss Solar was otherwise affected, as her
remark evinces :

And you saved the little child's life, did
you ? What a brave man you are !'

Now, don't say that, please ; anyone else
would have done the same elinor.'

Miss Solar thought that Mr. Argoll would
have seen the child crushed before his eyes
without stretching out a hand to save it; but
she kept this reflection to herself. She would
not for the world have given Mrs. Argoll
pain by saying it aloud. Mr. Henry Argoll
went on to say :

I don't mind admitting that I rather
liked the people at Nicata. They seemed

very ignorant, but many ignorant people are
quite as estimable as others who have gone
to school and learned everything but how to
be agreeable. As for Carlo Nerone, I think
that he was to be pitied. He was not a
bad fellow at heart ; and T am sure he really
did his utmost to save poor Byker's life, and
that my brother is quite wrong in thinking
that he had planned to kill him.'

'But, then,' said Mrs. Argoll, 'if Mr.
Byker had not died, my husband might have
been sent down that horrible place — I forget
its name, so on the whole it is best as it is.
I don't like brigands, and I am not sorry that
Carlo is dead.'

57—2

MISUNDERSTANDINGS.

All's well that ends well.'

Look on this picture and on this.'

Shakespeare

'Carriages which are approved
in Heaven often involve much
worry before they are celebrated
upon earth. That a run and woraan should
agree to be joined in wedlock is neither
infrequent nor unnatural. Many reasons
might be urged in such a case against undue
delay. But difficulties may exist or arise
which logic cannot remove. The tyranny
of custom is sometimes stronger than that
tyranny which Aristotle styles the greatest
of all tyrannies — the tyranny of a multitude
of tyrants.

Two paupers find no impediment to their
marriage, though the results of their union
may be undesirable. But when the pair
who wish to be made one flesh and happy
have money or expectations, then a number
of artificial reasons arise why everything
should be done slowly, so that everything
should be in order. Bacon wrote that
he knew a wise man who, when he saw
men hastening to a conclusion, used to say,
Stay a little, that we may make an end
the sooner.' Impatient lovers do not relish
that form of wisdom. In the ancient days
of innocence, imagined and extolled by
Rousseau, there was no impediment to
marriage or any other kind of unconventional
pleasure. Those who know and have
depicted savages as they actually exist, are
aware that even amongst them the preliminaries
of marriage are frequently tedious,
and as frequently are not less objectionable
than any which civilized persons recognise,
and of which they approve.

In Tierra del Fuego, which Mr. Henry
Argoll saw, but did not traverse during his

visit to Patagonia, a custom prevails which
he would never have thought of practising
with regard to Miss Solar. When a native
of that country desires to marry, he looks
about till he discovers a girl who he thinks
will make him a suitable wife. He does not
declare his feelings to her, but he goes to her
parents and offers to work for them. Should
they consent and be satisfied with his services
he becomes an accepted suitor. Nothing-then
remains but to catch his bride. She
takes to her heels and hides in the woods.
He then begins to play at a game of hide-and-seek
with her. Should she allow herself to
be caught she becomes his wife, but should he
fail to find her, then he considers himself formally
rejected. She returns home, and he waits
until his fancy is set upon another charmer,
and he hopes, after performing the allotted
tasks, that she will allow him to catch her.
This is a form of primitive marriage of which
Rousseau and other ignorant admirers of man
in a natural state knew nothing, and one
which, if it had come to their knowledge,
they would have condemned as disgraceful.

Matters are arranged in a simpler, if somewhat
painful way amongst the black-fellows
of Australia. When one of them resolves to
take a wife, and sees a sfirl to his taste, he
spears her, and she is married to him. Thus
the native women who have the most scars on
their bodies have been the cynosure of many
eyes and the targets for many spears in their
virgin prime.

In merrier England the path towards
matrimony is not strewn with weapons of
offence. Yet unpleasant difficulties have to
be overcome before the marriage-bells are
ringing, and some of the worst occur shortly
before an agreement is reached by all the
parties concerned. It is when the future
bride is a great heiress that the formalities
are most numerous and puzzling. A clear
understanding has then to be arrived at, and
when there is a lady in the case a clear
understanding is not always easy. Had not
Miss Solar been so rich, and had not her
guardian been so exacting, she might have
been married with less trouble and fuss.

After much vacillation, Mr. Argoll had

made up his mind that there was nothing for
it but to consent to Miss Solar marrying his
brother. He decided to do this whilst driving
home from Athelstanee House on the
evening of the day that he had arranged for
his portrait being painted. Mr. Henry
Argoll dined at Palace Gardens that evening.
Mrs. Argoll had insisted upon his doing so.
She hoped to have a little talk with him
after dinner and discuss the state of his
health. She felt certain he would fall ill,
after his long and fatiguing journey, unless he
took some of her favourite medicine. He
had no objection to dine, but he was firmly
resolved not to accede to the request which
he foresaw his philanthropic sister-in-law
would doubtless prefer. Not even to oblige
Miss Solar would he consent to swallow a
pill.

After dinner, Lord John and Miss Tacon
retired to the conservatory, from which they
had ousted Miss Solar. Mrs. Argoll was left
alone in the drawing-room, greatly to her
disappointment ; she had to employ herself
with worsted-work instead of being more

congenially employed in giving AEr. Henry
Argoll medical advice. He and Miss Solar
had been asked by Mr. Argoll to join him in
the study.

Mr. Aro'oll was in a forgiving: mood. It
had occurred to him that his brother's union
with Miss Solar would be a most fitting
arrangement. He believed that he would
always have thought so if his brother had
treated him with consideration. He saw the
whole case in a new lio^ht now that Lord
John Cardonald was disposed of, or rather
had been provided for. By marrying Miss
Tacon he would become a member of the
Argoll family. If Miss Solar became his
brother's wife the family would have a very
lich and a verj^ beautiful member added toit.
Besides, Mr. Argoll had no doubt
about remaining trustee, and thus retaining
the management of the heiress's property.
On the whole, then, he was gratified with the
turn events had taken. In some incomprehensible
manner he attributed the change to his
own prudence and sagacity. He cherished the
conviction that whatever happened to please

him had been expressly arranged by himself.
He was a kind of terrestrial Providence in
his own estimation, possessing the marvellous
if not miraculous power of shaping things to
suit his own ends. In this respect, and in
this only, he resembled Louis the Fourteenth.

*Now then, Berths he said, when his
brother and ward were seated near the
writing-desk in his study, 'are you still disposed
to throw yourself away upon my artistic
brother ?'

As he spoke in a tone which was unusually
pleasant for him, his brother did not resent
this rather discourteous reference. In general,
each was on the look-out to render the other
uncomfortable.

Miss Solar did not make a direct reply to
her guardian's question, simply saying :

'How can you ask such a question, Mr.
Argoll V

He deemed it unnecessary to press her
further, and he assumed that the question
which she put was equivalent to an indirect
answer in the affirmative. What Miss
Harriet Byron wrote long ago to Miss

Selby in The History of Sir Charles Grandison
is still perfectly true : ' It is much easier
for a young woman to say no than yes.'
Girls like the 'yes' to be taken for granted,
and not extorted from them. The 'no' they
can utter with an emphasis which is conclusive.


Well, young people,' Mr. Argoll went onto
say, with a look at his brother which
implied that he was not quite in earnest in
classing him amongst the young, ' I suppose
you know that you will have enough to
keep house upon ; but be guided by me.
Being no longer young, I understand these
things, and my advice is, don't spend more
money than you can help. The late Baron
Rothschild often told me that he found more
difficulty in keeping money than in making
it; and that is my experience also.'

I don't know much about you rich City
people, Joseph, but I happened to read in
to-day's paper a notice of Samuel Morley,
who said, if I remember rightly, that he had
never much difficulty in making money, but
that he was often at a loss how to do the

most good with it ; and I think that a finer
speech than your friend's.'

I knew Morley very well. He was not a
bad sort of fellow, but he was always ready
to act as a philanthropist. I am sure he
must have been terribly victimised. That
speech shows how nonsensically he must
have acted. Money is not intended to be
spent upon other people. Any fool can
spend it. It is vise folks who know how to
take good care of it.'

Don't distress yourself, Joseph,' said
Henry, with emphasis ; 'we shall not spend
oars too fast, and I think we shall be able to
save a little out of our income. What do
you say, Berta V

I suppose wee shall, Henry. At least, I
promise to try very hard.'

Try !' exclaimed Mr. Argoll, with unfeigned
surprise ; ' I should not think much
trying will be necessary. Do you know how
much your income will be, Berta T

No, Mr. Argoll ; but I have always had
enough to spend since you were my guardian,
and I hope that I shall not have less when I

am married. I mean, of course, we shall
both of us have enough, because the money's
then be as much Henry's as mine.'

I don't agree with you, Berta. To speak
in that sentimental way sounds very well, but
it is not business. Keep a tight grip over
your money ; that's my advice. Henry can
shift for himself

Now, Joseph, as you appear to be better
tempered than usual, I do not wish to say
anything offensive, but I think that we have
had enough advice for one night. You need
not trouble yourself about our income. Weare
not likely to starve. What with my
present means, and what I hope to make in
addition if I get as much portrait-painting as
I ought, we shall at least have three thousand
a year between us, and, as I told you at
Athelstanee House, that is a thousand more
than any sensible couple requires to live very
comfortably.'

Are you in earnest, or joking, Henry ?
Surely you do not mean to chaff me, because
if you do, please stop ! You know I can't
bear it ; and, what's more, I won't stand it.'

Chaffing you, Joseph ! I have never
ventured to take such a liberty in my life.
I know you can't stand or understand it.
And why should you think I am doing so
now ? I was never more in earnest. I have
told you the exact truth, and if you do not
believe me, I cannot help it. I repeat that
two people who cannot live in comfort on
from fifteen hundred to two thousand a year
do not deserve to live at all.'

You are quite right, Henry said Miss
Solar, with warmth, being rather annoyed at
Mr. Argoll's tone, and his apparent disbelief
in his brother's declaration. She added,
addressing Mr. Argoll : ' I entirely agree
with Henry. I think he talks most sensibly,
and you need not think I am joking. Besides,
I feel positive that Henry means every
word he says.'

Mr. Argoll gazed upon each of them in
turn for a minute with genuine amazement,
and then he slowly said :

All 1 can say is, that you are the queerest
couple I ever heard of. I do not read novels
now, finding plenty of fiction in the prospectuses

of new companies, but I doubt
whether any novelist ever imagined such a
pair of simpletons as you are. Now, Henry,
keep cool, please, and don't take offence. I
am as much in earnest as you, and that is
why I must tell you that if I had not heard
you indulge in that tirade, I should have
thought it impossible for anyone to utter
such nonsense.'

Then, Joseph,' said Henry, without any
trace of acerbity, ' if we are both so stupid
and silly we are well matched, and that must
console Berta and me. We ought to get on
all the better on that account. I have read
somewhere that when one of two married folks
is cleverer than the other, the chances are that
they will both be miserable ; but when both
have an equal share of folly, then they can
appreciate and sympathize with each other.'

I can't see what that's got to do with the
present case, Henry ; but I must inform you
that all your notions about income are
ridiculous. Nobody can have too much.
Anyone who says the contrary is a socialist,
and deserves to be hanged. And, Berta,

you are almost as bad as Henry. I thought
you knew better, and I always supposed you
were aware that your income would be more
than twenty-five thousand a year. What
nonsense, then, to talk in that childish way
about living upon two, and saving money !'

You mean, I suppose, Joseph, that Berta
will have twenty - five thousand pounds
altogether. That is what I thought possible,
though I wish it had been less than half the
amount, as then wee should both have had an
equal sum.'

Never mind, Henry, and don't distress
yourself about that,' said Miss Solar, in a
cheering and reassuring tone. ' We can spend
my portion till it is the same as yours, and
then we can be happy ever after, like Mr.
E-uskin when he got rid of most of his fortune.'

Mr. Argoll was growing angry and rapidly
losing patience, and there was an ominous
accent in his voice as he said :

Now, then, let there be an end to this
game of cross-purposes. It annoys me. I
like to deal with people who speak sensibly.
Listen to me attentively whilst I repeat that

your income, Berta, will exceed twenty-five
thousand pounds ; and let me tell you that
if you are wise you will begin by laying by
the greater part of it. There's nothing like
providing beforehand for a rainy day. That
is my maxim, and I have always tried to act
upon it, and I shall be glad to help you to
invest your savings.'

The lovers were nearly as greatly taken
aback as they would have been if they had
been declared paupers. They could scarcely
realize the import of Mr. Argoll's communication.
They felt as others do when they are
told of the myriads of stars in the sky, and of
the distances which separate them from each
other and from the earth. It may have been
their bewilderment which hindered their
spirits rising at the prospect of having so
much money at their disposal. Certainly Mr.
Argos was justified in regarding his brother
as unpractical, and quite unlike the business
men who possess more sense than sentiment,
and who regard the possession of great
wealth as synonymous with the attainment
of perfect happiness.

VOL. III. 58

Drafting marriage settlements interests the
family solicitor more than the gentle reader.
Arranging the settlements of Lord John and
Miss Tacon, and Mr. Henry Argoll and Miss
Solar, occupied much of Mr. Argoll's attention.
He had his own way throughout.
Miss Tacon had no right to interfere. Lord
John Cardonald professed himself to be ready
to agree to anything which Mr. Argoll proposed,
thinking that this was the best way
to ensure generous treatment. Mr. ArgolFs
brother and his ward asked him not to mention
the subject to them, as they did not
wish to have any more discussion with him
about money. Their only subject of regret
appeared to be that they were not poorer.

Mr. Argoll took special care that the
sum which he gave Miss Tacon, and the
property which he transferred to Miss Solar,
should be held by him in trust for both of
them, and should b6 tied up so tightly that
the husband of neither could touch it.
Hence, if either husband were a spendthrift
his wife would not be beggared.

It was arranged that the two couples should

be married at the parish church on the same
day. Two months elapsed between Mr.
Henry Argoll's return from Sicily and the
celebration of the marriage, and Mr. Argoll's
portrait was painted in the interval. When
it was finished, Mr. Argoll said :

Well, Henry, shall I have to pay you for
this? As you don't seem to care about money,
I don't wish to force it upon you.'

Indeed. Mr. Argoll was now strongly
indisposed to part with the four thousand
pounds. He had persuaded himself that,
after all, he had the better right to the sum,
and he much preferred retaining it. He was
convinced that it would be safer from loss and
better employed in his hands than in those
of his brother. There was no fear of his
squandering the amount. His brother made
him unhappy by saying :

Hand over the cheque, Joseph. I have
fairly earned it now.'

But what will you do with so much
money, Henry V

It was a severe trial to Mr. Argoll to find
that his brother clung to his part of the

58—2

bargain, and it was with undisguised reluctance
that he wrote out a cheque for the
four thousand pounds. Being a careful
and methodical man, Mr. Argoll asked for a
stamped receipt.

I never gave a receipt in my life,' said
his brother. ' Surely you can do without
one

It's quite clear, Henry,' was the reply,
that you will never make a good man of
business. I will draw out a receipt and you
can sign it, only don't omit to put on a
penny stamp first.'

Mr. Henry Argoll would never have
thought of this formality unless reminded of
it, and this confirmed his brother in his belief
that he was unbusiness-like in all things.
After the receipt had been written, stamped,
and signed to Mr. Argos's satisfaction, he
said :

Now let me take care of your money for
you ; you may lose it.' It was his firm conviction
that his brother was but an overgrown
child, who could not be entrusted with
the safe custody of a large sum, and who

would certainly make an indiscreet use of it.
Hence his suggestion that the cheque should
be. handed back to him in order that he mio:ht
keep it for his brother, just as he would have
done if he had presented a silver or gold
coin to a child, and then had said, ^ Now,
darling, let me take care of it for you, or else
put it at once into your money-box, where it
will be quite safe.'

Some children are so unreasonable as not to
value the money which they are not allowed
to spend. Mr. Henry Argoll was not a child.
He considered himself old and sensible
enough to be capable of spending his money
as he thought fit.

It is true that Mr. Henry Argoll's way in
this case seemed decidedly eccentric to his
brother, who was told, after parting with the
cheque :

As you wish to know, Joseph, how I
purpose dealing with this sum, I shall now
tell you nearly as much as I know myself.
I have never had so much money at my command
before, and for once I may be lavish
in my own way. In the first place, I shall

give Ella a thousand pounds out of it as a
wedding present.'

Surely, Henry, you do not seriously
mean that! What could Ella do with it?
She is as great a baby as you in money
matters.'

Allow me to finish, Joseph. Ella has
told me she has nothing of her own, and that
Lord John has a great desire to go off in a
yacht to the far North for a wedding trip.
Ella is longing to do so, having read Lord
Dufferin's charming Letters from High Latitudes
j and she thinks that if Lord John went
over the same ground he would write quite as
clever a book. I don't agree with her, and
certainly I have no desire to read anything
he might write. However, she cannot get
the absurd notion out of her head, and no argument
short of actual experience will convince
her that her future husband has not a spark
of Lord Dufferin's genius.'

'Well, Henry, I was prepared for hearing
something absurd, but a more idiotic way of
wasting money I could not have imagined.
What woman in her senses would wish to

spend her honeymoon on board a yacht ? I'm
sure I should not.'

Of course not, Joseph ; but then you are
not a woman, and you are very much in your
senses.'

Now, Henry, I don't Hke being spoken to
in that way. You know perfectly well what
I mean. Perhaps Ella will find out her
mistake as soon as she is sea-sick, and then
she will not bless you for your wedding
present, so the money is certain to do
mischief if disposed of in such a senseless
fashion.'

But Ella is not afraid of the sea, and I
don't think she will suffer.'

Fiddlestick I Women never think they
can be the worse for anything they fancy.
However, as you appear obstinate as usual,
it's no use my protesting. But I thought
Lord John was old enough to have had more
sense. He would not get me to advance him
a thousand to go off to the North Pole in a
yacht.'

Probably not, Joseph, and therefore he is
not likely to trouble you. Yet it's no use

telling you what I purpose doing with the
handsome payment you have made me if
you go on in that ridiculous way. The
money is mine now, and I may do what I
like with it. If I were to throw it out of
the window you would be none the worse.'

Yes ; I should be the worse. For then I
should have positive proof that you were a
lunatic, which is the next thing to being an
artist. You will be wiser some day, I hope.
Money is not intended to be dealt with in
that light-handed fashion. Those who labour
to get it, as I do, would never be so heedless
as you in parting with it.'

*And have I not worked hard at your
portrait for nearly two months ? Is that an
amusing or easy way of making money 1 Do
you take as long and as much trouble in the
City to make four thousand pounds V

1 can't agree with you, Henry, when you
speak in that foolish style. You know nothing
of life in the City ; if you did, you would not
compare it to the easy-going existence of
artists, whose work is either mere amusement
or child's play. If I only got the colours

mixed, and could use a brush, I should soon
paint quite as good pictures as most of those
1 have seen

Mr. Henry gave a scornful laugh, of which
his brother did not take any notice, but
continued :

^ Let us say no more about the matter. It
is evident that you don't understand me, and
never will ; I am sick of hearing your
speeches ; they show that you cannot get rid
of your old stupid prejudices against the
City of which all sensible persons are proud.
But mark my words, and take a hint that is
kindly meant. You may want this money
some day, and then it will be no satisfaction
to know that it helped Lord John to go on
a yachting trip. When he is at the North
Pole you may have to go to the workhouse,
and I don't think you will like that. You
will then be very sorry that you wasted so
much money that might have provided you
for a long time with food, clothing, and
lodging.'

Mr. Argoll was moved almost to tears ashe
uttered these words. He could not endure

to see anyone wasting his substance. He
regarded such conduct as almost equal in
atrocity to breaking all the Commandments
in succession. What weighed with him the
most was the thought that his brother's folly
was largely due to his own generosity. He
inwardly vowed never to be generous again.
He was more convinced than ever that parting
with a large sum of money, save under
compulsion or in order to bring a larger
amount back, was a deplorable and unpardonable
error.

The brothers turned away from each other
in a state of ill-suppressed wrath. If
strangling the other would not have entailed
penal consequences, either would have had
instant resort to that method of ending
discussion. Mr. Argos regarded his younger
brother as not amenable to reason. Mr.
Henry Argoll looked upon his elder brother
as a mere money-grubber, who had no soul
for anything save piling one shilling and
sovereign on the top of the other. What
Mr. Henry Argoll designed to do with the
remainder of the four thousand pounds is a

mystery which is still locked in his own
bosom. If his brother had not been so hasty
it might have been disclosed.

When the Countess of Armadale learned
that her brother-in-law, Lord John Cardonald,
was engaged to marry a girl who was good
looking, who would bring him a fair income,
and whose uncle belonged to an old historic
family, she entirely approved of the match,
and she accepted an invitation to attend the
wedding. Her husband was too great an
invalid to be present. Not having any
money to expend on a wedding gift, he cheerfully
sent his younger brother his blessing
and best wishes. Other noble and notable
relatives and friends of Lord John were
so gracious as to honour him with their
countenance and support.

Many of Mr. Henry ArgolFs artistic
cronies, and many whom he regarded as his
malignant critics, expressed a wish to see
him ' turned off,' as they phrased it. He did
not mind the phrase, and he did not dread
the ceremony. They, too, readily accepted
invitations to attend the wedding. None of

the guests was so much gratified and impressed
as aunt Irma, who travelled from
Frankfort in order to be present. She was
awed with the grandeur of Palace Gardens.
It is scarcely necessary to add that the
wedding presents to Miss Solar, the great
heiress, were magnificent and costly, and
those to Miss Tacon, the poor orphan, were
trivial and valueless.

Palace Gardens had never been so filled
with fine folks and gay carriages as on the
day of the double wedding. It made a
sensation. The parish church was crowded
with spectators. Impartial onlookers differed
in opinion as to which bride was the more
beautiful, but all agreed in thinking that each
seemed very happy. A long and picturesque
account of the ceremony appeared in the St.
Mary Ahhofs News. A leading article was
devoted to kindly comments on an event
which was not only interesting in itself, but
which was certain to be memorable in the
annals of the old parish.

Lord and Lady John Cardonald started
for Grimsby as soon as they could after

the ceremony, where they embarked the
following morning on the Spindrift. Their
cruise in high latitudes lasted longer than
they had anticipated. Venturing too far
north, out of a desire to outstrip preceding
explorers, Lord John's yacht was caught in
the ice, where it remained fast all the winter.
Late in the following spring a steamship, sent
to the rescue of the happy couple, extricated
their yacht from the ice, and towed it into
a home port, the yacht being so much
damaged as not to be seaworthy. The
repairs cost a large sum. Lord John bore
a grudge towards Mr. Henry Argoll for his
present. Mr. Argoll chuckled over the
result. He had proved himself to be a true
prophet, and that gave him unbounded
gratification. On the other hand, Lord
and Lady John Cardonald had the compensation
of being the lions of the London
season.

Lady John Cardonald told her friends and
acquaintances that her husband was writing
a book, which she felt sure would surpass in
interest anything which had ever been published.

She had seen him fill many pages of
paper with their common experiences, and
what he allowed her to read charmed her
beyond measure. At her request he had
introduced the story of the waterspout,
and he had embellished and magnified it
so as to make the story seem almost as fresh
as it was extraordinary.

Mr. and Mrs. Henry Argoll started for
the Black Forest, where they passed their
honeymoon sketching and discussing what
they should do with their money. On their
way back to England they paid a visit to
aunt Irma at Frankfort, and spent a fortnight
there. Mr, Henry Argoll took delight
in cultivating aunt Irma's acquaintance.
He was pleased to find that amongst the
German books that she admired the most,
the works of Heine had a prominent place.
This was partly due to her having seen
Heine when she was a little girl. He used
to call at her father s house. One of her
cherished reminiscences was that Heine had
once taken her on his knee and called her a
pretty girl (ein huhsches Mddchen), and kissed

her. It was most natural, then, for her to
think highly of Heine.

Frau Decker called once and chatted with
the newly-married pair, as she said, or rather,
as it seemed to them, she indulged in a monologue,
during an hour.

'Oh, Henry !' exclaimed his wife, after Frau
Decker had left and when comparative silence
reigned in the room, * would it be very wrong
to pay some one to choke Frau Decker ? She
is a horrible woman, and not fit to live. She
is worse than a nightmare. My head is
in a whirl with her awful voice and interminable
questions.'

'Never mind, Berta ; we. shall not invite
her to our house, when we have one. Poor
woman ! she rather amused me, though I
confess I could not have stood much more of
her talk. I am not surprised that she is a
widow. But she has a use in the world
which you may not have thought of. When
I hear a woman like her uttering nonsense, I
can the better appreciate one like you, who
always talks so delightfully.'

His wife said nothing, but she did not

appear displeased. Her former aversion to
personal compliments was somewhat modified.
Indeed, a wife seldom complains of getting
too many from her husband.

But what of Mr. Argoll's portrait ? it maybe
asked. Certainly the portrait deserves a
word of notice, especially as it proved to be a
work of art. Even the critics who saw it at
Palace Gardens, where it was shown on the
wedding-day for the first time, expressed
their surprise ; they had not thought Mr.
Henry Ai'goU capable of producing anything
so striking. The likeness was good, yet the
portrait was no hard and unimpressive photograph.
The features were true to Nature,
and they were the mirror of a mind. A finer
piece of portraiture had not been executed
for many a day. At last Mr. Henry Argoll
had made his mark as an artist. There was
no fear of his starving now. He would not
lack commissions. Success had crowned his
efforts when he was indifferent to it.

Mrs. Argoll was the loudest in praise of
the portrait. In her eyes it was a perfect
marvel. She could not understand how Mr.

Henry Argoll could have produced it. ^ I
never thought, J. M.,' she said rapturously to
her husband, * that such a likeness of you
could possibly have been painted. Why,
you look as if you might step out of the
frame. The face is your very image when
you are going off to Athelstanee House, or
when you come back and tell me you have
had a capital day in the City.'

Well, my dear,' he replied, in a much less
enthusiastic tone, ' the portrait does not seem
a bad one. It is far better than I expected,
as I never believed Henry could paint at all.
But I don't quite like the expression. There
is a look in my face which reminds me of
that rascally brigand, Carlo Nerone.'

Though no judge of artistic effect, Mr.
Argos was perfectly justified in his criticism.
And yet the portrait was a speaking likeness.

THE END.

BM.LH«G 4 iONS, Printed. OUILOPO^O.

G., C. dc Comm



'W^m
