(In connection with MUDIE's)

BATH, Cheltenham,

23, New Bond Street. High Street.

Annual Subscription:

r> of Books at a «iim', One Guinea

SUBSCRIPTION. 10s 6d. & year.
preamble as often as desired.

'in excess of the number subscribed for
fed extra, at Non-Subscriber's rates.

X^

BY

CHARLES READE

ADTHcni OF

'HARD (ASH' ' I'UT YOURSKt.F IN HIS I'LACR' ' IT'S Never TOO LATE TO MKMi

'GHIFFII'H OAUXT' ETC.

IN TWO VOLUMES
VOL. L

LOr^DON
RTCTf ARD bentley c^ SUN, NEW BURLINGTON STREET

publishers in (Ordinary lo itjcr llVajcsti) the C^ucciv



All tig/it.H re nerved

'OTTISWOODE AND CO., XKW-STliKKI
AXD Parliament STHP.KT

V. 1

CONTENTS

OF

THE F I E ST V O L U M E.

^ CHArTKfi I'AOE

(J) I. THE POOR MAN S f'HlIJ) I

CJ)
O

CO

C\J

II. THE RirH MANS CHILD 16

ITT. THE TWO FATHERS 33

O IV. AN OLD SERVANT 73

o

V. Maris PERIL 89

VI. SHARP PRACTICE . . . . . . 112

VII. THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE . . . .130

Vii. THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE — confiniifci . .148

IX. LOVERS PARTED 173

X. THE GORDIAN KNOT 202

XI. THE KNOT CUT — ANOTHER TIED . . .224

XII. THE CLANDESTINE MARRIAGE . . . . 233

XIII. THE SERPENT LET Loose 2.')9



CHAPTEE I.

THE POOR man's CHILD.

Two worn travellers, a young man and a fair
girl about four years old, sat on the towing-path
by the side of the Trent.

The young man had his coat off, by which
you might infer it was very hot; but no, it
was a keen October day, and an east wind
sweeping down the river. The coat was
wrapped tightly round the little girl, so that
only her fair face with blue eyes and golden
hair peeped out ; and the young father sat in
his shirt-sleeves, looking down on lier with a
loving but anxious look. Her mother, his

VOL. I. B

wife, had died of consumption, and he was in
mortal terror lest biting winds and scanty
food should wither this sweet flower too, his
one remaining joy.

William Hope was a man full of talent ;
self-educated, and wonderfully quick at learning
anything ; he was a linguist, a mechanic,
a mineralogist, a draughtsman, and inventor.
Item, a bit of a farrier, and half a surgeon ;
could play the fiddle and the guitar ; could
draw and paint and drive a four-in-hand.
Almost the only thing he could not do was to
make money and keep it.

Versatility seldom pays. But, to tell the
truth, luck was against him ; and although ina
long life every deserving man seems to
get a chance, yet Fortune does baffle some
meritorious men for a limited time. Generally,
we think, good fortune and ill fortune succeed
each other rapidly, like red cards and black ;
but to some ill luck comes in great, long slices ;
and if they don't drink or despair, by-and-by
good luck comes continuously, and everything

turns to gold with him who has waited and
deserved.

Well, for years Fortune was liard on
William Hope. It never let him get his head
above water. If he got a good place, the
employer died or sold his business. If he
patented an invention, and exhausted his
savings to pay the fees, no capitalist would
work it, or some other inventor proved he had
invented something so like it that there was no
basis for a monopoly.

At last there fell on him the heaviest blow
of all. He had accumulated 50/. as a merchant's
clerk, and was in negotiation for a
small, independent business, when his wife,
whom he loved tenderly, sickened.

For eight months he was distracted with
hopes and fears. These gave way to dismal
certainty. She died, and left him brokenhearted
and poor, impoverished by the doctors,
and pauperism by the undertaker. Then his
crushed heart had but one desire — to fly from
the home that had lost its sunshine, and the

b2

very country which had been calamitous to
him.

He had one staunch friend, who had lately
returned rich from New Zealand, and had
offered to send him out as his agent, and to
lend him money in the colony. Hope had declined,
and his friend had taken the huff, and
had not written to him since. But Hope knew
he was settled in Hull, and too good-hearted
at bottom to go from his word in his friend's
present sad condition. So William Hope paid
every debt he owed in Liverpool, took his child
to her mother's tombstone, and prayed by it,
and started to cross the island, and then leave
it for many a long day.

He had a bundle with one brush, one comb,
a piece of yellow soap, and two changes of
linen, one for himself, and one for his little
Grace — item, his fiddle and a reaping-hook ;
for it was a late harvest in the north, and he
foresaw he should have to work his way and
pay-his way, or else beg, and he was too much
of a man for that. His child's face won her

many a ride in a waggon, and many a cup of
milk from humble women standing at their
cottage doors.

Now and then he got a day's work in the
fields, and the farmer's wife took care of little
Grace, and washed her linen, and gave them
both clean straw in the barn to lie on, and a
blanket to cover them. Once he fell in with a
harvest-home, and his fiddle earned him ten
shillings, all in sixpences. But on unlucky
days he had to take his fiddle under his arm
and carry his girl on his back : these unlucky
days came so often that still, as he travelled, his
small pittance dwindled. Yet half-way on his
journey Fortune smiled on him suddenly. It
was in Derbyshire. He went a little out of his
way to visit his native place — he had left it at
ten years of age. Here an old maid, his first
cousin, received Grace with rapture, and Hope
pottered about all day, reviving his boyish recollections
of people and places. He lead left
the village ignorant ; he returned full of various
knowledge ; and so it was that, in a certain

despised field, all thistles and docks and every
known weed, which field the tenant had condemned
as a sour clay unfit for cultivation,
William Hope found certain strata and other
signs which, thanks to his miner logical studies
and practical knowledge, sent a sudden thrill
all through his frame. ' Here's luck at last ! '
said he. ' My child I my child ! our fortune is
made

The proprietor of this land, and indeed of
the whole parish, was a retired warrior. Colonel
Clifford. Hope knew that very well, and
hurried to Clifford Hall, all on fire with his
discovery.

He obtained an interview without any difficulty.
Colonel Clifford, though proud as
Lucifer, was accessible and stiffly civil to
humble folk. He was gracious enough to
Hope ; but, when the poor fellow let him knows
he had found signs of coal on his land, he froze
directly ; told him that two gentlemen in that
neighbourhood had wasted their money groping
the bowels of the earth for coal, because

I believe,' said he, ' the northern nobility
descend to this sort of thing ; but then they
have not smelled powder, and seen glory, and
served Her Majesty. I have'

Hope tried to reason with him, tried to
get round him. But he was unassailable as
Gibraltar, and soon cut the whole thing short
by saying, ' There, that's enough. I am much
obliged to you, sir. for bringing me information
you think valuable. You are travelling — on
foot — short of funds perhaps. Please accept
this trifle, and — and — good morning. 'He
retreated at marching pace, and the hot blood
burned his visitor's face. An alms !

But, on second thoughts, he said, ' Well,
I have offered him a fortune, and he gives me
ten shillings. One good turn deserves another.'
So he pocketed the half-sovereign, and bought
his little Grace a neck-handkerchief, blue with
white spots ; and so this unlucky man and Its

child fought their way from west to east, till
they reached that place where we introduced
them to the reader.

That was an era in their painful journey,
because until then Hope's only anxiety was to
find food and some little comfort for his child.
But this morning little Grace had begun to
cough a little dry cough that struck on her
father's heart like a knell. Her mother had
died of consumption : were the seeds of that
fatal malady in her child? If so, hardship,
fatigue, cold, and privation would develop them
rapidly, and she would wither away into the
grave before his eyes. So he looked down on
her in an agony of foreboding, and shivered in
his shirt-sleeves, not at the cold, but at the
future. She, poor girl, was, like the animals,
blessed with ignorance of everything beyond
the hour; and soon she woke her father from
his dire reverie with a cry of delight.

Oh, what's they ? ' said she, and beamed
with pleasure. Hope followed the direction of
her blue eyes, open to their full extent ; and, lo !

there was a little fleet of swans coming round
a bend of the river. Hope told her all about
the royal birds, and that they belonged to
sovereigns in one district, to cities in another.
Meantime the fair birds sailed on, and passed
stately, arching their snowy necks. Grace
gloated on them, and for a day or two her
discourse was of swans.

At last, when very near the goal, misfortunes
multiplied. They came into a town on a tidal
river, whence they could hope to drift down to
their destination for a shilling or two ; but here
Hope spent his last farthing on Grace's supper at
an eating-house, and had not wherewithal to pay
for bed or breakfast at the humble inn. Here,
too, he took up the local paper, praying Heaven
there might be some employment advertised,
however mean, that so he might feed his girl,
and not let the fiend Consumption take her at
a gift.

No, there was nothing in the advertising
column, but in the body of the paper he found
a paragraph to the effect that Mr. Samuel son,

of Hull, had built a gigantic steam vessel in
that port, and was going out to New Zealand
in her on her trial trip, to sail that morning
at high tide, 6.45. a.m., and it was now
nine.

How a sentence in a newspaper can blast
a man ! Bereavement, Despair, Lost Love —
they come like lightning in a single line.
Hope turned sick at these few words, and
down went his head and his hands, and he sat
all of a heap, cold at heart. Then he began to
disbelieve in everything, especially in honesty.
For why ? If he had only left Liverpool in
debt and taken the rail, he would have reached
Hull in ample time, and would have gone out
to New Zealand in the new ship with money
in both pockets.

But it was no use fretting. Starvation and
disease impended over his child. He must
work, or steal, or something. Li truth, he was
getting desperate. He picked himself up and
offered his accomplishments to humble shopkeepers.
They all declined him, some civilly.

At last he came to a superior place of business.
There were large offices and a handsome
house connected with it in the rear. At
the side of the offices were pulleys, cranes, and
all the appliances for loading vessels, and a
yard with horses and vans, so that the whole
frontage of the premises was very considerable.
A brass plate said, * E. Bartley, ship-broker
and commission agent ' ; but the man
was evidently a ship-owner and a carrier
besides ; so this miscellaneous shop roused
hopes in our versatile hero. He rapidly surveyed
the outside, and then cast hungry
glances through the window of the man's
office. It was a bow window of unusual size,
through which the proprietor or his employed
could see a long way up and down the river.
Through this window Hope peered. Repulses
had made him timid. He wanted to see the
face he had to apply to before he ventured.

But Mr. Bartley was not there. The large
office was at present occupied by his clerks.
One of these was Leonard Monckton, a pale

young man with dark hair, a nose like a hawk,
and thin lips. The other was spite a young
fellow, with brown hair, hazel eyes, and an
open countenance. ' Many a hard rub puts a
point on a man.' So Hope resolved at once to
say nothing to that pale clerk so like a kite,
but to interest the open countenance in him
and his hungry child.

There were two approaches to the large
office — one, to Hope's right, through a
door and a lobby. This was seldom used
except by the habitues of the place. The
other was to Hope's left, through a very
small office, generally occupied by an inferior
clerk who kept an eye upon the work outside.
However, this office had also a small window
looking inward ; this opened like a door when
the man had anything to say to Mr. Bartley
or the clerks in the large office.

William Hope entered this outer office,
and found it empty. The clerk happened to
be - in the yard. Then he opened the inner
door and looked in on the two clerks, pale,

haggard, and apprehensive of a repulse. He
addressed himself to the one nearest him ; it
was the one whose face had attracted him :

Sir, can I see Mr. Bartley ? '

The young fellow glanced over the visitor's
worn garments and dusty shoes, and said
drily, 'Hum! if it is for charity, this is the
wrong shop.'

I want no charity,' said Hope with a
sigh ; ' I want employment. But I do want
it very badly ; my poor little girl and I are
starving.'

Then that is a shame,' said the young
fellow warmly. ' Why, you are a gentleman,
aren't you ? '

I don't know for that,' said Hope. ' But
I am an educated man, and I could do the
whole business of this place. But, you see, I
am down in the world.'

You look like it,' said the clerk bluntly.
But don't you be so green as to tell old
Bartley that, or you are done for. No, no ; I'll
show you how to get in here. Wait till half-past

one. He uncles at one, and lie isn't
such a brute after luncheon. Then you come
in like Julius Caesar, and brag like blazes, and
offer him twenty pounds' worth of industry and
ability, and above all arithmetic, and he will
say he has no opening (and that is a lie), and
offer you fifteen shillings, perhaps.'

'If he does I'll jump at it,' said Hope
eagerly. ' But whether I succeed or not, take
my child's blessing and my own.'

His voice faltered, and Bolton, with a
young man's uneasiness under sentiment,
stopped him. ' Oh, come, old fellow, bother
all that ! Why, we are all stumped in turn.'
Then he began to chase a solitary coin into a
corner of his waistcoat pocket. 'Look here,
I'll lend you a shilling — pay me next week —
it will buy the kid a breakfast. I wish I had
more, but I want the other for luncheon. I
haven't drawn my screw yet. It is due at
twelve.'

I'll take it for my girl,' said Hope, blushing,
' and because it is offered me by a gentleman
and like a gentleman.'

Granted, for the sake of argument,' said
this sprightly youth ; and so they parted for
the time, little dreaming, either of them, what
a chain they were weaving round their two
hearts, and this little business the first link.

CHAPTER II.

THE RICH man's CHILD.

The world is very big, and contains hundreds
of millions who are strangers to each other.
Yet every now and then the big world seems
to turn small ; so many people whose acquaintance
we make turn out to be the acquaintances
of our acquaintances. This concatenation
of acquaintances is really one of the marvels
of social life, if one considers the chances
against it, owing to the size and population of
the country. As an example of this phenomenon,
which we have all observed, William
Hope was born in Derbyshire, in a small
parish which belonged, nearly all of it, to
Colonel Clifford ; yet, in that battle for food,
which is, alas ! the prosaic but true history of
men and nations, he entered an office in Yorkshire,

and there made friends with Colonel
Clifford's son, Walter, who was secretly dabbling
in trade and matrimony under the name
of Bolton ; and this same Hope was to come
back, and to apply for a place to Mr. Bartley.
Mr. Bartley was brother-in-law to that same
Colonel Clifford, though they were at daggers
drawn, the pair.

Miss Clifford, aged thirty-two, had married
Bartley, aged thirty-seven. Each had got
fixed habits, and they soon disagreed. In
two years they parted, with plenty of bitterness,
but no scandal. Bartley stood on his
rights, and kept their one child, little Mary.
He was very fond of her, and as the mother
saw her whenever she liked, his love for his
child rather tended to propitiate Mrs. Bartley,
though nothing on earth would have induced
her to live with him again.

Little Mary was two months younger than
Grace Hope, and, like her, had blue eyes and
golden hair. But what a difference in her
condition ! She had two nurses and every

VOL. I. C

^>

luxury ; dressed like a princess, and even
when in bed smothered in lace ; some woman's
eye always upon her, a hand always ready to
keep her from the smallest accident.

Yet all this care could not keep out sickness.
The very day that Grace Hope began
to cough and alarm lier father, Mary Bartley
flushed and paled, and showed some signs of
feverishness.

The older nurse, a vigilant person, told
Mr. Bartley directly ; and the doctor was
sent for post-haste. He felt her pulse, and
said there was some little fever, but no cause
for anxiety. He administered syrup of
poppies, and little Mary passed a tranquil
night.

Next day, about one in the afternoon, she
became very restless, and was repeatedly sick.
The doctor was sent for, and combated the
symptoms, but did not inquire closely into
the cause. Sickness proceeds immediately
from the stomach ; so he soothed the stomach
with alkaline mucilages, and the sickness

abated. But next day alarming symptoms
accumulated — short breathing, inability to eat,
flushed face, wild eyes. Bartley telegraphed
to a first-rate London physician. He came,
and immediately examined the girl's throat,
and shook his head ; then lie uttered a fatal
word — diphtheria.

They had wasted four days squirting petty
remedies at symptoms, instead of finding the
cause and attacking it, and now he told them
plainly he feared it was too late — the fatal
membrane was forming, and, indeed, had half
closed the air-passages.

Bartley in his rage and despair would have
driven the local doctor out of the house, but
this the London doctor would not allow. He
even consulted him on the situation, now it
was declared, and, as often happens, they went
in for heroic remedies since it was too late.

But neither powerful stimulants nor biting
draughts nor caustic applications could hinder
the deadly parchment from growing and growing



c 2

The breath reduced to a thread, no nourishment
possible except by baths of beef-tea,
and similar enemas. Exhaustion inevitable.
Death certain.

Such was the houseless condition of the
rich man's child, surrounded by nurses and
physicians, when the father of the poor man's
child applied to the clerk Bolton for that employment
which meant bread for his child, and
perhaps life for her,

William Hope returned to his little Grace
with a loaf of bread he bought on the road
with Bolton's shilling, and fresh milk in a soda-water
bottle.

He found her crying. She had contrived,
after the manner of children, to have an accident.
The room was almost bare of furniture,
but my lady had found a wooden stool that
could be mounted upon and tumbled off, and
she had done both, her parent being away.
She had bruised and sprained her little wrist,
and was in the depths of despair.

Ah,' said poor Hope, ' I was afraid something
or other would happen if I left you.'

He took her to the window, and set her on
his knee, and comforted her. He cut a narrow
slip off his pocket-handkerchief, wetted it, and
bound it lightly and deftly round her wrist,
and poured consolation into her ear. But
soon she interrupted that, and flung sorrow
to the winds ; she uttered three screams of
delight, and pointed eagerly through the
window.

Here they be again, the white swans ! '

Hope looked, and there were two vessels,
a brig and a barque, creeping down the river
toward the sea, with white sails bellying to a
gentle breeze astern.

It is experience that teaches proportion.
The eye of childhood is wonderfully misled in
that matter. Promise a little child the moon,
and show him the ladder to be used, he sees
nothing inadequate in the means ; so Grace
Hope was delighted with lier swans.

But Hope, who made it this business to

instruct her, and not deceive her, as some
thoughtless parents do out of fun, the
wretches I told her, gently, they were not
swans, but ships.

She was a little disappointed at that, but
inquired what they were doing.

Darling,' said he, ' they are going to some
other land, where honest, hard-working people
cannot starve; and, mark m}^ words, darling,'
said he — she pricked her little ears at that —
you and I shall have to go with them, for weare
poor.'

Oh,' said little Grace, impressed by his
manner as well as by his words, and nodded her
pretty head with apparent wisdom, and seemed
greatly impressed.

Then her father fed her with bread and
milk, and afterwards laid her on the bed, and
asked her whether she loved him.

Dearly, dearly,' said she.

Then if you do,' said he, ' you will go to
sleep like a good girl, and not stir off that bed
till I come back.'

No more I will,' said she.

However, he waited until she was in an
excellent condition for keeping her promise,
being' fast as a church.

Then he looked long at her beautiful face,
wax-ike and even-tinted, but full of life after
her meal, and prayed to Him who loved little
children, and went with a beating heart to
Mr. Bartley's office.

But in the short time, little more than an
hour and a half, which elapsed between Hope's
first and second visit, some most unexpected
and remarkable events took place.

Bartley came in from his child's dying bed
distracted with grief; but business to him was
the air he breathed, and he went to work as
usual, only in a hurried and bitter way unusual
to him. He sent out his clerk Bolton with
some bills, and told him sharply not to return
without the money ; and whilst Bolton, so-called,
was making his toilette in the lobby, his
eye fell on iiis other clerk, Monckton.

Monckton was poring over the ledger with

his head down, the very picture of a faithful
servant absorbed in his master's work.

But appearances are deceitfuL He had a
small book of his own nestled between the
ledger and his stomach. It was filled with
hieroglyphics, and was his own betting book.
As for his brown study, that was caused by his
owing 100/. in the ring, and not knowing how
to get it. To be sure, he could rob Mr. Bartley.
He had done it again and again by false
accounts, and even by abstraction of coin, for
he had false keys to his employer's safe, cash-box,
drawers, and desk. But, in his opinion,
he had played this game often enough, and.
was afraid to venture it again so soon and on
so large a scale.

He was so absorbed in these thoughts that
he did not hear Mr. Bartley come to him ; to
be sure, he came softly, because of the other
clerk, who was washing his hands and brushing
his hair in the lobby.

So Bartley 's hand fell gently, but all in a
moment, on Monckton's shoulder, and they say

the shoulder is a sensitive part in conscious
rogues. Any way, Monckton started violently,
and turned from pale to white, and instinctively
clapped both hands over his betting-book.


'Monckton,' said his employer gravely, 'T
have made a. very ugly discovery.'

Monckton began to shiver.

Periodical errors in the balances, and the
errors always against me.'

Monckton began to perspire. Not knowing
what to say, he faltered, and at last stammered
out, ' Are you sure, sir ? '

Quite sure. I have long seen reason to
suspect it, so last night I went through all the
books, and now I am sure. Whoever the
villain is, I will send him to prison if I can
only catch him.'

Monckton winced and turned his head
away, debating in his mind whether he should
affect indignation and sympathy, and pretend
to court inquiry, or should wait till lunch-time,
and then empty the cash-box and bolt.

Whilst thus debating, these words fell unexpectedly
on his ear :

And you must help me.'

Then Monckton's eyes turned this way and
that, in a manner that is common among
thieves, and a sardonic smile curled his pale,
thin lip.

It is my duty,' said the sly rogue demurely.

Then, after a pause, ' But how ? '

Then Mr. Bartley glanced at Bolton in the
lobby, and not satisfied with speaking under
his breath, drew this ill-chosen confidant to the
other end of the office :

'Why, suspect everybody, and watch them.
Now there's this clerk Bolton ; I know nothing
about him ; I was taken by his looks. Have
your eye on him'

I will, sir,' said Monckton eagerly. He
drew a long breath of relief. For all that, he
was glad when a voice in the little office announced
a visitor.

It was a clear, peremptory voice, short,
sharp, incisive, and decisive. The clerk called

Bolton heard it in the lobby, and scuttled
into the street with a rapidity that contrasted
drolly enough with the composure and slowness
with which he had been brushing his hair and
mitigating his nascent whiskers.

A tall, stiff, military figure literally marched
into the middle of the office, and there stood
like a sentinel.

Mr. Bartley could hardly believe his senses.

Colonel Chffbrd ! ' said he roughly.

You are surprised to see me here ? '

Of course 1 am. May I ask what brings
you?'

'That which composes all quarrels and
squares all accounts — Death.'

Colonel Clifford said this solemnly, and
with less asperity. He added, with a glance at
Monckton, ' This is a very private matter.'

Bartley took the hint, and asked Monckton
to retire into the inner office.

As soon as he and Colonel Clifford were
alone, that warrior, still standing straight as a
dart, delivered himself of certain short sentences,

each of which seemed to be propelled,
or indeed jerked out of him, by some foreign
power seated in his breast :

My sister, yom injured wife, is no
more.'

Dead ! This is very sudden. I am very,
very sorry. I '

Colonel Clifford looked the word ' Humbug ! '
and continued to expel short sentences :

On her death-bed she made me promise to
give you my hand. There it is.'

His hand was propelled out, caught flying
by Bartley, released, and drawn back again —
all by machinery, it seemed.

She leaves you 20,000/. in trust for the
benefit of her child and yours — mary Bartley.'

Poor, dear Eliza ! '

The colonel looked as less high-bred people
do when they sa^^ ' Gammon ! ' but proceeded
civilly though brusquely :

In dealing with the funds you have a
large discretion. Should the girl die before
you, or unmarried, the money lapses to your

nephew, my son, Walter Clifford. He is a
scapegrace, and has run away from me ; but I
must protect his just interests. So, as a mere
matter of form, I will ask you whether Mary
Bartley is alive

Bartley bowed his head.

Colonel Clifford had not heard she was ill,
so he continued : ' In that case ' — and then,
interrupting himself for a moment, turned
away to Bartley 's private table, and there
emptied his pockets of certain documents, one
of which he wanted to select.

His back was not turned more than half a
minute, yet a most expressive pantomime took
place in that short interval.

The nurse opened a door of communication,
and stood with a rush at the threshold ;
indeed, she would have rushed in but for the
stranger. She was very pale, and threw up
her hands to Bartley. Her face and her
gesture were more expressive than words.

Then Bartley, clinging by mere desperate
instinct to money he could not hope to keep.

flew to lier, drove her out by a frenzied movement
of both hands, though he did not touch
her, and spread-eagle himself' before the door,
with his face and dilating eyes turned toward
Colonel Chord.

The Colonel turned and stepped toward
him with the document he had selected at the
table. Bartley went to meet him.

The Colonel gave it to him, and said it was
a copy of the will.

Bartley took it, and Colonel Clifford expelled
his last sentences :

We have shaken hands. Let us forget
our past quarrels, and respect the wishes of the
dead.'

With that he turned sharply on both heels,
and faced the door of the little office before he
moved ; then marched out in about seven
steps, as he had marched in, and never looked
behind him for two hundred miles.

The moment he was out of sight, Bartley,
with his wife's will in his hand and ice at his
heart, went to his child's room. The nurse

met him, crying, and said, ' A change ' — mild
but fatal words that from a nurse's lips end
hope.

He came to the bedside just in time to seethe
breath hovering on his child's lips, and
then move them as the summer air stirs a leaf.

Soon all was still, and the rich man's child
was clay.

The unhappy father burst into a passion of
grief, short but violent. Then he ordered the
nurse to watch there, and let no one enter the
room ; then he staggered back to his office,
and flung himself down at his table and buried
his head. To do him justice, he was all
parental grief at first, for his child was his
idol.

The arms were stretched out across the
table ; the head rested on it ; the man was
utterly crushed.

Whilst he was so, the little office door
opened softly, and a pale, worn, haggard face
looked m. It was the father of the poor man's
child in mortal danger from privation and

hereditary consumption. That haggard face
was come to ask the favour of employment,
and bread for his girl, from the rich man
whose child was clay.

CHAPTER III.

THE TWO FATHERS.

Hope looked wistfully at that crushed figure,
and hesitated ; it seemed neither kind nor
politic to intrude business upon grief.

But if the child was Bartley's idol, money
was his god, and soon in his strange mind
defeated avarice began to vie with nobler
sorrow. His child dead ! Ms poor little flower
withered ! and her death robbed him of
20,000/., and indeed of ten times that sum;
for he had now bought experience in trade
and speculation, and had learned to make
money out of money, a heap out of a handful.
Stung by this vulgar torment .in its
turn, he started suddenly up, and dashed his
wife's will down upon the floor in a fury,
and paced the room excitedly. Hope still

VOL. I. D

stood aghast, and hesitated to risk his application.


But presently Bartley caught sight of him,
and stared at him, but said nothing.

Then the poor fellow saw it was no use
waiting for a better opportunity, so he came
forward and carried out Bolton's instructions ;
he put on a tolerably jaunty air, and said
cheerfully, ' I beg your pardon, sir ; can I
claim your attention for a moment ? '

What do you want ? ' asked Bartley, but
like a man whose mind was elsewhere.

Only employment for my talent, sir. I
hear you have a vacancy for a manager.'

Nothing of the sort. / am manager.'

Hope drew back despondent, and this
haggard countenance fell at such prompt repulse.
But he summoned courage, and, once
more acting genial confidence, returned to the
attack.

'But you don't know, sir, in how many
ways I can be useful to you. A grand and
complicated business like yours needs various

acquirements in those who have the honour to
serve you. For instance, I saw a small
engine at work in your yard ; now, I am a
mechanic, and I can double the power of that
engine by merely introducing an extra band
and a couple of cogs.'

It will do as it is,' said Bartley languidly,
and I can do without a manager.'

Bartley's manner was not irritated but
absorbed. He seemed in all his repHes to
Hope to be brushing away a fly mechanically
and languidly. The poor fly felt sick at heart,
and crept away disconsolate. But at the very
door he turned, and for his child's sake made
another attempt :

Have you an opening for a clerk ? I can
write business letters in French, German, and
Dutch, and keep books by double entry.'

'No vacancy for a clerk,' was the weary
reply.

Well, then, a foreman in the yard. I
have studied the economy of industry, and
will undertake to get you the greatest amount

D 2

of labour out of the smallest number of
men.'

I have a foreman already,' said Bartley,
turning his back on him peevishly for the first
time, and pacing the room, absorbed in this own
disappointment.

Hope was in despair, and put on his hat to
go. But he turned at the window and said,
You have vans and carts. I understand
horses thoroughly. I am a veterinary surgeon,
and I can drive four-in-hand. I offer myself
as carman, or even hostler.'

I do not want a hostler, and I have a carman.'


Bartley, when he had said this, sat down
like a man who had finally disposed of the
application.

Hope went to the very door, and leaned
against it. His jaw dropped. He looked ten
years older. Then, with a piteous attempt at
cheerfulness, he came nearer, and said, ' A
messenger, then. I'm young and very active,
and never waste my employer's time.'

Even this humble proposal was declined,
though Hope's cheeks burned with shame ashe
made it. He groaned aloud, and his head
dropped on his breast.

His eye fell on the will lying on the
ground ; he went and picked it up, and handed
it respectfully to Bartley.

Bartley stared, took it, and bowed his head
an inch or two in acknowledgment of the
civility. This gave the poor daunted father
courage again. Now that Bartley 's face was
turned to him by this movement, he took
advantage of it, and said persuasively :

Give me some kind of employment, sir.
You will never repent it.' Then he began to
warm with conscious power. ' I've intelligence,
practicability, knowledge ; and in this
age of science knowledge is wealth. Example ;
I saw a swell march out of this place that owns
all the parish I was born in. I knew him ina
moment— Colonel Clifford. Well, that old
soldier draws his rents when he can get them,
and never looks deeper than the roots of

the grass his cattle crop. But I tell you
he never takes a walk about his grounds but
he marches upon millions — coal ! sir, coal !
and near the surface. I know the signs. But
I am impotent : only fools possess the gold that
wise men can coin into miracles. Try me, sir ;
honour me with your sympathy. You are a
father — you have a sweet little girl, I hear ' —
Bartley winced at that — ' well, so have I, and
the hole my poverty makes me pig in, is not
good for her, sir. She needs the sea air, the
scent of flowers, and, bless her little heart, she
does enjoy them so ! Give them to her, and
I will give you zeal, energy, brains, and a
million of money.'

This, for the first time in the interview,
arrested Mr. Bartley 's attention :

'I see you are a superior man,' said he,
but I have no way to utilise your services.'

You can give me no hope, sir ? ' asked the
poor fellow, still lingering.

!None — and I am sorry for it.'

This one gracious speech affected poor

Hope so that he could not speak for a moment.
Then he fought for manly dignity, and said,
with a lamentable mixture of sham sprightliness
and real anguish, ' Thank you, sir ; I only
trust that you will always find servants as
devoted to your interest as my gratitude would
have made me. Good-morning, sir.' He
clapped his hat on with a sprightly, ghastly air,
and marched off resolutely.

But ere he reached the door, Nature overpowered
the father's heart ; away went Bolton's
instructions ; away went fictitious deportment
and feigned cheerfulness. The poor wretch
uttered a cry, indeed a scream, of anguish, that
would have thrilled ten thousand hearts had
they heard it ; he dashed his hat on the ground,
and rushed toward Bartley, with both hands
out — 'For God's sake don't send me away —

MY CHILD IS starving ! '

Even Bartley was moved. ' Your child ! '
said he with some little feeling. This slight
encouragement was enough for a father. His
love gushed forth : ' A little, golden-haired,

blue-eyed angel, who is all the world to me.
We have walked here from Liverpool, where
I had just buried her mother. God help me !
God help us both ! Many a weary mile, sir,
and never sure of supper or bed. The birds
of the air have nests, the beasts of the field a
shelter, the fox a hole, but my beautiful and
fragile girl, only four years old, sir, is houseless
and homeless. Her mother died of consumption,
sir, and I live in mortal fear ; for
now she is beginning to cough, and I cannot
give her proper nourishment. Often on this
fatal journey I have felt her shiver, and then
I have taken off my coat and wrapped it round
her, and her beautiful eyes have looked up in
mine, and seemed to plead for the warmth and
food I'd sell my soul to give her.'

'Poor fellow!' said Bartley ; 'I suppose
I ought to pity you. But how can I ? Man —
man — your child is alive, and while there is
life there is hope ; but mine is dead — dead ! '
he almost shrieked.

Dead ! ' said Hope, horrified.

Dead ! ' cried Parties. ' Cut off at four
years old, the very age of yours. There — go
and judge for yourself You are a father. I
can't look upon my blasted hopes, and my
withered flower. Go and see ny blue-eyed,
fair-eyed darling — clay, hastening to the tomb ;
and you will trouble me no more with your
imaginary griefs.' He flung himself down with
his head on his desk.

Hope, following the direction of his hand,
opened the door of the house and went softly
forward till he met the nurse. He told her
Mr. Bartley wished him to see the deceased.
The nurse hesitated, but looked at him. His
sad face inspired confidence, and she ushered
him into the chamber of mourning. There,
laid out in state, was a little figure that, seen
in the dim fight, drew a cry of dismay from
Hope. He had left his own girl sleeping, and
looking like tinted wax. Here lay a little face
the very image of hers, only this was pale
wax.

Had he looked more closely, the clin was

unlike his own girl's, and there were other
differences. But the first glance revealed a
thrilling resemblance. Hope hurried away
from the room, and entered the office pale and
disturbed : ' Oh, sir ! the very image of my
own. It fills me with forebodings. I pity
you, sir, with all my heart. That sad sight
reconciles me to my lot. God help you ! ' and
he was going away; for now he felt an unreasoning
terror lest his own child should have
turned from coloured wax to pale.

Mr. Bartley stopped him. ' Are they so
very like ? ' said he.

Wonderfully like.' And again he was
going, but Bartley, who had received him so
coldly, seemed now unwilling to part with him.
Stay,' said he, ' and let me think.' The
truth is, a daring idea had just flashed through
that brain of his ; and he wanted to think it
out. He walked to and fro in silent agitation,
and his face was as a book in which you may
read strange matter.' At last he made up his
mind, but the matter was one he did not dare

to approach too bluntly, so he went about a
little :

Stay — you don't know all my misfortunes.
I am ambitious — like you. I believe in science
and knowledge — like you. And, if my child
had lived, you should have been my adviser
and my right hand : I want such a man as
you.'

Hope threw up his hands. ' My usual
luck ! ' said he ; ' always a day too late.'

Bartley resumed :

But my child's death robs me of the money
to work with, and I can't help you nor help
myself.'

Hope groaned.

Bartley hesitated. But after a moment he
said timidly, ' Unless — ' and then stopped.

Unless what ? ' asked Hope eagerly. ' I
am not likely to raise objections ; my child's
life is at stake.'

Well, then, unless you are really the
superior man you seem to be : a man of ability
and — courage.'

Courage ! ' thought Hope, and began to be
puzzled. However, he said, modestly, that he
thought he could find courage in a good cause.

Then you and I are made men,' said
hartley. These were stout words, but they
were not spoken firmly ; on the contrary, Mr.
Bartley's voice trembled, and his brow began
to perspire visibly.

His agitation communicated itself to Hope,
and the latter said, in a low, impressive voice,
This is something very grave, Mr. Bartley.
Sir, what is it ? '

Mr. Bartley looked uneasily all round the
room, and came close to Hope. ' The very
walls must not hear what I now say to you.'
Then, in a thrilling whisper, 'My daughter
must not die.'

Hope looked puzzled.

Your daughter must take her place.'

Now, just before this, two quick ears began
to try and catch the conversation. Monckton
had heard all that Colonel Clifford said, that

warriors tones were so incisive ; but, as the
matter only concerned Mr. Bartley, he merely
grinned at the disappointment likely to fall on
his employer, for he knew Mary Bartley was at
death's door. He said as much to himself, and
went out for a sandwich, for it was his lunchtime.
But when he returned with stealthy
foot, for all his movements were cat-like, he
caught sight of Bartley and Hope in earnest
conversation, and felt very curious.

There was something so mysterious in
Bartley 's tones. Monckton drew up against
the little window, pushed it back an inch,
and listened hard.

But he could hear nothing at all until
Hope's answer came to Bartley 's proposal.

Then the indignant father burst out, so that
it was easy enough to hear every word : ' I
part with my girl ! Not for the world's wealth.
What ! You call yourself a father, and would
tempt me to sell my own flesh and blood ?
No ! Poverty, beggary, anything, sooner than
that. My darling, we will thrive together, or

starve together ; we will live together, or die
together ! '

He snatched up his hat to leave. But
Bartley found a word to make him hesitate.
He never moved, but folded his arms and said,
So, then, your love for your child is selfish.'

Selfish ! ' cried Hope ; ' so selfish that I
would die for her any hour of the day.'

For all th at, the taunt brought him down a step
and Bartley, still standing like a rock, attacked
him again. ' If it is not selfish, it is blind.'
Then he took two strides, and attacked him
vdth sudden power. ' Who will suffer most if
you stand in her light ? Goddaughter : why,
she may die.' Hope groaned. 'Who will
profit most if you are wise, and really love her,
not like a jealous lover, but like a father ?
Why, your daughter : she will be taken out of
poverty and want, and carried to sea-breezes
and scented meadows ; her health and her
comfort will be my care ; she will fill the gap
in my house and in my heart, and will be my
heiress when T die.'

But she will be lost to me,' sighed poor
Hope.

Not so. You will be my right hand ; you
will be always about us ; you can see her, talk
to her, make her love you, do anything but tell
her you are her father. Do this one thing forme,
and I will do great things for you and her.
To refuse me will be to cut your own throat
and hers — as well as mine.'

Hope faltered a little. 'Am I selfish?'
said he.

Of course not,' was the soothing reply ;
no true father is. Give him time to think.'

Hope clinched his hands in agony, and
pressed them against his brow : ' It is selfish
to stand in her light ; but part with her — I
can't ; I can't.'

Of course not ; who asks you ? She will
never be out of your sight ; only, instead of
seeing her sicken, linger, and die, you will see
her surrounded by every comfort, nursed and
tended like a princess, and growing every day
in health, wealth, and happiness.'

Health, wealth, and happiness ? '

Health, wealth, and happiness ! '

These words made a great impression on
the still hesitating father ; he began to
make conditions. They were all granted
heartily.

If ever you are unkind to her, the compact
is broken, and I claim my own again.'

So be it. But why suppose anything so
monstrous ? men do not ill-treat children. It
is only women, who adore them, that kill them
and ill-use them accordingly. She will be my
little benefactress, God bless her ! I may love
her more than I ought, being yours, for my
home is desolate without her ; but that is the
only fault you shall ever find with me. There
is my hand on it.'

Hope at the last was taken off his guard,
and took the proffered hand. That is a binding
action, and somehow he could no longer go
back.

Then Bartley told him he should Hve in the
house at first, to break the parting. 'And

from this hour,' said he, ' you are no clerk nor
manager, but my associate in business, and on
your own terms.'

Thank you,' said Hope, with a sigh.

Now lose no time ; get her into the house
at once while the clerks are away ; and meantime
I must deal with the nurse, and overcome
the many difficulties. Stay, here is a five-pound
note. Buy yourself a new suit, and
give the child a good meal. But pray bring
her here in half an hour, if you can.'

Then Bartley took him to the lobby, and
let him out in the street, whilst he went into
the house to buy the nurse, and make her his
confidante.

He had a good deal of difficulty with her ;
she was shocked at the proposal, and, being a
woman, it was the details that horrified her.
She cried a good deal. She stipulated that her
darling should have Christian burial, and cried
again at the doubt. But as Bartley conceded
everything, and offered to settle a hundred
pounds a year on her, so long as she lived in

VOL. I. E

his house and kept his secret, he prevailed at
last, and found her an invaluable ally.

To dispose of this character for the present,
we must inform the reader that she proved a
woman can keep a secret, and that in a very-short
time she was as fond of Grace Hope as
she had been of Mary Bartley.

We have said that Colonel Clifford's talk
penetrated Monckton's ear, but produced no
great impression at the time. Not so, however,
when he had listened to Bartley's proposal,
Hope's answer, and all that followed. Then
he put this and Colonel Clifford's communication
together, and saw the terrible importance
of the two things combined. Thus, as a congenital
worm grew with Jonah's gourd, and
was sure to destroy it, Bartley's bold and
elaborate scheme was furnished from the outset
With a most dangerous enemy.

Leonard Monckton was by nature a
schemer, and by habit a villain, and he was
sure to put this discovery to profit. He came
out of the little office and sat down at his desk,
and fell ito a brown study.

He was not a little puzzled, and here lay
his difficulty. Two attractive villainies presented
themselves to his ingenious mind, and he
naturally hesitated between them. One was
to levy black-mail on Bartley ; the other, to sell
the secret to the Clifford.

But there was a special reason why he
should incline toward the Chffbrds, and, whilst
he is in his brown study, we will let the reader
into his secret.

This artful person had immediately won
the confidence of young Clifford, calling himself
Bolton, and had prepared a very heartless trap
for him. He introduced to him a most beautiful
young woman — tall, dark, with oval face
and glorious black eyes and eyebrows, a slight
foreign accent, and ingratiating manners. He
called this beauty his sister, and instructed her
to win Walter Clifford in that character, and
to marry him. As she was twenty two, and
Master Clifford nineteen, he had no chance
with her, and they were to be married this
very day at the Register Office.

E 2

LIBRARY

IWiVERSITY OF ILiiNOli

Manoeuvring Monckton then inclined to let
Bartley's fraud go on and ripen, but eventually
expose it for the benefit of young Walter and
his wife, who adored this Monckton, because,
when a beautiful woman loves an ugly blackguard,
she never does it by halves.

But he had no sooner thought out this conclusion
than there came an obstacle. Lucy
Miller's heart failed her at the last moment,
and she came into the office with a rush to tell
her master so. She uttered a cry of joy at
sight of him, and came at him panting and full
of love. ' Oh, Leonard, I am so glad you are
alone ! Leonard, dear Leonard, pray do not
insist on my marrying that young man. Now
it comes to the time, my heart fails me.' The
tears stood in her glorious eyes, and an honest
man would have pitied her, and even respected
her a little for her compunction, though somewhat
tardy.

But her master just fixed his eyes coldly on
his slave, and said brutally, ' Never mind your
heart ; think of your interest.'

The weak woman allowed herself to be
diverted into this topic. ' Why, he is no such
great catch, I am sure.'

I tell you he is, more than ever. I have
just discovered another 20,000/. he is heir to,
and not got to wait for that any longer than I
choose.'

Lucy stamped her foot. ' I don't care for
his money. Till he came with his money you
loved me.'

I love you as much as ever,' said Monck-ton
coldly.

Lucy began to sob. 'No, you don't, or
you wouldn't give me up to that young fool.'

The villain made a cynical reply, that not
every Newgate thief could have matched.
'You fool,' said he, ' can't you marry him, and
go on loving me ? — you won't be the first. It
is done every day, to the satisfaction of all
parties.'

And to their unutterable shame ! ' said
a clear, stern voice at their back. Walter
Clifford, coming rapidly in, had heard but little,

but heard enough ; and there he stood, grim
and pale, a boy no longer. These two skunks
had made a man of him in one moment. They
recoiled in dismay, and the woman hid her
face.

He turned upon the man first, you may be
sure. ' So you have palmed this lady off on
me as your sister, and trapped me, and would
have destroyed me.' His lip quivered ; for
they had passed the iron through his heart.
But he manned himself, and carried it off like
a soldier's son :

But if I was fool enough to leave my
father, I am not fool enough to present to the
world your cast-off mistress as my wife.' (Lucy
hid her face in her hands.) ' Here, Miss Lucy
Monckton — or whatever your name may be —
here is the marriage license. Take that and
my contempt, and do what you like with
them.'

With these words he dashed into Bartley's
private room, and there broke down. It was
a bitter cup, the first in his young life.

The baffled schemers drank wormwood too ;
but they bore it differently. The woman cried,
and took her punishment meekly ; the man
raged and threatened vengeance.

No, no,' said Lucy ; ,' it serves us right. I
wish I had never seen the fellow : then you
would have kept your word, and married me.'

I will marry you now, if you can obey
me.'

Obey you, Leonard ? You have been my
ruin ; but only marry me, and I will be your
slave in everything — your willing, devoted,
happy slave.'

That is a bargain,' said Monckton coolly.
I'll be even with him ; I will marry you in
his name and in his place.'

This puzzled Lucy.

Why in his name ? ' said she.

He did not answer.

Well, never mind the name,' said she,
so that it is the right man — and that it
is you.'

Then Monckton 's fertile brain, teeming with

villainies, fell to hatching a new plot more
felonious than the last. He would rob the safe,
and get Chfford convicted for the theft ; convicted
as Bolton, Clifford would never tell his
real name, and Lucy should enter the Clifford'
house with a certificate of his death and a certificate
of his marriage, both obtained by substitution,
and so collar his share of the 20,000/.,
and off with the real husband to fresh pastures.

Lucy looked puzzled. Hers was not a brain
to disentangle such a monstrous web.

Monckton reflected a moment. ' What is
the first thing ? Let me see. Humph ! I think
the first thing is to get married.'

'Yes,' said Lucy, with an eagerness that
contrasted strangely with his cynical composure,
• that is the first thing, and the most understandable.'
And she went dancing off with him as
gay as a lark, and leaning on him at an angle
of about forty-five ; whilst he went erect and
cold, like a stone figure marching.

Walter Clifford came out in time to see them
pass the great window. He watched them

down the street and cursed them — not loud but
deep.

Mooning, as usual,' said a hostile voice behind
him. He turned round, and there was
Mr. Bartley seated at his own table. Young
Clifford walked smartly to the other side of the
table, determined this should be his last day in
that shop.

There are the payments,' said he cavalierly.

Bartley inspected them.

About one in five,' said he dryly.

Thereabouts,' was the reply. (Consummate
indifference.)

You can't have pressed them much.'

Well, I'm not good at dunning.'

What are you good at ? '

Should be puzzled to say.'

You are not fit for trade.'

That is the highest compliment was ever
paid me.'

Oh, you are impertinent as well as incompetent,
are you ? Then take a week's warning,
Mr. Bolton.'

Five minutes would suit me better, Mr.
Bartley.'

Oh, indeed ! Say one hour.'

'All right, sir ; just time for a city clerk's
luncheon — glass of bitter, sandwich, peep at
Punch," cigarette, and a chat with the barmaid.'


Mr. Walter Clifford was a gentleman, but
we must do him the justice to say that in this
interview with his employer he was a very
impertinent one, not only in words, but in the
delivery thereof. Bartley, however, thought
this impertinence was put on, and that he had
grave reasons for being in a hurry. He took
down the numbers of the notes Clifford had
given him, and looked very grave and suspicious
all the time.

Then he locked up the notes in the safe,
and just then Hope opened the door of the little
office and looked in.

At last,' said Bartley.

Well, sir,' said Hope, ' I have only been
half-an-hour, and I have changed my clothes

and stood witness to a marriage. She begged
me so hard : I was at the door. Such a beautiful
girl ! I could not take my eyes off
her.'

The child ? ' said Bartley with natural
impatience.

I have hidden her in the yard.'

Bring her this moment, while the clerks
are out.'

Hope hurried out and soon returned with
his child, wrapped up in a nice warm shawl he
had bought her with Bartley's money.

Bartley took the child from him, looked at
her face, and said, ' Little darling, I shall love
her as my own ; ' then he begged Hope to sit
down in the lobby till he should call him and
introduce him to his clerks. ' One of them is
a thief, I'm afraid.'

He took the child inside, and gave her to
his confederate, the nurse.

Dear me,' thought Hope, ' only two clerks,
and one of them dishonest. I hope it is not
that good-natured boy. Oh, no ! impossible.'

And now Bartley returned, and at the same
time Monckton came briskly through the little
office.

At sight of him Bartley said, ' Oh, Monck-ton,
I gave that fellow Bolton a week's notice.
But he insists on going directly.' Monckton
replied, slyly, that he was sorry to hear
that.

Suspicious ? Eh ? ' said Bartley.

So suspicious that if I were you — indeed,
Mr. Bartley, I think, in justice to me,
the matter ought to be cleared to the bottom.'

You are right,' said Bartley ; ' I'll* have
him searched before he goes. Fetch me a
detective at once.'

Bartley then wrote a line upon his card,
and handed it to Monckton, directing him to
lose no time. He then rushed out of the
house with an air of virtuous indignation, and
went to make some delicate arrangements to
carry out a fraud, which, begging his pardon,
was as felonious, though not so prosaic, as
the one he suspected his young clerk of.

Monckton was at first a little taken aback
by the suddenness of all this ; but he was too
clear-headed to be long at fault. The matter
was brought to a pont. Well, he must shoot
flying.

In a moment he was at the safe, whipped
out a bunch of false keys, opened the safe,
took out the cash-box, and swept all the gold
it contained into his own pockets, and took
possession of the notes. Then he locked up
the cash-box again, restored it to the safe,
locked that, and sat down at Bartley's table.
He ran over the notes With feverish fino-hers,
and then took the precaution to examine
Bartley's day-book. His caution was rewarded
— he found that the notes Bolton had
brought in were numbered. He instantly
made two parcels — clapped the unnumbered
notes into his pocket. The numbered ones he
took in his hand into the lobby. Now this
lobby must be shortly described. First, there
was a door with a glass window, but the
window had dark blue gauze fixed to it, so

that nobody could see into the lobby from the
office ; but a person in the lobby, by putting
his eye close to the gauze, could see into the
office in a filmy sort of way. This door
opened on a lavatory, and there were also
pegs on which the clerks hung their overcoats.
Then there was a swing-door leading
direct to the street, and sideways into a
small room indispensable to every office.

Monckton entered this lobby, and inserted
the numbered notes into young Clifford's coat,
and the false keys into his bag. Then he
whipped back hastily into the office, with this
craven face full of fiendish triumph.

He started for the detective. But it was
bitter cold, and he returned to the lobby for
his own overcoat. As he opened the lobby
door the swing-door moved, or he thought so ;
he darted to it and opened it, but saw nobody,
Hope having whipped behind the open door of
the little room. Monckton then put on his
overcoat, and went for the detective.

He met Clifford at the door, and wore an

insolent grin of defiance, for which, if they had
not passed each other rapidly, he would very
likely have been knocked down. As it was,
Walter Clifford entered the office flushed with
wrath, and eager to leave behind him the
mortifications and humiliations he had endured.


He went to his own little desk and tore
up Lucy Muller's letters, and his heart turned
toward home. He went into the lobby, and,
feeling hot, which was no wonder, bundled his
office overcoat and his brush and comb into
his bag. He returned to the office for his
penknife, and was going out all in a hurry
when Mr. Bartley met him.

Bartley looked rather stern, and said, 'A
word with you, sir.'

Certainly, sir,' said the young man stiffly.

Mr. Bartley sat down at his table and fixed
his eyes upon the young man with a very
peculiar look.

You seem in a very great hurry to go.'
' Well, I am:

You have not even demanded your salary
up to date.'

'Excuse the oversight ; I was not made for
business, you know.'

There is something more to settle besides
your salary.'

Premium for good conduct ? '

'No, sir. Mr. Bolton, you will find this
no jesting matter. There are defalcations in
the accounts, sir.'

The young man turned 'serious at once. ' I
am sorry to hear that, sir,' said he, with
proper feeling. ,

Bartley eyed him still more severely.
And even cash abstracted.'

Good heavens ! ' said the young man,
answering his eyes rather., than his words.
Why, surely you can't suspect me ? '

Bartley answered sternly, ' I know I have
been robbed, and so I suspect everybody whose
conduct is suspicious-this

was too much for a Clifford to bear.
He turned on him like a lion. ' You* suspicions

disgrace the trader w]io entertains
them, not the gentleman they >vroiig. You
are too old for me to give you a thrashing,
so I won't stay here any longer to be
insulted.'

He snatched up his bag and was marching
off, when the door opened and Monckton with
a detective confronted him.

No,' roared Bartley, furious in turn ; ' but
you will stay to be examined.'

Examined ! '

'Searched, then, if you like it better.'

'No, don't do that,' said the, young fellow.
Spare me such a humiliation.'

Bartley, who was avaricious but not cruel,,
hesitated.

Well,' said he, ' I will examine the safe
before I go further.'

Mr. Bartley opened the safe and took out
the cash-box. It was empty, lie uttered a
loud exclamation. 'Why, it's a clean sAveep !
A wholesale robbery! Notes and gold all
gone ! No wonder you were in sadi a luu'ry

VOL. I. F

to leave ! Luckily some of the notes were
numbered. Search him;

Xo, no! Don't treat me like a thief I'
cried the poor boy, almost sobbing.

If you are innocent, why object ? ' said
Monckton satirically.

'- You villain ! ' cried Clifford, ' this is your
doing ; I am sure of it ! '

Monckton only grinned triumphantly, but
Bartley fired up. ' If there is a villain here,
it is you. He is a faithful servant, who
warned his employer.' He then pointed
sternly at young Bolton and the detective
stepped up to him and said curtly, ' Xow, sir,
if I must.'

He then proceeded to search his waistcoat
pockets. The young man hung his head, and
looked guilty. He had heard of money being
]put into an innocent man's pockets, and he
feared that game had been played with him.

The detective examined his waistcoat
pockets and found — nothing ; his other pockets
nothing.

The detective patted his breast and examined
his stockings — nothing

the bag,' said Monckton.

Then the poor fellow trembled again.

The detective searched the bao- — nothing.

He took the overcoat and turned the
pockets out — nothing.

Bartley looked surprised ; Monckton still
more so. Meantime Hope had gone round from
the lobby, and now entered by the small office,
and stood watching a part of this business, viz.,
the search of the bag and the overcoat, with a
bitter look of irony.

But my safe must have been opened with
false keys,' cried Bartley. ' Where are they ? '

And the numbered notes,' said Monckton,
where are they ? '

Gentlemen,' said Hope, ' may I wiser my
advice ? '

Who the devil are you ? ' said Monotone

is my new partner, my associate in
business,' said the politic Bartley. Then deferentially
to Hope, ' What do you advise ? '

You have two clerks. I would examine
them both.'

'Examine me?' cried Monckton. 'Mr.
Bartley, will you allow such an affront to be
put on your old and faithful servant ? '

'If you are innocent, why object?' said
young Clifford spitefully, before Mr. Bartley
could answer.

The remark struck Bartley, and he acted
on it.

'Well, it's only lair to Mr. Bolton,' said
he. ' Come, come, Monckton, it is only a
form.'

Then he gave the detective a signal, and he
stepped up to Monckton, and emptied his waistcoat
pockets of eighty-five sovereigns.

There ! ' cried Walter Chfford. ' There,
there ! '

My own money, won at the Derby,' said
Monckton coolly ; 'and only a part of it, I am
happy to say. You will fid the remainder in
bank-notes.'

The detective found several notes.

Hartley examined the book and the notes.
The Derby ! He was beginning to doubt this
clerk, who attended that meeting on the sl\\
However, tie was inst. tliouo-h no longer confiding.


I am bound to say that not one of the
numbered notes is here.'

The detective was now examining Monckton's
overcoat. He produced a small bunch of keys.

How did they come there ? ' cried Monck-ton,
in amazement.

It was an incautious remark. Bartley took
it up directly, and pounced on the keys. He
tried them on the safe. One opened the safe,
another opened the cash-box.

Meantime the detective found some notes in
the pocket of the overcoat, and produced them.

Great heavens ! ' cried Monckton, ' how
did they come there P '

Oh, I dare say you knoAv,' said the detective.


Bartley examined them eagerly. They
were the numbered notes.

You scoundrel ! ' he roared, ' these show
me where your gold and your other notes came
from. The whole contents of my safe — in that
villain's pockets ! '

No, no ! ' cried Monckton in agony. ' It's
all a delusion. Some rogue has planted them
there to ruin me.'

Keep that for the beak,' said the ]policeman
; ' he is sure to believe it. Come, my
bloke. I knew who was my bird the moment
I clapped eyes on the two. ' Ain't his first
job, gents, you take my word. We shall find
his photo in some jail or other in time for the
assizes.'

Away with him ! ' cried Bartley furiously.

As the policeman took him off, the baffled
villain's eye fell on Hope, who stood with
folded arms, and looked down on him with
lowering brow and the deep indignation of the
just, and yet with haughty triumph.

That eloquent look was a revelation to
Monckton.

Ah,' he cried, ' it was you ! '

Hope's only reply was this : ' Yon double
felon, false accuser and thief, you are caught
in your own trap.'

And this he thundered at him with such
sudden power that the thief went cringing out,
and even those who remained were awed.
But Hope never told anybody except Walter
Clifford that he had undone Monckton's work
in the lobby ; and then the poor boy fell upon
his neck, and kissed this hand.

To run forward a little : stockton was
tried, and made no defence. He dared not
call Hope as his witness, for it was clear Hope
must have seen him commit the theft and
attempt the other villainy. But the false accusation
leaked out as well as the theft. A previous
conviction was proved, and the indignant
judge gave him fourteen years.

Tims was Bartley's fatal secret in mortal
peril on the day it first existed ; yet on that
very day it was saved from exposure, and
buried deep in a jail

Bartley set Hope over his business, and was

never heard of for montis. Then he turned
up in Sussex with a little girl, who had been
saved from diphtheria by tracheotomy, and
some unknown quack.

There was a scar to prove it. The tender
parent pointed it out triumphantly, and railed
at the regular practitioners of medicine.

Clipper IV.

AX OLD S E R Y A X T .

Walter Clu-tord returned home pretty well
weaned from trade, and anxious to propitiate his
father, but well aware that on his way to reconciliation
he must pass through probation.

He slipped into Clifford Hall at night, and
commenced his approaches by going to the
butler's pantry. Here he was safe, and knew
it ; a faithful old butler of the antique and
provincial breed is apt to be more unreasonably
paternal than Pater himself

To this worthy, then, Walter Saved a good
bed, a good supper, and good advice: 'Better
not tackle him till I have lead a word with him
first.'

Next morning this worthy butler, who for

seven years had been a very good servant, and
for the next seven years rather a bad one, and
would now have been a hard master if the
Colonel had not been too great a Tartar to stand
it, appeared before his superior with an air
slightly respectful, slightly aggressive, and ^'ery
dogged :

There is a young gentleman woidd be
glad to speak to you, if you will let him.'

Who is he ? ' asked the Colonel, though
by old John's manner he divined.

Can't ye guess ? '

Don't know why I should. It is your
business to announce my visitors.'

Oh, I'll announce him, when I am made
safe that he will be welcome.'

What ! isn't he sure of a welcome ? —
2^ood, dutiful son like him ? '

Well, sir, he deserves a welcome. Why,
he is the returning prodigal.'

We are not told that he deserved a welcome.'



'What signifies? — he got one, and Scripture

is the rule of life for men of our ao^e, noir
ive are out of the army.'

I think you had better let him plead his
own cause, John ; and if he takes the tone
you do, he will get turned out of the house
pretty quick ; as you will some of these days,
Mr. Baker.'

We shan't go, neither of us,' said Mr.
Baker, but with a sudden tone of affectionate
respect, which disarmed the words of their
true meanings. He added, hano-iui? his head
for the first time, ' Poor young gentleman !
afraid to face his own father ! '

'What's he afraid of?' asked the Colonel
roughly.

Of you cursing and swearing at him,' said
John.

Cursing and swearing ! ' cried the Colonel
' a thugs I never do now. Cursing and
swearing, indeed ! You be ! '

'There you go,' said old John. 'Come,
Colonel, be a father. What has the poor boy
done ? '

'He lias deserted — a tliino- I have seen a
fellow shot for, and he has left me a prey to
parental anxieties.'

'And so he has me, for that matter. But
I forgive him. Any way, I should like to hear
his story before I condemn him. Why, he's
only nineteen and four months, come Martinmas.
Besides, how do we know ? — he may
have some very good reason for going.'

His age makes that probable, doesn't it ? '

I dare say it was after some girl, sir.'

Call that a good reason ? '

I call it a strong one. Haven't you never
found it ? ' ( The Colonel was betrayed into
winking.) 'From sixteen to sixt' a woman
will draw a man where a horse can't.'

Since that is 6'6>,' said the Colonel dryly,
you can tell him to come to breakfast.'

Am I to say that from you ? '

No ; you can take that much upon yourself.
I have known you presume a good deal
more than that, John.'

'Well, sir,' said John hanging his head,

for a moment, ' old servants are like old friends
they do presume a bit ; but then ' (raising
his head proudly) ' they care foi' their masters,
young and old. New servants, sir — why, this
lot that we've got now, they would not shed a
tear for you if you was to be hanged.'

Why should they ? ' said the Colonel.
A man is not hanged for building churches.
Come, beat a retreat. I've had enough of you.
See there's a good breakfast.'

Oh,' said John, ' I've took care of that.'
When the Colonel came down he found his
son leaning against the mantelpiece ; but he
left it directly and stood erect, for the Colonel
had drilled him with his own hands.

Ugh ! ' said the Colonel, giving a snort
peculiar to himself, but he thought, ' IIow
handsome the dog is ! ' and was proud of him
secretly, only' he would not show it. ' Good-morning,
sir,' said the young nan, with civil
respect.

Your most obedient, sir,' said the old
man stiffly.

After that neither spoke for some time, and
the old butler glided about like a cat, helping
both of them, especially the young one, to
various delicacies from the side table. When
he had stuffed them pretty well, he retired
softly and listened at the door. Neither of
the gentlemen was in a hurry to break the
ice ; each waited for the other.

Walter made the first remark : ' What delicious
tea ! '

As good as where you came from ? ' inquired
Colonel Clifford insidiously.

A deal better,' said Walter.

By-the-bye,' said the Colonel, 'where do
you come from ? '

Walter mentioned the town.

You astonish me,' said the Colonel. 'I
made sure you had been enjoying the pleasures
of the capital.'

My purse wouldn't have stood that, sir.'

Very few purses can,' said Colonel Chfford.
Then, in an off-hand Away, ' Have you brought
her along with you ? '

Certainly not,' said Walter, off bis guard.
Her ? Who ? '

Why, the girl that decoyed yon from yon
father's roof.'

No girl decoyed me from here, sir, upon
my honour.'

Whom are we talking about, then ? WJjo
is her ? '

Her ? Why, Lucy Monckton.'

And who is Lucy Monckton ? '

Why, the girl I fell in love with, and she
deceived me nicely ; but I found her out intime.'


And so you came home to snivel ? '

No, sir, I didn't ; I'm not such a muff.
I'm too much your son to love any woman long
when I have learned to despise her. I came
home to apologize, and to place myself inter
your orders, if you will forgive me, and find
something useful for me to do.'

So I will, my boy ; there's my hand. Now,
out with it. What did you go away for, since
it wasn't a petticoat? '

'Well, sir, I am afraid I shall offend
you.'

'Not a bit of it, after I've given you my
hand. Come, now, what was it? '

Walter pondered and hesitated, but at last
hit upon a way to explain.

Sir,' said he, ' until I was six years old
they used to give me peaches from Addington
House ; out one fine day the supply stopped,
and I uttered a small howl to my nurse. Old
John heard me, and told me Addington was
sold — house, garden, estate, and all.'

Colonel Clifford snorted.

Walter resumed, modestly, but firmly :

I was thirteen ; I used to fish in a brook
that ran near Drayton Park. One day I was
fishing there, when a brown velveteen chap
stopped me, and told me I was trespassing.
Trespassing ? " said I. " I have fished here all
my life ; I am Walter Clifford, and this belongs
to my father." " Well," said the man, " I've
heard it did belong to Colonel Clifford oust, but
now it belongs to Muster Mills ; so you must

fish in your own water, young gentleman, and
leave our to us as owns it." Till I was
€1,^1} teen I used to shoot snipes in a rushy
bottom near Calveiiey Church. One day a
fellow in black velveteen, and gaiters up to his
middle, warned me out of that in the name of
Muster Cannon.'

Colonel Clifford, who had been drumming
on the table all this time, looked uneasy, and
muttered, with some little air of compunction :
They have plucked my feathers deucedly,
that's a fact. Hang that fellow Stevens, persuading
me to keep race-horses ; it's all his
fault. Well, sir, proceed with your observations.'


Well, I inquired who could afford to buy
what we were too poor to keep, and I found
these wealthy purchasers were all in trade not
one of them a gentleman.'

You might have guessed that,' said Colonel
Chfford ; ' it is as much as a gentleman can do
to live out of jail nowadays.'

Yes, sir,' said Walter. ' Cotton had bought

VOL. I. G

one of these estates, tallow another, and heifers
the other.'

Plague take them all three ! ' roared the
Colonel.

Well, then, sir,' said Walter, ' I could not
help thinking there must be some magic in
trade, and I had better go into it. I didn't
think you would consent to that. I wasn't
game to defy you ; so I did a means thing,
and slipped away into a merchant's office.'

^ And made your fortune in three months ? '
inquired the Colonel.

No, I didn't ; and don't think trade is the
thing for me. I saw a deal of avarice and
meanness, and a thief of a clerk got his master
to suspect me of dishonesty ; so I snapped my
fingers at them all, and here I am. But,' said
the poor young fellow, ' I do wish, father, you
would put me into something where I can make
a little money, so that when this estate comes
to be sold, I may be the purchaser.'
Colonel Clifford started up in great emotion :

Sell Clifford Hall, where I was born, and

you were born, and everybody was born !
Those estates I sold were only outlying properties.'


They were beautiful ones,' said Walter.
I never see such peaches now.'

'As you did when you Averse six years old,'
suggested the Colonel. ' No, nor you never
will. I've been six myself. Lord knows when
it was, though ! '

But, sir, I don't see any such trout, and no
such haunts for snipe.'

Do you mean to insult me ? ' cried the
Colonel, rather suddenly. 'This is Avhat weare
come to now Here's a brat of six begins
taking notes against his own father ; and he
improves on the Scotch poet — he doesn't print
'em. No, he accumulates them cannily until
he is twenty, but never says a word. He loads
his gun up to the muzzle, and waits, as the
years roll on, with this linstock in his hand, and
one fine day at breakfast he fires this treble
charge of grape-shot at his own father.'

This was delivered so loudly that Jolni

G 2

feared a quarrel, and, to interrupt it, put in his
head and said, mighty innocently :

Did you call, sir ? Can I do anything for
you, sir ? '

Yes : oro to the devil ! '

John went, but not downstairs, as suggested
a mere lateral movement that ended at the
keyhole.

Well, but, sir,' said Walter, half reproachfully,
'it Alas you elicited my views.'

Confound your views, sir, and your

impudence ! You're in the right, and I am in
the wrong' (this admission with a more ill-used
tone than ever). ' It's the race-horses. Being
the bell. What sawney you young fellows
are I It used not to take six minutes to ring a
bell when I was your age.'

Walter, thus stimulated, sprang to the bell-rope,
and pulled it all down to the ground with
a single gesture.

The Colonel burst out laughing, and that
did him good; and Mr. Baker answered the
bell like lightning; he quite forgot that

the bell must have rung fifty yards from
the spot where he was enjoying the dialogue.


Send me the steward, John ; I saw him
pass the window.'

Meantime the Colonel marched up and
down with considerable agitation. Walter,
Who had a filial heart, felt very uneasy, and
said timidly, ' I am truly sorry, lather, that I
answered your questions so bluntly.'

I'm not, then,' said the Colonel. ' I hold
him to be less than a man who flies from the
truth, whether it comes from young lips or old.
I have faced cavalry, sir, and I can face the
truth.'

At this moment the steward entered.

Jackson,' said the Colonel in the very
same tone lie was speaking in, ' put up my
race-horses to auction by public advertisement.'


But, sir, Jenny has got to run at Derby,
and the l)rown colt at JSTottingliam, and the 
gelding at a handica}) at Chester, and

the chestnut is entered for the SelKnger next
year.'

Sell them with their engagements.'

And the trainer, sir ? '

Give him his warning.'

'And the jockey?'

Discharge him on the spot, and take him
by the ear out of the premises before he
poisons the lot. Keep one of the stable-boys,
and let my groom do the rest.'

But who is to take them to the place of
auction, sir ? '

Nobody. I'll have the auction here, and
sell them where they stand. Submit all your
books of account to this young gentleman.'

The steward looked a little blue, and
Walter remonstrated gently : ' To me, father ? '

Why, you can cipher, can't ye ? '

Father ; it is the best thing I do.'

And you have been in trade, haven't ye.^ '

'Why, yes.'

Then you will detect plenty of swindles,
if you find out one in ten. Above all, cut

down niy expenditure to my income. A
gentleman of the nineteenth century, sharpened
by trade, can easily do that. Sell Clifford
Hall? I'd rather live on the rabbits and
the pigeons and the blackbirds, and the carp in
the pond, and drive to church in the wheelbarrow.'


So for a time Walter administered his
father's estate, and it was very instructive.
Oh ! the petty frauds — the swindles of agency,
a term which, to be sure, is derived from the
Latin word ' agere,' to do — the cobweb of petty
commissions — the flat bribes — the smooth hush-money
!

Walter soon cut the expenses down to the
income, which was ample, and even paid off
the one mortgage that encumbered this noble
estate at five per cent., only four per cent, of
which was really fingered by the mortgagee.
The balance went to a go-between, though no
go-between was ever wanted, for any solicitor
in the country would have found the money ina
week at four per cent.

The old gentleman was delighted, and engaged
his own son as steward at a liberal
salary; and so Walter Clifford found employment
and a fair income without going away
from home again.

CHAPTER V.
Mary's peril.

Whilst Mr. Bartley's business was improving
under Hope's management, Hope himself
Alas groaning under his entire separation from
his daughter. Bartley had promised him this
should not be ; but among Hope's good qualities
was a singular fidelity to his employers,
and he was also a man who never broke his
word. So when Bartley showed him that the
true parentage of Grace Hope — now called
Mary Bartley — could never be disguised unless
her memory of him was interrupted and
puzzled before she grew older, and that she, as
well as the world, must be made to believe
Bartley was her father, he assented, and it was
two years before he ventured to come near his
own daughter.

But he demanded to see her at a distance,
himself unseen, and this was arranged. He
provided himself with a powerful binocular of
the kind that is now used at sea, instead of the
unwieldy old telescope, and the little girl was
paraded by the nurse, who was in the secret.
She played about in the sight of this strange
spy. She was plump, she was rosy, she was
full of life and spirit. Joy filled the father's
heart ; but then came a bitter pang to think
that he had faded out of her joyous life. By-and-bye
he could see her no longer, for a mist
came fi:om his heart to his eyes ; he bowed his
head and went back to his business, his prosperity,
and his solitude. These experiments
were repeated at times. Moreover, Bartley
had the tact never to write to him on business
without telling him something about his girl —
her clever sayings, her pretty ways, her quickness
at learning from all her teachers, and soon.
When she was edit years old a foreign
agent was required in Bartley's business, and
Hope agreed to start this agency, and keep it

going till some more ordinary person could be
intrusted to work it.

But lie refused to leave England without
seeing his daughter with his own eyes and
hearing her voice. However, still faithful
to his pledge, he prepared a disguise ; he
actually grew a moustache and beard for this
tender motive only, and changed his whole
style of dress ; he wore a crimson necktie and
dark green gloves with a plaid suit, which combination
he abhorred as a painter, and our
respected readers abominate, for surely it was
some such perverse combination that made a
French dressmaker lift her hands to heaven and
say, ' Quelle immorality! ' So then Bartley himself
took his little girl for a walk, and met Mr.
Hope in an appointed spot not far from his own
house. Poor Hope saw them coming, and his
heart beat high. ' Ah ! ' said Bartley, feigning
surprise ; ' why, it's Mr. Hope. How do you
do, Hope ? This is my little girl. Mary, my
dear, this is an old friend of mine. Give liii
your hand.'

The girl looked in Hope's face, and
gave him her hand, and did not recognise
him.

Fine girl for her years, isn't she ? ' said
Bartley ; ' healthy and strong, and quick at her
lessons ; and, what's better still, she is a good
girl, a very good girl.'

Papa ! ' said the child, blushing, and hid
her face behind Bartley's elbow, all but one eye,
with which she watched the effect of these
eulogies upon the strange gentleman.

She is all a father could wish,' said Hope
tenderly.

Instantly the girl started from her position,
and stood wrapt in thought ; her beautiful eyes
wore a strange look of dreamy intelligence, and
both men could see she was searching the past
for that voice.

Bartley drew back, that the girl might not
see him, and held up his finger. Hope gave a
slight nod of acquiescence, and spoke no more.
Bartley invited him to take an early dinner,
and talk business. Before he left he saw his

child more than once ; indeed, Bartley paraded
her accomplishments. She played the piano to
Hope ; she rode her little Shetland pony for
Hope ; she danced a minuet with singular
grace for so young a girl ; she conversed with
her governess in French, or something very
like it ; and she worked a little sewing-machine
• — all to please the strange gentleman ; and whatever
she was asked to do she did with a winning
smile, and without a particle of false modesty,
or the real egotism which is at the bottom of
false modesty.

Anybody who knew William Hope intimately
might almost recognise his daughter in
this versatile little mind, with its faculty of
learning so many dissimilar things.

Hope left for the Continent with a proud
heart, a joyful heart, and a sore heart. She
was lovely, she was healthy, she was happy,
she vias accomplished, but she was his no
longer, not even in name ; her love was being
gained by a stranger, and there was a barrier
of iron, as well as the English Channel,

between William Hope and his own Mary
Bartley .

It would weary the reader were we to detail
the small events bearing on the part of the
story which took place during the next five
years. They might be summed up thus : That
William Hope got a peep at his daughter now
and then ; and, making a series of subtle experiments
by varying his voice as much as possible,
confused and nullified her memory of that voice
to all appearance. In due course, however,
father and daughter were brought into natural
contact by the last thing that seemed likely todo
it, viz., by Bartley 's avarice. Bartley 's
legitimate business at home and abroad could
now run alone. So he invited Hope to England
to guide him in what he loved better than
steady business, viz., speculation. The truth is,
Bartley could execute, but had few original
ideas. Hope had plenty, and sound ones,
though not common ones. Hope directed the
purchase of convertible securities on this principle
: Select good ones ; avoid time bargains,

which introduce a distinct element of risk ;
and buy largely at every panic not founded on
a permanent reason or out of proportion.
Example : A great district bank broke. The
shares of a great district railway went down
thirty per cent. Hope bade his employer and
pupil observe that this was rank delusion ; the
dividends of the railway were not lowered one
per cent, by the failure of that bank, nor could
they be : the shareholders of the bank had
shares in the railway, and were compelled to
force them on the market ; hence the fall in the
shares. ' But,' said Hope, ' those depreciated
shares are now in the hands of men who can
hold them, and will too, until they return from
this ridiculous 85 to their normal value, which
is from 105 to 115. Invest every shilling you
have got ; I shall.' Bartley invested 30,000/.,
and cleared twenty per cent, in three months.

Example 2 : There was a terrible accident
on another railway, and part of the line broken
up. Vast repairs needed. SI i ares fell twenty
per cent.

Oat of proportion,' said Hope. ' The sum
for repairs will not deduct from the dividends
one-tenth of the annual sum represented by the
fall, and in three months fear of another such
disaster will not keep a single man, woman,
child, bullock, pig, or coal-truck off that line.
Put the pot on.'

Bartley put the pot on, and made fifteen
per cent.

Hope said to Bartley :

'V/hen an English speculator sends his
money abroad at all, he goes wild altogether.
He rushes at obscure transactions, and lends to
Peru, or Guatemala, or Tierra del Fuego, or
some shaky place he knows nothing about.
The insular maniac overlooks the continent of
Europe, instead of studying it, and seeking
what countries there are safe and others risky
Why overlook Prussia ? It is a country
much better governed than England, especially
as regards great public enterprises and monopolies.
For instance, the directors of a Prussian
railway cannot swindle the shareholders by

false accounts, and passing off loans for dividends.
Against the frauds of directors the
English shareholder has only a sham security.
He is invited to leave his home, and come two
hundred miles to the directors' home, and vote
in person. He doesn't do it. Why should he ?
In Prussia the Government protects the shareholder,
and inspects the accounts severely. So
much for the superior system of that country.
Now, take a map. Here is Hamburg, the
great port of the Continent, and Berlin, the
great Continental centre ; and there is one
railway only between the two. A\niat English
railway can compare with this ? The shares
are at 150. But they must go to 300 in time,
unless the Prussian Government allows another
railway, and that is not likely ; and, if so, you
will have two years to back out. This is the
best permanent investment of its class that
offers on the face of the a-lobe.'

Bartley invested timidly, but held for years,
and the shares went up over 300 before he
sold.

VOL. I. H

Do not let your mind live in an island if
your body does,' was a favourite saying of
William Hope ; and we recommend it impartially
to Britons and Bones.

On one of Hope's visits Bartley complained
he had nothing to do. 'I can sit here and
speculate. I want to be in something myself
I think I will take a farm, just to occupy me
and amuse me.'

It will not amuse you unless you make
money by it,' suggested Hope.

And nobody can do that nowadays.
Farms don't pay.'

Ploughing and sowing don't pay, but
brains and money pay wherever found together.'


What, on a farm ? '

Why not, sir ? You have only to go with
the times. Observe the condition of produce :
grain too cheap for a farmer because continents
can export grain with little loss ; fruit dear ;
meat dear, because cattle cannot be driven and
sailed without risk of life and loss of weight ;

agricultural labour rising, and in winter unproductive,
because to farm means to plough and
sow, and reap and mow, and lose money. But
meet those conditions. Breed cattle, sheep,
and horses, and make the farm their feeding-ground.
Give fifty acres to fruit ; have a little
factory on the land for winter use, and so
utilize all your farm hands and the village
women, who are cheaper labourers than town
brats ; and I think you will make a little money
in the form of money, besides what you make
in gratuitous eggs, poultry, fruit, horses to ride
and cart things for the house — items which
seldom figure in a farmer's books as money,
but we stricter accountants know they are.'

I'll do it,' said Bartley, ' if you'll be my
neighbour, and work it with me, and watch the
share market at home and abroad.'

Hope acquiesced joyfully, to be near his
daughter ; and they found a farm in Sussex,
with hills for the sheep, short grass for colts,
plenty of water, enough arable land and artificial
grasses for their purpose, and a grand,

n 2

sunny slope for their fruit trees, fruit bushes
and strawberries, with which last alone they
paid the rent.

Then,' said Hope, ' farm labourers drink
an ocean of beer. Now look at the retail price
of beer : eighty per cent, over its cost, and yet
deleterious, which tells against your labour.
As an employer of labour, the main expense
of a farm, you want beer to be slightly nourishing,
and very inspiriting, not somniferous.'

So they set up a malt-house and a brew-house,
and supplied all their own hands with
genuine liquor on the truck system, at a moderate
but remunerative price, and the grains
helped to feed their pigs. Hope's principle
was this : Sell no produce in its primitive form ;
if you change its form you make two profits.
Do you grow barley ? Malt it, and infuse it
and sell the liquor for two small profits, one
on the grain, and one on the infusion. Da
you grow grass ? Turn it into flesh, and sell
for, two small profits, one on the herb, and one
on the animal.

And really, when backed by money, the
results seemed to justify his principle.

Hope lived by himself, but not far from his
child, and often, when she went abroad, his
loving eyes watched her every movement
through his binocular, which might be described
as an opera-glass ten inches long, with
a small field, but telescopic power.

Grace Hope, whom we will now call Mary
Bartley, since everybody but her father, who
generally avoided her names called her so, was
a well-grown girl of thirteen, healthy, happy,
beautiful, and accomplished She was the
germ of a woman, and could detect who loved
her. She saw in Hope an affection she thought
extraordinary, but instinct told her it was not
like a young man's love, and she accepted it
with complacency, and returned it quietly, with
now and then a gush, for she could gush, and
why not ? ' Far from us and from our friends
be the frigid philosophy ' — of a girl who can't
gush.

Hope himself was loyal and guarded, and

kept his affection within bounds ; and a sore
struggle it was. He never allowed himself to
kiss her, though he was sore tempted one day,
when he bought her a cream-coloured pony,
and lie flung her arms round his neck before
Mr. Bartley and kissed him eagerly ; but he
was so bashful that the girl laughed at him,
and said, half pertly, ' Excuse the liberty, but
if you will be such a duck, why, you must take
the consequences.'

Said Bartley pompously, 'You must not
expect middle-aged men to be as demonstrative
as very young ladies ; but he has as much real
affection for you as you have for him.'

Then he has a good deal, papa,' said she
sweetly. Both the men were silent, and Mary
looked to one and the other, and seemed a
little puzzled.

The great analysts that have dealt microscopically
with commonplace situations would
revel in this one, and give you a curious volume
of small incidents like the above, and vivisect
the father's heart with patient skill. But we

poor dramatists, taught by impatient audiences
to move on. and taught by those great professors
of verbosity, our female novelists and
nine-tenths of our male, that it is just possible
for ' masterly inactivity,' alias sluggish narrative,
creeping through sorry flags and rushes
with one lily in ten pages, to become a bore,
are driven on to salient facts, and must trust a
little to our readers' intelligence to ponder on
the singular situation of Mary Bartley and her
two fathers.

One morning Mary Bartley and her governess
walked to a neighbouring town and enjoyed
the sacred delight of shopping. They came
back by a short cut, which made it necessary
to cross a certain brook, or rivulet, called the
Lyn. This was a rapid stream, and in places
pretty deep; but in one particular part it was
shallow, and crossed by large stepping-stones,
two-thirds of which were generally above water.
The village girls, including Mary Bartley, used
all to trip over these stones, and think nothing
of it, though the brook went past at a fine rate,

and gradually widened and deepened as it
flowed, till it reached a downright fall ; after
that, running no longer down a decline, it became
rather a languid stream.

Mary and her governess came to this ford,
and found it swollen by recent rains, and foaming
and curing round the stepping-stones, and
their tops only were out of the water now.

The governess at once objected to pass this
current.

Well, but,' said Mary, ' the other way is a
mile round, and papa expects us to be punctual
at meals, and I am, oh, so hungry ! Dear Miss
Everett, I have crossed it a hundred times.'

But the water is so deep.'

It is deeper than usual ; but see, it is only
up to my knee. I could cross it without the
stones. You go round, dear, and I'll explain
against you come home.'

Not until I've seen you safe over.'

That you will soon see,' said the girl, and,
fearing a more authoritative interference, she
gathered up her skirts and planted one dainty

foot on the first stepping-stone, another on the
next, and so on to the fourth ; and if she had
been a boy she would have cleared them all.
But holding her skirts instead of keeping her
arms to balance herself, and wearing idiotic
shoes, her heels slipped on the fifth stone, which
was rather slimy, and she fell into the middle
of the current with a little scream.

To her amazement she found that the stream,
though shallow, carried her off her feet, and
though she recovered them, she could not keep
them, but was alternately up and down, and
driven along, all the time floundering. Oh !
then she screamed with terror, and the poor
governess ran screaming too, and making idle
clutches from the bank, but powerless to aid.

Then, as the current deepened, the poor girl
lost her feet altogether, and was carried on toward
the deep water. Hinging, her arms high
and screaming, but powerless. At first she was
buoyed up by her clothes, and particularly by
a petticoat of some material that did not drinkwater.
But as her other clothes became soaked

and heavy, she sank to her chin, and death
stared her in the face.

She lost hope, and, being no common spirit,
she gained resignation ; she left off screaming,
and said to Everett, ' Pray for me.'

But the next moment hope revived, and fear
with it — this is a law of nature — for a man,
bareheaded and his hair flying, came galloping
on a bare-backed pony, shouting and screaming
with terror louder than both the women. He
urged the pony furiously to the stream ; then
the beast planted his feet together, and with
the impulse thus given Hope threw himself over
the pony's head into the water, and had his arm
round his child in a moment. He lashed outwith
the other hand across the stream. But it
was so powerful now, as it neared the lasher,
that they made far more way onward to destruction
than they did across the stream ; still,
they did near the bank a little. But the lasher
roared nearer and nearer, and the stream pulled
them to it with iron force. They were close toit
now. Then a willow bough gave them one

chance. Hope grasped it, and pulled with iron
strength. From the bough he got to a branch,
and finally clutched the stem of the tree, just
as his feet were lifted up by the rushing water,
and both lives hung upon that Allow-tree.
The girl was on his left arm, and his right arm
round the willow.

Grace,' said he, feigning calmness. 'Put
your arm around my neck, Mary.'

Yes, dear,' said she firmly.

Now don't hurry yourself — there s no
danger ; move slowly across me, and hold my
right, arm very tight.'

She did so.

Now take hold of the bank with your left
hand ; but don't let go of me.'

Yes, dear,' said the little heroine, Avhose
fear was gone now she had Hope to take care
of her.

Then Hope clutched the tree with his left
hand, pushed Mary on shore with his right, and
very soon had her in his arms on terra Firma.

But now came a chani]^e that confounded

Mary Bartley, to whom a man was a very
superior being — only not always intelligible.

The brave man fell to shaking like an aspen
leaf; the strong man to sobbing and gasping,
and kissing the girl wildly. ' Oh, my child !
my child ! '

Then Mary, of course, must gulp and cry a
little for sympathy ; but her quick-changing
spirit soon shook it off, and she patted his cheek
and kissed him, and then began to comfort him,
if you please. ' Good, dear, kind Mr. Hope,'
said she. ' La ! don't go on like that. You were
so brave in the water, and now the danger is
over. I've had a ducking, that is all. Ha ! ha !
lia ! ' and the little wretch began to laugh.

Hope looked amazed ; neither his heart nor
his sex would let him change his mood so
swiftly.

Oh, my child,' said he, ' how can you
laugh? You have been near eternity, and if
sou had been lost, what should I God ! '

-Mary turned very grave. ' Yes,' said she,
^ I have been near eternity. It would not have

mattered to you — you are such a good man —
but I should have caught it for disobedience.
But, dear Mr. Hope, let me tell you that the
moment you put your arm round me I felt just
as safe in the water as on dry land ; so, you
see, I have had longer to get over it than you
have ; that accounts for my laughing. No, it
doesn't ; I'm a giddy, giggling girl, with nv
depth of character and not worthy of all this
affection. Why does everybody love me?
They ought to be ashamed of themselves.'

Hope told her she was a little angel, and
everybody was right to love her ; indeed,
they deserved to be hanged if they did
not.

Mary fixed on the word ' angel.' ' Tf I was
an angel,' she said, ' I shouldn't be hungry,
and I am awfully. Oh, please come home ;
papa is so punctual. Mr. Hope, are you going
to tell papa ? Because, if you are, just you
take me and throw me in again. lYl rather
be drowned than scolded.' (This with a defiant
attitude and flashing eyes.)

No, no,' said Hope ; ' I will not tell him,
to vex him, and get you scolded.'

Then let us run home.'

She took his hand, and he ran with her
like a playmate, and oh! the father's heart
leaped and glowed at this sweet companionship
after danger and terror.

When they got near the house Mary
Bartley began to walk and think. She had a
very thinking countenance at times, and Hope
watched her, and wondered what were her
thoughts. She was very grave, so probably
she was thinking how very near she had been
to the other world.

Standing on the doorstep, whilst he stood
on the gravel, she let him know her thoughts.
All her life, and even at this tender age, she
had very searching eyes ; they were gray now,
though they had been blue. She put her
hands to her waist, and she bent those searching
eyes on William Hope.

• Mr. Hope,' said she, in a resolute sort of
way.

'My dear?' said lie eagerly.

You Love ME BETTER THAN PAPA DOES,
that's ALL.'

And having administered this information
as a dry fact, that might be worth looking into
at leisure, she passed thoughtfully into the
house.

CHAPTEE VI.

SHARP PRACTICE.

Hope paid a visit to his native place in Derbyshire,
and his poor relations shared his prosperity,
and blessed him, and Mr. Bartley upon
his report ; for Hope was one of those choice
spirits who praise the bridge that carries them
safe over the stream of adversity.

He returned to Sussex with all the news,
and, amongst the rest, that Colonel Clifford had
a farm coming vacant. Walter Clifford had
insisted on a higher rent at the conclusion of
the term, but the tenant had demurred. .

Bartley paid little attention at the time; but
by-and-bye he said, ' Did you not see signs of
coal on Colonel Clifford's property ? '

That I did, and on this very farm, and

told him so. But he is behind the age. I have
no patience with him. Take one of those old
iron ramrods that used to load the old musket,
and cover that ramrod with prejudices a foot
and a half deep, and there you have Colonel
Clifford.'

Well, but a tenant would not be bound by
his prejudices.'

A tenant ! A tenant takes no right to
mine under a farm lease ; he would have to
propose a special contract, or to ask leave, and
Colonel Clifford would never grant it.'

There the conversation dropped. But the
matter rankled in Bartley's mind. Without
saying any more to Hope, he consulted a sharp
attorney.

The result was that he took Mary Bartley
with him into Derbyshire.

He put up at a little inn, and called at
Clifford Hall.

He found Colonel Clifford at home, and
was received stiffly, but graciously. He gave

VOL. I. I

Colonel Clifford to understand that he had left
business.

'All the better,' said Colonel Clifford
sharply.

And taken to farming.'

Ugh ! ' said the other, with his favourite
snort.

At this moment, who should walk into the
room but Walter Clifford.

Bartley started and stared. Walter started
and stared.

Mr. Bolton ! ' said Bartley, scarcely above
a whisper.

But Colonel Clifford heard it, and said
brusquely : ' Bolton ! No. Why, this is Walter
Clifford, my son, and my man of business.
Walter, this is Mr. Bartley.'

Proud to make your acquaintance, sir,'
said the astute Bartley, ignoring the past.

Walter was glad he took this line before
Colonel Chfford : not that he forgave Mr.
Bartley that old affront the reader knows of

The judicious Bartley read his face, and, asa

first step towards propitiation, introduced
him to his daughter. Walter was amazed at
her beauty and grace, coming from such a
stock. He welcomed her courteously, but
shyly. She replied with rare affability, and
that entire absence of mock-modesty which
was already a feature in her character. To be
sure, she was little more than fifteen, though
she was full grown, and looked nearer twenty.

Bartley began to feel his way with Colonel
Clifford about the farm. He told him he was
pretty successful in agriculture, thanks to the
assistance of an experienced friend, and then he
said, half carelessly, ' By-the-bye, they tell me
you have one to let. Is that so ? '

Walter,' said Colonel Clifford, ' have you
a farm to let ? '

Not at present, sir ; but one will be
vacant in a month, unless the present tenant
consents to pay thirty per cent, more than he
has done.'

Might I see that farm, Mr. Walter ? ' asked
Bartley.

i2

Certainly,' said Walter ; ' I shall be happy
to show you over it.' Then he turned to Mary.
'I am afraid it would be no compliment to
you. Ladies are not interested in farms.'

Oh, but / am, since papa is, and Mr.
Hope ; and then on our farm there are so
many dear, little, young things : little calves,
little lambs, and little pigs. Little pigs are
ducks — very little ones, I mean ; and there is
nearly always a young colt about, that eats
out of my hand. Not like a farm? The
idea ! '

Then I will show you all over ours, you
and your papa,' said Walter warmly. He then
asked Mr. Bartley where he was to be found ;
and when Bartley told him, at the ' Dun Cow,'
he looked at Mary, and said, ' Oh ! '

Mary understood in a moment, and laughed
and said, ' We are very comfortable, I assure
you. We have the parlour all to ourselves,
and there are samplers hung up, and oh ! such
funny pictures, and the landlady is beginning
to spoil me already.'

'Nobody can spoil you, Mary,' said Mr.
Bartley.

You ought to know, papa, for you have
been trying a good many years.'

Not very many. Miss Bartley,' said Colonel
Clifford graciously. Then he gave half a start,
and said, ' Here am I calling her " miss " when
she is my own niece, and, now I think of it,
she can't be half as old as she looks. I remember
the very day she was born. My dear, you
are an impostor.'

Bartley changed colour at this chance shaft.
But Colonel Clifford explained :

You pass for twenty, and you can't be
more than — Let me see '

I am fifteen and four months,' said Mary,
and I do take people in — cruelly''

Well,' said Colonel Clifford, ' you see you
can't take me in. I know your date. So
come and give your old ruffian of an uncle a
kiss.'

That I will,' cried Mary, and flew at
Colonel Chfford, and flunf^ both arms round

his neck and kissed him. 'Oh! papa said
she, ' I have got an uncle now — a hero, too ;
and me that is so fond of heroes ! Only this is
my first — out of hooks.'

Mary, my dear,' said Bartley, ' you are
too impetuous. Please excuse her, Colonel
Clifford. Now, my dear, shake hands with
your cousin, for we must be going.'

Mary complied, but not at all impetuously.
She lowered her long lashes, and put out her
hand timidly, and said, ' Good-bye, Cousin
Walter.'

He held her hand a moment, and that
made her colour directly ? -' You will come
over the farm ? Can you ride ? Have you
your habit ? '

Xo, cousin ; but never mind that. I can
put on a long skirt.'

A skirt ! But, after all, it does not matter
a straw what you wear.'

Mary was such a novice that she did not
catch the meaning of this on the spot ; but
half-way to the inn, and in the middle of a

conversation, her cheeks were suddenly suffused
with blushes. A young man had admired her,
und said so. Very likely that was the way
with young men. No doubt they were bolder
than young women ; but somehow it was not
so very objectionable in them.

That short interview was a little era in
Mary's young life. Walter had fixed his eyes
on her with delight, had held her hand some
seconds, and admired her to her face. She
began to wonder a little, and flutter a little,
and to put off childhood.

Next day, punctual to the minute, Walter
drove up to the door in an open carriage
drawn by two fast steppes. He found Mr.
Bartley alone, and wliy? Because, at sight of
Walter, Mary, for the first time in her life, had
flown upstairs to look at herself in the glass
before facing the visitor, and to smooth her
hair, and retouch a bow, &c., underrating, as
usual, the power of beauty, and overrating
nullities. Bartley took this opportunity, and
said to young Clifford :

I owe you an apology, and a most earnest
one. Can you ever forgive me ? '

Walter changed colour. Even this humble
allusion to so great an insult was wormwood to
Trim. He bit his lip, and said :

Xo man can do more than say he is sorry.
I will try to forget it, sir.'

That is as much as I can expect,' said
Bartley humbly. ' But if you only knew the
art, the cunning, the apparent evidence with
which that villain Monckton deluded me '

That I can believe.'

And permit me one observation before we
drop this unhappy subject for ever. If you.
had done me the honour to come to me as
Walter Chfford, why, then, strong and misleading
as the evidence was, I should have said,
Appearances are deceitful, but no Clifford was
ever disloyal." '

This artful speech conquered Walter Clifford.
He blushed, and bowed a little haughtily
at the compliment to the Clifford, But his
sense of justice was aroused.

You are right,' said he. ' I must try and
see both sides. If a man sails under false
colours, he mustn't howl if he is mistaken fora
pirate. Let us dismiss the subject for ever.
I am Walter Clifford now — at your service.'

At that moment Mary Bartley came in,
beaming with youth and beauty, and illumined
the room. The cousins shook hands, and
Walter's eyes glowed with admiration.

After a few words of greeting he handed
Mary into the drag. Her father followed, and
he was about to drive off, when Mary cried out,
Oh, I forgot my skirt, if I am to ride.'

The skirt was brought down, and the horses,
that were beginning to fret, dashed off. A
smart little groom rode behind, and, on reaching
the farm, they found another with two
saddle-horses ; one of them, a small, gentle
Arab gelding, had a side-saddle. They rode
all over the farm, and inspected the buildings,
which were in excellent repair, thanks to
Walter's supervision. Bartley inquired the
number of acres and the rent demanded.

Walter told him. Bartley said it seemed
to him a fair rent ; still, he should like to
know why the present tenant declined.

Perhaps you had better ask him,' said
Walter. 'I should wish you to hear both
sides.'

That is like you,' said Bartley ; ' but where
does the shoe pinch, in your opinion ? '

Well, he tells me, in sober earnest, that he
loses money by it as it is ; but when he is drunk
he tells his boon companions he has made seven
thousand pounds here. He has one or two
grass fields that want draining, but I offer him
the pipes ; he has only got to lay them and cut
the drains. My opinion is that he is the slave
of habit ; he is so used to make an unfair profit
out of these acres, that he cannot break himself
of it and be content with a fair one'.

I dare say you have hit it,' said Bartley.
Well, I'm fond of farming ; but I don't live by
it, and a moderate profit would content me.'

Walter said nothing. The truth is, he did
not want to let the farm to Bartley.

Bartley saw this, and drew Mary aside :

Should not you like to come here, my
child ? '

Yes, papa, if you wish it ; and you know
it's dear Mr. Hope's birthplace.'

'Well, then, tell this young fellow so. I
will give you an opportunity.'

That was easily managed, and then Mary
said timidly, ' Cousin Walter, we should all
three be so glad if we might ha\-e the farm.'

Three ? ' said he. ' Who is the third ? '

Oh, somebody that everybody likes and I
love. It is Mr. Hope. Such a duck ! I am
sure you would like him,'

Hope ! Is his name William ? '

Yes, it is. Do you know him ? ' asked
Mary eagerly.

'I have reason to know him : he did me a
good turn once, and I shall never forget it.'

Just like him,' cried Mary. ' He is always
doing people good turns. He is the best, the
truest, the cleverest, the dearest darling dear
that ever stepped, and a second father to me ;

and, cousin, this village is his birthplace, and he
didn't say much, but it was he who told us of
this farm, and he would be so pleased if I could
write and say, " We are to have the farm —
Cousin Walter says so'"

She turned her lovely eyes, brimming with
tenderness, toward her cousin Walter, and he
was done for.

Of course you shall have it,' he said
warmly. ' Only you will not be angry with me
if I insist on the increased rent. You knows
cousin, I have a father, too, and I must be just
to him.'

To be sure you must, dear,' said Mary incautiously
; and the word penetrated Walter's
heart, as if a woman of twenty-five had said it
all of a sudden and for the first time.

When they got home, Mary told Mr.
Bartley he was to have the farm if he would
pay the increased rent.

'That is all right,' said Bartley. 'Then
tomorrow we can go home.'

'So soon ! ' said Mary sorrowfully.

Yes,' said Bartley firmly ; ' the rest had
better be done in writing. Why. Mary, what is
the use of staying on now ? We are going to
live here in a month or two.'

I forgot that,' said Mary, with a little sigh.
It seemed so ungracious to get what they wanted,
and then turn their backs directly. She hinted
as much, very timidly.

But Bartley was inexorable, and they reached
home next day.

Mary would have liked to write to Walter,
and announce their safe arrival, but nature
withheld her. She was a child no longer.

Bartley went to the sharp solicitor, and had
a long interview with him. The result was that
in about ten days he sent Walter ChfTord a
letter and the draft of a lease, very favourable
to the landlord on the whole, but calmly inserting
one unusual clause that looked inoffensive.


It came by post, and Walter read the letter,
and told his father whom it was from.

What does the fellow say ? ' grunted Colonel
ChfTord.

He says, " We are doing very well here,
but Hope says a bailiff can now carry out our
system ; and he is evidently sweet on his native
place, and thinks the proposed rent is fair, and
even moderate. As for me, my life used to be
so bustling that I require a change now and
then ; so I will be your tenant. Hope says I
am to pay the expense of the lease, so I have
requested Arrowsmith & Cox to draw it. I
have no experiences in leases. They have drawn
hundreds. I told them to make it fair. If
they have not, send it back with objections." '

'Oh, oh ! ' said Colonel Clifford. ' He draws
the lease, does he? Then look at it with a
microscope.'

Walter laughed.

I should not like to encounter him on his
own ground. But here he is a fish out of
water ; he must be. However, I will pass my
eye over it. Where the farmer generally overreaches
us, if he draws the lease, is in the
clauses that protect him on leaving. He gets
part possession for months without paying rent.

and he hampers and fleeces the incoming tenant,
so that you lose a year's rent or have to buy
him out. Now, let me see, that will be at the

end of the document No ; it is exceedingly

fair, this one.'

Show it to our man of business, and let him
study every line. Set an attorney to catch an
attorney.'

Of course I shall submit it to our solicitor,'
said Walter.

This was done, and the experienced practitioner
read it very carefully. He pronounced
it unusually equitable for a farmer's lease.

However,' said he, ' we might suggest that
he does all the repairs and draining, and that
you find the materials ; and also that he insures
all the farm buildings. But you can hardly
stand out for the insurance if he objects.
There's no harm trying. Stay! here is one
clause that is unusual : the tenant is to have
the right to bore for water, or to penetrate the
surface of the soil, and take out gravel or chalk
or minerals, if any. I don't like that clause.

He might quarry, and cut the farm in pieces.
Ah, there's a proviso, that any damage to the
surface or the agricultural value shall be fully
compensated, the amount of such injury to
be settled by the landlord's valuer or surveyor.
Oh, come, if you can charge your own price,
that can't kill you.'

In short, the draft was approved, subject
to certain corrections. These were accepted.
The lease was engrossed in duplicate, and
in due course signed and delivered. The
old tenant left, abusing the Clifford, and
saying it was unfair to bring in a stranger, for
he would have given all the money.

Bartley took possession.

'\y alter welcomed Hope very warmly, and
often came to see him. He took a great
interest in Hope's theories of farming, and often
came to the farm for lessons. But that interest
was very much increased by the opportunities
it gave him of seeing and talking to
sweet Mary Bartley. Not that he was forward
or indiscreet. She was not yet sixteen, and he
tried to remember she was a child.

Unfortunately for that theory she looked a
ripe woman, and this very Walter made her
more and more womanly. Whenever Walter
was near she had new timidity, new blushes,
fewer gushes, less impetuosity, more reserve.
Sweet innocent! She was set by Nature to
catch the man by the surest way, though she
had no such design.

Oh, it was a pretty, subtle piece of nature,
and each sex played its part. Bold advances
of the man, with internal fear to offend, mock
retreats of the girl, with internal throbs of
complacency, and life invested with a new and
growing charm to both. Leaving this pretty
little pastime to glide along the flowery path
that beautifies young lives to its inevitable
climax, we go to a matter more prosaic, yet
one that proved a source of strange and stormy
events.

Hope had hardly started the farm when
Bartley sent him off to Belgium — to study

COAL iMlNES.

VOL. I. K

CHAPTEE VII.

THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE.

Mr. Hope left his powerful opera-glass with
Mary Bartley. One day that Walter called
she was looking through it at the landscape,
and handed it to him. He admired its power.
Mary told him it had saved her life once.

Oh,' said he, ' how could that be ? '

Then she told him how Hope had seen her
drowning, a mile off, with it, and ridden a barebacked
steed to her rescue.

God bless him ! ' cried Walter. ' He is
our best friend. Might I borrow this famous
glass ? '

Oh,' said Mary, ' I am not going into anymore
streams ; I am not so brave now as I
used to be.'

Please lend it me, for all that.'

Of course I will, if you wish it.'

Strange to say, after this, whether Mary
walked out or rode out, she very often met
Mr. Walter Clifford. He was always delighted
and surprised. She was surprised three times,
and said so, and after that she came to lower
her lashes and blush, but not to start. Each
meeting was a pure accident, no doubt, only
she foresaw the inevitable occurrence.

They talked about everything in the world
except what was most on their minds. Their
soft tones and expressive eyes supplied that
little deficiency.

One day he caught her riding on her little
Arab. The groom fell behind directly. After
they had ridden some distance in silence, Walter
broke out :

How beautifully you ride ! '

Me ! ' cried Mary. ' Why, I never had a
lesson in my life.'

That accounts for it. Let a lady alone,
and she does everything more gracefully thana
man ; but let some cad undertake to teach

k2

her, she distrusts herself and imitates the snob.
If you could only see the women in Hyde
Park, who have been taught to ride, and compare
them with yourself I '

I should learn humility.'

No ; it would make you vain, if anything
could.'

'You seem inclined to do me that good
turn. Come, pray, what do these poor ladies
do to offend you so ? '

I'll tell you. They square their shoulders
vulgarly ; they hold the reins in their hands as
if they were driving, and they draw the reins
to their waists in a coarse, absurd way. They
tighten both these reins equally, and saw the
poor devil's mouth with the curb and the snaffle
at one time. Now, you know, Mary, the snaffle
is a mild bit, and the curb is a sharp one ; so
where is the sense of pulling away at the snaffle
when you are tugging at the curb ? Why, it
is like the fellow that made two holes at the
bottom of the door — a big one for the cat to
come through and a little one for the kitten.

But the worst of all is, they show the address
so plainly.'

Address ! What is that ? — goddess you
mean, I suppose ? '

No ; T mean a cad of the feminine gender.
They seem bursting with affectation and elated
consciousness that they are on horseback. That
shows they have only just made the acquaintance
of that animal, and in a London ridinor-
school. Now, you hold both reins lightly in
the left hand, the curb loose, since it is seldom
wanted, the snaffle just feeling the animal's
mouth ; and you look right and left at the
people you are talking to, and don't seem to
invite one to observe that j^ou are on a horse :
that is because you are a lady, and a horse is
a matter of course to you, just as the ground
is when you walk upon it.'

The sensible girl blushed at his praise, but
she said drily, ' How meritorious ! Cousin
Walter, I have heard that flattery is poison.
I won't stay here to be poisoned — so — ' She
finished the sentence in action ; and with a move-merit

of her body she started her Arab steed, and
turned her challenging eye back on Walter, and
gave him a hand-gallop of a mile on the turf by
the roadside. And when she drew bridle, her
cheeks glowed so and her eyes glistened, that
Walter was dazzled by her bright beauty, and
could do nothing but gaze at her for ever so long.

If Hope had been at home, Mary would
have been looked after more sharply. But if
she was punctual at meals, that went a long
way with Eobert Bartley.

However, the accidental and frequent
meetings of Walter and Mary, and their delightful
rides and walks, were interfered with,
just as they began to grow into a habit. There
arrived at Clifford Hall a formidable person —
in female eyes, especially — a beautiful heiress,
Julia Clifford, great-niece and ward of Colonel
Clifford ; very tall, graceful, with dark gray
eyes, and black eyebrows the size of a leech,
that narrowed to a point and met in finer lines
upon the bridge of a nose that was gently
aquiline, but not too large, as such noses are

apt to be. A large, expressive mouth, with
wonderful rows of ivory, and the prettiest little
black down, fine as a hair, on her upper lip, and
a skin rather dark but clear, and glowing with
the warm blood beneath it, completed this
noble girl. She was nineteen years of age.

Colonel Chffbrd received her with warm
affection and old-fashioned courtesy ; but ashe
was disabled by a violent fit of gout, he
deputed Walter to attend to her on foot and
horseback.

Miss Clifford, accustomed to homage, laid
Walter under contribution every day. She
was very active, and he had to take her a walk
in the morning, and a ride in the afternoon.
He winced a little under this at first ; it kept
him so much from Mary. But there was some
compensation. Julia Chfford was a lady-like
rider, and also a bold and skilful one.

The first time he rode with her he asked her
beforehand what sort of a horse side would like.

Oh, anything,' said she, ' that is not vicious
nor slow.'

A hack or a hunter ? '

Oh, a hunter, if I may''

Perhaps you will do me the honour to
look at them and select.'

You are very kind, and I will.'

He took her to the stables, and she selected
a beautiful black mar, with a coat like satin.

There,' said Walter despondingly. ' I
was afraid you would fix on her. She is
impossible. I can't ride her myself.'

Vicious ? '

JSTot in the least.'

Well, then—'

Here an old groom touched his hat, and .
said curtly, 'Too hot and fidgety, Miss. I'd
as lieve ride of a boiling kettle.'

Walter explained : ' The poor thing is the
victim of nervousness.'

Which I call them as rides lier the
victims,' suggested the ancient groom.

Be quiet, George. She would go sweetly
in a steeple-chase, if she didn't break her heart
with impatience before the start. But on the

road she is impossible. If you make her walk
she is all over lather in five minutes, and she'd
spoil that sweet habit with flecks of foam. My
lady has a way of tossing her head, and covering
you all over with white streaks.'

She wants soothing,' suggested Miss
Clifford.

Nay, Miss. She wants bleeding o' Sundays,
and sweating over the fellows till she
drops o' week-days. But if lie was mine I'd
put her to work a coal-cart for six months ;
that would larn her.'

I will ride her,' said Miss Clifford calmly
'her or none.'

'Saddle her, George,' said Walter resignedly.
' I'll ride Goliah. Black Bess shan't
plead a bad example. Goliah is as meek as
Moses. Miss Chfford. He is a o'io^antic mouse.'

I'd as lieve ride of a dead man,' said the
old groom.

Mr. George,' said the young lady you
seem hard to please. May I ask what sort (^f
animal you do like to ride ? '

Well, miss, siimmat between them two.
When I rides I likes to be at peace. If I wants
work, there's plenty in the yard. If I wants
fretting and fuming, I can go home ; I'm a
married man, ye know. But when I crosses a
horse I looks for a smart trot and a short
stepper, or an easy canter on a bit of turf, and
not to be set to hard labour a-sticking my
heels into Goliah, nor getting a bloody nose
every now and then from Black Bess a- throwing
back her uneasy head when I do but lean
forward in the saddle. I be an old man, miss,
and I looks for peace on horseback, if I can't
get it nowhere else.'

All this was delivered Whilst saddling Black
Bess. When she was ready. Miss Clifford
asked leave to hold the bridle and walk her
out of the premises. As she walked her she
patted and caressed her, and talked to her all
the time — told her they all misunderstood her
because she was a female ; but now she was
not to be tormented and teased, but to have
her own way.

Then she asked George to hold the mare's
head as gently as he could, and Walter to put
her up. She Alas in the saddle in a moment.
The mare fidgeted and pranced, but did not
rear. Julia slackened the reins, and patted
and praised her, and let her go. She made a
run, but was checked by degrees with the
snaffle. She had a beautiful mouth, and it was
in good hands at last.

When the" had ridden a few miles they
came to a very open country, and Juha asked
demurely if she might be allowed to try her
off the road. ' All right,' said Walter ; and
Miss Julia, with a smart decision that contrasted
greatly with the meekness of her proposal,
put her straight at the bank, and cleared
it like a bird. They had a famous gallop, but
this judicious rider neither urged the mare nor
greatly checked her. She moderated her.
Black Bess came home that day sweating
properly, but with a marked diminution of
lather and foam. Miss Chfibrd asked leave to
ride her into the stable-yard, and, after dismounting,

talked to her, and patted her, and
praised her. An hour later the pertinacious
beauty asked for a carrot from the garden, and
fed Black Bess with it in the stable.

By these arts, a very light hand, and tact
in riding, she soothed Black Bess's nerves, so
that at last the very touch of her habit skirt
or her hand, or the sound of her voice, seemed
to soothe the poor, nervous creature ; and at
last, one day, in the stable, Bess protruded her
great lips and kissed her fair rider on the
shoulder after her manner.

All this interested and amused Walter
Clifford, but still he was beginning to chafe
at being kept from Miss Bartley, when one
morning her servant rode over with a note :

Dear Cousin Walter, — Will you kindly
send me back my opera glass ? I want to see
what is going on at ChfTord Hall.

Yours affectionately,

Mary Bartley.'

Walter wrote back directly that he would
bring it himself, and tell her what was going
on at Clifford Hall.

So he rode over and told her of Jiiha
Clifford's arrival, and how his father had deputed
him to attend on her, and she took up all his
time. It was beginning to be a bore.

On the contrary,' said Mary, ' I dare say
she is very handsome.'

That she is,' said Walter.

Please describe her.'

A very tall, dark girl, with wonderful eyebrows
; and she has broken in Black Bess, that
some of us men could not ride in comfort.'

Mary changed colour. She murmured, ' No
wonder the Hall is more attractive than the
farm ! ' and the tears shone in her eyes.

Oh, Mary,' said Walter reproachfully,
how can you say that ? What is Juha Chfibrd
to me ? '

I can't tell,' said Mary drily. ' I never
saw you together through my glasses, you know.'

Walter laughed at this innuendo :

You shall see us together tomorrow, if
you will bless one of us with your company.'

I might be in the way.'

That is not very likely. Will you ride to
Hammond Church tomorrow at about ten, and
finish your sketch of the tower P I will bring
Miss Clifford there, and introduce you to each
other.'

This was settled, and Mary was apparently
quite intent on her sketch when Walter and
Julia rode up, and Walter said :

That is my cousin, Mary Bartley. May I
introduce her to you ? '

Of course. What a sweet face ! '

So the ladies were introduced, and Julia
praised Mary's sketch, and Mary asked leave to
add her to it, hanging, with pensive figure, over
a tombstone. Julia took an admirable pose,
and Mary, with her quick and facile fingers,
had her on the paper in no time. Walter asked
her, in a whisper, what she thought of her
model.

'I like her,' said Mary. 'She is rather
pretty.'

Father pretty ! Why, she is an acknowledged
beauty.'

A beauty ? The idea ! Long black
thing ! '

Then they rode all together to the farm.
There Mary was all innocent hospitality, and
the obnoxious Julia kissed her at parting, and
begged her to come and see her at the Hall.

Mary did call, and found her with a young
gentleman of short stature, who was devouring
her with his eyes, but did not overflow in discourse,
having a slight impediment in his speech.
This was Mr. Percy Fitzroy. Julia introduced
him.

And where are you staying, Percy ? ' inquired
she.

At the " D— D— Dun Cow." '

What is that ? '

Walter explained that it was a small hostelry,
but one that was occasionally honoured by
distinguished visitors. Miss Bartley stayed
there three days.

I h — hope to St — ay more than that,' said
little Percy, with an amorous glance at Julia.

Miss Clifford took Mary to her room, and

soon asked her what she thought of him ; then,
anticipating criticism, she said there was not
much of him, but he was such a duck.

He dresses beautifully,' was Mary's guarded
remark.

However, when Water rode home with her,
being now relieved of his attendance on Juha,
she was more communicative. Said she : ' I
never knew before that a man could look like
fresh cambric. Dear me ! his head and his face
and his little whiskers, his white scarf, his white
waistcoat, and all his clothes, and himself, seem
just washed and ironed and starched. / looked
round for the bandbox''

Never mind,' said Walter. ' He is a great
addition. My duties devolve on him. And I
shall be free to — How her eyes shone and
her voice mellowed when she spoke to him !
Confess, now, love is a beautiful thing.'

I cannot say — not experienced in beautiful
things.' And Mary looked mighty demure.

'Of course not. What am I thinking of?
You are only a child.'

A little more than that, please'

At all events, love beautified her''

1 saw no difference. She was always a

lovely girl.'

Why, you said she was " a long black

thing." '

Oh, that was before — she looked engaged.'

After this young Fitzroy was generally Miss
Clifford's companion in her many walks, and
Walter Clifford had a delightful time ^vith Mary
Bartley.

Her nurse discovered how matters were
going ; but she said nothing. From something
Bartley let fall years ago she divined that
Bartley was robbing Walter Clifford by substituting
Hope's child for his own, and she thought
the mischief could be repaired and the sin
atoned for if he and Mary became man and
wife. So she held her tongue and watched.

The servants at the Hall watched the whole
game, and saw how the young people were
pairing, and talked them over very freely.
VOL. I. L

The only person in the dark was Colonel
Clifford. He was nearly always confined to his
room. However, one day he came down, and
found Julia and Percy together. She introduced
Percy to him. The Colonel was curt,
but grumpy, and Percy soon beat a retreat.

The Colonel sent for Walter to his room.
He did not come for some time, because he was
wooing Mary Bartley.

Colonel Clifford's first word was, ' Who was
that little stuttering dandy I caught spooning
your Julia ? '

Only Percy Fitzroy.'

Only Percy Fitzroy ! Never despise your
rivals, sir. Always remember that young
women are full of vanity, and expect to be'
courted all day long. I will thank you not to
leave the field open a single day till you have
secured the prize.'

What prize, sir ? '

'What prize, you ninny? Why, the
beautiful girl that can buy back Addington
and Drayton, peaches and fruit and all. They

are both to be sold at this moment. What
prize ? Why, the wife I have secured for you,
if you don't go and play the fool and neglect
her.'

Walter Clifford looked aghast.

Julia Clifford ! ' said he. ' Pray don't ask
me to marry her'

Not ask you ? — but I do ask you ; and,
wdiat is more, I command you. Would you
revolt again against your father, who has forgiven
you, and break my heart, now I am
enfeebled by diseases Juha Clifford is your
wife, or you are my son no more.'

CHAPTER VIII.

THE COURSE OF TRUE LOVE.

The next time Walter Clifford met Mary
Bartley he was gloomy at intervals. The
observant girl saw he had something on his
mind. She taxed him with it, and asked him
tenderly what it was.

Oh, nothing said he.

Don't tell me ! ' said she. ' Mind, nothing
escapes my eye. Come, tell me, or we are not
friends.'

Oh, come, Mary. That is hard.'

Not in the least. I take an interest in
you.'

Bless you for saying so ! '

'And so, if you keep your troubles from
me, we are not friends, nor cousins.'

Mary ! '

Nor anything else.'

Well, dear Mary, sooner than not be
anything else to you I will tell you, and yet I
don't like. Well, then, if I must, it is that
dear, old, wrong-headed father of mine. He
wants me to marry Julia Clifford.'

Mary turned pale directly. ' I guessed as
much,' said she. 'Well, she is young and
beautiful and rich, and it is your duty to obey
your father.'

But I can't.'

Oh, yes, you can, if you try.'

But I can't try.'
• ' Why not ? '

'- Can't you guess ? '

'No.'

Well, then, I love another girl — as
opposite to lier as light is to darkness.'

Mary blushed and looked down. ' Complimentary
to Julia,' she said. ' I pity her
opposite, for Julia is a fine, high-minded girl.'

Ah, Mary, you are too clever for me ; of
course I mean the opposite in appearance.'

As ugly as lie is pretty ? '

No ; but she is a dark girl, and I don't
like dark girls. It was a dark girl that
deceived me so heartlessly years ago.'

Ah ! '

And made me hate the whole sex.'

Or only the brunettes r '

The whole lot.'

Cousin Walter, I thank you in the name
of that small company.'

Until I saw you, and you converted mein
one day.'

Only to the blondes ? '

Only to one of them. My sweet Mary,
the situation is serious. You, whose eye
nothing escapes — you must have seen long
ago how I love you.'

Never mind what I have seen, Walter,'
said Mary, whose bosom was beginning to
heave.

Very well,' said Walter ; ' then I will tell
you as if you didn't know it. I admired you
at first sight ; every time I was with you I

admired you, and loved you more and more.
It is my heaven to see you and to hear you
speak. Whether you are grave or gay,
saucy or tender, it is all one charm, one witchcraft.
I want you for my wife, and my child,
and my friend. Mary, my love, my darling,
how could I marry any woman but you ? and
you, could you marry any man but me, to
break the heart that beats only for you ? '

This and the voice of love, now ardent,
now broken with emotion, were more than
sweet, saucy Mary could trifle with ; her head
drooped slowly upon his shoulder, and her
arm went slowly round his neck, and the
tremor of her yielding frame and the tears of
tenderness that flowed slowly from her fair
eyes told Walter Clifford without a word that
she was won.

He had the sense not to ask her for words.
What words could be so eloquent as this ? He
just held her to his manly bosom, and trembled
with love and joy and triumph.

She knew, too, that she had re})Hed, and

treated her own attitude like a sentence iu
rather a droll way. ' But for all tliat^ said
she, ' I don't mean to be a wicked girl if I can
help. This is an age of wicked young ladies.
I soon found that out in the newspapers ; that
and science are the two features. And I have
made a solemn vow not to be one of them ' —
(query, a science or a naughty girl) — ' making
mischief between father and son.'

'No more you shall, dear,' said Walter.
Leave it to me. We must be patient, and all
will come right.'

Oh, I'll be true to you, dear, if that is all,'
said Mary.

'And if you would not mind just temporising
a little, for my sake, who love you .^ '

Temporise ! ' said Mary eagerly. ' Withall
my heart. I'll temporise till we are all
dead and buried.'

Oh, that will be too long for me,' said
Waller.

Oh, never do things by halves,' said the
ready girl.

If his tongue had been as prompt as hers,
he might have said that ' temporising ' was
doing things by halves ; but he let her
have the last word. And perhaps he lost
nothing, for she would have had that, whether
or not.

So this day was another era in their love.
Girls are not content to see they are beloved ;
they must hear it too ; and now Walter had
spoken out like a man, and Mary had replied
like a woman. They were happy, and walked
hand in hand, purring to one another, instead of
sparring any more.

On his return home Walter found Julia
marching swiftly and haughtily up and down
"upon the terrace of Clifford Hall, and he coidd
not help admiring the haughty magnificence of
her walk. The reason soon appeared. She
was in a passion. She was always tall, but
now she seemed lofty, and to combine the
supple panther with the erect peacock in her
ireful march. Such a fine woman as Julia really
awes a man with lier carriage at such a time.

The poor soul thinks lie sees before him the
indignation of the just ; when very likely it
is only what in a man would be called
Petulance.

Anything the matter, Miss Chfford ? ' said
he, obsequiously.

No, sir ' (very stiffly).

Can I be of any service ? '

No, you cannot.' And then, swifter than
any weathercock ever turned : ' You are a
good creature : why should I be rude to you ?
I ought to be ashamed of myself. It is that
little wretch.'

Not our friend Fitzroy ? '

Why, what other little wretch is thereabout
? We are all Grenadiers and May-poles
in this house except him. Well, let him go.
I dare say somebody else — hum— and Uncle
Clifford has told me more than once I ought to
look higher. I couldn't well look lower than
five feet nothing. Ha ! ha ! ha I I told him
so.'

That was cruel.'

Don't scold me. I won't be lectured by
any of you. Of course it was, dear. Poor
little Percy. Oil ! oli ! oli ! '

And after all this thunder there was a little
rain, by a law that governs Atmosphere and
Woman impartially.

Seeing her softened, and having his own
reasons for wishing to keep Fitzroy to his duty,
Walter begged leave to mediate, if possible,
and asked if she would do him the honour to
confide the grievance to him.

Of course I will,' said Julia. ' He is
angry With Colonel Clifford for not wishing
him to stay here, and he is angry with me for
not making Uncle Chfford invite him. As if I
could ! I should be ashamed to propose such a
thing. The truth is, he is a luxurious little
fellow, and my society out-of-doors does not
compensate him for the cookery at the " Dun
Cow." There! let him go.'

But I want him to stay.'

Then that is very kind of you.'

'Isn't it?' said Walter slily. 'And I

must make him stay somehow. Now tell me,
isn't he a little jealous ? '

A little jealous ! Why, he is eaten up
with it ; he is petrie de jalousie.'

Then,' said Walter timidly, and hesitating
at every word, ' you can't be angry if I work
on him a little. Would there be any great
harm if I were to say that nobody can see you
without admiring you; that I have always
respected his rights, but that if he abandons
them '

Julia caught it in a moment. She blushed,
and laughed heartily. ' Oh, you good, sly
thing ! ' said she ; ' and it is the truth, for I amas
proud as he is vain, and if he does leave me
I will turn round that moment and make you
in love with me.'

Walter looked queer. This was a turn he
had not counted on.

Do you think I couldn't, sir ? ' said she
sharply.

It is not for me to limit the power of
beauty,' said Walter meekly.

Say, the power of flattery. I could cajole
any man in the world — if I chose.'

Then yon are a dangerous creature, and I
will make Fitzroy my shield. I'm oiF to the
Dun Cow." '

You are a duck,' said this impetuous
beauty. ' So there ! ' She took hin round the
neck with both hands, and gave him a most
delicious kiss.

Why, he must be mad,' replied the recipient
bluntly. She laughed at that, and he
went straight to the " Dun Cow." He found
young Fitzroy sitting rather disconsolate, and
opened his errand at once by asking him if it
was true that they were to lose him.

Percy replied stiffly that it was true.

What a pity ! ' said Walter.

'I d — don't think I shall be m — much
m — missed,' said Percy, rather sullenly.

I know two people who will miss you.'

I d — don't know one.'

'Two, I assure you — Miss Clifford and myself.
Come, Mr. Fitzroy, I will not beat about

the bush, I am afraid you are mortified — and,
I must say, justly mortified — at the coolness my
father has shown to you. But I assure you
that it is not from any disrespect to you personally.'


Oh, indeed ! ' said Percy ironically.

jSTo ; quite the reverse. He is afraid of
you.'

That is a g — g — good joke.'

No ; let me explain. Fathers are curious
people. If they are ever so disinterested in
their general conduct, they are sure to be a
little mercenary for their children. Now, you
know, Miss Clifford is a beauty who would
adorn Clifford Hall, and an heiress whose money
would purchase certain properties that join
ours. You understand ? '

Yes,' said the little man, starting up in
great wrath. ' I understand, and it's a — abominable
I th — thought you were my friend,
and a m — man of h — honour.'

'So I am, and that is why I warn you intime.
If you quarrel with Miss Clifford, and

leave this place in a pet, just see what risks we
both run, you and I. My father will be always
at me, and I shall not be able to insist on your
prior claim ; he will say you have abandoned
it. Julia will take the huff, and you know
beautiful women will do strange things — mad
things — when once pique enters their hearts.
She might turn round and marry me.'

You forget, sir, you are a man of honour.'

But not a man of stone. JN'ow, my dear
Fitzroy, be reasonable. Suppose that peerless
creature went in for female revenge ; why, the
first thing she would do would be to make me
love her, whether I chose or not. She wouldn't
give me a voice in the matter. She would
flatter me ; she would cajole me ; she would
transfix my too susceptible heart with glances
of fire and bewitching languor from those
glorious eyes.'

D — d ! Ahem ! ' cried Percy, turning

green.

Walter had no mercy. 'I heard her say
once she could make any man love her if she
chose.'

So she could,' said Percy ruefully. ' She
made me. I had an awful p — p — prejudice
against her, but there was no resisting.'

*Then don't subject me to such a trial.
Stick to her like a man.'

So I will ; b — but it is a m — m — mortifying
position. I'm a man of family. We came
in with the C — Conquest, and are respected in
onr c — county ; and here I have to meet heron
the sly, and live at the " D — Dun Cow." '

Where the cuisine is wretched.'

A — b — b — abominable ! '

Having thus impregnated his mind with that
soothing sentiment, jealousy, Walter told him
he had a house to let on the estate — quite a
gentleman's house, only a little dilapidated, with
a fine lawn and garden, only neglected into a
wilderness. *But all the better for you,' said
he. ' You have plenty of money, and no occupation.
Perhaps that is what leads to these
little quarrels. It will amuse you to repair the
crib and restore the lawn. Wliy, there is a
brook runs through it— it isn't every lawn has

that — and there used to be water-hies floating,
and peonies nodding doAvn at them from the
bank : a paradise. She adores flowers, you
know. Why not rent that house from me?
You will have constant occupation and amusement.
You will become a rival potentate to
my governor. You will take the shine out of
him directly ; you have only to give a ball, and
then all the girls will worship you, Julia Clifford
especially, for she could dance the devil to a
stand-still.'

Percy's eyes flashed. 'When can I have
the place ? ' said he eagerly.

'In half an hour. I'll draw you a three
years' agreement. Got any paper P Of course
not. Julia is so near. What are those ? .
What do you play? "Patience,"
all by yourself. Xo wonder you are quarrelsome
! Nothing else to bestow your energy on.'

Percy denied this imputation. The cards
were for pistol practice. He shot daily at the
pips in the yard.

It is the fiend Ennui that loads your
VOL. I. M

pistols, and your temper too. Didn't I tell you
so?'

Walter then demanded the ace of diamonds,
and on its face let him the house and premises
on a repairing lease for three years, rent bl. a
year ; Which was a good bargain for both parties,
since Percy was sure to lay out a thousand
pounds or two on the property, and to bind
Julia more closely to him, who was worth her
weight in gold ten times over.

Walter had brought the keys with him, so
he drove Percy over at once and gave him possession,
and, to do the little fellow justice, the
moisture of gratitude stood in his eyes when
they parted.

Walter told Julia all about it that same
night, and her eyes were eloquent too.

The next day he had a walk with Mary
Bartley, and told her all about it. She hung
upon him, and gazed admiringly into his eyes
all the time, and they parted happy lovers.

Mr. Bartley met her at the gate. 'Mary,*
said he gravely, ' who was that I saw with you
just now? '

Cousin Walter.'

I feared so. You are too much with him.'

Mary turned red and white by turns, but
said nothing.

Bartley went on : ' You are a good child,
and I have always trusted you. I am sure you
mean no harm. But you must be more discreet.
I have just heard that you and that young man
are looked upon as engaged lovers. They say
it is all over the village. Of course a father is
the last to hear these things. Does Mrs. Eaton
know of this ? '

Oh, yes, papa, and approves it.'

Stupid old woman ! She ought to be
ashamed of herself.'

Oh, papa ! ' said Mary, in deep distress ;
'why, what objection can there be to Cousin
Walter?'

'None whatever as a cousin, but every
objection to intimacy. Does he court you? '

I don't know, papa. I suppose he does.'

Does he seek your love ? '

He does not say so exactly.'

M 2

Come, Mary, you have never deceived nie.
Does he love you ? '

I am afraid he does ; and if you reject him
lie will be very unhappy. And so shall I.'

I am truly sorry to hear it, Mary, for there
are reasons why I cannot consent to an engagement
between him and you.'

What reasons, papa ? '

It would not be proper to disclose my reasons
; but I hope, Mary, that it will be enough
to say that Colonel Clifford has other views for
his son, and I have other views for my daughter.
Do you think a blessing will attend you or him
if you defy both fathers ? '

No, no,' said poor Marj^ ' We have been
hasty and very foolish. But oh, papa, have you
not seen from the first ? Oh, why did you not
warn me in time? Then I could have obeyed
you easily. Now it will cost me the happiness
of my life. We are very unfortunate. Poor
Walter! He left me so full of hope. What
shall I do ? what shall I do ? '

It was Mary Bartley's first grief. She

thought all chance of happiness was gone forever,
and she wept bitterly for Walter and
herself.

Bartley was not unmoved, but he could not
change his nature. The sum he had obtained
by a crime was dearer to him than all his more
honest gains. He was kind on the surface, but
hard as marble.

'Go to your room, my child,' said he,
and try and compose yourself. I am not
angry with you. I ought to have watched
you. But you are so young, and I trusted to
that woman.'

Mary retired, sobbing, and he sent for
Mrs. Eaton.

Mrs. Easton,' said he, ' for the first time in
all these years I have a fault to find with you.'

What is that, sir, if you please ? '

Young Clifford has been courting that
child, and you have encouraged it.'

Nay, sir,' said the woman, ' I have not
done that. She never spoke to me, nor I to
lier.'

Well, then, you never interfered.'
No, sir ; no more than you did.'
Because I never observed it till to-day.'
How could I know that, sir ? Everybody
else observed it. Mr. Hope would have been
the first to see it, if he had been in your place.'
This sudden thrust made Bartley wince, and
showed him he had a tougher customer to deal
with than poor Mary.

You can't bear to be found fault with,
Easton,' said he craftily, ' and I don't wonder
at it, after fourteen years' fidelity to me.'

I take no credit for that,' said the woman
doggedly. ' I have been paid for it.'

No doubt. But I don't always get. the
thing I pay for. Then let by-gones be bygones
; but just assist me now to cure the girl
of this folly.'

Sir,' said the woman firmly, ' it is not
folly ; it is wisest and best for all, and I can't
make up my mind to lift a finger against it.'
Do you mean to defy me, then ? '
No, sir. I don't want to go against you,

nor yet against my own conscience, what's left
on't. I have seen a pretty while it must come
to this, and I have written to my sister Sally.
She keeps a small hotel at the Lakes. She is
ready to have me, and I'm not too old to be
useful to her. I'm worth my board. I'll go
there this very day, if you please. I'm as true
to you as I can be, sir. For I see by Miss
Mary crying so you have spoken to her, and so
now she is safe to come to me for comfort ;
and if she does, I shall take her part, you maybe
sure, for I love her like my own child.'
Here the dogged voice began to tremble ; but
she recovered herself, and told him lie would
go at once to her sister Gilbert, that lived only
ten miles off, and next day she would go to the
little hotel at the Lakes, and leave him to ]part
two true lovers if he could, and break both their
hearts ; she should wash her hands of it.
Bartley asked a moment to consider :
Shall we be friends still, if you leave me
like that ? Surely, after all these years, you will
not tell your sister? You Avill not betray me? '

Never, sir,' said she. ' What for ? To
bring those two together? Why, it would part
them for ever. I wonder at you, a gentleman,
and in business all your life ; yet you don't seem
to see through the muddy water as I do, that is
only a plain woman.'

She then told him her clothes were nearly
all packed, and she could start in an hour.

You shall have the break and the horses,'
said he, with great alacrity.

Everything transpires quickly in a small
house, and just as she had finished packing, in
came Mary in violent distress. ' What, is it
true ? A]'e you going to leave me, now; my
heart is broken ? Oh, nurse ! nurse ! '

This was too much even for stout-hearted
Nancy Easton.

Oh, my child ! m}' child ! ' she cried, and
sat down on her box sobbing violently, Mary
enfolded in her arms ; and then they sat crying
and rocking" together.

'Papa does not love nie as I do him,'
sobbed Mary, turning bitter for the first time.

He breaks my heart, and sends you away
the same day, for fear you should comfort
me.'

No, my dear,' said Mrs. Easton ; ' you are
wrong. He does not send me away ; I go by
my own wish.'

Oh, nurse, you desert nie ! Then you don't
know what has happened.'

'Oh, yes, Ido ; I know all about it, and I'm
leaving' because I can't do what he wishes.
You see it is this way, Miss Mary. Your father
has been very good to me, and I am his debtor.
I must not stay here and help you to thwart
him — that would be ungrateful — and yet I
can't take his side against you. Master has got
reasons why you should not marry Walter
Clifford, and '

He told me so himself,' said Mary.

Ah, but he didn't tell you his reasons.'

'No.'

No, more must I. But, Miss Mary, I'll
tell you this. I know his reasons well ; this
reasons why you should not marry Walter

Clifford are my reasons wliy you should marry
no other man.'

Oh, nurse ! oh, you dear, good angel ! '

So when friends differ like black and
white, 'tis best to part. I'm going to my sister
Gilbert this afternoon, and tomorrow to my
sister Sally, at her hotel.'

Oh, nin^se, must you? must you ? I shall
not have a friend to advise or console me till
Mr. Hope comes back. Oh, I hope that won't
be long now.'

Mrs. Easton dropped her hands upon lier
knees and looked at Mary Bartley :

What, Miss Mary ! would you go to Mr.
Hope in such a matter as this? Surely you'
would not have the face ? '

Not take my breaking heart to Mr. Hope ! '
cried Mary, with a sudden flood of tears. ' You
might as well tell me not to lay my trouble before
my God. Dear, dear Mr. Hope, who saved
my life in those deep waters, and then cried
over me, darling dear ! I think more of that
thai of his courage. Do you think I am blind ?

He loves me better than my own fattier does ;
and it is not a young man's love ; it is an
angel's. I^ot cry to him when I am in the
deep waters of affliction ? I could not write of
such a thing to him for blushing ; but the
moment he returns I shall find some way to let
him know how happy I have been, how brokenhearted
I am, and that papa has reasons against
him and they are your reasons for him, and
that you are both afraid to let me know these
curious reasons — me, the poor girl whose heart
is being made a football of in this house.
Oil ! oh ! oh ! '

Don't cry, Miss Mary,' said Nurse Easton
tenderly ; ' and pray don't excite yourself so.
Why, I never saw you like this before.'

Had I ever the same reason ? You have
only known the happy, thoughtless child. They
have made a woman of me now, and my peace
is gone. I must not defy my father, and I will
not break poor Walter's heart — the truest heart
that ever beat. Not tell dear Mr. Hope ! I'll
tell hin everything, if I'm cut in pieces for it.'

And her beautiful eyes flashed lightning through
her tears.

Hum ! ' said Mrs. Easton, under her breath,
and looking down at her own feet.

And pray what does " hum " mean ? ' asked
Mary, fixing her eyes with prodigious keenness
on the woman's face.

Well, I don't suppose " hum " means anything,'
said Mrs. Easton, still looking down.

Doesn't it ? ' said Mary. ' With such a face
as that it means a volume. And I'll make it
my business to read that volume.'

Hum ! '

And Mr. Hope shall help me.'

Chapter IX.

LOVERS PARTED.

Walter, little dreaming the blow his own love
had received, made Percy write to Julia aiL
apology, and an invitation to visit his new house
if he was forgiven. Julia said she could not
forgive him, and would not go. Walter said,
^ Put on your bonnet, and take a little drive
with me.'

Oh, with pleasure,' said Julia slily.

So then Walter drove her to the new house,
without a word of remonstrance on her part,
and Fitzroy met her radiant, and Walter slipped
away round a corner, and when he came back
the quarrel had dissolved. He had brought a
hamper with all the necessaries of life — tablecloth,
napkins, knives, forks, spoons, cold pie,
salad, and champagne. They lunched beside

the brook on the lawn. The lovers drank his
health, and Julia appointed him solemnly to
the post of ' peace-maker,' ' for,' said she, ' you
have shown great talent that way, and I foresee
we shall want one, for we shall be always
quarrelling ; shan't we, Percy ? '

N — o ; n — never again.'

Then you mustn't be jealous.'

'I'm not. I d — despise j — jealousy. I'm
above it.'

Oh, indeed,' said Julia drily.

Come, don't begin again, you two,' said
Walter, ' or — no champagne.'

'Now, what a horrid threat!' said Julia.
I'll be good, for one.'

In short, they had a merry time, and Walter
drove Julia home. Both where in high spirits.

In the hall Walter found a short note from
Mary Bartley :

Dear, dear Walter, — I write with a
bleeding heart to tell you that papa has only
just, discovered our attachment, and I am

grieved to say he disapproves of it, and has
forbidden me to encourage your love, that is
dearer to me than all the world. It is very
hard. It seems so cruel. But I must obey.
Do not make obedience too difficult, dear
Walter. And pray, pray do not be as unhappy
as I am. He says he has reasons, but he has
not told me what they are, except that your
father has other views for you ; but, indeed,
with both parents against us what can we do ?
Forgive me the pain this will give you. Ask
yourself whether it gives me any less. You
were all the world to me. Now everything is
dull and distasteful. What a change in one
little day ! We are very unfortunate. But it
cannot be for ever. And if you will be constant
to me, you know I shall to you. I could
not change. Ah, Walter ! I little thought when
I said I would temporise, how soon I should be
called on to do it. I can't write any more for
crying. I do nothing but cry ever since papa
was so cruel ; but I must obey.

Your loving, sorrowful Mary.'

This letter was a chilling blow to poor
Walter. He took it into his own room, and
read it again and again. It brought the tears
into his own eyes, and discouraged him deeply
for a time. But, of course, he was not so disposed
to succumb to authority as the weaker
vessel was. He wrote back :

'Mr OWN Love, — Don't grieve for me. I
don't care for anything so long as you love me.
I shall resist, of course. As for my father, I
am going to marry Julia to Percy Fitzroy, and
so end my governor's nonsense. As for your
father, I do not despair of softening him. It is
only a check ; it is not a defeat. Who on earth
can part us if we are true to each other? Gcd
bless you, dearest ! I did not think you loved
me so much. Your letter gives me comfort forever,
and only disappointments for a time. Don't
fret, sweet love. It will be all right in the end.

Your grateful, hopeful love, till death,

Walter.'

,Mary opened this letter with a beating heart

Lie read it with tears and smiles and utter
amazement. She knew so little about the male
character that this way of receiving a knock-down
blow astonished and charmed her. She
thought to herself, ' Xo wonder women look upto
men. They will have their owen way ; they
resist, of course. How sensible ! We give in,
right or wrong. What a comfort I have got a
man to back me, and not a poor, sorrowing,
despairing, obeying thing like myself ! '

So she owns comforted for the minute, and
settled in her own mind that she would be good
and obedient, and Walter should do all the
fighting. But letters soon cease to satisfy the
yearning hearts of lovers unnaturally separated.
Walter and Mary lived so near each other, yet
now they never met. Bartley took care of that.
He told Mary she must not walk out without a
maid or ride without a servant ; and he gave
them both special orders. He even obliged her
with his own company, though that rather
bored him.

Under this severe restraint Mary's health
vor I. N

and spirits suffered, and she lost some of her
beautiful colour.

Walter's spirits were kept up only by anger.
Julia Clifford saw he was in trouble, and asked
him what was the matter.

Oh, nothing that would interest you,' said
he, rather sullenly.

Excuse me,' said she. 'I am always interested
in the troubles of my friends, and you
have been a good friend to me.'

It is very good of you to think so. Well,
then, yes, I am unhappy. I am crossed in love.'

Is it that fair girl you introduced me to
when out riding ? '

Yes.'

She is lovely.'

Miss Clifford ! she is an angel.'

Ah ! ah ! We are all angels till we are
found out. Who is the man? '

What man ? '

That she prefers to my good Walter. She
deserves a good whipping, your angel.'

Much obliged to you, Miss Chfford ; but

she prefers no man to your good Walter, though
I am not worthy to tie her shoes. Why, eve
are devoted to each other.'

Well, you needn't fly out at me. I am
your friend, as you will see. Make me
your confidante. Explain, please. How can
you be crossed in love if there's no other
man ? '

It's her father. He has discovered our
love, and forbids lier to speak to me.'

Her father ! ' said Julia contemptuously.
Is that all ? That for her father ! You shall
have her in spite of fifty fathers. If it had
been a lover, now'

I should have talked to him, not to you,'
said Walter, with his eyes flashing.

Be quiet, Walter ; as it is not a lover, nor
even a mother, you shall have the girl ; and a
very sweet girl she is. Will you accept me for
your ally ? Women are wiser than men in
these things, and understand one another.'

'Oh, Miss Clifford,' said Walter, 'this is
goo;l of you ! Of course it will be a great

N 2

blessing to us both to have your sympathy and
assistance.'

Well, then ,' said Julia, ' begin by telling
me — have you spoken to her father ? '

No.'

Then that is the very first thing to be done.
Come, order our horses. We will ride over
directly. I will call on Miss Bartley, and you
on Mister. Xow, mind, you must ignore all that
has passed, and just ask his permission to court
his daughter. Whilst you are closeted with
him, the young lady and I will learn each
otter's minds with a celerity you poor slow
things have no idea of.'

I see one thing,' said Walter, ' that I am a
child in such matters compared with you.
What decision ! what promptitude ! '

'Then imitate it, j-oung man. Order the
horses directly ; ' and she stamped her foot impatiently.


Walter turned to the stables without another
word, and Julia flew upstairs to put on
her ridings-habit.

Bartley was in his study with a map of the
farm before him, and two respectable, but rather
rough, men in close conference over it. These
were practical men from the county of Durham,
whom he had ferreted out by means of an
agent — men who knew a great deal about
coal. They had already surveyed the farm,
and confirmed Hope's opinion that coal lay
below the surface of certain barren fields, and
the question now was as to the exact spot
where it would be advisable to sink the first
shaft.

Bartley was heart and soul in this, and elevated
by love of gain far above such puny considerations
as the happiness of Mary Bartley
and her lover. She, poor girl, sat forlorn in
her little drawing-room, and tried to draw a bit,
and tried to read a bit, and tried to reconcile a
new German symphony to her ear as well as to
her judgment, which told her it was too learned
not to be harmonious, though it sounded very
discordant. But all these efforts ended in a
sigh of despondency, and in brooding on innocent

delights forbidden, and a prospect which,
to her youth and inexperience, seemed a wilderness
robbed of the sun.

Whilst she sat thus pensive and sad there
came a sudden rush and clatter of hoofs, and
Miss Clifford and Walter Clifford reigned up
their horses under the very window.

Mary started up, delighted at the bare sight
of Walter, but amazed and puzzled. The next
moment her quick intelligence told her this was
some daring manoeuvre or other, and her heart
beat high.

Walter opened the door and stood beside it,
affecting a cold ceremony :

'Miss Bartley, I have brought Miss Clifford
to call on you at her request. My own
visit is to your father. Where shall I find
him?'

In his study,' murmured Miss Bartley.

Walter returned, and the two lilies looked
at each other steadily for one moment, and
took stock of one another's dress, looks, character,
and souls with supernatural rapidity.

Then Mary smiled, and motioned her visitor to
a seat and waited.

Miss Clifford made her approaches obliquely
at first :

I ought to apologise to you for not returning
your call before this. At any rate, here I
am at last.'

You are most welcome, Miss Clifford,' said
Mary warmly.

Now the ice is broken, I want you to call
me Julia.'

'May I?'

Soli may, and you must, if I call you
Mary. Why, you know we are cousins ; at
least, I suppose so. We - are both cousins of
Walter Clifford, so we must be cousins to each
other, Mary.'

And lie fixed her eyes on her fair hostess
in a very peculiar way.

Mary returned this fixed look with such
keen intelligence that ner gray eyes actually
scintillated.

Mary, I seldom waste nnich time before I

come to the point. Walter Clifford is a good
fellow ; he has behaved well to me. I had n
quarrel with mine, and Walter played the
peace-maker, and brought us together again
without wounding my pride. By-and-by, I found
out Walter himself was in grief about you.
It was my turn, wasn't it ? I made him tell me
all. He wasn't very willing, but I would know.
I see Ins love is making him miserable, and sois
yours, dear.'

Oh, yes.'

So I took it on me to advise him. I have
made him call on your father. Fathers sometimes
pooh-pooh their daughter's affections ; but
when the son of Colonel Clifford comes with a
formal proposal of marriage, Mr. Bartley cannot
pooh-pooh Itinerary

clasped her hands, but said nothing.

Julia flowed on :

And the next thing is to comfort you.
You seem to want a good cry, dear.'

Yes, I d— do.'

'Then come here and take it.'

Xo sooner said than done. Mary's head on
Julia's shoulder, and Juha's arm round Mary's
waist.

Are you better, dear ? '

'Oh, so much.'

It is a comfort, isn't it ? Well, now, listen
to me. Fathers sometimes delay a girl's happiness,
but the' don't often destroy it ; they
don't go and break her heart as some mothers
do. A mother that is resolved to have her
own way brings another man forward ; fathers
are too simple to see that is the only way.
And then a designing mother cajoles the poor
girl and deceives her, and does a number of
things a man would call villanies. Don't you
fret your heart out for so small a thing as a
father's opposition. You are sure to tire him
out if he loves you, and if he doesn't love you,
or loves money better, why, then, he is not a
worthy rival to my cousin Walter, for that man
really loves you, and woidd marry you if you
had not a penny. So would Percy Fitzroy
marry me. And that is why I prefer him to

the grenadiers and plungers, with silky moustaches,
and half an eye on me and an eye and
a half on my money.'

Many other things passed between these
two, but what we have endeavoured to repeat
was the cream of Julia's discourse, and both
her advice and her sympathy were for the time
a wonderful comfort to the love-sick, solitary
girl.

But our business is with Walter Clifford.
As soon as he was announced, Mr. Bartley dismissed
his rugged visitors, and received Walter
affably, though a little stiffly.

Walter opened his business at once, and
told him he had come to ask his permission to
court his daughter. He said he had admired
her from the first moment, and now his happiness
depended on her, and he felt sure he could
make her happy ; not, of course, by his money,
but by his devotion. Then, as to making a
proper provision for her

Here Bartley stopped him.

My young friend,' said he, ' there can be

no objection either to your person or your
position. But there are difficulties, and at present
they are serious ones. Your whither has
other views.'

But, Mr. Bartley,' said Walter eagerly, ' he
must abandon them. The lady is engaged.'

Well, then,' said Bartley, ' it will be time to
come to me when he has abandoned those views,
and also overcome his prejudices against me
and mine. But there is another difficulty. My
daughter is not old enough to marry, and
I object to long engagements. Everything,
therefore, points to delay, and on this I must
insist.'

Bartley, having taken this moderate ground,
remained immovable. He promised to encourage
no other suitor ; but, in return, lie said he
had a right to demand that Walter would not
disturb his daughter's peace of mind until the
prospect was clearer. In short, instead of
being taken by surprise, the result showed
Bartley quite prepared for this interview, and
lie baffled the ounce man without offending

him. He was cautious not to do that, because
he was going to mine for coal, and feared
remonstrances, and wanted Water to take his
part, or at least to be neutral, knowing his love
for Mary. So they parted good friends ; but
when he retailed the result to Julia Clifford, she
shook her head, and said the old fox had outwitted
him. Soon after, knitting her brows in
thought for some time, she said, ' She is ver'
young, much younger than she looks. I am
afraid you will have to wait a little, and
watch '

But,' said Walter in dismay, ' am I not to
see her or speak to her all the time I am
waiting ? '

I'd see both fathers handed first, if I was a
man,' said Juha.

In short, under the courageous advice of
Julia Clifford, Walter began to throw himself
in Mary's way and look disconsolate ; that set
Mary pining directly, and Julia found her pale,
and grieving for Walter, and persuaded her to

write him two or three hues of comfort ; she
did, and that drew pages from him. Unfortunately
he did not restrain himself, but flung his
whole heart upon paper, and raised a tumult
in the innocent heart of her who read his
passionate longings.

She was so worked upon, that at last one
day she confided to Julia that her old nurse was
going to visit her sister, Mrs. Gilbert, who lived
only ten miles off, and she thought she should
ride and see lier.

When ? ' asked Julia carelessly.

Oh, any day next Aveek,' said Mary carelessly.
' Wednesday, if it is fine. She will not
be there till Monday.'

Does she know ? ' asked Julia.

Oh, yes ; and left because she could not
agree with papa about it ; and, dear, she said a
strange thing — a very strange thing ; she knew
papa's reasons against him, and they were her
reasons for him.'

Fancy that ! ' said Julia. ' Your father told
you what the reasons were ? '

No ; he wouldn't. They both treat me
like a child.'

You mean they pretend to,' she added.

I see one thing ; there is some mystery
behind this. I wonder what it is ? '

Ten to one it is money. I am only twenty,
but already I have found out that money
governs the world. Let me see — your mother
was a Clifford. She must have had money.
Did she settle any on you? '

I'm sure I don't know.'

Ten to one she did, and your father is
your trustee ; and when you marry, he must
show his accounts and cash up. There, that is
where the shoe pinches.'

Mary was distressed :

Oh, don't say so, dear. I can't bear to think
that of papa. You make me very unhappy.'

Forgive me, dear,' said Juha. ' I am too
bitter and suspicious. Some day I will tell you
things in my own life that have soured me.
Money — I hate the very word,' she said, clenching
her teeth.

She circled her view no more, but in her
own heart she felt sure that she had read
Mr. Bartley aright. Why, he was a trader,
into the bargain.

As for Mary, when she came to think over
this conversation, her own subtle instinct told
her that stronger pressure than ever would now
be brought on her. Her timidity, her maiden
modesty, and her desire to do right set her on
her defence. She determined to have loving
but impartial advice, and so she overcame her
shyness, and wrote to Mr. Hope. Even then she
was in no hurry to enter on such a subject by
letter, so she must commence by telling him
that her father had set a great many people,
most of them strangers, to dis for coal. That
cross old thing. Colonel Clifford, had been heard
to sneer at her dear father, and say unkind and
disrespectful things — that the love of money led
to loss of money, and that papa might just
as well dig a well and throw his money into
that. She herself was sorry he had not waited
for ]mr. Hope's return before undertaking so

serious a speculation. Warmed by this preliminary,
she ventured into the delicate subject,
and told him the substance of what we have
told the reader, only in a far more timid and
suggestive way, and implored him to advise herby
retinue of post if possible — or why not come
home ? Papa had said only yesterday, ' I wish
Hope was here.' She got an answer by return
of post. It disappointed her, on the whole.
Mr. Hope realised the whole situation, though
she had sketched it faintly instead of painting
it boldly. He was all sympathy, and he saw at
once that he could not himself imagine a better
match for her than Walter Clifford. But then
he observed that Mr. Bartley himself offered no
personal objection, but wished the matter to be
in abeyance until she was older, and Colonel
Clifford's objection to the connection should be
removed or softened. That might really be
hoped for should Miss Clifford marry Mr.
Fitzroy ; and really in the meantime he (Hope)
could hardly take on him to encourage her in
impatience and disobedience. He should prefer

to talk to Bartley first. With him he should
take a less hesitating line, and set her happiness
above everything. In short, he wrote cautiously.
He inwardly resolved to be on the spot very
soon, whether Bartley wanted him or not ; but
he did not tell Mary this.

Mary was disappointed. ' How kind and
wise he is ! ' she said to Julia — ' too wise.'

Next Wednesday morning Mary Bartley
rode to Mrs. Gilbert, and was received by her
with courtesy, but with a warm embrace by
Mrs. Easton. After a while the latter invited
her into the parlour, saying, ' There is
somebody there, but nobody knows.' This,
however, though hardly unexpected, set Mary's
heart beating, and when the parlour door
was opened, Mrs. Easton stepped back, and
Mary was alone with Walter Clifford.

Then might those who oppose an honest
and tender affection have learned a lesson. It
was no longer affection only. It was passion.
Walter was pale, agitated, eager ; he kissed her
hands impetuously, and drew her to his bosom.

VOL. 1.

She sobbed there ; he poured inarticulate words
over her, and still held her, panting, to his
beating heart. Even when the first gush of
love subsided a little, he could not be so reasonable
as he used to be. He was wild against his
own father, hers, and every obstacle, and implored
her to marry him at once, by special
license, and leave the old people to untie the
knot if they could.

Then Mary was astonished and hurt. ' A
clandestine marriage, Mr. Clifford ! ' said she.
I thought you had more respect for me than
to mention such a thing.'

Then he had to beg her pardon, and say
the separation had driven him mad.

Then she forgave him.

Then he took advantage of her clemency,
and proceeded calmly to show her it was their
only chance.

Then Mary forgot how severely she had
checked him, and merely said that was the last
thing she would consent to, and bound him on
his honour never to mention to Julia Clifford

that he had proposed such a thing. Walter
promised that readily enough, but stuck to his
point ; and as Mary's pride was wounded, and
she was a girl of great spirit though love-sick,
she froze to him, and soon after said she was
very sorry, but she must not stay too long, or
papa would be angry. She then begged him
not to come out of the parlour, or the servant
would see him.

That is a trifle,' said Walter. ' I am going
to obey you in greater things than that. Ah !
Mary, Mary, you don't love me as I love you ! '

No, Walter,' said Mary, ' I do not love
you as you love me, for I respect you.' Then
her lip trembled, and her eyes filled with tears.

Walter fell on his knees, and kissed her
skirt several times ; then ended with her hand.
Oh, don't harbour such a thought as that ! '
said he.

She sobbed, but made no reply.

They parted good friends, but chilled.

That made them both unhappy to think of.

It was only two, or at the most three, days



after this that, as Mary was walking in the
garden, a nosegay fell at her feet. She picked
it up, and immediately found a note half
secreted in it. The next moment it was entirely
secreted in her bosom. She sauntered indoors,
and scudded upstairs to her room to
read it.

The writer told her in a few agitated words
that their fathers had met, and he must speak
to her directly. Would she meet him for a
moment at the garden gate at nine o'clock that
evening ?

No, no, no ! ' cried Mary, as if he was
there. She was frightened. Suppose they
should be caught. The shame — the disgrace.
But oh, the temptation ! Well, then, how
wrong of him to tempt her ! She must not go.
There was no time to write and refuse ; but
she must not go. She would not go. And in
this resolution she persisted. Nine o'clock
struck, and she never moved. Then she began
to picture Walter's face of disappointment and
his unhappiness. At ten minutes past nine

she tied a handkerchief round her head and
went.

There he was at the gate, pale and agitated.
He did not give her time to scold him.

Pray forgive me,' he said, ' but I saw no
other way. It is all over, Mary, unless you
love me as I love you.'

'Don't begin by doubting me,' she said.
Tell me, dear.'

It is soon told. Our fathers have met at
that wretched pit, and the foreman has told me
what passed between them. My father complained
that mining for coal was not husbandry,
and it was very unfair to do it, and to
smoke him out of house and home. (Unfortunately
the wind was west, and blew the smoke
of the steam-engine over his lawn.) Your
father said he took the farm under that express
stipulation. Colonel Chfford said, " No ; the
condition was smuggled in." " Then smuggle
it out," said Mr. Bartley.'

Oh ! '

If it had only ended there, Mary. But

they were both in a passion, and must empty
their hearts. Colonel Clifford said he had
every respect for you, but had other views for
his son. Mr. Bartley said he was thankful to
hear it, for he looked higher for his daughter.
Higher in trade, T suppose," said my father ;
'• the Lord Mayor's nephew ! " " Well," said
Mr. Bartley, "I would rather marry her to
money than to mortgages." And the end of
it was they parted enemies for life.'

No, no ; not for life ! '

'For life, Mary. It is an old grudge revived.
Indeed, the first quarrel was only
skinned over. Don't deceive yourself. We
have nothing to do but disobey them or part.'

And you can say that, Walter ? Oh, have
a little patience ! '

So I would,' said Walter, ' if there was
any hope. But there is none. There is nothing
to wait for but the death of our parents,
and by that time I shall be an elderly man,
and you will have lost your bloom and wasted
your youth — for what ? No ; I feel sometimes

this will drive me mad, or make me a villain.
I am beginning to hate my own father and
everybody else that thwarts my love. How
can they earn my hate more surely? No,
Mary ; I see the future as plainly as I see your
dear face, so pale and shocked. I can't help
it. If you will marry me, and so make sure,
I will keep it secret as long as you like ; I
shall have got you, whatever they may say ordo
; but if you won't, I'll leave the country at
once, and get peace if I can't get love.'

Leave the country ! ' said Mary faintly.
What good would that do ? '

I don't know. Perhaps bring my father
to his senses, for one thing ; and — who knows ?
perhaps you will listen to reason when you
see I can't wait for the consent of two egotists
for that is what they both are — that have
no real love or pity for you or me.'

Ah,' said Mary, with a deep sigh, ' I see
even men have their faults, and I admired
them so. They are impatient, selfish.'

Yes, if it is selfish to defend one's self against

brutal selfishness, I am selfish ; and that is
better than to be a slave to egotists, and lie
down to be trodden on, as you would do.
Come, Mary, for pity's sake, decide which you
love best — your father, who does not care
much for you, or me, who adore you, and will
give you a life of gratitude as well as love, if
you will only see things as they are, and
always will be, and trust yourself to me as my
dear, dear, blessed, adored wife ! '

I love you best,' said Mary, ' and I hope
it is not wicked. But I love him too, though
he does say " wait." And I respect myself
and I dare not defy my parent, and I will not
marry secretly ; that is degrading. And, oh,
Walter ! think how young I am and inexperienced,
and you that are so much older, and
I hoped would be my guide and make me
better ; is it you who tempt me to clandestine
meetings that I blush for, and a clandestine
marriage for which I should despise myself '

Walter turned suddenly calm, for these
words pricked his conscience.

You are right said he. 'I am a blackguard,
and you are an angel of purity and
goodness. Forgive me ; I will never tempt
nor torment you again. For pity's sake, forgive
me. You don't know what men's passions
are. Forgive me ! '

'With all my heart, dear,' said Mary,
crying gently.

He put both arms suddenly round her neck,
and kissed her wet eyes with a sigh of despair.
Then he seemed to tear himself away by a
great effort, and she leaned hip and powerless
on the gate, and heard his footsteps die away
into the night. They struck chill upon her
foreboding heart, for she felt that they were
parted.

CHAPTEE X.

THE GORDIAN KNOT.

Walter, however, would not despair until he
had laid the alternative before his father. He
did so, firmly but coolly.

His father, irritated by the scene with
Bartley, treated Walter's proposal with indignant
scorn.

Walter continued to keep his temper, and
with some reluctance asked him whether he
owed nothing, not even a sacrifice of his prejudices,
to a son who had never disobeyed him,
and had improved his circumstances.

Come, sir,' said he ; ' when the happiness
of my life is at stake I venture to lay aside
delicacy, and ask you whether I have not been
a good son, and a serviceable one, to you ? '

Yes, Walter,' said the Colonel, ' with this
exception.'

Then now, or never, give me my reward.'
I'll try,' said the grim Colonel ; ' but I
see it will be hard work. However, I'll try
and save you from a mesalliance'

A mesalliance, sir? Why, she is a Clifford.'

The deuce she is ! '

As much a Clifford as I am.'

That is news to me.'

'Why, one of her parents was a Clifford,
and your own sister. And one of mine was
an Irish woman.'

Yes, an O'Eyan ; not a trader — not a
small-coal man.'

*Like the Marquis of Londonderry, sir,
and the Earl of Durham. Come, father, don't
sacrifice your son, and his happiness and his
love for you, to notions the world has outlived.
Commerce does not lower a gentleman, nor
speculation either, in these days. The nobility
and the leading gentry of these islands are
most of them in business. They are all shareholders,

and often directors, of railways, and
just as much traders as the old coach proprietors
were. They let their land, and so do
you, to the highest bidder, not for honour or
any romantic sentiment, but for money, and
that is trade. Mr. Bartley is his own farmer ;
well, so was Mr. Coke, of Norfolk, and the
Queen made him a peer for it — what a sensible
sovereign ! Are Rothschild and Montefiore
shunned for their speculations by the nobility ?
Whom do their daughters marry? Trade rules
the world, and keeps it from starvation.
Genius writes, or paints, or plays Hamlet — for
money; and is respected in exact proportion to
the amount of money it gets. Charity holds
bazaars and sells at one hundred per cent,
profit, and nearly every new church is a trade
speculation. Is my happiness and hers to be
sacrificed to the chimeras and crotchets that
everybody in England but you has outlived ? '

All this,' replied the unflinching sire, ' I
have read in the papers, and my son shall not
marry the daughter of a trader and cad who

has insulted me grossly; but that, I presume,
you don't object to.'

This stung Walter so that he feared to
continue the discussion.

I will not reply,' said he. ' You drive me
to despair. I leave you to reflect. Perhaps
you will prize me when you see me no
more.'

With this he left the room, packed up his
clothes, went to the nearest railway, off to
London, collected his funds, crossed the water,
and did not write one word to Clifford Hall,
except a hue to Juha : ' Left England heartbroken,
the victim of two egotists and my
sweet Mary's weak conscientiousness. God
forgive me ; I am angry even with her, but
I don't doubt her love.'

This missive and the general consternation
at Clifford Hall brought Juha full gallop to
Mary Bartley.

They read the letter together, and Juha
was furious against Colonel Clifford. But
Mary interposed.

1 am afraid,' said she, ' that I am the
person who was most to blame.'

Why, what have you done ? '

He said our case was desperate, and waiting
would not alter it ; and he should leave
the country unless '

Unless what ? How can I advise you if
you have any concealments from me ? '

Well, then, it was unless I would consent
to a clandestine marriage.'

And you refused — very properly ? '

And I refused — very properly, one would
think — and what is the consequence? I have
driven the man I love away from his friends,
as well as from me, and now I begin to be
very sorry for my properest.'

But you don't blush for it as you would
for the other. The idea ! To be married on
the sly, and to have to hide it from everybody,
and to be found out at last, or else be suspected
of worse things.'

What worse things ? '
' Never you mind, child ; your womanly

instinct is better than knowledge or experience,
and it has guided you straight. If you had
consented, I should have lost my respect for
you.'

And then, as the small view of a thing is
apt to enter the female head along with the
big view, she went on, with great animation :

And then for a young lady to sneak into
a church without her friends, with no carriages,
no favours, no wedding cake, no bishop, no
proper dress, not even a bridal veil fit to be
seen ! Why, it ought to be the great show of
a girl's life, and she ought to be a public
queen, at all events for that one day, for ten
to one she will be a slave all the rest of her
life if she loves the fellow.'

She paused for breath one moment :

'And it isn't as if you were low people.
Why, it reminds me of a thing I read in some
novel : a city clerk, or some such person, took
a walk with his sweetheart into the country,
and all of a sudden he said, '' Why, there is
something hard in my pocket. What is it, I

wonder ? A plain gold ring. Does it fit you ?
Try it on, Polly. Why, it fits you, I declare ;
then keep it till further orders." Then they
walked a little further. " Why, what is this ?
Two pairs of white gloves. Try the little pair
on, and I will try the big ones. Stop ! I
declare, here's a church, and the bells beginning
to ring. Why, who told them that I've got a
special license in my pocket ? Hallo ! there
are two fellows hanging about ; best men, witnesses,
or some such persons, I should not
wonder. I think I know one of them ; and
here is a parson coming over a stile ! What
an opportunity for us now just to run in and
get married ! Come on, old girl, lend me that
wedding ring a minute ; I'll give it you back
again in the church." Sto, thank you,
Mr. Walter ; we love you very dearly, but weare
ladies, and we respect ourselves.'

In short, Juha confirmed Mary Bartley in
her resolution, but she could not console her
under the consequences. Walter did not write
a line even to her ; she couldn't but fear that

he was really in despair, and would cure himself
of his affection if he could. She began to
pine ; the roses faded gradually out of her
cheeks ; and Mr. Bartley himself began at last
to pity her, for though he did not love her, he
liked her, and was proud of her affection.
Another thing, Hope might come home now
any day, and if he found the girl sick and
pining, he might say, ' This is a breach of
contract. '

He asked Mary one day whether she
wouldn't like a change. ' I could take you
to the sea-side,' said he, but not very
cordially.

No, papa,' said Mary ; ' why should you
leave your mine when everything is going so
prosperously ? I think I should like to go to
the Lakes, and pay my old nurse a visit.'

'And she would talk to you of Walter
Clifford?'

Yes, papa,' said Mary firmly, ' she would,
and that's the only thing that can do me any
good.'

VOL. I. P

Well, Mary,' said Bartley, ' if lie could
be content with praising him, and regretting
the insuperable obstacles, and if she would

encourage you to be patient There, let

me think of it.'

Things went hard with Colonel Clifford.
He felt his son's desertion very bitterly, though
he was too proud to show it ; he now found
out that, universally as he was respected it was
Walter who was the most beloved both in the
house and in the neighbourhood.

One day he heard a multitude shouting,
and soon learned the reason. Bartley had
struck a rich vein of coal, and tons were coming
up to the surface. Colonel Clifford would
not go near the place, but he sent old Baker
to inquire, and Baker from that day used to
bring him back a number of details, some of
them especially galling to him. By degrees,
and rapid ones, Bartley was becoming a rival
magnate ; the poor came to him for the slack,
or very small coal, and took it away gratis ;

they flattered him, and, to please hin, spoke
slightingly of Colonel Clifford, which they had
never ventured to do before. But soon a circumstance
occurred which mortified the old
soldier more than all. He was sole proprietor
of the village, and every house in it, with the
exception of a certain beer house, flanked by
an acre and a half of ground. This beerhouse
was a great eyesore to him ; he tried to buy
this small freeholder out ; but the man saw
his advantage, and demanded 1,500/. — nearly
treble the real value. Walter, however, by
negotiating in a more friendly spirit, had obtained
a reduction, and was about to complete
the purchase for 1,150/. But when Walter
left the country, the proprietor never dreamed
of going again to the haughty Colonel. He
went to Bartley, and Bartley bought the property
in five minutes for 1,200/., and paid a
deposit to clinch the contract. He completed
the purchase with unheard-of rapidity, and set
an army of workmen to raise a pit village, or
street of eighty houses. They were ten times

better built than the Colonel's cottages ; not
one of them could ever be vacant, they were
too great a boon to the miners ; nor could the
rent be in arrears, with so sharp a hand as the
mine-owner. The beer house was to be perpetuated,
and a nucleus of custom secured from
the miners, partly by the truck system, and
partly by the superiority of the liquor, for
Bartley announced at once that he should brew
the beer.

All these things were too much for a man
with gout in his system. Colonel Clifford had
a worse attack of that complaint than ever ; it
rose from his feet to other parts of his frame,
and he took to his bed.

In that condition a physician and surgeon
visited him daily, and his lawyer also was sent
for, and was closeted with him for a long time
on more than one occasion.

All this caused a deal of speculation in the
village, and as a system of fetch and carry was
now established, by which the rival magnates
also received plenty of information, though not

always accurate, about each other, Mr. Bartley
heard what was going on, and put his own
construction upon it.

Just when Mr. Hope was expected to return
came a letter to Mary to say that he should be
detained a day or two longer, as he had a sore
throat and fever, but nothing alarming. Three
or four days later came a letter only signed by
him, to say he had a slight attack of typhoid
fever, and was under medical care.

Mary implored Mr. Bartley to let her go to
him. He refused, and gave his reasons, which
were really sufficient, and now he became more
unwilling than ever to let her visit Mrs. Easton.

This was the condition of affairs when one
day an old man with white hair, dressed in
black and looking almost a gentleman, was
driven up to the farm by Colonel Clifford's
groom, and asked, in an agitated voice, if he
might see Miss Mary Bartley.

Her visitors were so few that she was never
refused on speculation, so John Baker was shown

at once into her drawing-room. He was too
much agitated to waste time.

Oh, Miss Barley said he, ' we are in
great distress at the Hall. Mr. Walter has gone,
and not left his address, and my poor master is
dying ! '

Mary uttered an unfeigned exclamation of
horror.

Ah, miss,' said the old man, ' God bless
you ; you feel for us. I'm not on the old man's
side, miss ; I'm on Mr. Walter's side on this,
as I was in the other business ; but now I see
my poor old master lying pale and still, not
long for this world, I do begin to blame myself.
I never thought that he would have taken it all
to heart like this. But, there, the only thing
now is to bring them together before he goes.
We don't know his address, miss ; we don't
know what country he is in. He sent a line to
Miss Clifford a month ago from Dover, but that
is all ; but, in course, he writes to you — that
stands to reason. You'll give me his address,
miss, won't you ? and we shall all bless you.'

Mary turned pale, and the tears streamed
down lier eyes. ' Oh, sir,' said she, ' I'd give
the world if I could tell you. I know who you
are ; my poor Walter has often spoken of you
to me, Mr. Baker. One word from you would
have been enough ; I would have done anything
for you that I could. But he has never
written to me at all. I am as much deserted
as any of you, and T have felt it as deeply as
any father can, but never have I felt it as now.
What ! The father to die, and his son's hand
not in his ? no looks of love and forgiveness to
pass between them as the poor old man leaves
this world, its ambitions and its quarrels, and
perhaps sees for the first time how small they
all are compared with the love of those that love
us and the peace of God ? ' Then this ardent
girl stretched out both her hands : ' God,
if my frivolous life has been innocent, don't
let me be the cause of this horrible thing ; don't
let the father die without comfort, nor the son
without forgiveness, for a miserable girl who
has come between them and meant no harm.'

This eloquent burst quite overpowered poor
old John Baker. He dropped into a chair, his
white head sunk upon his bosom, he sobbed
and trembled, and for the first time showed his
age.

What on earth is the matter ? ' said Mr.
Bartley's voice, as cold as an icicle, at the door.
Mary sprang toward him impetuously. ' Oh,
papa ! ' she cried, ' Colonel Clifford is dying,
and we don't know where Walter is ; we can't
know.'

Wait a little,' said Bartley, in some agitation.
' My letters have just come in, and I
thought I saw a foreign postmark.' He slipped
back into the hall, brought in several letters,
selected one, and gave it to Mary. ' This is for
you, from Marseilles.'

He then retired to his study, and without
the least agitation or the least loss of time returned
with a book of telegraph forms.

Meanwhile Mary tore the letter open, and
read it eagerly to John Baker :

Grand Hotel Noailles, Marseilles : Mai 16.

My own dear Love, — I have vowed that
I will not write again to tempt you to anything
you think wrong ; but it looks like quarrelling
to hide my address from you. Only 1 do beg
of you, as the only kindness you can do me
now, never to let it be known by any living
creature at Clifford Hall.

Yoiu-s till death,

Walter.'

Mr. Bartley entered with the telegraph
forms, and said to Mary sharply, ' Now, where
is he ? ' Mary told him. ' Well, write him a
telegram. It shall be at the railway in half an
hour, at Marseilles theoretically in one hour,
practically in four.'

Mary sat down and wrote her telegram :
Pray come to Clifford Hall. Your father is
dangerously ill.'

Show it to me,' said Bartley. And on
perusing it: 'A woman's telegram. Don't
frighten him too much ; leave him the option
to come or stay.'

He tore it up, and said, ' Now, write a business
telegram, and make sure of the thing you
want.'

Come home directly — your father is dying.'

Old Baker started up. ' God bless you, sir,'
said he, 'and God bless you, miss, and make
you happy one day. I'll take it myself, as my
trap is at the door.' He bustled out, and his
carriage drove away at a great rate.

Mr. Bartley went quietly to his study to
business without another word, and Mary leaned
back a little exhausted by the scene ; but a smile,
almost of happiness, came and tarried on her
sweet face for the first time these many days.
As for old John Baker, he told his tale triumphantly
at the Hall, and not without vanity,
for he was proud of his good judgment in
going to Mary Bartley.

To the old housekeeper, a most superior
woman of his own age, and almost a lady, he
said something rather remarkable, which he
was careful not to bestow on the young wags
in the servants' hall. 'Mrs. Milton,' says he,

I am an old man, and have knocked about at
home and abroad, and seen a deal of life, but
I've seen something to-day that I never saw
before.'

Ay, John, surely ; and what ever was
that ? '

I've seen an angel pray to God, and I
have seen God answer her.'

From that day Mary had two stout partisans
in Clifford Hall.

Mr. Bartley's views about Mary now began
to waver. It occurred to him that, should
Colonel Clifford die and Walter inherit his
estates, he could easily come to terms with the
young man, so passionately devoted to his
daughter. He lead only to say : ' I can make
no allowance at present, but I'll settle my
whole fortune upon Mary and her children
after my death, if you'll make a moderate
settlement at present,' and Walter would certainly
fall into this, and not demand accounts
from Mary's trustee. So now he would have
positively encouraged Mary in her attachment,

but one thing held him back a little : he had
learnt by accident that the last entail of Clifford
Hall and the dependent estates dated two
generations back, so that the entail expired
with Colonel Clifford, and this had enabled the
Colonel to sell some of the estates, and clearly
gave him power now to leave Clifford Hall
away from his son. Now, the people who had
begun to fetch and carry tales between the two
magnates told him of the lawyer's recent visits
to Clifford Hall, and he had some misgivings
that the Colonel had sent for the lawyer to
alter his will and disinherit, in whole or in
part, his absent and rebellious son. All this,
taken together, made Mr. Bartley resolve to be
kinder to Mary in her love affair than he
ever had been, but still to be guarded and
cautious.

Mary, my dear,' said he, ' I am sure you'll
be on thorns till this young man comes home;
perhaps now would be a good time to pay your
visit to Mrs. Easton.'

'Oh, papa, how good of you! but it's

twenty miles, I believe, to where she is staying
at the Lakes.'

No, no,' said Mr. Bartley ; ' she's staying
with her sister Gilbert — quite within a drive.'

Are you sure, papa ? '

Quite sure, my dear ; she wrote to me
yesterday about her little pension ; the quarter
is just due.'

What ! do you allow her a pension ? '

Certainly, my dear, or rather I pay her
little stipend as before. How surprised you
look, Mary! Why, I'm not like that old
Colonel, intolerant of other people's views,
when they advance them civilly. That woman
helped me to save your life in a very great
danger, and for many years she has been as
careful as a mother, and we are not, so to say,
at daggers drawn about Walter Clifford. Why,
I only demand a little prudence and patience
both from you and from her. Now tell me.
Is there proper accommodation for you in
Mrs. Gilbert's house?'

Oh, yes, papa ; it is a farmhouse now, but

it was a grand place. There's a beautiful spare
room with an oriel window.'

Well, then, you secure that, and write today
to have a blazing fire, and the bed properly
aired as well as the sheets, and you shall go
tomorrow in the four-wheel ; and you can take
her her little stipend in a letter.'

This sudden kindness and provision for her
health and happiness filled Mary's heart to
overflowing, and her gratitude gushed forth
upon Mr. Bartley's neck. The old fox blandly
absorbed it, and took the opportunity to say :
Of course it is understood that matters are to
go no further between you and Walter Clifford.
Oh, I don't mean that you're to make him unhappy,
or drive him to despair; only insist upon
his being patient like yourself. Everything
comes sooner or later to those that can wait.'

Oh, papa,' cried Mary, ' you've said more
to comfort me than Mrs. Easton or anybody
can ; but I feel the change will do me good.
I am, oh, so grateful ! '

So Mary wrote her letter, and went to Mrs.

Easton next day. After the usual embraces,
lie gave Mrs. Easton the letter, and was duly-installed
in the state bedroom. She wrote to
Julia Clifford to say where she was, and that
was her way of letting Walter Clifford know.

Walter himself arrived at Clifford Hall next
day, worn, anxious, and remorseful, and was
shown at once to his father's bedside. The
Colonel gave him a wasted hand, and said :

Dear boy, I thought you'd come. We've
had our last quarrel, Walter.'

Walter burst into tears over his father's
hand, and nothing was said between them about
their temporary estrangement.

The first thing Walter did was to get two
professional nurses from Derby, and secure this
father constant attention night and day, and,
above all, nourishment at all hours of the night,
when the patient would take it. On the afternoon
after his arrival the Colonel fell into a
sound sleep. Then Walter ordered his horse,
and in less than an hour was at Mrs. Gilbert's
place.

CHAPTEE XI.

THE KNOT CUT — ANOTHER TIED.

The farm-house the Gilberts occupied had been
a family mansion of great antiquity, with a moat
around it. It was held during the Civil War
by a stout Eoyalist, who armed and garrisoned
it after a fashion with his own servants. This
had a different effect to what he intended. It
drew the attention of one of Cromwell's generals,
and he despatched a party with cannon
and petards to reduce the place, whilst he
marched on to join Cromwell in enterprises of
more importance. The detachment of Roundheads
summoned the place. The Eoyalist, to
show his respect for their authority, made his
kitchen wench squeak a defiance from an upper
window, from which she bolted with great
rapidity as soon as she had thus represented

the valour of the establishment, and when next
seen it was in the cellar, wedged in between
two barrels of beer. The men went at it hammer
and tongs, and in twenty-four hours a
good many cannon-balls traversed the building ;
a great many stuck in the walls like plums in a
Christmas pudding ; the doors were blown in
with petards, and the principal defenders, with
a few wounded Roundheads, were carried off
to Cromwell himself; whilst the house itself
was fired, and blazed away merrily.

Cromwell threatened the Eoyalist gentleman
with death for defending an untenable
place.

I didn't know it was untenable,' said the
gentleman. ' How could I till I had tried ? '

You had the fate of fortified places to
instruct you,' said Cromwell, and he promised
faithfully to hang him on his own ruins.

The gentleman turned pale and his lip
quivered, but he said, ' Wei
I've fought for my royal master according to
my lights, and I can die for him.'

VOL. I. Q

You shall, sir,' said Mr. Cromwell.

About next morning Mr. Cromwell, who
had often a cool fit after a hot one, and was a
very big man, take him altogether, gave a
different order: 'The fool thought he was
doing his duty ; turn him loose.'

The fool in question was so proud of this
battered house that he left it standing there,
bullets and all, and built him a house elsewhere.


King Charles the Second had not landed
a month before he made him a baronet, and
one tenant after another occupied a portion
of the old mansion. Two state-rooms were
roofed and furnished with the relics of the
entire mansion, and these two rooms the
present baronet's surveyor occupied at rare
intervals, when he was inspecting the large
properties connected with the baronet's estate.

Mary Bartley now occupied these two
rooms, connected by folding-doors, and she sat
pensive in the oriel-window of her bedroom.
Young ladies cling to their bedrooms, especially

when they are pretty and airy. Suddenly she
heard a scurry and patter of a horse's hoof,
reined up at the side of the house. She
darted from the window, and stood panting in
the middle of the room. The next minute
Mrs. Easton entered the sitting-room all ina
flutter, and beckoned her. Mary flew to
her.

He is here.'

I thought he would be.'

Will you meet him downstairs ? '

No, here.'

Mrs. Easton acquiesced, rapidly closed the
folding-doors, and went out, saying, ' Try and
calm yourself, Miss Mary.'

Miss Mary tried to obey her, but Walter
rushed in impetuously, pale, worn, agitated, yet
enraptured at the first sight of her, and Mary
threw herself round his neck in a moment, and
he clasped her fluttering bosom to his beating
heart, and this was the natural result of the restraint
they had put upon a passionate affection
: for what says the dramatist Detaches,

Q 2

improving upon Horace, so that in England his
immortal line is given to Moliere ? — ' Chassez
le naturel, il revient au galop.'

The next thing was, they held each other
at arm's-length, and mourned over each other.

Oh, my poor Mary, how ill you look ! '

Oh, my poor Walter, how pale and worn ! '

It's all my fault,' said Mary.

No ; it's all mine,' said Walter.

And so they blamed themselves, and grieved
over each other, and vowed that, come what
might, they would never part again. But, lo
and behold ! Walter went on from that to say :

And that we may never part again, let us
marry at once, and put our happiness out of the
reach of accidents.'

What ! ' said Mary ; ' defy your father
upon his dying bed ? '

Oh, no,' said Walter ; ' that I could not do.
I mean marry secretly, and announce it after
his decease, if I am to lose him.'

And why not wait till after his decease '
said Mary.

Because, then, the laws of society would
compel us to wait six months, and in that six
months some infernal obstacle or other would
be sure to occur, and another would be sure to
follow. I am a great deal older than you, and
I see that whoever procrastinates happiness
risks it ; and whoever shilly-shally with it
deserves to lose it, and generally does.'

Where young ladies are concerned, logic
does not carry all before it, and so Mary opposed
-all manner of feminine sentiments, and ended
by saying she could not do such a thing.

Then Walter began to be mortified and
angry ; then she cunningly shifted the responsibility,
and said she would consult Mrs. Easton.

Then consult her in my presence,' said
Walter.

Mary had not bargained for that ; she had
intended to secure Mrs. Easton on her side, and
then take her opinion. However, as Walter's
proposal was fair, she called Mrs. Easton, and
they put the case to her, and asked her to give
her candid opinion.

Mrs. Easton, however, took alarm at the
gravity of the proposal, and told them both
she knew things that were miknoAvn to both of
them, and it was not so easy for her to advise.

Well, but,' said Walter, ' if you know more
than we do, you are the very person that can
advise. All I know is that, if we are not
married now, I shall have to wait six months
at least, and if I stay here Mr. Bartley and I
shall quarrel, and he will refuse me Mary ; and
if I go abroad again I shall get knocked on the
head, or else Mary will pine away again, and
Bartley will send her to Madeira, and we shall
lose our happiness, as all shilly-shallying fools
do.'

Mrs. Easton made no reply to this, though
she listened attentively to it. She walked to
the window and thought quietly to herself;
then she came back again and sat down, and
after a pause she said very gravely : ' Knowing
all I know, and seeing all I see, I advise you
two to marry at once by special license, and
keep it secret from everyone who knows you

but myself — till a proper time comes to reveal
it ; and it's borne in upon me that that
time will come before long, even if Colonel
Clifford should not die this bout, which everybody
says he will.'

Oh, nurse ! ' said Mary faintly, ' I little
thought that you'd be against me.'

Against you. Miss Mary ! ' said Mrs. Easton,
with much feeling. ' I admire Mr. Walter very
much, as any woman must with eyes in her
head, and I love him for loving you so truly
and like a man, for it does not become a man
to shilly-shally, but I never saw him till he was
a man; but you are the child I nursed, and
prayed over, and trembled for in sickness, and
rejoiced over in health, and left a good master
because I saw he did not love you so well as I
did.'

These words went to Mary's heart, and she
flew to her nurse, and hung weeping round her
neck. Her tears made the manly but tenderhearted
Walter give a sort of gulp. Mary heard
it, and put her white hand out to him. He

threw himself upon his knees, and kissed it
devotedly, and the coy girl was won.

From this hour Walter gave her no 
; he easily talked over old Baker, and
got him to excuse his short absence ; he turned
his hunters into roadsters, and rode them very
hard ; he got the special License ; he squared a
clergyman at the head of the lake, who was an
old friend of his and fond of fees ; and, in three
days after her consent, Mary and Mrs. Easton
drove a four-wheeled carriage Walter had lent
them to the little hotel at the Lakes. Walter
had galloped over at eleven o'clock, and they
all three took a little walk together. Walter
Clifford and Mary Bartley returned from that
walk Man and Wife.

CHAPTEE XII.

THE CLANDESTINE Marriage.

Walter Clifford and Mary sat at a late
breakfast in a little inn that looked upon a
lake, which appeared to them more lovely
than the lake of Thun or of Lucerne. He
beamed steadily at her with triumphant rapture
; she stole looks at him of wonder, admiration,
and the deepest love.

As they had nothing now to argue about,
they only spoke a few words at a time, but
these were all musical with love.

To them, as we dramatists say, entered
Mrs. Easton, with signs of hurry.

Miss Mary ' said she.

Mrs. Mary,' suggested Walter meekly.

Mrs. Mary blew him a kiss.

Ay, ay,' said Mrs. Easton smiling. ' Of

course you will both Late me, but I have
come to take you home, Mistress Mary.'

• Home ! ' said Mary ; ' why this feels like
home.'

No doubt,' said Mrs. Easton, ' but for all
that in half an hour we must start.'

The married couple remonstrated with one
accord, but Mrs. Easton was firm. ' I
dreamed,' says she, 'that we were all found
out — and that's a warning. Mr. Walter,
you know that you'll be missed at Clifford
Hall, and didn't ought to leave your father
another day. And you, Miss Mary, do but
think what a weight I have taken upon my
shoulders, and don't put off coming home, for
I am almost shaking with anxiety, and for
sure and certain my dream it was a warning,
and there's something in the wind.'

They were both so much indebted to this
good woman that they looked at each other
piteously, but agreed. Walter rang the bell,
and ordered the four-wheeler and his own

Mary, one little walk in that sweet
garden.'

'Yes, dear,' said Mary, and in another
moment they were walking in the garden,
intertwined like the ivy and the oak, and
purring over their present delights and glowing
prospects.

In the meantime Mrs. Easton packed up
their things. Walter's were enrolled in a light
rug with straps, which went under his saddle.
They left the little inn, Mary driving. When
they had gone about two miles they came to
cross-roads.

Please pull up,' said Mrs. Easton ; then,
turning to Walter, who was riding ridiculously
close to Mary's whip hand, ' Isn't that the way
to Clifford Hall?'

It's one way,' said he ; ' but I don't mean
to go that way. How can I ? It's only three
miles more round by your house.'

Nurse,' said Mary appealingly.

Ay, ay, poor things,' said Mrs. Easton.
Well, well, don't loiter, any way. I shall not

be my own woman again till we're safe at the
farm.'

So they drove briskly on, and in about an
hour more they got to a long hill, whence they
could see the Gilberts' farm.

There, nurse,' said Mary, pouting a little,
now I hope you're content, for we have got
safe home, and he and I shall not have a
happy day together again.'

Oh, yes, you will, and many happy years,'
said Mrs. Easton. ' Well, yes, I don't feel so
-fidgety now.'

Oh ! ' cried Mary, all of a sudden. 'Why
there's our gray mare coming down the hill
with the dog-cart ! Who's that driving her ?
It's not papa. I declare it's Mr. Hope, come
home safe and sound. Dear Mr. Hope ! Oh,
now my happiness is perfect ! '

Mr. Hope ! ' screamed Mrs. Easton.
Drive faster, for Heaven's sake ! Turn your
horse, sir, and gallop away from us as hard as
you can ! '

' Well, but, Mrs. Easton — ' objected Walter.

Mrs. Easton stood up in the carriage.
Man alive ! ' lie screamed, ' you know nothing,
and I know a deal ; begone, or you are
no friend of mine : you'll make me curse the
hour that I interfered.'

'Go, darling,' said Mary kindly, and so
decidedly that he turned his horse directly,
gave her one look of love and disappointment,
and galloped away.

Mary looked pale and angry, and drove on
in sullen silence.

Mrs. Easton was too agitated to mind her
angry looks. She kept wiping the perspiration
from her brow with her handkerchief, and
speaking in broken sentences : 'If we could
only get there first — fool, not to teach my
sister her lesson before we went — she's such a
simpleton ! Can't you drive faster ? '

Why, nurse,' said Mary, ' don't be so
afraid of Mr. Hope. It's not him I'm afraid
of ; it's papa.'

'You don't know what you're talking
about, child. Mr. Bartley is easily blinded';

I won't tell you why. It isn't so with Mr.
Hope. Oh, if I could only get in to have one
word with my simple sister before he turns her
inside out ! '

This question was soon decided. Hope
drove up to the door whilst Mary and Mrs,
Easton were still some distance off, and hidden
by a turn in the road. When they emerged
again into sight of the farm they just caught
sight of Hope's back, and Mrs. Gilbert
curtseying to him and ushering him into the
house.

'Drive into the stable-yard,' said Mrs.
Easton faintly. ' He mustn't see your travelling
basket, any way.'

She told the servant to put the horse into
the stable immediately, and the basket into
the brew-house. Then she hurried Mary up
the back-stairs to her room, and went with a
beating heart to find Mr. Hope and her sister.

Mrs. Gilbert, though a simple and unguarded
woman, could read faces like the rest,
hind she saw at once that her sister was very

much put out by this visit of Mr. Hope, and
wanted to know what had passed between her
and him. This set the poor woman all in a
flutter, for fear she should have said something
injudicious, and thereupon she prepared to find
out, if possible, what she ought to have said.

'What! Mr. Hope!' said Mrs. Easton.
^ Well, Mary will be glad. And have you
been long home, sir ? '

Came last night,' said Hope. ' She hasn't
been well, I hear. What is the matter ? ' And
he looked very anxious.

Well, sir,' said Mrs. Easton very guardedly,
she certainly gave me a fright when she came
here. She looked quite pale ; but whether it
was that she wanted a change — but, whatever
it was, it couldn't be very serious. You shall
judge for yourself. Sister, go to Miss Mary's
room, and tell her.'

Mrs. Easton, in giving this instruction,
frowned at her sister as much as to say, ' Now
<.lon't speak, but go.'

When she was gone, the next thing was to

find out if the woman had made any foolish
admission to Mr. Hope ; so she Awaited for him.

She had not long to wait

Hope said, ' I hardly expected to see you ;
your sister said you were from home.'

Well, sir,' said Mrs. Easton, ' we were not
so far off, but we did come home a little sooner
than we intended, and I am rare glad we did,
for Miss Mary wouldn't have missed you for all
the views in the country.'

With that she made an excuse, and left
him. She found her sister in Mary's room :
they were comparing notes.

Now,' said she to Mrs. Gilbert, ' you tell
me every word you said to Mr. Hope about
Miss Mary and me.'

'Well, I said you were not at home, and
that is every word ; he didn't give me time to
say any more, for questioning of me about her
health.'

'That's lucky,' said Mrs. Easton daily.
Thank Heaven, there's no harm done ; he
shan't see the carriage.'

'Dear me, nurse,' said Mary, ' all this time
I'm longing to see him.'

Well, you shall see him, if you won't own
to having been a night fi'om home.'

Mary promised, and went eagerly to Mr.
Hope. It did not come natural to her to be
afraid of him, aod she was impatient for the
day to come when she might tell him the whole
story. The reception he gave her was not of
a nature to discourage this feeling ; his pale
face — for he had been very ill — flushed at sight
of her, his eyes poured affection upon her, and
he held out both hands to her. 'This the
pale girl they frightened me about ! ' said he.
Why, you're like the roses in July.'

That's partly with seeing of you, sir,' said
Mrs. Easton, quietly following, ' but we do take
some credit to ourselves too ; for Miss Mary
was rather pale when she came here a week
ago ; but, la, young folks want a change now
and then.'

Nurse,' said Mary, "• I really was not welland
you have done wonders for me. and I hope

VOL. 1. K

you won't think me ungrateful, but I must go
home with Mr. Hope.'

Hope's countenance flushed with delight,
and Mrs. Easton saw in a moment that Mary's
affection was co-operating with her prudence.
I thought that would be her first word, sir,*^
said she. *Wliy, of course you will, miss.
There, don't you take any trouble ; we'll pack
your things and put them in the dog-cart ; but
you must eat a morsel, both of you, before you
go. There's a beautiful piece of beef in the
pot, not over-salted, and some mealy potatoes
and suet dumplings. You sit down and have
your chat, whilst Polly and I get everything
ready for you.'

Then Mary asked Mr. Hope so many questions
with such eager affection that he had no
time to ask her any, and then she volunteered
the home news, especially of Colonel Chfford's
condition, and then she blushed and asked him
if he had said anything to her father about
Walter Clifford.
'Not much,' said Mr. Hope. 'You are

very young, Mary, and it's not for me to interfere,
and I won't interfere. But if you want
my opinion, why, I admire the young man extremely.
I always liked him ; he is a straightforward,
upright, manly, good-hearted chap,
and has lots of plain, good sense — Heaven
knows where he got it ! '

This eulogy was interrupted by Mary
putting a white hand and a perfect nose
upon Hope's shoulder, and kissing the cloth
thereon.

What,' said Hope tenderly, and yet half
sadly — for he knew that all middle-aged men
must now be second — ' have I found the way
to your heart ? '

You always knew that Mr. Hope,' said
Mary softly ; ' especially since my escapade in
that horrid brook.'

Their affectionate chat was interrupted, by
a stout servant laying a snowy cloth, and after
her sailed in Mrs. Gilbert, with a red face, and
pride unconcealed and justifiable, carrying a

R 2

grand dish of smoking hot boiled beef, set in a
very flower-bed, so to speak, of carrots, turnips,
and suet dumplings ; the servant followed with
a brown bason, almost as big as a ewer, filled
with mealy potatoes, whose jackets hung by a
thread. Around this feast the whole party
soon collected, and none of them sighed for
Russian soups or French ragouts ; for the fact
is, that, under the title of boiled beef, there
exist two things, one of which, without any
impropriety, might be called junk ; but this
was the powdered beef of our ancestors — a
huge piece just slightly salted in the house
itself, so that the generous juice remained in it ;
but the piquant slices, with the mealy potatoes,
made a delightful combination. The glasses
were filled with home-brewed ale, sparkling
and clear and golden as the finest Madeira.
They all ate manfully, stimulated by the genial
hostess. Even Mary outshone all her former
efforts, and although she couldn't satisfy Mrs.
Gilbert, she declared she had never eaten so
much in all her life. This set good Mrs.

Gilbert's cheeks all aglow with simple, honest
satisfaction.

Hope drove Mary home in the dog-cart.
He was a happy man, but she could hardly be
called a happy woman. She was warm and
cold by turns. She had got her friend back,
and that was a comfort, but she was not treating
him with confidence ; indeed, she was passively
deceiving him, and that chilled her ; but
then it would not be for long, and that comforted
her, and yet even when the day should
come for the great doors of Clifford Hall to fly
open to her, would not a sad, reproachful look
from dear Mr. Hope somewhat imbitter her
cup of happiness ? Deceit, and even reticence,
did not come so natural to her as they do to
many women : she was not weak, and she was
frank, though very modest.

Mr. Bartley met them at the door, and,
owing to Mr. Hope's presence, was more demonstrative
than usual. He seemed much
pleased at Mary's return, and delighted at her
appearance.

Well,' said he, ' I am glad I sent you
away for a week. We have all missed you,
my dear, but the change has set you up again.
I never saw you look better. Now you are
well, we must try and keep you well.'

We must leave the reader to imagine the
mixed feelings with which Mrs. Walter Clifford
laid her head upon the pillow that night, and
we undertake to say that the female readers,
at all events, will supply this blank in our
narrative much better than we could, though
we were to fill a chapter with that subject
alone.

Passion is a terrible enemy to mere affection.
Walter Chfford loved his father dearly,
yet for twenty-four hours he had almost forgotten
him. But the moment he turned his
horse's head toward Chfford Hall, uneasiness
and something very like remorse began to seize
him. Suppose his father had asked for him,
and wondered where he was, and felt himself
deserted and abandoned in his dying moments.

He spurred his horse to a gallop, and soon
reached Clifford Hall. As he was afraid to go
straight to his father's room, he went at once
to old Baker, and said, in an agitated voice :

One word, John — is he alive ? '

Yes, sir, he is,' said John gravely, and
rather sternly.

Has he asked for me ? '

More than once or twice, sir.'

Walter sank into a chair, and covered his
face with his hands. This softened the old
servant, whose manner till then had been
sullen and grim.

You need not fret, Mr. Walter,' said he ;
it's all right. In course I know where you
have been.'

Walter looked up alarmed.

I mean in a general way,' said the old
man. ' You have been a-courting of an angel.
I know her, sir, ad I hope to be her servant
some day ; and if you was to marry any but
her, I'd leave service altogether, and so would
Rhoda Milton ; but, Mr. Walter, sir, there's a

time for everything ; I hope you'll forgive nie
for saying so. However, you are here now,
and I was wide-awake, and I have made it all
right, sir.'

That's impossible,' said Walter. ' How
could you make it right with my poor dear
father, if in his last moments he felt himself
neglected ? '

But he cUdn't feel himself neglected.'
I don't understand you,' said Walter.
Well, sir,' said old Baker, ' I'm an old
servant, and I have done my duty to father
and son according to my lights : I told him a
lie.'

A lie, John ! ' said Walter.
A thundering lie ! ' said John, rather
aggressively. ' I don't know as ever I told a
greater lie in all my life. I told him you was
gone up to London to fetch a doctor.'

Walter grasped John Baker's hand. ' God
bless you, old man,' said he, ' for taking that
on your conscience ! Well, you shan't have
yourself to reproach for my fault. I know a

first-class gout doctor in London ; lie has cured
it more than once. I'll wire him down this
minute ; you'll dispatch the message, and I'll
go to my father.'

The message was sent, and when the
Colonel awoke from an uneasy slumber he saw
his son at the foot of the bed, gazing piteously
at him.

My dear boy,' said he faintly, and held
out a wasted hand. Walter was pricked to
the heart at this greeting : not a word of remonstrance
at his absence.

^ I fear you missed me, father,' said he
sadly.

That I have,' said the old man ; ' but I
dare say you didn't forget me, though you
weren't by my side.'

The high-minded old soldier said no more,
and put no questions, but confided in his son's
affection, and awaited the result of it. From
that hour Walter Chfford nursed his father day
and night. Dr. Garner arrived next day. He
examined the patient, and put a great many"

questions as to the history and progress of the
disorder up to that date, and inquired in particular
what was the length of time the fits
generally endured. Here he found them all
rather hazy. ' Ah,' said he, ' patients are
seldom able to assist their medical adviser with
precise information on this point, yet it's very
important. Well, can you tell me how long
this attack has lasted ? '

They told him that within a day or two.

Then now,' said he, ' the most important
question of all : What day did the pain leave
his extremities ? '

The patient and John Baker had to compare
notes to answer this question, and they made it
out to be about twenty days.

Then he ought to be as dead as a herring,'
whispered the doctor.

After this he began to walk the room and
meditate, with his hands behind him.

Open those top windows,' said he. ' Now
draw the screen and give his lungs a chance ;
no draughts must blow upon him, you know.'

Then lie drew Walter aside : ' Do yoii want to
know the truth ? Well, then, his life hangs on
a thread. The gout is creeping upward, and
will inevitably kill him if we can't get it down.
Nothing but heroic remedies will do that, and
it's three to five against them. What do you
say?'

'I dare not — I dare not. Pray put the
question to him!

I will,' said the doctor ; and accordingly
he did put it to him with a good deal of feeling
and gentleness, and the answer rather surprised
him.

Weak as he was. Colonel Chfford's dull eye
flashed, and he half raised himself on his elbow.
What a question to put to a soldier ! ' said he.
Why, let us fight, to be sure. I thought it
was twenty to one — five to three? 1 have
often won the rubber with five to three against
me.'

Ah ! ' said Dr. Garner, ' these are the
patients that give the doctor a chance.' Tien
he turned to Baker. ' Have you any good

champagne in the house — not too sweet, not
too dry, and full of fire ? '

Irroy's '' Carte d'Or,'" suggested the patient,
entering into the business with a certain feeble
alacrity, that showed his gout had not always
been unconnected with imprudence in diet.

Baker was sent for the champagne. It was
brought and opened, and the patient drank some
of it fizzing. When he had drunk what he
could, his eyes twinkled, and he said :

That's a hair of a dog that has often bitten
me.'

The wine soon got into his weakened head,,
and he dropped asleep.

Another draught when he wakes,' said the
doctor, ' but from a fresh bottle.'

We'll finish this one to your health in the
servants' hall,' said honest John Baker.

Dr. Garner stayed there all night, keeping
up the patient's strength with eggs and brandy,
and everything, in short, except medicine ; and
he also administered champagne, but at much
longer intervals.

At one o'clock next day the patient gave a
dismal groan ; Walter and the others started
up in alarm.

Good ! ' said the doctor calmly ; ' now I'll
go to bed. Call me if there's any fresh symptom . '

At six o'clock old Baker burst in the room :
Sir, sir, he have swore at me twice. The Lord
be praised ! '

Excellent ! ' said the doctor. ' Now, tell
me what disagrees with him most after champagne
? '

Why, Green Chartreuse, to be sure,' said
old Baker.

Then give him a table-spoonful,' said the
doctor. ' Get me some hot water.'

Which j&rst ? ' inquired Baker.

The patient, to be sure,' said Dr. Garner.

Soon after this the doctor stood by his
patient's side, and found him writhing, and, to
tell the truth, he was using bad language occasionally,
though he evidently tried not to.

Dr. Garner looked at his watch. ' I think
there's time to catch the evening train.'

Why,' said Walter, ' surely you would not
desert us ; this is the crisis, is it not ? '

It's something more than that,' said the
doctor ; ' the disease knows its old place ; it
has gone back to the foot like a shot ; and if
you can keep it there, the patient will live ;
he's not the sort of patient that strikes his
colours while there's a bastion left to defend

These words pleased the old Colonel so that
he waved a feeble hand above his head, then
groaned most dismally, and ground his teeth to
avoid profanity.

The doctor, with exquisite gentleness, drew
the clothes off his feet, and sent for a lot of fleecy
cotton or wool, and warned them all not to
touch the bed, nor even to approach the lower
part of it, and then he once more proposed to
leave, and gave his reasons.

Now, look here, you know, I have done my
part, and if I give special instructions to the
nurses, they can do the rest. I'm rather dear,
and why should you waste your money ? '

Dear ! ' said Walter warmly ; • you're as

cheap as dirt, and as good as gold, and the very
sight of you is a comfort to us. There's a fast
train at ten ; I'll drive you to the station after
breakfast myself. Your fees — they are nothing
to us. We love him, and we are the happiest
house in Christendom — we, that were the
saddest.'

Well,' said the doctor, ' you North countrymen
are hearty people. I'll stay till tomorrow
morning — indeed, I'll stay till the afternoon
for my London day will be lost any way.'

He stayed accordingly till three o'clock, left
his patient out of all present danger, and advised
Walter especially against allowing colchicum to
be administered to him until his strength had
recovered.

There is no medicinal cure for gout,' said
he ; ' pain is a mere symptom, and colchicum
soothes that pain, not by affecting the disease,
but by stilling the action of the heart. Well,
if you still the action of the heart there, you kill
him as surely as if you stilled it with a pistol
bullet. Knock off his champagne in three or

four days, aod wheel him into the sun as soon
as you can with safety ; fill his lungs with oxygen,
and keep all worry and disputes and mental
anxiety from him, if you can. Don't contradict
him for a month to come.'

The Colonel had a terrible bout of it so far
as pain was concerned, but after about a fortnight
the paroxysms intermitted, the appetite
increased. Everybody was his nurse ; everybody,
including Julia Clifford, humoured him ;
Percy Fitzroy was never mentioned, and the
name of Bartley religiously avoided. The
Colonel had got a fright, and was more prudent
in his diet, and always in the open air.

Walter left him only at odd times, when he
could hope to get a hasty word with Mary, and
tell her how things were going, and do all that
man could do to keep her heart up, and reconcile
her to the present situation.

Returning from his wife one day, and leaving
her depressed by their galling situation,
though she was never peevish, but very sad and
thoughtful, he found his father and Julia

Clifford in the library. Julia had been writing
letters for him ; she gave Walter a deprecatory
look, as much as to say, ' What I am doing is
by compulsion, and you won't like it.' Colonel
Clifford didn't leave the young man in any
doubt about the matter. He said, ' Walter,
you heard me speak of Bell, the counsel who
leads this circuit. I was once so fortunate as
to do him a good turn, and he has not forgotten
it ; he will sleep here the day after tomorrow,
and he will go over that blackguard's lease :
he has been in plenty of mining cases. I have
got a sort of half opinion out of him already ;
he thinks it contrary to the equity of contracts
that minerals should pass under a farm lease
where the surface of the soil is a just equivalent
to the yearly payment ; but the old fox won't
speak positively till he has read every syllable
of the lease. However, it stands to reason
that it's a fraud ; it comes from a man who
is all fraud; but, thank God, I am myself
again.'

He started up erect as a dart. ' I'll have
vol. 1. S

him off my lauds ; I'll drag him out of the
bowels of the earth, him and all his clan ! '

With this aud other threats of the same
character he marched out of the room, striking
the floor hard with his stick as he went, and left
Julia Chfford amazed, and Walter Chfford
aghast, at his vindictive fury.

CHAPTEE XIII.

THE SERPENT LET LOOSE.

Walter Clifford was so distressed at this outburst,
and the prospect of actual litigation
between his father and his sweetheart's father,
that Juha Afford pitied him, and, after thinking
a little, said she would stop it for the
present. She then sat down, and in five
minutes the docile pen of a female letter-writer
produced an ingratiating composition impossible
to resist. She apologized for her apparent
insincerity, but would be candid, and confide
the whole truth to Mr. Bell. Then she told
him that Colonel Clifford ' had only just been
saved from death by a miracle, and a relapse
was expected in case of any great excitement
or irritation, such as a doubtful lawsuit with
a gentleman he disliked would certainly cause.

The proposed litigation was, for various reasons
most distressing to his son and successor,
Walter Clifford, and would Mr. Bell be so very
kind as to put the question off as long as possible
by any means he thought proper ? '

Walter was grateful, and said, ' What a
comfort to have a lady on one's side ! '

I would rather have a gentleman on mine,'
said Julia, laughing.

Mr. Bell wrote a discreet reply. He would
wait till the assizes — six weeks' delay — and
then write to the Colonel, postponing his visit.
This he did, and promised to look up cases
meantime.

But these two allies not only baffled their
irascible chief ; they also humoured him to the
full. They never mentioned the name of
Bartley, and they kept Percy Fitzroy out of
sight in spite of his remonstrances ;. and, in a
word, they made the Colonels life so smooth,
that he thought he was going to have his own
way in everything, and he improved in health
and spirits ; for you know it is an old saying.

Always get your own way, and you'll never
die in a pet.'

And then, what was still a tottering situation
Alas kept on its legs by the sweet character
and gentle temper of Mary Bartley.

We have already mentioned that she was
superior to most women in the habit of close
attention to whatever she undertook. This
was the real key to hei faciht}^ in languages,
history, music, drawing, and calisthenics, asher
professor called female gymnastics. The
flexible creature's limbs were in secret steel.
She could go thirty feet up a slack rope handover
hand with wonderful ease and grace, and
hang by one hand for ten minutes to kiss the
other to her friends. So the very day she was
surprised into consenting to marry Walter
secretly, she sat down to the marriage service
and learned it all b}^ heart directly, and understood
most of it.

By this means she realized that now she
had another man to obey as well as her father.
So now, dien Walter pressed her for secret

meetings, she said submissively, ' Oh, yes, if
you insist.' She even remarked that she concluded
clandestine meetings were the natural
consequence of a clandestine marriage.

She used to meet her husband in the day
when she could, and often for five minutes
under the moon. And she even promised to
spend two or three days with him at the Lakes
if a safe opportunity should occur. But for
that she stipulated that Mr. Hope must be
absent.

Walter asked why she was more afraid of
Mr. Hope than of her father.

Her eyes seemed to look inward dimly, and
at first she said she didn't know. But after
pondering the matter a little she said, ' Because
he watches me more closely than papa, and

that is because You won't tell anybody ? '

'No.'

Not a soul, upon your honour ? '

Not a soul, dearest, upon my honour.'

Well, then, because he loves me more.'

Oh, come ! ' said Walter incredulously.

But Mary would neither resign her opinion
nor pursue a subject which puzzled and grieved
her.

We have now indicated the peaceful tenor
of things in Derbyshire for a period of some
months. We shall have to show by-and-by
that elements of discord were accumulating
under the surface ; but at present we must
leave Derbyshire, and deal very briefly with
another tissue of events, beginning years ago,
and running to a date three months, at least,
ahead of Colonel Clifford's recovery. The
reader will have no reason to regret this apparent
interruption. Our tale hitherto has
been rather sluggish ; but it is in narrative as
it is in nature : when two streams unite their
forces the current becomes broader and
stronger.

Leonard Monckton was sent to Pentonville,
and after some years transferred to Portland.
In both places he played the game of an old
hand ; always kept his temper and carried
everybody, especially the chaplain and the

turnkeys. These last he treated as his only
masters ; and if they gave him short weight in
bread or meat, catch him making matters
worse by appealing to the governor ! Towards
the end of his time at Pentonville he had some
thought of suicide, but his spirits revived at
Portland, where he was cheered by the conversation
of other villains. Their name was
legion ; but as he never met one of them again,
except Ben Burnley, all those miscreants are
happily irrelevant. And the reader need not
fear an introduction to them, unless he should
find himself garrotted in some dark street or
suburb, or his home rifled some dark and
windy night. As for Ben Burnley, he was
from the North country, imprisoned for conspiracy
and manslaughter in an attack upon
non-union miners. Toward the end of his
time he made an attack upon a warder, and
got five years more. Tien Monckton showed
him he was a fool, and explained to him his
own plan of conduct, and bade him observe
how popular he was with the warders, and

reaped all the favour they dared to show
him.

He treated me like a dog,' said the man
sullenly.

I saw it,' said Leonard. ' And if I had
been you I would have said nothing, but
waited till my time was out, and then watched
for him till he got his day out, and settled his
hash. That is the way for your sort. As forme,
killing is a poor revenge ; it is too soon
over. Do you think I don't mean to be
revenged on that skunk Bartley, and above all
on that scoundrel Hope, who planted the swag
in my pockets, and let me into this hole for
fourteen years?' Then, With all his self-command,
he burst into a torrent of curses,
and his pale face was ghastly with hate, and
his eyes glared v/ith demoniac fire, for hell
raged in his heart.

Just then a warder approached, and, to
Burnley's surprise, who did not see him
coming, Monckton said gently, ' And therefore,
my poor fellow, do just consider that

you have broken the law, and the warders are
only doing their duty and earning their bread,
and if you were a warder tomorrow, you'd
have to do just what they do.'

A}^' said the warder in passing, ' you may
lecture the bloke, but you will not make a silk
purse out of a sow's ear.'

This was true, but nevertheless the smooth
villain Monckton obtained a great ascendency
over this rough, shock-headed ruffian, Burnley,
and he got into no more scrapes. He finished
his two sentences, and left before Monckton.
This precious pair revealed to each other
certain passages in their beautiful lives.
Monckton's were only half-confidences, but
Burley told Monckton he had been concerned
with others in a burglary at Stockton, and also
in the death of an overseer in a mine in Wales,
and gave the particulars with a sort, of quaking
gusto, and washing his hands nervously in the
tainted air all the time. To be sure, the
overseer had earned his fate ; he had himself
been guilty of a crime — he had been true to
his employer.

The grateful Burnley left Portland at last,
and promised faithfully to send word to a
certain friend of Monckton's, in London, where
he was, and what he was doing. Meantime,
he begged his way northward from Portland,
for the southern provinces \xeYe a dead letter
to him.

Monckton's wife wrote to him as often as
the rules of the jail permitted, and her letters
were full of affection, and of hope that their
separation would be shortened. She went
into all the details of her life, and it was now a
creditable one. Young women are educated
practically in Germany ; and Lucy was not
only a good scholar, and almost a linguist,
but excellent at all needlework, and, better
still, could cut dresses and other garments in
the best possible style. After one or two
inferior places, she got a situation with an
English countess; and from that time she
was passed as a treasure from one member of
the aristocracy to another, and received high
stipends, and presents of at least equal value.
Being a German, she put by money, and

let her husband know it. But in the seventh
year of her enforced widowhood her letters
began to undergo subtle changes, one after
another.

First, there were little exhibitions of impatience.
Then there were signs of languor
and a diminution of gush.

Then there were stronger protestations of
affection than ever.

Then there were mixed with these protestations
queries whether the truest affection
was not that which provided for the interests
of the beloved person.

Then, in the eighth year of Monck ton's
imprisonment, she added to remarks of the
above kind certain confessions that she was
worn out with anxieties, and felt her lonely
condition ; that youth and beauty did not last
for ever ; that she had let slip opportunities of
doing herself substantial service, and him too,
if he could look at things as coolly now as he
used to ; and she began to think she had done
wrong.

This line, once adopted, was never given
up, though it was accompanied once or twice
with passionate expressions of regret at the
vanity of long-cherished hopes. Then came
a letter or two more, in which the fair writer
described herself as torn this way and that way,
and not knowing what to do for the best, and
inveighed against Fate.

Then came a long silence.

Then came a short letter, imploring him,
if he loved her as she loved him, to try and
forget her, except as one who would always
watch over his interests, and weep for him in
secret.

Crocodile ! ' said Monckton, with a cold
sneer.

All this showed him it was his interest not
to lose his hold on her. So he always wrote
to her in a beautiful strain of faith, affection,
and constancy.

But this part of the comedy was cut short
by the lady discontinuing the correspondence
and concealing her address for years.

xii ! ' said Monckton, ' she wants to cure
me. That cock won't fight, my beauty.'

A month before he was let loose upon
society came a surprise — a letter from his wife,
directing him to call at the office of a certain
solicitor in Serjeants' Inn, Fleet Street, when
he would receive 50/. upon his personal receipt,
and a similar sum from time to time, provided
he made no attempt to discover her, or in
any way disturb her life. ' Oh, Leonard ! '
said she, ' you ruined me once. Pray do not
destroy me again. You may be sure I am
not happy ; but I am in. peace and comfort,
and I am old enough to know their value.
Dear Leonard, I offer them both to you.
Pray, pray do not despise them, and, whatever
you do, do not offend against the law again.
You see how strong it is.'

Monckton read this with calm difference.
He did not expect a woman to give him a
pension unconditionally, or without some little
twaddle by way of drawback. He called on
the lawyer, and sent in his name. He was

received by the lawyer in person, and eyed
very keenly. ' I am directed to call here for
50/., sir,' said he.

'Yes, Mr. Monckton. I believe the payment
is conditional.'

No, sir ; not the first 50/. It is the future
payments that are to depend upon my conniving
at my wife's infidelity ; ' and with that
he handed him the letter.

The lawyer perused it, and said, ' You are
right, sir. The 50/. shall be paid to you immediately
; but we must request you to consider
that our client is your friend, and acts by our
advice, and that it will not be either graceful
or delicate to interpret her conduct to her discredit.'


My good sir,' said Monckton, with one of
his cynical sneers, ' every time your client pays
me 50/., put on the receipt that black is white
in matters of conjugal morality, and I'll sign
the whole acknowledgment.'

Finding he had such a serpent to deal with,
the lawyer cut the dialogue short, and paid the

money. However, as Monckton was leaving,
he said, ' You can write to us when you want
any more, and would it be discreet of me to
ask where we can address you ? '

• Why not ? ' said Monckton. ' I have
nothing to conceal. However, all I can tell
you at present is that I am going to Hull to
try to find a couple of rogues.'

To Hull he went, breathing avarice and
vengeance. This dangerous villain was quite
master of ,Bartley's secret, and Hope's. To
be sure, when Hope first discovered him in
Bartley's office, he was puzzled at the sudden
interference of that stranger. He had only
seen Hope's back until this, and, moreover,
Hope had been shabbily dressed in black cloth,
hard worn, whereas he was in a new suit of
tweed when he exposed Monckton's villany.
But this was explained at the trial, and
Monckton instructed his own attorney to cross-examine
Hope about his own great fraud ; but
counsel refused to do so, either because he
disbelieved his client, or thought such a cross-examination

would be stopped', or set the court
still more against his client.

Monckton raged at this, and, of course, said
he had been bought by the other side. But
now he was delighted that his enemies' secret
had never been inquired into, and that he
could fall on them both like a thunder-bolt.

He was at Hull next day, and rambled
about the old shop, and looked in at the windows.
All new faces, and on the door-plates
Atkinson & Co.'

Then he went in, and asked for Mr.
Bartley.

Name not known.

Why, he used to be here. I was in his
employ.'

No ; nobody knew Mr. Bartley.

Gould he see Mr. Atkinson ?

Certainly. Mr. Atkinson would be thereat
two o'clock.

Monckton, after some preamble, asked
whether he had not succeeded in this business
to Mr. Eobert Bartley.

VOL. L T

No. He had bought the business from
Mrs. Duplex, a widow residing in this town,
and he happened to know that her husband
had taken it from Whitaker, a merchant at
Boston.

Is he alive, sir ? '

I believe so, and very well known.'

Monckton went off to Whitaker, and
learned from him that he had bought the
business from Bartley, but it was many years
ago, and he had never heard of the purchaser
since that day.

Monckton returned to London baffled.
What was he to do ? Go to a secret-inquiry
office ? Advertise that if Mr. Eobert Bartley,
late of Hull, would write to a certain agent,
he would hear of something to his advantage ?
He did not much fancy either of these plans.
He wanted to pounce on Bartley, or Hope,
or both.

Then he argued thus : ' Bartley has got lots
of money now, or he would not have given
up business. Ten to one he lives in London,
or visits it. I will try the Park.'

Well, he did try the Park, both at the
riding hour and the driving hour. He saw
no Bartley at either time.

But one day, in the Ladies' Mile, as he listlessly
watched the carriages defile slowly past
him, with every now and then a jam, there
crawled past him a smart victoria, and in ita
beautiful woman with glorious dark eyes,
and a lovely little boy, the very image of her.
It was his wife and her son.

Monckton started, but the lady gave no
sign of recognition. She bowed, but it was
to a gentleman at Monckton's side, who had
raised his hat to her with marked respect.

What a beautiful crechaar ! ' said a little
swell to the gentleman in question. 'You
know her ? '

Very slightly.'

Who is she ? A duchess ? '

No ; a stock-broker's wife, Mrs. Abraham.
Why, she is a known beauty.'

That was enough for Monckton. He hung
back a little, and followed the carriage. He

T 2

calculated that if it left the Park at Hyde
Park Corner or the Marble Arch, he could
take a hansom and follow it.

When the victoria got clear of the crowd
at the corner, Mrs. Braham leaned forward
a moment and whispered a word to her coachman.
Instantly the carriage dashed at the
Chesterfield Gate and into Mayfair at such
a swift trot that there was no time to oft a
cab and keep it in sight.

Monckton lighted a cigarette. 'Clever
girl ! ' said he satirically. ' She knew me,
and never winked.'

The next day he went to the lawyer and
said, ' I have a little favour to ask you, sir.'

The lawyer was on his guard directly, but
said nothing.

'An interview — in this office— with Mrs.
Braham.'

The lawyer winced, but went on his guard
again directly.

Client of ours ? '

Yes, sir.'

Bralio,m ? Balsam ? ' said the lawyer,
affecting to search the deep caverns of professional
memory.

Stock-broker's ife.'

Where do they hive ? '

'What! don't you know? Place of business
— Threadneedle Street. Place of bigamy
Portman Square.'

I have no authority to grant a personal
interview with any such person.'

But you have no power to hinder one,
and it is her interest the meeting should take
place here, and the stock-broker be out

of it;

The lawyer reflected.

Will you promise me it shall be a friendly
interview ? You will never oro to her husband
? '

Her stock-broker, you mean. Not I — if
she comes to me here when I want her.'

Will that be often ? '

I think not. I have a better card to play
than Mrs. Braham. I only want her to help

me to find certain people. Shall we say twelve
o'clock to-morrow ? '

The lawyer called on Mrs. Braham, and
after an agitated and tearful interview, persuaded
her to keep the appointment.

Consider,' said he, ' what you gain by
making our office the place of meeting. Establish
that at once. It's a point of defence.'

The meeting took place in the lawyer's
private room, and Mrs. Braham was so overcome
that she nearly fainted. Then she was
hysterical, and finally tears relieved her.

When she came to this point, Monckton,
who had looked upon the whole exhibition
as a mere preliminary form observed by
females, said:

Come, Lucy, don't be silly. I am not
here to spoil your little game, but to play my
own. The question is, will you help me to
make my fortune ? '

Oh, that I will, if you will not break up
my home.'

Not such a fool, my dear. Catch me killing

a milch-cow ! You give me a percentage
on your profits, and I'm dumb.'

Then all you want is more money ? '

That is all ; and I shall not want that ina
month's time.'

'I have brought 100/., Leonard,' she said
timidly.

Sensible girl ! Hand it over.'

Two white hands trembled at the strings
of a little bag, and took out ten crisp notes.

Leonard took them with satisfaction.

There,' said he. ' This will last me till I
have found Bartley and Hope, and made my
fortune.'

Hope ! ' said Mrs. Braham. ' Oh, pray
keep clear of him ! Pray don't attack Jim
again. He is such an able man ! '

I will not attack him again to be defeated.
Forewarned, forearmed. Indeed, if I am to
bleed Bartley, I don't know how I can be revenged
on Hope. That is the crud thing. But
don't you trouble about my business, Lucy,
unless,' said he, with a sneer, ' you can tell me

where to find them, and so save me a lot of
money.'

Well, Leonard,' said Lucy, ' it can't be so
very hard to find Hope. You know where
that young man lives that you — that I '

'Oh, Walter Clifford! Yes, of course I
know where he lives. At Clifford Hall, in
Derbyshire.'

Well, Leonard, Hope saved him from
prison, and ruined you. That young man had
a good heart. He would not forget such a
kindness. He may not know where Mr.
Bartley lives, but surely he will know where
Hope is.'

Lucy,' said Leonard, ' you are not such, a
fool as you were. It is a chance, at all events.
I'll go down to that neighbourhood directly.
I'll have a first-rate disguise, and spy about,
and pick up aU I can.'

And you will never say anything or do

anything to Oh, Leonard, I'm a bad wife.

I never can be a good one now to anybody.
But I'm a good mother ; and I thought God

had forgiven me, when He sent me my little
angel. You will never ruin his poor mother,
and niake her darling blush for her ? '

Curse me if I do ! ' said Leonard, betrayed
into a moment's warmth. But he was
soon himself again. ' There,' said he, ' I'll
leave the little bloke my inheritance. Perhaps
you don't know I'm heir to a large estate in
Westmoreland ; no end of land and half a
lake, and only eleven lives between the estate and
me, I will leave my " great expectations '' to
that young bloke. What's his christian name ? '

Augustus.'

And what's his father's name ? '

Jonathan.'

Leonard then left all his property, real
and personal, and all that should ever accrue
to him, to Augustus Braham, son of Jonathan
Braham, and left Lucy Braham sole executrix
and trustee.

Then he hurried into the outer office,
signed this document, and got it witnessed.
The clerks proposed to engross it.

'What for?' said he. ' This is the
strongest form. All in the same handwriting
as the signature ; " forgery made easy " are
your engrossed wills.'

He took it into Mrs. Braham, and read it
to her, and gave it to her. He meant it all asa
joke ; he read it with a sneer. But the
mother's heart overflowed. She put it in her
bosom, and kissed his hand .

Oh, Leonard,' said she, ' God bless you !
Now I see you mean no ill to me and mine.
You don't love me enough to he angry with me.
But it all comes back to me . A woman can't
forget her first. Now promise me one thing ;
don't give way to revenge or avarice. You
are so wise when you are cool, but no man
can give way to his passions and be wise.
Why run any more risks ? He is liberal to me,
and I'm not extravagant. I can allow you
more than I said, and wrong nobody.'

Monckton interrupted her thus : ' There,
old girl, you are a good sort ; you always were.
But not bleed that skunk Bartley, and not be

revenged on that villain Hope ? I'd rather die
where I stand, for they have turned my blood
to gall, and lighted hell in my heart this many
a year of misery.'

He held out his hand to her ; it was cold.
She grasped it in her warm, soft palm, and
gave him one strange, searching look with her
glorious eyes ; and so they parted.

Next day, at dusk, there arrived at the
Dun Cow ' an elderly man with a large carpetbag
and a strapped bundle of patterns — tweed,
kersey, velveteen, and corduroys. He had a
short grey moustache and beard, very neat ;
and appeared to be a commercial traveller.

In the evening he asked for brandy, old
rum, lemons, powdered sugar, a kettle, and a
punch bowl. A huge one, relic of a past age,
was produced. He mixed delicious punch, and
begged the landlady to sit doAvn and taste it.
She complied, and pronounced it first-rate.
He enticed her into conversation.

She Alas a rattling gossip, and told him first
her own grievances. Here was the village

enlarging, and yet no more custom coming to
her because of the beer-house. The very mention
of this obnoxious institution moved her
bile directly. ' A pretty gentleman,' said she,
to brew his own beer and undersell a poor
widow that have been here all her days, and
her father before her I But the Colonel won't
let me be driven out altogether, no more will
Mr. Walter : he do manage for the old gentleman
now.'

Monckton sipped and waited for the name
of Hope, but it did not come. The good lady
deluged him with the things that interested her.
She was to have a bit of a farm added on to
the ' Dun Cow.' It was t(3 be grass land, and
not much labour wanted. She couldn't undertake
that ; was it likely ? But for milking of
cows and making butter or cheese, that she
was as good at as here and there one ; and if
she could have the custom of the miners for
her milk — ' But, la, sir,' said she, ' I'll go bail
as that there Bartley will take and set up a
dairy against me, as he have a beershop.'

Bartley ? ' said Monckton inquiringly.

Ay, sir ; him as owns the mine, and the
beersliop, and all, Averse luck for me.'

Bartley ? Who is he ? '

'Oh, one of those chaps that ]rise from
nothing nowadays. Came here to farm ; but
that Alas a blind, the Colonel says. Sunk a
mine, he did, and built a pit village, and turns
everything into brass [money]. But there, you
are a stranger, sir ; what is all this to
you ? '

'Why, it is very interesting,' said Monckton.
Mistress, I always like to hear the whole history
of every place T stop at, especially from
a sensible woman like you, that sees to the
bottom of things. Do have another oflass.
Why, I should be as dull as ditch-water now,
if I had not your company.'

La, sir, I'm sure you are welcome to my
company in a civil way ; and, for the matter of
that, you are right ; life is life, and there's
plenty to be learned in a public — do but open
your eyes and ears.'

'Have another glass with me. I am
praised for my punch.'

You deserve it, sir. Better was never
brewed.'

Lie sipped and sipped, and smacked her
hips, till it was all gone.

This glass coloured her cheeks, brightened
her eyes, and even loosened her tongue, though
that was pretty well oiled b}^ nature.

Well, sir,' said she, ' you are a bird of
passage, here to-day and gone tomorrow, and
it don't matter much what I tell you, so long
as I don't tell no lies. There will be a roi in
this village.'

Having delivered this formidable prophecy,
the coy dame pushed her glass to her companion
for more, and leaning back cozily in
the old-fashioned high-backed chair, observed
the effect of her thunder bolt.

Monckton rubbed his hands. ' I'm glad of
it,' said he genially ; ' that is to say, provided
my good hostess does not suffer by it.'

I'm much beholden to you, sir,' said the

lady. ' You are the c: vilest-spoken gentleman
I have entertained this many a day. Here's
your health, and wishing you luck in your
business, and many happy days well spent.
My service to you, su'

The same to you, ma'am.'

Well, sir, in regard to a row between the
gentlefolks — not that I call that there Bartley
one — judge for yourself. You are a man of
the world and a man of business, and an
elderly man apparently.'

At all events, I am older than you,
madam.'

That is as may be,' said Mrs. Dawson
drily. ' We hasn't got the parish register here,
and all the better for me. So once more I say,
judge for yourself.'

Well, madam, said Monckton, ' I will try,
if you will oblige me with the facts.'

That is reasonable,' said Mrs. Dawson
loftily, but after some little consideration.
The facts I will declare, and not a lie among
'em.'

'That will be a novelty,' thought her
cynical hearer, but he held his tongue, and
looked respectfully attentive.

Colonel Clifford,' said Mrs. Dawson, 'hates
Bartley like poison, and Bartley him. The
Colonel vows he will have him off the land and
out of the bowels of the earth, and he have
sent him a lawyer's letter ; for everything leaks
out in this village, along of the servants' chattering.
Bartley, he don't value a lawyer's letter
no more than that. He defies the Colonel, and
they'll go it hammer and tongs at the 'Sizes,
and spend a mint of money in law. That's
one side of the question. But there's another.
Master Walter is deep in love with Miss Mary.'

Who is she ? '

Who is she ? Why, Bartley 's daughter, to
be sure ; not as I'd believe it if I hadn't known
her mother, for she is no more like him in her
looks or her ways than a tulip is to a dandelion.
She is the loveliest girl in the county,
and better than she's bonny. You don't catch
her drawing bridle at her papa's beerhouse.

and she never passes my picture. It's "Oh,
Mrs. Dawson, I am so thirsty ; a glass of your
good cider, please, and a little hay and water
for Deersfoot." That's her way, bless your silly
heart ! She ain't dry ; and Deersfoot, he's full
of beans, and his coat's like satin ; but that's
Miss Mary's way of letting me know that she's
my customer, and nobody else's in the town.
God bless her. and send her many happy days
with the man of her heart, and that is Walter
Clifford, for she is just as fond of him as he is
of her. I seen it all from the first day. 'Twas
love at first sight, and still a growing to this
day. Them old fogies may tear each other to
pieces, but they won't part such lovers as those.
There's not a girl in the village that doesn't run
to look at them, and admire them, and wish
them joy. Ay, and you mark my words, they
are young, but they have got a spirit, both
of them. Miss Mary, she looks you in the face
like a lion and a dove, all in one. They may
lead her, but they won't drive her. And
VOL. L U

Walter, he's a Clifford from top to toe. Nothing
but death will part them two. Them's the
facts, sir, without a lie, which now I'm
a-waiting for judgment.'

Mrs. Dawson,' said Monckton solemnly,
since you do me the honour to ask my opinion,
I say that out of these facts a row will certainly
arise, and a deadly one.

It must, sir : and Will Hope will have to
take a side. 'Tis no use his trying to be everybody's
friend this time, though that's his natural
character, poor chap.'

Monckton's eyes flashed fire, but he suppressed
all appearance of excitement, and asked
who Mr. Hope was.

Mrs. Dawson brightened at the very name
of her favourite, and said, ' Who is Will Hope ?
Why, the cleverest man in Derbyshire, for one
thing ; but he is that Bartley's right-hand man,
worse luck. He is inspector of the mine and
factotum. He is the handiest man in England.
He invents machines, and makes fiddles and
plays 'em, and mends all their clocks and

watches and wheelbarrows, and charges 'em
naught. He makes himself too common. I
often tell him so. Says I, " Why dost let 'em
all put on thee so ? Serve thee right if I was to
send thee my pots and cans to mend." " And
so do," says he directly. " There's no art in it
if you can make the sawder, and I can do that,
by the Dick and Harry ! " And one day I said
to lira, " Do take a look at this fine new cow
of mine, as cost me twenty-five good shillings
and a quart of ale. Whatever is the matter with
her ? She looks like the skin of a cow flattened
against the board." So says he, "Nay, she's
better drawn than nine in ten ; but she wants
light and shade. Send her to my workshop."
Ay, ay," says I ; "• thy workshop is like the
churchyard ; we be all bound to go there one
day or t'other." Well, sir, if you believe me,
when they brought her home and hung her
again, she almost knocked my eye out. There
was three or four more women looking on, and
I mind all on us shrieked a bit, and our hands

u 2

went up in the air as if one string had pulled
the lot ; and says Bet Morgan, the carter's wife,
Lord sake, gie me a bucket, somebody, and let
me milk her ! " " Nay, but thou shalt milk me,"
said I, and a pint of fourpenny I gave her, then
and there, for complimenting of my, cow. Will
Hope, he's everybody's friend. Ke made the
Colonel a crutch with his own hands, which
the Colonel can use no other now. Walter
swears by him. Miss Mary dotes on him : he
saved her life in the river when she was a o'irl.
The very miners give him a good word, though
he is very strict with them ; and as for Bartley,
it's m}^ belief he owes all his good luck to Will
Hope. And to think he was born in the village,
and left it a poor lad ; ay, and he came back
here one day as poor as Job, seems but t'other
day, with his bundle on his back and his poor
little girl in his hand. I dare say I fed them
both with whatever was going, poor bodies.'

What was she like ? '

A poor, little, wizened thing. Lie had
beautiful golden hair, though.'

Like Miss Bartley's ? '

Something, but lighter.'

Have you ever seen her since ? '

No ; and I never shall.'

'Who knows?'

Stay, sir. I asked him after her one day
when he came home for good. He never
answered me, and he turned away as if I had
stung him. She has followed her mother, no
doubt. And so now she is gone he's well-to-do
; and that is the way of it, sir. God
sends mouths where there is no meat, and
meat where there's no months. But He knows
best, and sees both worlds at once. We can
only see this one — that's full of trouble.'

Monckton now began to yawn, for he
wanted to be alone and think over the schemes
that floated before him now.

You are sleepy, sir,' said Mrs. Dawson.
I'll go and see your bed is all right.'

He thanked her and filled her glass. She
tossed it off like a man this time, and left him
to doze in his chair.

Doze, indeed ! Never did a man's eyes
move to and fro more restlessly. Every
faculty was strung to the utmost.

At first, as all the dramatis j^ersonw he was
in search of came out one after another from
that gossip's tongue, he was amazed and
delighted to hind that, instead of having to
search for one of them in one part of England
and another in another, he had got them all
ready to his hand. But soon he began to see
that they were too near each other, and some
of them interwoven, and all the more dangerous
to attack.

He saw one thing at a glance : that it
would be quite a mistake to settle a plan of
action. That is sometimes a great advantage
in dealing with the unguarded. But it creates
a stiffness. Here all must be supple and fitted
with watchful tact to the situation as it rose.
Everything would have to be shot flying.

Then, as to the immediate situation.
Reader, did you ever see a careful setter run

suddenly into the middle of a covey which
were not on their feet nor close together, buta
little dispersed and reposing in high cover
in the middle of the day ? No human face is
ever so intense or human form more rigid.
He knows that one bird is three yards from
his nose, another the same distance from either
ear, and, in short, that they are all about him,
and to frighten one is to frighten all.

His tail quivers, and then turns to steel,
like his limbs. His eyes glare ; his tongue
fears to pant ; it slips out at one side of his
teeth, and they close on it. Then slowly,
slowly, he goes down, noiseless as a cat, and
crouches on the long covert, whether turnips,
rape, or clover.

Even so did this designing cur crouch in
the 'Dun Cow.'

The loyal quadruped is waiting for his
master, and his anxiety is disinterested. The
biped cur was waiting for the first streak
of dawn, to slip away to some more distant

and safe hiding-place and sally-port than the
*Dun Cow,' kept by a woman who was devoted
to Hope, to Walter, and to Mary, and had all
her wits about her — mother wit included.

END OF THE FIRST VOLUME.

G.&C.

LONDON : PRINTED BY

gPOTTISWOODE AND CO., NEW-street SQUARE

XSU PARLIAMENT STREET

^m

(In connection with MUDIE'Sj

Bath, Cheltenham,

28, New Bond Street. High Street,

annual Subscription:

Two Sets of Books at a time, One Guinea

POPULAR SUBSCRIPTION, Bids 6d. a year.
Bxohanireatole as often as desired.
Volumes retained in excess of the number subscribed for
will be charged extra, at Non-Subscriber's rates.

OF Thou

N I Verity

or Ill Noise

R 2 55 per

V.2

M^-^

iMjiStonvlIbMry 1 1

(In connection with MUDIE's)

BATH, Cheltenham,

23, New Bond^Street^ ^^^1^ ^*"®*-

Annual subscription :

Two Sets of Books at a time, One Guinea

POPULAR SUBSCRIPTION, 10s 6d. a year.
Exchangeable as often as desired.

Volumes retained in excess of the number subsided for
will be charged eo^jm^atJ^on^Subscr^^

^^^.l

BY

Charles READE

Author OF
HARD CASH' ' PCT Yourself IX HIS PLACE' * IT'S Never TOO LATE TO Menu'
• GRIFFITH GAfXT ' Enfin

TWO VOLUMES
VOL. II.

LONDON

RICHARD BENTLEY & son, NEW BLRLi:SGTON STREET

publishers iu ©rbiuarn to ]ser l^njestii the ^lutit

1884.

All li'jhls reserved

SrOTTlS^A Ooze AXD CO., KEW-street SQVABE

A>D Armament STllEET

CONTENTS

OF

THE SEC N D V L U M E.

OHAPTEll

XIV. THE SERPENT

XV. THE SECRET IN DANGER

XVI. REMINISCENCES^THE FALSE ACCUSER THE

SECRET EXPLODED

XVII. lovers' quarrels

Will, apologies #-.

XIX. A WOMAN OUTWITS TWO MEN

XX. Calamity

XXI. BURIED ALIVE

XXII. REMORSE

XXIII. THE Thresh DEADLY Kills

XXIV. STRANGE COMPLICATIONS
XXV. Retribution

XXVI. STRANGE TURNS

XXVI r. CURTAIN

8;?

51>






ir>i







CHAPTER XIV.

THE Serpent.

MoxcKTOX slipped away at the dawn, and was
off to Derby to prepare first-rate disguises.

At Derby, going throiigli the local papers,
he found lodgings offered at a farm-house to
invalids, fresh milk and eggs, home-made bread,
&c. The place was within a few miles of
Clifford Hall. Monckton thought this would suit
him much better than beings too near. When
his disguises were ready, he hired a horse and
dog-cart by the month, and paid a deposit, and
drove to the place in question. He put some
shadow under his eyes to look more like an

VOL. II. B

invalid. He had got used to his own cadaverous
tint, so that seemed insufficient.

The farmer's wife looked at him, and
hesitated.

Well, sir,' said she, with a faint blush, ' we
takes 'em in to cure, not to '

Not to bury,' said Monckton. ' Don't you
be alarmed. I have got no time to die ; I'm
too busy. Why, I have been much worse than
this. I am convalescent now.'

Ye don't say so, sir ! ' said she. ' Well, I
see your heart is good ' (the first time he had
ever been told that), ' and so I've a mind to
risk it.'

Then she quickly clapped on ten shillings a
week more for colour, and he was installed.
He washed his face, and then the woman conceived
hopes of him, and expressed them in
rustic fashion. ' Well,' said she bluntly, ' dirt
is a disguise. Now I look at you, you have
got more mischief to do in the world yet, I do
believe.'

A deal more, I hope,' said he.

It now occurred to him, all of a sudden,
that really lie was not m good health, and that
he had difficulties before him which required
calm nerves, and. that nerves are affected by the
stomach. So, not to throw a chance away, he
had the sense and the resolution to devote a
few days to health and unwholesome meditation.


This is a discordant world : even vices will
not always pull the same way. Here was a
sinister villain distracted between avarice and
revenge, and sore puzzled which way to turn.
Of course, he could expose the real parentage
of Mary Bartley, and put both Bartley and
Hope to shame, and then the Clifford would
make Bartley disgorge the 20,000/. But he,
Monckton, would not make a shilling by that,
and it would be a weak revenge on Bartley,
who could now spare 20,000/., and no revenge at
all on Hope, for Hope was now well-to-do, and
would most likely be glad to get his daughter
back. Then, on the other hand, he could
easily frighten Bartley into giving him 5,000/.

B 2

to keep dark, but in that case lie must forego
his vengeance on Hope.

This difficulty had tormented Monckton all
along : but now Mrs. Dawson had revealed
another obstacle : Young Clifford and Mary in
love with each other. What Mrs. Easton saw
as a friend, with her good mother-wit, this man
saw in a moment as an enemy, viz., that this
new combination dwarfed the 20,000/. altogether.
Monckton had no idea that his unknown
antagonist. Nurse Easton, had married the pair,
but the very attachment, as the chatterton of
the ' Dun Cow ' described it, was a bitter pill to
him. ' Who could have foreseen this ? ' said he.
It's devilish.' We did not ourselves intend
our readers to feel it so, or we would not have
spent so much time over it. But as regards
that one adjective, Mr. Monckton is a better
authority than we are. He had a document
with him that, skilfully used, might make mischief
for a time between these lovers. But he
foresaw there could be no permanent result
without the personal assistance of Mrs. Braham.

That he could have commanded fourteen years
ago, but now he felt how difficult it would be.
He would have to threaten and torment her
almost to madness before she would come down
to Derbyshire and declare that this Walter
Clifford was the Walter Clifford of the certificate,
and that she was his discarded wife.
But Monckton was none the less resolved she
should come if necessary Leaving him varies
distracted viiiis, and weighing every scheme,
with its pros and cons, and, like a panther,
crouching and watching before he would make
his first spring, we will now bring our other
characters up to the same point, and that will
not take us long, for during the months we
have skipped there were not many events,
and Mrs. Dawson has told the reader some
of them, and the rest were only detached
incidents.

The most important in our opinion were :
1. That Colonel Clifford resumed his determination
to marry Julia Clifford to Walter, and
pooh-poohed Fitzroy entirely, declaring him to

be five feet nothing, and therefore far below
the military standard.

2. That Hope rented a cottage of Walter
about three hundred yards from the mine, and
not upon the land that was leased to Bartley ;
that there was a long detached building hard
by, which Walter divided for him, and turned
into an office with a large window close to the
ground, and a workshop with a doorway and an
aperture for a window, but no window nor door.

3. That Hope got more and more uneasy
about the 20,000/., and observed to Bartley
that they must be robbing somebody of it, without
the excuse they once had. He, for his part,
would work to disgorge his share. Bartley
replied that the money would have gone to a
convent if he had not saved it from so vile a
fate. This said the astute Bartley, because one
day Hope, who had his opinions on everything,
inveighed against a convent, and said no private
prisons ought to exist in a free country. So
Bartley's ingenious statement stunned Hope fora
minute, but did not satisfy his conscience.

4. Hope went to London for a week, and
Mary spent four days with her husband at a
hotel near the lake ; but not the one held by
Mrs. Easton's sister. This change was by advice
of Mrs. Easton. On this occasion Mary played
the woman. She requested Walter to get her
some orange blossoms, and she borrowed a diamond
bracelet of Juha, and sat down to dinner
with her husband in evening dress, and dazzled
him with her lovely arms and bust, and her
diamond bracelet and eyes that outshone it. She
seemed ever so much larger as well as lovelier,
and Walter gazed at her with a sort of loving
awe, and she smiled archly at him, and it was
the first time she had really enjoyed her own
beauty, or even troubled her head much about
it. They condensed a honeymoon into these
four days, and came home compensated for their
patience, and more devoted than ever. But
whilst they were away Colonel Clifford fired his
attorney at Mr. Bartley, and when Mary came
home, Bartley, who had lately connived at the
love affair, told Mary this, and forbade her

Strictly to hold any more intercourse with
Walter Chfford.

This was the state of things when ' the hare
with many friends,' and only one enemy
returned to his cottage late in the afternoon.
But before night everybody knew he had come
home, and next morning they were all at him
in due order. No sooner was he seated in his-workshop,
studying the lines of a new machine
he was trying to invent, than he was startled
from intense thought into the attitude of
Hogarth's enraged musician by cries of ' Mr.
Hope ! Mr. Hope ! Mr. Hope ! ' and there was
a little lot of eager applicants. First, a gipsy
boy with long black cm^ls and continuous
inflexions, and a fiddle, and doleful complaints
that he could not play it, and that it
was the fiddle's fault.

Well, it is for once,' said Hope. ' Why, you
little duffer, don't you see the bridge is too low ? '

He slackened the string, removed the
bridge, fitted on a higher one, tuned it, and
handed it over.

There,' said he, ' play us one of the tunes
Egypt— '^ The Rogue's March," eh?— and
mizzle.'

The supple Oriental grinned and made
obeisance, pretended not to know ' The
Rogue's March ' (to the hen-house), and went
off playing ' Johnny Comes Marching Home
(Bridewell, to wit).

Then did Miss Clifford's French maid trip
forward smirking with a parasol to mend :
Resolve de vobis derange, Monsieur Hopped.
mats noire demoiselle est au desespoir: oh, ces
parasols anglais ! '

Connu,' said Hope, ' voyons ca ; ' and in a
minute repaired the article, and the girl spread
it, and went off wriggling and mincing with it,
so that there was a pronounced horse-laugh at
her minauderies.

Then advanced a rough young English
nurse out of a farm-house, with a child that
could just toddle. She had left an enormous
doll with Hope for repairs, and the child had
given her no peace for the last week. Luckily,.

the doll was repaired, and handed over. The
mite, in whose little bosom maternal feehnsrs
had been excited, insisted on carrying her
child. The consequence was that, at about the
third step, they rolled over one another, and to
spectators at a little distance it was hard to say
which was the parent and which the offspring.
Then the strapping lass in charge seized them
roughly, and at the risk of dislocating their
little limbs, tossed into the air and caught one
on each of her own robust arms, and carried
them off, stupidly irritated — for want of a grain
of humour at the good-natured laugh this
caused, and looking as if she would like to
knock their little heads together.

Under cover of this an old man, in a broad
hat and seemingly infirm, crept slowly by and
looked keenly at Hope, but made no application.
Only, while taking stock of Hope, his eyes
flashed wickedly, and much too brightly for so
old a man as he appeared. He did not go far ;
he got behind a tree, and watched the premises.
Then a genuine old man and feeble came and

brought Hope his clock to mend. Hope
wound it up, and it went to perfection. The
old man had been a stout fellow when Hope
was a boy, but now he was weak, especially in
the upper story. Hope saw at once that the
young folk had sent him there for a joke, and
he did not approve of it.

Gaffer,' said he, ' this will want repairing
every eight days ; but don't you come here
any more ; I'll call on you every week, and
repair it for auld lang syne.'

Whilst he toddled away, and Hope retired
behind his lathe to study his model in peace,
Monckton raged at the sight of him and his
popularity.

Ay,' said he, • you are a genius. You can
model a steam-engine or mend a doll, and you
outwitted me, and gave me fourteen years.
But you will find me as ingenious as you at one
thing, and that's revenge.'

And now a higher class of visitors began to
find their way to the general favourite. The
first was a fair young lady of surpassing beauty.

She strolled pensively down the green turf, casta
hasty glance in at the workshop, and, not
seeing Hope, concluded he was a little tired
after his journey, and had not yet arrived.
She strolled slowly down then, and seated herself
in a large garden chair, stuffed, that Hope
had made, and placed there for Colonel Clifford.
That worthy frequented the spot because he
had done so for years, and because it was a
sweet, turfy slope ; and there was a wonderful
beech tree his father had made him plant when
he was five years old. It had a gigantic
silvery stem, and those giant branches which
die crippled in a beech wood, but really belong
to the isolated tree, as one Virgil discovered
before we were born. Mary Bartley then
lowered her parasol, and settled into the
Colonel's chair under the shade patulce fagin —
of the wide-spreading beech-tree.

She sat down and sighed. Monckton eyed
her from his lurking-place, and made a shrewd
guess who she was, but resolved to know.

Presently Hope caught a glimpse of hers

and came forward and leaned out of the
window to enjoy the sight of her. He could
do that unobserved, for he was a long way
behind her at a sharp angle.

He was still a widower and this his only
child, and lovely as an angel ; and he had seen
her grow into ripe loveliness from a sick girl.
He had sinned for her and saved her ; he had
saved her again from a more terrible death.
He doted on her, and it was always a special
joy to him when he could gloat on her unseen.
Then he had no need to make up an artificial
face and hide this adoration from her.

But soon a cloud came over his face and his
paternal heart. He knew she had a lover ;
and she looked like a girl who was waiting
pensively for him. She had not come therefor
him whom she knew only as her devoted
friend. At this thought the poor father
sighed.

Mary's quick senses caught that, and she
turned her head, and her sweet face beamed :

You are there, after all, Mr. Hope.'

Hope was delighted. Why, it was him she
had come to see, after all. He came down to
her directly, radiant, and then put on a stiff
manner he often had to wear, out of fidelity to
Bartley, who did not deserve it.

This is early for you to be out. Miss
Bartley.'

Of course it is,' said she. ' But I know it
is the time of day when you are kind to anybody
that comes, and mend all their rubbish
for them, and I could kill them for their impudence
in wasting your time so. And I am as
bad as the rest. For here I am wasting your
time in my turn. Yes, dear Mr. Hope, you
are so kind to everybody and mend their
things, I want you to be kind to me and mend
my prospects for me.'

Hope's impulse was to gather into his arms
and devour with kisses this sweet specimen
of womanly tenderness, frank inconsistency,
naivete and archness.

As he could not do that, he made himself
extra stiff.

Your prospects, Miss Bartley ! Why, they
are brilliant. Heiress to all the growing wealth
and power around you.'

Wealth and power ! ' said the girl. ' What
is the use of them, if our hearts are to
be broken? Oh, Mr. Hope, papa is so unkind.
He has forbidden me to speak to him.'
Then, gravely, ' That command comes too
late.'

I fear it does,' said Hope. ' I have long
suspected something.'

Suspected ? ' said Mary, turning pale.
-■ What ? '

That you and Walter Clifford '

Yes,' said Mary, trembling inwardly, but
commanding her face.

Are — engaged.'

Mary drew a long breath. ' What makes
you think so ? ' said she, looking down.

Well, there is a certain familiarity — no,
that is too strong a word ; but there is more
ease between you than there was. Ever since
I came back from Belgium I have seen that the

preliminaries of courtship were over, and you
two looked on yourselves as one.'

Mr. Hope,' said this good, arch girl, and
left off panting, ' you are a terrible man. Papa
is eyes and no eyes. You frighten me ; but
not very much, for you would not watch me
so closely if you did not love me — a little.'

Not a little, Miss Bartley."

Mary, please.'

Mary. I have seen you a sickly child ; I
have been anxious — who would not ? I have
seen you grow in health and strength, and
every virtue.'

And seen me tumble into the water and
frighten you out of your senses ; and there's
nothing one loves like a downright pest, especially
if she loves us ; and I do love you, Mr.
Hope, dearly, dearly, and I promise to be a
pest to you all your days. Ah, here he comes
at last.' She made two eager steps to meet
him ; then she said, ' Oh ! I forgot,' and came
back again, and looked prodigiously demure
and innocent.

Walter came on with his usual rush, crying,
Mary, how good of you ! '

Mary put her fingers in her ears. ' No, no,
no ; we are forbidden to communicate.' Then,
imitating a stiff man of business — for she was a
capital mimic when she chose — ' any communication
you may wish to honour me with must
be addressed to this gentleman, Mr. Hope ; he
will convey it to me, and it shall meet with all
the attention it deserves.'

Walter laughed and said, ' That's ingenuous.'

Of course it is ingenuous,' said Mary
subtly. 'That's my character to a fault.'

Well, young people,' said Hope, ' I am not
sure that I have time to repeat verbal communications
to keen ears that heard them.
And I think I can make myself more useful to
you. Walter, your father has set his lawyer onto
Mr. Bartley, and what is the consequence ?
Mr. Bartley forbids Mary to speak to you ; and
the next thing will be a summons, lawsuit, and
a great defeat, and loss to your father and you.
Mr. Bartley sent me the lawyer's letter. He

VOL. II. C

hopes to get out of a clear contract by pleading
a surprise. Now you must go to the lawyer —
it is no use arguing with your father in his
present heat — and you must assure him there
has been no surprise. Why, I called on Colonel
Clifford years ago, and told him there was coal
on that farm ; and I almost went on my knees
to him to profit by it.'

You don't say that, Mr. Hope ? '
I do say it, and I shall have to swear it.
Tou may be sure Mr. Bartley will subpoena
me, if this wretched squabble gets into court .'
But what did my father say to you ? '
He was kind and courteous to me. I was
poor as a rat, and dusty with travel — on foot ;
and he was a fine gentleman, as he always is,
when he is not in too great a passion. He
told me more than one landowner had wasted
money in this county groping for coal. He
would not waste his money nor dirty his fingers.
But he thanked me for my friendly zealand
rewarded me with ten shillings.'

Oh ! ' cried Walter, and hid his face in his

Lands. As for Mary, she put her hand gently
but quietly on Hope's shoulder, as if to protect
him from such insults.

'Why, children,' said Hope, pleased at their
sympathy, but too manly to hunt for it, ' it was
more than he thought the information worth,
and I assure you it was a blessed boon to me.
I had spent my last shilling, and there I was
traversing across the island on a wild-goose
chase with my reaping-hook and my fiddle ;
and my poor Httle Grace, that I — that I '

Mary's hand went a moment to his other
shoulder, and she murmured through her tears,
You have got me.'

Then Hope was happy again, and, indeed,
the simplest woman can find in a moment the
very word that is balm of Gilead to a sorrowful
man.

However, Hope turned it off and continued
his theme. The jury, he said, would pounce
on that ten shillings as the Colonel's true estimate
of his coal, and he would figure in the
case as a dog in the manger who grudged

c2

Bartley the profits of a risky investment he had
merely sneered at and not opposed, until it
turned out well ; and also disregarded the interests
of the little community to whom the
mine was a boon. ' Xo,' said Hope ; ' tell your
lawyer that I am Bartley's servant, but love
equity. I have proposed to Bartley to follow a
wonderful seam of coal under Colonel Clifford's
park. We have no business there. So, if
the belligerents will hear reason, I will make
Bartley pay a royalty on every ton that comes
to the surface from any part of the mine ; and
that will be 1,200/. a year to the Clifford.
Take this to the lawyer, and tell him to unfix
that hero's bayonet, or he will charge at the
double and be the death of his own money —
and yours.'

Walter threw up his hands with amazement

and admiration. ' What a head ! ' said he.

Fiddlededee ! ' said Mary ; ' what a heart ! '

'In a word, a phoenix,' said Hope drily.

Praise is sweet, especially behind one's back.

So pray go on, unless you have something

better to say to each other ; ' and Hope retired
briskly into his office. But when the lovers
took him at his word, and began to strut up
and down hand in hand, and murmur love's
music into each other's ears, he could not take
this eyes off them, and his thoughts were sad.
She had only known that young fellow a few
months, yet she loved him passionately, and he
would take her away from her father before
she even knew all that father had done and
suffered for her. When the revelation did
come she would peril aps be a wife and a
mother, and then even that revelation would
fall comparatively flat.

Besides his exceptional grief, he felt the
natural pang of a father at the prospect of resigning
her to a husband. Hard is the lot of
parents — and, above all, of a parent with one
child whom he adores. Many other creatures
love their young tenderly, and their young
leave them. But then the infancy and youth
of those creatures are so short. In a few
months the young shift for themselves, forgetting

and forgotten. But with our young the
helpless periods of infancy and youth are so
long. Parental anxiety goes through so many
trials, and so various, and they all strike roots
into the parent's heart. Yet after twenty years
of love and hope and fear conies a handsome
young fellow, a charming highwayman to a
parent's eye, and whisks her away after two
months' courtship. Then, ye young, curb
for a moment your blind egotism, and feel a.
little for the parents who have felt so much for
you ! You rather like William Hope, so let
him help you to pity your own parents. See
his sad face as he looks at the love he is yet
too unselfish to discourage. To save that
tender root, a sickly child, he transplanted it
from his own garden, and still tended it with
loving care for many a year. Another gathers
the flower. He watched and tended and trembled
over the tender nestling. The young bird
is trying her wings before his eyes ; soon she
will spread them, and fly away to a newer nest
and a younger bosom.

In this case, however, the young people had
their troubles too, and their pretty courtship
was soon interrupted by an unwelcome and unexpected
visitor, who, as a rule, avoided that
part, for the very reason that Colonel Chfford
frequented it. However, he came there to-day
to speak to Hope. Mr. Bartley, for he it was,
would have caught the lovers if he had come
silently ; but he was talking to a pitman as he
came, and Mary's quick ears heard his voice
round the corner.

Papa ! ' cried she. ' Oh, don't let him see
us ! Hide ! '

Where ? '

Anywhere — sin here — quick ! ' and she flew
into Hope's workshop, which indeed offered
great facilities for hiding. However, to make
sure, they crouched behind the lathe and a
huge plank of beautiful mahogany Hope was
very proud of.

As soon as they were hidden, Mary began
to complain in a whisper. ' This comes of our
clandestine m . Our very life is a falsehood

; concealment is torture — and degradation.'


I don't feel it, I call this good fun.'

Oh, Walter ! Good fun ! For shame !
Hush!'

Bartley bustled on to the green, called Hope
out, and sat down in Colonel Clifford's chair.
Hope came to him, and Bartley, who had in his
hand some drawings of the strata in the coal
mine, handed the book to Hope, and said, ' I
quite agree with you. That is the seam to
follow : there's a fortune in it.'

Then you are satisfied with me ? '

More than satisfied.'

I have something to ask in return.'

I am not likely to say no, my good friend,'
was the cordial reply.

Thank you. Well, then, there is an attachment
between Mary and young Chfford.'

Bartley was on his guard directly.

Her happiness is at stake. That gives mea
right to interfere, and say, '' Be kind to
her'"

Am I not kind to lier ? Was any parent
ever kinder ? But I must be wise as well as
kind. Colonel Clifford can disinherit his son.'

At this point the young people ventured to
peep and listen, taking advantage of the circumstance
that both Hope and Bartley were at
some distance, with their backs turned to the
workshop.

So they both heard Hope say :

Withdraw your personal opposition to the
match, and the other difficulty can be got over.
If you want to be kind to a young woman, it is
no use feeding her ambition and her avarice, for
these are a man's idols. A woman's is love.'

Mary wafted the speaker a furtive kiss.

To enrich that dear child after your death,
thirty years hence, and break her heart in the
flower of her youth, is to be unkind to her ;
and if you are unkind to her, our compact is
broken.'

Unkind to her ? ' said Bartley. ' What male
parent has ever been more kind, more vigilant ?
Sentimental weakness is another matter. My

affection is more solid. Can I oblige you in
anything that is business ? '

Mr. Bartley,' said Hope, ' you cannot divert
me from the more important question : business
is secondary to that dear ghi's happiness. However,
I have more than once asked you to tell
me Tho is the loser of that large sum which, as
you and I have dealt with it, has enriched you
and given me a competence.'

That's my business,' said Bartley sharply,
for you never fingered a shilling of it. So if the
pittance I pay you for conducting my business
burns your pocket, why, send it to Rothschild.'

And having made this little point, Bartley
walked away to escape further comment, and
Hope turned on his heel and walked into his
office, and out at the back-door directly, and
proceeded to his duties in the mine ; but he was
much displeased with Bartley, and his looks
showed it.

The coast lay clear. The lovers came
cautiously out, and silently too, for what they
had heard puzzled them not a little.

Mary came out first, and wore a very meditative
look. She did not say a word till they
got to some little distance from the workshop.
Then she half turned her head toward Walter,
who was behind her, and said, 'I suppose you
know we have done a contemptible thing —
listening ? '

Well,' said Walter, ' it wasn't good form ;
but,' added he, ' we could hardly help it.'

Of course not,' said Mary. ' We have been
guilty of a concealment that drives us into holes
and corners, and all manner of meanness must
be expected to follow. Well, we have listened,
and I am very glad of it ; for it is plain we are
not the only people who have got secrets. Now
tell me, please, what does it all mean ? '

Well, Mary,' said Walter, ' to tell the truth,
it is all Greek to me, except about the money.
I think I could give a guess where that came
from.'

There, now ! ' cried Mary ; ' that is so like
you gentlemen. Money — money — money !
Never mind the money part ; leave that to take

care of itself. Can you explain what Mr. Hope
said to papa about me ? Mr. Hope is a very-superior
man, and papa's adviser in business.
But, after all, he is in papa's employment.
Papa pays him. Then how comes he to care
more about my happiness than papa does — and
say so ? '

Why, you begged him to intercede.'

Yes,' said Mary, ' but not to threaten papa ;
not to say, " If you are unkind to Mary, our
compact is broken." '

Then she pondered awhile ; then she turned
to Walter, and said :

What sort of compact is that — a compact
between a father and another gentleman that a
father shall not be unkind to his own daughter ?
Did you ever hear of such a thing ? '

I can't say I ever did.'

Did you ever hear tell of such a thing ? '

Well, now you put it to me, I don't think
I ever did.'

And yet you could run off about money.
What's money ! This compact is a great mystery.

It's my business from this hour to fathom
that mystery. Please let me think.'

Mary's face now began to show great power
and intensity ; her eyes seemed to veil themselves,
and to turn down their glances inward.

Walter was struck with the intensity of that
fair brow, those remarkable eyes, and that
beautiful face ; they seemed now to be all strung
up to concert pitch. He kept silent and looked
at his wife with a certain reverence, for, to tell
the truth, she had something of the Pythian
priestess about her, when she concentrated her
whole mind on any one thing in this remarkable
manner. At last the oracle spoke :

Mr. Hope has been deceiving me with some
good intention. He pretends to be subservient
to papa, but he is the master. How he comes
to be master I don't know, but so it is, Walter.
If it came to a battle royal, Mr. Hope would
side, not with papa, but with me.'

'That's important, if true,' said Walter
drily.

It's true,' said Mary, ' and it's important.'

Then she turned suddenly round on him : ' How
did you feel when you ran into that workshop,
and we both crouched and hid like criminals
or slaves ? '

Well,' said Walter, hanging his head, ' to
tell the truth, I took a comic view of the business.'


I can't do that,' said Mary. ' I respect my
husband, and can't bear him to hide from the
face of any mortal man ; and I am proud of my
own love, and indignant to think that I have
condescended to hide it.'

It is a shame,' said Walter, ' and I hope we
shan't have to hide it much longer. Oh, bother,
how unfortunate ! here's my father ! What are
we to do ?

I'll tel you,' said Mary resolutely. ' You
must speak to him at once, and win him over
to our side. Tell him Juha is going to marry
Percy Fitzroy on the first of next month ; then
tell him all that Mr. Hope said you were to tell
the lawyer ; and then tell him what you have
made me believe, that you love me better than

your life, and that I love you better still, and
that no power can part us. If you can soften
him, ]Mr. Hope shall soften papa.'

But if he is too headstrong to be softened? '
faltered Walter.

Then,' said Mary, ' you must defy my
papa, and I shall defy yours.'

After a moment's thought she said :

Walter, I shall stay here till he sees me
and you together ; then he won't be able to
run off about his mines, and his lawsuits, and
such rubbishy things. His attention will be
attracted to our love, and so you will have it
out with him, whilst I retire a little way — not
far — and meditate upon Mr. Hope's strange
words, and ponder over many things that have
happened within my recollection.'

True to this policy, the spirited girl waited
till Colonel Clifford came on the green, and
then made Walter as perfect a courtesy as
ever graced a minuet at the court of Louis le
Grand.

Walter took off his hat to her with chivalric

grace and respect. Colonel Clifford drew up
in a stiff military attitude, which flavoured
rather of the parade or the field of battle than
the court either of the great monarch or of
little Cupid.

CHAPTER XV.

THE Secret IN DANGER.

Hum ! ' said the Colonel drily ; ' a petticoat ! '

Et cetera' suggested Walter, meekly ; and
we think he was right, for a petticoat has never
in our day been the only garment worn by
females, nor even the most characteristic ;
fishermen wear petticoats, and don't wear
bonnets.

Who is she, sir ^ ' asked the grim Colonel.

'Your niece, father,' said Walter, mellifluously,
' and the most beautiful girl in Derbyshire.'


The Colonel snorted, but didn't condescend
to go into the question of beauty.

Why did my niece rete at sight of me ^ '
was his insidious inquiry.

Well,' said Walter, meekly, ' the truth is,

VOL. II. D

some mischief-making fool lias been telling her
that you have lost all natural affection for your
dead sister's child.'

The stout Colonel staggered for a moment,
snorted, and turned it off: 'You and she are
very often together, it seems.'

All the better for me,' said Walter, stoutly.

'And all the worse for me,' retorted the
Colonel. And as men gravitate toward their
leading grievance, he went off at a tangent,
What do you think my feelings must be, to
see my son, my only son, spooning the daughter
of my only enemy ; of a knave who got on my
land on pretence of farming it, but instead of
that he burrowed under the soil like a mole,
sir ; and now the place is defiled with coal
dust, the roads are black, the sheep are black,
the daisies and buttercups are turning black?
There's a smut on your nose, Walter. I forbid
you to spoon his daughter, upon pain of a
father's curse. My real niece, Julia, is a lady
and an heiress, and the beauty of the county.
She is the girl for you.'

And how about the seventh commandment
? ' inquired Walter, putting his hands in
his pockets.

Oh,' said the Colonel, indifferently, ' you
must mind your eye, like other husbands. Butin
our walk of life, it's the man's fault if the
woman falls out of the ranks.'

That's not what I mean,' said Walter.

What do you mean, then, if you mean
anything at all ? '

1 mean this, father. She marries Percy
Fitzroy in three weeks ; so if I fix my affections
on her up to the date of the wedding,
shall I not be tempted to continue, and will
not a foolish attachment to another man's
sweetheart end in a vicious attachment to
another man's wife ? '

Once more was the Colonel staggered for a
moment, and, oh — as the ladies say — is it not
gratifying to find that where honest reasons go
for nothing, humbug can obtain a moment's
hearing? The Colonel admitted there was
something in that ; but even humbug could

D 2

not divert him long from his mania. ' The
only thing to be done,' said he, 'is to cut
him out between this and then. Why, he stands
five feet nothing.'

'That's the advantage he has over me,'
suggested Walter ; ' she is five feet eight or
thereabouts, so he is just the height of her
heart'

The Colonel burst out laughing. ' You are
no fool,' said he ; ' that's the second good thing
you have said these three years. I forget what
the other was, but I remember it startled meat
the time. You are a wit, and you will cut
out that manikin or you are no son of mine.'

Don't say that, father,' said Walter ; ' and
cutting out, why that's a naval operation, not
military. I am not the son of an admiral.'

No equivocation, sir ; the forces assist one
another at a pinch.'

How can I cut him out? — there's no room,
he is tied to her apron strings.'
Untie him, then.'
At this moment, whether because Hope

attracted everybody in the course of the day
or because talking about people draws them to
the place by some subtle agency, who should
appear in sight but Miss Julia Clifford, and little
Fitzroy wooing her so closely that really he did
seem tied to her apron string.

There,' said Walter, ' now use your eyes,
father ; look at this amorous pair. Do you
really think it is possible for a fellow to untie
those two ? '

Quite possible,' said the Colonel. ' Walter,'
said he, sententiously, ' there's a little word in
the English language which is one of the biggest.
I will spell it to you, T — E— Y. Nobody
knows what he can do till he gives that word
a fair trial. It was far more impossible to
scale the rock of Gibraltar, but our infantry
did it ; and there we are, with all Europe grinding
their teeth at us. What's a woman compared
with Gibraltar ? However, as you seem
to be a bit of a muff, I'll stand sentinel whilst
you cut him out.'

The Colonel then retired into a sort of ambuscade

— at least he mingled with a small
clump of three Scotch firs, and stood amongst
them so rectilinear he might have passed for
the fourth stem. Walter awaited the arrival
of the foe, but in a spirit which has seldom
conducted men to conquest and glory, for if
the English infantry had deviated so far from
their insular habits as to admire the Spaniards
you may be sure that Gibraltar rock at this
day would be a part of the Continent, and nota
detached fragment of Great Britain. In a
word, Walter, at sight of the lovers, was suddenly
seized with sentimental sympathy ; they
both seemed to him so beautified in their way.
The man was small, but his heart was not ; he
stuck to the woman like a man, and poured
hot love into her ears, and almost lost the impediment
in his speech. The woman pretended
to be cooler, but she half turned her head toward
him, and her half-closed eyes and heightened
colour showed she was drinking every
word. Her very gaiety, though it affected
nonchalance, revealed happiness to such as can
read below the surface of her sex. The Colonel's

treacherous ally, after gazing at them with
marked approval, and saying, ' I couldn't do it
better myself,' which was surely a great admission
for a lover to make, slipped quietly into
Hope's workshop not to spoil sport — a juvenile
idea which we recommend to older persons,
and to such old maids as have turned sour.
The great majority of old maids are matchmakers,
whatever cant may keep saying and
writing to the contrary.

No wonder at all,' said Percy, who was
evidently in the middle of some amorous speech ;
you are the goddess of my idolatry.'

What ardent expressions you do use ! '
said Julia, smiling.

Of c — course I do ; I'm over head and
ears in love.'

Julia surveyed his proportions, and said :
That's not very deep.'

But Percy had got used to this kind of wit,
and did not mind it now. He replied with
dignity : ' It's as deep — as the ocean, and as
imp — per — t — t — tur — table. Confound it !
there's your cousin.'

You are not jealous of him, Mr. Imperturbable,
are you ? ' asked Julia, slyly.

Jealous ? ' said Percy, changing colour
rather suspiciously. ' Certainly not. Hang him ! '

Walter, finding he was discovered, and
feeling himself in the way, came out at the
back behind them, and said, ' Never mind me,
you two ; far be it from me to deprive the
young of their innocent amusements.'

Whilst making this little speech he vas
going off on the points of his toes, intending to
slip off to Clifford Hall, and tell his father that
both cutting out and untying had proved impossible,
but, to his horror, the Colonel emerged
from his ambuscade and collared him. Then
took place two short extemporaneous dialogues :

Julia. 'I'd never Col. CM ford. 'Well,

marry a jealous man.' why don't you cut him

Percy. ' I never out ? '
could be jealous. I'm Walter. 'They seem

above it. Impossible so happy without it.'
for a nature like mine Col. Clifford. ' You

to be jealous.' are a muff. I'll do it

for you. Forward ! '

Colonel Clifford then marched down and
seated himself in the chair Hope had made for
him.

Julia saw him, and whispered Percy : ' Ah !
here's Uncle Clifford. He is going to marry
me to Walter. Steer mind — you are not
jealous.'

Percy turned yellow.

Well,' said Colonel Chfford to all whom it
might concern, ' this certainly is the most comfortable
chair in England. These fools of upholsterers
never make the bottom of the chair
long enough, but Mr. Hope has made this to
run under a gentleman's knees and support
him. He's a clever fellow. Julia, my dear,
there's a garden chair for you ; come and sit
down by me.'

Julia gave a sly look at Percy, and went to
Colonel Chfford. She kissed him on the forehead
to soften the coming negative, and said :
To tell you the truth, dear uncle, I have promised
to go down a coal mine. See ! I'm
dressed accordingly.'

Go down a coal mine ! ' said the Colonel,

contemptuously. ' What fool put that idea in
your head ? '

Fitzroy strutted forward like a bantam-cock
: ' I did, sir. Coal is a very interesting
product.'

Ay, to a cook.'

To every English g — gentleman.'

I disown that imputation for one.'

Of being an English g — gentleman ? '

There was a general titter at this sly hit.

No, sir,' said the Colonel, angrily — ' of
taking an interest in coal.'

Well, but,' said Percy, with a few slight
hesitations, ' not to t — take an interest in c —
coal is not to take an interest in the n — nation,
for this n — nation is g — great, not by its p —
powerful fleet, nor its little b — b — bit of an
army — '

A snort from the Colonel.

— nor its raw m — militia, but by its m — m
manufactures ; these depend on machines
that are driven by steam-power, and the steam-engines
are coal-fed, and were made in coal-fed

furnaces ; our machines do the work of five
hundred million hands, and you see coal keeps
them going. The machinery will be imitated
by other nations, but those nations cannot
create coal-fields. Should those ever be exhausted,
our ingenuity will be imitated by
larger nations, our memory will remain small,
and we shall be a second-rate Power ; so I say
that every man who reads and thinks about his
own c — country ought to be able to say, " I
have been d — d — down a coal mine." '

Well,' said the Colonel, loftily, and ' can't
you say you have been down a coal mine ? I
could say that and sit here. Well, sir, you
have been reading the newspapers, and learning
them off by heart as if they were the Epistle
and Gospel ; of course you must go down a
coal mine ; but if you do, have a little mercy
on the fair, and go down by yourself. In the
meanwhile, Walter, you can take your cousin
and give her a walk in the woods, and show
her the primroses.'

Now Julia was surprised and pleased at

Percy's good sense, and lie did not care whether
he got it from the newspapers or where he
got it from ; it was there ; so she resisted, and
said, coldly and firmly, ' Thank you, uncle, but
I don't want the primroses, and Walter does
not want me. Come, Percy dear ; ' and so she
marched off; but she had not gone many steps
before, having a great respect for old age, she
ordered Percy, in a whisper, to make some
apology to her uncle.

Percy did not much like the commission.
However, he went back, and said, very civilly :
This is a free country, but I am afraid I have
been a little too free in expressing my opinion ;
let me hope you are not annoyed with me.'

I am never annoyed with a fool,' said the
implacable Colonel.

This was too much for any little man to
stand :

That is why you are always on such good
terms with yourself,' said Percy, as red as a
turkey-cock.

The Colonel literally stared with amazement.

Hitherto it had been for him to deliver bayonet
thrusts, not to receive them.

JiiHa pounced on her bantam-cock, and
with her left hand literally pulled him off the
premises, and shook her right fist at him till
she got him out of sight of the foe ; then she
kissed him on both cheeks, and burst out
laughing ; and, indeed, she was so tickled that
she kept laughing at intervals, whether the
immediate subject of the conversation was
grave or gay. It is hard not to laugh when a
very little fellow cheeks a very big one Even
Walter, though he admired as well as loved his
father, hung his head, and his shoulders shook
with suppressed risibility. Colonel Clifford
detected him in this posture, and in his wrath
gave his chair a whack with his staff that
brought Master Walter to the position of a
private soldier when the drill-sergeant cries
Attention ! '

Did you hear that, ir ? ' said he.

I did,' said Walter : ' cheeky little beggar.
But you know, father, you were rather hard

upon him before his sweetheart, and " a little
pot is soon hot." '

There was nothing to be hot about,' said
the Colonel, naively ; ' but that is neither here
nor there. You are ten times worse than he is.
He is only a prating, pedantic puppy, but you
are a muff, sit, a most unmitigated muff, to
-Stand there mum-chance and let such an article
^ that carry off the prize.'

Oh, father,' said Walter, ' why will you
not see that the prize is a living woman, a
woman with a will of her own, and not a
French eagle, or the figure-head of a ship?
Now do listen to reason.'

Not a word,' said the Colonel, marching
off

But excuse me,' said Walter, ' I have
another thing far more important to speak to
you about : this unhappy lawsuit.'

That's no business of yours, and I don't
want your opinion of it ; there is no more
fight in you than there is in a hen sparrow.
I decline your company and your pacific

twaddle ; I have no patience with a muff ; '
and the Colonel marched off, leaving his son
planted there, as the French say.

Walter, however, was not long alone ; the
interview had been watched from a distance by
Mary. She now stole noiselessly on the scene,
and laid her ^vhite hand upon her husband's
shoulder before he was aware of her. The
sight of her was heaven to him, but her first
question clouded his happy face.

Well, dear, have you propitiated him ? '

Walter hung his head sorrowfully, and said
hardly anything.

He has been blustering at me all the time,
and insists upon my cutting out Percy whether
I can or not, and marrying Juha whether she
chooses or not.'

Then we must do what I said. Indeed,
there is no other course. We must own the
truth ; concealment and deceit will not mend
our folly.'

Oh, hang it, Mary, don't call it folly.'

Forgive me, dear, but it was the height of

folly. Not that I mean to throw the blame on
you — that would be ungenerous ; but the truth
is you had no business to marry me, and I had
no business to marry you. Only think — me —
Mary Bartley — a clandestine marriage, and
then our going to the Lakes again, and spending
our honeymoon together just like other
couples — the recklessness — the audacity ! Oh,
what happiness it was ! '

Walter very naturally pounced upon this
unguarded and naive conclusion of Mary's self-reproaches.
' Yes,' said he, eagerly ; ' let us
go there again next week.'

Not next week, not next month, not next
year, nor ever again until we have told all the
world.'

Well, Mary,' said Walter, ' it's for you to
command and me to obey. I said so before,
and I say so now, if you are not ashamed of
me, how can I be ashamed of you ; you say
the word, and I will tell my father at dinner-time,
before Julia Clifford and John Baker, and
request them to tell everybody they know, that

I am married to a woman I adore, and there is
nobody I care for on earth as I do for her, and
nothing I vahie compared with her love and
her esteem.'

Mary put her arm tenderly around her
husband's neck ; and now it was with her as
it is often with generous and tender-hearted
women, when all opposition to their wishes is
withdrawn, they begin to see the other side.

My dearest,' said Mary, ' I couldn't bear
you to sacrifice your prospects for me.'

Why, Mary,' said Walter, ' what would
my love be worth if it shrank from self-sacrifice
? I really think I should feel more
pleasure than pain if I gave up friends, kindred,
hope, everything that is supposed to make life
pleasant for you.'

And so would I for you,' said Mary ; ' and
oh, Walter, women have presentiments, and
something tells me that fate has great trials in
store for you or for me, perhaps for both.
Yes, you are right, the true measure of love
nest be self-sacrifice, and if there is to be self-vol.

II. E

sacrifice, oh, let the self-sacrifice fall on me ;
for I cannot think any man can love a woman
quite so deeply as I love you — my daring.'

He had only time to draw her sweet forehead
to his bosom, whilst her arm-encircled, his
neck, when in came an ordinary love by way of
contrast.

Julia Clifford and Percy came in, walking
three yards apart : Percy had untied the apron
strings without Walter's assistance.

Ah,' said she, ' you two are not like us.
I am ashamed to interrupt you ; but they would
not let us go down the mine without an order
from Mr. Hope. Really, I think Mr. Hope is
king of this country. Not that we have wasted
our time, for he has been quarrelling with me
all the way there and back.'

Oh, Mr. Fitzroy ! ' said Mary Bartley.

Miss Bartley,' said Percy, very civilly, ' I
never q — q— quarrel, I merely dis — distil —
gushed between right and wrong. I shall
make you the judge. I gave her a di — dia —
mont br — bracelet which came down from my

ancestors ; she did me the honour to accept it,
and she said it should never leave her day nor
night.'

Oh,' cried Julia, ' that I never did. I
cannot afford to stop my circulation altogether ;
it's much too Utile.' Then she flew at him
suddenly. ' Your ancestors were pygmies.'

Percy drew himself up to his full height, and
defied the insinuation. ' They were giants, in
chain armour,' said he.

What,' said Julia, without a moment's
hesitation, ' the ladies ? Or was it the knights
that wore bracelets ? '

Some French writer says, ' The tongue of a
woman is her sword,' and Percy Fitzroy found
it so. He could no more answer this sudden
thrust than he could win the high leap at Lille
Bridge. He stood quivering as if a polished
rapier had really been passed clean through
him.

Mary was too kind-hearted to laugh in his
face, but couldn't help turning her head away
and giggling a little.

E 2

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

At last Percy recovered Myself enough to
say:

The truth is you have gone and given it
to somebody else.'

'Oh, you wicked — bad-hearted — you that
couldn't be jealous ! '

By this time Percy was himself again, and
said, with some reason, that ' invectives were
not arguments. Produce the bracelet.'

And so I can,' said Julia, stoutly. ' Give
me time.'

Oh,' said Percy, ' if it's a mere question of
time, there is no more to be said. You'll find
the bracelet in time, and in time I shall feel
once more that confidence in you which induced
me to confide to you as to another self that precious
family relic, which I value more than any
other material object in the world.' Then Percy,
whose character seemed to have changed,
retired with stiff* dignity and an air of indomitable
resolution.

Neither Julia nor Mary had ever seen him like
that before. Julia was unaffectedly distressed.

Ob, Mary, why did I ever lend it to
you ? '

Now Mary knew very well where the bracelet
was, bnt she was ashamed to say ; she
stammered and said, ' You know, dear, it is
too small, much too small, and my arm is
bigger than yours.'

There ! ' said Julia ; ' you have broken
the clasp ! '

Mary coloured up to the eyes at her own
disingenuousness, and said, hastily, ' But I'll
have it mended directly ; I'll return it tomorrow
at the latest.'

I shall be wretched till you do,' said Julia,
eagerly. ' I suppose you know what I want it
for now ? '

Why,' said Mary, ' of comes I do : to
soothe his wounded feelings.'

Soothe his feelings ! ' cried Julia, scornfully
; 'and how about mine ? No ; the only
thing I want it for now is to fling it in his face.
His soul is as small as his body : he's a little,
mean, suspicious, jealous fellow, and I'm very

glad to have lost him.' She flounced off all on
fire, looking six feet high, and got quite out of
sight before she began to cry.

Then the truth came out. Mary, absorbed
in conjugal bliss, had left it at the hotel by the
Lakes. She told Walter.

Oh, hang it ! ' said Walter ; ' that's unlucky
; you will never see it again.'

Oh yes, I shall,' said Mary ; ' they are
very honest people at that inn ; and I have
written about it, and told them to keep it
safe, unless they have an opportunity of sending
it.'

Walter reflected a moment. 'Take my
advice, Mary,' said he : ' let me gallop off this
afternoon and get it you.

Oh yes, Walter,' said Mary. ' Thank you
so much. That will be the best way.'

At this moment loud and angry voices were
heard coming round the corner, and Mary
uttered a cry of dismay, for her discriminating
ear recognised both those voices in a moment.
She clutched Walter's shoulder.

Oh, Walter, it's your father and mine quarrelling.
How unfortunate that they should have
met ! What shall we do ? '

Hide in Hope's office. The French window
is open.'

Quick, then ! ' cried Mary, and darted into
the office in a moment. Walter dashed in after
her.

When she got safe into cover she began to
complain :

This comes of concealment — we are always
being driven into holes and corners.'

I rather like them with you,' said the unabashed
Walter.

It matters little what had passed out of
sight between Bartley and Colonel Clifford, for
what the young people heard now was quite
enough to make what Sir Lucius 'Trigger
calls a very pretty quarrel. Bartley, hitherto
known to Mary as a very oily speaker, shouted
at the top of his voice in arrogant defiance ;
You're not a child, are you ? You are old
enough to read papers before you sign them.'

The Colonel shouted in reply : ' I am old,
sir, but I am old in honour. I did not expect
that any decent tradesman would slip a clause
into a farm-lease conveying the minerals below
the surface to a farmer. It was a fraud, sir ;
but there's law for fraud. My lawyer shall be
down on you tomorrow. Your chimneys disgorge
smoke all over my fields. You shall
disgorge your dishonest gains. Ill have you off
my land, sir ; I'll tear you out of the bowels of
the earth. You are a sharper and a knave.'

At this Bartley roared at him louder still,
so that both the young people winced as they
crouched in the recess of the window. ' You
foul-mouthed slanderer, I'll indict you for defamation,
and give you twelve months in one
of her Majesty's jails.'

No, you won't,' roared the Colonel ; ' I
know the law. My comments on your character
are not written and signed like your
knavish lease ; it's a privileged communication
Villain ! there are no witnesses — Sharper !
By Jupiter, there are though ! '

He had caught sight of a male figure just
visible at the side of the window.

'Who is it? Mysox!'

My DAUGHTER ! ' cried Bartley, catching
sight of Mary.

Come out, sir,' said the Colonel, no longer
loudly, but trembling with emotion.

Come here, Mary,' said Bartley, sternly.

At this moment who should open the back
door of the office but William Hope !

Walter,' said the Colonel, ^vith the quiet
sternness more formidable than all his bluster,
have not I forbidden you to court this man's
daughter ? '

Said Bartley to Mary : 'Haven't I forbidden
you to speak to this ruffian's son ? '

Then, being a cad who had lost his temper,
he took the girl by the wrist and gave her a
rough pull across him that sent her effectually
away from Walter. She sank into the Colonel's
seat, and burst out crying mihi shame, pain,
and fright.

Brute ! ' said the Colonel. But the tiling

was not to end there. Hope strode in amongst
them with a pale cheek and a lowering brow
as black as thunder ; his first words were, ' Do

YOU CALL YOURSELF A FATHER ? ' Not One of

them had ever seen Hope like that, and they
all stood amazed, and wondered what would
come next.

CHAPTEE XVI.

Reminiscences — THE FALSE ACCUSER — THE
SECRET EXPLODED.

The secret liimg on a thread. Hope, after denouncing
Bartley, as we have described, was
rushing across to Mary, and what he would
have said or done in the first impulse of his
wrath, who can tell ?

But the quick-witted Bartley took the
alarm, and literally collared him, ' My good
friend,' said he, ' you don't know the provocation.
It is the affront to her that has made
me forget myself. Affronts to myself from the
same quarter I have borne with patience. But
now this insolent man has forbidden his son to
court her, and that to her face ; as if we wanted
his son or him. Haven't I forbidden the connection
? '

We are agreed for once,' said the Colonel,
and carried his son off bodily, sore against his
will.

Yes,' shrieked Bartley after him ; ' only I
did it like a gentleman, and did not insult the
young man to his face for loving my daughter.'

Let me hear what Mary says,' was Hope's
reply.

Mr. Hope,' said Mary, ' did you ever know
papa to be hard on me before ? He is vexed
because he feels I am lowered. We have both
been grossly insulted, and he may well be in a
passion. But I am very unhappy.' And she
began to cry again.

'My poor child,' said Bartley, coaxingly,
talk it all over with Mr. Hope. He may be
able to. comfort you, and, indeed, to advise me.
For what can I do when the man calls me a
sharper, a villain, and a knave, before his son
and my daughter ? '

Is it possible ? ' said Hope, beginning to
relent a little.

It is true,' replied Mary.

Bartley then drew Hope aside, and said,
See what confidence I place in you. Now
show me my trust is not misplaced.' Then he
left them together.

Hope came to Mary and said, tenderly :
What can I say or do to comfort you ? '

Mary shook her head. • I asked you to
mend my prospects ; but you can't do that.
They are desperate. You can do nothing forme
now but comfort me with your kind voice.
And mend my poor wrist — ha ! ha ! ha ! oh !
oh ! ' (Hysterical.)

What ? ' cried Hope, in sudden alarm ; ' is
it hurt ? Is it sprained ? '

Mary recovered her composure. ' Oh no,'
said she ; ' only twisted a little. Papa was so
rough.'

Hope went into a rage again. ' Perdition ! '
cried he. ' I'll go and end this once for all.'

You will do nothing of the kind,' said the
quick-witted girl. ' Oh, Mr. Hope, would you
break my heart altogether, quarrelling with
papa ? Be reasonable. I tell you he couldn't

help it, that old monster insulted him so. It
hurts, for all that,' said she, naively, and held
him out a lovely white wrist with a red mark
on it.

Hope inspected it. ' Poor little wrist,* said
he. ' I think I can cure it.' Then he went
into his office for something to bind it with.

But he had spoken those few words as one
speaks to an afflicted child. There was a mellow
softness and an undisguised paternity in his
tones — and what more natural, the girl being

in pain ?

But Mary's ear was so acute that these
tones carried her out of the present situation,
and seemed to stir the depths of memory. She
fell into a little reverie, and asked herself
had she not heard a voice like that many
years ago.

She was puzzling herself a little over this
when Hope returned with a long thin band of
white Indian cotton, steeped in water, and,
taking her hand gently, began to bind her
wrist with great lightness and delicacy. And

as he bound it he said, ' There, the pain will
soon go.'

Mary looked at him full, and said, slowly,
I believe it will.' Then, very thoughtfully,
It did —before.'

These three simple words struck Hope as
rather strange.

It did before ? ' said he, and stared at her.
Why, when was that ? '

Mary said, in a hopeless sort of way : ' I
don't know when, but long before your time.'

Before my time, Mary ? What, are you
older than me ? ' And he smiled sweetly on
her.

One would think not. But let me ask you
a question, Mr. Hope ? '

Yes, Mary.'

Have you lived two lives ? '

Said Hope, solemnly : ' I have lived through
great changes, but only one life.'

Well, then,' said Mary, ' I have lived two ;
or more likely it was one life, only some of it
in another world — my other world, I mean.'

Hope left off binding her wrist, and said, ' I
don't understand you.' But his heart began to
pant.

The words that passed between them were
now so strange that both their voices sank into
solemnity, and had an acute observer listened
to them he would have noticed that these two
mellow voices had similar beauties, and were
pitched exactly in the same key, though there
was, of course, an octave between them.

Understand me ? How should you ? It
is all so strange, so mysterious : I have never
told a soul ; but I will tell you. You won't
laugh at me ? *

Laugh at you ? Only fools laugh at what
they don't understand. Why, Mary, I hang on
every word you say with breathless interest.'

dear Mr. Hope! Well, then, I will tell
yon. Sometimes in the silent night, when the
present does not glare at one, the past comes
back to me dimly, and I seem to have lived
two lives : one long, one short — too short. My
long life in a comfortable house, with servants

and carriages and all that. My short life indifferent
places ; not comfortable places, but
large places ; all was free and open, and there
was always a kind voice in my ears — like
yours ; and a tender touch — like yours.'

Hope was restraining himself with difficulty,
and here he could not help uttering a faint
exclamation.

To cover it he took her wrist again, and,
bending his head over it, he said, almost in a
whisper, ' And the face ? '

Mary's eyes turned inward, and she seemed
to scan the past.

The face ? ' said she — ' the face I cannot
recall. But one thing I do remember clearly.
This is not the first time my wrist — yes — and
it was my right wrist too — has been bound up
so tenderly. He did it for me in that otherworld,
just as you do in this one.'

Hope now thrilled all over at this most
unexpected revelation. But though he glowed
with delight and curiosity, he put on a calm
voice and manner, and begged her to tell him

VOL. II. F

everything else she could remember that had
happened in that other life.

Finding him so serious, so sympathetic, and
so interested, put this remarkable girl on her
mettle. She began to think very hard, and
show that intense power of attention she had
always in reserve for great occasions.

Then you must not touch me nor speak tome,'
said she. ' The past is such a mist.'

He obeyed, and left off binding her wrist ;
and now he Literally hung upon her words.

Then she took one step away from him ;
her bright eyes veiled themselves, and seemed
to see nothing external, but looked into the
recesses of the brain. Her forehead, her hand,
her very body thought, and we must try,
though it is almost hopeless, to convey some
faint idea of her manner and her words.

Let — me — see.'

Then she paused.

I remember — white swans.'

A pause.

Were they swans ? '

Or ships ? '

They floated down the river to the sea.'

She paused.

And the kind voice beside me said :

''' Daring ! " Papa never calls me " darling."
'

Yes, yes,' whispered Hope, almost panting.

•' Daring, we must go with them to some
other land, for we are poor." ' She paused
and thought hard. ' Poor we must have been ;
very poor, I can see now that I am rich.'
She paused and thought hard. ' But all was
peace and love. There were two of us. yet we
seemed one.'

Then in a moment Mary left the past, her
eyes resigned the film of thought, and shone
with the lustre of her great heart, and she
burst at once into that simple eloquence which
no hearer of hers from John Baker to William
Hope ever resisted. ' Ah ! sweet memories,
treasures of the past, why are you so dim and
wavering, and this hard world so clear and
glaring it seems cut out of stone ? Oh, if I had

F 2

a fairy's wand, I'd say : " Vanish fine house
and servants — vanish wealth and luxury and
strife ; and you come back to me, sweet hours
of peace — and poverty — and love." '

Her arms were stretched out with a grace
and ardour that could embellish even eloquence,
when a choking sob struck her ear. She turned
her head swiftly, and there was William Hope,
his hands working, his face convulsed, and the
tears running down his cheeks like the very rain.

It was no wonder. Think of it ! The child
he adored, yet had parted with to save her
from dire poverty, remembered that sad condition
to ask for it back again, because of his
love that made it sweet to her after all these
years of comfort. And of late he had been
jealous, and saw, or thought, he had no great
place in her heart, and never should have.

Ah, it is a rarity to shed tears of joy! The
thing is familiarly spoken of, but the truth is
that many pass through this world of tears and
never shed one such tear. The few who have
shed them can congratulate William Hope for

this blissful moment after all he had done and
suffered.

But the sweet girl who so surprised that
manly heart, and drew those heavenly tears,
had not the key. She was shocked, surprised,
distressed. She burst out crying directly from
blind womanly sympathy ; and then she took
herself to task. ' Oh, Mr. Hope ! what have I
done? Ah! I have touched some chord of
memory. Wicked, selfish girl, to distress you
with my dreams.'

Distress me ! ' cried Hope. ' These tears
you have drawn from me are pearls of memory
and drops of balm to my sore, tried heart. I,
too, have lived and struggled in a by-gone
world. I had a lovely child ; she made me
rich in my poverty, and happy in my homelessness.
She left me '

Poor Mr. Hope ! '

'Then I went abroad, drudged in foreign
mines, came home and saw my child again in
you. I need no fairy's wand to revive the
past ; you are my fairy — your sweet words

recall those by-gone scenes ; and wealth, ambition,
all I live for now, vanishes into smoke.
The years themselves roll back, and all is once
more peace — and poverty — and love.'

Dear Mr. Hope ! ' said Mary, and put her
forehead upon his shoulder.

After a while she said timidly, ' Dear Mr.
Hope, now I feel I can trust you with anything.'
Then she looked down in charming
confusion. ' My reminiscences — they are certainly
a great mystery. But I have another
secret to confide to you if I am permitted.'

Is the consent of some other person necessary
? *

Not exactly necessary, Mr. Hope

But advisable.'

Mary nodded her head.

Then take your time,' said Hope. He
took out his watch, and said : ' I want to go to
the mine. My right-hand man reports that a
ruffian has been caught lighting his pipe in a
most dangerous part after due warning. I must
stop that game at once, or we shall have a fatal

accident. But I will be back in half an hour.
You can rest in my office if you are here first.
It is nice and cool.'

Hope hurried away on his errand, and Mary
was still looking after him, when she heard
a horse's feet, and up came Walter Clifford,
escaped from his father. He slipped ofi" his
horse directly at sight of Mary, and they came
together like steel and magnet.

Oh, Walter.' said Mary, ' we are not so
unfortunate as we were just now. We have a
powerful friend. Where are you going in such
a hurry ? '

'That is a good joke. Why, did you not
order me to the Lakes ? '

Oh yes, for Julia's bracelet. I forgot all
about that.'

Very likely ; but it is not my business to
forget your orders.'

Dear Walter ! But, dearest, tidings of
more importance have happened since then.
We have been insulted. Oh, how we have
been insulted ! '

That we have,' said Walter, sternly.

And nobody knows the truth.'

Not yet

And our secret oppresses me — torments
me — degrades me.'

Pray don't say that.'

Forgive me. I can't help saying it, I feel
it so bitterly. Now, dear, I will walk a Httle
way with you, and tell you what I want you
to do this very day ; and you will be a darling,
as you always are. and consent.'

Then Mary told how Mr. Hope had just
shown her singular affection ; next she reminded
him of the high tone Mr. Hope had
taken with her father in their hearing. ' Why,'
said she, ' there is some mysterious compact
about me between papa and him. I don't
think I shall ever have the courage to ask him
about that compact, for then I must confess that
I listened ; but it is clear we can depend upon
Mr. Hope, and trust him. So now, dear, I
want you to indulge your little wife, and let
me take Mr. Hope into our confidence.'

To Mary's surprise and disappointment,
Walter's countenance fell.

I don't know,' said he, after a pause.
Unfortunately it's not Mr. Bartley only that's
against us.'

Well, but, dear,' said Mary, * the more
people there are against us, the more we need
one powerful j&iend and champion. Now you
know Mr. Hope is a man that everybody loves
and respects, even your father.'

Walter just said, gloomily : ' I see objections,
for all that ; but do as you please.'

Mary's tender heart and loving nature
couldn't accept an unwilling assent. She
turned her eyes on psalter a little reproachfully
: ' That's the way to make me do what
you please.'

I don't intend it so,' said Walter. ' When
a husband and wife love each other as we do,
they must give in to each other.'

That's not what we said at the altar.'

'Oh, the marriage service is rather onesided.
I promised very different things to get

you to marry me, and I mean to stand by them.
If you are impatient at all of this secrecy, tell
Mr. Hope.'

I can't now,' said Mary, a little bitterly.
Wliy not, since I consent ? '
An unwilling consent is no consent.*
Mary, you are too tyrannical. How can I
downright like a thing I don't like ? I yield
my will to yours ; there's a certain satisfaction
in that. I really can say no more.'

Then say no more,' said Mary, almost
severely.

At all events, give me a kiss at parting.'
Mary gave him that directly, but it was nota
warm one.

He galloped away upon his errand, and as
she paced slowly back toward Mr. Hope's
office she was a good deal put out. What
should she say to Mr. Hope now ? She could
not defy Walter's evident wishes, and make a
clean breast of the matter. Then she asked
herself what was Walter's objection ; she
couldn't conceive why he was afraid to trust
Mr. Hope. It was a perfect puzzle to her.

Indeed this was a most unfortunate dialogue
between her and Walter, for it set her mind
speculating and guessing at Walter's mind,
and thinking all manner of things just at the
moment when an enemy, smooth as the old
serpent, was watching for an opportunity to
make mischief and poison her mind. Leonard
Monckton, who had long been hanging about,
waiting to catch her alone, met her returning
from Walter Clifford, and took off his hat very
respectfully to her, and said :

Miss Battle, I think.'

Mary lifted her eyes, and saw an elderly
man with a pale face and dark eyebrows and a
cast of countenance quite unlike that of any of
her friends. His face repelled her directly, and
she said, very coldly :

Yes, sir ; but I have not the pleasure of
knowing you.'

And she quietly passed on.

Monckton affected not to see that she was
declining to communicate with him. He
walked on quietly and said :

And I have not seen you since you were a

child, but I had the honour of knowing your
mother.'

You knew my mother, sir ? '

Knew her and respected her.'

What was she like, sir ? '

She was tall and rather dark, not like
you.'

So I have heard,' said Mary. ' Well, sir,'
said she, for his voice was ingratiating, and had
modified the effect of his criminal countenance,
as you knew my mother, you are welcome tome.'


The artist in deceit gave a little sigh, and
said : ' That's more than I dare hope. For
I am here upon a most unpleasant commission
; but for my respect for your mother I
would not have undertaken it, for really
my acquaintance with the other lady is but
slight.'

Mary looked a little surprised at this rigmarole,
and said, ' But this commission, what
is it ? '

'Miss Bartley,' said he, solemnly, yet

gravely, ' I have been requested to warn you
against a gentleman who is deceiving you.'

'Who is that?' said Mary, on her guard,
directly.

It is a Mr. Walter Chfibrd.'

Walter Clifford ! ' said Mary. ' You area
slanderer ; he is incapable of deceit.'

The rogue pretended to brighten up.

Well, I hope so,' said he, ' and I told the
lady as much ; he comes from a most honourable
stock. So then he has told you about
Lucy Monckton ? '

Lucy Monckton ! ' cried Mary. 'Xo ; who
is she ? '

Miss Bartley,' said the villain, very gravely
and solemnly, ' she is his wife.'

His wife, sirs ' cried Mary, contemptuously
' his wife ? You must be mad. I'll hear
no more against him behind his back.' Then,
threatening her tormentor : ' He will be home
again this evening ; he has only ridden to the
Lake Hotel ; you shall repeat this to his face,
if you dare.'

It will be my painful duty,' said the serpent,
meekly.

His wife ? ' said Mary, scornfully, but her
lips trembled.

His wife,' replied Monckton, calmly ; • a
respectable woman whom, it seems, he has
deserted these fourteen years. My acquaintance
with her is slight, but she is in a good position,
and, indeed, wealthy, and has never troubled
him. However, she heard somehow he was
courting you, and, as I often visit Derby upon
business, she requested me to come over here
and warn you in time.'

And do you think,' said Mary, scornfully,
I shall believe this from a stranger ? '

Hardly,' said Monckton, with every appearance
of candour. ' Mrs. Walter Clifford directed
me to show you his marriage-certificate and
hers.'

The marriage-certificate ! ' cried Mary,
turning pale.

Yes,' said Monckton ; ' they were married
at the Registry Office on the 11th June, 1861,'

and he put his hand in his breast-pocket to
search for the certificate. He took this opportunity
to say : ' You must not fancy that
there is any jealousy or ill-feeing after fourteen
years' desertion, but she felt it her duty as a
woman '

The certificate I ' said Mary — ' the certificate
! '

He showed her the certificate ; she read the
fatal words, ' Walter Clifford.' The rest swam
before her eyes, and to her the world seemed
at an end. She heard, as in a dream, the
smooth voice of the false accuser, saying, with
a world of fictitious sympathy : ' I wish I had
never undertaken this business. Mrs. Walter
Clifford doesn't want to distress you ; she only
felt it er duty to save you. Don't give way.
There is no great harm done, unless you were
to be deluded into marrying him.'

And what then ? ' inquired Mary, trembling.


Monckton appeared to be agitated at this
question.

Oh, don't speak of it,' said he. ' You
would be ruined for life, and he would get seven
years' penal servitude ; and that is a sentence
few gentlemen survive in the present day when
prisons are slaughter-houses. There, I have
discharged the most disagreeable office I ever
undertook in my life ; but at all events you are
warned in time.'

Then he bowed most respectfully to her,
and retired, exhaling his pent-up venom in a
diabolical grin.

She, poor victim, stood there stupefied,
pierced with a poisoned arrow, and almost in a
state of collapse ; then she lifted her hands
and eyes for help, and saw Hope's study in front
of her. Everything swam confusedly before
her ; she did not know for certain whether he
was there or not ; she cried to that true friend
for help.

]mr. Hope — I am lost — I am in the deep
waters of despair — save me once more save me ! '

Thus speaking she tottered into the office, and
sank all limp and powerless into a chair, unable

to move or speak, but still not insensible, and
soon her brow sank upon the table, and her
hands spread themselves feebly out before her.

It was all villainous spite on Monckton's
part. He did not for a moment suppose that
his lie could long outlive Walter Clifford's
return ; but he was getting desperate, and
longing to stab them all. Unfortunately fate
befriended the villain's malice, and the husband
and wife did not meet again till that diabolical
poison had done its work.

Monckton retired, put off his old man's
disguise behind the fir-trees, and went toward
another of his hiding-places, an enormous oak-tree
which stood in the hedge of Hope's cottage
garden. The subtle villain had made this
hollow tree an observatory, and a sort of sallyport,
whence he could play the fiend.

The people at the hotel were, as Mary told
Julia Clifford, very honest people.

They showed Percy Fitzroy's bracelet to one

VOL. II. Gr

or two persons, and found it was of great
value. This made them uneasy, lest something
should happen to it under their charge ;
so the woman sent her husband to the neighbourhood
of Clifford Hall to try and find out
if there was a lady of that name who had left
it. The husband was a simple fellow, very
unfit to discharge so delicate a commission.
He went at first, as a matter of course, to the
public-house ; they directed him to the Hall,
but he missed it, and encountered a gentleman,
whose quick eye fell upon the bracelet, for the
foolish man had shown it to so many people
that now he was carrying it in his hand, and it
blazed in the meridian sun. This gentleman
said, ' What have you got there ? '

Well, sir,' said the man, ' it was left atour
hotel by a young couple from these parts.
Handsome couple they were, sir, and spending
their honeymoon.'

Let me see it,' said Mr. Bartley, for he
was the gentleman. He had come back in
some anxiety to see whether Hope had pacified

Mary, or whether he must exert himself to
make matters smooth with her again. Whilst
he was examining the bracelet, who should
appear but Percy Fitzroy, the owner. Not that
he came after the bracelet ; on the contrary,
that impetuous young gentleman had discovered
during the last two hours that he
valued Mss Clifford's love a great deal more
than all the bracelets in the world ; for all that,
he was delighted at the unexpected sight of his
property.

^ Why, that's mine,' said he. ' It's an
heirloom. I lent it to Miss Julia Chfford, and
when I asked her for it to-day she could not
produce it.'

Oh ! oh ! ' said Mr. Bartley. ' What, do
the ladies of the house of Clifford go in for
clandestine marriages ? '

Certainly not, sir,' said Fitzroy. ' Don't
you know the difference between a wedding
ring' and a bracelet ? ' Then he turned to the
man, ' Here's a sovereign for your trouble, my
man. Now give me my bracelet.'

g2

To his surprise the hotel-keeper put it
behind his back instead of giving it to him.

'Nay,' said he, shaking his head knowingly,
'you are not the gentleman that spent the
honeymoon with the lady as owns it. My
mistress said I was not to give it into no hands
but hers.'

This staggered Percy dreadfully, and he
looked from one to another to assist him in
solving the mystery.

Bartley came to the assistance of his
understanding, but with no regard to the
feelings of his heart. 'It's clear enough
what it means, sir ; your sweetheart is playing
you false.'

That went through the true lover's heart
like a knife, and poor little Percy leaned in
despair against Hope's workshop window transfixed
by the poisoned arrow of jealousy.

At this moment the voice of Colonel
Clifford was heard, loud and ringing as usual.
Julia Clifford had decoyed him there in hopes
of falling in with Percy and making it up ; and to

deceive the good Colonel as to her intentions
she had been running him down all the
way ; so the Colonel was heard to say. in a
voice for all the village to hear, ' Jealous is he,
and suspicious? Then you take my advice
and give him up at once. You will easily find
a better man and a bigger.' After delivering
this, like the word of command upon parade,
the Colonel was crossing the turf, a yard or
two higher up than Hope's workshop, when
the spirit of revenge moved Bartley to retort
upon his insulter :

Hi, Colonel Clifford ! '

The Colonel instantly halted, and marched
down with Julia on his arm, like a game-cock
when another rooster crows defiance.

'And what can you have to say to me,
sir ? ' was his haughty inquiry.

To take you down a peg. You rode the
high horse pretty hard to-day. The spotless
honour of the Clifford, eh ? '

Then, of course, it was fixed bayonets and
no quarter.

Have the Clifford ever dabbled in trade
or trickery ? Coal merchants, coal heavers,
and coal whippers may defile our fields with
coal dust and smoke, but they cannot defile
our honour.'

The men are brave as lions, and the
women as chaste as snow ? ' sneered Bartley.

'I don't know about lions and snow. I
have often seen a lion tiu:n tail, and the snow
is black slush wherever you are. But the
Clifford, being gentlemen, are brave, and, being
ladies, are chaste.'

Oh, indeed ! ' hissed Bartley. ' Then how
comes it that your niece there — whose name is
Miss Clifford, I believe — spent what this goodman
calls a honeymoon, with a young gentleman,
at this good man's inn ? '

Here the good man in question made a
faint endeavour to interpose, but the gentlefolks
by their impetuosity completely suppressed
him.

It's a falsehood ! ' cried Julia haughtily.

You scurrilous cad ! ' roared the Colonel,

and shook his staff at him, and seemed on the
point of charging him.

But Bartley was not to be put down this
time. He snatched the bracelet from the man,
and held it up in triumph.

And left this bracelet there to prove it
was no falsehood.'

Then Julia got frightened at the evidence
and the terrible nature of the accusation. ' Oh ! '
cried she, in great distress, ' can any one here
believe that I am a creature so lost ? I have
not seen the bracelet these two months. I lent
it — to — ah, here she is ! Mary, save me from
shame ; you know I am innocent.'

Mary, who was standing at the window in
Hope's study, came slowly forward, pale as
death with her own trouble, to do an act of
womanly justice. ' Miss Clifford,' said she,
languidly, as one to whom all human events
were comparatively indifferent — ' Miss Clifford
lent the bracelet to me, and I left it at that
man's inn.' This she said right in the middle
of them all.

The hotel-keeper took the bracelet from
the unresisting hand of Bartley, touched his
hat, and gave it to her.

There, mistress,' said he. ' I could have
told them you was the lady, but they would
not let a poor fellow get a word in edgeways.'
He retired with an obeisance.

Mary handed the bracelet to Julia, and
then remained passive.

A dead silence fell upon them all, and a
sort of horror crept over Mary Bartley at what
must follow ; but, come what might, no power
should induce her to say the word that should
send Walter Clifford to jail for seven years.

Bartley came to her ; she trembled and
her hands worked.

What are you saying, you fool ? ' he
whispered. ' The lady that left the bracelet
was there with a gentleman.'

Mary winced.

Then Bartley said, sternly, ' Who was your
companion ? '

T must not say.'

You will say one thing,' said Bartley, ' or
I shall have no mercy on you. Are you
secretly married ? '

Then a single word flashed across Mary's
almost distracted mind — self-sacrifice. She
held her tongue.

Can't you speak ? Are you a wife ? '
He now began to speak so loud in his anger
that everybody heard it.

Mary crouched a little and worked her
hands convulsively under the torture, but she
answered with such a doggedness that evidently
she would have let herself be cut to pieces
sooner than say more.

I — don't — know.'

You don't kno^v ? ' roared Bartley.

Mary paused, and then, with iron doggedness,
' I — don't — know.'

This apparent insult to his common-sense
drove Bartley almost mad. ' You have given
these cursed Affords a triumph over me,' he
cried. ' You have brought shame to my door ;
but it shall never pass the threshold.' Here

the Colonel uttered a contemptuous snort.
This drove Bartley wild altogether ; he rushed
at the Colonel, and shook his fist in his face :
You stand there sneering at my humiliation ;
now see the example I can make.' Then he
was down upon Mary in a moment, and literally
yelled at her in his fury. ' Go to your paramour,
girl ; go where you will. You never
enter my door again.' And he turned his back
furiously upon her.

This terrible denunciation overpowered
poor Mary's resolution ; she clung to him in
terror. ' Oh, mercy, mercy, papa ! I'll explain
to you, have pity on your child ! '

Bartley flung her so roughly from him that
she nearly fell. ' You are my child no more.'

But at that moment in strode William
Hope, looking seven feet high, and his eyes
blazing. ' Liar and hypocrite,' he roared, ' she
never was your child! Then, changing to a
tone of exquisite love, and stretching out both
his hands to Mary, ' She is mine ! '

Mary, being now between the two men,

turned swiftly first to one, then to the other,
and with woman's infallible eye knew her own
flesh and blood in that half-moment. She
uttered a cry of love and rapture that went
through every heart that heard it ; and she
thing herself in a moment upon her father's
bosom.

He whirled her round like a feather on to
this right arm, then faced both her enemies,
Chfford and Bartley, with haughty defiance,
head thrown back, and eyes that flashed black
lightning in defence of his child.

CHAPTER Evil
lovers' quarrels.

It was a living picture : the father protecting
his child like an eagle ; Bartley cooled in a
moment, and hanging his head apart, gloomy
and alarmed at the mad blunder rage had
betrayed him into ; Colonel Chfford amazed
and puzzled, and beginning to see the consequences
of all this ; Jura clasping her hands
in rapture and thrilling interest at so romantic
an incident ; Fitzroy beaming with delight at
his sweetheart being cleared ; and, to complete
the picture, the villainous face of Leonard
Monckton, disguised as an old man, showed
itself for a moment sinister and gloomy ; for
now all hope of pecuniary advantage to him
was gone, and nothing but revenge was on the

cards, and he could not see his way clear to
that.

But Hope was no posture-maker ; he turned
the next moment and said a word or two to all
present :

eyes, this is Grace Hope, my daughter.
We were very poor, and her life was in
danger ; I saw nothing else but that ; my love
was stronger than my conscience ; I gave her
to that man upon a condition which he has now
broken. He saved her life and was kind to
her. I thanked him ; I thank him still, and I
did my best to repay him. But now he has
trusted to appearances, and not to her ; he has
beheld and outraged her publicly. But I amas
proud of her as ever, and don't believe
appearances against her character and her

angel face and '

'No more do I,' cried Julia Clifford
eagerly. ' I know her. She's pm-city itself,
and a better woman than I shall ever be.'

Thank you, Miss Clifford,' said Hope, in a
broken voice ; ' God bless you. Come, Grace,

and share my humble home. At all events, it
will shelter you from insult.'

And so the pair went lovingly away, Grace
clinging to her father, comforted for the
moment, but unable to speak, and entered
Hope's little cottage. It was but a stone's-throw
from where they stood.

This broke up the party.

And my house is yours,' said Colonel Clifford
to Juha. ' I did not believe appearances
against a Clifford.' With these words he took
two steps toward his niece and held out his
arm. She moved towards him. Percy came
forward radiant to congratulate her. She drew
up nth a look of furious scorn that made him
recoil, and she marched proudly away with her
uncle. He bestowed one parting glance of
contempt upon the discomfited Bartley, and
marched his niece proudly off, more determined
than ever that she should be his daughter.
But for once he was wise enough not to press
that topic : he let her indignation work alone.
Moreover, though he vas a Httle wrong-headed

and not a little pig-headed, he was a noble-minded
man, and nothing noble passed him
unobserved or unappreciated.

That Bartley's daughter ! ' said he to Juha.
Ay, when roses spring from dunghills, and
eagles are born of sparrow-hawks. Brave girl !
brave girl ! '

Oh, uncle,' said Julia, 'I am so glad you
appreciate her ! '

Appreciate her ! ' said the Colonel ; ' what
should I be worth if I did not ? Why, these
are the women that win Waterloo in the persons
of their sons. That girl could never
breed a coward nor a cheat.' Then his incisive
voice mellowed suddenly. ' Poor young thing,'
said he, with manly emotion, ' I saw her come
out of that room pale as death to do another
woman justice. She's no fool, though that
ruffian called her one. She knew what she
was doing, yet for all her woman's heart she
faced disgrace as unflinchingly as if it was only
death. It was a great action, a noble action, a
just action, and a manly action, but done like a

very woman. Where the two sexes meet like
that in one brave deed it's grand. I declare,
it warms an old soldier's heart, and makes him
thank God there are a few creatures in the
world that do humanity honour.'

As the Colonel was a man that stuck to a
topic when he got upon it, this was the main
of his talk all the way to Clifford Hall. He
even remarked to his niece that, so far as his
observations of the sex extended, great love
of justice was not the leading feature of the
female mind ; other virtues, he ventured to
think, were more prominent.

So everybody says,' was Juha's admission.

'Everybody is right for once,' said the
Colonel.

They entered the house together, and Miss
Chfford went up to her room ; there she put
on a new bonnet and a lovely shawl, recently
imported from Paris. Who could this be for ?
She sauntered upon the lawn till she found
herself somehow near the outward boundary,
where there was a gate leading into the Park.

As she walked to and fro by this gate she
observed, out of the tail of her eye, of course,
the figure of a devoted lover creeping toward
her. Whether this took her by surprise, or
whether the lovely creature was playing the
part of a beautiful striped spider waiting for
her fly, the reader must judge for himself.

Percy came to the gate ; she walked past
him twice, coming and going with her eyes
fixed upon vacancy. She passed him a third
time. He murmured in a pleading voice :

Juha ! '

She neither saw nor heard, so attractive
had the distant horizon become.

Percy opened the gate and came inside,
and stood before her the next time she passed.
She started with surprise.

What do you want here ? ' said she.

To speak to you.'

How dare you speak to me after your
vile suspicions ? '

Well, but, Julia '

How dare you call me Julia ? '
VOL. II. H

Well, Miss Clifford, won't you even hear
me?'

Not a word. It's through you poor dear
Mary and I have both been insulted by that
wretch of a father of hers.'

'Which father?'

I said Wretch. To whom does that term
apply except to Mr. Bartley, and ' (with sudden
vigour) ^ to you.'

Then you think I'm as bad as old Bartley,'
said Percy, firing up.

No, I don't;

Ah,' said Percy, glad to find there was a
limit.

But Juba explained : ' I think you are a
great deal worse. You pretend to love me, and
yet without the slightest reason you doubt me.'

What did I doubt ? ' I thought you had
parted with my bracelet to another person,
and so you had. I never doubted your
honour.'

Oh yes, you did ; I saw your face.'

I am not r — r — responsible for my face.'

Yes, you are ; you had no business to look
broken-hearted, and miserable, and distrustful,
and abominable. It was your business, face
and all, to distrust appearances, and not me.'

Ap — pear — dances were so strong that not
to look m — miserable would have been to seem
indifferent ; there is no love where there is no
jealousy.'

Oh,' said Julia, ' he has let that out at
last, after denying it a hundred times. Now
I say there is no true love without respect and
confidence, and this doesn't exist where there
is jealousy, and all about a trumpery bracelet.'

Anything but tr — ump — ump — umpery ;
it came down from my ancestors.'

You never had any ; your behaviour*
shows that.'

I tell you it is an heirloom. It was given
to my mother by '

Oh, we know all about that,' said Juha.
" This bracelet did an Egyptian to my mother
give." But you are not going to play Othello
with me.'

H 2

'I shouldn't have a very gentle Desde-
mona.'

No, you wouldn't, candidly. No man
shall ever bully and insult me, and then wake
me out of my first sleep to smother me because
my maid has lost one of his handkerchiefs at
the wash

Percy burst out laughing at this turn, and
tried to inveigle her into good humour.

Say no more about it,' said he, ' and I'll
forgive you.'

• Forgive me, you little wretch ! ' cried
Julia. ' Why, haven't you the sense to see
that it is serious this time, and my patience is
exhausted, and that our engagement is broken
off, and I never mean to see you again — except
when you come to my wedding ? '

Your wedding ! ' cried Percy, turning pale.
With whom ? '

That's my business ; you leave that to me,
sir. Hold out your hand — both hands ; here
is the ancestral bracelet — it shall pinch meno
longer, neither my wrist nor my heart ;

here's the brooch you gave me — I won't be
pinned to it any longer, nor to you either ;
and there is your bunch of charms ; and there
is your bundle of love-letters — stupid ones
they are ; ' and she crammed all the aforesaid
treasures into his hands one after the other.
So this was what she went to her room
for.

Percy looked down on his handful ruefully.
My very letters ! There was no jealousy in
them ; they were full of earnest love.'

Fuller of bad spelling,' said the relentless
girl. Then she went into details : ' You spell
abominable " ^vith two m's — and that's abominable
; you spell " ridiculous " with a h —
and that's ridiculous. So after this don't you
presume to speak to me, for I shall never
speak to you again.'

Very well, then,' said Percy. ' I, too, will
be silent for ever.'

Oh, I daresay,' said Jura ; ' a chatterton
like you.'

Even chatterboxes are silent m the grave,'

suggested Percy ; ' and if we are to part like
this for ever to-day, tomorrow I shall be no
more.'

'Well, you could not be much less,' said
Julia, but with a certain shamefaced change
of tone that perhaps, if Percy had been more
experienced, might have given him a ray of
hope.

'Well,' said he, 'I know one lady that
would not treat these presents with quite so
much contempt.'

Oh, I have seen her,' said Juha spitefully.
She has been setting her cap at you for sometime;
it's Miss Susan Buckley — a fine conquest
! — great, fat, red-haired thing.'
Auburn.'

'Yes, all-burn, scarlet, carrots, Jamie
censer. Well, go and give her my leavings,
yourself and your ancestral — paste.'

'Well,' said Percy gloomily, 'I might do
worse. You never really loved me ; you were
always like an enemy looking out for faults.
You kept postponing our union for something

to happen to break it off. But I won't be any
woman's slave ; I'll use one to drive out the
other. None of you shall trample on me.'
Then he burst forth into singing. Nobody
stammers when he sings.

Shall I, wasting in despair,

Sigh because a woman's fair ?

Shall my cheeks grow pale with care

Because another's rosy are ?

If she be not kind to me,

What care I how fair she be ?

This resolute little gentleman passed
through the gate as he concluded the verse,
waved his hand jauntily by way of everlasting
adieu, and went off whistling the
refrain with great spirit, and both hands in his
pockets.

'You impudent ' cried Juha, almost

choking; then, authoritatively, 'Percy — Mr.
Fitzroy ; ' then, coaxingly, ' Percy dear.'

Percy heard, and congratulated himself
upon his spirit. ' That's the way to treat them,'
said he to himself.

Well ? ' said he, with an air of indifference,

and going slowly back to the gate. ' What is
it now ? ' said he, a little arrogantly.

She soon let him know. Directly he was
quite within reach she gave him a slap in the
face that sounded like one plank falling upon
another, and marched off with an air of royal
dignity, as if she had done the most graceful
and lady like thing in all the world.

How happy are those choice spirits who
can always preserve their dignity !

Percy retired red as fire, and one of his
cheeks retained that high colour for the rest of
the day.

CHAPTEE XVIII.

APOLOGIES.

We must now describe the place to which,
Hope conducted his daughter, and please do-not
skip our little description. It is true that
some of our gifted contemporaries paint Italian
scenery at prodigious length a propos de bottes,
and others show in many pages that the rocks
and the sea are picturesque objects, even when
irrelevant. True that others gild the evening
clouds and the western horizon merely to
please the horizon and the clouds. But we
hold with Pope that

The proper study of mankind is man,

and that authors' pictures are bores, except as
narrow frames to big incidents. The true
model, we think, for a writer is found in the
opening hues of ' Marmion,' where the castle at

eventide, its yellow lustre, its drooping banner,
its mailclad warders reflecting the western
blaze, the tramp of the sentinel, and his low
hummed song, are flung on paper with the
broad and telling touch of Rubens, not from an
irrelevant admiration of old castles and the setting
sun, but because the human figures of the
story are riding up to that sun-gilt castle to
make it a scene of great words and deeds.

Even so, though on a much humbler scale,
we describe Hope's cottage and garden merely
because it was for a moment or two the scene
of a remarkable incident never yet presented
in history or fiction.

This cottage, then, was in reality something
between a villa and a cottage ; it resembled a
villa in this, that the rooms were lofty, and the
windows were casements glazed with plate
glass and very large. Walter Clifford had
built it for a curate, who proved a bird of
passage, and the said Walter had a horror of
low rooms, for he said, ' I always feel as if the
ceiling was going to flatten me to the floor.'

Owing to this the bedroom windows, which
looked westward on the garden, were a great
height from the ground, and the building had
a Gothic character.

Still there was much to justify the term
cottage. The door, which looked southward
on the road, was at the side of the building,
and opened, not into a hall, but into the one
large sitting-room, which was thirty feet long
and twenty-five feet broad, and instead of a
plaster ceiling there were massive joists, which
Hope had gilded and painted till they were a
sight to behold. Another cottage feature : the
walls were literally clothed with verdure and
colours ; in front, huge creeping geraniums,
jasmine, and Virginia creepers hid the brickwork
; and the western walls, to use the words
of a greater painter than ourselves, were

Quite over canopied with lush woodbine,
With sweet musk-roses, and with eglantine.

In the next place, the building stood in a
genuine cottage-garden. It was close to the
road. The southern boundary was plain oak

paling, made of upright pieces which Hope had
varnished so that the colour was now a fine
amber ; the rest of the boundary was a quickset
hedge, in the western division of which stood
an enormous oak-tree, hollow at the back.
And the garden was fair with humble flowers
pinks, sweet williams, crimson nasturtiums,
double daisies, lilies, and tulips ; but flowerbeds
shared the garden with friendly cabbages,
potatoes, onions, carrots, and asparagus.

To this humble but pleasant abode Hope
conducted his daughter, and insisted upon her
lying down on the sofa in the sitting-room.
Then he ordered the woman who kept the
house for him to prepare the spare bedroom,
which looked into the garden, and to cut some
of the sweet-smelling flowers. He himself had
much to say to his daughter, and, above all, to
demand her explanation of the awkward circumstances
that had been just revealed. But
she had received a great shock, and, like most
manly men, he had a great consideration for
the weakness of women, and his paternal heart

said, ' Let her have an hour or two of absolute
repose before I subject her to any trial whatever.'
So he opened the window to give her
air, enjoining her most strictly not to move,
but even to go to sleep if she could ; and then
he put on his shooting coat, with large inside
pockets, to go and buy her a little wine — a
thing he never touched himself — and what
other humble delicacies the village afforded.
He walked briskly away from his door without
the least idea that all his movements were
watched from a hiding-place upon his own
premises, no other than the great oak-tree,
hollow and open at the back, in which Leonard
Monckton had bored two peep-holes, and was
now ensconced there watching him.

Hope had not gone many yards from his
own door when he was confronted by one of
those ruffians who, by their way of putting it,
are the eternal butt of iniquitous people and
iniquitous things, namely, honest men, curse
them ! and the law, confound it ! This was
no other than that Ben Burnley, who, being

a miner, had stuck half-way between Devonshire
and Durham, and had been some months
in Bartley's mine. He opened on Hope in a
loud voice, and dialect, which we despair of
conveying with absolute accuracy.

Mr. Hope, sir, they won't let me go down
t' mine.'

No ; you're discharged.'

'Who by?'

By me.'

'What for?'

For smoking in the mine, in spite of three
warnings.'

Me smoking in t' mine ! Who tell you
yon lie ? '

'You were seen to pick the lock of your
Davy-lamp, and that put the mine in danger.
Then you were seen to light your pipe at the
bare light, and that put it in worse peril.'

That's a lie. What mak's yer believe my
skin's nowt to me? It's all one as it is to
them liars that would rob me of my bread out
of clean spite.'

It's the truth, and proved by four honest
witnesses. There are a hundred and fifty
men and twenty ponies in that mine, and
their lives must not be sacrificed by one two-legged
brute that won't hear reason. You are
discharged and paid ; so be good enough to
quit the premises and find work elsewhere ;
and Lord help your employer, whoever he
is!'

Hope would waste no more time over this
fellow. He turned his back, and went off
briskly on his more important errand.

Burnley shook his fist at lira, and discharged
a volley of horrible curses after him.
Whilst he was thus raging after the man that
had done his duty he heard a satirical chuckle.
He turned his head, and, behold! there was
the sneering face of his fellow jail-bird Monck-ton.
Burnley started.

'Yes, mate,' said Monckton, 'it is me.
And what sort of a pal are you, that couldn't
send me a word to Portland that you had
dropped on to this rascal Hope ? You knew

I was after him. You might have saved me
the trouble, you selfish brute.'

Burnley submitted at once to the ascendency
of Monckton ; he hung his head, and
muttered. ' I am no scholar to write to
folk.'

You grudged a joey to a bloke to write for
you. Now I suppose you expect me to be a
good pal to you again, all the same? '

Why not ? ' said Burnley. ' He is poison
to you as well as to me. He gave you fourteen
years' penal : you told me so at Portland ; let's
be revenged on him.'

What else do you think I am here for,
you fool ? But empty revenge, that's child's
play. The question is, can you do what you
foretold?'

Ay, if I see a chance of revenge. Why, I
always did what you told me.'

Very well, then ; there's nothing ripe
yet.'

Yer don't mean I am to wait a year for
my revenge.'

'You will have to wait an opportunity.
Revenge is like other luxuries, there's a time
for it. Do you think I am such a fool as to go
in for blindfold revenge, and get lagged or
stretched ? Not for Joseph, nor for you either,
Benjamin. I'll tell you what, though, I think
this will be a busy day ; it must be a busy day.
That old fox Bartley has found out his blunder
before now, and he'll try something on ; then
the Clifford they won't go to sleep on it.'

I don't know what yer talking about,' says
Burnley.

Remain in your ignorance, Ben. The best
instrument is a blind instrument ; you shall have
your revenge soon or late.'

Let it be soon, then.'

In the meantime,' said Monckton, ' have
you got any money ? '

Got my wages.'

That will do for you to-day. Go to the
public-house and get half-drunk.'

Half-drunk ? '

VOL. II. I

Half-drunk ! Don't I speak plain ? '

Miners,' said Burnley candidly, ' never get
half-drunk in t' county Durham. They are
that the best part of their time.'

Then you get half-drunk, neither more nor
less, or I'll discharge you as Hose has done, and
that will be the worst discharge of the two for
you. When you are half-drunk come here
directly, and hang about this place. Xo ; you
had better be under that tree in the middle of
the field there, and pretend to be sleeping off
your liquor. Come, mizzle ! '

When he had packed off Burnley, he got
back into his hiding-place, and only just in time,
for Hope came back again upon the wings of
love, and Grace, whose elastic nature had revived,
saw him coming, and came out to meet
him. Hope scolded her gently : why had she
got off the sofa when repose was so necessary
for her ?

You are mistaken, dear father,' said she.
I am wonderfully strong and healthy ; I never
fainted away in my life, and my mind will not

let me rest at present — I have been longing so
for my father.'

Ah, precious word ! ' murmured Hope.
Keep saying that word to me, darling. Oh,
the years that I have pined for it ! '

Dear father, we will make up for all those
years. Oh, papa, let us not part again, never,
never, not even for a day.'

My child, we never will. What am I saying
? I shall have to give you back to one who
has a stronger claim than I — to your husband.'

My husband ? ' said Mary, turning pale.

Yes,' said Hope ; ' for you know you have
a husband. Oh, I heard a few words there
before I interfered ; but it's not to me you'll
say '*/ doit know" That was good enough
for Bartley and a lot of strangers. Come, Grace
dear, take my arm ; have no concealments from
me. Trust to a father's infinite love, even if
you have been imprudent or betrayed; but
that's a thing I shall never believe except from
your lips. Take a turn with me my child, since
you cannot lie down and rest ; a Httle air, and

I 2

gentle movement on your father's arm, and close
to your father's heart, will be the next best
thing for you.' Then they walked to and fro
like lovers.

Why, Grace, my child,' said he, ' of course
I understand it all. No doubt you promised to
keep your marriage secret, or had some powerful
reason for withholding it from strangers ;
and, indeed, why should you reveal such a secret
to insolence or to mere curiosity ? But you
will tell the truth to me, your father and your
best friend ; you will tell me you are a wife.'

Father,' said Mary trembling, and her eyes
roved as if she was looking out for the means
of flight.

Hope saw this look, and it made him sick at
heart, for he had lived too long, and observed
too keenly, not to know that innocence and
purity are dangers, and are more often protected
by the safeguards of society than by
themselves.

Oh, my child,' said he, ' anything is better
than this suspense ? Why do you not answer

roe ? Why do you torture me ? Are you
Walter Clifford's wife?'

Mary began to pant and sob. ' Oh, papa,
have patience with me. You do not know the
danger. Wait till he comes back. I dare not ;
I cannot.'

Then, by Heaven, he shall ! '

He dropped her arm, and his countenance
became terrible. She clung to him directly.

'No, no ; wait till I have seen him. He
will be back this very evening. Do not judge
hastily ; and oh, papa, as you love your child,
do not act rashly.'

I shall act firmly,' was Hope's firm reply.
^ You have come from a sham father to a real
one, and you will be protected as well as loved.
This lover has forbidden you to confide in your
father (he did not know that I was your father,
but that makes no difference) ; it looks very
ugly, and if he has wronged you he shall do you
justice, or I will have his life.'

Oh, papa,' screamed Mary, ' his life ? Why,
mine is bound up in it.'

'I fear so,' said Hope. 'But what's our
life to us without our honour, especially to a
woman ? He is the true Cain that destroys a
pure virgin.'

Then he put both his hands on her shoulder,
and said, ' Look at me, Grace.' She looked at
him full with eyes as brave as a hon's and as
gentle as a gazelle's.

In a moment his senses enlightened him
beyond the power of circumstances to deceive.

It's a lie,' said he ; ' men are always lying
and circumstances deceiving ; there is no blush
of shame upon these cheeks, no sin nor frailty
in these pure eyes. You are his wife.'

I am ! ' cried Grace, unable to resist any
longer.

Thank God ! ' cried Hope, and father and
daughter were locked that moment in a tender
embrace.

'Yes, papa, you shall know all, and then I
shall have to fall on my knees and ask you not
to punish one I love — for — a fault committed
years ago. You wil have pity on us both.

Walter and I were married at the altar, and I
am his wife in the eyes of Heaven. But, oh,
papa, I fear I am not his lawful wife.'

'Not his lawful wife, child! Why, what
nonsense ! '

I would to Heaven it was ; but this
morning I learned for the first time that he
had been married before. Oh, it was years
ago ; but she is alive.'

Impossible ! He could not be so base.'

Papa,' said Mary, very gravely, ' I have
seen the certificate.'

The certificate ! ' said Hope, in dismay.
What certificate ? '

Of the Registry Office. It was shown me
by a gentleman she sent expressly to warn
me ; she had no idea that Walter and I were
married, but she had heard somehow of our
courtship. I try to thank her, and I tried, and
always will, to save him from a prison and his
family from disgrace.'

And sacrifice yourself ? ' cried Hope, in
agony.

'I love him,' said Mary, 'and you must
spare him.'

I will have justice for my child.'

Grace was in such terror lest her father
should punish Walter, that she begged him to
consider whether in sacrificing herself she
really had not been unintentionally wise. What
could she gain by publishing that she had
married another woman's husband ? ' I have
lost my husband,' said she, ' but I have found
my father. Oh, take me away and let me rest
my broken heart upon yours, far from all who
know me. Every wound seems to be cured in
this world, and if time won't chuse this my wound,
even with my father's help, the grave will

Oh, misery ! ' cried Hope ; ' do I hear
such words as these from my child just entering
upon life and all its joys? '

Hush, papa,' said Grace ; ' there is that
man.'

That man was Llr. Bartley. He looked
very much distressed, and proceeded at once
to express his penitence.

CHAPTEE XIX.

A WOMAN OUTWITS TWO MEN.

Oh, Mary, what can I say ! I was simply mad
stung into a fury by that foul-mouthed ruffian.
Mary, I am deeply sorry, and thoroughly
ashamed of my violence and my cruelty,
and I implore you to think of the very many
happy years we have spent together without an
angry word — not that you ever deserved one.
Let us silence all comments ; return to me as
the head of my house and the heiress of my
fortune ; you will bind Mr. Hope to me still
more strongly ; he shall be my partner, and
he will not be so selfish as to ruin your future.'
Ay,' said Hope, ' that's the same specious
argument you tempted me with fifteen years
ago. But she was a helpless child then ; lie is
a woman now, and can decide for herself. As

for me, I will not be your partner. I have a
small royalty on your coal, and that is enough
for me ; but Grace shall do as she pleases. My
child, will you go to the brilliant future that
his wealth can secure you, or share my modest
independence, which will need all my love to
brighten it ? Think before you answer ; your
own future life depends upon yourself.'

With this he turned his back and walked
for some distance very stoutly, then leaned
upon the palings with his back toward Grace ;
but even a back can speak, and the young lady
looked at him and her eyes filled ; then she
turned them towards Bartley, and those
clear eyes dried as if the fire in the heart had
scorched them.

In the first place, sir,' said she, with a cold
and cutting voice, very unusual to her, ' my
name is not Mary, it is Grace ; and be assured
of this, if there was not another roof in all the
world to shelter me, if I was helpless, friendless,
and fatherless, I would die in the nearest ditch
rather than set my foot in the house fi:om

which I was thrust out with shame and insult
such as no lady ever yet forgave. But, thank
Heaven, I am not at your mercy at all. He to
whom nature has drawn me all these years is
my father — Oh, papa, come to me ; is it for
you to stand aloof? It is into your hands, withall
the trust and love you have earned so well
from your poor Grace, I give my love, my
veneration, and my heart and soul for ever.'
Then she flung herself panting on his bosom,
and he cried over her. The next moment heled
her to the house, where he made her promise
to repose now after this fresh trial; and,
indeed, he would have followed her, but
Bartley implored him so piteously for the sake
of old times not to refuse him one word more,
that he relented so far as to come out to him,
though he felt it was a waste of time.

He said, ' Mr. Bartley, it's no use ; nothing
can undo this morning's work ; our paths he
apart. From something Walter Clifford let fall
one day, I suspect he is the person you robbed,
and induced me to rob, of a large fortune.'

Well, what is lie to you ? Have pity upon
me ; be silent, and name your own price.'

'Wrong Walter Clifford with my eyes
open ? He is the last man in the world that I
would wrong in money matters. I have got a
stern account against him, and I will begin it
by speaking the truth and giving him back
his own.'

Here the interview was interrupted by an
honest miner, one Jim Davies. He came in
hurriedly, and, like people of that class, thrust
everybody else's business out of his way.
You are wanted at the mine, Mr. Hope. The
shoring of the old works is giving way, and
there's a deal of water collecting in another
part.'

I'll come at once,' said Hope ; 'the men's
lives must not be endangered. Have the cage
ready.' Jim walked away.

Hope turned to Bartley.

Pray understand, Mr. Bartley, that this is
my last visit to your mine.'

One moment, Hope,' cried Bartley in despair.

' We have been friends so long, surely
you owe me something.'

I do.'

'Well, then, I'll make you rich for life if
you will but let Mary return to me and only
just be silent ; speak neither for me nor against
me ; surely that is not much for an old friend
to ask. What is your answer ? '

That I will speak the truth, and keep my
conscience and my child.'

This answer literally crushed Bartley. His
very knees knocked together ; he leaned
against the palms sick at heart. He saw that
Colonel Clifford would extort not only Walter's
legacy, but what the lawyers call the mesne
profits — that is to say, the interest and the
various proceeds from the fraud during fourteen
years.

Whilst he was in this condition of bodily
collapse and mental horror, a cold cynical voice
dropped icicles, so to speak, into his ear :

In a fix, governor, eh ? The girl won't
come back, and Hope won't hold his tongue.'

Bartley looked round in amazement and
saw the cadaverous face and diabolical sneer
of Leonard Monckton. Fourteen years and evil
passions had furrowed that bloodless cheek ;
but there was no mistaking the man. It was a
surprise to Bartley to see him there, and bespoken
to by a knave who had tried to rob
him ; but he was too full of his immediate
trouble to think much of minor things.

What do you know about it ? ' said he,
roughly.

I'll tell you,' said Monckton, cooly.

He then walked in a most leisurely way to
the gate that led into the meadow, whose
eastern boundary was Hope's quickset hedge,
and he came in the same leisurely way up to
Mr. Bartley, and leaned his back, with his
hands behind him, with perfect effrontery,
against the palings.

I know all,' said he. ' I overheard you
in yom' office fourteen years ago, when you
changed children with Hope.'

Bartley uttered an exclamation of dismay.

And I've been hovering about here all
day, and watched the little game, and now I
am fly, and no mistake.'

Bartley threw up his hands in dismay :
Then it's all over ; I am doubly ruined. I
can not hope to silence you both.'

Don't speak so l(^id, governor.'

Wliy not ? ' said Bartley. ' Others will, if I
don't.' He lowered his voice for all that, and
wondered what was coming.

Listen to me,' said Monckton, exchanging
his cynical manner for a quiet and weighty
one.

Bartley began to wonder and look at him
with a sort of awe. The words now dropped
out of Monckton's thin lips as if they were chips
of granite, so full of meaning was every syllable,
and Bartley felt it.

It's not so bad as it looks. There are only
two men that know you are a felon.'

Bartley winced visibly.

Now one of those men is to be bought' —
Bartley lifted his head with a faint gleam of

hope at that — ' and the other — has gone — down
a coal mine.'

What good will that do me ? '

The villain paused, and looked Bartley in
the face.

That depends. Suppose you were to offer
me what you offered Hope, and suppose Hope
was never — to come up — again.'

No such luck,' said Bartley, shaking his
head sorrowfully.

Luck ? ' said Monckton, contemptuously ;
'we make our own luck. Do you see that
vagabond lying under the tree? That's Ben
Burnley.'

Ah ! ' said Bartley ; * the ruffian Hope discharged.'


The same, and a man that is burning to
be revenged on him. He's your luck, Mr.
Bartley. I know the man, and what he has
done in a mine before to-day.'

Then he drew near to Bartley 's ear, and
hissed into it these fearful words :

Send him down the mine ; promise him

five hundred pounds — if William Hope —
ueyev comes up again — and William Hope
never will.'

Bartley drew back aghast ' Assassination
I ' he cried ; and by a generous impulse of
horror he half fled from the tempter. But
Monckton followed him up, and laid his hand
upon his shoulder.

Hush,' said he ; ' you are getting too near
that window, and it is open. Let me see
there's nobody outside.'

He looked in. There was nobody. Grace
was upstairs, but it did so happen that she
came into the room soon after.

Nothing of the kind. Accident. Accidents
will happen in mines, and, talking of luck, this
mine was declared dangerous this very day.'

No, no ! ' groaned Bartley, trembling in
every limb. ' It's a horrible crime ; I dare
not risk it.'

'It is but a risk. The alternative is certain.
You will be indicted for fraud by the
Clifford.'

VOL. II. K

Bartley groaned.

They'll live in your home, they'll revel in
your money, while you Aver a cropped head —
and a convict dress — in a stone cell at Portland.'

No, never ! ' screamed Bartley. ' Man,
man, you are tempting me to my perdition.'

'I am saving you. Just consider — where
is the risk? It is only an accident, and who
will suspect you ? Men don't ruin their own
mines. Here, just let me call him.'

Bartley made a faint gesture to forbid it, but
Monckton pretended to take that as an assent.

Hi, Ben,' he cried, ' come here.'

No, no ! ' cried Bartley ; ' I'll have nothing
to do with him.'

'Well,' said Monckton, 'then don't, but
hear what he has got to say ; he'll tell you
how easily accidents happen in a mine.'

Then Burnley came in, but stood at some
distance. Bartley turned his back upon them
both, and edged away from them a little ; but
Monckton stood between the two men, determined
to bring them together.

Ben,' said he, ' Mr. Bailey takes you on
again at my request ; no thanks to Mr. Hope.'

No, curse him ; I know that.'

'Talking of that, Ben, how was it that you
got rid of that troublesome overseer in the
Welsh colliery ? '

Ben started and looked aghast for a
moment, but soon recovered himself, and told
his tale of blood, with a strange mixture of
satisfaction and awe, washing his hands in the
air nervously all the time.

Well, you see, sir, we put some gin-cotton
in a small canister, with a fuse cut to last four
minutes, and hid it in one of the old workings
the men had left ; then they tell t' overseer
they thowt t' water was coming in by quickly.
He got there just in time ; and what with t'
explosion, fire-damp, and fallen coal, we never
saw V overseer again.'

Dear me ! ' said Monckton ; ' and ]vir.
Hope has gone down the mine expressly to
inspect old workings. Is it not a strange coincidence?
Now, if such an accident was to

K 2

befall Mr. Hope, it's my belief ]mr. Bartley
Avould give you five hundred pounds.'

Bartley made no reply ; the perspiration was
pouring down his face, and he looked a picture
of abject guilt and terror.

Monckton looked at him, and decided for
him. He went softly, like a cat, to Ben
Burnley, and said, ' If an accident does occur,
and that man never comes up again, you are to
have five hundred pounds.'

Five hundred pounds ! ' shouted Ben.
I'll do t' job. Nay, nay, but,' said he — and
his countenance fell — ' they will not let me go
down the mine.'

The diabolical agent went cat-like to
Bartley.

Please give me a written order to let this
man go to work again in the mine.'

Bartley trembled and hesitated, but at last
took out his pocket-book, and wrote on a
leaf:

Take Burnley on again.

E. Bartley.'

Whilst writing it his hand shook, and lieu
it was written he would not tear it out. He
panted and quivered, and was as pale as ashes,
and said, ' Xo, no, it's a death-warrant ; I cannot
; ' and his trembling hand tried to convey
the note-book back to his pocket, but it fell
from his shaking fingers, and Monckton took it
up, and quietly tore the leaf out, and took it
across to Burnley, in spite of a feeble gesture
the struorcflinor wTCtch made to detain him.
He gave Ben the paper, and whispered, ' Be off,
before he changes his mind.'

'You'll hear of an accident in the mine
before the day's over,' said Burnley ; and he

went off without a min of remorse under the

I—,

double stimulus of revenge and lucre.

He'll do it,' cried Monckton, triumphantly,
*and Hope will end his days in the Bartley
mine.'

These words where hardly out of his lips
when Grace Hope walked out of the house,
pale, and with her eyes gleaming, and walked
rapidly past them. She had nothing on her

head but a white handkerchief that was tied
under her chin. Her appearance and her
manner struck the conspirators with terror.
Bartley stood aghast, but the more resolute
villain seized her as she passed him. She was
not a bit frightened at that, but utterly amazed.
It was a public road.

How dare you touch me, you villain ! ' she
cried. 'Let me go. Ah, I shall know you
again, with your face like a corpse and your
villainous eyes. Let me go, or I'll have you
hung.'

Where are you going ? ' said Bartley,
trembling.

To my father.'

He is not your father ; it is a conspiracy.
You must come home with me.'

Never ! ' cried Grace, and by a sudden
and violent effort she flung Monckton off.

But Bartley, mad with terror, seized her
that moment, and gave Monckton time to
recover and seize her again by the arm.

You are not of age,' cried Bartley ; 'you

are under my authority, and you shall come
home with me.'

No, no ! ' cried Grace. ' Help I help !
murder ! help ! '

She screamed and struggled so violently
that with all their efforts they could hardly
hold her. Then the devil Monckton began to
cry louder still : ' She's mad, she's mad ; help !
to secure a mad woman.' This terrified Grace
Hope. She had read of the villainies that had
been done under cover of that accusation,
which, indeed, has too often prevented honest
men fi'om interfering with deeds of lawless
violence. But she had all her wits about her,
woman's wit included. She let them drag her
past the cottage door. Then she cried outwith
delight : ' Ah, here is my father.' They
followed the direction of her eye, and relaxed
their grasp. Instantly she drew her hands
vigorously downward, got clear of them, gave
them each a furious push that sent them flying
forward, then darted back through the open
door, closed it, and bolted it inside just as

Monckton, recovering himself, quickly dashed
furiously against it — in vain.

The quick-witted villain saw the pressing
danger in a moment: 'To the back door, or
we are lost ! ' he yelled. Bartley dashed
round to that door with a cry of dismay.

But Grace was before him just half a
minute. She ran through the house.

Alas! the infernal door was secure. The
woman had locked it when she went out.
Grace came flying back to the front, and drew
the bolt softly. But as she did so she heard a
hammering, and found the door was fast. Unluckily
Hope's tool basket was on the window-ledge,
and Monckton drove a heavy nail
obliquely through the bottom of the door, and
it was immovable. Then Grace slipped with
cat-like step to the window, and had her hand
on the sill to vault clean out into the road ; she
was perfectly capable, it being one of her
calisthenic exercises. But here again her
watchful enemy encountered her. He raised
his hammer as if to strike her hand — though

perhaps he might not have gone that length —
but she was a woman, and dream back at that
cruel gesture. Instantly he closed the outside
shutters ; he didn't trouble about the window,
but these outside shutters he proceeded to nail
up; and, as the trap was now complete, he
took his time, and b}' natural refection from his
fears, he permitted himself to exult a little.

Thank 3'ou, Mr. Hope, for the use of your
tools. ' (Eat-tat.) ' There, my little bird, you're
caged.' (Eat-tat-tat.) ' Did you really think '
(rat-tat) ' two men ' (rat-tat tat) ' were to be
beaten by one woman ? '

The prisoner thus secured, he drew aside
with justifiable pride to admire his work. This
action enabled him to see the side of the cottage
he had secured so cleverly in front and
behind, and there was Grace Hope coming
down from her bedroom window. She. had
tied two crimson curtains together by a useful
knot, which is called at sea a fisherman's bend ;
fastened one end to the bed or something, and
she was coming down this extemporised rope

hand over hand alternately with as much ease
and grace as if she was walking down marble
steps. Monckton flung his arm and body
wildly over the paling, and grabbed her with
his finger-ends. She gave a spang with her
heels against the wall, and took a bold leap
away from him into a tulip bed ten feet distant
at least. He yelled to Bartley, ' To the garden,'
and, not losing a moment, flung his leg
over the pang to catch her with Bartley's help
in this new trap. Grace dashed on without a
moment's hesitation at the quickset hedge.
She did not run up to it and hesitate, like a
woman, for it was not to be wriggled through ;
she went at it with the momentum and impetus
of a racehorse, and through it as if it was made
of blotting-paper, leaving a wonderfully small
hole, but some shreds of her dress, and across
the meadow at a pace that neither Bartley nor
Monckton, men past their prime, could hope to
rival even if she had not got the start. They
gazed aghast at one another ; at the premises
so suddenly emptied as if by magic ; at the

crimson curtain floating like a banner, and
glowing beautifully amongst the green creepers ;
and at that flying figure, with her hair that
glittered in the sun, and streamed horizontal
in the wind with her velocity ; flying to the
mine to save William Hope, and give these
baffled conspirators a life of penal servitude.

CHAPTEE XX.

CALAMITY.

The baffled conspirators saw Grace Hope bound
over a stile like a deer and dash up to the mine ;
then there was a hurried colloquy, and some
men were seen to start from the mine and run
towards Hope's cottage. What actually took
place was this : she arrived panting, and begged
to be sent down the mine at once ; the deputy
said, • You cannot, Miss, without an order from
Mi Hope.'

I am his daughter, sir,' said she ; ' he has
claimed me from ]Mi Bartley this day.'

At that word the man took off his hat to
her.

Let me down this instant, there's a plot to
fire the mine, and destroy my dear father.'

A plot to fire the mine I ' said the man all
aghast. ' Why ? Who by ? Hi ! cage ready
there ! '

One Burnley, but he's bribed by a stranger.
Send me down to warn my father ; but you run
and seize that villain ; you cannot mistake him.
He wears a light suit of tweed, all one colour.
He has very black eyebrows, and a face like a
corpse, and a large gold ring on the little finger
of his right hand. You will find Inn somewhere
near my father's cottage. Neither you nor I
have a moment to lose.'

Then the deputy called three more men, and
made for Hope's cottage, while Grace went
down in the cage.

Bartley fled in mortal terror to his own
house, and began to pack up his things to leave
the country. Monckton withdrew to the
clump of fir trees, and from that thin shelter
watched the mine, intending to levant as soon
as he should see Hope come up safe and sound ;
but when he saw three or four men start from

the mine and riui across to him, he took the
alarm and sought the thicker shelter of a copse
hard by. It was very thick cover, good for
temporary concealment ; but he soon found it
was so narrow that he couldn't emerge from it
on either side without being seen at once, and
his quick wit told him that Grace had denounced
him, and, probably described him accurately to
the miners ; he was in mortal terror, but not
unprepared for this sort of danger. The first
thing he did was to whip off his entire tweed
suit and turn it inside out ; he had had it made
on purpose, it was a thin tweed, doubled with
black kerseymere, so that this change was a
downright transformation. Then he substituted
a black tie for a coloured one, whipped out a
little mirror and his hare's-foot, &c., browned
and coloured his cheek, put on an admirable
grey wig, whiskers, moustache and beard, and
partly whitened his eyebrows, and hobbled
feebly out of the little wood an infirm old man.
Presently he caught sight of his gold ring.
Ah ! ' said he, ' she is a sharp girl ; perhaps

she noticed that in the struggle? ' He took it
off, and was going to put it in his pocket, but
thought letter of that, and chucked it into a
ditch. Then he made for the village. The
pursuers hunted about the house and, of course,
didn't find him ; but, presently one of them saw
him crossing a meadow not far off, so they ran
towards him and hailed him :

• Hi ! mister ! '

He Event feebly on and did not seem to
hear ; then they hailed him again and ran
towards him. Then he turned and stopped,
and, seeing men running towards him, took out
a large pair of round spectacles, and put them
on to look at them. By this artifice, that which
in reality completed his disguise seemed but a
natural movement in an old man to see better
who it was that wanted him.

What be you doing here ? ' said the
man.

Well, my good man,' said Monckton,
affecting surprise, ' I have been visiting an old
friend, and now I'm going home again . I hope

I am not trespassing. Is not this the way to
the village ? They told me it was.'

That's right enough,' said the deputy, ' but
by the way you come you must have seen him.'

Xo, sir,' said Monckton, ' I haven't seen
anybody except one gentleman that came
through that wood there as I passed it.'

What was he like, sir ? '

Well, I didn't take particular notice, and he
passed me all in a hurry.'

That would be the man,' said the deputy.
Had he a very pale face ? '

Not that I remarked ; he seemed rather
heated with running.'

How was he dressed, sir ? '

Oh, like many of the young people ; all of
one pattern.'

'Light or dark?'

'Light, I think.'

Was it a tAveed suit ? '

I almost think it was. What had he been
doing ? Anything wrong ? He seemed to me
to be rather scared like.'

Which way did he go, sir ? '

I think he made for that great house, sir

Come on,' said the deputy, and he followed
this treacherous indication, hot in pursuit.

Monckton lost no time. He took off twenty
years, and reached the Dun Cow as an old
acquaintance. He hired the one vehicle the
establishment possessed, and was off like a shot
to Derby ; thence he despatched a note to his
lodgings to say he was suddenly called to town,
but should be back in a week. Not that he ever
intended to show his face in that neighbourhood
again.

Nevertheless events occurred that stopped
both his flight and Bartley's, and yet broke up
their unholy alliance.

It was Hope's final inspection of the Bartley
mine, and he took things in order. Months
ago a second shaft had been sunk by his wise
instructions, and but for Bartley's parsimony
would have been now completed. Hope now
ascertained how many feet it was short, and
noted this down for Bartley.

VOL. II. L

Then still inspecting he went to the other
extremity of the mine and reached a sort of
hall or amphitheatre much higher than the
passages. This was a centre with diverging
passages on one side, but closed on the other.
Two of these passages led by oblique routes to
those old works, the shoring of which had been
reported unsafe.

This amphitheatre was now a busy scene :
empty trucks being pushed off, full trucks
being pushed on, all the men carrying lighted
lanterns that wavered and hinted like ' wills
o' the wisp.' Presently a bell rung, and a portion
of the men, to whom this was a signal, left
off work and began to put on their jackets and
to await the descent of the cage to take them
up in parties. At this moment Hope met, to
his surprise, a figure that looked like BenBiu"n-
ley. He put up his lamp to see if he was
right, and Ben Burnley it was. The ruffian had
the audacity to put up his lamp, as if to scrutinise
the person who examined him.

Did I not discharge you ? ' said Hope.

Ay, lad ! ' said Ben. ' But your master put
me ou again.' With that he showed Bartley's
order and signature.

Hope bit his hips, but merely said ' He will
rue it.' Burnley sidled away ; but Hope cried
to one or two men who were about :

'Keep a sharp look out on him, my men:
your lives are not safe whilst he's in the mine.'

Burnley leaned insolently against a truck
and gave the men nothing to observe ; the next
minute in bustled the honest miner, at whose
instance Hope had come down the mine, and
begged him to come and visit the shoring at
once.

Hope asked if there were any other men
there ; the miner replied in the negative.

Very well, then,' said Hope, ' 111 just take
one look at the water here, and I'll be at the
shoring in five minutes.'

Unfortunately this unwary statement let
Burnley know exactly what to do ; he had
already concealed in the wood-work a canister
of dynamite and a fuse to it to last about five

L 2

minutes. He now wriggled away under cover
of Hope's dialogue and lighted the fuse, then he
came flying back to get safe out of the mine,
and leave Hope in his death-trap.

But in the meantime Grace Hope came
down in the care, and caught si^^ht of her father
and came screaming to him : ' Father ! father ! '

You here, my child ? '

There's a plot to murder you ! A man
called Burnley is to cause an explosion at the
old works just as you visit them.'

An explosion,' cried Hope, ' and fire-damp
about. One explosion will cause fifty. Being
the bell — here men, danger ! '

Then there Alas a rush of men.

Ben Burnley is firing the mine.'

There was a yell of fury ; but a distant explosion
turned it to one of dismay. Hope caught
his daughter up in his arms, and put her into a
cavity.

Fly, men, to the other part of the mine,'
he cried.

There was a louder explosion. In ran

Burnley terrified at his own work, and flying to
escape. Hope sprang out upon him : ' No you
don't — having or dead — you are the last to leave
this mine.'

Burnley struggled furiously, but Hope
dashed him down at his feet. Just as a far
more awful explosion than all took place, one
side of that amphitheatre fell in and the very
earth heaved. The corner part of the shaft fell
in upon the cage and many poor miners who
were hoping to escape by it ; but those escaped
for the present who had obeyed Hope's order
and fled to another part of the mine, and when
the stifling vapours drifted away there stood
Hope pale as death, but strong as iron, with the
assassin at his feet ; and poor Grace crouching
and quivering in her recess. Their fate now
awaited these three : a speedy death by choke-damp
; or a slow death by starvation ; or a
rescue from the outside under circumstances of
unparalleled difficulty, since there was but one
shaft completed, and that was now closed by a
mountain of debris.

CHAPTER XXI.

BURIED ALIVE.

The explosions so tremendously loud below
were but muffled sounds at the pit's mouth, but
alas ! these muffled sounds and one flash of lurid
flame that shot up into the air told the tale of
horror to every experienced pitman and his
wife, and the cry of a whole village went up to
heaven.

The calamity spread like wildfire. It soon
found its way to Clifford Hall, and the deputy
ran himself with the news to Mr. Bartley.
Bartley received it at first with a stony glare,
and trembled all over ; then the deputy, lowering
his voice, said, ' Sir, the worst of it is there
is foul play in it. There is good authority to say

that Ben Burnley fired the mine to destroy his
betters, and he has done it, for Mr. Hope and
Miss Hope that is — Miss Bartley that was — are
both there.' He added in a broken voice, ' and
if they are not buried or stifled it will be hardwork
to save them. The mine is a ruin.'

Bartley delivered a wild scream, and dashed
out of the house at once ; he did not even take
his hat, but the deputy, more self-possessed,
took one out of the hall and followed him.

Bartley hurried to the mine and found that
several stout fellows had gone down with their
pickaxes and other tools to clear the shaft, but
that it must be terribly slow work, so few men
could work at a time in that narrow space.
Bartley telegraphed to Derby for a more powerful
steam engine and experienced engineers, and
set another gang to open the new shaft to the
bottom, and see if any sufferers could be saved
that way. Whatever he did was wise, but his
manner was frenzied. None of his people
thought he had so much feeling, and more than
one of the quaking women gave him a kind

word ; he made no reply, be did not even seem
to hear. He wandered about the mine all
night wringing his hands, and at last he was
taken home almost by force.

Humanity overpowered prejudice, and
Colonel Clifford came to the mine to see if he
could be of any use to the sufferers. He got
hold of the deputy and learned from him what
Bartley was doing. He said he thought that
was the best course, as there would be division
of labour ; but said he, 'I am an old campaigner,
and I know that men cannot fight
without food, and this work will be a fight.
How will you house the new comers ? '

There are forty-seven men missing, and
the new men can sleep in their cottages.'

That's so,' said the Colonel, ' but there are
the wives and the children. I shall send sleeping
tents and eating tents, and provisions enough
to feed a battalion. Forty-seven fives,' said he,
pityingly.

Ay, sir,' said the deputy, ' and such lives,
some of them ; for Mr. Hope and Miss Mary

Bartley — leastways that is not her name now,
she's Mr. Hope's daughter.'

Why, what has she to do with it ? '

I am sorry to say, sir, she is down the
mine.'

God forbid,' said the Colonel, ' that noble
girl dead, or in mortal danger.'

'She is, sir, and ' — lowering his voice —
by foul play,' then seeing the Colonel greatly
shocked and moved, he said, ' and I ought not
to keep it from you. You are our nearest
magistrate ; the young lady told me at the pit-mouth
she is Mr. Hope's daughter.'

And so she is.'

And she said there was a plot to destroy
her father in the mine by exploding the old
workings he was going to visit One Ben
Burnley was to do it, a blackguard that has a
spite against Mr. Hope for discharging him.
But there was money behind him, and a villain
that she described to us — black eye-brows, a
face like a corpse, and dressed in a suit of tweed
one colour. We hoped that she might have

been mistaken, or she might have warned Mr.
Hope in time ; but now it is to be seen that
there was no mistake, and she had not time to
warn him. The deed is done ; and a darker
deed was never done, even in the dark.'

Colonel Clifford groaned — after a while he
said : ' Seize that Ben Burnley at once, or he
will soon leave this place behind him.'

No, he won't,' said the deputy. ' He is in
the mine, that is one comfort ; and if he comes
out alive his life won't be worth much, with the
law on one side of the blackguard and Judge
Lynch on t' other.'

The first thing,' said the Colonel, ' is to
save these precious lives. God help us and
them.'

He then went to the railway, and wired
certain leading tradesmen in Derby for provisions,
salt and fresh, on a large scale, and for
new tents. He had some old ones stored away
in his own house. He also secured abundance
of knives, forks, plates, buckets, pitchers, and
jugs, and, in short, he opened a commissariat.

He inquired for his sou Walter, vinci why he
was so late. He could learn nothing but that
Walter lead mounted a hunter and left word
with Baker that he should not be home till
eight o'clock.

John,' said the Colonel, solemnly, ' I amin
great trouble, and Walter is in worse, I fear.
Let nobody speak to him about this accident at
the mine till he has seen me."

Walter Clifford rode to the Lake Hotel to
inquire after the bracelet. The landlady told
him she had sent her husband over with it that
day.

Confound it,' said Walter ; ' why, he won't
know who to take it to.'

Oh, it's all right, sir said she. ' My Sam
won't give it to the wrong person, you may be
sure.'

How do I know that ? ' said Walter ; ' and,
pray, who did you tell him to give it to r '

Why, to the lady as was here with you.'

And how the deuce is he to find her ? He

does not know her name. It's a great pity you
could not keep it till I came.'

Well, sir, 3^011 was so long a-coming.'

That's true,' said Walter ; ' let us make
the best of it. I shall feed my horse, and get
home as quickly as I can.'

However, he knew he would be late, and
thought he harl better o;o straight home. He
sent a telegram to ]diary Bartley : ' Landlord
gone to you with bracelet,' and this he signed
with the name of the landlady, but no address.
He was afraid to say more : though he would
have liked to put his wife u]:)on her guard ; but
he trusted to her natural shrewdness. He
mounted his horse and went straight home, but
he was late for dinner, and that vexed him a
little, for it was a matter Colonel Chfford was
particular about. He dashed up to this bedroom
and began to dress all in a hurry.

John Baker came to him wearing a very
extraordinary look, and after some hesitation
said : ' I would not change mv clothes if I were
you, Mr. Walter.'

'Oh,' said Walter, 'I am too late, you
know ; in for a penny, in for a pound.'

But, sir,' said old John, ' the Colonel wants
to speak to you in the drawing-room."

Now Walter was excited with the events of
the day, irritated by the affront his father had
put upon him and Mary, strung up by hard
riding, &c., he burst out : 'Well, I shall not goto
him ; I have had enough of this — badgered
and bulged, and my sweetheart affronted — and
now I suppose I am to be lectured again ; you
say I am not well, and bring my dinner up here.'

No, Mr. Walter,' said the old man, gravely :
I must not do that. Sir, don't you think as
you are to be scolded, or the angel you love
affronted ; all that is over for ever. There has
been many a strange thing happened since you
rode out of our stable last, but I wish you
would go to the Colonel and let him tell you
all ; however, I suppose I may tell you so much
as this, that your sweetheart is not Mary Bartley
at all ; she is Mr. Hope's daughter.'

What ! ' cried Walter, in utter amazement.

There is no doubt about it, sir,' said the
old man, ' and I believe it is all out about you
and her, but that would not matter, for the
Colonel he takes it quite different from what
you might think. He swears by her now. I
don't know really how that came about, sir, for
I was not there, but when I was dressing the
Colonel he said to me, 'john, she's the grandest
girl in England, and an honour to her sex, and
there is not a drop of Bartley's blood in her." '

Oh, he has found that out,' said Walter.
Then I'll go to him like a bird, dear old fellow.
So that is what he wanted to tell me.'

Xo,' said John Baker, gravely.

No,' said Walter ; ' what then ? '

'It's trouble.'

Trouble,' said Walter, puzzled.

Ay, my poor, young master,' said Baker
tenderly, ' sore trouble, such trouble as a father's
heart won't let me, or any man break to you,
whilst he lives to do it. I know my master.
Ever since that fellow Bartley came here we
have seen the worst of him ; now we shall seethe

best of him. Go to him, dear Master Walter.
Don't waste time in talking to old John
Baker. Go to your father and your friend.'

Walter Clifford cast a look of wonder and
alarm on the old man, and went down at once
to the drawing-room. His father was standing
by the fire. He came forward to him with
both hands, and said :

My son ! '

Father,' said Walter in a whisper, ' what
is it?'

Have you heard nothing ? '

Nothing but good news, father — that you
approve my choice.'

Ah, John told you that ? '

Yes, sir.'

And did he tell you anything else ? '

No, sir, only that some great misfortune
is upon me, and that I have my father's sympathy.'


'You have,' said the Colonel, 'and would
to God I had known the truth before. She is
not Bartley's daughter at all ; she is Hope's

daughter. Her virtue shines in her face ; she
is noble, she is self-denying, she is just, she is
brave ; and no doubt she can account for her
being at the Lake Hotel in company with some
man or other. Whatever that lady says will
be the truth. That's not the trouble, Walter ;
all that has become small by comparison. But
shall we ever see her sweet face again, or hear
her voice ? '

Father,' said Walter, trembling, ' you
terrify me. This sudden change in your voice
that I never heard falter before ; some great
calamity must have happened. Tell me the
worst at once.'

Walter,' said the old man, ' stand firm ;
do not despair, for there is hope.'

Thank God for that, father ; now tell me

air

'Walter, there has been an explosion in
the mine — a fearful explosion ; the shaft has
fallen in ; there is no getting access to the mine,
and all the 230or souls confined there are in
mortal peril. Those who are best acquainted

with the mine do not think that many of them
have been destroyed by the niin, but they tell
me these explosions let loose poisonous gases,
and so now those poor souls are all exposed to
three deadly perils — choke-damp, fire-damp,
and starvation.'

It's pitiable,' said Walter, ' but surely this
is a calamity to Bartley, and to the poor miners,
but not to anyone that I love, and that you
have learned to respect.'

My son,' said the Colonel solemnly, ' the
mine was fired by foul play.'

Is it possible ? '

It is believed that some rival owner, or
else some personal enemy of William Hope,
bribed a villain to fire some part of the mine
that Hope was inspecting.'

Great Heavens ! ' said Walter, ' can such
villains exist ? Poor, poor Mr. Hope ! who
would think he had an enemy in the world ? '

Alas ! ' said the Colonel, ' that is not alL
His daughter, it seems, overheard the villain
bribing the ruffian to commit this foul and

VOL. II. M

terrible act, and she flew to the mine directly.
She despatched some miners to seize that hellish
villain, and she went down the mine to save
her father.'

Ah ! ' said Walter, trembling all over.

She has never been seen since.'

The Colonel's head sank for a moment on
his breast.

Walter groaned and turned pale.

She came too late to save him ; she came
in time to share his fate.'

Walter sank into a chair, and a deadly
pallor overspread his face, his forehead, and
his very lips.

The Colonel rushed to the door, and called
for help, and in a moment John Baker and
Mrs. Milton and Julia Clifford were round poor
Walter's chair with brandy and ether and salts,
and every stimulant. He did not faint away ;
strong men very seldom do at any mere mental
shock.

The coloiu: came slowly back to his cheeks
and his pale lips, and his eyes began to fil

with horror. The weeping women, and even
the stout Colonel, viewed with anxiety his
return to the full consciousness of his calamity.


Be brave,' cried Colonel Clifford ; ' be a
soldier's son ; don't despair ; fight ; nothing
has been neglected. Even Bartley is playing
the man ; he has got another engine coming
up, and another body of workmen to open the
new shaft as well as the old one.'

God bless him ! ' said Walter.

And I have an experienced engineer on
the road, and the things civilians always forget
tents and provisions of all sorts. We will
set an army to work sooner than your sweetheart,
poor girl, shall lose her life by any fault
of ours.'

My sweetheart ! ' cried Walter, starting
suddenly from his chair. 'There, don't cling
to me, women. No man shall head that army
but I. My sweetheart ! God help me — she's
:My WIFE ! '

M 2

CHAPTEE XXn.

REMORSE.

Ix a work of this kind not only the external
incidents should be noticed, but also what maybe
called the mental events. We have seen a
calamity produce a great revulsion in the feelings
of Colonel Chfibrd ; but, as for Eobert
Bartley, his very character was shaken to the
foundation by his crime and its terrible consequences.
He was now like a man who had
glided down a soft sunny slope and was suddenly
arrested at the brink of a fathomless
precipice. Bartley was cunning, selfish, avaricious,
unscrupulous in reality, so long as he
could appear respectable, but he was not
violent, nor physically reckless, still less cruel.
A deed of blood shocked him as much as it

would shock an honest man. Yet now, through
following his natural bent too far, and yielding
to the influence of a remorseless villain, he
found his own hands stained with blood — the
blood of a man who after all had been his best
friend, and had led him to fortune ; and the
blood of an innocent girl, who had not only
been his pecuniary benefactress for a time, but
had warmed and lighted his house with her
beauty and affection.

Busy men, whose views are all external,
are even more apt than others to miss the
knowledge of their own minds. This man, to
whom everything was business, had taken for
granted he did not actually love Grace Hope.
Why, she was another man's child. But now
he had lost her for ever, he found he had
mistaken his own feelings. He looked round
his gloomy horizon and realized too late that
he did love her ; it was not a great and penetrating
love like William Hope's — he was
incapable of such a sentiment — but what
affection he had to bestow, he had given to

this sweet creature. His house was dark
without her ; he was desolate and alone, and,
horrible to think of, the instrument of her
assassination. This thought drove him to
frenzy, and his frenzy took two forms, furious
excitement and gloomy despair ; this was now
his life by night and day, for sleep deserted
him. At the mine his measures were all wise
but his manner very wild : the very miners
whispered amongst themselves that he was
going mad. At home, on the contrary, he Alas
gloomy, with sullen despair. He was in this
latter condition the evening after the explosion,
when a visitor was announced. Thinking it
was some one from the mine, he said faintly,
'Admit him,' and then his despondent head
dropped on his breast ; indeed, he was in a
sort of lethargy, worn out with his labours,
his remorse, and his sleeplessness.

In that condition his ear was suddenly
jarred by a hard, metallic voice, whose tone
was somehow opposed to all the voices with
which goodness and humanity have ever spoken.

Well, governor, here's a slice of luck.'

Bartley shivered. ' Is that the devil speaking
to me ? ' he muttered, without looking
up.

No,' said Monckton jauntily, ' only one of
his servants, and yoiu- best friend.'

My friend?' said Bartley, turning his chair
and looking at him with a sort of dull wonder.

Ay,' said Monckton, ' your friend ; the
man that found you brains and resolution, and
took you out of the hole, and put Hope and
his daughter in it instead ; no, not his daughter,
she did that for us, she was so clever.'

Yes,' said Bartley wildly, ' it was you who
made me an assassin. But for you, I should
only have been a knave ; now I am a murderer
thanks to you.'

Come, governor,' said Monckton, ' no use
looking at one side of the picture. You tried
other things first. You made him liberal osiers,
you know ; but he would have war to the
knife, and he has got it. He is buried at the
bottom of that shaft.'

God forbid ! '

And you are all right.'

I am in Hell,' shrieked Bartley.

Well, come out of it,' said Monckton, ' and
let's talk sense. I — I read the news at Derby,
just as I was starting for London. I have been
as near the mine as I thought safe. They seem
to be very busy clearing out both shafts — two
steam engines ; constant relays of workmen.
Who has got the job in hand ? '

I have,' said Bartley.

Weil, that's clever of you to throw dustin
their eyes, and put oiu* little game off your
own shoulders. You want to save appearances ?
You know you cannot save William Hope.'

I can save him, and I will save him. God
will have mercy on a penitent assassin, as He
once had upon a penitent thief.'

Monckton stared at him and smiled :

Who has been talking to you ? The
parson ? '

My own conscience. I abhor myself as
much as I do you, you black villain.'

Ah I ' said Moackton, ^vith a wicked
glance, ' that's how a man patters before he
splits upon his pals, to save his own skin.
Now, look here, old man, before you split on
me ask yourself who had the greatest interest
in this job. You silenced a dangerous enemy,
but what have I gained ? you ought to square
with me first as you promised. If you split
upon me before that, you will put yourself in
the hole and leave me out of it.'

'Villain and fool,' said Bartley, 'these
trifles do not trouble me now. If Hope and
my dear Mary are found dead in that mine, I'll
tell how they came by their death, and I'll die
by my own hand.'

Monckton said nothing, but looked at
him keenly, and began at last to feel uneasy.


A shaft is but a narrow thing,' Bartley
rejoined; ' why should they be buried alive?
let's get to them before they are starved to
death. We may save them yet.'

Why, you fool, they'll denounce us ! '

What do I care ? I would save them
both to-night if I was to stand in the dock
tomorrow.'

And swing on the gallows next week, or
end your days in a prison.'

I'd take my chance,' said Bartley desperately.
' I'll undo my crime if I can. No
punishment can equal the agony I am in now,
thanks to you, you villain.'

Then turning on him suddenly, and showing
him the white of his eyes like a maniac, or a
dangerous mastiff, he hissed out : ' You think
nothing of the lives of better men ; perhaps
you don't value your own.'

Oh, I beg your pardon,' said Monckton.
That's a very different thing.'

Oh, you do value you: own foul life ? '

At any amount of money,' said Monckton.

Then why do you risk it ? '

Excuse me, governor, that's a thing I
make a point of not doing. I risk my instruments
not my head ; Ben Burnley to wit.'

You are risking it now,' said Bartley,
looking still more strangely at him.

How so, pray ? ' said Monckton, getting a
little uneasy, for this was not the Bartley he
had known till then.

Bartley took the poker in his hand and
proceeded to poke the lire ; but somehow he
did not look at the fire. He looked askant at
Monckton, and he showed the white of his
eyes more and more. Monckton kept his eye
upon him and put his hand upon the handle of
the door.

I'll tell you,' said Bartley, ' by coming
here to tempt, provoke, and insult the wretch
whose soul you destroyed by forcing me to
assassinate the best man and the sweetest girl
in England, when there were vipers and villains
about, whom it's a good action to sweep off
God's earth. Villain ! I'll teach you to come
like a fool and madden a madman. I was
only a rogue, you have made me a man of
blood. All the worse for you. I have murdered

them, I'll execute you ; ' and Avitli these
words lie bounded on him like a panther.

Monckton tore the doors open, and dashed
out, but a furious blow fell before he was quite
clear of the doorway. With such force was it
delivered that the blunt metal cut into the
edge of the door like a sword ; the jamb was
smashed, and even Monckton, who received
but one-fourth of the blow, fell with his hands
and knees into the hall and was stunned for a
moment, but, fearing worse, staggered out of
the hall door, which luckily for him was open,
and darting into a little grove of shrubs that
was close by, grovelled there in silence, bleeding
like a pig and waiting for his chance to
escape entirely ; but the quaking reptile ran no
further risk.

Bartley never followed him beyond his own
room : he had been goaded into a maniacal
impulse, and he returned to his gloomy sullenness.


Walter's declaration, made so suddenly

before four persons, startled them greatly for a
moment ; but only for a moment. Julia was
the first to speak :

We might have known it,' she said : 'Mary
Bartley is a young lady incapable of misconduct
; she is prudence, virtue, delicacy, and
purity in person ; the man she was with at that
place was sure to be her husband, and who
should that be but Walter, whom she loved ? '

Then the servants looked anxiously at their
master to see how he took this startling revelation.
Well, the Colonel stood firm as if he
was at the head of a column in the field. He
was not the man to retreat from any position ;
he said, ' All we have to do is to save her ;
then my house and arms are open to my son's
wife.'

God bless you, father,' cried Walter, ina
broken voice ; ' and God bless you, dear
cousin. Yes, it's no time for words.' And he
was gone in a moment.

Now, Milton,' said the Colonel, ' he won't
sleep here till the work is done, and he won't

sleep at all if we don't get a bed for him near
the mine. You order the break out, and go to
the Dun Cow, and do what you can for him.'

That I will, sir ; I'll take his own sheets
and bedding with me. I won't trust that
woman — she talks too much ; and, if you please,
sir, I'll stay there a day or two myself, for
maybe I shall coax him to eat a morsel of my
cooking, and to lie down a bit, when he would
not listen to a stranger.'

You're a faithful creature,' said the Colonel,
rather aggressively, not choosing to breakdown,
' so are you, John ; and it is at these
moments we find out our friends in the house ;
and, confound you, I forbid you both to snivel,'
said he, still louder. Then, more gravely :
show do we know? many a stormy day ends
well; this calamity may bring happiness and
peace to a divided house.'

Colonel Clifford prophesied right. Walter
took the lead of a working gang and worked
night and day, resting two hours only in the

twenty-four, and even that with great reluctance.
Outside the scene was one of bustle and animation.
Little white tents, for the strange
workmen to sleep in, dotted the green, and two
snowy refreshment tents were pitched outside
the Dun Cow. That establishment had large
brick ovens and boilers, and the landlady, and
the women she had got to help her, kept the
tables always groaning under solid fare that
never once flagged, being under the charge of
that old campaigner Colonel Chfford. The
landlady tried to look sad at the occasion which
called forth her energy and talents : but she
was a woman of business, and her complacency
oozed through her. Ah, it was not so at the
pit-mouth ; the poor wives whose husbands
were entombed below, alive or dead, hovered
and fluttered about the two shafts, with their
aprons to their eyes, and eager with their
questions. Deadly were their fears, their
hopes fainter and fainter, as day after day
went by, and both gangs, working in so
narrow a space, made little progress, compared

with their own desires, and the prayers
of those who trembled for the result. It was
a race and a struggle of two gallant parties,
and a short description of it will be given,
but as no new incidents happened for six
days we shall preserve the chronological order
of events, and now relate a daring project
which was revived in that interval.

Monckton and Bartley were now enemies.
Sin had united, crime and remorse had disunited,
them. Monckton registered a vow of
future vengeance upon his late associate ; butin
the meantime, taking a survey of the present
circumstances, he fell back upon a dark project
he had conceived years ago on the very day
when he was arrested for theft in Bartley's
office.

Perhaps our readers, their memory disturbed
by such a number of various matters
as we have since presented to them, may have
forgotten that project, but what is about to
follow will tend to revive their recollection,
Monckton then wired to Mrs. Braham's lawyer

demanding an immediate interview with that
lady : he specified the hour.

The lawyer went to her directly, the matter
being delicate. He found her in great distress,
and before he could open his communication,
she told him her trouble. She said that her
husband, she feared, was going out of his mind ;
he groaned all night, and never slept, and in
the day time never spoke.

There had been just then some surprising
falls and rises in foreign securities, and the
shrewd lawyer divined at once that the stockbroker
had been doing business on his own
account, and got pinched, so he said, ' My dear
madam, I suspect it is business on the Exchange
; he will get over that, but there is
something that is immediately pressing,' and
he then gave her Monckton's message.

Now her nerves were already excited, and
this made matters worse. She cried and trembled,
and became hysterical, and vowed she
would never go near Leonard Monckton again ;
he had never loved her, had never been a friend

VOL. II. N

to her as Jonathan Braham had. ' No,' she
said ; ' if he wants money, take and sell my
jewels ; but I shall stay nth my husband in
his trouble.'

He is not your husband,' said the lawyer
quietly ; 'and this man is your husband, and
things have come to my knowledge lately which
it would be imprudent at present to disclose
either to him or you ; but we are old friends.
You cannot doubt that I have your interest at
heart.'

No, I don't doubt that,' said Lucy hastily,
and held out her hand to him.

Well, then,' said he, ' be persuaded and
meet the man.'

No ; I will not do that,' said she. ' I am
not a good woman, I know ; but it is not for
want of the wish. I will not play double anymore.'
And from that nothing he could say
could move her.

The lawyer returned to his place, and when
Monckton called next day he told him he was
sorry to say Mr. Braham was ill and in trouble.

and the lady couldn't meet him. She would
make any reasonable sacrifice for his convenience
except that.

And I,' said Monckton, ' insist upon that,
and nothing else.'

The lawyer endeavoured to soften him, and
hinted that he would advance money himself
sooner than his client should be tormented.

But Monckton was inflexible. He said, ' It
is about a matter that she cannot communicate
to you, nor can I. However, I am obliged to
you for your information. She won't leave her
stock-broker, eh ? Well, then, I know whereto
find her ; ' and he took up his hat to go.

No, pray don't do that,' said Mr. Middleton
earnestly. 'Let me try her again. She
has had time to sleep over it.'

Try her,' said Monckton, sternly, ' and if
you are her friend, take her husband's side in
this one thing ; it's the last time I shall trouble
her.'

I am her friend,' said the lawyer ; ' and if
you must know, I rather wish her to meet you,.

N 2

and get it over. Will you come here again at
eve o'clock ? '

All right,' said Monckton.

Monckton was struck with Lawyer Middleton's
manner, and went away puzzling over it.

What's Ms little game, I wonder? ' said he.

The lawyer went post-haste to his client's
house. He found her in tears. She handed
him an open letter.

Braham was utterly ruined, and, besides
that, had done something or other he did not
care to name ; he was off to America, leaving
her what money she could find in the house,
and the fm-nature, which he advised her to sell
at once, before others claimed it — in short, the
man was wild with fear, and at present thought
but little of anybody but himself.

Then the lawyer set himself to comfort her
as well as he could, and renewed his request
that she would give Monckton a meeting.

Yes,' said she wearily ; ' it's no use trying
to resist him ; he can come here.'
^ The lawyer demurred to that :

No said he, ' keep your own counsel ;
don't let him know you are deserted and
ruined ; make a favour of coming, but come :
and a word in your ear — he can do more for
you than Braham can, or will ever, do again.
So don't you thwart him if you can help.'

She was quick enough to see there was
something weighty behind, and she consented.
He took her back with him ; only she was
such a long time removing the traces of tears,
and choosing the bonnet she thought she
should look best in, that she made him twenty
minutes late and rather cross. It is a way
women have of souring that honeycomb — a
man.

When the trio met at the office the husband
was pale ; the wife dull and sullen.

'It's the last time I shall trouble you,
Lucy,' said Monckton.

As you please, Leonard.'

And I want you to make my fortune.'

You have only to tell me how ' — quite
incredulously.)

You must accompany me to Derbyshire,
or else meet me at Derby, whichever you
please. Oh, don't be alarmed. I don't ask
you to travel with me as man and wife.'

It doesn't much matter, I suppose,' said
Lucy doggedly.

Well, you are accommodating ; I'll be
considerate.'

No doubt you will,' said Lucy ; then turning
her glorious eyes full upon him, 'What's
THE Crime ? '

The Crime ! ' said Monckton, looking all
about the room to find it. ' What crime ? '

The crime I'm wanted for ; all your
schemes are criminal, you know.'

Well, you're complimentary. It's not a
crime this time ; it's only a confession.'

Ah ! What am I to confess ? Bigamy ? '

The idea ! No. You are to confess — ina
distant part of England, what you can deny
in London next day — that on a certain
day you married a gentleman called Walter
Clifford.'

I'll say that on the eleventh day of June,
1861, I married a gentleman who was called
Walter Chfibrd.'

This was Lucy's reply, and given very
doggedly.

Bravo ! and will you stand to it if the real
Walter Chfibrd says it is a lie ? '

Lucy reflected : ' No, I will not.'

Well, well, we shall have time to talk
about that ; when can you start ? '

Give me three days.'

All right.'

You won't keep me there long after I
have done this wicked thing.'

'No, no. I will send you home with
flying colours, and you shall have your share
of the plunder.'

I'd rather go into service again and work
my fingers to the bone.'

Since you have such a contempt for
money, perhaps you'll stand fifty pounds.'

I have no money with me, but I'll ask Mr.
Middleton to advance me some.'

She opened the door, and asked one of the
clerks if she could see the principal for a
moment. He came to her directly. She then
said to him, ' He wants fifty points ; could
you lei me have it for him ? '

• Oh,' said the lawyer, cheerfully, ' I shall
be happy to lend Mr. Monckton fifty or a
hundred pounds upon his oavu note of hand.'

They both stared at him a little ; but a
blank note of hand was immediately produced,
drawn and signed at six months' date for
52Z. 106'. 5 and the lawyer gave Monckton his
cheque for 50/. Husband and wife then
parted for a time. Monckton telegraphed to
his lodgings to say that his sister would
come down with him for country air, and
would require good accommodation, but would
pay liberally.

In most mining accidents the shafts are
clear, and the debris that has to be picked
through to get to the entombed miners is
attended with this advantage, that a great

number of men have room to use their arms
and pickaxes, and the stuff has not to be
sent up to the surface. But in this horrible
accident both gangs of workers were confined
to a small area and small cages, and the stuff
had to be sent up to the surface.

Bartley, who seemed to live only to rescue
the sufferers by his own fault, provided miles
of rope, and had small cages knocked together,
so that the debris was continually coming up
from both the shafts, and one great source
of delay was averted. But the other fatal
cause of delay remained, and so daylight
came and went, and the stars appeared and
disappeared with incredible rapidity, to poor
Walter and the other gallant workers, before
they got within thirty feet of the pit : those
who worked in the old shafts, having looser
stuff to deal with, gained an advance of about
seven feet upon the other working party,
and this being reported to Walter he went
down the other shaft to inspire the men bywords
and example. He had not been down

two hours when one of the miners cried,
Hold hard, they are working up to us ! ' and
work was instantly suspended for a moment.
Then sure enough the sounds of pickaxes
working below were just audible.

There was a roar of exultation from the
rescuing party, and a man was sent up with
his feet in a bucket, and clinging to a rope,
to spread the joyful tidings ; but the work was
not intermitted for more than a moment, and
in a few hours it became necessary to send
the cage down and suspend the work to avoid
another accident. The thin remaining crust gave
way, the way was clear, lamps were sent down,
and the saving party were soon in the mine,
with a sight before them never to be forgotten.

The few men who stood erect with picks in
their hands were men of rare endurance ; and
even they began to fall, exhausted with fatigue
and hunger. Five times their number lay
dotted about the mine, prostrated by privation,
-and some others, alas ! were dead. None of
the poor fellows were in a condition to give

a rational answer, though Walter implored
them to say where Hope and his daughter were.
These poor pale wretches, the shadows of their
former selves, were sent up in the cages withall
expedition, and received by Bartley, who
seemed to forget nothing, for he had refreshment
tents ready at the pit-mouth.

Meantime Walter and others, whose hearts
were with him, ran wildly through the works,
and groped on their knees with their lamps to
find Hope and his daughter, but they were not
to be found, and nine miners beside them were
missing, including Ben Bm-nley. Then Walter
came wildly up to the surface, wringing his
hands with agony, and crying ' They are
lost, they are lost ! '

No,' cried Bartley, ' they must not be lost ;
they shall not be lost. One man has come
to himself. I gave him port wine and brandy.'
Then he dragged the young man into the
tent. There was stout Jim Davies propped
up and held, but with a great tumbler of
brandy and port in his hand.

Now, my man,' said, or rather screamed
Bartley, ' tell him where Hope is and Mary
—that I— God ! God ! '

Master,' said Jim, faintly, ' I was in the
hall with Mr. Hope and the lady, when the
first explosion came. Most of us ran past
the old shaft and got clear. A few were caught
by the falling shaft, for I looked back and
saw it. But I never saw Master Hope among
them. If he was, he is buried under the
shaft, but I do really think that he was that
taken up with his girl, and that darned villain
that fired the mine, as he's like to be in the
hall either alive or dead.'

He could say no more, but fell into a sort
of doze, the result of the powerful stimulant
on his enfeebled frame and empty stomach.
Then Bartley, with trembling hands, brought
out a map of the mine and showed Walter
where the second party had got to.

See,' said he, ' they are within twenty
feet of the bottom, and the hall is twenty-three
feet high. Hope measured it. Give

up working downwards, pick into the sides
of that hall, for in that hall I see them at
night ; sometimes they are alive, sometimes
they are dead, sometimes they are dying. I
shall go mad, I shall go mad ! '

With this he went raging about, giving
the wisest orders, with the looks and tones
of a madman. In a minute he had a gslqq
ready for Walter, and twenty fresh-lit lamps,
and down went Walter \^ath more men and
pickaxes. As soon as he got out of the
cage, he cried wildly, 'Stop that, men, and
do as I do.'

He took a sweep with his pick, and delivered
a horizontal blow at the clay on that
side of the shaft Bartley had told him to attack.
His pickaxe, stuck in it, and he extricated
it with difficulty.

Nay, master,' cried a miner who had
fallen in love with him, ' drive thy pick at
t' coal.'

Walter then observed that above the clay
there was a narrow seam of coal ; he heaved

his pick again, but instead of striking it
half downwards, as he ought to have done,
he delivered a tremendous horizontal blow
that made the coal ring like a church bell,
and jarred his own stout arms so terribly
that the pick fell out of his numbed hand.

Then the man who had advised him saw
that he was disabled for a time and stepped
into his place.

But in that short interval an accident
occurred so strange and thrilling that the
stout miners uttered treble cries like women,
and then one mighty Hah ! burst like a
diapason from their manly bosoms.

CHAPTER XXIII.

THE THREE DEADLY PERILS.

Seven miners were buried under the ruins of
the shaft, but although masses of coal and
clay fell into the hall from the side nearest to
the explosions, and blocked up some of the
passages, nobody was crushed to death there ;
only the smoke was so stifling that it seemed
impossible to live.

That smoke was lighter than the air ; its
thick pall lifted by degrees and revealed three
figures.

Grace Hope, by happy instinct, had sunk
upon the ground to breathe in that stifling
smoke. Hope, who had collared Ben Burnley,
had sunk to the ground with him, but still
clutched the assassin. These were the three

left alive in the hall, and this was their first
struggle for life.

As soon as it was possible to speak, Hope
took up his lamp, which had fallen, and, holding
it up high, he cried, 'Grace, my child,
where are you ? ' She came to him directly ;
he took her in his arms, and thanked God for
this great preservation.

Then he gave Burnley a kick, and ordered
him to the right hand of the hall. 'You'll
keep to that side,' he said, ' and think of what
you have done ; your victims will keep this
side, and comfort each other till honest men
undo your work, you villain.'

Burnley crouched and wriggled away like
a whipped hound, and flung himself down in
bitter despair.

Oh, papa,' said Grace, ' we have escaped
a great danger, but shall we ever see the light
of day?'

Of course we shall, child : be sure that
great efforts will be made to save us. Miners
have their faults, but leaving other men to

perish is not one of them ; there are no
greater heroes in the world than those rough
fellows, with all their faults. What you and
I must do at once is to search for provisions
and lamps and tools ; if there are no poisonous
gases set free, it is a mere question of
time. My poor child has a hard life before
her ; but only live — and we shall be rescued.'


These brave words comforted Grace, as
they were intended to do, and she accompanied
her father down the one passage which
was left open after the explosion. Fortunately,
this led to a new working, and before
he had gone many yards Hope found a lamp
that had been dropped by some miner who
had rushed into the hall as the first warning
came. Hope extinguished the light, and
gave it to Grace.

That will be twenty-four hours' light tous,'
said he, ' but, oh, what I want to find is
food. There must be some left behind.'

Papa,' said Grace, ' I think I saw a miner

VOL. IL O

throw a bag into an empty track, when the
first alarm was given.'

Back ! back ! my child ! ' cried Hope,
before that villain finds it ! '

He did not wait for her but ran back, and
he found Ben Burnley in the neighbourhood
of that very truck ; but Burnley sneaked off
at his approach. Hope, looking into the
truck, found treasures — a dozen new sacks,
a heavy hammer, a small bag of nails, a can
of tea, and a bag with a loaf in it, and several
broken pieces of bread. He put his lamp out
directly, for he had lucifer matches in his
pocket, and he hid the bag of bread ; then he
lighted his lamp again, and fastened it up by
a nail in the centre of the hall.

There,' said he to Burnley, ' that's to light
us both equally ; when it goes out you must
hang up yours in its place.'

That's fair,' said Burnley humbly.

There were two trucks on Hope's side of
the hall — the empty one in question, and one
that was full of coal. Both stood about two

yards from Hope's side of the ball. Hope
turned the empty truck and brought it parallel
to the other ; then he nailed two sacks together,
and fastened them to the coal truck
and the debris ; then he laid sacks upon the
ground for Grace to lie on, and he kept two
sacks for himself, and two in reserve, and he
took two and threw them to Ben Burnley.

I give you two, and I keep two myself,'
said he. ' But my daughter shall have a room
to herself, even here ; and if you molest her
I'll brain you with this hammer.'

I don't want to molest her,' said Burnley.
It ain't my fault she's here.'

Then there was a gloomy silence, and
well there might be. The one lamp, twinkling
faintly against the wall, did but make
darkness visible, and revealed the horror of
this dismal scene. The weary hours began to
crawl away, marked only by Hope's watch,
for in this living tomb summer was winter, and
day was night.

The horrors of entombment in a mine have,



we tliiiik, been described better than any other
calamity Which befalls living men. Inspired
by this subject novelists have gone beyond
themselves, journalists have gone beyond themselves;
and, without any affectation, we say
we do not think we could go through the
dismal scene before us in its general details
without falling below many gifted contemporaries,
and adding bulk without .value to
their descriptions. The true characteristic
feature of this sad scene was not, we think,
the alternations of hope and despair, nor the
gradual sinking of frames exhausted by hunger
and thirst, but the circumstance that here an
assassin and his victims were involved in one
terrible calamity ; and as one day succeeded
to another, and the hoped-for rescue came not,
the hatred of the assassin and his victims was
sometimes at odds with the fellowship that
sprang out of a joint calamity. About twelve
hours after the explosion Burnley detected
Hope and his daughter eating, and moistening
their lips with the tea, and a spoonful of brandy

that Hope had poured into it out of his flask
to keep it from turning sour.

What, haven't you a morsel for me ? '
said the ruffian in a piteous voice.

Hope gave a sort of snarl of contempt, but
still he flung a crust to him as he would to a
dog.

Then, after some slight hesitation, Grace
rose quietly and took the smaller can, and
filled it with tea, and took it across to him.

'There,' said she, 'and may God forgive
you.'

He took it and stared at her.

It ain't my fault that you are here,' said
he. But she put up her hand as much as to
say, ' 'No idle words.'

Two whole days had now elapsed. The
food, though economised, was all gone. Biu:n-
ley's lamp Alas flickering, and utter darkness
was about to be added to the horrors which
were now beginning to chill the hopes with
which these poor souls had entered on then"

dire probation. Hope took the alarm, seized
the expiring lamp, trimmed it, and carried it
down the one passage that was open. This
time he did not confine his researches to the
part where he could stand upright, but went
on his hands and knees down the newest
working. At the end of it he gave a shout
of triumph, and in a few minutes returned to
his daughter, exhausted and blackened all over
with coal ; but the lamp was now burning
brightly in his hand, and round his neck was
tied a can of oil.

Oh, my poor father,' said Grace. ' Is that
all you have discovered ? '

Thank God for it,' said Hope. ' You
little know what it would be to pass two more
days here without light, as well as without
food.'

The next day was terrible. The violent
pangs of hunger began to gnaw like vultures,
and the thirst was still more intolerable ; the
pangs of hunger intermitted for hours at a time,
and then returned to intermit again ; they

exhausted but did not infuriate, but the rage
of thirst became incessant and maddening.
Ben Burnley suffered the most from this, and
the wretch came to Hope for consolation.

Where's the sense of biding here ? ' said
he, ' to be burned to teeth wi' drought. Let's
Hood the mine and drink or be drowned.'

How can I flood the mine ? ' said Hope.

You know best, maister,' said the man.
Why, how many tons of water did ye draw
from yon tank every day ? '

• We conduct about five tons into a pit, and
we send about eve tons up to the surface
daily.'

Then how much water will there be in the
tank now P '

Hope looked at his watch and said, ' There
was a good deal of water in the tank when you
blew up the mine ; there must be about thirty
tons in it now.'

Well, then,' said Burnley, ' you that knows
everything, help me trust the wall o' tank ; it's
thin enow.'

Hope reflected.

If we let in the whole body of water,'
said he, ' it would shatter us to pieces, and
crush us against the wall of our prison and
drown us before it ran away through the
obstructed passages into the new workings.
Fortunately, we have no pickaxe, and cannot
be tempted to self-slaughter.'

This silenced Burnley for the day, and he
remained sullenly apart. Still, the idea never
left his mind. The next day, towards evening,
he asked Hope to light his own lamp, and come
and look at the wall of the tank.

'Not without me,' whispered Grace. 'I
see him cast looks of hatred at you.'

They went together, and Burnley bade
Hope observe that the water was tricking
through in places, a drop at a time ; it could
not penetrate the coal veins nor the streaks
of clay, but it oozed through the porous strata,
certain strips of blackish earth in particular ;
and it trickled down, a drop at a time. Hope
looked at this feature with anxiety, for he was

a man of science, and knew by the fate of
banked reservoirs, great and small, the strange
explosive power of a little water driven through
strata by a great body pressing behind it.'

You'll see, it will trust itsen,' said Burnley
exultingly, ' and the sooner the better forme,
for I'll never get alive out on t' mine;
yow blowed me to the men, and they'll break
every bone in my skin.'

Hope did not answer this directly.

'There, don't go to meet trouble, my man,'
said he. 'Give me the can, Grace. Now,
Burnley, hold this can, and catch every drop
till it is full.'

Why, it will take half a day to fill it,*
objected Burnley, 'and it will be half mud
when all is done.'

I'll filter it,' said Hope. ' You do as you
are bid.'

He darted to a part of the mine where
he had seen a piece of charred timber; he
dragged it in with him, and asked Grace fora
pocket handkerchief ; she gave him a clean

cambric one ; he took his pocket knife and
soon scraped ofi' a little heap of charcoal, and
then he sewed the handkerchief into a bag,
for the handy man always carried a needle
and thread.

Slowly, slowly, the muddy water trickled
into the little can, and then, the bag being
placed over the larger can, slowly, slowly, the
muddy water trickled through Hope's filter,
and dropped clear, and drinkable, into the
larger can. In that dead life of theirs, with
no incidents but torments and terrors, the
hours passed swiftly in this experiment. Hope
sat upon a great lump of coal ; his daughter
kneeled in front of him, gazing at him with
love, confidence, reverence ; and Burnley
kneeled in front of him too, but at a greater
distance, with wolfish eyes full of thirst and
nothing else.

At last the little can was two thirds full of
clear water. Hope took the large iron spoon
which he had found along with the tea, and
gave a full spoonful to his daughter. ' My

child,' said be, * let it trickle very slowly over
your tongue and down your throat ; it is the
throat and the adjacent organs which suffer
most from thirst.' He then took a spoonful
himself, not to drink after an assassin. He
then gave a spoonful to Burnley with the
same instructions, and rose from his seat and
gave the can to Grace, and said, ' The rest of
this pittance must not be touched for six hours
at least.'

Burnley, instead of complying with the
wise advice given him, tossed the liquid down
his throat with a gesture, and then, dashing
down the spoon, said, ' I'll have the rest on't,
if I die for it,' and made a furious rush at
Grace Hope.

She screamed faintly, and Hope met him
full in that incautious rush, and felled him
like a log with a single blow. Burnley lay
there with his heels tapping the ground for a
little while ; then he got on his hands and
knees, and crawled away to the farthest corner
of his own place, and sat brooding.

That night, when Grace retired to rest,
Hope lay down at her feet with his hammer
in his hand, and when one slept the other
watched, for they feared an attack. Towards
the morning of the next day Grace's quick
senses heard a mysterious noise in Burnley's
quarter ; she woke her father. Directly he
went to the place, and he found Burnley at
work on his knees tearing away with his hands
and nails at the ruins of the shaft. Apparently
fury supplied the place of strength ; for he had
raised quite a large heap behind him, and he
had laid bare the feet up to the knees of a
dead miner. Hope reported this in a hushed
voice to Grace, and said solemnly, 'Poor
wretch, he's going mad, I fear.'

Oh, no,' said Grace, ' that would be too
horrible. Whatever should we do ? '

Keep him to his own side, that is all said
Hope.

But,' objected Grace in dismay, ' if he is
mad he won't listen, and he will come here
and attack me.'

If he does,' said Hope simply, ' I must kill
him, that's all.'

Burnley, however, in point of fact, kept
more and more aloof for many hours ; he never
left his work till he laid bare the whole body
of that miner, and found a pickaxe in his dead
hand. This he hid, and reserved it for deadly
uses ; he was not clear in his mind whether to
brain Hope with it, and so be revenged on him
for having shut him up in that mine, or
whether to peck a hole in the tank and destroy
all three by a quicker death than thirst
or starvation. The savage had another and
more horrible reason for keeping out of sight ;
maddened by thirst, he had recoil-se to that
last extremity better men have been driven
to : he made a cut with his clasp-knife in the
breast of the dead miner, and tried to swallow
jellied blood.

This horrible relief never lasts long, and
the penalty follows in a few hours, but in
the meantime the savage obtained relief, and
even vigour, from this ghastly source ; and

seeing Hope and his daughter lying comparatively
weak and exhausted, he came and
sat down at a little distance in front of them ;
that was partly done to divert Hope from examining
his shambles and his unnatural work.

Maister,' said he, ' how long have we been
here ? '

Six days and more,' said Hope.

Six days, said Grace faintly, for her powers
were now quite exhausted ; ' and no signs of
help, no hope of rescue ! '

Do not say so, Grace. Rescue in time is certain,
and therefore while we live there is hope.'

Ay,' said Burnley, ' for you tew, but not forme.
You tell the men that I fired t' mine, and
if one of those men gets free, they'll all tear
me limb fi'om jacket. Why should I leave one
grave to walk into another? But for yow I
should have been away six days agone.'

Man,' said Hope, ' cannot you see that
my hand was but the instrument ; it was the
hand of Heaven that kept you back. Cease to
blame your victims, and begin to see things as

they are and to repent. Even if you escape,
could the white faces ever fade from your
sight, or the dying shrieks ever leave your ear,
of the brave men you so foully murdered ?
Repent, monster, repent ! '

Burnley was not touched, but he was scared
by Hope's sol enmity, and went to his own
corner muttering, and as he crouched there
there came over his dull brain, what in due
course follows the horrible meal he had made
a feverish frenzy.

In the meantime Grace, who had Ijeen lying
half-insensible, raised her head slowly, and said
in a low voice, ' Water, water ! '

Oh, my girl,' said Hope in despair, ' I'll go
and get enough to moisten your lips, but the
last scrap of food has gone — the last drop of
oil is burning away, and in an hour we shall be
in darkness and despair.'

'No, no, father,' said Grace, 'not whilst
there is water there, beautiful water.'

But you cannot drink that un filtered ; it
is foul, it is poisonous.'

Not that, papa,' said Grace, ' far beyond
that — look ! See that clear river sparkhug in
the sunlight ; how bright and beautiful it shines !
Look at the waving trees upon the other side,
the green meadows and the bright blue sky, and
there — there — there are the great white swans.
No — no. I forgot ; they are not swans, they
are ships sailing to the bright land you told
nie of, where there is no suffering and no
sorrow.'

Then Hope, to this horror, began to see that
this must be the very hallucination of which he
had read — a sweet illusion of green fields and
crystal water, which often precedes actual death
by thirst and starvation. He trembled ; he
prayed secretly to God to spare her, and not to
kill his new-found child, his darling, in his arms.

By-and-by Grace spoke again, but this time
her senses were clear. ' How dark it's grown,'
she said. ' Ah, we are back again in that awful
mine.' Then, with the patient fortitude of a
woman when once she thinks the will of the
Almighty is declared, she laid her hand upon

his shoulder, and she said soothingly, 'Dear
father, bow to Heaven's will.' Then she held up
both her feeble arms to him : ' Kiss me, father,

FOR WE ARE TO DIE.'

With these firm and patient words she laid
her sweet head upon the ground, and hoped and
feared no more.

But the man could not bow like the woman.
He kissed her as she bade him, and laid her
gently down ; but after that he sprang wildly
to his feet in a frenzy, and raged aloud, as his
daughter could no longer hear him : ' No, no ! '
he cried, ' this thing cannot be ; they have had
seven days to get to us ! '

Ah, but there are mountains and rocks of
earth and coal piled up between us. We are
buried alive in the bowels of the earth.'

Well, and shouldn't I have blasted a hundred
rocks and picked through mountains,
to save a hundred lives, or to save one such
life as this, no matter whose child she
was?'

'Ah! you poor scum, you came to me

VOL. II. P

whenever you wanted me, and yon never came
in vain. Bnt now that I want yon, you smoke
your pipes, and walk calmly over this living
tomb I lie in ! '

^ Well, call yourselves men, and let your
friends perish ! I am a man and I can die ! *

Then he threw himself wildly on his knees
over his insensible daughter :

But, my child ! God ! look down upon
my child ! Do, pray, see the horror of it — the
horror and the hellish injustice ! She has but
just found her father. She is just beginning
life ; it's not her time to die ! Why, you know,
she only came here to save her father. Heaven's
blessing is the right of pious children ; it's
promised in God's Word. They are to live long
upon earth — not to be cut off like criminals.'

Then he rose wildly, and raged about the
place, flinging his arms on high, so that even
Burnley, though his own reason was shaken,
cowered away from the fury of a stronger
mind.

Men and angels cry out against it ! ' he

screamed, iu madness and despair. ' Can this
thing be ? Can Heaven and earth look calmly
on and see this horror ? Are men all ingratitude
? Is God all apathy ? '

A blow like a hammer striking a church bell
tinkled outside the wall, and seemed to come
from a great distance.

To him who, like the rugged Elijah, had
expostulated so boldly with his Maker, and his
Maker, who is not to be irritated, forgave him,
that blow seemed at first to ring from Heaven.
He stood still, and trembled like a leaf; he
listened ; the sound was not repeated.

Ah,' said he, ' it was an illusion like hers.'

But for all that he seized his hammer, and
darted to the back of the hall, and, mounting
on a huge fragment of coal, struck the seam
high above his head. He gave two blows at
longish intervals, and then three blows in quick
succession.

Grace heard, and began to raise herself on
her hands in wonder.

Outside the wall came two leisurely blows
that seemed a mile off, though they were not
ten feet, and then three blows in quick succession.


My signal echoed,' yelled Hope. ' Do you
hear, child, my signal answered ? Thank God !
thank God ! thank God ! '

He fell on his knees and cried like a child.
The next minute, burning with hope and joy,
he was by Grace's side with his arms roimd
her.

You can't give way now. Fight on a few
minutes more. Death, I defy you ; I am a
father ; I tear my child from your clutches.'
With this he raised her in his arms with surprising
vigour. It was Grace's turn to shake
off all weakness, under the great excitement of
the brain.

Yes, I'll live,' she cried, ' I'll live for you !
Oh, the gallant men ! hear, hear the pickaxes
at work ! An army is coming to our rescue,
father ; the God you doubted sends them, and
some hero leads them.'

The words had scarcely left her lips when
Hope set her down fresh alarm. An enemy '^
pickaxe was at work to destroy them ; Burnley
was picking furiously at the weak part of the
tank, shrieking, ' They will tear me to pieces ;
there is no hope in this world nor the next
for me.'

Madman ! ' cried Hope, ' he'll let the water
in before they can save us.' He rushed at
Burnley and seized him, but his frenzy was
gone, and Burnley was upon him ; after a
short struggle Burnley Hung him off with prodigious
power. Hope flew at him again, but
incautiously, and the savage, lowering this head,
drove it with such fury into Hope's chest that
he sent him to a distance, and laid him flat on
his back, utterly breathless. Grace flew to lira,
and raised him.

He was not a man to lose his wits. ' To
the truck,' he gasped, ' or we are lost ! '

I'll flood the mine ! I'll flood the mine ! '
yelled Burnley.

Hope made his daughter mount a large

fragment of coal we have already mentioned,
and from that she sprang to the truck, and
with her excitement and with her athletic
power she raised herself into the full truck, and
even helped her father in after her. But just
as she got him on to the truck, and whilst he
was still only on his knees, that section of the
wall we have called the tank rent and gaped
under Burnley's pickaxe, and presently exploded
about six feet from the ground, and a
huge volume of water drove masses of earth
and coal before it, and came roaring like a
solid body straight at the coal truck, and drove
it against the opposite wall, smashed the nearest
side in, and would have thrown Grace off it
like a feather, but Hope, kneeling and clinging
to the side, held her like a vice.

Grace screamed violently. Immediately
there was a roar of exultation outside from the
hitherto silent workers ; for that scream told
that the woman was alive too — the wife of the
brave fellow who had won all their hearts, and
melted away the icy barrier of class.

Three (]fio^antic waves struck the truck and
made it quiver.

The first came half way up ; the second
came full two-thirds ; the third dashed the
senseless body of Ben Burnley, with bleeding
head and broken bones, against the very edge
of the truck, then surged back with him into a
whirling vortex.

Grace screamed continuously ; she gave
herself up now for lost, and the louder she
screamed the louder and the nearer the saving
party shouted and hurrahed.

No, do not fear,' cried Hope ; ' you shall
not die. Love is stronger than death.'

The words were scarce out of his mouth
when the point of a steel pick came clean
through the stuff, another followed above it,
then another, then another, and then another.
Holes were made, then gaps, then larger gaps ;
then a mass of coal fell in — furious picks — a
portion of the mine knocked away — and there
stood in a red blaze of lamps held up the gallant
band, roaring, shouting, working, led by a

stalwart giant with bare arms, begrimed and
bleeding, face smoked, hair and eyebrows black
with coal dust, and eyes flaming like red coals.
He sprang with one fearless bound down to the
coal truck, and caught up his wife in his arms,
and held her to his panting bosom. Ropes,
ladder — everything — and they were saved ;
whilst the corpse of the assassin whirled round
and round in the subsiding eddies of the blackwater,
and, as that water ran away into the
mine, lay coated with mud at the feet of those
who had saved Iiis innocent victims.

CHAPTER XXIV.

STRAiS^GE Complications.

Exert all the powers of your mind, and conceive,
if you can, what that mother felt whose
only son sickened, and, after racking her heart
with hopes and fears, died before her eyes, and
was placed in his coffin and carried to his rest.
Yet One in the likeness of a man bade the
bearers stand still, then with a touch made the
coffin open, the dead come back, blooming
with youth and health, and handed him to his
mother.

That picture no mortal mind can realise ;
but the effort will take you so far as this — you
may imagine what Walter Clifford felt when,
almost at the climax of despair, he received
from that living tomb the good and beautiful

creature who was the light of his eyes and
the daring of his heart.

How he gloated on her! How he murmured
words of comfort and joy over her as
the cage carried her and Hope and him up
again into the blessed sunshine ! And, there,
what a burst of exultation and honest rapture
received them!

Everybody was there. The news of Hope's
signal had been wired to the surface = An old,
original telegraph had been set up by Colonel
Clifford, and its arms set flying to tell him.
That old campaigner was there with his spring
break and mattresses and an able physician.
Bartley was there, pale and old, and trembling
and crying. He fell on his knees before Hope
and Grace. She drew back from him with
repulsion ; but he cried out ' No matter ! no
matter ! They are saved ! they are saved ! '

Walter carried her to his father and left
Bartley kneeling. Then he dashed back for
Hope, who did not move, and found him on
his knees insensible. A piece of coal, driven

by one of the men's picks, had struck him on
the temple. The gallant fellow had tried to
hide his hurt with his handkerchief, but the
handkerchief was soaked with blood, and the
man, exhausted by hunger, violent emotions,
and this last blow, felt neither his trouble nor
his joy. He was lifted with tender pity into
the brake and the blood stanched, and stimulants
applied by the doctor. But Grace would
have his head on her bosom and her hand in
Walter's. Fortunately, the doctor was no
other than that physician who had attended
Colonel Clifford in his dangerous attack of
internal gout. We say fortunately, for patients
who have endured extremities of hunger have
to be treated with very great skill and caution.
Gentle stimulants and mucilages must precede
solid food, and but a little of anything be taken
at a time. Doctor Garner began his treatment
in the very brake. The first spoonful of
egg and brandy told upon Grace Hope. Her
deportment had been strange. She had seemed
confused at times, and now and then she would

cast a look of infinite tenderness upon Walter,
and then again she would knit her brow and
seem utterly puzzled.

But now she gave Walter a look that
brought him nearer to her, and she said with
a heavenly smile, ' You love me best — better
than the other.' Then she began to cry over
her father.

Better than the others,' said Walter aloud.
'What other?'

Be quiet,' said the doctor. ' Do you
really think her stomach can be empty for six
days and her head be none the Averse. Come,
my dear, another spoonful. Good girl I Now
let me look at you, Mr. Walter.'

Why, what is the matter with him ? ' said
the Colonel. ' I never saw him look better in
all my life.'

Indeed ! Red spots on his cheek bones,
ditto on his temples, and his eyes glaring.'

Excitement and happiness,' said Walter.

The doctor took no notice of him. ' He
has been outraging Nature,' said he, 'and

she will have her revenge. We are not out of
the wood 5'et, Colonel Clifford, and you had
better put them all three under my command.'

I do, my good friend, I do,' said Colonel
Clifford eagerly. ' It is your department, and
I don't believe in two commanders.'

They drew up at the great door of Clifford
Hall. It seemed to open of itself, and there
were all the servants drawn up in two lines.

They all showed eager sympathy, but only
John Baker and Mrs. Milton ventured to
express it. ' God bless you all ! ' said Colonel
Clifford. ' But it is our turn now. They are
all in the doctor's hands. My whole household,
obey him to the letter. It is my order.
Dr. Garner, this is Mrs. Milton, my housekeeper.
You will find her a good lieutenant.'

'jMi's. ]wilton,' said the doctor sharply,
warm baths in three rooms, and to bed With
this lot. Carry Mr. Hope up ; he is my first
patient. Bring me eggs, milk, brandy, newport
wine. Cook ! '

^ Sir ? '

Hammer three chickens to pieces with yoiir
rolling pin, and then mince them ; then chuck
them into a big pot with coal water, stew them
an hour, and then boil them to a jelly, strain,
and serve. Meantime, send up three shoes of
mutton, half raw ; we will do a little chewing,
not much.'

The patients submitted like lambs ; only
Walter grumbled a little, but at last confessed
to a headache and sudden weariness.

Juha Chfford took special charge of Grace
Hope, the doctor of William Hope, and Colonel
Clifford sat by Walter, congratulating, soothing,
and encouraging him, until he began to
doze.

Doctor Garner's estimate of his patients
proved correct. The next day Walter was ina
raging fever.

Hope remained in a pitiable state of weakness,
and Grace, who in theory was the weaker
vessel, began to assist Julia in nursing them
both. To be sure, she was all whipcord and

steel beneath lier delicate skin, and had always
been active and temperate. And then she was
much the youngest, and the constitutions of
such women are anything but weak. Still it
was a most elastic recovery from a great
shock.

But the more her body recovered its
strength and her brain its clearness, the more
was her mind agitated and distressed.

Her first horrible anxiety was for Walter's
life. The doctor showed no fear, but that
might be his way.

It was a raging fever, with all the varieties
that make fever terrible to behold. He was
never left without two attendants ; and as
Hope was in no danger now, though pitiably
weak and slowly convalescent, Grace was often
one of Walter's nurses. So was Julia Clifford.
He sometimes recognised them for a little
while, and filled their loving hearts with hope.
But the next moment he was off into the
world of illusions, and sometimes could not
see them. Often he asked for Grace most

piteously, when she was looking at hin through
her tears and trying hard to win him to her
with her voice. On these occasions he always
called her Mary. One unlucky day that Grace
and Julia were his only attendants, he became
very restless and wild, said he had committed
a great crime, and the scaffold was being prepared
for him. 'Hark!' said he, ' don't you
hear the workmen ? Curse their hammers ! —
their eternal tip-tapping goes through my brain.
The scaffold ! What would the old man say ?
A Clifford hung ! Never ! I'll save him and
myself from that.'

Then he sprang out of bed and made a rush
at the window. It was open, unluckily, and he
had actually got his knee through when Grace
darted to him and seized him, screaming to Julia
to help her. Juha did her best — especially in
the way of screaming. Grace's muscle and resolution
impeded the attempt no more ; slowly,
gradually, he got both knees upon the windowsill.
But the delay was everything. In came
a professional nurse. She flung her arms

round Walter's waist, and just hung back with
all her weight. As she was heavy, though not
corpulent, his more active strength became
quite valueless ; weight and position defeated
him hopelessly, and at last he sank exhausted
into the nurse's arms, and she and Grace carried
him to bed like a child.

Of course, when it was all over, half-a-dozen
people came to the rescue. The woman
told what had happened ; the doctor administered
a soothing draught ; the patient became
very quiet, then perspired a little, then went to
sleep ; and the cheerful doctor declared that he
would be all the better for what he called this
little outbreak. But Grace sat there quivering
for hours, and Colonel Clifford installed two
new nurses that very evening. They were
pensioners of his — soldiers who had been
invalided from wounds, but lead long recovered,
and were neither of them much above forty.
They had some experience, and proved admirable
nurses — quiet — silent — vigilant as sentinels.


VOL. II. * Q

That burst of delirium was the climax.
Walter began to get better after that. But a
long period of convalescence was before him ;
and the doctor warned them that convalescence
has its very serious dangers, and that they must
be very careful, and above all not irritate nor
even excite him.

All this time torments of another kind had
been overpowered, but never suppressed, in
poor Grace's mind ; and these now became
greater as Walter's danger became less and
less.

What would be the end of all this ? Here
she was installed, to her amazement, in Clifford
Hall as Walter's wife, and treated, all of a
sudden, with marked affection and respect by
Colonel Chfford, who had hitherto seemed to
abhor her. But it was all an illusion — the
whole house of cards must come tumbling
down some day

Some days before the event last described
Hope had said to her :

My child this is no place for you and me.*

Xo more it is, papa,' said Grace. ' I know
that too well.'

Then why did yoii let them bring us here ? '

Papa,' said Grace, ' I forgot all about that'

Forgot it ! '

It seems incredible, does it not ? But
what I saw and felt thrust what I had only
heard out of my mind. Oh, papa ! you were
insensible, poor dear ; but if you had only seen
Walter Clifford when he saved us ! I took him
for some giant miner. He seemed ever so
much bigger than the gentleman I loved — ay,
and I shall love him to m}^ dying day, whether

or not he has But when he sprang to

my side, and took me with his bare, bleeding
arms to his heart, that panted so, I thought
his heart would burst, and mine, too, could I
feel another woman between us ? All that
might be true, but it was unreal. That he
loved me, and had saved me, that was real.
And when we sat together in the carriage, your
poor bleeding head upon my bosom, and his
hand grasping mine, and his sweet eyes beaming

Q2

with love and joy, what could I realise, except
my father's danger and my husband's mighty
love ? I was all present anxiety and present
bliss. His sin and my alarms seemed hundreds
of miles off, and doubtful. And even
since I have been here, see how greater and
nearer things have overpowered me. Your
deadly weakness — you ^vho were strong, poor
dear — oh, let me kiss you, dear darling ! — till
you had saved your child — Walter's terrible
danger ! Oh, my dear father, spare me ! How
can a poor, weak woman think of such different
woes, and realise and suffer them all at once ?
Spare me, dear father, spare me ! Let me see
you stronger ; let me see him safe ; and then
let us think of that other cruel thing, and what
we ought to say to Colonel Clifford, and what
we ought to do, and where Ave are to go.'

My poor child,' said Hope, faintly, with
tears in his eyes, ' I say no more. Take your
own time.'

Grace did not abuse this respite. So soon
as the doctor declared Walter out of immediate

danger, and indeed safe, if cautiously treated,
she returned of her own accord to the miserable
subject that had been thrust aside.

After some discussion, they both agreed
that they must now confide their grief to
Colonel Clifford, and must quit this home, and
make him master of the situation and sole
depositary of the terrible secret foi a time.

Hope wished to make the revelation, and
spare his daughter that pain. She assented
readily and thankfully.

This was a woman's first impulse — to put a
man forward.

But by-and-l)y she had one of her fits of
hard thinking and saw that such a revelation
ought not to he made by one straightforward
man to another, but with all a woman's soothing
ways. Besides, she had already discovered
that the Colonel had a great esteem and growing
affection for her ; and, in short, she felt
that if the blow could be softened by anybody,
it was by her.

Her father objected that she would encounter

a terrible trial, from which he could
save her : but she entreated him, and he yielded
to her entreaty, though against his judgment.

Ashen this was settled, nothing remained
but to execute it.

Then the woman came uppermost, and
Grace procrastinated for one insufficient reason
and another.

However, at last she resolved that the very
next day she would ask John Baker to get hera
private interview with Colonel Clifford in his
study.

This resolution had not been long formed,
when that very John Baker tapped at Mr.
Hope's door, and brought her a note from
Colonel Clifford, asking her if she could favour
him with a visit in his study.

Grace said, ' Yes, Mr. Baker, I will come
directly.'

As soon as Baker was gone she began to
bemoan her weak procrastination, and begged
her father's pardon for her presumption intaking
the matter out of his hands. 'You

would not have put it off a day. Now, see
what I have done by my cowardice.'

Hope did not see what she had done,
and the quick-witted young lady, jumping
at once at a conclusion, opened her eyes and
said :

Wliy, don't you see ? Some other person
has told him what it was so important he should
hear first from me. Ah I it is the same gentleman
that came and warned me. He has heard
that we are actually married ; for it is the talk
of the place, and he told me she would punish
him if he neglected her warning. Oh, what
shall I do?'

You go too fast, Grace, dear. Don't run
before trouble like that. Come, go to Colonel
Clifford, and you will find it is nothing of the
kind.'

Grace shook her head grandly. Experience
had given her faith in her own instincts, as
people call them, though they are subtle reasonings,
the steps of which are not put forward ;
and she went down to the study.

Grace, my dear,' said the Colonel, ' I think
I shall have a fit of the gout.'

Oh ! no,' said Grace. ' We have trouble
enough.'

It gets less every day, my dear ; that
is one comfort. But what I meant was that
our poor invalids eclipse me entirely in your
good graces. ' That is because you are a true
woman, and an honour to your sex. But I
should like to see a little more of you. Well,
all in good time. I didn't send for you to tell
you that. Sit down, my girl ; it is a matter of
business '

Grace sat down, keenly on her guard,
though she did not show it in the least.
Colonel Clifford resumed :

You may be sure that nothing has been
near my heart for some time but your danger
and my dear son's. Still, I owe something to
other sufferers, and the poor widows whose
husbands have perished in that mine have cried
to me for vengeance on the person who bribed
that Burnley. I am a magistrate, too, and duty

must never be neglected. I have a'ot detectives
about, and I have offered five ]hundred guineas
reward for the discovery of the villain. One
Jim Da vies described him to me, and I put the
description on the placard and in the papers.
But now I learn that Davies's description is all
second hand. He had it from you. Now, I
must tell you that a description at second hand
always misses some part or other. As a
magistrate, I never encourage Jack to tell me
what Jill says when I can get hold of Jill.
You are Jill, my dear, so now please verify
Jack's description or correct it. However, the
best way will be to give me your own description
before I read you his.'

I will,' said Grace, very much relieved.
Well, then, he was a man not over forty ;
thin, and with bony fingers; an enormous
gold ring on the little finger of his right hand.
He wore a suit of tweed, all one colour, rather
tight, and a vulgar neck handkerchief almost
crimson. He had a face like a corpse, and
very thin lips. But the most remarkable things

Averse his eyes and his eyebrows. His eyes were
never still, and his brows were Yere black and
not shaped like other people's ; they were neither
straight, like Julia Clifford's, for instance, nor
arched like Walter's — that is to say, they were
arched, but all on one side. Each brow began
quite high up on the temple, and then came
down in a slanting drop to the bridge of the
nose, and lower than the bridge. There, if
you will give me a pencil, I will draw you one
of his eyebrows in a minute.'

She drew the eyebrow with masterly ease
and rapidity.

Why, that is the eyebrow of Mephistopheles.'


'And so it is,' said Grace naively. 'No
wonder it did not seem human to me.'

I am sorry to say it is human. You can
see it in every convict gaol. But,' said he, ' how
came this villain to sit to you for his portrait ? '

He did not, sir. But when he was struggling
with me to keep me from rescuing my
father '

What ! did the ruffian lay hands on
yon ? '

That he did, and so did Mr. Bartley. Battle
villain was the leader of i*^ all ; and whilst
he was struggling with me '

Yon were taking stock of him ? Well,
they talk of a Jew's eye ; give me a woman's.
My dear, the second-hand description is not
worth a button. I inst write fresh notices
from yours, and above all instruct the detectives.
Yon have given me information that will
lead to that man's capture. As for the gold
ring and the t^veed suit, they disappeared into
space when my placard went up, you may be
sure of that, and a felon can paint his face.
But his eyes and eyebrows will do him. They
are the mark of a gaol-bird. I am a visiting
justice, and have often noticed the peculiarity.
Draw me his eyebrows, and we will photograph
them in Derby, and my detectives shall send
copies to Scotland Yard and all the convict
prisons. Well have him.'

The Colonel paused suddenly in his triumphant

prediction, and said, ' But what was that
you let fall about Bartley ? He was no party
to this foul crime. Why, he has worked night
and day to save you and Hope. Indeed, you
both owe your lives to him.'

Indeed ? '

Yes. He set the men on to save you
within ten minutes of the explosion. He
bought rope by the mile, and great iron
buckets to carry up the debris that was heaped
up between you and the working party. He
raved about the pit day and night lamenting
his daughter and this friend, and why I say he
saved you, 'twas he who advised Walter. I
had this from Walter himself before his fever
came on. He advised and implored him not
to attempt to clear the whole shaft, but to pick
sideways into the mine twenty feet from the
ground. He told Walter that he never really
slept at night, and in his dreams saw you in a
part of the mine he calls the hall. Now, Walter
says that but for this advice they would have
been two days more getting to you.'

'yV^e should have been dead,' said Grace
gravely Then she reflected.

Colonel Clifford,' said she, ' I listened to
that villain and Mr. Bartlett planning my
father's destruction. Certainly, every word
Mr. Bartley said was against it. He spoke of
it with horror. Yet somehow or other that
wretched man obtained from him an order to
send the man Burnley down the mine, and
what will you think when I tell you that he
assisted the villain to hinder me from going to
the mine ? ' Then she told him the whole scene,
and how they shut her up in the house, and she
lead to go down a curtain and burst through a
quick-set hedge. But all the time she was
thinking of Walter's bigamy and how she was
to reveal it ; and she related her exploits in
such a cold, languid manner, that it was hardly
possible to believe them.

Colonel Clifford coidd not help saying, ' My
dear, you have had a great shock, and you
have dreamt all this. Certainly you are a fine
girl, and broad-shouldered. I admire that inman

or woman ; but you are so delicate, so
refined, so gentle.'

Grace blushed and said languidly, ' For all
that, I am an athlete.'

An athlete, child ! '

'Yes, sir. Mr. Bartley took care of that.
He would never let me wear a corset, and for
years he would make me do calisthenics under
a master.'

Calisthenics ? '

That is a fine word for gymnastics.' Then,
with a double dose of langour, ' I can go up a
loose rope forty feet, so it was nothing to me to
come down one. The hedge was the worst
thing; but my father was in danger and my
blood was up.' She turned suddenly on the
Colonel with a flash of animation : ' You used
to keep racehorses, Walter told me.' The
Colonel stared at this sudden turn.

That I did,' said he, ' and a pretty penny
they cost me.'

Well, sir, is not a racehorse a poor mincing
thing until her blood gets up galloping ? '

By Jove ! you are right,' said he, ' she steps
like a cat upon hot bricks. But the comparison
is not needed. Whatever statement Mrs.
Walter Clifford makes to me seriously is gospel
to me, who already know enough of her to
respect her lightest Avoid. Pray grant me this
much, that Bartley is a true penitent, for I
have proof of it in this drawer. I'll slow it
you.'

No, no, please not,' said Grace, in no little
agitation. 'Let me take your word for that,
as you have taken mine. Oh, sir, he is nothing
to me compared ^vith what I thought
you wished to say to me. But it is I who
must find the courage to say things that would
wound you and me still more. Colonel
Clifford, pray do not be angry with me till you
know all, but indeed your house is not the
place for my father or for me.'

Why not, madam,' said the Colonel stiffly,
since you are my daughter-in-law ? '

She did not reply.

Ah ! ' said he, colouring high and rising

from his chair. He began to walk the room in
some station. 'You are rifjlit,' said he; 'I
once affronted you cruelly, unpardonably.
Still, pray consider that you passed for Bartley's
daughter ; that was my objection to you, and
then I did not know your character. But
when I saw you come out, pale and resolved to
sacrifice yourself to justice and another woman,
that converted me at once. Ask Jidia what I
said about you.'

I must interrupt you,' said Grace. ' I
cannot let such a man as you excuse yourself
to a oriel of nineteen, who has nothings but
reverence for you, and would love you if she
dared.'

Then all I can say is that you are very
mysterious, my dear, and I wish you would
speak out.'

I shall speak out soon enough,' said
Grace solemnly, ' now I have begun. Colonel
Clifford, you have nothing to reproach yourself
with. No more have I for that matter. Yet
we must both suffer.' She hesitated a moment,

and then said firmly, ' You do me the honour
to approve my conduct in that dreadful situation.
Did you hear all that passed ? — did you
take Notice of all I said? '

'I did,' said Colonel Chfford. 'I shall
never forget that scene, nor the distress nor
the fortitude of her I am proud to call my
daughter.'

Grace put her hands before her face at
these kind words, and he saw the tears trickle
between her white fino-hers. He began to
wonder and to feel uneasy. But the brave
girl shook off her tears, and manned herself, if
we may use such an expression.

Then, sir,' said she, slowly and emphatically,
though quietly, ' did you not think it
strange that I should say to my father, " I
don't know P " He asked me before you all,
Are you a wife ? " Twice I said to my
father — to him I thought was my father — "I
don't know." Can you account for that, sir ? '

The Colonel replied, ' I was so unable to
account for it that I took Juha Clifford's

VOL. II. E

opinion on it directly, ass we were going
home.'

And what did she say ? '

Oh, she said it was plain enough. The
fellow had forbidden you to own the marriage,
and you were an obedient wife ; and, like
women in general, strong against other people,
but weak against one.'

So that is a woman's reading of a woman,'
said Grace. ' She will sacrifice her honour
and her father's respect, and court the world's
contempt and sully herself for life to suit the
convenience of a husband for a few hours.
My love is great, but it is not slavish nor silly.
Do you think, sir, that I doubted for one
moment Walter Cuffed would own me when
he came home and heard what I had suffered ?
Did I think him so unworthy of my love as to
leave me under that stigma ? Hardly. Then
why should I blacken Mrs. Walter Clifford for
an afternoon, just to be blackened at night? '

This is good sense,' said the Colonel, ' and
the thing is a mystery. Can you solve it ? '

You may be sure I can, and — woe is me —
I must.'

Lie hung her head, and her hands worked
convulsively.

Sir,' said she, after a pause, ' suppose 1
could not tell the truth to all those people
without subjecting the man I loved — and I
love lum now dearer than ever — to a terrible
punishment for a mere folly done years ago,
which now has become something much worse
than folly ; but how ? Through his unhappy
love for me ? '

These are dark words," said the Colonel.
How am I to understand them ? '

Dark as they are,' said Grace, ' do they
not explain my conduct in that bitter trial
better than Julia Clifford's guesses do — better
than anything that has occurred since ? '

'Mrs. Walter Clifford,' said the Colonel
with a certain awe, ' I see there is something
very grave here, and that it affects my son. I
begin to know you. You waited till he was
out of danger ; but now you do me the honour

R 2

to confide something to me which the world
will not drag out of you. So be it. I am a
man and a soldier. I have faced cavalry, and
I can face the truth. What is it ?'

Colonel Clifford,' said Grace, trembling
like a leaf, ' the truth will cut you to the heart,
and will most likely kill me. Now that T have
gone so far, you may well say, "Tell it me ; "
but the words, once passed my lips, can never
be recalled. Oh, what shall I do ? What
shall I do ? '

The struggle overpowered her, and almost
for the first time iu her life she turned half
faint and yet hysterical, and such was her condition
that the brave Colonel was downright
alarmed and rang hastily for his people. He
committed her to the charge of Mrs. Milton.
It seemed cruel to demand any further explanation
from her just then ; so brave a girl,
who had gone so far with him, would be sure
to tell him sooner or later. Meantime, he sat
sombre and agitated, oppressed by a strange
sense of awe and mystery and vague misgiving.

Whilst lie brooded thus, a footman brought
him in a card upon a salver : ' The Reverend
Allen Meredith.' ' Do I know this gentleman
? ' said the Colonel.

I think not, sir,' said the footman.

What is he like ? '

Like a beneficed clergyman, sir.'

Colonel Clifford was not in the humour for
company ; but it was not his habit to say, ' Not
at home,' when he was at home ; and, being a
magistrate, he never knew, when a stranger sent
in his card, that it might not be his duty to see
him ; so he told the footman to say, ' that he
was in point of fact engaged, but was at this
gentleman's service for a few minutes.'

The footman retired and promptly ushered
in a clergyman, who seemed the model of an
archdeacon or a wealthy rector. Sleek and
plump without corpulence, neat boots, clothes
black and glossy, waistcoat up to the throat,
neat black gloves, a snowy tie, a face shaven
like an egg, hair and eyebrows grizzled, cheeks
rubicund, but not empurpled, as one who drank

only his pint of port, but drank it seven days
in the week.

Nevertheless, between you and us, this sleek,
rosy personage, archdeacon or rural dean down
to the ground, was Leonard Monckton padded
to the nine, and tinted as artistically as any
canvas in the world.

The first visit Monckton had paid to this
neighbourhood was to the mine. He knew
that was a dangerous visit, so he came at night,
as a decrepit old man. He very soon saw
two things which discouraged further visits.
One was a placard, describing his crime in a
few words, and also his person and clothes,
and offering 500 guineas reward. As his
pallor was specified, he retired for a minute
behind a tent, and emerged the colour of
mahogany ; he then pursued his observations,
and in due course fell in with the second
warning. This was the body of a man lying
upon the slack at the pit mouth. The slack,
not having been added to for many days, was

glowing very hot, and fired during the night. The
body he recognised immediately, for the whiteface
stared at him ; it was Ben Burnley undergoing
cremation. To this the vindictive miners
had condemned him ; they had sat on his body,
and passed a resolution, and sworn he should
not have Christian burial, so they managed to
hide his corpse till the slack got low, and then
they brought him up at night and chucked
him Hke a dog on to the smouldering coal ; one-half
of him was charred away when Monckton
found him, but his face was yet untouched.
Two sturdy miners walked to and fro as
sentinels, armed with hammers, and firmly
resolved that neither law nor gospel should
interfere with this horrible example.

Even Monckton, the man of iron nerves,
started back with a cry of dismay at the sight
and the smell.

One of the miners broke into a hoarse,
uneasy laugh. * Yow needn't to skirl, old
man,' he cried. ' Yon's not a man ; he's
nobbut a murderer. He's fired t' mine, and

made widows and orphans by t' score.' ' Ay,'
said the other, ' but there's a worse villain
behind, that found t' brass for t' job and
tempted this one. Well catch him yet ; ah,
then, we'll not trouble judge nor jury, nor
hangman neither.*

The wretches ! ' said Monckton. ' What !
fire a mine ! Xo punishment is enough for
them.' With this sentiment he retired, and
never went near the mine again. He wired
for a pal of his, and established him at the Dun
Cow. These two were in constant communication.
Monckton's friend was a very clever
gossip, and knew how to question without
seeming curious, and the gossiping landlady
helped him. So between them Monckton
heard that Walter was down with a fever, and
not expected to live, and that Hope was confined
to his bed and believed to be sinking.
Encouraged by this state of things, Monckton
made many artful preparations, and resolved
to levy a contribution upon Colonel Chfford.

At this period of his manoeuvres, Fortune

certainly befriended bim wonderfully ; he found
Colonel Clifford alone, and likely to be alone ;
and at the same time prepared by Grace
Clifford's half revelation and violent agitation
to believe the artful tale this villain came to
tell him.

CHAPTEE XXV.

Retribution.

MoNCKTO^% during his long imprisonment at
Dartmoor, came under many chaplains, and he
was popular with them all ; because, when they
inquired into the state of his soul, he represented
it as humble, penitent, and purified.
Two of these gentlemen were High Church,
and he noticed their peculiarities : one was
a certain half-musical monotony in speaking,
which might be called by a severe critic singsong.
Perhaps they thought the intoning of
the service in a cathedral could be transferred
with advantage to conversation.

So now, to be strictly in character, this personage
not only dressed High Church, but threw
a sweet musical monotony into the communication
he made to Colonel Clifford.

And if the reader will compare this, his
method of speaking, with the matter of his discourse,
he will be sensible of a singular contrast.


After the first introduction, Monckton intoned
very gently that he had a communication
to make on the part of a lady, which was painted
to him, and would be painful to Colonel
Clifford ; but, at all events, it was confidential,
and, if the Colonel thought proper, would go
no farther.

I think, sir, you have a son whose name
is Walter ? '

'I have a son, and his name is Walter,'
said the Colonel stiffly.

I think, sir,' said musical Monckton.^ ' that
he left your house about fourteen years ago,
and you lost sight of him for a time ? '

That is so, sir.'

He entered the service of a Mr. Eobert
Bartley as a merchant's clerk.'

I doubt that, sir.'

I fear, sir,' sighed Monckton musically.

that is not the only thing he did Which has
been withheld from you. He married a lady
called Lucy Monckton.'

Who told you that ? ' cried the Colonel.
It's a he.'

I am afraid not,' said the meek and tuneful
ecclesiastic. ' I am acquainted with the
lady, a most respectable person, and she has
shown me the certificate of marriage.'

The certificate of marriage ! ' cried the
Colonel, all aghast.

Yes, sir, and this is not the first time I
have given this information in confidence.
Mrs. Walter Chfford, who is a kind-hearted
woman, and has long ceased to safer bitterly
from her husband's desertion, requested me to
warn a young lady whose name was Miss Mary
Bartley of this fact. I did so, and showed her
the certificate ; she was very much distressed,
and no wonder, for she was reported to be
engaged to Mr. Walter Clifford ; but I explained
to Miss Bartley that there was no
jealousy, hostility, or bitterness in the matter ;

the only object was to save her from being
betrayed into an illegal act, and one that would
bring ruin upon herself and a severe penalty
upon Mr. Walter Clifford.'

Colonel Clifford turned very ]pale, but he
merely said in a hoarse voice, 'Go on, sir.'

Well, sir,' said Monckton, ' I thought the
matter was at an end, and. having discharged a
commission which was very unpleasant to me,
I had at all events saved an innocent girl from
tempting Mr. Walter Clifford to his destruction
and ruining herself. I say, I thought and hoped
so. But it seems now that the young lady
has defied the warning, and has married your
son after all. Mrs. Walter Clifford has heard
of it in Derby, and she is naturally surprised,
and I am afraid she is now somewhat incensed.'

Before we go any further, sir,' said Colonel
Clifford, ' I should like to see the certificate
you say you showed to Miss Bartley.'

I did, sir,' said Monckton, ' and here it is,
t ht is to say, an attested copy ; but, of course
sooner or later you will examine the original.'

Colonel Clifford took the paper with a firm
hand, and examined it closely. ' Have you
any objection to my taking a copy of this ? ' said
he keenly.

Of course not,' said Monckton ; ' indeed, I
don't see why I should not leave this document
with you : it will be in honourable
hands.'

The Colonel bowed. Then he examined
the document.

I see, sir,' said he, ' the witness is William
Hope. May I ask if you know this William
Hope ? '

I was not present at the wedding, sir,' said
Monckton, ' so I can say nothing about the
matter from my own knowledge ; but, if you
please, I will ask the lady.'

Why didn't she come herself instead of
sending you ? ' asked the Colonel distrustfully.

That's just what I asked her ; and she
said she had not the heart nor the coin-age to
come herself. I believe she thought, as I was
a clergyman and not directly interested, I

might be more calm than she could be, and
give a little less pain.'

That's all stuff. If she is afraid to come
herself, she knows it's an abominable falsehood.
Bring her here with whatever evidence she has
got that this Walter Chfford is my son, and
then we will go into this matter seriously.'

Monckton was equal to the occasion.

You are quite right, sir,' said he. ' And
what business has she to put me forward as
evidence of a transaction I never witnessed ?
I shall tell her you expect to see her, and that
it is her duty to clear up the affair in person.
Suppose it should be another Mr. Walter
Clifford, after all. When shall I bring her,
supposing I have sufficient influence P '

Bring her tomorrow, as early as you can.'

Well, you know, ladies are not early risers ;
will twelve o'clock do P '

Twelve o'clock tomorrow, sir,' said the
Colonel.

The sham parson took bis leave, and drove
away in a well-appointed carriage and pair.

For we must inform the reader that he had
written to Mr. Middleton for another 100/., not
much expecting to get it, and that it had comedown
by return of post in a draft on a bank in
Derby.

Stout Colonel Clifford was now a very
unhappy man. The soul of honour himself, he
could not fully believe that his own son had
been guilty of perfidy and crime. But how
could he escape doubts, and very grave doubts
too ? The communication was made by a gentleman
Who did not seem really to know more
about It than he had been told ; but then he
was a clergyman, with no appearance of heat
or partiality. He had been easily convinced
that the lady herself ought to have come and
said more about it, and had left an attested
copy of the certificate in his (Colonel Clifford's)
hands, with a sort of simplicity that
looked like one gentleman dealing with another.
One thing, however, puzzled him sore in this
certificate — the witness being William Hope.

William Hope was not a very uncommon name,
lout still, somehow, that one and the same document
should contain the names of Walter
Clifford and William Hope roused a suspicion
in his mind that this witness was the William
Hope lying in his own house, so weak and ill
that he did not like to go to him, and enter
upon such a terrible discussion as this. He
sent for Mrs. Milton, and asked her if Mrs.
Walter Clifford was quite recovered.

Mrs. Milton reported she was quite welland
reading to her father. The Colonel went
upstairs and beckoned her out.

My child,' said he, ' I am sorry to renew
san agitating subject, but you are a good girl,
and a brave girl, and you mean to confide in
me sooner or later. Can you pity the agitation
and distress of a father, who for the first time
is compelled to doubt his son's honour ? '

I can,' said Grace. ' Ah, something has
happened since we parted ; somebody has told
you. That man with a certificate ? '

What, then,' said the Colonel, ' is it really

VOL. II. S

true? Did he really show you that certificate?'


He did;

And warned you not to marry Walter ? '

He did, and told me Walter would be put
into prison if I did, and would die in prison,
for a gentleman cannot live there now-a-days.
Oh, sir, don't let anybody know but you and
me and my father. He won't hurt him for my
sake ; he has wronged me cruelly, but I'll be
torn to pieces before I'll own my marriage, and
throw him into a dungeon.'

Come to my arms, you pearl of goodness
and nobility, and unselfish love ! ' cried Colonel
Clifford. ' How can I ever part with you, now
I know you ? There, don't let us despair ;
let's fight to the last. I have one question to
submit to you. Of course, you examined the
certificate very carefully.'

I saw enough to break my heart. I saw
that on a certain day, many years ago, one
Lucy Monckton had married Walter Clifford.'

And who witnessed the marriage ? ' asked
the Colonel, eyeing her keenly.

Oh, I don't know that,' said Grace.
When I came to Walter Clifford, everything
swam before my eyes ; it was all I could do to
keep from fainting away. I tottered into my
father's study, and, as soon as I came to myself,
what had I to do ? — Why, to creep out again
with my broken heart, and face such insults —
Ah ! it is a wonder I did not fall dead at their
feet.'

My poor girl said Colonel Clifford. Then
he reflected a moment. ' Have you the courage
to read that document again, and to
observe in particular who witnessed it F '

I have,' said she.

He handed it her. She took it and held it
in both hands, though they trembled.

Who is the witness ? '

The witness.' said Grace, 'is William Hope.'
• • • • •

Is that your father ? '

It's my father's name,' said Grace, beginning
to turn her eyes inwards and think very hard.

But is it your father, do you think ? '

S 2

'No, sir, it is not.'

Was he in that part of the world at the
time ? Did he know Bartley ? The clergyman
who brought me this certificate '

The clergyman ! '

Yes, my dear, it was a clergyman, apparently
a rector, and he told me '

Are you sin-e he was a clergyman ? '

Quite sure ; he had a white tie, a broad-brimmed
hat — a clergyman all over ; don't
go ofi" on that. Did your father and my son
know each other in Hull ? '

That they did. You are right,' said
Grace. ' This witness was my father ; see that
now. But if so — Don't speak to me, don't
touch me ; let me think — there is something
hidden here ; ' and Mrs. Walter Chfibrd showed
lier father-in-law that which we have seen in
her more than once, but it was quite new
and surprising to Colonel Clifford. There
she stood, her arms folded, her eyes turned
inward ; her every feature, and even her body,
seemed to think. The result came out like
lightning from a cloud.

It's all a falsehood,' said she.

'A falsehood? ' said Colonel Clifford.

Yes, a falsehood upon the face of it. My
father witnessed this marriage, and therefore, if
the bridegroom had been our Walter, he
would never have allowed our Walter to court
me, for he knew of our courtship all along,
and never once disapproved of it.'

Then do you think it is a mistake ? '
said the Colonel eagerly?

No, I do not,' said Grace. ' I think it is
an imposture. This man was not a clergyman
when he brought me the certificate ;
he was a man of business, a plain tradesman,
a man of the world ; he had a coloured
necktie and some rather tawdry chains.

'Did he speak in a kind of singsong
? '

Not at all ; his voice was clear and
cutting, only he softened it down once or
twice, out of what I took for good feeling
at the time. He's an impostor and a villain.
Dear sir, don't agitate poor Walter nor my
dear father with this vile thing [she handed

him back the certificate). ' It has been a
knife to both our hearts ; we have suffered
together, you and I, and let us get to the
bottom of it together.'

We shall soon do that said the Colonel,
for he is coming here tomorrow again.

All the better.'

With the lady.'

'What lady?'

The lady that calls herself Mrs. Walter
Clifford.'

Indeed ! ' said Grace, taken quite aback.
They must be very bold.'

Oh, for that matter,' said the Colonel, ' I
insisted upon it ; the man seemed to know
nothing but from mere hearsay. He knew
nothing about William Hope, the witness,
so I told him he must bring the woman ;
and, to be just to the man, he seemed to think
so too, and that she ought to do her own
business.'

She will not come,' said Grace, rather
contemptuously. ' He was obliged to say she

would, just to put a face upon it. To-morrow
Jie'U bring an excuse instead of her. Then
have your detectives about, for he is a villain ;
and, dear sir, please receive him in the 
; then I will find some way to get a
sight of him myself.'

It shall be done,' said the Colonel. ' I
begin to think with you. At all events, if
the lady does not come, I shall hope it is allan
imposture or a mistake.'

With this understanding they parted, and
waited in anxiety for the morrow, but now
their anxiety was chequered with hope.

To-morrow bade fair to be a busy day.
Colonel Clifford, little dreaming the condition
to which his son and his guest would be reduced,
had invited Jim Davies and the rescuing
parties to feast in tents on his own lawn, and
drink his home-brewed beer, and they were to
bring with them such of the rescued miners as
might be in a condition to feast and drink
copiously. When he found that neither Hope

nor his son could join these festivities, he
was very sorry he had named so early a
day ; but he was so punctilious and precise, that
he could not make up his mind to change
one day for another. So a great confectioner
at Derby, who sent out feasts, was charged
with the affair, and the Colonel's own kitchen
was at his service too. That was not all.
Bartley was coming to do business. This had
been preceded by a letter which Colonel
Chfford, it may be remembered, had offered
to show Grace Clifford. The letter was thus
worded : —

'Colonel Clifford, — A penitent man
begs humbly to approach you, and offer what
compensation is in his power. I desire to
pay immediately to Walter Clifford the sum
of 20,000/, I have so long robbed him of,
with five per cent, interest for the use of it.
It has brought me far more than that in money,,
but money, I now find, is not happiness.

The mine in which my friend has sonearljr

been destroyed, and his daughter, who now, too
late, I find is the only creature in the world I
love — that mine is now odious to me. I desire
by deed to hand it over to Hope and yourself,
upon condition that you follow the seams wherever
they go, and that you give me such a share
of the profits during my lifetime as you think I
deserve for my enterprise. This for my life
only, since I shall leave all I have in the world
to that dear child, who will now be your
daughter, and perhaps never deign again to
look upon the erring man who writes these lines.
I should like, if you please, to retain the
farm, or, at all events, a hundred acres roundabout
the house, to turn into orchards and gardens,
so that I may have some employment,,
far from trade and its temptations, for the remainder
of my days.'

In consequence of this letter a deed was
drawn and engrossed, and Bartley had written
to say he would come to Clifford Hall and sign
it, and have it witnessed and delivered.

About nine o'clock in the evening one of the
detectives called on Colonel Clifford to make a
private communication. His mate had spotted
a swell osman, rather a famous character,
with the usual number of aliases but known to
the force as Mark Waddy ; he was at the Dun
Cow, and, possessing the gift of the gab in a
superlative degree, had made himself extremely
popular. They had both watched him pretty
closely, but he seemed not to be therefor a job,
but only on the talking lay, probably soliciting
information for some gang of thieves or other.
He had been seen to exchange a hasty word with
a clergyman, but as Mark Waddy 's acquaintances
were not amongst the clergy, that would
certainly be some pal that was in some thing or
other with him.

What a shrewd girl that must be ! ' said the
colonel.

I beg your pardon, Colonel,' said the man,
not seeing the relevancy of this observation.

Oh, nothing,' said the Colonel, ' only / expect
a visit tomorrow at twelve o'clock from a

doubtful clergyman ; just hang about the lawn,
on the chance of my giving you a signal.'

Thus, while Monckton was mounting his
batteries, his victims where preparing defences
iri a sort of general way, though they did not
see their way so clear as the enemy did.

Colonel Clifford's drawing-room was a
magnificent room, fifty feet long and thirty feet
wide. A number of French windows opened
on to a noble balcony, with three short flights
of stone steps leading down to the lawn. The
central steps were broad, the side steps narrow.
There were four entrances to it : two by double
doors, and two by heavily curtained apertures,
leading to little subsidiary rooms.

At twelve o'clock next day, what with the
burst of colour from the potted flowers on the
balcony, the white tents, and the flags and
streamers, and a clear, sunshiny day gilding it
all, the room looked a ' palace of pleasure,' and
no stranger peeping in could have dreamed that
it was the abode of care, and about to be visited
by gloomy Penitence and incurable Fraud.

The first to arrive was Hartley with a witness.
He was received kindly by Colonel
Clifford, and ushered into a small room.

He wanted another witness, so John Baker
was sent for, and Bartley and he were closeted
together, reading the deed, &c., when a footman
brought in a card, ' The Reverend Allen
Meredith,' and written underneath with a pencil,
in a female hand, ' Mrs. Walter Chfford.'

Admit them,' said the Colonel firmly.

At this moment, Grace, who had heard the
carriage drive up to the door, peeped in through
one of the heavy curtains we have mentioned.

Has she actually come ? ' said she.

She has indeed,' said the Colonel, looking
very grave. ' Will you stay and receive her ? '

Oh, no,' said Grace, horrified ; ' but Til take
a good look at her through this curtain. I
have made a little hole on purpose.' Then she
slipped into the little room and drew the
curtain.

The servant opened the door, and the
false rector walked in, supporting on his arm a

dark woman, still very beautiful — very plainly
dressed, but well dressed ; agitated, yet self-possessed.


Be seated, madam,' said the Colonel.
After a reasonable pause he began to question
her :

You were married on the eleventh day of
June, 1861, to a gentleman of the name of
Walter Clifford?'

I was, sir.'

May I ask how long you lived with him ? '

The lady buried her face in her hands.
The question took her by surprise, and this was
a woman's artifice to gain time, and answer
cleverly.

But the ingenious Monckton gave it a
happy turn. ' Poor thing ! poor thing ! ' said
he.

He left me the next day,' said Lucy, ' and
I have never seen him since.'

Here Monckton interposed; he fancied he
had seen the curtain move. ' Excuse me,' said
he, ' I think there is somebody listening ! ' and

he went swiftly and put this head through the
curtain. But the room was empty ; for meantime
Grace was so surprised by the lady's
arrival, by her beauty, which might well have
tempted any man, and by her air of respectability,
that she changed her tactics directly,
and she was gone to her father for advice and
information, in spite of her previous determination
not to worry him in his present condition
What he said to her can be briefly told elsewhere
; what he ordered her to do was to return
and watch the man, and not the woman.

During Lucy's hesitation, which was somewhat
long, a clergyman came to the window,
looked in, and promptly retired, seeing the
Colonel had company. This, however, was
only a modest curate, alias a detective. He
saw in half a moment that this must be Mark
Waddy's pal ; but as the police like to go their
own way, he would not watch the lawn himself,
but asked Jim Da vies, with whom he had
made acquaintance, to keep an eye upon that
with his fellows, for there was a gaol-bird in

the house. Then he went round to the front
door, by which he felt sure his bird would
make his exit. He had no earthly right to
capture this ecclesiastic, but he was prepared,
if the Colonel, who was a magistrate, gave him
the order, and not without.

But we are interrupting Colonel Clifford's
interrogatories :

'Madam, what makes you think this disloyal
person was my son ? '

Indeed, sir, I don't know,' said the lady,
and looking around the room with some signs
of distress. ' I begin to hope it was not your
son. He was a tall young man, almost as tall
as yourself. He was very handsome, with
brown hair and brown eyes, and seemed
incapable of deceit.'

'Have you any letters of his ?' asked the
Colonel.

I had a great many, sir,' said she, ' but I
have not kept them all.'

Have you one ? ' said the Colonel sternly.

Oh yes, sir,' said Lucy ; ' I think I must

have nearer twenty ; but what good will they
be?' said she, affecting simplicity.

Why, my dear madam,' said Monckton,
Colonel Clifford is quite right ; the handwriting
may not tell you anything, but surely
his own father knows it. I think he is offering
you a very fair test. I must tell you plainly
that, if you don't produce the letters you say
you possess, I shall regret having put myself
forward in this matter at all.'

Gently, sir,' said the Colonel ; ' she has
not refused to produce them.'

Lucy put her hand in her pocket and drew
out a packet of letters ; but she hesitated, and
looked timidly at Monckton, after his late
severity. ' Am I bound to part with them ? '

Certainly not,' said Monckton, ' but you
san surely trust them for a minute to such a
man as Colonel Clifford. I am of opinion,' said
he, ' that since you cannot be confronted with
this gentleman's son (though that is no fault of
yours), these letters (by-the-by, it would have
been as well to have shown them to me) ought

now at once to be submitted to Colonel Clifford,
that he may examine both the contents and
the handwriting ; then he will know whether
it is his son or not, and probably, as you are
fair with him, he will be fair with you and tell
you the truth.'

Colonel Chfford took the letters and ran
his eye hastily over two or three ; they were
filled with the ardent protestations of youth,
and a love that evidently looked towards matrimony,
and they were written and signed in a
handwriting he knew as well as his own.

He said solemnly, ' These letters are written
and were sent to Miss Lucy Monckton by my
son, Walter Clifford.' Then, almost for the first
time in his life, he broke down, and said, ' God
forgive him ; God help him, and me ! The
honour of the Affords is an empty sound.'

Lucy Monckton rose from her chair in
genuine agitation. Her better angel tugged at
her heart-strings.

'Forgive me, sir — oh, forgive me ! ' she cried,
bursting into tears. Then she caught a bitter,
you II. T

threatening glance of her bad angel fixed upon
her, and she said to Monckton, ' I can say no
more ; I can do no more. It was fourteen years
ago — I can't break people's hearts. Hush it up
amongst you. I have made a hero weep ; his
tears burn me. I don't care for the man ; I'll
go no further. You, sir, have taken a deal
of trouble and expense. I dare say Colonel
Chfford will compensate you ; I leave the matter
with you. No power shall make me act in it
any more.'

Monckton wrote hastily on his card, and
said quite calmly, 'lyell, I really think, madam,
you are not fit to take part in such a conference
as this. Compose you-self and retire. I know
your mind in the matter better than you do
yourself at this moment, and I will act accordingly.'


She reeked, and drove away to the Dun
Cow, which was the place Monckton had appointed
when he ^vrote upon the card.

Colonel Clifford,' said Monckton, ' all that
is a woman's way. When she is out of sight

of you, and thinks over her desertion and her
unfortunate condition — neither maid, wife, nor
mow — she will be angry with me if I don't
obtain her some compensation.'

She deserves compensation,' said the
Colonel gravely.

'Especially if she holds her tongue,' said
Monckton.

Whether she holds her tongue or not,' said
the Colonel, ' I don't see how I can hold mine,
and you have abbacy told my daughter-in-law.
A separation between her and my son is inevitable.
The compensation must be offered — and,
God help me ! I'm a magistrate — if only to
compound the felony.'

Surely,' said Monckton, ' it can be put
upon a wider footing than that ; let me think,'
and he turned away to the open window, but
when he got there he saw a lot of miners clustering
about. Now, he had no fear of their
recognising him, since he had not left a vestige
of the printed description. But the very sight
of them, and the memory of what they had done

T 2

to his dead accomplice, made him shudder at
them. Henceforth he kept away from the
window, and turned his back to it.

'I think with you, sir,' said he, mellifluously,
' that she ought to have a few thousands
by way of compensation. You know she could
claim alimony, and be a very blister to you
and yours. But, on the other hand, I do think,
as an impartial person, that she ought to keep
this sad secret most faithfully, and even take
her maiden name again.'

Whilst Monckton was making this impartial
proposal, Bartley opened the door, and was
coming forward with his deed, when he heard
a voice he recognised, and partly by that, partly
by the fellow's thin lips, he recognised him, and
said, ' Monckton ! That villain here ? '

Monckton ? ' said Colonel Chfibrd ; ' that is
not his name. It is Meredith. He is a clergyman.'
Bartley examined him very suspiciously,
and Monckton, during this examination, looked
perfectly calm and innocent. Meantime, a note
was brought to Colonel Clifford from Grace:

^ Papa was the witness. He is quite sure the
bridegroom was not our Walter. He thinks it
must have been the other clerk, Leonard
Monckton, who robbed Mr. Bartley, and put
some of the money into dear Walter's pockets
to ruin him, but papa saved him. Don't let him
escape.'

Colonel Clifford's eye flashed with triumph,
but he controlled himself.

Say I will give it due attention,' said he.
I'm busy now.'

And the servant retired.

'Now, sir,' said he, 'is this a case of mistaken

identity, or is your name Leonard Monckton? '

Colonel Clifford,' said the hypocrite sadly,

I little thought that I should be made to suffer

for the past, since I came here only on an errand

-of mercy. Yes, sir, in my unregenerate days I

was Leonard Monckton. I disgraced the name.

But I repented, and when I adopted the sacred

calling of a clergyman I parted with the past,

name and all. I was that man's clerk, and so,'

said he spitefully, and forgetting his sung-song.

was yovir son, Walter Clifford. Was that not
so, Mr. Bartley ? '

Don't speak to me, sir,' said Bartley. ' I
shall say nothing to gratify you nor to affront
Colonel Clifford.'

Speak the truth, sir,' said Colonel Clifford ;.
never niind the consequences.'

Well, then,' said Bartley, very unwillingly,
they were clerks in my office ; and this one
robbed me.'

One thing at a time,' said Monckton. ' Did
I rob you of twenty thousand pounds as you
robbed Mr. Walter Clifford ? '

His voice became still more incisive, and the
curtain of the little room opened a little, and
two eyes of fire looked in.

Do you remember one fine day your clerk,
Walter Clifford, asking you for leave of absence
to be married ? '

Bartley turned his back on him contemptuously.


But Colonel Clifford insisted on his replying.

Yes, he did,' said Bartley sullenly.

But,' said the Colonel quietly, ' he thought
better of it, and so — you married her yourself.'

This bayonet thrust was so keen and sudden
that the villain's self-possession left him for
once. His mouth opened in dismay, and his
eyes, roving to and fro, seemed to seek a door
to escape.

But there was worse in store for him. The
curtains were drawn right and left with power,
and there stood Grace Clifford, beautiful, but
pale and terrible. She marched towards him
with eyes that rooted him to the spot. And
then she stopped.

Now, hear me ; for he has tortured me,
and tried to kill me. Look at his white face
turning ghastly beneath his paint at the sight of
me ; look at his thin lips, and his devilish eyebrows,
and his restless eyes. This is the man

THAT BRIBED THAT WRETCH TO FIRE THE MINE ! '

These last words, ringing from her lips like
the trumpet of doom, were answered, as swiftly
as gunpowder explodes at a lighted torch, by a
furious yell, and in a moment the room seemed

a forest of wild beasts. A score of raging
miners came upon him from every side, dragging,
tearing, beating, kicking, cursing, yelling.
He was down in a moment, then soon up again,
then dragged out of the room, nails, fists, and
heavy boots all going, stripped to the shirt,
screaming like a woman. A dozen assailants
rolled down the steps with him in the midst of
them. He got clear for a moment, but twenty
more rushed at him, and again he was torn
and battered and kicked. ' Police ! police ! ' he
cried, and at last the detectives who came to
seize him rushed in, and Colonel Clifford, too,
with the voice of a stentor, cried, ' The law !
respect the law, or you are ruined men ! "

And so at last the Law he had so dreaded
raised what seemed a bag of bones. Nothing
left on him but one boot and fragments of a
shirt — ghastly, bleeding, covered with bruises,
insensible, and to all appearance dead.

After a short consultation, they carried him
by Colonel Chfford's order to the Dun Cow,
where Lucy, it may be remembered, was awaiting
his triumphant return.

CHAPTEE XXVI.

Strange TURNS.

And yet this catastrophe rose out of a mistake.
When the detective asked Jim Davies to watch
the lawn, he never suspected that the clergyman
was the villain who had been concerned
in that explosion. But Davies, a man of few
ideas and full of his own wrongs, took for
granted, as such minds will, that the policeman
would not have spoken to him if this had not
been his affair ; so he and his fellows gathered
about the steps and watched the drawing-room.
They caught a glimpse of Monckton,
but that only puzzled them. His appearance
was inconsistent with the only description they
had got — in fact, opposed to it. It was Grace
Clifford's denunciation, trumpet-tongued, that

let loose savage justice on the villain. Sever
was a woman's voice so fatal or so swift to
slay. She would have undone her work. She
screamed, she implored. But it was all in
vain ; the fury she had launched she could not
recall. As for Bartley, words can hardly
describe his abject terror. He crouched, he
shivered, he moaned, he almost swooned ; and
long after it was all over, he was found
crouched in a corner of the little room, and
his very reason appeared to be shaken. Judge
Lynch had passed him, but too near. The
freezing shadow of Retribution chilled him.

Colonel Clifford looked at him with contemptuous
pity, and sent him home with John
Baker in a close carriage.

Lucy Monckton was in the parlour of
the Dun Cow, waiting for her master. The
detectives and some outdoor servants of
Clifford Hall brought a short ladder and pal
lasses and something covered with blankets to-the

door. Lucy saw, but did not suspect the
truth.

They had a nnirmured consultation with
the landlady. During this Mark Waddy came
down, and there was some more whispering,
and soon the battered body was taken up to
Mark Waddy's room, and deposited on his bed.
The detectives retired to consult, and Waddy
had to break the calamity to Mrs. Monotone
did this as well as he could ; but it little-matters
how such blows are struck. Her agony
was great, and greater when she saw him, for
she resisted entirely all attempts to keep her
from him. She installed herself at once as his-nurse,
and Mark Waddy retired to a garret.

A surgeon came by Colonel Clifford's
order, and examined Monckton's bruised body,
and shook his head. He reported that there
were no bones broken, but there were probably
grave internal injuries. These, however,
he could not specify at present, since there was
no sensibility in the body ; so pressure on the

injured parts elicited no groans. He prescribed
egg and brandy in small quantities,
and showed Mrs. Monckton how to administer
it to a patient in that desperate condition.

His last word was in private to Waddy.
If he ever speaks again, or even groans aloud,

send forme. Otherwise ' and he shrugged

his shoulders.

Some hours afterwards Colonel Clifford
called, as a magistrate, to see if the sufferer had
any deposition to make. But he was mute
-and his eyes fixed.

As Colonel Clifford returned, one of the
detectives accosted him and asked him for a
warrant to arrest him.

Not in his present condition,' said Colonel
Clifford, rather superciliously. ' And pray, sir,
why did not you interfere sooner and prevent
this lawless act ? '

Well, sir, unfortunately we were on the
other side of the house.'

Exactly ; you had orders to be in one
place, so you must be in another. See the

consequence. The honest men have put themselves
in the wrong, and this fellow in the right.
He will die a sort of victim, with his guilt suspected
only, not proved.'

Having thus snubbed the Force, the old
soldier turned his back on them and went
home, where Grace met him, all anxiety, and
received his report. She implored him not
to proceed any further against the man, and
declared she should fly the country rather than
go into a court of law as witness against him.

Humph ! ' said the Colonel ; ' but you are
the only witness.'

All the better for him,' said she. ' Then
he will die in peace. My tongue has killed
the man once ; it shall never kill him again.'

About six next morning Monckton beckoned
Lucy. She came eagerly to him. He whispered
to her, ' Can you keep a secret ? '

You know I can,' said she.

'Then never let anyone know I have
spoken.'

No, dear, never. Why ? '

I dread the law more than death,' and
he shuddered all over. ' Save me from the
law.'

Leonard, I will,' said she. ' Leave that tome.


She wired for Mr. Middleton as soon as
possible.

The next day there was no change in the
patient. He never spoke to anybody, excepta
word or two to Lucy, in a whisper, when
they were quite alone.

In the afternoon down came Lawyer Middleton.
Lucy told him what he knew ; but
Monckton would not speak, even to him. He
had to get hold of Waddy before he understood
the whole case.

Waddy was in Monckton's secret, and,
indeed, in everybody's. He knew it was folly
to deceive your lawyer, so he was frank, Mr.
Middleton learned his client's guilt and danger,
but also that his enemies had flaws in their
armour.

The first shot he fired was to get warrants

out against a dozen miners, Jim Davies included,
for a murderous assault ; but lie made
no arrests, he only summonsed. So one or two
took fright and fled. Middleton had counted
on that, and it made the case worse for those
that remained. Then, by means of friends in
Derby, he worked the press.

An article appeared, headed ' Our Savages.'
It related with righteous indignation low Mr.
Bartley's miners had burned the dead body of
a miner suspected of having fired the mine, and
put his own life in jeopardy as well as those
of others ; and then, not content with that
monstrous act, had fallen upon and beaten to
death a gentleman in whom they thought they
detected a resemblance to some person who
had been, or was suspected of being, that
miner's accomplice ; ' but so far from that,' said
the writer, ' we are now informed, on sure
authority, that the gentleman in question is
a large and wealthy landed proprietor, quite
beyond any temptation to crime or dishonesty,
and had actually visited this part of the world

only in the character of a peacemaker, and
to discharge a very delicate commission which
it would not be our business to publish even
if the details had been confided to us.'

The article concluded with a hope that
these monsters ' would be taught that, even if
they were below the standard of humanity,
they were not above the law.'

Middleton attended the summonses, gave
his name and address, and informed the
magistrate that his cent was a large landed
proprietor, and it looked like a case of mistaken
identity. His client was actually dying
of his injuries ; but his wife hoped for justice.

But the detectives had taken care to be
present, and so they put in their word. They
said that they were prepared to prove, at a
proper time, that the wounded man was really
the person who had been heard by Mrs. Walter
Clifford to bribe Ben Burnley to fire the mine.

We have nothing to do with that now,'
said the magistrate. ' One thing at a time,
please. I cannot let these people murder a

convicted felon, far less a suspected criminal
that has not been tried. The wounded man
proceeds, according to law, through a respectable
attorney. These men, whom you
are virtually defending, have taken the law into
their own hands. Are your witnesses here,
Mr. Middleton ? '

Not at present, sir ; and when I was
interrupted I was about to ask your worship
to grant me an adjournment for that purpose.
It will not be a great hardship to the accused,
since we proceed by summons. I fear I have
been too lenient ; for two or three of them
have absconded since the summons was
served.'

'I am not surprised at that,' said the
magistrate ; ' however, you know your own
business.'

Then the police applied for a warrant of
arrest against Monckton.

Oh,' cried Middleton, with the air of a
man thoroughly shocked and scandalised.

Certainly not,' said the magistrate, ' I

VOL. II. U

shall not disturb the course of justice ; there
is not even an ev 'parte case against this gentleman
at present. Such an application must be
supported by a witness, and a disinterested
one.' So all the parties retired crestfallen
except Mr. Middleton ; as for him, he was
imitating a small but ingenious specimen of
nature — the cuttle-fish. This little creature,
when pursued by its enemies, discharges an
inky fluid, which obscures the water all around,
and then it starts ofi* and escapes.

One dark night, at two o'clock in the
morning, there came to the door of the Dun
Cow an invalid carriage, or rather omnibus,
with a spring bed and every convenience.
The wheels were covered thick with india-rubber,
relays had been provided, and Monck-ton
and his party rolled along day and night
to Liverpool. The detectives followed six
hours later, and traced them to Liverpool very
cleverly, and with the assistance of the police
raked the town for them, and got all the great
steamers watched, especially those that were

bound Westward Ho ! Bui; their bird was
at sea, in a Liverpool merchant's own steamboat,
hired for a two montis' trip. The
pursuers found this out too, but a fortnight
too late.

It's no go, Bill,' said one to the other.
There's a lawyer aud a pot of money against
us. Let it sleep awhile.'

The steamboat coasted England in beautiful
weather. The sick man began to revive,
and to eat a little, and to talk a little, and to
suffer a good deal at times. Before they had
been long at sea, Mr. Middleton had a confidential
conversation with Mrs. Monckton. He
told her he had been very secret with her
for her good. ' I saw,' said he, ' this Monck-ton
had no deep regard for you, and was
capable of turning you adrift in prosperity ;
and I knew that, if I told you everything, you
would let it out to him, and tempt him to
play the villain. But the time is come that
I must speak, in justice to you both. That
estate he left your son half in joke is virtually

his. Fourteen years ago, when he last looked
into the matter, there were eleven lives between
it and him ; but, strange to say, whilst
he was at Portland, the young lives went one
after the other, and there were really only five
left when he made that will. Xow comes the
extraordinary part : a fortnight ago three of
those lives perished in a single steamboat accident
on the Clyde ; that left a woman of
eighty-two, and a man of ninety between
your husband and the estate. The lady was
related to the persons who were drowned,
and she has since died ; she had been long
ailing, and it is believed that the shock was too
much for her. The survivor is the actual proprietor,
old Carruthers ; but I am the London •
agent to his solicitor, and he was reported tome
to be in extremis the very day before I left
London to join you. We shall run into a
port near the place, and you will not land,
but I shall, and obtain precise information.
In the meantime, mind your husband's name
is Carruthers. Any communication from me

will be to Mrs. Carruthers, and you will tell
that man as much or as little as you think
proper ; if you make any disclosure, give yourself
all the credit you can ; say you shall
take him to his own house, under a new name,
and shield him against all pursuers. As forme,
I tell you plainly, my great hope is that
he will not live long enough to turn you adrift
and disinherit your boy.'

To cut short for the present this extraordinary
part of our story, Lewis Carruthers,
a/zas Leonard Monckton, entered a fine house,
and took possession of 11,000 acres of hilly
pasture, and the undivided moiety of a lake
brimful of fish. He accounted for his change
of name by the favours Carruthers, deceased,
had shown him. Therein he did his best to lie,
but his present vein of luck turned it into the
truth. Old Carruthers had become so peevish
that aU his relations disliked him, and he disliked
them. So he left his personal estate to
his heir-at-law, simply because he had never
seen him. The personalty was very large.

The house was full of pictures and china and
cabinets, &c. There was a large balance at
the banker's, a heavy fall of timber not paid for,
rents due, and as many as two thousand four
hundred sheep upon that hill, which the old
fellow had kept in his own hands. So, when
the new proprietor took possession as Carruthers,
nobody was surprised, though many were
furious. Lucy installed him in a grand suite of
apartments as an invalid, and let nobody come
near him. Waddy was dismissed with a
munificent present, and could be trusted to
hold his tongue. By the advice of Middleton
not a single servant was dismissed, and so no
enemies were made. The family lawyer and
steward were also retained, and, in short, all
conversation was avoided. In a month or two
the new proprietor began to improve in health,
and drive about his own grounds, or be rowed
on his lake, lying on soft beds.

But in the fifth month of his residence local
pains seized him, and he began to waste. For
some time the precise nature of the disorder

was obscure, but at last a rising surgeon declared
it to be an abscess in the intestines (caused, no
doubt, by external violence).

By degrees the patient became unable to
take solid food, and the drain upon his system
was too great for a mere mucilaginous diet to
sustain him. Wasted to the bone and yellow
as a guinea, he presented a pitiable spectacle,
and would gladly have exchanged his fine house
and pictures, his heathery hills dotted with
sheep, and his glassy lake full of spotted trout,
for a ragged Irishman's bowl of potatoes and
his mu of butter-milk, and his stomach.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

CURTAIN.

Striking incidents will draw the writer ; but
wee know that our readers would rather hear
about the characters they can respect ; it seems,
however, to be a rule in life, and in fiction,
that interest flags when trouble ceases. Now
the troubles of our good people were pretty
well over, and we will put it to the reader
whether they had not enough.

Grace Clifford made an earnest request ta
Colonel Clifford and her father never to tell
Walter he had been suspected of bigamy.
Let others say that circumstances are always
to be believed and character not to be trusted ;
but I, at least, had no right to believe certificates
and things against my Walter's honour
and his love. Hide my fault from him, not

for my sake but for his ; perhaps when weare
both old people I may tell him.'

This was Grace Chfford's petition, and need
we say she prevailed ?

Walter Clifford recovered under his wife's
care, and the house was so large that Colonel
Clifford easily persuaded his son and daughter-in-law
to make it their home. Hope had also
two rooms in it, and came there when he
chose — he was always welcome ; but he was
alone again, so to speak, and not quite forty
years of age, and he was ambitious. He began
to rise in the world, whilst our younger
characters, contented with their happiness and
position, remained stationary. Master of a
great mine, able now to carry out his inventions,
member of several scientific associations
a writer for the scientific press, &c., he soon
became a public and eminent man ; he was
consulted on gTcat public works, and if he
lives will be one of the great lights of science
in this island. He is great on electricity,
especially on the application of natural forces

the lighting of towns. He denounces all
the cities that allow powerful streams to run
past them and not work a single electric light.
But he goes farther than that. He ridicules
the idea that it is beyond the resources of
science to utilise thousands of millions of tons
of water that are raised twenty-one feet twice
in every twenty-four hours by the tides. It
is the skill to apply the force that is needed :
not the force itself, which exceeds that of all
the steam-engines in the nation. And he says
that the great scientific foible of the day is the
neglect of natural forces which are cheap and
inexhaustible, and the mania for steam-engines
and gas which are expensive, and for coal,
which is not to last for ever. He implores
capital and science to work in this question.
His various schemes for using the tides in the
creation of motive power will doubtless come
before the world in a more appropriate channel
than a work of fiction. If he succeeds
it will be a glorious, as it must be a difficult,
achievement.

His society is valued on social grounds ;
this well-stored mind, his powers of conversation,
and his fine appearance, make him extremely
welcome at all the tables in the county ; he
also accompanies his daughter with the violin,
and, as they play beauties together, not difficulties,
they ravish the souls of their hearers,
instead of torturing them into despair.

Bartley is a man with beautiful silvery hair
and beard ; he cultivates, nurses and tends
fruit trees and flowers with a love little short
of paternal. This sentiment, and the contemplation
of nature, have changed the whole
expression of his face ; it is wonderfully benevolent
and sweet, but with a touch of weakness
about the lips. Some of the rough
fellows about the place call him a softy, but
that is too strong a word ; no doubt, he is
confused in his ideas, but he reads all the
seat American publications about fruit and
flowers, and executes their instructions with
tact and skill. Where he breaks down — and

who would believe this P — is in the trade
department. Let him succeed in growing
apple trees and pear trees weighed down to
the ground with choice fruit ; let him produce
the choicest cherries and gigantic nectarines
upon his sunny walls, and acres of strawberries
too large for the mouth : after that they may
all rot where they grow, he troubles his head
no more. This is more than his old friend
Hope, can stand ; he interferes, and sends
the fruit to market, and fills great casks with
superlative cider and perry, and keeps the
account square, with a little help from Mrs.
Easton, who has returned to her old master,,
and is a firm but kind mother to him.

Grace Clifford for some time could not begot
to visit him. Perhaps she is one of those
ladies who cannot get over personal violence ;
he had handled her roughly to keep her from
going to her father's help. After all, there
may have been other reasons ; it is not so easy
to penetrate all the recesses of the female
heart. One thing is certain, she would not go

near him for months ; but when she did o-q
with her father — and he had to use all his
influence to take her there — the rapture and
the tears of joy with which the poor old
fellow received her disarmed her in a moment.


She let him take her through hot-houses
and show her his children — ' the only children
I have now,' said he — and after that she never
refused to visit this erring man. His roof had
sheltered her many years, and he had found
out too late that he loved her, so far as his
nature could love at that time.

Percy Fitzroy had an elder sister. He
appealed to her against Julia Clifford. She
cross questioned him, and told him he was
very foolish to despair. She would hardly
have slapped him she was quite resolved to
part for ever.

Let me have a hand m reconciling you,'
said she.

You shall have b — b — both hands in it, if

you like,' said he ; ' for I am at my w — w — wit's
end.'

So these two conspired. Miss Fitzroy was
invited to Percy's house, and played the mistress.
She asked other young ladies, especially
that fair girl with auburn hair, whom Julia
called a 'fat thing.' That meant, inter the
circumstances, a plump and rounded model,
with small hands and feet ; a perfect figm-e ina
ridings habit, and at niojht a satin bust and
sculptured arms.

The very first ride Walter took with Grace
and Julia, they met the bright cavalcade of
Percy and his sister, and this red-haired Venus.

Percy took ofi" his hat with profound
respect to Julia and Grace, but did not presume
to speak.

What a lovely girl,' said Grace.

Do you think so ? ' said Jidia.

Yes, dear ; and so do you.'

What makes you fancy that ? '

Because you looked daggers at her.'

Because she is setting her cap at that little
fool.'

'She will not have him without your
consent, dear.'

And this set Julia thinking.

The next day, Walter called on Percy, and
played the traitor.

Give a ball,' said he.

Miss Fitzroy and her brother gave a ball.
Percy, duly instructed by his sister, wrote to
Julia as meek as Moses, and said he was ina
great difficulty. If he invited her, it would,
of course, seem presumptuous, considering the
poor opinion she had of him ; if he passed her
over and invited Walter Clifford and ]airs.
Clifford, he should be unjust to his own feelings,
and seem disrespectful.

Julia's reply :

Dear Mr. Fitzroy, — I am not at all fond
of jealousy, but I am very fond of dancing : I
shall come. — Yours sincerely,

'Julia Clifford.'

And she did come — with a vengeance. She
showed them what a dark beauty can do ina

blaze of light with a red rose, and a few
thousand pounds worth of diamonds artfully
placed.

She danced with several partners, and took
Percy in his turn. She was gracious to him,
but nothing more.

Percy asked leave to call next day.

She assented rather coldly.

His sister prepared Percy for the call.

The first thing he did was to stammer
intolerably.

Oh,' said Julia. ' If you have nothing
more to say than that — I have. Where is my
bracelet ? '

It's here,' said Percy, producing it eagerly.
Julia smiled.

My necklace ? '

'Here!'

My charms ? '

Here ! '

'My specimens of your spelling? Love
spells, eh ? *

Here, all here.'

'No, they are not,' said Julia, snatching
them, ' they are here.' And she stuffed both
her pockets with them.

And the engaged ring,' said Percy, radiant
now, and producing it, ' d — d — don't forget
that.'

Julia began to hesitate. 'If I put that on
it will be for life.'

Yes, it will,' said Percy.

Then give me a moment to think.'

After due consideration she said what
she had made up her mind to say long
before :

Percy, you're a man of honour. I'll be
yours upon one solemn condition — that from
this hour till death parts us, you promise to
give your faith where you give your love.'

I'll give my faith where I give my love,'
said Percy solemnly.

Next month they were married, and he
gave his confidence where he gave his love
and he never had reason to regret it.

VOL. II. X

^ John Baker.'

Sir.'

You had better mind what you are about,
or you'll get fonder of her than of Walter himself.'


Never, Colonel, never ! And so will yoUi'

Then, after a moment's reflection, John
Baker inquired how they were to help it.
Look here, Colonel,' said he, ' a man's a man ;
but a woman's a woman. It isn't likely as
Master Walter will always be putting his hand
round your neck and kissing of you when
you're good, and pick a white hair off your
coat if he do but see one when you're going
out, and shine upon you indoors more than
the sun does on you out of doors; and 'ain't
to be supposed as Mr. Walter will never meet
me on the stairs without breaking out into a
smile to cheer an old fellow's heart, and showing
2,000/. worth of ivory all at one time ; and
if I've a cold or a bit of a headache he won't
send his lady's maid to see after me and tell

me what I am to do, and threaten to come and
nurse me himself if I don't mend.'

Well,' said the Colonel, ' there's something
in all this.'

For all that,' said John Baker candidly,
I shall make you my confession, sir. I said
to Mr. Walter myself, said I, " Here's a pretty
business," said I ; " I've known and loved you
from a child, and Mrs. Walter has only been
here six months, and now I'm afraid she'll
make me love her more than I do 3'ou." '

' Why, of course she will," said Mr. Walter.
Why / love her better than I do myself, and,
you've got to follow suit or else I'll murder
you'"

So that question was settled.

The five hundred guineas reward rankled
in the minds of those detectives, and, after a
few months, with the assistance of the ordinary
police in all the northern towns, they got upon a
cold scent and then upon a warm scent, and at
last they suspected their bird, milder the alias

of Carruthers. So they came to the house
to get sight of him, and make sure before
applying for a warrant. They got there justin
time for his funeral. Middleton was there,
and saw them, and asked them to attendit,
and to speak to him after the reading of the
will.

Proceedings are stayed,' said he ; ' but
perhaps, having acted against me, you might
like to see whether it would not pay better to
act with me.'

And no mistake,' said, one of them : so they
were feasted with the rest, for it was a magnificent
funeral, and after that Middleton squared
them with 50/. apiece to hold their tongues —
and more, to divert all suspicion from the house
and the beautiful woman who now held it as
only trustee for her son.

Remembering that he had left the estate to
another man's child, Moncktou one fine day
bequeathed his personal estate on half a sheet
of note-paper to Lucy. This and the large
allowance Middleton obtained from the Court

for her, as trustee and guardian to the
heir, made her a rich woman. She was a
German, sober, notable, and provident; she
kept her sheep, and became a sort of squire.
She wrote to her husband in the States, and,
by the advice of Middleton, told him the exact
truth instead of a pack of fibs which she certainly
would have done had she been left to
herself. Poverty had pinched Jonathan Braham
by this time, and as he saw by the tone of her
letter she did not care one straw whether he
accepted the situation or not, he accepted it
eagerly, and had to court her as a stranger and
to marry her, and wear the crown matrimonial ;
for Middleton drew the settlements, and neither
Braham nor his creditors could touch a halfpenny.
And then came out the better part of
this indifferent woman. Braham had been a
good friend to her in time of need, and she was
a good and faithful friend to him now. She
was generally admired and respected ; kind to
the poor ; bountiful, but not lavish : an excellent
manager, but not stingy.

In vain shall we endeavour with our small
insight into the bosoms of men and women to
divide them into the good and the bad. There
are mediocre intellects ; there are mediocre
morals. This woman was always more inclined
to good than evil, yet at times temptation conquered.
She was virtuous till she succumbed
to a seducer whom she loved. Under his control
she deceived Walter Clifford and attempted
an act of downright villainy ; that control removed,
she returned to virtuous and industrious
habits. After many years, solitude, weariness,
and a gloomy future unhinged her conscience
again ; comfort and affection offered themselves,
and she committed bigamy. Deserted by Braham,
and once more fascinated by the only
man she had ever greatly loved, she joined
him in an abominable fraud, broke down in
the middle of it by. a sudden impulse of conscience,
and soon after settled down into a
faithful nurse. She is now a faithful wife, a
tender mother, a kind mistress, and nearly

everything that is good in a medium way, and
so in all human probability will pass the remainder
of her days, which, as she is healthy
and sober in eating and drinking, will perhaps
be the longer period of her little life.

Well may we all pray against great temptations
; only choice spirits resist them, except
when they are great temptations to somebody
else and somehow not to the person tempted.

It has lately been objected to the writers of
fiction — especially to those few who are dramatists
as well as novelists — that they neglect
what Shakespeare calls ' The middle of humanity,'
and deal in eccentric characters above
or below the people one really meets. Let
those who are serious in this objection enjoy
moral mediocrity in the person of Lucy Monck-ton.


For our part we will never place Fiction,
which was the parent of History, below its
child. Our hearts are with those superior men
and women, Who, whether in History or fiction,

make life beautiful, and raise the standard
of Humanity. Such characters exist even in
this plain tale, and it is these alone, and our
kindly readers, we take leave of with regret.

THE End.

G.AC.

LOS DOS : Printed BY

BPOTTISWOODE AXD CO., KEW-STREET SQX7AEE

AND PARLIAMENT STREET

WDQ^^m^]^

wM

Wrmm

m^''

mm^mh^^^i

0^

wm
