OF THE
UN Diversity
or ILLINOIS


R272f

THE FLOWER OF Green.

in 2010 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/gabriellestuarto02reid

OR,

THE FLOWER OF Green.

% Stotttsl^ llomancc.

By THOMAS WILSON REID,

Compiler OV THt: "NEWSPAPER Headed," AUTHOR OF "A STRIKU:U,K
FOR LIFE," ETC., Etc.

IN TWO VOLS.— VOL. II,

EDINBURGH:

THOS. GRAY & CO., 13 GEORGE STREET

AYR : A. Ferguson, 18 HIGH STREET.

1882.
All Buff Ms Reserved.

GABRIELLE STUART;

OR,

THE FLOWER OF Green.
4.

CHAPTER XXIV.

A COUPLE or SCOTCH HOAXES.

With eye upraised, his master's looks to scan,
The joy, the solace, aud the aid of man ;
The rich man's guardian, and the poor man's friend,
The only creature faithful to the end." — Crabbe.

I think we cannot too strongly attack Superstition,
which is the disturber of society ; nor too highly respect
genuine Religion, which is the support of it." — Rousseau.

IN a recent chapter I referred to the manner
in which history is sometimes written,
and I referred to the case of a dog called
Greyfriars' Bobby," that has now become
a historical dog, and has his " career " duly
VOL. II. r.

recorded in the archives of the City of
Edinburgh. As I happen to know a good
deal about Bobby's romantic history, and as
my present aim is romance, I fancy this
may be the place to say something about a
case which, at the time, created no little
interest.

How a silly hoax may be twisted into a
solemnly-believed reality — how, in fact, a
well-clothed lie may be looked upon as the
naked truth — was perhaps never more vividly
illustrated than in the case of the poor dog
who, somewhere about twenty years ago,
frequented the south end of George IV.
Bridge, Edinburgh, and was locally known
as '^Greyfriars' Bobby."

About the time there appeared in the
Edinburgh correspondence of the Inverness
Advertise a story concerning a dog, that
had followed a funeral cortege into Grey friars'
Churchyard.

It appeared that after the last offices for
the dead had been performed, the dog placed

himself on the newly filled-up grave ; that
for months the faithful animal had, night
and day, lain upon its supposed master's
resting-place, only going "out of the Kirkland
occasionally to beg a bit of food ; that this
was one of the most interesting and instructive
instances on record of canine affection ; that
it was to be regretted the name of the poor
dog's late owner, although every enquiry
had been made, could not be found out ;
and that consequently the animal's previous
history could not be ascertained.

This is a summary of the tale that appeared
in the Inverness Advertiser. It was copied
into some of the Scotch provincial papers,
but the Edinburgh journals carefully and
sensibly ignored the story. Perhaps they
had the common sense to know that, even
although the account of the faithfulness of
the dog were true, the statement that the
name of his dead master could not be
discovered was rather drawing on public
credulity, seeing that dead bodies are not
usually consigned to the earth — more especially

in a crowded graveyard like Old Grey-friars'
— without something (in fact a good
deal) having been known of them when
alive.

Months passed on, but only at rare intervals-did
anybody hear anything about " Bobby."
Now and again he cropped up, certainly ; but
no sooner had he suddenly cropped up, than
he as suddenly went down again. Some
years elapsed, when all at once " Bobby " —
for there was really a dog — appeared in the
midst of a blaze of popularity. The newspapers
gushed columns about the faithful
dog. Even pamphlets were written about
^^Greyfriars' Bobby."

Those who knew better laughed in their
sleeves during the exhibition of all this
roaring rapture. But in the end the
power of the press " was duly propounded.
The Lord Provost of Edinburgh looked into
the matter— no doubt carefully — and found
the story fair to the sentimental eye.

After the Lord Provost, everybody of
course followed. For his so-called fidelity

poor " Bobby " was publicly invested with a
collar and chain, when he looked more
sheepish than doggish. Honour followed
honour, much to the disgust of ^' Bobby;"
and day by day he seemed to pine away in
his new and unsought for position.

Soon death kindly put an end to all
'' Bobby's " sufferings ; but not to his name.
Lady Burnett Courts, with that genuine
generosity that has ever characterised her
noble character erected a drinking fountain
to the memory of the dog; and now 'bobby,"
iu bronze, and transformed into the similitude
of a pure Sky terrier, may be seen presiding
over the public participation of the contents
of the cup that neither cheers nor inebriates.

In the foregoing, my readers have got the
rocket part of the story ; now for the stick.

One day a poor, half-starved, dark-yellow
mongrel was run over by a passing vehicle,
and rather severely injured. This disaster
having occurred in the neighbourhood of Old
Greyfriars' Kirkland, it was happily observed

bj a tender-hearted grave-digger, who took
the dog into the Kirkland, placed him under
a tombstone raised a Httle from the ground,,
and altogether behaved so kindly and tended
so well to the dog that he soon got better.

Doubtless this was the first kindness the
poor dog had ever experienced in his evidently
hard-up career, and " Bobby " took
favourably to his new master and his fairly
comfortable quarters under the tombstone.
During the day he paid visits to the houses
of a neighbouring publican and a close-by
restaurateur where he not only got food, but
was baptised *' Greyfriars' Bobby." At night,
however, he regularly returned to the Graveyard.


When a very cold winter set in, a well
known Sergeant of Engineers, seeing that
*' Bobby" was not very strong, occasionally
enticed him home to better quarters ; but he
generally preferred the Kirkland. And
doubtless " Greyfriars' Bobby " would have
ended his days in a quiet, respectable manner
had he not been hoaxed into Inverness by a

journalist who preferred fiction to fact ; had
he not been afterwards " discovered " by the
Edinburgh newspapers, and " collared " and
chained," and honoured to death by the
Lord Provost and the public.

And yet the Englishman says the Scotchman
is a hard-headed, incredulous being.
Yet, here is a story of canine fidelity that
had no existence, magnified into a public
demonstration and a city monument, and
placed on record as a story to be told to
generations yet unborn. Well, well. The
quid nunes have got a subject, and Edinburgh

has got — a fountain.

• • • • •

The other little tale I have to tell is of a
different and of a much more solemn character.
But it is as firmly believed as is the
Gospel ; while it is another glaring instance
of how history is written. Strange, is it not,
that, from a country's history to medical
quackery, the public will ever accept what
plainly appears to be the most untruthful and
the least useful.

A gentleman died in Strathspey many
years since, and left a widow with a large
family. He, though the head of an ancient
house, left not much behind him ; and his
widow found it necessary to pay the most
sedulous attention to all the small profits of
a farm for the benefit of her family. She
possessed, among other things, a mill, part of
the grist of which she allowed to the miller,
and took the rest to herself, as a kind of
rent.

She often walked down from her house to
see whether her due was regularly put in the
place allotted for it. One evening, she staid
longer than usual, and returned to her house
as it grew dusk ; her way lay through a little
wood, and she had to cross a brook, over a
temporary bridge made of fallen trees. As
she was approaching with some doubt and
hesitation towards it, she saw, on the other
side, her late husband, well dressed in tartan,
with a handsome silver-mounted dirk and
pistols, such as he used to wear on occasions
of display.

He came to her, took her hand, and led
her over the bridge with the utmost attention ;
when walking up to the wood, he said to her,
Oh, Marjory, Marjory, by what fatality
have you been tempted to come thus rashly
alone, when the sun is gone to sleep ? "

The spectre disappeared, and Marjory
arrived at home in great terror, fainted
immediately, and, on her recovery from her
swoon, thought of nothing but preparing for
her departure from this world. She, however,
lived for a week, and was visited by
many of her friends. Had they been sceptical
enough to doubt her assertion, she carried
about with her a testimony to enforce belief.

The wrist where the ghost had hold laid of
her hand was blue, and had the appearance
of being mortified. This is quite consistent
with the Highland system ; for it appears
that Marjory was punished for her impiety,
in daring the powers of darkness without
using the precautions appointed in such
cases — that is, in having gone through some
rite, and carried some charm with her.

Gentle reader, you have got my two little
stories. I well know who was the inventor
of the former. Enquiry as to the author of
the latter had better be left alone. Still,
both tales go to prove how not a few details,
past and to come, of my present work, and
which might otherwise be called in question,
have really not in the slightest degree been
exaggerated.

CHAPTER XXV.

A YOUTHFUL CONTRAST IN THE OLDEN TIME.

Youth !
When thought is speech, and speech is truth."

Sir Walter Scott.

The less of this cold world the more of heaven ;
The briefer life the earlier immortality ! "

Ml I man.

TOM MARLING, like other boys of his
age, had a sweetheart. Every boy hasa
sweetheart, and she is generally a year or
two older than himself. Tom had now
almost recovered from the effects of his fall
into the river, but his leg had been broken,
and he still walked a little lame.

One day he and his very latest new sweetheart,
Lizzie Stewart, were wandering through
the Greyscaur woods, with critical eyes for
the nut and blackberry bushes and definite
views on the birds'-nesting prospects, when
suddenly Tom stumbled and fell, through

not paying sufficient attention to the difficulties
of the steep and winding footpath.

"Curse the place!" Tom exclaimed, as he
rose to his feet ; "I thought my leg was
stronger than it is."

Lizzie was unspeakably shocked by Tom's
expression, and thought the opportunity a
good one for administering a moral lesson
which had long been in her mind.

When we get married," she said, gravely,
there must be no bad words. It's horrid
to use them."

Well, I don't know," answered Tom, with
much manly dignity ; "a man must say
strong things sometimes, or else he wouldn't
be a man. He needn't swear very much, you
know, or use very bad words, but I fancy
he would be olio-ed to swear a little."

Lizzie's indignation was aroused. " If you
ever swore near me ever so little, I'd — I'd
put on my things and run away."

"Why, where would you run to?" and
Tom opened his eyes in astonishment.

Oh, anywhere ! I would run home."

'^ What a little fool you are ! No, I don't
mean that " — for Tom saw an angry gleam in
the girl's eyes. *' But isn't it a little bit silly
to say you'd run home when you'd be at
home, you know, already ? "

'^ Well, I'd do something. I'd cry."

But do you think a man should never
say hard words to his wife ? He needn't be
very bad — my father's not very bad — but he
must say ' damn.' I don't see how he could
get on unless he said 'damn it' sometimes."

You bad, wicked boy ! I'll never marry
you at all if you go on like that ; " and Lizzie
turned majestically away.

"Now, look here, Lizzie," Tom went on.
You needn't get angry about it. Besides,
the thing can easily be arranged. You
know," he continued, argumentatively, " we
shall be sure to quarrel and fall out sometimes.
Everybody does that."

Lizzie gave her full assent to this natural
proposition by a grave nod.

We can't help that, of course ; but we
needn't swear right out," pursued Tom.

I should never swear, you horrid boy,
and I wouldn't let you;" and she stamped
her little foot to settle the point.

Well, we wouldn't have any really wicked
words, but when we quarrelled we would only
mean swearing without doing it. If I said,
I do wish you would see that cook has
dinner ready in proper time,' you could
understand, if we both agreed to it beforehand,
that that would just be the same as if
I said, ' Why the devil can't one have one's
meals at a reasonable hour ? ' "

Lizzie was puzzled, and anything but content.
At last she said — 'well, we must
have no real swearing ; nothing out loud, you
know."

Oh, no, of course not. So that's settled."
Then Tom continued — 'but, as you have
mentioned swearing, I will tell you something
I never told you before. Do you know
I once learnt the whole of the swearing
language?"

"Is it a language by itself?" asked she,
doubtfully; "I thought it was English."

Oh, it is different in different countries,
I believe," Tom replied, somewhat vaguely ;
'' but still it is a sort of language by itself
after all ; and, my word, isn't it strong V

You don't mean to say that you learnt it
on purpose ? " asked Lizzie, who was fast
getting into a region of bewildering doubt.

Yes, I learnt it on purpose ; but it wasn't
very hard to pick up," replied Tom, compassionate
her for her ignorance of an art
in which he felt qualified to shine.

You can't learn it from books you know,"
he continued, ^' because it is never printed all
together — I fancy there is some sort of a law
against it — and you only just get a word or
two in one jylsice and another in another ; so
that you might go through a whole bookcase
without learning half of it. But when I was
a little chap — quite young, you know — father
took me over to the wicked town of Ayr,
while the soldiers were there, and were all
about the streets. My goodness ! how they
did swear."

Lizzie looked still more shocked than

before, and Tom went on — '* I used to stand
listening to them whenever I saw three or
four of them together, and I soon learnt the
whole swearing language. I thought I
should like to know how to use it properly
when I was a man, but you needn't be afraid.
I shall never use it all — at least not the
worst words."

After all' he continued in a philosophic
vein, '^ you may say ' devil,' and sometimes
you may go as far as ' damned,' because they
use those words in church, and they wouldn't
say anything wicked there."

But Lizzie's simple philosophy was equal
to Tom's.

No, you must not use those words,
because they really are wicked everywhere
except in church, and they would be wicked
there if the ministers were in bad temper
when they used them."

This view was, to Tom's mind, both novel
and convincing ; but though he felt that his
position was no longer tenable, he made one
last stand.

At all events I may say ' thundering ? '—
that isn't wicked. I almost think it isn't
swearing at all."

This was one of the words most in use
among Tom's youthful intimates in moments
of intense excitement or exasperation, and
were understood to be expletives of tremendous
force. " I may at least call any
fellow I don't like a * thundering sneak.' "

Foolish but happy children ! They knew
not the ways of the world, or the responsibilities
of marriage, or the changes which it
produces. Why, it was of their own neighbourhood
that a humorous story is recorded
as to the difference brought about by
marriage, and which may here be worth
repeating.

Tarn M 'Vulcan, our old friend the village
blacksmith, had long had a handsome housekeeper,
Janet, who, being strong and willing,
made it part of her duty to kilt her petticoats
and carry her master every Sunday across
the ford of the Doon, which was the nearest
way to Alio way Kirk.

VOL. 11. c

At length Tarn, wearying of bachelorhood,
proposed to Janet, was accepted, and the
Sunday following marriage came round. At
the ford Tam was preparing to mount on
Janet's shoulders as usual.

Na, na, Tam ; formerly I was your
servant, and carried you ; noo I'm your
mistress, and you maun carry me."

That was the critical moment. Had Tam
stood out like a man he would have carried
the day, and the faithful Janet would have
carried him. But he knuckled under, and
had ever afterwards to carry Janet over the
stream.

But, Lizzie," said Tom Marling, '' let us
change the subject. I wish to tell you about
little Willie."

Yes, do," said the responsive Lizzie. ^' Is
he getting better ? "

Hush ! he'll never be better. His mother
relapsed into her drunken habits, and
drowned herself in the Doon; while his father
is now a raving maniac."

What a sad story ! And how does Willie
comport himself? "

Day by day he asks when his ' new
mother,' as he calls Miss Gabrielle, will
retm^n. And it is plainly to be seen that,
notwithstanding the great attention paid
him by Mrs Macnish, if Gabrielle returns
not soon, she will be too late. He is fading
fast."

And thus in friendly talk and in kindly
action to each other the boy and girl grew
to understand each other better, and their
dispositions and characters were improved
by the pleasant companionship, though Lizzie
still showed at times that she had not lost all
her old fire, and Tom was now and then compelled
to smart under her sharp tongue.

When Tom's leg was pronounced by the
doctor to be quite sound and strong again,
the two children spent most of their leisure
together wandering by the 'banks and braes
o' bonnie Doon," or exploring the steep paths
and treading the tangled undergrowth with

which Greyscaur was clothed beneath its
forest mantle.

But where all this time was little Willie ?

Poor Willie. There he lay, as he had lain
for many weeks, on his little couch by a
window overlooking the gently murmuring
Doon. He was slowly floating, like the
river to the sea, to the great ocean of
Eternity.

^^ I know that my Redeemer liveth ! "
Willie says, with a faint smile on his wan
face. *' Will my new mother be back soon, to
tell me more about Him and His goodness ? "

Yes, my dear boy, I trust she will soon be
here to see you."

"But I am afraid she will be too late.
I think I see, although my eyes are shut, our
blessed Saviour beckoning to me."

And the river goes on murmuring, and
Willie goes on floating.

Now I hear His voice. ' Suffer little
children to come unto me, and forbid them
not, for of such is the Kingdom of Heaven.' "

Willie is still floating floating, while the
river is softly murmuring, murmuring. Ah,
Gabrielle, Gabrielle, thou wilt indeed be
too late.

Then his kind old nurse reads to Willie
from the blessed Book,

Come unto me all ye that labour and are
heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Take
my yoke upon you, and learn of me ; for I am
meek and lowly in heart ; and ye shall find
rest unto your souls. For my yoke is easy,
and my burden is light."

And the river continues to gently murmur,
and little Willie continues to float, float, to
the great ocean of Eternity.

Dearest nurse, my new mother cannot
return before I depart ? I would so much
have liked to thank her once more for all her
goodness to me. I would so much have
liked her to pray with me once more before
I go to the promised land."

The good woman coidd only involuntarily
exclaim, " Would to God that Gabrielle were
here 1 "

*' Don't cry, kind nurse," said little Willie,
she may yet be in time."

Later in the day, when the sun, dipping
behind the hills of Arran, makes the Firth of
Clyde a sea of brightly-burnished gold, little
Willie begins to float faster and faster.

And the old nurse reads, 'sand the Spirit
and the bride say, Come. And let him that
heareth say, Come."

And little Willie suddenly ceases floating.
He hath at last safely reached the great
ocean of Eternity. But altho' he has sunk
he will assuredly rise again.

Still one other victim to our ever-spreading
national vice.

Gabrielle was indeed too late.

CHAPTER Xxvi

EDINBURGH.

Medina ! Scotia's darling seat !

All hail thy palaces and towers,
Where once beneath a monarch's feet

Sat Legislation's sovereign powers !
From marking wildly scattered flowers,

As on the banks of Ayr I strayed,

And singing, lone, the lingering hours,

I shelter in thy honoured shade."

Burns.

Man's crimes are his worst enemies, following-like
shadows, till they drive his steps into

The pit he dug."

Croon.

EDINBURGH was broiling in the almost
torrid summer sun.
From the Castle the view was of the most
magnificent character. The Firth of Forth
was calm as a sleeping child, while the

numerous craft that dotted its surface lay
lazily on the glistening water.

Beyond was the kingdom of Fife, with its
many fields of waving yellow corn, a white
house being dotted here and there to give
relief to the charming scene.

Up and down High Street and Canongate
soldiers were passing to and fro, giving something
like animation to the general summer
dulness that prevailed throughout the city.
Even the numerous vendors in the Lucien
had ceased shouting the superiority
of their numerous wares, and had retired
inside their houses to refresh themselves in
the shade.

The Cathedral of St Giles, with its
spire formed like an Imperial Crown, is an
exquisite piece of architecture ; as is, farther
down, the Palace of Holyrood, flanked by the
verdant Arthur's Seat and the rugged rocks
that form the glorious Salisbury Crags.

I have been in Rome, in Turin, in Genoa,
in Florence, in Madrid; and I think the
labyrinthine streets of Paris are quite as

familiar to me as are the handsome squares
of Glasgow. Better still, perhaps, 1 have
stood in front of Prince Grimaldi's palace at
Monaco ; on one side nestling the lovely
Monte Carlo, on the other the hue Mediterranean,
with the island of Corsica in the
far distance. But where in Europe is thereto
be found a sight or a city to compare with
Edinburgh ?

Doubtless it still has its drawbacks, as
it certainly had at the time of which I
write.

The Canongate — the place where then
dwelt the Scottish nobility and gentry — was
far from savoury. Armed men, even where
they were bitter enemies, were too hot even
to fight for the ^' crown o' the causey," and
passed on, simply scowling at each other —
resolved, however, to meet again some other
day.

In the neighbourhood of the Bridewell,
situated then where Paul's Work is now,
the riff-raff of the town — and it contained
many such — had collected in considerable

numbers, jeering at their companions as they
were being taken into or put out of the
House of Correction.

The ]place, which accommodated 50 culprits,
at an aggregate expense of £100 a-year, was
erected by the Town Council, " that thereby
vertex might be advanced, vice suppressed,
and dill people compelled to betake themselves
to some honest Industrie."

How long have the Town Council of
Edinburgh been at this paternal work ? And
what have they made of it ? Go into the
Police Court on a Monday or a Tuesday
morning, and the inquirer after such knowledge
will get his answer. He will there,
too, find "justice" being dispensed by a
Bailie at the rate of two cases a minute I
See how Delilah — (by the way who made her
what she is ? ) — is hunted off the streets and
into the gaol. Verily, civilisation progresses
rapidly in sanctimonious Edinburgh ! As
James Smith, the well-know Scottish poet
puts it, the Edinburgh clergy look after

ships " wi' ungodly masts and rigging," and
leave ungodly persons alone.

Among the motley crowd outside the
Bridewell was a little lean man in the garb
of a French priest. He exhibited a shaven
crown, wore a coarse grey robe fastened
round his waist by a rough rope, while rude
sandals were on his otherwise naked feet.

But all his disguise could not have hidden
the fact from anyone who knew him well
that the pretended priest was none other
than Dennis Burke, the former Glasgow
apothecary, and the recent colleague of Lord
Kennedy in his carousals on Lady Isle.

The priestly garb well became Dennis, seeing
that in his time the hoary old sinner had been,
or pretended to be, a friar of orders grey.

He was evidently an object of dislike to
the idlers.

What can the auld French vagabond be
coin' here ? We've had mair than enow o'
priests in our time."

Hours, hours, let the pair body alone.

He doesna look as if he feci on the fat o' the
land, as most o' his kind do."

"Aye, aye ; but like's an ill mark. Maybe
he puts his oil and his wine into an ill skin."

Or devotes himself too strictly to study,
or is told too much m the absolution-box,
or is apt to be too loving to the females he
confesses."

"Quite right, quite right ; that confessional
has been the curse of this country."

"Yes, and of every otherwhere it is in use.
Thank God ! pair auld Scotland has now got
rid of it."

Pair auld Scotland Avill ne'er be rid of it
until the priests are hunted like foxes. Let
us have the brush of this old dog."

To all these silly jibes Dennis Burke paid
not the slightest heed. He was evidently
waiting for some one, and waiting very impatiently.


At length a stoutly built man, with a
foreign air and garb, whispered to the priest
to meet him in the Park, beyond the Chapel
of Holyrood, in half-an-hour.

Dennis unconsciously started as he heard
the man's voice, but gave no sign that he
would obey the request.

Doubtless, thou meanest the Duke's
Walk ; but I am neither duller nor brawler.
Thou ought to know from my garb that 1 ama
man of peace," said the priest.

Thy garb — bah ! I know both thee and
thy garb, but hardly know which of the two
is the more false. On thy peril, I tell thee
fail not to meet me within half-an-hour."

And the stranger stalked off.

For a few minutes the ever crafty Dennis
Burke stood musing. Would he flee, or
would he meet this boasting stranger ?

It's of no use ; I'm caught in my own
trap. I must meet him. Oh God ! oh God !
more crime, more crime.

And the hardened old villain positively
shuddered as he bent his tottering steps
slowly towards the Duke's Walk.

They duly met behind the grand old building
at Holy rood, with its sad and its happy
associations of Mary Stuart, who, however

much to blame she may have been, was
during most of her lifetime so unfortunately
circumstanced that evil generally followed in
her track.

It was here, in the celebrated Duke's
Walk, where the many affairs of honour of
the .period were duly "settled."

'^ May I ask," said he in the priestly garb,
sneeringly, "who has the audacity to thus
abruptly ask an interview with me ? "

One who can at will demand such an
interview," was the reply.

"' Name ? "

'ne'er mind that, Dennis Burke; he is
one, I tell thee, who knows how thou disposed
of the woman who was so deeply unfortunate
as to be your first spouse, .and who knows
how effectually you used the dagger at Lille."

Dennis was utterly discomfited. Having
got as much as he could reasonably or unreasonably
expect out of Lord Kennedy, he
had resolved to leave his master, had become
a, priest once more, and had solemnly determined
in future, as many men before and

since have determined, to spend his few remaining
days in retirement and in doing good.
It was plain, however, that he was found out.

Still, he had one last arrow in his quiver ;
it might serve his turn until he found the
necessary means of escape.

'^ What sign or token hast thou to give or
show that I may know thou art not imposing
on my credulity ? "

This last question he asked with all the
original boldness and cunning of his deeply
desperate character.

Bah, man ! " and the other laughed
hoarsely as he brought from the breast of his
jerkin a huge signet-ring, and exhibited it to
the priest.

Dennis Burke had half an idea that he
knew what was coming ; but when it did
actually come, he seemed to be taken by
thorough surprise.

This is the token of one who swears that
he will find thee even at the ends of the
earth — aye, or in the depths of hell, " continued
the stranger.

'•'Thy mission? Be quick; let me know
the worst." And Dennis waited.

'' Thou remembered, good father," said the
stranger in a mocking tone, "that some years
ago thou absolved a fair young lady on her
deathbed; that thou gave to her the consolations,
and administered the last rites, of
Mother Church ? "

The priest gave a perceptible shudder. He
evidently remembered too well that he had
administered such solemn rites.
Go on," said the priest.
Well, good father, thy services are similarly
wanted to-night."

'' Cannot some other and better priest be
obtained ? " asked Burke eagerly.

"No, my good father ; to thee alone is
entrusted the execution of such important
tasks," was the deeply sarcastic reply.
Moreover," and he enhanced his sarcastic
style, "where in broad Scotland, or even in
mighty France, could a better or a holier
priest be found than Dennis Burke of
Glasgow ? "

The priest writhed.

Name time and place then," said Dennis,
impatiently; "meanwhile let me go."

Before the bell of St Giles's Cathedral
sounds the midnight hour, be thou at the
north postern door of Greyfriars' Churchyard.
Fail me not on pain of death."

And the stranger suddenly took a turning,
and disappeared more mysteriously than he
had come ; while Burke stood like one transfixed.
Then he turned him slowly round and
moved silently citywards.

Caught in my own trap," he murmured ;
*' caught in my own trap ! "

Old Greyfriars ! how many sights have thy
old stones seen ? The blood of martyrs has
oft dyed the green turf of thy kirkland, where
their bones have long rested in peace. And
here, within thy sacred enclosure, and among
the graves of those who suffered in a good
cause, wicked men are soon to meet and
arrange for the carrying out of some deed of
darkness.

VOL. II. D

The city is in deep repose. Not a sound
breaks the solemn silence. Dennis Burke
stands trembling at the postern door of the
kirkland. Suddenly St Giles's begins to
boom forth the fact that midnight has come
and gone. The little door opens, and Dennis
is seized by a strong hand, and dragged
inside.

Here, among the silent graves, stand four
masked men, two of them armed to the teeth.
On the ground beside them is a sedan chair,
into which Dennis Burke is unceremoniously
thrust, but not before he has been securely
blindfolded and gagged.

Then a march is begun, unsteady at first,
as the carriers stumble over the ^' through -
states," as the flat gravestones are called in
some parts of Scotland. But soon they got
out of the churchyard, and, as Dennis can
easily discover from the distance, by another
doorway.

For half-an-hour the march, evidently circuitous,
is continued, until at last a clock,
which Dennis fancies is the one in the

Canongate Tolbooth, sounds a quarter to
the " wee short hour ayant the twas ; " while
a watchman shouts, " Nearly one o'clock, and
a fine summer morning''

*' Curse the bell," Dennis can hear one of
his capturers exclaim.

"Yes, and the watchman as well as the
bell," said another. "I thought we should
have been at our destination long before the
clock struck a quarter to one."

Hush ! here we are ; " and a shrill whistle
is given by some one.

A gate creaks on its rusty hinges, and the
party enters what Dennis believes to be the
courtyard of a mansion situated near the foot
of the Canongate.

CHAPTEE XXVII.

A DEED or DARKNESS.

Think, timely think, on the hist dreadful day,
How you will tremble there to stand exposed
The foremost in the rank of guilty ghosts
That must be doomed for murder !

Oh ! 'tis a fearful thing to be no more :

Or if it be, to wander after death." Dryden.

AT the time of which our tale treats, many
a dark and undiscovered deed was committed
in the huge buildings that formed the
bulk of the Old Town of Edinburgh. Strange
as it may seem, it is a fact that, although in
residences, creature comforts, and luxuries
generally, Scotland was then stir ahead of
England, our country was far behind England
in the manner of respecting the law — if law
it could be called, where so very little of it
prevailed.

Doubtless the superior style of Scottish
living was caused by the intimate connection
so long maintained with France ; and I maybe
pardoned for suggesting that the lawlessness
of the Scotch may have to some extent
arisen from the same cause.

It must, however, in common fairness, be
admitted that many of the French who then
visited Scotland expressed their unaffected
surprise at the sordid and lawless character
of our countrymen — aye, and our countrywomen,
for at kirk or market the fair sex
ever came to the fore.

But civilisation moves slowly and strangely.
It is not long since it used to be said —
whether in jest or earnest I know not — that
almost every patient taken into Aberdeen
Infirmary, no matter what the disease, was
cured by having a leg amputated !

In our last chapter we left Dennis Burke
in the courtyard of what he believed to bea
large house in the Canongate of Edinburgh.
On being ushered into the hall of the mansion,

the bandage was removed from his eyes, and
the gag from his mouth. Then he became
thoroughly aware of the magnificence of the
interior arrangements, although he could not
recognise it as the house to which he had
been as mysteriously carried some ten years
before.

Now, Sir Priest, come this way, and see
that thou dost thine office quickly," said the
stranger of the morning, and in a voice of
low but determined command.

^' What office ? " asked the wily Dennis,
with well-affected surprise.

Fool ! tamper not with me, or 111 remove
thy wretched head from thy still more
wretched carcase."

Dennis Burke, like a sensible priest as he
was, bowed lowly, and accepted the situation
with his wonted humility.

Slowly he and his strange companion
climbed the long staircases, Dennis vainly
wishing that the topmost flight would never
be reached. But even Edinburgh staircases
have an end.

At length Dennis was ushered ito a bedroom
where lay a young and beautiful lady,
who, it was too evident from the articles of
apparel strewn about, had not long given
birth to a child.

Now, Sir Priest, perform the rites of thy
Church for a person who is about to die,"
whispered the mysterious stranger.

But with the natural acuteness of persons
in her condition, the lady heard the whisper.

Spare me, spare me," she said, faintly ;
and, oh, give me back my innocent bairn."
And she sobbed convulsively.

Proceed ! " almost hissed the stranger.
And the priestly sinner proceeded to open
his book, while the lady prepared to listen
calmly.

Thy will be done ! " she said, and closed
her tearful eyes.

Then began that mysteriously solemn " Recommendation
of a Soul Departing," in use
in the ritual of the Roman Catholic Church,
and in which all the saints in the calendar

are beseeched to pray for the soul of the
dying person.

What a fearful thing ! There lay a beautiful
young woman in all the health that her
unfortunate condition could vouchsafe, and
she was being prayed out of the world.

*ego forth, O Christian soul, from this world,
in the name of God the Father Almighty,
who created thee ; in the name of Jesus
Christ the Son of the living God, who suffered
for thee ; in the name of the Holy Ghost,
who sanctified thee ; in the name of the angels
and archangels ; in the name of the thrones
and dominions ; in the name of the principalities
and powers ; in the name of the
cherubim and seraphim ; in the name of the
patriarchs and prophets ; in the name of the
holy apostles and evangelists ; in the name
of the holy martyrs and confessors ; in the
name of the holy monks and hermits ; in the
name of the holy virgins and all the saints
of God ; may thy place be this day in peace,
and thy abode in the holy Sion : through
Christ our Lord. Amen."

Then the lady repeated after the priest
the following Catholic prayer : —

"O my God, I once more renounce and
detest all my sins. Have mercy on me, O
God, according to Thy great mercy. 1 cast
myself into the arms of Thy holy love, and I
resign myself to Thy blessed will. Receive
me, I beseech Thee, into the number of Thy
servants, that I may praise Thee for ever.
Father, into Thy hands I commend my spirit.
Lord Jesus, receive my soul. Amen."

Then, as if anticipating death, the priest
thus solemnly concluded : —

To Thee, O Lord, we recommend the
soul of Thy servant, that being dead to the
world she may live to Thee ; and whatever
sins she hath committed in this life through
human frailty do Thou in Thy most merciful
goodness pardon, through our Lord Jesus
Christ. Amen."

When the priest had finished his sad duties
he was hurried downstairs, but before he was

replaced in the sedan chair he heard the dull
report of a fire-arm.

'' Heaven knows," Dennis said, as he
shivered, " heaven knows, I had intended
to change my course of life. And here I
have assisted at another ! "

The emphasis on the last word had a
terribly significant meaning.

The return journey was not so circuitous,
and in about a quarter of an hour Dennis
Burke was set down near the Nor' Loch.

'* Now, Sir Priest, listen' said the stranger.
Keep thy mouth close, lest thou shouldst
lose thy tongue."

Dennis Burke bowed meekly, doubtless in
token of assent.

*' And see that, within a week from to day,
thou slowest thyself at the Castle on the
Lady Isle, or it may be all the worse for thee.
Hearest thou, priest ? "

Another meek bow of acquiescence from
the quivering priest, and the party suddenly
separated, each taking a separate way.

That same morning a furious fire broke out
in Galloway House, Canongate — the second
fire that had occurred in the same house
within ten years. All attempts to subdue
the fierce flames were unavailing.

By the time the fire was at its height a
tumultuous crowd had assembled by peal of
bell and tuck of drum. Suddenly the spectators
gave a loud cry of horror.

There, high up in the midst of the devouring
fire, stood a beautiful woman, clad in a rich
white silk night-dress. Lifting her jewelled
hands above her she hysterically exclaimed —

Where's my bairn, my bonnie bairn, my
murdered bairn ? "

And she wrung her hands, and wept
bitterly. Then, shaking her hand angrily,
she shouted —

Once burned, twice burned ; the third
time we'll burn you all ! "

And then, giving a piercing shriek, the
beautiful apparition fell backwards, and disappeared
amongst the devastating flames.

My readers may fancy that I am here
romancing a little too much. But wait. It
is on record that an experience of the kind
actually happened to an Edinburgh clergyman.
It ultimately weighed so heavily on his mind
that he became extremely unhappy. At
length, his misery becoming greater and
greater at being the depository of such a
fearful mystery, he informed some of his
clerical brethren of the awful fact.

Through them the story received considerable
publicity, but no investigation was made
into the circumstances. It is certainly a fact
that for many years when a fire took place
near that particular part of the Canongate of
Edinburgh, considerable anxiety was publicly
manifested. The neighbours were doubtless
afraid that the terrible threat of the Weeping
Lady might be carried into execution.

And the fear of fire there was intensified
by the appearance of a second Weeping Lady
in exactly the same locality.

But to diocese still further on a kindred
subject, I do not go far out of my way to

reproduce the brief story of " Greenlaw's
Ghost" — a story strictly believed in by no
less a man than the learned Lord Montbodo.

Mr William Greenlaw, and his friend Mr
Nellie, the former having taken orders in
the Chm^ch of Scotland, and both very highly
cultivated men, entered into an agreement
that whoever should die first would return, if
possible, within one year, and give to the
other a description of his experiences in the
land of spirits. The agreement was reduced
to writing, and each signed it with his blood,
and placed his seal on the document.

Greenlaw died first. Within a year of his
decease a vision appeared before Nellie, and
informed him that " he experienced great
difficulty in procuring permission to return to
this earth ; that he was now in a much better
world than the one he had left ; yet that the
hopes and wishes of its inhabitants were by
no means satisfied, as they still looked forward
in the hope of eventually reaching a still
higher state of existence ! "

Truth is stranger than fiction," says the

proverb. I am afraid, gentle or simple reader,
that at odd times the proverb must be turned
upside down. 'Tis difficult at all times to
swallow what was so easily gulped down even
by the learned Lord Montbodo.

That same nio;ht aloof the banks of the
Doon Averse seen two Weeping Ladies. They
appeared on opposite sides of the river.

As they wandered along, weeping bitterly,
each in turn wailed.

Where's my bairn, my bonnie bairn, my
murdered bairn ? "

CHAPTER XXVIII.

A SABBATARIAN DIFFERENCE.

^' Poor sons of toil ; oh, grudge them not the breeze

That plays with Sabbath flowers; the clouds that play
With Sabbath winds ; the hum of Sabbath bees :
The Sabbath walk; the sky-lark's Sabbath lay;
The silent sunshine of the Sabbath-day."

Leigh Hunt.

Measure not men by Sundays, without regarding
what they do all the week after." — Fuller.

HOW is it that, as a rule, when the Scot
gets to London, or goes abroad, he loses
a part of that Sunday "solidity" that was
one of his main characteristics in the old
country ? Is it because he has been brought
up too strictly, or that the change of climate
changes this ideas ?

I had the good or ill fortune, according as
my readers like to look at it, to be brought
up in the bosom of the Free Church of
Scotland, and at a time, too, when the

UNIVERSITY OF
ILLINOIS LIBRARY,

Evangelicals, having just shaken themselves
free from Moderation and State government,
had drawn the line which separated them
from the outer world rather more through
their neighbours' property than their own.
They were especially strict in the matter of
Sabbath observance, and I well remember
that to my childish mind their strictness
brought much unnecessary suffering. The
swain in the well-known song, ^' Sally in Our
Alley," declares that of all the days in the
week he dearly loves

But one day,
Aud that's the day that comes between
The Saturday aud Monday."

I had no such particular affection for the
first day of the seven, and had rather sympathised
with a north country rhyme which
seems to rejoice in the fact that Sunday does
not last more than the usual twenty-four

hours : —

This is little Saturday,

The morn's Capernaum ;

And we'll a' rise on Monday

An' set the mills again."

For wasn't this same Sunday a little
wearisome to the mind of childhood ? Wasn't
it ushered in on the previous night by such
a scrubbing ofi' of the week's accumulation of
mother earth as made every bone in our body
ache ? And though the morning brought
with it the luxury of a tea-breakfast — welcome
change from the wholesome but not
always over relishable porridge — was this a
compensation for the trials that were to
follow : for the agonies of a clean collar
starched so stiffly that it sat upon us like
a blunt guillotine, for the misery of a pair
of trousers in the pockets of which there were
no "marbles," and the nuisance of gloves six
sizes too large, which nothing but the fear
of condign punishment prevented us from
dropping into the nearest ditch ?

Behold us, arrayed in these fearfully and
wonderfully-fitting garments, and on our way
to the Rev. Mr Melchisedec's place of holding-forth,
marshalled by one who has put off' her
accustomed kindliness for the day, and
becomes as grim as the reverend gentleman

VOL. II. E

we are about to listen to. Dare to acknowledge
the salutations of other boys whose
happier fate it is to wear their every-day
clothes, and continue to some extent their
every-day's amusements, and our ears are
saluted with a whack that makes the rest of
the journey a scene of lamentation and woe.

In addition to which we have to suffer two
sermons, and to listen for the hundredth time
to the awful stories of the boy who began
his downward career by breaking the Sabbath
and ended by committing murder ; or of the
unhappy man of the moon condemned to-perpetual
banishment in that cold and
solitary planet for the crime of cutting wood
in defiance of the Fourth Commandment.

Let me pass over the sufferings of the two
hours that followed — sufferings barely mitigated
by furtive endeavours to print one's
name with a pin on the book-board, by the
few opportunities of reading the grand battle-pieces
of the Old Testament, and glorying
in the skilful way in which David begged off
that ancient claimant Goliath of Gath, and

by occasional fits of wonderment as to what
could be the secret of the precentor's saw-like
organ of melody.

What followed was much less endurable.
A scanty dinner, none of it hot, and then to
the " Carritch " and other gude books. When
the mysteries of "Effectual Calling" had
become more mysterious by constant repetition,
relief was sought in committing to heart
the 119th Psalm, with the bribe of a penny
held out in the event of complete perfection I
Or Baxter's " Saints' Rest " had to be read
aloud, or the sermons of that eminent divine,
Ebenezer Erskine.

Oh! for an hour at the '* Pilgrim's Progress'*
or the "Scots Worthies," to revel in the fights
between the Sweethearts and Giants Despair,
or to envy the certainty with which Alexander
Peden predicted the sudden death of those
who despitefully used him. But there would
have been too much levity in these interesting
narratives. "Jock, Jock," said an anxious
mother to her son who was caught with the
Bible in his hands on a \veek day, 'are ye

reading' that gude book, and this no' Sunday."
So it was with us, with this difference, that
nothing but what we could not understand
was permitted for Sabbath reading.

And much as we might pine for the bright
sunshine, and the green fields and the company
of school-fellows out of doors, we had to
keep grinding at Erskine, and Baxter, and the
inspired David, until these good men became
positively hateful to us, and the kophs and
tzaddis of the 119th Psalm stood for dragons
and bugbears, whose special mission was to
terrify youth.

It says a good deal for human nature that
an ordeal like this does not end in the practical
abolition of the Fourth Commandment in
Scotland ; and I take credit to myself that I
have even some little reverence for Sabbath
bells and Sabbath ordinances. The awe of
the Kirk still rests on me, though somewhat
out of its jurisdiction ; and conscience
still *' girds" when I wander from early
teachings.

It was with some compunction, therefore, I

accepted recently an invitation to spend the
evening of Sunday at a concert and ball.

True, it \v,is in irreligious France, where
the people are understood to be given over
to an idolatry from wliicli they are not likely
ever to escape. They are not a chosen people,
so it doesn't much matter. Haven't we all
heard of the two old women who were congratulating
themselves and their country on
the victory of Waterloo. " Ista' it strange,"
said one, " that the British aye win." " No
strange ava, woman, for they aye pray to the
Lord afore they begin to fecit." " But
could the French pray tae ? " " Hoots ! ye
stupid body, the Lord wadna understand
them."

In such a spiritually destitute land, a
concert and ball could scarcely make the
inhabitants worse than they were before.
But what of myself? Was I justified in
flying in the face of conscience and lending
myself to such sinful on-goings ? To tell th
truth, I didn't reason the matter very closely,

and being under the wing of a goodly Scot
who in days gone by had, like myself, profited
by the orthodoxy of the " auld toon o' Ayr,"
I resolved to risk it. " Folks should' on a'
occasions," as Manse Waugh says, " be overscrupulous."


Easter Sunday in Boulogne is both a holyday
and a holiday. The Church of the
morning covers a multitude of rejoicing
in the evening, and not the least attractive
of these is the annual concert and ball of the
fisher section of the community. It is held
in a moderately large hall, at the one end of
which there is a small stage, and at the other
a refreshment bar, where such stimulating
drinks as sugared water and eau de seltzer are
in much greater request than the potato -
flavoured Cognac, which an English visitor is
naturally disposed to fly to. Admission is
obtained at the reasonable cost of twenty-five
centimes, and you may choose your seat whereever
one is vacant.

We find ourselves in a side gallery looking
down upon an assemblage of the most picturesque

description. Fully more than one-half
of those present are women, and most of the
women are iwissonniere. Dressed in the
costume which distinguishes their class allover
Europe, they have here a specially characteristic
head-gear resembling an aureole —
a very decided improvement on the "sowback"
of the Scotch fishwives. Comelier they are,
too, than the stout, Norse built ladies of
Newhaven, and indeed, one might travel
far without seeing half as many real beauties
in one small hall.

One thing strikes a stranger at the first
glance. Tie toilers of the sea, male and
female, keep themselves to themselves, as
if they were of a different race from, the rest
of the audience. There is no affection of
superiority or inferiority to the shopkeepers
and mechanics who are present in considerable
numbers ; but there is no familiarity or social
greeting. Each have their own friends of
their own caste, and the one thing which
combines the general interest is the entertainment
of the evening.

The concert is largely made up of sea
songs, and one which describes the perplexity
of a cabin boy, who is called upon at the
same moment by captain, mate, and all the
passengers, seems to be a decided favourite.
In the intervals of the programme, French
vivacity displays itself into a promenade.
All at once the orchestra strikes up, and
the promenaders, as if by magic, into a polka.
And such a polka ! Every dancer has the
grace of a Taglioni, and moves as lithely
as a harlequin. The separation of classes
becomes more apparent than ever. As the
Rhone preserves its identify in the Lake of
Geneva, so do these fishermen and fisher-avoient
glide round the room in a perfectly
defined stream of blue blouses and laureled
head-gear.

Here, if anywhere, one can realise the
meaning of the phrase, '' the poetry of
motion." All very good, interjects conscience,
but what about the Sunday ?

Well, I confess that the Sunday had faded
out of my remembrance. Had these lighthearted

revellers been less temperate in
their conduct, the fact of the first day of the
week might have sobered my sympathies;
but everything had gone on so equably and
so agreeably that the moral atmosphere was
as unclouded as if this were " little Saturday'
and not the aforementioned " Capernaum."

The night wears on, polka is succeeded by
waltz, and waltz by quadrille ; and the toilers
of the sea, warmed by their exercise, and
excited by their sugared water, grow more
and more vivacious, but not a bit more
unruly. And when the Finale comes, and
the gay assembly disperses, every one is as
sober as when the entertainment opened.
Thus the military police of Boulogne-sur-mer
have a sinecure, and the sleeping citizens of
Boulogne are disturbed by no midnight
restorers, and scandalised by no police
court charges.

After all, however, I fancy I really prefer
our good, old-fashioned Scotch Sunday to the
French one ! Reader, what say you ?

CHAPTER XXIX.

GREENOCK.

*• And commerce brought into the public walk
The busy merchant ; the big warehouse built ;
Raised the strong crane ; choked up the loaded street
With foreign plenty." Thomson.

The arms are fair
When the intent of bearing them is just."

Shakespeare.

Gabrielle Stuart, as was indicated
in a previous chapter, had found her
relatives in Paris. After long and earnest
consultation with them, it was deemed
prudent that, for a time at least, it would
be better for Gabrielle's personal safety that
she should remain in the French capital.
This decision had been approved of, although
With great reluctance, by Lady Kennedy,
whose feeble state of health more than ever
required the attendance and kind offices of
Gabrielle.

accordingly, it was arranged that Loi'd
Charles and Guy Gordon should return to
Scotland, leaving Jean Graham in attendance
on Gabrielle. Without any very startling
adventures, the two young men — within a
fortnight afterwards — arrived near the Tail
of the Bank, opposite the then lovely village
of Greenock.

It was a beautiful autumn morning — such
an autumn morning as has ever seemed tome
to be found only in Scotland. Far away
in the distance rose the Highland hills, and
nearer the eye could roam pleasantly over
goodly parts of the counties of Argyll and
Dumbarton — not cultivated, indeed, as they
are at the present day, but grandly beautiful
in their native verdure.

It is true that, here and there, the picture
was darkened by the appearance of a comparatively
new ruin — a castle or a countryseat
— the proprietor of which had not at
once hauled down his flag in presence of the
mighty leader of the Commonwealth. Each
one gave sad evidence that

Oliver C'ruminel
He did her puniniel.
And made a breach in her battlement."

Greenock was but a village containing a
cliurcli, a number of thatched houses, and a
small barracks, notwithstanding that its
waters gave safe anchorage to many ships.
Yet Greenock boasted of a fort, mounted by
twelve 24 pounders, and flanked by several
brass cannon, 12 and 9 pounders en barbette,
the whole being under the direction of a
strong party of the Royal Artillery.

It was not long, however, before Greenock
give decided evidence of its future prosperity
and wealth. And as soon as its inhabitants
did wake up into active life the result was
marvellous in the extreme. From the West
Indies came rum, sugar, cotton, mahogany ;
from America, timber ; from Portugal, wine ;
from other countries, rice, fruit, and other
products. Look at Greenock now !

There was something uncanny about
Greenock on that fine autumn day. Our two

travellers could espy many armed men other
than those who were eno-ao^ed at the fort.
There were the men of Archibald Douglas,
Earl of Angus ; the men of Sir Robert
Douglas, Laird of Loch Leven ; the men of
Lord Gray, and many others who had seldom
before been seen in Greenock.

Then there were gatherings in groups, and
whisperings, and threats, and angry faces.
One Cochrane, formerly a mere workman of
the King, but who had done his Majesty
some personal service in assisting to carry out
the details of many of the royal amours, had
been created Earl of Mar. In his case the
beggar-on-horseback proverb had been realised
in the most emphatic style.

From the south country to the west, and
even into the West Highlands, Cochrane had
been " lording it with the high hand," as an
inhabitant of Greenock told our two travellers
; and by the ancient and effectual system
of sending round the " Fiery Cross," a meeting
had been convened for that day to take the
necessary steps to check Cochrane's tyrannical

career. Greenock was an eligible spot. It
contained few inhabitants, and was well
situated for the purpose. Besides, the men
of the fort were to a man against Cochrane.

The Fiery Cross, or Clean Tarigh (the
Cross of Shame, disobedience to the symbol
inferring disgrace), had been sent, from hand
to hand, from hamlet to hamlet, a distance of
thirty-two miles in three hours.

Before noon numbers of armed men began to
assemble in the churchyard. Before the hour
had well struck the church itself was crowded.

The Earl of Angus, a man of herculean
strength, was unanimously called to preside.
This he did by hastily mounting the pulpit
stairs, rudely opening the pulpit door, and
facing the assemblage.

*men of the West," he began, "Men of
the South, and all Scottish men here present,
you know full well that we have met here
to-day to protest against the tyrannical, cruel,
and cowardly proceedings of certain ill-bred
and cowardly mechanics."

Here the applauding rattle of sabres and

battle-axes resounded through the sacred
edifice, and drowned for a time the sound
of the speaker's voice.

'^ These minions must be swept from the
land. What say ye ? "

With one accord, and with uplifted right
hands, the assemblage shouted —

They must ! "

Then let each man hear present swear by
this dirk that he will pursue the vile herd to
the death."

And the Earl of Angus drew his long dirk,
kissed it, and swore a solemn oath that,
before God, he would not rest until his
country's wrongs were redressed.

Then the dirk was handed round, that
upon it each man would swear.

While this swearing-in was going rapidly
and earnestly on. Lord Gray arose, amid some
approving sabre-clanking.

"Scottish men," he said, "we have sworn
and are swearing ; but who is to begin ?
Who is first to defile his hands by bearding
the low-bred ruffian ? "

And Lord Gray retailed the old story of
the "Apologue of the Mice;" how the mice
met and resolved that it would be well to tie
a bell round the neck of the cat, that they
might be made aware of her approaching
presence. But who was to tie the bell ?

When the oath had been taken all round —
and Lord Charles and Guy Gordon had both
taken it— the Earl of Angus shouted from
the pulpit —

I understand the exquisite moral pointed
by my Lord Gray, and that what we have
now proposed to do may not lack successful
execution, I will bell the cat ! "

The shouts of applause that greeted this
brief speech had scarcely subsided when a
loud knocking was heard at the church
door.

Sir Robert Douglas, who had " styled " the
door of the holy building, asked —

"Who knocks so rudely ? "

It is I, the Earl of Mar ; and I demand
immediate admission to this building, else
I'll at once batter in the door."

"Admit the caitiff," roared the Earl of
Angus, and the door was opened wide.

There stood Cochrane, Earl of Mar, with
a band of warriors behind him. He was
clad in a riding-joie of black velvet, and
round his neck was ostentatiously displayed
a great chain of gold. On his person were
four blowing-horns set with precious stones,
and he was otherwise brilliantly decorated
and bedizened.

With haughty air Cochrane demanded,
What means this unlawful gathering ? I
demand to know by whose authority it was
brought together ? "

By my authority, thou foul growth of a
filthy spawn ! " said the Earl of Angus, who
had hastily descended from the pulpit to
meet Cochrane as he entered.

Then, by sheer strength, Angus wrenched
the gold chain from Mar's neck, and throwing
it on the ground, exclaimed —

"A rope of tow would suit thee better thana
chain of gold ! "

This was immediately followed by another

VOL. II. F

act of violence on the part of the Laird of
Lochleven, who tore one of the dazzling
hunting horns from Cochrane, and said,

"Knave! thou can only hunt mischief!"
And he tossed the horn outside.

Pale stood Cochrane, great Earl of Mar.
Not one of his numerous followers even drew
a blade to defend him.

My lords, is this mows (jest) or earnest ? "
tremblingly Cochrane asked.

"It is indeed good earnest, as thou soon
shall find out. Now, Scotchmen, do thy
duty ! " shouted the Earl of Angus.

And then began a scene of carnage such as
Greenock saw not before or since. From
without Mar's followers were attacked behind ;
from within they were attacked in front.
Panic-stricken, those who were not slain fled
in all directions.

Cochrane was then bound with a rough
tow, and brought forth from the church,
praying loudly for mercy.

"Thou showed no mercy to others. To
the nearest tree with him ! "

Then, regaining a little of the small amount
of courage he possessed, Cochrane asked to be
saved the degradation of being bound with a
common rope of tow.

Bind me with one of my own pillion
he piteously implored.

^' What thou hast is too good for thee !
Away with him ! "

A hair tether was procured, and in a few
minutes the body of the mighty Earl of Mar
dangled from a tree. He had gone to his
last account. He who had hanged others in
scores for trifling offences, and for no offences
whatever, had had justice meted to him in
his own way ; and the protruding eyeballs,
out-shot tongue, and cramped limbs, testified
awfully to the agony he must have undergone
ere death mercifully released him from his
sufferings.

The dreadful scene made a deep impression
on our two young travellers. It was indeed
terribly sudden retribution. They had that
day seen one of the most daring, as it was
perhaps one of the most justifiable, acts of

public retribution that now stands on the
records of Scottish history.

That afternoon Greenock emptied itself of
its strangers more quickly than it had taken
them in. And in the evening — excepting
that there dangled from a tree a ghastly
corpse, and that a few dead bodies lay
scattered about — the village had resumed
its normal appearance, while not one ray of
pity came from the sun as it settled calmly
down behind the western hills.

Charles Montgomery and Guy Gordon, deeming
it imprudent to remain in Greenock that
night, procured horses, and were soon proceeding
at a rapid trot in the direction of their
Ayrshire home. Their route lay through a
district well described by a neglected, if not
almost forgotten, Scottish poet, Alexander
Ross, author of the *' Fortunate Shepherdess."

On illa side the trees grew thick and straug,
And wi' the birds they a' were in a sang ;
On every side a full bowshot and mair,
The green was even, gowany, and fair ;

With easy silent, on every hand the braes
To right well up wi' scattered busses raise,
Wi' goats aud sheep abuse, aud kye below.
The bonnie braes a' in a swarm did iro."

&^

For the night the travellers halted at
Large, famous as being the scene of one of
the most sanguinary battles ever fought in
Scotland. In the reign of Alexander III.,
the celebrated King Haquin, of Norway,
demanded the cession of the islands of Bute
and Arran, along with others in the Frith of
Clyde. This demand having been refused,
Haquin appeared on the West Coast with
160 ships containing troops. He landed at
Ayr, where he seized the castle. Alexander
immediately assembled his army, and met
the enemy at Large, where a long and desperate
struggle resulted in favour of the
Scots. Sixteen thousand Norwegians are
said to have perished on the field of battle,
while the Scotch loss was only five thousand.

Our travellers, next evening at gloaming,
rode quietly into the auld town of Ayr.

But the town was very far from being quiet.
From the Malt Cross to the Auld Tower
there was naught but tumult. Next day
the now famous Maggie Osborne was to be
burned as a witch. Consequently, the inhabitants
were preparing themselves for the
spectacle, and the holiday by which it was
to be accompanied. Were we much better
in the civilised city of London for nearly
three centuries afterwards ? Could they
speak, the stones of the Old Bailey would
unanimously answer, No.

CHAPTEE XXX.
A witch! a witch!

"No words suffice the secret soul to show,
And truth denies all eloquence to woe."

Byron.

It seemed of dogs the bark, of wolves the howl.
The doleful screeching of the midnight owl ;
The hiss of snakes, the hungry lion's roar ;
The soinid of billows beating on the shore."

Rove.

SCOTLAND has an unenviable notoriety in
the way of burning witches. And the
West is no exception to the general rule. It
would seem as if there existed in the human
breast a passion for the infliction of pain,
simply as pain, and without the slightest
heed as to what the results may be. Doubtless,
Envy oft created hatred of those who
seemed superior to the general herd ; and
Hatred created cruelty. The passion still

exists, although in a somewhat modified
form.

It has long been believed that the infliction
of cruelty mainly for the sake of the infliction
was confined to the savage state ; but our
daily records show that we ourselves have
not a few educated savages amongst us.
Every large city — aye, most small towns
and villages in this country — has got a goodly
slice of West Coast of Africa within its
boundaries.

The disease — for disease it was — of torturing,
drawing, and burning so-called witches —
(there never was, nor is there now, such a
thing as witchcraft, excepting in name) —
broke out first among the Roman Catholic
priests ; but, with shame be it written, when
the infection caught the Protestant clergy the
illness became terribly intensified.

In Scotland alone no fewer than 4000
*' witches " were drowned and burned — mainly
burned. On one occasion of the Circuit of
Glasgow, Stirling, and Ayr, 17 persons were
condemned and executed for " witchcraft."

A witch has been well described as "an old
woman with a wrinkled face, a furred brow, a
hairy lip, a robber tooth, a squint eye, a
squeaking voice, a scolding tongue, having
a ragged coat on her back, a spindle in her
hand, and a cat by her side."

And this is the sort of person to whom our
Most High and Mighty Prince James "
devoted so much of his torturing attention.

At the time to which the present romance
relates there dwelt in the town of Ayr a
woman familiarly known as "Maggie Osborne."
She was a person of superior education and
intelligence — far removed from and much
above the general superstition that so generally
prevailed around her.

She was a great friend of Lady Kennedy,
and during Gabrielle's absence in France was
the chief solace of her ladyship in lier bodily
and mental afflictions.

Mrs Osborne — she was the widow of an Ayr
merchant — livid lonix been a visitor at Castle
Greenanan ; and to her as well as to Father

Garthwaite Gabrielle was deeply indebted foi*
much of the knowledge she possessed.

But it began to get rumoured abroad that
Mrs Osborne was a heretic. She often visited
the cottage of Father Garthwaite, and their
conversation was almost always in the French
language. Here, then, was something to lay
hold of — first by the gossips of Greenanan, and
then by the too willing gossips of Ayr.

''I say, my friend, Mucklewut," Tam
Vulcan said mysteriously in Mrs M'Mutch-
kin's parlour, " I say, my friend, there's
something no' canny about that Maggie
Osborne. She and that auld body, the
priest, are eternally plotting somebody's
destruction."

^^ Nae coot, Tam, nae coot. The other
night my wife is sure and certain she saw
Maggie come out o' the priest's cottage, go
astride a broomstick, mount up in the lift, and
mak' direct for Ayr."

That's strange," quoth Tam ; " but doesna
your midwife sometimes see twa moons ? "

*' Aye, 'deed does she, pair body; and every

iiiornin', after she has seen twa moons the
night before, she feels sir forfoughten, and
reaches a drop of brandy m her tea."

'' Aye," said Tarn dryly ; "and the morning'
after she saw Maggie on the broomstick did
she require the cinder in her tea ? "

'' 'Deed did she, 'deed did she," answered
Mucklewut, with much simplicity.

"A-weel, a-weel," Tam said, still more
dryly, " that's quite satisfactory."

'' And," continued Mucklewut, with a
solemn shake of the head, " my wife declares
that she could plainly hear, as Maggie flew
over Mrs M'Mutchkin's house, a flutter o'
feathers."

"But perhaps," Tam quietly suggested,
it was a clatter o' jill stops your wife
heard."

And another jug of reaming seats was
called for, and handed round.

These bits of silly gossip naturally got
retailed ; and lost nothing in the process.
In fact, one Ayr man was quite ready to
swear he had seen Maggie fly into the town.

Yet the magistrates of the toAvn appeared
to have every confidence in Mrs Osborne ;
for a time at least. During the period of
the terrible Pestilence that visited the burgh,
she, at their wish, went from house to house,
visiting the sick, giving them food and
medicine, and instructing the healthy inmates
to have their dead ready at certain hours
when the ^' black cart" would call for the
corpses.

In this manner Maggie Osborne did great
service on both sides of the river Ayr, when
hundreds of persons who had died of the
"Pest" lay unburied in the houses, and thus
still further propagating the disease therein.

In the Town Council minutes of 21st November
16 — , occurs the following: — "The
Counsel also appoints Margaret Osborn to
receive the key of the house quern Isabella
Paper died, under suspicion of the infection,
fra John Ferguson, ane of the quarter-masters,
and to intrometh with the gudis
of the house, and to be forthcoming to
their said honouris, conforme to ane

in vent lire thairof, to be taken an set done
in writ."

Yet the scandal kept growing and growing.
Even the silly story of Maggie Osborne riding
on a broomstick from Greenanan to Ayr got
general credence in the town, and was
ultimately referred to at a Town Council
meeting. The members of the Council themselves
felt ashamed of their cowardice during
the period of the pestilence, while they felt envious
of the good work done by Mrs Osborne.

This shameless feeling was also indulged
in to a considerable extent by the clergy,
then as cowardly as the Council had been,
and a great deal more bigoted.

One afternoon, as Mrs Osborne sat by the
couch of Lady Kennedy, she said, as an
expression of pain passed over her intelligent
features —

My lady, I am beginning to get much
persecuted. The work of the pestilence is
mostly over, and now I am receiving public
gratitude by being called a witch."

"I have heard ceram such details with
much pain," said Lady Kennedy, " and I
have done my best* to counteract their
influence for evil."

"It is almost useless, my lady. Such is
the state of ignorance in the land that an
unoffending person is at any time liable to
be assailed with a fury which even the
deepest crime could hardly have excited."

Alas, alas ! it is too true. And now I
have no husband — or, rather, I have one who
is worse than none — to protect thee from the
brutality of this crass ignorance."

Even the street boys pelt me with stones
and mud, and call me ' Witch ! ' 0, it is
cruel, cruel ! " And for once a tear glistened
in the eye of this good, accomplished, and
strong-minded woman.

Lady Kennedy laid her hand on that of
Mrs Osborne, and quietly said —

Nay, weep not ; give not way ; put thy
trust in the Most High. Let us pray the
Blessed Virgin to intercede for thee."

And Mrs Osborne knelt by the lady's

couch, and prayed fervently that she might
be preserved from further evil.

But alas, alas ! that petition was not to be
granted.

Only a few days after the conversation
above referred to, Mrs Osborne was served
with a summons to attend a mixed meeting
of clergymen and magistrates, to answer to
various charges of witchcraft : " That ye did,
on various occasions, ride through the air
on a besom-handle ; that ye did, when the
life had gone out of Dauvit Hunter's bairn,
use necromancy, and bring back life to
that bairn, which act of returning life, or
more plainly of raising the dead, is the
attribute of the Lord alone. That, in short,
you, the said Margaret Osborne, are habit
and repute a witch."

The good woman shuddered as, with tearful
eyes, she read this truly ignorant and
highly blasphemous document.

At last, at last ! Now I must prepare
me for another, and, thank God, a better
world. * Give me strength in my weakness'"

The day of "examination" came. The
gathering took place in the Council Chamber.
On the top row of the bench sat the magistrates
and a few of the councillors in there
robes of office, while under the municipal
authorities were a number of clergymen
in their black Geneva gowns and white
bands.

The public were not admitted. Such
terrible scenes were generally enacted in
private. The public always got its good
share of the play when the bonfire was lit !

The usual " witch " questions were put to
Mrs Osborne.

Was she a follower of the whore of
Babylon ? She knew no such person.

Did she believe in the accursed Mass ?
She worshipped according to her conscience,
guided by the instructions of our Lord, as
they appeared in the New Testament.

Did she raise Dauvit Hunter's bairn from
the dead ? The child was not dead ; she had
simply, by God's blessing, assisted the child's
recovery from severe illness.

But the next question raised the ire of the
hitherto calm and composed wojnan.

Are you in league with the Evil One ?

Mrs Osborne smiled contemptuously, but
replied not.

Are you in the habit of riding through
the air ? was the last question.

Another smile of the most supreme contempt,
but no verbal reply.

After a brief consultation, Mrs Osborne
was unanimously found guilty, and ordered
to be committed to the Tolbooth until the
arrival of the Lords of Justiciary, when the
torture would perhaps make her answer the
questions.

To give some idea of the disgraceful
character of an "examination," involving
as it did the life of an innocent woman —
it lasted little more than a quarter of an
hour.

Worse than that. The examiners, it has
since been completely proved, had not even
the inner consciousness of believing that they
were acting for the public weal, for the exact

VOL. II. G

dates of the examination and subsequent
trial of Maggie Osborne cannot be ascertained,
from the fact that the volume of the Ayr
Town Council records, and the volume of the
Presbytery minutes, both of which probably
contained the dates and details, have been
long missing.

Np doubt they were destroyed, that the
traces of the disgraceful crime might Jdc
permanently obliterated.

The day of trial came. Two Lords of the
High Court of Justiciary, in ermine and
purple, sat on the bench.

It may be noted, too, that the judges
were English, not Scotch judges. Oliver
Cromwell had long before dismissed the
scotch judges, and appointed English ones
in their stead. They suited his particular
purposes better.

The accused sat in the dock, with a halberdier
on either side. She was pale, but
placid.

The proceedings were conducted in comparative

privacy, only magistrates and
ministers being permitted to be present.

The indictment or summons formerly given
was read by the clerk of Court, the accused
calmly standing during the reading.

How say you, Margaret Osborne ; guilty
or not guilty ? " asked the Court.

'' My lords and gentlemen," said Mrs
Osborne firmly but respectfully, " you not only
insult the great intelligence you are known or
believed to possess, but you affront the very
small amount of sense which God has been
pleased to bestow upon me by asking such a
question. I have said, and I say no more."

She sat down, and resolutely refused to
answer any question.

Let the headsman come forward," came
from the Bench.

And there entered the masked headsman,
or common executioner, with two assistants,
also masked. They carried a pan of red-hot
charcoal, a pair of thumbikins, an iron *' boot,"
a pair of pincers, and other articles commonly
used in torture.

Margaret Osborne, seest thou these
instruments of torture ? "

No reply having been vouchsafed, the
headsman got a sign to apply the thumbikins.
This arrangement of steel, with a strong
screw attached, was placed on the left thumb
of the accused, and the headsman began his
hellish work.

For a time Margaret never winced. She
soon grew deadly pale, however, and seemed
in dreadful pain. At last, and giving a wild
shriek, she fell in a faint to the floor of the
Court.

But there was no sign of pity from judge,
or magistrate, or minister of the gospel.
They merely looked on as does now-a-days a
gaping crowed at a professional mountebank
risking his life on a high trapeze.

When with scents and strong waters
Mrs Osborne was sufficiently recovered, she
was again interrogated, and again remained
silent.

Then the horrible " boot " was attached to
her right leg.

The so-called " boot " was an instrument
like a small ladder, made of two upright
pieces of iron, and five cross ones, sharpened.
The executioner struck this instrument with
considerable violence against Mrs Osborne's
shin.

But the headsman had only given three
blows when his victim once more fell to the
floor of the Court — this time as if dead.

Still no sign of pity from judge or magistrate,
or minister of the gospel.

But why pile up this awful agony ? The
result was that Maggie Osborne — maimed,
inanimate, almost dead as she was — was
solemnly sentenced to be burned the next
day at the Malt Cross of Ayr. The next
day!

CHAPTER XXXI.

THE EXECUTION.

"Alack ! that ever so fair a sun
As that which its course has now begun
Should rise on such scene of misery,
And gild it with rays so bright and free ! "

Barium.

IT was on the night of that day of the trials
as akeady indicated, that Charles Montgomery
and Guy Gordon arrived at Ayr.
Hastily they rode to Greenanan, and had an
audience with Lady Kennedy. Her grief was
of the most distressing character.

What was to be done under the awful
circumstances? Rapidly writing a letter,
which she carefully sealed, Lady Kennedy
requested Charles to carry it at once to the
Castle of his uncle, the Earl of Clinton.

Procuring fresh horses, the two young men,
tired and excited as they were, proceeded at

once on their way to Eglinton Castle, where
they found that the sad news had already
reached the afflicted Earl.

'' Alas ! " he exclaimed, " I can be of no
service to the unfortunate woman. Ever
since the ' examination ' I have tried all
means in my power to get the prosecution
stopped, but all has been of no avail. I
myself am a suspected person, and apt intime
to be both persecuted and prosecuted.
I have the misfortune to be a Roman
Catholic."

^' Say not so, my dear uncle," said young
Charles, going down on one knee to his sadly
aggrieved relation; "say not so. No law,
however much it might be tortured, could
harm a hair of thy head."

Look, my boy ; look at how the law has
been twisted and tortured in the case of this
poor woman — one of the most accomplished
and guileless of her sex."

"' Right, my lord, right ; but have we not
still broadswords and battle-axes ? "

Hush, boy, hush ! What could our handful

do against a regiment of horse and one of
foot, to say nought of the fury of an ignorant
and brutal mob ? "

'too true, my lord, too true." And young
Charles sadly pondered.

*ewe must bow to the will of the Almighty,
my son ; and may He receive to Himself the
soul of His faithful servant who tomorrow
morning is to suffer innocently ! "

"Amen!" responded Charles, and the interview
came to a close.

As he was leaving the room Charles saw
his father imprint a kiss on the letter sent
him by Lady Kennedy.

Worst punishment of all," moaned the
Earl, '' that I, who ought to be the best able,
can be of no possible service to her in this
hour of terrible affliction."

Next morning Ayr was early astir. And
not only Ayr, but the surrounding neighbourhood.
Bad news travels fast, and in a very
few hours after the sentence of death had
been passed on Maggie Osborne, it was

known over almost the whole of the large
county.

The morning sun shone out with great
splendour. It was, indeed, a glorious day
for indulging in the familiar pastime of
witch-burning !

The drums in Cromwell's Fort had early
beat to arms, and quickly the soldiers were
on parade. Then they marched out, their
fifes playing merrily, and soon, by way of
Cathcart Street and Mandate, reached the
ancient Malt Cross.

Here all the requisite preparations had
been already made for the execution. So
certain were the authorities of the result of
the so-called trial that they had all the necessary
faggots and tar barrels ready some days
previously !

This is how we merrily got on in Scotland
two hundred years ago.

At the Cross the infantry formed into three
sides of a square fronting the Town Hall and
Tolbooth, while the Dragoons were reserved
in troops, at convenient distances, to quell

any riot or attempt at rescue which might be
attempted.

And the crowd, the jocund crowd ! It
sang ribald songs, and it danced merry jigs ;
and even infants in arms, who had been
brought from many miles' distance, crowed
and clapped their little hands with very joy.

At last there is a hum of anxiety among
the vast crowd. The gate of the Tolbooth
has been opened. Soon a rude tumbril,
drawn by a black horse, issues from the
gateway. On it sits the pale and pained
Margaret Osborne — battered and bruised in
body, but strong and healthy in mind, and
relying on her Redeemer.

There is no great need for the tumbril, one
would fancy, as the Malt Cross is but a few
yards from the Tolbooth, but that the victim
is unable to walk on account of the tortures
to which she was subjected in presence of
judges, and magistrates, and ministers of the
gospel.

A minister is on the tumbril beside the
condemned woman. It is evident, even

among the clamorous shouts, that he is
addressing her; and it is as evident that
she is taking no heed of what he says.

Now Margaret Osborne is lifted from the
rude cart, carried into the midst of the great
pile of faggots and barrels of tar, and tied to
the stake in the centre.

Wretched woman, wilt thou recant ?
There may yet be time to save thy. soul,"
says the minister to the victim ; " but thy
vile body must be consumed by fire."

'^ I have nought to recant," she said boldly.
^' I deshe to bless and magnify the Lord for
my lot. Because He lives I shall live also.
What care I for these earthly brands ? 1 am
indeed a brand plucked from the burning."

Recant, I say, ere it be too late." But
she took no notice of her persecutor.

Come to my assistance all ye saints of
God ; meet me all ye angels of the Lord ;
receive my soul and present it now before
its Redeemer. May Jesus receive me and
conduct me to my place of rest."

Hear how the Romish harlot blasphemes

in the name of the Son of the Most High,"
shouted the preacher of the Gospel.

But Margaret Osborne heeded him not ;
indeed, she heard him not.

Mother of Divine Grace, intercede forme,
I pray thee ; Holy Virgin of Virgins,
help me to make my peace with God the
Father ; Queen of Angels, assist me to the
arms of thy Son ; Vessel of Honour, oh, let
me be thoroughly filled with the Holy
Ghost ! "

But the fine of the bull when the red rag
is flaunted in front of him is as naught when
compared with the fury of a rabid Protestant
when he hears a devout Roman Catholic
meekly but sincerely address the Virgin Mary.

'' Here, headsman, I say," hissed rather
than spoke that minister of the Gospel ;
'' here, headsman, at once perform thine office
on this Romish beldam ! "

At this point the headsman, having filled
up with faggots the space through which the
victim had been carried to the stake, received
the signal to light the pile.

This he did amid the loud shouts of the
mob and the rattle of the military drums.

And the smoke rose slowly, slowly,
Through the tranquil ah* of morning,
First a single line of darkness,
Then a denser, bluer vapour."

Anon there was a hissing, crackling sound,
and the fierce flames rose heavenwards as
they pursued their devastating career.

In a few minutes there was nought earthly
left of the good Maggie Osborne, from whom
not a solitary shriek had been heard.

The sun, as if ashamed of the awful deed,
became obscured by a dark cloud ; while atone
time a white dove was seen hovering
above the burning pile.

And yet, even in the days of the present
writer, it was common enough to find exposed
in the windows of small news-agents' shops
in the town of Ayr a representation of a so-called
Devil, with flames of fire issuing from
his distended nostrils, and carrying ofl* a so-called
Maggie Osborne to the infernal regions I

I am off afraid that the Scottish people too
frequently receive more credit for commonsense
than they well deserve. Only fancy
the memory of the most remarkable and
uncalled-for execution of the time when it
occurred being kept up in burlesque for more
than 200 years after it took place.

Moreover, Margaret Osborne had not the
proverbial appearance of the persons called
witches. It is on record that she was a
comely woman, and of good address.

Almost all other witches '* confessed"
before their execution. Worn out with painful
tortures and other bodily sufferings, the
minds of the poor wretches almost always
gave way ; and they confessed anything
and everything with which they were charged
by judges, and magistrates, and ministers of
the gospel.

But Maoforie Osborne was too noble-minded
to "confess" what she never committed.
She died as she had lived — in the fear of God
and the sure hope of a blessed resurrection.

CHAPTER XXXII.

CIRCUMSTANTIAL EVIDENCE.

*' 0, hateful Error — Melancholy's child !
Why don't thou show to the apt thoughts of man
The things that are not? O, Error, soon conceived!
Thou never com'st unto a happy birth,
But kilFst the mother that engendered thee."

Shakespeare.

THE recklessness, the cruelty, that long
ago characterised public trials in Scotland
can hardly be over-estimated. Even
when the accused Alas neither a witch nora
warlock, the utmost haste was exhibited in
the trial, and unseemly rapidity in carrying
out the dread details of the execution.

One is on record, which will give a sad
glimpse of the then terrible state of affairs,
in a case where an innocent man's life is
sacrificed.

There once resided in Edinburgh an upholsterer,

named William Shaw, who had a
daughter, Catherine Shaw, who lived with
him. This young woman encouraged the
addresses of John Lawson, a jeweller, to
whom William Shaw declared the most
insuperable objections, alleging him to be a
profligate young man, addicted to every kind
of dissipation. He was forbidden the house ;.
but the daughter continuing to see him
clandestinely, the father, on the discovery,
kept her strictly confined.

William Shaw had for some time urged
his daughter to receive the addresses of
Alexander Robertson, a friend and neighbour
; and one evening, being very urgent
with her thereon, she peremptorily refused,
declaring she preferred death to being young
Robertson's wife. The father grew enraged,
and the daughter more positive, so that the
most passionate expressions arose on both
sides, and the words " barbarity," " cruelty'*
and " death," were frequently pronounced by
the daughter. At length he left her, locking
the door after him.

The greater number of the buildings in
Edinburgh are, as is well known, tall and
massive, divided into '* flats" or "floors,"
each inhabited by one or more families, all
of whom enter by a general staircase, leading
to the respective floors.

William Shaw resided in one of these
flats, and a partition only divided his dwelling
from that of James Morrison, a watch-case
maker. This man had indistinctly overheard
the conversation and quarrel between
Catherine Shaw and her father, and was
particularly struck with the repetition of the
above-quoted words, she having pronounced
them loudly and emphatically. Soon afterwards
the elder Shaw was heard to leave
the house.

For some little time after the father had
gone out, all was silent ; but presently
Morrison heard several groans from the
daughter. Alarmed, he ran to some of his
neighbours, under the same roof; they
entering Morrison's room, and listening
attentively, not only heard the groans, but

VOL. II. H

distinctly heard Catherine Shaw two or three
times faintly exclaim, '' Cruel father, thou
art the cause of my death ! "

Struck with this alarming expression,
they flew to the door of Shaw's apartment ;
they knocked — no answer was given. The
knocking was repeated — still no answer.
Suspicions had before arisen against the
father ; they were now confirmed. A constable
was procured and an entrance forced ;
Catherine was found weltering in her blood,
and a knife, covered with blood, by her side.
She was alive, but speechless. On questioning
her as to owing her plainly-approaching
death to her father, she was
just able to make a motion with her head,
apparently in the affirmative, and expired.

At this critical moment William Shaw
returned and entered the room. Immediately
all eyes were turned on him. Seeing his
neighbours and a constable in his apartment,
he appeared much disconcerted ; but at the
sight of his daughter he turned pale,
trembled, and seemed ready to sink to the

floor. The first surprise and the succeeding
horror left little doubt of his guilt in the
breasts of the beholders ; and even that
little was done away on the constable discovering
that the shirt of William Shaw was
bloody.

He was instantly hurried before a magistrate,
and, upon the depositions of all the
parties, committed to prison on suspicion.
He was shortly after brought to trial, when
in his defence he acknowledged having confined
his daughter to prevent her meeting
with Lawson; that he had frequently insisted
on her marrying Robertson ; and that he had
quarrelled with her on the subject the evening
she was found dying, as the witness
Morrison had deposed ; but Shaw solemnly
averred that he left his daughter unharmed
and untouched, and that the blood found
upon his shirt was there in consequence of
his having bled himself, and the bandage
becoming untied.

These assertions did not welixh a feather
with the jury when opposed to the strong

circumstantial evidence of the daughter's
expressions of "barbarity," "cruelty," and
"death," and of " Cruel father, thou art the
cause of my death," together with that affirmative
motion with her head, and of the
blood so seemingly providentially discovered
on her father s shirt. On these several occurring
circumstances was William Shaw found
guilty and executed in Leith Walk.

Was there a person in Edinburgh who
believed the father guiltless ? No, not one,
notwithstanding his latest words at the
gallows were, "I am innocent of my daughter s
murder." But, in August 1722, as a man,
who had become the possessor of the late
William Shaw's apartments, was rummaging
by chance in the chamber where Catherine
Shaw died, he accidentally perceived a paper
that had fallen into a cavity on one side of
the chimney.

It was folded as a letter, which, on being
opened, ran as follows — " Barbarous father,
your cruelty in having put it out of my power
ever to join my fate to that of the only man

I could love, and your tyrannically insisting
upon me marrying one whom I always hated,
have made me form a resolution to put an
end to an existence which is become a burden
to me. I doubt not I shall find mercy in
another world, for sure no benevolent Being
san require that I should any longer live in
torment to myself My death I lay to your
charge ; when you read this, consider yourself
as the inhuman wretch that plunged the
murderous knife into the bosom of the
unhappy — Catherine Shaw."

This letter being shown, the hand writing
was recognised and avowed to be Catherine
Shaw's by many of her relations and friends.
It became the public talk ; and the magistracy
of Edinburgh, on a scrutiny, being convinced
of its authenticity, ordered the body of
William Shaw to be given to his family
for interment ; and as the only reparation
to his memory and the honour of his
surviving relations, they caused a pair of
colours to be waved over his grave in token
of his innocence — a poor compensation, it will

be allowed, for an act of gross cruelty and
injustice.

After giving a number of trials for witchcraft
in cases where women were alleged to
have had associations with fairies in England,
intercourse with the Devil, bargains with the
Devil to serve him ; attending meetings of
witches ; raising storms at sea, clouds, rain,
snow, and other bad weather ; taking away
milk, blasting the corn, spoiling the success
of the fishery, curing diseases, receiving
money, inflicting diseases, &c., Mr Hugo
Arno says, —

These instances aflbrd a sufficient specimen
of the mode of prosecution against the
multitude of miserable persons who were
sacrificed at the altar of the fatal sisters, —
Ignorance, Superstition, and Cruelty. But it is
impossible to form an estimate of the number
of the victims ; for not only the Lords of
Justiciary, but bailies of regalities, sheriffs of
counties, and the endless tribe of commissioners
appointed by the Privy Council, and

sometimes by Parliament, officiated as the
priests who dragged the victims to the altar."

The last person who was prosecuted before
the Lords of Justiciary was Elspeth Rule,
who was tried before Lord Anstruther, at
the Dumfries Circuit, on the 3rd of May
1709. She was found guilty, ordained to be
burnt on the cheek, and banished Scotland
for life. The last person who was brought
to the stake in Scotland for the crime of
witchcraft, was condemned by Captain David
Ross, of Little Dean, sheriff depute of Sutherland,
A.D. 1722.

CHAPTER XXXIII.

A TRIPLE CONFESSION.,

** Lay me, then, gently in my narrow dwelling,

Thou gentle heart ;

And, though thy bosom should with grief be swelling,

Let no tear start.

It were in vain : for Time has long been knelling,

Sad one, depart ! ' "

Motherwell.

RETURN we now for a time to Greenanan
and its neighbourhood, Greyscaur. The
leaves were falling fast. Nature was preparing
to undergo her annual death-like rest ;
to rise again, however — as I suppose we
all hope to do — into new life and renewed
vigour.

Even the Doon itself seemed to be busily
engaged in assisting to carry out the work of
autumn, for the yellow leaves almost covered
the glassy bosom of the river as it carried
them slowly on towards the sea.

'* So calm, the waters scarcely seem to stray,
And yet they glide like happiness, away."

It was whispered about Greenanan that
Father Garthwaite's old housekeeper was
dying. For many months old Martha Grey
had been confined to her room, and at last
decided signs of rapidly approaching dissolution
were making their appearance.

The Earl of Eglinton had been summoned
to see Martha, while, strange to relate, Lady
Kennedy had, by a strong effort, got up from
her couch, and was conveyed to the priest's
cottage.

'' Why all this fuss about old Martha ? " is
the question each gossip asks the other. But
no one can give an answer.

Let us enter the house of mourning.
Passing first through an outer room and
beyond the priest's study, we enter a little
hall or chapel of remarkable appearance.
From the outside the casual observer could
have no idea that there was such a big
building within.

On one side there is a richly decorated

altar, before which burn a number of long,
tapering wax candles. Above there is an
almost life-size representation of Christ on
the Cross, in pure Carrara marble, while
beneath there is a rich scroll with the words,
"Nisi Dominus frustra."

One for the moment fancies that he has
entered a diminutive E-oman Catholic Church,
seated for about a couple of dozen worshippers,
with a small gallery for the choir ; but all at
once the idea is dispelled by the presence of
a richly-curtained bed in one corner of the
little hall. On that bed lies the aged form
of Martha Grey in extremis.

On one side of the bed kneels Lady
Kennedy with her hands before her face,
while on the other stands Lord Eglinton
with folded arms. At the foot kneels Father
Garthwaite, with an uplifted crucifix in his
right hand.

Slowly old Martha follows the ghostly
father s words as he repeats, in old Scotch,
the Lord s Prayer : —

Lor Fader while best i' Levin. Hallo-wit

weird Thyne nam'. Come Thyne kinrik.
Be dune Thyne wull as i' Levin, sva po yard.
Lor dailie bred gif us think day. And forfeit
us uor skates, as we forfeit them quia skate
us. And heed us na until temptation. But an
fre us fra evil. Amen."

Then from the little gallery above comes
the chanting wail : —

Upon this couch reclines a form —

Lord, listen ! See her dark orbs glazed,
That oft have peered through many a storm ;

And now to Thee her eyes are raised
In prayer — as though her ghastly gaze could see
Nearer to Thee, O God, nearer to Thee !

O Lord, Thou knowest, from countless crowds

Of clay, ethereal sparks have flown,
And safely reached above the clouds.

Redeemed, Thine own eternal Throne :
Fulfilment of Thy glorious prophecy —
Nearer to Thee, O God, nearer to Thee :

O, Death ! thy banners ever wave !

But where grim King, is still thy sting !
And where thy victory, O Grave ?

Now mortals may exultant, sing —
Ay ! sing it loud, to all eternity —
Nearer to Thee, O God, nearer to Thee ! ' "

The singers, manifestly boys, were accompanied
by some unseen but accomplished
harpist ; and a more effectual rendering of
the music could not have been given in a
place of much higher ecclesiastical pretensions.

After a minute's pause, Charles Montgomery
and Guy Gordon were admitted into the
sanctuary, while a female domestic tenderly
lifted old Martha and propped up her head
and shoulders with pillows.

Can'st thou now go on, Martha, with the
solemn statements thou hast to make?" asked
the priest kindly.

"I can, holy father."

Another pause, but of longer duration, and
then Martha began : —

"Before God, who is my Judge — before
this holy priest, who is my confessor — and
before those witnesses, some of whom are
deeply interested, I wish to make a statement,
the subject matter of which has long
lain heavily on my over-burdened conscience."

"Amen," said the priest solemnly.

I grieve to state before these witnesses —

but it is my bounden duty so to do — that I
was present at two marriages contracted by
the noble woman who is now present, and
called the Lady Kennedy of Greenanan."

"tis too true," sobbed Lady Kennedy;
*alas ! 'tis too true."

'the first was with the nobleman now
present, the Earl of Eglinton ; the second
was with the unfortunate individual known
as Lord Kennedy of Greenanan."

'Tis too true ; alas I 'tis too true," again
involuntary broke from the quivering lips of
Lady Kennedy.

*sand the young man now before thee,
Charles Montgomery, is the offspring of the
former marriage. I was present at his birth."
Charles Montgomery gave a start of unaffected
surprise.

Once more it is too true, Martha," said
Lady Kennedy.

Martha, who had raised herself in the bed,
now fell back, evidently in an utterly exhausted
and dying state.

Martha, Martha ! my faithful nurse,"

exclaimed Lady Kennedy, " say, O say, thou
knowest that the first contract of marriage
was one of pure affection, while the second
was to save life. Say so, Martha, for the sake
of my innocent son, now present."

Thou mayest truly, my Lady," said Martha,
in a feeble voice.

I know it too well," said Lord Eglinton,
in hollow tones. *^ To my hot-headed folly
may be ascribed the cause of the first
marriage. The blame is mine and mine
alone. Let me be punished for my transgression."


'^ Nay, my good Lord, thou knowest that I
am more blameworthy than thou art," said the
weeping Lady.

But hold, my Lord and my Lady," interposed
Father Garth waite ; " what should be
said of myself, a priest of education and
experience, who performed the first marriage
ceremony at midnight in the private chapel in
the Castle at Eglinton ? May the Almighty
forgive thee and me ! "

Amen," said the dying woman.

"And now, one word more," said Lady
Kennedy. '' Before Martha Grey leaves this
earthly scene it is my duty to her and these
witnesses present to say that there were, by
one who seemed merely a strolling minstrel,
placed in my hand documents which prove
clearly that Lord Kennedy, before I contracted
marriage with him, was himself the
husband of a French lady, and the father of
our good Gabrielle Stuart."

A movement of surprise went round the
small assembly. Father Garth waite alone had
suspected that such was the state of matters.

Then the last flicker of old Martha's life-lamp
arose.

"Pray, friends, pray for my soul's safe
journey, and for its everlasting repose."

And now Father Garth waite read solemnly
from the Prayer-book of the Romish Church :

I recommend thee, dear sister, to the
Almighty God, and commit thee to His care,
whose creature thou art ; that when thou
shalt have paid the debt of all mankind by
death, thou mayest return to thy Maker, who

formed thee of the dust of the earth. When,
therefore, thy soul shall depart from the
body, may the resplendent multitude of the
angels meet thee ; may the court of the
apostles receive thee ; may the triumphant
army of the martyrs, clad in their white
robes, come out to meet thee ; may the
glorious company of the illustrious confessors
encompass thee; and may est thou meet with a
blessed repose in the bosom of the patriarchs.
May Jesus Christ appear to thee with a mild
and cheerful countenance, and order thee a
place amongst those who are to stand before
Him for ever. Mayest thou never know the
horror of darkness, the crackling of flames, or
racking torments. May the most wicked
enemy, with all his evil spirits, be forced to
give way; may he tremble at thy approach
in the company of angels, and fly away into
the vast chaos of eternal night ! "

"Amen, amen," said the dying woman.

Without even the appearance of a struggle
Martha's soul parted from its clay. She slept
the sleep of death.

And the choir sung in strains that seemed
even triumphant —

Sing, sing it loud ! this is eternity !
A soul to Thee, O God, a soul to Thee !"
• • • • •

On a bitterly cold October afternoon old
Martha Grey was laid in the Churchyard of
Alloway. There were few mourners at the
grave. Lord Eglinton and Lady Kennedy
had attended a special funeral service at
the priest's cottage, but neither followed the
old woman's remains to their last resting-place.


Following the Scottish fashion, then introduced
and still carried out, there was no
service at the grave. And perhaps 'tis quite
as well that such is the case.

One of the most painful sights to be seen
in England is, in my opinion, that of a
gowned and banded clergyman standing, on
a cold winter's day, by the side of an open
grave. He shivers, as with " blue cold nose
and wrinkled brow" he opens his service book.
Then hear how he gallops through the sacred

VOL. IL I

paragraphs of the grand old service ! 'Tis
sickening.

On the night of the day of the funeral
there was revelry in the parlour of Mrs
M*Mutchkin. The Scottish people, imitating
the military, play the Dead March in going
to a funeral ; but on their return they indulge
in festivities, in which whisky usually plays a
pretty prominent part.

Moreover, the night was Hallowe'en, and
that has long been a festive night in Scotland.
But as funerals and festivities do not appear
to me to join harmoniously together, I hie me
to a new chapter.

CHAPTEE XXXIV.

AN UNCANNY DESCRIPTION.

^' Who first taught souls enslaved, and remains undone,

The enormous faith of many made for one ;

That proud exception to all nature's laws,

Invert the world, and counterwork its cause ?

Force first made conquest, and that conquest law,

Till superstition taught the tyrant awe ! "

Pope,

The deil's dead, and lost his head —
He's buried in Kirkcaldy.
Some are fain he'd rise again,

And dance the Highland Laddie ! "

Old Lilt

TT7HAT in France is called the " Ducasse "
n was quite common in Scotland so late
as even a century ago. I have often attended
the Ducasse in France, but I am sorry I
cannot give the literal meaning of the
word ; it is not to be found in general French
dictionaries. "Penny Reels" woidd not bea
bad translation, for a Ducasse in France

and a Penny E-eel gathering in Scotland are,
or rather were — for I fancy such festivities
are now almost obsolete in Scotland — much
about the same sort of joyous things.

In France, however, the Ducasse dancing
and general festivity are mainly done out of
doors, while in Scotland the reels and their
accompaniments are generally enjoyed under
cover. In France the refreshments at such
gatherings consist of " grosses grenades "
(large shrimps), '^ a monies" (mussels), " gros
(gooseberry wine), and such like
innocent articles of consumption ; but in
Scotland oat-cakes and cheese were wont to
be washed over with copious draughts of
strong ale and drams o' strong whisky.

The results in the two countries, too, are
widely different. A Ducasse in France winds
up quietly, whilst a Scotch Penny Reel
generally closes with a fight.

Well, at Greyscaur, Hallowe'en was being
celebrated in the usual manner. Lads and
lasses courted, and flirted, and danced ; while
their elders enjoyed hearty draughts of tip-penny,

with an occasional dram of usquebaugh
to keep things from becoming dull.

Tam M 'Vulcan and his worthy crone
Mucklewut, being elders o' the kirk, did
not dance — it would have looked unseemly
on the part of elders. They simply devoted
themselves to quiet, steady drinking, and
were rapidly getting into that state which is
described as "mellow."

What an awful' thing, Tam," said ,
" the death o' old Martha Grey was !
It appears there were bishops, and priests,
and even fiddlers present — the ]3™sts to
gie her what they ca' extreme unction, and
the fiddlers to play her soul into the next
world."

"Puts, puts, man," said Tam, "where
would they get the bishops and priests frae ?
One priest is quite sufficient to send an auld
wife to her lang hame."

Oh, doubtless they cam', just as Maggie
Osborne used to come, each on a broomstick.
That night o' Martha's death my wife saw
some queer sights i' the lift."

Oh, aye," said Tarn ; " she's still seen'
mair moons than ane, and ye're still believing
her ? Does she still tak' the cinder in her
tea ? "

*' Tarn, Tarn, for goodness sake don't
suggest anything wrong about or Jenny.
O' a' the women I ever met "

Ah, weel, never mind ; I hae come to the
conclusion that Maggie Osborne's execution
was a murder ; and that'll be proved yet."

Hand your tongue, Tam ; baud your
tongue ; before that's proved there's another
Maggie, no a hundred miles frae here, who'll
maybe get a red cloak, a bit o' tow, and a
tar barrel."

Hush, man, hush ; ye cinna mean my
Teddy ? " said Tam.

But I do mean my Teddy. Wha but
she and her crew could hae whisht wa' the
bit lassie, Gabrielle ? Nae doubt the pair
thing has been sent as a peace offering' tae
Auld Clootie ; and he, it appears, has been
seen lately in this neighbourhood."

*' Diana blether ; he's over firmly chained

up in his ain quarters to get here, I'm
thinking."

Ah, but Tarn, my boy, his chain reaches
a o'er the world."

"O then," said Tam logically, "ye might
just as weel let him run loose."

But Mucklewut would listen to no reason,
He went ram-stan at logic like a bull at a
gate.

"And then," continued Mucklewut, "look
at the uncanny doings that are going on at
the Lady Isle. ' Auld Hughie ' has been
seen repeatedly there. Before he took
Maggie Osborne to the ill place, on his
great fiery pitchfork, he whisht her over
to the Isle ; and there Maggie and Lord
Kennedy danced a jig while the Auld Ane
himself played the fiddle."

"And wha died ye a' this grand information,
may I speir ? "

Them that ken a' about it, Tam ; and a
guide deal mair."

Nae doubt, nae doubt ; but wha' are they
that tell ye sic queer stories ? "

*' Ne'er fash yer head. But I'll tell ye
this, that even the raven has now been
taught to read the Devil's books, and every
night the foul bird and Lord Kennedy quarrel
over the cards at catch-threaten."

Then Mucklewut went on —

On the same night that his Lordship
expected a visit frae the Deil, his serving-man
was every noo and again sent foot to see if
there was ony craws on the tap o' the kitchen
lum. The first time there was only ane, the
next time twa, then three, and so on, till on
the seventh time the man went foot there
were seven craws. * Seven, seven ! ' shouted
my Lord Kennedy. Now, I ken fine wha's
coming'; heap piles of coals on the fire !' "

It is possibly here as well to interpolate
that, if seven crows make their appearance
at one time on any part of a dwelling, the
dwelling is for the time under the influence
of his Satanic Majesty.

*' Then," continued Mucklewut in a hoarse
whisper, "after his Lordship and Maggie
Osborne had danced twa hours, the Laird got

tired ; but he aren't stop as lang as Auld
Clootie played. In another hour the twa
dancers were sae red-hot that you could see
right through them. Then wi' a shriek o'
fiendish laughter, the Deil suddenly disappeared
in a flash o' blue fire, carrying
Maggie alF wi' him."

*' What an awful' state o' matters," said
Tam very sarcastically, but half frightened.

"Aye, and mair than that, Tam. Clootie,
been' in a temper that night, ance mair tried
to finish his * deil's dyke ' frae Greenanan right
across tae Arran. Ye ken how he began it
before, and ye often see the big states on
the shore no' far frae here. Weel, another
storm frustrated him ; but ye'll see he'll
manage it yet."

'^ Stop it, man, stop it," said Tam; "ye
mak' my very flesh grue, even altho' I don't
believe a word o' your story."

"Aye, but Tam, ye'll believe in it some
day, my man."

Here a young woman, who had in Hallow-e'en

fashion, gone into the barn to repeat the
words of some charm, and thus find out her
lover, and the particular time she was to be
married — one of the superstitions of the time
^ rushed wildly into Mrs M'Mutchkin's
parlour, and pale with mad excitement,
shrieked —

I've seen Satan ! he's in the barn ! "
And before the poor girl could be assisted
she fell fainting to the sanded floor.

Naturally a scene of wild excitement
ensued. Mucklewut declared that he cared
not for fifty Satans, while other valiant men
took up pokers, and tongs, and other domestic
utensils, and swore they would kill the Devil
aye, as did's a herein'. But nobody went
near the barn.

Without much ado, Tam M'M'Vulcan arose,
and, seizing his good staff" with one hand and
a lantern with the other, he marched out of
the parlour, saying —

Come wha, gang wha, I'm for the barn."
Mucklewut could see that men's lives
should be riskit in sicli unlawful' adventures

and he doggedly refused to stir. But there
were a few bold spirits who followed Tarn,
and not a few of them, as usual, were of the
fair sex.

When M 'Vulcan reached the barn-door he
struck boldly at it, and said —

Satan, or no Satan, I'll try your strength,"
and he burst in the frail door that required
hardly any force to have opened it.

Entering the barn, most of the company in
fear and trembling, M 'Vulcan turned his lamp
over the place. Nought was to be seen. But
all at once a shout was heard, " There's Auld
Clootie up among the rafters ! "

And true enough, when Tam looked up,
there sat, gibbering and grinning, a big-hairy
brute, bearing that resemblance to his
Satanic Majesty which popularly prevails even
to this day on the West Coast of Scotland.

M 'Vulcan, putting his lamp down — for
almost all his companions by this time had
fled — and seizing a flail, said —

"Be thou saint or Satan, I'll have at thee!"

And he struck the object of his antipathy

such a blow as only a smith can deliver, when
the being or beast, or whatever it was, fell
heavily to the floor of the barn, like a log
of wood.

Then Tam padlocked the door, and returned
in triumph to Mrs M'Mutchkin's.

But M'M'Vulcan's triumph was not to be of
long duration. The poor girl who had been
the cause of all the hubbub went out of one
convulsive fit into another, until her life
was sorely despaired of Jacky Houston,
the parish apothecary and barber, was sent
for, and did his best to alleviate the lass's
sufferings.

At last, to Tarn's dire dismay, Mrs M 'Vulcan
appeared upon the scene of fearful consternation
; and she in turn was quickly followed
by Mrs Mucklewut.

'rand what's this I hear?" began Janet,
as calmly as her rising wrath would permit.
And so ye're killed the Devil — peace to
his ashes ! "

But Tam well knew the value of silence,
and spake not.

"Atween I wot, it was bad enough to be
sitting' here drinking' and coffin' wi' a lot o'
idle lizzie who ought to be hame in their
beds ; but what's to be thought o' a man
come to your time o' life gain wa' tae a
dark barn and train' to forgather wi' some
low-bred, light-headed limmer wanting' a bit
man."

This was a telling shot, and Tarn's rigging'
was rested. Janet was indeed raking him
from stem to stern.

"And then, ye stupid ass, to be such a
blockhead as to kill the Deil ! We've simply
ruined me and a' the weans," and Janet went
into a paroxysm of grief.

Tam here thought he saw his opportunity.
He would fire a broadside.

*' And what for no ? Is it not weel that
we hae got rid o' the Enemy of Mankind ? —
is he no' weel wa' ? "

Listen tae the blasphemer ! " exclaimed
Janet ; " and wha's tae punish the wicked ?
Wha's tae roast you for leaving' your wife
and young weans, and a guide clean fireside.

to come tae this drunken den o' thieves,
and sit cheek by-jowl wi' a lot o' lustful'
tapis ? "

Tarn hauled down his flag.

'skill the Deil, indeed," broke in Mrs
Mucklewut, *' I winner what we pair, ill-used
wives will dae without him. And look ye
here, Janet," she continued, addressing Mrs
M'Yulcan, " or man tells me that it's no an
hour sin' he was cautioning' Tam about his
want o' respect' for the Devil. He ought to
be aware that ane diana exactly ken whaup
he may gang."

'your man!" said Janet, in her most
withering tone ; 'your man ! he's as bad as
the lave o' them, and a guide deal war. An
ixuld body like him ought to be ashamed o'
himsel'. It's no' sae lang sin' he was owe
thick wi' Kate M'Cansh, wha blamed her
wean on a wheen sailors."

Never ye mind my man — I can chastise
him myself'; just ye mind yer ain, and ye '11
hae eneuch tae dae. My man, at operate,
doesna gang into dark barns."

No ; coward that he is ! " retorted Jenny.
But my man's father was never hanged for
sheep stealing; he deed in his bed."

Such is ever the result of interfering
between husband and wife. However good
the intention may be, it has always the same
sadly disastrous effects.

At this stage of the proceedings Mrs
M'Mutchkin came to the front and endeavoured
to throw oi] upon the troubled waters.
But the waters seemed to be in flames, for
the landlady was attacked by the leg
tongues of both women ; and Mrs M 'Mutchkin
had shortly to retire defeated and
discomfited.

Watkins: home behind her cowed-down
husband, Janet soliloquised —

Her man ! the drunken, maudlin' body ;
he's no worth a doit. Her man ! ferniticled
faggot that she is."

Then addressing poor Tam, who had been
sorely set upon, she said —

Aye, and ye had the damned audacity to
kill the Devil ! But, by my faith, ye'll

stand the Session for that murder, or my
name's no Jenny M 'Vulcan."

There was much discussion in the parish
for several days regarding the death of the
Devil. The general feeling was that Tarn
M 'Vulcan had done wrong, and ought to be
punished. Had the circumstances of his
Satanic Majesty's family been known, the
case might not have been so bad ; but no
one could tell if the Devil had a son to succeed
him.

And what was to be done without a
Devil ? The world would come to a standstill.
There can be no mistake as to the
thorough soundness of the logic. As far as
I can judge, the loss of the Devil would, in
vulgar parlance, '* play the devil" with society
in general.

Even after a poor strolling Frenchman had
explained that the Deil Tam Vulcan had
killed was but a performing ape, the parish
incredulously wagged its sapient head, refusing
to believe the story, and consequently

refusing to reimburse the poor Gaul for the
heavy loss he had sustained in the killing of
his bread-winner.

Tarn M 'Vulcan had in time to appear
before the Kirk-session of Alloway. He
was examined and cross-examined as to the
proceedings of that awful Hallowe'en night.
In the end, and after prayerful consideration
of his case, the minister was enjoined to
administer a severe rebuke to Tam ; but
whether the rebuke applied to the slaying of
the Devil, or to an elder who had been where
he ought not to have been, the Session records
do not condescend to explain.

One thing is certain in connection with the
circumstances I have detailed. The poor
lass who got the fright never thoroughly
recovered from its effects. Let each young
woman draw her own moral.

VOL. II. K

CHAPTER XXXV.

THE BLACK GANG."

** There is no strange handwriting on the wall.
Thro' all the midnight hum no threatening call,
Nor on the marble floor the stealthy fall
Of fatal footsteps. All is safe ! Thou fool,
The avenging deities are shod with wool."

W. Allen Butler.

JUST as crime begets crime, cruelty begets
cruelty. On the night of the day which
saw Maggie Osborne consigned to the flames
there was held, in a once famous hostelry in
the Boat Kennel, Ayr, a committee meeting
of the " Black Gang," a band of young men
who had, as I intimated in an early chapter,
originally combined for the purpose of keeping
the nocturnal peace, but who were now its
habitual and most frequent breakers.

At that meeting it was solemnly arranged
that, from some real or imaginary grievance
which had been brought against them,
Lord Charles Montgomery and Guy Gordon
should be " made victims*' as was the
usual mode of expressing a determination
to punish an offender against the rules of
the Gang, or one who had assaulted any
of its members.

Both young men had repeatedly come into
conflict with members of the Gang, but never
as aggressors. They had always acted, and
acted successfully, either in self-defence or in
attempting to save some poor person from
cruel treatment, or perhaps death.

Charles and Guy, on the day of the burning
of Mrs Osborne, had severely belaboured a
number of the members of the Black Gang
who were shamefully ill-treating a man — a
Roman Catholic, who had had the boldness
to declare that Margaret Osborne was no
witch.

Hence the present meeting of the Black
Gang.

But how to get at the victims ? At
Greenanan Castle or Eglinton Castle ? There
was the difficulty. At last it was unanimously
resolved that a 'deputation" be sent
to each place, so that certainty be assured.

Strangely enough many respectably connected
young men of the town had alec
themselves with the Black Gang. They
were not very long connected with it,
however, until they had to bid good-bye,
either to their respectability or to the Gang.
Twelve months' membership was enough to
knock the respectability out of the most
respectable youth in Auld Ayr.

It was one dreary night in December when
Charles and Guy were going along what is
now known as the Racecourse Boat at a
rapid trot on their way to Greenanan, when
suddenly their bridle reins were seized, and
they were forcibly dragged from their horses
by a band of armed and masked men.

The whole work was accomplished so
suddenly that there was not even time fora

sword to be drawn, or a blow struck in
self-defence.

Gagged first, and then firmly bound, the
two young men were replaced on their steeds,
and taken to Ayr by separate routes.

Arrived at the hostelry in the Boat
Kennel, they were taken down many steps
until they reached a well-lighted cellar or
hall, where some thirty or forty young men,
all wearing black masks and armed with
cutlasses, were carousing.

The Boat Kennel, from its peculiarly
isolated position, and being close to the
river Ayr, was particularly well suited for
such an unlawful gathering as the present
meeting manifestly was.

To make the appearance of the meeting
more horrible than it otherwise would have
been, each man had a human skull, mounted
with polished brass, skilfully worked into the
form of a drinking cup, placed in front of
him ; and from this he drank copiously of
French brandy, of which there were several
barrels in the place.

What, ho! Sir David," said the Chairman
(whose drinking-cup was mounted with silver),
thou hast bagged the game at last. Welcome.
See thou, Sir John, that the doors are
properly styled, after thou hast set a good and
competent watch outside."

"Ay, ay, sir," was the immediate reply of
Sir John.

After " things had been made secure," a&
the Chairman put it, he said —

'* Brave knights of the Black Gang, lovers
of truth and justice, let us drink a bumper to
our noble selves ! No heel-taps ! "

And each knight, as he drained his cup to
the very dregs, turned it mouth downwards,
stood to his feet, and loudly shouted, "Hurrah
for our noble selves ! "

At this moment the appearance presented
by the great board at which they had gathered
was most remarkable, if not even fiendish.
All round the table the skulls seemed to grin
ghastly approval of the toast.

Once more the Chairman addressed the
assembled knights.

"Is it your pleasure, brave knights, that
the accused be brought before us to answer
our questions and receive judgment ? "

It is," was uttered all round, but as if by
one voice.

Accordingly Charles and Guy were at
once brought forward, still strongly bound,
although the painful gags had been removed.

Let the first witness stand forth," said
the Chairman.

And there came close to the head of the
table a lithe young fellow, with his left arm
in a sling.

State thy case," said the Chairman.

"One night recently, in executing the
orders of the knights of the Gang, I was
endeavouring, along with another knight,
to bring a witch before a meeting, when
Gordon, one of the accused, interfered. In
the melee which ensued he struck off my
left hand."

"Didst thou, when he first interfered,
inform the fellow Gordon that thou wert
acting according to our instructions ?"

"I did, brave Sir Knight-in-chief," was
the prompt reply.

"Knights of the Black Gang, what say
ye ? — His doom ? "

*' Death ! " solemnly resounded through the
vaulted hall.

The means — cord or water ? "

"Water."

Let the next witness come forward," once
more spoke the Chairman. And a ycimg
man walked slowly towards the head of the
table.

Thine evidence ? "

This ! " and raising his mask he disclosed
a dreadful sabre-cut, which extended from
the right cheek to the left jaw, and made his
features hideous to behold.

"How comest thou by that fearful disfigurement
? " asked the Chairman.

In the brawl referred to by the former
witness the coxcomb Montgomery, commonly
called Lord Charles, and now standing before
thee, gave me the blow which has for life
disfigured me."

"Brave knights of the Black Gang, his
doom ? "

The same."

Other evidence was adduced as to how the
two yomig men had frequently overcome the
members of the Gang.

Then the Chairman, as as if in mockery of
the majesty of the law, assumed a black
cocked hat, and formally pronounced sentence
of death. Addressing Sir John, the Chief
concluded —

'^ Within ten minutes, then, let the passage
to the river be made clear, and see that the
double planks are duly adjusted."

"Ay, ay, brave Sir Knight-in-Chief ! " and
Sir John, along with several members, ran
hastily to execute his orders.

I protest " began Lord Charles.

We permit no protestations. Our knights
are all sworn. Prepare for death." And the
Chairman waved his hand for silence.

Brave Knights of the Black Gang," said
the Chairman, " one more bumper. Let each
knight fill his cranium quail."

And the knights, glad to respond to their
Chieftain's call, soon filled their horrible-looking
cups with brandy.

The toast, brave knights, is ' Success to
the Black Gang, and death to all its enemies.'
No heel-taps ! "

The toast, it need hardly be added, was
received with quite as much enthusiasm as
had been the former one.

A number of barrels that had been piled
against the wall were then removed, and
there was displayed a strong iron door.
This door was unlocked, when a dark passage
was disclosed, through which the sound of
the rushing river Ayr could be distinctly
heard.

Two planks, which lay in the dark arched
passage, were rapidly thrust out, and above
the running stream, the ends beg supported
inside by a strong iron bolt.

Lots had been cast, and two knights, with
loaded arquebusses, and under the direction of
the knight called " Sir John," were appointed
to see the condemned men walk the planks.

The solemn procession began, Sir John
walking closely behind the victims, who
seemed quite indifferent to their impending
fate.

A few seconds more, and a heavy splash is
heard — nothing more — not even a solitary
shriek or a bubbling cry.

The three knights hastily re-enter, the
door is closed and locked, and the barrels
piled up as they had formerly been.

'^ So perish all the enemies of the Black
Gang I Now, brave knights, to your homes ! '^

And the Chairman set the example by
wrapping himself up in a long loose cloak,
and moving towards the outer door.

Let the Black Gang Beware ! Murder
WILL be Avenged ! "

Like a thunderbolt these words rang
through the vaulted place just as the lights
were being put out, and when the hall was
in comparative darkness.

Hastily the knights were summoned to
return, the lights rekindled, and a thorough

search made for the speaker. But the search
was m vain. Each man denied having
spoken, and the brave knights went home
dreadfully chagrined, and vowing vengeance
on somebody.

It was evident that there was some foul
traitor in the camp.

Chapter XXXVI.

DISPERSED.

But they were not aware that there are things

Which make revenge a virtue by reflection,

And not an impulse of mere action ; though

The laws sleep, justice wakes, and injured souls

Oft do a public right with private wrong.

And justify their deeds unto themselves."

Byron.
• •••••

Birds, the free tenants of earth, air, and ocean —
Their forms all symmetry, their motions grace."

James Montgomery.

THE Black Gang had become a perfect
curse to Ayr and its environs. Loud
were the complaints of the inhabitants concerning
the many depredations and not
infrequent murders committed by the Gang.
Its evil influence had indeed extended even
to Glasgow, where at night the Saltmarket
was often as dangerous to the wayfarer as

if the city had been in the hands of a
foreign foe.

After long suffering, the authorities of Ayr
had once more memorialised the King, and
His Majesty promised, and ultimately sent, a
military commission of inquiry into the doings
of the Black Gang.

Shortly after the events detailed in our last
chapter a general meeting of the Gang was
called for a certain night.

The mode of calling a Black Gang meeting
was as unique as it was inexpensive. The
particular day of the week was always known
to the members of the Gang, so that " Sir
John," of whom more anon, had merely to send
one of his servants round with a piece of
chalk, with which he marked the figure " 9 "
on the corners of certain streets in the
town.

Accordingly the knights duly met at nine
o'clock, and song and jest were soon going
merrily round the social board.

The only " business " of the meeting which
had been called for this particular night was

the initiation of two new members, and that
was but a simple task. For the purpose
there was placed in the middle of the table
a huge human skull, curiously lit up from
within, and showing forth in all their ghastliness
the ball-less eyes and grinning teeth of
what had once been the thinking head of a
living being.

The skull was flanked on each side by a
pair of cross-bones, while near were placed
two new drinking cups for the use of the two
proposed new members.

After " Our Noble Selves " had been duly
proposed, and noisily responded to, the Chairman,
without rising to his feet, said,

*' Brave Knights of the Black Gang ! I call
silence. We shall now proceed to the special
business of the evening, and that is the
election of two new knights."

The Chairman's words were received with
hearty rounds of applause.

"Sir John," continued the Chairman, "thou
knowest those two young men, whom we are
now about to admit as knights of the Black

Gang, to be good men and true, and lovers of
genuine justice ? "

^' I do, brave Sir Knight-in-Chief," answered
Sir John.

'^ Then admit them."

The door having been unlocked, there
entered two handsome-looking young men
wearing black masks.

"Come forward, gentlemen," said the
Knight-in-Chief

And the strangers stepped forward to a
vacant space which had been assigned them
at the head of the table.

'^ We learn," continued the Knight-in-Chief,
'That ye are desirous of joining our highly
distinguished Order."

The strangers bowed.

'^ Our rules are very simple. They merely
demand that ye obey the instructions, be they
what they may, of the Knight-in-Chief and a
majority of the Knights."

Once more the strangers bowed.

These instructions may at times, it maybe
well to inform you, involve the risk of

losing your own lives in justly attempting to
take the lives of others."

Another movement of acquiescence.

*'An(i now you will be sworn on the
emblem of our Order. The lighted skull you
see on the middle of the table is that of
Cochrane, Earl of Mar, who was very properly
executed not long ago at Greenock."

Then the Chairman, after a pause to permit
the strangers to examine the strange emblem
of a strange Order, said —

'sand now, young men, before you are
sworn, the company will remove their masks ;
then you will raise your masks for a little,
that we may be able to recognise you and
you recognise us when you have become
knights of the Black Gang. Knights all I
remove masks I "

Accordingly the masks were at once removed
by the assembled knights.

"And now, young gentlemen, follow the
example that has been set you."

Tearing off their masks, and throwing them
on the ground, the two strangers, drawing

VOL. II. L

their swords, stood revealed as Charles Montgomery
and Guy Gordon !

Had a thunderbolt burst in the hall, there
could not have been greater consternation.

Here stood before the gang two young men
supposed to be dead. Had Heaven sent
them back to avenge their own foul murder ?
Extreme terror was depicted on the face of
almost every " brave knight " present.

On Blackguardism of every kind the supposed
Supernatural has always a wonderful
effect. The boldest blackguard soon becomes
a complete coward.

Treason, treason !" shouted the Chairman,
^'Sir John, see that the door is styled, and
that no one enters or leaves."

But Sir John had already styled the
entrance, and, shouting, *' This way men ! "
he entered at the head of a company of
soldiers.

Treason, treason ! Sir John hath betrayed
us ! " was the almost universal shout.

"Sell your lives dearly, brave knights; sell
your lives dearly ! " shouted the Chief, as with

his sword he made a lunge at Charles Montgomery,
who, however, parried the blow, and
cleft his enemy to the chin.

Several other lives were lost that night
during the fierce struggle, but ultimately
the members of the Black Gang were outnumbered,
overpowered, and carried off to
prison.

Thus the celebrated Black Gang of Ayr,
which had been a greater pest to the town
than had been the great Pestilence itself, was
suddenly and permanently broken up.

When investigation was made, the number
of the sons of well-to-do townspeople who
were found to have been members of the
gang was most alarming to the authorities
and annoying and grieving to the parents.

A public prosecution, it was found, would
place many good families in a very deplorable
position. It was arranged, instead, that a
goodly number of the young men should
quietly leave the district, and remain absent
for periods commensurate with the respective

positions they had held in, and the time they
had belonged to, the Gang.

Sir John," who was the landlord of the
premises in which the meetings of the Black
Gang were held, was in a manner bound to
become traitor to the cause — if indeed traitor
he could be called for doing such a commendable
act as was involved in the part he took
in the complete break-up of the Black Gang.

On the night of the supposed "execution "
of Charles Montgomery and Guy Gordon, " Sir
John " was the prime mover in their escape.
The two young men had oft befriended him,
and he determined to save their lives.

'' Not only did " Sir John " cut the cords
by which Charles and Guy were bound, but
he had waiting in the river a boat, by which
the supposed " victims " were at once picked
up. They were, in fact, back into " Sir
John's " house before the Gang broke up
that same night, and very little the worse
for their ducking.

Sir John " has not a few descendants in

Ayr at the present day, as, indeed, have nota
few members of the old Black Gang. But
let bygones be bygones."

The only *^ secret meetings " I know of
now in the Auld Town are those of the
Tippling' Club, and it meets in broad day-light.
Whisky-glasses are used instead of cranium -
quails, Islay and Campbeltown instead of
usquebaugh ; and the most serious conspiracy
ever entered into is, when a few of the
members conspire to " let in " some worthy
but perhaps " near " body for the meridian
half-mutchkin !

Truth to tell, Auld Ayr is comparatively
dull now. Willie Blood — latterly poor blind
Willie — when he went to his account, the
town lost a fund of excellent, if eccentric,
humour. Jamie Bumpie, too, is gone, and
with him the lion-roaring he was wont to
perform so well. Hang-ashen, alas ! has
gone over to the majority ; Gib M^Whirter
and Deil Tam are beings of the past ; and
where now is wee Nannie Neil ?

Guy," said Charles Montgomery, one
morning, " I wish you to accompany me
on what may prove a very dangerous
expedition."

*' That is just exactly in my way ; I am
ready now."

We must in this projected matter act
with great caution."

Well ? " said Guy Gordon, with anxious
curiosity depicted in his face. " Are we
going to France once more ? "

Charles sighed. Just as Guy Gordon
was ever thinking of his bonnie Jean, so
Charles Montgomery ever had Gabrielle
in his foremost thoughts, in his heart of
hearts.

Alas, no, Guy. I wish we were going to
France again ; but doubtless we'll go there
soon. This time wee are only going as far as
the Lady Isle."

Lady Isle I " said Guy, in surprise ;
'* what danger can there be in that quarter ?
Is not my Lord still there ? "

Yes, he is, unfortunately ; it is from him

the danger is feared. He has gown of late
worse than ever."

'' Well ? " again interrogated the faithful
but curious Guy.

The old apothecary, Burke, had endeavoured
to escape from Lord Kennedy —
in fact, had escaped ; but now he has been
caught and conveyed by force to the Lady
Isle."

Well ! "

Well ! " Don't you see there is considerable
danger of murder being committed?"
said Charles, anxiously.

^'Then consult thy good, kind mother,
Lady Kennedy," said Guy.

'^ Nay, nay, Guy ; thou surely would'st not
kill her. Such a consultation would most
assuredly cause such a sad result."

'why?"

Because the old serpent, Dennis Burke,
was in the pay of my Lady as well as in the
pay of my Lord. Along with a serving-man
he was a spy at the Lady Isle. And now
Lord Kennedy is evidently aware of the fact."

Now I can see how the Bishop escaped
from the great fire into which it was pretended
he was thrown by the apothecary and
the serving-man," mused Guy.

Hush, Guy ; no more of that. Lord
Kennedy fancies the good Bishop is dead."

** The plot thickens ! " exclaimed Guy,
gleefully. '* I am ready."

'' Well, then, we must procure the services
of Park the Pilot. He will provide his
schooner with the necessary arms for our
safety."

"I see no great danger to be afraid of,"
interpolated Guy.

"Ay, but I see it. You know not what a
desperate, lawless, God-forgotten man may
do when his blood is up."

'every well," acquiesced the other.

Then we must approach the Lady Isle from
the Arran side, and Park must disguise his
schooner, and show a French flag at the peak."

Doubtless, for my Lord is as cunning as
any fox that e'er ran to earth."

One breezy morning soon afterwards Pilot
Park's schooner was scudding down the Frith
of Clyde in the direction of Ailsaa Craig.
Charles Montgomery and Guy Gordon were
on board, and so was the aged Bishop of Ayr
and Galloway.

That the disguise they intended to adopt
when they arrived off the Lady Isle might
be the more complete, the temporary services
of two French seamen had been secured
before the schooner left the port of Ayr.

Behold the little vessel, then, hugging the
rocky coast — if coast it can be called — of the
towering Craig ! Under its frowning lee
anchor was cast for a time, that Charles and
Guy might enjoy some sport.

The first shot that was fired against the
rock had a wonderful effect. Screaming in
terror, the sea-fowls flew in hundreds of
thousands from their nests and crannies.
The birds covered the little vessel like a pall,
and for a time positively darkened the air.

At almost any period, but especially during
the summer months, this strange sight maybe

witnessed at Ailsaa Craig — a sight, I am
informed, not to be seen in any other quarter
of the civilised world.

But I must defer to a future chapter a
description of that wonderful rock — a landmark
of the sea that receives far less attention
than its many beauties and its great wonders
richly deserve.

The gloaming of that day saw Park's
schooner safely anchored off Lady Isle.

CHAPTEE Xxxiii.

AILS A CRAIC4.

Tell me, bird of tempests, wheeling

In the gloaming shadowed skies,
Whence the love that thou art feeling,

For those stony, staring eyes ?
Fixed, alas ! on darkling heaven

With a look which living seems ;
Nevermore to them is given

Wakening from their dream of dreams ;
And the far waves falling, falling,

Mournfully were calling, calling,

Eternity.' "

WillicDii Allan.

ONE of the most remarkable islands in the
west of Scotland is, as I indicated in the
last chapter, Ailsaa Craig. It is a huge rock,
not altogether barren, rising almost perpendicularly
from the sea to the height of some
1400 feet.

The Craig was placed there by the Devil

himself — so at least the legend runs — to form
the main support of the bridge he meant to
make from the thriving town of Girvan to
the island of Arran, and thence to the
Western Highlands I

Why Girvan should have been thus so
particularly favoured by his Satanic Majesty
history sayeth not ; but there stands Ailsaa
Craig, some dozen miles off the busy little
place, which is thus — or in my time was wont
to be — maligned in a local rhyme —

Maypole's a stinking hole,
Girvan's f u' o' clashes ;
Ayr town's a bonnie town,
An' fu' o' bonnie lasses."

Doubtless Auld Hughie wished to give
better facilities for " clashing' " to the wives o'
Girvan. At animate there stands the Craig,
and I have given the legend.

Accessible only from one side, and that
accession obtained, as I know but too well,
with no little difficulty, Ailsaa Craig is the
safe and quiet abiding-place of goats and
rabbits ; while it is the resort of myriads of

sea-birds, who multiply in vast numbers on
the ledges of rock that form its vast sides.

Only among the Alps Maritimes, that divide
France from Italy, have I seen such magnificent
caves as those of Ailsaa Craig. One of
them, although not very large, is in itself
extremely picturesque.

Yet from year to year hardly any one visits
this remarkably romantic place. In my time
the " lord of the manor " was wont to grant
almost unlimited permission to land on the
Craig. Have times changed, or are the people
of the West apathetic ?

It was here, after the dispersion of the
Black Gang of Ayr, that several of its
members took refuge until the remembrance
of their crimes and depredations had "blown
over."

And not at all a bad dwelling-place for
young men with strong constitutions. The
Craig has, as I have indicated, comfortable
caves ; it has several beautifully clear springs
of excellent water ; while, in addition to the
food of wild animals, the residence has only

to run a modicum of risk to supply himself
with eggs innumerable.

Ailsaa Craig had, indeed, at one time been
inhabited, for to this day it contains the
remains of an ancient stronghold. No better
place could now-a-days be found for the protection
of the West Coast of Scotland.

Headed by Tam M 'Vulcan and Jock
Mucklewut, one morning a dozen armed men
from Greenanan set ois in two boats on an
excursion to the Craig, ostensibly for the
purpose of snaring rabbits and collecting
eggs, but really on a secret mission for Lord
Kennedy.

^* I care little for this job, Tam," said Jock,
sullenly ; " last night my wife dreamt that I
was drowned."

Weel, weel, man, if ye're born to be
drowned ye'll no' be hanged," remarked his
worthy friend pawkily.

Ay, ay, that's a' right ; but I prefer to
die m my bed respectably, and be buried
decently like a Christian."

And how many hundreds o' thousands
have been buried at sea!" exclaimed Tarn.
"Do ye no' think their burials were just
as Christian as if they had died in their
beds?"

*' But how will they be able to rise when
the last trumpet sounds 1" asked Jock, sagely
thinking that he had settled his friend.

Diana blether man, Jock ; cinna blether.
Are we not told that the sea will give up its
dead as well as the land V

After a pause, Tam continued —
But what is death ? Has not the English
poet called it ' Passing through nature to
eternity V And what matters it how we are
buried ? Methinks the beautifully-bleached
bones that lie at the bottom of the sea look
much more beautiful than those turned out of
the foetid grave."

Vera weel, Tam, very weel ; but cinna
get sentimental."

"It seems to me," said Tam, unheeding
the interruption, " that in time necessity will
cause us to resort to the sea for the burial of

our dead, unless we do as the Hindoo do —
burn the body to ashes."

And now see one of the party dangling in
mid-air. He has been lowered over the front
of the frowning precipice of Ailsaa Craig, and
there is more than a thousand feet of empty
space below him.

Yet the egg-gatherer is not appalled. Indeed,
he quietly smokes his wooden pipe ashe
fills his '* cubbie " or straw-basket with
the choicest eggs, and signals for them to be
drawn aloft.

Then the birds take alarm, and wheel and
whirl from the sides of the rock. The sound
they produce is deafening. There are gannets
and gulls, guillemots and razor-bills, kitty-wakes
and puffing — ay, even pigeons and
throstle — all in separate clouds, and each
occupying a separate stratum in the air.

What a wonderful sight ! But the party
of men care not for the sight. They are too
familiar with it, and the familiarity has bred
the proverbial contempt.

Silently the man continues to smoke his
pipe, and gather the eggs with which to fill
his basket, and with song and chorus the men
at the top raise the basket as it is continually
filled.

The sea-birds scream as they angrily swoop
past their despoiler, and endeavour to strike
him with their strong wings.

One enraged bird, the mother of a brood of
young, smites the poor fellow on the head ;
but in vain. His broad blue bonnet protects
him thoroughly.

Then she alights near the gatherer, and
fixes on him her "stony, staring eyes," silently
and piteously imploring the robber to spare
her offspring.

Alas ! the cruel monster casts one of the
little ones at the afflicted mother, and then,
struggling with death, it tumbles, tumbles,
tumbles through the dreadful abyss, and
slowly reaches the sea.

And the far waves falling, falling,
Mournfully were calling, calling,"

as the wretched mother screams her grief
vol II. M

166 Jf GABRIELLE STUART; OR,

beside the expiring remains of her little
one.

Oh, the lamentably base, the dreadfully
wicked cruelty of frail man !

All this time one half of the excursion
party were scouring the Craig, evidently inquest
of some one or something.

But it was evident the long continued
search was of an unsuccessful character.
Each scout ominously shook his head as he
returned periodically to M'M'Vulcan.

At length gloaming set in, and day was
gathering into night.

The party had made arrangements to
leave Ailsaa Craig, and had descended to
resume their boats, when a low whistle was
heard.

M 'Vulcan called a halt, and quietly ordered
a search to be made.

Suddenly a young man, a former member
of the Black Gang, made his appearance, and
asked to see the leader of the party, to whom
he communicated something in a whisper.

Cautiously the party reascended the Craig
by a different and more dangerous route than
that by which they had returned.

But when they rounded a cliff what a
startling sight met their eyes !

Seated in a commodious cave, brilliantly
lighted with pine-wood torches, were some
eight or ten revellers — singing, shouting, and
drinking.

In the post of honour sat Dennis Burke, the
Glasgow apothecary.

The cave presented a remarkable appearance.
It was formed of a number of detached
pyramids, towers, and arches of various
heights and forms, the whole resembling the
interior of what had once been a grand Gothic
building.

Far down below the sea boiled furiously,
but the sound of its dashing could
scarcely be heard above the din of the
revellers.

The entrance to the cave being large, and
no watch having been set by its inmates,
M'M'Vulcan and his men suddenly entered, and

ere he knew it each reveller was fast in the
iron grip of a strong man.

"^ What means this intrusion ?" shouted the
little apothecary, as he writhed in the grasp
of the blacksmith.

Handing the wretch to one of his men
M'M'Vulcan thus addressed the revellers : —

We have come here to arrest a murderer,
Dennis Burke. Permit him to go with us
quietly, and ye are all safe. Otherwise, each
man's blood is on his own head."

Is it agreed ? " asked one of the Black
Gang, approvingly.

Agreed ! " was the universal response.

It is remarkable how unanimous men can
be when their direct interests are concerned.
Had the request been made in the Boat
Kennel Hall, the Gang would have to a man
refused. Here, however, they complied.

He who complies against his will
Is of the same opinion still."

Then Dennis Burke, the wretched and now
ragged Dennis, was bound with a tow, and

led down the steep cliffs towards the place
where the boats lay moored.

That night the Glasgow apothecary was
safely locked up in a strong cell in Lord
Kennedy's Castle on Lady Isle.

CHAPTER XXXVIII.

MADNESS AND MURDER.

O thou eternal mover of the heavens.
Look with a gentle eye upon this wretch !
Oh, beat away the busy, meddling fiend,
That lays strong siege upon this wretch's soul,
And from his bosom purge this black despair.
See how the pangs of death do make him grin !
Disturb him not ; let him pass peaceably.

Shakespeare.

IT has sometimes seemed to me that persons
who assume madness are pretty sure intime
to bring about the reality. It is a
dangerous thing to dabble with. Attendants
in lunatic asylums, I often fancy, get smitten
infected, so to speak — with insanity. They
see so much imbecility around them that they
get wise, too wise, in their own conceit. And
the result ? Reader, experiment for thyself.

There is a species of conceited madness,
or self-glorifying insanity, or whatever name

by which it may go, engendered by worldly
success. A man " gets on " in the world ;
his most intimate friend does not. In time
the successful man firmly believes that his
success has been entirely attained by his own
ability, while he is quite as assured that his
friend's want of success was altogether caused
by his own stupidity. And to punish his
poor friend for his stupidity, the rich man
cuts him dead !

The insanity in such cases — and they are
numerous — consists in ignoring the fact that
all men cannot be successful ; while, when
we look around us on the " successful " man,
we are forced to come to the sad conclusion
that very frequently there has been more
luck " than ability in the " success."

We have been told on high authority that
the poor we have always with us. And it
must ever be the case. Without poverty
there could be no riches, without sin there
could be no virtue, without want of success
there could be no success.

But to our tale." Lord Kennedy had

assumed madness so long that he was now
just as nearly mad as he could be. Hitherto
there had been a method in his madness.
Now there was no method necessary.

First of all, the dreadful injuries he had
received at the Glasgow Tourney had to a
considerable extent affected his mind. Then
the devilish debauchery in which he had
long habitually indulged made matters worse.
Lastly, " the conscience that makes cowards
of us all " had almost filled up the measure
of complete insanity.

On the same evening that Pilot Park's
schooner left the port of Ayr, Dennis Burke
had been brought forcibly to the Lady Isle.
And Lord Kennedy sat gloating over the
punishment he would award to the old
sinner, his former murderous accomplice, if
not actually his trusted friend.

To screw his courage to "the sticking
place," his Lordship drank wine copiously —
until, in fact, he was utterly intoxicated,
without being helplessly so.

At length the apothecary was brought
before his former patron.

The meeting was tar from being a friendly
one. At first Lord Kennedy pretended not
to see the fawning, cringing, frightened
wretch that had been brought bound into
his presence.

At length the painful silence was suddenly
broken by his Lordship.

How now, old scorpion ? Thou thought
to elude me. Ha, ha ! " and Lord Kennedy
chuckled in fiendish style.

I had merely thought of mending my
ways, my Lord."

Mending thy ways, thou hell-hound !
Wert thou to continue to mend thy ways
until the crack o' doom there would still be
wanting an eternity of mending. Mending
thy ways, forsooth ! "

Mend thy ways, forsooth ? Mend thy
ways, forsooth I " croaked the raven perched
on the back of my Lord's chair.

That's right, my bonnie bird ; that's
right. Bring the cards, and show old Satan

how thou hast learnt to play while he has
been mending his ways."

And the foul bird hopped to a side table,
and seizing with his gallons a pack of cards
he brought them to his master.

Shuffle them well, my bonnie bird ;
shuffle them well."

And, leaning itself against a cushion, the
raven actually shuffled the cards, quite as
well as Lord Kennedy himself could have done.

"Now, I'll cut," said Lord Kennedy; "you
deal the first time."

And the bird dexterously dealt the pack
into four "hands."

The Lord and the bird played the first
hands at " Catch-threaten " without there
being any great superiority on either side,
excepting that the bird had gained by cards.
But when the raven lifted and looked over
its second hand it shrieked rather than
croaked —

I'm game, I'm game, I'm game ! "

Show me, foul bird, how thou art game 'I
I'm afraid thou lies," said his Lordship.

**rm game, rm game, I'm game!" And
the raven pitched down the knave, the
ten, the ace, and the king and queen of
trumps.

Mend thy ways, forsooth ! mend thy
ways, forsooth ! Ha, ha ! I'm game, I'm
game, I'm game."

Then the bird perched himself triumphantly
on the back of his master's chair.

Nay, nay, thou devil's bird ; come back
and play another game."

And a new game was begun. It ended
this time against the bird and in favour of
the Lord.

^^I'm game," said he.

"Thou lies," retorted the bird. ^' Mend
thy ways, forsooth ! mend thy ways 1 Thou
lies ! "

Thus they went on for hours, until Lord
Kennedy, towards night, got himself into a
state of drunken frenzy.

How now, thou old murderer!" exclaimed
he, addressing the sorely afraid apothecary,
who had long sat unheeded. " Thou once

more performed thy priestly functions in
Edinburgh ? Say, or I'll brain thee."

'^ I did," replied Dennis, as he gave a
dreadful shudder.

Ah, but thou saw not the blaze. I'm
told it was indeed a bonnie blaze."

The apothecary remained silent. He merely
shook his head.

But the cleanest bit of work thou ever
performed, old villian, was that thou accomplished
so well at Lille."

Again the apothecary shuddered. Had heat
last got a conscience ?

That is how I pay out all meddlers in
my affairs."

^' Let us change the subject, my Lord ; it
sickens me ! "

Nay, but we shall not change the subject,
Monsieur 1' Assassin."

"So be it," said Dennis meekly.

It is in such manner I treat all who prove
themselves faithless to me. Hearest thou,
old fiend?"

I do."

*^ And it is in like manner I will treat thee
for being a traitor."

But I have not been a traitor, my Lord.
Indeed, I have not."

Thou lies, thou lies, thou lies I "
shrieked the raven.

^^ Good bird, bonnie bird, truthful bird ! "
chuckled my Lord.

Confess at once," he continued ; " confess
at once, thou hoary-headed sorcerer, and I
may perchance remit part of thy well-merited
punishment. Confess at once ! "

I have nought to confess." And the
apothecary trembled.

Then the passion of Lord Kennedy became
ungovernable. He rose and staggered to the
wall, where hung his battle-axe. Taking
down the heavy weapon — and it was a gory
one — he rushed wildly towards the captive
apothecary.

The wretched old man fell on his knees
and begged piteously for mercy.

Spare me, my Lord, spare me ! and I
will confess all."

Too late, false priest, too late 1 " And
with one swinging blow of the battle-axe the
maddened man bespattered the wall with the
apothecary's brains.

The quivering body of the aged ruffian
Lord Kennedy actually spurned with his foot
as he exclaimed, with an excited chuckle, —

And tell thy master, Satan, whom thou
hast so long and so well served, that I hope
to see him soon, and assist him in tormenting
thee."

Alas, it was a sorry, a terrible jest. And
we have a saying that there is many a true
word spoken in jest.

'^ Hold ! " said a solemn voice. And from
the back of the huge fire-place Lord Kennedy,
with staring eyes, saw emerge the Bishop of
Alway in full canonicals.

His Lordship's face became distorted with
sudden terror. For a time he grinned and
jabbered idiotically.

Walking slowly towards Lord Kennedy,
the aged Bishop said —

Oh, wicked man, what hast thou done ?
See ! there is yet one other added to thy
long Hst of terrible crimes."

Ejaculating a fearful oath, his Lordship
fell to the floor stone dead.

We'll have roast bishop for supper ;
we'll have roast bishop for supper ! " croaked
the observant raven.

*alas, alas!" said the good Bishop to
Charles Montgomery and Guy Gordon,
who had just entered the apartment, "and
I also am too late ! I came to save the
life of one man, and I have seen the death of
two."

Every effort was made to restore animation,
but Lord Kennedy's time had come
and gone.

It was indeed a terrible sight to behold
those two ghastly corpses — the corpses of
two men who in common had wrought much
evil in their day and generation.

To both had been vouchsafed many natural
talents, and they had both been highly educated.
But they had never studied the

Scriptural expression — " To whom much is-given
of him much shall be required."

And with Lord Kennedy died the last of a
line of noblemen who had long fought well
for their King and country. But, thank
heaven, we have still some good Kennedy
left.

Chapter XXXIX.

LIKE AND UNLIKE REMINISCENCES OF

The Thistle o' Scotland is bearded au' strong,
An' blooms in the mountain air,
'Tis watered alone by the fountains o' song,

'Tis loved by the gallant an' fair ;
The Lily o' France is his sister divine.

And ! she is dear to me,
She blossoms where Beauty an' Chivalry shine.
The joy o' the gay au' the free.

The Thistle o' Scotland I love ! I love !

'Tis the emblem o' the brave,
But the Lily o' France, with her virginal glance,
Must grow on my lonely grave."

William Allan.

"Stow that there was no further necessity
-i-^ for Gabrielle remaining longer in France,
it was arranged that Charles Montgomery
and Guy Gordon should once more set out for
Paris, and return with the respective objects

VOL. II. N

of their affections. But with what different
feelings they set out on this occasion !

Instead of embarking on a voyage of danger
and difficulty, all the surroundings where
colour de rose.

The travellers knew, indeed, that Gabrielle,
like Mary Queen of Scots, had an intense
affection for France, as have almost all its
people. With something indeed like prescience
— as far, at animate, as my poor romance
is concerned — Mr Allan has, in the quotation
I have made at the head of this chapter,
given actual expression to the feelings of
Gabrielle Stuart.

For this and other able international productions,
rendered in undying verse, the
Scottish singer of Sunderland has made a
name that will live long after him.

This time the travellers shipped from Ayr,
and in time reached Bouloo-ne - sur - Mer.
Here they at that period found — as I myself
did not long ago — how very like the town of
Boulogne is to the town of Ayr — and yet

how very unlike, if my readers will permit
the paradox, and permit me at the same time
to be personal.

Before reaching the years of discretion —
if I ever have reached such years — I left
Auld Ayr, and its many natural as well as
acquired attractions and associations, to join
an Edinburgh newspaper, then owned by one
of the best men to which the town of Ayr
ever gave birth. Peace to his ashes ! David
Guthrie went to his long rest while he was in
the very prime of life, and when he was in the
midst of a great and good journahstic career.

Years and years had gone by. I had
spent many happy days, first in the capital
of Scotland, and then in the great Babylon
of London, until at length the whirligig of
time turned me round to la belle France,
where, in a certain northern seaport town,
in which I resided for several years, I found
a place so like and yet so unlike Auld Ayr,
that I cannot help giving you a blether
about it.

It seemed to me on first landing as if the
capital of Ayrshire had been carted holus-
bolus over the sea. Did my eyes deceive
me ? Here were the same grand shops and
the same inferior ones, the same poor and
proud inhabitants, the same dilapidated harbour,
the same 'shipping." Pardon me,
birthplace of my sires !

And here was the same midwife, with her
well-starched and Italian-piped mutch, carrying
home under her shawl her two ounces o'
butter, or, when it was a pound, carrying it
as openly as ever beadle did Kirk-Bible.
It was only when, near what I fancied was
the "new brig," I met the good lady with
her butter that I was brought to my senses.
"An' hoo are ye the day, Mrs Escutcheon ? "
I involuntarily asked. With a look of ineffable
disdain she said, "Pardon, Monsieur;
e'en suis tout tonne." And she did seem
utterly astonished. In my best Scotch I
apologised, blushed, and bolted.

But as to the characteristics of the French
town itself. In England there is almost nothing

done as it is done in Scotland. In France
almost everything is done Scotch-like. At
half-past five in the morning the big bell of
the French Cathedral — a bell that sounds
exactly like the one in the Ayr Town steeple
lets the working population know it is time
to get up ; while in another quarter of an
hour two minor bells — one tinkle, tinkling,
like that in the Newton steeple, and the
other wailing like the one in the Wallace
Tower — tell workmen and especially workwomen
(for in France the women work far
harder than the men) that they have only a
few minutes to spare if they would not be
locked out and fined.

Here the resemblance ceases. At half-past
six the sonorous Cathedral gong sounds loud
for prayers, and if you choose to open your
window you may look down on a long procession
of men, women, and children, headed
by hoarse-voiced priests and loud chanting
choristers in long white robes, wending slowly
to Notre Dame for morning mass.

But never mind the mass : we can do

without it. Let us go to the market, for
even at this early hour the market is in full
swing. Hundreds of women, in " braw white
Sunday matches," sit in the broad marketplace,
vending butter and eggs, and poultry
and potatoes, and strawberries and peaches,
and pots and pans, and jugs and patties, and
in fact everything that was ever seen in a
public market. Will monsieur choose to buy
a pair of fine ducks ? Will madame be good
enough to taste this butter ?

But we shan't buy anything here. Let us
hie to the fish market, which, like the one
that was wont to be in High Street, Ayr, is
occupied by clean-matched wives. But the
likeness ends there — excepting that, after the
fashion of the Ayr fishwives, the vendors ask
about four times as much money as they
expect for their fish.

The market is a perfect model of order and
cleanliness. The fish are all laid on pure
white marble slabs, so that there is no chance
of being swindled into buying ladies that
have no' seen the sea for sax weeks.

And there is actually a Queen of the
Market ! This is a rather beautiful young
woman, exquisitely dressed, and with a
mutch-border that goes round her head like
a halo — a border that has been got up with
an Italian iron not thicker than a pipe shank.
All the fishermen readily acknowledge the
superiority of Isabelle, and, of course, Isabelle
sells more fish to gentlemen than do any three
women in the market.

In my time, in the good town of Ayr, I
wonder how long a Queen of the Market and
her mutch would have lasted. I fancy that
in about ten minutes the Queen would have
been torn limb from limb, and the remnants of
her head-dress scattered to the four winds
of heaven.

Then, along the French quay, the wives
of the fishermen are busy putting the nets
on board the boats that win the barnes'
bread. Here are Boyd's smack tacking out
of the harbour, and John Macpherson's namby
getting lines on board, and the Sammy and
Tammy about to start for Arran.

But again the likeness soon gets lost. The
French fishing-boats are, as a rule, much
bigger than the Ayr ones, some of them
having small engines for hauling their nets,
while there may be as many as six-and-twenty
men on board. The names, too, of
the boats are mightily different. The St
Joseph, the St Peter, the Virgin Mary, Notre
Dame, Don de Dieu, are not at all Scotch ;
nor is the fact of the fishermen uncovering
and piously crossing themselves every time
they leave or enter the harbour a Scotch
custom, although it seems an earnest, as it
is an invariable, one in France.

Then come the meal-hours, which perhaps
more resemble those of the town of Galashiels
than Auld Ayr. Many hundreds of bareheaded
lasses crowd the thoroughfares,
clatter clattering along in their sabots, and
making the streets ring with merry laughter.
And then at eventide comes the eight
o'clock bell — that remnant of a shameful
French tyranny that was brought into England
in the eleventh century.

To William the First we owe the introduction
of the disgrace which is now (although
rarely kept up) a mere bell that gives notice
of eight o'clock at night.

But when it was the Curfew — really the
couvre feu, and actually meaning, ^' Put out
your fires and lights" — it not unfrequently
fell like a death-knell on families who had
invalids in their houses. The daughter had
perforce to attend in the dark to her sick and
aged father ; while in the same black darkness
the mother ministered to her dying son,
tearfully praying for a glint of God's morning
light that she might scan the pallid features
of her rapidly departing child.

And lastly, take the principal street, especially
on a Saturday night, and you find the
French likeness to Scotland most remarkable.
Jeannette and Jeannot are rigged out in their
clean, not their best, clothes ; for thes are
kept for Sunday. Jeannette is bareheaded
:fuit coy, and pretends not to care ; Jeannot
is jealous and in earnest ; but both seem
happy as they slowly perambulate the crowded

thoroughfares. Then comes the ","
that asks them to go home : —

My father he does tell.
That when wi' a lass himsel'
When he heard the ten-hour-bell,
It's hame he would riu."

Alas ! for the good example set by the wise
parent. The son goes on —

But such counsel I'll no take,
For to morning' I could wait ;
I'll sit by her till it's late —
Wi' her grey plaid on."

I suppose, but I have no experience, that
in this matter the Scotch and the French
are again alike. But once more the likeness
ceases. In Scotland, as the Saturday gets on
not a few at least of the male population also
get on ; " while you might walk about
France for a month without meeting one
inebriated individual. But perhaps the
Scotch have an advantage in another way.
In Scotland Jockey and Jenny meet on Sunday
at church ; in France they meet on Sunday
at the weekly concert or play, or on Sunday

night they trip it on the light fantastic toe
at a ducasse or a ball.

In Paris once more were Charles Montgomery
and Guy Gordon. As usual, Paris
was gay, although the " maiden " was going,
and Protestants were being either butchered
or buried in the Bastile.

Better to have been butchered than buried
in the Bastile. Men had been there for more
than thirty years — so long, indeed, that not
only was their identity forgotten, but the cause
of their incarceration utterly unknown.

Everywhere Tyranny, Cruelty and Barbarity
were being exercised in the names of Liberty,
Elite, and Fraternity.

Even at the present time it is painful to
see the mao-ic words cut in stone over the

o

gates of prisons, the doors of churches, and
the entrances to public buildings.

In prison Liberty is illustrated by incarceration
for the most trifling political offences ;
in church Elite is exhibited by gorgeously-dressed
priests praying for the repose of the

souls of the rich ; Fraternity is everywhere
demonstrated by want of brotherhood.

The two travellers were heartily welcomed
by Gabrielle and Jean Graham. Oh, how
the latter had longed to get back once more
to the " bonnie hills o' Scotland."

There was civil war in France, and even
women and children were being slaughtered.
In front of the house where Gabrielle lived
with her relations, a woman with a baby
at her breast had one night been cruelly
slain.

Next day an edict from the Palace of
Versailles recorded that " the State's officers
and men had been crowned with glory."

This raised Gabrielle's ire. On the subject
she penned the following lines : —

GLORY.
As upward flies the blood, to heaven high,

Of gentle woman and of little child,
As shrieking men in mortal agony lie,

Cursing their dreadful fate in ravings wild,
The sword hacks on and tells its bloody story —
*' That officers and men be crowned with glory ! "

Of course ! But what had she to do with war,
Poor woman, with the baby at her breast ?

What was the infant's crime? It could not mar
Either triumphant march or soldier's rest.

The sword must answer with its awful story —
That officers and men be crowned with glory ! "

"How long, Lord, how long? " crushed nations cry,
As maid and matron mourn the hapless fate

Of lover, husband, son, who murder'd lie
Under the earth within the Bastile's gate.

Shall war go on ? Oh, yes — the old, old story —

That kings may rule o'er subjects "crown'd with glory !""

And yet, woman-like Gabrielle wished to
stay as well as go ! At last she compromised
the matter with herself, and arranged that at
animate she would be buried among her
forbears in sunny France.

CHAPTER XL.

RICHELIEU.

''No age was spared, nor sex — nay, uo degree ;

Nor infants iu the porch of life were free ;

The sick, the old, who could but hope a day

Longer by Nature's bounty, not let stay ;

Virgins and widows, matrons, pregnant wives,

All died : 'twas crime enough that they had lives.'

Johnson.

POOR FRANCE ! In thy time thou hast
seen many strange sights, presented very
many sad scenes, and come through many
sanguinary difficulties. And dost thou think
thou hast settled down at last ? Let, at
animate, the wish that thou hast so settled
be father to the thought.

What a noble array of illustrious names
appear on the military roll of France !
Turenne, Vauban, Luxembourg, Patent,
Vendee, Boufflers, Crequi, and down to the
great Napoleon himself. Yet what a continual

carnage ! and what an eternal running
of blood !

I have said Paris was gay. But let no
one believe much in French gaiety. There
is always a smell of blood about Paris. It
has often enough, indeed, been a great human
shambles. Its river has oft been deeply
reddened by the life-blood of its citizens.

Marie de Medici, the queen-mother and
regent, was at the time ruling France with
a rod of iron — or, rather, the great Cardinal
Richelieu was doing so for her.

Richelieu, the crafty Richelieu ! was cruelly
oppressing the Protestants at home, while
abroad he was pretending to caress them.
The nobility had been humbled, and civil war
abounded. Paris was, in fact, in its normal
state of siege.

It was with some considerable difficulty
that our travellers got into Paris, but how
were they to get out ?

Along with a friend I was, in 1870, placed
in such circumstances in Paris when the
Prussians were seizing it with their iron grip.

At last, however, we were put out as
touches inutiles — useless mouths ! Then
Trochus, the infamous Trochus, caused the
demi-monde to be carted out of the city.
Ay, actually carted out like lumber, or the
contents of dust-bins ! They, too, were useless
mouths.

The men, who had made the wretched
women what they were, stolidly carted the
poor things outside the city gates. The
blood of the tiger-monkey was up, and he
was ready to tear his fellow limb from limb.
But import; the unfortunate women were
better treated by the Germans than they
would have been by their own countrymen.

But here was a terrible state of matters
for one of our four characters. The military
authorities decidedly objected to Gabrielle
Stuart, a descendant of the ancient family of
Guise, departing from Paris with three foreigners.
Mademoiselle Graham and Messieurs
might go, but their French countrywoman
must, for her own protection, remain in the
city.

Here was a painful diiemina. What was
to be done ? And the position was long and
painfully considered by the quartette.

In all the circumstances it was determined
that the Minister himself must be personally
approached. But how was this to be
accomplished ?

Gabrielle herself must approach Richelieu,
and ask the great Cardinal's permission to
permanently leave France. Such is the
paternal solicitude with which France has
ever looked after her beloved children !

It was a bitterly cold night when Gabrielle
drove through the almost deserted streets of
the French capital towards the Palace of the
Luxembourg, where she had been promised
an interview with Arian Jean du Plessis
Richelieu, Chief Minister of State.

The strong wind had blown out many of
the wretched street lamps, and Paris was in
comparative darkness.

Paris had been — as I have already indicated
— unusually " gay " during the day.

VOL. 11. C)

The Scottish "maiden" — the "improved''
machine, the guillotine, had not yet been
invented — had been hard at work on innocent
men and women ; while children had
writhed on the tops of the spears of the
brutal soldiers.

The streets had been drenched with the
blood of the Protestants. From the wine-shops
could occasionally be heard the sound
of the " Carmagnole," that most loathsome
and savagely ferocious of all barbarous
anthems.

The "female furies," drunk with wine and
blood, had been dancing wildly to the strains
of the horrible tune. But the French mob
sings and dances, when its blood is up, to
anything, from love tunes to incitements-murder
odes.

Did they not hang Foulon to the lively
sounds of " Ca ira ? " Did they not drag the
King and the Queen out of the Palace of
Versailles, all the while singing the delicious
refrain ? Did they not take Marie Antoinette
to her death to the same sweet tune ? And,

but recently, did they not shoot, in cold
Ijlood, the Archbishop of Paris and other
'' hostages," while their death-shrieks were
drowned by the soul-inspiring sounds of the
grand ^' Marseillaise ? " " Marchez, archon,
mes compagnons ! "

Gabrielle Stuart shuddered as she sadly
exclaimed, "Alas! my poor, unfortunate
country ! How long, Lord, how long '. "

Reaching the Palace, Gabrielle, after some
formal difficulties had been got over, was
ushered into the presence-chamber of the
Cardinal.

Richelieu, apparently in deep abstraction,
was seated in a gorgeously-furnished apartment,
and his rich robes of office literally
sparkled with precious stones. The great
Cardinal, although far from being a self-aggrandise,
was most extravagant in his
personal living and surroundings. 'i'hat
night, too, he was to meet and endeavour
to appease a number of the deeply-offended
nobles of France.

He had been a soldier, then an ecclesiastic,

and was now actually absolute ruler of
France, from the Pas du Calais to the Alpes
Maritimes.

But it was said he was rapidly losing
power, and without power Richelieu could
not have lived.

"Power! 'tis the favourite of li'ods,
Who look with smiles on men who can aspire
To copy them."

But what power acquired by guilt has ever
done material good ?

Suddenly noticing Gabrielle, Richelieu rose,
and made a low bow. He seemed much
struck with the remarkable beauty of the
young woman who had come before him.

Motioning her to a seat, he said '' So, I
hear thou wouldst leave thy native country
and go to cold Scotland 'I "

I would, my Lord."

Thy reason for so wishing ? "

'^I am the betrothed of a Scottish nobleman,
and would return with him."

'^ What ! a beggarly Scot ! when thou
nights, with thy name and thy beauty,

aspire to the hand of the first nobleman
in France."

'nay, my Lord," retorted Gabrielle, asher
cheeks flushed with indignation ; '' nay,
my Lord, my affianced is as noble as the
noblest of this fair country."

^' Ah, I see ! I see ! Thou hast the hotblood
of the lovely Marie Stuart coursing in
thy veins."

And the Cardinal looked at Gabrielle with
a bitter but proud smile on his care-furrowed
features.

*'Ah, well," continued he — and the sentence
is now a French proverb — '' Les femmes
]peuvent tout, parce quelle government les
persons qui government tons."

And the Cardinal was right. Women can
do everything, because they rule those who
command everything.

Touching a gong at his side brought in a
secretary, to whom the Cardinal gave instructions
that a safe pass through France was
to be permitted to Gabrielle and her three
companions.

"One fciAOur more, my Lord ! " said Gabrielle
sinking on one knee.

"What! Art thou not contented?" he
demanded somewhat angrily.

"Oh, my Lord, wilt thou but give the
word, and stay the dreadful bloodshed that
disgraces this fair city ? "

Oh, I find I have been wrong in granting
thy first request so hurriedly. Thy Scotch
upbringing has doubtless made thee a follower
of the accursed John Knox ! "

And the Cardinal's broad brow darkened.

"Nay, nay, my Lord ; the faith of my forefathers
is still mine — thanks be to God and
the Blessed Virgin ! "

Good ! And see that thou retained it in
its strict integrity."

I pray God I may ! " exclaimed Gabrielle,
as she fervently clasped her hands.

"Amen!" said the wily statesman, as he
motioned Gabrielle to rise from her kneeling
"Arise, maiden, and depart. Thou
hast attained more than I at first intended
to grant."

"But, my Lord, wilt thou extend thy
strong arm to help my unhappy and misguided
countrymen and countrywomen ? Alas,
alas ! they are being shorn down like corn
before the sickle I "

'• Nous verrons, nous verrons ! " hastily
exclaimed Richelieu.

Ah, that "We shall see, we shall see."
It seldom or never comes about.

And Gabrielle was suddenly ushered out
of the presence-chamber. Soon, again, she
was driving through the dark streets of
Paris, thinking on the cunning statesman
who cared no more for E/Oman Catholic than
he did for Protestant or Mohammedan.

Horror upon horror ! Here — where are
now the Champs Elysees, the Elysian Fields,
were the female furies and the tiger-monkeys
dancing round a great bonfire, and
shouting, " Ca ira ? Les aristocrats a la
lanterne 1 Ah, Ca ira ! Les aristocrats seront
peneus" (Hang the aristocrats to the lamj)-
posts.)

"Holy Virgin!" prayed Gabrielle, "wilt
thou intercede for this poor people I ' Father,
forgive them, for they know not what they
do'"

And even at the present day the tiger-monkey
and the female furies are ready to
repeat the programme of two hundred years
ago.

It is not yet a dozen years since they
showed themselves far worse than they had
ever been before. " Ca ira ! ah, Ca ira ! "
In my humble opinion there is an actual, as
well as a metaphorical, skeleton in every
cupboard in Paris.

CHAPTER XLI.

jean's sorrowful' birthday.

*' And lie forgot the stars, the moon, and sun ;

And lie forgot the bine above the trees ;
And lie forgot the dells whose waters rim ;

And he forgot the chilly aiitnmu breeze.
He had no knowledge when the day was done.

And the new morn he saw not ; but in peace

Hung over his sweet sister evermore,

And lov'd her memory to the very core."

Keats.

T)OAE.DING Pilot Park's schooner at
^ Boulogne-sur-mer, our travellers soon
found themselves in that rough predicament
so oft brought about in the "chops of the
Channel." There was a strong sour-wester,
and the little vessel strained and laboured
nvucli. But there was littk^- or no danger,
and Park was an accomplished sailor.

Touching his list respectfully to Gabrielle
and Tenn Graham, the skipper said roughly
but kindly, —

In my cabin I have a poor Ayrshire boy,
who was sent with me to sea for his health.
But I fear me, hides, he is dying fast. For
the sake of Him who died for us, wilt thou
see hmi ladies, and give him some consolation
ere the poor boy crosses the border land that
lies between Time and Eternity ? "

And the gruflp old tar suddenly dashed
away a tear that had risen unbidden to his
eye.

Willingly Gabrielle and Jean entered the
little berth, in the ^'bunk" of which lay a
lovely boy, pale as Carrara marble, and from
whom life was ebbing fast. Tenderly kissing
the pretty boy, Gabrielle said, —

What, O what, can I do for you, my good
lad? Confide in me, and have whatever solace
I can Five."

It's little you can do for me," he feebly
said. But listen to my story. And he
went on : —

It's two years ago this very day since we
had such a merry night of it in my father's
house at home. He was a farmer in a sma

way lip among the hills above the Doon ; and
had the lands on a good tack, and was thought
a richer man than any of his neighbours.

There was only Jean and me o' the
family ; and I'm thinking nobody was ever
so happy or well cared for as I was a' the
time I was young. For my mither would let
me want for nothing, and took me on her
knee and auld me long histories o' Bruce
and Wallace ; and strange adventures with
the warlocks ; and sang me old songs, forbye
reading me the grand old stories out o' the
Bible, about the killing o' Goliath and the
meeting o' King Saul and the Witch of Ensor.

"Jean was a kind of mither to me, too;
for she was five years older, and spoilt me as
much as she could. She was so bonny, it
was a pleasure to look at her ; and she helpit
in the dairy, and often milkit the cows herself'
; and in the winter nights sat by the side
o' the bleeding' fire, and turned the reel, or
span, keeping' time wi' some lang ballad about
cruel Ranked coming in and killing Lady
Margaret ; or the ship that sailed away t(v

Norway wi' Sir Patrick Sense, and sank
^vl a' the crew.

The schoolmaster came up, when he was
bible, to give me lessons ; and as the road was
laugh, and the nights Ave re sometimes dark,
it soon grew into the common custom for him
to come up over the hills on Friday, when the
school skailt, and stay till the Monday mornings.
He was a vouno- man who had been
intended for a minister, lout the college
expenses had l)een too much, and he had
settled down as the parish teacher at Minnie
; and we always called him Dominie
Blair.

All the week through, Ave looked for the
Dominie's coming. Jean and I used to go
and meet him at the bend o' the hill, Adhere
he came off from the high road, and he began
this lessons to me in Botany the moment Ave
turned towards home. I noticed that he aye
required the specimens that grew at the
side o' the burns that ran down valleys a
good Away ois ; but I Alas Avery Again of my
running, and used to rush doAvn the gully

and gather the flower or weed, and overtake
the two before they had walked on a
mile.

'^ So you see, Lady, it was nae long before
it was known all over the country side that
Dominie Blair was going to marry my sister
Jean. Everybody thought it a capital match,
for Jean had beauty and silver, and Mr Blair
was the cleverest man in the county, and had
the promise of the mastership of a school in
the East country, wi' ninety pounds a-year.

'^ Our house grew happier now than ever ;
and when Jean's birthday came round, there
was a gathering from far and near to do
honour to the bonniest and kindest lass in
all the parish. The minister himsel' came
up on his pony, and drank prosperity to
the young folks at the door ; and inside at
night there was a supper for a' the neighbours,
and John Chalmers played on the fiddle, and
a' the rest o' us sang songs, and danced and
skirled like mad ; and at last, when Jean's
health was drunk, wi' mony wishes for her
happiness, up she gets and lays her arms

round my auld mither's neck, and bluest
out into a passion o' tears ; and when she
recovered herself, she said she would never
be so happy anywhere else, and that weel or
ill, dead or alive — in the body or in the
spirit — she would aye come back on that
niofht, and look in on the hame where she
had spent sae sunshiny a life.

Some o' them laughed at the wild affection
she showed ; and some took it seriously,
and thought she had tied herself down by
over solemn a bargain ; but in a wee while
the mirth and frolicking gazed on as before,
and a' the company confessed it was the
happiest evening they had ever spent in

their lives."

• • • . •

Here a somewhat lengthened pause took
place. Tears welled into the poor boy's eyes
as he continued, —

Do you ken Loch Luart, mem ? — a wee bit
water that stretches across between the
Lureloch and the Breeze ? Ah ! the grand
shadows that pass along it when you stand

on the north side and look over to the hill.
There's a great blackness settled upon the
lace o't, as if the sun had died away from the
heaven together, till when he comes round
the corner o' the mountain, a glorious procession
o' sunbeams and colours take its
course across the whole length o' the water,
and a' the hill sides give out a kind o' glow,
and at last the loch seems all on fire, and you
can scarcely look at it for the brightness.

A small skiff was kept at the side, for it
saved the shepherds miles o' the distance
between our house and Shallow. One
Friday, soon after the merry meeting at
Jean's birthday, she set off as usual to meet
Mr Blair. How far lie went, or where she
met him, nobody could tell, for nothing was
ever seen or heard o' them from that day to
this ; only the skiff on Loch Luart was found
keel up, and the prints o' feet that answered
to their size were seen on the wet bank.

"Nothing wad persuade my mother for
many a day that she wasna coming back.
When she heard a step at the door, she used

to flush up with a great redness in her cheek,
and run to let her m. Then when she saw
it was a stranger she left the door open and
came back into the kitchen without saying' a
word.

"• My whither spoke very little, but sometimes
he seemed to forget that Jean was-taken
away, and called for her to come to
him in a cheery voice, as he used to do ; and
then, wi' a sudden shake o' his head, he
remembered that she was gone, and passed
away to his work as if his heart was broken.

'' And other things came on to disturb him
now. He grew careless about everything
that happened, and the horses and carts
were seized for debt, and a' the cows except
two were taken away, and the place began to
go to wrack and ruin ; and at last Jean's
birthday cam' round again."

'' But we never spoke about it the whole
day long, though none of the three thought
of anything else. My father pretended to
be busy in the field ; my mother span — never

letting the thread out o' her hand ; and as
for me, I wandered about the hills from early
morning, and only came back when the dark
night began.

All through the lengthening hours we
sat and never spoke ; but sometimes my
father put a fresh supply of seats upon the
lire, and stirred it up into a baize, as if it
pleased him to see the great sparkles flying
up the lum.

At last my mother, all of a sudden,
ceased her spinning, and said, ' Hark ! do
you no' hear somebody outside ? ' And we
listened without getting up from our seats.
We heard a sound as if somebody was
slipping by on tip-toe on the way to the
byre ; and then we heard a low, wailing
sound, as if the person was trying to restrain
some great sorrow ; and immediately we
heard the same footstep, as if it were lost in
snow, coming up to the house.

My mither stood up wi' her hand
stretched out, and looked at the window.
Outside the pane — where the rose-tree lias

Wot. 11. P

grown sae thick it half hides the lower half

we heard a rustling, as if somebody was

putting aside the leaves, and then, when a

sudden flicker o' the flame threw its light

upon the casement, we saw the faint image

o' a bonny pale face — very sad to look on —

wi' lang tresses o' yellow hair hanging

straight down the cheeks, as if it was

dripping wet, and heard low, plaintive sobs ;

but nothing that we could understand.

My mither ran forward, as if to embrace

the visitor, and cried, ' Jean ! Jean ! let

me speak to you, my bairn ! ' But the flame

suddenly died away in the grate, and we saw

nae thing mair. But we a knew now that

Jean had been drowned in Loch Luart, and

that she minded the promise she had made

to come and see the auld house upon her

birthday."

• • • • •

Gabrielle Stuart and Jean Graham swept
copiously, but the poor boy grew calmer and
calmer as he proceeded, —

*' So Jean was drowned, ye see, and

could put foot inside — for a' they can dois
to look in and see what's doing at the
auld fireside through the window. But even
this was a comfort to my mither ; and as I
saw how glad it made her to have this
assurance that she wasna forgotten, I made
her the same promise that Jean had done on
her birthday : ill or weel, happy or miserable
in the body or in the spirit — I wad find my
way to the auld house, and gie her some sign
that I loved her as I had always done.

"And now I ken what they're doing as if
I was at hame. They're sitting sad and
lonely in the silent kitchen. My father puts
fresh seats upon the grate, and watches their
tame as it leaps and crackles up the fireplace
; and my mother — Ah 1 I see ! she's
spinning, spinning as if to keep herself from
thinking — and tears are running down her
face ; and I see the cheery fire, and the
heather bed in the corner, and the round
table in the middle, and the picture o'
Abraham and Isaac on the wail, and my
fishing-rod hung up boon the mantelpiece.

and my herding-staff, and my blue bonnet.
O, for another look at the fire and the warm
cosy room, and my father's white head, and
my pair auld mither's been !

'^ I see them a' again. O, mither 1 turn
your face this way, for you see I've kept my
word ; and we're faith here. Jean's beside
me, and very cold — and we arena come
in."

The boy watched eagerly for about a
a minute, still gazing intently, and then,
with a joyous scream, he exclaimed :

^'She sees me, — she sees me! Did na ye
hear her cry ? O mither, mither ! tak' me
to your arms, for I'm chilled wi' the saltwater,
and nothing will make me warm
again."

Then the poor boy departed to ^^ where
beyond those voices there is peace."

Reader, I have here given you an over-true
tale. Would to God that I could blot its

reality out of my sad memory ! But it is not
given us to choose for ourselves : we are in
higher hands.

In a few days afterwards, without any more
startling adventure, our four travellers found
themselves once more safely back in Auld
Scotland, '' the land o' the brave and the
free."

And with them, with all due care and
respect, they took the body of the poor lad
who had suffered so much earthly affliction.

At the door of the small farm-house above
the Doon stood the woe-begone parents,
waiting patiently for the body of their
beloved boy.

And the old woman wailed, ^' We knew
he would come ; we saw them faith, hand-in-hand,
in the gloaming' o' Jean's sorrowful'
birthday."

CHAPTEE Xlii

SUPERSTITION.

There are homesteads which have witnessed deeds
That battle-fields, with all their banner'd pomp,
Have little to compare with. Life's great play
May, if it have an actor great enough,
Be well performed upon a humble stage."

Marston.

". The gates of Hell are open night and day ;
Smooth the descent, and easy is the way."

Dresden.

I^HAT little island, Lady Isle, seven miles
off the coast of Ayr, has in its time seen
many a strange sight. It has been the scene
of births and deaths, marriages and funerals,
merry rejoicing, and foul murders.

To this day on the island may be seen a
little stone that marks the grave of the Glasgow
apothecary who was murdered by Lord
Kennedy. There are, besides, not a few

quaint relics of bygone days. Yet the island
is hardly ever visited, excepting it may be
by boys in search of rabbits, with which the
place was wont to abound.

The gossips had gathered together at
Greenanan. Mrs M^Mutchkin was doing a
roaring trade. There had been much excitement
all day in the parish. It had been
occasioned by the funeral of Lord Kennedy,
which had taken place at midnight the
previous evening.

Excitement, whether occasioned by a birth,
a marriage, or a death, ever leads — in Scotland
at all events — to heavy drinking.

It is not long since — perhaps, indeed, the
practice prevails still in the West of Scotland
a child, as soon as it came into the world,
had a little hot whisky administered to it.
Then if the child happens to live and get
married, the marriage festivities are carried
on mainly by means of whisky. And when
the child dies of old age its body is rubbed
over with whisky ; while the mourning relatives

console themselves with copious draughts
of the same undiluted beverage.

What an awful' man my Lord Kennedy
must hae been," said the wise Mr Mucklewut
in a hoarse whisper.

Nae coot, nae coot," responded Tam
M' Vulcan ; "but it's by wi' him noo, it's by
wi' him noo ; leave him alone."

"I tell ye, man," Mucklewut went on,
*' John Pass and four other fishermen were
watching Park's schooner as she was bringing
over the corpse frae the Lady Isle, and they
saw following in her wake a chariot of fire,
with the Devil himsel' acting as driver."

Oh," struck in Tam, " I hae heard ye tell
a story something like that before, but I
don't believe it at a'."

Nevertheless, it's true," contended his
friend — " as true's death."

I thought ye aye believed that the Devil
had been killed dead on Hallowe'en night''
said Tam satirically.

O, but, like ony other potentate, nae
doubt he had an immediate successor. Weel,

as I was saying', this fiery chariot followed
the schooner to the shore and then suddenly
disappeared."

'^ I don't believe a single word o't," said
Tarn, doggedly.

'rand mair than that," continued the
other, " at times eight horses could draw
the hearse, and extra ones had to begotten.
The pair horses, too, were dreadfully
frightened, and it took many strong arms to
keep them frae bolting clean wa."

Ay, it's quite true," chimed in Mrs
M'Mutchkin ; "and the lightning flashed
fearfully, and the thunder rolled awfully.
It was, indeed, a fearful' night."

It was, indeed," said Mucklewut, " an
awful' night. There can be nae moral
doubt that my Lord has gave to the ill
place, where he'll meet his auld friend
Maggie Osborne."

Whisht, whisht, man!" exclaimed
Tam, " It's nae business o' ours, is it ? Let
us hope there's no sic a place in existence."

'ray, but there is, Tam' said Mucklewut,

sagely, 'rand we'll a' soon ken that tae our
cost, I tell ye."

Speak for yersel'/' said Tarn. '^ Speak
for yersel', my man''

And I hear," again put in the landlady,
that Miss Gabrielle is coming' back frae
France immediately, and that we may soon
expect' a braw wedding in Alloway Kirk."

*' Ay, ay," sighed Tarn, " that's the way o'
the world. Funerals and weddings, weddings
and funerals. Lord help us ! "

'sit's a wonderful' pinnacle to climb, isn't
it ? Only fancy a bit beggar lassie becoming'
Countess o' Eglinton," continued the envious
landlady. '' Set her up ! "

'but it's said," contended Tam, 'that the
lassie has guide fluid — ay, even royal fluid —
running' in her veins."

"The auld, auld story," broke in the
woman. " When we come in tae a winds'
we can a rake up some sort o' fluid, royal
or otherwise."

Quite right. Lucky," said Mucklewut,
quite right. But where, I wonder, did royal

fluid come frae ? Are we no' a' descended
frae Adam and Eve ? "

'but now, guide," said the hostess
more seriously than usual, " it's high time
ye were gain wa' tae yer ain hames. Ye
ken it's aye me that gets into trouble withe
midwives ; and frae what I hae heard I
would be the least surprised to see them
faith walk in here in less than a minute's
tune.

"God forbid," exclaimed M'Yulcan and
Mucklewut simultaneously ; and the cronies
finished their liquor and left hurriedly.

"You tak' my advice," said Mrs M'Mutch-
kui, addressing her maid of all work, "you
tak' my advice, my lassie."

"And what may that be?" asked the
somewhat astonished maiden.

Ye saw they twa married sumphs that
hae just gave wa' hame ; diana ye see them
plain enough ? "

'Deed did I ; but what about M'Yulcan
and Mucklewut ? "

Well, ye see, lassie, it's just this. Ye're

getting' married soon. Aye keep the upper
hand o' yer man, as Luckie M' Vulcan and
Luckie Mucklewut keep theirs. They ken
their matrimonial books fu' brawly."

'' Ay, ay ; but I cinna fancy my lad Jock
will require ony upper hand. Ye ken fine
he's a douce chap."

Douce devil ! Ye're a stupid tawpie.
They're a' douce enough when there courting' ;
but, my faith, they court little after the
minister's tongue ties that particular knot
that he could untie wi' his teeth."

Well, mistress, I daresay what ye say is
worth serious consideration."

Ye daresay it's worth serious consideration
! " And Mrs M'Mutchkin contemptuously
re-echoed the words. " Hae I no' had
sad experience ? Had I no keepit down my
ain man — thank quickness he's in a better
world ! — ay, had I no' keepit him down wi'
faith tongue and hand, I wadna hae had the
life o' a fox-terrier bitch."

Oh, ye tamed him then, mistress ; ye
tamed him ! "

I should rather think I did — peace talis
banes ! "

'' Ay, ay," grumbled the maid-of- all work
to herself; "ay, ay; it's easy saying' noo
Peace to his banes,' but mast folk in this
parish ken that mony a sir bane Robin
M'Mutchkin had afore he departed frae this
weary world."

What's that ye're saying', " asked the
quick eared mistress.

^' Nae thing ; nae thing very particular, at
operate. Just cracking' wi' myself."

In future, see that ye speak foot plainly —
mair especially when ye're getting' sic guide
advice frae ane wha kens a' about the awful
horrors o' housekeeping."

Widow M'Mutchkin had evidently been, as
far as her husband was concerned, well
described by Pope as

A bosom serpent, a domestic evil,
A night invasion, and a mid-day devil."

Mandarin' hame that night ]\PA'^ulcan and
Mucklewut could not, for tlieli- united lives.

make out why Mrs M'Mutclikin had so
unceremoniously hurried them off. She had
very seldom done so before.

'' I have it ! " exclaimed Tam suddenly.
'' I'm sure I saw, as we passed the yard of
the hostelry, the gray pony belonging to the
minister of Minnyshant."

Tam had hit it exactly. The parish
minister of Minnyshant had been '* enjoying
himself" in Mrs M'Mutchkin's " best room."
Hence the strong hint to go, and hence the
good advice to the maid-of-all-work.

The minister, who had doubtless been
fuddling as usual — he could addle, too, for
fiddling and fuddling go hand and hand —
wanted to get away without being seen, and
consequently had enlisted the good services
of the hostess, not only to get out of the
house quietly, but unobserved.

Now, Tam had been brought up at Minnie
and the parish minister had not
unfrequently rebuked him for so continually
endeavouring to quench the inherited spark
that Tam had in his throat.

Let US gang back and beard the aiild
clerical sinner," said Tarn.

But when they did get back they found
the minister of Minnyshant so helplessly
"fou" that they forbore from jeering him
and let him trot on his drunken way. .

Yet M 'Vulcan could not help giving his
former pastor one parting shot. So he
shouted —

*^ After a', minister, there's no sae muckle
odds o' folk ! "

*' Wha said there was ? and wha may you
be ? " hiccuped the good old man, as he reeled
in his saddle.

You've often said it ; and I'm Tam
M 'Vulcan, an auld parishioner."

And Tam and his friend turned their steps
homeward.

But next week (Tam being a bit of a
rhymester) the following song, which he
had meanwhile composed, was sung with
much gusto in the ]parlour of Lucky
M'Mutchkin :—

MUCH ALIKE.

They ca' me drunken Tarn ;

That may a' be true ;
I neither beg nor steal,

Although I'm sometimes fou.
I'm neither lame nor lazy,

I pay for a' I drink ;
And there's no sae muckle odds o' folk

As ane wad thiid-c.

It's just the other night

I had got a drappy,
When coition' hame's I might,

Fou and unco happy,
I met the parish minister —

He blamed me for the drink ;
But there's no sae muckle odds o' folk

As ane wad think.

Ae night since, in the toon,

I met the reverend man,
Stoitin' frae an inn

As fou as he could stan'.
I drew up to his side.

And wi' a cunning wink,
Said — " There's no sae muckle odds o' folk

As ane wad think ! "

This bit of rhyming humour — which is
really believed to be the production of an

Ayr artisan — at last became rather popular,
and ultimately some good-natured friend sent
a copy of it to the minister of Minnyshant.
The result was that the minister was sadly
ashamed of his conduct. Ever afterwards the
good man eschewed indulgence in intoxicating
beverages, and became a consistent preacher
and practiser of temperance.

Thus I claim that Tarn M'Yulcan was the
first successful lecturer on teetotalism ! Yet,
even with all our lecturing, I often wonder
whether we are any better now than we
were then.

VOL. II.

CHAPTER Xlii

THE NIGHT WATCH.

'' Here are we met, three merry boys —

Three merry boys, I trow are we I "

Hums.

How pale appear
Those clay-cold cheeks where grace and vigour glow'd !
O dismal spectacle ! " Smollett.

A SCARE had taken place at Alloway. In
the Auld Kirkland the graves of the
dead were being desecrated. God knows,
in these unlawful times there were a sufficient
number of bodies to be had for anatomical
purposes ; but the Faculty, then in its infancy,
wanted the remains of those who had died of
specific diseases.

Consequently resurrectionising became too
common. Then the relatives of the dead
became angry. By mutual consent, where
it was necessary, the male parishioners took

their turn in keeping watch over the graveyards
after dark.

One nio^ht it had l3een arranged that the
three men who were on duty in Alio way
Kirkland until midnight should at that time
be relieved by Tarn M 'Vulcan, Jock ,
and Tam Glen, who would make an
occasional patrol of the graveyard from midnight
until six o'clock in the morning.

There can be no doubt that a special kind
of courage is required for such work. Men
who can boldly face any sort of danger in the
battle-field or on the stormy sea are frequently
afraid to pass through a churchyard at night,
and more frequently are much more afraid at
a late hour to face their wives !

Accordingly the three worthies — "three
merry boys, I trow," were they — determined,
in spite of the remonstrances of their respective
spouses, to merrily spend the early part
of the night in Luckie M^Mutchkin's.

The better halves of the three watchers
named were known to swear the breeks."
In fact, the poor men were henpecked. Of

Tarn Glen, indeed, it was said that he ran his
neck senselessly into the matrimonial noose ;
and it was farther said to be concerning him
the following rhyme was composed — which
doubtless led to the idea of the song, " The
Laird o' Cocked " (1) : —

TAM GLEN O' DUXURE.^

Air — The Laird o' Cocked.

Tarn Glen o' Dnmire was piiir and was duddy.
AVi' maudlin' and drinking' this mind was aye muddy;
When he took a notion lie wad hae a Avise,
Altho' she should plague him the rest o' his life.

Just close by Noontide a strong simmer did dwell,
For muckin' his byre he thocht she'd dae weel —
Macnish's ae doctor (tho' blind' o' an ere,
And a penniless lass) had a lang pedigree.

Then Tarn said, "I'll try, though I rue it for life ;

My loose is untidy for want o' a wife."

So he donned his best coat and his plush breeks sae blue,.

AVi' a great hole aliint where his sark-tail hung through.

lie mounted his donkey, and aff did he ride
Until he cam' near to the ford at Noontide,
Where donkey grew fractious and dour as the deil —
lie up wi' his ash plant and feathered him weel.

Locally pronounced " Debonair. "

Wi' dicit o' persuasion the cuddy was cross'd,
Althouirli near the middle Tain thocht he was lost.
In future," quo' Tanii, '• I'll just fry other fish,
And be carried across by Miss Maggie Macnish."

Tanii clapped at the door ; Meg was miickiu' the swine :
Oh, wdiat wants the body at sic a like time '? "
She thunipit the grumphies, to gar thin stan' round';
Syne unkiltit her coates an' cam' wa' down.

Tanii had little to say, but he ne'er boo'd sae low ;
And what was his errand he sure let her know.
Meg died a bit skip, cock'd her ere wd' a stare,
*' Fcth, Tarn, I'll gae wi' ye the niclit to Duuure I "

The hail country-side rais'd its hands in amaze ;
Ilk wife had her say, and, my sang, 'twasna praise ;
But men said, wi' a wink — and tlicy much better ken —
Meg Macnish did quite right when she wedded Tarn
Glen."

No doubt she did. Tarn's house and
haudin', from having been the scoff of the
country side, soon became famous for its
tidiness. The union was a gain both to Tarn
hind Meg. All Tam lost was his liberty !

Tam Glen was, like not a few of his countrymen,
considered an expert at extemporaneous
prayer. I here give a specimen of one of his
Sunday night effusions: —

*' We particularly thank Thee for Thy gi-eat
rudeness to our Meg ; ye ken she has been a
glide wife to me, and a truly strict mother to
the weans. Thanks, too, for yer attention to
wee Meg, and that it ever cam until your
head to tak' ony thought o' sic a useless bow-wow
as her (alluding to a little girl of his who
had been miraculously saved from drowning).
For Thy mercies' sake — for the sake o' Thy
pair sinful' creature, now addressing Thee in
their ain shilly-shally way, and for the sake
o' mair than we dour weel name to Thee —
like mercy on our Rob. Ye ken yourself' he's
a wild mischievous callant, and thinks nae
mair o' committing sin than a dog does o'
licking' a dish. But put Thy hook until his
nose, and Thy bridle until his gab, and gar
him come back to Thee wi a jerk that he'll
no forget the largest day he has to live,
Diana forget pair Jamie, who's far wa frae
us this night. Keep Thy arm o' power about
him, and heh, sirs, I wish ye wad endow him
wi' a little spunk and medium, to act for
his sell ; for if ye cinna, he'll be but a rachel

i' this world, and a back-sitter in the next.
Thou hast added ane to our family (one of
his sons had just married against his approbation).
So has been Thy will. It wad
never ha' been mine. If it is of Thee, do
Thou bless the connection ; but if the full
hath done it out o' carnal desire, against a'
reason and credit, may the could wind of
adversity settle in his habitation."

As the dull sound of twelve o'clock boomed
in the far distance from the Auld Tower of
Ayr the three " watchers " entered Alio way
Kirkland and relieved their three friends
who were seated comfortably in the vestry
where a blazing fire burned, and where there
was no lack of " refreshments."

It was a dreary night. The " bars o'
Ayr " roared hoarsely ; the wind howled
dolefully round the Auld Kirk, and soughed
sighing among the trees ; the troubled sea
seemed to strike itself spitefully against the
rugged rocks of Greenanan ; while the pale
moon struggled occasionally through the

drifting clouds, and seemed to look . doAvn
with melancholy pity on the dismal scene
below.

The three men spoke but in whispers. A
solemn dread had taken possession of each
of them; they were awe struck.

Heard ye nought ? " asked M 'Vulcan in a
hoarse tone of voice.

Let's unsheathed our swords, and go round
the kirkland at once."

Accordingly they did so, but without
finding living being.

I'm sure," said Tam Glen, " I saw the
shadow o' a man behind the tall tombstone
in the east corner o' the kirkland."

A' imagination, Tam ; a' imagination.
Ye're excited, man ; ye're excited ! "

So help ," began Glen, solemnly,

when he was quickly interrupted.

Diana swear, cinna swear ! D'ye no
ken ye're within the sacred wa's o' the
kirk ? It's awful' to think on."

I often wonder if the clergy now-a-days
have any idea of the difference of opinion

that has come over the people regarding
the " sacredness" of the ministers themselves
and of their churches. I don't think they
have. But it is high time they had. If
disputed doctrine does not soon give way
to decent denouncement of many public
crying evils, the clergy will be left far behind
in the great human race of civilisation.

Once more the three watchers went forth
into the night. This time with greater
success.

There, carrying on their shoulders what
seemed to be a dead body, were three men
just about to clamber with their burden over
the outer gate of the churchyard.

Slay the desecrating wretches ! " shouted
M'Vulccin, and they rushed madly on the
frightened resurrectionists.

Hastily dropping their unlawful burden,
the despoilers of the grave began to climb
over the wall, but one was caught quid
carefully secured in the vestry. His two
companions got off.

Then the corpse — that of a lady buried on
the previous day — was placed on the vestry
table, which was moved close to the door
by which the minister usually entered the
church.

After consultation it was decided that
M'M'Vulcan and Mucklewut should take
the wretched man to the village, and
lock him up in the smithy, while Glen
would remain with the body until their
return.

Tam Glen Alas not without pluck. Still,
after his friends left, he did not altogether
like to look upon the dead body. Yet he
could not keep his eyes from it.

He shifted his chair to the front of the
fire and turned his back on the body.

But there the Thing still was. Every
now and again he had to turn himself round
and take a glance at It.

Oh, horror ! Once when he turned
round he saw that one hand which had
been crossed on the breast now rested

on the table, and displayed a glittering
diamond ring.

Never mind. That was occasioned, he
supposed, by the corpse not having been
properly laid out on the table.

But the riot What about the ring ?
It was a valuable one — a fortune to one in
Tam Glen's position.

Another cautious glance round.

More horror ! The hand and arm hung
by the side of the table.

Still, that movement had doubtless occurred
from the same reason as that previously
assigned.

But the minor ! It would never be thought
he stole it. Slowly Glen opened a big
pocket-knife. He could not be blamed. The
resurrectionists, of course, made the mutilation
before they began to carry off the body 1

Cautiously he rose, keeping his face still
to the fire. It must be done suddenly.
There is a sound as if his two companions
were returning:.

On turning boldly round, he stood like

one petrified. The ghastly corpse, With
bound-up jaw and m a long white shroud,
stood erect on the vestry table !

Then a loud shriek, and the body seemed
to jump upon Glen, who fell senseless under
its crushing weight !

When M 'Vulcan and Mucklewut returned,
Glen was lying prone on the floor of the
vestry in a state of insensibility.

The corpse of the lady was gone !

A good "caulker" of brandy soon brought
Tam Glen to his senses. Tien the trio
hastily polished off a bottle of brandy, and
hurried home '" no' that fou, but just a drappy
in their ere."

Next day a curious coincidence was observable.
Of chinese the three wives did not
believe a word of the kirkland story, and
when the husbands turned up at their
respective callings in the morning it was
seen that each had three scratches down his
left cheek.

Ilk better-half had carefully numbered her
husband " 111."

Moreover, the imprisoned resurrectionist
lead made his escape by the broken roof of
Tam M 'Vulcan's smithy I

In time the story of the dead lady's ring
began to be talked of throughout the parish »
and for years poor Glen — innocent as the
babe unborn — had a bad time of it by being
continually asked, ^' Where's the resurrected

CHAPTEE XLIV.

A DOUBLE WEDDING.

<< What a delicious breath marriage sends forth —

The violet's bed not sweeter ! Honest wedlock

Is like a banqueting-house, built in a garden,

On which the spring flowers take delight

To cast their modest odours."

J. Middle ton.

IT was May morning. The bells of Alloway
and Greenanan rang merrily. Gently
gliding along, raid glistening in the rays
of the mornings sun, the Doon looked even
lovelier than usual. That is, if the river
immortalised by Robert Burns can ever look
lovelier than usual !

And yet there has long been a heresy
abroad that Burns had little genuine feeling
regarding river or mountain scenery. But
where, tell me, can be found a verse, at once
so comprehensive in itself, and so tersely
refuting the silly landscape libel, as —

Ye banks and braes, and streams around
The Castle o' Montgomery;
Green be your woods, and fair your flowers.
Your waters never drumlie ? "

Was it not of some part of Perthshire —
Breadalbane, I fancy — that Burns wrote —

'* Here Poesy might wake her heaven-taught lyre,
And look through nature with creative fire " ?

Doubtless our Scottish bard was more a
figure-painter than a landscape painter ; but
to say that he had not a thorough appreciation
of Nature in all her varied phases is to
detract from his transcendent genius. Why,
the song " My Heart's in the Highlands "
teems with more genuine appreciation of
Nature than will be found among the
lucubrations of not a few much more pretentious
poets.

Kirk Alio way was gay with flowers, while
in the kirkland itself there had been laid,
from the outer gate to the entrance to the
church, a broad strip of crimson cloth, fringed
with the flowers of the season.

That May morning was to see four persons
united in the holy bonds of wedlock — namely,
Lord Charles Montgomery and Gabrielle
Stuart, and Guy Gordon and Jean Graham.

But why was Gabrielle Stuart de Guise —
a staunch Roman Catholic, and a direct
descendant of Mary Queen of Scots — to be
married in a Protestant Church ?

How it conies let doctors tell," but there
it was. Gabrielle had, with the consent of
Lord Eglinton and Lady Kennedy, resiled
from the doctrines of the Church of Rome,
and adopted those taught by the Church of
England.

Now-a-days it seems to me that, in many
cases, one is very much exercised to tell
exactly which is which !

There was general holiday being observed
in the district. As was common on such
occasions, wine flowed freely. The hostelry
ref Lucky M'Mutchkin was free to all comers ;
but they troubled not the inside of the house
much, seeing that numerous pipes of wine
were broached outside.

Tarn M 'Vulcan, in "honour" of the occasion,
had made a parody of the old song, *' The
Lass o' Gowrie," of which it may be enough
to give the first and last verses : —

'Twas on a lucky afternoon
A lassie cam', without a croon,
And in a shabby silken gown,

To lodge at Castle Greenanan,

In time the lassie storm'd the ha'.
While at her foot weel kept the ba',
And noo she's lady o' them a' —
The bra west wife in Greenanan,

The author, as he sadly took another
drink, seemed all at once to have come to
the correct conclusion that, in not a few
respects, the parody referred far more
strongly to his own marriage than to anyone
that might take place on that particular
day.

The marriage procession surpassed, in
length and grandeur, anything that had
before been seen in the district. It seemed,
indeed, as if the entire community had turned

VOL. II. R

out to take some part or other in the wedding
festivities.

Flags flaunted gaily outside Greenanan Castle,
while inside, in the banqueting-hall, hung
numerous bannerets of patron saints and
valiant knights. Helmet and vizor, corslet
and breastplate, pistol and dagger, sword
and gauntlet, made up inanimate warriors,
who stood solemnly stiff in the niches of the
great hall where soon the rosy wine would
sparkle.

In the church the marriage ceremony was
of the most simple character, and performed
by the Bishop of Alloway.

Gabrielle had a half sad look about
her at first, but it soon gave way to
one of happiness, as she said to herself,
*' En Dieu est ma fiance" Charles Montgomery
comported himself like the son of his
father.

Jean Graham, notwithstanding that she
was considerably beyond her teens, made
a youthful-looking and blushing bride;
while Guy Gordon seemed as if the acme

of his earthly ambition had at last been
reached.

"Whom God hath joined together let no
man cast asunder."

** Heh, sirs!" enviously exclaimed Mrs
M'Mutchkin, " wha wad hae thocht it V

*say," responded Mrs Mucklewut, "time
brings about some wonderful changes."

"Nae doubt, nae doubt," chorused Mrs
M* Vulcan ; " but, for my part, I canna see
that sic marriages hae anything to dae withe
like o' us common folks."

Mrs M 'Vulcan had not forgiven Mrs
Mucklewut for her former interference.

"When I was married," continued the
blacksmith's wife, with rising wrath, " nae-body
interfered between me and my man."

"Ay, but had the marriage no' come wolf,
the Session might hae interfered," said Mrs
Mucklewut witheringly.

What dae ye say, ye auld limmer ? Ye
ken weel enough that ye married yer man
against his will, and that he has repented o't

ever since, and is likely to dae sae to the endo'
his miserable days."

The remainder of the dialogue between the
two ladies is unfit for publication. In the
end two white matches were completely
destroyed, while each furiously excited lady
held a handful of the other s hair.

However, this local war resulted in a permanent
peace, for the pair never afterwards
spoke to each other.

CHAPTER XLV.

CONCLUSION.

^' No image meets my wandering eye,

But the new-risen sun and the sunny sky,

Though the night-shades are gone, yet a vapour dull

Reins the waves so beautiful ;

While a low and melancholy moan

Mourns for the glory that hath town."

John Wilson.

To man was ever more thoroughly Scotch
l-\ than John Wilson ; no man did more
for the literature of his country than he.

From the days of his childhood, when he
bent a pin, attached it to the end of a bit of
thread, and cast it into the tiny burn that
whipped past his father's door ; to the
scenes of his boyhood, which tell of hairbreadth
escapes from drowning and marvellous
pugilistic encounters at school ; to
the days of his youth at Oxford, when

Southey declared it was quite a treat to
come from London merely to hear him
translate a Greek chorus ; to the days of
his manhood, when those glorious '' Notes
Ambrosial " of his made the heart thrill
with delight, and when the story of Margaret
Lindsay made the tear-drops tremble in the
eyes of strong men ; to the later time, when
old age had crept stealthily on him, and
when second childhood brought him back to
thoughts and actions which were prone to
him at the time when he " bowed a preen to
fish for minnows," or when he edified his
sisters by an extemporaneous sermon from
the rather unscriptural text, " There was a
fish, and it was a deil o' a fish, and it was
ill to its young ones."

All through his life John Wilson was
consistently and thoroughly Scotch.

I have made this digression for the
purpose of, to some extent, comparing Lord
Eglinton with John Wilson.

Old age had stealthily crept upon the

Earl ; but he still was, as he had ever been,
thoroughly Scotch. The greatest blow he
had received was when, a week or two
after the " double marriage," Lady Kennedy
departed this life.

It was most affecting to see the old man
in the mornings, when the sun beamed into
his chamber-window, gathering around him
the relics of his youthful passion, such as
reels and hooks, and then prattling to the
ever-attentive Gabrielle childish stories concerning
the Scottish streams into which he
had cast his line, and the numbers of the
finny tribe with which he had returned
laden.

Gabrielle had never experienced paternal
affection until now. She was more thana
daughter to the old man in his second
childhood.

One evening, as Gabrielle was, with her
lute, lulling the old man to sleep, he quietly
slept the sleep that knows no awakening.

Gabrielle made a loving wife and an

affectionate mother. As Countess of Clinton
she was well known and highly respected
throughout the West of Scotland.

Guy Gordon and Jean Graham had awarded
to them Greenanan Castle and its policies, and
there brought up a numerous family.

Mr Godfrey Marling and Mrs Marling
lived at Greyscaur until they reached
a ripe old age, carefully attended by their
son Tom and his loving and active wife
Lizzie.

Tarn M* Vulcan and his crony Mucklewut
long attended at Mrs M'Mutchkin's, and
fought their local battles o'er again.

One night Tam was absent. Next night
Mucklewut began to chide him, when Tam
made the mournful excuse that his wife was
dead.

I wish to the Lord ! '^ earnestly ejaculated
Mucklewut, " that I had such an excuse ! "

I do not wish that old age, which stole so
stealthily on some of my few characters,
shall steal on my story, as it not unfrequently

does on stories of a romantic character.

Spinning a long yarn is not in my way.
• . • *

And now, reader, I have come to a close.
Although some portions of what may be
called the historical parts of this romance
may not be strictly correct as to time and
locality, they will be found mainly to be
true.

Not a few of the startling incidents that
I detail as having occurred on the Lady Isle
are founded on fact.

The " Maggie Osborne story " is, alas, too
true in its details.

It is on record that Mrs Osborne was
searched for what were called *' insensible
marks." When a woman was accused of
witchcraft pins were thrust into her body,
and if the searchers came upon a place wherefrom
hardness of the flesh or other cause,
acute pain was not inflicted, this was an
"insensible mark," and held to be proof
positive of the person being in league with
Satan.

The legendary and superstitious parts of
the story still obtain a certain sort of
credence throughout the county of Ayr,
which was wont to be a stronghold of
superstition.

The fiery brig being steered down the
Clyde by Satan himself, and the fiery chariot
driven by him through the firth, were, even
in my time, firmly believed in, at least
amongst boys.

The Old Jail, as the prison was familiarly
called in Ayr, gave rise to many superstitious
stories. Black ghosts with white heads had
often been seen at the top of the nineteen
steps that led up to the front entrance,
where the gallows was often erected for the
execution of persons convicted of even trifling
offences.

Over the prison entrance were said to bethe
following strange lines : —

A prison is a house of care,

A place where none can thrive ;
A touchstone true to try a friend,
A grave for men alive.

Sometimes a place of right,

Sometimes a place of wrong,
Sometimes a place for jades and thieves,

And honest men among."

The Black Gang flourished in Ayr as late
as the beginning of the present century, and
was long a scourge to the town.

During the present century, moreover, his
Satanic Majesty was murdered and very
nearly buried in Ayr.

AVhat dreadful' news is this they tell,
Nae don't ye'll a' hae heard o't ?
Rab Goudie says he's killed the Deil,
And swears to every word o't."

Ane Poison, a noted Whig," according
to the author (meaning the Rev. Mr Robertson,
who then held forth in the Anti-burgher
meeting-house at Kilmarnock), had "seized
the gospel gun sae big," and soon left the
Devil sprawling.

Auld Clootie, like a hutch of coals,
Lay street at his feet,
Died tvv-a three horrid aldrich squeers,
Syne lay as dead's a peat'*

But when the Devil's funeral day came a sad
result accrued : —

Tlicy reached the grave in solemn pace,
And gathered round the coffin
Were mony a saint wi' tearful' ere,

Though, faith, their hearts were laughing'.
Then John M'Doul with cautious han'

The coffin did uncover ;
It split, and Clootie jumpit out
Just like a flash o' pother !

In flames that day.

Then illa ane wi' mettle heels

Was down the Kirk Port skein'.
Some lost their hats and shoon, and some

Wi' broken heels were yelping'.
When John M'Doul had gather'd a'

His spades an' shoots thither,
Cam' hindmost down the Port and said,
The grave will dae another.

Some other day ! ' "

So at least a local poets tells us, and I give
the '^ Deil's Burial " as he gave it. And yet
the sapient Advisers have brought the Evil
One into the Lord's Prayer. NHmporte!
Perhaps the best place for him after all. It
may keep his Satanic Majesty straight !

Finally, reader, there is no exaggeration
as to the ever-jolly character of the 'powers
that were " in Auld Ayr. On one occasion,
it is said, a Nepaulese Prince had been
splendidly regaled by the Magistrates and
Council. In return, his Highness invited
the members of the Municipality to a banquet,
and opened his invitation thus : —

To the Provost, Magistrates, and Town
Councillors of Ayr — the Prince of Nepaul,
greeting."

To be upsides with the Prince in courtesy,
the Provost proposed that, in accepting the
invitation, the reply should begin : —

To the Prince of Nepaul — the Provost,
Magistrates, and Town Council of Ayr, roaring'
and greeting."

END OF Gabrielle STUART.

THE KENNEDY FAMILY.

CjO powerful at one time were the Kennedy in the
^ west and south-west of Scotland, that there was a
local rhyme which ran as follows : —

*' Twixt Wigtoune and the town of Aire,
And laugh down by the cries o' Cree,
You shall not get a lodging there
Except ye court a Kennedy."

THE AYRSHIRE TRAGEDY.

In " Auchindrane, or the Ayrshire Tragedy " — one of
the few plays of Sir Walter Scott — we find that John
Mure of Auchindrane, whom Sir Walter denominates
a Richard the Third in private life," began his career
by compassing and procuring the death of Sir Thomas
Kennedy, the uncle of his hereditary enemy the Earl of
Cassillis. He escaped being prosecuted for this crime,
for there was only one person knew of his being its
instigator, and that person, a lad of the name of
Dalrymple, he contrived to send out of the country for

some years. Dalrymple, however, at length returned
and Mure now considered it necessary to murder him,
which he did on the sea-shore, with the aid of his son
Philip, and a vassal of his own called James Bannatyne.
To divert public attention from this murder he renewed
his feud with the Earl of Cassillis, and made an assault
upon one of his followers. He also laid a scheme for the
destruction of his accomplice Bannatyne, but public
suspicion being now fairly roused, he and his son were
apprehended and brought to trial. It was not without
much difficulty that sufficient evidence was procured
against them; but it was at length obtained, and they
were both publicly executed.

CRIMINAL TRIALS.

Some readers may fancy that the trial and execution of
Maggie Osborne and the trial and execution of William
Shaw are exaggerated pictures. But in Pitcairn's
"Criminal Trials" (Edinburgh, 1830) will be found
many evidences of the tyranny that frequently attended
public trials. The work contains, amidst a mass of other
matter, several of the most remarkable trials for witchcraft
to be met with in Scottish annals ; a full report
of the extraordinary case of Francis Mowbray, who,
suspected of high treason, was killed by falling over the
rocks in an attempt to escape from the Castle of Edinburgh,

and whose lifeless remains were afterwards
brought into Court that sentence might be pronounced
upon them, which sentence (afterwards carried into
execution) was that he should be hanged and quartered ;
two or three trials and condemnations for " wilfully
hearing the celebration of mass ; " the very extraordinary
case of the murder of the Laird of Marston by his wife,
Jean Livingston, for which she was beheaded, and her
accomplice, Robert Weir, broken on the wheel ; trials of
the Armstrong, Elliot, and other Borderers illustrative
of the state of society in certain districts of the country ;
the trial and condemnation of William Rose for the
barbarous murder of his wife ; the trial and pleadings in
the interesting case of Margaret Herssyde, who was
accused of " abstracting pearls and jewels belonging to
the Queen," and apparently unjustly condemned ; full
and accurate copies of all the criminal records relating
to sir James Elphinston's correspondence with the Pope,
known to Scotch annalists as "Lord Algerine's
Treason," and though last, not least, reports of several
trials which throw additional light on the proscription
and cruel and systematic prosecution of the Clan
Gregory.

Ails CRAIG AND THE BASS ROCK.

I HAVE feebly tried to describe the wonders of Ailsaa

Craig. In the east of Scotland, in the Firth of Forth,

VOL. H. Isis

to be found a somewhat similar rock, but not of such
vast proportions. Dr John Stuart, in writing of the
early ecclesiastical history of East-Lothian and the Bass,
and of caves as the retreats of the early saints, says : —
The missionaries by whom the glad tidings of the
Gospel were proclaimed to the rude tribes of the North
were led to select for their early settlements such spots as
combined the advantages of seclusion with safety. It
was thus that in the history of the infant Church we find
its monastic bodies nursed sometimes within the walls of
a Saxon palace, as at Canterbury, or the palisades of an
Irish hath, as at 'Derry and Armagh ; while at other
times they betook themselves to solitary islands and
gloomy caves." We are thus prepared to find that the
Bass and other islands in the Firth of Forth were selected
as the retreats of early colonies of monks and hermits.
The great apostle of East-Lothian was St Baldred or
Bather, who is said to have died in the early part of the
seventh century. He had a cell at Tyningham, a site
where in later times a monastery was raised, which, as weare
told by Pigeon of Durham, had a territory stretching
from the Lammermore to the mouth of the Esk (" Hist,
de Sancti Cuthbert "). We learn, however, from the
legend of St Baldred, in the Breviary of Aberdeen, that
one of his chief places of resort was the Bass Rock,
where he for a long time dwelt; occupied, like his
reputed master St Kentigern, in fasting and devout
meditation on the Passion of Christ. In the district o

Lothian where he had laboured, there are three churches
which are specially associated with his memory — those of
Oldham, Tyningham, and Preston. On the death of the
venerable man, each of the churches desired to have his
body for interment, and when the people could not come
to an understanding they were advised to pray to God to
give a sign of His will. On the following morning they
found three bodies laid out for burial, and each congregation
carried off one to its own church, where (as Breviary
asserts) it was kept in great honour thereafter, and down
to its date, which was the beginning of the IGth century
the saint's memory is kept up by the association of [his
name with various localities in the district. In the
neighbourhood of the church of Preston there is a fine
spring, which is called " St Baldred's Well." A pool in
the Tyne is known as " St Baldred's Whirl ; " and on
the coast a basin formed in a rock by the sea is called
St Baldred's Cradle." In the churchyard of Preston,
St Baldred's statue remained till towards the end of last
century, when it was destroyed.

THE BIRDS OF Ails CRAIG.

In a recent issue of a generally well-informed Ayrshire
journal, it is stated that it would be difficult to estimate
the quantity of fish it takes to supply Ailsaa Craiir in the

course of a year. Suppose, however, that 1000 gannets
make the Craig their home, and the Firth their hunting
ground. Give them on an average half a pound of
codlings, whitings, or haddocks daily — for gannets have
not Romanists' scruples. At usual market rates that
would be 365,000 pence per annum, or about £1500.
But the destruction of the finny tribe is not caused by
the gannets alone, and what estimate can we put upon the
ravages committed by the herring gull, puffins, awes, &c.?
Gulls consume an immense quantity of salmon fry during
the months of April and May. They watch for them at
the mouths of the Doon and Stinchar, and feed on them
ravenously. Pheasants, partridges, pigeons, and rooks
are not more destructive to farmers' grain crops than are
the gulls and gannets to the fisherman's herring crops.
It used to be said a few years ago that Ailsaa Craig was
being " depopulated ; " but the late Mr Dykes, factor to
the Marquis of Ailsaa, conclusively proved, in a letter to
the Times, that there was no perceptible diminution in the
number of the birds frequenting it.

ARRAN.

Regarding the general features of Arran, Dr Macculloch
mentions it as being " in every sense a hilly island ; its
character is in this respect unequal, and in the northern

and south halves strongly contrasted. The high and
serrated forms of the northern division are peculiarly
striking, presenting a rugged mountainous character,
unequalled in Scotland except by the Cuchullin Hills in
Skye. These mountains are also exceedingly elegant in
their outline ; and though not attaining to quite 300 feet
of elevation, yet, from their independence and from their
rising immediately out of the sea, their Alpine effect is
equalled by that of very few mountainous tracts in Scotland
of even much greater altitude. Though the shores
are generally rocky, and commonly steep, they rarely
rise into cliffs ; but in most places the hills spring at once
from the sea, leaving, however, a narrow belt of flat and
green land in many places, which forms a natural road of
communication nearly all round the island, agreeable
alike for its beauty and for the access it affords to the
various picturesque scenes of the island, which are chiefly
found on its sea margin." The island is about 20 miles
long and 12 broad.

Sailing between the southern shores of Bute and the
Little Umbra south of Millport, and near the point
where our general view is taken, the impressive mountains
of Arran burst upon view.

"peach puny wave in diamonds roll'd
O'er the calm deep where hues of gold

With azure strove and green.
The hill, the vale, the tree, the tower
Glow'd with the tints of evening's hour —
The beach was silver sheen.

The wind breathed soft as lover's sigh,
And, oft renewed, seemed oft to die
With breathless pause between.
who, with speech of war and woes,
Would wish to break the soft repose
Of such enchanting scene ! "

GOATFELL.

•' Ben-Giioil, the Mountain of the Wind." The same
writer, in describing Brodick and its environs, writes : —
Every variety of landscape is united in this extraordinary
spot. The rural charms of the ancient English village,
unrestricted in space, and profuse of unoccupied land,
are joined to the richness of cultivation, and contrasted
with the wildness of moorland and rocky pasture. On
one hand is the wild mountain torrent, and on another
the tranquil river meanders through the rich plain.
Here the sea curls on the smooth beach, and there it
foams against the rocky shore, or washes the foot of the
high and rugged cliffs, or the skirts of the wooded hill.
The white sails of boats are seen passing and repassing
among trees, the battlements of the castle, just visible,
throwing an air of ancient grandeur over the woods, and
united to this variety is all the sublimity and all the
rudeness of Alpine landscape which surrounds and
involves the whole." Looking across Brodick Bay to
the north, the graceful outline of Goatfell is seen to great

advantage, rising immediately in rear of the castle.
From its summit a most commanding and delightful view
is obtained. " The jagged and spiry peaks of the
surrounding mountains, the dark hollows and deep shady
carries into which the rays of the sun scarcely ever
penetrate, the open swelling hills beyond, the winding
shores of Loch Fine, and the broad Firth of Clyde
studded with its peaceful and fertile islands, the rugged
islands of Argyllshire, the gentle curves of the hills of
the Western Islands, and the blue shores of the Green
Isle, their outline softened in the distance, form a scene
of most surpassing grandeur and loveliness."

To land King Robert lightly sprung,
And thrice aloud his bugle rung,
With note prolong'd and varied strain,
Till bold Ben-Ghoil replied again."

HOLY ISLE.

Abol'T five miles from Brodick, in the middle of a
beautiful semi-circular bay, lies the neat little village of
Calash. Sheltered by the Holy Island — an irregular
cone, 900 feet high — this bay forms an excellent harbour
for the accommodation of ships of all sizes, while its
surrounding scenery cannot be beheld without delight by
all lovers of the picturesque. The Holy Isle was once
the site of an ancient cathedral, said lo Imvc been

founded by St Folios, a disciple of St Columba, who,
not considering the discipline of iona sufficiently rigid,
retired for greater seclusion to this lonely isle, whence he
carried the light of Christianity among the Pagan
inhabitants of Arran. The cave in which the saint
resided is still to be seen on the sea-shore. In the
interior of it there is a shelf of rock, said to have been
his bed ; and on the roof a Runic inscription, mentioning
his name and office. He is said to have died at the
advanced age of 120 years, at Loch Rana, where he
spent the latter part of his life, and where his remains
still repose in the burying-place at Clachan. Behind
the village of Calash, at the head of Monsignore
Glen, may be seen the remains of an ancient Druidical
sepulchral cairn, measuring 200 feet in circumference.
It is believed to cover the ashes of those who fell in a
battle fought upon the spot, as, on removing some
of the stones, several stone coffins were found buried
underneath."

It will thus be seen that the " Islands of the West "
have histories much more romantic than is pretty generally
known throughout Scotland.

OF THE

IIOYAL CALEDONIAN ASYLUM,

HOLLOWAY.

:o:-

ITS EARLY HISTORY.

The Royal Caledonian Asylum was instituted for

*' Supporting AND EDUCATING THE Children OF Soldiers,

Sailors, and Marines, natives of Scotland, who have
Died or have been Disabled in the Service of their
Country ; and also the Children of Indigent Scottish
Parents residing in London not receiving Parochial Relief."

The protracted and sanguinary wars in which this country
Jiad been engaged previously to 1815, and in which Scotsmen
bore so distinguished a part, threw upon the country a greater
number of the widows and orphans of those brave men who
fell in the conflicts than had been known at any former period
of our history. The Royal Institutions of Greenwich and
Chelsea, although liberally endowed, afforded an as3luni but
to a limited proportion of the orphan children pressing for
admission ; and many of these, the offspring of Scottish
soldiers and sailors, were wandering in a forlorn condition.

Under those circumstances it was deemed an object worthy
of Scotsmen, and the most appropriate monument of the
gratitude of their country, to establish an institution in the
metropolis of the empire for the orphans and destitute

children of those who had devoted their lives to the service
of their country, or who might hereafter stand forward in iU
defence in the hour of danger.

It had long been a subject of regret, that — at a period
when the value of education was so universally appreciated ;
when the natives of so many different countries resident in
London, and some even of the counties of England, had
establishments for the education of their infant poor — no
institution had been formed for the. children of indigent
Scottish parents, notwithstanding the wealth and prosperity
of so many individuals natives of Scotland residing in
the metropolis.

THE Highland SOCIETY.

To remove this national stigma, and to provide the relief
so urgently called for, the Highland Society of London
determined, in the year 1808, to adopt measures for establishing
an institution, to be called the Caledonian Asylum,
which should rescue these children from want, and afford
them the blessings of education.

X prospectus to this effect was accordingly issued, whic'
was favourably received b}^ the illic. Many of the Nobilis
and Gentry subscribed liberally, and pledged their future
support.

In the year 1813, the Highland Society prosecuted the
measure with renewed vigour, and in a short time the subscriptions
amounted to Ten Thousand Pounds.

It is but justice to record, that the late Sir Charles
(1st) Baronet, with that liberality and benevolence
for which he was distinguished, advanced One Thousand
Pounds towards the object, in anticipation of contributions

INCORPORATION OF THE ASYLUM.

In the following 3 ear the Highland Society transferred
the management of the Asylum to the Subscribers, when
a Committee of their number was appointed, and measures
were adopted for organising the Institution ; and on the 14tli
June, 1815, it was incorporated by Act of Parliament.

The Institution was not. however, opened for the reception
of children until December, 1819, Ashen the Committee procured
premises in Cross Street, Hatton Garden, and admitted
twelve boys on the foundation. The number was afterwards
gradually increased to forty, being the utmost that the
building could accommodate with proper regard to the
health of the inmates.

These premises having been found insufficient, and, from
their locality, incapable of extension, it became necessary to
remove the Establishment to a more eligible situation.

Two acres of freehold ground were accordingly purchased
in Copenhagen Fields, Islington (now known as Caledonian
Road) ; the foundation of a suitable building was laid on
the 17th ]May, 1827, and completed in September, 1828, when
the children were removed to the new premises.

THE NEW ASYLUM.
"the building then erected, although in itself complete,
formed only part of a design which could be at any time
extended, and was calculated for the accommodation of
100 children. The establishment was gradually increased
according to the means at the disposal of the Directors,
until ninety boys Averse admitted on the foundation. But

THE CLAIMS OF THE Institution.

Owing to the severe depression that has existed in commercial
affairs during the last few years, the Funds of the

Institution have suffered greatly, but, notwithstanding this,
the Directors have been enabled, through strenuous efforts,
to expend £3,000 on alterations and improvements on the
building, under the direction of Alexander Peebles, Esq.,
F.R.I.B.A., the Honorary Architect ; and at the election in
December last they filled up all the vacant beds, the number
now occupied being one hundred and twenty-six. The Directors
have incurred this great responsibility in the hope that
those who have the Welfare of the Institution at heart will
take a still deeper interest in the work that is being done,
and will contribute still more liberally to enable them to
meet the annual expenditure incurred by the admission of
an increased number of Children.

Since the opening of the Institution there have been nearly
two thousand children educated, clothed, and fed within
its walls.

The Directors beg to state that the income of the Institution
is entirely dependent on voluntary donations and
subscriptions, which at the present time and for the reasons
already detailed, are most urgently needed. It should ever
be borne in mind that prosperity can alone be preserved
and increased by the most earnest and generous efforts, since
new charities are constantly arising to compete with time-honoured
and valuable institutions ; and public liberality is
frequently diverted into new channels. The claims of the
Royal Caledonian Asylum upon the benevolent public
of Great Britain are now as irresistible as they were during
any previous period, whether those claims arc regarded in
relation to the inestimable benefits it confers upon the
helpless orphan, or in relation to the large and increasing
number of urgent cases which the Directors are continually
being requested to entertain. It should not, moreover, be

forgotten that this is the only charity of its kind existing
in England, and that, though it is situated in London, the
blessings and privileges it imparts are not limited merely to
the area of the metropolis, but are extended to and embrace
all parts of Scotland. The Directors are not, therefore,
pleading for a charity whose usefulness and importance have
decreased, but for an Institution which, after sixty-six years
of existence, is more than ever regarded by those upon whom
sorrow and poverty have fallen as an invaluable home, where
kind maintenance, virtuous training, and sound instruction
will be given to their children.

THE PATRONS, ETC., OF THE ASYLUM.

The Caledonian Asylum has all along enjoyed the most
illustrious and distinguished patronage. Her Majesty the
Queen and His Royal Highness the Prince of Wales and
Duke of Rothesay, K.G., are its Patrons. Her Royal Highness
the Princess of Wales is Patroness, Field-I\Iarshal His
Royal Highness the Duke of Cambridge, K.G., being Vice-patron;
while the first president of the Asylum was her
Majesty's revered father, His Royal Highness the Duke of
Kent and Strathearn, who, during his lifetime, never missed
an opportunity of enforcing in the most eloquent manner the
claims of the Institution.

The Directors have again to express their grateful
acknowledgments to the members of the Royal Family
and to the various noblemen and gentlemen who have so
ably presided at the Anniversary Festivals of the Asylum.
Amongst these will be found the names of His Royal
Highness the Prince of Wales, K.G.; His Royal Highness the
Duke of Edinburgh, K.Gr. ; His Royal Highness the Duke of
Connaught, K.G. ; His Royal Highness the Duke of

Cambridge, K.G. ; His Serene Highness the Duke of Teck,
(Jr.C.B. ; His Grace the Duke of Buccleuch, K.G. ; His Grace
the Duke of Argyll, K.T. ; the Right Hon. Lord Echo, M.P. ;
the late Earl Russell, K.G. ; the late Viscount Stratford
de Radcliffe, K.G. ; His Grace the Duke of Richmond and
Gordon, K.G. ; the Right Hon. the Earl of Roseberry; Sir
Samuel White Baker; the Right Hon. Sir R. A. Cross,
M.P. ; the Right Hon, the Earl of Fife, K.T. ; and the
Most Hon. the Marquis of Tweeddale. The Directors also
desire again specially to record their high and grateful appreciation
of the service rendered by His Grace the Duke of
Buccleuch, K.G., the noble President of the Institution, whose
munificent support and continued personal interest in the
welfare of the Asylum have contributed so much to its
prosperity ; and by Mrs. Freaks, to whose generous efforts
the Institution is indebted for the munificent sum of £600 10s.
the proceeds of entertainments at her residence, Cromwell
House, South Kensington.

LADY LIFE GOVERNORS,
In order to augment the list of Lady Life Governors, the
following alteration has been made in the Bye-laws : — " That
ladies be admitted as Life Governors on payment of Five
Guineas and be entitled to half the number of votes." The
Directors earnestly trust that this alteration will have the
effect of largely increasing the funds of the Institution.
Already they are glad to state that upwards of one hundred
ladies' names have been enrolled.

'^ SOCIETY OF OLD CALEDONIANS:'
To show the great interest evinced in the welfare of the
Institution, and their gratitude for the benefits, educational
and otherwise, they derived from it, an association was

recently established by the former pupils of the Asylum,
under the designation of " The Society of Old Caledonians."
It numbers at present one hundred and twenty members,
and the Directors have much pleasure in acknowledging
the first Annual Subscription of Five Guineas to the funds
from this Society.

Government SUPERVISION.
The Caledonian Asylum is under the regulations and
inspection of the Education Department of Government, and
H.M.'s Inspector of Schools has, upon the occasion of racli
official visit, reported in high terms of satisfaction upon the
progress of the children and the general management. This
our friends and the public will feel to be an additional proof
and pledge that their donations and subscriptions are
properly applied.

By Order,

THOMAS INGLIS, Secretary.

A Donation of a Hundred Guineas entitles the Donor to place
a Child in the Asylum at once, without election.

A Donation of Ten Guineas constitutes a Governor for Life, with
votes for every Candidate to be elected.

Annual Subscribers of Two Guineas are Guardians, with votes
for each Candidate.

Annual Subscribers of One Guinea are entitled to one vote for
every Child to be admitted.

A Donation of Five Guineas from a Lady entitles her, under
altered Bye-laws, to half the number of votes.

Donations and Subscriptions Avill be thankfully received by
Messrs. Courts and Co., 59, Strand, W.C.; Messrs. Forbes, Forbes
and Co., 9, King William Street, E.C.; and by Mr. Thomas Inglis,
the Secretary, at the Asylum, who will be most happy to furnish
every information respecting the Institution.

Messrs Dunn & "Wright, in issuing such n^-;^
Literature, are doing a good work." ^'^

suited Presbyterian Magazine.

WORKS PUBLISHED

EY

DUNN & WHIGHX

GLASGOW AND LONDON.
London Agents— ALFRED PALMER & SON,

12 Paternoster ROW.

** Messrs Dunn & "Wright, Glasgow, the well"
known Printers, have hit upon the happy idea
of publishing a series of small volumes, full of
interest to the general reader.

2*^ 'border Advertiser.

k

lte=

PUBLISHED BY

Duns & WRIGHT,

176 Buchanan STREET, and 102 STIRLING ROAD, '
GLASGOW.

Crown 8w, withfrontupiece, cloth, gilt titkf 3/6.

KNOX

AND THE

Reformation TIMES IN SCOTLAND.

By JEAN L. WATSON, Edinburgh.
PREFACE BY Rev. ROBERT MUIR, Hawick.

"Wo cordially recommend this book for a wide circulation." — United
Presbyterian Magazine.

"Wo recommend it very specially to the attention of teachers, and all vrho
are responsible for the education of the young"— G/as^t/w Sabbath School
Magazine.

The book before us deals with the very grandest period of all Scottish
history, and with one of the greatest of all Scotchmen"— /.i/erary World.

The publication of such a book is always opportune: to many it will b«
especially so at the present time"— G/ns^ow Ileiuld.

This is a cheap, compact, and most readable summary of what concern*
the mass of Scotch people, especially to know about their Reformer." — The
Family Treasury.

will be found very useful." — League Journal.

"This book is cxceefllngly opportune, anil should be extensively read and
circulated by all true friends of Protestantism." — Christian Union.

"This is one of the most useful and popular series of volumes"— Z) a i?y
Review.

Parents could not do better than make their children early acquainted
with the contents of this yo\\xme."—IJadUingtonshire Courier.

"A vivid picture of the one Scotch epoch of 'world interest'" — Glasgow
Herald.

Know was the life and soul of the great Reformation in Scotland.— Pre/oc*.

Foolscap 8yo, 320 pp. , cloth, gilt title, 5/-.

G It E Y C L I F F HALL,

AND OTHER POEMS.

By ALICE Prince, Auchterarder.

There is enough of mystery to charm the greedy reader on to the very
close. After perusing the volume, our readers will thank us for calling their
attention to it." — Berwick Advertiser.

Foolscap Svo, 292 pp., Illustrated, cloth, bevelled boards, gilt
title, 3/6.

INSCRIPTIONS ON THE

TOMBSTONES AND MONUMENTS

erected in
MEMORY OF THE Covenanters.

By JAMES Gibson, Esq., Liverpool,
Editor of ^^ Bums' Calendar" " Burns' Birthday BooJ:,'' etc.

Those who wish to read the tale of the Covenanters' graves cannot do
better titian procure this volume." — Liverpool Mercury.

A neat and handy edition." — Glasgow Herald.

The most conceive and comprehensive compendium of the Covenanting
period we have ever seen." — Stirling Observer.

♦' This is sure to become a standard world'' — Freeman.

"Every availaMo pounce of information has ! eon consulted which could
throw light upon the names of the Martyrs." — treat.

The most complete record of the Martyr-stones ever yet published."

Ardrossan and Saltcoats Herald.

"The volume deserves a place in every \i\)va.vyy —Kirkcudbrightshire Advertiser.


"This cannot fail to be profitable reading to all lovers of wholesome
books." — Hawick Express.

The volume is prettily got up, and illustrated by several wood engv&y-
iTiSB."—£oukseller.

Foolscap 8vo, 534= pp., doth, gilt title, 2/6.

THE SCOTS WORTHIES.

By JOHN Howe, of Lockgoin.

"We heartily commend it to the notice of Ministers and Sunday School
Teachers, as a book for the times"— CAr(5/mra Unioji.

"We cordially comment the book to our readers, and wo are persuaded
they will peruse it eagerly." — Bai-wickukire News.

This is a very handsome volume, beautiful in type, chaste in binding,
and cheap in price," — Advance.

A work which contains biographical sketches of the leading personages
who struggled and died for the Covenanted work of Information, and which
has obtained an almost unrivalled popularity in the rural districts of scotland"—
HUGH Macdonald.— (See " Humbles Mound Glasgow" page 152.)

HUGH MACDONALD'S WORKS.

Croion Sto, doth, gilt title, Illustrated, 3/6 each.

RAMBLES ROUND GLASGOW,

AND

DAYS AT THE COAST.

with A MOST INTERESTING MEMOIR.

*' Latest and best editions." — Evening Citizen.

These are new and improved editions of charming books. We cordially
commend these volumes, and wish for them a wide circulation"— Z?a!Vy Main.

Croion 8w, ^QO pp., handsomely hound, cloth, gilt title, 3/6.

ROUND ABOUT FALKIRK.

By ROBERT GILLESPIE.

Much that is both interesting and instructive. Tho work will bo read
With great relish "—FaLHfk Herald.

"A most useful companion to the stranger and toxxTist."—Sti7'Ung Observer.

"This is one of a class of books that we all like to read.''"—Slirling Jouryiai

"The author's description are written well and tastefully"— Davy Mail.

"An interesting book, in which the author shows considerable familiarity
with the historical and antiquarian landmarks about Stirling and Linlithgow."
Scotsman.

'■ The work is enlivened with many curious anecdotes, illustrative of Scottish
cha,Ta,cter."—Edhibiirgh Courant.

"We recommend this work. It comprises good information, and vs
written in felicitous style"— C/a grow Herald.

"Onr author is most pleasant, sprightly, and communicative; always brief,
and rich in allusive stories"— G/asj/o^- League Journal.

"Has what cruido-books do not ordinarily meddle with— glimpses and pictures
of social life." — Daily Review.

"A large amount of highly interesting and valuable information contained
in this delightful yo\\ime."—Airdrie Advertiser.

"The author is a genuine Falkirk bairn'— an enthusiastic nature-lover,
and thoroughly patriotic"— TFedr/i/ Standard.

"A book which one would like to have in his hand when visiting any of the
localities described"— Z>M??i6ar/on Herald.

A very interesting volume. A visitor to Falkirk could not have a better
guide"— ZJMWi/riei Standard.

Crown Svo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, define thick
paper edition, gilt edges, frontispiece, 3/-.

Rev. ALEX. PEDEN (the Prophet),

AND

Rev. JAMES REN-WICK:

THEIR LIFE AND TIMES.

By jean L. WATSON, Edinburgh.

WITH INTRODUCTORY ESSAY ON SCOTTISH NATIONALITY

By the Rev. john ker, dad.,

SYDNEY PLACE IJ.P. Church, GLASGOW.

"I have read this book with much interest and satisfaction. The Preface
by Dr Ker is very admirable, and will do much good. I trust it may be
widely circulated and carefully pondered"— Rev. Jas. Bkgo, Dad., Edinburgh.

"Young men who are forming libraries of their own cannot do hotter
than ndd this volume to their collection. The essay by the Rev. Dr Ker on
Scottish Nationality is a noble introduction to the book. We trust that
this volume will have a large circulation." — Glasgow Young Men's Magazine,

"In this volume we have beauty, utility, and cheapness combined. The
introduction by Dr John Ker is a piece of as fine and just historical writing
as we have anywhere seen. We heartily commend this handsome volume." —
Advance.

Our readers will be glad to make the acquaintance of this very attractive
and interesting volume, containing memoirs of Alexander Peden and James
Fenwick. Dr Ker's introductory chapter examines into the origin and development
of Scottish Nationality, and is highly instructive and suggestive.
We strongly recommend the book." — Glasgow Sabbath School Mngazhie.

"We welcome the volume before us. Perhaps two better specimens of
our covenanting forefathers could not have been selected." — League Journal.

This volume is very seasonable at the present time, when the question of
Disestablishment is much before the public." — Berwick Advertiser.

Very complete and concise, written in a graphic style, and shows thorough
appreciation of Peden's character and principles." — Kelso Chronicle.

"Much care has been bestowed on the revision of those portions of
the writings of Peden and Fenwick that are given in this volume." — Rev.
JOHN Ker, Dad.

"The story is fitted to thrill every reader's heart, and it is well and
pleasantly told." — Belfast Witness.

Crown 8vo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, define thick
jyaper edition, gilt edges, engraved Portrait, 3/-.

Brownie OF BODSBECK,

AND OTHER TALES,
BY THE "ETTRICK SHEPHERD,"

WITH Biographical SKETCH
By LAURENCE ANDERSON, Esq., Moffat.

Hogg gave himself up to the genius of romance, and luxuriated in fairy
visions. If, as has been stated, ' The Queens Wake ' is his most popular |
poem, ' The Brownie of Bodsbeck ' is his favourite story." — L. Anderson, Mvjj'ai. '

Crown Svo, Illustrated cover, Cloth gilt title, 2/-; Fine thick
paper edition, gilt edges, 3/-.

THE TWO Guthrie:

THEIR LIFE AND Tries;

Ors Sketches OF THE COVENANTS,

By JEAN L. WATSON, Edinburgh.

"The author's sketch of the Covenants is simply a great literary treat,
as interesting as the most fascinating of our Scottish tales, yot breathing 1
throughout the hallowed and ennobling spirit of these heroic, patriotic, and
eminently pious men, • The Scottish Worthies.' Wo very heartily uouimend
this volume to our readers"— sae People's Journal.

DUNN AND WEIGHT, GLASGOW AND LONDON.

CrowiiSvo, Illustrated cover, I j-; doth, gilt title, 1j-; fine thick paper
edition, gilt edges, frontispiece, 3/-. i

COTTAGERS OF GLENBURNIE.

By Mrs ELIZABETH HAMILTON,

AND SELECTIONS FROM

LIGHTS AND Shadows OF SCOTTISH LIFE,

WITH PREFATORY NOTE
By JEAN L. WATSON, Edinburgh.

"This is an interesting story, which conveys lessons that many housewives
in our large towns, as well as in rural districts, need'' — iScuttisli Congregational
Magazine.

"As a picture of Scottish village life in the last century, the hook is
unequalled and inimitable. Infinite amusement, and no little instruction, maybe
derived from a perusal of this work." — Kelso Chronicle.

We are gratified to notice a now edition of this original and well-told tale,
which has perhaps done more to improve the dwellings and habits of our
Tiliagors than all our sanitary inspectors." — Lcigue Journal.

For the long winter nights or summer evenings this is most useful and
healthy literature. A large circulation would do much 1o entertain and instruct
a vast number who have few books. We cordially thank tho enterprising
publishers for this beautiful and cheap edition"— T'/ie Advance.

'this is a well written tale, evidently intended for the benefit of the
working classes. It is also a very suitable prize for young people." —
Free Press.

Croton Svo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, define thick
paper edition, gilt edges, 3/-.

THE allen's WAKE,

AND OTHER POEMS.

BY THE " ETTBICK SHEPHERD."
PrvEFATOF.YNOTE
I By jean L. WATSON, Edinburgh.

j " Most great works have an interesting history'. ' The Queen's "Wake ' hasa
particularly rich one. It was not only the author's most successful work,
I but it was his only great work that could have securely' established his
I literary position in the world." — Moffat Times.

" This poem is full of rich gems which have rarely been surpassed." — Fret
j Press.

"A nice edition for the-pockQi."— Sheriff VeilrJi.

As a lyric poet, James Hogg is second to Robert Burns. His humorous
Songs kept tho famous meetings at Ambrose's in a roar; his pastoral
lyrics, popular in the drawing-room and at the cotta's fireside, have given a
poetical beauty to the rural pastimes and loves of our peasantry; his Jacobite
lays have excited and kept up a sympathy with tho misfortunes of the Royal
house of Stuart, whose history has a melancholy interest; and his patriotic
Songs, if sung on the eve of a battle, would be more effective than ten thousand
men." — L. Anderson, Esq,

Crown Svo, Illustrated cover,\l-; cloth, gilt title,2l-;Jinetldch paper
edition, gilt edges, 3/-.

E-INGAN GIL.HAIZE;

Or, the times OF THE Covenanters.

By JOHN GALT.

Crown Suo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, 2/-; Jim thick
paper edition, gilt edges, apollo's

TALES OF THE Covenanters ;

COMPRISING

HELEN OF THE GLEN, RALPH Gemelli, AND THE

PERSECUTED FAMILY.

^WTITH Life OF The AUTHOR
By JEAN L. WATSON, Edinburgh.

"Pollok's 'Tales of the Covenanters' have long been favourite reading
with young people in Scotland. Older people will lind them noi unworthy of
their perusal in their more mature years. Pollok's views of Gospel truthsare
wonderfully full and correct. Miss Watson's 'Life' tells with much interest
the story of the poet's career"— AV/orwicJ Presbyterian Magazine.

"There is no need to specie j' the contents and nature of these 'Tales.' The
book is so well known and so universally read that nothing further ia
required than to mention that a scio volition lias aju.caieJ. This is a class of
literature that the rising generation should know." — Advance.

"Thirty or forty years ago there was hardly a more popular book among
intelligent boys tin a liiilo volume containing 'Helen of the Glen,' 'Ralph
Gemmcll,' and 'Trio Persecuted Family.' If any juvenile library does not
contain these Tales, this volume should be at once secus-ed. It is sure to
furnish beneficial mental food for the young"— A'c/ao Chronicle.

We welcome such works as those. Pollok's 'Tales ' and his grand poem,
The Course of Time.' ought, to be in every house. This cdiliou is a marvel
of cheapness." — Scottish Coii(/iegutional Magazine.

"In these flays of light literature a perusal of Pollock's Tales may furnish a
pleasant antidote to much that is frivolous and pernicious." — League Journal.

"Pollok's 'Talcs of the Covenanters' were among our earliest Sabbath-school
prizes, and their perusal was to us a source of deep and tearful
interest"— Hugh Macdonald.— (See "Rumbles Ilouud Glasgow" ijnae 174.)

This covenanting story has had a wide popularity"— 2/. Anderson, Esq.

Crown Svo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, define thick
paijer edition, gilt edges, 3/-.

THE Course OF TIME,

By ROBERT P O L L O K, Mea.,

WITH PREFATORY NOTE

By jean L. WATSON, EDINBURGH.

"We welcome such works as these, which we should like to he read by
every succeeding generation." — Scottish Congregational Magazine.

"Pollok's 'Course of Time' has taken its place in the literature of our
country, and needs no commendation. Miss \\ arson's Preface is well and
gracefully Avrirten. and sketches the leading events in the poet's life. This
edition is a marvel of cheapness." — licfurmect Presbyterian Magazine.

The ' Course of Time ' is one of the poems that posterity w ill not willingly
let die, and we cordially welcome this edition of Pollok's immortal poem ; it
is a handsome volume"— A'e/so Chronicle.

"the Course of Time' will remain a standing monument to tho intellectual
power and sanctified genius of one who passed away at the early
age of * 'G years. The present edition will make a handsome" gift-books"— .
League Journal.

"We commend tho book for Sunday reading"— Z)(7i7?/ Review.

This new issue is an evidence of the continued appreciation in which this
noble poem' is held, A cat edition, tastefully finished, and containing a
Prefatory Note ' of great interest." — Advance.

Crown Svo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, 21-; fLue thick
payer edition, gill edges, annals

OF THE PARISH,

AND THE

AYRSHIRE LEGATEES.

By JOHN GALT.

with LIFE OF THE AUTHOR,

By jean L. ^yATSON, Edinburgh.

"Mr Gait, who was a native of Irvine, Ayrshire, chose that district as the
scene of the stories which form the present volume. 'The Annals of the
Parish ' may be considered to be in relation to Scotland what tho ' Vicar of

Wakefield' is to England. These ' Annals of the Parish' present the simple
j manners and homely ways of the villagers of a century ago, and tbeii

relations to the parish minister, in a most interesting way, and introduces
I phases of thought and peculiarities of expression which have almost become
I extinct"— Z)a»;y Review.

"Miss Watson's 'Life of the Author' is interesting and well told. The
1 volume is carefully got up, and is worthy a place on the drawing-room
j X&M&:'— Border Advertiser.

Well worthy of perusal, and wo have no doubt that it will he extensively
circulated"— free Press,

[Unabridged Edition ; 120th Thousand.]

25G pp., Royal 3-2mo, Illustrated cover, 2d; cloth, wilt title, I'ortrcuf,
Biography, and 32 Jull-paijc Illustrations, Gd.

PILGRIM' S Progress

This Edition has had a very lar,','o and ready sale. A very suitable book
to put into the bauds of Sabbath School and other children.

Crown Svo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, 2/-; Fine thick
paper edition, gilt edges, 3/-.

j THE DISRUPTION:

j A TALE OF TRYING TIMES.

By WILLIAM CROSS, Esq., Glasgow.

I Tried EDITION. REVISED BY THE Author.

I

j " Not only as an entertaining narrative, but as containing many reliable j
references to the quick-spreading events of the Disruption era, served up in
j a thoiouL'h attractive form. Around the great events of Disruption history,
I which to the popular mind are as rough and barren ef interest a- a boulder
I on a hill side, the author has planted the fresh and attractive blossoms of
I literary gracefulness, power of description. and knowledge of human nature,
so that at each successive step one is tempted to linger and ponder over the
great things that were done in those days. We would particularly recommend
this book." — Daili/ Mail.
I "A cheap but tastefully got up \d\uTac.'" —Renfrcwsliire Independent.
I "Mr Cross has adopted the vehicle of fictitious narrative to convey to us
the essence of what really happened in the great coniMct."— Border Advertiser.
I " A very clear and interesting story. We can remember the eagerness with
I which it was read when it was originally published. The tale will always
j he read with pleasure, a< a faithful description of the times the Disruption,
j and as providing graphic delineations of Scottish character in its many
I phases. There is in it capital specimens of genuine humour. JIany of
the scenes are given with great vividness of expression. The Look is
handsomely got up, both in binding and letterpress." — Laurus Journal.

"A work of real merit and absorbing interest. It deserves an exfonsivo
circulation, and we have no doubt it will find its way into thousands of
homes. It is a book for all times." — Tie Alderman.

Crown 8yo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title. define thick
paper edition, gilt edges, 3/-.

THE STORY OF

A DISPUTED SETTLEMENT

AFTER TUE DISRUPTION ;
OR,

LOVE, LAW, AND THEOLOGY.

BY

ALEXANDER MACDONALD, Writer, Glasgow.

*^* Large Type Library Edition, 608 paces, with 14 full-page
Illustrations, plain, 4^16.

"Very lively and interesting"— TTi^A^ Hon. W. E. Gladstone.

A very appropriate study at the present time." — Earl of Stair.

"A new and well illustrated edition. We have read this book with combined
instruction and amusement." — Border Advertiser.

We would most heartily commend this work as worthy of the earnest and
careful perusal of our readers." — Free I'ress.

"This is substantially a good as it is a clever book. The author's style
is always clear and vigorous; sometimes eloquent, never dull. We will not
attempt an epitome of the story itself, but content ourselves with recommending
its perusal to all who are interested in the working of Ecclesiastical
Courts. There is not a dull page in the whole volume." — Scotsman.

"Here is an eminently amusing and clever book. To say so is to award
high praise. It is wonderfully rich in good materials. Many of the characters
are capitally drawn, with clear, bold, vivid touches, presenting a ra.relucidnes8
of outline, great force of colour, and graphic precision, which is really remarkable."
— iV. B. Daily Mail.

"Mr Macdonald treats the subject with great cleverness, and with an
amount of racy and farcical humour tint reminds one of Irish novelists of
the type of Lover and Lever." — Inverness Courier.

Crown Syo, Illustrated cover, cloth gilt title, define thick
2'>aper edition, gilt edges, 3/-.

A STUDENT'S ADVENTURES IN

TUE, KEY AND THE EAST.

BY

ALEXANDER MACDONALD, Writer, Glasgow.

"The student who is the hero has been compelled, by the pressure of
circumstances, to enlist in the French Zouave regiment, in which he has won
his way to a captaincy, and had some startling experiences in the Crimean

war. These and some other 'Adventures' Mr Macdonald recounts with a
dash and spirit which reminds the reader of Lever's earlier novels. There ia
not a dull page in this volume, which will be found full of interest to all who
relish stories of intrigue and adventure"— &o^>/Aa«.

"The allusions to student life and old friends at the University will be very
acceptable to our readers." — Daily Mail.

Foolscap Svo, cloth, 1/6.

LIFE OlSr THE OCEAlSr.

BY

DAVID COWANS, Late Commander of the "Fiery Cross."

I " This book is altogether an entertaining one for young and old. Captain
Cowans has many wonderful things to tell, but he is guiltless of spinning long
yarns"— Eels Chronicle.

A neat and compact volume. We have much pleasure in commending it
to the favourable attention of our Te&derB.'"— Greenock Telegraph

"Highly recommended by the Earl of DufTerin."— Z>ui7y Mail.

Foolscap Svo, cloth, gilt title, 1/6.

THE YOUNG Christian.
By JACOB ABBOTT.

Foolscap Svo, Cloth, with Portrait, 1/6.

ORATIONS, LECTURES, and ESSAYS.

By RALPH WALDO Emerson.

Uniform with the above, 1/6 each.

CRABBE'S TALES AND POEMS.

Two Vols.

Crown Svo, cloth, 2/6.

SHINING WAIF.

BY

WILLIAM CANTON, Glasgow.

"The author has made a pleasant addition to our literature"— ff/asgow
Herald.
«' The author proves himself an adept at story-telling." — Kelso Chronic

"It must be admitted that Messrs Dunn <fc "Wright, in their 'Thistle'
Series, have completely taken the lead of all others." — Paisley Herald.

Thistle " Series.— The Poets.

Foolscap Svo, 240 or 2SS pages, printed on fine toned paper, in new
clear type, Illustrated covers, 6d; handsomely bound, cloth, gilt
title, 1/.
No. 1. LONGFELLOW'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
2. MOORE'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
** 3. BUPtNS's Poetical Works. With Portrait.
•* 4. BYRON'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
•' 5. SCOTT'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
*' 6. COWPER'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
*' 7. CAMPBELL'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
** 8. MILTON'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
*' 9. TANNAHILL's Poetical Works (Memoir and Music).

With Portrait.
10. MOTHERWELL'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
** IL GOLDSMITH'S Poetical Works. With Portrait.
*' 12. Battle's Poetical Works. With Portrait.
Other Works in Preparation.

Cloth, gilt title, 1/6 ; Illustrated cover, boards, helen's

Babies & Other People's Children.

By Habberton.

Crown 8vo, Cloth, gilt title, 1/6.

GRANDFATHER'S LEGACY;

Or, THE BREWER'S FORTUNE. |

By Mary D. Shells. j

"This Temperance Story, written by a well-known American Author, '
gives a very good description of American Life. The lesson, that she liquor j
traffic bequeathes a fatal inheritance to many who may have made wealth !
by it, is also effectively enforced"— Zcag'ue Journal. '

I

Thistle " Series. — Boys' Popular Tales. \

Foolscap Svo, 240 pages, printed on fine paper, in new clear type j
Illustrated covers, Gd ; handsomely bound, cloth, gilt title, 1/-. i

No. 1. ROBINSON CRUSOE ; by Daniel Defoe. Complete, j
2. Tulliver's TRAVELS ; by Dean Swift. Complete.
3. SWISS FAMILY ROBINSON. Complete.
4. TALES FROM THE ARABIAN NIGHTS. 1st Scries.
*' 5. Do. do. do. 2nd Series

♦' 6. WILLIS THE PILOT ; or, the Further Adventures of \

the Swiss Crusoe Family. Complete.
** 7. LIFE AND GARLAND OF ROBIN HOOD.
8. LIFE OF SIR WILLIAM WALLACE.
9. SANDFORD AND MERTON.
« 10. UNCLE TOM'S CABIN.
11. THE YOUNG ENGINEER OF THE LAKE SHORE

RAILWAY.
12. THE RIVAL ACADEMIES.

« 13. THE YOUNG CAPTAIN of the UCAGA STEAMER.
« 14. THE TWO BEARS ; or, the Young Skipper.
'« 15. THE YOUNG PEACE MAKERS.

Thistle " Series.— Girls' Popular Tales.

No. 1. THE WIDE, WIDE World.
2. THE LAMPLIGHTER.
*« 3. THE DAIRYMAN'S DAUGHTER.
4. THE BASKET OF FLOWERS, and other Talcs.
*' 5. THE PET LAMB, and other Talcs.
*« 6. SIMPLE SUSAN.

Other Woi'I:s in Preparation.

:o:

Croion Svo, cloth, gilt title. Front if^piece, 1/0.

PRINCE OF THE HOUSE OF DAVID.

Crown 8vo, paper cover, with eight full-parte Illustrations, doings

IN DANBURY.

By the DANBURY-NEWS MAN.

Popular editions. Illustrated covers, Sixpence each.

HELEN'S BABIES.

OTHER PEOPLE'S CHILDREN.

l^IY Mother-in-law.

HIS GRANDMOTHERS.

THAT HUSBAND OF MINE.

THAT WIFE OF MINE.

These interesting Works have met M'ith immense success,
many thousands of them having already been sold.
