OF THL

UNIVERSITY

or ILLINOIS


■R2.7n

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/noquarter01reid

BY

CAPTAIN MAYNE REID,

Author of •' The Scalp Hunters;' ** The Death Shot'' " The Headless
Horseman;' eic.^ etc.

Vol. I.

LONDON :

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.,

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1888.

The SelTuood Printing Works,

Frame, and London.

CONTENTS

PAGE

Prologue .,., ,,. i

CHAPTER I.
A Sword Duel in the Saddle 24

^ CHAPTER IL

Foes become Friends 35

CHAPTER III.
Beautiful Forest Birds ,45

CHAPTER IV.

Out for a Walk ,,, . 55

CHAPTER V.
Waiting and Watching . . . . . - 67

^' CHAPTER VI.

XA Cavalier in Love . . 77

A Young Lady not in Love 85

2 CHAPTER VII.

CHAPTER VIII.
A House in Tudor Style 98

CHAPTER IX.'
A Right Royal Epistle no

CHAPTER X.
The Cousins 125

CHAPTER XI.

Page

Three Curious Characters 138

CHAPTER Xn.
A Combat in a Quarry 147

CHAPTER Ni.
Looking forward to a Fight 161

CHAPTER XIV.
A Hawking Party. . 171

CHAPTER XV.
"Dear Little Mer" 182

CHAPTER XVI.
Trouble Anticipated 191

CHAPTER XVII.
New Faces and Old Foes • 200

CHAPTER XVIII.
"Resist!" 210

CHAPTER XIX,
In the MrDST of a Mob 221

CHAPTER XX.
No Quarter ! " . . . . . . . .229

CHAPTER XXI.
War in Full Fury 240

CHAPTER Xxii
The Cadgers on Dangerous Ground . . .252

CHAPTER Xxii.
A Grand Sergeant of Guard 261

PROLOGUE.

There is no page in England's history so bright,
nor of which Englishmen have such reason to
be proud, as that covering the period between
1640 and 1650. This glorious decade was ushered
in by the election of the " Long Parliament," and
I challenge the annals of all nations, ancient or
modern, to show an assembly in which sat a
greater number of statesmen and patriots. Brave
as pure, fearless in the discharge of their difficult
and dangerous duties, they faltered not in the
performance of them — shrank not from impeaching
a traitor to his country, and bringing his

» B

head to the block, even when it carried a crown.
True to their consciences, as to their constituencies,
they left England a heritage of honour that
for long haloed her escutcheon, and even to this
hour throws its covering screen over many a
deed of shame.

5jC 3f^ 3fC 5J? 3|^

"Be a King!"

"Am I not one? "

*' In name — nothing more. Ah ! were I a man
and in your place ! "

What would you do ? "

Give your island churls a taste of kingship,
as we know it in France. My brother wouldn't
let his subjects so beard him. Oh, it's abominable
! "

"Ah, chere ; for subjects your brother has a
very different sort of people to deal with. In
France they're not yet come to clamouring for
what they call their rights and liberties. Herein

England they've got Magna Charta into their
heads — to a craze."

I'd have it out of their heads, or have their heads
off", del ! I'd reign King as King should, or resign.
No ! not resign. Sooner than that I'd waste the
country with fire and sword — make it a wilderness."

It was Henrietta, wife of Charles I., who thus
expressed herself to her husband. They were
alone in the gardens of Whitehall Palace, sauntering
side by side on a terrace overlooking the
Thames, the afternoon being an unusually fine one.
As they made a turn which brought Westminster
Hall before their eyes, the angry fire in those of
the Queen flashed up again, and she added —

Anything but be dictated to by that canaille
of a Parliament ! Anything but let them go on
as now ! "

How am I to hinder it, Henriette t " the King
timidly interrogated.

Dismiss — send them packing back to their

constituencies, and let them prate away there as
much as they please. Dissolve and do without
them, as you've done before."

That would be to do without the money we
so much need. My subjects are determined to
resist every tax levied under Privy Seal or otherwise.
I can no longer raise loan or sell
monopoly. Your own secretary, Sir John Win-town,
has just been telling me how the people
of Dean Forest have been harassing him about
the grant we gave him of its timber and mines.
Impossible now to obtain the most insignificant
supplies without their being sanctioned by this
cabal called Parliament."

Then make the cabal sanction them.'

'but how, ceres'

"Have a score or two of them arrested — lodged
in the Tower ; and let Monsieur Tom Langford
take care of them. He'll soon cure them of their
seditious inclining."

To do that were as much as my crown's worth."

"If 't be worth no more, you may as well cease
wearing It. Fling it into the Thames, or melt it
down and sell it to the Lydgate Street goldsmiths
for old metal. Shame of you, Charles ! You talk
of kingly rights, yet fail to exercise them — fear
it!"

My subjects talk of rights, too."

Yes, and you encourage them — by your timidity.
Ever on your knees begging this and begging that,
when a true king would command. Subjects, indeed
! more like our masters. But I'd teach them
obedience. What would they be without a king ?
What were they born for but to administer to our
wants and our pleasures ? "

Words worthy of a Medici ; the sentiments of a
queen two centuries and a half ago. Yet not so
very different from those entertained by most
Royal personages at the present day and hour.
But few of them who would not sit placidly upon

their thrones, see subjects slain, and realms reduced
to desolation, rather than resign crown or
yield up one iota of what they are pleased to call
their prerogative. How could it be otherwise ?
Environed by sycophantic flatterers, heads bowing,
knees bending, tongues eternally praising ; things
in human shape giving them adoration as to God
Himself — aye, greater than to God — how could it
be otherwise ? Not so strange that this proud,
pampered woman, from her cradle accustomed to
such slavish obedience, should verily believe it but
her due.

Their rights ! " she continued, with a satirical
laugh. " An absurd notion they've got into their
Saxon skulls. Ah ! mon mart, were I you for a
month — for a week — I'd have it out — stamp it out
—I would."

And to give emphasis to her speech, she
stamped her foot upon the ground.

A pretty foot it was, and still a handsome

woman she, this daughter of the Medicis, notwithstanding
her being now somewhat passe. Ambitious
as Catherine herself — " that mother of a
race of kings " — intriguing, notoriously dissolute,
not the less did Charles love her. Perhaps the
more, for the cuckoo's cry is a wonderful incentive
to passion, as to jealousy. He doted upon her
with foolish fondness — would have done anything
she commanded, even murder. And to more than
this was she now instigating him ; for it was to
stifle, trample out the liberties of a nation, no
matter at what cost in life or blood.

Wicked as were her counsels, he would have
followed them and willingly, could he have seen
his way clear to success. Men still talk of his
kindly nature — in face of the fact, proved by
irresistible evidence, that he rejoiced at the
massacre of the Protestants in Ireland, to say
naught of many other instances of inhumanity
brought home to this so-called "Martyr King."

He may not have been — was not — either a Nero
or a Theebaw ; and with his favourites and familiars
no doubt behaved amicably enough ; at the same
time readily sacrificing them when danger threatened
himself. To his wife his fidelity and devotion were
such as to have earned for him the epithet
"uxorious," a title which can be more readily
conceded. But in his affection for her — whether
upheld by respect or not — there was a spice of
fear. He knew all about the scandals relating to
her mother, Marie of France, with Richelieu, and
his own and father's favourite, the assassinated
Buckingham, now sleeping in his grave. Charles
more than suspected, as did all the world besides,
that this same Queen-mother had sent her husband
king as himself — to an untimely tomb by a " cup
of cold poison." And oft as the dark Italian eyes
of her daughter flashed upon him in anger, he felt
secret fear she might some day serve him as had
her mother the ill-fated monarch of France. She

was of a race and a land whence such danger
might be reasonably expected and dreaded.
Lucretia Borgia and Tophana were not the only-great
female poisoners Italy has produced.

"If you've no care for yourself, then," she went
on with untiring persistence, " think of our children.
Think of him," and she nodded towards a gaudily-dressed
stripling of some ten or twelve, seen coming
towards them. It was he who, twenty years
after, under the seemingly innocent soubriquet of
Merry Monarch," made sadness in many a family
circle, slouching England's escutcheon all over
with shame, scarce equalled in the annals of France.

Native enfant T' she exclaimed, as he came up,
passing her jewelled fingers through the curls of
his hair ; " your father would leave you bereft of
your birthright; some day to be a king with a
worthless crown."

The " pauvre enfant," a sly young wretch, smiled
in return for her caresses, looking dark at his

father. Young as he was, he knew what was
meant, and took sides with his mother. She had
already well indoctrinated him with the ideas of
Divine Right, as understood by a Medici.

"Peste" exclaimed the King, looking vexed,
possibly at the allusion to a successor ; " were I
to follow your counsels, Madam, it might result in
my leaving him no crown at all."

Then leave him none ! " she said in quick return,
and with an air of jaunty indifference.
Perhaps better so. I, his mother, would rather see
him a peasant than prince, with such a future as
you are laying out for him."

"Sire, the Earl of Strafford craves audience of
your Majesty."

This was said by a youth in the official costume
of the Court, who had approached from the
Palace, and stood with head bent before the
King.

A remarkably handsome young fellow he was.

and the Queen, as she turned her eyes on him,
seemed to recover sweetness of temper.

I suppose my company will be de trop now,"
she said. Then facing towards the youth, and
bestowing upon him one of her syren smiles — slyly
though — she added, " Here, Eustace ; bring this to
my boudoir," and she handed him a large book, a
portfetiille of pictures, she had been all the while
carrying.

Whether the King caught sight of that smile,
and read something wrong in it, or not, he
certainly seemed irritated, hastily interposing —

"No, Henriette, I'd rather have you stay."

Con t02Lt plaisirs A slight cloud upon her
brow told the contrary. " Charles, too } "

** No ; he can go. Yes, Trevor. Conduct the
Lord Strafford hither."

Eustace Trevor, as the handsome youth was
called, bowing, turned and went off, the Prince
with him. Then said the Kine —

I wish you to hear what Strafford has to say
on the subject we've been talking of."

"Just what I wish myself," she rejoined, resuming
her air of bravery. " If you won't listen tome,
a weak woman, perhaps you will to him, a
man— <?;/^ of courage

Charles writhed under her speech, the last words
of It. Even without the emphasis on them, they
were more than an insinuation that he himself
lacked that quality men are so proud of, and
women so much admire. Almost a direct imputation,
as if she had called him " coward ! " But
there was no time for him to make retort, angry
or otherwise, even had he dared. The man seeking
audience was already In the garden, and within
earshot. So, swallowing his chagrin as he best
could, and putting on the semblance of placidity,
the King in silence awaited his coming up.

With an air of confident familiarity, and as
much nonchalance as though they had been but

ordinary people, Strafford approached the royal
pair. The Queen had bestowed smiles on him
too ; he knew he had her friendship — moreover,
that she was the King's master. He had poured
flattery into her ears, as another Minister courtier
of later time into those of another queen — perhaps
the only point of resemblance between the two
men, otherwise unlike as Hyperion to the Satyr.
With all his sins, Wentworth had redeeming
qualities ; he was at least a brave man and somewhat
of a gentleman.

What do you say to this, my lord ? " asked
the Queen, as he came up. " I've been giving the
King some counsel ; advising him to dissolve the
Parliament, or at least do something to stop them
in their wicked courses. Favour us with your
opinion, my lord."

"My opinion," answered the Minister, making
his bow, " corresponds with that of your Majesty.
Certes, half-hand measures will no longer avail in

dealing with these seditious gabblers. There's a
dozen of them deserve having their heads chopped
off."

"Just what I've been saying!" triumphantly
exclaimed the Queen. " You hear that, iron
viri ? "

Charles but nodded assent, waiting for his
Minister to speak further.

At the pace they're going now. Sire," the
latter continued, " they'll soon strip you of all prerogative
— leave you of Royalty but the rags."

Ciel, yes ! " interposed the Queen. " And our
poor children ! What's to become of them ? "

I've just been over to the House," proceeded
Strafford ; " and to hear them is enough to make
one tear his hair. There's that Hampden, with
Heselrig, Vane, and Harry Martin — Sir Robert
Harley too — talking as if England had no longer
a king, and they themselves were its rulers."

"Do you tell me that, Strafford?"

It was Charles himself who interrogated, now
showing great excitement, which the Queen's " I
told you so " strengthened, as she intended it.

"With your Majesty's permission, I do," responded
the Minister.

By God's splendour ! " exclaimed the indignant
monarch, " I'll read them a different lesson — show
them that England has a king — one who will hereafter
reign as king should — absolute — absolute ! "

Thank you, mon ami'' said the Queen, in a
side whisper to Strafford, as she favoured him
with one of her most witching smiles. " He'll
surely do something now."

The little bit of by-play was unobserved by
Charles, the gentleman-usher having again come
up to announce another applicant for admission to
the presence : an historical character, too — historically
infamous — for it was Archbishop Laud.

Soon after the oily ecclesiastic was seen coming
along in a gliding, stealthy gait, as though he

feared giving offence by approaching royalty too
brusquely. His air of servile obsequiousness vas
in striking contrast with the bold bearing of the
visitor who had preceded him. As he drew near,
his features, that bore the stamp of his low birth
and base nature, were relaxed to their meekest
and mildest ; a placid smile playing on his lips,
as though they had never told a lie, or himself
done murder!

Aic fait to all that concerned the other three—
every secret of Court and Crown — for he was as
much the King's Minister as Strafford, he was at
once admitted to their council, and invited to take
part in their conspiring. Appealed to, as the
other had been, he gave a similar response.
Strong measures should be taken. He knew the
Queen wished it so, for it was not his first conference
with her on that same subject.

Strafford was not permitted time to impart to
his trio of listeners the full particulars of the cruel

scheme, which some say, and with much probability,
had its origin in Rome. For the guests
of the gay Queen, expected every afternoon at
Whitehall, began to arrive, interrupting the conference.


Soon the palace garden became lustrous with
people in splendid apparel, the elite of the land still
adhering to the King's cause — plumed cavaliers,
with dames old and young, though youth predominated,
but not all of high degree, either in
the male or female element. As in modern garden
parties given by royalty, there was a mixture, both
socially and morally, strange even to grotesqueness.
The Franco-Italian Queen, with all her grand ideas
of Divine right and high Prerogative, was not loth
to lay them down and aside when they stood in
the way of her pleasures. She could be a very
leveller where self-interest required it ; and this
called for it now. The King's failing popularity
needed support from all sides, classes, and parties,

C

bad or good, humble or gentle ; and in the assemblage
she saw around her — there by her own
invitation — such high bloods as Harry Jermyn,
Hertford, Digby, Coningsby, Scudamore, and the
like, touched sleeves with men of low birth and
lover character — very reprobates, as Langford,
afterwards designated " the bloody," and the notorious
desperado, David Hide ! The feminine
element was equally paralleled by what may be
seen in many " society " gatherings of the present
day — virtuous ladies brushing skirts with stage
courtesan, and others who figure under the name
of "professional beauties," many of them bearing
high titles of nobility, but now debasing them.

Henrietta, in her usual way, had a pleasant word
and smile for all ; more for the men than the
women, and sweeter for the younger ones than the
old ones. But even to the gilded youth they were
not distributed impartially. Handsome Harry
Jermyn, hitherto reigning favourite, and having the

larger share of them, had reason to suspect that
his star was upon the wane, when he saw the
Queen's eyes ever and anon turned towards another
courtier handsome as himself, with more of youth
on his side — Eustace Trevor. The latter, relieved
from his duty as gentleman-usher, had joined the
party in the garden. Socially, he had all right to
be there. Son of a Welsh knight, he could boast
of ancestry old as Caractacus, some of his forbears
having served under Harry of Monmouth, and
borne victorious banners at Agincourt. But boasting
was not in Eustace Trevor's line, nor conceit
of any sort — least of all vanity about his personal
appearance. However handsome others thought
him, he himself was quite unconscious of it.
Equally so of the Queen's admiration ; callous to
the approaches she had commenced making, to
the chagrin of older favourites. Not that he was
of a cold or passionless nature ; simply because
Henriette de Medici, though a Queen, a beautiful

woman as well, was not the one destined to inspire
his first passion. For as yet he knew not love.
But recently having become attached to the Court
in an official capacity, he thought only of how he
might best perform the duties that had been
assigned him.

Though there might be many envies, jealousies
even bitter heartburning among the people who
composed that glittering throng, they were on the
whole joyous and jubilant. A whisper had gone
round of the King's determination to return to his
old ways, and once more boldly confront what
they called the aggressions of the Parliament.
These concerned them all, for they were all of the
class and kind who preyed upon the people.
Groups gathered here and there were merry in
mutual congratulations on their fine prospects for
the future ; hoping that, like the past, it would
afford them free plunder of the nation's purse and
resources — ship tax, coal and conduit money

once more, loans by Privy Seal, and sale of monopolies
— all jobberies and robberies restored !

But just at that moment of general rejoicing,
as a bombshell bursting in the midst of a military
camp or regiment of soldiers in close column,
came a thing that, first setting them in a flutter,
soon seriously alarmed them. A thing of human
shape withal ; a man in official robes, the uniform
of a Parliamentary usher from the Lords. He was
announced as waiting outside, rather claiming than
craving an interview, which the King dared not
deny him.

Summoned into the Audience Chamber, where
Charles had gone to receive him, he presented the
latter with a document, the reading of which caused
him to tremble and turn pale. For it was a Bill
of Attainder that had been agreed to by both
Houses against Thomas Wentworth, Earl of Strafford.
The fluttering among the courtiers became
fright, when the King, returning to the garden,

made known the usher's errand. To his familiars
at first, but it soon passed from Hp to h*p and ear
to ear. None seemed so little affected as Strafford
himself Sin-hardened, he was also endowed with
indomitable courage, and maintained a bold, high
bearing to the last of his life, even to the laying
his head upon the block — an episode which soon
after succeeded, — the craven monarch signing his
death warrant as if it had been a receipt for one
of his loans by Privy Seal.

Far more frightened by the Parliamentary message
was Archbishop Laud. For him no more
pleasure that day in the gardens of Whitehall.
His smiles and simpering all gone, with pallid
cheek and clouded brow, the wretched ecclesiastic
wandered around among the courtiers, seeming
distraught. And so was he. For in that Bill of
Attainder he read his own doom — read it aright.

Grand, glorious Parliament, that knew not only
how to impeach, but punish the betrayers of the

people! Knew also how to maintain Its own
dignity and honour ; as on a later occasion, when
the King, once more maddened by the stinging
taunts of his wicked wife, entered the august assembly
with an escort of bullies and bravoes —
Lunsford and Hide among them — to arrest six of
England's most illustrious patriots : an attempt
eminently unsuccessful — an Intrusion handsomely
resented. As the disappointed monarch and his
disreputable following turned to go out again, It
was with a wonderful come-down In their swagger.
For along the line of seats, on both sides of
the House, they saw men with scowling faces and
hats on their heads ; heard, too, in chorus clearly,
loudly repeated, the significant cry — " Privilege ! "

A SWORD DUEL IN THE SADDLE.

*'He who is not a Republican must either have a
bad head or a bad heart."

The speaker was a man of military mien, cavalry
arm, as could be told by his seat in the saddle —
for he was on horseback. Not in military uniform,
however, but dressed in a plain doublet of dark
grey cloth, with a broad Vandyke collar, high-crowned
hat, buff boots reaching above the knees,
and turned over at the tips. Nor did his wearing
a sword certify to his being a soldier. In those
days no one went without such weapon, especially
when on a journey, as he was. Thirty, or thereabouts,
he looked a little older through his complexion
being sun-browned, as from foreign service

A SWORD DUEL IN THE SADDLE. 25

or travel ; which had also left its traces in his hair,
a strand or two of silver beginning to show in a
chevelure otherwise coal-black. His fine sweeping
moustaches, however, were still free from this betrayer
of middle age ; while his well-balanced figure
lithe and tersely set, bespoke the activity of a yet
youthful manhood. His features, oval and regular,
were of a type denoting firmness ; handsome, too,
with their tint of bronze, which lent interest to
them, lit up as they were by the flashing of eagle
eyes. For flash these did excitedly, almost angrily,
as he so declared himself. By his speech he should
be a Puritan, of extremest views ; for that he meant
what he said was as evident from the emphasis
given to his words as from the expression on his
face. Still, his hair showed not the close crop of
the " Roundhead ; " instead, fell down in curling
luxuriance as affected by the " Cavalier ; " while a
plume of cock's feathers set jauntily on the side of
his hat gave him more the air of the latter than

the former, in contradiction to the sentiment expressed.


There could be no mistaking to which belonged
the personage to whom he addressed his speech.
Of the Cavalier class sure, as the effect it produced
upon him would have told of itself. But the style
of his dress, air, bearing, everything proclaimed
him one. A youth not yet turned twenty, in garb
of silken sheen ; coat and trunks of rich yellow
satin, Cordovan leather boots, with a wide fringe
of lace around the tops ; spurs gilt or of gold,
and a beaver over which waved a panache of ostrich
feathers, upheld in a jewelled clasp. His sword
belt of silk velvet was elaborately embroidered,
the needlework looking as though it came from
the fingers of a lady who had worked with a will
and coat amove ; the gauntlets of his white gloves
ornamented in a similar fashion by the same.
Handsome he, too, but of manly beauty, quite
differing from that of the other, even to contrast.

With a bright, radiant complexion, and blonde hair
falling in curls over his cheeks, yet unwearied, his
features were of the type termed aristocratic ; such
as Endymion possessed, and Phidias would have
been delighted to secure for a model. Habitually
and openly wearing a gentle expression, there was,
at the same time, one more latent, which bespoke
intellectual strength and courage of no common
kind. Passionate anger, too, when occasion called
for it, seeming to say, " Don't put upon me too
much, or you'll find your mistake."

Just such a cast came over them as he listened
to what the other said ; a declaration like defiance,
flung in his teeth. Although meant as the clincher
of a political argument which had been for sometime
going on between them, the young Cavalier,
taken aback by its boldness, and doubtful of having
heard aright, turned sharply upon the other,
asking, —

What's that you said, sir ? ''

That the man who is not a Republican must
either have a bad head or a bad heart."

This time more emphatically, as though nettled
by the tone of the other's interrogative.

Indeed ! " exclaimed the youth reining up, for
they were riding along a road.

Indeed, yes," returned the older man, also
drawing bridle. " Or if you prefer it in another
form, he who is not a Republican must be either
a knave or a fool."

"You're a knave to say so!" cried the silken youth,
whose rising wrath had now gathered to a head, his
hand as he spoke crossing to the hilt of his sword.

"Well, youngster," rejoined the other, seeming,
on the contrary, to become calmer, and speaking
with a composure strange under the circumstances,
"that's speech plain enough, and rude enough. It
almost tempts me to retort by calling you a fool.
But I won't ; only, if you value your life you must
withdraw your words."

Not one of them ! Never, so long as I wear a
sword. You shall eat yours first ! " and he whipped
out his rapier.

Though journeying side by side, they were quite
strangers to one another, an accident having
brought them together upon the road, both going
in the same direction. It was up the steep declivity
leading from the town of Mitcheldean into
the Forest, near the point where now stands a
mansion called " The Wilderness." Nor were they
altogether alone, two other horsemen, their respective
body servants, riding at a little distance behind.
It was after surmounting the slope, and having
got upon level ground, that their conflict of words
reached the climax described, likely to end in one
of blows. For to this the fiery youth seemed determined
on pushing it.

Not so the other. On the contrary, he still sat
composedly in his saddle, no sign of drawing
sword, exhibiting a sang froid curiously in contrast

with the warmth he had shown in the wordy
disputation. It surely could not be cowardice ?
If so, it must be of the most craven kind, after
that demand for withdrawal of the insulting words.
And as such the Cavalier conceived, or misconceived,
it, crying out, —

"Draw, caitiff! Defend yourself, if you don't
want me to kill you in cold blood ! "

*' Ha-ha-ha ! " laughed the other, lightly and
satirically. " It's just because I don't want to
kill you in cold blood that I hesitate baring my
blade."

"A subterfuge — a lie!" shouted the youth, stung
to madness by the implied taunt of his inferiority.
Do your best and worst. Draw, sirrah, or I'll run
you through. Draw, I say ! "

Oh, don't be in such a hurry. If I must I
must, and, to oblige you, will, though it dislikes
me to do murder — all the more that you've a
spark of spirit. But "

*• Do it if you can," interrupted the Cavalier, unheeding
the compliment. " I've no fear of your
murdering vie. Maybe the boot will be on the
other leg."

Again that strange expression came over the
face of the older man, half-admiration, half-compassion,
with a scarce discernible element of anger
in it. Even yet he appeared reluctant to draw
his sword, and only did so when the opprobrious
epithet Ldche—iox the Cavaliers spoke a smattering
of French — was flung into his teeth by his now
furious antagonist. At this, unsheathing, he called
out, —

Your blood be on your own head. To guard ! "

"For God and the King!" cried the challenger,
as he tightened grasp on hilt and rein, setting
himself firmly in the saddle.

"For God and the People!" followed the response
antagonistic.

A prick of the spur by both, a bound forward.

and their blades crossed with a clash, their horses
shoulder to shoulder. But on the instant of engaging,
that of the Cavalier, frayed by the clink of
the steel and its flash in the dazzling sunlight,
reared up, devoting round to the right. This
brought his rider left side to his antagonist, giving
the latter an advantage : and so decided, it seemed
as though he could bring the affair to an end at
the moment of commencement. For his own
better-trained steed had stood ground, and wanted
only another touch of the spur to carry him close
enough for commanding the bridle arm of his
adversary, and all under it, when with a lunge he
might thrust him through. Surely he could have
done this ! Yet neither spur nor sword were so
exerted. Instead, he sat quietly in his saddle,
as if waiting for his adversary to recover himself!
Which the latter soon did, wheeling short
round, and again furiously engaging ; by a second
misconception, unaware of the mercy shown him.

This time as they came to the " engage " the
Cavalier's horse behaved better, standing ground
till several thrusts and parades were exchanged
between them. Clearly the silk-clad youth was
no novice at fencing, but as clearly the other was
a master of it, and equally accomplished as a
horseman ; his horse, too, so disciplined as to give
him little bother with the bridle. A spectator, if
a connoisseur in the art descries could have told
how the combat would end — must end — unless
some accident favoured the younger combatant.
As it was, even the Fates seemed against him, his
horse again rearing en pirouette and to the wrong
side, placing him once more at the mercy of his
antagonist. And again the latter scorned, or declined,
taking advantage of it !

When the angry youth for the third time confronted
him, it was with less fury in his look, and
a lowered confidence in his skill. For now he not
only knew his own inferiority as a swordsman, but

was troubled with an indistinct perception of the
other's generosity. Not clear enough, however, to
restrain him from another trial ; and their swords
came together in a third crossing.

This time the play was short, almost as at the
first. Having engaged the Cavalier's blade in carte
and bound it, the self-proclaimed Republican with
a quick flanconnade plunged the point of his own
straight for his adversary's wrist. Like the protruded
tongue of a serpent, it went glistening into
the white gauntlet, which instantly showed a spot
of red, with blood spurting out ; while the rapier
of the Cavalier, struck from his grasp, flew off, and
fell with a ring upon the road.

FOES BECOME FRIENDS.

The young Cavalier was now altogether at the
mercy of his older, and as proved, abler antagonist ;
knew the latter could take his life, and had the
right, as well as good reason, from the great provocation
given him in that shower of insulting
epithets — the latest of them " Ldche ! " For all,
he quailed not, neither made attempt to elude the
next thrust of the victorious sword. Instead, stood
his ground, crying out, —

"You have conquered! You can kill me!"

Kill you ! " rejoined the victor, with the same

light laugh as before. "That's just what I've been

endeavouring not to do. But it has cost me an

effort — all my skill. Had you been an ordinary

swordsman I'd have disarmed you at the first pass
after engaging. I've done it with others, half a
dozen or more. With you, 'twas just as much as
I was able, without absolutely taking your life — a
thing far from my thoughts, and as far from my
wishes. And now that all's over, and we've neither
of us ordered the other, am I to say * Surrender ' ? "

He still spoke laughingly, but without the
slightest tone of satire, or show of exultation.

"You can command it," promptly responded the
vanquished youth, now doubly vanquished. " I cry
Quarter ' — crave it, if you like."

It was no fear of death made him thus humbly
submit, but a sudden revulsion, an outburst of
gratitude, to a conqueror alike merciful and
generous.

Ere this their attendants had got upon the
ground, seeming undecided whether to pitch in
with their masters, or cross swords on their own
account. Both had drawn them, and waited but

word or sign, scowling savagely at each other.
Had it come to blows between the men, the result,
in all probability, would have been as with their
masters; the Cavalier's light-weight varlet looking
anything but a match for the stout-bodied, veteran-like
individual who was henchman to his antagonist.
As it was, they had not resolved themselves till
the combat came to an end. Then hearing the
word "quarter," and seeing signs of amity restored,
they slipped their blades back into the scabbards,
and sate awaiting orders.

Only one of them received any just then — he
the heavy one.

"Dismount, Hubert," commanded his master,
"and return his weapon to this young gentleman,
who, as you can testify, well deserves to wear it.
And now, sir," he continued to the young gentleman
himself, " along with your sword let me offer
you some apologies, which are owing. I admit my
words were rather rough, and call for qualification.

or, to speak more correctly, explanation. When I
said, that the man who is not a Republican must
be deficient either in head or heart, I meant one
who has reached the years of discretion, and seen
something of the world — as, for instance, myself.
At your age I too was a believer in kings — even
the doctrine of Divine Right — brought up to it.
Possibly, when you hear my name you'll admit
that."

You will give me your name } " asked the
other, eagerly. "I wish it, that I may know to
whom I am beholden for so much generosity."

"Very generous on your part to say so. I am
Sir Richard Walvvyn."

Ah ! A relative of the Scudamores, are you
not ? "

"A distant relative. But I've not seen any of
them lately, having just come back from the Low
Countries, where I've been fighting a bit. In
better practice from that, with my hand still in,

which may account for my having got the better of
you," and he again laughed lightly.

The young Cavalier protested against the generous
admission, and then went on to say he knew the
Scudamores well — especially Lord Scudamore, of
Horn Lacy.

I've often met his lordship at the Palace,"
was the concluding remark.

At what palace, pray ? " inquired Sir Richard.

Oh ! Whitehall. I did not think of specifying."

Which proves that you yourself come from it }
One of the King's people, I take it ; or in the
Queen's service, more like?"

I was, but not now. I've been at Court for the
last few months in the capacity of gentleman usher."

And now ? But I crave pardon. It is rude of
me to cross-question you thus."

Not at all. Sir Richard. You have every right.
After being so frank with me, I owe you equal
frankness. I've given up the appointment I held at

Court, and am now on my way home— to my
father's house in Monmouthshire."

Your father is ? "

"Sir William Trevor."

"Ah! now I can understand why your blood
boiled up at my strenuous defence of the Parliament
— the son of Sir William Trevor. But we
won't enter upon politics again. After blows, words
are inadmissible, as ungracious. Your father's
house is near Abergavenny, if I remember rightly ? "

It Is."

That's good twenty-seven miles from here. You
don't purpose going on there to-nights"

"No ; I intend putting up for the night at Monmouth."


"Well, that's within the possibilities; but not
with daylight, unless you press your horse hard —
and he looks rather jaded."

No wonder. I've ridden him all the way from
Whitney, in Oxfordshire, since six this morning."

He must be good stuff to stand It, and show
the spirit he did just now. But for all he seems
rather badly done up — another reason for my
having got the better of you."

At this both smiled, the young Cavalier, as
before, refusing to accept the complimentary
acknowledgment.

A pity," ran on Sir Richard, " to press the poor
animal farther to night — that is, so far as Monmouth.
It's all of ten miles yet, and the road
difficult — pitches up and down. You should rest
him nearer, by way of reward for his noble performance
of the day."

Indeed, I was thinking of it ; had half made up
my mind to sleep at Coleford."

Ah ! you mustn't stop at Coleford, much less
sleep there."

"And why not?"

The Coleford people are mad angry with the
King, as are most others in the Forest. No

wonder, from the way Sir John Wintour has been
behaving to them since he got the monopoly grant
of what his Majesty had no right to give — rights
that are theirs. Their blood's up about it, and
just now to appear in the streets of Coleford,
dressed as you are, cavalier and courtier fashion,
might be attended with danger."

I'll risk—defy it ! "

Bravely spoken, and I've no doubt you'd bravely
do both. But there's no need for your doing one or
the other."

*^If you describe these Coleford fellows aright,
how can I help it. Sir Richard ? My road passes
through their town."

"True, but there's a way you may avoid it."

Oh ! I'm not going to skulk round, taking bypaths,
like a thief or deerstealer. I'll give them a
fight first."

And that fight might be your last — likely would,
Master Trevor. But no. You've fought your way

into the Forest so gallantly, it behoves him you
all but conquered to see you safe out of it. Todo
which, however, I must ask you to give up all
thoughts of sleeping either at Monmouth or Cole-ford,
and be my guest for the night."

But where, Sir Richard > I did not know that
you had a house in the Forest."

"Nor have I. But one of my friends has; and
I think I can promise you fair hospitality in it — by
proxy. Besides, that little hole I've made in your
hand — sorry at having made it — needs looking to
without delay, and my friend has some skill as a surgeon.
I could offer some other inducements that
might help in deciding you — as, for instance, a pair
of pretty faces to see. But coming from the Court
of Queen Henriette, with her galaxy of grand dames,
perhaps you've had a surfeit of that sort of thing."

The young courtier shifted uneasily in his saddle,
a slight blush coming over his cheeks, as though
the words rather gave him pain.

If not," continued Sir Richard, without heeding
these indices of emotion, "I can promise to show
you something rare in the way of feminine beauty.
For that I'll back Sabrina and Vaga against all
your maids of honour and court ladies — the Queen
included — and win with either."

Sabrina ! Vaga ! Singular names ! May I ask
who the ladies are 1 "

"You may do more — make their acquaintance,
if you consent to my proposal. You will } "

Sir Richard, your kindness overpowers me. I
am at your service Entry way."

"Thanks! Let us on, then, without delay.
We've yet full five miles of road before us, ere we
can reach the cage that holds this pair of pretty
birds. A lions r'

At which he gave his horse the spur, Trevor
doing the same ; and once more the two rode side
by side ; but friendly now — even to affection.

BEAUTIFUL FOREST BIRDS.

In all England's territory there is no district more
interesting than the Forest of Dean. Historically
it figures in our earliest annals, as borderland and
bulwark of the ancient Silures, who, with Caractacus
at their head, held the country around, defending it
on many a hard-fought field against the legionaries
of Stories Scapula. Centuries after, it again became
the scene of sanguinary strife between the
descendants of these same Silures — then better
known as Britons — and the Saxon invaders ; and
still farther down the stream of time another
invasion wasted it — Norman and Saxon arrayed
on the same side against Welsh — still the same
warlike stock, the sons of Silurian. This conflict

against odds — commencing with the Norman
William, and continued, or renewed, down through
the days made illustrious by the gallant Llewellyn
only came to an end with those of the equally
gallant Glendower, when the fires of Welsh
independence, now and then blazing up intermittently,
were finally and for ever trodden out.

Many a grand historic name is associated with
this same Forest of Dean — famed warriors and
famous or infamous kings. The Conqueror himself
was hunting in it when the news reached him
of the rising in Northumberland, and he swore
By the splendour of God, he would lay that land
waste by fire and sword ! " — a cruel oath, as cruelly
kept. In its dark recesses the wretched Edward II.
endeavoured to conceal himself, but in vain — dragged
thence to imprisonment in the dungeons of Berkeley
Castle, there to die. And within its boundaries was
born that monarch of most romantic fame, Harry
of Monmouth, hero of Agincourt.

And the day was approaching — had, in fact,
come— when other names that brighten the page
of England's history were to fling their halo of
illumination over the Forest of Dean— those of
the chivalrous Waller, the brave but modest
Massey, Essex, Fairfax, and greatest, most glorious
of all, that of Cromwell himself. It was to be
darkened too, as by the shadow of death — aye,
death itself— through many a raid of marauding
Cavaliers, with the ruffian Rupert at their head.

Dropping history, and returning to its interest
otherwise, the Forest of Dean claims attention
from peculiarities of many kinds. Geologically
regarded, it is an outlier of the carboniferous system
of South Wales, from which it is separated by
a breadth of the Devonian that has been denuded
between — so widely separated as to have similitude
to an island in the far-off ocean. An elevated island,
too, rising above the '' Old Red," through successive
strata of shales, mountain limestone, and millstone

grit, to nearly a thousand feet higher than the
general level of the surrounding terrain. Towards
this, on every side, and all round for miles and tens
of miles, it presents a facade not actually precipitous,
but so steep and difficult of ascent as to make
horses breathe hard climbing it ; while in loaded
cart or wagon, teams have to be doubled. Just
such a "pitch" was that on whose top the bitter
war of words between Eustace Trevor and Sir
Richard Walwyn had come to blows.

But, though thus high in air, the Forest of Dean
does not possess the usual characteristics of what
are termed plateaux, or elevated tablelands. As a
rule these show a level surface, or with but gentle
undulations, while that of the Forest is everywhere
intersected by deep valleys and ravines.

A very interesting geological fact is offered in
the surface formation of this singular tract of
country, its interior area being in most places
much lower than the rim around it. The peculiarity

is due to the hard carboniferous limestone,
which forms its periphery, having better resisted
denudation than the softer matrix of the coal
measures embraced by it. The disintegrating rains,
and the streams, often torrents, their resulting
sequence, have here and there cut channels of
escape outward — some running west into the Wye,
some eastward to espouse the Severn.

Very different is the Forest of Dean now from what
it was in those days of which this tale treats — territorially
more restricted, both in its boundaries and
the area once bearing its name. Then it extended
over the whole triangular space between the two
great rivers, from the towns of Ross and Gloucester
down to their union in the wide sea-like estuary of
the Severn. Changed, too, in the character of its
scenery. Now, here and there, a tall chimney maybe
seen soaring up out of its greenery of trees,
and vomiting forth volumes of murky smoke, in
striking disagreeable contrast with their verdure.



Then there was nothing of this kind — at least
nothing to jar upon the mind, or mar the harmony
of nature. Then, too, it was a real forest of grand
old trees, with a thick tangle of underwood, luxuriant
and shady. For the Court favourite. Sir John
Wintour, had not yet wasted it with his five hundred
woodcutters, all chopping and hacking away at the
same time. It was only after the Restoration he
did that ; the robber's monopoly granted him by
the " Martyr King " having been re-bestowed by
the " Merry Monarch."

There were towns in the Forest then, notwithstanding
— some of them busy centres as now ; but
the majority peaceful villages or hamlets ; country
houses, too, some of pretentious style — mansions,
and castles. A few of these yet exist, if in ruins ;
others known only by record ; and still others
totally gone out of history — lost even to legend.

The Forest roads were then but bridle paths,
or tramways for the packhorse ; no fencing on

either side ; the narrow list of trodden ground
running centrally between wide bordering of grass-grown
sward ; so that the traveller, if a horseman,
had the choice of soft turf for the hoofs of his
roadster. Only on the main routes between the
larger towns, and those going outward, was there
much traffic. The bye-roads had all the character
of green lanes, narrow, but now and then debouching
into glades, and openings of larger area,
where the small Forest sheep — progeny of the
Welsh mountaineers — browsed upon pasture, spare
and close-cropped, in the companionship of donkeys,
and perchance a deer, or it might be a dozen,
moving among them in amiable association. The
sheep and the donkeys are there still, but the deer,
alas ! are gone. Many birds that built their nests
in the Forest trees, or soared above, are there no
more. The eagle makes not now its eyrie in the
Caldwell Rocks or soars over Symonds' Yat ; even
the osprey is but rarely seen pursuing its finny

.'f\<^

ll Bc

prey in the lower waters of either Wye or Severn.
Still, the balconies are to this day represented in
the Forest district by numerous species, by the
kite and kestrel ; the buzzard, Common, Rough-legged,
and Honey ; by the goshawk and sparrow-hawk
; the hobby and harriers ; and if last, not
least, in estimation, the graceful diminutive merlin.
Birds of bright feathers, too, still flit through the
Forest's trees ; the noisy jay, the gaudy, green
woodpecker, and the two spotted species ; with the
kingfisher of cerulean hue ; while its glades are
gladdened by the sweet song of the thrush, the
bolder lay of the blackbird ; in springtide, the
matchless melody of the nightingale — the joyous
twittering of linnets and finches, mingling with
the softer notes of the cushat and turtle-dove.
******

On that calm summer evening, when the clinking
of swords on Mitcheldean-hill frightened the Forest
birds, for a time stilling their voices, on another

hill, some three miles distant from the scene of
strife, the sweet songsters were being disturbed
by intrusion upon their wild-wood domain. Not
much disturbed, however, nor could the disturbers
be justly characterized as intruders. Even the
birds themselves might have been glad to see,
and welcome among them, things of brightness
and beauty far beyond their own. Women they
were, or rather girls, both being under age— for
there were but two of them. Sisters, moreover,
though there was scarce a trait of resemblance
to betray the relationship, either in features or
complexion. She who seemed the elder was
dark as a gipsy, the other a clear dioxide, with
hair showering over her shoulders, of hue as the
beams of the sinking sun that shimmered upon it.
For all, both were alike beautiful ; in a different
way, but unquestionably beautiful. And that they
were sisters could be learnt by listening to their
conversation ; their names, also, as they addressed

one another — that of the older, Sabriiia ; the
younger, Vaga,

They could not be other than the pair of pretty
birds spoken of by Sir Richard Walwyn ; and,
verily, he had not overrated them.

OUT FOR A WALK.

Unlike in Other respects, the sisters were unequal
in height — the elder being the taller. With some
difference in their dress, too, though both wore the
ordinary out-door costume of the day. It was
rather graceful than splendid, for the hideous
farthingale of the Elizabethan era was then going
out of fashion, and their gowns, close-fitting in
body and sleeves, displayed the outlines of figures
that were perfection. Theirs were not charms that
needed heightening by any adornment of dress.
However plainly attired, there was in their air
and carriage that grace which distinguishes the
gentlewoman. Still, the younger was not without
affectation of ornament. Her French hood of bright-coloured

silk, looped under the chin, was so coined
as to show in a coquettish way her wealth of
radiant hair, and beneath the gorget ruff gleamed
a necklet of gold, with rings in her ears. There
was embroidery, also, on the bodice and sleeves
of her gown— doubtless the work of her own fair
fingers. In those days ladies, even the grandest
dames, were not above using the needle.

Sabrina's hood, of a more sombre hue, was
quite as becoming, and more suitable to her darker
complexion. Her general attire, too, was appropriate
to her character, which was of the staid,
sober kind. Both wore strong, thick-soled shoes —
being out for a walk — but neither these nor home-knitted
stockings, which their short skirts permitted
view of, could hinder the eye from beholding
feet small and finely-shaped, with high instep
and elegant toiirmire of ankles.

Good walkers they were, as could be told by
the way they stepped along the Forest road ;

for they were on one. It was that which ran
from Ruardean to Drybrook, and their faces were
set in the direction of the latter. Between the
two towns a high ridge is interposed, and this
they were ascending from the Ruardean side.
Before they had reached its summit, Vaga, coming
abruptly to a stop, said : —

Don't you think we've walked far enough } "

Why .? Are you tired > "

"No — not that. But it occurs to me we maybe
wandering too far from home."

That Sabrina was not wandering might have
been told by her step, straightforward, as also
her earnest glances, interrogating the road ahead
at every turning. As these had been somewhat
surreptitiously, though not timidly, given, the other
had hitherto failed to notice them. Indeed, Vaga
was not all the while by her side, nor keeping
step with her. A huge dog of the Old English
mastiff breed more occupied her attention ; the

animal every now and then making a rush at the
browsing sheep, and sending them helter-skelter
among the trees, his young mistress — for the dog
was hers — clapping her hands with delight, and
crying him on regardless of the mischief. It was
only when no more of the little Welsh muttons
were to be seen along the road that she joined
her sister, and put in that plea for turning back.

So far from home ! " repeated Sabrina, with
feigned surprise. "Why, we haven't come quite
two miles — not much over one."

True ; but "

But what ? Are you afraid .? "

A little— I confess."

And the cause of your fear ? Not wolves ?
If so, I can release you from it. It's now quite
half a century since there was a wolf seen in this
Forest ; and he — poor, lonely creature, the last
of his race — was most unmercifully slain. The
Foresters, being mostly of Welsh ancestry, have

an hereditary hatred of the lupine species, I suppose
from that mischance which befel the infant
Llewellyn."

Vaga laughed, as she rejoined : —

Instead of having a fear of wolves, I'd like to
see one just now. Hector, I'm sure, would show
fight ; aye, and conquer it, too, as did the famed
Beth-Gelert his. Wouldn't you, old Hec ? Aye !
that you would."

At which the mastiff, rearing up, set his paws
against her breast to receive the caresses extended
; and, after these being given him, scampered
off again in search of more sheep.

"Then what are you afraid of?" asked Sabrina,
*' Ghosts? There are none of them in the Forest
either. If there were, no danger of their showing
themselves by daylight, and we'll be back home
long before the sun goes down. Ha, ha, ha ! "

It was as unusual for the older of the sisters to
talk in such a licht strain as it was for the

younger to speak otherwise. Just then each had
a reason for this reversion of their roles.

Further questioned as to the cause of her fear,
Vaga made answer, saying, —

"You're merry, sister Sab, and I'm right glad
to see you so. But what I meant isn't a matter
for jest ; instead, something to be really alarmed
about."

"When you've told me what it is, I'll give my
opinion upon it. If neither wolves nor ghosts,
what can it be ? Bipeds or quadrupeds ? "

"Bipeds, and of the sort most to be dreaded —
brutal men."

Oh ! that's it. But what men are there about
here deserving to be so characterized } "

None about here, I hope and believe. But
you know, sister, what's going on all around the
Forest : those mobs of lawless fellows down at
Monmouth and Lydney. Suppose some of them
to be coming this way and meet us ? "

I don't suppose it, and needn't. The malignant
of Monmouth and Lydney are not Hkely
to be upon this road. If they did, 'twould be at
their peril. The men of Ruardean and Drybrook
are of a different sort — the right sort. Should we
meet any of them, though they may be a little
rough in appearance, they won't be rude. No
true Forester ever is to a woman, whether lady
or not. That they leave to the foreign elements
Sir John Wintour has brought to Lydney, and
the so-called Cavaliers on the Monmouth side —
those braggarts of their blood and gallant bearing,
most of them the veriest scum of the country,
its gamesters and tapsters, the sweepings of the
alehouse and stable ! Cavaliers, indeed ! who know
not politeness to man nor respect for woman ;
care neither for national honour nor social decency
! "

The enlightened young lady spoke with a
warmth bordering upon indignation. With truth,

too, as might one of her sort now about Tories
and Jingoes. But, alas ! now there are but few
of her sort, youthful and enthusiastic in the cause
of liberty ; instead, ancient maidens of wealth and
title, some of whose ancestors trod the stage
playing at charity for the sake of popularity;
patronizing play-actors and endowing homes for
strayed dogs ! showing a shameless sympathy with
the foul murdering Turk and his red-handed atrocities
; last and latest of all, having the effrontery —
impertinent as unfeminine — to council, aye, dictate,
political action to England's people, telling them
how they should cast their votes !

What a contrast between their doings and the
sayings and sentiments of that young Forest girl
all that lies between the mean and the noble !

"But," she went on, in reference to the gentlemen
of the gaming-house and hostelry tap-room,
"we needn't fear meeting them here, nor anywhere
through the Forest. The Foresters — brave fellows

are for the Parliament almost to a man. Should
we encounter any of them on our walk, I'll answer
for their good behaviour and kind-heartedness —
something more, if knowing who we are. Father
is a favourite with them for having taken their
side against the usurpations of Wintour ; though
they liked him before that, and I'm proud of their
doing so."

Oh ! so am I, Sabrina. I'm as fond of our
dear Foresters as you. It isn't of them I had any
fear. But, apart from all that, I think it's time we
turn our steps homeward. We're surely now two
miles from Hollymead ; and see ! the sun's hastening
to go down behind the Welsh hills."

While so delivering herself, she faced round,
the Welsh hills being behind their backs as they
walked towards Drybrook.

Hasten as it likes," rejoined Sabrina, " it can't
get down for at least another hour. That will
give us ample time to go on to the top of the

hill and back to Hollymead before supper; which
last, if I mistake not, is the chief cause of your
anxiety to be at home."

For shame, Sabrina ! You know it isn't — the
last thing in my thoughts."

Sabrina did know that ; knew, also, she was not
speaking her own thoughts, but using subterfuge
to conceal them. It was herself had proposed
the stroll she seemed so desirous of continuing.
To her its termination would not be satisfactory
without attaining the summit of the ridge whose
slope they were ascending.

Thrown back by what her younger sister had
said, but still determined to proceed, without giving
the true reason, she bethought herself of one, false
though plausible.

Well, Vag," she laughingly pursued, " I was
only jesting, as you know. But there's one thing
I hate to do — never could do, that's to half climb
a hill without going on to its top. It seems like

breaking down or backing out, and crying * surrenders
— which our dear father has taught us
never to do. Up to the summit yonder is buta
step now. It won't take us ten minutes more
to reach it ; besides, I want to see something I
haven't set eyes on for a long while — that grand
valley through which meanders my namesake,
Sabrina. And looking back from there, you can
also feast your eyes on that in which wanders
yours, Vaga, capricious like yourself. In addition,"
she added, not heeding her sister's shrug of the
shoulders, "we'll there get a better view of a
glorious sunset that's soon to be over the Lateral
Hills ; and the twilight after will give us ample
time to get home before the supper table be set.
So, why should you hinder me — to say nothing
of yourself— from indulging in a little bit of
aesthetics ? "

Hinder you ! " exclaimed Vaga, protesting.
** I hinder ! You shan't say that."

F

And at the words she went bounding on upward,
like a mountain antelope ; not stopping again
till she stood on the summit of the hill.

WAITING AND WATCHING.

Following with alacrity, Sabrina was soon again

by the side of her sister. But just then no further

speech passed between them. Not that both were

silent. On the crest of the ridge, treeless and

overgrown with gorse, Hector had run foul of a

donkey, and after a short chase was holding it

at bay. With his barks were mingled cries of

encouragement from his mistress, laughter, and

patting of her hands, as she hounded him on.

Possibly had the Forester, Neddy's owner, come up

at that moment, he might not have shown the

politeness for which Sabrina had given his fellows

credit. But the young lady meant no harm ; nor

much the mastiff. If he had, there was little



danger of his doing it ; the creature whose ancestry
came from Mesopotamia being able to take care of
itself. The demonstrations of the dog — an overfed,
good-natured brute — looked as if being made
either for his own amusement or that of his
young mistress ; while the donkey, on the defence,
with teeth, and heels, seemed equally to enjoy
the fun.

The elder sister, standing apart, had neither eyes
nor ears for this bit of hoydenish play. If a
thought, it was the fear of giving offence to the
ass's owner, should that individual unluckily come
along. As no one came, however, she left Vaga to
her vagaries, and stood intently gazing upon the
landscape spread before her.

A far and varied view she commanded from
that elevated spot. First, a deep, wide valley
below, trending away to the right, with a tiny
stream trickling adown it, and a straggling village,
the houses standing apart along its banks — Dry-brook.

But not as the Drybrook of to-day,
showing tall brick chimneys — the monoliths of our
own modern time — with their plumes of grey
black smoke ; cinder-strewn roads running from one
to the other, and patches of bare pasture between.
Then it was embowered, almost buried, in trees ;
here and there only a spot of whitewashed walls
or a quaint lead window, seen through the thick
foliage. Beyond village and stream rose another
ridge, with a gradual ascent up to the " Wilderness
" ; and still farther off — so far as to be just
visible — stretched a wide expanse of low-lying
champaign country, the valley of the Severn, once
the sound of a sea. As the young girl gazed
upon it, the sinking sun behind her back, with the
Forest highlands beginning to fling the shadows of
twilight across the Severn's plain, and the white
mist that overhung it, she might well have
imagined the waters of ocean once more o'erflowing
their ancient bed.

She neither imagined this nor thought of it ; in
fact saw not the fog, nor gave so much as a
second glance to that valley she had professed
herself so desirous of viewing. Instead, her eyes
were fixedly bent upon the face of the acclivity
opposite — more particularly on a riband of road
that went winding up through woods from Dry-brook
to the 'wilderness." And still with the
same look of earnest interrogation. What could
it mean ?

Vaga coming up, after having finished her affair
with the donkey, observed the look, and it called
forth a fresh display of that persiflage she so delighted
in. Hitherto Sabrina had the best of it.
Her turn now, and she took advantage of it,
saying,—

Why, sister Sab, you seem to have forgotten
all about what you came here for ! You're not
looking at the Severn at all ! Your glances are
directed too low for it. And as to the glorious

sunset you spoke of, that's going on behind you !
Something on the road over yonder seems to bethe
attraction ; though I can see nothing but the
road itself."

Nor I," said Sabrina, a little confused, with just
the slightest spot of red again showing on her
cheeks. Enough, though, to catch the eye of her
suspicious sister, who archly observed, —

Rather strange, your gazing so earnestly at it
then ? "

Well, yes ; I suppose it is."
"But not if you're expecting to see some one
upon it."

Sabrina started, the red on her cheeks becoming
more pronounced ; but she said nothing, since now
her secret was discovered, or on the eve of discovery.
Vaga's next words left her no longer in
doubt

Who is he, sister } " she asked with a sly look,
and a laugh.

Who is who ? "

He you expect to see come riding down yonder
road. I take it he'll be on horseback ? "

Vaga ! you're a very inquisitive creature."

Have I not some right, after being dragged all
the way hither, when I wanted to go home? If
you called me a hungry creature 'twould be nearer
the truth. Jesting apart, I am that — quite famished ;
so weak I must seek support from a tree."

And with a mock stagger, she brought up
against the trunk of a hawthorn that grew near.

Sabrina could not resist laughing too, though
still keeping her eyes on the up-hill road. It
seemed as though she could not take her eyes off
it. But the other quickly recovering strength, and
more naturally than she had affected feebleness,
once more returned to the attack, saying, —

** Sister mine ; it's no use you're trying to hoodwink
me. You forget that by accident I saw a
letter that lately came to Hollymead — at least its

superscription. Equally oblivious you appear to
be, that the handwriting of a certain gentleman is
quite familiar to me, having seen many other letters
from the same to father. So, putting that and
that together, Tve not the slightest doubt that the
one of last week, addressed to your sweet self, informed
you that on a certain day, hour, afternoon.
Sir Richard Walwyn would enter the Forest of
Dean by the Drybrook Road on his way to "

Vaga, you're a very demon ! "

"Which means I've read your secret aright. So
you may as well make confession of it."

I won't ; and just to punish you for prying.
Curiosity ungratified will be to you very torture,
as I know."

Oh, well ! keep it close ; it don't signify a bit.
One has little care to be told what one knows
without telling. If Sir Richard should come to
Hollymead, why then six and six make a dozen,
don't they?"

Sabrina turned a half-reproachful look on her
tormentor, but without making reply.

You needn't answer," the other went on. My
arithmetic's right, and the problem's solved, or
will be, by the gentleman spoken of making his

appearance any time this day, or Why, bless

me ! Yonder he is now, I do believe."

The exclamatory phrase had reference to a
horseman seen riding down the road so narrowly
watched ; though the speaker was not the first to
see him. He had been already sighted by Sabrina,
and it was the flash of excitement in her eyes that
guided those of her sister.

The horseman had not all the road to himself;
another coming on behind, but at such short
distance as to tell of companionship — that of master
and servant. He ahead was undoubtedly a
gentleman, as evinced by the bright colour of his
dress, with its silken gloss under the sunlight, and
the glitter of arms and accoutrements; while the

more soberly-attired rider in the rear was evidently
a groom or body servant.

As the girls stood regarding, the look in the
eyes of the elder, at first satisfied and joyous,
began gradually to change. The distance was too
great for the identification of either face or figure.
All that could be distinguished was that they were
men on horseback, with the general hue of their
habiliments, and the sparkle of arms and ornaments.


It was just these — their brightness and splendour
as affected the foremost of the two, which had
brought the change over Sabrina's countenance.
Sir Richard Walwyn was not wont to dress
gaudily, but rather the reverse. Still, time had
elapsed since she last saw him. He had been
abroad, in the Low Countries, and with Gustavus
of Sweden, battling for the good cause. The
foreign fashions may have changed his ideas about
dress and its adornments. But little cared she for

that so long as his heart was unchanged ; and that
it was so she knew by the letter which had betrayed
her own heart's secret to her sister.

Almost simultaneously upon Vaga's features
appeared a change too — almost expressing doubt.
It became certainty on the instant after, still
another replacing it, as she again exclaimed, contradicting
herself —

Bless me, no ! That's Reginald Trevor."

A CAVALIER IN LOVE.

Reginald Trevor it was, for Vaga was not
guessing. Something she saw about the horseman,
or his horse, had enabled her to identify him ; as
she did so, that third and latest change coming
over her countenance, giving it also a serious cast.
But nothing compared with that which now
showed on the face of her sister. The varied expressions
of hopeful anticipation, surprise, delight,
then doubt, rapidly succeeding one another, were
all past, and in their place a dark shadow sat
cloud-like on her brow. In her eyes, too, still
scanning the distant horseman, was a look that
betokened pain, or at least uneasiness, with something
of fear and anger. In truth, the expression



on their face, though differing from each other,
would have been unreadable to any one who was
a stranger to them and Reginald Trevor.

Some knowledge of this gentleman and his
antecedents will throw light upon the grave impression
seemingly produced upon the two girls
by the sight of him.

As the name might indicate, he was kin to the
young courtier, late gentleman-usher at Whitehall
his cousin. Different, however, had been their
lots in the lottery of life ; those of Eustace so far
having all come out prizes, while Reginald had
been drawing blanks. A dissolute, dissipated
father had left the latter nought but a bad name,
and the son had little bettered it. Still was he a
gallant Cavalier, as the word went, and at least
possessed the redeeming quality of courage. He
had given proofs of it as an officer in that army
sent northward against the Scots, where he had
served as a lieutenant under Lunsford. Per contra,

as the father who begot him, he was given to
dissipation, a drinker, dicer, wencher, everything
socially disreputable and distasteful to the Parliamentarians,
— far more the Puritans, — though
neither disgracing or lowering himself In the eyes
of his own party — the Cavaliers. If latitudinarianism
in morals could be accounted Christian charity,
none were endowed with this virtue in a higher
degree than they.

Reginald Trevor had the full benefit of their
tolerance In that respect : passed among them asa
rare good fellow ; no harm in him, save what
affected himself. To use a common phrase, he was
his own worst enemy. Beginning life penniless, he
was no better off at the commencement of his
military career ; and his spendthrift habits had
kept him the same ever since. At that hour, when
seen coming down the road — save his sword, horse,
clothing, and equipments — he could not call anything
his own. These, however, were all of the

best; for he was a military dandy, and, despite
poverty, always contrived to rig himself out in
grand array. Just now he was well up in everything,
though possibly nothing had been paid for
horse, clothing, nor accoutrements. But he had
got a good post, which enabled him to get good
credit, and that satisfied him all the same.
Thrown out of commission — as Lunsford and
others after their return from the North — he had
lived for some months in London as best he
could ; often at his wits' end. But swords were
now once more in demand, with men who could
wield them ; and Sir John Wintour, who had commenced
fortifying his mansion at Lydney to hold
it for the King, casting about for the right sort to
defend it, chose Reginald Trevor as one of them.

For some weeks antecedent to the time of his
introduction to the reader, he had been in Sir
John's service ; acting in a mixed capacity, military
and political, with some duties appertaining to

the civil branch of administration. These had
taken him all over the Forest of Dean, introducing
him into many a house where he had hitherto
been a stranger. But of all honoured by his visit,
there was only one he cared ever returning to. It
he could revisit again and again ; had done so ;
and would have been glad to stay by it for the
rest of his life. A lone house, too, though a
mansion, standing remote from anything that could
be called city, or even town ; remote from other
houses of its class. It may seem strange such a
solitary habitation should have attractions for a
man of his character ; but not when its name is
given — for it was Hollymead. This known, it
needs no telling why Reginald Trevor was attracted
thither ; only to specify which of the two
girls was the loadstone that drew him. Even this
may be guessed — not likely Sabrina, but very likely
Vaga. And Vaga it was. He had fallen in love
with her, passionately, madly ; and, stranger still,

G

purely ; for, in all likelihood, it was the first honest
love of his life. Honest it was, however ; and
honestly he had been acting so far ; his courtship
respectful, and free from the bold rude advances
which as a rule, marked the conduct of the
Cavaliers. For, despite all said to the contrary,
their behaviour to women was more " gallantry "
than gallant, and anything but chivalrous.

But, although behaving his best, Reginald Trevor
had not prospered in his suit ; on the contrary
received a check which brought it to an abrupt
ending for the time, and it might be for ever.
This in the shape of a hint that his visits to
Hollymead House were neither welcome nor desirable,
rather the reverse. Not given him by the
girl herself — she did not even know of it, — but
conveyed by her father privately and quietly, yet
firmly. Of course it was taken, and the visits discontinued.


That was but a fortnight ago and yet Reginald

Trevor was once more on his way to Hollymead !
But very different the cause carrying him thither
now to that which had oft taken him before ;
different his feelings, too, though not as regarded
the young lady. For her they were the same — his
passion hot as ever. And yet was it a flame
burning blindly, without a word of encouragement
to fan or keep it alive. Never once had she
spoken to tell him his love was reciprocated ;
never given him smile 01 look that could be interpreted
in that sense. For all this, he so interpreted
some she had bestowed on him. Successes,
conquests many, had made him vain, and he
deemed himself irresistible — fancied he would conquer
her, too.

Nevertheless, he felt less confident now. That
rupture of relations had become a grievous obstacle.
Nor was he on the way to Hollymead with
any hope of being able to bind up the broken
threads ; instead, his errand thither had for object

that which was sure further to sever them. It was
not of his own seeking, and he had entered upon
it with reluctance.

Dark and gloomy was the shadow on his face ashe
rode under that of the trees. At intervals it
became a scowl, with resentment blazing up in
his eyes, as he thought of that dismissal, so
wounding to his self-esteem, so insulting. But he
was armed with that which would give him a
revmtche ; make the master of Hollymead humble
if not hospitable — a document such as had
humbled the master of many another house, angering
them at the same time. For it was a letter
of request for a loan, signed and stamped with
the King's seal.

A YOUNG LADY NOT IN LOVE.

I DO believe its Reginald Trevor."

Sabrina said this in rejoinder, now certain it was
not the man she had climbed that hill in hopes
of meeting.

I'm sure of it," affirmed Vaga, in confident tone
as before. " If I couldn't tell him, I can the horse —
the light grey he always rides. And that's his dress
—the colour at least. I don't think he has many
changes, exquisite as he is, or we'd have seen some
of them at Hollymead."

She made this remark with a smile of peculiar
significance.

Oh ! yes ; 'tis he," assented the sister, her eyes
still upon him. " I'm sure now, myself. The horse



yes, the dress too. And, see ! a red plume in his
hat — that's enough. I wonder where he's bound for
surely not Hollymead ! "

It was then the grave look already alluded to
showed itself in her eyes. " Perhaps you can tell,
sister ? " she added, interrogatively.

Sabrina ! why do you say that ? How should
I be acquainted with Mr. Trevor's movements or
intentions — any more than yourself*"

Ha — ha ! What an artful little minx you are,
Vag ! A very mistress of deception ! "

"You'll make me angry, Sab— I'm half that
already."

"Without cause, then, or reason."

Every reason."

Name one."

"That you should suspect me of having a secret
and keeping it from you."

Goodness gracious ! How just you are in your
reproaches — you, who but this very moment have

been accusing me of that selfsame thing ! I, all
candour, all frankness ! "

Vaga was now flung back, as a sailor would say,
on her " beam ends." For, in truth, she had made
herself amenable to the charge.

Oh ! you innocent ! " cried Sabrina, pressing
her triumph. " Though you are two years younger
than I, you're quite as old about some things, and
this is ojie of them."

"This what?"

This that ; the thing, or man, if he may be so
called, we see riding down yonder road."

You wrong me, sister ; I've no secret concerning
him. I never cared for Rej Trevor in the way
you appear to be hinting at — not three straws."

Are you serious in what you say, Vag ? Tell
me the truth ! "

There was an earnestness in the way the question
was put — tone, air, everything — that bespoke more
than a common interest about the answer.

It came, causing disappointment, with some
slight vexation. For Vaga, thinking she had been
badgered long enough, and, remembering, moreover,
how very reticent the other had just shown herself,
determined on having a revanc/ie. It was altogether
in consonance with her nature ; though she had no
idea of advantage beyond that of mere fun.

Curiosity on the rack ! " she triumphantly
retorted. " What you've just been dooming me
to ! How does it feel, sister Sab ! "

Sister Sab " made no response ; in turn being
fairly conquered and cornered. But her silence and
submissive look were more eloquent than any
appeal she could have made. And, responding to
them, her conqueror relentingly asked :

"Are you very, vers desirous of knowing how
the case stands between myself and Master Reginald
Trevor ? "

I am, indeed. And when you've told me, I'll
give you the reason."

"On that condition I'll tell you. He is nothing
to me more than any other man. And when I
add that no other man is anything either, you'll
understand me."

But, sister dear, do you mean to say you
love no one ? "

I mean to say that— flat."

"And never have 1 "

That's a queer question to be asked ; above all
by you, you who so often preach the virtue of
constancy, crying it into my ears ! If I ever had
loved man, I think I should love him still.
But as it chances, I don't quite comprehend what
the sensation is ; never having experienced it. And
more, I don't wish to ; that is, if it were to affect
me as it seems to do you."

What do you mean, Vaga ? " asked the more
sage sister, bristling up at the innuendo. " Love
affect me ! You're only fancying ! Nothing of the
sort, I assure you."

'' Oh ! yes ; much of the sort ; though you might
not yourself perceive it. Everybody else does, at
least I do — have for a very long time — ever since
he went off to the wars."

What he ? "

"Again counterfeiting. And vainly. Well, I
won't gratify you by giving his name this time.
Enough to say that ever since you last saw him
you haven't been like you used to be. Why, Saba
can remember when you were as full of frolic
as myself, or Hector here. Yet, for the last two
years you've been as melancholy as a love-sick
monkey. True, there's been a little brightening up
in you of late — no doubt due to that letter. Ha —
ha— ha ! "

Sabrina laughed too, despite the unmerciful way
she was being bantered. The allusion to "that
letter " was not unpleasant. Its contents, very
gratifying, had restored her heart's gladness and
confidence. Not that she had ever doubted her

lover's fealty, but only had fears for his life. She
said nothing, however, leaving the other to rattle
on.

"And now, Miss Prim-and-Prudery, I want your
reason for prying into my secrets, after being so
chary of your own ; I demand it."

Dear Vaga ! you shall have it and welcome.
After what you say, there need be no shyness in
my telling you now. I was anxious about you on
father's account, and my own, too, as your sister."

Anxious about me ! For what } "

"Your relations with yonder individual."

She nodded towards the horseman with the red
feather in his hat.

** Very good of father and you to be so concerned
about me ; but don't you think I can take care
of myself? I'm getting old enough to do that."

She was only a little over seventeen, but believed
herself quite as much a woman as Sabrina, who
was three years her senior. She had the proud,

independent spirit of one, and brooked no control
by her older sister ; on the contrary, rather exercised
it herself. She was her father's favourite ; a circumstance
that would appear strange to those
acquainted with his character. Hence, in part, her
assumption of superiority.

Of course you can," returned Sabrina, assenting.
" And I'm glad of it."

I suppose, then, it's owing to your and father's
united solicitude on my behalf that Master Rej
Trevor hasn't shown his face at Hollymead for
the last couple of weeks."

I've had nothing to do with it, Vaga."

"Which seems to say that somebody has, then.
I suspected as much, by your having said nothing
about it. As you seem to know something, Sab,
you may as well tell it me."

I will — all I know. Which is, that father has
forbidden his visits to Hollymead. I only learnt
it from our maid Gwenthian. It appears, that the

last time Mr. Trevor was at the house, she overheard
a conversation between father and him ; father
telling him as much as that he would be no more
welcome there."

And what answer did the fine gentleman make ?
I suppose the eavesdropping Gwenthian heard that,
too."

There was such evident absence of all emotion
on the part of her who interrogated, she could not
well be making believe. The other, seeing she was
not, responded with confidence, —

Nothing, or nothing much, except in muttering,
which the girl failed to catch the meaning of.
But the nature may be imagined from the way he
went off — all scowling and angry, she says."

Gwenthian has never mentioned the circumstance
to me ; which I take it is a little strange
on her part."

She thought it so, for of the two she was morea
favourite with the waiting maid than her sister,

and knew It. Between her and Gwenthian — a Forest
girl of quick wit and subtle intelligence — many
confidences had been exchanged. Therefore her
wonder at this having been withheld.

"Not at all," rejoined Sabina, entering upon a
defence of Gwenthian's reticence. "There was
nothing strange in her keeping it from you. She
supposed it might vex you — told me so."

Ha— ha— ha ! How thoughtful of her ! But it
don't vex me — luckily, no — not the least bit ; and
Gwenthian should have known that, as you know
now. Sab. Don't you .? "

"I do," answered Sabina, In full conviction. For
Vaga's laugh was so utterly devoid of all regret
at what had been revealed to her, no one could
suppose or suspect there was within her breast a
thought of Reginald Trevor, beyond looking on him
in the light of a mere acquaintance. To prove
this it needed neither her rejoinder, nor the emphasis
she gave it, saying, —

/ don't care that for him ! " the tJiat being a snap
of her fingers.

I wish father had but known you didn't."

*why?"

Well, it might have saved him the scene
Gwenthian was witness to ; and which must have
been rather painful to both. After all, it may have
been for the best. But, worst or best, I wonder
where Master Trevor is making for now .^ It can't
be Hollymead."

Not likely, after what you've told me. But we
shall soon see — at least whether he be coming up
this way."

Both were familiar with the Forest roads — had
ridden if not walked them all — knew their every
turning; and crossings. Where that from Mitchell
descended into the Drybrook valley it forked
right and left at the ford of the little stream where
now there is a bridge known as the " Nail." Left
lay the road to Coleford, right, another leading

back out of the Forest by the Lea Bailey. And
between these two branchings a third serpentine
up the slope for Ruardean, over the ridge on
which they stood.

While they were still regarding the 'horseman on
the grey, and his groom behind, two other horsemen
came in sight, riding side by side on the same
slope, just commencing its descent. Again Sabrina's
eyes flashed up with delight — that must be
her expected one — riding alongside his servant.

While indulging in this pleasant conjecture, she
was surprised at seeing still another pair of mounted
men, filing out from under the trees, side by side
also, and following the first two at that distance
and with the air which seemed to proclaim them
servitors.

It may not be he, after all ! " she reflected within
herself, her brow again shadowing over. "He said
he would be alone with only Hubert, and "

Her reflections were brought to an abrupt

termination by seeing the grey horse, after plunging
across the stream, turn head up hill in the direction
of Ruardean.

There was no time to make further scrutiny of
the quartette descending the opposite slope. In
twenty minutes, or less if he meant speed, he on
the grey would be up to them ; and if Reginald
Trevor, that would be awkward, whether on his
way to Hollymead or not.

It was Sabrina who now counselled hastening
home ; which they did with a quick free step
their country training and Forest practice had
made easy, as familiar, to them.

H

A HOUSE IN TUDOR STYLE.

It would be difficult to imagine a more enchanting
spot for a dwelling-place than that where stood
Hollymead House. Near the north-western angle
of the Forest of Dean, it commanded a view of
the Wye where this beautiful stream, after meandering
through the verdant meads of Herefordshire,
over old red sandstone, assaults the carboniferous
rocks of Monmouth, whose bold, high ridges, lying
transversely to its course, look as if no power of
water could ever have cut through them. But the
Wye has, in its flow of countless ages, carved out
in Spanish American phrase crowned — a channel

with banks here and there rising nigh a thousand



feet above the level of its bed. Between these it
glides with swift current ; not direct, but in snakelike
contortions, fantastically doubling back upon
itself, almost to touching. Here and there cliffs
rise sheer up from the water's edge, grand mural
escarpments of the mountain limestone, such as
show the " tors " and dales of Derbyshire. The
Dwell rocks below Lydbrook, forming the base
of the famed " Symonds' Yat," are of this character,
their grim facades seamed and broken into
separate battlements, giving them resemblance to
ruined castles, but such as could have been inhabited
only " in those days when there were
giants on the earth."

The view from Holyhead House — better still
from a high hill or "tump" above it — took in the
valley of the river where it enters the carboniferous
strata near Kerne bridge. There was no Kerne
bridge then ; the stream being crossed by ford
and ferry, a mile further up. Looking in

that direction, in the foreground was Coppers
Hill, an oblong eminence embraced by one
of the great sinuosities of the river, more than
six miles in the round and less than one across
the neck or isthmus. At this neck, perched on a
spur of the hill overhanging the stream, stood a
vast pile of building, the castle of Goodrich,
on whose donjon floated a flag long ere Norman
baron set foot on the soil of England. For there
the Saxon Duke Gothic lorded it over his churls
and swineherd ; his iron rule at the Conquest
replaced by that of the Marshalls, and later the
Talbots, alike stern and severe.

Looking beyond, and north-westward, a wide
stretch of country came under the eye, thickly
wooded and undulating, the ancient kingdom of
Erchyn — now called Greenfield — backed in the
far distance by a horizon of hills, many with a
mountain aspect, and some real mountains, as the
curious Saddlebow, with a depression or " col "

between its twin summits ; Galway, the Cerrig-
galch, and the long dark range of the Hatterals.

To the west was a very conglomeration of
mountains, seemingly crowded against one another,
yet all apart, each distinguishable by an outline
and aspect of its own. Most conspicuous of
these, the conical Sugarloaf, the two Skyrrids —
one of them named Holy Mountain — and the
Florence, all towering above the town of Aber-ravenna,
which is surrounded and embraced by
them as the arena of an amphitheatre by its
outer and more elevated circle.

Sweeping round the sky line, north and northeast
the eye was met by many a bold projection,
as the Longinus and Glee hills, with their blue
basalt, and the Haugh wood, summit of the famed
Silurian upcast of Woolhope. Farther on to the
east the Malvern Beacons of true mountain aspect,
remarkable from their isolation, but still more in
that there the geologist can see rocks the earliest

stratified on earth, some metamorphosed, and all
trace of stratification destroyed ; while there, too,
are visible the rocks of igneous agency, upheaved
both by plutonic and volcanic forces — the guesses,
basaltes, senates, and granites.

Eastward over the Forest edge could be seen,
extending far as vision's verge, the wide plains of
Worcester and Gloucester — as said, an ancient sea
bed — through which now flows the yellow Severn ;
and on a clear day bends and reaches of this
grand river might be distinguished glistening,
gold-like, in the sun ; the level expanse of its
valley diversified by several isolated and curious
eminences — hills and ridges — as May and Breton
due east, and, more to the south, the Mendips
and Cotswolds.

Alone looking southward from Hollymead no
mountains met the eye ; in that direction only
the undulations of the Forest itself, clad in its
livery of green — all trees. But immediately in

front of the house, and sloping gently away from
it, was a wide and long stretch of park-like pastureland,
where the trees stood solitary or in clumps,
a double row of grand oaks bisecting it centrally,
guarding and shading the avenue which led to
the public road outside. This passed from Guardian
out of the forest by a steep descent down
to Walford, thence on to Ross.

Architecturally, Holyhead House was a singular
structure. For it was in the early Tudor style,
built when bricks were a scarce and dear commodity,
and timber, in the inverse ratio, plentiful
and cheap. The walls were a framework of
hewn oak — uprights, cross-beams, and diagonal ties
due to the handiwork of the carpenter, only
the spaces between showing the skill of the mason.
And, as if to keep ever in record the fact of this
double yet distinct workmanship, the painter and
whitewashed had been now and then called upon
to perpetuate it by giving separate and severely

contrasting colours to what was timber and the
interlacing material of mortar and brick. The
result a striped and chequered aspect of the oddest
and quaintest kind. Sir Richard might have had
it in his mind when he made the figurative allusion
to a cage and pair of pretty birds. Still it was
not exactly cage-shaped, but more like several set
together, some smaller ones stuck against or hanging
from a large one that stood central ; the
congeries due to a variety of wings, projecting
windows, dormers, and other outworks.

Equally odd and irregular the arrangement
inside. An entrance-hall with a wide stairway
carried up around it, the oak balusters very beams,
with a profusion of carving on them ; on each
landing, corridors dimly lighted leading off to
rooms no two on the same level ; some of them
bed-chambers, only to be got at by passing through
other sleeping apartments interposed between.
And, turn which way one would, along passages.

or from room to room, short flights of stairs, or
it might be but a step or two, were encountered
everywhere, to the imminent risk of leg or neck-breaking.


Though such a structure may appear strange to
the modern eye, it did not so then, for there was
nothing uncommon in it. Hollymead House was
but one of many like mansions of the day, though
one of the largest and most imposing. Nor are
they all gone yet. Scores of such still stand
throughout the shires of the marches, and in
perfect repair, to commemorate the architectural
skill, or rather the absence of it, which distinguished
our ancestry in the Tudor times.

The owner of Hollymead, Ambrose Powell, was
a man of peculiar tastes and idiosyncrasies, some
evidence of which appears in the baptismal names
he had bestowed upon his daughters. A fancy,
having its origin in the fact that from a hill above
the house could be seen the two great western

rivers, Wye and Severn— poetically, Vasa and
Sabina — themselves in a sense sisters, nurslings
from the same breast of far Plinlimmon. From
the summit of that "tump" his elder daughter
had looked on her name-mother at a later date
than she made pretence of when urging the younger
up the ridge between Ruardean and Drybrook. It
was a wild, witching spot, the grey rocks of mountain
limestone here and there peeping out from
a low growth of hazel, hawthorn, y^\N, and holly.
But the summit itself was bare, affording on all
sides a varied and matchless panorama of landscape.
Being within the boundaries of their own
domain, Sabrina oft climbed up to it ; not for the
view's sake alone, but because it was to her hallowed
ground, sacred as the place where she had
made surrender of her young heart, when she told
Sir Richard Walwyn it was his. There was a
pretty little summer house, with seats, and many
an hour Ambrose Powell himself spent there, in

the study of books and the contemplation of
Nature — his delight. Not in a mere meditative
way, or as an idle dreamer ; but an active observer
of its workings and searcher after its secrets.
Nor did he confine himself to this, but also took
an interest in the affairs of man, so strong as to
have studied them in every aspect — probed the
social and political problems of human existence
to their deepest depths. Which had conducted
him to a belief — a full, firm conviction — in the
superiority of republican institutions ; as it must
all whose minds are as God made or intended
them, and not perverted by prejudice or corrupted
by false teachings. He was, in point of fact, a
Puritan, though not of the extreme stern sort ; in
his ways of thinking rather as Hampden and Sir
Harry Vane or with still closer similitude to a
people then scorned and persecuted beyond all
others— the "Friends." It is difficult in these
modern days, under the light of superior knowledge,

and a supposed better discrimination between
right and wrong, to comprehend the cruelties, ay
barbarous atrocities, to which were submitted the
Friends," or, as commonly called, " Quakers." A
people who, despite their paucity of numbers, did
then, and since then have done and been doing,
more to ennoble the national character of England
than all the apostles of her Episcopacy, with her
political boasters and military braggarts to boot.
If neither the most notorious nor glorious, no
names in England's history can compare in goodness
and gracefulness with the Penny of 1640 and
the Bright of 1880.

Though not a professed " Friend," Ambrose
Powell was a believer in their faith and doctrines ;
and in his daily walk and life acted very much
in accordance with them. But not altogether.
From one of their ideas he dissented — that of
non-resistance. Of a proud, independent spirit,
despite his gentle inclining, he would brook no

bullying ; the last man to have one cheek smitten
and meekly turn the other to the smiter. Instead,
he would strike back. A scene we are now called
upon to record, and which occurred on that same
evening, gives appropriate illustration of this phase
of his character.

A RIGHT ROYAL EPISTLE.

The girls had got home, hard breathing, panting,
from the haste they had made. But though supper
was announced as set, they did not think of sitting
down to it, but instead, entered the withdrawing-room,
a large apartment, with windows facing front.
In the bay of one of these, their dresses unchanged
and their hoods still on, they took stand, with eyes
bent down the avenue, all visible from the window.
At intervals along the road they had heard behind
them the trampling of hoofs, and knew from what
horses it proceeded. The sounds, at first faint and
distant, had grown more distinct as they reached
the park gate, and they had come up the avenue
with a run, to the surprise and somewhat alarm

of their father, who at the time was outside
awaiting their return.

Already in wonder at their being so late, he
would have inquired into the cause. But they
anticipated him by at once telling him where they
had been, what seen, and who, as they supposed,
was advancing along the Ruardean road.

This last bit of intelligence seemed greatly to
excite him ; and while his daughters watched
from the window, he himself was also keeping vigil
in the porch outside. After hearing what they
had to say, he had remained there, letting them
pass in.

For a time the gaze of all was fixed on the
park entrance, at the lower end of the long avenue,
where a massive oak gate traversed between two
piers of mason-work, old and ivy-mantled. Only
for a short while were they kept in suspense. The
flurried girls had barely got back their breath
when a grey horse was seen, with head jam up

against the gate, his rider bending down in the
saddle to undo its fastenings.

In an instant after it was pushed open, and they
saw Reginald Trevor come riding on towards the
house, for they were now sure of its being he. He
was yet at too great a distance for them to read
the expression upon his face ; but one near enough
might have noted it as strange, without being able
to interpret it. All the more because of its seeming
to undergo constant and sudden changes ;
now as one advancing reluctantly to the performance
of some disagreeable duty, wavering
and seeming half-inclined to back out of it ; anon,
with resolution restored through some opposing
impulse, as anger, this shown by the fire flashing
in his eyes.

Never had he ridden up that avenue swayed by
such feelings, or under the excitement of emotions
so varied or vivid. Those he had hitherto felt
while approaching Hollymead House were of a

different nature. Confident always, or, if doubting,
not enough to give him any great uneasiness.
Vaga Powell resist him ! She, a green country
girl ; he, a skilled, practised Lothario, conqueror
in many a love combat ! He could not think of
failure. Nor would he have thought of it yet,
believing the sole obstruction to his suit lay in
the father. But now he had to face that father
in a way likely to make his hostility more determined
— turn it into very hate, if it was not so
already.

In truth, a 7'dle of a very disagreeable kind was
Reginald Trevor called upon to play ; and more
than once since entering on it he had felt like
cursing Sir John Wintour in his heart — the King
as well.

As he drew near to the house, and saw the two
fair faces in the window — a little surprised seeing
hoods over their heads at that hour — he more than
ever realized the awkwardness of his errand. And,

I

possibly, if at that last moment Vaga Powell had
come forth, as oft before, to give him greeting, or
even bestowed a smile from where she stood, he
would have risked all, forgiven the insult he had
received, and left his duty undone.

But no smile showed upon the girl's face, no
glance gave him welcome ; instead, he saw something
like a frown, as never before. Only with a
glimpse of that face was he favoured ; Vaga, ashe
drew up in front, turning her back on him,
and retiring into the shadowed obscurity of the
room, whither her sister had preceded her.

It may have been only a seeming rudeness on
their part, and unintentional. Whether or no, it
once more roused his resentment against their
father ; who, still in the porch, received him with
a countenance stern, as his own was vexed and
angry.

There was a short interval of silence after the
unexpected visitor had drawn up, still keeping to

his saddle. He could not well dismount without
receiving invitation ; and that was not extended to
him, much less word of welcome. Moreover his
presence there, after what had passed, not only-called
for explanation, but by all the rules of
politeness required his giving it before aught else
should be said.

He did not, however ; seeming embarrassed, and
leaving the master of Hollymead no choice but to
take the initiative. Which the latter at length did,
saying sourly, and somewhat satirically —

"What may you be wanting with me, Mr.
Reginald Trevor } I take it your business is with
me''

"With you it is," brusquely returned the other,
still further nettled at the way he was addressed.

Have the goodness then to tell me what it is.
I suppose it's something that can be settled by
you in the saddle. If not, you may alight and
come indoors."

Speech aggravating, terribly insulting, as
Ambrose Powell intended it should be. He had
long ago taken the measure of the man, and
wished to drive him to a distance, even further
off than he had already done. His last words
were enough, without the contemptuous look that
accompanied them. But, stung by both, the
emissary of Sir John Wintour stood proudly up
in his stirrups, as he replied, with a touch of satire
too, —

No need, sir, to enter your very hospitable
house, or even get off my horse's back. My
errand can be accomplished by delivering this at
your door. But, as you chance to be in it, permit
me to hand it direct to you."

While speaking he had drawn from under the
breast of his doublet a folded sheet, a letter, on
which was a large disc of red wax, stamped with
the King's seal.

The master of Hollymead was not so impolite

as to refuse taking the letter from his hands ; and,
as soon as in his own, he tore it open and read, —

"For Ambrose Powell, Gent

"Trustee and well-beloved, Wee greece you
well. Having observed in the Presidents and
custome of former times that all the Kings and
Queen's of the Realme, upon extraordinary occasions,
haue used either to resort to those Contributions,
which arise from one generalities of
Subjects, or to the private helped of some well
affected in particular, by way of lane : In which
latter course Wee being at this time inforced to
proceed, for supply of some portions of Treasure for
divers publique services, and particularly for continuing
and increasing our magazine in some large
proportion in our Realme of Ireland, in our Nauie,
and in our fortes : in all which greater summer
have been expended of late, both in building and
repairing, and in making sundry provisions, than

haue bene in twenty yeares before : We haue now
in Our Eye an especial care, that such discretion
may be observed in the choice of the lenders, and
such an indifferent distribution, as the summer
that Wee shall receive may be raised with an
equal Consideration of men's abilities : And therefore,
seeing men haue had so good experience of
Our repayment of all those summer which we haue
ever required in this kind, We doubt not but Wee
shall now receive the like Argument of good
affection from you (amongst other of Our subjects),
and that with such alacrity and readiness as
may make the same so much the more acceptable,
especially seeing Wee require but that of some
which few men would deny a friend, and haue a
minde resolved to expose all our earthly fortune
for the preservation of the generall. The summe
that Wee require of you by vertue of these presents
is three thousand Pounds, Which we do
promise in the name of Us, our heirs and successors,

to repay to you or your Assignes within
eighteen months after the payment thereof into
the Commissioner. The person that we have appointed
to receive it is our worthy servant, Sir
Jno. Wintour, To whose hands wee do require you
to send it within twelve days after you have received
this Privy Seale, which, together with the
Commissioner's acquittance, shall be sufficient
Warrant unto the Officers of our receipt for the
repayment thereof at the time limitted. — Given
under our Privy Seale at our Palace of Westminster.


"Carolus Rex."

So ran the curious communication put into the
hands of Ambrose Powell.

A letter of " Loan by Privy Seal " even more
execrable both as to grammar and diction than
the documents emanating from Royalty at the
present day — and that is admitting much.

Spoke the master of Hollymead, after perusing
it:—

Request for a loan, the King calls this ! Beggarly
enough in the beginning — a very whine ; but
at the end more like the demand of a robber ! "

Mr. Powell ! " cried he who had presented it,
his back now up in anger, "though but the
messenger of Sir John Wintour, at the same time
I'm in the service of the King. And, holding his
Majesty's commission, I cannot allow such talk as
yours. It's almost the same as calling the King
a robber ! "

Take it as all the same, if you like, sirrah !
And apply it also to Sir John Wintour, your
more immediate master. Go back, and say to
both how I've treated the begging petition —
thus ! "

And at the word he tore the paper into scraps,
flinging them at his feet, as something to be
trampled upon.

At this Reginald Trevor became furious ; all
the more from again seeing two feminine faces in
the window above, by their looks both seeming to
speak approval of what their father had said and
done.

He might have given exhibition of his anger by
some act of violence; but just then he saw something
else which prompted to prudence, effectually
restraining it. This something in the shape of
three or four stalwart fellows — stablemen and
servants of other sorts belonging to Hollymead
House — who, having caught sound of the fracas in
front, now appeared coming round from the rear.

No need for Reginald Trevor, noting the scowl
upon their faces, to tell him they were foes, and
as little to convince him of the small chance he
and his varlet would have in an encounter with
them. He neither thought of it nor any longer
felt inclined to take vengeful action, not even to
speaking some strong words of menace that had

risen to his lips. Instead, choking them down,
and swallowing his chagrin as he best could, he
said, in a resigned, humble way, —

Oh ! well, Mr. Powell ; what you've done or
intend doing is no affair of mine — specially. As
you know, I'm here but in the performance of my
duty, which I need not tell you is to me most
disagreeable."

Very disagreeable, no doubt ! " rejoined the
master of Hollymead, in a tone of cutting sarcasm
; " and being so, the sooner you get
through with it the better. I think you've made
a finish of it now, unless you deem it part of this
disagreeable duty to gather up those torn scraps
of the King's letter, and carry them back to the
Queen's obsequious servant, and your master. Sir
John."

In the way of insult, taunt could scarce go
farther. And he against whom it was hurled
keenly felt it ; at the same time felt his own impotence

either to resent or reply to it. For the
three or four fellows, with black brows, advancing
from the rear, had been further reinforced, and
now numbered nearly a dozen.

I bid you good-evening, Mr. Powell," said the
emissary, as he turned his horse round, but too
glad to get away from that unpleasant spot.

Oh ! good - evening, sir," returned the master
of Holyhead, in a tone of mock politeness ; after
which he stood watching the ill-received visitor,
till he saw him go out through the gates of his
park.

Then over Ambrose Powell's face came a
shadow — the shadow of a fear. For he knew he
had offended a Royal tyrant, who, though now
weaker than he had been through the restraint of
a Parliament, might still have strength enough to
tear him.

My dear children," he said, as he joined them
in the withdrawing room, "the trouble I've been

long anticipating has come at last. We will have
to leave Hollymead, or I must fortify and defend
it."

THE COUSINS.

The sun had set as Reginald Trevor rode out of
Holyhead Park. But he did not intend returning
to Lydney that night ; instead, purposed passing
it in Ross, to which town he had also an errand.
By making free use of the spur he might still
reach his destination within the twilight.

Outside the park gate he was about turning in
the Ross direction when he saw a party on horseback
advancing from the opposite, as he had
himself come. Four there were — two gentlemen
in front, with their respective attendants a little
behind. He could have shunned them by riding
rapidly on before ; but from the stylish appearance
of one of the gentlemen he took it they were

Cavaliers, possibly might be acquaintances ; and
after his long, lonely ride he was in the humour
for company. It might help him some little to
get over his chagrin. So he drew rein, and sate
in his saddle waiting for them to come up.

There was a wide sweep of grass - grown turf
between the park gate and the public road, and
he had halted at the end of it on the right. Soon
the party approaching reached the other, and he
saw, with some surprise, and a little vexation, their
horses' heads being turned in towards the gate.
Whoever the gentlemen might be, they were evidently
bent upon a visit to the house that had
refused hospitality to himself.

With something more than curiosity he scanned
them now. Were they known to him ? Yes !
one was ; his surprise becoming astonishment, as
in the more showily-attired of the two gentlemen
he recognised his cousin Eustace.

You, Eust ! " he exclaimed, drawing his horse

round, and trotting towards his kinsman ; his
glance given to the other being as that to
a stranger ; for he was not acquainted with Sir
Richard Wahvyn.

You, Rej ! " was the ail-but echo of a response,
and the cousins came together, Sir Richard passing
on into the park. The gentleman tax-gatherer,
still smarting under the rebuff given him, the smart
shared by his servant, had ill-mannered left the
gate open behind them.

It was months since the cousins had met ;
though each knew where the other was, or ought
to be. Hence Reginald's surprise to see Eustace
there, supposing him to be engaged in his duties
at Court. He spoke it inquiringly, as they held
out to shake hands ; but, before the other could
make answer, he saw that which gave him a
start — blood upon the hand extended to him !
The white buckskin glove was reddened with it
all over up to the gauntlets.

God bless me, Eust ! what's this ? A wound !
Have you been quarrelling ? "

"Oh! nothing much. Only a little prick in the
wrist."

Prick in the wrist ! But from what ? "

"The point of a rapier."

The deuce ! Then you /2a7;e been quarrelling.
With whom, pray?"

Speak a little lower, Rej. I'd rather /le didn't
hear us."

And Eustace nodded towards Sir Richard, who
was not yet quite beyond earshot.

Surely you don't mean the affair was with
him > "

"I do— it was."

He got the better of you ? "

Quick as you could count ten."

Zounds ! that's strange — you such a swordsman !
But still stranger what I see now, your being in
his company. Not his prisoner, are you ? "

Well, in a way I am."

In that case, cousin, my sword's at your
service. So let me try conclusions with him. Possibly,
I may get you a revanche ; at the same time
release you from any parole you may be under."

Though, but the moment before, some little
cowed, and declining a combat with serving men,
Reginald Trevor was all courage now ; and feared
not to meet a gentleman in fair fight. For he
saw that Trevor blood had been spilt, and, although
he and his cousin Eustace had never been bosom
friends, they were yet of the same family. The
hot Cymric blood that ran in the veins of both
boiled up in his to avenge whatever defeat his
kinsman might have sustained, and without awaiting
answer he asked impatiently, —

"Shall I follow, and flout him, Eust.? I will if
you but say the word."

No, Rej ; nothing of the sort. Thank you all
the same."

K

Well ; if you're against it, I won't. But it
edges a Trevor's teeth to see one of his kin — full
cousin, too — worsted, conquered, dead - down as
you seem to be. All, I suppose, from your antagonist
being a bit bigger and older than you
are. He's that as regards myself; for all I've no
fear to face him."

I know you haven't, Rej. But don't be angry
with me for saying, if you did, it would end as
it has with me — maybe worse."

The ci-devant gentleman usher spoke with some
pique. Notwithstanding the generous offer of his
cousin to espouse his quarrel, there was that in
the proposal itself which seemed to reflect on his
own capability— a suggestion, almost an assertion,
of patronising superiority.

What do you mean, Eustace "> " asked the
other, looking a little roughed.

"That yonder gentleman," he nodded towards
Sir Richard, now well out of hearing, "is a per-feet

master of both sword and horse. He proved
himself my master in less than five minutes after
engaging ; could have thrust me in as many-seconds
had he been so disposed. While fighting
with him I felt a very child in his hands ; and
he, as I now chance to know, was but playing
with me. In the end he disarmed me — could
have done it long before — by this touch in the
wrist, which sent my rapier spinning off into the
air. That isn't all. He has disarmed me in
another sense ; changed me from angry foe to, I
might almost say, friend. That's why I've told
you that I'm in a way his prisoner."

It's a strange tale," rejoined Reginald, choking
down his wrath. " All that, by sun, moon, and stars !
But I won't question you further about it ; only
tell me why you are here. I thought you were
so fixed in the Palace of Westminster, such a
favourite of the grand lady who there rules the
mart, you'd never more care to breathe a

breath of country air. Yet here I find you in
the Forest of Dean — its very heart — far away
from court and city life as man could well get
within England's realm. How has it come about,
cousin } "

I wouldn't mind telling you, Rej, if there was
time. But there isn't. As you see. Sir Richard
is waiting for me."

'' Sir Richard who ? "

Walwyn."

Oh, that's the name of your generous conqueror?
"

It is."

I've heard of the individual, though never saw
him till now. But how fell you into his company,
and what brought about your quarrel ? "

"Leave it, Rej, like other matters, till we meet
again, and have more time to talk over such things."

'agreed. Still there's time to say why you
are going to Hollymead House."

"Hollymead House?"

Oh, you didn't know that was the name of
Ambrose Powell's place ! "

"Ambrose Powell?"

What ! Nor yet the name of the man you're
about to pay visit to ? "

I confess I do not."

Nor anything else of him ? "

"Nothing whatever."

He was on the point of adding, " Only that I've
been told something about a pair of pretty girls,"
when it occurred to him he might be touching on
a subject in which his cousin had a tender concern.


'Pon my honour ! " rejoined the latter, making
an uphill attempt to laugh, " the tale grows stranger
and stranger ! You, of the King s Household, on
your way to make acquaintance— friendly, of course
with one of his Majesty's greatest and most pronounced
enemies — a man who hates King, Court,

and Church ; above all, bitter against your especial
patroness, the Queen. I've heard him call her a
Jezebel, with other opprobrious epithets."

"Odd in you, Rej, such a devoted Royalist, to
have listened calmly to all that ! "

I didn't listen calmly ; would have quickly
stopped his seditious chattering, but for "

For what ? " asked the other, seeing he hesitated.


"Oh, certain reasons I may some day make
known to you. Like yourself, Eust, I have some
secrets."

Eust thought he could give a good guess at one
of them, but mercifully forbore allusion to it.

"But," he said, with an air of pretended surprise,
"you've been just visiting this terrible king-hater
yourself, Rej .? If I mistake not, you came
out of the park. You were up to the house, were
you not } "

I was."

"And has it shaken your loyalty, or in any way
weakened it ? "

On the contrary, strengthened it. My errand
to Ambrose Powell, with the reception he vouchsafed
me — the ill-grained curmudgeon — has had all
that effect."

Then you've been quarrelling, too ! Have you
any objection to tell me what about ? "

Not the slightest. I was the bearer of a letter
of Privy Seal to him — for a loan. Sir John Wintour,
as you may be aware, has been appointed
one of the King's Commissioners of Array for
West Gloucestershire and the Forest. You know
I'm in his service, which will make the matter
understandable to you."

And you haven't got the money .? I needn't
ask ; there's the signs of refusal in your face."

Got the money ! Zounds ! no. Instead, the
recusant tore the letter into shreds, and flung them
at his feet ; defying me. Sir John, King, and all I

Ah ! well ; that won't be the end of it. I shall be
sure of having occasion to visit Hollymead again,
and ere long! Next time the tables will be
turned. But, cousin, after hearing what I've told
you, are you still in the mind to go on to that
seditious den ? If you take my advice, you'll turn
your back on Hollymead House, and come along
with me. I'm making for Ross."

"To take your advice, Rej, would be to do as
rude a thing as a man well could — ruder than I
ever did in my life. Disloyal, too — doubly so;
I should be traitor to gratitude, as to courtesy.
Indeed, I've trenched scandalously on good manners
now, by keeping yonder gentleman so long waiting
for me."

He nodded towards Sir Richard, who had halted
at some distance up the avenue.

"Oh, very well," sneeringly rejoined Sir John
Wintour's emissary. "Of course, you can do as
you like, Eust. I'm not your master, though yonder

gentleman, as you call him, seems to be. Good-evening!
"

And with this curt leave-taking, the sneer still
on his face, he dug the spurs deep into his horse's
ribs, and went off at a gallop along the road for
Ross.

THREE CURIOUS CHARACTERS.

"Yee-UP, Jinkum! Yee-up ! "

The exclamations were accompanied by the
thwack of a stick over the hips of a donkey half-hidden
under a pair of panniers.

"Don't press the poor creature, Jack. It be a
parish climb up the pitch. Gie't it's time."

"But you know, Winny, the manners be most
nigh empty — more's the pity."

"True o' that. But consider how fur's been the
day. Seven mile to Monnerth— a good full load
going' — an' same back, whens we be home. An't
can't had thing to eat, 'kept the pickin's 'long the
roadside."

"All the more reezun for gittin' 'im soon home.



I'd lay wager, if the animal kud speak, 't 'ud say
the same."

"Might. But, fr all that, him's nightgown tired.
If him want, there wud be no need yer slapping'
he. Don't slap him any more. Jack."

"Well, I won't. Yee-up, Jinkum ! I 'ant a-going'
to gi' ye the stick agen. 'Other mile, and ye'll
be back to yer own bit o' paster in the ole orchard,
what the grass '11 be up to yer ears. Yee-up!"

At which Jinkum, as though comprehending the
merciful disposition towards him, and grateful for
it, seemed to improve his pace.

The speakers were a man and woman, both of
uncommon appearance — the man a diminutive
specimen of humanity, who walked with a jerking
gait, due to his having a wooden leg. The woman
was taller than he, by the head and shoulders
quite ; while in every other way above the usual
dimensions of her sex. Of a somewhat masculine
aspect, she was withal far from ill-favoured — rather

the contrary. Her gown of coarse homespun, sustained
and declare, could not conceal a voluptuous
outline of figure ; while to have her eyes and hair
many a queen would have been glad to give the
costliest jewel in her crown. The complexion was
dark, the features of a gipsy type — though she was
not one — the hair, a very hateful, carelessly coiled
around her head, black as the wing of a crow.
The first thought of one beholding her would be :
"What a woman, if but washed and becomingly
clad ! " For both skin and dress showed something
more than the dust that day caught up from
the road — touches of older date. Despite all, she
was a grand, imposing personage ; of tireless
strength, too, as evinced by her easy, elastic step
while breasting that steep pitch on her twenty-second
mile since morning. The journey seemed
to have had little effect on her, however it may
have jaded Jinkum.

Notwithstanding the disparity in size between

the man and woman — a good deal also in their
age, he being much her senior — they bore a certain
resemblance to one another. It lay in their features
and complexion ; Jack having a gipsyish look, too.
Nor any wonder at their being some little alike,
since they were not man and wife, but brother
and sister — both born Foresters. There was nothing
in the character of either at all disreputable,
though their business was such as usually brings
suspicion on those who follow it. Known all over
the forest, and for miles around it, as cadgers,
they trafficked in every conceivable thing by which
an honest penny might be made, though their
speciality was the transport of fowls, with other
products of the farmyard, to the markets of Ross
and Monmouth — generally on freight account —
taking back such parcels as they could pick up.
Ruardean was their port of departure and return ;
their home, when they were at home, being a cottage
in the outskirts of that elevated village.

Rarely, if ever, were "Jerky Jack" — the soubriquet
his gait had gained for him — and his big sister
seen apart ; Winny, or Winifred — for such washer
baptismal name — being a valuable helpmate
to him. Some said she was more — his master.

That day they had been to Monmouth market,
and now, at a late hour of the evening — after
sunset — they were climbing Cat's Hill on their
return homeward. As already said, there was
then no Kerne bridge, and they had crossed by
the ferry at Goodrich ; a roundabout way to where
they now were, but unavoidable — making good the
woman's estimate of the distance.

Up the remainder of the pitch. Jerky kept his
word, and no more stick was administered to
Jinkum. But before reaching the summit the tired
animal was treated to a spell of rest, for which
it might thank a man there met, or rather one
who dropped upon them as from the clouds. For
he had come slithering down a steep shelving

bank that bordered the road, suddenly presenting
himself to their view outside the selvage of bushes.

Notwithstanding his impromptu appearance, neither
showed sign of alarm nor surprise. Evidently
they expected him ; for but the minute before a
sound resembling the call of the green woodpecker
— the " heekul," as known to them — had
reached their ears, causing them to turn their eyes
toward the direction whence it came. From the
wood, where, of course, they could see nothing ;
but there was a peculiarity in the intonation of
the sound, telling them it proceeded not from the
throat of a bird, but was in some way made by
a man. That the woman knew how, and who the
man, she gave evidence by saying, " That be
Rob ! " as she spoke a pleased expression coming
over her countenance.

Whether Rob or no, he who so mysteriously
and fantastically presented himself to their notice
was a man of aspect remarkable as either of them.

In size a Colossus ; dark-complexioned like themselves,
with full beard, and thick shock of brown-black
hair standing out around his neck in curls
and tangles. His coat of bottle-green cloth —
amply skirted — and red plush waistcoat, showed
creased and frowsy, as if he had passed the
previous night, and many preceding it, in a shed
or under a tree. For all, there was something
majestic in his mien, just as with the woman —
a savage grandeur independent of garb, which
could assert itself under a drapery of rags.

As the three came together, he was the first to
speak, more particularly addressing himself to Jerky.
For the sister had a little side business to transact,
plunging her hand into one of the panniers, and
bringing forth a basket, out of which the neck of
a bottle protruded.

"Well, Jack! What's the news down Monnerth
way ? " was the commencement of the colloquy.

Lots, Rob ; 'enough if they were wrote out on

paper to fill them manners, an' load the donkey
down."

Jinkum's owner was of a humorous turn, and
dealt in figures of speech, often odd and varied
as his bills of lading.

"Tell us some o' 'em," requested Rob, placing
himself in an attitude to listen.

"Well," proceeded the cadger, "it be most all
'bout politicks there now, wi' rumours o' war, they
say be a brewing'. The market war full o' them
rough 'uns from Raglan side. Lord Worsted's
people, bullying' everybody an threatening' all as
wudn't cry out for the King."

Ay ; " here interposed the big sister, with a
sneer, " an' you cried it, Jack — shouted till I was
afeard you'd split yer windpipe. That ye did ! "

"And if I did," rejoined Jack, excusing himself,
"how war I to help it? If I hadn't they'd a
throttled me ; may-be pulled off my wooden leg,
and smashed my skull wit. An' ye know that,

L

Winny. A man who'd a said word there favour
o' the Parlyment wud a stud good chance o'
getting' tore limb fro' limb. Tho' I can't two for
'em to tear undermine, I wasn't the fool to go
button my head 'gainst a wall when no good could
come o't. If I did cry * Long live the King ! ' I
thanked the contrary, as Rob knows I do."

"That do I, Jack, right well. A true free-born
Forester, as myself, I know you ha' no leaning'
like as them o' Monnerth and Lydney ; Royalists
an' Papists, who want to make slaves o' us, both
body and soul, an' keep us toiling' for them an'
their fine-dressed favourites — devil burn 'em ! "

Having thus delivered himself, the free-born
Forester dropped conversation with Jerky, confining
it to the sister. For which Jack gave
them an opportunity, shrewdly guessing it was
desired. Once more saluting Jinkum with a "!"
he started the animal off again up the hill,
himself stumping briskly after.

A COMBAT IN A QUARRY.

The man and woman left behind, as they stood
vis-a-vis, presented a striking appearance. Such a
pair in juxtaposition were a sight not often given
to the eye. He some inches the taller — though
well matched as regarded the distinction of the
sexes ; but both of towering stature, with air so
commanding that one, who could have seen them
there and then, would not have given a thought to
the coarseness of their apparel, or, if so, instantly
forgetting it. Looking at their faces, in their
eyes as they met in mutual gaze, he would have
noticed something of a nature to interest more
than any quality or fashion of dress — the light of
love. For they loved one another warmly, and,

perhaps, as purely and tenderly, as if their hearts
had been beating under robes of silk.

No words of love passed between them now.
If they intended speaking such, they held them
in reserve till matters more pressing should be
disposed of.

Upon these the man entered at once, asking, —

Heard you anything' 'bout me, Win ? "

"Yes, Rob."

"What?"

"They have been wondering' how ye managed to
get out o't gaol, an' blame Will Morgan for lending'
ye a hand. Day afore yesterday a party came
over from Lydney wi' that young officer as be
wi' Sir John Winter — Trevor I think they call
him."

Yes ; that's the name. I know him well enough
too well. 'Twas he as took me in the High
Meadows."

"Oh! it was. Well; he lev take Will, too,

an' carried him away to Lydney, where Sir John
ha' now got a gaol o' his own. There wor some
trouble 'bout it ; the Lord Herbert, who's governor
at IMonnerth, claiming' him as his prisoner. But the
other saved as yours wor a case o' deer-stealing' in
the Forest, an' Will had helped, ye ought both betaken
before Sir John an' tried by him, he been'
head man o' it. Then Lord Herbert gave in, an'
let them take him off. Will did help ye a bit,
didn't he?"

Modern a bit. But for him, liker than not, I'd
now be in their lock-up at Lydney. Well, if hebe
good there he mayn't ha' so long to stay as
they think for — won't, if what I've heard be
true."

'' What's ye heard, Rob ? "

Some news as ha' just come down from
Lunnun. It's saved the King's been chased out
o't, an' the Parlyment be now having' it all their
own way. Supposing' that's the case, Sir John

Winter won't hae it all his own way much longer.
We Foresters '11 deal wl' him diff'rent from what
we've been a coin'. An' 'bout that I ha' got word
o' something else."

"What something?"

A man, they say's coming' down here — from
Lunnun too. One o' the right sort — friend o' the
people. Besides, a soldier as ha' seen foreign
service, an' is reckoned 'mong the best an'
bravest."

I think I know who ye mean, Rob. Ain't it
Sir Richard Walwyn ? "

"That's the man."

He wor at Hollymead 'fore he went away to
the wars. I've seed him many's the time. He
used to often ride past our place, an' always
stopped to ha' a word an' a joke wi' Jack. That
makes me remember him ; an' if I bent mistook
somebody else ha' remembrance o' him in a
different way, an' ain't like ever to forget him."

"Who?"

One o* the young ladies o' Holyhead — the
older 'un, Miss Sabrina. I ha' heard as much from
the house servants their."

Just the shadow of a cloud had shown itself on
Rob's brow as Win commenced giving her reminiscences
of the knight who had been visitor at
Hollymead and used to crack jokes with Jerky.
It passed off, however, ere her relation came to an
end.

'well, dear Win," he said, speaking more tenderly
from consciousness of having harboured an
unjust suspicion ; " they say Sir Richard be coming'
down to raise soldiers for the Parlyment. If that
be so, one o' the first to join him '11 be Rob Wilde ;
an' maybe the biggest, if not best, in the fighting'
line."

You'll be the best, Rob ; I know you will.
Who could equal you ? "

At which she threw open her arms, then

closed them around his neck, covering him with
kisses.

In all probability, many soft words and much
tender concourse would have succeeded this outburst
of admiration. But the opportunity was not
allowed them. Just then they heard a clattering
of hoofs, horsemen coming down the road from
Ruardean, at a gallop.

Rob, setting his ears to listen, could tell there
were two of them, but nothing more — nothing to
admonish him whether they were friends or
enemies. But with the consciousness of havens
stolen deer and broken jail, twenty to one on
their being the latter, reflected he. In any case
prudence counselled him hiding himself, and letting
the horsemen pass on.

His first impulse was to spring back up the
bank, leaving the woman in the road. They could .
have nothing against her, whoever they were. But
they were near now, still riding rapidly, and before

he could scramble to the summit of the slope
would be sure to see him. Just then, a hiding-place
handier, and more easily accessible, came under
his eye ; a break in the bank just opposite, which
he knew to be the entrance to an old limestone
quarry, long abandoned. He would be safe
enough in there, at least from observation by
any one passing down the road. Whether or no,
it was now Hobson's choice with him ; the trampling
was louder and clearer ; and but for an abrupt
bend of the road above he could have seen the
horsemen, as they him. No alternative, therefore,
but to cut into the quarry ; which he did — the
woman with him.

Scarce were they well inside it, when the hoof-strokes
ceased to be heard. The horses had been
suddenly pulled up ; a colloquy ensuing.

Hullo, Jerky ! " it begun. " On your way from
Monmouth market, I suppose } "

"Yes, yer honour; just that."

But Where's your big sister ? I've met you
scores of times along the roads, though never
without her. I hope there's nothing amiss ? "

Oh ! nothing', sir. She be wi' me now, close by,
coming up the pitch, only ha' legged a bit behind."

'* Well, Jack, I won't detain you ; as I must not
be lagging myself. I want to reach Ross before
the night's on. Good-bye, old cadge ! "

At which the dialogue came to an end, and
the hoof-strokes were again heard, now coming
close.

Only for a minute or so, when a second colloquy
was entered upon, this time one of the voices being
different.

Rob Wilde knew them both ; had long ago recognised
the one that held speech with the cadger,
and had reason to feel keenly apprehensive as he
listened. Far more now, as the words of the later
dialogue dropped upon his ears.

Old Timber-toes said his sister was just behind.

I don't see anything of her; and certainly she's
not one there should be any difficulty in making
out — even at a league's distance. Hey ! what the
deuce is that ? "

And Reginald Trevor again reined up. For it
was he, with his servant.

A basket, it appears to be. Captain," answered
the man, "with a bottle in it. Yes," he added,
after drawing closer, lifting it from the ledge, and
peering into it. " Something besides the bottle —
bread, cheese, and bacon."

Where there's so much smoke there should be
some fire," reflected his master, who had halted in
the middle of the road. Then, thinking it odd he
saw nothing of the cadger's sister, and noticing the
gap leading into the quarry, it occurred to him
she might be there. Partly out of curiosity, and
partly from an intuition, which the basket of provisions
had done something to inspire, he headed
his horse at the opening and rode in.

Soon as inside, an exclamation rose to his lips,
in tone which told of more than surprise. There
was triumph, exultation, in it. For there saw he,
not only the woman missing from the road, but a
man, the same who had been for some time missing
from Monmouth Gaol. The bushes in the old
quarry were not thick enough, nor tall enough, to
give either of them concealment ; and they were
standing erect, without further attempt at seeking
it.

Ho — ho ! my giant," cried the officer. " It's
here you are ; making love to Jerky's sister. And
a pretty pair of love-birds too ! Ha ! ha ! That
explains the basket of eatables and wrinkles.
What a pity to interrupt your billing and cooing !
But I must. So master Rob, deer-stealer and jail-breaker,"
he added drawing his sword. " Come
along with me ! You needn't trouble about bringing
the basket. In the Lydney lock-up I'll see
to your being fed free of expense."

When you get me there," rejoined Rob, in
defiant tone, as he spoke pulling from under the
breast of his doublet a long-bladed knife, and
setting himself firm for defence.

This was unexpected by the King's officer, who
had not thought or dreamt of resistance. It was
there, however, in sure, stern shape, and he felt
himself committed to overcoming it. With a
prick of his spur he sprang his horse forward, and
straight at Rob, as though he would ride over
him, his sword held ready for either cut or thrust.

But neither gave he, nor could. As the horse's
head came close to him, the Colossus lunged outwith
long arm, and sent the point of his knife
into the animal's nostrils, which caused it to rear
up and round, squealing with pain. This brought
its rider's back towards the man who had pricked
it ; and before he could wheel again, Reginald
Trevor was in the embrace of him he had jokingly
called giant — realizing that he had the strength

of one, as he was himself dragged out of his
saddle.

But they were not the only combatants in the
quarry. For, following his master, the servant had
made to assist him in his assault against the big
man, taking no note of the big woman, or fancying
she would not interfere. In which fancy he was
sadly mistaken. For in scrimmage his back becoming
turned upon her, as if taking pattern by
Rob, she sprang up, caught hold of the lightweight
groom, and jerked him to the ground,
easily as she would have pulled a bantam cock
from out one of the Jinkum's panniers.

In less than threescore seconds after the affair
began, Reginald Trevor and his attendant were
unhorsed, disarmed, and held as in the hug of a
couple of bears.

I'll let ye go," said Rob to his prisoner, after
some rough handling, " when ye say you won't
take advantage o' my generosity by renewing' the

attack. Bah ! " he added, without waiting for response,
" I'll put that out o' yer power."

Saying which, he caught up the officer's sword,
and broke it across his knee, at the same time
releasing him. The blade of the attendant was
treated likewise, and both master and man were
permitted to rise to their feet, feeling vanquished
as weaponless.

*you can take yourselves off," sneeringly said
the deer-stealer ; " an' as ye talked 'bout been' in
Ross 'fore nightfall, you'll do well to make quick
time."

Not a word spoke Reginald Trevor in reply, nor
thanks for the mercy shown him. Too angry was
he for that ; his anger holding him speechless
because of its very impotence. In sullen silence
he regained the bridle of his horse — like himself
having lost spirit by copious bleeding of the nose
climbed back into the saddle, and continued on
down Cat's Hill, his varlet behind him, both

worthless, and yet more crestfallen than when
they rode out through the gate of Hollymead
Park.

"We're in for it now, Win," said Rob, to the
cadger's sister, after seeing them depart. " An*
we've got to look out for danger. I'm sorry 'bout
you having' to share it ; but maybe 'won't be so
much, after all. Once Sir Richard gets here, an'
the fighting' begins, as it surely must soon, trust
me for takin' care o' ye."

I will— I do, Rob ! "

And again the great arms were thrown around
his neck, while upon his lips were showered a very
avalanche of kisses.

LOOKING FORWARD TO A FIGHT.

Some truth was there in the report that had
reached Rob Wilde, of the King being chased
out of London. Though not literally chased, after
his display in the House of Commons, ludicrous
as unconstitutional, he found the metropolis too
hot for him. Moreover, there was a whisper about
impeaching the Queen ; and this arch intrigante,
notwithstanding her high notions of Royal right,
was now in a fit of Royal trembles. Strafford had
lost his head, Laud was in prison, likely to lose
his ; how knew she but that those bloodthirsty
islanders might bring her own under the axe }
They had done as much for a Queen more
beautiful than she. Mobs daily paraded the

i6x M

streets, passing the Palace ; the cry, " No
bishops ! " came in through its windows, and
Charles trembled as he thought of his father's significant
epigram, "No bishop, no king." So out
of Whitehall they slipped — first to Windsor to
pack up ; the Queen, in fine, clearing out of the
country, by Dover, to Holland.

It was a backstairs " skedaddle " with her ; carrying
off as much plunder as she could in the
scramble — chests of jewels of unknown but fabulous
value, as that represented as having been
found in the isle of Monte Crista. Enough, at all
events, to hold Court abroad ; maintain regal surroundings
; even raise an army for the reconquest
and re-enslavement of the people she had plundered.


It is unpleasant to reflect on such things, far
more having to speak of them. Sad to think that
though England is two centuries and a half older
since Charles Stuart and Henrietta de Medici did

all in their power to outrage her people and rob
them of their rights, this same people is to-day
not a wit the wiser. The late Liberal victory, as
it is called, may be urged as contradicting this
allegation ; but against that is to be set the behaviour
of England's people, as represented by
their Parliament for the last six years, sanctioning
and endorsing deeds that have brought a blight on
the nation's name, and a cloud over its character,
it will take centuries to clear off. And against
that, too, the spirit which seems likely will pervade
in this new Legislative Assembly, and the
action it will take. When the Long Parliament
commenced its sittings, the patriots composing it
never dreamt of letting crime go unpunished. Instead,
their first thoughts and acts were to bring
the betrayers of their country to account. " Off
with his head — so much for Strafford ! " " To the
Tower with Laud and the twelve recalcitrant
bishops ! " " Clear out the Star Chamber and

High Commission Court!" "Abolish monopolies,
Loans of Privy Seal, Ship-tax, Coal and Conduit
money, with the other iniquitous imposts ! " And,
presto! all this was done as by the wand of a
magician, though it was the good genius then
guiding the destinies of England. Off went
Strafford's head ; to the Tower was taken Laud ;
and the infamous royal edicts of a decade preceding
were swept from the statute-book, as by
a wet sponge passed over the score of a tapster s
slate.

What do we see now ? What hear ? A new
Parliament entering on power under circumstances
so like those that ushered in the " Long " as to
seem almost the same. And a Ministry gone out
who have outraged the nation as much as did the
Strafford, Digbys, and Lauds. But how different
the action taken towards them ! No Bill of Attainder
talked ' of, no word of impeachment, not
even a whisper about voting want of confidence.

Instead of being sent to a prison, as the culprits
of 1640, they of 1 880 walk out of office and away,
with a free, jaunty step and air of bold effrontery,
blazoned with decorations and brand new titles
bestowed on them — a very shower, as the sparks
from a Catherine wheel !

Verily was the lot of Thomas Wentworth, Earl
of Strafford, laid in unlucky times. Had he lived
in these days, so far from losing his head, it would
have been surmounted by a ducal coronet. And
Laud, already at the top of the ecclesiastical tree,
with no possibility of hoisting him to higher earthly
honours, would have had heavenly ones bestowed
on him by being enrolled among the saints.

Though merely writing a romance, who will say
that in this matter I am romancing ? The man
that does must be what Sir Richard Wahvyn pronounced
him who is not a Republican ; and back
to Sir Richard's dictum I refer him.

Soon as Charles had got his Queen safe out of
harm's way, he betook himself to York, there to
enter upon more energetic action. For there he
felt safer himself, surrounded by a host of hot partisans.
In political sentiment, what a curious reversion
has taken place since then between the capitals
of the North and South — almost an exchange !
Then York was all Royalist, and as a consequence
filled with the foes of Liberty ; London full of its
friends. Now the former has mounted to the very
hill-top of Liberal aspiration ; the latter sunk into
the slough of a shameful retrogression !

But the thing is easily explained. Those who
dwell in the kingdom's capital are nearer to the
source of contamination. There Bung and Beadle-dom,
with their vested rights, hold sway ; there the
scribblers who wear plush find encouragement and
promotion ; while the corrupting influence of
modern finance has nursed into life and strength a
swarm of gamblers in stocks, promoters of bubble

companies, tricksters in trade, and music-hall cads
a sorry replacement of the honest mercers and
trusty apprentices of the Parliamentary times.

Once separated from his Parliament, the King
had an instinct that all friendly intercourse
between it and himself would soon be at an end ;
this nursed into conviction by the Hertford,
Digbys, and other like "chicks" who formed his
entourage. Active became he now in adopting
precautions, and taking measures to sustain himself
in the struggle that was imminent. And now
more industrious than ever in the way of money
raising ; anew granting monopolies, and sending
letters of Privy Seal all over the land, wherever
there seemed a chance of enforcing their demands
for demands were they, as we have seen. To
Sir John Wintour had been entrusted some scores
of these precious epistles, with authority to deliver
them, collect the proceeds, and send them on to
replenish the royal exchequer ; and it was one

such Reginald Trevor saw torn into scraps on the
porch of Hollymead House.

This same Sir John was what Scotchmen would
call a " canny chief." Courtier, and private secretary
to the Queen, he had come in for a goodly
share of pilfering from the public purse ; among
other jobs having been endowed with the stewardship
of the Forest of Dean, with all its privileges
and perquisites. Appointed one of the Commissioners
of Array for West Gloucestershire, he had
built him a large mansion in the neighbourhood of
Lydney— the White House as called — though it
is not there now, he with his own hand having
afterwards set the torch to it. But then, on the
clearing out of the Court from London, Sir John
had cleared out too, going to his country residence
by Severn's side, which he at once set about
placing in a state of defence. None more clearly
than he foresaw the coming storm.

It seemed to him near now, when Reginald

Trevor returned to the White House and reported
his reception at Hollymead, with the defiant message
to himself and his King. But Sir John was
not a man of hot passions or hasty resolves.
Long experience as a courtier had taught him to
subdue his temper, or, at all events, the exhibition
of it. So, instead of bursting forth into a furious
display, he quietly observed, —

Don't trouble yourself, Captain Trevor, about
what Ambrose Powell has said or done. It won't
help his case any. But," he added reflectingly,
"there seems no particular call for haste in this
business. Besides, I'm expecting an addition to
the strength of our little garrison. To-morrow, or
it may be the day after, we shall have with us a
man, if I mistake not, known to you."

Who, Sir John .? "

Colonel Thomas Lunsford."

Oh ! certainly ; I know Lunsford well. He was
my superior officer in the northern expedition."

Ah ! yes ; now I remember. Well ; I have
word of his being en route hither with some stanch
followers. When he has reported himself, allowing
a day or two for rest, we'll beat up the
quarters of this recusant, and make him repent his
seditious speech. As for the money, he shall pay
that, every pound, or I'll squeeze it out of him, if
there's stock on the Hollymead estate, or chattels
in his house worth so much."

There was something in the " recusant's " house
Reginald Trevor thought worth far more — one of
the recusant's daughters. Of that, however, he
made no mention. To speak of it lay not in the
line of his duties ; and even thinking of it was
now not near so sweet as it had been hitherto.
Little as he liked Colonel Lunsford, he would
that night have been glad of him for a boon
companion — in the bowl to help drown the bitter
remembrance of his adventures of the preceding
day.

A HAWKING PARTY.

HOOHA-HA-HA-HA ! "

The cry of the falconer, followed by a whistle,
as the hawks were unleashed and cast off.

Away went they, jesses trailing, and bells tinkling,
in buoyant upward flight. For the heron that
had risen out of the sedge, intending retreat to
its heronry, at sight of the enemy after it, suddenly
changed direction, and was now making for
upper air with all its might of wing.

The hawks were a cast of " peregrine " of the
best strain. In perfect training, it needed no repetition
of the hooha-ha-ha-ha to encourage them ;
for, as soon as their hoods were off, they had
sighted the enemy, and shot like arrows after it.

At first their flight was direct — a raking off —
but in drawing nearer the doomed bird it
changed to gyrations as they essayed to mount
above it. The heron, in a phrenzy of fright,
uttered its harsh " craig," disgorged the contents
of its crop, with a view of Heightening itself, and
made a fresh effort to escape skyward. In vain !
The falcons, with quicker stroke of wing, notwithstanding
their spiral course, were soon seen soaring
over it. Then the foremost — for one was ahead —
having gained the proper height, with spread
"train" and quivering "sails," poised herself for
the " stoop'' Only a second ; then down
swooped she at the quarry, " arm " outstretched
and " pounces " set for raking it.

The attempt was unsuccessful. Rarely is heron
touched at the first stoop. Unwieldy, and sluggish
of flight as the creature may appear, it has a wonderful
capacity for quickly turning, and can long
elude hawk or falcon, if there be but one. When

doubly assailed, however, by a cast of trained peregrine,
it is at a disadvantage, not having time to
recover itself from the stoop of the one till the
other is upon it.

So was it with this. In an instant after, the
second shot down upon it with a squeal, the heron
again giving out its "craig," and then the two,
hawk and heron, were seen clinging together. For
this time the bird of prey had not attempted to
rake but bind ; and bound were they, the pounces
of the falcon stuck fast in the flesh of its victim.
Then followed a convulsive flapping of wings, the
two pairs beating against one another, soon to be
joined by a third ; for, meanwhile, the first falcon
having soared up again, once more poised herself
and stooped, she also binding to the common
quarry.

The aerial chase was now at an end, but not the
combat. Unequal as this was, the heron still lived ;
and, when the three should come to earth, might

impale either or both its adversaries on that long
lance-like beak it but unskilfully wields in the air.
To prevent this, the falconer hurried off for the
spot towards which they were descending. Slowly
they came down, upheld by the united fluttering
of their wings, but reached the ground at length,
luckily not far off. And when the falconer got up
he gave out a loud " whoop," signal of the quarry
killed. For he saw that the heron was dead, and the
peregrine had already commenced depluming it.

Other voices joined in the ocean of triumph ; one
of sweet, silver tones, accompanied by the clapping
of a pair of pretty hands. They were the same
voice and hands that on the top of Ruardean Hill
had hounded on the dog Hector in his half-playful
demonstration against the donkey.

I knew my pair of ' Pers ' would do it in good
style ! " cried Vaga in exultation, for she was the
owner of the peregrine. "Did any of you ever
see a kill quicker than that?"

The interrogatory was put to a trio of individuals
beside her, on horseback as herself — one of them
her sister, the other two Sir Richard Walwyn and
Eustace Trevor. There was an entourage of
attendants, the falconer with his helps, mounted
grooms, and dogs quartering the sedge — in short,
a complete hawking party from Hollymead House.
For, notwithstanding his gentle inclining, Ambrose
Powell was no foe to field sports — rather
favoured them when not unnecessarily cruel ; and,
though rarely indulging in them himself, put no
restraint on his daughters' doing so. The younger
was passionately fond of hawking, and the elder
also relished it in a more sober way — it being
then regarded as a proper pastime for ladies.

The hawking party, whose incidents we are
chronicling, came off some ten days after the
arrival of Sir Richard Walwyn and Eustace at
Hollymead ; the scene being a strip of marsh
with a stream filtering through it, here and there

a pool where the moor-hen coquettishly flirted her
tail — a favourite haunt of the heron, as of teals,
widgeons, and wild ducks. That the knight was
still sojourning at Hollymead House need be no
matter of surprise ; but why the son of Sir William
Trevor had not long ere this reported himself
under the parental roof, by Abergavenny, may
seem a very puzzle. Its explanation must await
the record of after events ; though an incident
occurring there and then, with speech that accompanied,
may throw some light upon it.

Vaga's question was rather in the way of an
exclamation, to which she did not expect reply.
Neither waited for it ; but giving the whip to her
palfrey trotted off to where the falconer was engaged
in releasing the dead heron from the pounces
of the hawks. She went not alone, however ;
Eustace Trevor having pricked his animal with
the spur, and started after, soon overtaking her.
The other pair stayed behind as they were.

A hundred yards or so round the edge of the
marsh, and the two who had ridden off came to
a halt. For, by this, the falconer having recorded
the hawks, and retrieved the quarry, met them,
heron in hand, holding it out to his mistress ; as
would one, first up at the death of a fox, present
Reynard's brush to some dashing Diana of the
field.

A splendid bird it was ; the white heron or great
egret, a rare species even then, though not so rare
as now.

Give it to the pers, Van Dorn ! " she directed,
after a short survey of it ; despite its rarity, showing
less interest in it than under other circumstances
she might have done. " Unload again,
and let them have it. We forgot to bring the
doves for them, and they deserve reward for the
way they both bound it — so cleverly."

Van Dorn, a Hollander from Falconswaerd —
whence in those days all falconers came — bowing,

N

proceeded to execute the command, by removing
their hoods from the hawks.

"Before he surrenders It to their tender mercies,
may I ask a favour ? "

It was Eustace Trevor who interrogated, addressing
himself to the young lady.

Of course you may. What is it, sir ? "

"Leave to appropriate a few of the heron's
feathers."

"Why, certainly! The falconer will pluck them
for you. Van Dorn, pull out some of its feathers,
and hand them to this gentleman. I suppose you
mean those over the train, Mr. Trevor ? "

Yes, they."

You hear. Van Dorn."

Without that the man knew what was wanted ;
the loose tail coverts so much prized for plumes ;
and, drawing them out one by one, he bound them
into a bunch with a piece of cord whipped round
their shanks ; then handed them up to the

cavalier. After which he went off to attend upon
his hawks.

There was a short interregnum of silence as the
falconer turned his back on them, and till he was
out of earshot. Then the young lady asked, with
apparent artlessness, —

But, Mr. Trevor, what do you intend doing
with the heron's feathers } "

"Pluming my hat with them."

Why, it's plumed already ! and by far shower
ones ! "

Shower they may be ; but not prettier, nor so
becoming. And certainly not to be esteemed as
these ; which I shall wear as souvenir of a pleasant
time — the pleasantness of my life."

There was a pleased expression in her eyes as she
listened to what he said ; still more when she saw
what he did. This, to whip the hat from his head,
pluck the panache of ostrich feathers from its
aigrette, and insert those of the heron in their

place. Something he did further seemed also to
give her gratification, though she artfully concealed
it. Reproach on her lips, but delight in her heart,
as she saw him tear the displaced plume into
shreds, and toss them to the ground at his horse's
feet.

How wasteful you are, Mr. Trevor ! " she exclaimed,
reprovingly. " Those foreign feathers
must have cost a great deal of money. What's
worse, you've spoiled the look of your hat ! Besides,
you forget that those now on it came from a conquered
bird } "

All the more appropriate for a plume to be
worn by me."

'' Why so, sir > "

Because of my being vanquished, too."

** Vou vanquished, Mr. Trevor ! When ? where ?
By whom } " she asked, at the same time mentally
interrogating herself Could he be alluding to that
combat in which he received the wound brought

with him to Hollymead, the story of which had
leaked out, though not told by either combatant.
Or, was he hinting at conquest of another kind }

There was an indescribable expression on her
countenance as she sat awaiting his answer — keen
anxiety, ill-concealed under an air of pretended
artlessness."

Vaga ! "

It was not he who pronounced her name ;
though "Vaga," with "Powell" adjoined, were
the words nearest to his lips. She would have
given the world to hear him speak them. But it
could not be then. Her sister had called to herat
that moment approaching with Sir Richard.
Most ill-timed approach, for it interrupted a
dialogue which, allowed to continue, might, and
likely would, have ended in declarations of love —
confessions full and mutual.

"DEAR LITTLE MER."

Turn and turn, sister," said Sabrina, as she rode
up. "You've had sport enough with your great
eagles. Suppose we go up to the hill, and give
my dear little Mer a cast off.^"

Dear little Mer " was a merlin, that sate
perched on her left wrist, in size to the peregrine
as a bantam cock to the biggest of chanticleers.
Withal a true falcon, and game as the gamest of
them.

Why its mistress proposed changing the scene

of their sport was that no larks nor bunting — the

merlin's special quarry — were to be met with by



the marsh. Their habitat was higher up on the
ridge, where there was a tract bare of trees — part
pasture, part fallow.

To her sister's very reasonable request Vaga did
not give the readiest assent. The petted young
lady looked, and likely felt, some little vexed at
her icte-a-tctc with Eustace Trevor having been so
abruptly brought to an end. It had promised to
make that spot — amid reeds and rushes though it
was — hallowed to her, as another on the summit
of a certain hill, among hazels and hollies, had
been made to her sister. Whatever her thoughts,
she showed reluctance to leave the low ground,
saying in rejoinder, —

Oh ! certainly, Sab. But won't you wait till
the dogs have finished beating the sedge .^"

If you wish it, of course. But you don't expect
them to find another heron 1 "

No ; but there may be a widgeon or wild
duck. After such an easy victory, I'm sure my

pers would like to have another flight See how
they chafe at their hoods and pull upon the
jesses ! Ah, my beauties ! you want to hear the
hooha-ha-ha-ha again — that do you."

Oh ! let them, then," said the more compliant
Sabrina, " if the dogs put up anything worth
flying them at ; which I doubt their doing. We've
made too much noise for that."

The conjecture of the sage sister proved correct.
For the marsh, quartered to its remotest corners,
yielded neither widgeons nor wild ducks ; only
moor-hens and water-rails — quarry too contemptible
to fly the great falcons at.

"Now," said Sabrina, "I suppose you'll consent
to the climbing } "

Her motto might have been Excelsior ; she
seemed always urging an uphill movement.

But there was no longer any objection made toit
; and the canines being called out of the sedge,
all entered the forest, riders and followers afoot,

and commenced winding by a wood-path up the
steep acclivity of Ruardean's ridge.

When upon its crest, which they soon after
reached, the grand panorama already spoken of
lay spread before their eyes. For they were on
the same spot from which the young ladies had
viewed it that day when Hector harassed the
donkey. Neither of them bestowed a look upon
it now ; nor did Sabrina even glance at that road
winding down from the Wilderness, off which on
the former occasion she had been unable to take
her eyes. Its interest for her no longer had existence
; he who had invested it with such being by
her side. Now she but thought of showing off the
capabilities of "dear little Mer," as in fondness she
was accustomed to call the diminutive specimen
of the falconidce.

Ere long Mer made exhibition of her high
strain and training — for the little falcon was also
a female — sufficient to prove herself neither tercel

nor haggard. First she raked down a lark, then
a corn bunting ; and at the third cast-off overtook
and bound on to a turtle-dove, big as herself. For
all she speedily brought it to the earth, there instantly
killing it.

Just as she had brought this quarry to ground
a cry was heard, which caused interruption of the
sport, —

Soldiers ! "

It was the falconer who so exclaimed ; for now
that they were merlin-flying his services were
scarce required, and one of his aids did the
whistling and whooping. Left at leisure to look
around, his eyes had strayed up the road beyond
Drybrook, there to see what had called forth his
cry.

Instantly all other eyes went the same way,
more than one voice muttering in confirmation —

Yes ; they're soldiers."

This was evident from their uniformity of dress

all alike, or nearly — as also by the glancing of
arms and accoutrements. Moreover, they were in
military formation, riding in file, "by twos" — for
they were on horseback.

At sight of them all thoughts of sport were at
an end, and the hawking was instantly discontinued.
Mer, lured back to her mistress's wrist,
was once more hooded, and the leash run through
the marvels of her jesses ; while the falconer and
his helps, with the other attendants, gathered into
a group preparatory to leaving the field.

Meanwhile, by no accident, but evidently from
previous understanding. Sir Richard Walwin and
Eustace Trevor had drawn their horses together,
at some distance from the spot occupied by the
ladies, the knight saying,—

It's Wintour's troop from Lydney, I take it.
What do yo2i think, Master Trevor ? "

The same as yourself Nay, more, I'm sure of
it, now. That's my cousin Rej at their head, on

the grey mare, with the red feathers in his hat.
You remember them ? "

I do. You're right ; 'tis he. Somebody beside
him, though, who appears to be in command.
Don't you see him turn in his saddle, as though
calling back orders ? "

"Yes, yes;" was the repetition rejoinder, Eustace
Trevor, despite his late sojourn at Court, still
retaining some of the idiomatic forms of Welsh
colloquy. " But who are those in the rear ? " he
added, interrogatively.

His question had reference to a number of men
afoot, neither in uniform nor formation, who were
seen coming behind the horse troop, pressing
close upon its heels. Women among them, too,
as could be told by the brighter hues and looser
draping of their dresses.

People from Mitcheldean," answered Sir Richard,
"following the troop out of curiosity, no
doubt."

The knight knew better ; knew that, but for
himself, and some action he had lately taken, the
people spoken of, or at least the majority of them,
would not have been there. For, since his arrival
at Hollymead, he had made many excursions unaccompanied
— save by his henchman, Hubert — to
Mitcheldean, Coleford, and other Forest centres,
where he had held converse with many people —
spoken words of freedom, which had found ready
and assenting response. Therefore, as he now
gazed at that crowd of civilians coming on after
the soldiers, though his glance was one of inquiry,
it was not as to who they were who composed it,
but to make estimate of their numbers, at the
same time comparing it with the strength of the
troop.

There was no time left him to arrive at any
exactitude. The horsemen were on the way to
Hollymead, for sure ; and he must needs be there
before — long before them.

So the hawking party made no longer stay on
Ruardean Hill, but a start and return homeward —
so rapid as to seem retreat ; the understrappers
and other attendants wondering why it was so —
all save Hubert.

TROUBLE ANTICIPATED.

On return for Hollymead, the hawking-party did
not pass through Ruardean, as it would have been
round about. Nevertheless, Sir Richard went that
way. At a forking of the forest paths the knight
excused himself to the ladies, leaving Eustace
Trevor to escort them home ; he, with his own
servant, turning off towards the village.

Some matter of importance must have influenced
him to deviate from the direct route ; and that
it was pressing might be deduced from the speed
to which he put his horse. Soon as parted from
the others, he and Hubert made free use of their
.spurs, going in reckless gallop down the steepest

pitches, nor drawing bridle till they had reached
Ruardean. A small place then as now, of some
two hundred houses, contiguous to a fine old
church, and ancient hostelry opposite, the streets
all declivities, with some scattered dwellings that
radiated off into quaint nooks and by-ways.

The clattering of hoofs had brought faces to
every window, and figures into every door ; for
this had been heard long before the two horsemen
made their appearance. And now, as these came
to a halt in front of the inn, their horses breathing
hard, all eyes were bent upon them with inquiring
curiosity.

Wind your horn, Hubert ! " commanded the
knight, in an undertone, without waiting for anyone
to come up to them.

A command which Hubert instantly obeyed by
drawing a small cornet from under his doublet,
clapping it to his lips, and sounding the "Assembly."
He had been troop-trumpeter in "the

army that swore so terribly in Flanders," and so
understood the cavalry calls.

No cavalry, however, answered this one, nor
soldiers of any arm ; though it was answered by
what looked the right material for making soldiers.
Before the cornet's notes had ceased reverberating
from the tower of the church, and the walls of the
old castle — then in ruins — men could be seen issuing
from the doors of the nearer houses, others
hastening along the lanes from those more remote,
all making for the spot where the horsemen were
halted.

In a few seconds nearly twenty had gathered
up and grouped around the horses ; the expression
on their faces showing that they understood the
signal in a general way, but not the reason for its
having been sounded to summon them just then.
All looked inquiry, one putting it in the form of
speech, —

What be it, Sir Richard ? "

o

He who Interrogated was a man of gigantic size,
inches taller than any of the others. But something
more than his superior stature privileged him
to be first spokesman, as could be deduced from
Sir Richard's answer.

A troop coming from Lydney, Rob. They're
through Drybrook by this, making for Hollymead.
You and your friends will, no doubt, be there, too,
curious to see how the soldiers behave themselves
? "

"We'll be there, sure, Sir Richard. Rob Wilde
for one, an' belike a good many more."

So well," rejoined the knight, with a satisfied
look. Then leaning over on his saddle he whispered
some words of a confidential character into
the ear of the deer-stealer. After which, setting
himself straight in the stirrups, he again set his
horse into a gallop, and rode out of the village as
rapidly as he had entered it.

I hear they're coming, Sir Richard ? "

"They are, ]mr. Powell. By all signs, it's the
party you've been expecting. Indeed, there can
be no doubt about its being Wintour's troop. One
of the officers at its head we made out to be
Master Trevor's cousin, as you've heard, I suppose
? "

Oh, yes. And of their purpose there can be as
little doubt — to levy for that ^3,000 the King
facetiously terms loan. A downright robbery, I
call it."

"I too."

"What ought I to do. Sir Richard.? I have
the money in the house, and suppose I must give
it to them. But if you say the word, I'll refuse."

Let me leave the word unsaid till I see what
sort of following is after them. There appeared to
be a good many from Mitcheldean, likely to be
joined by more at Drybrook, to say nothing of
the contingent from nearer home. Everything must

depend on their numbers and the spirit we find
them in."

"I understand," said the other, with an assenting
nod, "and will trust all to you."

This brief dialogue was at the door of Holly-mead
House, its owner standing in the porch, Sir
Richard still on horseback, just arrived from that
passage at courier-speed through Ruardean. It
ended by his dismounting and giving his horse to
Hubert, with directions to take both their animals
round to the stable-yard, and there keep them
under saddle and bridle. Some other instructions
were delivered to the same sotto voce. Then to
the symphony of clanking spurs the knight ascended
to the porch ; and after a few more words
exchanged with the master of the house, he passed
on into the withdrawing room.

His entrance was a welcome intrusion, as the
company inside consisted of the awkward number
three.

And soon they paired, each pair passing into
the embayment of a window, and there taking
stand. Not to talk of love, or even think of it ;
though something equally serious occupied their
thoughts — something less agreeable. All were alike
imbued with an instinct of danger drawing nigh,
and so close, their eyes were now on the alert, apprehensively
gazing down the oak-shadowed avenue.
A few seconds more and they saw what they
were expecting — horses, plumed hats, and the
glancing of armour — a troop outside the park gate
halted till its fastenings could be undone. In an
instant it was dashed open, and soldiers seen
filing through — the same as they had descried on
the hill beyond Drybrook.

On came they up the avenue, without making
stop till within fifty yards of the house, where
they were again brought up at the entrance to the
ornamental grounds. These were enclosed by a
hawhaw ; the causeway which crossed it having a

gate also. And while this was being got open all
four looking from the windows had now no difficulty
in identifying Reginald Trevor in one of
the officers at the head of the troop ; while two of
them at the same time recognised the other.

Why, bless me ! " exclaimed the ex-gentleman
usher, "that's Colonel Lunsford."

"As I live, Tom Lunsford!" was the almost
simultaneous exclamation of the knight.

Colonel Lunsford ? " interrogated Vaga, addressing
herself to him by her side.

Tom Lunsford ? " in like manner questioned
Sabrina, but with more earnestness as she saw Sir
Richard's brow suddenly darken. "Who and what
is he .? "

One of the most notorious — but never mind,
now. By-and-by we'll talk of him. Like enough
he'll favour us with a taste of his quality before
leaving Hollymead. But," he added, the cloud
upon his brow becoming darker, ''if he do "

The knight did not finish what was evidently
intended to be a threat, partly because he saw fear
coming over the face of his betrothed, and partly
that the man for v/hom his menace was meant had
got through the gate, and, with Reginald Trevor
by his side, and the soldiers filing in behind them,
was now close up to the house.

NEW FACES AND OLD FOES.

While Colonel Lunsford and Captain Trevor were
waiting for the hazvhazv gate to be opened, they
had seen the figures of two ladies outlined in the
withdrawing-room windows — one in each. As yet
the two gentlemen were not visible to them ; these
being behind and half-hidden by the arras curtains.
As the officers came closer, with eyes still upon
the windows, those of Lunsford, after a hasty
glance at Vaga, remained fixed upon Sabrina in
steadfast, earnest gaze, as on one for the first
time seen, but eliciting instant admiration.

Trevor had eyes only for the younger of the
sisters, his thoughts going back to the last time
he had been there. He remembered it with bitterness,

for he had fancied himself slighted; and, if
so, the time had come for retaliation.

What a beautiful woman ! By the Cestus of
Venus, a Venus herself! "

It was the ex-Lieutenant of the Tower who thus
exclaimed.

Which ? " queried Reginald Trevor, with more
than common interest. Well knew he the flagitious
character of the man who was once more
his commanding officer.

Which ? What a superfluous question ! The
tall — the dark one — of course. Yellow-hair isn't to
be compared with her for a moment."

Perhaps not," rejoined Trevor, pretending assent,
glad to think his military superior was not likely
to be his rival in love.

Certes, both seem beauties in their different
styles," ran on the reprobate. " Who'd ever have
expected such a pair in this out-of-the-way corner
of creation ? I wish Sir John had given us orders

to take up quarters in Hollymead House for a week
or two. That may come yet when the devil ! "

His final ejaculation had nought to do with
what preceded. The mention of his Satanic
majesty was due to his having caught sight of a
face behind that he was in the act of admiring,
but the face of a man. A man well known to
him — one he hated, yet feared, as could be told
by the scowl instantly overspreading his countenance,
along with a whitening of the lips.

Nothing of this observed Reginald Trevor, whose
features changed expression at the same time, his
thoughts all absorbed in what he saw for himself
the face of another man at the other window
in close proximity to that of Vaga Powell.

Eustace still here ! What the deuce can that
mean } "

Both exclamation and question were unspoken,
though accompanied by a sharp pang of jealousy.
Some presentiment of this he had felt before, on

the evening when he met his handsome cousin at
the gate of Hollymead Park, going on to the house.
And here was Eustace yet, when by all the rules
he should have been gone days ago, standing by
the girl's side, apparently on terms of the most
friendly familiarity !

He was not permitted to see them side by side
much longer ; nor Lunsford the other pair. For
Sabrina, becoming indignant at the bold glances
the latter was directing upon her, moved away
from the window, Vaga doing the same ; the two
finally retiring from the room.

Another change of tableaux took place by Sir
Richard appearing at the window occupied by the
ex-gentleman usher — which was that nearest the
door — as he did, saying, —

Master Trevor ; I want you to be witness — see
and hear for yourself how your Cavaliers and
King's officers comport themselves. If I mistake
not, you'll have an opportunity now."

In the words, as well as tone, was conveyed an
insinuation which, ten days before, Eustace Trevor
would have resented by drawing sword ; all the
more that his own kinsman came in for a share
of it. He had no thoughts of doing so now.
Since then his sentiments, social as political, had
undergone a remarkable change ; and he but
answered the observation by pressing in to the
window, till his face almost touched the glass.

By this Lunsford had halted, and formed his
troop from flank to line, fronting the house. The
movement brought the cousins face to face at
close distance, Eustace bowing in a frank, familiar
manner. The cold, distant nod vouchsafed in
return would have surprised and perplexed him
but for a suspicion of the cause. His own conscience
had whispered it.

All this while was Ambrose Powell standing in
the porch, just as when he gave reception to
Reginald Trevor delivering that letter of Privy

Seal so contemptuously torn up. Nor looked he
now repentant for having torn it ; instead, defiant
as ever. For he had cast his eyes over and
beyond the men in uniform, taken stock of those
out of it, compared numbers, and made mental
estimate of the chances for a successful resistance.
A word, too, had reached him from inside ; spoken
from the door of the withdrawing-room by Sir
Richard Walwyn. So that when Colonel Lunsford
approached, in the swaggering way he had been
accustomed to in the Low Country, he was met
with a firm front and look of calm defiance. It
all the more irritated the King's officer, thinking of
him he had observed inside ; and with the soldiers
at his back, supposing himself master of the situation,
all the more determined him to show his teeth.
You are Ambrose Powell, I take it ? " were
his first words, spoken without even the ceremony
of a salute, as he brought his horse's head
between the supporting columns of the porch.

Ambrose Powell I am, sir," responded the
Master of Hollymead. " If you doubt my identity,"
he added, in his old satirical tone, " I refer you
to the gentleman by your side. He knows me
if I mistake not."

This was a shaft shot at Reginald Trevor,
further stinging him, too. But it was not his place
to reply ; and he bore it in sullen silence.

"Oh!" lightly ejaculated Lunsford, "it don't
need the formality of Captain Trevor's endorsement.
I'll take it for granted you're the man I want."

He spoke as might a policeman of modern days
about to "run in" some unfortunate infringer of
the laws.

"The man you want! And pray what fore*"

"Only to pay your debts."

Debts, sirrah ! I have no debts."

Oh, yes, you have. And right well you know
it, Master Powell. Maybe you'd prefer my calling
it your dues. Be it so."

Nor dues, neither ; I owe no one anything."

There I beg leave to contradict you. You
owe the King three thousand pounds ; just dues
for maintenance of the State ; your share of Supply
for its necessary expenses. As I understand, you've
been asked for payment already, and refused. But
now "

"Now I do the same. The King will get no
three thousand pounds from me ? "

He will."

No — never ! "

"Yes, now! This day; this very hour. If you
don't give it willingly, why I must take it from
you ; must and shall. Possibly you haven't so much
money in the house. No matter for that. We can
levy on your plate, of which, I'm told, you've got
good store— glad to know it. I'm in earnest, Master
Ambrose Powell, and mean what I say. When Tom
Lunsford has a duty to do, he does it. So make no
mistake ; I'm not the man to go back empty-handed."

If you be Tom Lunsford," sneeringly retorted
the Master of Hollymead, " not likely. I've heard
of you, sir. Robbers as you rarely leave any
place empty-handed."

Robbers ! " cried the colonel, now furious.
** How dare you apply such epithet to me — an
officer of the King } "

I dare to the King's self — if he stood there
beside you."

"A curse upon you, caitiff! You shall rue your
rash words. Know, sir, that I have the power to
punish sedition as recusancy. But I won't palter
speech with you any longer. Do you still refuse
to lend the money — pay it, I should rather say?"

Oh ! you needn't have taken the trouble to
correct yourself. It's a demand all the same. The
stand and deliver ' of a highwayman. But you
shall have an answer. I still refuse it."

Then it shall be taken from you, sirrah } "

If so, sirrah 'twill be under protest."

Under protest be it. As you like about that ;
devil care I. Ha-ha-ha ! " and Lunsford laughed
again. Then turning to the troop, he called out
to his first sergeant, —

Dismount, Robins, and follow me with a couple
of files ! "

Saying which, he flung himself out of the saddle,
and made to ascend the steps of the porch.

"You don't enter my house by an open door,"
cried the Master of Hollymead, stepping backward.
"You'll have to break it in first," he added,
gliding into the hall-way, dashing the door to
behind him, and double-bolting it inside.

Almost immediately after strong oaken shutters,
moved by invisible hands, were seen to close upon
all the windows of the lower story, till Hollymead
House looked as though its inmates had suddenly
and mysteriously abandoned it.

RESIST ! "

In his defiant refusal the Master of Hollymead, as
already said, had received encouragement by a
word spoken from the withdrawing-room. It was
after the ladies had passed out of it ; Sir Richard,
who had followed them to the door, simply saying,
Resist ! " It was said in a significant tone
though, and loud enough to be heard by him who
stood in the porch. For the knight had now
made up his mind to some sort of action, as yet
known only to himself ; and but returned to the
window to get further informed of the chances in
favour of it.

Judging by the sparkle of his eyes, they seemed
satisfactory, each moment becoming more so. He

had already taken stock of the soldier troop,
counted Its files — less than twenty — saw that half
of them were but "Johnny Raws" In uniform;
while the crowd beyond them numbered nigh two
hundred. Not all men ; but such women as were
among them had the look of being able to do
man's work, even In the way of fighting. Nor
were they all unarmed, though no warlike weapons
were conspicuously displayed. Here and there
could be seen hands holding hedge forks, or
grasping hatchets, bill-hooks, and hay-knives ;
others carrying long - shafted hammers and
mattocks — tools of the mining industry peculiar
to the Forest. All implements denoting peace ;
but readily convertible Into weapons with which
could be dealt deadly blows.

Sir Richard had taken all this in, as the soldiers
came to a halt at the haw-haw gate. And now
that they were Inside it, looking over their heads
from the high window, he saw something else, for

which he had been anxiously watching — another
crowd on its way up the avenue, smaller than
that already arrived, but more compact, and
apparently under discipline. All men these, with
one at their head, taller by inches than any of
those behind him, easily recognisable as Rob
Wilde.

The deer-stealer had been true to his promise,
and done his work well ; for not only was the
Ruardean contingent a large one, but carried real
war weapons — here and there a matchlock and
siiap-hans, with pikes and halberds held high
above their heads — a bristling array of them.

It was just then, on catching sight of these,
that Ambrose Powell retreated from the porch,
and in, dashing to his door. For Sir Richard's
doings in the days past were all known to him,
and why he had gone out of his way, and lingered
behind the hawking party at Ruardean.

At the same moment the knight made a hasty

movement away from the window, as he did so
saying,—

Now, Master Trevor ! Time's come for action.
I'm not going to let our good host be plundered
without an effort to prevent it. Of course you
can do as you like — remain neutral if it so please
you."

But it don't so please me," promptly responded
the ex-gentleman usher. " If there's to be fighting,
I draw swords too."

On which side ? "

Oh, Sir Richard ! Why do you ask that ?
After what I've just seen and heard, you might
know. Never was I aware that the King
sanctioned such doings as these, nor will I bethe
one to abet them. Besides, you seem to
forget my debt to yourself — my life ; and I've
been longing for an opportunity to pay it. My
sword is at your service, as my heart, ever since
you conquered both."

Eustace Trevor ! " exclaimed the knight, with
more than ordinary warmth, "I now know that
you are not only my friend, but the friend of our
cause, which is that of country and humanity.
Your generous offer of alliance delights me, and
I am grateful for it. But all the more reluctant
you should compromise yourself with your father
your people. Reflect before drawing your
sword ! Among those we are to fight with — if
it come to that — is your own kinsman, your
cousin, and you may have to cross blades with
him

"Be it so. I have reflected, and well, before
espousing your cause. 'Tis now more to me than
cousin — a matter of conscience. Reginald's on
the wrong side — I the right one ; and if we
must cross swords, let him take the consequences,
as will I."

Not often in man's face might be seen such
expression as came over that of Sir Richard

Walwyn while listening to these determined
words. The handsome youth he had made
chance acquaintance with on the road, liking
him at first sight ; continuing to like him
notwithstanding their adverse political faith ;
reluctant to quarrel with him ; refusing it till
there was no alternative with honour — this youth,
now no more enemy either to him or his cause,
but friend of both, professed and sure of proving
true — at thought of all this the eyes of the soldier
knight sparkled with an ecstatic joy which they
alone can feel who fight for country, not king.

Enough ! " he said, grasping the youth's hand
and warmly pressing it. *' Glad am I to think
you will be with us. Sword such as yours were
an accession to any cause ; and ere long, even
now, there may be an opportunity for you to
prove it — baptise your new faith in the blood of
Freedom's foes. Come with me ! "

Their dialogue had occupied but a brief

interval of time; and as the knight brought
it to an end, he strode hastily out into the
hall, spurs still on and clanking. There to
encounter their host, also hurrying about, and
shouting to his domestics to shutter the windows.
The door he had already made secure.

In the hallway the three came together, but
only for a few moments to remain so. The
occasion called for quick, instant action, allowing
scant time for speech. Nor was there much
said ; Sir Richard hurriedly saying to their
host, —

"Tell the ladies not to be alarmed. Say that
Mr. Trevor and I have gone out to reason with
those rude visitors of yours, and see what terms
we can make with them. If they won't listen
to "

Whatever the alternative meant he left it
unspoken, for chancing to turn his eyes up the
stairway, he there saw that he was being listened

to already. On its lowest landing were the
sisters, who had overheard all.

They were coming down, and now came on ;
Sabrina gliding forward to the knight, and laying
her hand on his shoulder. He had stepped a
little apart to receive her, with anticipation of
something she might have to say confidential,
and with her, he, too, wanted a word of that
kind."

** Oh, Richard ! " she tremblingly exclaimed,
"what are you going to do.? Nothing rash, I
hope ? "

'* Certainly not, dearest. Have you ever known
me to act rashly ? "

No ; but now "

Well, now. I'm not likely to change my
ways. In what I intend there may be no danger
after all. A little risk true, but for a big stake.
No less than three thousand pounds these royal
miscreants demand from your father, and will

have it if we don't do something. But we will,
and they won't get it — not this day, unless I'm
mistaken about the men who are gathering
outside. Ah ! we'll match them, never fear."

He then spoke some words in a whisper, not
to be overheard by the servants still rushing
to and fro, which seemed further to reassure
her.

Now, love ! let me go," he said, in conclusion.
'there isn't a second to spare. Mr. Trevor and
I must out."

She neither questioned nor tried to detain him
longer. Whatever he meant doing, she could
confide in him ; if to fight, believed him capable
of conquering the whole world, and wisely ruling
it after. For the woman who loves there is no
fancy too wild, no feat seeming impossible to him
who has her heart.

More constrained was the speech passing near
at hand, for there were three taking part in it.

Yet not less anxious than her sister seemed Vaga,
if anything in greater distress about the danger
apprehended. Possibly but for her father being
beside her, she would have addressed Eustace
Trevor in a strain similar to that of Sabrina
appealing to Sir Richard. As it was her looks
were eloquent of fear for him, mingled with a
confidence in his power to hold his own, whatever
was to happen.

The scene was short — of not more than a
minute's duration — and ended by the two
gentlemen guests of Hollymead House making
all haste out of it — not by the front door, but
one at back, which opened into the stable-yard.


Soon as on its stoop. Sir Richard called out, —

Horses, Hubert ! Quick ! "

And quick they came. In an instant after,
Hubert was seen leading two out of their stalls,
another pair being led behind by the servant of

Eustace Trevor. Saddled and bridled all ; for
word had been sent out before, and everything
was ready — even to the varlet having been
warned by the veteran and gained over to the
good cause, now his master's.

In twenty seconds' time all four were in the
saddle, men as masters setting themselves firm
in the stirrups, taking tight hold of the reins,
with a look to their swords to see there was
no entanglement against unsheathing them.

Then, at a word from Sir Richard, the yard
gate, hitherto shut, was thrown open, and out
they all burst ; spurring to a brisk canter as they
rode round for the front of the house.

IN THE MIDST OF A MOB.

The people who had followed the soldiers were
still outside the haw-haw ; a file of troopers having
been stationed by its gate to prevent their passing
through. They could easily have sprung over out
of the fosse, but for some reason seemed not to
care for it.

Lunsford, after dismounting, had rushed up into
the porch, but too late to hinder the shutting of
the door ; at which he was now thundering and
threatening to adopt the alternative he had been
dared to.

"We shall certainly break it in," he cried out
in a loud voice, "if not opened instantly?"

This elucidating no response from inside he
added, —

Burst it in, men ! Knock it to pieces ! "

At which the sergeant and a file of troopers,
now also in the porch, commenced hammering
away with the butts of their dragon-muzzled
muskets. But they might as well have attempted
to batter down the walls themselves. Not the
slightest impression could they make on the
strong oaken panels. They were about to desist,
when something besides that caused them suddenly
to suspend their strokes, Lunsford himself
commanding it. He at the same time sprang
down from the porch and back to his saddle,
calling on them to do likewise.

Odd as might seem his abrupt abandonment of
the door-breaking design, there was no mystery
in it. A cry sent up by the crowd of people had
given him notice of something new ; and that
something he now saw in the shape of four horsemen

sweeping round from the rear of the house.
These were also outside the haw-haw, having
crossed it by another causeway at back. A
second shout greeted them as they got round to
the front, and drew bridle in the midst of the
crowd — a cheer in which new voices joined ; those
of the Ruardean men, just arrived upon the
ground.

"Foresters!" cried Sir Richard, as they gathered
in a ring around him, " will you allow Ambrose
Powell to be plundered — your best friend ? And
by Sir John Wintour — your worst enemy ? "

No — never ! That we won't ! " answered a score
of voices.

"Well, the soldiers you see there are Sir
John's, from Lydney, though wearing the King's
uniform ? "

We know 'em — too well ! " " Have seen their
ugly faces afore." " Curse Sir John, an' the King
too ! " were some of the responses showered back.

Then one, delivering himself in less disjointed
but equally ungrammatical phrase, took up the
part of spokesman, saying, —

"We've never had a hour o' peace since Sir
John Wintour ha' been head-man o' the Forest.
Heave robbed us o' our rights that be old as the
Forest itself, keeps on robbin' us ; claims the
mines, an' the timber, an' the grain' as all his
own. An' the deer, too ! Yes, the deer ; the wild
animals as should belong to everybody free born
o' the Manor o' St. Brave's. I'm that myself, an'
Stan' up here afore ye all to make protest against
his usurping."

That the speaker was Rob Wilde might be
deduced from allusion to the deer, pronounced
with special emphasis. And he it was.

"We join you in your protest, Rob; an' '11 stan'
by you ! " cried one.

"Yes! All of us ! " exclaimed another.

"An' we'll help enforce it," came from a third.

*' If need be, now on the spot. We only want
some 'un as '11 show us the way — tell us what todo."


At this all eyes turned on Sir Richard. Though
personally a stranger to most of them, all knew
him by name, and something more — knew how he
had declared for Parliament and people, against
King and Court, and that it was no mere private
quarrel between him and Sir John Wintour which
had caused him to speak as he had done.

"Their be the gentleman who'll do all that,"
said Rob, pointing to the knight. " The man to
help us in getting' back our rights an' redressing'
our wrong. If he can't, nobody else can. But he
can and will. He ha' told some o' us as much."

Another huzza hailed this declaration, for they
knew Rob spoke with authority. And their
excitement rose to a still higher pitch, when the
knight, responding, said —

My brave Foresters ! Thanks for the confidence

Q

you give me. I know all your grievances, and
am ready to do what I can to help you in
righting them. And it had best begin now, on
the spot, as some one has just said. Are you
ready to back me in teaching these usurpers a
lesson ? "

Ready ! That we be, every man o' us."

Try us, an' see ! "

Only let's ha' the word from you, sir, an' we'll
fall on 'cm at once ! "

We're Foresters ; we an't afeard o' no soldiers —
not such raws as them, anyhow."

** Enough ! " cried the knight, his eyes aglow as
with triumph already achieved ; for he now felt
assured of it. Over two hundred of the Foresters
against less than a sixth of that number of
Lunsford's hirelings, he had no fear for the result,
if fight they must. So, when he placed himself
at their head, with Eustace Trevor by his side,
their two armed attendants behind, and rode upto

the gate guarded by the two troopers, he made
no request for these to open it and let them pass
in, but a demand, with sword unsheathed, and at
back a forest of pikes to enforce it.

The guards at once gave way. Had they not,
in another instant they would have been hoisted
out of their saddles on the blades of weapons with
shafts ten feet long. Alive to this danger, they
briskly abandoned their post, giving the Foresters
free passage through the gate.

During all this time the ex-Lieutenant of the
Tower had scarce moved an inch from the spot
where he remounted his horse. When he saw the
four horsemen coming around the house, heard the
enthusiastic shout hailing them, at the same time
caught sight of the pikes and barbed halberds,
whose blades of steel gleamed above the heads
of the buzzing crowd, his heart sank within him.
For this brutal monster, " Bloody Lunsford " as he
afterwards came to be called, was craven as cruel.

He had swaggered at the front door as inside the
Parliament House by the King's command ; but
there was no King at his back now, and his
swaggering forsook him on the instant. He knew
something of the character of the Foresters — his
raw recruits knew them better — at a glance saw
his troop overmatched, and, if it came to fighting,
would be overpowered. But there was no fight,
either in himself or his following; and all sat in
their saddles sullen and scowling, but cowed-like,
as wolves just taken in a trap.

"NO quarter!"

Straight on to the soldiers rode Sir Richard,
Eustace Trevor by his side, their mounted servants
behind ; the men afoot following close after in a
surging mass. These, soon as well through the
gate, extended line to right and left, turning the
troop until they had it hemmed in on every side.
Nor was it altogether the movement of a mob,
but evidently under direction, Rob Wilde appearing
to guide it more by signs and signals than any
spoken words. However managed, the troopers
now saw themselves environed by pikes and other
pointed things — a very chevaux de frise — held in
the hands of men whose faces showed no fear of

them. For the country had not yet been cursed
by a standing army, and in the eyes of the citizen
the soldier was not that formidable thing as since,
and now. Rather was the fear on the side of
Lunsford's party, most of whom, Foresters themselves
of the inferior sort, knew the men who
stood confronting them.

Up to this moment no word had been spoken
by their commanding officer, save some muttered
speech he exchanged with Reginald Trevor. Nor
did he now break the silence, leaving that to the
intruders.

Captain, or, as I understand you are now called,
Colonel Lunsford," said Sir Richard, drawing up
in front of him, " by the way you're behaving you
appear to think yourself in the Low Countries, with
rights of free forage and plunder. Let me tell
you, sir, this is England, where such courses are
not yet in vogue ; and to be hoped never will be,
even though a King authorise, aye, command them.

But I command you, in the name of the people,
to desist from them, or take the consequence."

Under such smart of words it might be supposed
that a professional soldier and King's officer would
have dared death itself, or any odds against him.
It was of this the muttered speech had been
passing between him and Reginald Trevor, the
latter urging him to risk it and fall on. Whatever
else, Fie was no dastard, and, though he had once
given way on that same spot, it was not from
cowardice, but ruled by a sentiment very different.

In vain his attempt to inspire his superior officer
with courage equalling his own ; no more would
he have been successful with their followers, ashe
could see by looking along the line of faces,
most of them showing dread of that threatening
array of miscellaneous weapons, and a reluctance
to engage them.

In fine, the ex-Lieutenant of the Tower made
up his mind to live a little longer, even at the

risk of being stigmatised as a poltroon. But, not
instantly declaring himself — too confused and
humiliated for speech — Sir Richard went on, —

"No doubt, sir, your delicate sense of humanity
will restrain you from a conflict in which your
soldiers must be defeated and their blood spilled
uselessly — innocent lambs as they appear to be."

The irony elicited laughter from the Foresters ;
for a more forbidding set of faces than those of
the troopers could not well have been seen anywhere.


But," continued the knight, " if you decline to
withdraw without showing how skilfully you can
yourself handle a sword, I'm willing to give you
the opportunity. You've had it from me before,
and refused. But you may be a braver man, and
think yourself a better swordsman now ; so I offer
it again."

The taunt was torture itself to the man in
whose teeth it was flun. All the more from the

cheering and jibes of the Foresters, who seemed
thoroughly to enjoy seeing Sir John Wintour's
bullies thus brought to book. And still more
that in the window above were two feminine faces,
one of them that he had been so late admiring,
the ladies evidently listening.

Notwithstanding all, Lunsford could not screw up
courage for a combat he had once before declined,
and now the second time shunned it, saying, —

Sir Richard Walvvyn, I am not here for the
settlement of private quarrels. When the time
fits for it I shall answer the challenge you say is
repeated, but which I deny. My business at
present is with Mr. Ambrose Powell, as Deputy-commissioner
of Array, to collect the King's dues
from him. Since he's refused to pay them, and I
have no orders, nor wish, to use violence, so far
as shedding blood, it but remains for me to take
back his answer to my superiors."

It was such a ludicrous breakdown of his late

blustering, and withdrawal of demand, that the
Foresters hailed it with a loud huzza, mingled with
laughter and satirical speech.

When their cheering had ceased, so that he
could be heard. Sir Richard rejoined, —

"Yes; that is the best thing you can do. And
the sooner you set about it the better for both
yourself and your men, as you may be aware
without further warning."

It was like giving the last kick to a cur, and asa
cur Tom Lunsford took it, literally turning tail
that of his horse — upon Hollymead House.

Out through the haw-haw gate rode he, his
troop behind, every man-jack of them looking cowed
and crestfallen as himself.

Alone Reginald Trevor held high front, retiring
with angry reluctance, as a lion driven from its
quarry by hunters too numerous to be resisted.
But he passed not away without holding speech
with his cousin, on both sides bitterly recriminate.

So you've turned your back upon the King ! "

It was Reginald who said this, having spurred
up alongside the other before parting.

Rather say the King has turned his back upon
the people," was Eustace's rejoinder. " After such
behaviour as I've just been witness to, by his
orders and authority, I think I am justified in turning
my back upon him."

Oh ! that's your way of putting it. Well ; it
may justify you in the eyes of your new friends
here — very warm friends all at once ! " — this with
a sneer — " but what will your father think } He
won't like it, I'm sure."

I daresay he won't. If not, I can't help it."

"And don't seem to care either! How indifferent
you've grown to family feeling ! and in such
a short space of time. You used to pass for the
most affectionate of sons — a very paragon of filial
duty; and now "

"And now," interrupted the ex-courtier, becoming

impatient at being thus lectured, " whatever I maybe,
I'm old enough, and think myself wise enough,
to manage my own affairs, without needing counsel
from any one — even from my sage cousin, Reginald."


"As you like, Eust. But you'll repent what
you're doing, yet."

If I should, Rej, it won't be with any blame
to you. You can go your way, as I will mine."

"Ah! Yours will bring you to ruin — like
enough your neck upon the block or into a
halter ! "

I'll risk that. If there's to be hanging and
beheading — which I hope there will not — it needn't
be all on one side. So far, that you are on
hasn't had the advantage in the beheading line,
and's not likely. They who struck off Strafford's
head might some day do the same with the King's
own. And he would deserve it, going on in this
way."

By Heaven ! " cried Reginald, now becoming
infuriated, " the King will wear his head, and
crown too, long enough to punish every traitor —
every base renegade as yourself."

The angry bitterness of his speech was not all
inspired by loyalty to King or throne. Those fair
faces above had something to do with it ; for the
ladies were still there, listening, and he knew it.

Never was Eustace Trevor nearer to drawing
sword, not to do it. But it was his kinsman —
cousin ; how could he shed his blood ? That, too,
late so freely, generously offered in his defence !
Still, to be stigmatised as a "base renegade," he
could not leave such speech unanswered, nor the
anger he felt unexpressed.

If you were not my cousin, Rej, I would kill
you ! "

He spoke in a low tone, trembling with passion.

*' You kill me Ha-ha! Then try, if you like
if you dare ! "

And the King's officer made a movement as if
to unsheathed his sword.

"You know I dare. But I won't. Not here —
not now."

It was with the utmost effort Eustace Trevor
controlled himself. He only succeeded by thinking
of what had been before. For it was no feeling of
fear that hindered him crossing his sword v^ith
his cousin, but the sentiment hitherto restraining
him.

Oh, well ! " rejoined Reginald. " We'll meet
again — may be on the field of battle. And if so,

by G ! I'll make you rue this — show you no

mercy ! "

"You will when you're asked for it."

You needn't ask. When you see my sword
out, you'll hear the cry, * No Quarter ! ' "

"When I hear that, I'll cry it too."

Not another word passed between them, Reginald
wheeling round and galloping off after the

soldiers. And from that hour, in his heart, full of

jealous vengeance, the resolve, should he ever
encounter his c(
him no quarter !

encounter his cousin in the field of fight, to show

WAR IN FULL FURY.

An interval of some weeks after the scenes described,
and the war, long imminent, was on. Allover
England men had declared cause and taken
sides ; the battle of Edgehill had been fought, and
blood spilled in various encounters elsewhere. For
besides the two chief forces in the field, every
shire, almost every hundred, had its parties and
partizans, who waged la petite guerre with as much
vigour, and more virulence, than the grand armies
with generals commanding. Many of the country
gentry retired within the walled towns ; they who
did not, fortifying their houses when there was a
plausibility of being able to defend them, and
garrisoning them with their friends and retainers.

The roads were no longer safe for peaceful
travellers, but the reverse. When parties met
upon them, strangers to one another, it was with
the hail, " Who are you for — King or Parliament ? "
If the answers were adverse, it was swords out,
and a conflict, often commencing with the cry, '' No
Quarter ! " to end in retreat, surrender, or death.

Looking at the allegiance of the respective shires
to the two parties that divided the nation, one
cannot help observing the wonderful similitude of
their sentiments then as now — almost a parallelism.
In those centres where the cavaliers or malignant
held sway, their modern representatives — Tories
and Jingoes — are still in the ascendant. With
some changes and exceptions, true ; places which
have themselves changed by increase in population,
wealth, refinement, and enlightenment — in
short, all the adjuncts of civilization. And in all
these, or nearly all, the altered political sentiment
has been from the bad to the better, from the

R

low belief in Divine rights and royal prerogatives
to a higher faith in the rights of the people, if
not its highest and purest form — Republicanism.

From this standard rather has there been retrogression
since that glorious decade when it was
the Government of England. At the Restoration
its spirit, with many of its staunchest upholders,
took flight to a land beyond the Atlantic, thereto
breathe freely, live a new life, call into existence
and nourish a new nation, ere long destined
to dictate the policy and control the action of
every other, in the civilized world. This "sure as
eggs are eggs ; " unless the old leaven of human
wickedness — not inherent in man's heart, as shallow
thinkers say, but inherited from an ancestry
debased by the rule of prince and priest — unless
the old weeds of this manhood's debasement
spring up again from the old seeds and roots,
despite all trampling down and teachings to the
contrary.

It may be so. The devil is still alive on the
earth, busy as ever misleading and corrupting the
sons of men ; in many places and countries, alas !
too triumphantly successful, even in that land oiUre
mer, over the Atlantic.

At the breaking out of our so-called, but miscalled,
" Great Rebellion," in the belt of shires
bordering Wales, the Royalists were in the majority
; perhaps not so much in numbers as in
strength and authority. The same with Wales
itself; not from any natural belief in, or devotion
to, the thing called " Crown," but because this
spirited people were under the domination of
certain powerful and wealthy proprietors of the
Royalist party, who controlled their action, as their
political leanings. Of this Monmouthshire offers
an apt illustration, where the Earl of Worcester,
Raglan's lord, held undisputed sway to the
remotest corners of the county.

Still, Wales was not all for the King ; and

where such influence failed to be exerted, as in
Pembroke and Glamorgan in the south, and some
shires and districts of the north, the natural instincts
of the Welsh prompted them to declare
for liberty, as they have lately done at the polls.
From any stigma that may have attached to them
in the seventeenth century they have nobly redeemed
themselves in the nineteenth.

Of the bordering counties, Salop, as might be
expected, stood strong for the King. The subserviency
of its people — for centuries bowing head
and bending knee to the despotic Lords of the
Marches, who held court at Ludlow — had become
part of their nature ; hence an easy transfer of
their obeisance to Royalty direct.

The shire of Worcester, closely connected with
Salop in trade and other relationships, largely
shared its political inclining ; the city of Worcester
itself being noted as a nest of '* foul malignant,"
till purged of them by the " crowning mercy."

As for Hereford county, with its semi-pastoral,
semi-agricultural population, it espoused the side
natural to such ; which, I need hardly say, was not
that of liberty. Throughout all ages, and in all
countries, the bucolic mind has been the most
easily misled, and given strongest support to
tyranny and obstruction. But for it the slimy
Imperialism of France would never have existed,
and but for the same the slider imitation of it
in England would not have been attempted.
Luckily, on this side of the English Channel there
is not so much of the base material as on the
other. When the Jew of Hughenden travestied
country squire, patronising and bestowing prize
smock-frocks on poor old Dick Robinson, he mistook
the voting influence of Dick's farmer-master.
It no longer controls the destinies of this land, and
will never more do so if the Parliament now in
power but acts up to the spirit which has so
placed it. Nous verrotis !

Returning to the times of England's greatest
glory, and the shire of Hereford, this, though
strongly Royalist, was not wholly so. Many of
the common people, especially on the Gloucestershire
side, were otherwise disposed, and among
the gentry were several noble exceptions, as the
Kyrles, Powellss, and Hopkins ; and noblest of all,
Sir Robert Harley, of Hampton Bryan — relentless
iconoclast. If the name of Sir Richard Walwyn
be not found in the illustrious list, it is because
the writer of romance has thought fit to bestow
upon this valiant knight a fictitious nom de
guerre.

But the western shire entitled to highest honours
for its action in this grand throe of the nation's
troubles was undoubtedly Gloucester — glorious
Gloucester. When the lamp of liberty was burning
dim and low elsewhere over the land, it still
shone bright upon the Severn's banks ; a very
blaze in its two chief cities, Gloucester and Bristol.

In both it was a beacon, holding out hope
to the friends of freedom, near and afar, struggling
against its foes, in danger of being whelmed, as
mariners by the maddened ocean.

To the latter city, as a seaport, the simile maybe
more appropriate, though the former is equally
entitled to a share in its credit. But Bristol most
claims our attention now, as it was in 1642, under
the mayoralty of Walworth. A main entrepot and
emporium of commerce with the outside world, it
was naturally emancipated from the narrow-minded
views and prejudices of our insular
nationality ; not a few of its citizens having sofar
become enlightened as to believe the world
had not been created solely for the delectation of
royal sybarites, and the suffering of their subjects
and slaves. Indeed, something more than the
majority of the citizens of Bristol held this belief;
and, as a consequence, showed their preference
for the Parliament at the earliest hour that preferences

came to be declared. So, when Colonel
Essex, son of the Earl of like name — Lord General
of the Parliamentary army — was sent thither,
commissioned as its military governor, no one
offered to dispute his authority ; instead, he was
received with open arms.

But ere long the free-thinking Bristolians made
a discovery, which not only surprised but alarmed
them. Neither more nor less than that the man
deputed by the Parliament to protect and guard
their interests showed rather the disposition to
betray them. If living in these days, Colonel
Essex would have been a Whig, with a leaning
towards Toryism. As Governor of Bristol in 1642
he inclined so far to Cavaliers as to make boast
of not being a Cropped, while further favouring
those who wore their locks long and prated scornfully
of Puritans and Quakers. At the time there
was a host of these long-haired gentry in Bristol,
prisoners whom Stamford had taken at Hereford,

under parole, and the indulgent colonel not only-kept
their company, but joined them over their
cups in sneers at the plebeian Roundheads, who
lacked the gentility of blackguardism.

Luckily for the good cause, the tongue of this
semi-renegade outran his prudence ; his talk
proving too loud to escape being heard by the
Parliament, whose ears it soon reached, with the
result that one fine evening, while in carousal
with some of his Cavalier friends, he was summoned
to the door, to see standing there a man
of stern mien, who said —

Colonel Essex ! 'Tis my disagreeable duty to
place you under arrest."

Place me under arrest ! " echoed the military
governor of Bristol, his eyes in amazement swelling
up in their sockets. " What madman are
you, sirrah ? "

*' Not so much madman as you may be supposing.
Of my name, as also reason for intruding

upon you so Inopportunely, I take it this will be
sufficient explanation."

At which the stern man handed him a piece of
folded parchment, stamped with a grand seal —
not the King's, but one bearing the insignia of
the Parliament.

With shaking fingers Essex broke it open and
read : —

This to make known that our worthy and ivell-

twisted servant, Colonel Nathaniel Fiennes, has our

commission to undertake the government of our good

and faithful city of Bristol, and zve hereby direct

and do command that all persons submit and yield

due obedience to the lawful authority so holden by

him.

signed) " Mental."

The astonished colonel made some vapouring
protest in speech, but not by action. For the
son of Lord Saye and See had not come thither

unattended. At his back was a posse of stalwart
fellows — soldiers, who, that same morning, were
under the orders of him now being placed in
arrest, but, having learnt there was a change of
commanding officers, knew better than to refuse
obedience to the new one.

So the deposed governor, forced to part company
with his convives was carried off to prison asa
common malefactor. He, too, the son of the
Earl of Essex, Lord General of the Parliamentary
army — the Parliament itself having ordered
it ! Verily, these were days when men feared not
to arraign and punish — unlucky times for tyrants
and traitors ! To have concealed a deficit of four
thousand pounds in the national exchequer tien
would have been a more dangerous deception
than to waste as many millions now, without
being able to render account of them.

THE CADGERS ON DANGEROUS GROUND.

"Yonder be the big city at last! Glad I am.
Ain't you that, Jinkum ? "

It was Jerky Jack who spoke, the exclamation
meant for his sister, who was with him, the interrogation
addressed to the donkey.

They were not upon any of the Forest roads,
but quite on the other side of the Severn, trudging
along towards Bristol, the big city whose spires
Jack had caught sight of

One could almost fancy that the dumb brute

comprehended the question facetiously put ; at the

words elevating its head, giving a wallop or two

with its long ears, and mending the pace.

It be good three mile to go yet," rejoined the


woman. " Just that frae the cross roads — a bit
forrard."

Well, Winny ; us ought to get their by seven
o' the clock .? "

So us ought, if nothing' stop we," and she cast
an anxious glance along the road ahead.

Don't think their be much danger o' getting'
stopt now. The Governor o' Glo'ster saved when's
we got well on maybe we'd meet some o' the
Bristol lodgers patrolling' about. Welsh we did.
'Ain't noways comfortable travelling', all o' the
time in fear o' being pulled up and knocked about
by them Cavalieres. Ha ! ha ! If that party we
passed at Berkeley cud a' seed through my wooden
leg, 'ain't likely I'd be stumping' along here .? "

True. But 'ain't wise to cry safe till one be
sure o' it. Ye know they told us in Glo'ster that
the King's dragon's ha' it all their own way
in the country places ; him's they call Prince
Robert, going' about like a rain' lion, running'

people through, an' shooting' 'em down wi' pistols
as if they were no better than dogs. It's a big
risk us be running', Jack ! "

Right you bees, their. But then — the reward,
Winny! If us only get safe inside, it ought be
worth morn the profits on a twelvemonth o'
cadgin'. Don't ye think 'twill ? "

Course I do."

She spoke in all sincerity. Whatever the
money reward Jerky Jack was looking forward
to, the woman had another in view, also contingent
on their safe arrival inside the city, — one she
thought worth far more than money. For there
she would, or should, meet a man she had not
seen for months, though ardently longing to see
him. Scarce necessary to say, Rob Wilde was the
individual, when it was known that the erst deer-stealer
of Dean Forest was now a soldier — first
sergeant of a troop forming part of the force then
garrisoning Bristol.

"Yee-up, Jinkum?" cried Jack, encouraged by
his sister's words, at the same time conscious as
she of the danger alluded to, and the probability
of their yet encountering obstruction. It was just
after the capture of Cirencester by Prince Rupert ;
a massacre, sparing neither man nor woman, friend
nor foe ; they who survived it having been carried,
or rather dragged, off to Oxford in triumphal
train, a feast for the eyes of the King. To meet
it, he, with his entourage of courtiers and sycophants,
sallied forth from the city of colleges —
but not of education or manners — supreme capital
of conceit and snobbery, almost as much then as
now. They were met miles out, coming from
Whitney, by hundreds of half-naked people, shivering
in the chill frost of a winter's day, weary
and footsore, covered with mud from the roads
they had been driven over as cattle to market !

An impartial historian, or certainly not one who
favours the Parliament, thus records the cruel episode

: — "Tying them in pairs, they were marched
to Oxford. The King, with many nobles and commanders
and people of the city, went forth to
witness their arrival. They formed a long line
upon the road, escorted by two troops of cavalry.
Among them were gentlemen and ministers, and
a mixed multitude of soldiers, husbandmen, and
townsmen. The ways were foul with the trampling
of horses ; the captives had gone sometimes knee
deep in mire, beaten and driven along like jaded
beasts, all of them weary, and many of them
wounded. In this wretched train appeared a ghastly
figure, naked, and, because he was unable to march
with the rest, mounted upon the bare back of a
horse. His form was manly and handsome ; though
exhausted, he sat upright with an undaunted air,
and the remarkable fairness of his bodily complexion
was heightened, where it was not concealed,
by gore from many a gaping wound. As he drew
near the King, a brawling woman cried aloud to

him — * Ah, you traitors rogue ! You are well
enough served.' He turned upon her a scornful
look, retorted a term of base reproach, sunk from
his seat, and expired."

Such was the spectacle to which the ruffian
Rupert treated his uncle after the taking of Cirencester,
at the expense of its unfortunate citizens.
And the 'kind-hearted King" looked upon it
without showing a spark of pity, while his courtiers
gloated over it in a very exuberance of joy, even
insulting the wretched captives by ribald speech,
while giving gleeful and fulsome congratulations
to their inhuman captors.

The fall of Cirencester was the prelude to that
of Tewkesbury, Salisbury, and Devises, all
hitherto held by Parliamentary forces ; while the
strong castles of Sedley and Berkeley had also to
be evacuated by them, changing garrisons and
showing new flags above their donjons. So close
pressed at this time were the partisans of the

S

Parliament in the border shires that Massy was
all but cooped up in Gloucester, while the new
governor of Bristol was almost equally engaged
within the Seaport of the Severn.

Not strange, then, Jerky and his sister having
fear to encounter the " Cavalieres," as Jack called
them. Though as humble cadgers, they would not
be exempt from outrage at the hands of the
Royalists ; one of whom, Hastings, son of an
aristocratic nobleman, had obtained such notoriety
in this line as to be called " Rob-carrier." The
princely plunderer, Rupert, had set the fashion,
and wherever he and his troopers had control, the
routes were only passable for travellers at the risk
of being stripped, as by highwaymen, and butchered
in cold blood on the slightest show of resistance.

It was no market commodity, however, about
which Jerky and his sister were apprehensive, nor
aught else carried in Jinkum's panniers — these being
absolutely empty. What it was could not be learnt

from anything seen upon the donkey or the persons
of its owners ; though Jack's allusion to his wooden
leg, with certain eventualities contingent on its
being seen through, seemed to point to some
mysterious matter. Whatever it might be, no
more speech was heard concerning it then. Jerky
with another " Yee-up ! " adding, —

"Three mile more, Jinkum, and ye'll be in the
snug corner o' an inn stable-yard, wi' a measure of
barley or beans at your nose. Think o' that !"

Despite the evident hurry the cadger was in, no
thwack of stick accompanied the words. Nor was
any needed ; the night was well-nigh on, the air
piercingly cold, the road frost-bound, with nothing
on either side that even an ass could eat, and
Jinkum, hungry enough, seemed to know something
of that snug stable-yard which promised
barley or beans. So, setting ears as if determined
to reach the city soon as possible, it again briskened
its pace.

The firm frozen ground favoured speed, enabling
Jinkum to go gingerly along. It was equally
favourable to Jack, with his timber leg, or he
would have had ado to keep up with the donkey.
As it was, no time was left him for aught else than
quick tramping, the rough and now darkened
path calling for all the attention he could bestow
on it to save him from a tumble. But he had no
need to trouble himself with any look-out ahead.
That was left to the big sister, who, stepping
out some paces in advance, scanned the road
at every turn and corner. She saw nothing,
however, to be apprehended. If there were any
Cavalieres " in the neighbourhood, either the
hour — between day and night — or the pinching
cold, kept them confined to their quarters. At
all events, neither Cavaliers, nor wayfarers of any
other speciality, were encountered by them, and for
their last three miles of trudge towards Bristol they
had the road all to themselves.

A GRAND SERGEANT OF GUARD.

Getting within sight of the city's gate, the cadgers
could see it was shut, drawbridge up, and portcullis
down. Bristol was then a walled town, with
an enceinte of ancient fortifications that had lately
been repaired and strengthened. Night had now
come on, and it was pitch dark. But a lamp set
high on one of the gate towers threw its light
across the moat, revealing to the eyes of the sentry
who held post overhead the party seeking admittance.
At sight of their humble mien, he
thought of the bitterly cold night, and hearing of
their reasonable request, called to the guard-sergeant
below ; then, to the inquiry of the latter,



gave description of them in brief soldierly phrase —
Woman, man, and donkey."

Whether his reversing the usual rule, by putting
the woman before the man, was due to her superior
stature, or because of her being better under the
lamplight, his words seemed to produce a singular
effect on the sergeant. Starting suddenly up from
his seat by the guard-house fire, he rushed out and
on to the wicket. There, placing his eye to the
peep-hole, he saw what influenced him to give instant
orders for the lowering of the bridge.

By this he was taking a great responsibility on
his shoulders, though they seemed strong and broad
enough to bear it ; for the guard-sergeant was no
other than Rob Wilde. As it chanced, the captain
of the guard was just then out of the way ; and
Rob had reason to think he would be pardoned for
the little stretch of vicarial authority.

Ha' patience, Win ! " he shouted across. " We
won't be more than a minnie."

Then with a will he set on to assist the others
in letting the bridge down.

Win was patient ; could well be, after hearing
that voice, at once recognised by her. She thought
nothing of the cold now ; no more feared the raiding
" Cavalieres."

Never was drawbridge more promptly made
passable. The creaking of a windlass, with a
rattling of chains, and it was down in its place.
The wicket was at the same time drawn open, and
the cadger party passed over and in.

Lor, Win ! " said Rob, drawing the great woman
aside under the shadow of the guard-house wall
and saluting her with a kiss, " where be yes from ? "

Glo'ster east," she responded, soon as her lips
were released from the osculation.

An' what ha' brought ye to Bristol ? "

Business o' different kinds."

But ye don't appear to ha' any latin' on the
donkey ? "

Us may going' back — hope to."

The cadgeress was prevaricating. No commercial
speculation was the cause of their being there ; and
if in passing through Gloucester they had picked
up a commission, it was quite a windfall, having
nought to do with the original object of their extended
excursion. Neither on leaving Ruardean,
nor up to that moment, was Jerky himself aware of
its purpose, Winny having been its projector. But
he could trust her, and she, in her usual way, insisting
upon the tramp, he had no alternative but
to undertake it. He knew now, why his sister had
brought him to Bristol, and that Rob Wilde was
the lure which had attracted her thither.

Rob had some thought of this himself, or at least
hoped it so ; the unburdened donkey helping him
in his hope.

But ye bennet going' back, surely ? " he said.

Why not ? "

The danger o' the roads now. If I'd a known

you war on them, Win, dear, I should ha' been feeling'
a bit uneasy."

Her game of false pretence was now nearly up.
It had all been due to a fear which had suddenly
come over her on seeing him again. Months had
elapsed since they last met, and the rough Forester,
erst in coarse common attire, his locks shaggy and
unkempt, was now a man of military bearing, hair
and whiskers neatly trimmed, in a well-fitting uniform
resplendent with the glitter of gold. He was
only a sergeant ; but in her eyes no commanding
officer of troop or regiment, not even the generalissimo
of the army, could have looked either so
grand or so handsome. But it was just that, with
the thought of the long interval since they had last
stood side by side, that now held her reticent.
How knew she but that with such change outwardly,
there might also have come change within
his heart, and towards herself.? A soldier too,
now ; one of a calling proverbial for gallantry as

fickleness, living in a great city where, as she supposed,
the eyes of many a syren would be turned
luringly upon her grand Rob.

Had he yielded to their lures or resisted them ?
So she mentally and apprehensively interrogated.
But only for a short while ; the " Win, dear," in
his old voice, with its old affectionate tone, and
his solicitude for her safety, told he was still
true.

Doubting it no longer, she threw aside the reserve
that was beginning to perplex him, at the
same time flinging her arms round his neck, and
in turn kissing /iW2.

That was her grateful rejoinder, sufficiently
gratifying to him who received it, and leading
him to further expressions of endearment. Glad
was he they had arrived safe ; and as to their
errand at Bristol, which she cared no longer to
keep from him, he forbore further questioning.
Ye can tell me about it when we ha' more time

to talk," he said. " But where do you an' Jack 'tend
passion' the night ? "

"The old place us always stop at, — 
Inn."

That be over Avon's bridge } "

Yes ; just a street or two the other side."

Bristol was no strange place to her. She, Jerky,
and Jinkum had made many a cadge thither before.

"I'd go 'long wi' ye to the Bird-in-the-Bush,"
said the guard-sergeant, " but, as ye see, I'm on
duty at this gate, and mustn't leave it for a minnie.
If the captain was here — unlucky he isn't just now
he'd let me off, I know — seen' who it be."

Why for seen' that, Rob } "

Because o' his known' ye. He ha' seen you and
Jack at Hollymead House."

It be Sir Richard ? "

No, no," hastily responded the ex-deerstealer,
in turn, perhaps, experiencing a twinge of jealousy
as when by the quarry on Cat's Hill. '' Sir Richard

be in Bristol, too ; but he's a colonel, not captain."


Who be the captain, then ? "

That young Cavalier gentleman as corned to
Hollymead 'long wi' Sir Richard, after fighting' him.
He changed sides there, an's now on ours. Ye
heard that, can't you ? "

Deed, yes. An' more ; heard why. 'Twas all
through a sweet face him seed there — so be the
word 'bout Ruardean."

Well ; I hope her won't disappoint he, after his
coin' that for her. Better nor braver than he an't
in this big town o' Bristol. But, Win, dear," he
added, changing tone, and slinging an arm round
her neck, " can't any concern o' ours. Oh ! I be
so glad to see ye again."

She knew he was now.

Hang it ! " he went on, " I only welsh my turn
o' guard was over, so's I could go 'long wi' ye.
Maybe when the captain come back he'll let me

off for a hour or so. Sit up late, if ye ain't too
tired. Ye will, won't ye ? "

I will ; for you all night, Rob. Ay, till the
sun o' morning shines clear in the sky."

Her passionate and poetic words were succeeded,
if not cut short, by a thumping on the pavement.
Jerky's wooden leg it was ; its owner approaching
in the darkness, the rapid repetition of the thumps
telling him to be in great haste.

** Winny ! " he called to her in urgent tone, *' us
aunt linger here any longer. Ye know something'
as needs our been' quick about it."

Yes, yes," she answered, excitedly, as if recalled
to a duty she felt guilty of having trifled
with or neglected. " I be ready to go on. Jack."

The guard-sergeant looked a little puzzled.
There was a secret, after all, which had not been
confided to him. What could it be ?

Rough Forester though he had been, bold soldier
as he now was, he lacked the courage, or rather

the rudeness, to ask. It might be a question unwelcome.


Divining his thoughts, the woman said in a
whisper, —

Something "Rob, us have seared not to tell o'
to anybody, 'billet be all over an' done. When's
I see you at the inn 'twill be over, an' ye shall
hear all about it."

That be enough. Win ! " said in rejoinder the
trusting Rob ; and the two great figures went apart
in the shadowy night, the separation preceded by
their lips once more meeting in a resonant smack.

On along the streets passed the cadger party ;
Jack urging Jinkum to haste by a succession of
vociferous "yee-ups," and now and then a sharp
touch of the stick. He seemed angry with himself,
or perhaps more at Windy, for having tarried so
long by the gate.

Good gracious ! " he exclaimed in a troubled
tone; "what if us get their too late? Ye know,

the Glo'stcr governor told we not to waste one
second o' time. Maybe better keep on straight to
the castle. What d'ye say, Winny ? "

It be but a step to Bird-i'-the-Bush, now. Won't
take we morn ten linnets ; that can't a make
much difference. An' us can go faster when's
we've left Jinkum in the inn yard."

Thus counselled and controlled, Jack, as was
customary with him, gave way ; and the trio continued
on for the Bird-in-the-Bush.

a I B R.AR.Y

OF THL
UNIVERSITY
Of Ill Noir



in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/noquarter02reid

BY

CAPTAIN MAYNE REID,

Author oj " The Scalp Hunters;' '' The Death Shot;' " The Headless
Horseman'' etc., etc.

Vol. II.

LONDON :

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.
PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

The Elwood Printing Works,

Frame, and London.

CONTENTS.

♦

PAGE

CHAPTER XXIV.
On the Bridge i

CHAPTER XXV.
In Council of War . i6

CHAPTER XXVI.
A Despatch Cunningly Conveyed 28

CHAPTER XXVII.
^ A City of Refuge 42

CHAPTER XXVIII.

^

A Home Gayer than Congenial 50

N

^ CHAPTER XXIX.

-y The Night Owl 59

| CHAPTER XXX.

^ A Mixed Assembly 69

CHAPTER XXXI.
A Labyrinth of Jealousies 83

CHAPTER XXXII.
A Contraband 98

CHAPTER XXXIII.
A Pas-seul 108

CHAPTER XXXIV.
Guardian Angels 119

vii

CHAPTER XXXV.

PAGE

A Complete Eclaircissement 134

CHAPTER XXXVI.
After Round way Down 142

CHAPTER Xxxvi.

FlENNES SHOWS THE WHITE FEATHER . . . I58

CHAPTER Xxxvii.
Insulting a Fallen Foe i68

CHAPTER XXXIX.
A Princely Admirer iso

CHAPTER XL.
The Cadgers on the Kymin 190

CHAPTER XLI.
By the "Buckstone" 198

CHAPTER XLII.
A Reconnaissance 209

CHAPTER XLIII.
High Meadow House 227

CHAPTER XLIV.
Out in the Storm 239

CHAPTER XLV.
A Town Cleverly Taken 250

CHAPTER XLVI.
Awaiting War News 258

CHAPTER XXIV.

ON THE BRIDGE.

The river Avon bisecting the city of Bristol was
spanned by a bridge ; one of those quaint structures
of the olden time, with a narrow causeway,
high tete-despot, and houses along each side.
There were shops and dwellings, with a church
of rare architectural style and rarer proportions —
being but twenty-one feet in width, while over
seventy in length !

A conspicuous and important part did this
bridge of Bristol play in the political action of
the time ; for it was invested with a political
character. Creditable, too ; the dwellers upon it —

VOL. n. ' B

the "Bridgemen," as called— being all warm partisans
of the Parliament. As a consequence, it was
a favourite assembling-place for the citizens so
disposed ; especially in evening hours, after the
day's work had been done.

Though dark and keenly cold that seventh of
March night, it did not deter a number of them
from congregating, as was their wont, about the
bridge's head, to talk over the news and events
of the day, with the prospects and probabilities
for the morrow. The fervour of their patriotism
rendered them regardless of personal discomfort
or exposure ; just as one may see at a political
meeting in the present time ; the thronging thousands,
packed thick as mackerels in a barrel ;
standing thus for hours, up till midnight — ay,
morning, if leave be allowed them — eagerly listening
to hear words of truth and promise, with the
hope of the promise being fulfilled.

I know no more pleasing or grander spectacle

than that to be witnessed from a Liberal platform,
a sea of faces — the faces of the people —
by their expression giving proof of man's natural
inclining to what is good and right, and abhorrence
of what is wicked and wrong.

Nor can I conceive any shabbier spectacle than
the crowd which usually displays itself before a
platform where Toryism is preached. For there
assemble all who are the foes of liberty, the
enemies and oppressors of mankind.

Among the friends of liberty that night gathered
upon the bridge of Bristol were several
men armed and wearing uniform; soldiers, though
not belonging to any regiment of the regular
army. Volunteers, they were ; a force then for
the first time heard of in England, taking the
place of the militia or "trained bands." They
were on guard with a young officer in command,
one who afterwards made name and fame in the
annals of his country, and his sword sharply felt

by its enemies. For it was Captain John Birch —
the merchant soldier.

The writers of the Restoration have flung their
defiling mud at this brave man — which did not
stick, however — by representing him as of humble
birth, and mean calling — a common carrier, the
driver of a pack-horse, — stigmas similar to that
cast at Cromwell, the brewer of Huntingdon. But
it should be remembered that in those days trade
was not deemed degrading ; and if here and
there aristocratic noses were turned up at it, here
and there also aristocratic people took a hand
in it. What were the Coningsby, those types of
the Cavalier idea, but soap-boilers and soap-chandler,
holding a monopoly from the King for
the making and selling of this useful commodity?
As for John Birch, he was neither base-born nor
of humble occupation ; instead, engaged in honourable
merchandise, and, for the times, on a somewhat
extensive scale. His correspondence, extant,

SO far from proving him coarse or illiterate, shows
both refinement and education beyond most of his
contemporaries — soldier or civilian — even superior
to that of the King himself.

In intelligence and courage few were his equals,
while, as a partizan leader, he is entitled to first
place ; some of his feats in the guerilla line reading
more like the fictions of troubadour romance.

One of the earliest and most ardent espousers
of the Parliamentary cause, he had enrolled this
company of Bristol volunteers — most of them
Bridgemen " — with a detail of whom on the
bridge itself he was now keeping guard ; not so
much against an outside enemy, but one within
the city's walls. Bristol was full of Cavalier
officers, prisoners in its gaols, but many of them
freely circulating through the streets on parole —
ready to break it if they but saw the chance, as
some of them, to their eternal disgrace, actually
did; though it failed to disgrace them in the eyes

of their Royal master, who rather the more
favoured them after — as with Vavasor — promoting
them to higher command !

The treason not only winked at, but fostered,
by the deposed governor — now in the prison of
Berkeley Castle — had not all been trodden out,
but was still rampant, and ready to raise its
Hydra head ; so that Colonel Nathaniel Fiennes
had his hands full in keeping it under. But he
could not have had a better man to help him
than John Birch. The young captain of Volunteers
was especially prepared for this duty; since
he had himself suffered from the late governors
delinquency — the insult of having been placed
under arrest. So, tempered to vigilance, if not
revenge, he held guard upon the bridge-head,
watchful and wary, carefully scrutinising all who
passed over it.

While thus engaged he saw a party approaching
of such singular composition as to attract him

more than common. Little man with a wooden
leg ; tall woman nearly twice the man's height ;
between the two a donkey, with pair of panniers —
Jack, Winny, and Jinkum.

If Birch was not himself a pack-horse carrier,
in his capacity of trading merchant he was well
acquainted with all the country routes, and the
modes of traffic and transit thereon. At a glance
he took in the character of the cadgers ; saw
they were rustics fresh from the country ; and,
by the direction from which they were approaching,
concluded they must have made entry at the
gate towards Gloucester. On the bridge there
was light in plenty, both from lamps and shops ;
and, as they came close, a scrutiny of their
features gave the sharp-witted captain an idea
that they, too, were of quick wit, especially the
woman. She looked like one who did not tramp
the roads without seeing what was to be seen,
and hearing all that could be heard; one, moreover,

capable of forming a correct estimate of how-things
stood, social, political, or military. If from
Gloucester, or even Berkeley, she or the man
might have picked up some scraps of news worth
extracting from them.

Stepping out into the middle of the causeway,
he confronted the cadger party, and brought it to
a stop, with the interrogation :

Whence come you, my worthy people } "

Frae Gloster, yer bonner," responded Jack,
spokesman by right of sex and seniority.

And what's your business in Bristol ? "

Only our regular business, sir. As ye see, us
be cadgers."

But your panniers appear to be empty ! " said
the officer, peeping into and giving them a shake.
How is that ? "

The question was awkward, nonplussing Jerky,
and, the second time, calling for explanation from
his sister ; who, however, promptly vouchsafed it.

"Ye see, master, us be come to Bristol to take
back some things Gloster way, an' far ayant. Us
belong to the Forest o' Dean."

"Ah! All that way off. And when left you
the Forest country ? "

"A good week agone, yer bonner," Jerky giving
the response.

"At least that, I should say," rejoined the
officer, with a look at the wooden leg. "Well,
you must have seen and met many people upon
the road, especially between this and Gloucester.
Can you tell me whether "

He ceased speech abruptly, seeing it was overheard
by the street passengers, who, attracted by
the oddness of the group, had begun to gather
round it.

He was about to demand of the cadgers, sotto
voce, where they intended putting up, with a view
to further conference, when a man of herculean
stature— soldier in cavalry uniform— made appearance

inside the circle of bystanders, going straight
up to the woman, and speaking some words, as
one who had familiar acquaintance with her.

Ah ! Sergeant Wilde," said the Volunteer
officer, " you know these people, do you ? "

I ought to. Captain. All o' us war born an'
brought up in the Forest o' Dean, not very far
apart."

"Enough," said, or rather thought, Birch, who,
after a whispered word with the colossal trooper,
gave permission for the cadger party to pass on
over the bridge.

Rob went with them ; soon as beyond earshot
of the crowd, saying:

Dear Win ! I ha' got leave o' guard duty for
the whole o' an hour. Captain Trevor corned
back to the gate 'most the minnie ye left it
When I told him who'd passed through, it war,
Rob, go and see to their been' stowed in comfortable
quarters.' Kind o' him, wasn't it ? "

Deed war it," answered Win, but without thinking
it strange ; her woman's instinct told her the
why and wherefore of Captain Trevor's kindness.

Jerky seemed less satisfied than either of the
other two ; for a reason he knew of, equally
known to his sister. That detention on the
bridge's head had been torture to him ; it might
forfeit the reward promised and expected. She
cared less for it, hers already gained, in having
her beloved Rob once more by her side.

The two, talking of old things and times, might
have lagged upon the way, had Jack given them
time and opportunity, which he did not ; on
the contrary, urging greater haste than ever, while
persuading Jinkum to make still better speed by a
multiplication of "gee-ups," and a storm of solid
thwacks administered by the cudgel.

But they had not reached the Bird in the
Bush — were scarce beyond sight of the people
who saw them depart from the bridge— when he

who had just held speech with them was accosted
by one whose speech and air told that she, too —
for it was a woman — had a secret to communicate ;
but, unlike the cadgeress, wanted — was impatient —
to reveal it. And altogether unlike the latter
otherwise was the new applicant for converse with
Captain Birch — so far as could be seen of her —
for she was cloaked and hooded. But when the
hood was tossed back, so that she could herself
see and speak freely, a face was revealed, beautiful
and of delicate outlines, unmistakably that of a
lady.

That she was not unknown to the young
Volunteer officer might be told from the start
of surprise at seeing her. Still better proof of
their being acquainted in the words she addressed
to him, spoken in panting haste and excitedly.
He had said, interrogatively :

What's brought you hither, Marian } " to get
for response, " You, John ; your life's in danger."

"How? From what?"

"Treason. Even now — at this minute — there are
conspirators armed and ready to start out into the
streets, with a cry for the King."

"But where?"

Some in the house of Yeomanss, others at
Boucher's. They have expectation of help from
the outside ; that's why they're gathered now."

'* How do you know it, Marian } "

Don't ask me, John ; God help me ! To
think my own father is one of them — my brother,
too ! But your life is dearer to me than either.
And you will lose it if you don't listen to my
warning."

*' Dearest Marian, I not only listen to, but
believe in it. More, I'll take instant action to
stop this conspiracy you speak of, trust me for
that."

She could trust him, and did ; saw that to
leave him unfettered, and free for the action

intended, she should no longer remain there ; and
pulling the hood down over her face, though not
till after two pairs of lips had met under it, she
tightened the cloak around her shoulders, and
hurried away from the bridge head.

Heart full of sweet thoughts, thrilled by them,
the young merchant soldier stood looking after
the graceful figure till it waned and was lost in
the dim light of distant lamps. No wonder he
should so long continue his gaze. She was one
of Bristol's fairest daughters ; daughter, too, of
one of its richest merchants, and proudest ; her
father a man who would have seen her hurled
from the parapet of that bridge, and drowned in
Avon's stream, rather than know of her having
stood upon its head, and said what she had
said to John Birch.

Whatever the reflections of John Birch himself
about this jealously-guarded daughter, they seemed
to pass away soon as she was out of sight ;

though not the warning she had given. This was
with him still ; and so vividly realistic, he lost
not a moment in acting up to it. A word or
two with his sergeant of guard — orders earnestly
enjoined — and away went he from the bridge,
with face turned towards the Castle, and step
hurried as man could make, almost a run !

IN COUNCIL OF WAR.

The man who had succeeded Colonel Essex in
the governorship of Bristol was well, even enthusiastically,
affected to the Parliamentary cause.
Beyond that, he was altogether unfitted for the
trust reposed in him. A lawyer before becoming
soldier, he better understood the marshalling of
arguments than armies, and, though a man of
grave, serious thought, his passionate temper gave
offence to friends as foes, oft thwarting his best
intentions. Fortunately he had around him men
of greater military capacity and experience, by
whose counsels he was, to some extent, controlled
officers who had seen service in the Low Countries,
Sweden, and Germany — among them Sir
Richard Walvvyn.

sic

How the knight came to be in Bristol — Eustace
Trevor too — may need making known. At the
breaking out of hostilities, when blood began to
flow, the Dean Foresters were, in a way, taken by
surprise, and for a time overpowered. In addition
to their old enemy. Sir John Wintour, threatening
them on the south, they had to contend with the
strong and well-disciplined force of Lord Herbert
on the west ; while Harry Lingen, a man of more
capability than either — as a partizan leader unsurpassed
— shad commenced harassing them from the
Herefordshire side.

Seeing he would be unable to hold ground
against such odds, Sir Richard, who had hastily
got together a body of horse, withdrew it from
the Forest, and joined the main force of the Parliament,
which confronted that of the King. At
the time the two armies were manoeuvring in
Worcestershire, Warwick, and Salop, every day
expecting to come into collision, which they did

VOL. II. C

soon after at Edgehill — a drawn battle, with feats
of daring on both sides, and on both displays ot
abject cowardice.

The men commanded by Sir Richard Walwyn
were not chargeable with this last ; instead, on that
day distinguishable by the first, having performed
prodigies of valour. Since then he and his
Foresters had shown themselves on other fields,
and done other gallant deeds, till the troop of
horse, with the " big sergeant," had become a name
of terror to the Royalist soldiers. Even Rupert's
pick Cavaliers would have shied encounter with it,
unless they knew themselves in the proportion of
two to one.

By the drift of events, this small but efficient
body became part of the garrison of Bristol — disagreeable
duty to th'" Foresters, but forced upon
them by the chances of war.

So in Bristol we now find them, with their commanding
officer Sir Richard, their " big sergeant "

Rob Wilde, and for one of their captains the ex-gentleman
usher, Eustace Trevor. To explain his
presence there and position it needs but referring
back to his words spoken in that hour when
Lunsford was hammering at the door of Hollymead
House.

Reverting to the new governor, we must give
him the credit of endeavour to do his best — that
at least. Entering upon the office full of hope
and spirit, he was correspondingly vigorous in the
execution of its duties. And as there had been
no time for his enthusiasm to get cool, or his
vigour to become relaxed, before that 7th of March
but a few days after Essex had been clapped
under arrest — Fiennes was in the very blush of
energetic activity. Not dining, wining, and dancing,
as his predecessor would have been, in the
company of gay Cavaliers, and light-hearted, as
light-headed ladies ; but within one of the reception
rooms of the castle, holding counsel with

half-a-score of grave men — chiefly commanding
officers of the troops that composed the garrison
of the city.

All were impressed with the seriousness of the
situation, feeling themselves, if not actually besieged,
likely soon to be. From without, reports
were pouring in, daily, hourly, of reverses sustained
by the Parliamentarians. The capture and
massacre at Cirencester, the surrendering of salisbury,
Tewkesbury, and Devises, with the abandonment
of Sedley and Berkeley Castles, — all
adverse events, following in quick succession as the
blows of a hammer, — were enough to alarm the
new governor and the men in consultation with
him.

The more, from their belief that in all likelihood
Bristol would be the next point aimed at by the
now victorious Royalists. For they knew it was
the quarry these would most like to stoop at and
kill. Ever since the commencement of hostilities.

it and Gloucester had been very thorns in the side
of the Royalist party ; both cities being storehouses
of war material, and other effects conducive to the
supply of its sinews. But chiefly the great seaport,
at once door of entry and key to the rich
Severn Valley — with its towns and villages, upto
Shrewsbury — while also commanding the commerce
and intercourse with South Wales.

Rupert, now at the head of a considerable body
of troops, held all the open country from the
Severn up to Oxford, raiding over and ravaging
it at will. But the rumour had got ground that
he meant soon to engage in something more than
mere skirmishing warfare, by making a dash at
Bristol, either to attempt taking that city by
assault, or laying siege to it.

The assemblage of officers at the Castle was inconsequence
of this rumour, which had just
reached the Governor's ears, and he had hastily
called them together to have their views and

advice upon what steps had best be taken in the
contingency — should it occur.

But, as already made known, something more
than the enemy without called for their consideration.
The egg of treason, which had been hatching
under Essex's too lenient rule, was not an
addled one. The vile bird was still vigorous
within it, threatening to break the shell. A gleam
of warmth and hope, the touch of a helping hand,
and it would burst forth full fledged, ready to tear
with beak and talons.

On this night Nathaniel Fiennes was unusually
excited ; angry at the difficult task left him by
his predecessor, just as might the Earl of Ripon
be with Lord Lytton, that ass in lion's skin — now
politically defunct — for devising him the legacy of
Afghanistan.

But the lawyer-soldier, however worried and
over-weighted, was not either dismayed or discouraged.
After listening to what his fellow counsellors

had to say, and giving his own views, he
exclaimed in conclusion, and determinedly :

"Before our enemies enter Bristol they'll have to
pass over my dead body ! "

"And mine, too!" "And mine!" were echoes
of like patriotic resolve.

All emphatic, though not all sincere ; for the
loudest of them came from the lips of a man who
least meant what he said. Even then, Colonel
Langrish was contemplating the treason he afterwards
perpetrated.

No one present so quietly declared himself as
Sir Richard Walwyn. A man more of deeds than
words, such pompous proclamation was averse to
his nature, and pompous, so far as regarded
Fiennes, it afterwards proved. For the enemy did
enter Bristol, not over his dead body, nor even
fiercely fighting with him, but by surrender, facile,
and so much like being criminal, that the lawyer-soldier
was himself cast into prison, not by foes.

but those hitherto his friends ; afterwards tried
for his life, and let off as the son of Lord Saye
and See, though without leave to play at soldiering
any more. But we anticipate.

Returning to the conference in the Castle, it
had well-nigh reached conclusion, when the usher
in charge of the door entered to announce a party
seeking audience of the Governor, to whom alone
the communication was made.

Who are they } " demanded Fiennes.

I don't know, your Excellency. They're still
outside the gate. The guard-corporal brought the
message — he's at the door."

Bring him in ! "

The abrupt order was with promptness executed ;
and in twenty seconds after, the corporal of the
castle guard stood before the Governor, saluting
in military style.

Who are these wishing to speak with me ? "
asked the latter.

I only know one of them, your Excellency,"
returned the corporal. " That's Sergeant Wilde, of
the Forest of Dean troop — Sir Richard Walvvyn's.
The other two are a short man and a tall woman
very tall she is. The man has a wooden
leg."

If I'm not mistaken, Colonel Fiennes," interposed
Sir Richard, who, standing by, overheard
what the corporal had said, "I know all the party.
And as my sergeant, Wilde, appears to be one of
them, I'll answer for the honesty of their purpose
in seeking an interview with you, whatever
it be."

Let them be brought in ! " commanded the
Governor — " all three."

At which the guard-corporal, once more saluting,
made "about face," and with the usher disappeared
from the room.

"Who are they, Sir Richard?" asked the
Governor, as the door was again closed.

By the description," answered the knight, " I
identify the short man and the very tall woman
as cadgers, who follow their humble calling around
the Forest of Dean ; despite the reversed proportions
in stature, being brother and sister."

But what, think you, can they be wanting with
me?"

"That I can't say, your Excellency. Though
likely something of grave concern, or Rob Wilde
wouldn't be with them as their introducer. He
isn't the man to intrude, without serious purpose."


Their dialogue was interrupted by sounds in the
hallway outside ; a scraping and shuffling of
heavily-shod feet, with something that resembled
the strokes of a wooden mallet upon the stone
flags, administered in regular repetition. It was
no mystery, however, either to the Governor or the
knight, both already aware that they were to see
a man with a wooden leg.

Which they did, as the door was again pushed
open, and the usher entered for the third time,
conducting in Jerky Jack and his sister, the
sergeant bringing up the rear.

A DESPATCH CUNNINGLY CONVEYED.

The officers had separated into two groups, one
on each side the Governor, as the odd trinity of
personages was presented to him ; these, as they
came up, falling into line — Rob on the right, the
woman left, and Jack central, as a pollard between
two tall trees.

Not yet aware of his colonel being in the room,
the sergeant, as introducer of the other pair, was
about to make known their business — of which
Winny after all had given him a hint — when Sir
Richard stepped forward to interrogate them.
The knight had received instructions for this, on
account of his acquaintance with the party.

Well, sergeant," he said, after nodding recognition

to Jack and his sister, " what may your
Forest friends be wanting? I hope they haven't
got into any trouble with our soldiers, or the
Bristol folk?"

No, Sir Richard ; nothing' o' that sort whatsoever.
They ha' just entered the city, coming' frae
Gloster, an' wi' a message from Colonel Massey to
his bonner here." The speaker, by a look, indicated
the head figure of the listening assemblage ;
then added, " They think it be something' o' very
great concern, seen' how the Colonel ha' told them
not to lose a minnie in the delivering' o't."

At this all eyes turned eagerly upon the cadgers.
A message from Massey, who commanded
at Gloucester, and at such a crisis ! It should
mean something of importance.

Perhaps your Excellency would prefer hearing
it in private } " suggested Sir Richard, with a feint
at withdrawing, imitated by the other officers.

"No, no!" rejoined the ci-devant lawyer, who,

unlike his confraternity, was of aught but secretive
habit. " Stay, gentlemen ! Whatever it be, we're
all equally interested in it. Now, my worthy
friends," he continued, his glance alternating between
the little man and big woman, " what is
this matter with which Colonel Massey has entrusted
you } You may speak out openly and
without fear."

The words of encouragement were superfluous.
Neither Jerky Jack nor his sister were of the stuff
to be affrighted, though they stood in the presence
of Royalty itself. They had travelled too far, and
seen too much of the world for that.

It be wrote, yer bonner." The woman it was
who spoke. " The thing he's all put down on
paper ; an' Jack — my brother, sir — ha' got it on
him, hid away, as there was a fear us might meet
the Cavalieres."

"Well, you needn't fear meeting them here. So
let Jack produce it."

Which Jack did, though not presto, on the instant.
It took some time, with an amount of
manipulation, before the secreted despatch could
be laid open to the light. The cadger's artificial
leg had to be unstrapped and separated from what
remained of the real one ; then a cavity in the
former, being uncorked, disclosed to view a roll of
paper, bearing resemblance to a cartridge.

This, drawn forth by Jerky himself, was handed
to Sir Richard, and passed on to the Governor ;
who, having directed the temporary withdrawal of
the messenger party, unrolling it, read —

Gloucester, March 7. — Report here of
Rupert, with 8,000 men, on march for Bristol.
Expected to arrive before your gates early in the
night. Be careful to keep them shut. Sorry I
can do nothing for you in the way of diversion.
Myself pressed on Monmouthshire side. Brett and
Lord John Somerset, with their Popish crew, have

crossed the Forest, and are now threatening us
from Highnam. But I'll hold Gloucester at all
hazards, as I know you will Bristol.

'' MASSEY."

That will I ! " cried Fiennes, in a fresh burst
of enthusiasm, inspired by the last words of the
despatch. "Hold and defend it to the death. We
will, gentlemen ? "

Needless to say, they all again echoed his resolve
loudly and determinedly as before.

While their responses were still ringing through
the room, the door was once more pushed open
by a man who entered in haste, without announcement
of usher, or introduction of any kind. The
expression upon his features was sufficient apology
for intrusion, but better the words that leaped
from his lips, soon as he was inside:

"Your Excellency — gentlemen all — we're standing
upon a mine ! "

* Standing upon a mine ! ' " echoed the Governor.
Explain yourself, Captain Birch ! "

Treason in our midst — a conspiracy — the conspirators
met at this very moment."

"Where?" demanded several voices.

I heard first of a party in the house of Robert
Yeomanss, and another at George Boucher's. But
I've since been told about more of them at
Edward Dacre's."

And they're assembled now, you think ? "

*' I'm sure of it, your Excellency. Armed, too ;
ready for rising."

In view of the contents of Massey's despatch,
now hastily communicated to the Volunteer captain,
this seemed probable as intelligible. Rupert
to assault from outside, awning the loyal citizens
by an attack, sudden as unexpected ; the disloyal
ones, these conspirators, to take advantage of it
and act in concert — the programme beyond a
doubt !

VOL. IL D

Withal, Langrish and one or two others were
disposed to discredit it. For in that confidential
council itself was a leaven of treason. Luckily not
enough to control it ; and when Fiennes put the
question, " Shall we arrest these men } " a majority
of voices declared promptly and decisively in the
affirmative.

Captain Birch ! " said the Governor, once more
turning to the young officer of Volunteers, "you
hear our determination. I commit this matter to
you, who best know the guilty parties, and the
places. Take your own men, and whatever other
force you think necessary. This gentleman will go
with you as my authority for the requisition."

He referred to an aide-de-camp by his side,
who, after receiving some directions in undertone,
parted from him, and, with Birch, hastily left the
room.

Scarce were they outside, when another officer
presented himself in the council chamber ; in

haste also, and unannounced, on the plea of pressing
matter. A Volunteer captain, too ; for Bristol
had already raised more than one company of
these citizen soldiers. Captain Jeremiah Buck, it
was — the " busy mercer," as the Restoration
writers contemptuously style him. But whatever
he may have been otherwise, he was a busy soldier,
too busy that night for Royalist likings, and
brought further intelligence of the conspiracy, obtained
from other sources — confirming that of Birch.

And, as the latter, he also received instant commands
to proceed on the arrest of the conspirators.
As there were several distinct "catches" of them,
more than one force was needed to catch them
simultaneously.

So commissioned, off went Buck, to all appearance
greatly elated, and possibly indulging himself
in the thought of satisfying some private spite.

Whether or no, the door that had closed behind
him was still vibrating to the clash, when one

who needed no usher to announce him caught
hold of its handle and pushed it open, with an
alacrity which proclaimed him also the bearer of
tidings that would not brook delay.

What is it, Trevor ? " asked Sir Richard Wal-gwyn,
advancing to meet his troop captain. "Why
have you left your guard at the gate ^ "

Because, Colonel," panted out the young officer,
I've thought it better to come myself and make
sure of the news reaching you in good time, as
the Governor here."

What news ? "

Prince Rupert and the Royalist army reported
outside the city. A countryman just come in says
they are pitching tents on Durdham Down. And
his report's confirmed by what I've myself seen
from the top of the gate tower."

What saw you, Captain Trevor ? " asked the
Governor, who, with the other officers, had been
all the while anxiously listening.

A glare of light, your Excellency ; such as
would proceed from the blaze of camp-fires."

This was confirmation full, of Massey's warning
despatch, the conspiracy, everything. But, for
better assurance of it, the Governor, with the assembled
officers, rushed out of the council chamber
and up to the Castle donjon ; there to see the
horizon lit up with a yellowish glare which, as
soldiers, they knew to be the reflection from
bivouac fires. And a wide spread of them, the
sky illumined all over Durdham Down, away to
Kings Weston.

Rupert it must be — he, and his plundering
host ! "

*****

Captain Birch made quick work of the duty
assigned to him. In less than twenty minutes
after receiving the Governor's commands, he stood
before the door of Robert Yeomanss's house, demanding
admission. He had the strength at his

back to enforce it — his own Volunteers afoot, with
a body of horse, lest the conspirators should escape
by flight. And some of both, distributed round
the house, already enfiladed it.

It was a large house, its owner being one of the
wealthy citizens of Bristol. Forty men were within
it, all armed, as the Volunteer officer had been
told. At word of what was without they sprang
to their arms, some of the more courageous counselling
fight. But when they looked through the
windows, saw that formidable array, and heard the
stern summons " Surrender ! " their hearts failed
them, and they surrendered. Wisely, too. Had
they resisted, instant death would have been their
fate. For, among the men with Birch, were some
fresh from the affair of Cirencester ; themselves
escaped, but leaving behind friends, relatives, even
brothers, butchered in cold blood. Exasperated,
maddened, by the memory of that slaughter— some
of them with wounds still unhealed from it — Birch,

who was moderate as brave, had a difficulty to
restrain them from dealing out death to the
malignant. The troopers who accompanied him,
smarting under late reverses, would have gladly
hailed the order to " fall on." But the cowed conspirators
submitted like sheep, and were marched
off to the Castle, every man-jack of them ; thereto
meet other batches brought in by Buck and the
different officers who had been detailed for their
arrest.

In houses here and there throughout the city,
parties of them were found and picked up ; allarmed,
waiting for a signal to sally forth and shed
the blood of their fellow citizens. This has been
denied, but a letter from the barbarous Lord
Byron to Prince Rupert puts the design beyond
doubt. But for the vigilance of the merchant-soldier
Birch, and the activity of the "busy
mercer" Buck, that night the streets of Bristol
would have run blood, and every house in it belonging

to a Parliamentarian been sacked and
plundered. For the head plunderer, Rupert — he
who introduced the word to the English language
stood at that very hour on the top of King's
Weston hill, awaiting a triple signal— the bells of
three churches to be rung — St. John's, for summoning
the Royalist sailors ; that of St. Nicholas,
to call out the butchers for butchers' work congenial
to them ; while from the tower of St.
Michael's he expected to hear a peal more especially
meant for himself and his freebooters, as
it were saying, " You may come on ! The gates
of Bristol are unbarred for you ! "

But he heard it not. They who had been entrusted
with the ringing of that fatal peal never
rang it. Instead of bell ropes in their hands, they
now had manacles around their wrists, and grim
sentries standing guard over them.

Rupert waited, watched, and listened, till the
break of day showed him the great seaport of the

Severn still calm ; its gates close shut ; its walls
and towers bristling with armed men, in attitudes
that told them determined on its defence.

Thinking he had been made a fool of, and fearing
further betrayal, he hastily beat retreat from
Durdham Down to seek the pillage of some city
more easy of being entered.

The rising sun saw his back turned upon Bristol
; he and his Cavaliers venting loud curses —
reviling their partizans inside, whose misleading
correspondence had lured them to an expedition
ludicrous as bootless.

A CITY OF REFUGE.

Of the Foresters who figure in our tale, Rob
Wilde, Jerky Jack, and Winny were not the only
ones who had found their way into Bristol. Most
of Sir Richard Walwyn's troopers were Foresters.
But the master of Hollymead was himself therewith
his daughters, their maid Gwenthian, and
others of the family servants.

Why he had exchanged his Forest home for a
residence in town — that, too, in a city under
military occupation, threatened with siege and all
its inconveniences — has been already in part
explained. With the commencement of hostilities
country life became unsafe, more especially for

people of quality and those who had anything
to lose. Parties of armed men penetrated into
the most remote districts, demanding contributions
and levying them — at first in the name of the
King. Naturally, this aroused the spirit of
retaliation, and dictated reprisals ; so that in time
both sides became more or less blamable for
aiibusterism. The weight of evidence, however,
shows that, as a rule, the Parliamentarian officers
did all in their power to restrain, while those of
the Royalist army not only encouraged but gloried
in it — themselves taking a hand. A Prince had
set them the lesson, making robbery fashionable,
and they were neither backward nor slow in
profiting by it.

As a sample of the spirit in which the Cavaliers
made war, thus wrote Sir John, afterwards Lord
Byron— the same truculent ruffian already alluded
to, commanding a body of the King's horse—
/ put them all to the sword, which I find to bethe

best zvay to proceed with these kind of people,
for mercy to them is cruelty

The gallant defenders of Bartholin Church
were "these kind of people," whom this monster,
ungrammatical as inhuman, had massacred to a
man !

Fighting under such faith, no wonder the lex
talionis soon displayed itself on both sides, and
in bitterest, most relentless form. Not only had
the main routes of travel become unsafe, but
sequestered country roads ; while the sanctity of
private houses was invaded, and women subjected
to insult, oft even to the disregarding of their
honour. This was conspicuously the case in the
districts where the Cavaliers had control, no
decent woman daring to show herself abroad.
Even high-born ladies feared encountering them,
if having father or brother on the Parliamentary
side. Some dames, however, who favoured their
side, were bold and free enough with them ; and

a very incarnation of female shamelessness was the
strumpet following of Rupert.

As known, Ambrose Powell had at first thought
of fortifying Holyhead, and holding it with his
servants, retainers, and such of the Foresters ashe
could rally around him ; of whom he had
reason to believe many would respond to his
call. The Jaw-haw around the house was suggestive
of his doing so — itself an outer line of
defence, which could be easily strengthened. It
but needed a parapet of gabions, or fascines, to
render it unassailable, save in the face of a
scathing fire. And he had the wherewith to
deliver this, having long expected the coming
storm, and stored up materials to meet it. One
of the chambers of Holyhead House was a very
armoury and ordnance room, full of the best
weapons of the time, which his great wealth had
enabled him to provide — muskets of the snap-hans
fire, pistols, pikes, and halberds. They but wanted

putting into hands capable of making efficient use
of them.

And he himself had but waited for Sir Richard
Walwyn's advice, as to whether he should attempt
holding Hollymead, or abandon it. He knew he
must do one or the other. His partisanship, long
since proclaimed and known beyond the borders
of the Forest, with the echoes returning, so
admonished him.

Could it be held, think you > " he asked of the
soldier knight, on the evening of his arrival with
Eustace Trevor — Sir Richard and his host alone
closeted in conversation.

*' Impossible ! " was the answer, backed up by
convincing reasons. "Were it a structure of
stone, I might say Yes, easily enough ; with a
force numerous enough to garrison it. But those
wooden beams, and roofs dry as tinder — they'd beset
ablaze by the first arrow sent at them."

The reader may fancy Sir Richard's allusion to

arrows was a figure of speech, or anachronism. It
was neither. For this : primitive weapon, almost
universal among savage men, was not then
obsolete, or out of the hands of the civilized. In
the army of Essex — the Lord General himself —
was a corps of bowmen ; and others elsewhere.
The belief in the bent yew stick and feathered
shaft, that had gained for England such renown
at Cressy and Agincourt, was still strong in the
days of her more glorious struggle — the Great
Rebellion.

But it was not to shafts of this kind the knight
had reference ; instead, arrows projected from
muskets and arquebusses for setting fire to
assailed forts and houses — a species of ordnance
which then formed part of the equipment of every
well-appointed corps d'annee.

With the master of Hollymead the argument
was conclusive. He saw his house could not beheld,
with any hope of successful defence, if

attacked by a force strong and determined. And
that such would come against it he had been as
good as sure, ever since that hour when Reginald
Trevor placed in his hands the letter of Loan by
Privy Seal — altogether sure, when Lunsford, later,
came to make the levy itself

Only a day or two longer had he remained in
it, to pack up his plate, with other cherished
Penates, and have them transmitted to a place of
safety — to Gloucester — the nearest city promising
asylum to the harried partisans of the Parliament
going thither himself with his family.

He had, however, made but short stay there.
The seaport of Bristol beyond was a " city of
refuge " more to his mind, because of a house in
it that offered him hospitality — a sister's — and
under its roof he and his were sojourning on that
night of dread danger averted almost as soon as
apprehended.

Nor in that crisis was the refugee from Dean

Forest himself inactive. When men stood gazing
with eyes full of keen apprehension at the fire-glare
over Durdham Down, Ambrose Powell was moving
briskly through Bristol's streets, urging its citizens
to arm and defend it. Along with him a
clergyman, who added his appeal with eloquent
tongue and passionate speech. He was Tombes,
of Leinster, who had been mobbed in that
town of woolstaplers, and driven out of it by
drunken roughs ; no doubt the progenitors of
those who in the late Parliamentary election in
like manner dishonoured themselves.

To Darwin's transmutation and improvement
theory, the human animals of Leinster seem
to be an exception ; especially as regards the
improvement, for its Jingo cur of to-day is rather
a falling off from the quality of his prototype —
the Cavalier wolf of the Great war time.

VOL. II.

A HOME GAYER THAN CONGENIAL.

Madame Lalande, nee Powell, was the widow of a
West Indian planter, late deceased. Her husband,
during life, had held commercial intercourse with
Bristol, then chief port of communication with all
the Transatlantic colonies. Though a Creole of
French descent, the isle of his nativity, in the
Antilles, had come under British rule ; and he
himself rather affected English tastes and habits,
often visiting England and making short sojourns
in it. At a Bristol ball he had first met gwendolen
Powell, Ambrose's sister; had married in
Bristol, and there designed spending the evening
of his days in retirement from the cares of business
life. And when the time at length came for carry


ing this design into execution, he sold off his West
Indian plantation — an extensive one, with its human
chattels, some hundreds in number — and invested
the proceeds in Bristol property, part of it being
a handsome dwelling-house meant for his future
home.

Into this he had entered about a year before
the commencement of the civil strife, which he
lived not to see. The cold, moist climate of our
island, so different to that of the tropical Antilles,
was fatal to him, and in less than twelve months
after settling on the Avon's banks he was buried
there, having succumbed to an attack of pleurisy.
Possibly fast living may have had something to do
with it. He was a man of social inclining and
sumptuous habits, which his great wealth enabled
him to indulge without stint ; and he had recklessly
disregarded the care of his health.

Fortunately for those who inherited his property,
his life of extravagance had not been long enough

to dissipate it, and Madame Lalande was still one
of the wealthiest women in Bristol, with no one
to share her wealth, save an only daughter, a girl
of some eighteen summers, or, to speak more correctly,
one summer of eighteen years in length.
For the occasional visits to England with her father
and mother had been made in this season, the rest
of her life spent in a land where winter is unknown.
All summer her life in every sense ; from
her cradle not a wish denied, or taste ungratified,
but everything lavished upon her which money
could purchase or parental fondness bestow.

As a consequence, Clarisse Lalande had grownup
a spoilt child ; and now that she was almost a
woman, the fruits of such folly made themselves
manifest. Imperious and capricious, she had a
temper which would not brook restraint. For this
it had never known, accustomed all her life to
the obeisance of black slaves, and the flattery of
mulatto hand maidens.

Flattery from others she had received too — a
very incense of it — which her beauty, without
thought of her prospective wealth, commanded.
For a beauty she was, of the true Creole type,
with all its characteristics ; the golden brown tint
of skin, the crimson flush of cheeks, the brilliancy
of dark eyes, with a luxuriance of hair that defied
confinement by ordinary clasp or comb. There was
the suspicion of a " wave " in it ; and report said
that the blood in her father's veins had not been
pure Circassian, but with a slight admixture of
Ethiopian. All the more piquant were the charms
it had transmitted to his daughter, as the star-like
fire in her brown black eyes, and a figure of
grandly voluptuous outline. Some of her mental
characteristics, too, may have come from it — a
certain sensuousness, with the impatience of control
already adverted to.

Such being Clarisse Lalande, it scarce needs saying
that between her and her cousins Powell there

was little congeniality either of tastes or sentiments.
Though in person more resembling Sabrina,
the two were mental antipodes ; while sunlight
Vaga, who looked altogether unlike her dark-skinned
Creole cousin, had yet certain similar traits
of temper ; the which made mutual antipathy, at
first sight, as when alkali and acid come into contact.
It afterwards became heart-hatred, inspired
and nursed by the most powerful of influences.

Considering that Madame Lalande was Ambrose
Power's sister, and that her late husband had been
a Protestant of Huguenot ancestry — at least four-fifths
of him — one would naturally expect her to
be on the Parliamentary side — supposing her to
take a side at all — with ardent inclining thereto.
Ardent inclining had she, and side she took ; but,
strange perversity, against the Parliament, not for
it!

And it was like mother, like daughter, for
Clarisse, with all her frivolousness of character,

had political leanings too, or more properly
caprices, the frivolity itself their cause. In the
eyes of the imperious young lady Roundheads
and Puritanism were things of reproach, and the
terms themselves often scornfully on her lips.
Kingly form of government was the only one fit
for gentle people ; and Cavaliers alone worthy to
associate with such as she — those curled darlings,
dear delightful creatures," as, in her fond partiality,
she was accustomed to call them.

Wonderfully hospitable was Madame Lalande ;
that is, in a fashionable way. She gave grand
entertainments, which was indeed but continuing
what had been done before the death of her
husband. Nor was it so long after that event they
were recommenced, and carried on with greater
eclat than ever. For Clarisse had become a toast
and now an heiress — sole and safe from any
possibility of late-born brother or sister to share
the demised wealth. There was keen competition

for the favour of her smiles. Knights and baronets
were flitting about in plenty, with here and there
an earl ; and as her ambitious mother aimed at
having a titled son-in-law, so spread she the banquet
to allure them.

During the brief rule of the gay Essex, as a
matter of course Madame Lalande's house was
open to him ; and so frequently was he its guest,
there had been talk of an attraction in it beyond
the delights of the dinner table or the joys of the
dance. He was not a lord ; but, as the son of one,
in all probability some day would be.

Alas ! for any matrimonial designs Madame
Lalande might have upon the rollicking Colonel
for her daughter, her chances of showing him
further hospitality were brought to an abrupt end,
by his heels getting kicked up in a different way,
and himself carried off a prisoner to Berkeley
Castle.

Withal the festivities in the house of the planter's

relict went on as usual — nearly every night something
of dinner party, and during the day receptions.
If there was suffering in other homes of
Bristol through the state of semi-siege in which
the place was then held, nothing of this affected
the home of the rich West Indian widow. There
all was gaiety and splendour.

Yet it had inmates who took little delight in its
joys, and one who detested them — that one Ambrose
Powell. A new style of life, with a companionship
altogether uncongenial, was it to him ; and,
but for its being forced upon him by the necessity
of circumstances, he would not have continued it a
single day — not an hour. It was many long years
since he had last met his sister ; and, remembering
her as a guileless country girl — almost portionless
too — seeing her now a sharp woman of the world,
wealthy and devoted to ideas of frivolity and
fashion, — above all, finding her changed from the
political faith of their common father and family,

he was alike surprised and shocked — angry, moreover,
to the point of reproaching, even scolding
her ; and would have done so, but for the question
" Cui bono ? " which had negative, though
silent, answer in all he saw around. His dear
sister Gwen, who in earlier days would have
humbly listened to his counsels, and been controlled
by them, would now resent the meekest
suggestion as to her way of life or the conduct of
her affairs.

Many a time, after becoming her guest, did he
regret having passed on, and beyond Gloucester,
to seek an asylum in Bristol. But he was in
Bristol now, he and his ; and how to get out of it
was not a mere question of inconvenience, but a
matter of great difficulty, attended with danger.
Though not so close to the door, after that 7th of
March night, the wolves were still without, on the
roads — ravening everywhere.

THE NIGHT OWL.

The conspiracy having been nipped in the bud,
and the conspirators in prison, Bristol again
breathed freely. The approaches to it were once
more open, the thwarted Royalists having withdrawn
to a distance ; so that Jerky Jack might
have made the return trip to Gloucester with a
despatch stuck in the band of his hat safe as if
inside his wooden leg.

But swifter messengers traversed that road now,
cleared of the enemy at both ends, and on both
sides of the river Severn.

He who had effected this clearance was Sir
William Waller, jocularly styled "William the



Conqueror," from the succession of victories he
had late achieved. Also was he known as the
'night Owl;" a sobriquet due to his habit of
making nocturnal expeditions that oft took the
Royalists by surprise. No Cropped he, but a
Cavalier in the true sense ; a very Paladin — withal
a Christian gentleman. He had separated from
slow-going Lord-General, and made one of his
bold dashes down to the shires bordering Wales ;
first relieving Gloucester, which was in a manner
besieged by the Monmouthshire levies of Lord
Herbert. The besiegers were not only brushed off,
but the main body of them either killed or captured
; only a scant residue escaping to their fastnesses
beyond the Wye ; whither the " Conquerer "
followed, chastising them still further.

Returning across the Forest of Dean, he outwitted
the Royalist troops under Prince Maurice ;
and, once more setting face westward, raided
through Herefordshire on to its chief city — which

he captured, with a flock of foul birds that had
been roosting there ever since its abandonment by
the Parhamentarians under the silly Stamford.

But the " Night Owl " himself was not the bird
to remain long on perch anywhere ; and, gathering
up his captured game — a large bag, including some
of Herefordshire's best blood, as the Scudamores,
Coningsby, and Pyes — he rounded back to Gloucester,
and on to Bristol.

Not to tarry here, either. Soon as he had disembarrassed
himself of his captive train — committed
to the keeping of Fiennes — he was off again into
Somersetshire, there to measure swords with
Maurice and the Marquis of Hertford. As he
rode out through the Bath gate at the head of a
troop of steel-clad cuirassiers — *' Hesselrig's Lobsters"
— the citizens of Bristol felt more confident
of safety than ever since the strife began. For
now they were assured against danger, outside as
within. Internal treason had been awed, the

traitors cowed and crushed, by what had befallen
the conspirators of March the Seventh. The two
chiefs of them, Yeomanss and Boucher, had been
tried, found guilty, and sentenced to death — a
sentence soon afterwards carried into execution.
Grand efforts were made to get them off; the King
himself, by letter, threatening to retaliate upon the
poor captives taken at Cirencester — such of them
as remained murdered. Old Patrick, Earl of
Forth, his Majesty's Lieutenant-general, was put
forward as the writer of the barbarous epistle.
But canny Scot and accomplished soldier as his
lordship might be, in a polemical contest he was
no match for the lawyer, Fiennes, who flung the
threat back in his teeth, saying :

The men we have tried and condemned are
not soldiers, but spies and conspirators. The prisoners
you took at Cirencester are prisoners of war.
I would have you observe the distinction. And
know, too, that for every hair of their heads that

falls, I will hang ten of your curled Cavaliers —
make Bristol a shambles of them."

Though not Nathaniel Fiennes's exact words,
they convey his meaning very near. And he
could and would have acted up to them, as the
King and his counsellors knew. So, whether or
not they deemed his argument rational, it was unanswerable,
or at all events unanswered, by a counter-threat
; and the Cirencester prisoners were spared
execution, while the Bristol conspirators went to
the scaffold.

Much has been made of the King's forbearance
in this affair by those who did not, or would not,
comprehend the motive. It was pure fear, not
humanity — fear of a still more terrible retaliation.
At that time the Parliament held ten prisoners for
one in the hands of the Royalists — men of such
rank and quality, his Majesty dared not put their
lives in peril, much less let them be sacrificed.
He had his revenge in secret, however, since under

his very nose at Oxford many of the hapless
captives from Cirencester miserably perished,
through the torturing treatment of the Royal
Provost-marshal, Smith.

Finally, the " two State martyrs " — as Yeomanss
and Boucher have been styled by the Royalist
writers — were strung up, protesting their innocence
to the last, for all they were little believed. The
evidence adduced at their trial clearly proved
intent to shed the blood of their fellow-citizens ;
else why were they and their co-conspirators
armed } Independent of this, their design of
handing over Bristol to the rule of Prince
Rupert and his ruffians meant something more
than the mere spilling of blood in a street conflict —
it involved the sack and pillage of peaceful homes,
the violation of women, rapine and ruin in every
way. It was only on getting the details of the
trial that the Bristolians became fully sensible of
the danger they had so narrowly escaped ; convinced

then, as Captain Birch worded it, that they
had been standing upon a mine.

Notwithstanding all these occurrences and circumstances
running .counter to the Royal cause,
against which the tide seemed to have turned,
within Montserrat House — as the late Monsieur
Lalande had named his dwelling — was no interruption
of the festive scenes already alluded to. Its
guests were as numerous, its gaieties gay and frequent
as ever. For, to speak truth, the political
bias of the planter's widow, as that of her daughter,
was but skin deep. Hair had much to do with it ;
and, like enough, had the Parliamentarian officers
but worn theirs a little longer, submitted it to
the curling tongs, and given themselves to swearing
and swaggering, in a genteel Cavalier way, they
would have been more welcome to the hospitality
of her house.

Still not all of them were denied it ; for not
all were of the Roundhead type. Among them

VOL. IL F

were many gentlemen of high birth and best
manners, some affecting as fine feathers as the
Cavaliers themselves. For the " Self-denying
Ordinance " had not yet been ordained, nor the
Parliamentary army moulded to the " new model."
In view of certain people sojourning in Montserrat
House, it need scarce be said that Sir Richard
Wahvyn and Eustace Trevor were visitors there.
Even without reference to the predilections of
Madame or Mademoiselle, they could not well be
excluded. But there was no thought of excluding
them ; both were unmistakably eligible, and one of
them most welcome, for reasons that will presently
appear. They had arrived in Bristol only a short
while antecedent to its state of semi-siege, the
Powellss having long preceded them thither. And
now that the approaches were again open, most
of their time was spent keeping them so ; the
troop with the " big sergeant," and standard showing
a crown impaled upon a sword, once more

displaying its prowess in encounters with the
Cavaliers. After Rupert had disappeared from
that particular scene, Prince Maurice, with his corps
d'armie, began to manoeuvre upon it, swinging
round southward into Somersetshire to unite his
force with that at Hertford. To hang upon his
skirts, and harass his outposts, was the work of
Sir Richard Walwyn ; a duty which often carried
him and his Foresters afar from the city, and kept
them away weeks at a time.

He was just returning to it when Waller passed
through. But, entering by a different route and
gate from that taken by the latter going out, he
missed him. Like enough but for this he would
have been commanded along. For the " Conqueror
" had carried off with him the elite of the
troops quartered in Bristol, almost stripping it of
a garrison, to the no small annoyance of Nathaniel
Fiennes. Glad was the Governor that the troop
with the "big sergeant" had escaped such requisition

— overjoyed his eyes to see that banner,
bearing the emblem of a crown with sword stuck
through it, once more waving before the Castle
gate.

A MIXED ASSEMBLY.

If Waller's passage through Bristol caused general
rejoicing, there was joy in a certain private circle
at the re-entry of Sir Richard Walwyn with his
troop. Three of the inmates of Montserrat House
hailed his return with a flutter of delight ; though
not all on his account, nor any of them its mistress,
the Madame herself. She was pleased, however,
to see the gallant knight again, as also his young
troop captain, so much, that within a week after
their return she sent out invitations to a grand
ball, to be given, if not professedly for them, at
least so understood.

Many of the invited who were of the King's
party wondered, not at her giving a ball, but



giving it at such a time, and in honour of their
enemies ; one of these Eustace Trevor, formerly
in the service of the Court itself, whom they
regarded as the basest of renegades. Madame
Lalande, hitherto such an enthusiastic Royalist,
making merry, while the State Martyrs were scarce
cold in their graves, and things looking black
generally ! Waller's unopposed marching through
the surrounding districts had, in a manner, made
good the belief in his being invincible ; and that
he would be equally victorious in the shires of
the " West," whither he was now gone. If so, the
Royal cause, hitherto ascendant in that quarter,
would come under a cloud, if not be extinguished
altogether.

Among the Cavalier acquaintances of the planter's
widow, therefore, were heard sneering allusions
to the " worship of the rising sun," as the reason
for her seeming defection.

It was not the correct one, though. Nor, if

called upon, could she herself have stated the
precise motif. Alone, her daughter could do that ;
since it was she had suggested the entertainment ;
or rather commanded it. Though but turned
eighteen, this young lady, child of a precocious
clime and race, was a full-grown woman, intellectually
as physically ; wont to have her own way
in Montserrat House, as in her native isle of the
Antilles ; and was in reality more its mistress
than her mother. Her father's will had been read
to her, and she quite comprehended its provisions
all in her favour. Little cared she for slanderous
whispers, whether by the tongues of Cavaliers or
Prophets ; though it was no worship of rising
sun inspired her in this particular matter. Instead,
a wish to shine herself in the eyes of society ;
but chiefly those of one for whom she had begun
to feel adoration, beyond that to sun, moon, or
stars. She could dance like a Bayadere, and knew
it.

There need be no difficulty in getting together
an assemblage of guests, numerous, and of the
right ton. Bristol was then an ancient city, second
only to London itself; the mushroom Liverpool,
Manchester, and Birmingham having barely a
mark upon the map. Besides, in those days, the
gentry were more resident in towns ; the state of
the roads — where there were any — and the scarcity
of wheeled vehicles, cumbersome at that, making
travel irksome and country life inconvenient.
In times of peace the city on Avon's banks had
its quota of England's upper crust ; but now that
war raged around it was crowded with such —
fugitives from the adjoining villages and shires,
even from beyond the Welsh border, who, as
Ambrose Powell and his family, had repaired
thither to escape exaction and insult — it might be
outrage — from the marauding Cavaliers.

In addition, Bristol, just at this time, contained
a goodly sprinkling of the Cavaliers themselves,

both military and civilian ; not voluntarily there,
nor as political refugees, but prisoners. Waller
had flung some threescore into it, brought all the
way from Monmouth and Hereford, most of them
men of high rank, and most as many on parole —
allowed free range about the city and circulation
in its best society, if they had the entree.

So, in sending out her invitations, Madame
Lalande had not only a large, but varied list to
select from ; and to do her justice— or it may have
have been Clarisse — on this occasion the names
were pricked with impartiality ; short hair and
long being alike honoured by circulars of complimentary
request. In this there might have been
an eye to the changing times.

Few were the refusals. No ball had ever come
off at Montserrat House unaccompanied by a
sumptuous supper. This was lure enough for the
elder invites especially in a city still straitened
if not besieged ; while to the younger the dancing,

itself offered attraction sufficient. Since the deposition
of the festive Essex there had been but little
gaiety in Bristol; under the stern administration
of his successor the dance being discouraged, if
not altogether tabooed ; so that youthful heels
were itching for it, of both sexes, and belonging to
families on both sides of the political question.

As a result, over two hundred responded to
Madame Lalande's invitations by presenting themselves
at Montserrat House. Twice the number
would not have inconveniently crowded it; since,
in addition to several ample reception rooms, there
was plenty of space in the ornamental grounds
outside, which had been prepared for the occasion
by a setting and festooned of lamps. A summer's
night— for it was July — and sultry too, this was
an advantageous arrangement, the open air being
more enjoyable than that inside.

But another advantage was derived from it ;
one that may be thought strange enough. It gave

Madame Lalande's guests an opportunity of shunning
one another ! With many of them a thing-most
desirable ; for men met there who had been
enemies outside — were so still, even to hating —
the fugitives from persecution and their very
persecutors ; the last, now their prisoners, humbled
and abashed. Seemingly a fine chance for the
former to indulge spites ; but good manners forbade
that.

Still something more interposed to prevent
awkward encounter or recognition. On the ball
notes of invitation was marked " Fancy costume
at pleasure," which left the invited free to wear
masks, or appear without them. But then, even
in ordinary street promenade, masks had not been
altogether abandoned, at least by ladies, many
wearing them to a still later period.

As a consequence of this allowed latitude,
numbers of both sexes who attended the Balances*
ball came in fancy costumes, and masked. But

ladies reliant on their charms were careless about
the fastenings of the masks, and, somehow or other,
the detested screens soon disappeared, giving the
gentlemen an opportunity for the scrutiny and
comparing of faces.

Many were remarkable for their beauty — some
of Bristol's fairest daughters. And as a great
seaport, with much foreign element in it, the types
were varied. Three, however, attracted special
attention — all entitled to the epithet lovely. They
had been observed from the beginning, as they
were in the withdrawing room, unmasked, beside
Madame Lalande, assisting her in the reception
of the guests. Which identifies them as Madame's
daughter, and her two nieces, Sabrina and Vaga
Powell. So were they.

A connoisseur in female beauty would have
found it difficult to decide which of the three
deserved the palm. Paris himself would have
been puzzled to award it. Clarisse, at home, and

helping her mother in the duties of introduction
stood prominently forward, and so first met the
view of the incoming guests. Few who looked
upon her would have thought of looking farther,
nor cared to take their eyes off. But beyond her
face with features of French type, tinted olive and
carmine, was another of English outline, all roses
set in a framework of gold — Vaga's. In front of
this that of the Creole brunette, despite its piquant
beauty, was but the shadow of a partial eclipse
vainly endeavouring to hide the light of the sun.

Beside this, still another face in retirement,
which many admired as much as either — Sabrina's.
Notwithstanding the preference shown by the
frivolous Trojan, stately, queenly Juno had her
charms too.

Among the gentlemen received by Madame
Lalande, and the fair triune forming her staff,
were three who had peculiar relations with them —
at least with the young ladies — Sir Richard

Walwyn, Eustace and Reginald Trevor. They
came not in together ; the last by some minutes
preceding the other two. But, without better
knowledge of antecedents, it may seem strange
his being there at all. Nothing much of this,
however was there about it ; nor did Eustace
show any surprise at seeing his cousin in the room,
which he did soon as entering. He knew Reginald
was in the city, and the reason — no voluntary
sojourner, but one of the prisoners enjoying
"parole." As a captain in Sir John Wintour's
troop of horse he had been with Lord Herbert's
Monmouthshire levies in their farcical siege of
Gloucester, so abruptly raised by Waller ; where he
escaped death by being made captive, and sent
for safe keeping to Bristol. Though Colonel Langford
was not there also, that worthy had been
served in the same way at an earlier period.
Having cried "quarter" at Edgehill, and there
surrendered up his precious person, it was now

being taken care of by the gaoler of Warwick
Castle. But for that adverse incident he might
have been in Bristol too, and figuring, as other
fine Cavaliers, at the Lalande's ball.

Though Reginald Trevor had been now some
weeks in the city, and on parole, before that night
he and his cousin had not met. As known,
Eustace was for a time absent on scout with Sir
Richard. But even after his return Reginald had
shunned him, and neither had seen ought of the
other since that angry parting at Hollymead.
Now that chance had brought them together
again, it was to meet with no increased cordiality ;
instead diminished, what had occurred since
having but widened the gap between them. Still
the hostility was all on Reginald's side, by him
felt keenly and bitterly. He had suffered humiliation
; a soldier of fortune he was now, not only
thrown out of employ but a prisoner. And, if not
one of his captors, there among them in amicable

association was his cousin, to whom he had sworn
giving " No Quarter ! " should they ever cross
swords in the field of fight.

By good fortune they had not done so yet ; and
whether he desired it, the other did not — had no
such wish. Instead, would have been willing there
and then to shake hands with him, and be friends
again.

With a half-formed resolve to make offer of
reconciliation Eustace approached his cousin. To
get a reception which flung him back upon himself,
and his sensibilities.

Though few their words exchanged, they were
sharp and cutting, as might have been their
swords,

So you've done what you said you would ? "

It was Reginald who spoke.

"Done what?"

Turned traitor to your King. And to your
father too ! "

*' But not to my conscience, nor my God. They
are more to me than loyalty to any King, as you
call it — even more than affection for my poor
deluded father, however much I feel for him."

Feel for him, indeed ! Ha, ha ! But you can
go on as you've begun. Your Prophets have it
all their own way here, and now ; but the tide
will turn sooner than you may think for. As for
yourself, Eust, you may thank your stars you
weren't among the rabble that overpowered meat
Highnam. I sent half-a-dozen to their long
account, and like as not you'd have been one of
them."

The implied superiority, even without the cruelty,
was an impertinence. But Eustace Trevor, instead
of taking it in that sense, and making angry
retort, treated it rather as a joke, with a light
laugh rejoining —

"Possibly had I been there, Rej, you wouldn't
be here."

VOL. II. G

At which he turned away, leaving his dark-browed
cousin to count the change in satire that
had been given him in full.

A LABYRINTH OF JEALOUSIES.

No more on that night came the cousins together.
If by chance they met, it was to pass one another
as strangers unacquainted, exchanging neither
speech nor look. Further attempt at reconciliation
Eustace meant not to make now ; he rather
regretted having gone so far already.

As for Reginald, he would not have listened toit.
A sentiment inspired hostility to his cousin,
far stronger than any vexation at his having forsaken
the King's cause — altogether different. For
it was jealousy ; the same he had first felt during
that exciting scene at Hollymead, and since
brooded over till it had become an all-pervading
passion. Eustace had replaced him in the affections



of Vaga Powell — or he at least suspected
it — that was provocation enough for antipathy,
even hatred. And almost this he now entertained
for him.

Whatever the political disagreement among the
others assembled at Montserrat House, there was
no open exhibition of it. Royalists and Roundheads
stood in groups, or moved about, chatting
in a familiar, many of them friendly, way.
Officers who had been face to face on the battlefield,
and done their best to take one another's
lives, here met in mutual good humour, with
laughing allusion to the changed circumstances.
And when the dancing commenced, gentlemen
might be seen, noted adherents of the Parliament,
some wearing its uniform, with ladies as
their partners strongly affected to the King's
cause ; while, in the couples vis-a-vis to them, the
political sentiments would be reversed.

But the majority of those who danced, being the

gay jeunesse, had no thought of politics, nor care
for them one way or the other. They left that
to their elders, and those more seriously disposed ;
to themselves the delights of the dance being the
controlling influence of the hour.

Still there were some, even of the youthful, with
whom this was but a secondary consideration.
Sabrina Powell preferred strolling about the
grounds with Sir Richard Walwyn, for they had
much to say to one another. Of late their opportunities
of meeting had been few and far between,
and they were fiancee.

Different with Vaga. She was an ardent worshipper
of Terpsichore, and few equalled her in
the accomplishment of dancing — scarce any excelling.
She was up in every set ; and, could she
have multiplied herself to count a score, would
have found a partner for every unit. A very host
sought, with eagerness, to engage her.

There was one who observed this with a secret

vexation — Clarisse. Not that she was without
her share of aspiring partners ; she had them in
numbers equalling those of her "country cousin."
But even that did not satisfy her; craving universal
incense she wanted all.

Possibly, she would have cared less had the
rival belle been any other than Vaga Powell. But
already between the two had sprung up rivalry of
a nature different from any competition as to who
should shine brightest at a ball. In a word, they
were both in love with Eustace Trevor, and each
knew, or suspected it, of the other.

On this night Clarisse had the advantage.
Though her mother ostensibly gave the entertainment,
she herself was the promoter of it — in a
manner mistress of the ceremonies. As such,
commanding the music, the arrangement of the
dances, and, to a certain extent, who should dance
with whom. Not much cared she, however, to
exercise this control over other than Eustace

Trevor, which she did so effectually, that the two
danced together oftener than seemed consistent
with ball-room etiquette, and far too frequently
to escape observation.

Remarks were made about it, and by the partizans
of both sides. " That explains Madame
Lalande's defection from our cause," said the
Cavaliers. " We now know why this entertainment
is being given," remarked the Parliamentarians
; " clearly for Captain Eustace Trevor."

And Vaga Powell ! What thought she ? How
did she feel about it ? As one at first perplexed,
then sorely pained. She who, on the summit of
Ruardean Hill, had talked so lightly of love —
almost boasted of never having experienced the
sentiment — was now within its toils and suffering
its torments.

And but little of its delights had she yet known
nothing beyond hopes and vague anticipations.
For from the hour when Eustace Trevor plucked

the ostrich feathers from his hat, replacing them
by those of the egret, she and he had never
another opportunity of taking up the thread of
the dialogue her sister had so inopportunely interrupted.
Several interviews between them since,
but all under surveillance or constraint. This,
however, had failed to change or weaken the sentiment
with which he had inspired her ; perhaps
strengthened it. True to her profession of constancy,
when she said — " If I ever had loved a
man, I think I should love him still," she did
love him still ; on that night with a passion burning
as it was bitter.

And the very thing that was filling her heart
Vk^th gloom gave joy to another. Glad was
Reginald Trevor to see his cousin Eustace paying
attentions in the quarter where he seemed paying
them — to Clarisse Lalande. During all the intervening
time since he himself had suffered rebuff,
or fancied it, despair had never quite mastered

him. As most young Cavaliers, he believed himself
a lady - slaughterer irresistible; and to the
belief of his having made a conquest of Vaga
Powell he would still have confidently clung ; but
his cousin, of late having better opportunity, had
destroyed his chances. And now, seeing Eustace
apparently neglectful of her, while all attention to
Clarisse Lalande, the old confidence returned to
him : he had been labouring under a misconception,
and Vaga Powell loved him after all !

Indeed, but for a lingering belief in this, he
would not have been there. No thought of ball
or supper had brought him to Montserrat House,
but the hope of holding speech with her. For,
notwithstanding all that had occurred, he entertained
such hope. True, he had offended her father ;
but that was in the exercise of his duties, and
under some provocation. Perhaps it was forgotten,
or might be forgiven ; perhaps she had more than
forgiven it already. This night he would know.

An opportunity of speaking with her soon
offered. There was Httle difficulty in his obtaining
that. Madame Lalande kept no guard over
her nieces, having enough to do in looking after
her che Clarisse. And their father was not with
them. If within the house he was not a partaker
in its gaieties. With no relish for such, he had
declined taking part in them. But liberal in this,
as in everything else, he placed no constraint on
the inclinations of his girls. They were free to
dance, as to walk, ride, or go hawking.

The two were standing together as Reginald
Trevor approached them. He had but bowed ashe
was received on entering, and felt gratified at
having his salutation returned. Still more now
when permitted to enter into conversation with
them ; finding, if not affability, anything but the
distant coldness he had half anticipated. The
truth was they had heard many things about him
in the interval ; that, though fighting for a cause

they detested, he had fought gallantly, and gained
renown. It is woman's nature to look leniently
on the faults of a man who comports himself with
courage ; and these girls were both of generous
disposition. Besides, he was now a defeated man ;
if not humiliated, a prisoner. Enough that to
claim their compassion, and he had it.

Only a few words were exchanged between him
and Sabrina — commonplace, and relating to things
of a past time. There was one she more desired
conversing with ; and, turning away, left Reginald
Trevor alone with her sister. Long ere then
she had learnt where Vaga's predilection lay,
and could trust this young lady to take care of
herself

I suppose you've quite forgotten me, Mistress
Vaga ? " he said, when Sabrina was out of hearing.


"You give me credit for a very short memory.
Captain Trevor," she promptly returned, but in no

unkindly tone. " Why should you think I've forgotten
you ? "

Oh ! so many matters and events since I last
had the pleasure of seeing you. And you've met
so many other people, more interesting than
myself, I could hardly hope for your bearing mein
mind."

He spoke in a subdued, humble way, unlike his
old swagger ; which had the effect of still
farther inclining her to kindness. As yet,
however, it was but sympathy for his misfortunes.


'but, Captain Trevor, all that would not justify
me in forgetting a friend ; as I think you were,
and would have continued, but for these troubles
that have turned so many friends to foes."

No one regrets them more than I ; and for
the best of reasons."

He had a reason for regretting them in the fact
of his being a prisoner. No light matter just

then ; for, though not kept confined In a prison,
he might at any moment be cast into one, only
to be led forth from it to execution. The King
had not yet ceased fulminating his threats of retaliation
; and, should these be carried out, he, in
all likelihood, would be among the foremost of its
victims.

He was not speaking the truth, however, in
saying he regretted the troubles. As a soldier
of fortune they were bread to him, promising
fame with promotion. He might look to regaining
his liberty by exchange, or otherwise, and
once more get upon the ladder of ascent.

Nor had the reasons he spoke of aught to do
with his being a prisoner ; though she seemed, or
affected, so to understand them.

"Indeed, yes," she rejoined, "you have been
very unfortunate, Captain Trevor. I'm sorry you
should have been taken ; still more, fighting on the
side you were."

Oh, thank you ! " he returned, encouraged by
her kind words, and without heeding the last
clause. "But 'tis not for that I care. What
makes me regret the war is the loss of friendships.
And," he added, speaking in a lower tone, but
more impressively, "the fear of having lost yours."

"But you have not, sir — so much as it is worth.
My father was angry in those days ; so were we
all. But, then, you were not to blame — we could
not think that, did not — knowing you acted under
orders."

Ah ! never had I an order to execute so much
against my wish, never one with such disagreeable

consequences, separating me so long from "

He hesitated to say whom or what. But, mistaking
her look of simple inquiry for one of a
more interested nature, he completed the speech
with one other word — "yourself."

She started, looking a little confused, but remained
silent; which he, again misinterpreting.

took as a permission to go on, which he did, with
increased fervour.

Yes, Mistress Vaga ! that was my chief regret,
never out of my mind for a moment since. Many
the night on watch and guard have I thought of
you. Sleepless they would have been, even without
duty to keep me awake."

But why all this, sir ? Why should I be a
cause to keep you awake ? "

She spoke in a tone that suddenly checked and
chilled him. For the question recalled a fact he
seemed to overlook, or had forgotten — that Vaga
Powell had never acknowledged him in the light
of a lover ; never before given him permission to
address words to her such as he was now speaking.


"Ah!" he answered, with a disappointed air, "if
you do not know why, 'tis not much use my telling
you." Then adding, with a sigh, " I had hopes
you would have understood me."

She did understand him perfectly ; knew his
aspirations and their hopelessness. And never
was she less inclined to give heed to them than
at that moment. For close by she saw her cousin
Clarisse by the side of his cousin Eustace, the two
standing up as partners for a dance about to
begin.

If Reginald Trevor suffered the pangs of an unrequited
love, Vaga Powell was in a very torment
of jealousy. For the air and attitude of the other
two seemed to speak of something more than the
mere indifference of dancing partners. The Creole
had hold of his arm, was hanging upon it, her
eyes upturned to his face with a languishing, loving
smile, which he appeared to reciprocate.

Rather a pleasing sight to Reginald, for reasons
that just then presented themselves. But a painful
one to her with whom he was conversing — torture
itself

All at once a thought occurred to her, which

promised something, if not relief. Anyhow, it
gave this and more to Reginald Trevor. For of
the many seeking her hand for the dance, he was
the one preferred, and with an alacrity that somewhat
surprised, while delighting him.

His delight would have been less could he have
fathomed her motive and design. Little dreamt
he of either, or that he was about to be utilized
solely as a pawn for playing the game o{ piques.

VOL. II. H

A Contraband.

It was a contredanse ; the " contraband " of Spain
transmitted through France to England, where it
had become naturalized, and by a misapprehension
of terms called "country dance." It was Sq piece
de resistance of the time, before the introduction of
the cotillon, quadrille, and other " square " dances.

The assemblage being a large one, several sets
danced at the same time, inside the house and
without, the music in a central position availing
for all.

The set in which figured Mademoiselle Lalande
was, of course, the select one, comprising the elite
of the family's friends and resident gentry, with

the strangers of greatest distinction, military and



civilian. It was formed on the lawn outside, in
front of the withdrawing-room windows, where a
spread of smooth, firm turf afforded ample space,
and a floor for dancing good as that of any ballroom.
Better, slips and tumbles considered.
Around and overhead were strings of lamps suspended
from the trees, while a profusion of flowers,
now in full blow, filled the air with incense. A
warm summer's night, with such surroundings, the
Creole girl might have fancied herself back in her
native isle of the Antilles, under the palms and
amidst the flashing cociiyos.

As if she had such a fancy, her grand dark
eyes were aglow with delight — triumph in them
too. But neither had to do with any thought of
scenes or things transatlantic. The cause was by
her side, and she took no pains to conceal it. Impassioned
child of the tropics, never in her life
gainsaid, she had needed not the resorts of
subterfuge ; instead openly demanding and having

whatever she desired. And now desiring Eustace
Trevor, she believed she had secured him.

Certainly it seemed so ; and as if with her wiles
and witchery — bold ways the sober Bristolians
called them — she had succeeded in weaving a spell
around him. Once already had he been her
partner, and now for the second time was he
standing up with her, to all appearance absorbed
in what she said, making impressive responses,
partaking of her joy and triumph.

This was what Vaga Powell supposed ; and no
wonder at her jealousy stung to the highest,
bitterest pitch. But the green-eyed monster sees
with eyes that distort and exaggerate, as hers
were doing then. She was putting a wrong interpretation
on what she saw, reading it reversely to
the truth. A disinterested spectator, with skill in
physiognomy, could have told that Eustace Trevor,
so far from being taken up with Clarisse Lalande,
would have been glad to get disembarrassed of

her. He too was at that moment suffering pangs
of jealousy equal to those he inflicted. This from
seeing his cousin the partner of Vaga Powell,
thinking of Reginald's acquaintance with her older
than his own, and recalling something he had
heard of between them antecedent to the time of
his introduction at Holyhead. Only a rumour it
was — a vague whisper — but it spoke of relations
of a nature warmer and more confidential than
those of mere friendship.

Could it have been so, and was there a renewal
of them ? These were the questions self-asked by
the ci-devant gentleman usher. Seemingly answered
in the affirmative by what he now saw.
For, young as was the younger daughter of Ambrose
Powell, she was no child of simplicity, but
could play at coquetting with the oldest and
cleverest coquette there. If he in her eyes seemed
too assiduously attentive to Clarisse, she in his
appeared the same with Reginald.

An odd position of affairs it was with this
quartette of cousins as regarded their feelings towards
one another — a play of cross purposes,
triangularly twisted and sinister, but in a manner
symmetrical. The two men in love with the same
woman, the two women loving the same man, yet
two of the four not loved at all — as it were, left
out in the cold. And these last the ones that
were joyous and exultant, the others despondent
and sad.

Could hearts see into hearts, and read the
writing therein, all this would have been reversed ;
the glad ones would have ceased to be gay and
on the instant, while the sad ones would as suddenly
have found joy. But the people so perversely
astray could not comprehend one another. Not
likely with everything done to hinder it — glances,
attitudes, gestures, all meant to deceive.

And so the mutual misconception remained
throughout the night. Dance succeeded dance, butin

none was Eustace Trevor the partner of Vaga
Powell.

And yet the fault was not with him, though it
may appear so. His dancing the first set with
Clarisse was quite accidental so far as he was concerned.
He had not sought to engage her ; on
the contrary she seeking him — in a manner commanding
him. Officially privileged, she might do
so without incurring censure or challenging remark.
But when the thing was repeated, and for the
second time in succession they were seen standing
up together, a whisper went round that it meant
something more than mere inadvertency — in short,
a decided preference.

And so was it with her at least, he neither
feeling it nor conscious of her design. For, in
truth, he had been on the way to seek Vaga
Powell and ask her for the second set, when once
more encountering Clarisse, as by chance, she exclaimed,
in a half-patronising, half-coaxing way, —

How well you dance, Captain Trevor ! So
different from all the others."

Rather surprised by such a plain-spoken compliment,
flattery in fact — he was about to give it this
name — but, without waiting his rejoinder, she rattled
on, —

"And I hope you're enough satisfied with my
dancing to have me for your partner again — you
will, won't you ? "

Solicitation seeming bold, almost to shamelessness.
It would have been this in an English girl ;
but one knowing Clarisse Lalande, her impulsive
nature, and the way she had been brought up,
could better pardon it.

"It will give me the greatest pleasure," was his
response. He would not have been man — less
gentleman — to answer otherwise. Both gallantry
and good manners enforced an affirmative.

Consider yourself engaged then ! "

By all means, Mademoiselle. For which set } "

Oh ! now — the next. I wish it."

Another surprise to him, anything but agreeable.
It interfered with his intentions, spoiling his own
programme. But there was no help for it, no gainsaying
a wish so plainly expressed, and he stammered
out assent with the best grace possible.

As the music for the second set was just commencing,
she thrust her jewelled fingers inside
his arm, and conducted him, rather than he her,
back to the place of dancing.

It was then Vaga Powell experienced that jealous
pang which determined her to the line of action
she was pursuing. But it was a jealousy neither
new, nor born of that hour ; only in that hour reaching
the climax and acme of its keenness. Eustace
Trevor twice dancing with her cousin, and never
coming near herself! Never once, even to say a
word, since the one or two of ceremony exchanged
between them at his first entering and reception.
No wonder at her being a prey to jealousy !

But she was not alone in the experience of its
misery. He, in his turn, was tasting of it too.
When at length released from his engagement with
the Creole, inopportune as irksome, and he again
sought Vaga Powell, it was to find her in a mood
aught but amiable. And with Reginald still by
her side — she had no difficulty in retaining him —
the two seemingly engrossed with one another.
Well and skilfully — too well and too skilfully — was
the damsel of Dean Forest playing her part.

As Eustace approached them, Reginald drew
back a pace, and stood in an attitude of dignified
stiffness, with a perceptible triumph in his eyes,
and something like a sneer on his lips. No word
of salutation passed between the cousins now — not
even nod of recognition — and one seeing who knew
them not would have supposed them utter strangers.
Eustace but bowed to the lady ; and, as the music
was just sounding the prelude to another dance,
he asked, in rather a timid, doubting way, —

'May I have you for a partner, Mistress Vaga?"

At another time, even earlier that night, he
might have addressed her differently and more
familiarly — ay, would have been safe in saying —
•* Let us dance, dear Vaga ! " But he had neither
thought nor confidence to "dear" her now, nor
she the desire to be feared. Curt, and almost
disdainful was her answer, —

Sorry ; but I'm engaged."

He did not need being told to whom, the
triumphant bearing of his cousin declared that ;
and, with a bow of feigned resignation, and much
bitterness of heart, he withdrew, leaving them to
themselves.

And so the jealous fire, just kindled in his
breast, burned on in hers, not that night to be
extinguished.

A PAS-SEUL.

Wide the breach now between Vaga Powell and
Eustace Trevor, growing wider as the moments
passed. Though the evolutions of the dance often
brought them near one another, no more speech
exchanged they that night ; nor glances either. If
by chance their eyes met there was a retirement on
both sides, quick and subtle, as though each felt
caught in some criminal act. For all they were
mutually observant, and when only one looked, the
other unconscious, it was with gaze continued,
regard telling the tale of love and jealousy plainer
and truer than could words.

What had caused the rupture was still there to
hinder its healing — on one side Clarisse, practising

all her arts and seductions ; on the other Reginald
doing the same. And both, so far as they themselves
believed, and general appearance might be
trusted, with sinister success.

Between these two, aiming at like ends, there was
much similitude otherwise. Equally vain, Creole
girl as Cavalier, they had grand reliance in their
respective powers, each over the opposite sex.
Though no Adonis, Reginald trevor was a fairly
handsome man — of the martial type, whom many
a woman would have fancied, as many had. So
favoured, and conscious of it, not so strange his
restored confidence that he still possessed the
affections of Vaga Powell. He had entertained this
belief, and then partially lost it, but now it was
back with him again, her behaviour seeming to
justify it.

There was less in the past to cloud the hopes of
Clarisse— less known to her. For the antecedent
circumstances between Eustace Trevor and her

cousin had as yet been revealed to her only in a
scant desultory way. She had heard of his having
spent some days at Hollymead ; had been told
also of his sudden conversion there, and half
suspected the cause. But she had herself observed
nothing to confirm her suspicions. He had been
several times on visit to Montserrat House, but
always in the company of his colonel, Sir Richard ;
and while there his interviews with Vaga were
under her own eyes and others. They might have
met outside without her having knowledge of it.
But it was in truth the brilliant beauty of her
country cousin, which more than aught else troubled
and had given rise to her jealousy. Still what was
it to her own, with her powers of fascination ?
Nothing that night, thought she ; and thus confident
in herself, she noticed not the strange distraught
air of her partner, as now and then his
eyes turned furtively to the partner of his cousin.
Thus unobservant, the two who cared not for

one another danced joyously on little dreaming
of that mad jealousy between the other two, but
for which there would have been a quick change in
the arrangement of the couples.

5|: Hj * * *

"What next? What now?"

The questions passing from lip to lip, late on in
the night, and after another contredanse had come
to a close. A whisper had got wing of something
to succeed, altogether different — a dance of a special
character, introduced to the Bristolians by the
daughter of Madame Lalande.

In those days, the era of the morris and other
picturesque dances, excellence in the Coryphean
art was esteemed a qualification ; not lightly held
as now, and deemed rather degrading. The French
Queen had encouraged this, and noble dames oft
vied with each other in saltatory displays.

To show her superiority, Clarisse Lalande had
prepared a surprise for the assembly at Montserrat

House — a dance of the Antilles, in which she
could have no competitor, nor need fear any if she
had. It was also of Spanish origin, much practised
in the West India islands ; where, then as now,
dancing was a thing of every night, and often of
the day — even the negroes giving half their off-labour
hours to it, jigging with a grace unknown
to the peasantry of European lands. Their white
'' masses " were, many of them, perfect maitres-dense,
and their young mistresses very Odalisques.
Monsieur Lalande had prided himself on this
accomplishment, and, as a matter of course, his
daughter did the same — hence the resolve to make
display of her proficiency.

The music had been prearranged ; the time too
after supper, when the excitement which comes
of the wine cup would make it more attractive in
the eyes of the spectators ; though Clarisse Lalande
was thinking of only one of them, and how it
would affect him.

It was new to most of the people present, but
not all. The familiars of Montserrat House had
witnessed it before, and were aware of its peculiarities.
A pas-seul it was, danced only by a lady,
though a gentleman had something to do with it
at the termination. The lady commences in slow
movement and gentle step, accompanied by pantomimic
gestures ; as she passes on every now and
then stooping down, or reaching upward, to take
hold of some object that has caught her eye. It
is, in fact, a representation, in dumb show, of an
Indian girl straying along a forest path in the act
of gathering flowers. Nor does she pause while
plucking them, only poising an instant on one limb,
and, with a whirl, or pirouette, continuing onward.
The step admits of many changes and every variety
of attitude ; according to whether the blossoms
tempting her be on the right or left, down upon
the earth, or overhead among the branches of the
trees. All which affords fine opportunity for dis-vol.

II. I

playing the graces of figure and movement, with
skill or cleverness in the pantomimic representation.
After this has gone on for a time, the flower-gatherer
is seen to start, her features changing
expression. Some sound in the forest has caught
her ear. She pauses, bends low, and listens. At
first interrogatively ; then with apprehension, ending
in alarm. Flight follows, the lines of it hither
and thither in irregular zigzags, as if the affrighted
girl, in her confusion, knows not which way to go.
The movement is now violent, the gesticulation
excited. At length the retreat takes a steadier
course, around the outer edge of the arena, not by
forward steps, but the whirling gyrations of a waltz.
This being kept up for a turn or two, fatigue is
counterfeited, with continued fear of the pursuing
enemy, and by looks and gestures appeal is made to
the spectators for help. These know, however, that
only one is privileged to offer it — he whom she
will designate by tossing to him a riband, kerchief.

glove, or some such token. His rosy then, is
simply to step forth and place himself in the attitude
of a rescuer, when the fugitive flings herself
into his arms, looking all gratitude.

When Clarisse Lalande took the floor, or, to
speak more correctly, the turf — for it was outside
in the place already described — there were few
knowing the character of the novel dance but
could give a guess as to who would be summoned
to the rescue. Too soon to be thinking of that
yet, however ; all thoughts being engrossed by the
Creole herself, all eyes fixed upon her, as she
appeared in the open space, around which the
spectators were now standing two deep. The
whole company was there ; the other dancing places,
inside and out, for the time deserted.

It was seen that she had changed her dress — this
done during the interlude of supper — and was now
in the costume of a Carib queen, short skirt and
low bodice. Robes rather gauzy and transparent;

at which some present were not slow to speak
disapprovingly. But these were in the minority ;
the wonderful beauty of the girl, with a knowledge
that her ways and bringing up had not been as
theirs, made the majority large and something more
than lenient. And when she became engaged in
the innocent occupation of flower-gathering, like a
brilliant butterfly flitting from one to another,
satire was silent; even the most Puritanical seeming
to forget all about the thinness and scantiness of
her attire.

Then came the start, the listening attitude, the
affectation of alarm, followed by the confused
flight ; in grand voltes and side-bounds, as an
antelope surprised by a panther. At length the
circling retreat, round and round the ring of
spectators, at first in a rapid whirl, till feigning
exhaustion, her movements gradually became
slower and feebler, as though she would drop to
the earth.

Every eye was now on the alert ; they knew the
finale was near, and the recipient of the favour
would soon be declared. It often means nothing
beyond mere compliment ; and as oft for delicate
reasons, the favoured one is not the one wished
for. But no such influences were likely to affect
the present case, and the denouement was looked for
with a rare intensity of interest.

The girl had drawn off one of her jewelled
gloves — in those days they were so adorned — and
held it with arm stretch, ready to be flung. Still,
she went undulating on, at each turn of her face
toward the spectators seeming to search among
them. Many a one had wishes, and more than
one a hope of seeing that glove tossed to him.
For Clarisse Lalande had a large following of
lovers. All save one to suffer disappointment, with
more or less chagrin. And yet giving no gratification
to him at whose feet it eventually fell, as the
wise ones knew it would — Eustace Trevor.

With less show of alacrity than resignation he
took it up ; this an exigency of the performance.
After which, with open arms, he received the
exhausted danseuse, her breasts heaving and panting
as though they would burst the silken corset that
so slightly confined them.

Cold-blooded man he, many might have thought
him. But had other breasts been thus near his
own, another heart beating so close to his, he
would have shown warmth enough.

GUARDIAN ANGELS.

The swift Rhone cleaves his way between

Heights which appear as lovers who have parted
In hate, whose mining depths so intervene

That they can meet no more, though broken-hearted ;
Though in their souls, which thus each other thwarted,

Love was the very root of the fond rage
Which blighted their life's bloom, and then departed —

Itself expired, leaving them an age
Of years, all winters — war within themselves to wage."

Was it to be thus with Eustace Trevor and Vaga
Powell ?

Verily, it seemed so on that night ; and nevermore
than at that moment, when he, with her
cousin — Indian queen in counterfeit — strolled off
arm in arm along the lamplight walks. A sight to
tear her heart. And it tore it; might have
altogether rent and ruined it had the mutual misunderstanding

continued. Ay, "blighted the life's
bloom " of both, '' leaving them an age of years,
all winters."

But kind fate decreed it otherwise ; before another
night shadowed Avon's banks, whatever of confidence
had hitherto been between them was reestablished,
and true love triumphed over jealousy.

Partly by accident was the happy result brought
about ; though it might have come without that.
For on the side of each was a watchful monitor,
who understood the situation better than either of
themselves.

The guardian angels were Sir Richard Walwyn
and Sabrina Powell ; his friendship, and her sisterly
solicitude standing the younger lovers in stead.

"Why has your sister not danced with Captain
Trevor — I mean my Captain Trevor ? " queried the
soldier-knight of his betrothed. "I haven't seen
him near her all the night. Has there come a
coolness between them, think you ? "

Something of the sort, I fear."

'' But from what cause ? Have you any idea ^ "

Oh ! the cause is clear enough ! though she
hasn't made me her confidante

The Creole cousin ? "

"Just so."

But Vaga has nothing to fear from her ; nor
need being jealous, in the least."

Why do you say so, Richard ? "

Because Trevor don't care a straw for Mademoiselle
Lalande."

"Then what means the way he's been carrying
on with her ? "

Rather, say, the way she's carrying on with
him. It don't signify, however. Let her practise
all her arts ; she'll have her pains for nothing. I
know he's madly in love with your sister; has
been ever since first setting eyes upon her at
Holyhead. That much he has confided tome."


He may have changed. Clarissa is very beautiful
— very attractive ? "

"True, she is. But not the style to attract him.
Nor is he of the fickle sort. At Whitehall he bore
the reputation of having a heart of adamant ; with
no end of sighing damsels doing their endeavour
to soften it. Indeed, scandal spoke of its very
obduracy being the cause of his dismissal from
Court ; a certain Royal lady having assailed it unsuccessfully,
and for that reason turned against him.
Such a man once in love, as I know he is with
your sister, is not likely to veer about so suddenly."

But, you remember with what suddenness he
changed sides, politically ? "

"Ah! that's different, and to his credit. It was
not of his own choosing that he was on the wrong
one. And, soon as finding it so, he espoused the
right one. All the more likely his standing firm,
and proving true in an affair of the heart. But
are you sure the fault is not on Vaga's side?

I've observed her a good deal in the company of
the other Trevor, and several times dancing visit
him. What does that mean ? "

I cannot tell. He may be forcing his company
upon her; and she, offended at Eustace's behaviour,
accepts it."

Likely then they are playing at spite — that is,
my captain and your sister. It's a dangerous
game, and we must do something to stop it."

They thus exchanging confidences were engaged
lovers of long standing, who, but for the war
coming on, would now have been man and wife.
Hence their interest in the two who were in
danger of going astray was of a protecting
character. Sabrina, especially anxious about the
upshot on the score of her sister's happiness, rejoined
with alacrity, —

We must. Are you sure Eustace loves Vaga ? "

Sure as that I love you, dearest. I had
evidence of it, not many hours ago, and from his

own lips. On the way hither — we came together
you may know — he spoke of a heaviness at his
heart, and that he had never started to go to a
ball with less anticipation of pleasure. On my
asking for explanation, he said it was on account
of your sister. It was weeks since he had seen
her ; and something seemed to whisper she would
not be the same to him as she had been. Trying
to laugh away his fancies, and pressing him for a
more tangible reason, he merely added 'Reginald.'
I know he has always had a suspicion, if not
jealousy, about his cousin's relations with Vaga,
before he himself came to know her. When he
returned the other day, and he learnt that Reginald
was in Bristol — had been for some time — he took
it for granted he would also be often here in this
house. That, of course, considering the Cavalier
inclining of your aunt and cousin. No doubt the
thought, or fancy, of Master Rej being restored to
Vajra's favour is what affects him now."

'* It's but a fancy, then. Master Rej couldn't be

restored to favour he never had. As for Vag "

She broke off abruptly at the sound of voices
and footsteps. Two persons in conversation were
coming along the gravelled walk. The place was
a pavilion, trellised all round, the trellis supporting
a thick growth of climbers that formed a curtain
to it. There was a lamp suspended inside, but its
light had gone out, either through neglect or because
the day would soon be dawning. The
dialogue given above took place within the pavilion
; that to follow occurring just outside by the
entrance.

It was between two of the four, about whom
they inside had been conversing — Clarisse and
Eustace. She was still upon his arm, as he had
conducted her off the dancing ground ; she now
rather conducting him towards that quiet spot,
whither she had no idea of any one having preceded
them.

It seems so strange, Captain Trevor, you fighting
for the Parliament ? "

Why strange, Mademoiselle ? "

"Because of your father, and all your family,
being on the King's side ; your brave cousin too.
Besides, you're so different from these plebeian
Puritans and Roundheads ; unlike them in every
way."

Not every way, I hope, and would be sorry to
think I was. Rather would I resemble them in
their ways of truth and right — their aspirations for
liberty, and the self-sacrificing courage they have
shown to achieve it."

But the Cavaliers show courage too ; as much,
and more than they."

Neither more, nor as much. Pardon me.
Mademoiselle, for contradicting you. Hitherto
they've been better horsed, by robbing the poor
farmers, emptying every stable they came across.
That's given them the advantage of us. But

there'll be a turn to it soon, and we shall pay the
score back to Rupert and his plunderers."

Oh, Captain Trevor ! To speak so of the
gallant Prince — calling him a plunderer. For
shame ! "

He's all that, and more — a ruthless murderer.
Nor is the King: himself much less, after his
doings of the other day with the wretched captives
of Cirencester."

You naughty, naughty rebel ! " she rejoined,
with a laugh telling how little the misfortunes of
the Cirencestrians affected her, adding — *' And I
feel inclined to call you renegade as well."

Call me that, and welcome. 'Tis no disgrace
for a man to turn coat when he discovers he has
been wearing it wrong side out ; not put on so by
himself but by others. For what I've done. Mademoiselle
Lalande, I feel neither shame nor
repentance ; instead, glory in it."

"What a grand, noble fellow!" thought Sir

Richard, as also the other listener inside the
pavilion ; the latter with added reflection how
worthy he was to mate with her sister.

It was less his reasoning, than the defiance
flung to her in tone so independent, that caused
the Creole to shrink back from what she had said.
Fearing it might have given offence, she hastened
to heal the wound by the salve of self-humiliation.

"O sir! I but spoke jestingly; and please
don't think I meant reproaching you. As you
know, we women have but little understanding of
things political ; of English politics I less than any,
from being a stranger to the country — almost a
foreigner. In truth, I know not clearly which
party may be in the right. Nor do I care either
that is, enough to quarrel with my friends, and
certainly not with yourself, Captain Trevor. So
please pardon what I've said — forget it. You will,
won't you ? "

Her naz've admission and submission inclined

him to a better opinion of her than he had hitherto
entertained. " After all," thought he, " she hasa
woman's heart true, but led astray by sinister
surroundings." So reflecting, he returned kindly, —

There's nothing either to be pardoned or forgotten,
cohere Mademoiselle, And if there was, how
could I refuse a request made as you make it ? "

He spoke more warmly than had been his wont
with her ; addressed her as " chere Mademoiselle "
that also unusual. It was all on the spur of
the moment, and without thought of its being
taken in the way of endearment. But it was so
taken, and had the effect of misleading her.

I'm so glad we're to continue friends," she
exclaimed, impressively ; then in changed tone
adding — "About my glove.? Is it to be returned?
Or do you wish to keep it ? "

Questions that took him by surprise, at the same
time perplexing him. For, though offering a choice
of ways, it was a delicate matter which should be

VOL. IL K

taken. The glove was still in his hand, as he had
picked it up. To retain it would imply something
more than he was in the mind for ; while returning
it implied something else, equally against his
inclinations. It might give offence — be even regarded
as a rudeness.

A happy thought struck him — a compromise
which promised to release him from his dilemma.
The glove was a costly thing, embroidered with
thread of gold, and beset with jewels.

It is too valuable," he said ; " I could not
think of keeping it. Oh, no ! " and he held it out
towards her.

But she refused to take it, saying with a
laugh,—

Very considerate of you, sir ; and thanks ! But
I'm not so poor, that it will be impossible for me
to replace it by one of like value."

Foiled, he drew back his hand ; now with no
alternative but to keep the token he cared not for.

Since you are so generous, Mademoiselle, I
accept your gift with gratitude."

Even the cold formality of this speech failed to
dispel the illusion she had been all the night
labouring under. Unused to discomfiture of any
kind, she thought not of defeat in the game of
passion she was playing.

Oh ! it's nothing to be grateful for," she lightly
rejoined. "Only your due for rescuing me from
the pursuing enemy. Ha-ha-ha ! "

He was about to stow the favour under the breast
of his doublet, when he saw her glance go up to the
crown of his hat, over which still waved the feathers
of the egret, plucked by the base of Ruardean hill.

Perhaps you wouldn't care to carry it there ? "
she said, half jestingly. " It might spoil the look
of that pretty plume."

He was doubly perplexed now. To place the
glove in his hat meant letting it remain there,
meant more — a symbol to show that the giver of

it was esteemed beyond all others. And that in
her case would not be true. Besides, what would
she say — what think — whose favour, not proffered
but asked for, was already there t Despite all the
contrarieties of the night, Eustace Trevor was not
prepared to break with Vaga Powell by offering
her such a slight — an insult. With much to make
him sad and angry, he was neither sad nor angry
enough for retaliation as that. Sure, moreover, to
recoil upon himself — a reflection which needed no
other to determine him.

But the challenge had been thrown out, and
called for instant response — a yes or a no. Subterfuge
was no longer possible, even had it been
of his nature, and he resolved upon making a
clean breast of it.

"Mademoiselle Lalande, however proud of the
trophy you've been good enough to bestow on me,
there's a reason why I cannot wear it, as you
suggest ? '

A reason, indeed ! " the voice in a tone half
vexed, half surprise. "May I know it?" Then,
as if repenting the question, she quickly added,
"Oh, never mind! Give me back my glove, sir.
Good-night ! "

They, listening inside the pavilion, heard no
more words, only the sound of footsteps passing
away ; first light ones in rapid repetition ; then
others heavier and slower; after which silence profound.


A COMPLETE ECLAIRCISSEMENT.

Mademoiselle's game is up. You see, Sabrina,
I was right, and he's loyal to his love— true to
the gage of the egret's plume."

Indeed, yes ! What a tale for Vaga ! And
I shall tell it her soon."

twill gladden her, you think?"

I'm quite sure of it. Though I haven't evidence
of her heart's inclining in speech plain as that

we've just His ! Another couple coming this

way ! Really, Richard, we ought not to stay
here ; 'tis bad as being eaves-droppers."

** Never mind about the eaves-dropping. It will
sit light on my conscience, after leading to such



good 'results. Who may be the pair approaching
now, I wonder ? "

They listened. To hear music, with the hum
of many voices afar off; but two near, and drawing
nearer.

My sister ! " said Sabrina, almost instantly
recognising one of them ; then, after another brief
interval of silence, adding, *' and Reginald Trevor ! "
Continuing to advance, the two were soon upto
the pavilion ; and made stop, on the same
spot where but five minutes before stood their
respective cousins.

Now, however, it was the gentleman who spoke
first— after their coming to a stand— and as if
changing the subject of the dialogue already in
progress.

'' My cousin Eust seems beside himself with
Mademoiselle Lalande. I never saw man so madly
in love with a woman. I wonder if she reciprocates
it?"

He was pouring gall into Vaga Powell's heart,
and apparently without being conscious of it.
For, by this, he had reached full confidence that
his own love was reciprocated by her with whom
he was conversing.

Like enough," was the response, in tones so
despairingly sad, that, but for his being a fool in
his own conceit, he might have drawn deductions
from it to make him suspect his folly. More,
could he have but seen the expression upon her
features at that moment — pain, almost agony.
The pantomimic dance — just over, all its acts,
incidents, and gestures were still fresh before her
mind — the latest the most vivid — the dropping of
the glove ; its being taken up, as she supposed,
with eager alacrity ; then, the man she loved
throwing wide open his arms to receive into them
the woman she hated ! All this was in her
thoughts, a very tumult of trouble — in her heart
as a flaming fire.

The darkness favoured her, or Reginald Trevor
could not have failed perceiving it on her face.
But, indeed, she would have little cared if he had.
Dissembling with him all the night, she meant
doing so no more. Though the play was not with
him, the game had gone against her ; she had lost
the stakes, as she supposed, irretrievably ; and now
would retire into the shadow and bitterness of
solitude.

Little dreamt he of how she was suffering, or
the cause. Knowing it, he might have sprung
away from her side, quickly and angrily as had
Clarisse from that of Eustace.

Continuing the conversation, he said, insinuatingly,—


On second thoughts, I'm wrong. Mistress Vaga.
I Jive known a man as much in love with a
woman as my cousin is with yours — know one
now .^ "

Indeed ! "

The exclamatory rejoinder was purely mechanical,
she who made it not having enough interest in
what had been said as to inquire who was the
individual he alluded to. Yet this was the very
question he courted. He had to angle for it
further, saying, —

May I tell you who it is ? "
Oh, certainly ; if you desire to do so,"
Even this icy response failed to check him.
He either did not perceive its coldness, or mistook
it for reticence due to the occasion. Several
times, since his first abortive attempt, he had
been on the eve of making fuller declaration to
her — in short, a proposal of marriage. But she
had been dancing with others besides himself, and
no good opportunity had as yet offered. That
seemed to have come now. So, taking advantage
of it, and her permission, he said, in an impressive
way, —

The man is Reginald Trevor — myself"

If he expected her to give a start of feigned surprise,
and follow it up by the inquiry, " Who is the
woman ? " he was disappointed. For he but heard
repeated the laconic exclamation she had already
used, and in like tones of careless indifference.

Indeed ! " That, and nothing more.

Still repulsed he returned to the attack ;
again, as it were, begging the question, —

Shall I name the woman ? "

Not if you don't wish it, sir."

Response that should have made him withhold
the information, if not driven him from her
presence. A very rebuff it was ; and yet Reginald
Trevor looked not on it in this light. Instead,
still strong in his false faith and foolish hope, he
persisted, saying, —

But I do wish it, and will tell you ; though
you may little care to know. I cannot help the
confession. She I love is yourself — yourself, Vaga
Powell ; and 'tis with all my heart, all my soul ! "

The avowal, full and passionate, affected her no
more than the hints he had already thrown out.
In the same calm tone, firm, and with the words
measured, she made response, —

Captain Trevor, you've told me almost as much
before. And if I never gave you answer to say
the feeling you profess for me was not reciprocated,
I say it now. It is not— never can be. Friends,
if you wish, let us remain ; but for the other "

You needn't go on ! " he interrupted, impatiently,
almost rudely. " I've heard enough ; and now
know what's the obstacle between us. Not your
father, as I once supposed, but my cousin. Well,
have him, if you can get him. As for myself, I'm
consoled by thinking there are as good fish in
the sea as ever were caught out of it, and I
go to catch one of them. Adieu, Mistress Vaga
Powell ! "

Saying which, he strode off in true Cavalier
swagger, humming a gay chanson; having left her

alone in the darkness of night, and the gloom of
despair.

Only for an instant was she thus. Then she
felt arms flung around her, tenderly, lovingly, while
listening to speech, which promised to relieve her
of her misery.

** I was so glad, Vag," said Sabrina, " hearing
what you said. And I've heard something said
by another, at which you'll be glad, when I tell
it you."

Almost at the same instant of time, though ina
different part of the grounds. Sir Richard Walwyn
was in like manner promising to let light into
the heart of Eustace Trevor.

AFTER Runaway DOWN.

An hundred horsemen riding at their hardest —
not in any military formation, but strung out ina
straggled ruck — horsemen steel-clad from crown
to hip, some with helmets battered ; others bareheaded,
the head-piece gone ; cuirasses showing
dints, as from stroke of halberd or thrust of pike ;
on back and breastplate blood splashes, dried and
turned purple-black ; boots, mud-bespattered and
declare — this damaged cohort all that remained of
William the Conqueror's " army !

They were the remnant of Hesselrig's Horse,
the " Lobsters " in retreat from Roundway Down,
where the chivalrous, but too reckless, too confident
Waller, had given battle to the out-numbering

enemy under Byron and Wilmot ; been defeated,
and put to utter rout.

It was the wind up of a series of sanguinary
engagements with the Marquis of Hertford and
Prince Maurice, commencing with an encounter
on the low-wooded bottom between Tog and Friz-soil
hills, so hotly contested that veterans there
engaged, who had gone through all the Low
Country and German campaigns, declared the
most furious fights they ever had abroad were
but sport to it.

Carried up to the adjacent height of Lansdown,
from which, after another fierce conflict, the Parliamentarians
were forced to retire, the two armies
what remained of them — again came face to face
on the elevated plateau of Roundway Down ; the
final scene of the struggle and Waller's discomfiture.


Hesselrig's Cuirassiers had especially suffered
With ranks broken, and many of them unhorsed

they were all but helpless in their unwieldy armour,
and scores got tumbled over the cliffs of the Down.
Of a well-appointed regiment, over five hundred
strong, which but a few days before had filed out
through the gates of Bristol, only this straggling
troop — less than a fifth of the force, still kept the
saddle.

Waller was himself along with it — for the " Lobsters
" formed his body-guard — so too Hesselrig,
severely wounded. Crestfallen both — it could not
be otherwise — but with no cowed or craven look.
The blood upon their gauntlets and sword-hilts,
on their blades still united, told both had been
where cowards would not be — in the thick of the
fight. Only to superior numbers had they yielded,
and were now retiring sullenly as disabled lions.
If they rode hard and fast it was through the
urgency of their followers, who feared pursuit behind
with the fiendish cry, " No Quarter ! "

Morn was just dawning as the retreating troop

caught sight of Bristol's towers — glad to their eyes,
giving promise of refuge and rest. This last they
needed as much as the first. For days and nights
they had scarce ever been out of the saddle ; looked
wan for the want of sleep, and were weak from
fatigue and hunger. Their horses blown and dead-beat,
many of them staggering in their gait. No
wonder the sight of that city was welcome to
them.

But what a spectacle they themselves to those
inside it, to the hundreds, nay thousands, who gazed
off and out from turret, wall, and window ! The
first glimpse got of them was by the warder in the
Castle's keep, just as the brightening sky enabled
him to descry objects at a distance. Then other
sentries saw them from the watch towers of the
gates on that side ; and the signal of alarm ran
along the line of fortification, round and round.
Soon bells rang, trumpets brayed, and drums beat
all over the city, startling the citizens out of their

VOL. II. L

sleep and beds. Before the sun had yet shown
above the horizon, not one but was awake, and
most out of doors. Men rushed wildly through
the streets — women too — or stood perch, clustering
on every eminence, every pinnacle and parapet
thick as bees, with eager, anxious glances
scanning the country outside. At length to fix
them on the long, glittering line — for the sheen of
the cuirasses were not all gone — that now approached
in slow, laboured pace, as the crawl of
a scotched snake.

When near enough for the bare heads and battered
helmets to be distinguished, the blood touches
on dress, arms, and accoutrements, the gloom on
brows and in eyes, with lips compressed and
features hard set as in sullen anger — when these
sure insignia of disaster were fully before them,
a feeling of despondency came over the hearts of
the Bristolians. Intensified, doubled, when at the
head of this figment of a force, crushed and

shattered, they saw Sir William Waller, and by
his side Sir Arthur Hesselrig — the two leaders so
long victorious as to be deemed invincible 1 They
had seen them ride out with an army numbering
nigh 6,000 men, and now saw them returning, in
retreat, with but a bare hundred ! These so
down-looking and dispirited, that, as Waller himself
— candid as he was brave — confessed in his
report to the Lord-General, " a corporal with an
ordinary squadron could have routed them."

To many who witnessed their re-entry within
Bristol's gates it was as much spectre as spectacle
the presentiment of misfortune for themselves.

But not all viewed it in this light. There were
eyes into which it brought a sparkle of gratification ;
some even the glow of anticipated vengeance.
During Fiennes's iron rule, the " malignant " had
been much humiliated, and the prospect of a
change, themselves to have the upper hand, made
them jubilant. And there were the relatives and

friends of the so-called *' State Martyrs," with the
fate of these fresh in their mind, burning for revenge.
Citizens affected to the King's cause,
Cavaliers, whether prisoners on parole or otherwise,
the tapsters, gamesters, and tricksters of
every speciality ; in a word, all the reprobacy and
blackguardism of Bristol, high and low, male and
female, were gleeful at a sight giving them forecast
of that for which they had long been yearning
— an opportunity of pillage and plunder. It
was just with them, as it would be with their
modern representatives the Jingoes, at any mischance
to Liberalism, likely to give the Jew of
Hughenden another spell at despoiling and dishonouring
England. For they, too, were doughty
champions of beer and Bible, with whom national
honour was but a name, the nation's glory an
empty boast. They, as Tories now, cared not for
the wrongs and sufferings of an over-taxed people,
any more than rocks Arab slave-trader the tears

and lamentations of the poor human beings with
black skins he drives, brute-like, across the burning
sands of Africa. For is not the whole history
of Toryism, from its commencement up to the
latest chapter and verse, a record of sympathy with
the wronger and unpitying regardlessness for the
wronged — an exhibition of all the ferocity known
to the human heart, with all its falsehood and meanness
}

3|* <|€ 5j^ ^ JjC

By a coincidence in no way singular, but simply
from two events chancing to occur at the same
time, they were dancing at Montserrat House,
while Waller was riding in retreat from Roundway
Down. Madame Lalande's ball was on the night
after the battle, July 13th.

It was about to break up, for day was dawning,
and cheeks growing pale. Less than a month after
mill-summer, the hour was not so much into morning,
and there were some tireless votaries of Terpsichore

inclined for still another contredanse byway
of wind up. This came, however, in a manner
more sudden and unexpected. First, the call
notes of a distant bugle, taken up and responded toby
others, till a very chorus of them sounded allover
the city. Then a taiitara of drums, and the
jangling of church bells, with the boom of a great
gun from the Castle !

Too early for the revelled — before the hour of
orisons — what could it all mean ? So queried they
in the grounds of Montserrat House, gathering
into groups. Certainly, something unusual ; as the
fracas not only continued but seemed growing
greater. To the instrumental sounds were added
human voices, shouting in the streets, calls and
responses, with a hurried trampling of feet — men
rushing to and fro !

Only for a short while were Madame Lalande's
guests in suspense. Nor had they to go outside
for explanation. There was an eminence in the

grounds which commanded a view of most part
of Bristol, with the country beyond the fortified
line, south-eastward. On its summit stood a pavilion
; the same which on that night had been
the means of revealing more than one secret.
And now from this spot an anxious crowd — for
scores had rushed up to it — learnt the cause of the
excitement. Close in to the city's walls, about
to enter one of the gates, was the shattered remnant
of Hesselrig's Horse — all that was left of
Waller's defeated army !

If the dresses of those who clustered round
the pavilion — most in fancy costume — were diversified,
varied also were the feelings with which they
regarded this new spectacle presented to them. A
surprise to all ; to many an unpleasant one, but
most viewing it with delighted eyes. For, unlike
as with the crowds clustering other eminences
outside, within that precinct, hitherto almost sacred
to Cavaliers, this was, of course, in the ascendant.

And what they saw seemed sure evidence
of a crushing defeat having been sustained
by their adversaries ; so sure, that many
who had all the night behaved modestly, and
worn masks, now pulled them off and began to
swagger in true Cavalier fashion.

Sir Richard Walwyn, Eustace Trevor, and other
Parliamentarian officers present were compelled to
listen to observations sufficiently offensive. Had
they been themselves unmannerly, or even without
it, they could have stopped all that, being still
masters in Bristol. But there was no need for
their showing spite by taking the initiative ; as
this was forced upon them, whether or no, by
command and the simple performance of duty.
While Madame Lalande's guests were hastening
to take their departure, a man, newly arrived, made
appearance in their midst ; an officer, wearing 
and other insignia of an aide-de-camp.
Entering unannounced at the outer gate, without

ceremony he strode on up to the house, inquiring
for Sir Richard Walwyn.

Here ! " responded the knight, himself about to
leave the place ; and he stepped forth to meet the
new comer.

"From the Governor, Colonel Walwyn," said the
aide-de-camp, saluting, and drawing a slip of folded
paper from his sabretasche, which he handed to
the Colonel of Horse, adding, "In all haste."

Tearing it open, Sir Richard read : —

Re arrest all prisoners on parole, whether soldiers
or civilians. Search the city through, and send them
under guard to the Castle.

FlENNES.

** To the Colonel IValwyn."

Here's a revanche for us, Trevor," said the
knight, communicating the contents of the despatch
to his young troop captain, " if we are ill-natured

enough to care for such. Anyhow, we'll stop the
speech of some of those fellows who've been
making themselves so free of it. Haste down
to quarters, and bring Sergeant Wilde with half
a dozen files. We may as well begin our work
here. Why, bless me ! there's the man himself,
and the soldiers, too ! "

This, at the sight of the big sergeant, who was
just entering the gate, and behind him a score of
dismounted troopers. Rob had already received
orders from the Castle to report himself with a
detachment at Montserrat House.

A scene followed difficult of description. Kings,
Sultans, Crusaders — in costume only — with many
other disguised dignitaries, were unceremoniously
stopped in their masquerading; each taken charge
of by a common trooper, and pinned to the spot.
Many repented the imprudence of having thrown
aside their masks. By keeping these on they
might have escaped recognition. It was too late

to restore them ; and in a few minutes' time the
paroled prisoners were picked out, and ranged in
line for transport to the Castle's keep.

In all this there was much of the comic and
grotesque ; on both sides even badinage and
laughter. But there was anger too — Madame Lalande
and her daughter especially indignant — while
among the faces late unmasked were some showing
serious enough, even rueful. To them it might be
no jesting matter in the end.

On the countenance of Reginald Trevor — of
course one of the re-arrested — the expression was
singularly varied. As well it might, after so many
changes quick succeeding one another — jealousy of
his cousin ; confidence in his sweetheart restored,
soon to be lost again ; and now that cousin confronting
him, as was his duty, with a demand
terribly humiliating. Yet Eustace had no desire
to make it so ; instead, the reverse. For, meanwhile,
Sir Richard had whispered a word in his

ear which went far to remove the suspicions late
tormenting him. He but said, —

I've orders to take you to the Castle, Reginald."

Then to avoid speech, which might be unpleasant
to both, he turned away, leaving the prisoner to be
looked after by Rob Wilde, who had commands to
conduct him to his prison.

Come, captain ! " said the big sergeant patronisingly,
*' we can't a great ways to go. Not nigh
such a distance as ye 'tended takin' me — frae Cat's
Hill to the lock-up at Lydney."

The Royalist officer keenly felt the satirical jibe
flung at him by the Forester, but far more the play
of a pair of eyes that were looking down upon
him from one of the upper windows. For there
stood Vaga Powell, a witness to all that was passing
below. In a position almost identical he had seen
her twice before, with the expression upon her face
very similar. It puzzled him then, but did not vex
him as now. For now he better understood it ;

and, as he was marched off from Montserrat House,
he carried with him no sustaining faith or hope, as
when riding away from Hollymead.

Eustace also saw her at the window, as he was
passing off. But different was the look she gave
him, and his given back. In their exchanged
glances there was a mutual intelligence, which told
that their respective guardian angels had kept
promise by whispering sweet words to both.

Rennes SHOWS THE WHITE FEATHER.

Waller's stay in Bristol was of the shortest, only-long
enough to rest his wearied men and their
jaded horses. The " Night Owl " was not the bird
to relish being engaged in a beleaguered city, which
he anticipated Bristol would soon be. The field,
not the fortress, was his congenial sphere of
action ; and though sadly dispirited, his army all
gone, he had not yet yielded to despair. He
would recruit another, if it cost him his whole fortune.
So " To horse ! " and off again without
delay — Hesselrig along with him.

London was his destination, and to reach it,
with such feeble escort, a dangerous enterprise.
For it was but continuing his retreat through a



country swarming with the triumphant enemy.
With a skill worthy of Cyrus he made it good,
however ; going round by Gloucester, Warwick,
and Newport Parnell, at length arriving safe in
the metropolis.

But what of the citizens of Bristol he left
behind ? If they had been despondent on seeing
the shattered Cuirassiers re-enter their city not
long after these left, they saw another sight which
filled them with dismay. Also a body of horsemen
approaching the place ; not a skeleton of a
regiment in retreat, but the vanguard of a victorious
army — that which had won the day at
Roundway Down. For as the defeated one had
suffered utter annihilation, the western shires, now
overrun by the Royalists, were completely at their
mercy. The only Parliamentarian forces that remained
there were the garrisons of Gloucester and
Bristol, and it was but a question as to which
should be first assaulted.

The former had already experienced something
of a siege, and, thanks to its gallant Governor, successfully
resisted it ; while its bigger sister, farther
down the Severn, only knew what it was to be
threatened. But the Bristolians also knew their
city to be better game — a richer and more tempting
prize — and that they might expect the plunderers
at any moment. So when they beheld the
Light Horse of Wilmot and Byron scouring the
country outside, and up to their very gates, they
had little doubt of their being the precursors of
a larger and heavier force — an army on the march
to assail them.

Soon it appeared in formidable array, and
leaguer all round. For there was more than one
army left free to enfilade them. First came up
the conquering host of Hertford and Maurice,
fresh from the field of Lansdown. Then, on the
Oxford side, appeared Rupert with his free-brothers,
fire-handed from the burning of Birmingham, and

red-wrested from the slaughter at Chalgrove ;
where, by the treachery of the infamous Surrey,
they had let out the life-blood of England's purest
patriot.

In a very revel of Satanic delight they drew
around the doomed city, as eagles preparing to
stoop at prey, or rather as vultures on quarry
already killed. For it had neither strength of fortification,
nor defending force sufficient to resist
them. As already said. Waller going west had
almost stripped it of its defenders, numbers of
whom were now lying dead on the downs of
Wiltshire, as the Royalist leaders well knew. So
there was no question as between siege and assault,
Rupert, soon as arrived on the ground, determining
to storm.

And storm it was, commenced the next morning
at earliest hour. Successful on the Gloucester
side, where Rupert himself attacked, and the
traitor Langrish, with the timid Fiennes, defended.

VOL. n. M

After all his boasting, the lawyer-soldier let the
enemy in, almost without striking a blow. Nor
did they pass over his dead body either. He
survived the sad day, but never more to be trusted
with sword in the cause of a struggling people.

Very different was the defence on the southern
side, and of different stuff the defenders. There
Sir Richard Walwyn with his Foresters, and Birch
with his Bridgemen, held the ramparts against
Hertford and Maurice, not only foiling the attack,
but beating them off. In that quarter had been
blows enough, with blood flowing in rivers. The
Cornish men were cut down by scores, among them
some of their best leaders, as Planning and Prevention.
Alas ! all in vain. Alike to no purpose
proved the gallantry of the soldier-knight and the
stanch courage of the merchant-soldier ! Unavailable
their deeds of valour; for while they were
fighting the foe in their front — in the act of
putting hin to rout — behind they heard a trumpet

sounding signals for parley! And turning, beheld
a white flag, waving from a staff, within the city's
walls ! Saw and heard all this with amazement.
On their side the assailants were repulsed, and
Bristol still safe. Why then this show of surrender
? Could it be treason ?

Birch believed it was, though not on the part
of Fiennes. He was but vacillating and frightened,
Langrish playing the traitor, as the events proved,
ending in capitulation. But while Sir Richard and
his troopers were still in doubt about the purport
of the signals, they saw an aide-de-camp galloping
towards them — the same who brought the despatch
to Montserrat House at the breaking up of the
ball. A verbal message he carried now — command
for them to cease fighting.

"And why?" demanded the astonished knight,
other voices asking the same, as much in anger as
astonishment. "For what reason should we cease
fighting ? We're on the eve of victory ! "

I know not the reason, Colonel Walwyn," responded
the aide-de-camp, evidently ashamed of
the part he was constrained to play ; " only that
they've beaten us on the Gloucester side, and got
into the works. The Governor asked for an armistice,
which Prince Rupert has granted."

Oh ! you have Rupert round there, have you ?
I thought as much. This is Langrish's doing.
Gentlemen," he observed to the officers now gathering
around him, "we may guess how 'twill end
in a base, traitorous surrender. Possibly to be
delivered over to the tender mercies of this princely
freebooter. Are you ready to risk it with me, and
cut our way out ? "

Ready — yes ! " responded Eustace Trevor, and
the men of the Forester troop, loudest of all their
sergeant.

'* We, too ! " cried the Bridgemen, Birch giving
them the cue ; while others here and there echoed
the daring resolve.

But the majority were silent, and shrank back.
It was too hopeless, too desperate, running the
gauntlet against countless odds. With the whole
garrison agreeing to it, there might have been a
chance. But they knew this would be divided, in
view of the treason hinted at.

While they were still in debate as to what
should be done, another mounted messenger came
galloping up with news which quickened their deliberation,
bringing it almost instantly to a close.
The enemy had offered honourable terms, and
Fiennes had accepted them. It was no longer a
question of surrender, but a fait accompli.

What are the conditions .? " every one eagerly
asked.

To get answer : " No prisoners to be taken, no
plundering. Soldiers, and all who have borne arms
against the King, left free to march out and away.
Citizens the same, if they wish it. Three days to
be allowed the disaffected for clearing out of the

city, and removal ot household effects." After
that — ay, and before it, as the wise ones believed
it would be " ware the pillager ! "

On its face the bond was fair and reasonable
enough, and many were rather surprised at its
leniency. Certainly, to one unacquainted with the
circumstances, such conditions of surrender might
seem more than generous. But knowing the
motives, all idea of generosity is at once eliminated.
Around to Rupert had come the report of
repulse on the southern side — Planning killed, Prevention,
too; with slaughter all along the Cornish
line, and a likelihood of utter rout there. Besides,
two or three scores of distinguished prisoners
inside Bristol had to be considered ; these no
longer on parole, but jailed, and still held as
hostages. With these gages against any attempt
at cruel extortion, none could be safely made ; and
the keys of Bristol were handed over to Prince
Rupert by Nathaniel Fiennes in a quiet, consenting,

almost amicable way, as might the seals of
office from a going-out mayor to his successor.

How the son of the Elector Palatinate honoured
the trust, and kept faith with his word, is matter
of history. He did neither one nor the other ;
instead, disregarded both, basely, infamously. Soon
as his followers were well inside the gates, as had
been predicted, there was pillage unrestrained ; insult
and outrage to every one they encountered
on the streets, women not excepted. This was
the way of the Cavaliers — the self-proclaimed
gentlemen of England.

INSULTING A FALLEN FOE.

A VERY saturnalia of riot and rapine followed
the capture of Bristol. For the conditions of surrender
were broken before the ink recording them
was dry, and the soldiers fell to sacking, unrestrained.
There were plenty of spiteful " malignant"
to point out who should be the victims,
though little recked the royal hirelings what
house they entered, or whose goods appropriated.
All was fish to their net ; and so the plundering
went on, with scenes of outrage indescribable.

Fiennes has left testimony that Rupert did his
best to stay his ruffian followers, cuffing and
striking them with the flat of his sword. Light
blows they must have been, administered more

1 68

in jest than earnest, with aim to throw dustin
the eyes of the now ex-Governor and his staff
standing by. The men on whose shoulders they
fell paid little heed to them; for had they not
been promised the sacking of Bristol .? An intercepted
letter from Byron, of massacre memory,
to Rupert himself, puts this scandalous fact beyond
the possibility of contradiction or denial.

That promise was kept faithfully enough, and
the license allowed in full. Every house of a
Parliamentarian, noted or not, received a domiciliary
visit, and was stripped of its valuables —
all that could not be hidden away— while ladies
of highest respectability were subjected to insult.
It was Bristol's first experience of victorious
Cavaliers ; and even they who had conspired
to introduce the sweet thing had their surfeit of
it ere long.

By the terms of capitulation the soldiers of the
vanquished garrison were to march out unmolested.

But they must go at once, so as to vacate quarters
for the in-coming conquerors. To civilians three
days were allowed for decision as to staying or
going, with the implied right of removing their
effects. This last clause may seem a sorry jest,
since there was not much left them for removal.
Of course, all who knew themselves compromised,
and had the means, decided on going.

Among these, it need scarce be said, was the
Master of Hollymead. Under royal ban already,
he knew Bristol would no longer be a safe place
of residence, either for himself or his daughters.
Perhaps he feared more for them under the aegis
of such an aunt, and the companionship of such a
cousin. The Cavalier wolves would now be ravening
about free from all restraint — admitted to
Montserrat House, and there made more welcome
than ever. Sad he had been at finding his sister
so changed ; irksome the sojourn under her roof ;
and now that opportunity offered to take departure

he hastened to embrace it. So eager was he
to get away from the surrendered city, that he
would not avail himself of the three days' grace,
but determined to set forth on the morning after
the surrender.

Luckily he had but few effects to embarrass
him, having left his plate and other Penates in
Gloucester, whither he intended repairing. It
remained but to provide transport in the way of
saddle-horses, just then a scarce and costly commodity
in Bristol. But, cost what they might,
Ambrose Powell had the means of obtaining them ;
and that night, ere retiring to rest, he had everything
ready. His daughters had been warned
and were prepared for the journey ; both of them
eager as himself to set out upon it — neither caring
ever to set eyes on Aunt Lalande or Cousin

Clarisse again.

■)f-K- * * *

Still another sunrise, and the people of Bristol

were treated to a spectacle different from any that
had preceded, or they had ever witnessed. They saw
the late defenders of their city, now disarmed and
half-disbanded, marching away from it, out through
its gates, and between files of their foes, these last
lining the causeway for some distance outside.

In such cases, among the soldiers of civilized
countries, it is a rule, almost universal, that no
demonstration be made by the conquerors to insult,
or further humble the conquered. More often maybe
heard expressions of sympathy, even deeds of
kindness done. But all was different at this the
first surrender of Bristol. As the defeated soldiers
marched out, many with eyes downcast and mien
dejected, no word nor look of pity was bestowed
on them. Instead, they were assailed with taunts
and derisive cries, some even getting kick or cuff
as they ran the gauntlet between the lines of their
truculent enemies. And these were "the gallants
of England," ready to " strike home for their

King," as one of their songs puts it ; but as ready
to be spit upon by King, or Prince, if it so pleased
him. Gallants indeed ! As much desecration of
the term applied to the Cavalier of Charles's
time as to the music-hall cad of our Victorian
era.

The chief exodus of the departing Parliamentarians
was by the gate, and along the road leading
to Gloucester. There was nothing in the
articles of capitulation to hinder them again taking
up arms. For reasons already stated they were
not prisoners, not bound by parole d'konneiir, but
free to turn round and face the foe now exulting
over them whenever opportunity should offer.
As a consequence, most took the route for
Gloucester, where the stanch Massey still held
his ground, and would be glad to avail himself
of their services.

But not all making away were soldiers. In the
stream of moving humanity were citizens, men

and women, even whole families who had forsaken
their homes, dreading ill-treatment at the hands
of the Royalist soldiery ; fleeing from Bristol as
Lot from the doomed cities of the plain. Among
these fugitives many a spectacle of wretchedness
was presented, at which the unfeeling brutes who
were witnesses but laughed.

Outside, and not far from the gate through
which the motley procession was passing, Rupert
sat in his saddle, the central figure of a group
of splendidly uniformed officers. They were his
personal staff, with the elite of his army, gathered
there to gloat over the humiliation of adversaries
who had oft humiliated them. Gentlemen as they
deemed themselves, some could not resist gratifying
their vengeful spleen, but gave exhibition of
it, in speech coarse and ribald as any coming from
the lips of their rank-and-file followers. In all
of which they were encouraged by the approving
laughter of their Prince and his high-toned entourage.

Never merrier than on that morn were these
jovial gentry ; believing as they did that the fall
of Bristol was the prelude to their triumph overall
England, and henceforth they would have it
their own way.

While at the height of their exultation a troop
came filing along the causeway, the sight of which
brought a sudden change over the countenances
of the jesters. It was composed of men in cavalry
uniform, but afoot and without arms ; only some
half-dozen — the officers — on horseback. Its standard,
too, taken from it, and, perhaps, well it had
been. Flouted before the eyes of that Cavalier
crew, alike regardless of oath and honour, the
banner, showing Crown impaled by Sword, would
have been torn to shreds ; they bearing it set upon
and cut to pieces.

But it needed no ensign, nor other insignia, to
tell who the dismounted and dismantled troopers
were. Many around Rupert had met, fought with,

and fled from them ; while all had heard of Sir
Richard Walwyn's Horse, and his big sergeant.

These they were, but in woefully diminished
numbers — worse than their sorry plight They
had borne the brunt of battle on the southern side ;
and although they had slain hundreds of the
Cornish men, it was with a terrible thinning of
their own ranks.

But their gallant leader was still at their head
and by his side Eustace Trevor, with his veteran
trumpeter Hubert ; while, though marching afoot,
almost as conspicuous as the mounted ones, there
too was the colossal sergeant erst deerstealer, Rob
Wilde. All proudly bearing themselves, notwithstanding
what had transpired. No thought of
having been conquered had they ; instead, the consciousness
of being conquerors. And less angry at
the men with whom they had been fighting than at
him for whom they had fought. Nathaniel Fiennes
had either betrayed them and their cause, or proved

incapable of sustaining it. It was on that account
they looked scowling and sullen, as they filed past
Rupert and his surrounding.

But if their black looks were given back by the
Royalist officers, these forbore the taunting speech
they had hitherto poured upon others. Something
of shame, if not self-respect, restrained them.
They knew it would but recoil on themselves, as
with curs barking at lions.

As Sir Richard and his troop captain came
opposite, two officers alongside Rupert exchanged
looks with them of peculiar significance. Colonel
Tom Lunsford and Captain Reginald Trevor these
were. Both released from their imprisonment —
the latter but the day before — they were now not
only free, but in full feather and favour, appointed
to the Prince's staff.

The interchange of glances between the quartette
was each to each ; the ex-lieutenant of the Tower
alone regarding the soldier knight, and with a sneer

VOL. n. N

of malicious triumph. He would have added
words, but dreaded getting words back that might
rake up old scores, as when they last met at Holly-mead,
exposing his poltroonery. So he contented
himself with a sardonic grin, to get in return for
it a look of contempt, too scornful and lordly to
care for expression in speech.

The play of eyes between the cousins was alike
full of meaning, and equally unintelligible to
lookers on who knew not the antecedents. But
they passed words as well ; only a remark with
rejoinder, the former even unfinished. Reginald,
still smarting from the incidents of that night at
Montserrat House, could not restrain his tongue ;
and, as the other came close, he said, with his old
affectation of superiority, —

'* If I'd only had the chance to meet you on the
ramparts yesterday morning, I would "

You would be there now, without me," was the
interrupting retort. " Down among the Cornish

dead men. That's what you intended telling me,
isn't it ? "

Thus again getting the better in the encounter
of words, with a light laugh Eustace rode on,
leaving his cousin angrier than ever, more than
ever desirous of crossing swords with him to the
cry of " No Quarter ! "

A PRINCELY ADMIRER.

Mein Gottt, what a sweet fraiilein ! A pair
of them ! Wundersch'dn I "

It was Prince Rupert who so exclaimed, his
eyes turned upon two young girls in a gaze of
more than ordinary interest.

Ladies they were, as grace, garb, and other surroundings
proclaimed them. On horseback, an
elderly gentleman along with them, riding in front ;
and behind a small retinue of servants, male and
female. They had just issued out of the gate as
part of the stream of people hastening away from
the city, and were coming on towards the spot
occupied by the Royalist commander and his

staff.



Still looking after the Forest troop, not yet out
of sight, Reginald Trevor faced round on hearing
the Prince's exclamatory words. Chafed already
by the sharp retort of his cousin, what he saw now
gave him a fresh spasm of chagrin. Ambrose
Powell and his daughters setting off on a journey,
evidently for Gloucester, whither Eustace was
going too !

Lunsford had also caught sight of them, showing
almost as much excitement, with more surprise.
Just out of Berkeley Castle, where he had been incarcerated
ever since the affair of Edgehill, he had
not heard of the Powell family being in Bristol.
And now beholding the woman whose beauty had
so impressed him while tax-collecting in the Forest
of Dean, it gave him a start, succeeded by a feeling
of vexation to see she was going away, again
to be beyond his reach.

By this the travelling party had got opposite,
and were passing on. Poorly mounted all, on

horses very different from those they would have
been riding around Ruardean. But the sorriness
of their nags made no difference as regarded the
looks of the ladies. Dignity as theirs was not
dependent on extraneous trifles, and for their
beauty the very contrast, with the excitement of
the situation, but rendered it the more piquant
and conspicuous.

The cheeks of both flushed burning red as they
came opposite the group of officers. No wonder,
with so many eyes bent in bold gaze upon them.
They heard words, too, offensive to female ears.

It's a pity, Vag," said Sabrina, in an undertone,
"we didn't think of putting on our masks."

Oh ! I don't care," rejoined the younger sister,
with a jaunty toss of the head. "They may look
their owlish eyes out — it matters not to me."

Just then her own eyes encountered another
pair, which brought a change over her countenance
Reginald Trevor's. He was gazing at her with

an intensity of expression that ill bore out the indifference
he pretended when parting with her at
the Balances' ball. A frown it was now, equally
affected, as she knew. And just because of knowing
this she did not return it ; instead, gave him a
look half-kind, half-pitying. If a little coquettish,
she was not cruel ; and she felt resentful, remembering
how on that night she had misled him.

At the same time there was a crossing of eyes
between her sister and another officer close by.
Sabrina saw the man who had so impudently
ogled her at Hollymead, knowing him to be
Colonel Lunsford. In a similar manner was he
acting now, only to get from her a glance of contemptuous
scorn, which would have rebuked any
other than a brazen Cavalier.

He did quail under it a little, feeling in his
heart that if he ever received favour from that
lady it would have to be a forced one.

Who are they ? " interrogated the Prince, after

they had passed, still following them with his eyes.
You appear to know them, Colonel ? "

It was Lunsford to whom he addressed himself,
observing the look of recognition with which the
latter was regarding them.

Those ladies ? Is it they your Royal Highness
deigns to inquire about?" And he pointed
to the party which had so interested all.

Ya ! Or only one of them, if you like — she
with the golden locks. I care not to know the
other."

Reginald Trevor had overheard this with a
singular revulsion of feeling. Bitter as it was to
him to see Vaga Powell depart, it would now have
been worse, the thought of her remaining in
Bristol. Angry he was with her, but not so spiteful
nor wicked, as to wish her a fate like that.
Well knew he what danger there was to any woman
whose beauty tempted Rupert.

Diametrically opposite were the feelings of Langford

as he listened to the Prince's declared preference.
He had feared it was for the elder sister,
which would spoil his own chances should such
ever come. Relieved, he made answer, —

"They are sisters, your Royal Highness; the
daughters of the gentleman you see along with
them."

•* Egad ! a rich father in the way of womankind.
I wouldn't mind pilfering a part of his wealth.
That bit of saucy sweetness, with cheeks all roses,
ought to be pleasant company. I haven't seen
anything to equal her in all your England."

Then, your Royal Highness, why do you allow
them to go ? " said Lunsford, speaking in an undertone.
" As you see, they're setting off for Gloucester,
and it may be some time before an opportunity
"

Ah ! true," interrupted the Prince, reflectively.

If your Highness deign to say the word, they'll
be brought back. It's not yet too late."

The suggestion was selfish as it was base. For
he who made it but wished them detained on his
own account.

For a moment Rupert seemed inclined to fall
in with it ; and might have done so, but for a
reflection that got the better of him.

Nein^ Colonel ! " he said at length. *' We dare
not."

** What dares not your Royal Highness?"

That you propose. You forget the terms of
capitulation ? To infringe them would cause
scandal, and of that we Cavaliers have had accusation
already — as much as we can well carry. 
! "

The laugh told how little he cared for it, and
how lightly it sat upon his conscience.

Your Highness, I'm aware of all that," persisted
Lunsford. "But these are excepted people
—that is, the father."

"How so?"

Because of his being one of the King's worst
and bitterest enemies. But that's not all. He's
been a recusant — is still. I myself attempted to
levy on him for a loan by Privy Seal — three
thousand pounds — the King required. I not only
failed to get the money, but came near being set
upon, and possibly torn to pieces, by a mob of
Dean Foresters — very wolves — his adherents and
retainers. Surely all that should be sufficient
justification for the detaining of him and his."

Prompted by his vile passions again, the Royal
Sybarite seemed inclined to act upon the diabolical
counsel. But, although the war's history already
bristled with chronicles of crime, nothing quite so
openly scandalous, as that would be, had yet appeared
upon its pages. Many such there were
afterwards, when this Prince and his gallants had
more corrupted England's people, and better accustomed
them to look lightly on the breaches of
all law and all decency.

At a later period Rupert would not have regarded
them, as indeed he did not twelve months
after in this same city of Bristol. Of his behaviour
then thus wrote one of his attached servitors to
the Marquis of Ormond, —

Prince Rupert is so much given to his ease
and pleasure that every one is disheartened that
sees it. The city of Bristol is but a great house
of bawdry."

Things were not so on that day succeeding its
surrender, and public opinion had still some restraint
upon him. Enough to deter him from the
outrage he would otherwise willingly have perpetrated.


Never mind, Colonel," he at length said
resignedly. " We must let the birds go, and live
in hopes of seeing them again. You know their
roosting place, I suppose ? "

I do, your Royal Highness."

So, well ! When we've settled things with the

sword, which wee soon shall now, I may want you
to pilot me thither. Meanwhile, last es gehenna

which the dialogue ended, unheard by all
save Reginald Trevor. And he only overheard
snatches of it ; still enough to make him apprehensive
about the fate of Vaga Powell. If he
wanted her for himself it was not in the way Prince
Rupert wanted her.

THE CADGERS ON THE KYMIN.

Laws, Jack ! fear us be takin' back bad news to
Sir Richard. An worse for the poor young lady
at Glo'ster. Rob's told me her wor well-nigh
distract when her heard he wor took pris'ner.
That'll it be as her get to hear o' his been' bad
wounded too ? Her knows nothing' o' that."

Maybe 'tant so much o' a wound after all,
nothing' for he to go dead on. Folks allays
zagerates such things. An' if he live it through,
like 'enough 'won't be very long fores they git unfree
o' his 'imprisonment. I ha' an idea, Winny dear,
the letter us ha' got be relation' to that same. Else-wise
why slid the Colonel Kyrle, who wor once
on the Parliamentary side, an's now on t'other,

why slid him be writing' to Sir Richard, or Sir
Richard to he ? Beside, all this queer business us
be a coin'. It seem to mean something' 'bout gittin'
the young gentlemen out o' gaol ; maybe by
changing' he for another. Don't ee think so ? "

"Like it do."

She knew it meant that, and more. For Rob
Wilde had given her a hint of why they had been
sent to Monmouth market — ostensibly cadging on
their own account, but in reality as messengers in
the pay and employ of Sir Richard Walwyn.
Though Jack was personally the bearer of the
secret despatches, Winny was the one entrusted
with the diplomacy, and knew more than she
thought necessary to confide to him.

They were on return from the market — for it
was afternoon — and once more climbing a steep
hill; this time not the Cat's but the Kymin—\S\^
old Roman Road (Came) which, crossing the
Wye at Monmouth (Blestium), led up to the Forest

table-land by Staunton. The ascent commences
at the bridge, winding for miles through romantic
woods and scenery unsurpassed in England. The
bridge as then was a quaint, massive structure,
having a towered gate on its tete de pont, with
portcullis, draw-arch, and guard-house. A guard
of Royalist soldiers were stationed on it ; for ever
since the breaking out of the war Monmouth had
been kept for the King. But the cadgers had
found no difficulty in passing this guard, either at
going in, or coming out. It was market day, and
Jinkum was laden with marketable commodities —
a motley collection of farmyard fowls — hens, ducks,
and geese — making a very pandemonium in the
panniers. Had the soldiers upon the bridge but
known what the little limping man carried inside
his wooden leg, like enough they would have
pitched him over the parapet. It was after getting
clear of them, and well up hill, that the brother
and sister were unburthening themselves to one

another, as above described. The dialogue had
commenced by Jack chuckling over the way they
had outwitted the bridge guards, and referring back
to how they had done the same, some fifteen
months before, with the " Cavalieres," encountered
on the Bristol road by Berkeley. He was in high
glee, jesting about and praising his artificial leg —
which had proved worth more to him than the
real one — again in pleasant anticipation of a like
remunerative result. The sister, however, was not
joyous as he ; her thoughts just then dwelling on
that poor young lady described by Rob Wilde as
having been "well-nigh distract." That was it
which had turned their conversation into the
channel it had taken.

There was a short interregnum of silence after

Winny's assenting rejoinder. Broken by Jack

with an observation bearing on the same topic of

discourse, but about a different place and time.

'Two a pity the Captain good back to Holly-vol.

n. o

mead wi' so few o' his lodgers along. I cud a told
he that want safe, seen' the Colonel Lingen ha'
his quarters so near by, in Goodrich Castle. Him
be a dangerous neighbour, an' master o' all roundabout
their now."

Ye be right. Jack ; 'two a pity," she answered,
echoing his first reflection. " But their wor a good
reason for 't, Rob's died me. Seems Master Powell
had something' at Hollymead — him wanted getting'
to Glo'ster, so's to be safer their. 'Two a thing
o' great value him had hid away, fores leaving' for
Bristol that time, an' the Captain volunteered like
to go for it. How could him know o' the danger
frae Goodrich .'* That wor brought about by
treezun ; one o' his men, who stepped away in the
night an' warned the Colonel Lingen. So him got
looked by surprise."

Well, they didn't take he, 'without getting' a taste
of his steel ; a sharp taste, too ; beside more frae
his lodgers, few as they wor. Jim Davis, who wor

up to the house, morning' after, seed blood all 'bout
the place ; modern could a' corned o' them as lay-killed.
The Cavalieres had carried away the
wounded a' both sides, wi' their own dead ; as
Jim think a good dozen."

That be true enough ; more nor a dozen, I ha'
myself heard. But what do it signify how many o*
Lingen's wolves be gone dead, if that handsome
young gentlemen ha' to die, too ? Sure as we
be on Kymin-hill, 'twill break Mistress Vaga's
heart."

"Stuff an' nonsense! Hearts bent so eezy
broke."

Ah ! that's all j^ou know about it."

She could make the remark with confidence in
its truth. There was no record of Jerky ever
having had sweetheart, or feeling the soft sentiment
of love. And for herself, some pangs of jealousy
which Rob Wilde had occasioned her, though unconsciously,
made her a believer that hearts could

be broken. For this great Forest woman loved
like a lioness, and could be jealous as a tigress.

Oh, well ! " rejoined the amiable brother, without
taking notice of the slur on his lack of his
amatory experience, " it shout be as ye say, sister
Winny ; supposing' the young gentleman's wounds
to prove mortal. But that an't like, from all
us ha' heard the day. So let's we live in hope.
An' I wudn't wonder," he added, in a more cheerful
tone ; " wudn't a bit wonder, if, inside this
timber leg o' mine, their be something' to tell Sir
Richard the Captain an't in any great danger.
Maybe to say him will soon be out o' prison, an'
back in his saddle, to cut down another Cavaliers
or two."

Hope that's the news us be takin' to High
Meadow. Whatever 'tis, let we get their quick's
us can. Whack on the creature."

The final admonition referred to Jinkum ; and his
master, in obedience to it, gave out the customary

yee-up ! " accompanied by the less usual application
of cudgel.

A good deal of this last the donkey now needed.
The morning had been hot, with the panniers full
and heavy, toward the market. Now, on return,
it was still sultry, and the wicker weighted as ever,
Sir Richard Walwyn was not the strategist to let
his scheme have a chance of miscarrying ; and
Jinkum was bearing back into the Forest country
a large consignment of grocery goods ; for which the
consignee would care little, save as to the time of
delivery. But about this he would be particular
to an instant, as the cadgers knew ; and so, on up
the Kymin, Jinkum caught stick, in showers thick
as had ever rained upon his hips, even when
climbing the sharper and more familiar pitches of
Cat's Hill.

BY THE "Blackstone."

On the highest point of the Forest of Dean district
just one thousand feet above ocean's level — is a
singular mass of rock known as the "Buckstone."
An inverted pyramid, with base some fifteen feet
in diameter, poised upon its apex, which rests on
another rock mass of quadrangular shape as upon
a plinth. Into this the down-turned apex seems
indented so far as to make the apparent surface of
contact but a few square feet. In reality the two
masses are detached, the superimposed one so
loose as to have obtained the character of a " rocking
stone." Many the attempt to rock it ; many
the party of tourists who had laid shoulders against

it to stir it from its equilibrium ; not a few taking



departure from the place fully convinced they had
felt, or seen it, move.

And many the legend belonging thereto, Druidical
and demoniac ; some assigning it an artificial, others
a supernatural, origin.

Alas for these romantic conjectures ! the geologist
gives them neither credence nor mercy.
Letting the light of science upon the Buckstone,
he shows how it comes to be there ; by the most
natural of causes — simply through the disintegration
of a soft band of the old red sandstone
interposed between strata of its harder conglomerate.

From beside this curious eccentricity of the
weather-wearing forces is obtained one of the finest
views of all England, or rather a series of them,
forming a circular panorama. Turn what way one
will the eye encounters landscape as lovely as it
is varied. To the east, south-east, and south can
be seen the far-spreading champaign country of
Gloucester, Somerset, and Devon, here and there

diversified by bold, isolated prominences, as the
Cotswolds and Mendips, with a noble stream, the
Severn, winding snake-like along, and gradually
growing wider, till in funnel-shape it espouses the
sea, taking to itself the title of Channel.

From the shores of this, stretching away northward,
but west from the Buckstone, is a country
altogether different. No plains in that direction
worth the name, but hills and undulating ridges,
rolling up higher and higher as they recede, at
length ending in a mountain background, blue-black,
with a horizontal line which shows many a
curious col and summit.

The greater portion of this view is occupied by
the shire of Monmouth, its foreground being the
valley of the Wye, where this river, after running
the gauntlet between English Bicker and the
Towards, comes out surging and foam-crested
as a victorious warrior with his plumes still unshorn.
And as he in peaceful times might lay them aside,

SO the fretted and writhing river, clot after clot,
casts off its snowlike froth, and, seemingly appeased,
flows in tranquil current through the narrow strip
of meadow land on which stands the miniature city
of Monmouth.

Although below the Buckstone, at least nine
hundred of the thousand feet by which this surmounts
the sea's level, the point blank distance
between them is inside the range of modern great
guns. And so well within that of a field-glass
that from the overhanging Forest heights men
could be distinguished in the streets of the town
or moving along the roads that lead out of it.

As already said, one of these is the Kymin, then
the main route of travel to Gloucester, by Coleford
and Mitcheldean. Near where it attains the Forest
elevation, at the picturesque village of Staunton,
a lane branches off leading to the higher point
on which stands the Buckstone ; a path running
through woods, only trodden by the tourist and

others curious to examine the great balanced
boulder.

On that same afternoon and hour when the
cadgers were toiling up the Kymin-hill, two personages
of very different appearance and character
both men — might have been seen entering into
the narrower trackway, and continuing on up
towards the rock-crowned summit.

On reaching it one of them drew out a telescope,
and commenced adjusting the lens to his sight.
If his object was but to view the scenery there
was no need for using glass. Enough could betaken
in by the naked eye to satisfy the most
ardent lover of landscape, though in September
the woods still wore their summer livery ; for on
Wye side it is late ere the foliage loses its greenery,
and quite winter before it falls from the trees.
Here and there only a dash of yellow, or a mottling
of maroon red, foreshadowed the coming change ;
but no russet-grey as yet. The afternoon was one

of the loveliest ; not a cloud in the azure sky save
some low-lying fleecy cumuli, snow-white but resented,
towards which the sun seemed hastening
as to a couch of repose. A cool breeze had succeeded
the sultriness of the mid-day hours ; and,
aroused from its torpor, all animated nature was
once more active and joyous. Out of the depths
of the High Meadow woods came the whistling
call of stag and the bleat of roebuck ; from the
pastures around Staunton the lowing of kine,
mingled with the neighing of a mother mare, in
response to the " whither " of unweaned foal ;
while in Forest glade might now and then be
heard shrill cries of distress, where fierce polecat
or marten had sprung upon the shoulders of some
hapless hare, there to clutch and cling till the
victim dropped dying on the grass.

All the birds were abroad, some upon the trees,
singing their evensong, or making their evening
meal ; others soaring above, with design to make

a meal of them. Of these a host ; for nowhere
are the predatory species more numerously represented
than along the lower Wye. More
numerous then than now; though still may be
seen there the fish-eating osprey ; oftener the kite,
with tail forked as that of salmon ; not unfrequently
the peregrine falcon in flight swift as an arrow,
and squeal loud as the neigh of a colt ; and at all
times the graceful kestrel, sweeping the air with
active stroke of wing, or poised on quivering
pinions, as upon a perch.

In those days, eagles were common enough on
the Wye; and just as the two men had taken
stand by the Buckstone, a brace of these grand
birds came over ; the owners of an eyrie in the
Caldwell rocks, or the Windcliff. After a few
majestic gyrations around the head of Staunton-hill,
with a scream, they darted across the river to
Great Toward, and thence on to quarter Copper
Wood.

But he using the telescope, as his companion,
took no more notice of them than if they had
been but skylarks. Nor looked they on that lovely
landscape with any eye to its beauties. They were
neither tourists nor naturalists, but soldiers ; and
just then, man, with his ways alone, had interest
for them.

Both were in uniform ; the elder — though there
was no great difference in their ages — wearing
that of a Colonel in the Parliamentary army ; a
rank which, in these modern days, when military
titles are so lavishly bestowed, would seem as
nothing. But in those times of a truer Conservatism,
even though the social fabric was being
shaken to its foundation, a colonel held as high
command as a major-general now. So with him
who had the telescope to his eye ; for it was Colonel
Edward Massey, the military Governor of Gloucester.


And the other was a colonel, too, on the Parliamentary

side ; though in uniform of a somewhat
irregular kind. Dressed as a Cavalier, but with
certain insignia, telling of hostility to the Cavalier's
creed ; one especially proclaiming it, with bold
openness — this, a bit of gold embroidery on the
velvet band of his hat, representing a crown, thrust
through and through by a rapier. Fair fingers
had done that deft needlework, those of Sabrina
Powell. For he who displayed the defiant symbol
was Sir Richard Walwyn.

Why the two colonels were together, and there,
needs explanation. Many a stirring event had
transpired, many a bloody battle been fought, since
the surrender of Bristol to Rupert; and among
them that most disastrous to him as to the King's
cause — Marston Moor. It had changed everything
; as elsewhere, freeing the Forest of Dean
from the Royalist marauders, who had been so
long its masters. Massey had himself dealt them
a deadly blow at Beachley; routing Sir John

Wintour's force, caught there in the act of fortifying
the passage across the Severn.

That occurred but three days before, and the
active Governor of Gloucester having hastened onto
Staunton, was now contemplating a descent
upon Monmouth.

There was one who had pressed him to this
haste, having also counselled him to attempt the
capture of the town. This, the man by his side.
But a woman, too, had used influence to the same
end. Before sallying forth from Gloucester, for
Beachley, a girl — a beautiful girl — had all but
knelt at his feet, entreating him to take Monmouth.
Nor did she make any secret of why she wished
this. For it was Vaga Powell, believing that in
Monmouth Castle there was a man confined, whose
freedom was dear to her as her own. But she
feared also for his life, for it had come to that
now. The lex talionis was in full, fierce activity,
and prisoners of war might be butchered in cold

blood, or sent abroad, and sold into slavery — as
many were !

Luckily for the young lady, her intercession
with Massey was made at the right time, he
himself eagerly wishing the very thing she wanted.
Ever since becoming Governor of Gloucester, Monmouth
had been a sharp thorn in his side, compared
with which Lydney was but a thistle. And
now, having laid the latter low — as it were, plucked
it up by the roots — he meant dealing in like
manner with the former. To capture the saucy
little city of the Wye would be a coiip^ worth a
whole year's campaigning. With it under his
control, soon would cease to be heard that cry
hitherto resonant throughout South Wales, " For
the King!" To still the hated shibboleth— alike
hated by both — he and Sir Richard Walwyn were
now by the Buckstone, with eyes bent upon Monmouth.


A RECONNAISSANCE.

Instead of viewing the rural scenery, the two
colonels had come there to make a reconnaissance.
The town itself, its fortified enceinte the gates
piercing it, and the roads around, were the objects
to which their glances were given. And, for a
time, all their attention was engrossed by them,
neither speaking a word.

At length Massey, having made survey of them
through the telescope, handed it to the knight,
saying,—

"So you think there's a chance of our taking
the place ? "

Sir Richard but ran the glass around hastily.

VOL. II. =°9 p

He had been up there before, and more carefully
reconnoitred, their chief object being to ascertain
the strength of the garrison.

Yes, your Excellency," he rejoined, " a chance,
and something more, if Kyrle prove true ; or
rather should I say, traitor. And," he added, with
a significant smile, " I think we can trust him todo
that."

*' As it wouldn't be the first time for him, no
doubt we can. He has twice turned coat already.
And's no doubt itching to give it another shift,
if he can but see the way without getting it torn
from his back. Marston Moor has had its effect
on him, too, I suppose."

It has, and our affair at Beachley will
strengthen it. He'll want to be back on what
he believes the winning side now more than ever.
His communication to me, though carefully worded,
means that, if anything. But we'll be better able
to judge when our despatch-bearers report themselves

at High Meadow House. I think we may
look for a letter from him."

It was at High Meadow House their men were
encamped ; the main body under Massey having
just arrived, while Sir Richard, with his troopers
in advance, had been there overnight. And that
same morning the cadgers, hastily summoned from
their home at Ruardean, had been despatched to
Monmouth market : Jack, or rather the sister, with
secret instructions, and Jinkum with full panniers.

They ought to be back soon now," added
Sir Richard, again raising the glass to his eye, and
turning it on the town, his object to see if the
market people had all gone away.

When he last looked, they were streaming out
through the gates, the commercial business of the
market being over long ago. And now there
were only some stragglers on the out-going roads,
men who had lingered by the ale-houses in gossip,
or standing treat to the ever-thirsty soldiery.

Just then there came within his field of view a
group composed of elements altogether different
from the home-returning rustics.

What do you see ? " asked Massey, observing
the telescope steadied, and the knight looking
through it with fixed, earnest gaze.

A party of horse, carrying the lance — most of
them."

"Where?"

"Just coming out of the northern gate."

A patrol, perhaps ? "

No ; something more. There are too many of
them for that. Over a hundred have passed out
already. And yes ; prisoners with them ! "

Let me have a look," said the Governor, stretching
out his hand for the telescope, which, of
course, the other surrendered to him. Reluctantly
though, as Sir Richard felt more than a common
interest in the prisoners so escorted.

"You're right," said Massey, soon as sighting them.

Prisoners they have. But whither can they betaking
them ? That's the road to Ross."

To Hereford also, your Excellency. The routes
are the same as far as Christchurch."

"Ah, true. Still it's odd their starting out at
such an hour ! And why carrying prisoners away
to Hereford ? Surely Monmouth Castle affords
gaol room enough. I hope it's not so full. If so,
all the more reason for our doing what we canto
empty it."

"I don't think they're for Hereford, either. If
I'm not mistaken, I saw something which tells of
a different destination. If your Excellency will
allow me another look through the telescope, perhaps
"

Oh, by all means, take it ! " said the Governor,
interrupting, and again handing over the glass.

'eyes! just as I supposed they were — Harry
Lingen's Horse!" exclaimed Sir Richard, after
viewing them for a second or two. "And those

poor fellows, their prisoners, likely enough are my
own men — one of them, though I can't identify
him, my unfortunate troop-captain, young Trevor.
They're en rotate neither for Ross nor Hereford, but
Goodrich Castle, where Lingen has his headquarters.
It's but a short six miles, which may
account for their setting out so late."

"But Trevor's party was taken at a place near

Ruardean — Hollymead House, if I recollect aright."

True ; the house of Master Ambrose Powell.

It was there Lingen surprised them, through a

scoundrel who turned traitor."

Then why were they brought to Monmouth at
all } Ruardean's but a step from Goodrich."

"Just so, your Excellency, I was puzzled about
that myself up till this morning. Now I know
why, having got the information from our cadger
friends. It appears that when Lingen made his
swoop on Hollymead he was on the way to join
Wintour at Beachley, so kept straight on through

Monmouth, where he dropped his impedimenta of
prisoners. On return he's now picked them up
again, and's taking them on to his own stronghold."

That's it, no doubt," assented Massey. " But,"
he added, with a smile of triumphant satisfaction,
whoever those captives be, pretty sure none of
them have been brought up from Beachley. Nor is
their escort as large as it might have been had
Lingen left Wintour to himself. We gave their
ranks a good weeding there — all round."

"Yes, indeed," rejoined the knight, rather absently,
and with the telescope still at his eye. He
was endeavouring to make good the identity of the
captive party, and assure himself whether it was
really what he had conjectured it to be.

But he could have little doubt, as he had none
about the soldiers forming their escort — Lingen's
Horse to a certainty — a partisan troop, variously
armed, but most carrying the lance. And while
he still continued gazing at them, they commenced

the ascent of the Ley's pitchy which passes over the
col between Little Toward and the Table Mount,
the road running through woods all the way.
Under these they were soon lost to his sight, and
as the last lance with its pennon disappeared below
the tops of the trees, he lowered his telescope with
a sigh, saying,—

"What a pity the river's between, with a flood
on ! But for that we might have crossed at
Huntsholme, and caught up with them ere they
could "

He broke off abruptly at sound of footsteps :
the tread of heavy boots, with the chink of spurs,
and the louder clank of a steel scabbard striking
against them.

He making all these formidable noises was
Sergeant Rob Wilde, seen ascending the steep pitch,
and evidently on some errand that called for
haste.

Sir Richard, advancing to meet him, saw that he

had something in his hand, with a good guess as
to what it was.

"Jerky Jack ha' brought this, colonel," said the
sergeant, saluting, as he held out a slip of paper,
folded and sealed. " He ha' just got up fra
Monnerth ; an', according' to your command, I took
it out o' his leg."

You did quite right, sergeant. Was there
nothing more in the leg?"

"Only some silver, colonel; the diff'rence o'
the money he got for the fowls an' what he died
for the grocer goods. He stowed it their, afeard
o' the King's lodgers stripping' him o't."

A wise precaution on Jerky's part," observed the
knight, with a smile. " And called for, no doubt."

Then, returning to where Massey stood awaiting
him, he said, —

We shall know now, your Excellency, what Kyrle
means doing. This is from him — I recognise the
script"

The superscription on the letter was only the
initials " R. W.," Sir Richard's own, who otherwise
knew it was for himself, and while speaking had
broken open the seal.

Unfolding the sheet, he saw what surprised and
at first fretted him — that device borne on his hat
and the standard of his troop — the sword-pierced
crown. It appeared at the head of the page, in
rough pen-and-ink sketch, and might be meant
ironically. But no ; the writing underneath gave
the explanation : —

"By the symbol above R. W. will understand
that K. abjures the hatred thing called 'Kingship'
henceforth and for ever. After this night he will
never draw sword in such a cause, and this night
only to give it a back-handed blow. R. W.'s proposal
accepted. Plan of action thus : — M. at once
to retire troops from High Meadow, news of which
a messenger already warned will bring hither posthaste.
But good reason must be given for retiring,

else K. might have difficulty getting leave to go in
pursuit. Withdrawal appearing compulsory, there
will be none. H., who commands here, is a conceited
ass, ambitious to cut a figure, and will rush
into the trap as a rat after cheese. R. W. may
show this to M., and himself feel assured that if
the sword of his old comrade-informs be again employed
in the service of the P., it will cut keen
enough to make up for past deficiencies, which K.
hopes and trusts will be forgiven and forgotten."

No name was appended to the singular epistle,
nor signature of any kind. It needed none. Sir
Richard Walwyn knew the writer to be Robert
Kyrle, a lieutenant-colonel in the Royalist army,
who at the beginning of the war had drawn sword
for the Parliament. In days gone by they had
fought side by side in a foreign land, — more recently
in their own, — and Kyrle could well call Sir
Richard an " old comrade-informs." Now they
were in opposite camps ; but if that letter could be

relied upon as a truthful exponent of the writer's
sentiments, they were likely soon to be in the same
again. Already there had been a passage of notes
between them, and the knight had now a full comprehension
of what his anonymous correspondent
meant, knew to whom the various initials referred
in short, understood everything purposed and
proposed.

"What's your opinion of it. Colonel Walwyn ? "
asked the Governor, after hearing the letter read,
and receiving some necessary explanations. " Do
you think we can trust him ? "

I do, your Excellency ; feel sure of it now. I
know Kyrle better than most men, and something
of his motives for going over to the other side.
Nothing base or cowardly in them ; instead, rather
honourable than otherwise. For, in truth, it was
out of affection for his old father, whose property
was threatened with wholesale confiscation.
Walford, up the river, this side Ross, is their home.

It is within cannon range of Goodrich Castle, right
under, and Lingen would have been sure to make
a ruin of it had Kyrle not gone over to the King.
Now that the chances of war are with us again,
and he thinks that danger past, his heart bounds
back to what it once warmly beat for. I know it
did, as he has oft told me, in tent and by campfire."


To what ? " asked Massey, himself a veteran of
the Low Country campaigns, and feeling interest in
souvenirs of sentiment.

This ! " answered the knight, pointing to the
device inside the letter, still in his hand. " I believe
he will be true to it now, as he promises ;
and if we get nothing more by it than his sword,
it's one worth gaining, your Excellency. Than
Kyrle I don't know braver or better soldier."

*' Well, Colonel, since you seem so disposed to
this thing, and confident of success, I'm willing we
should make the attempt. At the worst we can

but fail, though, indeed, failure may cost us a
good many of our best men. Best they must be
to form the forlorn hope."

If your Excellency permit, I and my Foresters
will form that. With my confidence in them, and
faith in Kyrle, I have no fear of failure — if the
details of our scheme be carried out as designed."

They shall be, Sir Richard, so far as I can
effect it. You may rely upon me for that. Nay,
I leave the ordering and arrangement of everything
to yourself."

"Thanks, your Excellency. But the sooner we
set about it the better. Kyrle, as you see, counsels
the withdrawal at once."

But what about the reasons for doing so ?
Without that, he tells us "

"I've thought of that, too," interrupted Sir
Richard, now all haste. " It's part of my plan
already arranged. But it will take a little time
to procure this reason, so that it may appear plausible

— the time it will take a man, mounted on a
good horse, to gallop to Coleford and back."

I don't quite comprehend you, Colonel. For
what purpose this galloping to Coleford ? "

"To get news from Gloucester — telling us it is
threatened by Rupert."

The Governor gave a start, as if actually being
told it was so. Then, recovering himself, as he
saw the smile on Sir Richard's face, at the same
time catching the purport of his dubious words,
he smiled, too, admiringly upon the soldier knight,
as he rejoined, —

"An admirable idea! It will do! But, as you
say. Colonel, there must be no time lost. The
messenger must be despatched at once. So let us
back to High Meadow House."

Saying which, he started off down the hill.

Sir Richard was about to follow, when his big
sergeant, who had been all the while standing
near, stepped up to him, and saluting, said, —

"There be a woman as wants a word wi' ye,
Colonel."

A woman ! Who, Rob ? "

Cadger Jack's sister."

« Where is she ? "

"A little ways down the lane. I didn't like
bringing' she up, fears you or the Governor oughtn't
wish been' intruded on. Besides, her business be
more wi' herself, Colonel."

Well, Wilde," half jocularly returned the knight,
"your discretion seems on a par with your valour.
But let us down, and hear what the cadgeress has
to say. If it be a question of squaring the market
account, you can take that upon yourself I give
you carte blanche to settle scores ; and if they've
brought back groceries, you may distribute them
among the men."

It bennet nothing' o' that Win want to speak ye
about } "

What is it, then } You seem to know."

"There be herself, Colonel. Her can tell you
better me."

He pointed to the Forest Amazon, who but a
short distance below stood by the trunk of a tree,
from behind which she had just stepped, Massey
having passed without seeing her.

"Well, Mistress Winifred," said the knight, when
near enough to commence conversation, " my sergeant
tells me you've something to say."

Only a word, your honour ; an' I bes most
feared to speak it, since it ant a pleasant one."

Out with it, anyhow."

Him be wounded."

"Who?"

The young officer as wor took at Holyhead —
Captain Trevor."

Ha ! Wounded, too ! Who told you that ? "

'Two all about Monnerth the day, wheres him be
in prison. I tried get a chance to speak wi' he, but
couldn't, been' watched by the lodgers round' the Castle.

VOL. II. Q

Did you hear whether his wound be serious ? "

No, Sir Richard ; nothing' more than that it
wor from a gunshot, an' had laid he up. Hope
it won't signify no great deal ; but I thought it
better you be told o't fores it reach the young lady
at Gloster — so's yer honour might break it to hera
bit easier."

Very thoughtful of you. Mistress Winifred, and
thanks ! I'll endeavour to do that."

He passed on with quickened step and shadowed
countenance. Eustace Trevor, whom he had grown
to regard as a brother, wounded ! This was news
to him. And a gunshot wound which had laid
him up — that looked grave.

All the more reason for taking Monmouth, and
soon. But however soon, he had a presentiment,
and something more, it would be too late — so far
as finding Eustace Trevor there. He felt almost
sure that, whether slightly or severely wounded, his
troop captain had been taken on to Goodrich.

HIGH MEADOW HOUSE.

High Meadow House, where Massey's troops were
quartered, was but a step from the Buckstone. A
first-class mansion it was, belonging to a gentleman,
by name Benedict Hall, and inhabited by
him till within a few days before. A large landowner,
with estates both in the shires of Gloucester
and Hereford, he commanded some influence
throughout the Forest country, and being a bigoted
Papist, he, of course, went for the King and the
devil, as those of his sort have ever done since
Radicalism became a power upon the earth.

But in something more than a mere sentimental
way had the master of High Meadow shown his

political inclining. Second only to those of the



silly old Marquis of Worcester, and the wicked
Sir John Wintour, were his services to the Royal
cause in that quarter, his great wealth enabling
him to pay for soldiers, if he could not himself
handle them. More than one well-appointed squad
had he armed and equipped at his own expense,
now sending subsidies to Wintour at Lydney, and
now helping Lord Herbert on the Monmouth side.
Moreover, at the breaking out of hostilities he
had fortified High Meadow House, and ever
since held it with his own servants and hired
retainers.

His wife, a priest-ridden woman, had been prime
inspirer and chief instigator to all this, herself
moving about among the men employed on the
defensive works, encouraging them with speech,
and promises of reward for devotion to the King's
cause.

There came a time, however, when this ultraloyal
couple began to get tired of the bauble which

was costing them so dearly. For over two years
it had been a constant drain upon their resources :
all output and nothing returned, save the scantiest
of thanks — such gratitude as might be expected
from princes, above all, one like Rupert. Had
Benedict Pall better held by his Bible, it would
have warned him against the hollow trust. The
battle of Marston Moor did that more effectively
than the sacred Book ; showed him the fool's
part he had been playing, and that likely a day
was on the dawn when England's people would
no longer be the consenting slaves of Royal
caprice. So, bitter Papists and malignant as
were he and his wife, their worship for Pope and
King did not blind them to coming events ; and
they had now turned their thoughts to the rising
sun. When the news came from the North of the
Royalist rout, and was followed by other adverse
to the King's cause, Benedict Hall, like many
others of higher rank, hastened to change sides.

or, at all events, save himself by " compounding."
Which, in reality, he afterwards' did, the wife,
clever woman, conducting the negotiations with
the Parliamentary Committee.

Ere this, however, on hearing of Wintour's
defeat by the Wye's mouth, they had forsaken
their fortified mansion at High Meadow, betaking
themselves to Bristol ; just as the master of
Hollymead with his family had fled to it many
months before — both seeking it as a city of refuge,
but from enemies the very opposite !

Even more abruptly, and in greater haste, had
the Halls abandoned their home, leaving behind,
not only their furniture, but some of their most
cherished household gods. Provisions, too, in
plenty — eatables and wrinkles, with the still undischarged
staff of domestics. Snug quarters for
the Parliamentarians, fatigued after their sharp conflict
at Beachley, and difficult march through the
Forest, with its tortuous routes and steep pitches.

As already said, Colonel Walvvyn and his
troopers had come on in advance Massey's men
having but just arrived, when, forsaking saddle,
he and Sir Richard started off to the Buckstone
to reconnoitre.

Now returned from it, they looked upon a
spectacle which, though of a striking character, was
not new to either of them. Huge fires blazed
up everywhere, with great joints of meat spitted
and sputtering over them ; soldiers, with doublets
off and shirt sleeves rolled up to the elbow, knife
in hand, still engaged in cutting up the beeves
they had butchered ; hundreds of horses, with
saddles off, standing haltered along the walls,
munching corn, which the master of High Meadow
House had been hoarding up for visitors who
would have been more welcome. For, up to a late
period, he had been expecting Rupert and his
Cavaliers to come that way.

The soldiers were in high glee, congratulating

one another on the comfortable quarters into
which they had dropped. For at High Meadow
House they found not only full granaries, but a
well-stocked larder and cellar containing various
potables. A portion of the last had been already
dealt out to them, and they were quaffing and
laughing, one giving ironical thanks to the absent
host for having so thoughtfully provided the
entertainment, another in like strain drinking his
health.

The arrival of the Governor on the ground
caused but a momentary suspension of their
boisterous mirth. Though a strict disciplinarian
in a military sense, Massey was aught but puritanical,
and rather liked seeing his soldiers enjoy
themselves in a harmless way. Besides, he and
Colonel Walwyn — who, hurrying after, had overtaken
him — at once went inside the house, where
dinner, already prepared,"'was awaiting them and
the other officers.

Before sitting down to it, the Governor called
for pen, ink, and paper, and writing to Sir Richard's
dictation, hastily scratched off a note, which he
handed to the latter, as they exchanged some
words in undertone.

The knight, on taking it, passed hurriedly out
to see close to the door a horse under saddle
and bridled with a trooper standing by his head.
That he expected this was evident by his saying, —

"You can mount now. Take this to Coleford.
Give it to Major Rowcroft, — into his own hands,
mind you, — and stay there till he sends you back.
Don't spare your horse : ride whip and spur all
the way."

The soldier, an orderly, simply saluted as he
took the folded sheet, then slipping it under his
doublet, sprang to the saddle, and went off at a
gallop through the gate.

The bivouacked, inside the .courtyard and without,
having commenced their Homeric repast, paid

little heed to an incident so slight and of such
common occurrence. They were more interested in
the roast beef, with which the pastures around
High Meadow House had provided them, and
the beer drawn from its subterraneous depositories.
Good store of sack had been found there too,
with claret, metheglin, and other dainty drinks.
But these were reserved for the officers, who, ina
somewhat similar fashion, were making merry
inside.

For the better part of an hour was the feasting
kept up, amid jest and laughter, then, interrupted
by the hoof-stroke of a horse in gallop, afar off
in the Forest when first heard, but at each repetition
louder and nearer, till at length the sound
abruptly ceased.

All listening knew why. The fast-riding horseman,
whoever he was, had pulled up by the out-picket,
whose challenging hail could be faintly
heard through the trees.

Time enough elapsed for the necessary parley
and permission to pass on, when the trampling
recommenced, and soon after horse and rider were
in sight, still at a gallop, making direct for the
gate of the fortified mansion.

Some who were expecting to see the orderly
that had late ridden off saw a different man,
though to many of them no stranger. A dragoon
orderly too, but acting with the detachment at
Coleford. His horse was in a lather of sweat,
tossing clots of froth from the champed bit back
upon his counter, as dashing in through the outer
gate, he was drawn up at the house door.

On the stoup were several officers, who had just
stepped out after finishing dinner, Massey himself
in their midst.

What is it ? " he demanded, as the dragoon,
springing down from the saddle, advanced towards
him. He was feigning ignorance, for he well knew
what it was.

Despatch from Major Rowcroft, your Excellency,"
answered the orderly, presenting it. " He
commanded it brought in all haste, saying 'twas
of great importance."

Yes ! " exclaimed the Governor, after tearing
the sheet open, and giving but a glance to the
writing. " Major Rowcroft is right : it is of great
importance. Gentlemen," he added, turning to his
officers, and speaking loud enough to be heard
all over the place, "this is a serious matter.
Rowcroft advises me of news just reached Cole-ford
that the Princes Rupert and Maurice have
united their forces, taken Stroud, Cirencester too,
and are supposed to be en route for Gloucester.
Our own city threatened, we mustn't think more
of Monmouth. Glorious old Gloucester, that has
so long defied all the strength of Cavaliers,
with all its malevolent spite ! But we shan't let
it fall ; no ! Let us get back there without a
moment's delay. So each of you to your respective

commands. Have your men in marching
order within twenty minutes. I give you that,
and no more."

No more was needed. The troops under Massey
were too well disciplined, too often summoned
into action with like suddenness, to go bungling
about getting ready for the route.

Quick after his words came the notes of a
bugle sounding the "assembly," with other calls
taken up by the trumpeters of the respective corps,
followed by a hurrying to and fro — horses unaltered,
bitted and saddled, men buckling on
swords, grasping lances, or adjusting accoutrements
; then trumpets once more commanding the
"march," and in less than the prescribed time
neither trooper nor soldier of any sort could be
seen within the precincts of High Meadow House,
or anywhere around.

But the place was not altogether deserted.
The domestics and out-door servants of its

absent owner were still there. In greater numbers
now, as many came stealing from holes and
corners, where they had been all day hiding in
fear of rough treatment by the Roundheads.

Hall's head man, the steward of the estate, was
among them, he too having come from a place
of concealment as soon as warned that the troops
had taken departure. Different from the rest, he
was on horseback. Nor did he alight. Instead,
after getting their report, from such of the house-servants
as had been there all the while and heard
everything, he reined about and rode oft again.
Not to follow the retiring Parliamentarians, butin
quite the contrary direction.

So, while Massey and his troops were on the
march from High Meadow, apparently en route for
Gloucester, a man — this same steward — was riding
down the Kymin at a break-neck pace, the bearer
of glad news to the Governor of Monmouth.

OUT IN THE STORM.

Though clear and placid had been the sky when
the two colonels stood by the Buckstone, in a few
hours after it was all clouded. Night had descended,
but in addition to its natural darkness,
the white fleecy cumuli along the western horizon
had turned black at the setting of the sun ; then
rolled upward, overspreading heaven's whole canopy
as with a pall. But the obscurity was not continuous.
The extreme sultriness of the day had
disturbed the electrical equilibrium of the atmosphere,
resulting in a thunderstorm of unusual
violence. At intervals vivid sheets of lightning
illumined the firmament, while red zig-lagging

bolts, like arrows on fire, pierced the opaque clouds
bringing down rain as at the Deluge.

Between the flashes all was darkness ; so dense
that a traveller on the Forest roads must needs
stop till the blaze came again, else run the risk of
straying from the track, possibly to bring up
against the trunk of a tree. But it was a night
on which no traveller would think of venturing
forth, and one already on the road would make
for the nearest shelter.

Yet were there travellers abroad, or at least menon
horseback, who neither sought this nor seemed
to regard the raging elements. About a mile from
High Meadow House, on the Coleford Road, a
party of four might be seen seated in the saddle
under a spreading tree. That they were not sheltering
from the rain could be told by its pouring
down upon them through the leaves quickly as
elsewhere, and their being already wet to the skin
Shadow, for concealment, was evidently their object.

though at intervals the lightning interfered with it.
But they were in such position as to command a
view of the road, and any one coming along it,
before being themselves observed. As now and
then the blue electric light gleamed around them,
it could be seen that they were in uniform — an
officer and three common troopers, one with trumpet
in hand — while their attitude of listening proclaimed
them on picket duty. A vidette it was,
stationed to watch the approaches and give warning
to a larger force.

Another might have been found at no great distance
off, in a sequestered glade of the forest, some
hundreds of horsemen, who, as the party under the
tree, were all in their saddles, and alike disregarding
the rain. Silent as spectres were they, here and there
only a muttered word, with the champing of bits,
and occasionally the louder clink of scabbard against
stirrup as some horse shied at the blinding flash.
They, too, seemed listening, as indeed were they
VOL. II. R

especially a group of officers near the outgoing
of the glade — listening for a signal preconceived, and
expected to come from the trumpeter under the tree.

Nor were these the only soldiers abroad and
voluntarily exposing themselves to that drenching
storm. While it was at its worst, a party of Horse
issued out of Monmouth, and, crossing the Wye
bridge, took the route up Kymin Hill. A small
body it was, about forty in all, with but two officers
he who commanded and a cornet, their arms
and accoutrements, as the light caparison of their
horses, proclaiming them on scout.

As the lightning flashed upon a banneret carried
by the cornet, it could be seen to bear the emblem
of a crown, while other specialities of uniform and
equipment betokened the little troop as belonging
to the army of the King, and therefore hostile to
those halted in the forest glade,, whose insignia
told them to be of the opposite party.

It wanted an hour or more of midnight when

the party from Monmouth, after surmounting the
Kymin steep, entered Staunton — to find the villagers
still awake and stirring. They had received
news of Massey's departure from the neighbourhood,
so hastily as to seem a retreat, and, indeed,
knew the reason, or supposed they did, from the
contents of that Coleford despatch. Most of them
being of Royalist proclivities, they were sitting up
in jubilant over the event.

The soldiers made but short halt among them ;
just long enough to get answer to some inquiries ;
then on to High Meadow House.

Why thither none of the rank and file knew, not
even the cornet. Alone their commanding officer,
who kept the true reason to himself, giving a
spurious one — that his object was to make sure
of the place being in reality abandoned. A weak
force as they were, it would not do to advance
farther along the Coleford road, should there
chance to be an enemy in their rear.

This seemed reasonable enough, nor were the
men loth to accept it. On such a night shelter was
above all things desirable, and they were sure to
find snug quarters at the mansion of High Meadow,
hoping their commander would let them stay there
till the storm came to an end.

Just as they turned off the high road, or scarce
a minute after, a solitary figure came gliding along
from the Staunton side, and passed on towards
Coleford. Afoot it was, wrapped in a cloak, With
hood, which, covering the head, left visible only a
portion of the face. Tall, and of masculine proportions,
otherwise it might have been taken as
the figure of a man, but for a certain boldness, yet
softness of outline, which betokened it that of a
woman. And a woman it was — the cadgeress.

She had followed the Royalist troopers from
Staunton, silently, stealthily, and at safe distance
behind. But as they turned off the main road,
she, still keeping to it, broke into a run, not slowing

ag-ain till she stood under the tree where the
four Parliamentarians were on picket. By the
fitful flashes these had seen her making approach,
at least three of the four knowing who it was —
Sir Richard Walwyn ; he who had the trumpet,
Hubert ; and one of the troopers, wearing the
chevrons of a sergeant, Rob Wilde.

That she in turn recognised them, and had been
expecting to find them there, was evinced by her
behaviour. For when she thought herself within
hearing, she called out, —

Cavalieres turned off and good for High
Meadow House. 'Bout forty they be in all."

Sound the signal, Hubert ! " said Sir Richard,
in command to his trumpeter, adding to the big
sergeant, " Ride back, Rob, and tell Captain
Harley to bring on our men as rapidly as possible."

The lightning still flashed and forked, with loud
thunder, now in quick claps, now in prolonged
reverberation. But between came the notes of a

cavalry bugle, in calls, which, reaching the glade
where Massey's men sat waiting in their saddles,
caused a pricking of spurs, and a quick forward
movement at the command, " March ! " — word most
welcome to all.

Meanwhile, the soldiers from Monmouth had
reached Hall's house to find no enemy there,
only some servants, who at first took them for a
returned party of Parliamentarians. But the
steward, who had been detained on the way,
riding up the instant after, reassured the frightened
domestics.

Besides what these had to tell, there were other
evidences of the hurried evacuation. On tables
everywhere was a spread of viands only partially
consumed, with tankards of ale unemptied, and inside
the house bottles of wine, some yet uncorked.

The Cavalier soldiers were not the sort to hasten
away and leave such tempting commodities untouched.
And, as their commanding officer seemed

not objecting, they were out of their saddles in a
trice, eating and drinking as though they had that
day gone without either breakfast or dinner.

The stable mangers, too, were full of beans
and barley, left uneaten by the horses of the Parliamentarians,
to which their own animals fell with
a hungry voracity equalling that of their masters.

Short time was allowed them for this greedy
gormandizing. Scarce had they taken seat by
the tables when a trampling of hoofs was heard
all around the house, louder on the stone pavement
by the gate, from which came the shout
Surrender ! " the same voice adding, ** 'Twill be
idle for you to resist. We are Massey's men, and
fifty to your one. If you wish your lives spared,
cry 'Quarter,' or we cut you to pieces."

The carousing Royalists were taken completely
by surprise. In fancied security, thinking the Parliamentarian
force en route for Gloucester, and far
on the way, they had neither placed picket nor

set sentry ; and the house being fortified, there
was no exit from it save by the one gate, now
blocked up, as they could see, by a solid body of
horse. They were literally in a trap, with no
chance to get out of it, for, by the multitudinous
hoof-clattering outside, they knew the words "fifty
to one" were not far from the truth.

Alone, the cornet got off afoot by a desperate
leap into the ditch at back ; stealing away unseen
in the darkness. The rest made no attempt, either
at escape or resistance. They but stood, terror-stricken,
to hear the threat —

Speak, quick, or we open fire on you ! " Then,
at least, half of them called out " Quarter ! " without
waiting word or sign from their leader.

What followed, however, showed that he sanctioned
it. As the Parliamentarian troopers came
riding in through the gate he advanced to meet
them, with drawn sword, hilt outward, which he
handed to the officer at their head.

As the latter took it, a smile of peculiar significance
was exchanged between the two, with
words equally strange, inaudible save to themselves.


Glad to have you back with us, Kyrle."
Not more than I to get back, Walwyn. God
knows ! I've had enough of Rupert, and his
rascals."

A TOWN CLEVERLY TAKEN.

About an hour after the capture of Kyrle's party,
a body of horse, numbering over one hundred,
might have been seen descending the Kymin
towards Monmouth. The fury of the storm had
worn itself out, the downpour of rain being succeeded
by a drizzle, while the lightning only
flickered faintly, and at long intervals, the thunder
muttering low and distant. But the darkness
was deep as ever, and the horsemen rode down
the steep incline at a slow, creeping pace, as if
groping their way. In silence too, neither word
of command, nor note of bugle, directing their
march.

Had there been light enough to give a good


view of them, it might have been guessed that
something other than the darkness and difficulty
of the path was causing them to advance in this
noiseless, deliberate manner. For at their head
would have been seen Kyrle himself; no prisoner
now, on parole or otherwise, but with sword restored,
and in every way acting as their commanding
officer! And by his side one who carried a
troop flag, with a crown upon its field, the same
which had been left behind by the escaped cornet.
The captured troopers were there too — as at first
glance any one would suppose — forming a half
score files in front of the marching line, with a
like number in rear. Only in seeming, however
only their uniforms and equipments — for they
themselves were at that moment shut up in a
cellar of High Meadow House, where Benedict
Hall had erst incarcerated many a rebel and recusant.


A different set of men were now wearing their

doublets and carrying their accoutrements in the
descent of the Kymin Hill, and any one familiar
with the faces of Sir Richard Walwyn's Forester's
would have recognised some forty of them thus
partially disguised, with nigh twice as many more
in their uniforms there, the last apparently disarmed
and conducted as prisoners, their place being
central in the line !

In rear of all was the knight himself, with his
new troop captain, Harley ; Sergeant Wilde and
Hubert the trumpeter constituting the file immediately
in front of them — all four, as the others,
seemingly without arms.

That his oddly composed cohort had some
strategic scheme in view was evident from the
cautious silence in which they advanced. And at
intervals, Kyrle, reining his horse to one side, would
wait till the rearmost file came up ; then, after exchanging
a word or two with Colonel Walwyn, spur
back to his place in the lead.

Thus noiselessly they descended the long, winding
slope ; but when near its bottom, and within
some three or four hundred yards of the bridge,
all was changed. The troopers began to talk to
one another, Kyrle himself having given them the
cue. Loudly and boisterously, with a tone of
boasting, their speech interspersed with peals of
light, joyous laughter. All this meant for the ears
of those on guard at the bridge gate.

A sufficiently strong force was stationed there,
and with fair vigilance were they guarding it. For,
although Massey had been reported as on hurried
return to Gloucester, the fugitive cornet, having
found his way back, had brought with him a different
tale. Afoot, and delayed by losing his way,
he had but just passed over the bridge and on to
the castle, after saying some words that left the
guard in a state of alarm.

It was more bewilderment, as the men seemingly
so merry drew near, invisible through the prtch-

like darkness. At least a hundred there must be,
as told by the pattering of their horses' hoofs on
the firm causeway. Kyrle's scouting party had
gone out not half this number, yet there was
Kyrle himself, talking and laughing the loudest.
Many of the guard — officers and soldiers — knew
his voice well, and could not be mistaken about
it. What then meant the sooner return of the
cornet, without his standard, and with a tale of
disaster ? Had he retreated from a conflict still
undecided, afterwards ending in favour of the Royalist
forces ? It might be so.

By this the approaching party had got nearly
up to the gate, in front of which the causeway
showed a wide gap, and through it, far below,
the flooded river surging angrily on. The officer
in command of the guard was about to call out,
Who comes ? " when anticipated by a hail from
the opposite side, pronounced in tone of demand, —

Ho ! over there ! Let the drawbridge down { "

For whom ? "

Kyrle and party. We've taken prisoners
threescore Roundheads, and sent as many more to
kingdom come. Be quick, and .^ let us in. We're
soaking wet, and hungry as wolves ! "

"But, Colonel Kyrle," doubtingly objected the
officer, "your cornet has just passed in, with the
report that you and your party were made prisoners
! How is it "

Oh, he's got back, has he," interrupted the
ready Kyrle, though for an instant non-passed.
The coward ! And double scoundrel, telling
such a tale to screen himself! Why, he dropped
his standard at sight of the enemy, and skulked
off before we had come to blows ! Ah ! I'll make
short work of it with him."

While he was speaking there came a flash of
lightning more vivid than any that had late preceded,
bright enough and sufficiently prolonged
for the soldiers on guard to see those on the other

side of the chasm throughout the whole extended
hone. In front some half score files of Kyrle's
Light Horse, whose uniform was well known, with
a like number in the rear, and between, with
heads drooped, and looking dejected, the prisoners
he had spoken of

The spectacle seemed to prove his words true.
Under the circumstances who could think them
false ? Who suspect him of treason ?

Not the officer in command of that guard, anyhow
; who, without further hesitation or parley,
gave orders for the lowering of the bridge.

Down it went, and over it rode a hundred and
odd men, counting the supposed Royalists and
their unarmed prisoners. But soon as inside the
gate, all seemed to be armed, prisoners as well as
escort, the former suddenly bristling with weapons,
which they had drawn from under their doublets to
the cry, " For God and Parliament ! " The opposing
shout, "For God and the King!" was stifled

almost soon as raised, the bridge guard being
instantly overpowered, many of them cut down,
and killed outright.

Then a larger and heavier force, that had been
following down the Kymin Hill, Massey's main
body, came on at full gallop, over the drawbridge
and through the gate. There, taking up the cry,
God and Parliament ! " they went rattling on
through the streets of the town, clearing them
of all hostile opposition, and capturing everybody
who showed a rag of Royalist uniform.

When the morning's sun rose over Monmouth,
from its castle turrets floated a flag very different
from that hitherto waving there. The glorious
standard of Liberty had displaced the soiled and
blood-stained banner of the Stuart Kings.

VOL. IL

AWAITING WAR NEWS.

What a life we've been leading, Sab ! Shut up

in cities as birds in a cage ! Now nearly two

years of it, with scarce ever a peep at the dear,

delightful country. Oh ! it's a wretched existence."

It's not the pleasantness, I admit."

And in this prosaic city, Gloucester."

"Ah, Vag, don't speak against Gloucester. Think

what her citizens have suffered in the good cause.

And how well they have borne themselves ! But

for their bravery and fidelity, where might we be

now .'* Possibly in Bristol. How would you like

that ? "

Npt at all," returned Vag, with a shrug and

grimace, the name of Bristol recalling souvenirs

aught but agreeable to her.



Well," resumed Sabrina, " life there is not
prosaic, anyhow — if there be poetry in scandal.
Very much the reverse, I should say, supposing
half of what's reported be true. But I wonder
how our foolish aunt, and equally foolish cousin,
are comporting themselves under the changed
circumstances ?"

Oh ! they're happy enough, no doubt ; everything
just as they wished it. Plenty of titled
personages flitting and figuring around — at least
three princes of the blood royal, with an occasional
chance of their seeing the King himself. Won't
Madame open wide the doors of Montserrat House !
As for Clarisse, I shouldn't be surprised at her
making a grand marriage of it, becoming baroness,
duchess, or something of that sort. Well, I won't
envy her."

Vaga Powell could afford to speak thus of her
Creole cousin, with light heart now, all envy and
jealousy having long since gone out of it.

Let us hope nothing worse," rejoined the elder
sister, with a doubting look, as though some painful
thought were in her mind. *' Clarisse is very,
very imprudent, to say the least of it."

"And very wicked, to say nothing more than
the most of it. But what need we care, Absence
we neither of us ever intend going near the
Balances again ? After the way they behaved tous,
well "

Well, let us cease speaking oi them, and turn
to some pleasant subject."

** Ay, if that were possible. Alas ! there's none
very pleasant now — every day new anxieties new
fears. I wish this horrid war were at an end, one
way or the other, so that we might get back to
dear old Hollymead."

Don't say one way or the other, Vag. If it
should end in the King being conqueror, Holly-mead
will be no more a home for us. It would
even cease to belong; to us."

I almost wish it never had."

*' Why that ? "

"You should know, Sab. But for my father
sending him there after those worthless things, he
would not now be "

Dear Vaga ! " interrupted the elder sister entreatingly.
"For your life do not let father hear
you speak in that strain. 'Twould vex him very
much, and, as you yourself know, he has grieved
over it already."

"Ah, true. I won't say a word about it again,
in his hearing, anyhow — you may trust me. But
it's hard to think of my dear Eustace being in a
prison— shut up in a dark dungeon, perhaps hungering,
thirsting, and, worse than all, suffering ill-treatment
at the hands of some cruel jailer."

She was justified in calling him her "dear
Eustace" now, and giving him all her sympathies.
Since that night of perverse misconceptions at
Montserrat House there had been many an interview

between them ; the thread of their interrupted
dialogue by Ruardean Hill had been taken up
again, and spun into a cord which now bound
them together by vows of betrothal.

Of their engagement Sabrina was aware, and
under the like herself, she could well comprehend
her sister's feelings. True, her betrothed was not
in a prison, but she knew not how soon he might
be — or worse, dead on the battle-field. Invincible
as she believed him, war had its adverse fates,
was full of perils, every day, as the other had said,
fraught with new anxieties and fears. Concealing
her own, she essayed to dispel those of her sister,
rejoining, —

"Nonsense, Vag. Nothing so bad. Why should
they treat him with cruelty ? "

"You forget that they call him renegade. And
they on the King's side are most spiteful against
all who turn from them. Think how his own
cousin acted towards him ; and 'tis said his father

disowned him. Besides, other prisoners have been
scandalously treated by the Cavaliers, some even
tortured. And they may torture him."

"No fear of their doing that. Even if disposed
they're not likely to have the opportunity."

But they have it now."

"Not quite."

I don't comprehend you. Sabines

very simple. Heartless as many of the
Royalists leaders are, and vindictive, they will be
restrained by the thought of retaliation. At this
time our people hold two prisoners to their one.
A large number of these Monmouth men, with
their officers, have been taken at Beachley, and
that will insure humane treatment to your
Eustace. So make you mind easy about him."

It became easier as she listened to the cheering
words, almost reassured by others spoken in continuation.


"In any case," pursued Sabrina, "his captors are

not likely to have the time for torturing, as you
put it. Richard's last letter says he and his
troops were at High Meadow House — the Halls',
near Staunton, you know ? "

That Papist family ; great friends of Sir John
and Lady Wintour. I remember their place. Well ? "

He was there in advance, awaiting the Governor
to come up, with every hope of their being able to
take Monmouth. If they succeed, and they will
I feel sure they will, Vag — then Eustace will bea
free man, and all of us go back to Hollymead,
with not much danger of being again molested."

"Oh!" exclaimed the younger sister, overjoyed
by the prospect thus shadowed forth, 'wouldn't
that be delightful ! Back at the dear old place.
Once more our walks and rides through the
Forest. Our hawking, too. Bless me ! my pretty
Pers and your Mer, I suppose they won't know
us! I trust Van Dom hasn't neglected them, nor
my Hector either."

And so she ran on, in the exuberance of her
new-sprung hopes seemingly forgetting him around
whom they all centred. Only for an instant
though. Without Eustace Trevor by her side
the Forest walks and rides, with Hollymead and
its hawking, would have less attraction for her
now. Wherever he might be, that were the place
of her choice, thenceforth and for ever. So soon
the thought of his being in a prison, with fears of
something worse, came back in all its bitterness.


And the shadow of returned anxiety was again
visible on the brow of Sabrina. A fortified town
to be taken there would needs be fighting of a
desperate kind — her lover in the thick of it. A
forlorn hope for storming, who so like as her
soldier knight to be the leader of it ? He had
been so at Beachley, and proud was she on hearing
of his achievements there. But at the thought
of his now again undergoing such risk, with all

the uncertainties of war — that he might fall before
the ramparts of Monmouth, even at that moment
be lying lifeless in its trenches — her heart sank
within her.

For a time both were silent. Then Sabrina,
with another effort to cast off the gloomy reflections,
which she saw were also affecting her
sister, said, —

Richard promised to write again last night,
or early this morning, if there should be anything
worth writing about. He hasn't written
last night, or the letter would have been here
now. If this morning, I may soon expect it. His
messengers are never slow, and a man on a swift
horse should ride from High Meadow House to
Gloucester in two hours, or a little over."

From her belt she drev/ a quaint, three-cornered
watch to ascertain the correct time. • Correct or
not, its hands pointed to lo a.m. A messenger
from the High Meadow could have been there

before if sent off at an early hour, and on an
errand calling for courier speed.

Perhaps no reason had arisen for such, and,
consoling herself with this reflection, she resumed
speech, saying, —

"Anyhow, we may make sure of getting news
before noon, some kind or other. The Governor
will be sending a despatch to the Committee, and
one may have already reached them. We shall
know when father returns."

The last remark had reference to the fact ot
Ambrose Powell being one of the Parliamentary
Commissioners for the Gloucester district, and just
then in committee.

But the anticipated news reached them without
being brought by him. As they stood conversing
in an embraced window, which, terrace-like, overhung
the street, they heard a clattering of hoofs,
almost at the same instant to see a horseman
coming on at quick pace. When opposite the

house in which they were, he halted, flung himself
out of the saddle, and disappeared from their
sight under the projecting balcony. Long ere
this they had recognised Sir Richard's henchman
Hubert.

There was a loud rat-tat-tat at the street door,
and soon after a gentle tapping against that of
their room, which both recognised as from the
knuckles of Gwenthian, simultaneously exclaiming,
Come in."

In came she with a letter that seemed terribly
soiled and crumpled.

Hubert has brought this, my lady," she said,
holding it towards Sabrina, for whom the sharp-witted
Welsh maid knew it was meant. ** Poor
man ! he be wet to the skin, and all over mud,
and looks as if just dropped out of a duck pond."

The " poor man " was but a mild, evasive form
of expressing her sympathy. Had she put it as
she felt, it would have been " dear man," for long

ago had Gentian entered into tender relations
with the trumpeter.

Neither of the sisters gave ear to what she was
saying, for the elder had snatched the letter out
of her hand, and torn it open on the instant, while
the younger stood by in eager, anxious attitude.

There was contentment in Sabrina's eyes as she
glanced at the superscription. It became joy on
reading the first words written inside, and she cried
out, in tone of enthusiastic triumph, —

Glorious news, sister ! They've taken Monmouth
! "

They have ! Heaven be praised ! "

Sabrina was about to read the letter aloud, when
some words caught her eye which admonished first
running it over to herself hastily, as the other
was all impatience. It ran : —

]\IY LOVE, — We are inside Monmouth, thanks
to little strategy I was able to effect, with the
help of an old Low Country comrade, Kyrle, of

Walford, whom you may know. For all, we had
some sharp fighting by the bridge gate, where
Kyrle proved himself worthy of his ancient repute
as soldier and swordsman. Had we failed there
this letter would not have been written, unless,
perhaps, inside a prison. And now on that subject
I'm sorry to say E. Trevor is still in one, but,
unluckily, not at Monmouth. Taken by Harry
Lingen from the Hereford side, they have carried
him off that way, likely to Goodrich Castle. What's
worse, he has been wounded ; whether severely or
not, I haven't yet been able to ascertain. Soon as
I can learn for certain where he is, and what the
nature of his hurt, you shall hear from me, as I
know your sister will be in a sad state of anxiety.
We've made many prisoners, and now, commanding
Monmouth, may hope to gather in a good
many more. If we succeed in clearing the Wye's
western bank of the wolves so long infesting it
you may all safely return to Hollymead."

The letter did not conclude quite so abruptly.
There were some expressions tenderer and of
more private nature, which she was scarce permitted
to read, much less dwell upon. For Vaga, all the
while gazing in her face with a look of searching
interrogation, saw a shadow pass over it, and
unable longer to bear the suspense, cried out, —

There's something wrong ? Ah ! it's Eustace ;
I know it is ! "

Nothing wrong with him more than we knew of
already. He is still a prisoner ; but, of course,
not at Monmouth, or he'd have been released.
They have taken him away from there, as Richard
thinks, to Goodrich Castle."

There was that in her manner, with the words
and their tone of utterance, which led to a suspicion
of either subterfuge or reticence. And Vaga
so suspecting, with another searching look into her
eyes, exclaimed, —

You've not told me all. There's something in

that letter you fear to communicate. You need
not, Sab. I'll try to be brave. Better for me to
know the worst. Let me read it."

Thus appealed to the elder sister gave way.
The thing she desired to conceal must become
known sooner or later. Perhaps as well, if not
better, at once.

Tearing off that portion of the sheet on which
were the words of tenderness concerning only
herself, she passed the other into the hands of
her sister, saying, —

All's there that interests you, Vag ; and don't
let it alarm you. Remember that wounds are
always made more of than "

Wounded ! " came the interrupting cry from
Vaga's lips, intoned with agony. " He's wounded
it may be to death ! I shall go to Goodrich.
If he die, I die with him ! "

Butler & Tanner, The Sehvood Printing Works, Frome, and London.

/

LI B Harry

OF THE

UNIVERSITY

Of Ill Noir

82.3
v.3

in 2009 with funding from

University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign

http://www.archive.org/details/noquarter03reid

BY

CAPTAIN MAYNE REID,

Author of " The Scalp Hunters," " The Death Shot," " The Headless
Horseman" etc., etc.

Vol. III.

LONDON :

SWAN SONNENSCHEIN, LOWREY & CO.,

PATERNOSTER SQUARE.

1888.

The Sehvood Printing Works,

Frome, and London.

CONTENTS.

♦■

PAGE

CHAPTER XLVII.
Old Comrades i

CHAPTER XLVII I.
Between Two Prisons 14

CHAPTER XLIX.
An Uphill Chase 32

CHAPTER L.
An Ambuscade 45

4 CHAPTER LI.
In Carousal 60
CHAPTER LII.
At Home Again 76

CHAPTER LIU.
Again Presentiments 89

CHAPTER LIV.
A Glittering Cohort . 101

CHAPTER LV.
Hawking at Home. no

CHAPTER LVI.
An Introduction in the Saddle . . . .118

CHAPTER Evil

PAGE

A Crime in Contemplation 132

CHAPTER Lviii
A Messenger Despatched 139

CHAPTER LIX.
Brought Home a Prisoner 150

CHAPTER LX.
Quartered upon the Enemy 162

CHAPTER LXI.
A Courageous Wader 172

CHAPTER LXII.
Their Dear Ones in Danger 180

CHAPTER LXIII.
An Exciting Epistle . . . . . . .188

CHAPTER LXIV.
A House on Fire 196

CHAPTER LXV.
Very near an Encounter 208

CHAPTER LXVI.
On the Trail 224

CHAPTER LXVII.
A Guard Carelessly Kept 236

CHAPTER LXVIII.
A Fight in a Flood 248

CHAPTER XLVII.

OLD COMRADES.

Well, Dick, for a man who's just captured a
city, you look strangely coldhearted — more like
as if you'd been captured yourself."

It was Colonel Robert Kyrle who made the odd
observation ; he to whom it was addressed being
Colonel Sir Richard Walvvyn. The time was
between midnight and morning, some two hours
after Monmouth had succumbed to their strategic
coup de-main ; the place Kyrle's own quarters,
whither he had conducted his old .

III. B

arms to give him lodgment for the rest of the
night.

Snug quarters they were, in every way well
provided. Kyrle was a man of money, and liked
good living whether he fought for King or for
Parliament. A table was between them, on which
were some remains of a supper, with wines of
the best, and they were quaffing freely, as might
be expected of soldiers after a fight or fatiguing
march.

Yet to you," added Kyrle, " Massey owes the
taking of Monmouth."

Rather say to yourself, Kyrle. Give the devil
his due," returned the knight, with a peculiar
smile.

Notwithstanding his serious mood at the moment,
he could not resist a jest so opportune. He knew
it would not offend his old comrade, as it did not.
On the contrary, Kyrle seemed rather to relish it,
with a light laugh rejoining, —

Little fear of him you allude to being cheated
of his dues this time. No doubt for all that's
been done I'll get my full share of credit, however
little creditable to myself. They'll call me
all sorts of names, the vilest in the Cavalier vocabulary
; and, God knows, it's got a good stock of
them. What care I ? Not the shaking of straw.
My conscience is clear, and my conduct guided by
motives I'm not ashamed of — never shall be. You
know them, Walwyn ? "

I do, and respect them. I was just in the act
of explaining things to Massey up by the Buck-stone
when your letter came — that carried in the
cadger's wooden leg."

Most kind of you, Dick ; though nothing more
than I expected. Soon as I heard of your being
at the High Meadow, I made up my mind to join
you there, even if I went alone as a common
deserter. Never was man more disgusted with a
cause than I with Cavaliers. It stinks of the

beer house and bagnio ; here in Monmouth spiced
with Papistry — no improvement to its nasty savour
But the place will smell sweeter now. I'll make it
Massey has told me I'm to have command."

"You are the man for it," said the knight approvingly.
"And I am glad he has given it to
you. Nothing more than you're entitled to, after
what you've done."

Ah ! 'tis you who did everything — planned
everything. What clever strategy your thinking of
such a ruse ! "

Not half so clever as your carrying it out."

"Well, Dick, between us we did the trick neatly,
didn't we ? "

Nothing could have been better. But how near
it came to miscarrying ! When they flung that
Cornet in your teeth I almost gave it up."

I confess to some misgiving myself then. It
looked awkward for a while."

That indeed. And how you got out of it ?

Your tale of his cowardice, and threat to make
short work with him, were so well affected I could
scarce keep from bursting into laughter. But what
a simpleton that fellow who had command of the
bridge guard ! Was he one of those we cut down,
think you ? "

I fancy he was, and fear it. Among my late
comrades there were many I liked less than he."

And the Cornet, to whom you gave credit
for making such good use of his heels. Has he
escaped ? "

"I've no doubt he's justified what I said of him
by using them again. He's one that has a way
of it. I suspect a great many of them got off on
the other side — more than we've netted. But we
shall know in the morning when we muster the
birds taken, and beat up the covers where some
will be in hiding. Hopelessly for them, as I'm acquainted
with every hole and corner in Monmouth."

There was a short interval of silence, while Kyrle,

as host, leant over the table, took up a flagon of
sack, and replenished their empty cups. On again
turning to his guest he could see that same expression,
which had led to him thinking him down-hearted.
Quite unlike what face of man should be
wearing who had so late gained glory — reaped a very
harvest of laurels — on more than one battle-field.
The exciting topics just discoursed upon had fora
time chased it away, but there it was once more.

Bless me, Walwyn ! what is the matter with
you?" asked Kyrle, as he pushed the refilled goblet
towards him. " You could not look more sadly
solemn if I were Prince Rupert, and you my
prisoner. Well, old comrade," he went on, without
waiting for explanation, " if what's troubling
you be a secret, I shan't press you to answer. A
love affair, I suppose, so won't say another word."

It is a love affair in a way."

Well, Walwyn ! you're the last man I'd have
looked for to get his heart entangled "

"You mistake, Kyrle. It has nothing to do
with my heart— in the sense you're thinking of."

Whose heart then, or hearts ? For there must
be a pair of them."

You know young Trevor ? "

I know all the Trevor — at least by repute."

He I refer to is Eustace — son of Sir William,
by Abergavenny."

Ah ! him I'm not personally acquainted with ;
though he's been here for several days — in prison.
Lingen's men took him at Hollymead House, near
Ruardean ; brought him on to Monmouth on their
way to Beachley ; and going back have carried
him with them to Goodrich Castle. They left but
yesterday, late in the evening. He's got a wound,
I believe."

"Yes. It's about that I'm uneasy. Can you tell
me anything as to the nature of it ? Dangerous,
think you ? "

"That I can't say, not having seen him myself.

Some one spoke of his arm being in a sling.
Likely it's but a sword cut, or the hack of a albert.
But why are you so concerned [about him, Dick ?
He's no relative of yours."

He's dearer to me than any relative I have,
Kyrle. I love him as I would a brother. Besides,
one, in whom I am interested, loves him in a different
way."

Ah, yes ! the lady of course ; prime source and
root of all evil."

In the present case the source of something
good, however. But for the lady, in all likelihood
Monmouth would still be under Royalist rule —
nay, I may say surely would."

How so, Walwyn ? What had she to do with
the taking of Monmouth ? "

"A great deal — everything. She was the instigator
; her motive you may guess."

I see ; to get young Trevor out of prison.
Well ? "

I had some difficulty in convincing Massey
the thing was possible ; and, but for her intercession
with him, I might have failed doing so. Our
success at Beachley, however, settled it ; especially
when I laid before him the scheme we've been so
fortunate in accomplishing."

Well, we should thank the lady for it. May I
know who she is ? "

Certainly. The daughter of Ambrose Powell,
of Hollymead."

Ah ! That explains why Trevor was there
when taken ? "

In a way, it does."

I've but slight acquaintance with Powell, myself;
though, as neighbours, we were always on friendly
terms. He and his family are now in Gloucester,
are they not ? "

They are. For a time they stayed at Bristol —
up to the surrender."

"Luckily they're not there now. A sweet place

that for anything in the shape of a young lady.
Master Powell may thank his good star for getting
him and his out of it. Two 'daughters he has, if
I remember rightly, with names rather singular —
Sabrina and Vaga ? "

"They are so named."

With whom is young Trevor in relations ? "

The younger, Vaga. Poor girl ! she'll be terribly
disappointed when she hears of his having
been carried on out of our reach, and so near being
rescued ! "

Out of our reach ! " said Kyrle, an odd expression
coming over his features, as if some thought
had struck him. " Is that so sure ? "

11 Why not ? He's in Goodrich Castle. You
don't think it possible for us to take it ? "

Not at present ; though, by-and-by, it may be
within the possibilities. No man wishes more
than I to see the proud pile razed to the ground,
and Henry Lingen hanged over the ruins. Many

the fright he has given my poor father with his
cowardly threats. But I hope getting quits with
him before the game's at an end."

"What chance then of rescuing Trevor? Have
you thought of any?"

11 1 have. And not such a hopeless one either.
You're willing to risk something to get him free ? "

"Anything! My life, if need be."

That risk will be called for ; mine too, if we
make the attempt I'm thinking of."

An attempt ! Tell me what it is. For heaven's
sake, Kyrle, don't keep me in suspense ! "

It's this, then. Lingen, it appears, don't intend
lodging any prisoners in Goodrich Castle. Since
the affair at Beachley he has some fear of his
castle being besieged ; and in a siege the more
mouths the worse for him. By the merest accident
I heard all this yesterday ; and that the party he
took away from here will be sent on to Hereford
under escort first thing tomorrow morning —

that is this morning, since it's now drawing up toit."


I think I comprehend you, Kyrle."

You'd be dull if you didn't, Walwyn."

"You mean for us to strike out along the
Hereford Road, and intercept the escort ? "

"Just so. 'Twill be venturing into the enemy's
ground dangerously far ; but with a bold dash we
may do it."

We will do it ! "

What about leave from Massey ? Do you
think there will be any difficulty in our getting
that ? "

I don't anticipate any. In my case he can't
object. My command is independent of him ; the
troop my own ; and, though now numbering little
over a hundred, they are Foresters, and I've no
fear to match them against twice their count of
Lingen's Lancers — the gentlemen of Hereford, as
they style themselves."

Then you agree to it ? We go if Massey gives
permission ? "

11 1 go, whether he gives it or not. In fact, I
don't feel much caring to ask him."

Egad ! that may be the best way, and I'm
willing to risk it too. Suppose we slip out without
saying a word ? Time's everything. Our only
chance with the escort will be to take them by
surprise — an ambuscade. For that we'll have to
be well along the Hereford road before daylight.
I know the very spot ; but we must be into the
saddle at once."

"Then at once let us into it!"

BETWEEN TWO PRISONS.

In Parliamentary war times English roads were
very different from what they are of to-day.
Those of the shires bordering Wales were no
better than bridle paths, generally following the
routes of ancient British tramways, regardless of
ups and downs. Travel over them was chiefly
in the saddle or afoot, traffic by pack-horse,
wheels rarely making mark on them save when
some grand swell of the period transported his
family from town to country house. Then it was
a ponderous coach of the chariot order, swung on
leathern springs — such as the gossipy Pepys and
Sir Charles Grandison used to ride in — calling for
at least four horses, with a retinue of attendants.

These last armed with sword and pistol for protection
against robbers, but also, pioneer fashion,
carrying spade and axe to fill up ruts, patch broken
bridges, and cut down obstructing trees.

Where the routes ran over hills, the causeway,
sunk below the level of the adjacent land, was
more like the bed of a dry watercourse than a
highway of travel ; this due to the wear of hoof
and washing away by rains. There was no Macadam
then to keep the surface to its normal height
by a compensating stratum of stone ; and in many
places the tallest horseman, on the back of a 
horse would see a cliff on either side
of him, its crest barely touchable with the stock
of his whip. Often half a mile or more of this
ravine-like road would be encountered, so narrow
that vehicles meeting upon it could not by any
possibility pass each other ; one of them must
needs back again, perhaps, hundreds of yards !
To avoid such contretemps, the husbandman who

had occasion to carry corn to the mill, or produce
to the market town, in his huge lumbering wain,
was compelled by law to announce its approach
by a jangle of big bells, or the blowing of a
horn !

Yet over these ancient highways — many of
them still in existence — the Roman legionaries of
Stories Scapula had borne their victorious eagles ;
and along them many a Silurian warrior, standing
erect in his scythe-winged chariot, was carried to
conquest or defeat.

At a later period had they echoed the tramp
of armed men, when Henry IV., father of Agincourt's
hero, made war upon the Welsh. Later
still, twice again, in the days of the gallant Llewellyn
and those of the bold Glendower ; and still
farther down the stream of time were they stained
with blood as of brother shed by brother, when
England's people — those of Wales as well — King-mad
and King-cursed, took a fancy, or phrensy,

to cut one another's throats about the colour of
a rose.

And now, on these same roads, two centuries
later, they were again engaged in a fratricidal
strife, though not as before with both sides infatuated
through kingcraft. One was fighting fora
better cause — the best of all — a people's freedom.
The first time they had struck blow for
this or themselves ; their stand for Magna Charta,
so much vaunted, being a mere settling of disputes
between barons and king ; no quarrel of
theirs, nor its results much gain to them. Neither
would it be far from the truth to say, it was the
last time for them to draw sword on the side of
human liberty ; indeed difficult to point out any
war in which Great Britain has been engaged
since not undertaken for the propping up of vile
despotisms, or for selfish purposes equally vile, to
the very latest of them — Zululand and Afghanistan,
videlicet.

VOL. III. C

But the rebellion against Charles Stuart had a
far different aim, all who upheld it being actuated
by higher and nobler motives ; and, though the
war was internecine, it need never be regretted.
For on the part of England's people it brought
out many a display of courage, devotion to virtue,
and other good qualities, of which any people
might be proud.

Nor was it all fruitless, though seeming so.
From it we inherit such fragment of liberty as is
left us, and to it all such aspirations turn. Not
all stifled by the corruption which came immediately
after under the rule of the Merry Monarch ;
nor yet by what followed further on, during the
foul reign of " Europe's first gentleman ; " and let
us hope still to survive through one foreshadowing,
nay, already showing, corruption great as either.

* * * ¥r

Though in the Parliamentary wars no great
battle occurred in the counties of Monmouth or

Hereford, in both there was much partizan strife,
at first chiefly along their eastern borders. Their
interior districts, save during the Earl of Stamford's
brief occupation, and Waller's sweeping raid,
had been hitherto in the hands of the Royalists ;
and no traveller thought of venturing on their
roads who was not prepared upon challenge to cry
For the King ! "

Two routes were especially frequented ; but more
by warlike men than peaceful wayfarers. One
of them ran due north and south between their
respective capitals. The other passed through the
same, but with a bow-like bend eastward, keeping
to the valley of the Wye, and about midway communicating
with the town of Ross. Between them
lay a wild wooded district of country, the ancient
kingdom of Ergyn, to this day known as the Hundred
of Greenfield. Through this was a third
road, leading from Goodrich Castle north-west ;
which, on the shoulder of a high hill, Acornbury,

some six miles south of Hereford, met the more
direct route from Monmouth — the two thence continuing
the same to the former city.

On the morning of the capture of Monmouth,
at the earliest hour of dawn, a cavalcade was seen
issuing from the gates of Goodrich Castle, and
turning along this road in the direction of Hereford.
It numbered nigh an hundred files, riding
by twos," a formation which the narrow trackway
rendered compulsory. Most of the men comprising
it carried the lance, a favourite weapon
with Colonel Sir Henry Lingen, its commanding
officer. But some twenty were without arms of
any kind, though on horseback : the prisoners of
whom Kyrle had spoken as likely to be transferred
from Goodrich to the capital. The information
accidentally received by him was correct ;
they were now in transit between the two places,
escorted by nearly all the castle's garrison, Lingen
himself at the head.

Had he known of Monmouth being in the hands
of the enemy, he would not have been thus moving
away from his stronghold. But, by some mischance,
the messenger sent to apprise him of the
disaster, did not reach Goodrich till after his departure
for Hereford.

Nor was his errand to the latter place solely
to see his prisoners safely lodged. He had other
business there, with its Governor, Sir Barnabas
Scudamore ; hence his going along with them.
For taking such a large retinue there was the
same reason. Sir Barnabas contemplated an attack
on Hampton Bryan Castle ; so heroically defended
by Lady Brilliant Harley, who had long and repeatedly
foiled his attempts to take it.

The High-sheriff of Hereford county — for such
was Lingen — took delight in a grand Cavalier
accompaniment — many of his followers belonging
to the best families of the shire — and along the
route they were all jollity, talking loud, and laughing

at each jeu d' esprit which chanced to be
sprung. Just come from hard blows at Beach-ley,
and crowded quarters in Monmouth, they
were on the way to a city of more pretension, and
promising sweeter delights. Hereford was at the
time a centre of distinction, full of gentry from
the surrounding shires ; above all, abounding in
the feminine element, with many faces reputed
fair. Lingen's gallants meant to have a carousal
in the capital city, and knew they would there
find the ways and means, with willing hosts to
entertain them.

Different the thoughts of those whom they were
conducting thither as captives. No such prospects
to cheer or enliven them ; but the reverse, as their
experience of prison life had already taught them.

Most of all was Eustace Trevor dejected, for
he was among them. It had been a trying week
for the ex-gentleman usher. Captured, wounded
by good fortune but slightly — transported from

prison to prison, taunted as a rebel, and treated
as a felon, he was even more mortified than sad.
Enraged also to the end of his wits ; he the proud
son of Sir William Trevor to be thus submitted
to ignominy and insult ; he to whom, at Whitehall
Palace, but two short years before, earls and
dukes had shown subservience, believing him the
favourite of a Queen !

Harrowing the reflections, and bitter the chagrin,
he was now enduring, though the Queen had
nought to do with them. All centred on a simple
girl, in whose eyes he had hoped to appear a
hero. Instead, he had proved himself an imbecile ;
been caught as in a trap ! What would she —
Vaga Powell — think of him now ?

Oft since his capture had he anathematized his
ill-fate — oft lamented it. And never more chafed
at it than on this morning while being marched
towards Hereford. While at Monmouth he had
entertained a hope of getting rescued. A rumour

of the affair at Beachley had penetrated his
prison ; and he knew Massey had been long contemplating
an expedition across the Forest andover
the Wye. But Hereford was in the heart
of the enemy's country, a very centre of Royalist
strength and rule. Not much chance of his being
delivered there ; instead, every mile nearer to it
the likelier his captivity to be of long continuance.


Hope had all but forsaken him ; yet, in this his
darkest hour of despondence, a ray of it scintillated
through his mind, once more inspiring him
with thoughts of escape. For something like a
possibility had presented itself, in the shape of a
horse — his own. The same animal he bestrode
in his combat with Sir Richard Walwyn, and
that had shown such spirit after a journey of
nigh fifty miles. Many a fifty miles had it borne
him since, carried him safe through many a hostile
encounter.

He was not riding it now, alas ! but astride the
sorriest of nags. " Saladin," the name of the tried
and trusty steed, had been taken from him at
Hollymead, and become the property of a common
soldier, one of those who had assisted in his capture,
the same now having him in especial charge.
For each of the prisoners was guarded by one of
the escort riding alongside.

It was by a mere accidental coincidence that
the late and present owners of Saladin were thus
brought into juxtaposition ; and at first the former
only thought of its singularity, with some vexation
at having been deprived of his favourite charger,
which he was not likely to recover again. By-and-by,
however, the circumstance became suggestive.
He knew the mettle of the horse, no man better.
Perhaps, had Sir Harry Lingen, or any of his
officers, known it as well, a common trooper would
not have been bestriding it. But as yet the
animal's merits remained undiscovered by them,

none supposing that in heels it could distance all
in their cavalcade, and in bottom run them dead
down.

On this, and things collateral, had Eustace
Trevor commenced reflecting ; hence his new-sprung
hope. Wounded, with his arm in a sling,
he was not bound — such precaution seeming superfluous.
Besides, badly mounted as he was, any
attempt at flight would have been absurd, and
could but end in his being almost instantly retaken.
So no one thought of his making it, save
himself; but he did — had been cogitating upon it
all along the way.

If I could but get on Saladin's back ! " was
his mental soliloquy, " I'd risk it. Three lengths
of start — ay, one — and they might whistle after
me. Their firelock and lances all slung, pistols

in the holsters buckled up ; none dreaming of

Oh! were I but in that saddle!"

It was his own saddle to which he referred, now

between the legs of the trooper, who had appropriated
it also.

Every now and then his eyes were turned towards
the horse in keen, covetous look ; which
the man at length observing, said, —

Maybe we'd like to get him back, Master
Captain? He be precious good stuff; an' I don't
wonder if ye would. Do ye welsh it ? "

It was just the question Saladin's ci-devant
owner desired to be asked, and he was on the eve
of answering impressively, " Very much." A reflection
restraining him, he replied, in a careless
indifferent way, —

Well, I shouldn't mind — if you care to part
with him."

That would depend on what ye be willing' to
gie. How much ? "

This was a puzzler. What had he to give ?
Nothing! At his capture they had stripped him
clean, rifled his pockets, torn from his hat the

jewelled clasp and egret's plume — that trophy of
sweet remembrance. Even since, in Monmouth
gaol, they had made free with certain articles of
his attire ; so that he was not only unarmed and
useless, but rather shabbily dressed ; anything
but able to make purchase of a horse, however
moderate the price.

Would the man take a promise of payment at
some future time — his word for it ? The proposal
was made ; a tempting sum offered, to be handed
over soon as the would-be purchaser could have
the money sent him by his friends ; but rejected.

That's no dependence, an' a fig for your
friends ! " was the coarse response of the sceptical
trooper. " If ye can't show no better surety for
pain', I hold on to the horse, an' you maun go
without him. 'Sides, Master Captain, what use
the animal to ye inside o' a prison, where's yer
like to be shut up, Lord knows how long ? "

Ah, true ! " returned the young officer, with a

sigh, and look of apparent resignation. " Still,
corporal," — the man had a cheveron on his sleeve
"it's killing work to ride such a brute as this.
If only for the rest of the way to Hereford, I'd
give something to exchange saddles with you."

If ye had it to gie, I dare say ye would," rejoined
the corporal, with a satirical grin, as he ran
his eye over the bare habiliments of his prisoner.
But as ye can't, what be the use palaver' 'bout
it ? Till ye can show better reason for my accommodation'
you, we'll both stick to the saddles
we be in."

This seemed to clinch the question ; and for a
time Eustace Trevor was silent, feeling foiled.
But before going much farther a remembrance
came to his aid, which promised him a better
mount than the Rosinante he was riding — in
short, Saladin's self. The wound he had received
was a lance thrust in the left wrist — only a prick,
but when done deluging the hand in blood. This

running down his fingers had almost glued them
together, and the kerchief hastily wrapped round
had stayed there ever since, concealing a ring
which, seen by any of the Cavalier soldiers, would
have been quickly cribbed. None had seen it ;
he himself having almost forgotten the thing, till
now, with sharpened wits, he recalled its being
there ; knew it to be worth the accommodation
denied him, and likely to obtain it.

"Well, corporal," he said, returning to the subject,
" I should have liked a ride on the horse, if
only for old times' sake, and the little chance of
my ever getting one again. But I'd be sorry to
have you exchange without some compensation.
Still, I fancy, I can give you that without drawing
upon time."

The trooper pricked up his ears, now listening
with interest. He was not inexorable ; would
have been willing enough to make the temporary
swop, only wanted a quid pro quo.

"What do you say to this?" continued the
young officer.

He had slipped his right hand inside the sling,
and drawn forth the golden circlet, which he held
out while speaking. It was a jewelled ring, the
gems in cluster bedimmed with the blood that
had dried and become encrusted upon them. But
they sparkled enough to show it valuable ; worth
far more than what it was being offered for. And
there was a responsive sparkle in the eyes of him
who bestrode Saladin, as he hastened to say, —

That'll do. Bargain be it ! "

AN UPHILL CHASE.

At sight of the glistening gems a sudden change
had come over the features of the trooper, their
expression of surliness being displaced by that of
intense cupidity. But for this he might have considered
why the offer of such valuable consideration
for so trifling a service. As it was, he had
no suspicion of it; though on both sides the dialogue
had been carried on in guarded undertone.
For this their reasons were distinct, each having
his own. That of the prisoner is already known ;
while a simple instinct had guided the corporal —
a fear that the negotiation between them might
not be altogether agreeable to his superiors.

More cautious than ever after declaring it a


bargain, he glanced furtively to the front, then
rearward, to assure himself they had not been
overheard, nor their tête-à-tête noticed by any of
the officers.

It seemed all right, none of these being near ;
and his next thought was how to effect the exchange
agreed upon. The files were wide apart,
with very little order in the line of march — a circumstance
observed by Eustace Trevor with satisfaction,
as likely to help him in his design. They
were passing though a district unoccupied by any
enemy and where surprise was the last thing to
be thought of. But even straggled out as was
the troop, any transfer of horses, however adroitly
done, would not only be remarked upon, but cause
a block in the marching column ; the which might
bring about inquiry as to the reason, and the
guard, if not the prisoner, into trouble.

"Ye maun ha' patience for a bit," said the
former, in view of the difficulty. " 'Tant safe for

VOL. III. D

me to be seen changing' horses on the road. But
ye won't ha' long to wait ; only till we get to the
bottom o' that hill ye see ahead. Acornbury it
be called. There we can do the thing."

Why there ? "

The question was put with a special object,
apart from the questioner's impatience.

Cause o' an inn that be their. It stand this
side o' where the pitch begins. The Sheriff always
stops at it going' from Goodrich to Hereford, an'
he be sure o' making' halt the day. When's we be
halted — ye comprehend, Captain ? "

The man had grown civil almost to friendliness.
The prospect of becoming possessed of a valuable
ring for but an hour's loan of his new horse had
worked wonders. Could he but have known that
he was hypothecating the more valuable animal
with but slight chance of redeeming it, the bargain
would have been off on the instant. His avarice
blinded him ; and his prisoner now felt good assure

he would soon have Saladin once more between
his knees.

I do comprehend — quite," was the young officer's
satisfied response ; and they rode on without further
speech, both purposely refraining from it.

The corporal might have saved his breath in
imparting the situation of the inn under Acorn-bury
Hill. Eustace Trevor knew the house well
as he ; perhaps better, having more than once
baited his horse there. Familiar was he with the
roads and country around, not so far from his
native place by Abergavenny. Besides, he had an
uncle who lived nearer, and as a boy, with his
cousins, had ridden and sported all over the district.
This topographical knowledge was now likely
to stand him in stead ; and as he thought of the
Monmouth road joining that he was on near the
head of Acornbury pitch, he fairly trembled with
excitement. Could he but reach their point of
junction on Saladin's back he would be free.

How he longed to arrive at the roadside hostelry !
Every second seemed a minute, every minute an
hour !

It was reached at length, and his suspense
brought to an end. True to expectation, a halt
was commanded ; and the extended line, closing
up, came to a stand on the open ground before
the inn. A scrambling house of antique architecture,
its swing sign suspended from the limb
of an oaken giant, whose spreading branches
shadowed a large space in front.

Under this Lingen and his officers made stop,
still keeping to their saddles, and calling to Boniface
and his assistants to serve them there. It
was only for a draught they had drawn up, the
journey too short to need resting their horses.
Nor was there any dismounting among the rank
and file rearward, save where some trooper whose
girths had got loosened took the opportunity to
drop down and tighten them.

Seeming to do the same was the corporal in
charge of Eustace Trevor, his prisoner too, both
on the ground together. Only an instant till they
were in the saddle again, but with changed horses,
and the blood-crusted ring at the bottom of the
corporal's pocket.

Meanwhile the officers under the tree had got
served, and, cups in hand, were quaffing joyously.
In high glee all ; for the sun, now well up, promised
a day gloriously fine, and they were about to
make entry into Hereford with flying colours.
Nearly twenty prisoners, it would be as a triumphal
procession.

A cry, strangely intoned, brought their merriment
to an abrupt end ; a chorus of shouts, quick
following with the clatter of hoofs. Turning, they
saw one on horseback just parting from the troop, as
if his horse had bolted and was running away with
him !

But no. " Prisoner escaping ! " came the callas

every one could now see it was. The man inrich
garb, but soiled and torn ; the horse a bit of
blood none of their prisoners had been riding.
One of the officers they had taken — which ?

The question was answered by the High Sheriff
himself —

Zounds ! it's that young renegade, Trevor !
He mustn't escape, gentlemen. All after him ! "

Down went tankards and flagons, dashed to
the ground, spilling the wine they had not time
to drink ; and off all set, swords drawn, and spurs
buried rowel deep.

The common men, save those cumbered with
prisoners, joined in the pursuit ; some unslinging
lances or firelock, others plucking pistols from
their holsters.

Shoot ! " shouted Lingen. " Bring him down,
or the horse ! "

It was the critical moment for the fugitive, and
in modern days would have been fatal to him.

But the old snap-hans and clumsy horse pistol of
the Stuart times were little reliable for a shot
upon the wing, and as a winged bird Saladin was
sweeping away. Both volley and straggling fire
failed to stay him ; and ere the pursuers were well
laid on, the pursued was at least fifty lengths ahead
of the foremost.

Up the hill, towards Hereford, was he heading !
This a surprise to all. In that direction were only
his enemies ; and he could as easily have gone
off in the opposite, with hope of getting to Gloucester.
At starting he had even to pass the group
of officers under the tree. And why setting his
face for Hereford — as it were rushing out of one
trap to run into another?

He knew better. Fleeing to the capital of the
county was the farthest thing from his thoughts.
His goal was Monmouth ; but first the forking of
the roads on the shoulder of Acornbury Hill.
That reached, with no contretemps between, he

might bid defiance to the clattering ruck in his
rear.

The distance he was so rapidly gaining upon
them told him he had not been mistaken about
the superior qualities of his steed. If the latter
should show bottom as it already had heels, his
chances of escape were good. And the omens
seemed all in his favour : his own horse so oddly
restored to him ; the luck of that ring left un-pilfered
during his imprisonment ; and, lastly, to
have come unscathed out of the shower of bullets
sent after him ! They had hustled past his ears,
not one touching him or the horse.

He thought of these things when far enough
ahead to reflect ; and the farther he rode the
greater grew his confidence. Saladin would be
sure to justify his good opinion of him.

And Saladin seemed to quite comprehend the
situation. He at least knew his real owner and
master was once more on his back, which meant

something. And having received word and sign
for best speed — the first " On ! " the last a peculiar
pressure of the rider's knees — he needed no urging
of whip or spur. Without them he was doing his
utmost.

Up the pitch went he as hare against hill ; up
the channel-like trackway between escarpments
of the old red sandstone that looked like artificial
walls ; on upward, breasting the steep with as
much apparent ease as though he galloped along
level ground. No fear of anything equine overtaking
him ; no danger now, for the pursuers were
out of sight round many turnings of the road ; the
hue and cry was growing fainter and farther off,
and the stone which marked the forking of the
routes would soon be in sight.

Eustace Trevor's heart throbbed with emotions
it had long been a stranger to, for they were sweet.
He now felt good as sure he would get off, and
to escape in such fashion would do something to

restore his soldierly repute, forfeited by the affair
of Hollymead. Nothing had more exasperated
him than his facile capture there ; above all, the
light in which a certain lady would regard it ; but
now he could claim credit for a deed

"Not done yet!" was his muttered exclamation,
interrupting the pleasant train of thought, as he
reined his horse to a sudden halt.

He was approaching the head of the pitch,
had almost surmounted it, when he saw what
seemed to tell him his attempt at escape was a
failure ; all his strategy, with the swiftness of his
steed, to no purpose. A party of mounted men,
just breaking cover from among some trees, and
aligning themselves across the road. At the same
instant came the customary hail, —

Who are you for ? "

The dazzle of the sun right before his face, and
behind their backs, hindered his seeing aught to
give a clue to their character— only the glance of

arms and accoutrements proclaiming them soldiers.
And as no soldiers were like to be there save on
the Royalist side, to declare himself truthfully,
and respond " For the Parliament," would be to
pronounce his own doom. Yet he hated in his
heart to cry " For the King." Nor would the deception
serve him. They coming on behind would
soon be up, and lay it bare.

He glanced to right and left, only to see that
he was still between high banks of the sunken
causeway. On neither side a possibility of scaling
them to escape across country. It was but a
question, then, to which he should surrender — the
foe in front, or that he had late eluded ?

There was not much to choose between them ;
in either case he would be returned to the Sheriff
of Hereford ; but to cut short suspense he decided
on giving himself up at once. The road was
blocked by the party of horse, and, weaponless,
to attempt running the gauntlet of them would be

to get piked out of his saddle, or cut to pieces
in it.

These observations and reflections occupied but
an instant, to end in his responding, —

For the Parliament ! "

He might as well make a clean breast of it, and
tell the truth.

We see you are. Come on ! "

Surprised was he at the rejoinder as at the voice
that gave utterance to it, which seemed familiar
to him. But his surprise became astonishment
when the speaker added, " Quick, Trevor ! we're in
ambuscade " ; and drawing nearer, the sun now
out of his eyes, he saw that well-known banneret,
with sword-pierced crown in its field, waving above
the head of Sir Richard Walwyn !

AN AMBUSCADE.

Steaming at the nostrils Saladin was for the
second time brought to a stand, head to head with
old stable comrades that snorted recognition. For
with Colonel Walwyn was Rob Wilde and others
of his troop.

A hurried explanation ensued, Sir Richard first
asking, —

Your guards ? You were being escorted ? "

Yes ; I've given them the slip."

Where are they now ? "

<( Coming up the hill — you hear them ? "

Hush ! " enjoined the knight, speaking to those
around him ; and all became silent, listening.



Voices, with a quick trample of hoofs, and at
short intervals a call as of command, from far
below and but faintly heard. The road was
almost subterranean, and wound up through a
dense wood.

"What's their number?" again questioned the
knight.

"Nigh two hundred — nearly all Lingen's force —
and about twenty prisoners."

Is Lingen with them ? " eagerly asked an officer
by Sir Richard's side, who seemed to share the
command with him.

Colonel Kyrle — Captain Trevor," said the knight,
introducing them. "I suppose you're aware we've
taken Monmouth?"

I was not ; but am happy to hear it. Yes,
Colonel," replying to Kyrle, " Lingen is with them ;
coming on in the pursuit."

Over the features of the ex-Royalist came an
expression of almost savage joy, as one who had

been longing to confront an old and hated foe, and
knew the opportunity near.

I'm glad ! " he exclaimed, as in soliloquy ; then
seemed to busy himself about his arms.

His presence was near being a sorry thing forme
— the inhuman scoundrel ! " rejoined the escaped
prisoner.

How so ? "

I heard him give the order to fire on me, as
I was making off."

And they did ? "

Yes. Every one who could get piece, or pistol,
ready in time."

That explains the shots we heard, Walwyn.
Well, young sir," to Trevor, "you seem to bear a
charmed life. But we must back into ambush.
You take the right, Dick ; let me look to the left,
and give the cue to fall on. I ask that from my
better knowing the ground."

So be it ! " assented Sir Richard, and the two

commanders, parting right and left, rode back a
little way within the wood, where each had a body
of horse drawn up, and ready for the charge.

The conversation, hurriedly carried on, had consumed
but a few seconds' time ; and in an instant
after the causeway was clear again, only a vidette
left under cover to signal the approach of the
pursuers. Captain Trevor, of course, went with
his colonel, but now carrying a sword and pistols ;
supernumerary weapons which had been found for
him by Sergeant Wilde.

A profound silence succeeded ; for the horses of
the Parliamentarians, after two years' campaigning,
had become veterans as the men themselves, and
trained to keeping still. Not a neigh uttered ; no
noise save the slight tinkle of curb or bit, and an
occasional angry stamp at bite of the bree fly. But
the one could not be distinguished, even at short
distance, amid the continuous screeching of jays,
and oft repeated ghi-gln-gluck of the green woodpecker,

whose domain was being intruded on ;
while the other might be mistaken for colts at
pasture.

To the surprise of all in ambuscade, the pursuing
party appeared to be coming on very slowly ; and
in truth was it so. Two reasons retarded them.
Their horses were not Saladin, and the best of
them had become blown in their gallop against
the steep acclivity more than a mile in length.
But the riders themselves had grown discouraged.
In their last glimpse got of the fugitive he was
so far ahead, and his mount showing such matchless
speed, it seemed idle to continue the chase.
They but hoped that some chance party of
Scudamore's men from Hereford might be patrolling
the road farther on, and intercept him. So,
instead of pressing the pursuit with ardour, they
lagged on it ; toiling up the steep in straggled line,
and at a crawl.

Some twenty of the best horsed, however, had
VOL. III. E

forged a long distance ahead of the others, who
were following in twos and threes, with wide
intervals between. And among the laggards was
Lingen, instead of in the lead, as might be expected
in the commander of a partisan troop.
Fond of display, and that day designing exhibition
of it, he rode a charger of superb appearance ; one
of the sort for show, not work. As a consequence,
after the first spurt of the pursuit, he had fallen
hundreds of yards behind, and was half inclined
to turn round and ride back to the inn, under
pretence of looking after his other prisoners.

But there was no going back for those who had
pushed on, nor much farther forward. Having
surmounted the summit of the pitch, they heard
a heavy trampling of hoofs, with the dreaded
slogan, " God and the Parliament ! " and saw two
large bodies of horse, one on each flank, simultaneously
closing upon them. At a charging
gallop these came on, so quick the surprised

party had no time either to turn back or make
a dash onward, ere seeing the road blocked before
and behind.

A surround complete as sudden, accompanied by
the demand " Surrender ! " made in tone of determination
that would not brook refusal.

Of the score of Cavaliers so challenged, not one
had the heart to say nay. They had left their
courage below with their spilled wine cups, and
now cried " Quarter ! n in very chorus, delivering
up their arms without striking blow, or firing shot.

Where's Harry Lingen ? " cried Kyrle, spurring
into their midst with drawn sword. " I don't see
his face among you." Adding, with a sneer,
Such a valiant leader should be at the head
of his men ! "

Then fixing on one he knew to be a cornet of
Lingen's Light Horse, he vociferated, —

Say where your colonel is, sirrah ! or I'll run
you through the ribs."

OF ILL LIB.

"Down the hill — behind somewhere," stammered
out the threatened subaltern. " He was with us
when we commenced the pursuit."

Riding clear of the crowd Kyrle glanced interrogatively
down the road. To see the tails of
horses disappearing round a corner ; some of the
pursuers, who, catching sight of what was above,
had made about face, and were galloping back.

Let us after them, Walwyn ! What say you ? "
hurriedly proposed Kyrle.

u Just what I was thinking of. Trevor tells
me most of their prisoners are my own men,
those taken at Hollymead. They shall be rescued,
whatever the risk."

Not much risk now, I fancy. Lingen's lot are
so demoralized they won't stand a charge. We
needn't fear following them up to the gates of
Goodrich Castle. And we can get back to
Monmouth that way, well as the other."

"That way we go, then said the knight determinedly

; and down the pitch started the two
colonels with their respective followers, a detail
having been hastily told off to guard the prisoners
just taken.

Meanwhile the Sheriff had been balancing between
advance and return. Vexed with the cause
which retarded him, he was vowing he would never
again bestride the showy brute, when he saw
several of his men coming back down the pitch at
breakneck speed, as they approached calling out,
Treason ! A surprise ! "

Treason ! What mean you ? " he demanded,
drawing his sword, and stopping them in their
headlong flight. "Are you mad, fellows?"

No, Colonel ; not mad. Some one has betrayed
us into an ambuscade. The Roundheads are up
the hill ; hundreds — thousands of them ! "

Who says so ? "

"We saw them, Sir Henry."

"You couldn't have seen Roundheads. There

are none on these roads. It must be some of
Scudamore's men from Hereford. Fools ! you've
been frightened at your own shadows."

But, Colonel, they've taken a party of ours
prisoners ; all that were ahead of us. We heard
the ' Surrender ! ' and saw them surrounded."

I shall see it myself before I believe it. About,
and on with me ! "

The men thus commanded, however reluctant to
return towards the summit, knew better than to disobey.
But their obedience was not insisted upon.
In the narrow way, ere he could pass to place
himself at their head, a horseman came galloping
from below, and pulled up by his side. A courier
with horse in a lather of sweat, showing he must
have ridden far and fast. But the slip of paper,
hurriedly drawn from his doublet and handed to
the Sheriff, told all.

Unfolding it, he read, —

"Kyrle has betrayed us. Massey in Monmouth.

Large body of Horse — several hundred — Walwyn's
Forest troop, and some of Kyrle's old hands
with the traitor himself, gone out along the Hereford
road this morning before daybreak. Destination
not known. Be on your guard."

The informal despatch, which showed signs of
being written in great haste, was without any
signature. None was needed ; the bearer, personally
known to Lingen, giving further details
viva voce ; while its contents too truly confirmed
the report just brought by the soldiers from the
other side.

Among Cavaliers Sir Henry Lingen was of the
bravest, and would not cry back from any encounter
with fair chances. But he was not foolhardy,
nor lacking prudence when the occasion
called for it. And there seemed such occasion
now. He knew something of Sir Richard Walwyn
and his Foresters, as also of Kyrle and his following,
and what he might expect from both.

They would not likely be out that way unless in
strong force. Several hundred, the despatch said
pity it was not more exact — while his own
numbered less than two. Besides, if the returning
soldiers were not mistaken, twenty of them had
been already snapped up ; and the rest would
make but a poor fight, if they stood ground at all.
He rather thought they would not now ; and so
reflecting reined his unwieldy charger round, and
rode back down the pitch, at a much better pace
than he had ascended it.

Picking up all stragglers on the way, he meant
doing the same with his prisoners left at the inn.
But before he had even reached it, he heard hoof-strokes
thundering down the hill behind in a
multitudinous clatter, that bespoke a large body of
horse coming close upon his heels. So close, he
no longer thought of cumbering himself with
prisoners, but swept on past those at the hostelry
in a sauve qui pent flight, their guards going

along, and leaving them there in a state of
supreme bewilderment.

Not long, however, till they understood why
they had been so abruptly abandoned. . In less
than five minutes after, broke upon their view the
banner of the sword-stabbed crown, and beneath
it coats of Lincoln green, with hats plumed from
the tail of Chanticleer, the uniform of the Forest
troop — their own.

In a trice they were freed from their fastenings,
and armed with the weapons taken from the party
of Cavaliers that had been caught by the head of
the pitch. Riding their horses, too, after a quick
exchange — in short, everything reversed — then away
from their halting-place with cheers and at charging
gallop, no longer prisoners, but pursuers !

Never did the chances and changes of war receive
better or more singular illustration than upon
that autumn's morn along the road between Acorn-bury
and Goodrich. At early daybreak a Royalist

host, in noisy jubilant, conducting a score of
dejected captives towards Hereford ; and, before
the sun had attained meridian height, a like number
of prisoners going in the opposite direction,
under guard of Parliamentary soldiers !

Some difference, however, in the mode of marchand
rate of speed : the former leisurely slow, as a
triumphal procession ; the latter a hot, eager pursuit
that permitted no tarrying by the way. Nor
was there on the return passage either jesting or
laughter ; instead, now and then shouts in stern,
angry tone — the demand, " Surrender ! " as some
fleeing Cavalier, cursed with a short-winded horse,
had to pull up, and call out " Quarter ! "

So on to the gates of Goodrich Castle, into
which Lingen, maugre his indifferent mount, contrived
to enter, quick closing them behind.

The pursuit could go no farther, nor the pursuers
make entrance after him. In that strong
fortress he might bid defiance to cavalry — even

the best artillery of the time. Famine only had
he to fear.

But to so shut him up — so humiliate him — was
a triumph for Kyrle, his ancient foe ; and as the
latter turned away from the defying walls, the
smile upon his face told how greatly it gratified
him. A revanche he had gained for some wrongs
Lingen had done his father ; and, now that he was
himself to rule in Monmouth, he had hopes, erelong,
to make a real revenge of it, by razing
Goodrich Castle to its foundation stones.

IN CAROUSAL.

"We'll drink-drink,
And our goblets clink,

Quaffing the blood red wine ;
The wenches we'll toast,
And the Roundheads we'll roast,

The Copies, and all their kind."

11 A CAPITAL song ! And right well you've sung
it, Sir Thomas. Herrick /"

"Your Highness compliments me."

11 Nein-nein. But who composed the ditty ? It's
new to me."

Sir John Dunham. He who wrote the verses
about Waller, and their defeat at Roundway Down —

Great William the Con

So fast did he run,
That he left half his name behind him.'

Your Highness may remember them ? "



1 Ha-ha-ha ! That do I ; and Sir John himself.
A true Cavalier, and no better company over the
cup. But come, gentlemen ! Let us act up to the
spirit of the song. Fill goblets, and toast the
wenches ! "

The wenches ! The wenches ! " came in responsive
echo from all sides of the table, as the wine
went to their lips.

No sentiment could have been more congenial to
those who had been listening to Colonel Unfold's
song. For it was this man of infamous memory
who had been addressed as " Sir Thomas." He
had late received knighthood from his King; such
being the sort Kings delight to honour, now as
then. And among the convives was a King's son,
the embryo "Merry Monarch," taking lessons in
that reprobacy he afterwards practised to the
bestrumpetting England from lordly palace to
lowly cot.

It was not he, however, who had complimented

Lunsford on his vocal abilities ; the " Highness "
being his cousin, Prince Rupert, in whose quarters
they were carousing ; the place Bristol ; the time
some weeks subsequent to the taking of Monmouth
by Massey. But the occasion which had called
them together was to celebrate a success on the
opposite side ; its re-capture by the Royalists, for
Monmouth had been re-taken. A sad mischance
for the Parliamentarians ; through no fault of Kyrle,
who, on active duty, was away from it, but the
lace of one Major Throgmorton, left in temporary
charge.

Riotous with delight were they assembled
within Rupert's quarters. They had that day
received the welcome intelligence, and were inspirit
for unrestrained rejoicing. Ever since Marston
Moor the King's cause had been suffering
reverses ; once more the tide seemed turning in
its favour.

But nothing of war occupied their thoughts now ;

the victory on the Wye had been talked over, the
victors toasted, and the subject dismissed for one
always uppermost at a Cavalier carousal.

Several songs had been already sung, but that of
Lunsford — so indecent that only the chorus can
be here given — tickled the fancies of all, and an
encore was demanded. A demand with which the
festive Lunsford readily complied, and the ribald
refrain once more received uproarious plaudits.

Now, gentlemen ! " said the host, on silence
being restored, " fill again ! We've but toasted
the wenches in a general way. I'm going to
propose one in particular, whom you'll all be eager
to honour. A fascinating damsel, who, if I'm not
mistaken, Cousin Charles, has put a spell upon
your young heart."

Ha-ha ! " smirked the precocious reprobate, ina
semi-protesting way. " You are mistaken, coz.
None of womankind can do that."

Ah ! if your Royal Highness has escaped her

witcheries, you're one of the rare exceptions. Mein
Gottt ! she has turned the heads of more than half
my young officers, and commands them as much
as I do myself. Well, she's worthy of obedience,
if beauty has the right to rule, and we Cavaliers
cannot deny it that. So let us drink to her ! "

By this all had replenished their cups, and were
waiting to hear the name of her whose charms
were so extolled by their princely host. A good
many could guess ; and more than one listened to
what he had been saying with a feeling of unpleasantness.
For he but spoke the truth about
the fascinations of a certain lady, and more than
one present had felt their spell to the surrender
of hearts. Not from this came their pain, however,
but from whisperings that Rupert himself had set
covetous eyes on the lady in question, and well
knew they what that meant — a thing fatal to their
own aspirations. Where the sun deigns to shine
the satellite stars have to suffer eclipse.

And just as these jealous subordinates anticipated,
the damsel about to. be toasted was
Mademoiselle Lalande.

Clarisse Lalande ! " at length called out the
Prince, adding — " To the bottom of your cups,
gentlemen ! "

And to the bottom of their cups drank they,
honouring the toast with a cheer, in which might
be detected some tone of irony.

The usual brief interval of silence, as lull in the
midst of storm, was succeeded by a buzz of conversation,
not about any common or general
subject, but carried on by separate groups, and in
dialogue between individuals.

Into this last had entered two gentlemen, who
sate near the head of the table ; one in civilian
garb, the other wearing the uniform of a cavalry
officer. Both were men of middle age, the officer
somewhat the older ; while a certain gravity of
aspect distinguished him from the gay restorers

VOL III. F

around. But for the insignia on his dress, he would
have looked more like Parliamentarian than Royalist.

The demeanour of the civilian was also of the
sober kind, and marked by an air of distinction
which proclaimed him a somebody of superior rank.

Tis no more than the truth," he said, turning
to the officer, after the toast had been disposed of.
The Creole is a fascinating creature. Don't you
think so, Major Grenville?"

I do, my Lord. Her fascination is admitted by
all. But, perhaps, some of it is due to her rather
free manners. With a little more modesty she
might not appear so attractive — certainly would
not to most of the present company."

"Ah! true, There's something in that."

A good deal, my Lord ; despite the old adage.
For modesty is a quality that does not adorn Mademoiselle
Lalande. A pity, too ! The want of it
may ruin her reputation, if it hasn't done that
already."

What a moralist you are, Major ! Your ideas
have a strong taint of Puritanism. I hope you're
not going to turn your back on us gay Cavaliers.
Ha-ha-ha!"

The laugh told his Lordship to be in jest. He
knew Major Grenville to be a devoted adherent of
the King, else he would not have bantered him.

But," he continued, reverting to the topic with
which they started, "morals apart, I've never seen
a thing to give one such an idea of woman's power
as she does — in that curious Indian dance. 'Tis
a wonderful picture, or rather embodiment, of
feminine voluptuousness."

"All that I admit," returned the Major. "But
for true womanly grace — ay, abandon, but of a
very different kind — you should see a cousin she
has, a real English girl, or, to speak more correctly,
Welsh."

"All the same. But who is the cousin so
highly endowed ? "

"A Miss Powell, the daughter of a wealthy
gentleman, who, I'm sorry to say, is not on our
side ; instead, one of our bitterest enemies."

"Might you mean Master Ambrose. Powell, of
Hollymead House, up in the Forest of Dean ? "

The same. Your Lordship seems to know
him ? "

Certainly I do, or did ; for it's several years
since I've seen him. But he had two daughters
then, Sabrina and Vaga. One is not likely to
forget the names. Are not both still living?"

"Oh yes."

The elder, Sabrina, was nearly grown up when
I saw them last, the other but a slip ; but both
promised to be great beauties."

"If your Lordship saw them now, you'd say
the promise has been kept. They are that, beyond
cavil or question."

But from what you've said, I take it you regard
one of them as superior to the other.

Which, may I ask ? At a guess I'd say Sabrina.
As a girl I liked her looks best ; came near
liking them too well. Ha-ha ! Have I guessed
correctly ? "

The reverse, my Lord ; that is, according to
my ideas of beauty."

Then you award the palm to Vaga ? "

u Decidedly."

Well, Major, I won't question your judgment,
as I can't till I've seen the sisters again. No
doubt they will be much changed since I had
the pleasure of last meeting them. But they
should now be of an age to get married ;
Sabrina certainly. Is there no talk of that?"

11 There is, my Lord."

Regarding which ? "

Regarding both."

"Ah! And who the respective favourites?"

11 Say respective finances, your Lordship. They're
engaged. So report has it."

"rand who are to be the Benedicts ? Who is
Mistress Sabrina to make happy ? "

Sir Richard Walwyn, 'tis said."

Dick Walwyn, indeed ! An old classmate of
mine at Oxford. Well, she might do worse.
And the little yellow-haired sprout ? She was a
bright blonde, I remember, with wonderful tresses,
like a Dance's shower. Who's to be the possessor
of all that auriferous wealth ? "

One of the Trevor."

There's one of them on the Prince's staff, I
understand. Is it he ? "

"No; a cousin — son of Sir William of Aber-ravenna."


"' What ! the young stripling who used to beat
Court — one of the gentlemen ushers ? "

The same, my Lord."

Quite an Adonis he ; so the Queen thought,
'twas said. Mistress Vaga must have all the
fascinations you credit her with to have made

conquest of him. But he's not with the King
now ? "

No ; nor on the King's side neither. He
turned coat, and took service under the Parliament,
in Walwyn's troop of Horse. 'Tis supposed
the Dance's shower your lordship speaks of had
a good deal to do with his conversion."

Very likely that. Cupid's a powerful proselytiser.
Well, I should like to see the Powell
girls again ; their father too, for old friendship's
sake. By the way, where are they ? "

I am not well informed about their present
whereabouts. Some twelve months ago they
were here in Bristol, staying at Montserrat
House with Madame, his sister. When we took
the place, Master Ambrose thought it wise to move
away from it, for reasons easily understood. He
went hence to Gloucester, where, I believe, he
has been residing ever since — up till within the
last few days. Likely they're at Hollymead just

now ; at least I heard of Powell having returned
thither, thinking he would be safe with Monmouth
in Massey's hands. Since it isn't any longer, he
may move back to Gloucester ; and the sooner the
better, I should say. He has sadly compromised
himself by acting on one of the Parliament's
Committees ; and some of ours will show him
but slight consideration."

Indeed, I should be sorry if any serious misfortune
befell him, or his. An odd sort of man
with mistaken views politically ; still a man of
sterling good qualities. I hope, Major, he may
not be among the many victims this unnatural
war is claiming all over the land."

I echo that hope, my Lord."

And with these humane sentiments their dialogue
came to a close, so far as that subject was
concerned.

Two men had been listening to it with eager
ears — Prince' Rupert and Colonel Lunsford, who

sate by his side. Amidst the clinking of goblets,
and the jarring din of many voices, they could
not hear it all ; still enough to make out its general
purport.

They seemed especially interested when the
Major spoke of the Powellss having returned to
Hollymead. It was news to them ; glad news
for a certain reason. Often since that morning
after the surrender of Bristol had the princely
voluptuary given thought to the " bit of saucy
sweetness, with cheeks all roses," he had seen
passing out of its gates for Gloucester. Just as
at first sight her sister had caught the fancy of
the brutal Lunsford, so had she caught his ; and
the impression still remained, despite a succession
of amours and love escapades, with high and low,
since. »

In more than one of his marquis through the
Forest of Dean, Lunsford along with him, he had
paid visit to Hollymead House ; only to find it

untenanted, save by caretakers — the family still in
the city of Gloucester. Many the curse hurled
he, and his infamous underling, at that same city
of Gloucester ; where the Cavalier who had not
cursed it ?

Overjoyed, then, were the two by what had
just reached their ears, the Prince interrogating
in undertone, —

You hear that, Lunsford ? "

I dOj your Highness."

Gottt sei dark ! Just what we've been wishing
and waiting for. We may now visit Hollymead,
with fair hope of the sweet frdnleins being thereto
receive us. Then, mein Colonel, then — nous
verrons / "

After delivering himself in this polyglot fashion,
he caught hold of his goblet, and clinking it
against that of Lunsford, said in a confidential
whisper, —

We drink to our success, Sir Thomas ! "

There had beeii a third listener to the dialogue
between Major Grenville and the nobleman, who
also overheard the words spoken by Rupert to
the new-made knight. But, instead of gladdening,
the first gave him pain ; which the last intensified
to very bitterness. His name made known,
the reason will be divined. For it was Reginald
Trevor.

AT HOME AGAIN.

There was rejoicing at Ruardean. After two
years of forced absence, the master of Hollymead
had returned to his ancestral home, and the faces
of his beautiful daughters once more gladdened the
eyes of the villagers.

Out of the world's way as was this quaint little
place, it too had suffered the severities of the war.
More than one visit had been paid to it by patrols
and scouting parties of the Royalist soldiery ;
which meant very much the same as if the visitors
had been very bandits. They made free with
everything they could lay hands on worth the
trouble of taking — goods, apparel, furniture, even

to the most cherished household goods ; invading

7 6

the family sanctuary, and at each re-appearance
stripping it cleaner and cleaner.

Ruardean had, indeed, become an impoverished
place, as all the rural district around. The
"chimney tapestry" had disappeared from the
farmer's kitchen, neither flitch nor ham to be seen
in it ; empty his piastres, unlocked his pastures ;
and if a horse remained in his stable it was one
no Cavalier would care to bestride. The King's
Commissioners of Array had requisitioned all,
calling it a purchase, and paying with bits of
stamped paper, which the reluctant vendor knew
to be worth just nothing. But, nolens volens, he
must accept it, or take the alternative, sure of being
made severe for him.

So afflicted ever since the surrender of Bristol
to Rupert, no wonder the Forest people had grown
a-weary of the war, and were glad when they heard
of Wintour's defeat at Beachley, and soon after
of Monmouth being taken by the Parliamentarians.

It seemed earnest of a coming peace ; while to
the people of the Ruardean district Ambrose
Powell once more appearing among them was
like the confirmation of it.

Something besides gave them security, for the
time at least. A squadron of horse had taken up
quarters in their village ; not the freebooting
Cavaliers, bullying and fleecing them ; but soldiers
who treated them kindly, paid full price for everything,
in short, behaved to them as friends and
protectors. For many of them were their friends,
their own relatives, the body of horse being that
commanded by Colonel Walwyn, with Rob Wilde
as its head sergeant.

Alike secure felt the ladies in Hollymead House,
safe as within Gloucester. How could it be otherwise,
with Sir Richard having his headquarters there
and Eustace Trevor under the same roof?

The happy times seemed to have returned ; and
the sisters, after their long irksome residence in

walled towns, more than ever enjoyed that country
life, to which from earliest years they had been
accustomed.

And once again went they out hawking, with
the same cast of peregrine and the same little
merlin. For Van Dorn, living in a sequestered
spot, and unaffected by the events of the war, had
kept the falcons up to their training.

Once more to the marsh at the base of Ruardean
Hill, the party almost identical with that which
had repaired thither two years before. And as
before rang out the falconer's hooha-ha-lia-ha ! and
shrill whistle, as a heron rose up from the sedge ;
again a white heron, the great egret ! Singular
coincidence, and strangely gratifying to the fair
owner of the peregrine, for she especially wanted
an egret. How she watched as it made for upper
air, with the falcons doing their best to mount
above it ; watched with eager, anxious eyes, fearing
it might get away. Not that she was cruel, only

just then she so desired to have a white heron ;
would give anything for one.

She did not need to have a fear. Van Dorn had
done his duty by the hawks, and the chased bird
had no chance of escaping. Soon its pursuers were
seen above it, with spread trains and quivering
sails ; then one stooped, raked, and rose over again ;
while the other stooped to bind ; both ere long
becoming bound ; when all three birds came fluttering
back to earth.

With triumphant " whoop ! " the falconer pronounced
it a kill ; but this time, seemingly without
being told, he plucked out the tail coverts, and
handed them to his young mistress. Days before,
however, Van Dorn had received injunctions to
procure such if possible. There was a hat that
wanted a plume.

To replace that you lost, dear Eustace," she
said, passing them over to him.

'Tis so good of you to think of it, darling ! "

How different their mode of addressing one
another from the time when they were last upon
that spot ! No painstaking coyness now ; but heart
knowing heart, troth plighted, and loves mutually
reliant.

I shall take better care of this one," he added,
adjusting the feathers into a panache. " Never man
sadder than I when the other was taken from me.
For I feared it would be the loss of what I far
more valued."

"Your life. Ah! so feared I when I heard you
were wounded "

No, not my life," he said, interrupting. " Something
besides."

What besides ? "

Your love, Vaga ; at least your esteem."

Eustace ! How could you think that ? "

From having lost my own, along with my
character as a soldier. To be taken as in a
trap."

VOL. III. G

Never that, dearest ! All knew there was
treason. If you were taken so might a lion, with
such numbers against you. And how you delivered
yourself! "

She had learnt all the particulars of his escape
—a deed of daring to be proud of. And proud
was she of it.

Do you know, Eustace," she continued, without
waiting his rejoinder, " that you spared me a
journey, and perhaps some humiliation ? "

A journey ! Whither ? "

To Goodrich Castle first ; and it might have
been anywhere after."

"But why?"

To throw myself at Sir Henry Lingen's feet,
and crave mercy for you."

"That would have been humiliation indeed,
darling. And I'm glad that chance hindered you
from it."

Chance ! No love : your courage did it, and "

My horses's heels, rather say. But for them I
should not be here."

He was upon that horse's back then ; she on a
palfrey by his side.

Noble Saladin ! " she exclaimed, drawing closer,
and passing her gloved hand caressingly over his
arched neck. " Dear, good Saladin ! If you but
knew how grateful I am ! "

Saladin did seem to know, as in soft, gentle
neighing he turned his head round to acknowledge
the caress.

A fair picture these betrothed lovers formed as
they sate in their saddles under the greenwood
tree. Some change was there in them since they
had been there before. He handsome as ever
perhaps handsomer. His cheeks embroiled with
two years' campaigning, his figure braced to a
terse, firmer manhood; on Saladin's back he seemed
the personification of a young crusader just returned
from the Holy Wars.

She lovelier than of erst, if that were possible.
A woman now, her girlhood's beauty had done all
Major Grenville said of it, and more. Sager had
she grown, made so by the vicissitudes and trials
of the time ; and it became her. Not now clapped
she her hands, and echoed the falconer's "whoop!"
when the hawks struck their quarry down. Instead,
took it all quietly ; so different from former
days !

But there was another cause now sobering,
almost saddening, her, one which affected both.
The war was not yet at an end. At any hour,
any moment, might come a summons which would
again separate them, perchance never more to
meet ! In that tranquil sylvan scene they felt as
on the deck of a storm-tossed, wreck-threatened
ship, in the midst of angry ocean ! Cruel war, to
beget such reflections — such fears !

And, alas ! they were realized almost on the
instant. Following the old course, the hawking

party had ascended to the summit of the hill to
give the merlin its turn. The game of its pursuit,
more plentiful, was easily found and flushed, so
that soon the courageous creature made a kill — a
landrail the quarry.

But ere it could be cast off for a second flight,
just as once before, the sport was interrupted by
their seeing a horseman on the opposite hill
coming down the road from the Wilderness to
Dry brook.

He might not have been noticed but for the
pace, which was a rapid gallop. This down the
steep declivity told of some pressing purpose, while
the sun's glitter upon arms and accoutrements
proclaimed him a soldier.

More definite was the knowledge got of him
through a telescope, which one of the attendants
carried. Glancing through it, Sir Richard recognised
the uniform of a Parliamentarian dragoon —
one of Massey's own regiment. Coming that way,

and at such a speed, the man must be a messenger
with despatches ; and for whom but himself?

Separating from his party, and taking Hubert
with him, the knight trotted off to the nearest
point where the Ruardean road passed over the
shoulder of the hill, there halting till the dragoon
should come up. Nor had he long to wait. As
conjectured, the man was a messenger, bearing a
despatch that called for all haste in the delivery,
and therefore came galloping up the slope without
lessening his pace. He seemed some little disconcerted
at seeing two horsemen drawn up on the
road before him, but a word from Sir Richard
reassured him, as he perceived it was the knight
himself.

As the despatch was for Sir Richard, this brought
his gallop to an end ; and, drawing up, he handed
over the document, simply saying —

From Governor Massey, Colonel."

Addressed " Colonel Walwyn," it read, —

Gerard has slipped through out of South
Wales, by Worcester, and now en route to join the
King at Oxford. I've got orders from the Committee
to march out and intercept him, if possible
at Evesham, or before he can cross the Cotswolds.
I shall want every man of my command. So draw
off from the Ruardean, for Gloucester, and reinforce
its garrison. Start soon as you get this —
lose not a moment. Time is pressing.

E. Massey."

When Sir Richard returned to the hawking
party his hurried manner, with the serious expression
upon his features, admonished Vaga Powell
that her presentiment was on the eve of being fulfilled.
Sure was she of it on hearing his answer
to Sabrina, who had anxiously questioned him on
his coming up.

Yes, dearest ! A courier from Massey at
Gloucester. I'm commanded to proceed thither in
all haste. We must home."

And home went they to Hollymead, hurriedly
as once before. But not to stay there ; only to
leave the ladies within a few minutes in getting
ready for the " route." Then back down to Guardian
to order the " Assembly " sounded ; soon
after " Boots and saddles " ; in fine, the " Forward,
march ! " and before the sun had sunk over the
far Lateral Hills, the sequestered village had resumed
its wonted tranquillity, not a soldier to be
seen in its streets, nor anywhere round it.

AGAIN PRESENTIMENTS.

"Don't you wish we were back in Gloucester,
Sab ? "

Why wish that, Vag ? "

It's so lonely here."

How you've changed, and in so short a time !
While in the city you were all longings for the
country and now "

Now I long to get back to the city."

The prosaic city of Gloucester, too ! "

Even so. And am sorry we ever came away
from it."

"You've got yourself to blame. Father was all
against it, you know, and only yielded to your

solicitations. As you're his favourite he couldn't
refuse you."

But you approved of it yourself, for another
reason."

Sabrina had approved of it for another reason
thus hinted at. After the taking of Monmouth
by the Parliamentarians, Sir Richard Walwyn had
orders to keep to the Hereford side of the Forest
and guard the approaches in that direction. Hence
his having his Horse quartered at Ruardean, and
hence the desire of the sisters to be back at Holly-mead
House. Now that he was gone to Gloucester
so unexpectedly summoned thither — all was different,
and to Vaga the country life she had so
enthusiastically praised seemed no longer delightful.

"Well, Vag, we're here now, and must make
the best of it. Though I confess to feeling it a
little lonely myself. I wish father had taken
Richard's advice."

At his hurried departure Colonel Walwyn had

counselled their leaving Hollymead, and going
back to reside at Gloucester, if not at once, soon
as the removal could be conveniently made. The
knight, without wishing unnecessarily to alarm
them, had yet some apprehensions about their
safety in that remote place. But they were not
shared in by his intended father-in-law, who,
although not absolutely rejecting the advice, still
delayed following it. So secure felt he that, even
on the very day when Sabrina was speaking of it,
he had himself gone to Gloucester, on Committee
business, and left his daughters at Holly-mead
alone.

Vaga echoed her sister's wish, then added, —
It may be worse than lonely. Don't you think
there's some danger?"

"Oh, no! What danger?"
Why, from the enemy — the King's people."
There are none nearer than Bristol and Hereford."


You forget Goodrich Castle ? "

No, I don't. But with Monmouth in the
hands of our soldiers the Goodrich garrison will
have enough to do taking care of itself, without
troubling us."

Monmouth had not yet been retaken by the
Royalists ; at least no word of that had reached
Holly mead House.

Besides," she continued. " Sir Henry Lingen
would not likely molest us. You remember before
the war he was very much father's friend, and "

"And before he was married very much yours,"
interpolated the younger sister, with a glance of
peculiar significance. " I remember that too. For
the which reason he might be the very man to
molest us. There's such a thing as spitefulness,
and he could scarce be blamed for feeling it a
little."

Tush, Vaga ! Don't say such silly things.
There never was aught between Sir Henry and

myself, nor any reason for his being spiteful now.
We have nothing to apprehend from that quarter."

Still we may from some other."

What other are you thinking of ? "

Not any in particular. Only a vague sense
of somebody — a foreboding — as when we were out
hawking, just before that courier arrived. I had
the same feeling then, and it came true."

Admitting it did, what evil came of it ? None ;
only an ordinary event, Richard and Eustace being
separated from us. So long as the war lasts we
must expect that, and be patiently resigned toit."


Though sager grown, Vaga was still not equal
to the strain of any prolonged resignation. Of a
subtle, nervous nature, she was easily affected by
signs and omens, felt presentiments and had belief
in them. One was upon her at this same moment,
and in an instant after she saw that which seemed
likely to justify it.

Look ! " she cried ; " look yonder ! "

They were in the withdrawing room, having
entered it after eating breakfast, she herself standing
at one of the windows, with eyes bent down
the long avenue. What had elicited her exclamation
was a figure that, having passed inside the
park gates, was coming on for the house. A
woman, but of man's stature, and by this easily
identifiable. For at the first glance Vaga recognised
the sister of Cadger Jack.

It was not that which had caused her to exclaim
so excitedly. Winny was an almost everyday
visitor at the big house, having much business
there, and nothing strange would be thought of
her coming to it at any time. The strangeness
was the way in which she was making approach,
hurriedly and in long strides — almost at a run !

What can it mean ? " mechanically interrogated
Sabrina, who had joined the other at the window.
So unlike Winifred's usual stately step ! Unlike

her manner too — she seems greatly excited. Something
amiss, I fear."

"Oh, sister! I'm sure of it. Just what I've been
thinking and saying. She has news for us, and
sad news — you'll see."

I trust not. Stay ! this is Monmouth market
day, possibly she has been to the market and
heard something there. In that case it's not
likely to affect us much, all we care for being on
the other side of the Forest. And yet the cadgers
could scarce have been to the market and back
again already? 'Tis too early. But we shall soon
know."

By this the cadgeress was pushing open the
wicket-gate of the haw-haw, and, now near, they
could read the expression upon her features, which
showed full of concern.

Though the month of October, the morning
was warm, and the window in which they stood,
a casement, had been thrown open. Stepping

into a little balcony outside, and leaning over the
rail, Sabrina called out interrogatively —

You have some news for us, Win ? "

'Deed yes, my lady. That hae I, an' sorry
be's I to say't."

Bad news, then ? " exclaimed both sisters in a
breath, their hearts audibly beating.

Is it anything from Gloucester ? " gasped out
the elder one, the other mentally echoing the
question.

No, my ladies. It be all 'bout Monnerth."

This some little relieved them, and more tranquilly
they waited to hear what the news was.

"Them be's bad, as ye ha' guessed," continued
the cadgeress. " Him have been took by the
Cavalieres."

"Him! Who?" simultaneously exclaimed the
sisters, again greatly excited.

Monnerth, mistresses ; I saved Monnerth,
didn't I?"

Oh ! yes, yes." They were too glad to give
assent, without noticing her ungrammatical provincialism.
"Monmouth taken by the Cavaliers, you
say ? "

"Yes, my ladies. They's be back into it, an' ha'
shut up the Parliamentary in prison — all as didn't
get away."

Where have you heard this, Win ? You
haven't been to Monmouth yourself, have you ? "

No, Mistress Sabrina. Only portrays. Jack
an' me started for the market ; but fores crossing'
the ferry at Goodrich us heard as how the Sheriff
wor down at Monnerth, an' had helped them o'
Raglan to capter the town. Takin' the hint, us
turned back an' hurried home, fast as ever we
could ; an' I can't lost a minnie in coming' to tell

ye."

'Twas thoughtful of you, Winifred," said Sabrina.
" And we give you thanks. Now go round
to the cook and have something to eat. But stay!

vol. in. H

I'm forgetting. You haven't told us what time
it happened — I mean the taking of Monmouth.
You heard that, didn't you ? "

"Yes, mistress. Night afore last, or early yestermorn.
Whens day broke the King's flag be seen
over the Castle, an' there wor great rejoicing in
the town. So told we the ferryman o' Goodrich."

What should we do ? " inquired Vaga, after
the cadgeress had parted company with them, retiring
to the kitchen.

What can we do ? Nothing, till father comes
home. As they must have had the intelligence at
Gloucester, yesterday evening at latest, we may
look for him soon. I suppose we must give up all
thought of hawking to-day ? Some one had better
go to Van Dorn's lodge, and tell him not to
come."

Too late ! There he is now."

The falconer was seen approaching by a side
path, with an attendant who carried the hawks

on a cadge, a couple of dogs following. At the
same instant saddled horses, in the charge of
grooms, were being brought round from the rear
of the house. All this had been ordered beforehand,
the ladies having sate down to breakfast
costumed and equipped for the sport of falconry.

Shall we send them back ? " queried Sabrina,
irresolutely.

Why should we ? "

Vaga was passionately fond of hawking; and,
now that she knew the worst of that foreboding
late felt, was something of herself again. The
taking of Monmouth was but one of the many
incidents of the war ; no misfortune had happened
to any in whom they had special concern.

I suppose we'll have to leave Hollymead now,
she added, "once more to take up our abode in
cities. In which case it may be long before we
have another day with hawks. If we don't go,
Van Dorn will be so disappointed."

If we do, then," rejoined Sabrina, half assenting,
" it mustn't be far — not outside the park."

Agreed to that. No need for our going out
of it. Inside we'll find plenty of things to fly your
Mer at. As for my Pers, if better don't turn up,
we can whistle them off at a cushat."

So it was settled, and in twenty minutes after
they were in their saddles, and away beyond sight
of the house, listening to the hooha-ha-lia-ha, the
whistle and the whoop.

A GLITTERING COHORT.

IT was getting late in the afternoon when a party
of horsemen, numbering about two hundred, commenced
the ascent of Cat's Hill, going in the
direction of Ruardean.

Soldiers they were, in scarlet doublets, elaborately
laced ; their standard flag, with the Royal
arms in its field, and a crown upon the peak of
its staff, proclaiming them in the service of the
king.

That it was no common cavalry troop could be
told by other distinctive symbols. Beside the
three or four subalterns in their places along the
line, half a score other officers were at its head ;
in gorgeous uniforms, and with hats grandly

plumed, as on the personal staff of a general.
And such were they ; the rank and file rearward
being his escort. No ordinary general either, but
the commander-in-chief of the King's armies —
Prince Rupert himself.

His own garb in splendour outshone all ; a
blaze of jewels and gold, from the aigrette in his
hat to the spurs upon his heels— costume more
befitting court than camp.

But he was not now on any war expedition ;
instead, on the way to seek conquest of other kind
than by the sword.

It was the day succeeding that night of revelry
at his quarters in Bristol ; and the words there
exchanged between him and Colonel Lunsford will
explain his presence on the Cat's Hill, with face
turned towards Ruardean. For in that direction
also lay Hollymead House whither he was proceeding.


Quick work and a rapid ride had he made of

it ; evincing the strong passion of fancy with
which the " bit of saucy sweetness " had inspired
him.

Lunsford was with him, by his side; the two
some lengths in the lead, and apart from the others,
conversing as they rode on.

You think, mem Colonel," said the Prince, interrogatively,
" we shall find the frauleins at home
this time ! "

Pretty sure of it your Highness. Since the
Goodrich ferryman heard of their being at Holly-mead
yesterday, it's scarcely probable they can
have taken departure since."

But the news from Monmouth will have
reached them. How about that ? "

It will affect them somewhat, I dare say. Still,
Master Powell is not a man to be easily frightened.
As your Highness will be aware, Ruardean is not
under the Monmouth Commissioners. Sir John
Wintour on the Gloucester side, is the one Powell

has most reason to apprehend a visit from. And
as he will know of Sir John's being held in check
by Massey, he won't be much alarmed, just yet.
Still, no doubt, he'll be for moving back again to
Gloucester ; though not in such hot haste, but that
your Highness will have an opportunity of holding
speech with him."

Gottt ! Sir Thomas ; that should be the reverse
of pleasant, from what you've told me about the
old Roundhead's tongue. He may give it me ashe
did yourself."

No fear of that, your Highness."

Why not, pray ? "

The circumstances are quite different. He had
backing about him then — these ugly forest fellows,
five to our one. Besides a Royal Prince — Puritan
though he be — he'll have respect for that. But
what matters it about his prating ? Your Highness
intends laying him by the heels ! "

"That will depend on circumstances. We must

try the suavity before the forester. If fair words
fail, then — the extremities."

Our present visit to the Master of Hollymead
is to be of a friendly character then ? Is that
your Highness's intention ! "

Ceremoniously so ; all the politeness to be observed
by every one of our escort. You will see
to that, Colonel ? "

It shall be seen to. But does your Highness
propose taking them all to the house? It might
be convenient to leave some at the village, to wait
your coming back."

Vein y vein ! " impatiently exclaimed the Prince.
"All go on with me."

Astute schemer as was Lunsford himself, he was
not aware of certain motives actuating his master.
Anything but an Adonis was the son of the
Elector Palatinate. Yet such he dreamed himself,
with a confidence in his power of fascinating the
fair sex almost illimitable. The type and boast

of Cavaliers, he wielded sway uncontrolled
wherever he went, or the Royal cause was triumphant
; women, as men, either willingly submitting
to his caprices, or not daring to oppose them.
Many a conquest had he made over weak creatures
consenting. For the achievement of such he
well knew the advantage of stately show and regal
surroundings, nowhere more effective than in the
country he was defiling with his presence. Even
at this day as then, where the proverbial indemnity
for the wrong-doing of kings is extended to
princes and princelets, their social backsliding
gaining them credit, rather than blame, under the
facetious title, geniality.

No man better than Rupert knew woman's
weakness in this regard. Hence the shining retinue
he had summoned to attend him in this ride
through the Forest of Dean— one of the pleasure
excursions he was accustomed to make under the
plea of a military reconnaissance. For, although

the future pirate of the West Indian seas was
quite indifferent to English public opinion, there
were reasons then for him not too openly outraging
it. By his defeats and failures he had lost
the countenance of the court, and intrigue was
there busy against him.

In that case, your Highness," rejoined Langford,
" there's no necessity for our going through
the village. A path leads through the woods by
which it can be avoided."

Is it a roundabout ? "

Not much, if any. It comes back into this
again, near Hollymead Park gates. If we pass
through the village your Highness's escort will
gain a large accession of strength, which may not
be agreeable to you."

Gottt, yes ! Something in that, Sir Thomas.
Let us take the other way, then. Where does it
branch off?"

"There, your Highness"; and he pointed to the

embouchure of a wood road some paces ahead on
the right.

Without further speech they turned into it, and
rode on beneath the shadow of trees, whose
branches, reading over, hindered sight of the sun.
For, though October, these were still in full foliage,
the leaves falling late in the Forest of Dean.
But green no more ; save those of the yew, holly,
and frost-defying bramble, with the mistletoe and
its pearl-like pellucid berries. All others showed
hues and tints varied, and almost as vivid as those
of the tropical forests so much extolled by travellers.


A winding path it was, by reason of the steep
incline ; and, as in silence, the glittering cohort,
forced into single file by its narrowness, slowly
followed the sinuosities upward, it might have been
likened to a gigantic serpent in crawl towards unsuspecting
prey.

This similitude in more ways than one ; for at

the head of that glancing line there were serpents,
though in human shape, making approach to what
they intended as victims.

HAWKING AT HOME.

THE peregrine had killed cushat and partridge,
the merlin its half score of bunting and turtle
doves, and the ladies having had a surfeit of
sport, were about setting faces homeward. Not
that it was late — still wanting two hours of sunset
but the news from Monmouth had disquieted
them, and they were feeling anxious about their
father's return. He might be back already, and
if so, would wonder at their being away from the
house.

Van Dorn had called off the dogs, recorded
the hawks, and made all ready for the start home,
when game, of a sort that day unseen by them,
came unexpectedly in view. A heron on its way

across the Forest from the Severn to the Wye,
flying low as it passed over the park.

Hapless heron ! A temptation no falconer could
resist ; and at leave, or rather command, from the
younger of his mistresses, off went hoods again,
leashes were let loose, and once more away flew
the noble falcons, mounting spirally upward.

Just at that moment the gates of the park were
thrown open to admit Prince Rupert and his
retinue. With Lunsford still by his side, the two
had already looked through the rails and up the
avenue. To see there what gave them satisfaction ;
the house with windows no longer shuttered, smoke
ascending from several of the chimneys, in short
every sign of occupation.

"The family here, as anticipated. Your Highness
will not be disappointed this time."

Ah, zvohl. I was beginning to think the lady
of the golden locks an ignis fattens — never to be
caught."

"There will be an opportunity of catching her
now ; and keeping her, if your Highness so desire."

You would counsel making the frdideins our
prisoners then ? Is that what you mean, mein
Colonel ? "

Their father at least should be made so.
There's every reason and right for it. He your
prisoner, taken back with you to Bristol, 'tis but
natural his daughters should accompany him, and
share his captivity. If they have the true filial
affection they'll be but too willing to do that.
Does your Highness comprehend ? "

Quite ! " was the laconic response.

The suggestion, cruel and ruffianly, did not jar
on Rupert's ears ; rather was it in harmony with
his wishes, and half-formed designs. He was proceeding
to ponder upon it, having ridden through
the gate, when a cry, peculiarly intoned, came
from a remote corner of the park, quick followed
by a shrill whistle.

The air was still, and sounds could be heard
from afar; these being clearly distinguishable.

■ Ho-ho ! " exclaimed the Prince, reining his
horse to a stand. " Sport going on here ! Somebody
out hawking."

The hooha-ha-ha was familiar to him.

Yes," said Lunsford. " That was a falconer's
cry — the cast off."

Who might it be, Sir Thomas ? "

Impossible to say, Prince. The party must
be behind that spinney of Scotch firs. But see !
yonder the hawks ! Peregrine in chase of a heron."

By'r Lady, yes ! A splendid caste. Trained
to perfection. How handsomely they mount up !
Over him now! That stoop and rake, superb. A
fig for your chances, master lance-beak. Hey !
One of them bound ! Now the other. Now down,
down. Wunderschon ! "

Absorbed in watching the actual conflict, all eyes
directed upward, Rupert and his following for a

VOL. III. I

time neither saw nor thought of anything else. No
more did they of the hawking party, who, led by
the chase, had pushed on through the spinney of
firs to be forward at the kill. Only when the
bound bird was writhing to free itself, in its last
struggles lowering down to earth, did the two
parties catch sight of one another. Not so near
yet, a wide stretch of the park being between ;
but near enough for a mutual making out of what
they were.

Soldiers ! " exclaimed they of the hawking party.

Wenches ! " the word that came from the lips
of the Cavaliers.

We're in luck, Prince," said Lunsford. " You
see yonder ? "

Two ladies ; yes. Are they the birds we're in
search of, think you?"

Sure of it, your Highness."

Playing with other birds. Ha-ha ! Well ;
suppose we join them at their play ? "

"As your Highness commands."

Do you know them, Sir Thomas — I mean personally
? "

I've never been introduced, Prince ; but Captain
Trevor "

"Ah! I remember your saying something about

his Trevor ! " he called back to an officer of

his suite, " come hither ! "

Reginald Trevor it was ; who, parting from his
place in the line, rode up, respectfully saluting.

If I'm not mistaken, sir," said the Prince, " you
have acquaintance with the ladies we see yonder?
Presumably the daughters of Master Ambrose
Powell."

If it be they, your Highness, I once had. But
it's been dropped long ago."

What ! A quarrel ? "

No, Prince," answered the young officer, somewhat
hesitatingly. " Not exactly that."

"Only a little coolness, then. Well, perhaps I

may be the means of restoring friendly relations.
But first I want you to perform the ceremonial
of introduction. I hope you haven't so far offended
the damsels as to render you ineligible ? "

Trevor stammered out a negative, at the same
time announcing his readiness to comply with the
Prince's wish. He could not help himself, knowing
it was more a command than request.

Come along, then ! Let us on to them. You,
Colonel, keep the escort at halt here, till I ascertain
whether we can have a night's lodging at
Hollymead House. That is," he added in a jocular
way, " whether we'll be made welcome to it."

Saying which, he gave his Arab a touch of the
spur, and started off at a canter over the greensward,
direct for the hawking-party.

Of course Reginald Trevor went along with him ;
though with a reluctance which had only yielded
to authority not to be gainsaid. Despite her
withering words spoken at their last interview, he

still loved Vaga Powell himself — hoping against
hope — still had respect for her ; and to introduce
Prince Rupert was like being a party to the accomplishment
of her ruin.

Humph ! " grumbled the ex-Lieutenant of the
Tower as he looked after them, some little chagrined
at being left behind ; " High Mightiness
thinks he's going to have it his own way with
yellow hair. He won't though ; unless he do as
I've counselled him. But 'twill come to that —
must, before we go back to Bristol — and I shall
carry thither my share of the sweet spoils."

AN INTRODUCTION IN THE SADDLE.

"WHO can they be? Not soldiers of the Parliament
? "

No ; too much gaud and glitter for that."

Sir Henry Lingen's ! "

"Scarcely either. I heard Richard say Sir
Henry's men carry lances. These have none.
More probably they're from Monmouth, or rather
Raglan. The old Marquis of Worcester's greatly
given to display ; and his son, Lord Herbert. The
shining peacock at their head is likely Herbert
himself. They are Royalists, anyhow; that's certain."


The dialogue was between the sisters, commenced
as they caught sight of the scarlet-coated

horsemen, who had entered within their
park. Hurriedly they talked, and in tone telling
of agitation. For it was a spectacle to cause
them alarm ; King's soldiers coming to Holly-mead
could mean no good, but all the opposite.
Just the visitors foreshadowed by Vaga's fears;
her presentiment fulfilled after all !

What can they be wanting, I wonder ? " she
queried in a half mechanical way. "Nothing
with us, I hope ? "

u Not likely with us ; but father. We were
wishing him at home. How fortunate he isn't ! "

But he may come at any time ? "

Indeed, yes. What's to be done ? "

The elder sister seemed perplexed. Only fora
short while ; then a thought came to her aid ;
and half turning to the groom who attended
them, she said, —

"Rees! Ride back through the firs; gently,
and as if looking for something left behind.

When on the other side go as fast as ever you
can ; out through the back gate. First round to
Garden, to the cadger's cottage. Tell Winny to
come up to the house in all haste. Then gallop
along the Gloucester road, and, if you meet your
master, turn him back. You understand ? "

Rees was a quick-witted Welshman, and did
understand. Said so ; and at once started to
execute the order ; riding slowly off towards the
spinney, in zigzags, with body bent and eyes
searching over the ground. Once under cover
of the trees, however, he straightened himself in
the saddle, and was soon outside the inclosure.

The despatching him had been but the work
of a few seconds, and he was gone before any
movement had been made by the soldiers, who
were still halted at the gate.

"What have they stopped for?" again wondered
Vaga. " Surely they intend going on to
the house ? "

"Tis we who have stopped them. Their faces
are turned this way — they see us ! "

Ah, yes ! And two have separated from the
rest — are coming towards us ! What ought we
to do ? "

We may as well await them here ; 'twould
be impossible to shun them now."

How should we receive them ? "

Why, civilly of course. We've no alternative
but be civil to them. If it be the Lord Herbert
we need not fear any special rudeness. Although
they are Papists, the Raglan people have never
yet "

It's not the Lord Herbert ! " interrupted Vaga,
of keener sight ; her eye more occupied with the
two making approach.

How know you it's not ? " demanded her
sister, in some wonder. "You never saw him,
did you?"

No ; but I've seen the one we've been taking

for him — the shining peacock, as you call him.
So have you."

Who is he, then ? "

"Prince Rupert!"

"So it is, indeed! And the other "

Reginald Trevor ! "

By this the two horsemen were so near, there
was no opportunity for the sisters to exchange
further speech, save in undertone ; Sabrina, as a
last word of caution, whispering, —

"We are helpless, and must play a part. I've
thought of it ; will tell you when we're alone.
So be more than civil ; very polite."

I will try."

Rupert, a little in the advance, was now up ; and
suddenly checked his charger to a halt, in such
wise as to present the attitude of Mercury just
alighted on a "heaven-kissing hill."

Fair ladies ! " he said. " I have not the pleasure
of knowing you. But this gentleman, who

has, if you object not, will do me the honour of
an introduction."

His Royal Highness, Prince Rupert," announced
Trevor, after saluting on his own account,
somewhat awkwardly.

The " fair ladies " acknowledged the introduction
with a bow ; even smilingly, which was more
than might have been expected. They said
nothing, however, leaving the Prince to direct
the course of conversation.

Well pleased with his reception he went on, —

"Apologies are owing for the interruption of
your sport. I fear we've done that ? "

"No, your Highness," said Sabrina. "We had
finished for the day."

Egad ! A good finish too. I myself witnessed
the kill, and never saw handsomer. Your
peregrine are noble birds, and well trained to
their work. Ah ! you have a merlin, too. Pretty
creature ! "

By chance the merlin was perched upon the
neck of Vaga's palfrey ; and, while speaking, the
Prince had drawn close up, as if to get a nearer
view of it. But his eyes were on the girl's face
instead, and the "pretty creature" seemed an
apostrophe to her rather than the bird. For it
was spoken with peculiar emphasis, and in a
subdued tone, as if he did not desire her sister
to hear it. Nor did she, having become engaged
in conversation with Captain Trevor, some distance
apart.

"She's very clever," rejoined Vaga, referring to
the merlin, and without appearing to notice the
gaze directed upon her, " can kill everything she's
cast off at."

"Ah!" sighed the Prince. "Fatal to all the
larks and bunting, just as the eyes of her mistress
must be to all men."

She looked at him with a puzzled expression.
What a strange remark to make about her sister,

whom he could never have seen, save that once
as they passed him going out of Bristol ! But
she understood it, on his adding, —

The little beauty is yours, I take it ? "

No, your Highness," she answered, without
making any allusion to the implied compliment,
though its bravery jarred upon her ear. "The
merlin belongs to my sister. The peregrine are
mine."

Happy peregrine ! " he exclaimed, pretending
to apostrophise the two great falcons, that, now
hooded, had been returned to their kedge. " How
I should like to be one of you ! Ay ; would
consent to be held in leash for life, could I but
hope for caresses, such as you receive from the
hands of your beautiful mistress. Ah ! that must
be sweet ! "

There could be no mistaking the character of
speech like this, rude even to impertinence. It
brought the red into the young girl's cheeks, and

she would have angrily resented it, but was restrained
by the caution late received from her
sister. Still, to let it pass unnoticed was out of
the question, and would likely lead to her
being yet further insulted. Making an effort to
curb her kindling indignation, she rejoined, calmly
as she could, —

Such language may befit the fine Court ladies,
with whom your Highness is accustomed to hold
conversation. We simple country girls are not
used to it."

Regardless of modest manners, even of common
decency, as was this German Prince, he felt
the rebuke, and quailed under it. For the glance
of quiet scorn that went with the words told him
he was putting on airs, and paying compliments
to no purpose. In that quarter all would be
thrown away.

With a light laugh he endeavoured 'to conceal
his discomfiture, saying apologetically, —

Oh ! mistress, you must pardon the free
speech of a Cavalier. Our tongues, as our swords,
often fly out without reflection. Be assured I
meant not to offend — far from it."

Apology was a bitter pill for Prince Rupert to
swallow ; but he gulped it down with a better
grace, confident of having the " bit of saucy sweetness"
in his power. If he failed to make conquest
of her, there was another way to fall back
upon ; that to which his low familiar, Lunsford,
had been all along counselling him.

The little disagreement brought their tete-astute
to an end, the Prince not caring to continue it
It could be resumed at a more favourable opportunity,
which he meant to find before leaving
Hollymead. Seeming suddenly to recollect himself,
he said, in voice loud enough to be heard
by the elder sister, as he intended it, —

But, ladies ! I've only half apologised for
our intrusion, and trust you will pardon it, when

you hear my excuses. I was on the way to visit
your worthy father, with whom I have some
business. When hearing the hooha-ha! — ardent
falconer as I am — I couldn't resist coming across
to learn the result. Permit me to take leave of
you, with thanks for your gracious reception.
Unless, indeed, you do me the further honour of
letting me escort you to the house. If I dared
make so free, I would even ask the favour of
being introduced by you to your father, with
whom I regret not having personal acquaintance."


Our father is not at home," said Sabrina
speaking for both.

Indeed ! " he exclaimed, looking half-disappointed,
half-pleased. "That's unfortunate. But I
suppose you expect him soon ? "

"We cannot tell what time he may return, your
Highness."

"Ah! he's gone upon a journey, then. May I

ask whither ? You'll pardon the inquiry, in view
of my business with him ? "

"To Gloucester," she answered, without hesitation,
too glad to have the questioner think that
he inquired about was in that safe city.

His absence is disappointing," said the Prince —
half in soliloquy, and half addressing himself to
Captain Trevor. " It will necessitate our staying
here for the night." This loud enough for the
ladies to hear. "I regret that," he pursued, again
turning to them, " not on my own account, but
because the quartering of my escort at Holly-mead
cannot be over agreeable to you. However,
I can promise best behaviour on their part;
and should your servants have any rudeness to
complain of it shall be punished with all severity."

This self-invitation to the hospitality of Holly-mead
House, however vexatious to the daughters
of its absent owner, did not at all surprise
them. They had been expecting it as the up-vol.

III. K

shot; for, despite his fine phrases of apology —
all pretence — the Prince's bearing and manner
told them how much he felt himself their
master.

Withal, they were not dismayed, Sabrina making
calm rejoinder, with some formal words, that
Hollymead would be too much honoured by his
presence. Then in a whisper to Vaga, as they
drew side by side to ride home, —

Keep up courage, Vag. Above all keep
your temper. Everything may depend on that.
We're among wolves, that may tear us if angered."

"Go back, Captain!" called the Prince to Trevor.
"Give my commands to Colonel Lunsford,
and tell him to bring the escort on to the house."

Lunsford along with them ! " ejaculated Sabrina,
in undertone to her sister. "That makes my
words good. We are among wolves."

The evil repute of this man justified her
speech. It had been spreading day by day, till

his name was now become a synonym of inhumanity
— a bogie to stop the crying of the babes
in the cradle.

A CRIME IN CONTEMPLATION.

Still self-invited, Rupert accompanied the ladies
to the house, and assisted them to dismount with
great show of courtesy and respect. The little
ruffle with Vaga had determined him not to try on
that tack again.

He did not go inside with them, having some
directions to give to his suite, seen approaching
up the avenue. Besides, it was nearing dinner
hour, and they must needs repair to their dressing-rooms.


Left by himself, the Prince seemed all impatience
for his escort to come up. He had even shown
haste when helping the ladies out of their saddles,



as if wishing to be disembarrassed of them with
the least delay. Some new thought, or scheme,
had evidently entered his mind ; and, recently,
or since despatching Trevor with the order to
Lunsford, as then he had said nothing about
time.

When they were near enough to hear him he
called out, making a sign to the officer at their
head to hasten them on. This was Lunsford himself,
who, perceiving that something was wanted,
separated from the cavalcade, spurring his horse
to a quick canter. As the haw-haw gate had
already been opened, he passed through it without
stop or interruption, on to the house.

Come up — nearer ! n said the Prince, speaking
low, and in a cautious manner as if he feared being
overheard. He was standing in the porch, a little
elevated above the ground, and as the other drew
alongside, seated in the saddle, their heads were
close enough for conversing in whispers.

"What is it, your Highness?" asked Lunsford,
wondering at the air of mystery.

I suppose Trevor has told you the pater isn't
at home ? "

He has, Prince ; but I knew it before."

Indeed ! How learnt you ? When ? "

"Just after your Highness rode away from us.
One of Powell's people, a sort of shepherd, or cowboy,
chanced to be coming into the park ; and
with a little cross-questioning I got out of him,
both the fact of his master's absence, and the whereabouts."


"He's at Gloucester."

"Yes, Prince. But the affair of Monmouth will
draw him home, soon as he receives news of it. He
should have had that long ago ; so may be expected
here at any moment."

"Just so. But if he get word of our being here
before him, he may turn back and give us the go-by.
So I want half a dozen files detached, and

sent off along the Gloucester road, under a trusty-officer,
in all haste. If they meet him, he's to be
made prisoner at once."

"It's already done, your Highness."

What ! Has Powell been taken ? "

No, Prince ; pardon me. I meant the detachment
has been sent to intercept him. I took the
liberty of doing that without your orders. There
was not time to communicate with your Highness
unless at the risk of being too late."

True, Colonel, true."

And it would have been too late," he went onto
explain in justification of his act. " As your
Highness started to join the hawking-party, perhaps c
you may not have noticed a man separating from
it, and riding back through the trees ? "

Vein, Colonel. I did not."

But I did, Prince. He appeared to be one of
their attendants — a groom — though in the distance
one couldn't be sure what. But from the way he

went off I suspected it had something to do with
our being seen. Soon as I learnt the other thing
I was sure of it. Besides, shortly after he had
passed out of sight behind the firs, I distinctly heard
hoof-strokes, as of a horse in full gallop. Putting
that and that together it occurred to me he might
have gone off to give the very warning your
Highness apprehended."

"If such were his intent, he may still ?"
No, Prince ; not likely. He won't be in time.
Going out by a back gate he'll have to ride the
whole round of the park before he can get upon the
Drybrook road, which is that for Gloucester. The
detachment started only a few minutes — less than
five — after; and on the direct route will easily
head him off. They have orders to lay him by the
heels, and bring him back here ; it's to be hoped
the other with him."

Gottt, Colonel ! you've been clever. A capital
stroke of strategy. If it fail, I shan't blame you."

11 Your Highness's approval gratifies me. I think
we need not fear failure. At all events the messenger,
if such he is, will be stopped, and something
will be squeezed out of him as to his errand. I
gave instructions that a file be sent back with him,
soon as taken. So we may expect seeing him
ere long. I suppose your Highness designs to
quarter here for the night ? "

"Any number of nights, Colonel ; if one be not
enough for accomplishing my purpose."

Half a one will be enough for that, Prince, if
you proceed to accomplishing it in the way I would
advise you. No timid measures will avail here ;
only the bold course, which conquest gives a right
to, all over the world."

Without a blush did the ruffian give utterance
to his atrocious counsels ; for he knew they were
congenial to him into whose ears he was pouring
them.

"Belike, that will be the best way," rejoined

the Prince, well knowing what was hinted at. " I
come to be of your mind, Colonel. But now, return
to the escort. Give directions for their going into
quarters. See that sentries are set round the
house, with out-lying pickets. We cannot be too
careful, though Monmouth is in our hands. When
you have everything settled, come to me inside.
Then we can talk about further action."

Light of heart, Lunsford proceeded to the
execution of the orders thus given. By the Prince's
manner — and speech, half admitting — he saw that
the latter had received a rebuff, and was in the
mood for violence, even to outrage. It would be
nothing new to him ; nor the first time for the
ex-Lieutenant of the Tower to be his aid and
companion in such a criminal escapade as that
they were now contemplating.

Verily were Ambrose Powell's daughters in danger !
And a danger neither had conception or suspicion of.

A MESSENGER DESPATCHED.

The girls had gone upstairs, their maid, Gwenthian
attending upon them to dress for dinner, of which
something had been said to the Prince when
parting with him at the door.

Once inside the dressing-room, however, Sabrina
instead of proceeding to change her attire, made
direct for an escritoire the flap of which she pulled
open. Then seating herself before it, she drew a
sheet of paper from its drawer, and commenced
writing with nervous haste.

A letter it was of no very great length, and
in a few seconds finished. But before folding it
up she turned to the maid saying, —



Seventh ! Go down to the back door, and stay
about there till you see cadger Jack's sister. I
expect her to come up to the house ; and if nothing
has hindered she should be here very soon now.
When she arrives bring her to me, without losing
a moment. Do it all quietly."

Gwenth signified her comprehension of the
orders, and was about starting to execute them,
when her mistress said " Stay ! " Then, after
reflecting a moment, added, —

Go into the kitchen, and tell the cook dinner
is not to be served before Winny goes away — that
is, if she come. In any case, it's not to be put
on the table, till she has further directions about
it."

But must we really dine along with him ? "
asked Vaga, as the maid passed out of the room.
She had commenced making her toilette, and,
inattentive to what her sister had been doing, only
overheard what she said about the dinner.

Either that or give offence. I had to speak
of dinner — could not help it — and the Prince will
expect us to sit at the table."

I'd rather sit down with Beelzebub. Oh, Sab !
you can't conceive what a vile, vulgar man — Prince
though he be."

Yes I can ; know it. Richard has told me
all about him. But we must bear, and dissemble ;
do our best to entertain both him and his officers.
I think we needn't fear any special rudeness just
yet ; and if we can keep them to their good behaviour
for twelve hours I ask no more."

Why do you say twelve hours ? "

"Read that."

It was the note she had just written ; and, soon
as the other had run her eyes over it, she added,—

Now you understand ? "

I do. But how is it to be taken there ? '

By Winny. It's just for that I gave Rees
orders to send her up."

"Couldn't Rees have taken it himself? On
horseback he would go much faster."

"True, he might, if permitted to start. But he
wouldn't be — not the least likelihood of it. If he
return to the house — which I hope he won't —
they'll not let him leave it again. But Win will
do better every way. We can trust her, and for
speed she'll get to her journey's end quick as any
courier on horseback. She knows all the short
cuts and by-ways through the Forest. That will
be in her favour to save time — besides safety otherwise.
The fear I have is her not being at home.
What a pity we didn't know of their coming, when
she was with us in the morning ! "

Perhaps not so much," rejoined Vaga, whose
subtle ear had caught the sound of footsteps ascending
the stairs ; two sets of them, as told by
the lighter and heavier tread. " That's Win now
coming up with Seventh. I'm almost sure of it."

In a few seconds after both were sure of it, as

the opened door discovered their maid outside on
the landing with the cadgeress close behind.

Oh, Win ! we're so glad ! " exclaimed the sisters
in a breath, as she was ushered into the room.

Glad o' what, my ladies ? " asked the woman
with a puzzled look. She did not understand how
they could be joyful under the circumstances.

"At your being here," answered Sabrina. "We
were afraid you might not be at home, or unable
to come to us."

Well, mistress ; I wor at home, an' corned
soon's I got your message. But my coming' cornish
all been' for nothing."

How so ? "

The Cavaliers lodgers wasn't for letting' me in
o' the house, nor yet through the back gate.
They ha' got sentries all round'. Besides, the yard
be full o' them wi' their horses, an' their impede
too."
They were impudent to you ? "

'Deed, yes, my ladies. Sword at me, an' said
I mauna set foot inside the gate."

You see what courteous guests we've got,
sister?" said Vaga. " The attendants of a Prince!
I thought it would end so."

Me tried to get past they," continued the
cadgeress, "by tellin' a bit fib. I saved us worthy
washerwoman come for the clothes."

How clever ! " exclaimed Vaga, admiringly.

Not much o' that, mistress. Anyways it wasn't
no use. Them wouldn't allow me in after all ; if't
hadn't been for a young officer, who chanced be
near, an' ordered they let me pass. He spoke
me kindly too, which wor the strangest thing
o' all."

"Why strange?" asked Sabrina.

On account o' who him wor, my lady."

"Who?

Captain Trevor the one's used to come to
Hollymead fores the war."

She had no need to particularise which. The
sisters knew, and exchanged glances ; that of the
elder showing a peculiar intelligence.

Odd o' he been' civil to me," pursued the
woman. " Him must a snowed we well enough,
an' had remembrance o' what happened on the
Cat's Hill two years ago. I told you about it,
my ladies."

"You did," said Sabrina. "And it does seem
a little strange of Captain Trevor not being spiteful
if he recognised you, as he must have done.
But," she added, becoming impatient, "no matter
for that now. Time is pressing, and we want
you to do us a service, Win. You will ? "

Why needs thee ask if us will ? "

Because there's some danger in it."

That be no reason ; and don't speak o' the
danger. Please to say what's wished done, Mistress
Sabrina ; an 't shall be did if in the power
o' we to dort."

VOL. III. L

This then, dear Winny. We want it taken to
Gloucester."

She held out what appeared a spill for lighting
pipe or candle. It was the note she had just
written, folded and doubled-folded till no longer
recognisable as a sheet of paper, much less a letter.
For all the cadgeress knew it to be such ; and
not the first of its kind she had received from the
same hands, for surreptitious conveyance.

It shall be took their," she said, in a determined
way, " if the Cavalieres don't taken from
me on the way. Them won't find it without some
searching though."

Saying which, she made further reduction in the
dimensions of the sheet by double knotting it ;
then thrust it under the coils of her luxuriant hair,
and by a dexterous play of fingers so fixed it
that, only undoing the plaits, could it be discovered.

The letter bore no address, nor was name
signed to it. Neither inquired the cadgeress to

whom it was to be delivered. Enough that Mistress
Sabrina had given it to her, and it was for
Gloucester. She knew there was a man there it
must be meant for ; she herself, for a special
reason, being always well posted up as to the
whereabouts of Sir Richard Walwyn and his
Foresters.

Thee welsh me to start immediate, I suppose,
my lady ? "

11 At once — soon as you can get off. How long
will it take you to get to Gloucester ? "

Well, for usual me an' Jack be's 'bout four

hours fra Ruardean. But I concert did the journey

myself in a bit lessen three, an' can go t' same

again."

It's now a little after six — only ten minutes,"

said Sabrina, consulting her three-cornered watch.

Do you think you could get there by nine ? "

Sure o' that ; an afore, if us be alive, an'

nothing' happen to stop we on the way."

Oh ! I hope there won't, dear Winny. Time
is of such importance ; so much depending upon
it. Ay, it may be lives."

She leant forward, and whispered some words
into the woman's ear ; either a last pressing injunction,
or, it might be, promise of reward for the
service to be performed. Whatever it was, on the
face of the Forest Amazon there was an expression
of ready assent ; then a humorous smile, as she
made haste to be gone, saying, —

Now, Gently ! gie us the clothes for the
wash ! "

The maid, as her mistress, looked a little
puzzled. But quickly comprehending, all three set
to collecting such lingerie as they could lay hands
on, soon making up a bundle big enough to represent
a week's consignment for the laundry.

Which the pretended washerwoman having
hoisted on her head, started downstairs with it ;
Gwenthian, by direction, going along to see her

out of doors, assist her in cajoling the sentries,
and bring back report whether these had been
safely passed.

BROUGHT HOME A PRISONER.

After the cadgeress had gone out of the room
the anxiety of the sisters was, for a while, of the
keenest. The first flush of excitement over, they
saw danger in what they had done. Should their
messenger be stopped outside, and the note found
upon her, there was that in it which could not fail
to compromise them. Moreover its contents had
reference to an important matter, a design that
would be all defeated.

Luckily they had not long to endure suspense.
A light tread on the stairs told of Gwenthian returning
; and as she appeared in the doorway, kept
open for her, the joyous expression on her face

betokened a successful issue to the affair she had
been sent upon.

Win's got safe away ! " was her triumphant
announcement, as she tripped lightly into the
room.

Good ! " exclaimed both, Sabrina going on to
inquire particulars.

Did they let her pass without any questioning
? "

No, indeed, mistress. The sentries at the back
gate — there are two at it — stopped her ; and one
pulled the bundle off her head. They were going
to open and examine it, when Captain Trevor
came up, and ordered them to put it back again.
Then he passed her through the gate, saying something
— like in a friendly way."

Did you hear what he said ? "

Only to the soldiers ; telling them to let the
washerwoman alone. But Win gave them a bit of
her tongue too, as if she was real angry ! "

You saw her well away ? "

Yes, mistress ; beyond where there were any of
the people. She took the path to the falconer's
lodge, where she's to leave the things."

Why leave them there ? "

Because she don't intend returning to her own
cottage. That, she said, would delay her ; besides,
some of the soldiers might be straying along the
Ruardean road, and stop her again. She's gone
the way through the woods."

The ladies felt relieved. Win would manage it
if woman could ; and should she succeed in reaching
Gloucester, they might ere long look for other
relief from the dangers that environed them.

But there was something to be done meanwhile ;
their unwelcome visitors to be entertained. And
how to extend hospitality to such was a perplexing
problem. Not only their numbers, but their
character made it so. The common soldiers could
take care of themselves outside ; the signs and

sounds told they were already doing so ; but the
Prince himself, and the officers in his suite, would
have to be treated in a different way. Dinner
had been spoken of — supper as called then — and
this was the first thing to be thought about.

■ Go down again, Gwenth," commanded Sabrina,
acting mistress of the mansion, " tell the cook to
set it upon the table as soon as it is ready."

For how many, my lady ? "

Oh ! I can't tell. Let her count for, say a
score ; and send in all the eatables she can command."


As the maid went kitchenward to deliver the
somewhat indefinite directions, her young mistresses
turned to making their toilette at length
and at last. And, perhaps, never was one made
more reluctantly, or less elaborately, for a Prince
of the blood Royal. Little cared they how they
might look in his eyes, or any other eyes that
were to be upon them. For their hearts were full

of heaviness ; oppressed by keen anxiety about
their father — still apprehending his return home.
They knew how much he was compromised with
the King's party ; had been ever since the rebellion
began, and before. For, ere blow had been
struck, or sword drawn, had he not resisted the
loan by Privy Seal ? And here again at Holly-mead
were the two men who had attempted to
levy that loan upon him — Colonel Lunsford and
Captain Reginald Trevor ! They would be satisfied
with no money contribution now ; but meant making
him their prisoner, with some severe punishment
for his " delinquency."

So feared his daughters at that hour ; and, as a
consequence, had little care or thought about anything
besides ; even of the peril impending over
themselves.

It's strange, Rej Trevor behaving in such a
way to Win," remarked Vaga, as she stood before
the mirror adjusting her rebellious tresses. He

couldn't help knowing her, as she herself says.
Once seen she's not the sort to be easily forgotten.
And after that encounter they had on the Cat's
Hill! Very strange, isn't it?"

"Yes, indeed," assented Sabrina, "I've been
wondering at it myself, and at something besides."

What besides ? "

His behaviour in every way. He seems altogether
changed."

I've had no opportunity of observing it. What
makes you think so?"

While you were apart with the Prince we had
some conversation. He talks quite differently
from his old frivolous way. And no more has he
the swaggering manner which used to be so offensive."


Then he's not the conceited Cavalier of twelvemonths
ago ? "

"Anything but that. Had I not known him in
the past I should set him down for a modest

young fellow, of rather melancholy temperament ;
or more like one who had some sorrow preying
upon him."

What can it be, I wonder ? "

She had her conjecture as to what, but forbore
declaring it. She had not forgotten — how could
she ? — his confession, made in passionate appeal, at
their last interview. She knew his indifference at
their parting was the purest affectation, and that
the fish he had gone to catch had not been
caught.

Recalling that scene, her sister could have answered
the question with a near approach to the
truth. But she, too, retentive of her real thoughts,
but said in careless rejoinder, —

Oh ! I suppose the events of the war, which
have had a saddening effect on everybody."

Not everybody. These self-invited guests of
ours are at least an exception. Listen to them ! "

By this the officers of the Prince's escort had

entered the house ; and from their loud talk and
laughter were evidently making themselves at
home and free with everything. They could be
heard issuing commands, and calling out orders to
the servants, as though the place were a public
inn.

Like as not," continued Vaga, still incredulous
about Reginald Trevor's conversion, " like as not
your 'modest young fellow of rather melancholy
temperament ' is laughing among the loudest of
them. I fancy I hear his voice."

"No, Vag, I don't think you do. I can't'
"Well, may be not. And it's to be hoped he's
sobered, as you say. He needed it. Strange if he
is though, in the retinue of Prince Rupert, whose
precept and example are more likely to have a
reverse tendency. Possibly Master Rej is only
humble in the presence of the High Mightiness,
his master. When the big dog is by, the little
one has to be on its good behaviour."

I scarce think it's that ; and you may be wronging
him."

"If I am I shall be glad to know it. But how
odd all this ! " she added, yielding to a sudden recollection.
" Time was when you, Sab, were all
the other way about Rej Trevor; used to caution
me against him ! "

She had faced towards her sister, and stood with
hands full of loose hair that fell as a cataract of
molten gold over her ivory shoulders.

"True, I did. And with reasons then. Our
father was against him more than I ; which may
have influenced me."

And now ? "

Now I admit never having believed him so
very bad — I mean at heart."

Oh ! nobody ever said he had a very bad heart.
His head was more blamed for getting him ill repute."


His habits rather."

Say habits, then. But why are you thus defending
him ? "

Because of his seeming so friendly to us. All
he said to me just now, with his manner, was as
one who felt sorry at our being thus intruded on.
He knows it's not agreeable to us — cannot be.
And his behaviour to Win — that confirms my belief
that he has no hostile feelings to us."

Don't be so confident till we're sure she's safe
off. It may be only a trap to catch us. How
know we he hasn't followed to bring her back
again, and so win favour from his princely patron.
I wouldn't wonder if it's something of that kind.
For in what other way is his conduct to be accounted
for ? "

Heaven help us if it be that ! But I won't —
can't believe it."

"Well, we shall soon know, now. If Win get
away, I'll think better of Rej Trevor than I've
ever done."

If she do, tomorrow's sun may see soldiers
here in green uniforms, with red ones as their
prisoners, and you and I, sister, will have done
something for the good cause — for Liberty ! "

In her most tranquil mien Sabrina Powell was
an imposing personage ; but now, excited to enthusiasm
by the word " Liberty " on her lips, and
its inspiration in her heart, with her grand eyes
aglow, she looked its very Goddess.

She had finished her toilette, and stood at the
window, a front one, commanding view of the
avenue and entrance gate of the park. But not
long was she there before seeing that which
brought a black shadow upon her brow, with chill
fear into her heart.

Oh, Vaga ! " she called to her sister, still at the
mirror, " come hither ! See what's down yonder ! "

The summons, in tone almost of agony, drew
the other instantly to her side, with tresses trailing.
To see three horsemen, who had just passed

through the gate, and were coming on for the
house. They rode abreast ; he in the middle
being in sombre civilian garb, the two who flanked
him wearing the scarlet uniform of the soldiers
already around the house.

Tis Rees ! " exclaimed Sabrina, recognising the
groom. " They've taken him prisoner ! "

Indeed, yes ; 'tis he. Oh, sister, dear ! if father
should be coming home now ? I hope he's still
in Gloucester ! "

Vain hope ; almost on the instant to know disappointment.
For before those already entered
were half way up the long avenue, more red coats
were seen riding through the gate, in their midst
a man in dark dress — he, too, evidently conducted
as a prisoner.

"Tis father!"

VOL. HI.

QUARTERED UPON THE ENEMY.

NIGHT had descended over Hollymead. A dark
night, too, though there was no lack of light inside
the house or around it. Nearing November
the atmosphere had a frosty feel, and great wood
fires were burning in the wide chimney places of
the reception-rooms. Without, in the centre of the
court-yard, a very bonfire had been kindled, which
sent its red glare and glow to the most distant
corner of the inclosure. Around this were seated
or standing, in every variety of attitude, such of
the common soldiers of the escort as were not
upon duty. Carousing, of course. For the rank
and file of the Royalist army, especially that
portion of it which acted under Rupert, followed



the fashion of their officers ; and one of the affectations
of Cavaliers was to display a superior
capacity for indulgence in drink.

About the house they had found the wherewithal
to give them a good supper, with more
than drink enough to wash it down. For when
Monmouth fell into the hands of the Parliamentarians,
the Master of Hollymead, thinking it safe,
had done something to restore his pastures, as
also replenish larder and cellars. And once more
these were in the way of getting speedily depleted ;
the thirsty troopers around the court-yard fire
quaffing at free tap, from a cask of ale they had
rolled out upon the pavement ; while they bandied
coarse jests, told indecent stories, or sang songs of
like character, roaring in chorus.

Inside there was revelry also. Of a less rude
kind ; still revelry, and coarse enough, considering
that they who indulged in it composed the entourage
of a Prince. In the dining-hall was it being

held, around a table on which stood a varied
assortment of bottles and decanters, goblets and
glasses. There had been a repast upon it, that
same dinner-supper ; but the dishes and debris of
solids had been removed, and only the drinking
materials remained. Nearly a score of guests
encircled it, all gentlemen ; and all in military
uniform — being the officers of the escort — not a
man in citizen garb seen among them. For the
master of the house was not at the head of his
own table as might have been expected. Instead,
shut up in one of the rooms adjacent ; its door
locked, and a sentry stationed outside !

His daughters were upstairs, in their private
apartment, from which they had never come down.
Through the window they had seen their father
brought back under guard, as a felon ; saw it with
indignation, but also fear. Greater became the
last, when told they could not hold speech with
him, or have access to the room in which he was

confined. Denied interview with their own father,
in their own house ! Inhumanity that augured ill
for what was to come after.

What this might be they could neither tell nor
guess. They even feared to reflect upon it ;
trembling at every footstep on the stairs. Though
no key had been turned upon them, nor sentry
set at their door, they were as much imprisoned
as their father. For the Prince's retinue of servants
filled the house, tramping and roaming about
everywhere, and bullying the family domestics. It
was not safe to go out among them ; and the
young ladies had locked themselves up, dreading
insult, if not absolute outrage. Even Gwenthian
dared not trust herself downstairs, and shared
their confinement.

What did it all mean ? Why such change in
the behaviour of the Prince, so late pretending
amiability ? For his people must have sanction,
or they would not be so acting.

The explanation was simple, withal. Shortly

after Rupert's arrival at Hollymead, a courier, who

had followed him from Monmouth, brought tidings

of another Royalist reverse — Chepstow, with its

castle, taken or closely beleaguered. Exasperated

by the intelligence, he no longer resisted the

wicked proposals of Lunsford, but gave willing

assent to them. And now, having thrown off the

mask, he had determined on taking the whole

Powell family back with him to Bristol. As his

prisoner there he could do with the "bit of saucy

sweetness " as it might please him ; as he had done

with many other unfortunate women whom the

chances of war had brought within his wanton

embrace.

It had been all settled, save some details about
the departure from Hollymead, the time, and the
return route. These were now being discussed
between him and the commanding officer of his
escort, as they sate at a side table to which they

had temporarily withdrawn, to be out of earshot
of the others.

Should we remain here for the night, mein
Colonel, or make back to Monmouth ? We can
get there before midnight."

"That we could, easily enough, your Highness.
But why go by Monmouth at all ? "

Why not ? "

There are two reasons against it, Prince, Both
good ones."

Give them, Sir Thomas."

If it be true that Chepstow's lost to us, there
may be a difficulty in our crossing the Wye down
there. Or getting over to the Must passage of the
Severn, with such a weak force as attends your
Highness."

Gottt ! yes; I perceive that. But what's your
other reason against Monmouth way ? "

"A more delicate one. To pass through that
town with such a captive train, as your Highness

will have, might give tongue for scandal. The
venerable Marquis of Worcester is rather squeamish ;
besides not being your best friend. You know-that,
Prince?"

I do know it, and will some day make him
sorry for it, the old Papist hypocrite. But what
other route would you have us take ? "

Down through the Forest direct, and across
the Severn, either at Newnham or Westbury.
There's a ferry at both places, with horse-boats
enough to take us all over in a trip or two. We
may reach Berkeley Castle before daylight ; where,
if it be your Highness's pleasure to lie up for the
day, you could enter Bristol on the following night
without all the world being the wiser as to the
sort of prisoners we carried in."

Egad ! your reasons are good. I'm inclined to
follow your advice, and return by the route you
speak of. Are you well acquainted with it, mein
Colonel ? "

Reasonably well, your Highness. But Captain
Trevor knows it better than I. He was longer
with Sir John Wintour, and is familiar with every
crook and turn of the Forest roads in that quarter.
There can be no danger of our going astray."

But the night's dark as pitch. So one has
just told me."

True it is now, your Highness. But there'll
be a moon this side midnight, and that will be
time enough to start. We can make Berkeley
before morning — prisoners, crossing the Severn, and
all delays notwithstanding. Next night your Highness
may sleep in your own bed within the walls
of Bristol Castle, with a sweet creature to share
it — whom I need not designate by name."

She shall share it ! " rejoined the Royal reprobate,
in reckless but determined tone, his wicked
passions fired by the wine he had been drinking.
"And we go that way, Colonel. So see that all
be ready for the route soon as the moon shows

her sweet face. Meanwhile, let us back to our
comrades and be merry."

Saying which he returned to the chair he had
vacated at the head of the table, the other along
with him ; then, grasping a filled goblet, he called
out the Cavalier's orthodox sentiment " The
Wenches ! " adding, —

"Colonel Lunsford will respond with a song,
gentlemen ! "

Which the Colonel did ; giving that they liked
best, with a chorus they could all join in, —

"We'll drink, drink;
And our goblets clink,

Quaffing the blood-red wine.
The wenches we'll toast,
And the Roundheads we'll roast,

The Copies and all their kind."

The coarse refrain, with the ribald jests that
followed it, could be heard all over the house,
reaching the ears of its imprisoned owner. Even

those of his daughters, more distant, did not escape
being offended by them. No wonder at both having
in their hearts, if not on their lips, the prayer, —
God speed Win upon her errand ! "

A COURAGEOUS WADER.

The Severn was in flood, its wide valley a sheet
of water, which extended miles from either bank,
and far up north towards Worcester. Viewed
from an eminence, it looked as if the primeval
sea which once washed the foots of the Malvern
Hills had rolled back over its ancient bed.

The city of Gloucester seemed standing on an
island, some of its houses, that lay low, submerged,
and only approachable by boats ; while the causeways
of the roads leading from it were underwater,
in places to a depth of several feet.

This it was which had hindered Ambrose Powell

arriving at Hollymead House many hours earlier



than that on which he was taken to it a prisoner.
For, soon as receiving news of the recapture of
Monmouth, instinctively apprehending danger to
the dear ones so unwisely left alone, he had hurriedly
started homeward ; to be delayed by the
obstructing flood. Nearing home with heart a
prey to anxiety, harassed by the thought of his
own imprudence ; at length reaching it to find his
worst fears realized ; himself no longer free.

The waters still prevailing in the Severn Valley
and around Gloucester, it seemed impossible to
enter that city, save by boat. Yet on that same
night a pedestrian could have been seen making
towards it from the direction of Mitcheldean ; one
who meant it as the objective point of her journey
for it was a woman.

The great cathedral clock was just tolling nine
p.m. as she descended into the lowlands near
Highnam, and came to a stop by the edge of the
inundated district. It was dark, the moon still

below the horizon ; but her precursory rays, reflected
from fleecy clouds above it, threw a faint
light over the aqueous surface, sufficient to make
objects distinguishable at a good hundred yards'
distance. Copses that seemed islets, with the
tufted heads of pollarded willows rising weird-like
out of the water, were the conspicuous features
of the flooded landscape. Rows of the latter
marked the boundaries of meadows ; but two running
parallel, with a narrower list between, indicated
the causeway of the road.

The woman had approached this point at a
rapid pace ; and, though brought to a stand, it
was but a momentary pause, without thought of
turning back. Her attitude, and the expression
upon her features, told of a determination to continue
on, and get inside Gloucester if that were
possible. In all haste, too ; for as the strokes of
the great clock-bell came booming over the water,
she counted them with evident anxiety, in fear

of their tolling ten instead of nine. Even the
lesser number seemed scarcely to satisfy her ; as if,
withal, she might be too late for the business she
was bent upon.

She but waited for the final reverberation ; then,
drawing her skirts knee high, walked boldly into
the flood, and onward.

Ankle-deep at the first step, she was soon in
water that washed around her garters. Here and
there, with a current too, which threatened to
sweep her off her feet. But it did not deter her
from advancing ; and on went she, without stop,
or show of hesitation ; no sign of quailing in her
eye.

At knee's depth, as ere long she was, still enough
of her showed above the surface to represent the
stature of an ordinary woman. For she was not
an ordinary woman, in height or otherwise — being
Winny, the cadgeress.

On tramped the courageous wader, on plunged,

till the water was up to mid thigh. No more then
did her face show fear; nor sign of intention to
turn back. She would have gone on, had it come
to swimming. For swim she could ; many the
time having bathed her body in both Severn and
Wye. That was not needed now, though very
near it. Even over the raised ridge of the causeway
the flood was feet deep. But, familiar with
the route, having the landmarks in her memory —
for it was not her first time to travel that road
when submerged — she knew all its turns and bearings
; how to take them ; took them ; and at length
having passed the deepest depths, saw before her
the Severn's bridge, with its elevated tete-despot ;
and, beyond, the massive tower of the cathedral,
amidst a surrounding of roofs and chimneys.

Her perilous journey was near its end, the toilsome
journey nigh over ; and she felt happy. For,
as through frost some twelve months before, she
had approached Bristol with pleasant anticipations,

so now was she about to enter Gloucester with
the same, and from a similar cause.

Her expectancy was realized sooner than she had
hoped for ; the result identical to a degree of oddness.
For just as upon that night at Bristol, so on
this at Gloucester, Rob Wilde chanced to be guard-sergeant
of the gate by which she sought admission.

And once again went their great arms around
each other; their lips closing in kisses loud and
fervent as ever.

God Almighty, Win ! " he exclaimed, still holding
her in honest, amorous embrace, "what bet
now? Why hast thee corned hither through the
flood ? Dear girl ! ye be's wet up to the "

No matter how high, Rob," she said, interrupting,
" if't 'tvvor up to the neck, there be good
reasons foret."

What reasons ? "

News I ha' brought frae Ruardean ; rather
us ought say Hollymead."

VOL. III. N

Bad news be they ? I needn't ax ; I seest in
your face."

Bad enough ; though nothing' more than might
ha' been expected after the Cavalieres been' back
at Monnerth, an' master's their. Ye ha' heard that,
I suppose ? "

Oh, certainly ! The news got here day afore
yesterday, in the night. But fra Hollymead ? "

"A troop o' em there, numbering' nigh two hundred
; horse soldiers in scarlet, wi' all sorts o' grand
trappings ; the Prince Rupert's they be. Us ha'
come wi' a message to Sir Richard. So I needn't
tell ye who's be from."

No, you needn't. I can guess. Then ye maun
see him at once ? "

Wi' not a minute's delay. Us ha* got a letter
for him ; an' she as sent it saved the delivering' bea
thing o' life an' death. I knows that myself,
Rob."

Come along, love ! The colonel be in his quarters,

I think. He wor by the gate here only a
short whiles ago, and died me orders for reporting'
to him there. Another kiss, Win dear, fore's we
get into company."

The favour was conceded soon as asked ; and,
after another hug, with more than one osculation,
the two great figures moved off side by side through
the darkness.

THEIR DEAR ONES IN DANGER.

As the sergeant conjectured, Colonel Walwyn was
in his quarters ; Eustace Trevor, his almost constant
companion, along with him. The ever-active
Governor of Gloucester was absent on another of
his many expeditions, and had left Colonel Brough-ton
in chief command of the garrison, Sir Richard
commanding its cavalry force, with a separate jurisdiction.


The duties of the day over, with all guards stationed
for the night, he, with his young troop
captain, having just completed the "Grand Rounds,"
had returned to quarters, and taken seat by a brisk
wood fire ; the night, as already said, being chill.

Hubert was bustling about in attendance upon

so

them ; for, though a gaudy trumpeter, he took
delight in serving his revered colonel in every
possible capacity. There was nothing menial in
waiting upon such a master — so thought the faithful
henchman.

He had uncorked a bottle of claret, and placed
it on the table between them, which they proceeded
to discuss as they reviewed the events of the day.
The knight was no anchorite, neither the ci-devant
gentleman-usher; both accustomed to take their
wine in a moderate way. And both habitually
cheerful, save when some reverse of arms gave
reason for their being otherwise.

Such there was now, or lately had been — that
of Monmouth still in their minds. Sir Richard
regretted not having been himself charged to keep
the place he had been chiefly instrumental in capturing.
Had it been so, the enemy would not so
easily have retaken it. That he might well think
or say, without any self-conceit. For in the most

blundering manner had Major Throgmorton, left
in temporary command, managed its defence ; in
truth, making no defence at all, but allowing the
Royalists to re-enter almost without striking
blow.

The affair was truly farcical, however serious
for the Parliament. Its County Committee was
at the time in session ; decreeing fines and sequestrations
against the Monmouthshire " malignant " ;
when all at once confronted by the very men with
whose estates and chattels they were playing at
confiscation ; these armed, and angrily vociferating
" Surrender ! you are our prisoners ! "

Never were judicial deliberations brought to a
more abrupt ending; never transfer of authority
more ludicrously sudden. Though it was aught
but a jesting matter to the dispossessed ones, who
from a comfortable council-chamber were instantly
hurried off to the cells of a dismal jail.

Of course the Cavaliers made much fun over

the affair ; while reversely their adversaries were
chagrined and humiliated by it.

Few grieved over the event in a greater degree
than Colonel Walwyn and Captain Eustace Trevor ;
for they had special reasons.

I only wish I'd known of that danger when we
got Massey's order to march hither," observed the
former, as they sat sipping their wine.

What would you have done, Sir Richard ? "

Disobeyed it ; and marched our men in the
opposite direction — to Monmouth."

Ah, true ! A pity you didn't. It might have
been the saving of the place."

No use lamenting the disaster now it's done.
Would that the taking of the town were all you
and I, Trevor, have concern about ! Unfortunately
it isn't. What madness leaving the girls at Holly-mead
— absolute insanity ! "

"It was. I thought so at the time, as did
Vaga."

Sabrina too ; everybody but Powell himself.
He couldn't be convinced there was any danger ;
and I still hope there may not be. But who
knows what the upshot now ? I tremble to think
of it."

It's to be regretted, we didn't more press him
to come away with us."

Oh ! that would have been of no use. I did
urge it on him — far as I could becomingly. But
he had one of his obstinate, pig-headed fits upon
him that day, and would listen to no reason. It's
not pleasant having to speak so of him, whom we
both look forward to as our future father-in-law ;
but when he's in that frame of mind Heaven and
earth wouldn't move him. Nor the devil frighten
him either. You remember how he braved Langford,
and that precious cousin of yours, when they
came to collect the King's loan. True, he had us,
and something besides, at his back. But without
that he'd have defied them all the same ; ay, had

the whole Royalist army been there threatening
him with instant death."

"That I fully believe. Yet one cannot help
admiring his independence of spirit — so much of
manhood in it, and so rare ! "

"Ay, true. But in that case too much recklessness.
It has begot danger, and may bring
disaster upon all of us — if it hasn't already."

The last words, spoken in a grave, almost despondent
tone, fell unpleasantly on the ear of
Eustace Trevor, already sufficiently apprehensive of
the thing hinted at.

In what way, colonel ? " he queried anxiously.
Are you thinking of any special danger ? "

I am, indeed ; and to our dear ones."

But how ? From what — whom ? "

Rather ask ' from where ? ' and I'll answer
Monmouth.' Now that the Royalists are masters
there, almost for certain they'll be raiding up into
the Forest ; and likely, too likely, a party pay visit

to Hollymead. That, as you know, Trevor, were
danger enough to those we have fears for ! "

"But now that their father has gone to fetch
them away ? He should be there long before this."

"And long before this may be too late. Just
what I'm most anxious about — the time of his
arrival at Hollymead ; for I know he won't stay
there an instant. Poor man ! he's sadly repentant
of his imprudent act, and will make all haste to
bring them back with him. The fear is of the
flood having delayed him too long at starting —
my fear."

Good Heavens ! " exclaimed the young officer,
"let us hope not."

If Massey were here," continued the other, a
thought striking him, " I'd ask leave to go after
him. Indeed, I feel half-inclined to take it, without
asking."

And why not, Colonel ? We could be at Guardian
and back before morning — riding at a pace."

Sir Richard was silent, seeming to ponder. Only
for a few seconds ; when, as if resolved, he sprang
to his feet, saying, —

I'll risk it, whatever the result. And we shall
start at once, taking our own fellows along with
us. Hubert ! "

Quick as the call came the trumpeter from an
ante-room, where he had stayed in waiting. To
receive the order, —

To the men's quarters, and sound the ' Assembly
' ! Lose not a moment ! "

And not a moment lost the trumpeter, knowing
that when Colonel Walwyn gave an order in such
excited strain it meant promptest obedience.
Snatching up his trumpet, as he hurried out through
the ante-room, he was in the street in an instant
hurrying towards the cavalry quarters.

AN EXCITING EPISTLE.

Trevor ! " cried the colonel to his troop-captain,
now also upon his feet, and sharing his excitement
; "send out an orderly to summon Harley
and our other officers. Perhaps you had best go
yourself. You know where to find them, I suppose
? "

I think I do, colonel."

Use all despatch. As we've made up our
minds to this thing the sooner we're in the saddle
the better."

The counsel to make haste was little called for.
Eustace Trevor itched to be in the saddle, as ever
disciple of St. Hubert on the first day of fox-hunting.
But just as he was about to step over

the threshold of the outer door, he saw a party
approaching evidently with the design to enter.
Two individuals they were, a man and woman,
still within the dim light of the overshadowing
houses. For all, he had no difficulty in recognising
them. Colossal stature as theirs was far from
common ; the pair being Rob Wilde and Winny.

He saw them with some surprise — at least the
woman. For he had not expected seeing her there.
There she was, though ; and, as quick intuition
told him, her presence might have some bearing
on that he was about to issue forth, for he awaited
their coming up.

Soon they stood at the door, face to face with
him ; the sergeant saluting soldier fashion, while
the woman curtseyed.

"You, Winifred!" exclaimed the young officer.
I was not aware of your being in Gloucester."

11 Her can't been in it modern ten minutes,
captain," said the sergeant, speaking for her. " I

ha' just lets her in at the gate. Her be wanting' a
word wi' the colonel."

She'll be welcome to that, I'm sure. But first
go in yourself and see."

This was in accordance with military etiquette,
indeed regulations ; no stranger admitted to the
presence of a commanding officer without being
announced, and permission given. Rob himself
came not under the rule, and was about to pass
inside ; when a thought occurring to Captain
Trevor, the latter turned upon his heel and preceded
him.

"Well, Wilde, what is it?" asked Sir Richard,
as they entered the room. Eagerly, too, seeing
that the features of the big sergeant wore a portentous
expression. "Any trouble with your gate-guard?"


"No, colonel; nothing' o' that."

Some news come in ? "

"Just so, Sir Richard ; an' not o' the best neither."

Indeed ! What news ? Whence ? "

Fra Ruardean, or, to speak more particular, fra
Hollymead House."

Both colonel and captain were now all ears. No
spot on the habitable globe had such interest for
them as Hollymead House, and from nowhere was
intelligence so eagerly desired.

Tell it, sergeant ! " was the impatient command.

A party o' the King's soldiers be quartered
there — cavalry."

O God ! " exclaimed Eustace Trevor, almost in a
groan ; the knight also showing grievously affected.

How did you get this news ? "

"Win ha' brought it."

Win ? "

"Yes, colonel. Her be outside the door — waiting
permission to speak wi' you. She ha' been trusted
wi' a letter from the young ladies."

Bring her in — instantly ! "

Singular coincidence, Trevor ! " said Sir Richard,

as the sergeant passed out. "Already at Holly-mead
! Just what we've been fearing ! "

"Indeed, so. And all the more reason for our
being there too."

I wonder who they are. Lingen's, think you ? "

Rob says they're quartered there. That would
hardly be Lingen's — so near his own garrison at
Goodrich? More like some of Lord Herbert's
Horse from Monmouth. And I hope it may be
they."

Ah ! true ; it might be worse. But we'll soon
hear. The cadgeress can tell, no doubt ; or it'll
be in the letter."

The door, reopening, showed the Forest Amazon
outside, Rob conducting her in. They could see
that she was wet to the waist, her saturated skirt
clinging around limbs of noble outline ; while her
heaving bosom, with the heightened colour of her
cheeks, told of a journey but just completed, and
made in greatest haste.

You have a letter for me ? " said Sir Richard
interrogatively, as she stepped inside the room.

Yes, your bonner, fra Hollymead."

She spoke with hand raised to her head, as if
adjusting one of the plaits of her hair. Instead,
she was searching among them for the concealed
epistle. Which, soon found, was handed over to
him for whom it was intended.

No surprise to Sir Richard at seeing a thing
more like curl-paper than letter. It was not the
first time for him to receive such, in a similar way ;
and, straightening it out under the lamplight, he
was soon acquainted with its contents.

So far from having the effect of allaying his
excitement they but increased it, and he cried out
to the sergeant, as he had to the trumpeter, —

Quick to the men's quarters, Wilde, and help
getting all ready for the route ! Hubert's there by
this time, and will have sounded the 'Assembly.'
Read that, Trevor ! There's something that con-vol.

in. O

ceres you," and he handed the letter to his troop-captain.


The sergeant hurried away, leaving Win to be
further questioned by the colonel. And while this
was going on the young officer perused the epistle,
to be affected by it in a similar fashion. It ran
thus : —

"111 tidings, Richard. Prince Rupert here, with
his escort — about two hundred. Has just arrived,
and intends staying the night ; indeed till father
return home, he says. I hope father will not come
home, unless you come with him. I'm sure they
mean him harm. That horrid man, Lunsford, is
in the Prince's suit ; Reginald Trevor too. Winny
will tell you more ; I fear to lose time in writing.
Dear Richard ! come if you can?

So the body of the epistle, with below a postscript,
in a different handwriting, well known to
Eustace Trevor : —

Dearest Eustace ! we are in danger, I do believe."

The words were significant ; and no form of
appeal for rescue could have been more pressing.
Nor was such needed ; neither any urging of haste
upon the men thus admonished.

Never was squadron of cavalry sooner in the
saddle, after getting orders, than was "Walwyn's
Horse " on that night. In less than twenty minutes
later, they went at a gallop through the northwestern
gate of Gloucester, opened to give them
exit ; then on along the flooded causeway, riding
rolls deep, plunging and flinging the spray-drops
high in air, till every man was dripping wet, from
the plume in his hat to the spurs upon his heels.

A HOUSE ON FIRE.

The moon had risen, but only to be seen at intervals.
Heavy cumuli drifting sluggishly athwart
the sky, now and then drew curtain-like over her
disk, making the earth dark as Erebus. Between
these recurrent cloud eclipses, however, her light was
of the clearest ; for the atmosphere otherwise was
without haze or mist*

She was shining in full effulgence, as a body of
horsemen commenced breasting the pitch which
winds up from Mitcheldean to the Wilderness.
Their distinctive standard was sheathed — not needing
display in the night ; but the green uniforms,
and the cocks-tail feathers pluming their hats,
told them to be Walwyn's Horse — the Foresters.



They were still wet with the flood-water through
which they had waded after clearing the gates of
Gloucester. Their horses too ; the coats of these
further darkened by sweat, save where the flakes
of white froth, tossed back on their necks and
counters, gave them a piebald appearance. All
betokened a terrible pace, and such had they kept
up, scarce slowing for an instant from the flood's
edge till they entered the town of Mitcheldean.

Then it was but a momentary halt in the street,
and without leaving the saddle ; just long enough
to inquire whether Master Ambrose Powell had
that day passed through the place. He had ; late
in the afternoon. On horseback, without any
attendant, and apparently in great haste.

u Prisoner or not, they have him at Hollymead
now," observed Sir Richard to Eustace Trevor, as
they trotted on through the town to the foot of
the hill where the road runs up to the Wilderness.

To gallop horses already blown against that

steep acclivity would have been to kill them. But
the leader of the party, familiar with it, did not
put them to the test ; instead, commanded a walk.
And while riding side by side, he and his troop-captain
held something of a lengthened conversation,
up to that time only a few hurried words
having been exchanged between them.

I wish the letter had been a little more explicit
as to their numbers," said Sir Richard. " About
two hundred may mean three, or only one. A
woman's estimate is not the most reliable in such
matters."

What did the cadgeress say of it, Colonel ? You
questioned her, I suppose ? "

Minutely ; but to no purpose. She only came
to the house after they had scattered all around
it, and, of course, had no definite idea of their
number. So we shan't know how many we'll
have to cross swords with, till we get upon the
ground."

"If we have the chance to cross swords with any.
I only wish we were sure of that."

The deuce ! They may be gone away, you
think ? "

Rather fear it, Sir Richard. Powell must have
reached Hollymead before nightfall ; and if they
intended making him a prisoner 'twould be done at
once ; with no object for their staying afterwards."

Unless they have done a long day's march, and
meant to quarter there for the night. If they went
thither direct from Bristol, which is like enough,
that's just what they'd do; stay the night, and
start back for Bristol in the morning."

I have fears, Colonel, we won't find it so. More
likely the Prince was at Monmouth on account of
what's happened there ; and will return to it — has
returned already."

If so, Trevor, 'twill be a black night for you
and me ; a bitter disappointment, and something
worse. If he's gone from Hollymead, so will they

father, daughters, all. Rupert's not the sort to
leave such behind, with an abettor like Tom
Lunsford. As for your cousin, remember how you
crossed him. It's but natural he should feel spiteful,
and show it in that quarter."

If he do, I'll cross him worse when we come
to crossing swords. And I'll find the chance.
We've made mutual promise to give no quarter
almost sworn it. If ill befall Vaga Powell
through him, I'll keep that promise faithfully as
any oath."

"But right you should. And for settling scores
you may soon have the opportunity ; I trust within
the hour."

Then, Colonel, you think they'll still be at
Hollymead."

I hope it rather ; grounding my hope on another
habit of this German Prince. One he has
late been indulging to excess, 'tis said."

Drink ? "

"Just so. In the which Lunsford, with head
hard as his heart, will stand by him cup for cup."

But can that effect their staying at Hollymead ? "

Certainly it can ; probably will."

How, Sir Richard ? "

By their getting inebriated there ; or, at all
events, enough so to make them careless about
moving off before the morning. The more, as they
can't be expecting any surprise from this side.
You remember there was a fair stock of wine in
the cellars when we were there, best sorts too.
Let loose at that, they're likely to stay by it as
long as the tap runs."

God grant it may run till morning then ! " was
the prayer of the young officer, fervently spoken.
In his ways of thought and speech two years'
campaigning had made much change, deepening
the gravity of one naturally of serious turn.

No matter about morning," rejoined Sir Richard.
If it but hold out for another hour, and we find

them there, something else will then be running red
as the wine. Ah, Master Lunsford ! One more
meeting with you, that's what I want now. If I'm
lucky enough to have it this night, this night will
be the last of your life."

The apostrophe, which was but a mental reflection,
had reference to something Sabrina had been
telling him, vividly recalled by the words in her
latest letter, " that horrid man."

At the same instant, and in similar strain, was
Eustace Trevor reflecting about his Cousin
Reginald ; making mental vow that, if Vaga suffered
shame by him, neither would his life be of long
endurance.

By this they had surmounted the pitch, and
arrived at a spot both had good reason to remember.
It was the piece of level turf where once baring
blades they had come so near sending one or
other out of the world. Their horses remembered
it too — they were still riding the same — and with

a recollection, which had a result quaintly comical.
Soon as on the ground, without check of rein or
word said, they came to a sudden halt, turned head
to head, snorting and angry-like, as if expecting a
renewal of the combat !

All the more strange this behaviour on the part
of the animals, that, since their hostile encounter,
for now over two years they had been together in
amiable association !

A circumstance so odd, so ludicrous, could not
fail to excite the risibility of their riders ; and laugh
both did, despite their serious mood at the moment.
To their following it but caused surprise ; two
alone comprehending, so far as to see the fun of
it. These Hubert, the trumpeter, and the "light
varlet " then so near coming to blows with him, who
through thick and thin, had ever since stuck to
the ex-gentleman usher, his master.

Xo doubt the little interlude would have led to
some speech about it, between the chief actors in

the more serious encounter it recalled, but for
something at that moment seen by them, turning
their thoughts into a new channel. Away westward,
beyond Drybrook, beyond Ruardean Ridge,
the sky showed a clearness that had nought to do
with the moon's light ; instead was ruddier, and
shone brighter, as this became obscured by a thick
cloud drifting over her disk. A glowing, gleaming
light, unusual in a way ; but natural enough regarded
as the glare of a conflagration — which in
reality it was.

House on fire over yonder ! " cried one of the
soldiers.

May be only a haystack," suggested a second.

"More like a town, judging' by the big blaze,"
reasoned a third.

"There's no town in that direction; only Guardian,
where's we be going."

11 Why aunt it be Ruardean, then ? " queried the
first speaker ; " or the church ? "

"An' a good thing if't be the church," put in
one of strong Puritan proclivities. " It want
burning' down, as every other, wi' their altars an'
images. They be a curse to the country ; the
parsons too. They've taken sides wi' the stinking'
Cavaliers, against Parliament and people, all along."

"That's true," endorsed another of like iconoclastic
sentiments ; " an' if it ant the church as be
given' up that light let's ruminate it when we get
there. I go for that."

A proposal which called forth a chorus of assenting
responses.

While this play of words was in progress along
the line of rank and file rewards, the Colonel and
Captain Trevor, at its head, were engaged in a
dialogue of conjectures about the same — a brief one.

"What think you it is?" asked Sir Richard, as
they sat halted in their saddles regarding the
garish light. " It looks to be over Ruardean, or
near it."

"A fire of some kind, Colonel. No common one
either."

"A farmer's rick ?"

I fear not ; would we were sure of its being
only that ! "

Ha ! A house you think ? "

"I do, Sir Richard."

"And ?"

The one we're making for ! "

By Heavens ! I believe it is. It bears that
way to a point. Ruardean's more to the right.
Yes, it must be Hollymead ! "

Both talked excitedly, but no more words passed
between them there and then. The next heard
was the command — " March — double quick ! " and
down the hill to Drybrook went they at a gallop,
over the tiny stream, and up the long winding
slope round the shoulder of Ruardean Hill — without
halt or draw on bridle. There only poising
for an instant, as they came within view of the

village and saw the conflagration was not in, but
wide away from it ; the glare and sparks ascending
over the spot where Hollymead House should be,
but was no more.

As, continuing their gallop, they rode in through
the park gates, it was to see a vast blazing pile,
like a bonfire built by Titans — the fagots' great
beams heaped together confusedly — from which
issued a hissing and crackling, with at intervals
loud explosions, as from an ordnance magazine on
fire.

VERY NEAR AN ENCOUNTER.

MlTCHELDEAN lies at the foot of the steep facade,
already spoken of as forming a periphery to the
elevated Forest district. The slope ascends direct
from the western skirts of the little town ; but
outlying ridges also inclose it on the north, east,
and south, so that even the tall spire of its church
is invisible from any great distance. So situated,
railways give it a wide berth ; and few places
better deserve the title " secluded." The only sort
of traveller who ever thinks of paying it a visit
is the " commercial," or some pedestrian tourist,
crossing the Forest from the Severn side to view

the more picturesque scenery of the Wye, with intention



to make stoppage at the ancient hostelry
of the Speech House, midway between.

In the days of the saddle and pack-horse, however,
things were different with Mitcheldean.
Being on one of the direct routes of travel from
the metropolis to South Wales, and a gate of
entry, as it were, to the Forest on its eastern side,
it was then a place of considerable note ; its people
accustomed to all sorts of wayfarers passing daily,
hourly through it.

Since the breaking out of the Rebellion these
had been mostly of the military kind, though not
confined to either party in the strife. One would
march through to-day, the other tomorrow ; so
that hearing the trample of hoofs rarely could the
townsmen tell whether Royalists or Parliamentarians
were coming among them, till they saw their
standards in the street.

They would rather have received visit from
neither ; but, compelled to choose, preferred seeing

VOL. in. P

the soldiers of the Parliament. So when Walwyn's
Horse came rattling along, their green coats, with
the cocks-tail feathers in their hats, distinguishable
in the clear moonlight, the closed window
shutters were flung open ; and night-capped heads
for most had been abed — appeared in them,
without fear exchanging speech with the soldiers
halted in the street below.

Altogether different their behaviour when, in a
matter of ten minutes after, a second party of horsemen
came to a halt under their windows ; these in
scarlet coats, gold laced, with white ostrich feathers
in their hats — the Prince of Wales's plume, with its
appropriate motto of servility, " Sick dien."

Seeing it, the townsmen drew in their heads,
closed the shutters, and were silent. Not going
back to their beds, however ; but to sit up in fear
and trembling, till the renewed hoof-strokes told
them of the halt over, and the red-coated Cavaliers
ridden off again.

It need scarce be said that these were Rupert
and his escort, en route for Westbury ; and had
YYahvyn's Horse stopped ten minutes longer in
Mitcheldean, the two bodies would have there met
face to face ; since they were proceeding in opposite
directions. A mere accident hindered their
encountering ; the circumstance, that from the
town two roads led up to the Forest, one on each
side of the Wilderness, both again uniting in the
valley of Drybrook. The northern route had been
taken by the Parliamentarian party ascending ;
while the Royalists descended by the southern
one, called the " Plump Hill." Just at such time
as to miss one another, though but by a few
minutes. For the rearmost files of the former had
barely cleared the skirts of the town going out,
when the van of the latter entered it at a different
point.

The interval, however, was long enough to prevent
those who went Foresters from getting

information of what they were leaving so close
behind. Could they have had that, quick would
have been their return down hill, and the streets
of Mitcheldean the arena of a conflict to the cry,
No Quarter ! "

As it was, the hostile cohorts passed peacefully
through, out, and onwards on their respective
routes ; though Prince Rupert knew how near he
had been to a collision, and could still have
brought it on. But that was the last thing in
his thoughts ; instead, soon as learning what had
gone up to the Forest, who they were, and who
their leader, his stay in Mitcheldean was of the
shortest, and his way out of it not Foresters
but straight on for the Severn.

And in all the haste he could make, cumbered
as he was with captives. For he carried with him
a captive train ; a small one, consisting of but
three individuals — scarce necessary to say, Ambrose
Powell and his daughters. They were on horseback

; the ladies wrapped in cloaks, and so close
hooded that their faces were invisible. Even their
figures were so draped as to be scarce distinguishable
from those of men ; all done with a design,
not their own, but that of those who had them in
charge. In passing through Mitcheldean precautions
had been taken to hinder their being recognised
; double files of their guards riding inclose
order on each side of them, so that curious
eyes should not come too near. But, when once
more out on the country road, the formation " by
twos " was resumed ; the trio of prisoners, each
with a trooper right and left, conducted behind
the knot of officers on the Prince's personal staff,
he himself with Lunsford leading.

Soon as outside the town the two last, as usual
riding together, and some paces in the advance,
entered on dialogue of a confidential character.
The Prince commenced it, saying, —

"We've had a narrow escape, Sir Thomas."

Does your Highness refer to our having missed
meeting the party of Roundheads ? "

Of course I do— just that."

Then, I should say, 'tis they who've had the
narrow escape."

Vein, Colonel ! Not so certain of that, knowing
who they are. These Foresters fight like
devils ; and, from all I could gather, they greatly
outnumber us. I shouldn't so much mind the
odds, but for how we're hampered. To have fought
them, and got the worst of it, would have been
ruinous to our reputation — as to the other thing."

It isn't likely we'd have got the worst of it.
Few get the better of your Highness that way."

Lunsford's brave talk was not in keeping with
his thoughts. Quite as pleased was he as the
Prince at their having escaped an encounter with
the party of Parliamentarians. For never man
dreaded meeting man more than he Sir Richard
Walwyn. Words had of late been conveyed to

him — from camp to camp and across neutral lines
warning words, that his old enemy was more
than ever incensed against him, and in any future
conflict where the two should be engaged meant
singling him out, and seeking his life. After what
he had done now, was still doing, he knew another
encounter with Walwyn would be one of life and
death, and dreaded it accordingly.

11 Still, Prince," he added, " as you observe, considering
our encumbrances, perhaps it's been for
the best letting them off."

Ay, if they let us off. Which they may not
yet. Suppose some of the townsmen have followed,
and told them of our passing through ? "

"No fear of that, Prince. If anyone did follow
it's not likely they could be overtaken, They were
riding as in a race, and won't draw bridle till they
see the blaze over Hollymead. Then they'll but
gallop the faster — in the wrong direction."

The right one for us, if they do. But even so

they would reach Hollymead in less than an hour ;
then turn short round to pursue, and in another
hour be upon our heels. You forget that we
can't say safety, till we're over the Severn."

I don't forget that, Prince. But they won't
turn round to pursue us."

"Why say you that, Sir Thomas? How know
you they won't ? "

"Because they won't suspect our having come
this way ; never think of it. Before putting the
torch to the old delinquent's house, I took the
precaution to have all his domestics locked up
in an out-building ; that they shouldn't see which
way we went off. As they and the Ruardean
people knew we came up from Monmouth they'll
naturally conclude that we returned thither. So,
your Highness, any pursuit of us will take the
direction down Cat's Hill, instead of by Drybrook
and down the Plump."

Egad ! I hope so, Colonel. For, to speak

truth, I don't feel in the spirit for a fight just
now."

It was not often Rupert gave way to cowardice,
and more seldom confessed it ; even in confidence
to his familiars, of whom Lunsford was one of
the most intimate. But at that hour he felt it
to very fear. Perhaps from the wine he had
drunk at Hollymead, now cold in him ; and it
might be his conscience weighted with the crime
he was in the act of committing. Whatever the
cause, his nervousness became heightened rather
than diminished, as they marched on ; and
anxiously longed he to be on the other side of
the Severn.

Not more so than his reprobate companion,
whose bravado was all assumed ; his words of confidence
forced from him to gloss over the mistake
he had made, in recommending the route taken.
Sorry was he now, as his superior, they had not
gone by Monmouth. Within its Castle walls

they would at that moment have been safe ; instead
of hurrying along a road, with the obstruction
of a river in front, and the possibility of
pursuit behind. Ay, the probability of it, as
Lunsford himself knew well, feigning to ignore it.

In any case, your Highness," he continued,
in the same strain of encouragement, " we'll be
out of their way in good time. From here it's
but a step down to Westbury."

By this they had reached the head of the ravine-like
valley in which stands Flaxley Abbey, and
were hastening forward fast as the impedimenta of
captives would permit. The road runs down the
valley, which, after several sinuosities, debouches on
the Severn's plain. But, long before attaining this,
at rounding one of the turns, their eyes were
greeted by a sight which sent tremor to their hearts.

Mein Gottt ! " cried the Prince, suddenly reining
up, and speaking in a tone of mingled surprise
and alarm, " you see, Sir Thomas ? "

Sir Thomas did see — sharing the other's alarm,
but without showing it — a sheet of water that
shone silvery white under the moonlight overspreading
all the plain below. The river flood,
and inundation everywhere !

We'll not be able to cross at all ? " pursued
the Prince, in desponding interrogative. " Shall
we ? "

Oh yes ! your Highness, I think so," was the
doubting response. " The water can't be so high
as to hinder us ; at least not likely. There's a
pier-head at Westbury Passage on both sides, and
the boats will be there as ever. I don't anticipate
any great difficulty in the crossing, only we'll
have to wade a bit."

Gottt ! that will be difficulty enough — danger
too."

What danger, your Highness ? Through the
meadows there's a raised causeway, and fortunately
I'm familiar with every inch of it. While

with Sir John Wintour I had often occasion to
travel it ; more than once under water. Even if
we can't make the Westbury Passage, we can that
of Framilode, but a mile or two above. I've
never heard of it being so flooded as to prevent
passing over."

It may be as you say, Sir Thomas. But the
danger I'm thinking of has more to do with time
than floods. Wading's slow work ; and there's
still the possibility of Walwyn and his green-coats
coming on after us. Suppose they should,
and find us floundering through the water?"

No need supposing that, Prince. There isn't
the slightest likelihood of it. I'd stake high that
at this minute they're at the bottom of Cat's Hill,
or, it may be, by Goodrich Ferry, seeking to crossover
the Wye as we the Severn. And, like as
not, Lingen will give them a turn if he gets word
of their being about there. Sir Harry has now a
strong force in the castle ; and owes Dick Walwyn

a revanche — for that affair on the Hereford Road
the morning after Kyrle led them into Monmouth."

For all, I wish we had gone Monmouth way,"
rejoined Rupert, as his eyes rested doubtingly
on the white sheet of water wide spread over the
plain below. "I still fear their pursuing us."

Even if they should, your Highness, we need
have no apprehension. The pursuit can't be
immediate ; and, please God, in another hour or
so, we'll be over the Severn, as likely they on
the other side of the Wye, with both rivers between
them and us."

Would that I were sure of that, Colonel," returned
the Prince, still desponding, " which I'm
not. However, we've no alternative now but to
cross here — if we can. You seem to have a doubt
of our being able to make the Passage of West-bury?
"

I'm only a little uncertain about it, your
Highness."

But sure about that of Framilode ? "
Quite ; though the flood be of the biggest
and deepest"

Ser zvohl ! with that assurance I'm satisfied.
But we must have things secure behind, ere we
commence making our wade. And we may as
well take the step now. So, Colonel, ride back
along the line, detach a rear-guard, and place it
under some officer who can be trusted. Lose nota
moment. I stay at halt here, till you return
to me."

TTJie commanding officer of the escort, as much
alive to the prudence of this precaution as he who
gave the orders for it, hastened to carrying them
out. Done by detailing off a few of the rearmost
files, with directions to remain as they were,
while the main body moved forward. Then instructions
given to the officer who was to take
charge of them ; all occupying less than ten
minutes' time.

After which, Lunsford again placed himself by
the side of the Prince, and the march was immediately
resumed, down the valley of Flaxley, on
for the flooded plain.

ON THE TRAIL.

WORDS cannot depict the feelings of Sir Richard
Walwyn and Eustace Trevor as they reined up by
the burning house. With both it was anguish of
the keenest ; for they knew who were the incendiaries,
and that incendiarism was not the worst
of it. They who ruthlessly kindled the flames had,
with like ruth, carried off their betrothed ones.
And for what purpose ? A question neither colonel
nor captain could help asking himself, though its
conjectural answer was agony. For now more
vividly than ever did Sir Richard recall what had
been told him of Lunsford's designs upon Sabrina ;
while Trevor had also heard of Prince Rupert's
partiality for Vaga.



As they sate in their saddles contemplating the
ruin, they felt as might an American frontiersman,
returned home to find his cabin ablaze, fired by
Indian torch, his wife or daughters borne off in
the brutal embrace of the savage.

No better fate seemed to have befallen the
daughters of Ambrose Powell. White savages,
very tigers, had seized upon and dragged them
to their lair ; it were no worse if red ones had
been the captors. Rather would the bereaved
lovers have had it so ; sooner known their sweethearts
buried under that blazing pile than in the
arms of the profligate Rupert and Lunsford the
bloody."

Only for an instant did they give way to their
anguish, or the anger which accompanied it — rage
almost to madness. Both were controlled by the
necessity of action, and the first wild burst over,
action was taken — pursuit of the ravishers.

Some time, however, before it could be fairly

VOL. III. Q

entered upon ; inquiry made as to the direction
in which they had gone. There were hundreds on
the ground who could be interrogated. Half the
people of Ruardean were there. Roused from their
beds by the cry " Fire ! " they had rushed out, and
on to the scene of conflagration. But arrived too
late to witness the departure of those who had set
the torch, and could not tell what way they had
gone. Neither could the house servants, now released
from their lock-up ; for to hinder them
doing so was the chief reason for their having
been confined.

As it was known to all that the Royalists had
come up from Monmouth, conjecture pointed to
their having returned thither. But conjecture was
not enough to initiate such a pursuit ; and Colonel
Walwyn was too practised a campaigner to rely
upon it. Certainty of the route taken by the
enemy was essential, else he might go on a wild-goose
chase.

As that could not be obtained at the burning
house not a moment longer stayed he by it.
Scarce ten minutes in all from the time of their
arrival till he gave the command "About!" and
about went they, back down the long avenue, and
through the park gate.

Soon as outside, he shouted " Halt ! " bringing
all again to a stand ; he himself, however, with
Captain Trevor and Sergeant Wilde, advancing
along the road in the direction of Cat's Hill. Only
a hundred yards or so, when they reined up.
Then, by command, the big sergeant threw himself
out of his saddle ; and, bending down, commenced
examination of the ground.

Had Wilde been born in the American backwoods
he would have been a noted hunter and
tracked of the Leatherstocking type. As it was,
his experience as a deerstealer in the Forest of
Dean had been sufficient to make the taking up a
horse's trail an easy matter, and easier that of a

whole troop. He could do it even in darkness ;
for it was dark then — the moon under a cloud.

And he did it ; in an instant. Scarce was he
stoop ere rising erect again, and turning face to
Sir Richard, as if all had been ascertained.

"Well, Rob," interrogated the latter, rather surprised
at such quick work, "you see their tracks?"

"I do, Colonel."

"Going Cat's Hill way?"

No, Colonel. The contrary — coming' from. None
o'er fresh neither. Must a been made some time
i' the afternoon."

Have you assured yourself of that ? "

I have. But I'll gie 'em another look, if ye
welsh it, Colonel."

Do."

The colossus again bent down and repeated his
examination of the tracks, this time making a
traverse or two, and going farther along the road.
In a few seconds to return with a confirmation of

his former report. A troop of cavalry had passed
over it, but only in one direction — upward, and
some hours before sunset.

Sure am I o' that, as if I'd been here an' seed
em," was the tracked's concluding words.

Enough ! " said Sir Richard. " Into your saddle,
and follow me."

At which he gave his horse the spur, and trotted
back towards the park gate. Not to rejoin his
men, still at halt, however. Instead, he continued
on along the road for Drybrook ; the other two
keeping with him.

At a like distance from the halted line he again
drew up, and directed the sergeant to make a
similar reconnaissance.

Here the reading of the sign occupied the tracked
some little longer time ; as there was a confusion
of hoof marks — some turned one way, some the
other. Those that had the toe towards Hollymead
gate he knew to have been made by their own

horses ; but underneath, and nearly obliterated,
were hundreds of others almost as fresh.

"That's the trail of the scoundrels," said Sir
Richard, soon as the sergeant reported the result
of his investigation. " They've gone over to the
Gloucester side ; by Drybrook and Mitcheldean.
How strange our not meeting them ! "

It is — very strange," rejoined Trevor ; " but
could they have passed through Mitcheldean without
our meeting them ? "

Oh yes they could, Captain," put in Wilde, once
more mounted; "their be several byways through
the Forest as leads there, 'without touching' o' Dry-brook.
An' I think I know the one them have
took. Whens us get to where it branch off their
tracks'll tell."

"Right; they will," said Sir Richard, laying
aside conjecture, and calling to the officer in charge
of the men to bring them on at quick pace.
At quick pace they came ; the Colonel, Captain

Trevor, and the big sergeant starting off before
they were up, and keeping several horse lengths
ahead.

The route they were taking was the same they
had come by — back for Drybrook. But coming
and going their attitude was different. Then erect,
with eyes turned upward regarding the glare over
Hollymead ; now bent down, cheeks to the saddlebow,
and glances all given to the ground. For, as
Wilde had said, there were several byways, anyone
of which the pursued party might have taken ;
and to go astray on the pursuit, even to the loss
of ten minutes' time, might be fatal to their
purpose — the feather's weight turning the scale.

But no danger now ; the moon was giving a
good light, and the road for long stretches was
open, the trees on each side wide apart. So they
had no difficulty in seeing what before they had
not thought of looking for ; the hoof-marks of many
horses, that had gone towards Drybrook. The

tracks of their own, going the other way, had
almost obliterated them ; still enough of the under
ones were visible to show that two bodies of
horse had passed in opposite directions, with buta
short interval of time between.

As this could be noted without the necessity of
stopping or slowing pace, Colonel Walwyn carried
his men on in a brisk canter, designing halt
only at the branch road of which the sergeant
had spoken.

But long before reaching it they got information
which made stoppage there unnecessary, as also
further call on the ex-deerstealer's skill as a tracked
for the time. Given by a man mounted on a
hotel hack, who, coming on at a clattering gallop,
met them in the teeth. His cry "For the Parliament
! " without being challenged, proclaimed him
a friend. And he was ; the innkeeper of Mitchell
recognised on the instant by Sir Richard
and Rob Wilde.

His coming up caused a halt ; for his business
was with Colonel Walwyn — an errand quickly told.

u Prince Rupert and two hundred horse, with
prisoners, have passed through Mitcheldean ! "

Half a dozen questions rapidly put, and promptly
answered, elicited all the circumstances — the time,
the direction taken, everything the patriotic Boniface
could tell. They had come down the Plump
Hill, and gone off by Abenhall — for Newnham or
Westbury ; or they might be making for Lydney.

Down the Plump Hill ! That accounted for
their not being met. And the time — so near
meeting, yet missing them ! All the way to Holly-mead
and back for nothing !

But lamenting the lost hours would not recover
them. They must be made good by greater speed ;
and, without wasting another word > the spur was
buried deeper, and faster rode the Foresters. Rode
with a will ; few of them whose heart was not in
the pursuit. They were on the slot of a hated foe,

against whom many had private cause of quarrel
and vengeance. Prince Rupert, for the past twelvemonths,
had been harrying the Forest district,
making their homes desolate ; his licentious soldiers
abusing their wives, sisters, and daughters — no
wonder they wanted to come up with him !

At mad speed they went dashing around Guardian
Hill, down into the vale of Drybrook ; then
up by the Wilderness, and down again to Mitchell
; once more startling the townspeople from
their slumbers, and filling them with fresh alarm ;
soon over on seeing it was the green-coats.

Only a glimpse of them was got, as they
galloped on through ; staying not a moment, never
drawing bridle till they came to the forking of the
roads by Abenhall — the right for Littleton, Newham,
and Lydney ; the left to Westbury. Then
only for an instant, while Rob Wilde swung his
stalwart form out of the saddle, and made inspection
of the tracks. For the moon was once more

clouded, and he could not make them out, without
dismounting.

As before, brief time it took him ; but a few
seconds till he was back on his horse, saying, ashe
slung himself up, —

They're gone Westbury ways, Colonel."

And Westbury ways went the pursuers, reins
loose and spurs plied afresh, with no thought of
halting again, but a hope there would be no need
for it, till at arm's length with the detested enemy.

Even when the turn in Flaxley Valley brought
the Severn in sight, with its wide sheet of flood
water, they stayed not to talk .of it. To them it
was no surprise ; but a few hours before they had
waded it farther up. No more was it matter of
apprehension, as it had been to the party pursued.
Instead, something to gratify and cheer them on ;
for, extending right and left, far as eye could reach,
it seemed a very net, set by God's own hand, to
catch the criminals they were in chase of!

A GUARD CARELESSLY KEPT.

Notwithstanding Lunsford's assurances— at best
rather dubious — the river could not be crossed at
Westbury, without much difficulty and delay. The
large horse-boat had received some damage, and it
would take time to repair it. So Rupert and his
following were constrained to keep on to Framilode
Passage, three miles farther up stream.

It would bring them into dangerous proximity
with Gloucester ; and should any of Massey's men
be raiding down the river, they might find an
enemy in front, even when over it. Still this was
little likely, as Massey was believed to be himself
out of Gloucester, operating on the northern side

in the direction of Sudbury. Besides, Walwyn



must have had information of their being at Holly-mead,
to have drawn him into the Forest at that
time of the night

Still from behind was the Prince most apprehensive
of danger ; now greater by the traverse of
flooded tracts that must needs be made before they
could reach the Passage. His failure to get across
at Westbury seemed ominous of evil ; and he had
grown more nervous than ever. What if he should
fail also at Framilode ? Then, indeed, would he
have to risk encounter with the redoubtable Foresters,
outnumbering his escort, as he knew.

Already had they passed across several stretches
of inundated ground ; at each the rear-guard being
left on the dry land till the main body was well
nigh through ; and then following on to the next.
But now one of longer extent lay before them ;
more than a mile of road leading on to the ferry
being under water. Still the causeway, or rather
where it ran, could be told by certain landmarks;

and these Lunsford, as others of the escort, was
acquainted with. But the flood was high over it,
and the fording must be done cautiously, entailing
loss of time. Moreover, if caught on the narrow
way, with no chance of manoeuvring, scarce width
enough for an " about face," any party pursuing
would have them at a disadvantage — almost at
mercy.

Greater vigilance would be called for on the
part of the rear-guard, its strength needing to be
doubled. And this was done ; the Prince, before
taking to the water, himself inspecting it, and
giving minute instructions to the officer in command.
It was to be kept in ambush behind some
trees that grew conveniently by ; and, should pursuers
appear, they were to be fired at, soon as
within range ; the firing continued, and the point
held at all hazards, till the last moment of retreat
practicable. If no pursuit, then the guard to follow
as before, at signal of bugle sent back.

Reginald Trevor it was to whom the dangerous
duty was assigned ; and, as regarded courage and
acquaintance with the ground, no officer of the
escort was better fitted for it than he. None
half so well, had his heart been in the work.
Which it was not, but all the other way ; for
every movement he was making, every act he had
been called upon to accomplish since leaving
Bristol, was not only involuntary on his part, but
sorely against his will. Forced upon him had
been the ceremony of introducing Prince Rupert
to the woman he himself loved ; and now was he
further compelled to be one of those conducting
her to a prison — as it were to her grave ! For,
well knew he it would be the grave of her purity,
the altar on which her young life's innocence was
sure of being sacrificed.

In the past, sinful himself, profligate as most of
the Cavalier school, he had of late become a much
altered man. That one honest love of his life

had purified him, as such often does with natures
like his. And now a great sorrow was to seal
his purification ; the object of his love about to
suffer defilement, as it were before his face ; and
as it were, with himself aiding and abetting it !

His thoughts were black and bitter, his constrained
duties repulsive. And as he stood by
the flood's edge, looking after the escort that had
commenced making way through it, he felt faint
and sick at heart.

Nor took he any steps to carry out the commands
of the Prince, either by placing the guard
in ambush, or making other disposition of it. So
the men remained in their saddles, exposed on the
high ridge of the road, just as they had come up ;
receiving but one order from him : that, should
pursuers appear, they were not to fire till he gave
the word.

After which he separated from them, and walked
his horse back along the Westbury road ; stopping

at some fifty paces' distance, and there staying
alone. The soldiers thought it strange, for they had
overheard the instructions given him. But as they
were acquainted with his courage, and could not
doubt his fidelity to the King's cause, they made
no remark about his apparent remissness, supposing
it some strategic design.

Yet never was officer entrusted with guard less
careful of his charge, than he at that moment.
Caring, but not for its safety ; instead, wishing it
attacked, defeated, destroyed, though he himself
might be the first to fall. For still another change
had of late come over his sentiments — a political
one. Brought about by the behaviour of Prince
Rupert and his associate crew ; which, for sometime
past, had been a very career of criminal proceeding.
It had inspired Reginald Trevor with a
disgust for Cavaliers, as his cousin Eustace two
years before. Growing stronger day by day, the
last day's and this night's work had decided him.

VOL. III. R

He was Royalist no more, though wearing the
King's uniform. But he meant casting it off at
the first opportunity ; was even now blaming himself
for not having sought an opportunity since they
passed through Mitcheldean ; reflecting whether, and
in what way, such might yet be found.

As he sate in his saddle, listening, glad would
he have been to hear hoof-strokes in the direction
of Westbury ; to see horsemen approaching, with
the hostile war-cry " For the Parliament ! " That
might still save Vaga Powell, and nothing else
could. In another hour she would be across the
Severn, and on for Berkeley Castle, whither he
must follow. But with no hope of being able todo
anything for the doomed girl. On the one side,
as the other, all powerless to protect her, even with
the sacrifice of his own life. And at that moment
he would have laid it down for her ; so much had
generosity, love's offspring, mastered the selfishness
of his nature.

An interval of profound silence followed ; the
only sounds heard being the screams of wild fowl
flying low over the flooded meadows, the occasional
stamp of a restive steed among those of the guard,
and the plunging of nigh two hundred others far
off in the water, gradually becoming less distinct
as they waded farther.

But, ere long, something else broke upon the
night's stillness, as it reached the ear of Reginald
Trevor, causing him to start in his saddle. There
sate he, listening and vigilant ; the sparkle of his
eyes proclaiming it no sound that alarmed him,
but one welcome and joy-giving.

A dull pattering as of horses' hoofs — hundreds
making way over soft ground, or along a muddy
road. And so it was, the road from Westbury,
the horses ridden by men in military formation,
as the practised ear of the young soldier told him.
But no other noise, save the trample ; no voice of
man, nor note of bugle.

Soldiers were they notwithstanding ; and pursuing
soldiers, led by one who knew how to carry
pursuit to a successful issue. For it was Walwyn's
Horse.

Still at a gallop, their hoof-strokes were quickly
nearer, sounding clearer. For there was no taking
up of trail to delay them now. Away over the
white water they saw a long dark line, serried, by
a turn in the route which brought Rupert's following
quarter-flank towards them ; saw, and knew it
to be that they were after.

At the same time seen themselves by Reginald
Trevor, who rode back upon his guard. But not
to inspire it to resistance, nor place it in a position
of defence. Instead, he seemed irresolute, uncertain
whether to make stand or retreat. His men,
heavy Dragoons, had unslung their dragon-muzzled
muskets, and awaited the word " Fire ! " But no
such word was spoken, no order given. Even
when the approaching horsemen were charging upto

them, shouting " For God and Parliament ! "
even then, no command from their officer to meet
or withstand the charge.

Nor did they then wish it ; they saw the assailants
were ten to their one ; it was too late, even
for retreat. Should he call "Quarter!" they were
ready to chorus it.

And just that called he, the instant after, to a
man among the foremost of the charging party —
his cousin ! Their swords came together with a
clash, Eustace the first to speak.

At last ! " he exclaimed. " At last we've met to
keep our promise made. * No Quarter ! ' I cry it ! "

And I cry ' Quarter ' — beg it."

Never dropped blade quicker down from threatening
thrust than that of Eustace Trevor ; never was
combatant more surprised by the behaviour of an
adversary.

What do you mean ? " he asked, in utter astonishment.


"That I fight no more for Prince, or King.
Henceforth, if they'll have it, my sword's at the
service of the Parliament."

God bless me, Rej ; how glad I am to hear
you say that ! And so near making mince-meat
of one another ! "

Not of one another, Eust. You might have
done that with me — may still, if you feel spiteful."


Good Heavens ! cousin ; what has come over
you ? But I won't question now ; there's no time."

"There isn't. See yonder. Rupert and Langford,
with the Powellss as their prisoners."

"We know all that. But where are the ruffians
taking them ? "

Berkeley first ; then Bristol. They're making
to cross at Framilode Passage. It's but a short
way beyond."

They shall never cross it — can't before we come
up with them. You'll be with us now, Rej ? "

I will."

The strange episode, and dialogue, took up buta
few seconds' time ; during which Rob Wilde,
with a half-score files of Foresters, had disarmed
the unresisting rear-guard. It was now under
guard itself, and all ready for continuing the pursuit.


And continued it was instantaneously ; Sir
Richard, at the head of his green-coats, spurring
straight into the flood, and on after the red ones,
without further precaution either of silence or concealment.
For he knew they would be seen now.

A FIGHT IN A FLOOD.

Still but half-way across the inundated tract,
and up to their saddle-girths in water, Rupert
and his escort were floundering on. As already
said, they marched "by twos" — this necessitated
by the narrowness of the causeway — and so were
lengthened in line. Two hundred horse in file
formation take up a long stretch of road, however
close the order.

They had not yet sighted the enemy behind,
nor had any intimation that one was there. For
the snapping up of the guard had been done with
little noise, the few shouts uttered being inaudible
to them amid the continuous splashing
and plunging of their own horses.

i4 8

It was only after the pursuing party was well
out into the flood, clear of the tree-shadowed
shore, that some of the hindmost, chancing to
look back, saw what they took to be their rearguard
in the water and riding after them. Saw
it with surprise, as the signal for its advance had
not been given ; no note of bugle sounded.
Neither could it be in retreat, driven in. There
had been no firing, not a shot ; and, by the
Prince's orders, there should have been a prolonged
fusilade. Guard of his, rear or van, retiring from
its post without execution of his commands, had
better have stayed and delivered itself up to the
enemy.

Well knowing this, they who first sighted the
pursuers, thinking them of their own, were enough
astonished to give way to ejaculations. Which
ran along the line quick as lightning.

"What is it?" demanded he at the head, on
hearing them.

The rear-guard, your Highness," answered one
away at the back. " They're coming on after
us."

Halt ! " shouted the Prince, in a voice of
thunder, half wheeling his horse, spurring out to
the utmost edge of firm footing, and, with craned
neck, looking back land-ward.

For a time to see nothing much beyond the
tail end of his escort. Only the grey glimmer of
water, with here and there the top of a pollard
willow. For the capricious clouds had once more
muffled the moon.

But he heard something ; the sound of the
wading horses, that made by his own now ceased
from their being at a stand.

And soon he saw the moving ones ; the clouds,
by like caprice, having quickly drawn off their
screen, letting full moonlight down upon the
water. Saw them with alarm ; for a dark mass
was that in motion, too dark and too large for

the score or so of files that had been detached
as a guard.

Gottt, Colonel ! " he exclaimed, " there are
more men there than we left with Trevor. And
why should he be coming on contrary to orders?
It cannot be he ! "

"Very strange if it be, Prince," rejoined Langford,
the colonel spoken to ; " and stranger still
if not."

Could a party have slipped past without the
guard seeing them ? "

Hardly possible, your Highness ; unless by
some swimming, and a long roundabout way.
These seem to come direct from it."

The two talked hurriedly, and with dismay upon
their faces. For the dark mysterious thing, still
drawing nigher and nearer, seemed some unearthly
monster — a hydra approaching to destroy
them.

There was no time for further conjecturing.

Friend or enemy, it must be met face to face ;
and Rupert, commanding the " about," put spur
to his horse and started towards the rear of the
line.

Time elapsed ere he could reach it. The
deep water, with the men wheeling in file, impeded
him ; and, before he was half way rearward, there
were shots, shouts, and the clashing of steel — all
the sounds of a conflict. The monster had closed
up, and declared its character, as could be told by
the hostile war words " King ! " and " Parliament ! "
fiercely commingling.

Never shone moon on a stranger affair in the
way of fight. Two long strings of horsemen
confronting one another on a narrow causeway,
where less than half a score of each could come
to blows ; no engaging in line, no turning, or
flank attack, possible. And all up to the saddle
flaps in water ; up to the horses' hips where the
fighting was hand to hand.

Nor for long did it last. Little more than a
minute after coming to close quarters the Royalists
found themselves overmatched, and began to
give way. File after file went down before their
impetuous assailants, sabred, or shot out of their
saddles, till at length they doubled back on their
line in retreat towards its former front. Some,
in panic, forsook the causeway altogether, plunging
into the flood on either side, in the hope to
escape by swimming afar off.

Sword in hand, with curses on his lips, Rupert
met the rout, bursting his way through the broken
ranks, slashing right and left in an endeavour to
stem the retreat. More than one of his own men
fell before his desperate fury. But on reaching
the rear, he had to cross blades with a man who
was his master at sword-play, and all the skill
appertaining. Which he knew, soon as coming to
the " engage," and in his antagonist recognising
Sir Richard Walwyn.

It was quick work between them ; at the very-first
lunge from guard, the Prince's sword getting
whipped out of his hand, and sent whirling off
into the water ! The old trick by which Sir
Richard had disarmed the ex-gentleman usher.

With a fierce oath Rupert drew a pistol from
his holster, and was about to fire at his adroit
adversary, when another face presented itself before
him, that of a man he had better reason to
shoot down.

"Dog! Traitor! Turncoat!" he shouted, intone
of vengeful anger. "tis to you we owe
this ! I give you death in payment ! " And the
shot sped, tumbling Reginald Trevor out of the
saddle.

But there was still a Trevor on horseback to
confront the Prince, with sword already fleshed
and blade dripping blood. A touch of his spur
brought him face to face with Rupert, and alone.
For, just as the latter, Sir Richard had caught

sight of another man he more wished to have
dealings with — Lunsford — and dashed straight
towards him.

But not to attain close quarters. In the
cowardly ex-lieutenant of the Tower there was
neither fight nor stand. The sight of Colonel
Walwyn was of itself enough to palsy his hands ;
alone the bridle one obeying him. And with it,
wrenching his horse round, he made ignominious
retreat.

No more did the other pair get engaged. Rupert
had but his second pistol, which, being discharged
at Eustace Trevor, fortunately without effect, left
him weaponless ; and, seeing all his escort in
retreat, he turned tail too, soon disappearing amid
the ruck.

The route now complete, with the scarlet coats
it was sauve qui pent ; with the green ones only
a question of cutting down the panic-stricken
fugitives, or making prisoner those who cried

Quarter ! " And most cried that — shouted it to
the utmost strength of their lungs.

On went the victorious Foresters along the
flooded way, alternately sabreing and capturing—
the big sergeant and Hubert doing their full share
of both — on till they came to a party of captives
they had not taken. Nor guarded these ; their
late guards having been too glad to get away,
leaving them to themselves.

Sabrina ! " " Richard ! "— " Vaga ! " " Eustace ! "

Four names, pronounced in joyous exclamation
amid the din, and by four distinct voices ; all with
the epithet " dear " conjoined.

Not another word then, not another moment
there ; for the pursuit must be continued. The
capture of Prince Rupert would be a thing of consequence,
independent of all private feelings ; and
Sir Richard longed to settle scores with Lunsford.
So on went he, and his, in chase of the now scattered
escort.

But not again to come up with the pair of profligates.
The stoppage, short as it was, had given
them time to make Framilode Ferry ; where, leaping
from their horses, and into a light boat, they
were out of sword's reach, and range of bullet,
before the pursuers could close upon them.

Still within earshot of angry speech, however,
hurled after them by the triumphant Foresters,
with many a taunt, many the vile epithet bestowed.


A degradation deserved ; and other men than
they would have felt its sting and shame. But
not this scion of Royalty, toast, type, and model
of Cavaliers. Happy at having escaped with a
whole skin, he but laughed back, rejoicing in the
life still left him for future crimes to be committed.


And many the one was he afterwards guilty of;
though short from that time was his rule in the
city of Bristol. Once again, and soon, was it
VOL. in. S

enfiladed by an armed force, not for siege or leaguer,
but instant assault. For the man who commanded
was he who, later on, gave laws to all
England, gave her the only glimpse of real liberty
she has ever enjoyed — the only gleam of true
glory. When Cromwell stood before Bristol's
gates, and said " Surrender ! " it was in no tone
of doubting requisition, but stern demand. The
son of Elector Palatinate, hearing it, hastened to
comply, but too glad to get terms for his life.

Which he got, with his liberty, and more — far
too much being conceded by his generous conqueror
— permitted to march out, bag and baggage,
with a long retinue of bullies, sycophants, and
strumpets, leaving behind a longer list of victims,
among them the ill-starred Clarisse Lalande. Ashe
passed away from the place he had made a
place of bawdry," it was amid jeers and bitter
curses.

^ ^p ?T* ^p SjC

A scene pleasant to describe — one more congenial
to honest pen — occurred shortly after in
the sister city of Gloucester, within its ancient
Cathedral, at whose altar simultaneously stood four
couples in the act of being made man and wife.

Wedded they were, and their names entered in
the big book of marriage registry ; from which the
writer does not deem it necessary to copy them
verbatim. Enough to give them as already known
to the reader ; the brides being Sabrina and Vaga
Powell, Winifred, and Gwenthian ; their respective
bridegrooms Colonel Sir Richard Walvvyn, Captain
Eustace Trevor, Sergeant Wilde, and Trumpeter
Hubert.

While being made happy, amid the many joyous
faces around, one alone wore a cast of sadness,
yet with resignation — that of Reginald Trevor,
still living. For the shot which struck him out
of his saddle on the flooded causeway of Frames
had but wounded him, and he was well again.

In body, not spirit ; for within his heart was a
wound that might never be well. He had suffered
bitterly, was still suffering ; but with soul now
purified and subdued was better able to bear it,
and bore it manfully. Generously too ; for just
as, when meeting his cousin outside Hollymead
gate he had offered him his sword to avenge
defeat, now honoured he him by his presence at
a ceremony which was as the sacrifice of himself.
# * ■%■ * *

Still another incident calls for record : of date
some six years later, and some months preceding
that event which again brought England's liberty
to its lowest ebb, her glory to greatest shame —
the so-called Restoration. Before this curse of
curses came, Ambrose Powell, predicting it —
foreseeing evil to him and his — gathered up his
household gods, and took ship with them to the
colonies across the Atlantic, accompanied by all
the personages who had appeared at that marriage

ceremony in the cathedral of Gloucester, and by
many more — Cadger Jack among them.

Reginald Trevor, too, was of the colonizing band ;
long become accustomed to bearing the broken
heart, which "brokenly lives on," "with but little
pain, growing ever less. For he could now look
upon Vaga Powell as his cousin's wife ; to himself
as a kind sister — almost without thought of the
unhappy past.

Well was it for all of them they went away, to
become part of that people, the freest, most powerful,
and most prosperous on earth. Had they
stayed, it would have been to suffer persecution ;
the fate of all who then fought for England's
freedom, save the false ones and craven, who cried
Quarter ! " — on their knees, basely begged it from
that loathsome monster of iniquity — the " Merry
Monarch."

And Rupert, Prince of Cavaliers, what became
of him ? He too returned with the Restoration —

another of its curses — fresh from a long career of
piracy in the West Indian seas, to be made Lord
High Admiral of England, with no end of other
honours and emoluments heaped upon him ! To
live for years after a life of luxurious ease, die
"in the purple," and be buried with all pomp and
ceremony. For though a pirate, he was still a
Prince of the Blood Royal !

THE END.

Butler & Tanner, The Elwood Printing Works, Frome, and London.
