J

a

THE DUKE'S Marriage

Victor Hugo.

IN Three VOLUMES.
VOL. I.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

IJublisfjcrs in ordinary to len: fHajcstg tfjc ©ucen.

1885.
(All rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. I.

^
/

^ CHAPTER PAGE

I. The Duke's Offer . . . 1

II. A Remonstrance Unheeded . 17

III. Roland's Wooing . . . 32

IV. The Perplexities of Hucks Littleton 51
V. Dr. Cleverly's Threats . . 63

VI. Cleverly's Revolutionary Friend 83

p^ VII. Mrs. Nethersole's Invitation . . 95

'' VIII. Mrs. Nethersole's Party . 109

IX. The Omen of the Fallen Branch . 123

X. An Offer of Two Wives . . 137

XI. Pauline Juva . . . 158

XII. Pauline's Deception . . 169

XIII. A Photograph of Gertrude . . 186

XIV. A Miraculous Apparition . . 196

XV. Oddities of Marriage Law . . 208

XVI. A French Lady of Fashion . 228

Chapter PAGE

Xiii. The Duke at Lewbury . . 252

XVIII. Days of Courting . . 271

XIX. M. Grachard sues for a Pardon . 287

XX. The Corringtons' Ball . . 297

XXI. " The Dog's Bite " . . . .317

CHAPTER I.

THE duke's offer.

Gertrude Corrington — " Flirtie," as many of
her kind friends called her — was engaged to
marry the French Due d'Alma.

Flirtie was a girl with wavy hair and a little
mouth, the belle of Lewbury, and twenty one
years old. She had had her dozen of love-affairs
already (certainly not one less, affirmed Mrs.
Nethersole, who had a retentive memory for
the doings of her neighbours), and it was reported
that Dr. Cleverly, the rising young surgeon, and
]Vlr. Oram, the curate of Westover, who were
both smitten with her charms, would never propose
to her because she was too fast. But now
of a sudden, Flirtie was about to become a

^. VOL. I. 1

duchess, the wife of a rich and handsome
foreigner, who kept a stud of race-horses, one of
which had fanned the pride of Gaul into a flame
by winning the English Derby.

To be sure, this horse's master was only a
French duke, said Mrs. Nethersole and some
others, who were anxious to show that they knew
the difference between the sterling value of an
English coronet and the electro-plated imitations
which foreigners presume to wear; but this
would not prevent Gertie from being styled
duchess," and soaring into a social sphere far
above that where Mrs. Nethersole waddled. The
girl was, in fact, going to become Duchesse
d'Alma, Marchioness of Maestro, and Countess de
Beauregard Voila ; to be mistress of the historical
Castle of Beauregard, in the Valley of the Loire ;
and to take a foremost place in the brilliant
court of Napoleon III., who then ruled on the
French throne. Pretty well this, for the daughter
of a half-pay major-general with six children.

General Corrington and his wife certainly
thought so, and deemed that Gertrude had played
her cards wondrous well. Who would have
imagined that the sly puss could have made such
capital use of a month's stay at Ostend ? Venit,

visit, visit ; she had carried the Duke's heart by
storm, out-manoeuvring ever so many besieging
parties of active young widows and demurely
scheming virgins. In the fashionable Flemish
watering-place, overflowing with visitors from all
parts of Europe, she had suddenly achieved a
success like that which an obscure actress, leaving
the boards of a country theatre, sometimes wins
on a first-rate stage in an evening.

She was pronounced ravissante, divine ; she
was stared at, almost mobbed, and there were
even some of her own sex who praised her. On
the Digue de Mer, the parade where people saunter
all day, at the hotel tables d'hdte, in the ball and
concert rooms of the Kursaal, visitors, a week
after G-ertie's arrival, were all saying to one
another, '' Have you seen the beautiful Miss
Corrington 1 " and those who had not seen were
told that they could not conceive how lovely she
was. So it befell that the Due d'Alma, an Adonis
of thirty, a little tired of female worship, a little
sceptical, too, of girlish witchery, heard of the
English beauty and saw her.

He was leaning over the railings of the Digue
one morning, gazing out lazily over the sunlit
sea, when he beheld Gertrude Corrington coming

over the sands, with her brother and two younger
sisters. She wore a pretty sailor hat, and under
it her splendid hair, damp from the salt water,
flowed all down her back like a golden mantle.
The sight pleased the Duke, and called to his
mind the lines of a Provencal minstrel-poet —

In every weather, heat or cold,
She had no dress but her hair of gold,
Which, like a mantle rich and strong.
Draped her limbs as she went along." *

Having repeated which lines to himself, the noble
sportsman strolled off to find some English friend
who might introduce him to General Corrington.
He soon stumbled upon Lord Osborn, an elderly
peer, who acceded with pleasure to his request.
The General was just then basking on the terrace
of the Kursaal, with his double eye-glass on, and
a copy of the Times in his hand, his mind deep
in the Gazette of army promotions, and innocently
unconscious of the stir which his daughter's good
looks were making in the place.

French declarations of an amorous nature

" Per quale temps che fess, per fredda o fredura,
Anltr' habit non abba che la sion cabalhira,
Quale como un' mantel door tant era bel et blond,
La cobra della testa fin 'al bas des talons."

never hang fire long. Whatever courtship has to
be gone through is regarded as a formality to be
discharged after a proposal of marriage has been
made and accepted. An introduction at the
Kursaal followed by a valse ; a meeting next day,
which was not so accidental as it looked, during
an excursion to Ghent ; a trip by canal to
picturesque old Bruges, with a picnic, at which
the Duke mixed the salad, uncorked the champagne,
and sang some ballads of his country ina
bold and gay tenor voice ; — these were the only
preliminaries to Gertrude's engagement. Perhaps
mamma noticed that Gertie and the Duke
were sitting rather confidentially in the bows
of the boat as it was being towed back to
Ostend in the moonlight, by a pair of tattered
Flemings ; but this did not prepare the good
lady for the announcement which her daughter
made, nth an outburst of blushing joy, as soon
as they had returned to their hotel, " Oh, mamma,
the Due d'Alma has asked me to marry him ! "

The other children had gone to bed. The
General and Mrs. Corrington, a little upset by
the tidings, remained alone to hear how the surprising
thing had happened ; but Gertie could
not say much that night.

He made his proposal so suddenly, mamma,
that I thought he was joking ; but he is so good
that I am sure I shall love him dearly. He is
going to speak to you tomorrow." Upon which
Miss Beauty hurriedly kissed her parents and
fled to her room, for emotion overcame her.

This is very unexpected," said the General,
as soon as she was gone. He was a tall, stiff-backed
old officer, a martyr to duty and pipeclay,
with a queer voice, loudish and cracked, which
sounded as if he were giving the word of command
in a high wind. He was a little puzzle-headed
too. " I hope it's all right, my dear, eh ? I
only made the Duke's acquaintance last Monday.
I don't suppose he can be trifling — eh, what ?
We must see what happens tomorrow."

General Corrington harboured a native suspiciousness
of Frenchmen, perhaps because he
had been born in the year of Waterloo ; and he
had only heard of the Due d'Alma as of a
dashing nobleman, noted for his successes on the
turf, and for his anglo mania ; but he need have
been under no apprehension as to the sincerity of
this foreigner's attentions, for on the following day
the Duke formally made his proposal by proxy.

All the traditions of French etiquette were

observed on the occasion. The friend whom the
Duke sent to bear his offer of marriage was his
cousin, the Marquis de Maisonbelle, a general
and a dandy of forty-five, who was equerry to
Napoleon III., and sported a nose, a waxed
moustache, and chin tuft, which made him look
absurdly like his imperial master. The Marquis
arrived at midday, calm, polite, smiling, arrayed
in ceremonious evening dress, and with the red
collar of the Legion of Honour commandership
round his neck. He could not speak a word of
English, and neither the General nor his wife
were proficient in French ; but they understood
enough to seize all the points of the courteous
harangue which their visitor delivered, after
making them a very low bow.

The substance of the Marquis's communication
amounted to this : that his cousin was sprung
from one of the best families in France, as all the
world knew. His late father, the Mareschal Count
de Beauregard-voila, was an illustrious soldier,
and had been created Due d'Alma for his
achievements during the Siege of Sevastopol.
Eoland, the present Duke, was an orphan ; he
had an income of five hundred thousand francs,
and was heir to the estate of his grandmother,

the aged Marquise de Ch^teaufort, conjointly
with his only sister, the Countess de Beaujeu.
The Countess de Beaujeu was married to a senator
of the empire. Eoland himself was in the army,
and held the rank of lieutenant-colonel on the
staff and aide-de-camp to the Empress Eugene.
*' As to his character and talents," concluded the
Marquis, ** I trust you will find, on closer acquaintance
with him, that they are all that the
most exacting parents can require in a son-in-law."


"Nous sommestres-heureux,"muttered General
Corrington, not liking to hazard a longer statement.


I wish I could speak French as Gertie does,"
remarked Mrs. Corrington ; but this exclamation
was lost on Monsieur de Maison belle, who only
understood the wistful smile which accompanied
it. As this smile conveyed full acquiescence in
his cousin's suit, he rose to make a new bow and
depart. Without asking to see Gertrude, he
expressed the hope that he should be honoured
with an introduction on a future occasion ; meanwhile,
he would hurry back to his cousin, who,
he felt sure, was waiting with the utmost anxiety
for the joyful tidings that were in store for him.

As soon as this urbane emissary had retired,
Mrs. Corrington hastened to her daughter's room,
and hugged Gertie in the fondest embrace. ^' Oh,
my darling, this all comes of your having learned
to speak French so well ! Wasn't I right to give
you girls a French governess when you were
small ? "

I suppose you were, mamma," laughed Gertrude,
with a blush.

Yet you used to dislike that poor Mademoiselle
Lepine so at first, and tease her shamefully,
23oor creature ! But never mind all that now.
How lucky it is that the Duke speaks English !
It would have been a dreadful thing to have a
son-in-law with whom I couldn't talk ! "

Eoland speaks English beautifully, mamma.
He so often goes to England for the races."

'' Rowland is his Christian name, is it ? Well,
it's a pretty name. And he is such a charming
man, too ; though he keeps race-horses, there is
nothing horsey about him ; and people say he is
not in the least extravagant. I heard Mrs.
Nethersole speaking about him at the Kursaal
the other day, and I am sure, if there is a thing
to tell against a human creature, she is the
woman to find it out ; but she spoke in the

highest terms of the Duke. Gertie dear, you
may consider yourself a lucky girl."

'' It is all so sudden," said Gertie, " I can
hardly realize it."

Didn't you suspect anything before he asked
you ? " inquired Mrs. Corrington, archly. " Come,
you must have suspected a little wee bit — eh,
Gertie ? "

No, mamma, I assure you," and Gertie
turned red as a cherry. " Until yesterday I had
not made up my mind as to whether I thought
him nice or not."

And have you made up your mind now ? "

I am sure I shall love him," answered Gertie,
with downcast eyes.

Well, my dear child, it seems to your father
and me that you have made a very wise choice,"
said Mrs. Corrington, affectionately patting her
daughter's cheek and looking with maternal pride
upon her beautiful face. The good lady was
stout and florid ; her life had been for some
years past a peaceable one, and her daughter's
engagement was just beginning to work her up
into a state of excitement quite novel to her.
Her thoughts were already rambling upon wedding
dresses, breakfasts, bridesmaids. "We must

write to Aunt Jenny and Aunt Bessie about
this," she said, sitting down and thinking of her
relations. " How astonished they'll be ! And,
of course, you will write to Kate yourself; she
ought to be told by to-day's post." Kate was
Gertie's elder sister, married to Mr. Littleton, a
solicitor in Lewbury.

The mention of her sister's name seemed to
produce an effect on Gertie, for she hung her
head, and her lips began to twitch. She was
standing beside her mother's chair, with her hand
resting on the back of it. Suddenly tears
trickled from her eyes, and her hand trembled.
Mrs. Corrington, looking up, saw her daughter
crying.

Gertie's emotion under the circumstances was
too natural to cause her mother any surprise, so
Mrs. Corrington drew her on to a chair near hers,
and, twining her arm round her neck, fondled her
with endearing words ; but Gertie only cried the
more, till at last, to her mother's alarm, she
sobbed outright. " Oli, mamma dear, please give
me advice 1 I don't know how Kate will takes
this ; she wanted me so much to mary Laurence
Cleverly — and, and — Dr. Cleverly proposed tome
just before we left Unkind."

'' Dr. Cleverly proposed to you ? " echoed
Mrs. Corrington, astonished. " Why, had you
given him any encouragement ? "

Kate says I had ; but I didn't mean to,"
was the doleful reply.

And what did you say to the proposal ? "

I said nothing ; at least, not much. I said
I didn't know, and that we must wait. Oh,
mamma, I don't like Dr. Cleverly at all."

Well, then, my precious pet, why trouble
your head about him ? " exclaimed the fond
mother, indignant that such a person as a
Lewbury doctor should have pestered her child
for an affection which she could not give. A
week before she might have thought the doctor
no bad match, for she had already given her
eldest daughter to Lawyer Littleton, who was
no magnate. But now times were changed. " I
am surprised," she said, "that Dr. Cleverly
should not have had more tact than to make
offers to you without first being sure of your
parents' approval. I gave him credit for more
propriety."

Kate said that I ought to marry him," murmured
Gertie, plaintively. " I am sure she will
think I have not treated him well."

Leave me to deal with Kate," replied Mrs.
Corrington, shrilly. " I won't have her or anybody
else dictating to you in matters where your
happiness is involved. Dr. Cleverly indeed !
I wonder Kate can find anything to admire in
such a man ! If it had been Mr. Oram now —
and, to tell you the truth, Gertie, I did think
the curate was a little smitten with you."

'^ Oh, mamma, I never cared for Mr. Oram
a bit," answered Gertie, still crying, but more
quietly. '^ People only talked because I helped
him, with a lot of other girls, to put up the
decorations in church last Christmas, and he said
something silly about my making a good clergyman's
wife."

People will talk, that's certain," remarked
Mrs. Corrington, reflectively. " There's your
papa, for instance, felt convinced there was something
between you and young Purkiss Nether-sole,
and grew quite uneasy about it. All that
comes from your being such a pretty girl, my
pet. But never mind ; you must dry your eyes
now, for I expect the Duke will be coming
presently. You have found a good husband this
time, and people won't talk any more. As for
Dr. Cleverly, he had better be on his good

behaviour, or he shall never come into our house
again."

After this Gertie dried her eyes as requested,
and went into her room to put on her prettiest
dress for the Duke's coming. As for Mrs.
Corrington, she sat down without any loss of
time, and commenced a scolding letter to her
eldest daughter Kate.

The Corringtons were not such great people,
though, that Mrs. Corrington could take high
ground in rebuking her eldest daughter. The
General had been an artillery officer. He was
the grand nephew of a baronet, and prided himself
on coming of good old Yorkshire stock ; but
his family had never been influential enough to
assist him in his career, or to lend him a penny.
His father had been a colonel, and his grandfather
a captain in the navy. On Mrs. Corrington's
side, the lineage was rather more illustrious ; for
there was a lord somewhere among the good lady's
ancestors on the mother's side, which gave her
occasion to describe herself sometimes as a connection
of two or three noble families, with
whom, however, she had diffidently forborne to
claim personal acquaintanceship.

In sum Mrs. Corrington was the daughter of

an army surgeon named Perkins, and she had
considered that she was making rather a good
match when, out in India, she had married Tom
Corrington, who was a captain at the time, with
nothing but his pay. A good match it had been,
for she had never repented of it ; but the life she
had led whilst her husband struggled for promotion
had been exempt neither from fatigues nor
disappointments. All her six children were born
in different parts of the world — Kate in Calcutta,
Gertrude in Canada, and so on — and there had
been whole twelvemonths at different times
during which Mrs. Corrington had been separated
either from her husband or her children. Now
that the General was at length settled down in
an English country town, with an income derived
from his half-pay and the interest of a small
legacy left him by an aunt, his wife had begun
to appreciate the blessings of having a permanent
home of her own, and she had been minded that
lier daughters should not marry wanderers.

She esteemed that Kate had done well for
herself in marrying Hucks Littleton, a promising
young lawyer, who was as likely as not to
become clerk of the peace or coroner of the
county comedy; and a week ago she would

have welcomed Dr. Cleverly as a second son-in-law,
all the more readily as she had entertained
fears about Mr. Oram the curate, who had no
immediate prospect of a living, and was objectionable
from having divided the parish on
the subject of candles and auricular confession.
But now this trip to Ostend — undertaken with
no other object but that of getting a change of
air, after nearly ten years' uninterrupted residence
in one place — this trip had changed everything.
The offer from a French duke with £20,000 a
year — a handsome young duke, too — aroused
pride and ambition in the maternal breast, so
that the letter to Kate, which began and ended
joyfully as a paean, contained some rather high-flown
considerations about detrimental suitors
like that presumptuous Lewbury doctor.

CHAPTER 11.

A Remonstrance UNHEEDED.

The Due d'Alma sat in his room at the Hotel
Fontaine, awaiting with some trepidation the
return of his cousin from the errand on which he
had sent him.

Well ? " he exclaimed, starting from his
chair as the Marquis de Maisonbelie entered the
room with his military air, head erect and gait
elastic' " Good news or bad ? "

Mon cher, tu as fait une betide," answered
the replica of Napoleon III., drawing off this
straw-coloured gloves, and throwing them into
his hat.

Why, have they rejected me ? " asked the
Duke in an altered voice.

The Marquis shrugged this shoulders. " Was
it likely ? They seemed rather to wondtn* whether

VOL. I. -

I was not joking. I left them half-throttled with
astonishment and satisfaction."

'' Ah, then, Heaven be praised ! The rest
concerns me ! "

'rit concerns your family as well as yourself,"
answered the Marquis, putting his beaky nose
close to his cousin's, and laying a hand on his
shoulder. The Marquis de Maisonbelle, with that
scarlet riband round his throat, looked much like
a grey parrot with a red breast. He was a
veteran courtier, and it was reported that his
morals were easy ; but he feared ridicule asa
cat does water, and a breach of social proprieties
as much as a stain on his honour or his
shirt-front.

He had consented to act as Eoland's emissary
because Roland was his cousin, and it is correct
that cousins should act for one another at such
junctures ; but he had disliked his embassy from
the first, and, since he had seen what people the
Corrino^tons were, he marvelled whether the Duke
had not "got a spider in his ceiling," which is
the French for a bee in the bonnet. But for the
fact that Gertrude's father was a general, and
that military rank was a thing he perforce respected,
he would have pronounced the word

mesalliance ; as it was, he endeavoured to convey
this idea by serious expostulations.

Have you considered," he said, *' what
your grandmother, the Marquise de Chateaufort,
would say to your marrying a Protestant — she is
such a rigid Catholic ? "

Pooh, my poor grandmother is almost in her
dotage. You would not have me regulate my
actions according to her crotchets ? "

*' But you must ask her consent to your
marriage, and I doubt whether she will give it
you. I question also whether the Emperor and
Empress would approve such a match. There
are proprieties which ought not to be violated.
Let me remind you, cousin, that you belong to a
family who have been Catholics since — since, in
fact, it was the right thing to be a Catholic."

Say, rather, that my ancestors worshipped
Venus, Bacchus, and Mars," retorted the Duke,
with good-humoured flippancy ; " and as for you,
De Maisonbelle, I will bet you ten napoleons to
a cigarette that you cannot recite the credo
straight off."

"Parbleu, I should lose my cigarette," acknowledged
the equerry ; " but be good enough to
recollect that I obey many a statute that I can't

quote. Seriously, Roland, I told you my opinion
about this matrimonial freak of yours this
morning, and now that I have seen these Corringtons,
I warn you that they are horrihlement
bourgeois. They are people who go to the
temple three times on Sundays, nourish themselves
on tea and the " Vicar of Wakefield," and
would redden to the roots of their hair if you
dropped the word ' pantaloons ' in their hearing'

The Duke laughed. " You have all a Frenchman's
prejudices against the English, my dear
cousin ; but I know the people well, and like
them. They are Dot such oafs or such prudes as
you mays imagine."

Sacrebleu ! no, their girls are certainly not
prudes," admitted the Marquis, drily. " They getup
flirtations with Tom and John, ramble on the
sands by moonlight, far from the eyes of their
mammas, who care not, and the first man who
pleases may kiss them on condition of doing it
in a dark corner, and being prepared to face an
action for breach of promise of marriage afterwards.
I know the "

You don't know them at all," replied
Roland, amused ; for he was in high spirits.
"English girls enjoy more liberty than ours, but

they are all the better for it, and they make
excellent wives."

De Maisonbelle grinned. " So I have heard'"
was his rejoinder. '^ But, once again, are you sure
that you are fitted for the enjoyment of matrimonial
bliss as an Euoiish wife defines it ? If
you carry your homage to the feet of any other
woman — just for a change occasionally, and to
make the time pass — you must rely on no French
indulgence from her. The young matron, who
was so placid at the conjugal tea-table, cutting
bread and butter for her progeny, will become a
raging lioness, and go roaring to her London
Divorce Court for redress. Have you thought
upon that ? "

"It is a pretty picture," laughed the Duke ;
but you forget one thing — that I marry for the
sake of changing my life. I have had enough of
light loves. They weary me. In taking an
English wife, I will adopt the manners and morals
of a husband a Anglaise'

Mes compliments'' replied the incredulous
Marquis. " However, having had my say,
nothing remains for me but to hold out my
hand and wish you the realization of the happiness
you seem to anticipate," saying which lie

suited the action to the word, like one who means
to wash his hands afterwards.

This was all that the Duke wanted. The old
grey parrot, worldly-wise as he was, could not
turn him from a marriage on which he had set
his heart ; besides, the die was cast now, and
there was no retreating from an offer of marriage
duly made. Gertrude herself might still break
off the match, for she had not yet formally
accepted her lover ; but nobody else could do so.

The Emperor's equerry had plenty of things
to do at Ostend. He was going to carry a dozen
pairs of gloves to an actress with whom he had
lost a bet overnight ; afterwards he purposed
paying his respects to a Russian ambassadress,
whose husband was absent. So, having interfered
with his cousin's concerns to the extent which
the duty of kinship commanded, but not so far
as to ruffle Roland's temper and create a quarrel
(which would have been de mauvais ton ; for you
must never get angry with a man for jumping
into a ditch, if such be his fancy), he went off to
his apartment to take off his ceremonial garments.
As for Roland, he retired to his dressing-room to
put on a frock-coat and otherwise beautify
himself for his visit to Gertrude.

He was as much excited as a boy who is iu
love for the first time ; and there was, indeed, in
his passion for Gertrude something different from
the fleeting affections he had from time to time
bestowed on other women. What were stas^e
ingenuous, and the frisky matrons of the imperial
court, as compared with this coquettes English
child, so lovely and so pure ? Eoland spoke truly
in telling his cousin that he knew the English
and liked them ; nor was his notion of taking
an English wife any sudden fancy born of his
admiration for Gertrude. He had thought of
doing such a thing long before he had set eyes
on her.

For some seasons past his relations — nay, even
that august lady, the Empress Eugene, whose
A.D.C. he was — had been telling him that he
ought to take a wife, and he had always parried
this suggestion with the time-honoured pleasantry,
which used to make her Majesty laugh, saying,
Whose wife ? " But he had pondered over the
subject, notwithstanding. His aged grandmother
wished to arrange a marriage for him with a
young lady of high birth and large fortune, who
was being educated in a Breton convent at
Auray ; his young married sister desired to get

Mm wedded to a damsel equally gifted, who lived
in the seclusion of a convent in Paris. Had he
accepted either match, the Duke would have been
presented to a girl brought out of a nunnery on
purpose to see him ; and the mere fact of her
being so trotted out for his inspection would
have implied a betrothal, whether he felt drawn
towards the girl or not. Then there would have
been a short but formal courtship, a series of
interviews between family notaries, ending in the
execution of a tremendous marriage contract, and
the Due d'Alma would have found himself united
to a raw schoolgirl, knowing absolutely nothing
of the world, and very impatient to drink deep
of its pleasures. This was not exactly what
Eoland wanted. He had had his experience of
worldly adventures as a soldier, courtier, and
viveur, and looked to marriage as a haven where
he might ride for the future in still waters.

He was an easy-going man, too, and felt
more disposed to be led by a wife having an
original mind and a will of her own, than to
shape the character of an utterly inexperienced
girl. For it is always a delicate task for a
husband, this moulding of a young nun-bred
wife's character. Pie must be very cautious to

set no bad example, instil no loose principles, or
they may bring up a crop which he will garner
sorrowfully enough in his old age. A man does
not indulge in such reflections between twenty
and twenty-five, and he is apt to scout them
between fifty and eighty, if he sets his heart
upon marrying a young girl at such a period ;
but they are very apt to trouble him when he has
reached the critical age of thirty, which is near
the half-way house in man's journey up the hill
of life and down.

They had assailed Eoland with the more
force because of his acquaintance with English
manners, so different from those of his own
country.

In his frequent visits to England, where he
always stayed at the houses of the richest and
noblest of the land, he had been charmed at
seeing the freedom allowed to English cfirls.
Their society was delightful to him. He could
talk to them as to rational beings, instead of
having to mince his words as if they were children ;
and the circumstance of his never being in anyone
English house long at a time, prevented him
from detecting abuses which might attend this
liberty.

So he had often said to himself that he should
like to wed some bright, good English girl, who
would take him of her own free choice, and
cling to him the more closely through life from
remembering that she had chosen him instead of
having been thrust into his arms by match-making
relatives. Unfortunately for Eoland, his luck
had never thrown him in the way of any highborn
English girl who spoke French to perfection,
whilst his own knowledge of English, such as it
was, laid him rather under a disadvantage than
otherwise in prosecuting so serious a thing asa
courtship.

Eoland spoke English well, but he thought
in French, and the result was an occasional
quaintness of speech which made his hearers smile.
Now, a Frenchman who knows but little or no
English can go a long way in making love to an
English girl, because his utter helplessness renders
him interesting ; but the case is not the same
when a man is sufficiently conversant with the
language to be afraid of committing mistakes in
it, and carefully measures his expressions lest he
should say more or less than he means. Such
restraints clip the wings of eloquence. They had
often caused the Duke, who chatted so glibly at

ordinary times, to appear sly and reserved in
those moments wien tie was burning to put a
great many pretty things into words.

But in truth, if marriages be made in heaven,
one must suppose that Eoland was not destined
to meet his appointed bride imtil he encountered
Gertrude Corrington. She spoke French with a
fluency that was rare. In that boat excursion
to Bruges, she had prattled to him in his own
tongue with far more assurance than any French
girl of her age could have shown in speaking to
a man, and with a faint foreign accent which
only lent piquancy to her pronunciation. The
Due d'Alma had never heard talk so sprightly,
and yet so innocent, in his own language from
any woman ; for, to his thinking, the ladies of
France were a trifle too bold, and the girls never
bold enough.

When he complimented Gertrude on her proficiency,
she told him of her French governess,
poor little Mademoiselle Lepine, the daughter of
a political refugee who had written a grammar,
which was to his daughter the book of books.
After an amnesty had allowed her father to return
to France, Mademoiselle Lepine had set up a
school at BouloGjne, and Gertrude had several

times gone to spend six weeks with her during
the summer holidays, "to re-set her participles
and tune her accent." She was also in the habit
of writing to Mademoiselle Lepine once a week, byway
of exercise, and the schoolmistress answered
in English, so that each might correct the other's
faults — an arrangement which worked exceedingly
well, and which Eoland, when it was explained to
him, thought the happiest idea that had ever been
conceived since the invention of gunpowder.

When Roland had put on his frock-coat after
the Marquis's departure, and placed a rosette in
his button-hole — for he was an officer of the
Legion of Honour — he took a survey of himself
in the glass, and was tolerably pleased with the
image it reflected.

The Due d'Alma was a soldierly man, tall,
with dark hair slightly curling, kindly hazel
eyes, and a fine black moustache. Having lived
fast, however, in barracks and at court, he was
afflicted with incipient baldness, and was growing
a little stout, which gave vexation to his spirit.
His lost hair could never be got back, though he
had tried the lotions of twenty mendacious hairdressers
for the purpose ; but he endeavoured to
combat his plumpness of girth by hard riding,

scientific diet, and by wearing clothes cut by the
prince of London tailors. The coat he had just
donned was a master-work of correctness, and he
buttoned it high, so as to show underneath only
an edge of white waistcoat and a black satin
scarf, in which was stuck a pear-shaped pearl of
great beauty. Having thus accoutred himself,
the Duke bethought him of ordering a bouquet
for his bride-elect, and rang the bell for his
English valet Barney.

The Duke's coachman and grooms all were
English, and this Barney had once been a groom.
He vas a dapper man of about forty, with a
clean shaven face and knowing grey eyes. A
smart, active servant he was, by no means
bashful in giving his opinion when asked, and of
a very cheerful disposition altogether. He had
not the manifold talents of those foreign valets
who can do twenty things and jabber five
tongues ; but he had not his equal for keeping
clothes and boots in order, and seeing that his
master was properly attended to by the servants,
whether at home or when he travelled. He
addressed his master in the English style as
'your Grace."

Barney," said the Duke, " I must announce

to you a piece of news. I am going to marry
myself."

'' Indeed, your Grace ! " This with respectful
surprise.

I have proposed to the daughter of General
Corringtonne, and from this day I make my
court."

"I congratulate your Grace," muttered Barney,
who began to wonder whether his own position
would be affected by this change. He had never
seen Miss Corrington, or heard of her. " I am
glad your Grace is going to marry an English
lady," he added.

"Ah ! that pleases you," smiled Roland. "Well,
you may show it by your zeal in executing this
command. You must go to the florist and order
him to send every day a bouquet to the Hotel
Royal for Miss Gertrude. You will explain it is
for my fiancee. He will understand ; and the
flowers, they must be of the finest."

Very well, your Grace. Begging pardon,
sir, but is the wedding day to be soon ? "

I hope so. In a month, no doubt. In any
case, I shall have to return to France first to
make arrangements. It is in England that we
marry ourselves."

In London, your Grace ? "

No ; I believe it will be in Lewbury, a little
town of the provinces. But I know not yet.
You will be particular about those bouquets,
Barney. The florist must excel himself."

CHAPTER III.

Roland WOOING.

On the strength of Gertrude's promotion, the
Corringtons had hastily removed from a small
and inconvenient set of rooms they had occupied
on the fourth floor of the hotel to a large and
magnificent suite on the first. Mrs. Corrington,
in the fulness of her heart, had told her maid
what Alas going to take place ; this damsel had
spoken of it in the servants' hall ; the matter had
reached the landlord's ears, and he made diligence
to accommodate the fortunate family with a set
of rooms which were generally reserved for visitors
of large fortune and distinction. They fronted
the sea, and cost only a hundred francs a day ;
but Mrs. Corrington compounded for this outlay
by reflecting that they must all be leaving Ostend
very soon now to prepare for the wedding.

The Duke was ushered into a drawing-room
gaudily furnished with carmine satin. Through
the three open windows, shaded by pink and
white awnings, there was a splendid view of the
sea, whose calm blue waters were dotted with a
fleet of little white sails gleaming in the midday
sunlight. It was a lovely day. Hundreds of
children were pattering about the sands, while
their elders sat reading or working under canvas
covers. Brass bands were playing everywhere,
and the Digue was crowded with people who had
bathed, or were going to bathe, or had come out
to see others bathe.

The Duke's interview with the General and
his wife was short, but very cordial. He said
just the right thing. He was fully alive to the
responsibility he was incurring in proposing to
take Gertrude from a happy home, but promised
so to act that neither she nor her parents should
ever feel that he had been false to his trust.
Then he turned to the General, and said, "A
soldier myself, sir, I am proud to ally myself
with the family of so distinguished an officer."

"I am very glad, I'm sure," replied the
General, briefly ; for he was not a ceremonious
mortal, and hardly considered himself a dis-vol.

I. 3

extinguished man. "I saw something of your
father in the Crimea. I dined once at his table,
when I was a major in the 105th."

'' Ah, yes, my poor father ! He was a general
then. He commanded a division at Inkermann."

I recollect his voice now ; yours is just like
it. Did you see any regimental service before
joining the staff ? "

I was in the Cuirassiers of the Guard, and
served in my father's division at Magenta and
Solferino," answered the Duke, modestly. He
did not say that he had been wounded and
decorated on the battle-field.

Your duties are not heavy now, I suppose
? "

I lead the cotillons at the balls of the
Tuileries," laughed Eoland. "I try to amuse the
ladies in waiting and maids of honour when the
Court is at Fontainebleau or Compiegne ; and
sometimes, when a foreign prince comes to Paris,
I am told off to pilot him among the museums
and theatres."

Mrs. Corrington found all this delightful to
hear. She was sure her future son-in-law must
be a great pet at the French Court. " You have
no brothers, I believe ? " she inquired kindly.

No ; I have only a sister, and we are
orphans ; our dear mother died whilst I was a
boy." The Duke lowered his voice here, and
spoke with much feeling of his dead parents. The
memory of his mother lingered with him ever
fresh and hallowed, so that he never breathed her
name without coupling it with an expression of
tenderness ; his father he had dearly loved and
honoured, and, proud of his fame, he was grateful
to all who praised it, or who furnished to his own
filial piety the opportunity of doing homage to it.

There was a pause presently, and Roland approached
with tact the subject of settlements.
He wished to intimate that, of course, he expected
no dower with Gertrude. " If you will permit
me, General, I will put my notary. Monsieur
Eagotin, of Paris, in communication with your
solicitor, that a contract may be drafted."

Thanked," said the General, who had not the
slightest intention of portioning his daughter.
*' My lawyer is Mr. Littleton, of Lewbury, my
son-in-law."

"Mr. Leetlepoint?"

Yes ; he married my eldest daughter Kate
a steady young fellow. But 1 am afraid he
doesn't know much French."

At this the Duke smiled, and Mrs. Warrington
invited him to luncheon. Then she and the
General withdrew, in order that he might see
Gertrude alone.

Gertrude presently came in, looking a little
timid, but absolutely bewitching in a light silk
dress, with pale blue and white stripes, and with
her golden hair all clustering in little curls.

Eoland ran forward to greet her with both
hands extended, and, drawing her to him, kissed
her tenderly. '' My sweet Gertrude," he said to
her in French, '' your parents have given their
consent. Say that you will be my wife ? "

'' Oh, Duke, I am sure I am not good enough
for you ! " she answered, her cheeks tinted with
very becoming blushes.

My dear little one, it is I who am not good
enough for you. I have been repeating this to
myself a hundred times ; but I will become better.
I will cure myself of my faults to make you
happy, because nothing will be so precious to me
henceforth as your happiness. You must call me
by my name, Roland — will you ? And say you
will trust me, my darling ? "

You are so good," she replied softly.

They were seated now very close together,

near the window, where they could see the people
pass without being seen, for they were behind a
muslin curtain. One of Gertrude's hands was
clasped within Koland's, and he stroked it fondly
whilst he poured the most ardent vows of attachment
into her ear. It was very pretty music, for
Eoland made love with the fervid volubility of a
Frenchman, never pausing for a word, but saying
all that came into his imaginative mind, and
speaking with a manly earnestness. Gertrude
had been made love to before, more than once,
but never so eloquently as this.

Some time elapsed before the torrent of
Eoland's words decreased, allowing the conversation
to flow in a quieter stream of question and
answer. Eoland drew from his waistcoat pocket
a little ring of turquoises and pearls, which had
belonged to his mother, and he placed it on the
third finger of Gertrude's left hand to seal their
eno^ao^ement.

What a pretty ring ! " she said, turning it to
the light to admire it ; and she looked thankfully
into his face, lowering her eyes instantly, however,
when they met his, so burning with love.
After a minute, during which he got possession of
her hand, she asked him a question about his

relatives. " What will they say to your marrying
me, Koland ? Do you think they will
like it ? "

My little one, I have only my grandmamma
and my sister Aimee. My grand mamma is very
old — eighty-five — and she adores me. What I
like, she likes ; and she will love you with all her
heart. My sister, the Countess deBeaujeu, adores
me also. She is twenty-eight, and has been married
ten years ; she has two little children — two angels,
with rosy cheeks and blue eyes. She is a little
giddy, my sister, but so good, and she has a heart
of gold. You will become her best friend at
once, and will remain so ; for everybody becomes
her best friend, and she never seeks quarrels."

But your grand mamma and sister are both
Catholics, I suppose ? Won't they object to my
being a Protestant ? "

Oh, religious differences do not signify,"
answered the Duke, lightly. " I myself look
upon good Catholics, Protestants, Jews, or Mussulman
as belonging to so many different regiments
in God's army. It is their business to fight
wicked people, not to fight one another."

Gertrude was rather shocked at this, for she
was persuaded that a hot place was being reserved

in the next world for Jews and other such reprobates.
But she saw that Eoland intended to speak
comfortingly. " Do you know' she answered,
I do not think I have ever been inside a
Catholic church while service was going on."

"Nor I," was the unexpected rejoinder ; "at
least, not since I was]quite small. I go to church
when my friends are being married or buried. I
attend the official Te Deem on the 15th of August,
the Emperor's fete ; and ah, sometimes when I amon
duty near the Empress, I attend mass in the
private chapel at the Tuileries, and, squeezed up
in a corner among the maids of honour, I hear
Monsignor Bauer preach to the Court. But I
never go to church for my own pleasure."
Not even to mass on Sundays ? "
No, my darling ; why should I trouble God ?
I have nothing to ask of Him. He has given me
money, health, a good digestion, and now He has
given me you for my wife. To beg Him for
more would be unreasonable. Rather is it good
policy on my part to avoid attracting His close
attention lest He should say, ' Ah, you are never
satisfied ; the time is come for teaching you a
little lesson,' and by way of a reminder, He might
send me rheumatism, which are the things I

most dread, as they would prevent me riding on
horseback."

Gertrude did not know what to make of these
sentiments. "But surely, Duke — Eoland, you
do say your prayers, sometimes ? " she asked
gently.

He at first glanced at her with amusement ;
but suddenly, to her surprise, his eyes filled with
tears, and, seizing both her hands, he bent his
head over them and burst out crying. " Oh, my
little one, you remind me of my dear mother
when you speak and look like that ! Let me cry ;
these tears do me good. When I was small, I
used to kneel with my mother, and she taught
me to pray. We used to pray for my father
when he was in battle ; and every day we went
to church, and burned a taper for him at the Lady
Altar. My dear mother made me promise that I
would always pray, but she was taken from me,
and then my father went ; and I had nobody to
pray for, for my sister has no need of my prayers.
She is happy. As for my grandmother, it would
be like offering alms to a Rothschild to pray for
her ; she is so religious herself, and is protected,
I believe, by a great many saints whose names I
do not even know. But now, my sweet darling,

as I am going to marry you, I shall have somebody
to pray for. Be sure, my little one, that if
you want anything of Heaven, I will go down on
my knees and ask for it. I will not be too proud
to do that. You shall see."

Gertrude, however strange she might think
her lover's language, was moved by this little
scene, which gave her a reassuring insight into
the nature of the man she was going to marry.
Laurence Cleverly would not have cried on her
lap in this way, nor would Mr. Oram, the curate.
They were matter-of-fact men, who kept their
emotions under control ; yet how could a girl help
feeling drawn towards a man who made such an
unaffected display of feeling ?

So with mute sympathy she laid a hand on
her French lover's head as she would have done
on a child's. His tears lasted no longer than an
April shower. Wiping them away, he soon looked
into her eyes with a smile.

My little one, I have wept before you ; you
see, my heart is yours. We are man and wife ;
and now we must get married soon. What shall
you say to this day month ? "

Oh, in a month ! That is very soon,"
answered Gertrude, a little startled.

No ; we are in June. If we marry in July,
we can go on a tour of Europe for three months ;
then we will return to Paris for the winter season,
and I will present you at Court. If it pleases
you, I will go to France in two or three clays and
see my grandmother ; then I must ask leave of
the War Minister to be married, as I am in the
army, and get the Empress's permission, as I am
her aide-de-camp. But those are only formalities.
After that, I will go to Lewbury, and we shall see
each other every day till the wedding."

*' You won't remain away long when you goto
France ? " asked Gertrude, abbacy reluctant to
part with him.

No, my darling, only a week at most, and
we will write to each other every day — won't we ?
You will write to me, Gertrude ? "

"Yes."

And it is agreed, then, is it not — we marry
in a month ? "

Whenever you like," whispered Gertrude,
her head nestling on his shoulder ; for he had
drawn her to him again, and was kissing her on
the lips.

At this juncture Gertrude's youngest sister,
Mab, ran into the room to announce that luncheon

was ready. Mab was a high-spirited, pretty-child,
twelve years old, and with hair like Gertrude's,
flowing in a cascade over her shoulders.

Come here, little young lady," said the Duke,
stooping to shake hands and make friends with
her. "You know I am going to become your
brother."

You are going to marry sister Gertie,"
answered Mab, a little shyly ; for his moustache,
seen so close, rather intimidated her.

'' And you will promise to be always very
good, and to make a great pet of me, and say to
everybody that I am the best brother alive ; for
that is how I like my little sister to be."

Mab laughed. She had no answer prepared,
and so ran away, colouring, into the dining-room,
where the General, his wife, and two of their
other children were waiting.

General Corrington had six children. The
eldest, Kate, married to Mr. Littleton, lived ot
Lewbury ; Clive, the second, a lieutenant in the
Buifs, was stationed at Gibraltar ; next came
Gertrude ; then Dick, a cadet at Woolwich, who
was now at Ostend for his holidays ; after them,
Bertha, who was sixteen ; and Mab, who was often
called Baby.

- Bertha was a dark and serious young lady,
who read good books, and belonged to a mutual
improvement association of Lewbury maidens,
who met on Saturday afternoons to point out
their defects to one another. Those who denied
a defect, which was said by the others to be
glaring, were fined twopence. The proceedings of
this association were conducted with a sisterly
frankness which kept its members in a chronic
state of irritable self-consciousness. At Ostend,
Bertha was occupied in drawing up a memoir,
which she intended to read before the association
Ashen she got home, and which contained thoughtful
notes on the sinfulness of visitors, their exceeding
frivolity, and so forth. But Bertha had
a skeleton in her cupboard. She was alarmingly
fond of cake and sweetmeats, and had long
trembled lest her visits to the pastry cook's should
be detected, and form the subject for debate atone
of the Saturday meetings. She was constantly
communing with herself as to whether she ought
not to lay her failing candidly before the association,
but hitherto she had not done so, and felt
wicked.

Mab was a little romp altogether, who tripped
along when she should have walked staidly, and

fidgeted when she ought to have sat quiet. She
was very fond of Gertie, who was her governess ;
but she rebelled against the authority of her
brother Dick, who was a tease, and thought that
sisters were made to act as fags. Having been
educated at a public school, where he won renown
as a cricketer, he had been made rather too much
of at home, and his elder sisters had fallen into
the way of humouring him and regarding him asa
clever boy. Now that he was at Woolwich, he
gave himself greater airs than ever, setting up asa
humorist and a determined propagator of
slang ; but he was not a bad-hearted youngster.

Just before Mab had gone to summon Roland
and Gertie to luncheon, Dick, lounging with his
hands in his pockets, had been entertaining his
mother and sisters with his view on the pros and
cons of the forthcoming match.

"Old Mother Nethersole has heard of it
already," he said. " I passed by the Kursaal half
an hour ago, and she screamed to ask me if it
was true. I said I believed it was a fact that we
were going to admit a frog into our family."

Dick, I won't have you talking slang in
that vulgar way ! " remonstrated Mrs. Corrington,
angrily. " I have told you this before."

All right, mother ; but how am I to address
this fellow ? Shall I call him ' Mossoo ' ? I'm
not a dab at parleyvooing."

*• You must address him as ' Duke ' until he
tells you to do otherwise ; and I trust you maybe
induced to take pattern from his manners,
which are perfect."

He may certainly have his advantages as a
connection," confessed Dick. '^ A man who owns
Derby winners ought to be able to put one up to
some straight tips. All the same, it will be rum
to see Gertie married to a johnny Crapand.'
Suppose there should be war between the two
countries, I may be obliged in the course of duty
to have chilled shot bowled at his legs. He's a
colonel, isn't he ? "

Yes, and that's more than you will ever be at
his age, unless you take care," remarked Bertha.

' Take care of what ? ' ' responded Dick. ' ' Don't
you be cheeky, Bertie. I'll teach you a song,
which you may sing to the Duke if he asks you
to show off your talents. I don't remember it
all, but there's a chorus which runs — ■

' And we will teach those bragging foes
That beef and beer hit harder blows
Than soup and toasted frogs.' "

^' I shall order you out of the room, Dick, if
you go on in this way," said Mrs. Corrington,
indignantly.

During the above conversation General Corrington
had been pacing to and fro, with his
hands behind his back, watching the cloth being
laid for luncheon. He had not overheard Dick's remarks,
for the latter was standing with one foot
on the balcony and the other in the room, and
he had spoken not too loud, so that his words
might not reach the waiters. Bad the General
joined in the conversation, Dick would have said
less, for his father was somewhat of a disciplinarian,
and had but a dull appreciation of humour.

An elaborate dejeuner had been prepared,
after consultation with the maitre hotel, who
had come up in person to superintend the arrangements.
There were three waiters in the room ;
menus near all the plates ; gold-capped champagne
bottles in ice-pails on the side board ; and the air
was fragrant with flowers, melons, and strawberries.
Just as the Duke entered with Gertrude,
the bouquet which Barney had ordered arrived
from the florist's. It was a splendid creation of a
master mind, almost a yard in circumference, and
surrounded with a border of real lace. It was

placed as a centre-piece on the table, dethroning
a more modest yet tasteful nosegay which the
landlord had caused to be set there. The whole
Corrington family, excepting Gertrude, were
abashed by its magnificence.

The Duke took his place at Mrs. Corrington's
rio'ht hand, havens Gertrude on the other side of
him, and throughout the meal he charmed everybody
by his agreeable flow of talk and his genial
manners. He was such a thorough man of the
world that conversation could never languish
when he was present. He knew how to pass
with the easiest transition from gay topics to
save, drawings out others on to the ground most
familiar to them, and making them dance there,
as it were, whilst he piped softly to their
measures. He set the General talking about
military grievances ; Mrs. Corrington, about the
difficulty of finding good servants in these our
times ; Dick, about the unfairness of army examiners
; and Bertha, about introspection. All
the while his attentions to Gertrude were so
watchful, so full of unspoken caresses, that they
made Mrs. Corrington's motherly heart warm
towards him, and she kept repeating to herself
that her Gertie was indeed a lucky girl.

Dick noticed that the French Duke drank
nothing but a little red wine and water ; and,
after luncheon, it transpired that he did not
smoke. Dick had counted upon enjoying a cigar
on the balcony, and was disappointed.

So you will soon be an officer, my young
friend," said Koland, laying a hand amiably on
his shoulder; 'rand I suppose you are a learned
mathematician, since you are going into a scientific
corps i

Oh, Duke, I wish you would question that
boy about his studies'' interposed Mrs. Corrington
I am sure he is idHng away his time at AVool-
wich."

Dick pulled a wry face, but Roland glanced
humorously at him, and said, " My dear Dick,
when I was at your age and studying at St. Cyr,
I was the idlest boy in the school. The professors
did me the honour to affirm that with an
unanimity not observable in their opinions on
other subjects. But I consoled myself. Did not
the masters at the school of Brine predict that
young Bonaparte would never make his way in
the army? He won Austerlitz, notwithstanding."

Which must have been a sell for his mater''
remarked Dick, sotto rove; and by-and-bv he

VOL. I. 4

said privately to Bertha, " I declare, Broglie isn't
half a bad fellow."

After luncheon Mrs. Corrington and her
daughters left the room to put on their bonnets
or hats for a walk with the Duke. They were to
go to the Kursaal to hear the afternoon concert,
and this promenade was to be a solemn showing
forth of Gertrude to Ostend society as the Due
d'Alma's betrothed.

But all these glories moved Dick Corrington
to philosophize. " I say, Ber," he whispered,
displaying new dog-skin gloves before his sister's
eyes, " if we're going in for a course of ruination
like this, putting on our best go-tormenting
every day, I hope the gunner will increase my
allowance."

You tiresome boy, you think of nothing but
money. Do be quiet ! "

"I'll be quiet. But I say, if Broglie thinks
we always live up to the style of to-day's lunch,
he must fancy we're awful swells. As plain-speaking
is in your line, you'd better hint to him
that cold mutton and swipes are not unknown atour
table."

*'I shall do no such thing," replied Bertha,
indignantly.

CHAPTER IV.

THE PERPLEXITIES OF Hicks Littleton.

Mks. Nethersole and her son Purkiss were
staying at Ostend. They witnessed the honours
paid to Gertrude wherever she went with her
betrothed, and they both knew that this young
lady had been nearly, if not quite, engaged to
Dr. Cleverly.

Mrs". Nethersole was a small, lean widow uf
fifty, whose nose changed its tints with the
weather. She was a truly good person, who had
issued to herself a permanent commission to hold
moral assizes on the dominoes of her neighbours.
None knew better than she how to convict her
friends of sin, and to lay down the law, religious
or social, by which people ought to be guided in
their actions. She could quote from the Bible or
the manual of etiquette with an equal felicity of

selection, and she humbly disclaimed any purpose
but that of doing good to those whom her tongue
hurt or annoyed. Mrs. Nethersole's smallest foible
was the fondness for spreading news, and she
hastened to inform her familiars in Lewbury, by
letter, of Gertrude's surprising betrothal. The
tidings caused a sensation in the town, where
General Corrington and his family were known to
everybody and respected.

Lewbury is a clean, old, and dull parliamentary
borough, which has seen better days
long ago. It is very ancient, but does not look
so, for its monuments are few. It once boasted
a renowned priory, the ruins of which may be
admired in the parish of Westover, which lies at
the foot of a hill ; and on the highest mound of
the upper part moulder the donjon and keep of a
venerable castle, wedged in among the purlieus
of the High Street. It has an hotel, the Star,
which has kept its name and position for centuries,
as is proved by a picture in the bar
parlour, which represents a group of heretics
being consumed with fire outside this self-same
hostelry in the reign of Mary.

The place keeps up a sleepy existence of its
own. It is an assize town ; the county gaol

stands there ; it lias also barracks for militia, and
a race-course. Five or six times a year the town
wakes up, overflows with visitors during a few
days, and then relapses into somnolency. It has
no fine shops, for Brightport being but ten
minutes' distant by rail, ladies prefer to go there
when they have anything to buy. Everybody in
Lewbury would rather reside at Brightport, if it
were not for the expense ; but everybody, with
practical philosophy, pretends to be well-satisfied
with the place, and accuses Brightport of being
too noisy.

It was entirely from motives of economy, and
not from any constitutional aversion to gay seaports,
that General Corrington had come to Lew-bury.
After retiring from the army on half-pay,
he had intended to settle at Brightport — he had,
indeed, been looking forward to doing so for
years ; but rents are dear in this queen of
watering places, and the General heard of a large
and commodious house which was to be had
cheap at Lewbury.

The Corringtons had been ten years in Lew-bury
at the date when this story commences, and
they had led comfortable lives there. They took
the lead of the local society, such as it was,

having no equals, except Mr. Jentleigli, the rector
of Westover, and Mr. Butterby the banker. The
General was a magistrate, and one of the visiting
justices of the gaol, a post which provided him
with some of that responsible work without
thanks or pay, in which English gentlemen —
alone of the human race — take pleasure.

The King's House (or Kingshouse), where he
resided — so called from Charles 11. being said to
have lurked in it for three days, whilst he was
avoiding his affectionate subjects after the battle
of Worcester — was the most interesting mansion
in Westover. It must once have been connected
with the priory, for there were abbots' mitres on
the stone shields above the doorway. Probably
it was the Guest House, reserved for noble visitors
who came with large suites, and were able to pay
royally for the hospitality which they were supposed
to receive gratis. On the scroll-work interlacing
the shields was carved the eclectic motto,
Hospes, quisquis es, eras, eris ; salve, vale ; " but
some have conjectured that the poorer guests
who knocked too confidently at this door were
more often revealed with the word vale than sac.
It was on a wet day in June, 1870, when the
rain had been dripping in a dispiriting way since

morning, that the General's son-in-law, Mr.
Hucks Littleton, sat at the desk in his office
in the High Street, and rubbed his ear with a
perplexed air. His wife, seated in the chair
where clients generally ensconced themselves, and
holding her last-born baby on her lap, eyed him
with an equal perplexity. The midday post
had brought them the news of Gertrude's engagement
to the French duke, and nothing
within the range of possible events could well
have astonished them more. Mrs. Littleton, to
Avhom the tidings had been addressed in a letter
sent by Gertrude herself, and in another from
her mother, had been unable to bring them at
once to her husband, because there had been
clients in his office ; but now it was close upon
two o'clock, the lawyer's dinner hour, the last
visitor had gone, and there she sat, watching her
husband's face with an inquiring gaze as he
re-read the letters and rubbed his right ear.

Mr. Littleton was a pale young lawyer, with
a wild head of hair and gold-rimmed spectacles,
and he was easily made to look perplexed. Anything
out of the common knocked him out of his
methodical range of thoughts, like a spider out
of his web, though he always dangled on to a

thread, as it were, by which he slowly climbed
lip again.

I am afraid it will be a disappointment to
Cleverly," he remarked at length.

"A disappointment!" echoed Kate Littleton,
who was a handsome, dark-eyed young woman,
with a warm heart and impulsive habits both
of speech and action. " I should think Dr.
Cleverly will be maddened, dear. He considered
himself engaged to Gertrude, and so did I. He
has just had a quantity of new furniture put
into his house, and I helped him to choose it.
He asked me only yesterday to select a pretty
dessert service for him next time I went to
Brightport."

Are you sure, Kate, that Gertrude formally
accepted Cleverly ? " inquired the lawyer very
seriously. He was an honourable man, who had
a horror of breaches of contract, though he lived
by such things.

'well, yes, dear ; at least, I thought so. And
I can't imagine why mamma writes to me so
sharply, just as if I had been trying to drag
Gertie into a match against her consent. I am
sure I did nothing beyond doing my best to
encourage them both."

You were very anxious about the match,
dear."

But so were you, Hu." Hu was diminutive
for Hucks. Kate had tried at first to call her
husband Hucks, but it wouldn't do, and Lucky
sounded no better.

Laurence Cleverly is young, handsome,
clever — a bit conceited, perhaps ; but all young
doctors are that — he has money of his own, and
is making a good practice. I thought he was just
the man for Gertie, and we agreed how nice it
would be to have Gertie settled in Lewbury close
to us. You never saw any objection to Dr.
Cleverly, Hu."

No. But the question is, did Gertie accept
him ? "

'' This is exactly how things happened," said
Mrs. Littleton, composing herself by dandling
her baby. '' It was the last time they came to
tea here, three days before Gertie went to Ostend.
Dr. Cleverly and she were in a corner of the
drawing-room, looking at the stereoscopic views
of Paris, and Gertie suddenly exclaimed, * How
I should like to go to Paris I ' Then Dr. Cleverly
took her hand, and said, ' Will you go there with
me for a honeymoon ? "

What did she answer ? "

She didn't say eyes' or 'no' ; but then, girls
don't always give plain replies to proposals. I
didn't say ^ yes ' to you, Hu, when you asked
me. I think Gertie merely said, * Oh, it's very
sudden. I don't know,' and things of that kind.
But in the course of the evening, Dr. Cleverly
managed to give her a kiss in the passage, as he
Alas helping her to put on her cloak ; for I saw
him do it by the reflection in the looking-glass,
because the drawing-room door was open, and
he certainly went away with the impression that
Gertie had accepted him."

I know he entertained that impression, but
1 should like to ascertain whether it was justified
by what Gertie said or did ? "

I think it decidedly was, beyond any
question, dear."

"Well, ladies are the best judges on such a
point," said Hucks Littleton, with a sigh. He
was beginning to feel dismayed by his sister-in-law's
conduct.

1 wouldn't speak too positively, though," rejoined
Mrs. Littleton, alarmed at the responsibility
thrust upon her. " I can't say that
Gertie was actually in love with Dr. Cleverly,

and I know she was very anxious that I should
say nothing about the proposal to mamma.
After all, Hu, I may be mistaken. Girls are so
difficult to understand in these affairs ; and Gertie
appears to have become very fond of this French
duke, and mamma says he is so nice. Let me
see again what her letter says."

She took up the letter and read aloud Mrs.
Corrington's enthusiastic account of the Due
d'Alma, and the introductions to all sorts of distinguished
people, friends of the Duke, who had
come to leave congratulatory cards at the hotel.

All this was so novel to the Littlepoints, that
they heard of it with bewilderment. There was
not a tittle of jealousy in Kate's mind about her
sister's marrying in a rank so much above her
own, but she was sorry to think that she and
Gertrude would now be parted for life, for it
was complete separation that must result from
Gertrude's becoming the wife of a foreigner ; and
she was concerned also for Laurence Cleverly's
sake. Nevertheless, she made up her mind that
she must stand by her sister in this affair, whatever
befell ; for she was a staunch ally to her own
kin, and, right or wrong, would cudgel for them
before the whole world.

Dr. Claveiiey will have to bear his disappointment
as he can, dear," she said to her
husband. "It is unfortunate that he should have
been mistaken about Gertie's feelings : but he
can't do anything."

No, he can't do anything," said the lawyer.
I think, though, he should hear the tidings
from me. It will be more considerate than
allowing them to reach him through other
channels. I will call on him presently."

Oh, as IVLrs. Nethersole is at Ostend, I daresay
the news will be all over the town soon ! "
observed Kate. " That odious old woman will
be raising quite a screech over this, for I told
her of Gertie's engagement with the doctor."

It was a pity you did that, Kate," said the
lawyer, looking up ; " and I — I don't think it
wise to call anybody an odious old woman."

'' It is a pity, because things have turned out
as they have," answered Kate, rebelliously ; " but
I told her in order to keep that abominable son
of hers, Purkiss, from worrying Gertie with his
attentions. He used to follow her about everywhere,
squeeze her hand in corners, wink at her
vrhen people were looking on, and behave in such
a way that she was sometimes ready to scream.

I was afraid the doctor might notice his goings
on, and fancy Gertie had encouraged him to take
liberties."

I dare say the doctor will be at home now,"
said Hucks, consulting his watch. *' I think I
will just step round."

No ; you must have your dinner first, dear,"
said Kate. " It is ready now. Come along."

Hucks obeyed, though he had lost appetite for
his dinner. He was a queerly grave and respectable
young man of thirty, who had already
adopted the costume and habits of eldeiiiness,
and was not likely to alter in appearance for the
next forty years. He dressed in black, loved his
home, and lived in small things subject to his
wife.

But throughout dinner on this day, Hucks was
very thoughtful about' his sister-in-law. He was
both shocked and amazed that Gertie should
have jilted Dr. Cleverly for the sake of a ricci
foreigner, and the idea of the public scandal that
might result from this made him wince. Kate's
vivacious prattle, which generally cheered liii
at table, failed to do so, and almost irritated
him.

\Yhen the meal was over, Hucks put on his

hat, and took his umbrella from the stand in the
hal.

I shall go down to Kingshouse presently to
give orders about everything being got ready for
the day after tomorrow, as mamma says they
are all coming then' said Kate. " I suppose
you will find Dr. Cleverly at the Readings
dear. He is more likely to be there than
at home at this hour. Do your best with him."

Yes, I'll go to the Reading-rooms," answered
Hucks, sallying out into the rain. " I can't help
thinking Cleverly is an awkward man to offend.
He is a clever fellow, energetic, and generally
respected, as you know."

Don't let him bully you, dear," said Kate
wistfully, from the doorstep.

CHAPTER V.

DR. Waverley's THREATS.

The Reading-rooms at Newbury were used as a
kind of club. There was a round public room,
with wooden forms and long tables covered with
novels and newspapers, where lady-subscribers
were to be seen at all hours, and a smaller room
sacred to persons who paid a guinea a year.
Herein ladies never entered, but the sanctum
was resorted to by the gentlemen of the town,
who came to read the news and to chat.

When Hucks Littleton walked in, after
depositing his dripping umbrella in the hall, he
found only two persons in the room. A short,
pudgy, good-humoured gentleman with a ball
head, who answered to the name of Quaug, sat
nursing his leg in an armchair, and laughing
over a comic paper ; whilst a spare, Ian tern-jawed

curate, with a very long coat which reached to
the calves of his legs, stood with his back to the
empty fireplace blinking at the rain, which was
still pouring outside as if it were never going to
be fine again. This clergyman was the Rev.
Chrysostom Oram, curate to old Mr. Jentleigh,
the rector of Westover. He was the best fellow
in the world, but in Church matters had much
tribulation through disputes with his rector's
daughter, Miss Rose Jentleigh, about ritual. He
lead fought with beasts at Ephesus, as he put it ;
that is, with his bishop and other raging Low
Churchmen, and he had generally prevailed in
these encounters, but he had no hopes of ever
prevailing on Miss Rose to mind her own
business. The rector was an easy man, and his
daughter had instituted herself priestess in his
stead, vexing the gentle soul of the curate by her
interpretations of the rubric.

Mr. Quang was a jolly little gentleman, who,
having no business of his own, found plenty of
leisure to bestow on other people's. He had
once been sleeping partner in a bank, and
enjoyed an income which allowed him to live in
not too straitened circumstances, seeking: amusements
for himself and family. He had five

unmarried daughters, who were not pretty nor
plain, clever or stupid, and who were always
dunning him for pocket-money. Mr. Quang
was a great promoter of social festivities and
expedients for killing other people's time. He
belonged to a Mutton-chop Club at Brightport ;
he went up to London with deputations who had
claims to urge upon Cabinet ministers ; he was a
member of divers annual-dinner-o-ivino^ associations
for setting up or putting down things ; he
had been half-way up Mont Blanc ; he could
brew punch, play whist, and tell anecdotes which
everybody knew, but which could be laughed at
without effort.

Mr. Quang was a great crony of Mrs.
Nethersole, and just before Hucks Littleton
came in, he had l)een reading to the unhappy
curate a long letter from that lady, in which she
announced Gertrude's betrothal, and spoke of the
oTcat stir it was making at Ostend. Mr. Oram
was in love with Gertrude, but had been too
Bashful to propose to her. When he was told of
her engagement to Dr. Cleverly, he suffered a
sharp spasm ; but now that he heard of her being-affianced
to the Due d'Alma, he felt utterly
miserable from reflecting' that the first rumour

o
VOL. I. 5

was untrue, and that if lie had proposed to
Gertrude just before her departure for the
continent he might have had her. That is why
he looked out so sorrowfully at the rain, moaning
in spirit like a man who has missed a happy
destiny for want of a little courage at the right
time. As a matter of fact, Mr. Oram could not
have had Gertrude for the asking, so that there
was a flaw in his reasoning ; but a curate is not
bound to be a logician.

''Ah, littleton, you are just the man we
wanted to see," exclaimed Mr. Quang, holding
out his hand to the lawyer. "Well, so it seems
we have to congratulate you on your sister-in-law's
enojaorement to a French duke "? "

'' You have heard of it, then ? " replied
Hucks, nervously, as he gave his hand to Mr.
Quang, who did not at once release it, but
worked it up and down like a pump-handle,
grinning.

Oh yes, I've a long letter from my good
friend Mrs. Nethersole," said Mr. Quang, who
called this lady his " good friend " on the same
principle as the Greeks styled the Furies
*' Eumenides." '*' She writes me there have been
grand goings-on, and sends an extract from an

Ostend paper, in which they speak of Gertrude
as a ' demoiselle d'oon rare both.' But I say, I.
thought that Gertrude was engaged to Cleverly ? "

Did you ? " said Hucks ; but he despised
himself for this dissimulation, and at once added,
To tell you the truth, I did too ; Int it seems
we were mistaken. How d'ye do, Oram ? What
wretched weather this is ! "

It is miserable weather," rejoined the curate,
gloomily. He would have liked to ask whether
Miss Corrinofton's eno^ao^ement was irrevocable,
but the words stuck in his throat. He could
only glance in despair at his muddy boots, which
were of no small size.

We wanted something* of this kind to wake

o

us all up, for I'll be bound it will be a grand
wedding," continued the cheerful Mr. Quang,
who thought he might already fish for an
invitation to the breakfast. " The dining-room
at Kingshouse will be just the place for a bridal
feast ; and, I say, if the General likes, I'll put him
up to a hint or two for giving something quite
novel in the way of an entertainment."

Cleverly hasn't been here, has he ? " inquired
the lawyer.

*'No ; I saw him drive out in his dogcart this

morning, but lie hasn't come by again. I suppose
the doctor will be pulling a face over this
affair, eh ? Odd thing, his having spread the
rumour of his eno'ao'ement when it wasn't true.
"What, are you going already ? "

I only looked in to see Cleverly."

None of the babies ill, I hope ? "

"No, no."

'^I shall be writing to Ostend by this night's
mail," said Mr. Quang, following Hucks to the
door, *' and all the girls will send a line, too, to
offer their congratulations. Some of them will
be expecting to be bridesmaids. I've been telling
them they will have to draw lots for it, aha ! "

Hucks fled from Mr. Quang out into the rain
again. He called at the doctor's house, but
Cleverly was not at home ; so he left a card, and
returned to his office, where a farmer was waiting
to see him about a case of trespass. Kate had
been gone from the house about five minutes.

Shod in her thickest boots, covered with a
grey cloak, and holding an umbrella against which
the rain-drops rattled like peas, Kate walked
down to Kingshouse to give orders to her
mother's servants.

The house had been left in chase of a cook

and a housemaid on board wages, and Kate
thought she would set them briskly to work by
telling them of Miss Corrino;ton's forthcoming
The communication had the desired
effect ; for the prospect of a wedding is always
enlivening to the female-servant mind. The
cook cried *lor!" the housemaid simpered, and
was then ordered off to fetch a pail and a mop
and commence a general clean-up. Fires would
have to be lighted in all the rooms to drive the
damp out, clean sheets must be laid in the beds,
the silver must be polished, the carpets beaten,
muslin curtains just home from the wash must
be put up, and all that within two days ; so that
there was no time to lose. In a few minutes the
maid, bare armed, and with her gown pinned u}),
was carrying coals, faggots, mop, pail, and broom
from the kitchen ; and Kate Littleton, having
taken off her cloak and hat, repaired to the linen
room to give out the sheets.

As she went about her work, she pondered ina
sisterly way over the brilliant offer which
Gertrude had received. Gertie a duchess ! Gertie
shining as one of the beauties of Napoleon's
Court ! It sounded like one of the romances they
used to weave together when they were little

girls, and used to play at having husbands with
fine titles. Gertie and Kate had always been
very fond of each other, and, notwithstanding
her alarm about Dr. Cleverly, there was a thrill
of pleasure and pride in the elder sister's heart at
the flattering recognition which Gertrude's beauty
had met with abroad.

"I wish I could have seen her when the
Duke proposed. I hope she wore her blue dress ;
she looks best in it," thought Kate ; and she
resolved that, whatever her husband might say or
think, she would be very good to Gertie during
the last month they would spend near each other.
She would not say a word about Dr. Cleverly to
make her feel uncomfortable. The conversation
on this subject should be with their mother, who
had written so unkindly in accusing her (Kate)
of seeking to foist the doctor upon Gertie — "just
as if I could foresee that this French duke was
coming," murmured the aggrieved lady.

Thus musing, Kate had walked into Gertrude's
bedroom, which overlooked the road leading into
the country past the militia barracks. There she
saw through the window a dogcart drawn by a
high-stepping horse, and being driven at a rapid
rate towards Kingshouse.

Why, that is Dr. Chiveiiey, and Hu can't
have seen him," muttered Kate ; and immediately
she ran downstairs and opened the street-door, so
as to stop the doctor as he passed.

It was a bold move, and as soon as she had
taken it she repented, thinking she would have
done better to leave the interview with the
doctor to her husband ; but having once put her
head through the doorway, she did not like to
retreat, lest Cleverly should have seen her.

After all, it is better to get the explanation
done with' she said to herself, and waited.

Dr. Cleverly had been driving out to see a
country patient, who had met with an accident.
He was wrapped in a mackintosh, and drove hard
through the rain without saying a word to the
servant, who sat by his side with arms folded.
Cleverly, too, had received a letter from Mrs.
Nethersole, just before he had been summoned to
set his patient's leg at noon, and he was as
mortified and furious as it is possible for a man
to be. He loved Gertrude ; he believed that she
loved him, and, esteeming that she had accepted
him, he would have thought Mrs. Nethersole's
news incredible had not her letter been so circumstantial.
Even now, as his mind whirled ina

very eddy, he was persuaded that Gertrude
could not have broken her troth of her own
accord, but must have been forced to do so by her
parents. And he vowed that if this were the
case, he would marry her, in spite of father and
mother.

Laurence Cleverly was a self-made man, and
everybody was aware of the fact, for at the outset
of his medical career he had often boasted rather
too loudly about it.

He was the son of a footman and a housemaid
; but he had been sent early to a school
where there was a good master, and had been
lucky enough to obtain, in his twelfth year, a
situation as page to a warm-hearted, eccentric
physician, who practised at Brightport. This
doctor, finding that Laurence was a sharp and
cheerful boy, had taken a fancy to him, and continued
his education, till by degrees the page
ceased to be a servant, and became his master's
pupil and surgery assistant.

Meanwhile, Laurence's parents having left
domestic service and established themselves in a
house at Brightport, where they let lodgings, the
l^oy got help at the turning-point of his life. By
his master's advice he was sent to study for three

years at Bonn, and he made such good use of his
opportunities that soon after his return to England
he passed for a Bea. degree at the university
of London, and subsequently got his diploma
from the College of Physicians. His master, who
had employed him as assistant after he came
back from Germany, then took him into partnership,
and two years later Waverley's parents, both
dying in the same year, left him a few hundred
pounds, with which he was enabled to buy a
house at Lewbury, and to start a practice on his
own account.

It must be noticed that Hucks Littleton
and his wife, in their conversation about Cleverly,
did not allude to the lowliness of his origin, the
fact being that the young doctor had, by his
talents and his good manners, acquired an excellent
position in Lewbury and considerable popularity.
He was then thirty years old — a tall,
handsome man (his father, the footman, had been
a splendid creature) ; he was a good doctor, and it
mattered not a pill to his patients whose son he
was. The battle about his ancestry had been
fought out when he first came to Lewbury, and
when his professional rivals, thinking to damage
him by proclaiming that his father was a footman,

had done him good by their vulgar sneering.
There is no country where the advantages of birth
and connections are so justly appreciated as in
England, and no country where a clever man can
get on so well without these adjuncts, provided he
is not ashamed of being without them. Cleverly,
however, nearly put himself in the wrong at first
by talking with bravado, as if it were a merit to
be a footman's son, and as if persons who had no
plush in their family where to be pitied. The
people of Lewbury were not prepared to admit
that much, and the young doctor, out of his
ambition, soon found the sense to see that he had
better take the world as the world took him,
without seeking to give offence.

Of course, in his heart he would rather that
his father had been dignified by gunpowder than
hair-powder, and in paying his addresses to
Gertrude, he had not been insensible to the consideration
that she was the daughter of a general
officer. He loved her for herself — he loved her
beauty, her grace, her character ; but he had felt
it was a social honour to be accepted by her, and
it gave a fearful bitterness to his reflections to
imagine that she had possibly been impelled by
her family to break off her engagement because

of the pedigree which caused his enemies to nickname
him " James " behind his back.

Perceiving Kate standing in the doorway ashe
neared Kingshouse, Dr. Cleverly drew up his
horse with a jerk, and threw the reins to his
servant. " Put up," he said ; '' I shall walk
home."

Dr. Cleverly, I want to speak to you ;
that's why I came here," said Kate, trying to
smile and look pleasant.

I want to speak to you, too," he answered
significantly, as he descended from the trap.

In the hall he showed that he was preparing
for a serious interview by divesting himself of his
waterproof coat and hanging up his hat. Kate
led him into her father's old-fashioned study on
the ground floor, and shut the door. He was
flushed, and his mouth was firm set ; stealing a
look at him, Kate did not like his expression
at all.

Laurence Cleverly was nearly six feet high,
well-shaped, and upright. His complexion was
pale but clear ; he had large dark eyes, with a
glance that was steady and a little hard ; small
black whiskers and hair of the same colour, cut
short and neatly brushed. He dressed well ; his

voice and manners were those of a gentleman ;
and there was an air of professional dignity in his
bearing which reassured patients who might have
objected to his youthful appearance. But Kate
had always seen him in pleasant moods, for he
could be very pleasant, and his present aspect
struck a chill in her.

Have you heard ? " she asked ruefully, as
she sat down and motioned to him to take a seat.

*eyes, I have heard," he answered, without
sitting down ; " and I want to ask you what on
earth it means. Gertrude cannot intend to throw
me over in this unceremonious way ? "

She does not consider herself bound to you.
Dr. Cleverly ; it seems we mistook her sentiments."


Can you look me in the face and repeat
that ? " he asked sternly. *' Is it not a fact that
you regarded us as engaged ? Were you not
talking with me about our marriage only
yesterday ? "

Kate could not look him in the face and tell
him a fib. " Well, / did think you as good as
engaged," she confessed, reddening ; " and I am
very sorry for you, Dr. Cleverly, indeed I am.
But what can we do ? You proposed to Gertrude

in this small country town, where she had seen
little society ; she goes somewhere else, and sees a
man whom she loves better than you. Tliosc
things happen constantly. She cannot have cared
for you, or she would not have accepted the man
who will be her husband."

'' He shall never be her husband if I can
help it ! "

But you can't help it," retorted Kate. " Be
sensible, Dr. Cleverly. When Gertrude comes
back, shake hands with her as if nothing had
happened. It looks so well for a man to be
magnanimous."

Mrs. Littleton, an infamous slight has
been put upon me," said Cleverly, " and I do
not believe Gertrude has thus dealt with me of
her own accord. She must have been instigated
by friends who, perhaps, worked upon my social
status as inferior to hers ; but let me tell you
that "

Oh no, you are quite wrong there ! " interrupted
Kate, eagerly. '' Gertrude has written tome
herself, and says she loves the Due d'Alma.
She is overjoyed at the match — one can see it in
every line she writes ; and there is not a word
about you in the letter."

This eliot struck harder than Kate had meant
it to do. Cleverly grasped the back of a heavy
oak chair, whilst his features grew livid.

If that be the case," he answered, hoarse
with restrained passion, " there are no words in
which I can express my reprobation of Gertrude's
conduct. She has deliberately trifled with me.
She has shown herself heartless and mercenary.
She is unworthy to become the wife of an honest
man, and her father, if he has sanctioned her
conduct, is unworthy to be called an officer and a
gentleman."

You have no business to speak of my
sister in that way," protested Kate, losing her
temper.

*' I shall teach her that I am not the man to
submit tamely to such an insult," continued
Cleverly, without heeding her. *' After she left
for Ostend, I wrote at length as her accepted
lover, and she answered in such a way as to
encourage me in my belief. That was but a
fortnight ago, and now "

You don't mean to say Gertrude has written
to you since she has been abroad ? " inquired
Kate, disconcerted.

Yes, and here is her letter." The doctor

drew a note on pink pander from his pocket-book
and displayed it. Kate was strongly tempted to
tear it from him, but he may have divined her
impulse, and held it with both hands. " You can
read it, Mrs. Littleton."

Kate did read it with a thumping heart. The
note was very short, but it was undeniably
couched in such terms as to encourage Claverlev's
hope.

If you are a gentleman. Dr. Cleverly," said
Kate, " you will give me that letter that I may
destroy it."

I shall hand it to a lawyer," responded the
doctor, vehemently. "There is but one way of
punishing an offence like your sister's, Mrs.
Littleton. To vindicate my own conduct, I
shall bring an action for breach of promise of
marriage."

You would not do such a silly thing as that,
Dr. Cleverly ? " exclaimed Kate, eyeing him as if
he were mad.

I have been made to look silly enough as it
is," replied Cleverly, bitterly. " Have I not
told all my friends of my engagement ? Have I
not been refurnishing my house ? It will be said
that I was not jilted for nothing. Aspersions

will be cast upon my character, and those shall
be publicly removed."

You expect a jury will give you damages ? "
cried Kate, mockingly, and looking as if she could
beat him.

"I do not want damages, Mrs. Littleton,
but reparation, I shall read Gertrude a lesson
which may not be lost upon other girls tempted to
misbehave as she has done. Perhaps this fine
marriage with a guileless foreigner will not take
place after all'*

This was too much for Kate, who stood up
and confronted him with brave scorn in her
glance. " If you act in that gentlemanlike
way, Dr. Cleverly, you will become the laughingstock
of all England. There is not a girl of any
spirit who will marry you. You will have conducted
yourself with such contemptible vindictiveness
that everybody will think Gertrude was very
lucky not to have married you. I rejoice, for my
part, that she never cared for you. She evidently
had a clearer insight into your character than I
had."

I will take my chance of what people shall
say, Mrs. Littleton," answered Cleverly, trying
to remain calm, but stuttering in the attempt ;

and upon this he left the room without salutation
of any sort. It was clear from the redness of his
face and the thickness of his speech that he was
utterly beside himself with anger. He walked
out of the house, letting the door slam behind
him, and forgetting his waterproof in the hall.

Kate was very much frightened. She put on
her hat and cloak, and tore home. Her husband
was in his office, busy over some 
process, with all his tin boxes around him.
'' Hu, Hu ! " she exclaimed, sinking into a chair,
*' I have just seen Dr. Cleverly. He is in such
a state ! " and Kate unfolded her terrible story.

An action for breach of promise 1 " incredulously
echoed Hucks, when he had heard
her to the end. " I do not think Cleverly will
commit himself in that way."

But he declares he will, Hu. He is quite
ferocious."

If men kept all the threats they make in
angry moments, this world would be no place to
live in," said the lawyer; "but it's a lamentable
business, Kate."

At any rate, I shall write to Gertrude and
mamma by this day's post," answered Kate, who
was all flurried by the interview. " In his present

VOL. L 6

temper the doctor might do something outrageous
when they return. They ought to be warned."

Hucks agreed that his wife must write to
convey a warning, so she hastened to her ,
and dashed off a letter to Gertrude.
But she had no time to write to her mother by
that post, and the one letter went off alone. It
reached Gertrude on the following day, just as
she was in the heyday of joy over her growing
love. She coloured as she read it, but did not
waver long about what was to be done. She
went coolly to her mother, and said —

Mamma dear, please ask papa to protect me
against this man. See what Kate writes about
him. He has no business to tease me in this
way."

'' Protect you, my darling ! of course he
will," exclaimed Mrs. Corrington, stupefied when
she had perused her eldest daughter's letter
through her glasses. '' Why, the man must have
taken leave of his senses ; and as for Kate, all
this is her fault. She has behaved like a perfect
goose."

CHAPTER VI.

cleverly's revolutionary friend.

There was living at that time in Lewbury a
French refugee named Gracharcl — Christian name,
Timon — who gave lessons at several schools, and
eked out his resources by contributing queer,
anonymous articles on English politics to a Red
Republican newspaper in Paris.

He was a thin, dark man of forty, with a
black beard and restless eyes, who dressed decorously
as an undertaker, but smelt strongly of
tobacco, and had several of his fingers smudo:ed
with brown stains, which came from smoking
cigarettes which he rolled for himself. Grachard
had been sentenced to death, 2)er contumacious,
for joining in a plot to overthrow the imperial
dynasty, and he had been living fifteen years in
England, where he felt as completely a stranger

as on the day of his arrival, though he had
learned to speak the language after a fashion,
always using the verbs shall and will in the
wrong places.

Nobody in Lewbury had cared to cultivate
M. Grachard's private acquaintance except a few
sempstress, who admired his black beard, and
Laurence Cleverly, who liked his independence
of character, and was interested in his advanced
opinions, which he thought good for France, that
corpus vile of political experiments.

Grachard was a violent Republican and an
atheist, one of those men who shake their fists at
God Almighty out of garret windows, and marvel
that the " impostures " of religion should not yet
have been swept away by the reasonings of
Parisian newspapers. Such views not being
popular at British tea-tables, M. Grachard (who
advocated political assassination also) had been
kept at arm's length, and he looked upon England
as a canting, inhospitable country ; but he was
very fond of Cleverly, who had been kind to
him, and whom he esteemed as a superior Briton.
The doctor had attended him through an illness,
and had refused to accept any fees ; but not to
wound the poor Frenchman's susceptibilities, he

had taken out his payment in French lessons.
Grachard used to come to his house for an hour
in the evening two or three times a week, and
thus a pretty strong friendship had gradually
sprung up between them ; for it was impossible to
become intimate with Grachard without hating
or liking him thoroughly, so self asserting was he.
Timon Grachard knew of Cleverly's love for
Miss Corrington, and was disgusted at hearing in
the town how that faithless young person had
thrown his friend over for one of the Emperor
Napoleon's dukes. At the young ladies' schools,
where he taught French out of "Telemaque " and
Bossuet's "Orations" (works which, having been
composed by " clericals," he considered degrading
to the human intellect), he was much questioned
about the Due d'Alma, and was at some pains to
keep his temper in replying that he knew nothing
of this nobleman. The governesses and pupils
did not expect him to know much about dukes,
but they wanted him to say whether his distinguished
countryman was rich and handsome,
how it was that he had never fallen in love with
a girl of the French aristocracy, etc., and these
questions maddened the Republican. He thought
that friendship's voice called him to the doctor's

house to offer consolations, and he accordingly
went there on the day after Cleverly had received
his great blow.

It was in the evening, and Cleverly was
taking a solitary cup of tea, more composed inspirit,
but by no means disposed to find comfort
in talking about his sorrow. Englishmen show a
reserve in their love affairs which Frenchmen
like Grachard cannot understand.

Cleverly lived in the High Street, in a house
of substantial appearance. There was a brass
plate on the door with his name, and a separate
entrance to the surgery round the corner, with a
lamp over it. The place had just been refurnished,
and the sight of some workmen laying down a
new carpet in his dining-room had made the
doctor turn almost sick with suppressed rage, ashe
passed through the hall on the day before,
after his scene with Mrs. Littleton. But it was
worse when, in his study, his eye fell upon two
photographs of Gertrude on the chimney-piece.
He had placed them there in frames, where any
of his patients might see them — rather an imprudent
thing to do, but natural in a young man
who exults in his love. Convinced of Gertrude's
treachery, he removed them and locked them up

in a drawer, but the doing so forced a moan from
him like a sob. Seeking a relief to his feelings,
he, of course, sat down and wrote to Gertrude.
But even as his hand flew over the paper he felt
that it is all up with a man who is obliged to
write such a letter as he was composing ; for he
could find no tender expressions ; his words were
all angry and bitterly reproachful.

There is no torture like that of being jilted.
It cuts deep down into a man's heart, making his
pride bleed in torrents, and leaving a wound,
where a sore place will remain for a lifetime.
But the sore is much worse in a man of low birth
who has been jilted by a girl who is his superior
in station. The world had been kind to the
Lewbury doctor, making him feel no mortification
for being a footman's son ; but his rejection by
Gertrude punctured the poison-bag of class hatred
which lurks within all men of low degree, and
suffused his whole being of a sudden with a moral
jaundice. In a sleepless night he had brooded
over every plan of revenge that could occur to an
inflamed mind, and, losing all self-respect in his
abasement to the jealous devil within him, he
felt cruel, mean, and powerless, as he had never
done before. But outwardly his handsome face

looked calm and hard to the Frenchman who
brought him sympathy.

So Grachard was rather put out, for he had
expected to find his friend in a paroxysm of rage
and grief. Cleverly shook hands with him in a
collected way, and asked him to take some tea.
Nevertheless, while the Frenchman sipped this
beverage, he examined the doctor attentively, till
at length he saw the gloom settle on his brow,
and then he spoke out.

'' Tell me all that is on your heart, Cleverly ;
it shall relieve you."

*' I had rather not talk about it," answered
the doctor, in a tone which, had he been speaking
to a countryman, would have precluded all further
allusion to the topic ; but Grachard was entirely
frank about his own affairs, and had lately
solicited advice and compassion from the doctor
touching an entanglement into which he had got
with Miss Hopkins, the daughter of his landlady,
so that he felt he had placed himself under
an obligation which now was the time to discharge.


"My poor friend, I am so sorry," he said,
laying a hand kindly on Cleverly 's knee. "If
Miss Corrington knew you as I do, she would not

reject you thus for a miserable debauchee, who
thinks of nothing but women and horses."

Tell me all that you know about this Due
d'Alma," said the doctor, moodily. " Has he a
bad character ? "

'* His father was a villain, and the son must
be like him," declared Grachard, energetically.
No courtier of Bonaparte's can be a man of
honour. The late Duke, General de Beauregard,
as we then called him, was one of Badinguet's*
myrmidons at the coup cVetat, and will you
that I tell what he then did ? Well, this is what
he did. There was a crowd of peaceable citizens,
some women, some children, on the Boulevard.
They did nothing. They regarded the soldiers
who came. They laughed. They did not think
their blood would soon dye the pavements. My
friend Rouge was in that crowd with his young
wife. Of a sudden General de Beauregard, ridings
at the head of his staff, gives the order, ' Sweep
away that canaille I ' and in a moment p)if^ V^^f^
crack — the bullets whistled like hail. The crowd

Opprobrious nickname given to Napoleon III.
Badinguet was the name of the workman whoso clothes
Louis Napoleon borrowed when he escaped from the prison
of Him in 1846.

fled, stupefied and shrieking. The men, the
women fell ; the children were trampled underfoot.
It was a carnage. My friend Rouge is
struck down by a bullet; he raises himself; he
sees his young wife tottering, with the bayonet
of a soldier through her breast. When Leroufife
comes to himself, he is mad, and he dies a year
after in an asylum. Ask me now what General
de Beauregard was, and I shall tell you. He was
a bandit ! "

Cleverly was aware that any reminiscence of
the coup d'etat, which had placed the Emperor
on the throne, excited Grachard to frenzy. The
Frenchman could not keep his seat, but stood
up, pale and glaring, whilst his whole frame
shook. Cleverly, who had often seen him in
this state, merely asked, "You know nothing
against the Beauregardss except their politics ? "

Politics ? You call that politics, you ? "
screamed Grachard. " A man steeps his hands
in the blood of innocents, and I must ask whether
he has not done anything else before I have the
right to call him brigand ! Those innocents, they
died that a rascal might wear a crown, and give
titles, riches, posts to his friends. General de
Beauregard becomes a marshal and Due d'Alma,

and his son who grows up learns to think his
father a great and good man. What can you
expect from such a disorder in men's ideas of
right and wrong ? This Duke, who divides his
time between boudoirs and stables, takes your
betrothed from you, and proposes to marry her.
Will he marry her ? We will see. If so, you
have luck. It would be more like one of his
race to ruin her, then cast her back in your
arms, saying, ' Take her now, if you will.'
Thunder ! you talk of divine justice ; but where
is your Deity if he permits such things ? Is he
asleep ? Talk to me not of divine justice. These
emperors and dukes, with their swords and their
gold, are our masters ; you, I, all of us, are their
victims ; and if one of them fall by the hand of
some avenger, your priests declare that he is in
heaven, and consign us, his enemies, to malediction
! Ah, I thank God I am an atheist ! "

After this sally Grachard cooled and discussed
the situation from another light.

*' Marriage is an institution profoundly immoral,"
said he, gesticulating with his tea-cup.
In a society well organized on a basis of equality,
you choose the woman who has affinities with
you, and she becomes the mother of your children.

You need no priests or mayors to assist that
arrangement, and public morality will oblige
you not to repudiate obligations which you have
contracted. That is what I say to Miss Hopkins ;
but she is incredulous, for I. too, my friend, have
my troubles with women. In a society well
constituted, I should not have to enter into
relations with Miss Hopkins ; but I am a poor
refugee driven from his own land, away from
women to my liking, and your English girls of
education would not accept me, because I have
no money. So I took refuge with Miss Hopkins
in a moment of forgetfulness, and now I must
wed with her because I am an honest man, and
cannot refuse to let her live unhappily with me if
she thinks it is her interest. Thus is your society
made ! "

Infuriated by his own picture of society,
M. Grachard clapped his hat on and marched out,
promising to call again when his blood was no
longer boiling. After he had gone, Laurence
Cleverly was doubtful what to think about the
Due d'Alma. He did not want to think well of
him, and though he could not trust Grachard's
account of the man, it gave him a grim feeling of
satisfaction to reflect that he might be a libertine

who would make Gertrude cruelly expiate her
infatuation for his title. Jealousy despises no
weapon of vengeance ; it poisons every thought ;
it is a fever whose only medicine is tears forced
from the eyes of him or her who caused the fever.

Cleverly had torn up half a dozen drafts of
letters which he had written to Gertrude. He
was asking himself now how he should act after
her return — whether he should attempt to see her
and overwhelm her with upbraiding, or treat
her with distant scorn. His resolutions varied
according as hot or cold fits of jealous fever
possessed him, and he had not made up his mind
when the Corringtons came back to Lewbury.

The worst of it was that during this interval
he had to go about and see his patients as usual,
and it was surprising how many people in
Lewbury became unwell at this time and required
his services. He knew that he was being watched
with mocking eyes, and he had to bear himself as
if nothing was the matter. But all this gave
him a loathing for his profession. It was one in
which he could never hope to win that kind of
distinction by which he might dazzle the girl
who had played him false. If he had been a
soldier, a barrister, an author, he might have

looked to professional success for his consolation
and vengeance ; but what is the success of a
country doctor worth ? Laurence Cleverly asked
himself more than once during those wretched
days, whether he should not throw up his practice
and leave Lewbury ?

CHAPTER VII.

MRS. NETHERSOLE's INVITATION.

The Corringtons on their return were warmly
received by their friends ; for " so long as thou
doest well unto thyself, men shall speak well of
thee." A gallant little paragraph about Gertrude's
betrothal appeared in the Lewhurij
Chronicle, and the news was copied into the
principal London papers under the heading of
Marriages in High Life." Wherever Gertrude
went, she had to return the obsequious pressure
of outstretched hands ; and this public homage
would have been very grateful to her if she had
not been so uneasy about what Dr. Cleverly
might do, and so sore about Hucks Littleton's
coldness towards her.

Hucks was the only person who abstained
from offering her any congratulations. His wife

had in vain attempted to persuade him that her
sister had done no wrong ; he answered guardedly
for he weighed his words in scruples as
chemists do their drugs — that he trusted it was
so, and he shook hands with his sister-in-law as
usual, but he showed by making no allusion to
her engagement that he thought she ought to
give 'some explanation of her conduct. Hucks
also had a long private interview with the
General and Mrs. Corrington, the result of which
was to make Gertrude's father exceeding wroth
with Dr. Cleverly.

General Corrington, on being apprised at
Ostend of the doctor's alleged grievance and
threats, had merely said, in that loud, cracked
voice of his, " Pooh 1 we must take no notice of
the fellow ; " and he had not even questioned
Gertrude as to her past relations with Cleverly.
He chose to treat the matter as a piece of childish
folly beneath his notice, and continued to do this
after his interview with Hucks. Mrs. Corrington
told Gertrude that her father would know how to
deal with '' that man " if he dared to make
himself objectionable.

Laurence Cleverly, meanwhile, had already
perceived that by his foolish threat of bringing

an action for breach of promise he had forfeited
the dignity which might have belonged to him asa
man in love who had been grossly treated.
This was a false step from which there must bea
retreat at once. During several days he expected
that General Corrington would call upon
him ; but the General did no such thing. He
had an idea that Hucks Littleton would come,
or that Gertrude would send him a message ; but
neither of these incidents occurred. Accordingly
he made the first advance by returning to Kate
Littleton the letter which Gertrude had sent
him from Ostend, along with this note : —

Dear Mrs. Littleton,

I return you Miss Corruption's
letter as you desired, and I wish to express my
regret for some hasty expressions which escaped
me the other day under the influence of strong
excitement. I shall not cease to feel that I have
been very badly treated ; but the remembrance
of the past is so painful that I must try to
dismiss it.

*' Yours truly,

Laurence Claverlev."

There was no overture to a reconciliation in
VOL. I. ■ 7

these lines. Cleverly did not intend to forgive
Gertrude, and Kate knew this when she read his
letter. It was a comfort to her and her husband
to be relieved of the fear they had entertained
lest the doctor should cause a scandal ; but Kate
remained angry with him for having given her
such a fright. By his bluster, Cleverly had
destroyed the sympathy which, with her natural
generosity, she would otherwise have felt for him ;
and Kate, running to the opposite extreme, set
him down as a cantankerous and ill-bred man,
who could never have made a nice husband.

Gertrude was also relieved of lier terrors ; for
she had been horribly alarmed at the idea that
Laurence Cleverly might write to the Duke.
Hucks Littleton now congratulated her, and
she condescended to express to herself a little
pity for the doctor. No girl can feel quite indifferent
to a man who has proposed to her out
of love ; and the future duchess would have liked
to meet Cleverly just for once, and prove to him
by quiet argument — all the arguing being on her
side — that she had never wronged him.

Did she at heart feel contrite for her behaviour
? Well, just a little, no more. She was
neither saint nor sinner, but an ordinary English

girl, with many sound homespun qualities and
a few human failings. She was merry, fond of
pleasure, and had too often been told she was
pretty not to believe it. Since she had been to
her first ball at seventeen, she had indulged in
more than one flirtation with young officers of
the Brightport garrison and undergraduates home
for vacations. She knew how to draw a man to
her side by a glance, enchant him with a smile,
flurry him with a pout, try his temper by alternations
of confidential tenderness and raillery, or
repel him altogether by icy reserve. These were
little arts which she had practised on the youth
of Britain by manner of pastime and in full
security. To squeezes of the hand, exchanges of
photographs, and stolen kisses, she attached little
importance ; they are the wild flowers which
English girls scatter before marriage, and how
much more innocuous are they than the wild oats
which young men sow at the same season !

But Gertrude knew the value of a matrimonial
osier made by a responsible householder, having
a profession and a good name in the world ; so
she had never treated Laurence Cleverly like
other young men. He was one of those whose
attentions mean business, and it had been her

object to win his best opinion while studying
him with a cool and careful eye, as one whose
board she might have to share for the remainder
of her days.

Cleverly had never received a coquettish
glance from her, nor a lock of hair, nor a kiss ;
he had snatched one kiss from her after making
his offer, but she had not been a consenting
party, and the impress of his lips had caused her
to blush deeper than she had ever reddened for
all bygone kisses. She had made up her mind,
however, to accept the doctor soon or late, and
Jiere was the gist of her serious offence against
him. If she had returned from Ostend disengaged,
she would certainly have become his
wife. She could not well have helped herself, for
her father and mother, who now spoke so contemptuously
of Cleverly, would have urged upon
her the advantages of the match ; her sister Kate
would have warmly advocated it ; and Gertrude
herself had seen nothing in the doctor's character
that could prevent her from becoming very fond
of him after marriage. As to his being the son
of a footman, she had never troubled herself about
that version of his pedigree, and indeed, had
dosed her ears to it.

But now, since lier brilliant Ostend campaign,
it seemed to Gertrude as if the time when it had
been possible that she could love Laurence
Ciaverley was ever so remote. She had entered
a new world bounded by an enlarged and more
glorious horizon, and she gratefully loved the
man Who had led her in view of this happy
country. She felt it was rather gracious on her
part that she should forgive Dr. Ciaverley for
having so nearly entrapped her into becoming
a country surgeon's wife. AVhat a fate that
would have been ! Supposing she had gone away
to Ostend irretrievably engaged to Laurence
Ciaverley, and had been obliged to renounce the
Duke's offer to keep faith with a man, the
branches of whose genealogical tree, ]perhaps,
swarmed with ostler and housemaids ? There
was enough in the idea to make her shudder.

One might suppose from this that Gertrude
lead little heart ; but she was only a girl of
twenty-one. We do not expect boys at that
spring age to be weaned from all vanities. Weare
not astonished if they fall short of ideal
goodness, or despair of them if some selfishness
and WTongheadedness regulate their conduct.
Why, then, should there be a stricter exaction

from girls ? Gertrude Corrington had a very
good heart, but Laurence Cleverly had failed to
touch it ; that is all.

The opportunity of meeting the doctor, which
Gertrude half desired, was soon furnished her ; for
our friend Mrs. Nethersole issued invitations to
a grand evening party, and invited the Corringtons
as well as the doctor. The old lady
wanted to see what would come of the rencounter
between " Flirtie " and her jilted lover.

The Corringtons doubted at first whether they
could go to the party ; for Gertrude, with her
mother and Bertha, went every day into Bright-port
to see milliners, make purchases, and try on
dresses. Those were the days of bandboxes and
parcels arriving constantly ; silks and velvets had
to be matched ; there were anxious consultations
as to whether the wedding dress should be white,
or cream-coloured ; and a dressmaker had been
hired by the day and located in the schoolroom,
where the tic-tac of her sewing machine made
a music dear to female ears. However, it was
decided at length that Mrs. Nethersole's invitation
should be accepted. '' She's such a spiteful
old cat," said Kate, '' that she would declare we
were afraid to meet the doctor if we did not go."

Gertrude's dressmaker wa none other tau
Polly Hopkins, M. Grachard's intended. Polly's
mother let lodgings, and was the Frenchman's
landlady. The relations between M. Grachard
and Miss Hopkins having reached a point
which no prudent mother could approve, Mrs.
Hopkins had insisted upon marriage, and " Tim,"
as Miss Hopkins called him, had, as we know,
surrendered to a sense of his duties. But he
would not hear of being married in a church,
for he looked upon such edifices as monuments
of human folly ; while Mrs. Hopkins argued that
since he was not a Catholic — for which she
thanked her Maker — nor a Jew, as was shown
by his eating sausages, he must be a Churchman,
a Baptist, or, at least, a Quaker, though it pleased
that silly French head of his to think otherwise.
j\Iiss Hopkins cared not where or how she was
married, so long as the ceremony took place
soon, and was graced with a proper amount of
pomp.

She was a sly maiden, with a pert nose, grey
eyes, and a quick tongue. Grachard had given
her his emphatic opinion about Miss Corrington's
bad behaviour ; but in this, as in many other
things, Miss Hopkins did not agree with liei-

future husband, and she had an idea lying deep
and quiet in her own mind that Gertrude might
be useful to her, by obtaining her Tim's pardon
from the Emperor Napoleon.

Grachard had told her that if he were back
in his own country, he should fill a high position
there as a journalist and politician, but he always
added that he would perish rather than sue for
grace. With such scruples the high-minded Miss
Hopkins had nothing to do, and she had resolved
that if Tim would not crave the Due d' Alma's
intercession, she would do so privately in his
stead.

She had informed Gertrude of her engagement,
and Gertrude was, of course, much interested in
her, owing to the coincidence of their both being
about to become Frenchwomen. Polly Hopkinson
her side, was interested in the goings-on at
Kingshouse. She kept her eyes and ears on the
watch, and picked up odds and ends of conversation
which she retailed to Tim, through whom
they reached Laurence Cleverly. Thus the
doctor overheard scraps of the discussion as to
whether Mrs. Nethersole's invitation should be
accepted by the Corringtons. He himself meant
to go to the party. He thought it best to meet

the Corringtous and have done with it, though
how he should behave in their presence — whether
he should accost or ignore them, speak to them
coldly, coolly, or not at all — were points on which
his resolutions varied from hour to hour.

Grachard's warm sympathy poured out whenever
the friends met, ended by thawing Cleverly's
reserve, and the doctor sometimes let his mortification
be seen by the Frenchman at their evenings
lessons.

'' They are a mean lot, the whole family of
them," he once said bitterly. " There is that
cur, Hucks Littleton, who purposely avoids me.
I saw him duck down a side street to-day when
he sighted my dogcart. And the General, too,
as an officer and gentleman, he knows that he
owes me an apology."

*' Why don't you pull their ears ? " shrieked
Grachard. " I would spit at their faces in
public. They should fight me and have six
inches of my foil in their bodies. Ah, sacrehleii,
what a country is this, wherein there is no
remedy for outraged honour ! Why, what cure
is there for a worry like yours ? "

"To grin and bear it, I suppose," muttered
Cleverly; ''so let us turn to our Voltaire. A

chapter of the Philosophical Dictionary is what
I most want, and I'll light a pipe'

But sometimes the advice which Grachard
gave was of the thoughtful kind which beseemed
true friendship.

You fret, my poor friend," he said one evening
; " but that is worth nothing. You should
show contempt. Will you that I tell you what
I should do in your pLace ? AVell, I would prove
to that proud Gertrude that it is she who has
made the bad bargain, not 1. I would laugh
and pay my court to another girl. There are
plenty. I would marry, be a good husband, a
triumphant father. I woukl work at my profession,
and make the world speak well of me, so
that your faithless one should bite her lips and
say, 'I deceived myself about that man.' To
every one comes the opportunity of reprisals,
and, as the Italians say, ^' Revenge is a dish
that should be eaten cold."

*' I thought you did not believe in Providence,"
remarked Cleverly.

"No ! but I believe in the logic of facts ! " exclaimed
the Frenchman. " You do a wrong ;
you stir up against you the hatred, the contempt,
the vindictiveness of others, and you are like one

who unchains so many ferocious dogs to roam
about in the woods where he takes his daily
walks. Soon or late they shall bite him. Miss
Gertrude has betrayed you to marry a duke, but
think not she will foro-et you. She shall be uneasy
; her conscience shall condemn her. You
shall be ever present in her memory, and your
character will be the standard by which she will
judge that of her husband. If he is brutal,
neglectful, stupid, she shall think of you ; if her
life is unhappy and that of your wife is all the
contrary, you shall have planted a dagger in her
heart. A duchess does not wear her coronet in
her bedroom ; in the moments when she is a
mere woman, she holds titles cheap ; she ranks
men according to her feelings, and the love of
an honest heart seems to her, after all, the only
thing worth having. Look well, therefore, that
by your conduct now you leave on this cruel girl
an impression that will never be effaced."

This was good advice, but not more easy to
f allow on that account. To begin with, Cleverly
was not disposed to go and form some random
loveless attachment simply to shute Gertrude ;
and as to fortitude, some little event contributed
every day to upset the philosophy with which

lie tried to balance his mind before starting on
this morning's rounds. Here it was some injudicious
offer of sympathy from a lady patient,
or a clumsy question from a friend in the streets,
or an inquiry from one of his own servants
wanting to know " whether it was true, sir,
that there wasn't going to be a wedding ? " (Jn
the very day of Mrs. Nethersole's party Cleverly
received by post — anonymously, of course — a
parody of " The Frog he would a- wooing go."
It ran —

James he would a wooing go,"
and was illustrated with a pen and ink daub of
a footman being kicked out of a house by a man
with bis: moustaches and a coronet.

Against such potions even Voltaire provides
no antidote in his Philosophy.

Chapter VIII.

MRS. NETHEESOLE's PARTY,

Mrs. Nethersole lived with her son Purkiss in
Priory Crescent. Her reputation as a spiteful
old cat did not prevent people from keeping on
good terms with her, as she had a talent for
avoiding quarrels. Her damaging rumours could
never be positively traced to her, for she had
always heard them from other persons, and she
retailed them in an interrogative form, wanting
to know whether they were true, and sincerely
lisping they were not.

Since her return to Lewbury, she had asked
a dozen sets of visitors whether it was a fact that
Dr. Cleverly and Gertrude had been engaged,
and wondered indignantly what people could
mean by spreading such idle rumours. Her son
Purkiss likewise went about button-holier .Mr.

Quang and others, saying with a giggle, " I say,
rum start that, isn't it, between ' Flirtie ' and the
Sawbones ? " But Purkiss had to drop that chaff
on espying that public opinion took so respectful
a view of Gertrude's engagement. Mr. Quang,
who did not often rebuke anybody, once ventured
to say, " I wouldn't call Miss Corrington ' Flirtie '
if I were you. It doesn't sound proper."

He niio'ht have added that Purkiss Nether-sole
should have been the last man to throw
stones about flirting, being himself a sad offender
in this respect. Purkiss Nethersole was one of
the most objectionable and dangerous of young
men. The only child of his widowed mother, he
had been spoilt, and had never made use of his
time at school, so that he had grown up unfit for
any profession. He had talked at one time of
going into the army, then he was to eat his terms
for the bar ; but in the upshot he remained at
Lewbury, leading a loafer's life, and screwing as
much as he could out of his mother for cheap
amusements. The creature did not drink nor
gamble, so that he was reputed to have no vices,
and mothers trusted him more than was prudent.

He knew all the girls of Lewbury, addressed
them by their Christian names, and was called

by them '' Purkiss." He could dance well and
strum a little on the piano, so that lie was always
useful at parties ; and if girls were going to
Briglitport to shop, his escort was accepted as
that of a brother. Nobody liked him or hated
him, for there was nothing salient in his nature ;
but mothers talked of him with good-humoured
tolerance, as heiug very harmless, which he was
not. Their daughters knew better. There was
scarcely a marriageable young lady in the town
whom he had not kissed and " spooned." They
used to flush up sometimes, and cry, *' Purkiss,
how dare you ? " but what more could they say ?
One or two had slapped his ears, which did not
keep him in check. Gertrude was one of those
who had slapped his ears, and he had taken less
liberties with her than with others, because she
lead her brother Dick to protect her. When
there were no brothers at hand, Purkiss had
things his own way ; and, after all, he used to
make girls titter by talking to them of love,
marriage, and such things, and by regaling them
with tattle not always suited to maiden ears.
He had a long upper lip, tusky front teeth, and
a face rather like a sheep's. " I say, here's a
lark," was his favourite exordium ; and he called

everything a lark which tended to the exposure
of people's little foibles, or to their public discomfiture.
It was a great lark, in his opinion,
that Gertrude and Dr. Cleverly should be
brought together, " like a pair of Kilkenny cats''
in his mother's drawing-room ; and he had
promised the five Quang girls — Dora, Hilda,
Caroline, Bessie, and Priscilla — that he would
hit upon something to make the pair '' smoke,"
i.e. blush. Such was this young man.

Mrs. Nethersole's party — a stuffing of forty
guests into two small drawing-rooms — commenced
at nine, and it was ten o'clock when
Cleverly arrived, looking his best in his dress-clothes.
As the green grocer, hired for the
evening to play waiter, announced his name,
many a girl in the crowded little rooms eyed
him kindly. He might have had any of the five
Quang girls for the asking. He might have had
Miss Claribel Jupe, a long-necked young person
(daughter of Dr. Jupe, a professional rival), who
sat at the piano, howling " He thinks I do not
love him'' Miss Susan Jentleigh, the rector's
daughter, a brave and warm-hearted girl, the
mainstay of orthodoxy in her father's parish
against the ritualistic encroachments of Mr.

Oram, was not insensible to his merits. What a
pity that so handsome and popular a man should
have taken a fancy to a girl who had trifled with
him !

Miss Jupe, in the midst of her song, screeched
a false note or two ; for the doctor's entrance
produced a sudden silence, which caused her to
glance over her shoulder. Purkiss was turning
the leaves of her music, and winked to her.
Gertrude, who was seated among the five Misses
Quang, flushed pink, though she tried to appear
indifferent. Cleverly made his bow to Mrs.
Nethersole, and then accosted Mrs. Corrington,
who sat beside her. His manner was stiff" and
embarrassed.

Is General Corrington quite well ? " he
asked, with an efibrt.

Yes, thanks ; he is playing whist in the
next room." This was said very drily, and
sounded almost aggressive, because, in the silence
of the room, the words rang so loud.

There were plenty of other ladies to be
shaken hands with. Kate Littleton was therein
a very elegant black net dress, and with a
white rose in her hair ; and her turn came iu
time.

VOL. I. 8

How do you do, Dr. Cleverly ? " she said,
with a greater appearance of cordiality than she
had intended to display, for she felt anxious as
to how the doctor would salute her sister.

Everybody in the room had begun to talk
again, so as not to seem preoccupied about the
little scene that was going to be enacted ; but
everybody was listening with strained ears, and
looking towards Cleverly or Gertrude. It was
like a minor concerto of fiddles playing the
prelude to a duet.

Gertrude was tastefully dressed in white silk,
with a few moss roses on the skirt. It was a
plain dress, but beautifully made in the latest
fashion ; and Gertrude's hair was also arranged
in a new style. She seemed lovelier to Cleverly
than when he had last seen her — though she had
seemed peerless then — and there was a something
about her altogether which revealed her
social promotion. She looked out of place in
this provincial drawing-room — no longer the sort
of a girl whom a struggling surgeon would ask
to be his wife.

After saying a few words to Kate, the doctor
walked straight up to Gertrude, and bowed, without
holding out his hand.

Good evening, Miss Corrington," he said ina
voice which trembled slightly.

"Good evening, Dr. Cleverly," she murmured,
blushing deeply and without raising her
glance to his. She did not feel much disposed
to argue with him at that moment.

I have to wish you joy of your engagement,"
he continued, forcing himself to speak
calmly.

"Thank you." And that was all, for the
doctor bowed again and passed on into the back
drawing-room, where there was a whist table.

Kate Littleton began to breathe more freely.
The meeting was going off much better than she
had expected, and Dr. Cleverly was behaving
like a gentleman. But at this moment Purkiss
Nethersole proceeded to execute the little plot he
had formed for making Gertrude and the doctor
look foolish.

Miss Jupe had finished her song amid polite
applause. While the green grocer and a maid
were going round with refreshments, Purkiss
approached the group of Quang girls, and asked
if any of them would sing.

"Dora, please give us one of your Scotch
songs."

'' Ob, Purkiss, I have sung already. I think
you should treat us to a performance now."

"You know I can't sing," said Purkiss.
I only wobble."

"Well, then, warble us one of your comic
songs. You always give them with great expression."



"Since you compel me, I'll try something
better than that," bleated Purkiss. " I'll indulge
in a ballad ; but you must promise not to encore,
because I'm bashful."

There was something in the look of the
Quang girls which struck Kate Littleton. They
simpered and gazed at the carpet, while Purkiss's
readiness to sing was suspicious, for he disliked
singing. All this gave indications of a conspiracy,
and made Kate wonder.

Purkiss sat down to the piano, splashed out
the notes of his prelude with remarkable action,
cleared his throat, and sang this : —

'Twas rank and fame that tempted thee,
'Twas empire charmed thy heart ;
But love was wealth, the world to me ;
Then, false one, let us part.

The prize I fondly deemed my own
Another's now may be ;

For all ! with love life's gladness flown,
Leaves grief to wed with me'*

and Purkiss repeated confuoco —

Leaves grie-ie-ief to we-ed with me-e-e-e ! "

The song was concluded amidst a general
feeling of awkwardness, the guests munching
biscuits and burying their noses in their teacups
to avoid making remarks. The allusion was too
transparent, and Purkiss had decidedly " put his
foot into it." He was not prepared for the swift
retribution which Kate Littleton dealt out to
him, though he ought to have known that this
impulsive lady never allowed a friend, much less
a relative, to be attacked without flying to the
rescue.

Purkiss," she said promptly, as she rattled
her fan, " I suppose that ballad describes the
feelings which possessed you when Patty Brown,
the pastry cook's daughter, jilted you to marry
Mr. Dove, the hosier ? "

AVhat's that, Mrs. Littleton ? " asked Pur-kiss,
turning very red, but looking blue.

His mother, perceiving his uneasiness, smiled
in a wry way as she echoed his inquiry, " What
are you saying, my dear Kate ? "

Oh, Purkiss knows," laughed Kate, speaking
distinctly, so that all might hear. "He was
very tender about Miss Patty Brown. He used
to make love to her over the counter, and spend
his money on sweets for the good of the house.
One day he took her to Brightport, and she
allowed him to treat her to a pair of gloves.
After so much liberality, it must have been a
great blow to him, poor fellow, when she married
Mr. Dove."

'come, Mrs. Littleton, you — you ought
not to say such things," stammered Purkiss in
consternation ; for all this was true.

"Why not, since you sing about them in
that ballad of yours, and talk about being
'wedded to grief?" retorted Kate. "But I
must say, Purkiss, you are not very constant to
that Miss Grief, whoever she may be, for you
have taken of late to setting your sprouting
whiskers at our housemaid, Betsy. You know,
Mrs. Nethersole, Betsy is a pretty girl. Well,
would you believe it, Purkiss contrives to pass
our house in the morning while she is washing
the doorstep, and he casts soft glances at her ?
I told Betty the other day this must not go too
far, unless Purkiss intended to propose to her.

In that case, I said, as I should consider it a
very suitable match "

A general burst of laughter drowned the rest
of Kate's sentence. The ^yq plain Quang girls
laughed louder than anybody, for they had
noticed some fiery sparks in Kate's fine eyes, and
were horribly afraid lest, having made an example
of Purkiss, she should give each of them a cut
with her tongue. Poor Purkiss was so mortified
and unbounded by this turning of tables that
he slunk away and busied himself with some
music-books, that he might not meet the glance
of his scandalized parent. Altogether Kate's
brilliant charge completely routed the Nether-soles.


But now Gertrude was sitting alone, for Dr.
Cleverly, after his retreat into the next room,
had joined the whist-party. He was playing ina
listless way, having Mr. Quang for his partner.
Nor did he speak to Gertrude again that evening,
beyond wishing her coldly " Good night " when
she went away.

Gertrude felt piqued, and half afraid, with a
presentiment that all was not yet over between
herself and the doctor. But, returning home, she
found a loni^ letter from Poland, and this consoled

her. The Duke wrote in French, a language
which lends itself so well to the strains of tender
love and the turning of pretty compliments.
How could the poet Lamartine have called it a
cold language — une langue dJ arithmetical f You
may boldly say in it things which, put into
English, read like craziness or grotesque affectations.
A Frenchman may be grandiloquent,
clamorous, sentimental, or witty, without ceasing
to be natural. Head an English love-letter in a
law court, and it excites roars of laughter ; read
one before an average of audience of Frenchmen,
and if it provoke a smile at all it will be a very
kindly one.

Is this because the French look upon love-shaking
as the grand business of life, whereas the
English affect to treat it only as a weakness of
the flesh, to be half-ashamed of, and to be kept
very sly and private ? Your Gaul, duke or
soldier, does not mind declaring before all the
world that he is ready to die for his lady love ;
and he expects to be believed, and he is believed.
And from the Empress to the flower-girl in the
street, every woman who hears him thinks this
mode of expressing himself perfectly natural and
proper, " Mes amis, je suis amoureux ? EUe

maine. . . . Feliciter-moi ; e'en pleure de joie."
Do we Englishmen dare to say such things to our
friends, in a room where there are strangers
present ? The Frenchman does so every day, and
cares not who listens.

So in Koland's letter there came to Gertrude
as it were a wafting of warm air from that fair
land of France, which is a land of love — a land
where women have always been queens in spite
of Salic law; whose history is made up of the
doings of women ; whose kings have been popular,
according as they loved most. A Frenchman's
love, however, is not always bestowed on his wife,
or on the girl he is going to marry ; and in this
Gertrude was lucky to get a husband who was
going to be her lover too. Her pulses throbbed
as she caught the glow of those fervent lines, as
one catches the rhythm of good poetry which
carries you along with a voluptuous sensation as
of floating off earth.

Eoland not only made passionate declarations
of his love, but he wrote in good spirits about
the prospect of soon being with Gertrude again.
He had started for Brittany to see his grandmother,
and hoped to get his business there soon
concluded. Gertrude read this letter twice in

her room ; then stood by her window for awhile,
gazing at the moonlight, which threw its soft
blueish glare on the night.

She thought of the home she was going to
leave — it had been a happy one — but she did not
regret to leave it ; for the trying scene to which
she had been subjected that night had put her out
of conceit with Lewbury and its wretched provincial
society, where creatures like that Purkiss
Nethersole made a pleasure of annoying her.
Then, as the languor of hopeful love stole over
her, her fancy flapped its wings onwards towards
the great world which she was about to enter,
and she felt so comforted and happy that she
pressed Eoland's letter to her lips. And when
she went to bed, she hid that letter under her
pillow, that she might read it again in the
morning.

CHAPTEE IX.

THE OMEN OF THE FALLEN Branch.

The Due cVAlma had gone to France to ask the
consent of his maternal grandmother to his
marriage. He would have been bound to do this
even if he had been seventy years of age, and had
had parents or grandparents still living. The
aged Marquise de Chateaufort could not, by withholding
her consent, forbid his marriage ; but she
could, according to French law, compel him to go
through formalities which are always disagreeable.
He would be obliged to send to the Marquise,
through a public notary, a respectful intimation
(acte resjyectueux) of his intention to disregard
her wishes, and all the world would then know
that he had quarrelled with his grandmother.

Would the old lady be willing that he should
marry an English Protestant ? As Roland

travelled towards Brittany, he had his misgivings
on the point. He had proposed to Gertrude
without any thought of his family, and he intended
to marry her, whether his relatives were
pleased or not. But he would like things to be
made pleasant all round. The Marquise was
eighty-five, and a rigid Catholic. She was very
fond of him, however, and she was almost in her
dotage ; that is to say, there were days when her
memory got confused, so that he hoped she might
give her consent without exactly understanding
that he was going to marry a "heretic." She
would only have to put her signature before
witnesses to a document drawn up by Eoland's
notary, Monsieur Eagotin.

Chateaufort was situated at a few miles from
Auray, on the wildest part of the coast of
Morbihan. It was close to the Heath of Carnal,
with its countless Celtic remains, dolmans,
memoirs, and cromlechs ; and the waves of the
Gulf of Morbihan, a sea of innumerable rugged
islands and treacherous tides, tumbled roaring
amidst a mass of huge black rocks that could be
seen from its windows. It was a gloomy and
romantic place, the seat of many Breton legends
and superstitions ; and the peasantry, who still

wore the picturesque Breton costume and talked
Gaelic, were a rude uncultured race, believing in
all that their priests and their old women told
them.

Eoland d'Alma had no love for this spot,
where his mother had been brought up. It made
him dismal to go there. He was a nineteenth-century
Parisian, who thought Catholic and
Royalist Brittany a good place to read of in books,
or to boast of as the locality where some of his
ancestors had hunted and fought, but not a place
to inhabit one's self Yet, out of the filial respect
which is always strong in the French, he used to
pay visits to Chateauforfc several times a year, to
spend a few days with the Marquise. He called
this taking his fated dose of ennui, and hoped it
would be counted to him in purgatory. The air
of Carnac seemed to him saturated with melancholy
; and at night, when the noise of the sea
mingled with the plaintive soughing of the wind
through the pine woods, when the doors of the
old castle creaked and the window panes rattled,
he wondered how any human creature possessing
money could care to live in such a hole.

There was nothing in the conversation of the
natives, either, to enliven the Duke. From the

toothless old crones who hobbled among the
Druidical stones gathering simples, to the white-capped
village wenches who sold their hair at the
fairs of Auray to make chignons for Parisian
ladies ; from the stiff-jointed fathers of the village,
with their baggy canvas breeches, and their broad -
brimmed, low-crowned hats, to the clattering
hobbledehoys in wooden shoes, who blubbered
when the conscription took them ; — there was nota
man or woman in this bleak place but saw
in the commonest disturbances of the elements
portents of death or disaster. If they perceived
a crow, or heard a dog howl, they muttered an
ave. Their very pigs seemed loaded to the snout
with prophecy ; for if one of these animals grunted
too loud on a Friday morning, it was taken to
mean that there would be rain all through the
ensuing week.

Eoland had telegraphed from Paris to announce
his arrival, so that on reaching Auray
he found his grandmother's landau waiting for
him at the station. He was also met by a lanky
young priest, with enormous hands and feet and
a very greasy cassock. This was the Marquise's
chaplain, the Abbe Jerome Juva de Denmark.

Jerome Juva had bright blue eyes and fair

hair that fell to his shoulders ; but his shoulders
stooped, and his eyes, though so handsome,
seemed, out of timidity, to retreat from anybody's
straight gaze, like moles backing into their holes
away from lantern light. He had a juvenile,
gawkish gait and expression, smiled readily, and
listened with an eager, respectful curiosity to all
that was said to him. When in the presence of
strangers, he held his long bony arms downwards
almost level with his knees, and rubbed
his hands nervously, as if he hoped to extract
sparks of conversation from them. He appeared
to be a very good young man, painfully anxious
to do the right thing, and ever tormented by the
idea that he was not doing enough.

Roland, who had known him since he was a
boy, greeted him with a friendly pat on the
shoulder. '^ It's kind of you to have come,
Jerome. How is my grand mamma ? "

'' She is fairly well. Allow me to take your
bag, sir ; " and, seizing the bag with all his
strength in his desire to oblige, he snatched it
out of the Duke's hands and tottered three paces
backwards with it.

The family coachman, old Bernard Kergarec
an outlandish figure in a mouldy blue coat

with half a dozen capes, and a glazed cap with
a blackened gold band round it — now croaked
his welcome in a husky voice —

"Pot dion, wionsiou, we are glad to see
you ; but I'd rather you had brought two boxes
instead of one, even though I should have had
to carry them to the chateau on my own
shoulders. This doesn't look like a long stay,
monsieur'' added Bernard, trying to lift the large
portmanteau ; and though he had expressed his
willingness to carry two boxes to the chateau,
he found this single one as much as he could
manage, and had to be assisted by the Duke's
English valet, Barney, and a porter. In fact,
he did little of the work, but made a great show
of performing it all.

'energetic as ever, my good Bernard," said
the Duke. " And I see your horses are always
patterns of fine grooming."

Yes, monsieur, I'll wager they've no horses
in Paris to beat them."

'rand not a coachman in the world to rival
you, eh ? " added the Duke.

This was an eternal joke which old Bernard
pocketed unsuspiciously as a compliment, and
which always made Barney laugh consumedly in

his sleeve. For the antiquity of the Marquise's
landau, its heavy wheels and hard springs, the
shaggy look of its pair of Norman horses, and
the odd turn-out of Bernard himself, were most
entertaining things to the English valet. Koland
would have preferred a modern vehicle. The
hood of the carriage was pulled down, and he
seated himself, half reclining on cushions broad
as an ottoman ; but the unyielding springs gave
him a cruel jolting, and the deafening noise
which the old wheels made in going over the
paved high - roads precluded all conversation
between him and Jerome.

It was a beautiful evening, cooled by a soft
breeze that smelt of seaweed. On that wild
coast, where it so often rains, and moliere grey
mists may be called the every-day garb of the
moorlands, the few fine days of summer may be
compared to Sundays, when the country puts on
a holiday attire of lovely colours. The Celtic
boulders on the plain of Carnac were crested with
little tufts of green, or coated with patches of
fresh velvet moss. In the chinks of old stones,
brown with the polish of centuries, sprouted
little plants with yellow flowers ; and the ground
was carpeted with pink and white heather, wliicli

VOL. I. 9

blended into a uniform tint of purple when seen
from afar, as it stretched away undulating for
miles. The sea coming in view glowed like a
calm lake ; and the western sky, where the sun
was setting, looked like a large sheet of green
glass blazing and streaked with long lines of
blood red.

Leaving the high-road on the border of the
heath, the landau ascended a narrower road,
which sloped upwards for half a mile till it came
to a forest of pines, which formed the girdle of
the estate. There was a low paling all round
it, and the entrance to the wood was guarded by
a thatched porter's lodge, and by a pair of tall
rusty gates with coroneted escutcheons of wrought
iron, which a couple of bareheaded urchins in
sabots swung back by jumping on them as if
they were swings.

Just as the landau had passed through the
gates it was pulled up short, and the coachman
uttered a shout of alarm as he reined in by
jerking up his elbows to the level of his ears.
There had been a crash aloft, and the dead
branch of a tree came crackling down, and fell
right across the road, scattering a shower of dust
and twigs.

*^ Malediction ! " howled old Bernard, who had
been almost thrown off by the oscillation of the
ponderous carriage in his sudden stop.

What is the matter ? " asked the Duke,
standing up.

May the devil take thee, Odette, slut, wench,
wicked little vaurien ! " continued Bernard,
shaking his whip at somebody in the tree.

And Roland saw a wild-looking girl, with a
patched kirtle, standing bare-legged on one of the
lower branches. She stared rather mockingly at
him for a moment, then scrambled lightly down
from the tree, slipped her feet into a pair of
wooden shoes, and ran to pull the branch out of
the way.

There, it's gone ! You needn't growl and
grunt any more, uncle," she cried, smothering
a laugh.

But the presage isn't gone ! " shouted old
Bernard, lashing at her furiously with his whip.
Holy St. Anne of Auray, defend us from your
wiles, you little sorceress. I believe you did it
on purpose."

Why is he so excited ? " asked the Duke, of
Jerome ; for he could not understand why the fall
of a rotten branch of a tree should throw the old

man into such a rao^e ; but now he noticed that
the priest was moved too. He had made the
sign of the cross, and was muttering a prayer.

Sir, God is good," he stammered ; " but the
branch of a tree across the path of one returning
home is supposed by our people to bode mischance."


No doubt it does to a rider coming home
on a foo^ofY nio;ht," answered the Duke, who felt
a little uneasy nevertheless, for, like most Frenchmen,
he had his grain of superstition. He was
annoyed that the priest had told him of the
presage. " Is it good to frighten a young girl
like that with such ideas, Jerome ? It's Odette,
the cow-girl, isn't it ? — Hie, Odette ! "

But Odette, after skipping out of reach of her
uncle's whip, had hidden behind a tree, and put
out her tongue at her relative. When the Duke
called, she took to her heels, and vanished in the
wood.

There had been an amused spectator of this
scene. A man who looked like a pedlar was
leaning against one of the gate pillars, with a
pack on his back and a bundle lying at his feet.
He was a fellow with a merry eye and a swarthy
Italian face. His costume was the blue French

blouse, with leather leggings ; but he wore a
Tyrolese hat, and smoked a cigarette with the
lazy daintiness of a Spaniard. '

*^ Pardon me. Monsieur le Due," he said,
throwing away a cigarette half consumed, and
lifting his hat with easy politeness as he advanced,
I am afraid I was the cause of this little mishap
by asking the young lady who has just fled to
catch a squirrel for me. She told me she could
catch squirrels. I am sorry that she has so upset
Monsieur Crabbe."

You appear to know me, sir," replied
Eoland, struck by the man's expressive face, good
manners, and foreign accent ; " and it seems to me
I have seen you before."

No doubt you have, sir. I travel a good
deal. My name is Quirolo, but people have
punned on my patronymic, and call me Pierre
Quiroule." *

'•' I have not seen you in Brittany, though.
Monsieur Quiroule, nor under this costume, I
think. It seems to me that — at a court ball "

I am a man of many trades. Monsieur le
Due," interrupted the pedlar, with a composed
smile. " I am engaged at present in fostering

Pierre qui roule — Rolling Stone.

the piety of this very religious province by selling
relics, images, and little medals blessed by the
Pope. Will you allow me to offer you one of St.
Denis and St. George ? "

Why, it bears the heads of General Garibaldi
and Henri Eochefort ! " observed the Duke,
amused.

"So it does. I beg your pardon ; I went to
the wrong pocket," said Pierre Quiroule, with a
laugh, quite unabashed. *you know, sir, each
locality has its saints, and one must humour
every form of belief These two are worshipped
in manufacturing towns. Here are St. Denis
and St. George, emblematical of the entente
cordiale between France and England, and, may
I add, of your coming marriage, to which I wish
every happiness."

The pedlar's unexpected speech was cut short
by old Bernard's urging his team on.

I wonder who that fellow is ? " murmured
the Duke, astonished. ** I could swear I had
seen him at a court ball in some foreign uniform.
And where has he heard that I am going to be
married ? "

He is a very dangerous man," observed
Jerome Juva, somewhat excitedly, and with a

solemn shake of the head. " He comes hereabout
twice a year, sir, and he turns the heads of
all the girls, selling them cheap jewellery and
books of idle stories. He has been here since
yesterday, and I dare say he is going away with
his pockets full of money."

Eoland, marvelling how the pedlar could have
heard of his coming marriage, was tempted to
ask whether the news of it had reached Chateau-fort
; but he refrained. The landau was toiling
up a private road full of deep ruts, and jolted so
violently that of a sudden Jerome bit his tongue,
and uttered a squall of pain.

Onwards and still upwards went the private
road, a mere carriage way through the wood, till,
at about half a mile from the lodge, the ascent
terminated abruptly in a plateau of about half
an acre in extent, in the centre of which rose the
chateau.

There had been a time when, standing on one
of the gate towers of their castle, the Seigneurs
of Chateaufort could count the steeples of twenty
villages all their own. Their lands reached from
Carnac to Auray on the one side, and from
Carnac to Quiberon on the other. But now,
thanks to revolutionary confiscations, the Marquise

owned little property outside the forest. The
greater part of her income was derived from
money in the funds ; but she made a fair profit
yearly out of the sale of her timber, her cattle,
sheep, and the produce of her dairy. There was
a fine dairy on the plateau, and, when younger,
she had superintended it herself; but now it was
managed by her steward, Alain Kergarec. All
the servants in the household were Kergarecs,
relatives of Alain, whose family had served the
lords of Ch^teaufort for centuries.

CHAPTER X.

AN OFFER OF TWO WIVES.

The castle had scarcely altered in outward appearance
since it was built in the reign of
Charles VI. It was a massive place of grey
stone, two stories high, partially cloaked with
ivy, and having a diadem of battlements. At
each angle of the front stood a round tower, and
there were a pair of turrets, with pointed roofs
flanking the large doorway, which had a portcullis,
and was still approached over a moat and
a drawbridge, which Jehan Kergarec, the porter,
pulled up every night.

The landau, rumbling over the drawbridge
and under a deep archway, entered a quadrangle
of good size, with a grass plat in the centre. To
the right of it was a chapel in the flamboyant
style, very black, and with niches full of broken-nosed
saints ; to the left were stables, a kitchen,

and a refectory. The fourth side of the chateau,
which from its crenelated roof to the basement
was draped entirely with ivy, was occupied by
the private apartments. A paved, but weed-grown
carriage-sweep, encircling the lawn of ill-kept
turf, on which household linen was hanging
out to dry, led up to the door, which was surmounted
by an elaborately carved stone shield,
bearing the arms of the Versailles.

On the steps stood a pretty girl in a grey
frock and broad-brimmed straw hat with red
trimming — a girl of small stature and neat figure,
with large grave blue eyes. The brim of her
hat, keeping her face in the shade, darkened her
ruddy, rustic complexion, and made her eyes
seem all the larger and more serious, so that a
stranger would have taken her to be twenty-five
years old, instead of being, as she actually was,
scarcely twenty. This was Pauline Juva, Jerome's
sister. She had formerly been the Marquise de
Chateaufort's companion and reader, but was now
the housekeeper of the chateau. Her position of
trust was denoted by a purse-bag suspended to
her black and silver girdle, and containing a big
bunch of keys ; it was also evinced by a somewhat
prim demeanour. A countrified little thing

lie was, evidently intimidated by the Duke's
arrival, for she coloured as the carriage drove up ;
yet she stood her ground, as if it were part of her
duty to be there and greet him.

Good evening, my dear Pauline ; I need not
ask how you are," said Eoland, in a brotherly
tone, after he had alighted gingerly from the
landau, which had four steps, one of which was
broken. Jerome put his inexperienced foot
through this step, and descended from the carriage
with more speed than ecclesiastical decorum.
Is grand mamma awake ? " continued the Duke,
as he returned the salutation of the major-domo,
the coachman's brother and another Kergarec,
who muttered a querulous blessing at him in
Gaelic. All these old servants, though devotedly
attached, looked chronically out of sorts.

Madame is taking a nap ; but I will awake
her, for she is very impatient to see you," said
Pauline, in a voice that was soft and musical, but
louder in its pitch than that of town-bred girls.

I understood from Jerome that she was quite
well ? "

Pardon me, she has received news which
greatly agitated her."

What news ? "

That you were going to be married, cousin,"
answered Pauline, reddening.

She called the Duke " cousin," because she
came of a very ancient family, which in old
times had intermarried with the Versailles.

May I ask who brought you this news ? "
inquired Eoland.

We read it in the newspapers."

Ah, I thought you received only the Gazette
de France here ? I did not know that pious
journal was so well-informed about mundane
affairs."

We only receive the Gazette de France''
admitted Pauline ; " but somebody in Paris — we
do not know who — sent the Marquise two
newspapers, in which it was stated that you were
to marry a — a Protestant."

My future wife is a good Christian, my
dear Pauline."

^' The newspaper said she was a Protestant,"
replied Pauline, glancing up at him timidly.

But so am I a Protestant," answered Eoland,
with a light laugh to conceal his vexation ; for he
was annoyed to find that a prejudice had been
created against Gertrude before he could plead
her cause himself. " I protest against all sorts of

things ; so do you ; so does everybody. I will
prove to Jerome presently that he is an arch
heretic, who doesn't know half the canons of our
Mother Church."

Jerome giggled. Pauline said nothing, but
led the way into an entrance hall, with a low-panelled
oak ceiling, black with the grime of
centuries. The floor was paved with flags, many
of them cracked, and the walls were covered with
faded tapestry, with antlers and with trophies of
arms, helmets, and breastplates, bearing the dents
of battles, the causes of which have long ceased
to worry the world. An itinerant dealer in
bric-a-brac had once found his way into this
place, and his eyes fairly watered as he mentally
marked out its contents into lots and priced
them. The whole chateau was a very museum
of antiquities. The chairs in all the rooms were
adorned with tapestries, wrought by the fingers
of Kerouailles ladies long departed. The newest
piece of heavy furniture in them dated from
Louis XV. 's reign, and the smallest ornaments
in them, whether of china, wood, or metal, had
their value as curiosities. But all this was
comfortless, and made the Duke feel as in a
store-house rather than in a home.

Pauline, having ascertained that it was
Eoland's pleasure to see his grandmother at once
before dining, clapped her hands, and at the
summons a tall Breton man-servant, who had
been hovering about the hall, emerged from a
passage, bobbing his head humbly to the Duke.
This was Clovis Kergarec, son of Bernard, the
coachman. His flaxen hair was combed over his
forehead, and cut straight just above the eyebrows,
while behind and at the sides of the
head it fell lank to the shoulders. If this lothair
had shown a little more of the forehead, and
had been brushed back behind the ears, it would
have given Clovis's smooth-shaven face a comely
appearance ; but, concealing his ears and part of
his cheeks, it made him look atrociously shaggy
and almost ruffianly. Clovis wore the national
Breton costume ; that is, a white jacket with
four rows of small brass buttons, a blue waistcoat
with a roll collar buttoned up to the chin, a
broad red sash, wide canvas breeches, and grey
worsted stockings.

Pauline gave this uncouth Cornouailler an
order in Gaelic, and he fetched a massive silver
candlestick, with a tallow candle in it, to escort
the Duke to his room ; while Pauline herself went

to prepare the Marquise for her grandson's visit.
It was not yet dusk, but the passages in the
castle were so dark that the flickering dip which
Clovis carried, as he strode five steps ahead of his
master, gave no more light than was enough to
guide Roland as he went upstairs to the large
state bedroom, which was always made ready for
him when he came to the chateau. The bed in
this chamber was hidden in a deep alcove, and
the fireplace was so wide that the wind roared in
the chimney day and night with frightful noises.
The brown planks of the flooring were polished
like glass, but there was many a crevice in them,
out of which mice crawled in the dark, and the
draughts were so numerous that they kept the
curtains, hangings, and even the pictures in
the room continuously swaying or trembling.

Roland did not remain long in this chamber
of delights. He washed his hands, changed his
attire with his valet's assistance, and then went
downstairs a^rain. Pauline was waiting: for him
in the hall. She had been standing near the
window in a pensive attitude, gazing out at the
sea, which glimmered under the sunset light in
the distance. So wrapt was she in her meditation
that she did not hear Roland till lie was close

upon lier ; then she turned with a slight start,
but, recovering her self-possession, she murmured
—

Madame is awake and ready to see you,
cousin' Then, without another word, she led
him down a corridor to a door which she noiselessly
opened, and left him.

Eoland entered on tiptoe, and glanced
anxiously at the bed, expecting to find his aged
grandmother in a state of prostration ; but, on
the contrary, the Marquise was wide awake and
refreshed after her recent nap. It has been said
that there were days when her memory was
clouded, but there were others when she had full
possession of her senses, and this was one of
them.

Propped by large square pillows with broad
frills, the old lady sat up in a big oaken bed with
carved columns and tester which filled up half
the space in her small room. This chamber was
on the ground floor ; it had once been a boudoir,
but had become the Marquise's bed-chamber since
a paralytic seizure had disabled her from ascending
staircases. A door facing the bed led into
a small oratory, where there was an altar and a
couple of fall-stools. Here Jerome Juva said his

mass every morning, the door being left open so
that the Marquise could join in the service
without leaving her bed. On a little table at the
foot of the bed stood a statuette three feet high
in painted wood, which represented her patroness,
St. Anne of Auray. It was gorgeously clothed
in gold brocade, lace, and real jewels ; and when
the Marquise said her prayers, she always made
an invocation to it.

A regard for appearances never forsakes French
ladies, so Madame de Chateaufort's venerable head
and shoulders were swathed in rich folds of lace,
and jewelled rings glittered on her small wasted
hands. Very decrepit she would have looked if
she had not been 'made up" by her old maid
Agathe to receive her grandson. She had a set
of false teeth, a front of fine silvery hair stuffed
in little bunches on either side of her forehead,
and there was a suspicion of pink pearl powder
on her cheeks. The Marquise had outlived
wrinkles, the skin on her face was tightly drawn,
and so the artificial colour imparted to her the
appearance of a quaint little wax figure. But
hers was a kindly, dignified face, which lit up
with a very tender expression when her grandson
ifcook her in his arms and kissed her. Tie had

VOL. I. 10

always been her pet, and after their greetings
were over, she said to him in a tone of motherly
remonstrance —

My dear child, what is this strange fancy of
yours for marrying a girl of naught ? You must
leave Mademoiselle Corrington to her English
fogs."

'you would love her so much if you saw
her, grand mamma," answered Koland, joining
issue at once. " She is beautiful and good. I
have not found a fault in her."

That may be," replied the Marquise, calmly,
in a low quavering voice. " I am always glad to
see a pretty girl, but to admit her into my family
is another matter. There has never been a
mesalliance in our house. This young person is
not even noble."

She would be if the English nobility were
like the French, grand mamma. The grandson of
a French duke's younger son may be a count
during his grandfather's lifetime, but the son of
an English duke's second son bears no title at all.
General Corrington's father was the younger son
of a baronet."

Baronets are very small nobility, Eoland."

Surely they are the equals of most French

counts," demurred the Duke, coaxingly. "We
have a hundred and fifty thousand people in this
country who bear nobility titles, and four
hundred other thousands who tack the particle
De ' to their names ; whereas there are scarcely
five thousand people in the British Isles who
sport an hereditary prefix."

But the Marquise shook her head. She had
lived seven years in England as an pedigree during
the Great Eevolution, and for want of better
employment there had studied British peerage
and baronetage. She could recite the names of
all the leading families in the three kingdoms,
and was disposed to give due honour to many
members of the ancient squirearchy who were
untitled, and especially to the Tres, Pols, and
Pens of Cornwall, with whom the Breton nobility
had in the days of yore intermarried ; but she
knew not the Corringtons.

If you married this young person," she said,
'' you could not pin a notice to her shawl to
explain to people what the English laws of
succession are. It would be said that you, a
Beauregard on your father's side and a Kerouailles
de Chateaufort on your mother's, had married a
girl of no blood (une rotmihe), and this would

be a disgrace. Besides, Mademoiselle Corrington
is a Protestant, and you could not commit the
impiety of marrying a girl who was hostile to
your Church."

"Would you have considered the religious
question a drawback if I had contemplated marrying
the daughter of an English duke ? " inquired
Koland, seeing he must face the religious difficulty
without subterfuge.

"What a question, my dear child! The
daughter of an English duke would have felt
what was due to her husband, and would have
recanted her heresies before her marriage. Do
you wish a test of Miss Corrington's feelings
towards you ? Has she promised to enter a
convent for a year and be baptized ? If not, she
can have no true love for you."

Is not the test rather a hard one ? " rejoined
Eoland, with perfect patience. " Gertrude is not
like one of those German princesses who are
brought up as unattached Christians, ready to
adopt the tenets of any husband whom it may be
convenient for them to wed. If she is staunch
to her faith, this offers a guarantee that she will
be true to me."

"Tut, tut, ce sont des phrases tout 9a. A

husband and wife must kneel in the same church.
If she thinks you wrong in your religion, she may
think you wrong in other matters ; and a pretty
state of things that would be."

I don't want her to think me infallible,
grandmamma."

"As to that, my dear child, you would belike
other husbands, I suppose. We women
never think our husbands infallible, but every
husband expects us to make some pretence that
way ; and it is madness to add to the many
causes of dispute that may spring up between
man and wife such a miserable element of discord
as religious differences. It would be as if your
bride came to you with a firebrand in her
trousseau."

I don't look upon it in that light, grand-mamma,"
said the Duke. " I fancy in these
times few of us reason on religion so — so staunchly
as you do."

*' And why do you not reason as I do ? "
inquired the Marquise, looking hard at him.
Why are you not a good Catholic, like the best
of your ancestors, Eoland ? What has God done
to you that you should desert him ? Has he not
loaded you with favours, and ought you not in

the midst of a godless generation to be one of
those who set the example of keeping your faith
pure and whole ? Is it now the time to desert
your Church, when the rabble in all our large
cities are turning it into mockery ; when false
savants, false wits, and all who are depraved in
this unhappy nation want to shake off moral
restraints that would check them from wallowing
in sin, and would break the altars of their God,
as they have overturned the throne of their king ?
As for me " — and the old lady trembled all over
with emotion as she said this — " I pray Heaven
I may die sooner than see you disgrace your
name by bringing a Protestant wife to this castle.
Don't tell me that these Protestants are Christians
like ourselves ; they are rebellious, disobedient
children who have broken away from the discipline
of our Church. God may forgive them —
we must in charity hope He will ; but we cannot,
unless we see them come back humbly and sue
for pardon. This projected marriage of yours,
my dear child, has grieved me more than I can
tell you ; but I am sure you will not persevere in
it against my wishes. If I thought you would
do so, I would write to Miss Corrington, I would
write to her father and mother, and ask them

whether they intended to bring an old woman
heartbroken to her grave ; for that would be the
result of your marriage, and it would carry no
blessing to you or your children."

Koland moaned in spirit at this vehement
outburst. He took his grandmother's paralyzed
hand between his, patting it gently, and returned
no answer. He saw that it would be useless to
argue.

What could he say ? The Marquise had
spoken with an energy which had altogether surprised
him, for at his last visit to Chateaufort
her talk had been incoherent, and he had concluded
that she was sinking into dotage.

He was so good-natured, however, that he
showed no sign of irritation. A bad-hearted
man would have grown sulky, and have tried to
reduce the Marquise by making her wretched ;
but it never occurred to Eoland to do this.

He continued to stroke her hand, while she
went on talking ; and as he mechanically nodded
his head to what she said, the poor old lady
flattered herself that he was beginning to coincide
with her views.

You must not be angry with me for feeling
so strongly about anything that concerns your

welfare, my dear child," she said, glancing at
him fondly. " I want to see you married ; and
now that your thoughts are turned on marriage,
you would gladden my last hours if you
adopted the scheme I had planned for you, and
took as your wife my old friend De Royaume's
only daughter Laure. She has some of the best
blood of France in her veins, and will have a
million francs on her wedding-day, with twice as
much besides when her father dies ; and all this,
added to your money and mine, would make you
a princely fortune. If you had three sons, the
eldest would inherit your title of Beauregard ''
(the Marquise never acknowledged the dukedom
of Alma, conferred on Eoland's father by an
usurper ; her grandson was always to her Count
de Beauregard Voila) ; " the second might be
Marquis de Chateaufort, though really the
Kerouailles de Chateaufort are of older nobility
than you Beauregardss, so that you ought to
assume the Chateaufort title when I die ; and
your third son could take his mother's fortune
and his maternal grandfathers title of Due de
Rocarme. You can apply to Henri V., when he
gets his own again, to have the transmission of
our titles made to your younger sons ; or if that

Bonaparte of yours is still on the throne, his
keeper of the seals must be told to do what you
wish. Oh, Eoland, my beloved boy ! I should
die happy if I could see you married to Laure de
Rocarme, even though I may not live to fondle
your children. I have told Pauline that she is to
be their governess. You will find her a good girl,
and she will improve as she gets older, poor little
soul."

There was a contrast that might have amused
a humorist between the lofty ground the
Marquise had taken up to combat her grandson's
marriage with Gertrude, and the very low ground
of worldly interest on which she urged his
alliance with Mademoiselle Laure de Rocarme,
whom he had never seen ; but Roland was not ina
mood to notice the humour of the thing. The
mention of Pauline's name set him thinking that
this young lady might, perhaps, have more power
than anybody else to help him out of his difficulty.
She was the Marquise's confidant; her brother
was the confessor. Between them the pair must
exercise an absolute ascendancy over the aged
lady's mind at the periods when it was weak.
Roland felt sure that Pauline could easily be
tutored into actions under his instruction. Meantime

he thought he would pave the way to an
understanding with her by doing her a good
turn. He took it for granted that a girl in her
dependent position would be glad to get a dower
in order to have some chance of finding a husband
■ — French girls of good family having very little
chance when they are portionless, and yet too
proud to marry beneath them.

Pauline is a pretty girl, grand mamma," he
said. "You ought to think of getting her
married."

Pauline has no desire for marriage," replied
the old lady testily. " She is a De Denmark.
Her ancestors had tower, dovecot, and gibbet like
our own ; her father, as you know, was a naval
officer. Pauline can only marry a man of her
rank, and with money enough for two, if at all.
When it pleases God to bring a great family to
the dust, Poland, be sure He intends the survivors
to devote themselves to His service. Jerome has
become a priest ; Pauline will educate your
children, which will be more agreeable for her
than going into a convent."

I should think she would find it more agreeable
to have a husband and children of her own.
Why not give her a dower? She has been like a

daughter to you for several years. If you let it
be known that she would have a hundred
thousand francs at her wedding, she would soon
find a husband."

''I could not spare Pauline," said the Marquise,
with senile selfishness. '* She must remain
with me till my death, unless " — and the old lady
suddenly turned towards her grandson — " unless
you would marry her yourself, Eoland. Is that
what you were thinking of ? "

I, grand mamma ? Oh no ; such a thought
was far from me."

But you said you thought her a pretty
girl ? "

Yes ; but that is no reason "

"Why shouldn't you marry her?" interrupted
the old lady absently, as if she were conning
over all the pros and cons of this new scheme.
She is of more ancient blood than any of us ;
that is a point beyond dispute. Those Penances
go back into the night of history. If you married
her, she would still remain with me, and you
would be obliged to stay here too, so it would be
all gain to me. Why did I never think of all
this before ? Eoland, if you like to ask for
Pauline's hand, you shall have my consent."

The Duke thought that his grandmother's
mind was wandering. The new ideas that had
got into it had suddenly burned up the other,
and was blazing there like a straw fire. Mademoiselle
de Eocarme, her fortune and dukedom,
were no longer thought of. The Marquise talked
of Pauline Jura, her qualities and desirable points
as a wife, with as much volubility as if a hundred
revealed truths about the girl had started to her
reflection — which, indeed, was the case, for she
had always till then regarded Pauline as a child.

Grandmamma, dear, we will talk about all
this another time," said Poland, as he saw the
Marquise grow so agitated. " You must try to
sleep now."

'' Very well, dear child," she muttered ; " but
before you go, give me your hand, and kneel down
while I say my prayer to our good Sainte Anne,
who guards us all."

Poland did as he was bidden reverently
enough, and the Marquise, closing her eyes,
moved her lips for a minute or two in silent
prayer. She prayed that St. Anne and the
Blessed Virgin might use all their power to
prevent him from thinking any more about the
heretic English girl, and Poland, not knowing

what she said, responded " Amen " when she had
finished.

After he had retired, Agathe, the maid — an
old woman with a face like a baked apple — came
into the room ; and the Marquise, who could not
compose herself to sleep, ordered her to fetch
Mademoiselle Juva. Pauline quickly arrived.

*' Come here, child," said the old lady,
beckoning to her. *' Let me take a good look at
you. Do you know, monsieur says you are a
very pretty girl."

"Madame!"

"I may speak to you as if you were my
daughter, my dear, as your mother is dead. Tell
me, would it please you to become my grandson's
wife ? Ah, you redden ; he is not distasteful to
you, then ? Can it be that you have ever
thought of this ? How could I have been so
blind as not to suspect it ? AVell, my little one, I
should approve of this marriage ; and, if you like,
I think it can be arranged. Eoland has recognized
the absurdity of that English mesalliance''

Pauline's only answer was to bend her blushing
face over her benefactress's hand, and to kiss
it. In her ecstasy of joy and amazement, lie
could not speak. It was as if heaven had
suddenly opened to her.

CHAPTEE XI.

PAULINE Jura.

Pauline had long loved Eoland. How could she
have helped falling in love with him ?

He was so different from all the other men
she had ever seen. When he came to Chateaufort,
he brought with him a living reflection of the
great world. In his looks, his bearing, his
pleasant courtly chatter, his dress — and how well
he dressed ! — he was all that a girl thinks a nobleman
ought to be.

He was brave, too ; and was not reduced, like
those Legitimist squires of the neighbourhood,
who declined to serve in Napoleon Iii's armies,
to brag of the feats of his ancestors. He had leda
charge at Solferino, and had been wounded.
His grandmother, who would not let his foreign
ducal title supersede the more ancient one of De

Beauregard, talked often enough of the battles
where his father had won it, and she had kept the
newspaper in which Eoland was gazetted Knight
of the Legion of Honour for his gallantry by his
father's side.

The gentlemen whom Pauline had met at
Chateaufort since leaving the convent at Morlaix,
where she had spent her girlhood, were mostly
squires of small estates and small brains, who
wore ill cut clothes, and drove from the plain
in tumble-down traps. Their manners were
awkward, and their conversation dreary. None
of them made love to her, because she was
believed to be a portionless dependent. Indeed,
they all spoke with punctilio, as if afraid of
raising presumptuous expectations in her bosom.
Only one, a young Count Eene de Polhuan — aged
thirty, and noted as a sad dog — had once so far
forgotten himself as to pay her a compliment.
He had said to her, in the hearing of his parents,
that the birds would be pecking at her lips some
day, mistaking them for cherries ; but his mamma
must have read him a severe lecture upon this
flight of fancy (which had set Pauline laughing),
for next time he called he was as formal and
sulky as the others. It was generally taken for

granted that when the Marquise died, Pauline
would enter a convent.

She had that sort of vocation for the cloister
which may be acquired by looking forward to it
as an inevitable fate. She was the daughter of a
naval officer, who had left his children unprovided
for, while bequeathing to them a name too noble
to be trailed about in any menial occupation.
Her brother had become a priest, and it was
natural she should become a nun, since she was
too proud to finally herself to any rich bourgeois
who might like to buy her escutcheon to cover
up his trade mark.

So Pauline's love for Poland de Beauregard
had been a mere piece of romance, the recreation
of her thoughts in lonely hours when she sat
watching purple sunsets, or embroidered church
vestments for her brother with tiny needles and
silk threads, while the rain dripped outside for
long, long hours. Girls will dream, and compose
novels of which they are the heroines ; and they
will conjure up heroes. Poland had been PauHne's
hero.

But since she had heard of Poland's project
of marrying an English Protestant, Pauline had
been almost beside herself with astonishment and

mortification. If he had married a Catholic, his
equal in birth and fortune, she could have borne
it. The dream in her heart would have been
extinguished, as the lights in a chapel are put out
after the adoration is over ; she would have locked
the door of the chapel, and there would have been
an end of it. But that he should be going to
marry a foreigner who was not of noble blood,
and whose religion was a heresy — that was intolerable.
Even as the Rev. Chrysostom Oram
was thinking at Lewbury, that he had lost
(gertrude from not having dared put his fate to
the touch while it was yet time, so Pauline,
during several days, could not banish the thought
that she had valued Eoland far more than he
valued himself. The man whom she had loved ina
far-off way, with a sense of her own un worthiness,
had been treated as mere human flesh and
blood by her rival, and this crafty girl was now
going to drag him down to her own level.

There was a feeling of personal humiliation
and bitterness in this which had aroused all the
combative instincts that had till then laid
dormant in the Breton girl's nature. Her pride
of caste, her religious fanaticism, her loyalty to
the Marquise her benefactress, and even that

VOL. I. 11

secret antipathy towards the English which she
had inherited from her father the sailor, were all
up in arms against the shameless alien heretic
who had robbed her of her hero.

But now all this was over. From the depth
of her despair Pauline had been raised to unexpected
triumph. Her hero was faithful after alla
true Catholic and Frenchman, who had
listened to the pleadings of his mother's mother
and turned penitently from his brief error.

Overcome by her emotion, Pauline, having
left the Marquise to Agathe's care, fled to her
own room. It was a little place at the t023 of the
house, hardly better than a servant's room. The
walls were whitewashed, a crucifix in black wood
and ivory, and a few cheap crudely coloured
prints of saints, hung upon them. The small iron
bedstead with white curtains, the sheepskin mat
beside it, a rush-bottomed prie-dieu, and a small
rusty stove, in which there had not been a fire for
years, formed the principal items of furniture.

Here Pauline shut herself in by drawing the
heavy wooden bolt of the door, and she waited
with a thumping heart. She knew that she ought
to be downstairs to see that monsieur's dinner
was properly served ; but she did not dare go.

Every noise she heard brought a flow of colour
to her face, and made her check her breath. She
expected that Eoland Avould send for her to
declare his suit in person, and she would have
pleaded for time, as she wanted to compose herself
— to reopen her dazzled eyes, as it were, and
consider the glorious sunshine that had suddenly
fallen upon her path.

Nobody came, and by degrees she grew more
calm. After kneeling for a time on her prie-diei
and panting incoherent prayers, she arose
and went to the window, pressing her forehead
against the diamond panes for coolness. Then
she bathed her face, and as it was growing dark,
and she had brought no candle to the room,
she employed the last moments of twilight in
smoothing her hair before a tiny mirror. She
could make no change in her dress, for her grey
stuff frock, sparingly trimmed with black velvet,
was the best she had ; but she did not trouble
herself about that, for she thought it a fine frock,
and had never desired a better.

One question spun round and round in the
eddy of her thoughts — What would Roland say
to her ? Would he be formal, polite, playful, or
tender ? Would he kiss her, and would she have

to kiss him ? Her position was peculiar ; for
though she considered herself already as affianced,
she had no surety of her future husband's love.
nevertheless, the astounding revelation of
Eoland's abrupt change of purpose . could not
long disconcert her French notions. The Marquise
had asked her grandson to give up his project of
marrying Miss Corrington, and it was quite
]natural that Eoland, out of filial obedience,
should instantly transfer his affections from the
English girl to Pauline herself. Marriages were
constantly made in this fashion, and Pauline
coidd have no objection to accept a husband
whom she loved merely because he had not come
to her Cjuite of his own accord. It would be the
business of her life to make him love her ; and
she was rather afraid of her own awkwardness in
the preliminaries of courtship than doubtful at
all as to her ultimate success in the mission of married
life. She felt, in fact, as all girls must do
under such circumstances, the need of a mother
to advise her.

But reflection came to the aid of her inexperience,
and whispered to her to have faith in the
man she loved. He would be sure to do all theirs
for the best in the best way. Probably he would

make no formal proposal for several days, hut
remain at the chateau, and live much in her
companionship, so that he would be quite in love
by the time he proposed — say, in about a week,
or next Sunday afternoon after vespers, which
was the time when village lads generally did their
courting. Many tens of minutes had crept away
while Pauline thought of all this, still standing
by the window of her room. It was quite dark
now, for the moon had not yet risen ; and the
girl had to grope her way to the door, when she
felt, at length, that she must go downstairs to
give the servants their orders for next day's
work.

She stole downstairs on tiptoe, pausing now
and then to listen. If she had heard an ascending



step, she would have run back ; but there was
not a sound in the house. Descending to the
front hall, where a dull oil lamp rather speckled
the darkness than gave light, she walked to the
end of a passage which led to the kitchen, and
opening a door hearkened. Eoland's servant
Barney was talking in broken French to all the
servants gathered round the kitchen fire, and
was trying to make them laugh. Some dial
laugh, but in a rather forced way, as it seemed

to Pauline. The kitchen company was dull that
evening.

Then Pauline retraced her steps and went
into the dining-room, a large apartment all wainscoted
with oak, and never used except when
monsieur was at the chateau. The dinner-cloth
had long been removed, but Jerome Juva sat atone
end of the table in the circle of lio'ht formed

o

by a moderator lamp, and pored intently over a
well-thumbed folio of the " Lives of the Saints."
His fore-arms were laid squarely on the table,
and his chin rested on his knuckles. The " Lives
of the Saints " was the only book he ever read,
excepting his breviary, and it was a treasure of
book which yielded whatever sensations its reader
might happen to desire — excitement if he was
wakeful, and sweet sleep when he was in somnolent
mood.

'the blessed St. Sabre lived for thirty-five
years without using soap or vater," said Jerome,
reading aloud, when his sister appeared — just asa
schoolboy might do who, caught napping,
wants to show that he is awake. " This he did
to mortify the flesh, for he had been a voluptuary
in his youth''

*' Monsieur has dined ? " asked Pauline.

Yes, more than an hour since," replied the
young priest, sitting up and stretching his long
arms. "We dined together."

He invited you ? "

'eyes; I had gone to my room, and he sent
for me. He wanted very much to see you also ;
and I wish you had been with us, for it was a
good dinner."

"Did he ask for me ?" faltered Pauline, half
turning her face away.

"He did, and I think he wants to speak to
you about something. He talked about seeing
you tomorrow; but, in fact, he spoke a good
deal about you while we were eating, and he
praised the cream-tart you had made. I told
him you had made it."

Jerome yawned over his book, and would
have said no more. So Pauline had to revive
the conversation.

What had our cousin to say about me,
Jerome ? "

Everything that was amiable. He gave me
his thanks for your devotion to the Marquise,
and said she looked upon you as her daughter.
But I say, Palette, it cannot be true that our
cousin is going to marry a Protestant, for he

wanted to know whether he could do anything
for onr chapeL He sat after dinner in that armchair
near the fire, and made me relate to him
some of our Breton legends ; and when I told
him that some rats had been gnawing a hole in
my best chasuble, he said that he would buy mea
whole new set of vestments. He would not
have promised that if he had been going to bring
a heretic wife here — would he ? "

No' answered Pauline.

Her brother's glance was raised towards her,
and for the first time in his life, perhaps, he
noticed that she was a pretty girl. There was
a bloom of gladness on her face, a liquid brightness
in her eyes, and her lips, half parted,
breathed that word " No " as a soft murmur.

Jerome returned musing to his St. Sabre ;
and Pauline, gliding towards the fire, seated herself
on a chair opposite to that where Poland had
sat. A pile of pear-wood logs had been burned
on the hearth, and had left a mass of glowing
embers. Into these the French girl gazed and
saw faces in the fire — Roland's and her own
always close together.

CHAPTER XII.

Pauline's deception.

Poland attacliecl so little importance to his
grandmother's scheme of marrying him to Pauline,
that he hardly gave it a thought after retiring to
his room. He only thought of Pauline in connection
with the assistance she could give him
in overcoming the Marquise's scruples to his
marriage with Gertrude.

He was rather vexed than dismayed by the
obstacles thrown in his way. He was annoyed
that his projected marriage should be called a
mesalliance, for he did not want his friends to
think he had sallied himself ; his position was
too high to allow of such a thing. Certainly lie
had not instituted searching inquiries as to who
the Corringtons were ; but from the General's
military rank, from the kind of people he knew,

and from the style in which the Corringtons lived
at Ostend, he concluded that their position was
among the upper classes.

In this he had judged somewhat hastily, for
he fancied that the General owned an estate at
Lewbury, and not a mere house hired on lease.
But if the Corringtons had lived in a village, it
would have made no difference in his sentiments
towards Gertrude ; for he was in love.

He loved so well that he was sure his grandmother
would approve his choice if once Gertrude
could be brought to Chateaufort ; and for his
future wife's own sake, therefore, there must be
no disagreeable about the marriage. To marry
without his grandmother's consent was repugnant
to Eoland, and he dismissed, as out of the question,
the idea of serving the Marquise with a
legal process.

After all, Gertrude's religion seemed to him
the principal bar, and this must be circumvented.
As a man of the world, confident in the ascendancy
he should exercise over his wife, and
relying also on the social influences which would
operate upon Gertrude when she became a
Frenchwoman, he doubted little in his private
mind that the Duchesse d'Alma would some day

turn Catholic ; and this was the prospect which,
on reflection, he saw it would be politic to present
to the Marquise and to Pauline. Ignorant of
Pauline's feelings towards himself, he imagined
that her piety as a Catholic might easily he
touched by the idea of winning over a Protestant,
and perhaps a whole family of Protestants to the
true faith.

In this frame of mind Poland went to bed,
after writing Gertrude a letter which contained
more assurances of love than information as to
what he was doing at Chateaufort.

He did not rest long undisturbed, for shortly
after midnight he was roused by sounds of
tramping and excited voices in the courtyard
under his window. He raised himself and sat
up in bed. His room was dark, but flickers were
thrown into it by lanterns in the yard. The
chateau was usually so quiet at that time of
night that he fancied a fire must have broken
out. But after a few minutes the voices subsided
and the lights vanished, whereupon he lay
down again and was soon asleep.

In the morning, when Barney brought him
some chocolate and toast, an explanation was
offered of the night's noises. There was an air

of mysterious amusement on the valet's face ashe
set down the tray.

The servants say there was a ghost walking
about the place last night, your Grace."

A ghost I " echoed Eoland, without betraying
incredulity or wonder, for apparitions in
Brittany are no rarer than foreigners on the
Boulevard des Italiens.

1 can't make out exactly who saw it, sir,
but they're all talking about it as if it had given
'em a fright, aud Odette, the cow-girl, especially.
When there's any talking downstairs, that young
party does more than her share. She says the
ghost was the White Lady I " Barney's smug
face was quite demure as he said this, though
a smile hovered on the corner of his lips, ready to
break out if his master should smile.

But Eoland never jested upon religious things
in the presence of a servant. " These people
have their superstitions, which wee must not
affront," he said. " Show yourself very considerate
in all their remarks upon their faith."

Oh yes, sir, I should be sure to do that.
When telling 'em yesterday of your Grace's engagement,
I made so bold as to say that the
young lady was very religious, though it might

not be after their fasMon ; but I told 'em all
fashions was good, so far as I could see."

How did they receive your communication?"

Well, your Grace, begging your pardon, they

didn't seem quite to take it as they ought to

'a' done. It was Miss Corrington's being a Proof

o

testant that made 'em grumble. They was rather
surly about it over their suppers, and two or
three of the old women sat rocking themselves in
chairs with their aprons over their heads, without
appearing to listen much when I said that Miss
Corrington was a Christian of the same sort as
me, who was brought up religious by my mother,
and alius went to Church twice o' Sundays."

'you must say that the duchess will never
interfere with their religion," replied Roland.

'' So I did, sir, knowing as how your Grace's
English servants 'ave alius been allowed to do
as they pleased about going to this church or
that, or to no church at all, which, as I explained
to 'em, was true Christianly of the proper sort,
which keeps people from disputing' with each
other about matters that ain't worth it. But
they was rather obstinate, your Grace, and
wouldn't understand."

This was quite true. Barney's communication

had made an untoward impression in the
kitchen. This Englishman was always received
there with friendly deference, being monsieur's
servant ; but as to his religion, these Bretons had
not been able to see that he had any at all. He
never made the sign of the cross ; he did not goto
mass or confession ; he had no such thing asa
rosary or amulet about him ; he owned no
patron saint ; and he never fasted.

What was this but paganism ? How could a
man possess a religion if he had no symbols to
show, and eschewed all observances ? As well
might a person wearing only a shirt boast that
he was clothed in the uniform of the French
army. The thing which Barney called a religion
was nothing but the light linen which a man is
obliged to put on for decency's sake, and if the
new Madame's soul were draped in no better
costume, then the saints help Monsieur ! Such
was the common opinion downstairs.

The Duke's beliefs concerning apparitions maybe
guessed. He supposed that the servants had
seen a night mist and were reporting it as a
White Lady for his special behoof ; and though
not disposed to baulk them of any spiritual satisfaction
they might derive from such a proceeding

so long as they kept their satisfaction to themselves,
he thought it desirable to forbid their
making any use of the apparition to weigh upon
his grandmother's mind. In consequence, he sent
Pauline a message by Barney, requesting that
nothing should be spoken to the Marquise about
the White Lady. Barney returned, saying that
mademoiselle sent her compliments and much
regretted that old Agathe had already spoken of
the matter to madame, who was anxious to see
monsieur at his earliest convenience.

This was tiresome ; but presently, when
Eoland had finished his toilet — an operation over
which he never hurried — he went downstairs to
see the Marquise. The conversation between
them was short, for the venerable lady was so
much fatigued by the excitements of the previous
day, which had robbed her of sleep, that her
words were incoherent. She was murmuring

o

broken sentences about the White Lady (to
which her grandson lent a respectful ear, beings
to contradict her in anything) when
a Dr. De Tregalloan, her physician, arrived to
pay his daily visit, and upon this Eoland retired.
But in so doing he beckoned to the doctor to
join him in the next room, and there he asked

Lin for a candid opinion about the Marquise's
state of health. Dr. De Tregalloan was a gaunt
man with a face like a death's-head, and a hard
hand which gave you a grip when you shook it.
He had a professional grin which he constantly
displayed to reassure his patients, and which was
the most terrifying thing imaginable ; for it was
a contortion of the mouth only, his eyes remaining
grim as a watch-dog's.

Madame can scarcely be said to live now ;
lie is merely being kept from dying," he remarked
in a wooden voice. " The least shock of
joy or sorrow might kill her."

This grieved Eoland, who would have been
inconsolable had he caused his grandmother's
death ; so he felt more than ever dependent on
Pauline. He had, indeed, his sister, the Countess
de Beaujeu, who ought to have been his natural
ally at this juncture ; but she was a lady of
fashion, a pretty creature with the brilliant
plumage and spirits of a mocking bird, and just
as much sense ; her advice could not be asked
in any business of moment. Accordingly the
Duke strolled out of the quadrangle, over the
drawbridge, and went in quest of Pauline, who
he learned was at the dairy.

Everybody on the plateau had been up and
stirring for hours, and there were men-servants
and maidservants on all sides pretending to be
busy. They did little, for the good-natured
Marquise allowed too many dependents to swarm
about her, and as there was not enough work for
them all, what work there was either got spoilt
or was neglected as nobody's business. Eoland,
whose own estate of Beauregard was kept like an
English gentleman's, was always displeased when
he came to Chateaufort by the signs of dirt, untidiness,
and sloth discernible everywhere. All
this was not Pauline Juva's fault ; she had never
seen a well-kept estate, and allowed the Kergarecs
to do things in the old Breton way, imagining it
was the right way. Inside the house cleanliness
prevailed in the rooms that were inhabited,
because nature had taught Pauline that dust and
cobwebs were not seemly ; but nature had given
her only vague hints as to the impropriety of
allowing enormous dung-heapS to accumulate
outside the stable in the state quadrangle. Every
Breton manse had its dung-heap, and they were
considered emblems of wealth. A primitive
Cornouailler who had been to Paris and seen the
Tuileries had returned home with the notion

VOL. I. 12

that the Emperor could not be a rich man ; " for,"
said he, " je nai pas vu le moindre tas de fumier
dans sa cour."

Half a dozen strong men gave up their time
to the garden and orchard, but the gravel paths
were green with weeds ; the stables were filthy,
and the horses poorly groomed, but at whatever
time you passed you were sure to see a Kergarec
mending a rusty bit with a piece of twine, or
patching an old saddle, and imagining that he
was rendering his mistress a great service by this
economy. Eoland wished that his grandmother
would put the men-servants of the household into
proper liveries, make them cut their hair, and
wear leather instead of wooden shoes ; but the old
lady, while generous to a fault in some things,
was very parsimonious in others, and all who
lived round her took pattern by her notions. If
a milk-pail had served twenty years, it must
needs serve ten years more ; better tinker it,
cobble it, fix its handle with bits of wire, and
spill a quart of milk daily out of it, than buy a
new one. If there was a hole in a roof, Breton
wisdom counselled that it should be allowed to
get larger, and let in hogsheads of water before it
was repaired ; and on the same principle a Breton

who fell ill deemed it good policy to wait until
his malady had taken a serious turn before sending
for the doctor, as in this way fees were kept down.
All these were Breton ways, rendered venerable
by custom, and not to be argued against.

Eoland wandered for nearly an hour all over
the mismanaged property, to which he was heir,
till he perceived Pauline coming across the field
with a small basket on her arm. She had been
to the dairy, and was returning with some eggs.
No doubt she saw him before he caught sight of
her, and it was well that the distance gave her
time to compose herself. He could not observe
from afar how she changed colour, and how
suddenly her elastic step became timid when she
knew they were going to meet.

They met without awkwardness, for just as
they were shaking hands Odette the cow-girl
and another came out of a fir plantation,
trundling between them a wheelbarrow full of
firewood. Like most things on the estate, the
barrow was out of repair ; and as the girls brought
it to a standstill, in order to let the Duke and
Pauline pass, one of its legs gave way under the
weight of wood, and the concern toppled over.
Odette was a pretty girl, albeit her face was

smudged and her kirtle full of holes and patches,
and it amused the Duke to hear her laugh aloud
at the accident.

Can't they give you a better barrow than
that, my girl ? " he asked, with a kind look, and
without remembering at the moment that this
was the Odette whom Barney had often described
to him as an imp of mischief, a chatterton, and
story-teller. At this question, Odette's companion,
a squat-faced hoyden, grinned and snuffled.

'' I dare say the Korrigans * will mend the

These Korrigans are the familiar sprites who haunt
old castles. They are little people, a foot high, and of
two sorts — the good and bad. The good ones make themselves
pleasant by doing the work of servants for them in
the night — they milk the cows, ply the darning needle,
scour the floors ; the bad Korrigans, on the contrary,
behave very ill. They throw pins into the butter, rend
clothes, cut off the tails of horses, and sometimes are
so wicked as to tweak the noses of poor servant-girls
slumbering by the hearth in the evening. The Korrigans
dance on the heath of Carnac at midnight; and there
also are to be seen the " Washerwomen of the Night "
(lavandieres de nuit), who come from the Bay of the Dead
(Bai des Trespasses) off the rock of Penmarck, and wash
their shrouds. Woe to any man who crosses the heath
while they are thus employed! He will be called upon
to help them, and if he succeeds in wringing their shrouds
exactly as they do, he may be allowed to depart in peace ;
but if he twists them in any other fashion, the dismal

barrow for me," replied Odette, with such a
bold, hard stare at Eoland that he felt almost
abashed.

The Korrigans ? Are they abroad, then ? "

** Oh yes, sir. They churned a lot of cream
in the dairy last night, and they did no mischief,
so they must have been the good elms ; not the
bad ones, like those who set fire to the rick last
Martinmas. You have heard, too, that the White
Lady has shown herself ? "

Yes, I heard that," answered Eoland, lifting
his head sand scrutinizing Odette narrowly, an
ordeal which she bore with much composure.
Did you see the White Lady ? "

"Of course I did — large as life, down there
among the trees."

Your tongue is too pert, Odette," interposed
Pauline, reprovingly. " You should speak more
respectfully to monsieur."

Odette looked comically into the Duke's

laundresses fall upon Mm and beat him with their wet
shrouds till he becomes senseless. Then they carry him
to his bed, and he awakes in the morning all black and
blue. It has been observed that many irreclaimable
drunkards and henpecked husbands have awaked to find
themselves black and blue, an indisputable proof of the
reality of these Korrigans.

eyes, and shrugged her shoulders with a half
titter. "You asked me what I saw, sir."

Yes ; tell me what you saw, my girl. Don't
be afraid."

*well, then, she had a golden crown on and
a blue mantle. I was coming away from the
cowshed, just as the clock struck eleven, when
I first saw her, because one of the cows is ill,
you know ; that's why I was out so late. Then
I ran back to the dairy, and called up old Alain,
the boys, and all the women, who came and saw
her too, though she had got further away among
the trees by that time. I tell you she was large
as life, and where she passed there was a long
bright trail like thousands of glow-worms."

Such animation, such gesticulation as Odette
threw into her recital, no pen can describe.
The squab-faced cousin, profoundly impressed,
kept on snuffling, and often passed the back of
her hand across her nose.

Koland drew a napoleon from his pocket and
slipped it into Odette's hand. " Buy yourself
and your friends some sugar-plums at the next
fair of Auray," he said, amused but mystified.
You are a sharp girl, as I dare say you know."

Oh yes, sir," replied Odette, who had spoken

in French all the time, for the Duke did not
understand Breton. She had lost some of her
assurance, though, at the sight of the gold piece
in her palm, and added nothing more as he
walked away with Pauline.

"That is a strange girl," remarked Eoland.
I suppose you, Pauline, don't believe in those
Korrigans, who ramble about to churn cream at
night ? One of the dairymaid must be a
somnambulist."

Perhaps'' said Pauline, doubtingly ; " but
that apparition of the White Lady was very
mysterious. Alain, the bailiff, saw her. She
had an aureola."

Did she carry an umbrella in case of rain ? "

Pauline thought this very profane. " The
White Lady may have been the blessed St.
Anne," she said, signing herself.

Such a visit would do us great honour,"
rejoined Koland, smiling. " But why should a
saint disturb herself to come walking about in
the damp of a Breton wood at night ? "

Oh, cousin, your family has always lived
under the protection of Heaven ! " exclaimed
Pauline, raising her small face towards him with
an expression of pain and excitement. After

what the Marquise had said to her on the preceding
night, she could not understand his manner,
and thought he was teasing her.

I rather want the help of an earthly saint
at this moment," said Roland, with a gallant
little bow. "You know of my intended marriage,
Pauline, and I am reduced to solicit your help
in this affair. My poor grandmother, whose
mind is weak, has offered unexpected opposition
to my plans ; but, as you have considerable
influence over her, I hope "

I, sir ? " ejaculated Pauline, starting back,
quite pale. What could he mean by this ? She
spoke her next words almost inarticulately, and
with no clear notion of what she was saying.
Why, can it be that you still think of marrying
Miss Corrington ? "

'' Unquestionably. I am fully bent upon it."

In spite of madame's wishes ? "

My grandmother is hardly in a condition
of mind to have any wishes of her own ; that is
why I expected you would assist me in obtaining
the merely legal consent which I require for my
marriage."

Never, sir ! " panted Pauline, as if an insulting
proposal had been made to her. *' How

can you suppose ? mon Dieu ! " And,

unable to utter another word, she turned and
walked away from him fast. He tried to recall
her, but she paid no heed, and almost ran till she
was out of his sight.

Koland was very angry, and for a minute
or two stood twirling his moustache and looking
as he must have looked on the field where he
won that little bit of red riband which graced
his button-hole. But at last he shrugged his
shoulders, and simply muttered —

Diable I Check to my queen. What's my
next move ? "

CHAPTER XIII.

A PHOTOGRAPH OF GERTRUDE.

Pauline's position was pitiable. She ran indoors
and took refuge in a small parlour, which washer
day workroom. Here she sank into a chair,
and tried to understand the sudden destruction
that had fallen upon her hopes — those hopes
which, like red lilies, had lived in blossom less
than one whole day.

In the unutterable humiliation that made her
cheeks flame, she felt as if she had been mocked
and outraged ; and yet she knew that Roland
had not mocked her. She had deluded herself
by believing without reflection in the Marquise's
hallucinations. She had been so eager to believe
that she had almost been betrayed into a disclosure
of her love before Roland himself, and her
maiden modesty quivered under this most cruel

thought. Let Mm marry whom he pleased ; his
marriage, his concerns, could be of no further
interest to her. She could never bear to meet
him again. Even to live at Chateaufort would
be a torment. The uppermost thought in her
mind was that she would take leave of the
Marquise that day, and fly into a convent. So
she thought till she heard footsteps approach, and
then for a last breathless moment she clutched at
her hope again.

She half expected to see Eoland walk in,
chastened in spirit, like the Prodigal Son, and
declaring that his brief madness was over. But
the footsteps were not the Duke's. It was Clovis
Kergarec, who stood before Pauline with a frown
between his shaggy eyebrows. This long-haired
boy had something to say, but the words were a
long time coming, and there was a tone of sullen
alarm in his speaking.

'mademoiselle, Monsieur Barney has been
saying downstairs that monsieur is going to marry
a heretic, who will take your place here. It isn't
true, is it ? "

He had got his answer before Pauline opened
her lips, for her glance was enough, and a dull
look of consternation overspread his sunburnt

features. Clovis, the brother of Odette, was in
an especial way Pauline's servant. He did all her
errands, she being hardly aware herself of how
frequently she had recourse to his services, for he
was somehow always at hand when wanted, and
never let it be seen that the orders which he
executed took up any of his time. He had been
a boy when Pauline first came to Chateaubriand
she had treated him like a boy ever since.
He was attached to her with a dumb fidelity ;
but perhaps there was something more in his
sentiments towards her than he suspected.

For some time past undefinable sensations
had been creeping over him when he stood alone
in her presence. If her dress touched him as she
passed, he thrilled ; if her eyes met his, he
reddened ; if he contemplated her fixedly for a
few moments when she was not noticing it, his
eyes filled with tears. Her praise was sweet to
him ; but to be scolded by her was pleasurable
also, if she were not angry. He sometimes
did little things amiss that she might tell him
he was a careless boy and show him how
they could be done better. To be noticed by
her in some way had become the delight of his
existence.

It's true, then, mademoiselle ? " he repeated
hoarsely before Pauline had replied.

Barney knows more about his master's
affairs than I, Clovis," said Pauline, evasively,
and turning her face away that her emotion
might not be seen.

'' Monsieur Barney has been saying what I
have told you, and he has been showing the
picture of young madame that is to be. "

That's nothing to me," murmured Pauline,
but with a sudden overwhelming desire to see
her rival's portrait.

Nothing to you ! But / want to know if
it's true that you are going away ? They're all
in a pretty state about the news downstairs, old
ones and young ones. It would be a bad day for
al] if you went, mademoiselle, and you had better
go and tell them if it is to be. And as for that
Englishwoman without faith who has tried her
sorceries on monsieur, may God and Saint
Anne "

Hush, boy I How dare you speak in that
way ? "

What right has he to drive you from here ? "
exclaimed Clovis, with fury, his face looking
murderous. " We don't want him here ; he's no

true Breton. If lie had a mind to marry somebody,
why didn't he take you ? You're good
enough for him, I should fancy. Hark to this !
I'm going off to be a soldier. I'll not stop here to
see that Englishwoman come, and you turned out
of the chateau to be locked up in a convent,
where I should never see you again. I'd rather
get my head broken with a bullet. So good-bye
now, if you're going. I'll not wait on monsieur
again."

Put another log on the fire," said Pauline,
quietly, as she moved to the door. She had
turned scarlet, but knew enough of Breton temper
not to check Clovis's outburst. He had never
had the audacity to speak to her io such a style
before, but in her own excited frame of mind his
agitation did not appear excessive. He stood
alone before her a minute, with his fists clenched,
and the veins in his neck swelling ; there was a
slight foam at the corners of his mouth, and angry
reproach in his eyes, as if he would upbraid her
for being so indifferent to his sufferings.

She brushed by him, throwing him just one
glance, which calmed him as a pat on the head
quiets a dog ; then she left the room. But
crossing the hall she met Odette coming stealthily

down the grand staircase, holding something in
paper to her bosom. The cow-girl's hair was all
rumpled as usual, and she was in stockings ; her
pair of wooden shoes had been shuffled off on to
the hall mat.

A strange girl was this Odette, utterly incomprehensible
as to character — untruthful, wayward,
overflowing with gossip, and yet sometimes so
cajoling as to be lovable. For days she would
be mad with animal spirits, and at other times so
morose that nothing could draw a word or a
smile from her. She would relate in the coolest
way, and with the minutest circumstantiality,
adventures which she alleged to have happened
to herself, and not a syllable of which was true ;
but the lies were so bold and curious, and the
motives which could have dictated them were so
inexplicable, that it was as difficult to doubt
them wholly as to believe them. No secret was
safe from her. She had an intuition for guessing
things, and a marvellous ingenuity for drawing
far-fetched conclusions from them, which she
published among her fellow-servants as fiicts.
She was pretty, and several young men had fallen
to loggerheads about her, but she had such a way
of treating her suitors that none could tell whether

there was a single creature on earth whom she
really cared for besides her cows. She was at
once the wonder and the plague of Pauline's little
realm.

'^ What were you doing upstairs, Odette ? "
asked Pauline. " You know that you have no
business to be in this part of the house."

Odette laid her head on one side, evidently
dubious as to whether she ought not to tell a fib ;
but the superior advantages of truth in this
particular instance having presented themselves
to her mind, she thrust two photographs under
Pauline's eyes by way of answer, saying, " Hush,
mademoiselle, these are pictures of the new
madame."

Where did you get them ? "

"Monsieur Barney was showing one downstairs,
and he said there were two others in
monsieur's room ; so I ran upstairs to fetch them,
and let you see them."

Take them back instantly ; it was exceedingly
wrong of you to do this." But as she said
this Pauline had glanced at the photographs, and
her heart was crushed by the great beauty of
Gertrude. She could hope no more when she
had seen that face.

"Don't you be afraid, mademoiselle," whispered
Odette, who had been watching her with round
hazel eyes, penetrating as a cat's. " He won't
marry her. I had a dream about it, and it was
you whom I said wedded to monsieur in the
chapel of the chateau. You will be our new
madame."

A tremor shot through Pauline's limbs ; butin
the shame of seeing her secret read by this
saucy cow-girl, she answered her with blunt
reproof. "Do as I order you at once, and,
Odette, never speak to me again like this. You
have a mischievous, wicked tongue, and I am
very angry with you."

Ah, I could tell you something, though,"
replied Odette, not in the least put out, but with
lambent malice in her glance. " I know something
that would prove that he will never marry
her. Shall I tell you?"

No," was Pauline's only answer, as she
turned away. She knew how little reliance was
to be placed on Odette's dreams and statements,
yet she was bound to believe that Odette had
dreamed about her, or else to conclude that the
girl had discovered the secret by some disquieting
process of witchcraft. Odette was a very witch,

YOL. I. 13

with her untamed eyes, bare arms, brown face,
and dishevelled hair ; and at this moment she
frightened Pauline. But one word more she said
as she ascended the stairs to restore the photographs
to the Duke's room.

He's gone, you know."

Who is gone ? "

Why, monsieur. He received some letters ;
then went to the stables, saddled the best horse,
and rode off to Auray as fast as he could. You
should have seen him gallop."

Pauline said nothing, but walked away to the
Marquise's room, and there the intelligence of the
Duke's departure was confirmed by old Agathe,
the maid. Monsieur, she said, had come in
hurriedly to his grand mamma's room, and had
kissed her while she slept. He had told Agathe
that he must return to Paris. Monsieur Barney
was packing his master's things, and had orders
to follow him to Paris by an evening train.

It was a great relief to Pauline to hear this.
In her disturbed condition of mind it did not occur
to her to wonder what could be the reason of the
Duke's sudden flight. She supposed he would
return, but for the present it was a comfort that
he had gone. During the remainder of the day

Pauline went about her business as if in physical
pain. Whenever the recollection of the morning's
scene came back to her, she shook her head, as if
to banish it. But Gertrude's face she could not
banish ; that haunted her large as life, and all
day long.

CHAPTER XIV.

A MIRACULOUS APPARITION.

Towards the close of this day, Clovis Kergarec,
on one of the slopes of the plateau, was chopping
the trunk of a felled cedar tree into hoofs. He
had thrown off his jacket and waistcoat ; his
shirt was open at the throat ; and his hair, wet
with perspiration, streamed all over his face and
shoulders.

He was hewing with frenzy, doing in quarters
of an hour as much work as two or three of his
kinsmen together generally wrought in a morning.
The trunk had been sawn into lengths. With
massive blows on his iron wedge he clove these
into halves ; then, with his axe, split the halves
into quarters, and the quarters into logs. The
axe whirled round his head as if it were no
heavier than a whip, and the splinters flew about
in showers. Clovis was exerting his strength to

quiet the careful spirit in him, and he uttered
short savage exclamations as he worked.

In the twilight his sister Odette stole out of
the house, and came to lean against a neighbouring
tree, and to watch him. But he received her
with a growl. " Get thee to thy cows ; it's no
time for thee to be here."

She paid no heed to this. " Why hast thou
been working like a madman ? " she asked.
Dost think she'll like thee any better with a
red face ? "

Of whom art thou speaking ? " Clovis
grounded his axe, and his glance fell upon a
ring — a trumpery but brilliant thing — that
glittered on his sister's finger. " Who gave thee
that ? " he asked, glad of a pretext for being
angry with somebody, and seizing Odette by the
wrist. '' It's that pedlar Quiroule who has been
fooling with thee again. Let me catch him at
that game, and I'U cut his head open."

Let go," cried Odette, wresting her hand
away. And with provoking composure she
hummed to herself and admired her ring ; while
Clovis vented some of his temper by swearing
energetically at Pierre Quiroule for a decoyer of
girls, a honey-tongued, false-hearted Parisian,

etc. Odette only laughed. ^' Pierre Quiroule is
nothing to me. It is Monsieur Barney who gave
me this ring, and he wants me to go away from
here with him. He promised to marry me."

He didn't."

I tell thee he did ; and he has money in
plenty — a pretty man too''

Let me look at that ring to see if it's
gold," grumbled Clovis, stricken with involuntary
respect at the name of the Duke's valet.

Odette, however, declined to remove the
trinket from her finger, and Clovis did not insist.
He resumed his chopping with a shrug which
indicated but little belief in his sister's story.
Odette retreated to a tree further off, where in
the gathering dusk she began to look like a mere
shadow ; and from this safe distance she bantered
her brother. Her voice had the mirthful shrillness
of a magpie's.

What is the use of fretting about her f
She has been crying this afternoon, but not for
thee. She has given her heart to monsieur, who
loves that English girl."

Three fierce blows with his axe, making twice
as many logs jump here and there, were the only
replies which Clovis vouchsafed.

If monsieur marries the English girl,
mademoiselle will return to her convent at
Morlaix," continued Odette. " Ah, that stirs
thee ! Why try to conceal that thou art in love
with mademoiselle ? But thou art no man,
Clovis. Aha ! if I were thee, I would speak out
my fancy ; all girls are alike, and not to be
coaxed by moping. What is mademoiselle more
than thee ? She is a servant, like us. Ask the
White Lady to help on thy suit if she comes here
to-night."

Clovis was roused now. He dared not speak
against the Duke, but he burst into imprecations
against Barney, vociferating against the latter all
that he would have liked to say in his paroxysm
of unconscious jealousy against his master.
'* Give back his ring to that accursed heretic !
They are all accursed together ! As for thee,
thou art a witch ; the devil take thee ! Let me
catch thee calling mademoiselle a servant ae^ain,
and I'll trounce thee. Mind thine own business,
too, and don't meddle with mine."

He threw away his axe with great violence,
and catching up his back hair in a handful,
twisted it into a knot. This is what Breton lads
do when they are going to fight. Odette grew

frightened and ran away. Clovis, however,
simply picked up his jacket and waistcoat, flung
them over his arm, and strode back to the
chateau, not caring to look where his sister
went.

She tripped down the rugged declivity, running
zigzag among the trees as lightly as a fawn.
She knew every inch of the ground, for there
were stumps, holes, and brambles which must
have been as traps to her feet if she had not
known it. Half-way down a whistle stopped
her.

Monsieur Pierre ! " she answered, halting
behind a pine, and peering cautiously before she
advanced another step.

Yes, it's I, my beauty. This way ; " and
Pierre Quiroule struck a vesuvian which, blazing
for an instant, revealed his whereabouts. It
showed, too, that on the spot where he stood
the earth had been freshly stirred, and he was
stamping with one foot, as if to fill up a hole.

What a smell of incense, and what a strange
light that was ! " murmured Odette. Vesuvius
are not much used in France to this day, and the
Breton girl had never seen one. The musky
perfume was like incense to her.

"It's magic light," replied Pierre. "You
know I'm a magician."

Why came you here to-night ? " responded
Odette, with an incredulous titter.

I came to see you," said the pedlar, and
slipped an arm round her waist.

Oh, that's easily said," laughed the girl ;
but there was a pleased tone in her voice, nevertheless,
and she did not rebuff the pedlar's
caresses. He was a good-looking fellow, and
there was a nice odour of jessamine pomade in
his hair. He called her a beauty, too, and kissed
her.

Why hast thou been digging a hole ? " she
asked, abruptly using tiitoiement towards him.

To grub up roots for my incantations. Dost
doubt that I am a wizard ? See, what is that on
thy forehead ? "

He struck another vesuvian, and Odette,
feeling something cold on her brow, put up her
hand and drew away a big brooch with a
sparkling cairngorm that was entangled in her
hair.

Now, look at this," he continued, and forked
tongues of flame leaped of a sudden from his
mouth. Then he cried, " A rat ! " and to Odette's

horror drew out from his mouth by the tail a
huge live rat, which he dangled for a moment
before her startled eyes, and which then seemed
to vanish.

The rapid execution of these common conjuring
tricks, which would have made any Parisian
girl scream with mingled terror and amusement,
caused Odette to tremble all over. But she was
more fascinated than frightened. She drew near
to the man whom she regarded as a superior
being ; and while her hand closed tightly over
the brooch from fear lest it should vanish like the
rat, she listened intently to something which he
told her in whispers.

^'Wnt thou obey me faithfully?" he demanded,
after a time.

ril do everything thou mayest," she answered
submissively. " But tell me, this brooch won't
melt by daylight, will its "

No fear."

I believe it will."

No, it won't. See, I've touched it with a
relic — a mesh of the net which my patron St.
Peter used when he was a fisherman. If it melts,
never trust me again. But I say, now thou hast
sworn to hold thy tongue, and speak not a word

of what thou hast seen and heard, if thou
betray est me 111 plague thee with rats and fire."

I'll serve thee with my tongue as well as my
hands," answered Odette, with a slight shudder ;
and thou'lt give me some more things, eh ?
Thou It take me to Paris and dress me in silk like
a madame ? Thou'lt always be good to me, eh ? "

I'll be good to thee," said Pierre Quiroule,
taking her gallantly by the waist again, and
kissing her. "But now to work, my girl; we
must choose a spot and get everything ready
before I go off to sup."

Ah, that reminds me I've something more
to ask of thee ! " exclaimed Odette. " They've
been saying to-day in the village that thou hast
bought a field at the foot of the plateau, and that
when thou comest here last thou didst lend a big
sum of money to Mathias Pulker, who keeps the
wine-shop with the sign of the Five Gulls. Is it
true ? "

A plague on their chattering tongues,"
answered the pedlar impatiently. " Yes, it's
true."

Then why didst thou not tell me ? "

'well, I'll tell thee now," replied Pierre
Quiroule, after a moment of hesitation. " If

what we are going to do to-night succeeds, the
value of land will rise down there. As for
Mathias, I have bought his house ; he is only my
servant. I want to be rich ; does that satisfy
thee ? "Wilt thou be glad to see pilgrims come
and bring money to the Five Gulls, which will
serve to buy fine things for thee ? Enough said
now ; let's get to work."

- * * * *

That night there was another apparition of the
White Lady on the slopes ; it was plainly seen
by some twenty people, and no wonder, for Pierre
Quiroule, who had come down to Brittany to
speculate on the credulity of the natives, had
brought with him a fine magic la d tern, which,
with Odette's connivance, he worked with bewitching
effect. A sheet hung between two
trees revealed to the stupefied gaze of the
peasantry a luminous lady, whose garments were
dazzling white, and whose hair was golden. It
remained motionless for a quarter of an hour —
enough to bring out every man and woman from
the chateau and farm, once Odette had raised
the cry of its appearance. Then, when every one
had seen it, it abruptly vanished. No one was
daring enough to walk down the slope and investigate

the mystery. Trembling like sheep, the
whole flock of Kergarecs huddled together, some
on their knees, some bareheaded and uttering
the ave. Jerome Juva set the example of adoration
by throwing himself prostrate with his face
to the earth.

Pauline alone did not see the apparition.
Odette had no doubt arranged that it should
come at an hour when mademoiselle was always
in the Marquise's room, reading the old lady to
sleep ; and the White Lady was gone by the time
some servants came rushing to the Marquise's
room, calling out mademoiselle to come and seethe
sight.

But for the very reason that neither Pauline
nor the Marquise had beheld the wondrous vision
it produced a more profound impression on them
both. There had been miraculous apparitions in
recent times at Lourdes, La Palette, and Prays
Why should not one occur at Auray ?
There was no doubting the testimony of Jerome
Juva, whose eyes were enlarged to twice their size
when he related what he had seen. To Pauline,
as to the Marquise, it seemed manifest that the
saints were interposing to prevent the marriage
of the heir of Chatcaufort to a heretic ; and then

Pauline remembered Odette's prophecy, and her
heart, bruised as it was, and embittered against
Koland, throbbed with some yearnings, in which
many feelings, pious and worldly, were mingled.
For one thing her love was exalted and dignified
by the signal interposition in favour of the man
on whom she had bestowed it ; it might be a
religious duty to love such a man, and to join in
rescuing him from his infidel enslaver.

It so happened that every hour of this eventful
day was to remain ever memorable to Pauline.
It was the 26th of June, the festival of the Seven
Sleepers, and there is an old Breton superstition
to the effect that those who stand near a church
on the last minute of that day will see walk into
the porch all the inhabitants of the parish who
are marked to die within the coming twelvemonth.
This superstition was known to all the
Marquise's servants, and when, about an hour
after the apparition had vanished, Jerome Juva,
in a holy excitement, proposed to go into the
chapel and hold a service of praise, many of the
servants hung back. It was close upon midnight,
and they feared the omen of walking through the
porch. But Jerome disdained these terrors ; in
his ecstasy he possibly thought of the martyrs of

whom he was always reading in his History of
the Saints, and reflected that if he were to die
soon, it might be in the same cause as these brave
and blessed ones. Therefore he took the keys of
the chapel and a lantern, and stood near the
porch, deliberately waiting till the clock of the
chateau should begin to strike midnight.

Pauline, seeing him go, threw a shawl over
her head and wished to follow, to set an example ;
but a number of women held her back, and all
the women together in a panic began to scream
to the men to come indoors. The clock struck,
and for a moment all the men stood irresolute
amidst these clamours of their mothers, wives,
and sisters ; but Jerome Juva walked into the
porch, unlocked the chapel door, and, holding his
lantern aloft, turned to see if any were going to
follow him. Then six of the sturdiest peasants,
with Clovis Kergarec at their head, went to join
him, signing themselves as they passed in.

Pauline was never to forget the sight, and
there was many another Breton woman who
was never to forget how those seven young men
walked into the chapel on that night of June,
1870, only a few days before the rumbling of
war-clouds beiran to be heard over France.

CHAPTER XV.

ODDITIES OF MARRIAGE LAW.

Roland d'Alma had not been summoned to Paris
by letters, as was believed at Chateaufort, for he
had made up his mind to leave Brittany before
receiving his mail. One of his letters, however,
was of a very startling character, and troubled his
mind much during his journey to the capital.

It was from his sister, the Countess de Beauregard
ran as follows : —

Hotel de Beaujeu, Champs Elysees,
"June, 1870.

"My dear Brother,

I have just heard some horrible
things. The news of your coming marriage
reached me at Dieppe the other day, and since
then intelligence about the Corringtons has been
pouring upon me from all quarters. It is a very
deluge, and, unhappily, a deluge of unclean water

' quite shokmgue/ as they say in England. It
seems your Miss Corrington is a young lady
whose reputation is far from spotless. She does
not marry you for your fine eyes, but for the dot
she expects of you. She has had scandalous
liaisons with all sorts of people, and amongst
others with a young doctor, tres-job garcon,
whom she had promised to wed, and who it
appears, according to English law, can oblige her
to fulfil her promise, even after she has become
your wife. These are the dreadful tidings which
have been communicated confidentially to my
good confessor, the Abbe Doucerot, who has
friends in England ; but they also come to me
through the newspapers. At this moment, while
I am writing, my husband brings me a copy
of the Gazette des Cafes, a journal of the
Republican canaille, in which your Jiancee is
spoken of in mocking terms by a journalist who
lives in England, and writes as if the young lady
were a public character. Mon Dieu ! how funnily
those English mothers bring up their daughters.
Imagine a French general about whose daughter
a journalist would dare to write such things as
those in the extract which I enclose ! I add no
more, but hope to hear from you that you have

VOL. I. 14

retired adroitly from a mauvais p«5. You are
not of those who can marry young ladies having
handsome doctors in their cupboards.

Your sister, who loves and kisses you,

Alee DE BeAUJEU.

'' Postscript. — Do you think we shall
have war with Germany this summer ? It will
annoy me if we do, for I want to spend July at
Baden."

There was enough in this missive to make an
engaged man jump, but the newspaper extract
was far more cutting to the Duke's pride. The
Gazette des Cafes was one of those many
opposition papers which sprang up in France
during the last two years of the Empire, when
Napoleon III. had relaxed his curb on the press.
It was Eepublican, profane, and lively ; it dealt
in revolutionary disciples, irreligious scoffing,
and society scandals. Its conductors ceased not
to deplore the corruptions of Court and society
under the Imperial regime, but they found it pay
to make their descriptions of these depravities as
minute as possible. M. Timon Grachard was
the English correspondent of this paper. He had
lately been contributing to the Gazette a series of

wonderful letters, entitled " Les Anglais dans
leurs ' Homes ' " — the information contained in
which articles was both funny and peculiar, A
man looking at things through turbid water in a
glass full of prisms would not have conveyed a
more fanciful idea of their shape and colour than
did M. Grachard of British institutions, as viewed
through his French ideas. But the style in
which he wrote his nonsense was fresh, fluent,
and sparkling as champagne ; and it had the
pungency of that same wine when very dry.

It was in the fifth of his essays which bore
the signature of " T. G." that Dr. Cleverly's
friend, descanting on the social evils that abound
in a country " groaning under the weight of
Queen, lords, and clergymen," made a passing
reference to the Duke's marriage in these terms : —

'* I write this from a provincial town, which is
in a state of commotion because a young lady of
great beauty is going to marry one of the courtiers
of Napoleon III. You would laugh if you could
witness the enthusiasm which is excited by this
titled breeder of lean horses. Mademoiselle lias
allowed herself to be blinded by the glitter of his
coronet, and, with that cool cynicism which is to
be found in the most sentimental-looking misses of

.this commercial country, has not scrupled to break
off an eno^ao^ement which bound her to a man of
talent and honour, in order that she may become
a duchess. I mention this because everybody is
talking about it ; not with any censure of the
girl, but, on the contrary, with some admiration
for her sharp good sense."

The scoundrel 1 I will cut his ears off 1 "
muttered Eoland to himself when he first read
these lines. But by the time he had galloped to
Auray and got into the Paris train, he was
sufficiently composed to see that he could not
cut off the ears of a writer who had not designated
him by name. It was even out of the
question that he should go to the office of the
Gazette to demand an apology, or to require that
the writer's name should be given up to him.
This would only make noise, the kind of noise
in which papers like the Gazette rejoice.

But the letter from the Countess was a
different matter, and Roland was bound to ask
his sister what she meant by " scandalous
liaisons'' If nothing more was alleged against
Gertrude than that she had had some girlish love
affairs, and had broken off her engagement to
a young doctor, Eoland could make light of such

things. He would have expected that a French
fiancee should come to him without the least
rumour of a flirtation being associated with her
name, for this is French custom ; but he prided
himself upon his intimate knowledge of English
ways, and was on that account disposed to be
more tolerant than an Englishman would have
been. In sum, he did not believe a word of
what was said against Gertrude. He had formed
his ideal of her with the usual ardour of lovers,
and he had only to call to mind her innocent,
fond, trustful glance to feel reassured and happy.
But he was furious against those who had been
slandering his future wife, and for this reason
amongst others, that such slanders seemed likely
to throw the most serious obstacles in the way of
his speedy marriage.

We left the Duke, after his interview with
Pauline, saying to himself, " Check to my queen.
What shall be my next move ? "

The next move of a headstrong man would
have been to call in two doctors and ask them to
declare that the Marquise de Chateaufort was
unfit to manage her own affairs, as a consequence
of which Eoland would have been relieved
from the necessity of asking her consent to his

marriage ; and the next move after that would
have been to dismiss Pauline Juva from the
chateau. Eoland did think for a moment of
performing this domestic coiqj d'etat, but he
rejected the idea as soon as conceived ; in fact,
his dutiful affection towards his mother's mother
was so strong that his eyes filled with tears at
the mere thought of doing any violence to her.
On the other hand, however, it was quite clear
that he could not get married in the orthodox
French fashion unless he got her consent. As
an officer, he must apply to the War Office * for
leave to marry, and it was of no use to do this
until the family formalities, as they are called,
had been fulfilled. It was worse than useless to
beg leave to marry a foreigner who had been
written about in the newspapers.

Under all circumstances, therefore, it seemed
best to Roland that he should try and get
married in England, according to English rites
only ; and, before receiving his sister's letter, he
had determined that he would hasten to Paris

French officers cannot marry without the permission
of the War Office, and an applicant must provide evidence
that his intended wife has property of her own, or would
"be suitably provided for by settlements.

and consult his notary, M. Ragotin, as to whether
a marriage of this description would be valid in.
France. If he could get privately married in
England, without his grandmother hearing anything
2^ of the matter, then he would brings his
bride to Chateaufort for her honeymoon, confident
that with her beauty and sweetness she would
soon, ingratiate herself with the aged lady. In
this way all would go well.

Roland's purpose remained unaltered, in spite
of the Countess's letter. He reached Paris towards
eiofht o'clock in the evenings and as it was
then too late to find M. Ragotin at his office, he
drove straight to the Cercle Imperial, where that
worthy, who was one of the busiest lawyers in
Paris, generally spent his evenings.

The Cercle Imperial, on the Place de la
Concorde, was like a first-rate London club in its
comforts — unlike it in its enjoyment of State
patronage. It was the resort of all the highest
officials and wealthiest unofficial supporters of the
Empire, and the Government allowed its walls to
be adorned with pictures which had been bought
with public moneys for public museums. Some
of the choicest master works from the Louvre
occasionally found their way there for a few

weeks. In the matter of ararat, the Imperial
had not such a notoriety as other clubs in Paris,
which, with scarcely one exception, were all
gambling houses. The Imperial aimed at respectability
; but its chef and its cellar were
more than respectable.

M. Eagotin was at the club, but before meeting
him Eoland had to shake hands with a score
of friends, who all asked him the same question :
Well, shall we have war, do you think ? "

*why should we have war?" asked the
Duke. He had not read the papers for several
days, and was unaware that the announcement
of Prince Leopold of Hohenzollern's candidature
to the throne of Spain had suddenly fired the
heads of all Frenchmen. His friends did not
enlighten him, for they could not suppose him
to be so ignorant about the great question of the
day ; they concluded that, being a courtier, he
wanted to be diplomatically reticent of things
which he might have heard at St. Cloud. Eoland
asked no questions, but, having shaken hands
with his friends, passed on to the dining-room.
There he found M. Eagotin, who had just finished
a long, copious, and solitary dinner, and was
sipping the last glass of a crusty bottle of
Chambertin.

M. Ragotin was a swarthy little man, sturdy
as an ox and hairy as Esau. He had jet whiskers,
bushy as those of a Spanish matador ; eyebrows
which formed two bristling tufts on either side
of his large flat nose ; and when he opened his
mouth, he disclosed two rows of frightfully strong
discoloured teeth, which looked as if they were
all grinders. His dress was a suit of baggy
black clothes, with a low waistcoat which showed
a broad expanse of shirt-front stained with slops
of gravy ; he had a white cravat, limp and untidy,
and starless wristbands, which came down as
far as the knuckles of his fat brown hands,
covered with fur like those of a gorilla. M.
Ragotin was one of those hot, panting men who
can never bear anything stiff about them, and
are always gasping for more air ; but though he
was not a prepossessing person, nor a pleasant
one to hear, as he spoke in a rasping voice with
the horrible brogue of Marseilles, he was a good-natured
man and a very prudent lawyer, who
had a large clientele of aristocratic families.

Monsieur le Due," he said, rising with
marked respect to greet Eoland.

The Duke sat down beside him, ordered some
dinner, and apologized for intruding upon the

lawyer at such an hour and place to ask for
professional advice. " But it's rather friendly
advice I want," he said, " and I am anxious to
start for England by the express tomorrow
morning."

I have been expecting to see you every day,
Monsieur le Due," replied the notary. " Do you
think we shall have war ? "

Thereupon Eoland had to inquire what all
this war-talk meant, and M. Eagotin told him
the whole story. It was a great piece of news.
To officers of the French army a war with
Germany had been, since Sadowa, the one thing
to be desired ; but they had been baulked of this
fancy year after year, and Eoland, when his eyes
had flashed for a moment with pugnacious ardour,
reflected that with M. Olivier's new-fangled
Liberal Ministry in office there was little chance
of war. " It's too good to be true," he said.
I shan't sup in Berlin yet awhile."

For oue reason you must be glad," suggested
the lawyer. "A war would delay your
marriage."

I came to talk about that," said Eoland.
I have had some worries at Chateaufort." And
in the rankest way he explained what these

worries were. M. Ragotin listened, breathing
hard, as if he were in the hottest room of a
Turkish bath, but with all his mind intent on
what his client was saying. "Now, I want to
know," concluded Roland, "whether, if I got
married according to English forms simply, my
marriage would hold brood in France."

The French marriage law," observed the
notary, as if he were quoting an article from the
code, " obliges you, even if you get married ina
foreign land, to 2:0 through all our national
forms. When you have obtained parental consent,
and, in your case, license from the War
Office, your banns must be published for a fortnight
in the French commune where you were
born, in that where you reside, and again at the
French embassy or consulate in the country
where your bride lives. Then you must be
married in the presence of a diplomatic or consular
agent, and after that your marriage must
be registered in France from a certificate delivered
by the said agent. That is the law."
M. Ragotin finished his glass of wine, smacked
his lips, and snorted with an air of tranquil
satisfaction, as if no such good laws had ever
been framed as those which made it very difficult

for young French people to get joined together.
But' added he, in a more matter-of-fact way,
"if you like to be married simply in a church
according to English manner, your marriage need
not necessarily be invalid. It could be declared
of non-effect if your grandmother moved the
courts to have it set aside, but she must do this
within a twelvemonth after the solemnization.
If she let a year elapse without taking action
against your marriage, it would become valid
de jure, and you could have it registered in
France as if it had been celebrated in due French
form."

This communication took a great load from
Koland's mind. " My grandmother would not
attack my marriage," he said. " When she sees
my wife, she Avill love her ; besides, as I shall bea
good deal at Chateaufort after my marriage,
she could take no action without my cognizance,
and she would only take it, if at all, through
you, her legal adviser. Now, if matters come to
this extremity through my poor grandmother
yielding to bad counsels, I should have to point
out to you that she is not in a fit state to
manage her own affairs. Any doctor would
uphold me in that opinion."

'* Family differences are painful things, and
ought not to be published' remarked the lawyer,
quietly. " If you are quite resolved upon your
marriage, you had better get married in the
English way, as you have suggested."

*' I am quite resolved on my marriage''
answered, Eoland. '' And now we come to the
question of settlements. I will ask you to prepare
a deed settling five hundred thousand francs
absolutely and entirely on my wife."

The lady has no fortune, then ? "

Her beauty, her goodness, and many other
gifts which endow her richly, and make me feel
it a high honour to have been accepted by her."

M. Ragotin bowed. He could not venture
to oppose his client's whim ; but experience had
taught him that mes alliances produce nothing
but wretchedness, and he was convinced that the
Due d'Alma was <]^oing^ to make a Q'oose of himself.
As family notary to the Kerouailles and
the Beauregardss he was sorry for this, and in
recommending the Duke to get married in the
English fashion, he had given what he thought
was excellent advice ; for if Roland grew tired
of his English bride — as was most likely, considering
the incompatibilities of humour that

might arise between a Frenchman and an English
girl — then it would be easy to have the marriage
annulled.

The Duke's dinner was brought, and whilst
he ate he talked again of what had happened at
Chateaufort. In his soldierly candour he could
never fence with the questions of people whom
he trusted, and a few inquiries from M. Eagotin
elicited from him all that the Marquise had said
her proposal that he should marry Mademoiselle
de Rocarme, whom he had never seen ; next, her
wish that he should marry Pauline Juva ; and,
after that, Pauline's own little scene of hysterics
with him.

Mademoiselle de Penmarck is a very good
girl," he added, " but she has too much influence
over my grandmother. You notaries are all
matchmakers. Monsieur Ragotin, and if you hear
of anybody who wants to marry a young lady
of good family, I dare say we shall be able to
make up a suitable dover for Pauline'

Now, M. Eagotin was very friendly to Pauline
Juva. He and she managed the Marquise's
affairs between them, and he had had many
opportunities of perceiving how high-minded and
disinterested she was, never seeking any advantages

for herself out of the position of great
trust in which circumstances had placed her.
Moreover, he pitied the girl for being, high-born
as she was, in a situation of dependence ; for
M. Kagotin had a veneration for rank. At the
outset of his career, a great Legitimist nobleman
had befriended him, and, though he was of low
extraction himself, he had, partly out of gratitude
towards his early patron and partly from long
professional connection with aristocratical families,
come to espouse all the opinions, prejudices, and
crotchets of the old nobility. He would have
been very glad to see the Duke marry Pauline,
and, after what Eoland had just said, it occurred
to him that the pair would very probably be
united in the end. Roland's infatuation for a
penniless foreigner with a pretty face was, no
doubt, a passing fancy that would cool.

*' I will prepare a deed of settlement. Monsieur
le Due," said M. Ragotin, when Roland had
finished dinner and rose to ceo : " but I think we
should insert a clause giving you a lien on this
dower, in case "

In case of what ? "

Well, we lawyers arc bound, in the interests
of our clients, to see all sorts of contingencies.

I think the five hundred thousand francs ouo:ht
only to become Miss Corrington's conditionally."

*' There we differ. I want the money to be
hers unconditionally on the day she is married
to me, in no matter what form. Please give
effect to my wishes as I have stated them. Put
General Corrington's name in the deed as sole
trustee for his daughter, and forward the instrument
ready for my signature to Monsieur Little -
point of Lewbury.

This seemed to M. Kagotin like flinging
five hundred thousand francs out of the window.
However, all follies must be paid for ; and
perhaps Ashen the English girl became possessed
of £20,000, she might not much object to having
lier marriage quashed, so that she might be free
to wed again with an Englishman.

Such was the Parisian notary's reflection ashe
accompanied his client into the vestibule and,
blowing like a Avhale on dry land, wished him
obsequiously " Good-night."

Koland had some palatial chambers on the
Boulevard Malesherbes, close to the Club, and
thither he drove after leavings M. Kaojotin ; but
he merely left directions with the door-porter
that when Barney arrived from Brittany he was

to proceed to the Count de Beaujeii's mansion,
in the Champs Elysees where his master was
going to sleep.

Koland hardly expected to find his sister or
his brother-in-law at home at half-past ten in the
evening. The Senator was accustomed to spend
his evenings at the Cercle Imperial ; the Countess
was never in her own house after dinner, except
when she held a reception. June is not the
season for parties in Paris, but ladies who happen
to be in town during that month for a few days
between two visits to different watering-places
form parties for dining at restaurants and o'oino;
to the theatres afterwards. The Countess de
Beaujeu on this particular evening had gone to
see a farce at the Palais Royal ; so Poland, on
Seing told this by her major-domo, made his way
to her boudoir and there waited for her, reading
the newspapers and coaching himself on the
HohenzoUern question.

What a boudoir it was, and what a mansion
altogether ! Rich Frenchmen do not spend much
on their country estates, but they make their
town-houses magnificent. The Hotel de Beaujeu
stood in its own grounds at the broadest part of
the Champs Elysees. A bijou palace in the

VOL. I. 15

Italian Renaissance style, it was approached
through a pair of fine wrought-iron gates with
richly gilt escutcheons. These opened on to a
lawn with marble statues by Bare, Carpeaux,
Prater, and Clesinger at the four corners, and
a wide carriage sweep covered with tuneless
tawny gravel. Inside the house the art of the
painter, sculptor, and decorator had been employed
to make every room and nook beautiful.
There was nothing common in any part of it ;
nothing had been left to the upholsterer's fancy.
In the Countess's boudoir four panelled portraits
of the lady of the house represented her with
the attributes of Spring, Summer, Autumn, and
Winter, and these had been painted by Cabinet,
Gerome, Winter alter, and Carolus Dura.
Another portrait of the Countess by Ingres
showed her as Aphrodite receiving the golden
apple from Paris, and a very ravishing face it
was which the great artist had limned in grey
and pink tints on canvas.

Perhaps there was too much luxury in the
house. Certainly the coronets and other reminders
of the Count's rank were too many to
please an Englishman's taste ; but then, it had
never occurred to the Count de Beaujeu that

English people are the arbiters of taste. Since
revolutions have stripped the nobility of their
privileges, it is the least they can do under a
system of universal suffrage and pretended
equality to show that they do not consider themselves
the equals of other men. And this is what
the Count had done. His servants were electors
whose votes had the same value as his own ; but
their menial condition was conspicuously denoted
not only by dazzling liveries and hair-powder, but
by the perfect military precision of their deportment,
and of the obeisance which they had been
taught to perform. Even the major-domo was
not arrayed in the plain dress-suit of an English
butler ; he had a collarless black coat of the
Court fashion, with ruffles, knee-breeches, and
silk stockings, and round his neck a silver chain.
To hear this servant murmur " Monsieur le
Comte," or "Monsieur le Due," was like receiving
a priest's benedicite.

CHAPTER XVI.

A FRENCH LADY OF FASHION".

The little Sevres clock on the mantelpiece of the
boudoir tinkled midnight, and soon afterwards
the Countess returned from the theatre. Silk
rustled on the staircase, a Maltese lapdog yelped
a welcome to his mistress, the door of the room
was impetuously thrown open, and the most
charming of pretty French women flung herself
into her brother's arms.

"My dear Roland, what a pleasure to see
you I You are going to stay the night ? Mon
Dieu, if I had known you were coming, I should
not have gone to the theatre. Did you get my
letter ? Down, Coco. What a dog it is ! "

The Countess, in talking like this, fairly danced
round her brother, hugged him, and laughed
gleefully in his face.

A little after his wife, the Count de Beaujeii,
who had toiled slowly up the stairs, entered the
room, and held out a trembling hand to his
brother-in-law. He was an elderly beau, with
blear eyes, drooping under-lip, and a long chin
tuft. He looked like a profligate old goat. His
evening dress, diamond star on his coat, and the
red riband of the Legion of Honour that crossed
his vest, showed that he had not been to the
theatre with his wife ; in fact, he never took his
pleasures in her company, but he considered
it his duty to fetch her home from her evening's
amusements, and this with sundry other small
marital obligations he punctually discharged,
to absolve himself for neglecting the greater
ones.

He was a bad husband, this polished, immoral
old gentleman, and the Countess would have
been an unhappy woman if she had ever loved
him. Satire could not have conceived a more
ill-matched pair. Aimee de Beaujeu was the
most delicious of Parisiennes — lovely, full of
o-race, ever beautiful in her dress, fascinating' in
her manners, amusing in her prattle. The Count,
nearly thirty years older than his wife, had seen
his best days before she was born, and by the

time lie married lier his constitution was shattered
and his purse almost empty. He had taken
Aimee to wife in the most approved manner,
straight from the convent, before she had seen
anything of the world, and without any option
being given her between this man and another.
Her father, the Marshal Due d'Alma, who was
alive at the time, had consented to the match
because he was a widower, and did not understand
how girls should be disposed of. He had
left the whole matter to be managed by one of
his friends, an old countess, who looked only to
the fact that the Count de Beaujeu was a man
of splendid family, high connections, and brilliant
prospects. A Legitimist by education and antecedents,
he had promised to make his submission
to the Empire, and as Napoleon HI. always rewarded
Royalist deserters with high posts, his
rise in the world was certain. The Count also
promised privately that he would pay his
patroness a commission out of Aimee's dower,
and less privately to Aimee's father, her brother,
and all her other relations, that on being married
he would turn over a new leaf.

M. de Beaujeu kept two of these promises.
He condescended to accept from the Emperor the

title of Senator, au ambassadorsliip, and a decoration
; lie further paid the stipulated fee to the
old countess who had procured him a wife. But
he did not turn over a new leaf. In one thins:
only did he alter, and this was that instead of
losing money he quadrupled his wife's fortune by
seemingly audacious but always safe speculation
on the Bourse. He spent as much money as
ever on dissipation and cards, but could always
recoup himself by using secret official information
to guide him in buying securities when they where
about to rise. Sometimes he helped to depress
securities with a view to buying them cheap ; for
he belonged to a rino- of influential statesmen
and policemen who, having a number of semi-official
newspapers at their back at a time when
few independent journals were tolerated, held the
power to create panics on the Bourse by false
rumours. The difference between this kind of
thing and gambling with loaded dice may not
be apparent to men of ordinary understanding,
but there is no reason why men of ordinary
understanding should be asked to sit in judgment
on the cause. Nobody ever accused the Count
de Beaujeu of doing an underhand thing in the
card-room. The smiling good grace with which

lie paid his losings at baccarat was only equalled
by his serenity in pocketing the monthly differences
remitted him by his stockbroker.

For the rest, the Count de Beaujeu was the
most dissolute of men. After two children had
been born of his marriage, his infidelities estranged
him completely from his wife. They led separate
lives ; her respect for him — love she had never
felt— was gone, and if they continued to live
together, it was because rich people in large
houses need not clash like poor people in small
ones. Add to this that the Count knew the uses
of studied politeness and 2iAi:j personage. Peevish
With his servants, short and haughty with persons
of low degree, of whom he had nothing to expect
or to fear, he turned only the varnished side of
his character towards men of consequence, and
especially towards ladies. He had early in life
earned a reputation of hel esprit, and this once
gained can never be lost. He was the reputed
author of a thousand witticisms which he had
never uttered, and gossip-fed newspapers like the
Figaro continued to put new smart sayings to
his account every day. Enfeebled in mind, his
utterances were either frivolous and flippant or
cynical ; but he still had the stuff of a party

politician or second-rate diplomatist in Lin. Not
much brain is wanted for such stuff.

That evening the Count che Beaujeu had been
dining with a cabal of statesmen out of office,
and he was full of the projects they had been
brewing against the Prime Minister of the day,
M. Emile Ollivier, and his Liberal Cabinet. That
cabinet, disliked by the Emperor, was loathed by
the Conservative Imperialists, and these were
going to make political capital out of the Hohen-
coller incident in order to overthrow it. If the
ministers recoiled from war, the Imperialists
would denounce them for holding the honour of
France cheap ; but if a war took place, and
Prussia were beaten — as it certainly would bethought
the cavaliers — the Emperor would recover
power enough to retract the Liberal concessions
made during the second decade of his
reign, and to revive the autocratic system as it
was established in 1852. In any ministry formed
after the overthrow of the Ollivier Cabinet, the
Count de Beaujeu was to have a portfolio.

I am sorry I — I — cannot bring you the
n-news that would be welcome to a soldier,
Roland," he said in his usual tone of ironical
courtesy, and with the slight stutter of incipient

paralysis. ^' M. Ollivier doesn't mean to give
you any s-sport on the Elaine."

^'We can't expect an Ollivier (olive-tree) to
-be warlike," answered Eoland, carelessly. " I
only heard about this Hohenzollern question this
evening. But is the matter settled already ? "

''N-no, not settled ; they are going to tell
Prussia that Prince Leopold of HolienzoUern shall
not sit on the Spanish throne. They have spirit
enough for that much ; but Prussia and Spain
ouo^ht both to hi ch-chastised together for having
had the impertinent idea of seating a German on
the throne of the Bourbons."

'' If there were war," said Eoland, ^' I would
give up my staff appointment and ask to be
placed in command of a regiment ; but it is of
no use to send in my application at this stage
of matters."

*' Not much use, I think. I will let you
know when the p-proper time comes," said the
Count, blinking in the armchair, where he had
ensconced himself, and looking very sleepy.
By-the-bye, you are going to be married ; and
I hear Miss Corrington is charming. My compliments.
What does our good ]marquise say to
your choice ? "

''I found the Marquise in weak health' answered
Eoland, evasively.

*' That doesn't astonish me ; she is very aged,
poor lady." The Count de Beaujeu was too
]ano:uid and selfish to care whom his brother-in-law
married ; but he was rather pleased than
otherwise that Roland contemplated a mesalliance,
for between him and the Duke there was no
love. Roland deeply resented the Count's conduct
towards Aimee, and though he was too sensible
to interfere unasked between husband and wife,
he had testified his feelings by treating his
brother-in-law with coldness. It was, therefore,
pleasant to the Senator to think that if Roland
contracted an injudicious marriage, he, the
Senator, might be able to say often to his wife,
That precious brother of yours, who has made
a noodle of himself," etc.

Whilst her husband and her brother chatted,
Aimee, taking no part in the conversation, acted
as if she were by herself She removed her cloak
and bonnet, rang the bell for her maid, ordered
some chocolate, and, waiting for this refreshment,
she made her lapdog beg for bonbons.
Ashen the maid returned with a tray, the Count
rose, shook hands with Roland, and, giving ibis

wife a ceremonious little bow, wished her goodnight.


He looks very unwell," remarked Eoland,
when the door had closed.

Does he ? Much the same as usual, I
think," replied Aimee, with indifference. " But
now, come and sit down beside me at this small
table, and let us make ourselves cosy. It's such
a time since we've been alone together, Eoland,
and I've got enough to talk about till daybreak."


The Countess was dressed in close-fitting black
satin, with a cuirasse of beads and a little lace at
the collar and short sleeves. She had one bracelet
a superb serpent of six coils, made of sapphires
and in each of her little ears was a bis; diamond
dormeuse, like a raindrop. She looked so lovely
that her brother could not help telling her how
pretty she was, and he told it her with eyes as
well as lips.

You-pay me compliments because you
know you are going to be scolded," laughed the
Countess, shaking a forefinger. " What do you
mean by thinking to afflict me with an English
sister-in-law ? You gave me a fine fright. But
you are cured of that folly, eh ? Grandmamma

must have been startled out of her bed, poor dear
thing, when she heard you meant to marry a
Protestant ! What did she say ? Tell me all
about it."

Roland had no time to reply, for his vivacious
sister poured him out a cup of chocolate, and
went babbling on —

Oh, you needn't tell me what she said ; I
can guess it. I know she wanted you to marry
Mademoiselle de Eocarme, for that was the
burden of her song all the time of my last visit
to Chateaufort. But Mademoiselle de Rocarme
would make an extremely disagreeable sister-in-law.
The wife I had in vies for you, Roland,
would be much nicer — Clotilde de Luciennes, the
sister of my best friend, the Countess de Joyeuse-entitle.
Clotilde is eighteen ; she will have a
dowry of a million francs, and another million
when her aunt, the Duchess d'Hautencourt, dies.
I grant, though, that Laure de Rocarme is of
older family than Clotilde, and I dare say she
will have several millions, for her father has
speculated very successfully in house property."

What arguments to come from you, my
dear Aimee ! " exclaimed Roland, disgusted.

Are they not the proper arguments in treating

of a marriage ? " asked the Countess, dipping
a sponge biscuit in her cup.

You know they are not. Marriage is something
more than a union between two escutcheons
and two money-bags."

Ah, that's new to me I I was not told that
when you made me the wife of yonder gentleman."
And Aimee nodded towards the empty
chair which the Count de Beaujeu had just
occupied.

There was a mocking sparkle in her hazel
eyes, which were very like her brother's, and a
cruel smile played for a moment over her pretty
lips.

I have not ceased to deplore your marriage,
Aimee," said Eolancl, contritely. " We were all
of us mistaken in that man."

You were a grown man when my marriage
was arranged," continued Aimee. " You knew
what sort of a creature the Count was. I, in my
convent, knew nothing. You let me be taken,
with all my youth, illusion, and hopes — a good
girl as I then was, wanting to do my duty, and
ready to be the slave of a man who should love
me — and you flung me into the arms of a man
who neither loved nor respected me, who sullied

my mind, and who has brought me to perdition."


Don't say you have been brought to perdition,
Aimee. What shocking words ! "

They are truer than you think. Perhaps I
am not so bad as people say ; perhaps I am worse.
My confessor and I alone know the truth on that
point ; but if you imagine that a woman can bethe
wife of such a man and not become the worse
for it, you know our sex very ill."

'but you have children, dear. You can be
good for their sakes, and happy in bringing
them up."

Yes, I have my children, poor darlings ! and

I ouo^ht But what is the use of talking; about

it ? Can a woman ever do for her children what
a good husband and father does ? In a few years
Louis and Annette will hen to understand what
the Count and I think of each other ; and perhaps
a time will come when the Count will try to
make Louis vicious as he is himself, just to break
my heart. I hope I may die then."

My poor little sister ! " exclaimed Eoland,
tenderly, and caressing Aimee's hand, ''I will
look after your son for you. I swear ho shall
have none but good examples from me. We will
make a man of him."

'will you promise me that, Roland ? " asked
the Countess, her tears beginning to flow. " He
is such a good little boy ; and when I think he
may grow to be like his father, it makes me
wild. I can manage Annette, and I will take
care that she is never forced into such a loveless,
horrid marriage as I was."

*' Forgive me for my share in that marriage
of yours ! " pleaded Roland, earnestly. ^' I am
more grieved about it than I can express."

But Aimee hid her face in her hands, and
sobbed outright. The wretchedness of an uno



natural marriage was never more painfully illustrated
than in the inconsolable grief of this young
woman, having all that other women might envy
• — beauty, rank, wealth — and yet mourning over
the joyless days passed and the dreary future to
come, in the society of a husband whose heart
had never mated with hers. To Roland his
sister's sorrow brought both anxiety and remorse.
Yes, I'll forgive you. What's done can't be
helped," said Aimee, presently, as she dried her
eyes ; and she quickly recovered her spirits, for
hers was an April nature. '' Stoop your forehead
that I may kiss you. Je traite bien va. You
have a good heart, and we are brother and sister.

But you must not yourself make a marriage that
would store up unhappiness for you. All that
tattle about Miss Corrino;ton ought to be cleared
up."

"Tell me about it, and let me talk to you
about Gertrude," said Eolaud. '' You will soon
be convinced that she has been maligned'' And
when he had ascertained how little Aimee had
really heard against Gertrude, he knew that his
cause was won. He had never much doubted
that his sister could be brought over to his side ;
and now he thought that he ought to prevail
upon her to write a sisterly note of congratulation
to Gertrude, and also to attend his wedding. If
she did that, it would be seen that he was quot
being married in opposition to the wishes of his
family ; and it would be gratifying to Gertrude,
as well as useful to himself, that he should be
attended at the altar by his sister. Little Annette
might be one of the bridesmaids, and perhaps
the Count de Beaujeu could be induced to come
too ; for he was not likely to refuse a request
made to him point-blank by his brother-in-law,
and his presence at the wedding would enhance
the dignity of the proceedings.

Eoland unfolded these plans, and Aimee

VOL. I. 16

hearkened to them with a desire to serve her
brother ; besides, the bait of any new pleasure or
business always tantalized her. It might be
amusing to take a short trip to England, and
judge of Gertrude for herself. If they were to
be sisters, the sooner they grew friendly the
better.

Let me see her photograph," said iVimee.
I am sure you must carry one about with
you."

And Eoland had, in fact, two photographs in
his pocket-book. He produced a vignette and a
carte.

The Countess wagged her head with a dubious
air as she scrutinized them. " Hem ! she is very
pretty ; but we must teach her how to dress.
That frock of hers is too — too English. And she
is certainly tres hotirgeoise. None but a bourgeoise
would assume a sentimental expression in sitting
for her photograph. She has nice hands — that's
something ; but she has taken care to hide her
feet in this full-length carte. I suppose she is
horribly ill-shod, like most of her countrywomen.
Does she walk like a dragoon, and say, * Aoh, yes,
hioutifoul,' and eat her cutlets raw ? There was
my poor old governess, Meets Cropper, who used

to dig in the garden at Beauregard for toadstools
to make an abominable sauce called katchouj),
which she poured over her food — • — "

"Do be serious, Aimee," remonstrated Eoland,
half amused, half vexed ; " you know I love Gertrude
with all my heart."

Ah ! and you see no defects in her. C'est
naturel ; but we women are never so much in
love with each other. Listen ! now you must
make me a promise. When you are married, I
will take Puer — Ger — how do you pronounce her
name ? ''

Gertrude, in English ; but you may soften
the G in French."

I shall soften it, then. How can those
English have such a taste for rough sounds ? "

I don't call it a rough sound."

Tu es done eris jusqu' aux oreilles ? Ah,
I am glad I could never learn English; as it
would have spoilt my ear for music. But I was
going to say, Roland, when you are married, you
must let me take Gertrude to Father Cocorique's
sermons. He will convert her, and we will bring
her to the Foreign Missions' Church to be baptized.
She shall wear a white dress, and I will
be her godmother, and give her a new name,

something sweet and Catholic. You must positively
promise me that, else I shall never be able
to square my accounts with my confessor, Father
Doucerot, for consenting to the marriage."

"I dare say Gertrude will become a Catholic
in the end," answered Eoland ; " but Father
Doucerot will have the tact to understand that
her conversion must be a question of times

Let me see ; what shall I wear at your
wedding ? " mused Aimee, who went from subject
to subject as a bird hops from twig to twig.
A\ hen she began to talk about dressing, there
was no checking her ; so Eoland had to wait some
minutes before re-urging his request that his sister
should write a letter to Gertrude at once before
going to bed, and, as soon as convenient, send
her a present. Thereupon Aimee declared that
she never wrote letters ; she only wrote notes,
inviting people to dinner. If a letter was wanted,
her brother must dictate it. Roland agreed to
dictate. " As to the present, I suppose you would
like me to send something very fine ? " said
Aimee, reflectively. " In that case, you must
give me some money, for I am quite destitute."

Have you been losing at Hamburg, then ? "

^•' No ; I won two hundred napoleons when I

was last there ; and I hope to win some more at
Baden. I don't knoAV how it is that money goes.
I have only had eighteen new dresses from Worth's
this year ; but I have not paid his bill for two
years. I hate asking the Count for money. He
has his fortune and I have mine. We pay the
household expenses between us ; but I would
never accept a sou of him for myself. If you
had not been about to get married, I should have
asked you to pay my debts for me. You must
have won enormously with your racehorses this
year, Eoland ? ''

My stables cost me two hundred thousand
francs a year, even when I am in luck," replied
the Duke ; " and I think of putting them down
now. However, you shall have some money.
How much do you want ? "

No, it wouldn't be fair to take money from
you now. You shall give me twenty thousand
francs to buy Gertrude a suite in diamonds and
sapphires, and I'll add the seven nuptial rings
out of my own jewel-case. As for my bills, I'll
tie them all up in a parcel, and lay them on the
Count's table some day when he is in a particularly
bad humour. They will help to cool him. By-the-bye
" — and she stopped short — " is your horse

Oriflamme going to win the English St. Leger ?
If so, I'll have a bet about him with that Russian
Prince Krusoff, who is so rich and depraved ; but
I must make sure of winning, for the Prince
would ask me to do something dreadful if I lost.
I lost a discretion to him at the last Chantilly
races, and I shan't forget it in a hurry. He
wanted to claim an indiscretion." *

You ought not to bet, little sister," remarked
Roland, with a shake of the head ; but not very
severely, for it was impossible that he could scold
Aimee when she was behaving so nicely to him.

Late as it was, she went to her desk and wrote
Gertrude an exquisite little letter on a sheet of
primrose paper, with an enormous gilt cipher and
coronet in one of the corners. She did not
require her brother's dictation for this missive.
When Roland, after deep cogitation, had delivered
himself of a first sentence, she laughed mimicking
his tone, and said, " There, leave it to me."

When her rapidly written note had been
sealed, she took her brother's arm. " And now
come upstairs to the nursery, and see the children

Parier une discretion is to make a bet by which the
winner may demand of the loser what he likes. Une
indiscretion is often the result.

while they are asleep," she whispered. " It's so
beautiful to see them, and they are such
darlings."

Eoland had purposed starting for England by
the Calais express in the morning, but he found
this impracticable. To begin with, Barney had
got by mistake into a slow train, and did not
reach Paris till nearly seven ; and in the next
place, Aimee would not hear of her brother
leaving: before the evenings. She wanted to have
him to herself for a whole and enjoyable day.
She would go and arrange with him about taking
a house near the Pare Conceal, which he much
fancied, and about getting it furnished for
Gertrude's reception ; and he should accompany
her, and help her select the costume which she
was to wear at his wedding. Then they would
take a drive in the Bois de Boulogne with the
two darlings, and be as happy as possible.

To all this Eoland agreed, thinking he would
utilize the day by calling on M. Kagotin, and
stimulating him to activity about the settlements.
This he did, and a draft of the settlement was
prepared, signed, and posted to England, all
within a few hours. Poland also gave orders to
his coachman to start for Lewbury that evening,

with a groom, four horses, a brougham, and a
wagonette.

It so chanced that on this day Paris was
noisy with popular clamours for war. The
political party to which the Count de Beaujeu
belonged had hired a couple of hundred street-losers,
who stamped about the Boulevards in
white blouses (that is, disguised as workmen of
the better sort), and bawling, " A Berlin ! " To
these all the tagrag and bobtail of the city, with
idle boys and worthless girls, were soon added,
and the uproar of this mob stirred the fires that
are always smouldering in Parisian breasts.
There was plenty of cheering from cafes where
quidnuncs sit, and from the knife boards of
omnibuses. Poland himself caught the war fever,
and, returning from the Bois de Boulogne in his
sister's barouche, waved his hat, to the great glee
of his little nephew and niece, on meeting a herd
who were braying, ''A Berlin, a Berlin! "

But on arriving at his sister's house after this
drive, Poland got a piece of news that disconcerted
his plans. The evening journals published a
decree of the War Minister suspending the
furloughs of all officers and men, and calling
upon them to rejoin their regiments. This decree

might not personally affect Eoland, who, as A.D.C.
to the Empress, held a Court appointment like
that of equerry, and was only required for duty
at regular periods in his turn. Still, it became
necessary that he should report himself to the
War Office, to ask for permission to absent himself
from France for a few days ; and this he could
only do on the following day. So he had to
spend another night in Paris. Feeling sure,
however, that he would obtain leave, unless war
was actually on the point of being declared, he
allowed his coachman and horses to start for
England, and sent Barney with them to take
rooms and stabling " in the best hotel of
Newbury''

Roland got his leave without trouble. Dressed
in his staff uniform — a blue tail coat with gold
epaulets and angles, crimson trousers, and a
cocked hat with scarlet, white, and blue feathers —
he presented himself in the morning at the War
Office, and was admitted, after not more than an
hour's waiting, to see Marshal Leboeuf, the
Minister. That ill-starred officer, who was afterwards
to be made the scapegoat of so many
errors, but who at that time was in the plentitude
of his fame as an administrator and strategist,

received the Due d'Alma in a friendly manner ;
but he was very busy, and detained him hardly
five minutes.

Marshal Lelxeuf owed his rapid advancement
as much to his refined urbanity as to his talents.
Popular in court and camp, a man never hurried,
vexed, or disregardful of those little courtesies
which smooth the creases out of men's features,
his gracious bearing was dignified by a face of
masculine beauty, with large sparkling eyes,
alway's alight like crystals in the sun. Seated
in undress uniform at a table loaded with papers,
smoking, giving signatures, having a score of
people to see, and a hundred things to do, he yet
found means to receive everybody as if he were
welcoming the friend whom of all others he had
most longed, to see. This was his way, and a
very pleasant way it was.

We wil not consider you absent on leave''
he said to Roland. " As you have no particular
duty to do at present, you may go where you
please, provided you can be summoned to Paris
at twenty-four hours' notice."

If there were a war, I should beg to be sent
on active service, your Excellency," said Roland,
respectfully.

That is a matter of course, Drama, and we
swill take care of you," was the answer ; " but " —
and the Marshal lowered his voice, orlancino; at a
secretary who was writing letters at a side table
"there will be no war. Our demonstration of
being ready to fight sill be enough."

This was the opinion of most well-informed
men at the moment. When Roland started for
England in the evening, he took with him, for
perusal in the train, half a dozen newspapers,
which declared that Prussia "dared not fight."
The crowing Gallic Cock was persuaded that he
had frightened the Black Two-headed Eagle.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE DUKE AT Newbury.

The Corringtons had no idea that any difficulties
had arisen as to the Duke's marriage. They knew
little of the French marriage laws beyond this —
that a man was obliged to have the consent of
his parents before he married ; but Eoland was
an orphan, and it was not supposed that an aged
and infirm grandmother had any right to veto
his choice of a wife.

The Corringtons were more alarmed at the
prospects of a war between France and Germany
as being likely to delay Gertrude's wedding ; but
almost as soon as the fear of this had entered
their minds, it was dispelled by a reassuring
letter, in which Eoland announced his return to
Paris from Brittany, and his immediate departure
for England. He alluded to the war rumours,

but said, on the faith of what his brother in-hi w
had told him, that there would be no soldiering
for him that year.

Eoland was detained in Paris, as we have
seen, two days longer than he had anticipated ;
but on the day before that which he fixed for his
return in his letter to Gertrude, Barney arrived
at Lewbury with the Duke's horses and men, and
they all installed themselves at the Star Hotel.
On that day also the Countess de Beaujeu's pretty,
sisterly letter reached Gertrude, and Hucks Little-point
received from M. Eagotin a large registered
envelope, containing the draft of the marriage
settlement.

Hucks Littleton was not learned in French,
and had to take the notary's communication to
his wife. Kate knew French pretty well, but
there were words of legal jargon which she could
not make out, and so the papers were referred to
Gertrude herself. Even Gertrude, however, found
the pointed calligraphy (those French lawyers'
clerks write with the hardest and sharpest of steel
nibs) and the legal phraseology too much for her.
All she could clearly understand was that five
hundred thousand francs were to be settled
absolutely on herself.

'that makes £20,000. It is a very handsome
provision," remarked Hucks Littleton,
thinking surely there must be some restrictive
clauses.

General Corrington was also rather taken
aback by his future son-in-law's munificence.
Do you say, Gertie, that I am appointed sole
trustee, and that the securities are to be lodged
at my banker's ? "

That's what I understand, papa ; but the
same thing is repeated over and over again till it
becomes puzzling."

"We must be very particular about every
word, as I shall have to make out an English
copy," said Hucks Littleton, who was quite
nervous, and bit the nails of his lean fingers. It
was impossible that he could enter with Gertrude
into questions of pre-decease, remainders, and
reversionary interest ; so he fell to wondering
whether there was not a soul in this town of
Lewbury conversant with the technicalities of the
language spoken by a people living so near to the
English coasts. It rather shamed him to conclude
there was none. At last he thought of M.
Grachard, and sent for that foreigner to come and
help him in his difficulty.

The 230or refugee felt mortally offended at
being invited to mix himself up with the affairs
of a myrmidon of Napoleon III/s court ; but he
only evinced his resentment by a freezing coldness
as he did the work required of him. Hucks,
who had not the remotest idea that he had
inflicted pain, thanked M. Grachard cordially.
The Frenchman shruo-o-ed his shoulders, and later
in the day apprised Miss Polly Hopkins that next
to a priest he knew no creature so despicable as
an " imbecile " lawyer.

M. Grachard, however, had been a gainer in
pocket by the Duke's engagement. Since we
last saw him he had been invited to come daily
to Kingshouse and give lessons to Bertha, Mab,
and Dick Warrington. The General thought that
as his children were going to have a French
brother-in-law, they should perfect themselves in
the language of Gaul ; whereupon other young
ladies and gentlemen in Lewbury decided to
brush up their French too. The five Misses
Quang, possibly with an eye to matrimonial
entanglements with the French nobility, arranged
to take lessons twice a week, and Purkiss
Nethersole did the same, in order to be in the
fashion.

M. Grachard had sorely objected to give
lessons at Kingshouse, but was coerced by Miss
Hopkins and her mother, and told not to be a
silly." The wretched man, being under the
thraldom of these two women, had confessed his
dilemma to Laurence Cleverly, and vowed his
readiness to throw himself into the nearest river ;
but Cleverly did not want the Frenchman to
make open cause with him, and told him so ;
and that is how it came to pass that, a day or
two before his services were solicited by Hucks
Littleton, M. Grachard had presented himself
at Kingshouse, wearing somewhat the expression
of a wolf in a menagerie, who jumps through
hoops under protest.

To do him justice, he proceeded to give his
first lesson in the surliest manner possible.
When he saw Gertrude in her own home, he
fairly snarled at her. Her beauty had often
excited his admiration when he had beheld her
in the streets, but now he saw in her only a
traitress. Gertrude, loftily unconscious of these
sentiments, asked him innocently whether it was
not ** his Empress " who set the fashions in
Paris ? a question which made him explode.
Non, mademoiselle' he said, grinning with

rage. " To begin with, I have no Empress, and
I don't know who sets the fashions. Allow me
to add that Paris is not merely a city of fashions
and frivolities, but the cradle of great ideas and
and. — often the scene of grand revolutions."

Gertrude merely arched her eyebrows, but
Dick Corrington laughed outright ; and he had
another laugh on hearing how Grachard had
been asked to translate the marriage settlement.

That Frog is a rum \m," he observed to his
sister Bertha. " It seems he told the Quang
girls the other day that there will soon be a
revolution in France, and that the Emperor and
all his friends will be kicked out of the country.
That'll be rather a sell for Gertie, eh ? if the
Duke has to fly over here and change places with
Grachard."

*' You are the most disagreeable boy in the
world," answered Bertha. " I believe you lie
awake in the night thinking of what ill-natured
things you shall say to people."

I read in some book or other that at the
time of the great Eevolution the noblemen of
France came over to England and mixed salads,"
continued Dick. *' Some turned an honest
penny as dancing masters, and others as hair-vol.

I. 17

cutters. I wonder what line the Due d'Alma
would take up with ? I begin to understand
now why he has settled such a pot of tin on
Gertrude."

You can do nothing but attribute ignoble
motives to people."

'* It's not ignoble to provide for tomorrow if
you live in a country where you are liable to
cut and run at any moment. I say, though, it
would be rather a lark if Gertie quarrelled with
the Duke and refused to give him any of his own
tin. Then he'd have to take a guitar, and go
singing tra-la-la about the streets of Brightport
for halfpence."

That's more than you could do if you were
ruined."

The English are not obliged to cultivate
those talents de societe' observed Dick. " Depend
upon it, when you see a frog able to do a
dozen things, the beggar has his reasons for being
so clever. The very poodles of France have
their wits sharpened by the instability of their
country's institutions, and are a precious sight
Water at earning a living than other dogs."

Bertha could not appreciate such low pleasantries.
Gertrude's engagement had considerable

raised the position of the Corringtons iu
the world. Every post brought letters from
friends of the General, who offered their congratulations,
and many who had not been
friends till then were claiming the prerogatives of
friendship at this juncture. Lord Osborn, the
greatest man in the county, with his daughters,
the Ladies Lucy and Clara Bright, had called
at Kingshouse, and several other of the county
families had followed suit ; for most of them, if
they did not know the Corringtons, were acquainted
with the Due d'Alma, owing to his
connection with the turf.

Latterly, too, wedding presents had begun to
arrive. The back drawings-room was becoming
something like a show-room, with its display of
albums, inkstands, and tea-services. All this
could not but agitate a youns^ lady of Bertha's
thoughtful temperament. Her habits of introspection
made her examine whether her pride
was not inflated by the exaltation of her family,
and she confessed to herself that it was sweet to
her when the many glories that had burst upon
Kingshouse where one day crowned by the General
hiring a carriage and pair by the month ; for
Gertrude and her mother were obliged to go so

often into Brightport now, that the General
thought that it would be, on the whole, cheaper
and more convenient to have a carriage than to
be dependent on trains. But this fine equipage,
the first time it drew up at the door, naturally
produced a sensation in the parish of AYestover ;
and Bertha felt compelled to write down in her
private diary that she had been vainglorious.

Vaingloriousness was the word which Mrs.
Nethersole also used in stigmatizing both General
(Warrington's hired trap and the Duke's showy
carriages and horses when they arrived from
Paris. Purkiss was moving about the streets
when these vehicles and animals wended their
way from the railway station, and he promptly
went to tell his mother what he had seen.

Six horses and carriages, did you say,
Purkiss?"

"Not six carriages, mamma, but six horses,
and regulars sinners ! There was quite a crowd
round the Star to see them led into the stables
by grooms in ' Mossoo's ' livery."

*' What kind of liveries, Purkiss ? "

*' Oh, I don't know — tip-top things, either
blue or green, I forget which ; with cockades on
the hats, and coronets on the buttons."

How supremely ridiculous !" exclaimed Mrs.
Nethersole, who, nevertheless, looked all alive
with admiring curiosity.

'* Cleverly's face was a thing to see," grinned
Purkiss. '' He was passing the Star when the
Avhole lot were standing at the door, and I asked
him if he didn't think them Al."

"Dr. Cleverly may he thankful that he is
well rid of his entanglement with Gertrude,"
replied Mrs. Nethersole. '' The airs all those
Corringtons give themselves now are sinfully
preposterous, and show up their true characters
devoid of that humility which is the mark, not
only of Christianity, but of good breeding."

Gertie looks precious sweet, though," said
Purkiss. " I shouldn't mind marrying her myself,
mother, if you found the coin."

Mrs. Nethersole's visage was hardened against
her son. " Purkiss, have I not told you again
and again not to say such highly improper things
in my presence ? After the shameful exposure of
your misconduct which was made at our party, I
should think you ought to be careful in your
expressions about girls."

Purkiss smothered a yawn. ** I'll pay out
Kate for that whenever I get a chance. But 1

say, mother, I don't suppose they'll invite you to
the wedding."

I have not the slightest wish to go to the
wedding," answered Mrs. Nethersole, in a tone
which belied her words.

'' You'd go, though, if they asked you ? I'd
like to be invited to the breakfast, and I wish
you'd give me a couple of sovereigns to buy
Gertrude a present."

'' A couple of sovereigns ! what next ? A
copy of the ' Siege of Manful ' shall be my
present to the girl, and you need give nothing at
all. Two pounds to that chit, indeed ! "

*' Well, mother, if I do the right thing, perhaps
riirtie '11 invite me to go and stay at the Duke's
house in Paris, sometimes — or give me board and
lodging, if I run over on spec'. It wouldn't be
bad economy to stand well with that Mossoo. If
you'd seen his traps and horses, you'd guess what
a regular swell he is ; and I say, Dick Corrington
brags that the Duke has settled £20,000 on
Gertie ! "

I don't judge a gentleman by his horses or
his money, Purkiss," was the severely sententious
axiom which Mrs. Nethersole emitted to avoid
meeting her son's worldly-wise proposal with a
direct negative or affirmative for the moment.

The Duke vas to arrive at Lewbiiry the next
day. The half-dozen best rooms on the first floor
of the hotel were retained for his reception, and
that of his suite, as the Leivhuri/ Chronicle expressed
it, though in the way of suite Koland
had only his valet Barney. The coachman and
groom, however, who had come with the Duke's
brougham, wagonette, four carriage-horses, and
two for saddle, spread in the course of a few
hours such magnificent ideas about their master,
that Miss Corrington's lover was regarded by
many as in no way inferior to a prince of the
blood.

They were both English servants, and looked
uncommonly well in their speckless breeches and
new coats. Perhaps, having a gaping circle of
ostler and servant-girls to listen to them, they
indulged in a little romancing, touching the
splendour of the Duke's foreign estate and general
style of living. Every Marquis of Barnabas has
his cat.

We have heard ]\lrs. Nethersole declare that
all this was "supremely ridiculous." Certainly
there was some appearance of ostentation in tlu^
Duke's sending down so many horses and liveried
servants to Lewbury ; but, in the first place,

French noblemen, as it lias been already remarked,
are not much given to hiding their coronets under
their hats in the English way ; and, in the second
place, the Duke was, as we know, under some
misapprehension as to the whereabouts of Kings-house
and the quality of that demesne. He
thought it was a large estate, situated at some
miles from Lewbury, and which, when he went
to pay his daily court to Gertrude, he should
have to reach driving or riding. Mrs. Nethersole
was quite justified in saying that she hated
people who made a fuss, but, in truth, the
estimable lady's spleen arose from this— that she
now saw Gertrude's marriage and social exaltation
were positively about to take place. She had
trusted that all sorts of things might turn up to
prevent it — that the supposed Duke, for instance,
should prove to be a circus-rider. Dear soul !
she did not like to see underbred girls raised
above their station. She was sadly afraid that
this marriage would be the ruin of dear Gertrude.
It had been a very trying time to Gertrude,
waiting for her lover's arrival. Eoland had left
her at Ostend, saying that he hoped to be away
less than a week ; but from one cause and another
his return had been delayed for more than a

fortnight. During; that time her love had o;ro^YU
apace, fed by his letters. He had been with herat
Ostend just long enough to leave a glamour on
her vision when they parted. She longed now to
behold him again, to hear him talk, to cling to
his arm, and to see those kindly eyes of his gazing
with confiding fondness into hers. No one could
ever be to her again what he had already become
to her. Hopes, anxieties, passing thoughts, which
formerly she would have communicated to her
parents or sisters, she now found herself treasuring
up for his ear alone. She dreaded mischances
which might keep him away longer. On the
night when he was to cross the Channel a summer
storm broke, and she stood at her window listening
to thunder and rain, which w-ere making an
atrocious noise. There was less than a " capful "
of wind, as sailors say, but Gertrude's alarms
magnified this breeze into a hurricane.

All traces of bad weather had disappeared
next morning, and there was a glorious sun
blazing over sea and land, when the Duke, feeling
none the worse for a rough passage, came to
Lewbury from Dover. His wagonette was at
the station to meet him, but owing to some doubt
as to the hour dien he would arrive, none of the

Corringtons were at the station. It was eight
o'clock, the hour at which, in all English towns,
housemaids are scouring the doorsteps.

'' How far is it from Kingshouse ? " was the
Duke's first question to his coachman, as he
issued from the station.

'rit is quite close, your Grace. Not five
minutes' drive."

"Ah ! " exclaimed the Duke, surprised. " Well,
to right or left ? " and, springing on to the box,
he caught up the reins. " Barney, you can go to
the hotel with the luggage, but hand me in those
two packages."

The Duke had changed clothes at Dover, so
that there was no disorder of travel in his attire.
He looked fresh, happy, and impatient — far too
impatient to notice whether Kingshouse was a
villa or a palace, as he pulled up his team sharp,
with a clatter at the door.

The housemaid of Kingshouse was doing like
the other housemaids at Lewbury, and swabbing
the doorstep down on all fours, with a dirty cap
and a dirtier face. Not a soul in the house was
down yet, and the baker, who arrived just behind
the Duke, delivered his tale of loaves and rolls
into the maid's apron as soon as she had risen

from her knees. In the background of the hall
the Duke descried another maid going upstairs
with an armful of boots and a can of water.

But instinct told Gertrude who it was that
had come. She had been up more than an hour,
and, on hearing the horses at the door, ran out of
her room without a moment's hesitation.

The Duke, as he entered the house, half concerned,
half amused to see that he was takins
everybody by surprise, beheld her hastening
downstairs, and looking so radiant in her happy
blushes.

My darling ! '* he cried ; and he had caught
her in his arms before she could speak.

The housemaid, in her amazement, let fall a
loaf into her pail, and all the rolls upon the doorstep
; the other maid, equally astonished, mixed
the boots and the contents of the water-can
together on the first landing. In another minute,
you might have heard bells ringing all over the
house. The entire Corrington family, having
been apprised of the Duke's arrival, were trying
to dress in a hurry.

'let's come into the garden," said Gertrude,
laughing a little, when she and Roland had put
their heads into three rooms and found them but

half swept and garnished. There was not even a
sign of breakfast in the dining-room.

My dear little one, this is like taking a city
by storm ! " exclaimed the Duke, in great good-humour.
He was pleased as a schoolboy at
the sudden commotion he had caused. He
liked the look of Kingshouse and everything
about it.

What a picturesque place ! " he said, " and
what an enchanting garden ! "

'' Eoland, you must let me give you some
breakfast," was Gertrude's first anxious idea. " I
am sure you must be hungry."

"Yes, my darling, I was famished for a sight
of you, and now let me feast my eyes on you a
little — under those trees there, where we shall be
alone."

How long you've been away ! " she remarked
presently, with tender reproach.

"Ah, yes, it was long. Did you find it long,
my little one ? To me the days seemed all to
have lost their wheels, and to be dragging
uphill."

But you won't have to go away again, now,
shall you ? "

No, no ; it is all over now. Tout est fini,

arrange. When next I go, you go with me.
And when shall that be, dearest, tell me ? "

Gertrude made no direct answer ; but, scrutinizing
his face timidly as he twined an arm round
her waist, said, " Let me look at you, Eoland.
You've not been unhappy, have you ? Some of
your letters read to me as if you were having:
trouble."

Yes, darling, I was unhappy at being away
from you ; everything that delayed my return
was a sore trouble."

But there was nothing — except that ? "

'' No-o." At that moment, as Gertrude's
head nestled on his shoulders, and as her soft
eyes looked into his, full of love and wistful
inquiry, Eoland was minded to tell her everything
that had happened. She had a right to
know ; but as he pressed a kiss on her lips, and
was still hesitating, Dick Corrington manifested
his presence at the end of the alley by a loud use
of his pocket-handkerchief The diplomatic youth
had witnessed the kiss, and had retired temporarily
under cover, so as not to spoil sport. When he
had trumpeted loud enough to startle the pair of
lovers, and set them walking demurely side by
side, he appeared in the alley, and wished the
Duke Q^ood morning.

I have beaten all the others by a neck,
Duke, but mother's a good second ; I left her
half-way down the staircase, and here she comes.
And, Gertrude, I've a message for you." (Here
a solemn whisper to his sister.) " Give me the
key of the tea-caddy ! "

CHAPTER XVIII.

DAYS OF COURTING.

The next few days were the happiest Gertrude
lead ever known. Roland, eager and assiduous
as the youngest of lovers, spent almost all his
time with her. He used to come to Kingshouse
every morning soon after breakfast, and she
enjoyed his society till nearly midnight, with the
exception of an hour in the evening, when he
returned to his hotel to dress for dinner.

Every day he drove several of the family into
Brightport in that beautiful wagonette of his,
whose high-stepping horses trotted with a rhythm
that was like music. Shopping was the object
of these expeditions. Once the Duke took Mrs.
Corrington, Gertrude, Bertha, and Dick to London
for the same purpose, and the party made merry
by lunching at a restaurant.

On this occasion the wecldinor rinof was bought,
and the wedding day fixed. There had been a
sudden lull in the war rumours. Prince Leopold
of HohenzoUern's candidature to the Spanish
throne had been withdrawn, and Aimee de
Beaujeu s letters to her brother assured him that
the peace party was in the ascendant at the
Tuileries. People at Lewbury were astonished to
see the Duke so cool about the war ; but as it
was obvious that he must have better information
than they as to what was going on, they formed
their own prognostications of peace from his
demeanour. The Corringtons naturally did so,
and the General avoided raising the question as
to whether the marriage ought to be put off if
war were declared. He only broached the matter
to his son-in-law, Hucks.

"Well, that's the Duke's affair, I think,"
submitted Mr. Littleton. " As Gertrude is so
well provided for by settlement, her husband's
death, if it occurred "

*' Yes, yes, of course ; that's what my wife
says," answered the General.

But even if there is a war, it does not follow
that he would be killed," continued Hucks.

I have been in half a dozen wars," said the

General. " War is our business ; and soldiers
could never marry at all if the chance of being
killed were enough to stop them."

The truth is, that when a father sees his
daughter on the point of making a splendid
match, he does not care to raise obstacles ; and
in a soldier's eyes war is not an impediment
to marriage. Did not Tom Eushforth, of the
Carabineers, the General's best friend, get married
on the very morning of the day when he had to
sail for India during the Mutiny ?

So the wedding was appointed to take place
in three weeks. Roland was for having it earlier,
but he was informed that this was utterly impossible,
in view of the preparations necessary
according to feminine notions, for so great an
event. Then he had to consider whether, and
when, he should explain why he was going to be
married in an English Church only.

His perplexities on this point were most
harassing. At one moment he resolved that he
would tell Gertrude of his grandmother's opposition
; at another, he shrank from giving her needless
pain. As an English ceremony would hit
valid, why afflict Gertrude by apprising her that
she was obnoxious to his family ? and why put

VOL. I. 18

himself in the humiliating position of confessing
that the laws of his country made him subject to
a grandmother in her dotage ?

There was this further point to be faced, that
if he told the whole truth, General Corrington
would certainly insist that his, Eoland's, first
duty was to Gertrude, and not to the Marquise.
An Englishman was not likely to understand the
scruples that withheld a Frenchman from urging
his legal rights against an unreasonable old lady.
The General would be sure to say that a formation
respectueiise ought to be served on the Marquise ;
he would postpone the wedding, and all the
scandal which Eoland was so anxious to avoid
would become unavoidable. He deemed it best,
then (not without misgivings), to let the Warrington
imagine that by getting his marriage registered
in France he would do all that the law
required. However, he had almost promised his
sister that he would be married in a Catholic as
well as in a Protestant Church, and so he talked
of having a private ceremony before some Woman
Catholic priest at Brightport on the day previous
to the public solemnization in the parish church
of Westover.

What with trying on dresses, marking the

articles of a trousseau, inviting friends to the
wedding, and conferring with bridesmaids, the
days which precede a marriage are always well
employed. Gertrude was to have six bridesmaids
her two sisters ; Roland's little niece (who was
expected with her mother at Kingshouse two
days before the wedding ; that is, in ample time
to recover from the horrible mal de mer) ; Miss
Jentleigh, the rector's daughter ; and two cousins.
The eve Misses Quang were disappointed that
not one of them should have been chosen as a
bridesmaid. Having never in their lives said a
pleasant thing of Gertrude, they felt they were
being treated ungratefully. Their father, however,
exhorted them to philosophy, because he
had succeeded in worming out an invitation for
himself to the wedding breakfast.

Presents continued to pour in, and every
evening Gertrude had to write letters of thanks
to the friends who sent them. She used to take
her desk into a corner of the drawing-room, and
Eoland would sit beside her to watch her write,
and sometimes to help her. At least, he called it
helping ; but there was so much whispering and
quiet laughter between them that the correspondence
did not always get on very fast, and

the matter often ended in Gertrude leaving: to
finish her letters alone, when Roland had gone.

These were the nice evenings when no
strangers were present, and when everything was
cosy and familiar. When they had had enough of
letter writing, Roland and Gertrude could stroll
into the garden, and wander about the alleys
together ; while the sounds of Kate Littleton's
piano-playing reached them through the open
windows of the drawing-room.

Kate Littleton came in every evening, for
she and the Duke had struck up a fast friendship
at first sicrht. Her frank nature delighted him,
whilst his gentleness and polished manners made
her think him the most charming of men. '' You
are a very lucky girl, Gertrude," she said, so
soon as she had become fully acquainted with
her future brother-in-law. " Your husband is
one among a thousand."

I know he is," answered Gertrude, whom
love was making quite languorous and sentimental.
She was now a very different maiden
from the young lady who had earned the
sobriquet of '' Flirtie."

Well, but you needn't say it so seriously as
that," laughed Kate. "He is a lucky fellow

too ; don't let him forget that. You were never
made to be a doctor's wife, my pretty duchess."

Katie, don't talk to me of that man ! '
entreated Gertrude, with a piteous look. " I
have been so afraid that Eoland would find out
something about him, and — and it would kill me
if he thought I had behaved badly."

"Tut, tut!" said Kate. "He would not
think you had behaved badly in preferring him
to another man."

But he might not look at it in that light."

He would look upon it in the light most
favourable to you, dear, you may be sure."

I don't know. He is so chivalrous in all his
sentiments ; he would be shocked at anything
like a broken promise."

But he would not be chivalrous if he believed
anybody's word against that of the girl
he loved. Why don't you try him, and tell him
the truth straight out ? "

Katie dear, I am afraid. I wanted to tell
him, but felt as if I had nothing to say for
myself."

Say the worst you please for yourself, and
rely upon him to think the best. You have
nothing to fear if you are truthful."

Gertrude pondered over that, and the next
evening told Eoland everything that had passed
between herself and Dr. Cleverly. She little
thought that he knew the story, for nothing in
his manner betrayed that he did. He was
touched and pleased by her confidence. He
answered her half in jest, half seriously, but
finally kissed her hands in a transport, exclaiming,
" My sweet angel, can I wonder that you
have been loved ? It is enough for me that you
are going to be mine, and that I have your heart,
which others could not win. What more could I
ask?"

That was really what Eoland felt on the
subject. All curiosity to investigate the truth as
to what he had heard about Gertrude had died
out of his mind since he had come back to her
and had the living testimony of her love in her
constant gladness when she was by his side. He
had even put out of memory the scurrilous paragraph
in the Gazette des Cafes. He had so completely
forgotten the signature to this libel, '^T. G.,"
that when Gertrude spoke to him about M. Timon
Grachard, it never struck him that this must bethe
man whose ears he had vowed to cut off.

Gertrude spoke about M. Grachard in consequence

of the promise she had made to Polly
Hopkins that she would endeavour, through the
Duke, to obtain that rabid little man's pardon,
though, certainly, M. Grachard did not behave as
if he wanted anybody's pardon. When he came
to give his lesson to Bertha, Mab, and Dick, he
marched through the hall to the schoolroom,
never looking; to rio^ht or left, lest he should meet
the Duke and be obliged to bow to him. He
Alas saying now that the Emperor Napoleon
Avant to get up a war in order to enslave the
French nation once more with his victorious
armies, and he swore that he would never enter
Kingshouse again if he were asked to exchange a
single syllable with the Bonapartist Duke. As
M. Grachard was the only French master in
Lewbury, his exigencies had to be endured. But
Gertrude could not feel very kindly towards him,
and she marvelled that any English girl could be
ambitious of marrying such a creature.

The Emperor is very good, is he not,
Roland ? " she asked, introducing Miss Hopkins'
troubles in a roundabout way.

Yes, very good, my darling — too good, I
think ; for he is growing weak, and allows his
enemies overmuch licence'*

"But there is no chance of his being overthrown
by Revolutionists, is there ? "

That is a question which we are all asking.
But what put the idea into your little head ? "

There is a French master here," said Gertrude,
" a Monsieur Timon Grachard, such an
odd little man, Roland ; he seems to be always
in a passion, and his fingers are all brown with
(cigarette juice. He talks sometimes about revolutions,
and I feel a great deal of pity for him,
because he is going to marry an English girl,
and she would like to go to France with him ;
]put I believe he has been banished from France
on account of his opinions."

"Yes, I have heard M. Grachard's name. He
joined in a plot to assassinate the Emperor."

Assassinate ? Oh, Eoland, he surely never
did that ! " exclaimed Gertrude, horror-stricken.

Reassure yourself, it is a venial offence.
In my country a man who plots to murder the
Emperor has more sympathizers than one who
conspires to kill his neighbour's rabbit."

If papa knew that M. Grachard had done
such an atrocious thing as that, he would never
allow him to enter the house again," protested
Gertrude, thinking it was very wicked of Miss

Hopkins not to have told her what manner of
man her betrothed was.

Mon Dieu I then I have said too much,"
laughed the Duke. " You must know that there
-are two kinds of murderers, my darling. There
is the man who instigates to murder by his pen,
his speeches, his money. He shows how the
crime may be done ; he chooses a hireling to
perpetrate it ; and, if the thing succeeds, he
derives all the profit from it. If, on the contrary,
it fails, he retires to a land of refuge, and
describes himself as a persecuted person. The
other kind of murderer is the one who strikes the
blow, generally a poor man, ignorant, fanatical,
sometimes honest, always brave. This man,
whether his crime succeeds or fails, is invariably
doomed to public execration, and perishes on the
scaffold ; but the other man, call him Mazzini,
Ledru-EoUin, Grachard, or by what name sou
please, drapes himself in some fancy title,
Patriot,' ' Liberator,' ' Avenger,' and claims the
applause of the philanthropicaL Your M.
Grachard has possibly a glorious future before
him. If France should ever become a Republic,
he will be a senator or minister, and drive others
into exile, not merely for plotting, but for thinking

against himself. Possibly my want of
enthusiasm for Eepublican ideas will cause me to
be one of his victims."

'' How can you laugh at such things, Roland ? "
said Gertrude, gently chiding her lovers outburst
of careless merriment. " It all seems so
dreadful to me ! And to think that I was
going to ask you to intercede for M. Grachard's
pardon ! "

Well, and why not, my little one ? My
brother-in-law, the Senator, will see what can lye
done, if you like."

But supposing this miserable man, after his
return to France, were to try again to murder
the Emperor ? "

No ; as he is a plotter, not a striker, he
could conspire more safely in England than in
France, if he had a mind to it. But I dare say
he considers that he has advertised his name
enough by his first escapade ; and as a second plot
could not make him more eminent than he
already is in that red-revolutionary firmament
where he plays the part of shooting star, it is
probable that he will keep quiet. Besides, if he
sues for pardon "

Ah ! but that is just it ; he refuses to make

any application at all," said Gertrude. " He
declares it would be beneath his dignity."

I suppose he thinks the Emperor should
apologize first. Well, the man is a character,
and he interests me. With whom is he going to
marry himself ? "

'you should say, * Whom is he going to
marry ? ' " said Gertrude, who had promised to
correct her lover's mistakes in English.

With whom is he going to marry ? " repeated
the Duke, with docility.

No, not ' with whom ; ' say simply, ' Whom
is he ofoino^

The Duke ended by uttering the sentence
correctly ; and Gertrude informed him that Miss
Mary Hopkins was a gentlewoman who worked
in the house.

Then let us help the poor girl," said Koland.
M. Grachard will get no pardon unless he asks
for it in writing ; but perhaps I might draw up a
forn^ of letter which Miss Hopkins could copy,
and which he would then shorn. This mic^ht
torture his Republican bosom less than composing
the letter himself."

"Oh, Roland, you are too good ! And I
don't feel that Mary deserves this kindness."

The future duchess was minded to read the
future wife of the revolutionist a lecture, and she
did so by-and-by. But Polly hearkened only to
the promise of intercession which closed the
homily. With heightened colour and glittering
eyes, she poured out her unaffected thanks.

'' Oh, miss, it's so kind of you ! You can't
tell how glad I am I You see, Tim — that's M.
Gratchard — says that if we were in France he
could earn twice or three times as much money
as he does now, and become a member of Parliament
or something of the kind that would make
a gentleman of him."

*' But, Mary, M. Grachard has done some
very wrong things. I hope, for your sake, he will
not mix himself up any more in sedition."

He would be quite silly enough to do it,
miss, if I let him," replied Polly Hopkins, with a
was of the head. " He's the obstinate, most
aggravating sort of man you ever saw. He'll
talk about shooting people down and cutting their
heads off till you feel fit to scream and send for a
policeman ; but there isn't any more meaning in
what he says than in a parrot's talk ; and as for
hurting anybody, why, lor, miss, he' s always
giving sixpences to beggars — just as if halfpence

wouldn't do — and coaxing home dirty stray dogs
that he picks up in the streets, which mother and
I have quite a job to kick them out of the house
as fast as he brings them in, telling him it ain't
respectable. But it isn't a bit of use, and only
shows that he ain't bad-hearted, which is a
comfort in a kind of way."

Don't you think you could prevail upon M
Grachard to write a letter to the Emperor, and
say he is sorry for what he has done ? " asked
Gertrude.

Sorry ? Lor, no, miss, he ain't sorry for
anything," answered Polly Hopkins. " You
wouldn't believe how he sticks to a thing when
he's said or done it. I don't even know how it
is I manatee to feet the last word with him sometimes
; but I can tell you I feel then as if I'd
been fighting for something with an awful squalling
tom-cat, barring that Tim doesn't scratch,
which he'd better not, knowing that two might
play at that game."

M. Grachard will have at least to sign the
letter which the Duke drafts," explained Gertrude ;
and before evening a copy of this letter was
handed to ]Miss Hopkins. It was characteristic
of Roland that he had couched the letter in such

terms that no humiliation whatever would be
involved in the signing of it. It was a much
more dignified letter than M. Grachard himself
could have composed. The Republican was not
made to say that he repented of his misdeeds,
but simply that he promised to become a peaceable
subject if he received a pardon.

This letter Miss Hopkins folded like a banknote
and put into her purse. She was silent
and preoccupied all the rest of that day, taking
out the note now and then from its receptacle,
and spelling through its French words with a
knitted brow, whilst her thimble finger slowly
traced the lines. Her knowledge of French was
something like a shepherd's knowledge of astronomy,
derived from the close observation of certain
signs, and completed by guess-work. Like the
shepherd, too, she fancied that she knew a great
deal more than she did.

CHAPTEE XIX.

M. Richard SUES FOR A PARDON.

The end of all this was that early next morning,
Miss Hopkins went to the Star Hotel to see the
Duke in private.

The Star Hotel was not accustomed to receive
visitors of rank, except at the time of assizes
and elections. Most of the people who crossed
its threshold all the year round made either
for the bar on the left of the hall, or for the
billiard-room, which was down a passage to the
rio^ht. It was a cheerful hall, large and lio'ht,
which served as a forum to farmers on market
days, and on other days was used as a favourite
lounge by the gentry of the town. Here Mr.
Quang was often to be seen wiping the moisture
of sherry and bitters from his lips ; \\'hile iNIr.
Purkiss Nethersole, whose habits were frugal, and

who never indulged in wine except at somebody
else's expense, contented himself with the less
extravagant refreshment of sucking' the knob of
his umbrella. The walls of the hall were decorated
with some hunting pictures, some stuffed foxes in
cases, and the customary collection of highly
coloured advertisements, framed and glazed.
Harmonizing finely with these ornaments was a
marble sideboard, protected by a bow sash,
behind which were always displayed the delicacies
of the season — in summer, joints of lamb, crested
with little sprigs of parsley, large bowls of fresh-shelled
green peas, or bundles of fat asparagus ;
and in winter, big barons of beef, flanked by
plump hares and appetizing pheasants. But the
hall had also a noble staircase of black-stained
oak, which had found its way there from some
palace which had once existed in the neighbourhood.
Antiquaries often came to see this relic,
and the landlord was justly proud of it.

Now, since the Due d' Alma's arrival, the landlord
had covered the staircase with a scarlet
carpet, which, extending across the hall, formed a
broad walk from the street door. With the same
reckless magnificence he had placed pots of
flowers and evergreens on different coigns of

vantage, and kept a waiter permanently on duty
at the entrance, with a clean shirt-front and a
well-starched cravat, to make a fuss whenever
the Duke came in or went out. It was quite
inspiriting to behold this waiter, whenever he
descried the Duke from afar, whisking his napkin
to make imaginary intruders stand aside, rushing
headlong into the hall, then out again for no
object whatever, and finally shouting to any
person of low degree who might be entering the
hotel on business, " Now, ivill you stand aside
there ? "

The natural effect of this was that Eoland
never entered the hotel without having to pass
through a lane of people, who all endeavoured to
look as if they had come there by the merest
accident. Some, staring at the advertisements on
the walls, with their hands very deep in their
trousers' pockets, tried to get a sight of him over
their shoulders without shifting the position of
their bodies ; others peered at him over the edges
of " Bradshaw," which they pretended to ])e
studying, or through flame and smoke as they lit
their pipes. Those who were not too shy to take
a good look at the Duke would £jet on to the
roadway of red carpet, so as to exhibit their good

VOL. I. 10

manners by ostentatiously stepping off it to make
way for him. All, without exception, would talk
about the Duke for half an hour after he had
gone by, for the public curiosity about him was
not to be sated.

The starched waiter was at his usual post
when Polly entered the hotel, but as she told
him that she came from Kiugshouse, he made no
difficulty about sending up her request for an
interview to the Duke, who was at breakfast. Ina
few moments Miss Hopkins was invited to step
upstairs.

"I beg pardon for the liberty, sir," she said
rather shyly, as she curtseyed to Roland, " but I
was afraid I might not see you at Kingshouse
this morning, and I wanted you to have this
letter as soon as possible."

"Quite right, my girl," answered Roland.
Sit down whilst I read it."

Then Polly Hopkins plumped into a seat, and
wondered whether all dukes wore grey cashmere
jackets lined with red-quilted satin to breakfast
in. She noticed that the Duke dipped tippets of
buttered toast into his tea — a habit which she
had imagined was peculiar to her Tim, and for
which she had oft reproved him as being " piggish."

" I suppose they all do it," thought lie.
I suppose, too, it's a way with 'em to tuck their
napkins under their chins like bibs, just as if they
were babies."

"That will do very well," said Roland,
glancing up from the letter. " You have copied
it nicely, and I see M. Grachard has signed it."

'eyes, sir, Mossoo Gratchard signed it."

He did not too much make the difficult, I
hope ? "

I beg pardon, sir ? "

He did not — well, he signed it readily ? "

Comm' 9a M'sso," answered Polly, airing
one of her little bits of French, with a blush and
a slight laugh. " It's signed, anyhow. Please,
your Grace, when shall I have the answer back ? "

Ah, when ? You have no experience of
Government offices. Miss Mary, that you ask
that ? However, M. Grachard is an important
person, and they will be glad to see him ask
pardon, so that I dare say they will not make you
wait long."

Miss Hopkins rose from her seat as if to say
good-bye ; but, advancing towards the table,
she stood for a moment irresolute, then hoped
the Duke would not take it unkindly if she asked

him whether it was prudent in her to believe all
that M'soo Gratchard said about himself ? She
was a poor girl who did not want to be deceived.
Nor did her mother. She was fond of M'soo
Gratchard, and all that ; but she'd be sold like a
cheap joint, you see, if, going to France with a
foreigner, she found he hadn't any respectable
livelihood. Was it true that in France people
made fortunes by writing lots of things in the
papers against clergymen and policemen ?

Yes, truly, very rapid fortunes can be made
in that way," laughed Eoland. " Does M.
Grachard write much now in that style ? "

Yes, sir, a great deal, and he lays by all the
money he gets, saying he'll start a newspaper of
]pis own ; which, as mother says, ain't to her
thinking such safe kind of speculation as buying
a good house and letting out the upper storeys to
lodgers. But then, being an editor, and having
free orders for the play and all that, is, of course,
more genteel."

"Yes," replied Eoland, absently, for all at
once he remembered the Gazette des Cafes, and
the initials ' T. G.' "Do you know for what
papers M. Grachard writes, Miss Hopkins ? Have
you ever heard of the Gazette des Cafes 1 "

That's one for which lie does write, sir. A
bit of a paper not half so big as the Daily Telegraph,
but costs three-halfpence, he says, and
comes over to him with a yellow band round it
regular every morning."

So, so," muttered Eoland, and for a moment
he frowned ; but then an expression of ineffable
disgust passed over his face. He was thinking
that this Timon Grachard who had slandered
Gertrude, and was not ashamed afterwards to
seek her good offices for obtaining his pardon,
must be the most abject of crawling insects. He
glanced again at the man's signature, then pushed
the letter from him with loathing ; and he would
have dismissed Polly without another word, buta
reflection suddenly arrested him. M. Grachard
was, like himself, a Frenchman about to marry an
English girl. How had he surmounted all the
legal difficulties which beset Frenchmen in such
cases ?

How are you going to be married ? " he
asked Polly, speaking much more dryly than
before.

"Ah, that's just it, sir. You see, my Tim
(that's Mossoo Gratchard) can't abide the sight of
a church or parson. You'd think that man was

a heathen to hear the way he goes on. Mother,
who always brought me up as a church-goer,
though she isn't one of the psalm-singing sort,
but regular at evening service, summer and
winter, at seven o'clock, no matter who the
curate is, she spoke to Miss Jeutleigh about our
wedding, and miss said it wouldn't be respectable
if we weren't married at church. That's why
mother and I have been pressing Tim so to have
the banns put up ; but he won't, and I know I
shall have an awful to-do to make him give in at
the end."

Miss Jentleigh was wrong to give you such
advice," remarked Roland, with a lively recollection
of his own troubles.

"But Miss Corrington says the same thing,
sir."

*' Ah ! that is another matter. Two ladies are
against me, so I must be mute. All I wanted to
know was whether you were going to have any
other wedding besides that in the church ? "

No, sir, Mossoo Gratchard wants us to be
married before the registrar."

Well, if he's to get pardoned you had better
make haste about your wedding. Miss Hopkins.
M. Grachard misfht run over to France and find

some other young lady who would not tease him
about his religion."

The Duke spoke in jest, but Polly started and
reddened. The possibility of her Tim suddenly
decamping, with the free pardon which she had
obtained for him, had never occurred to her. She
comforted herself by remembering that Tim would
not be likely to levant without his beloved books,
and that he could not remove these from his
lodgings unseen by herself or her mother. However,
she thanked the Duke seriously for his hint.
I'll pack off M'soo to get a licence, and there
shan't be any more delay," she said with
decision.

It must be added that before day closed,
M. Timon Grachard was made relatively happy
by Miss Hopkins' abandonment of her religious
crotchets." Mrs. Hopkins likewise surrendered,
Tumbling. Mother and daughter had had a
conference, from which it ensued that the little
Frenchman was requested to purchase a licence
without further delay.

*' C'est bien," he answered ; not, indeed, in the
thrilling accents which a bridegroom is expected
to use at such a crisis in his life affairs, but with
a grim sort of satisfaction that the ceremony of

uniting him to Miss Hopkins was not going to be
rendered additionally grievous through being performed
by a priest.

The clerk of Westover church — a credible
witness — has always declared that one night
when it rained and thundered he saw a small
man pause opposite the church tower, brandish
his umbrella, and yell several times, " Aha !
Aha ! " and it is supposed that this demonstrative
personage was M. Grachard rejoicing in the
triumph he had obtained over clericalism by
persuading Miss Hopkins to get married before a
registrar.

CHAPTER XX.

THE CORKINGTONS' BALL.

The war-clouds were gathering very darkly now.
Aimee de Beanjeu wrote to her brother that the
Count and his political friends hoped by the
Empress's support to carry their point against
their vacillating Emperor, who was inclined
towards peace. Marshal Leboeuf had plainly
told their Majesties that the army was not ready
for a long campaign, to which the Empress had
answered, that a Marshal of France ought to be
ashamed of using such pusillanimous language.

The Marshal wanted to resign," wrote
Aimee ; " but the Emperor, in that winning way
he has, laid a hand on his shoulder and beo^Q-ed
him as a personal favour not to mind luhat a ladij
said. So it seems we shall have war unless those
Prussians go down on their knees to beg our

pardons ; but I hear it will be a very short
campaign, something like that against Austria —
just two or three rapid victories, then we shall
offer peace ; and the Emperor coming back
victorious will chain up and muzzle all those
noisy mongrels — as my husband calls them — the
Gambettas, Eocheforts, Ferry and others. The
end of this will be, I suppose, that 1 shall have
to give up my visit to Baden."

Koland had no doubt whatever that France
could beat Prussia in very quick time ; and the
prospect of the campaign being a short one
enabled him to speak comfortingly to Gertrude,
whenever this dismal subject forced itself upon
their conversations. It naturally did so every
morning when the newspapers had been read and
discussed, and Gertrude was made sad and angry
to see that public opinion in England was against
the French. There were newspapers which she
asked her father not to read any more, because
they were "so unreasonable and wicked in siding
with Bismarck."

What pangs and terrors the sweethearts of
soldiers feel cannot be understood by ordinary
girls ; but Gertrude, as the daughter of a soldier
and the sister of two brothers who wore uniform,

had to slow spirit. Dick was very good to her
in repeating that the Prussians were going to be
licked into smithereens." All the fellows at
AVoolwich were saying so. The French had got
a jolly new mitrailleuse, which could be worked
with no more trouble than a coffee-mill, and
so on.

This was very pleasing to hear after what
Roland himself said, and Gertrude tried with all
her might to believe that there would only be a
short campaign, at the end of which her husband
would be a general. Meanwhile it was arranged
that the wedding day might be advanced if
occasion required it. Aimee de Beaujeu undertook
to get her brother's transfer from the staff
to a cavalry regiment managed for him, and to
warn him by telegraph at least three clear days
before the order to join his corps was going to be
sent him. But it mioiit be that this summons
would come at any moment, and it was quite a
settled matter between Gertrude and Roland that
the marriage should not be put off because of
the war. During the short campaign, Gertrude
should go and stay with the Countess de Beaujeu,
who would take her to Chateaufort. Perhaps
Roland might just have the time to run down to

Ciiateaufort himself with his bride ; but in any
case, Aimee, during his absence, would take
charge of her grandmother and the Chateau, and
see that neither Pauline Juva nor anybody else
kindled the Marquise's mind against Gertrude.
And one of Gertrude's sisters should accompany
her to France, so that she might not feel too
lonely among strangers while her husband was
away.

All this was concerted by Koland with minute
forethought, and Bertha was, of course, the sister
chosen to go with Gertrude. That highly conscientious
young lady, who had once propounded,
at her Mutual Improvement Society, the question
as to whether ]people had any moral right to kill
beetles and mice, now found herself musing that
it would be very nice if the armies of two nations
began to slaughter each other, because otherwise
she would not go on the pleasurable visit to the
French Chateau.

Nevertheless, the last chance of peace was
not absolutely gone ; there remained just one
chance. One fine morning the newspapers all
opined that the King of Prussia was going to
give satisfaction to the demands of France, exaggerated
as these were ; and it was on this day

a most glad one to Gertrude — that a grand
ball was given at Kingsliouse.

The invitations to this feast had been sent
out a day or two after the Duke's arrival in
Lewbury, for Mrs. Corrington had felt that she
really must give a party. Old friends could be
invited to meet the Duke at dinner ] but the
Blacks, the Browns, the Whites, the Greens, who
had been sending cards and presents to Gertrude,
could not all be asked to dinner, and it was
obviously politic to acknowledge their civilities
by setting them to dance with one another.
Gertrude had been very eager about this ball.
How nice it would be to valse with Eoland, and
see him organize a cotillon ! His fame as a
dancer was great, and everybody had heard that
for two or three seasons past he had been leading
the cotillons at the Tuileries balls. He promised
now to invent some new figures for the dance at
Kingsliouse. Bertha and Mab circulated these
joyful tidings, and Lewbury was on the tiptoe of
expectation.

The General gave carte blanche as to expense.
The house would not have been larcre enough to
hold all that were bidden, and a tent was set in
the garden for supper — weather favouring. Fi\c

green grocers, in swallowtails, arrived early to
officiate as waiters. Part of the supper was made
in the house, part was ordered from the local
confectioner, and another part had to be sent in
from Brightport ; so that up to the last moment
there was a stimulating uncertainty as to whether
the three parts would be brought together at the
right minute. Pastrycooks who lent plates and
glasses, nurserymen who hired out flower-pots
for the evening, musicians, carpenters, and upholsterers
— all gave trouble, caused alarms by doing
the wrong thing or not doing the right one, and
had to be scolded after their respective kinds.

All the flys in Lewbury had been requisitioned
to fetch each at least half a dozen families residing
in different places, punctually at the same hour
of half-past ten ; whence it arose that five out of
every six families drove to the ball in a state
of shrill irritation with the flymen for being
unpunctual.

The officers of the Brightport garrison had
been invited, and drove over on their drag, all in
uniform. Being a crack regiment, the splendour
of their habiliments and their self-complacent
looks caused a flutter among the young ladies,
and quite eclipsed the local gallants. Mr.

Purkiss Nethersole only couutecl as a poodle
among: these lions. However, as there were
partners for everybody, and as everybody had
to dance and dance again owing to the activity
with which the Duke bestirred himself to keep
the fun in perpetual flow, it was pronounced a
wonderfully successful ball.

Eoland appeared in the magnificent uniform
of the Imperial Guides — his old regiment — green
jacket profusely laced with gold, and a flying
dolman lined with scarlet. Thus accoutred, he
cut a figure to make any bride proud and enviable
in the sight of her maiden friends. But though
the Duke captivated general admiration by his
appearance, he consolidated his popularity by the
irresistible dash and geniality of his behaviour.
A Frenchman has no notion of a slow ball.
Eoland would tolerate no wall-flowers ; he contrived
that the plainest and dumpiest girls in
the room should find partners, and to set a good
example he began by dancing with them himself.
He gave each of the five Misses Quang
a turn ; he asked Mrs. Nethersole if she would
foot a measure, and actually dragged her unresisting
through one of the figures of the
cotillon. All through that long dance he kept

scattering pleasant words about him like bonbons
; he made everybody laugh ; even the
youngest subs of the crack regiment forgot to be
stilted and to " haw-haw."

"Really, my dear," exclaimed Mrs. Nether-sole,
panting, to a crony, " you'd take the man
for a comic actor. I shouldn't Wonder if it
turned out that he was a changeling, the son of
one of those acrobats who go about fairs with
dancing dogs. Poor dear Gertrude ! what a life
she'll lead with him. Such a man never cares
for home, my dear. He'll be gallivanting about
with other women till he breaks his wife's heart.
Oh ! if I had a daughter she should never marry
a Frenchman, though he might call himself by
what titles he pleased ; and in France, you know,
people may sport what titles they like, for there
is no peerage to regulate such things."

I thought he was very nice," rejoined the
crony, meekly. She often went to Mrs. Nether-sole's
for afternoon tea, without ever returning
the hospitality, and so did not like to be disputatious.


Oh nice, my dear : they're all nice. Lord
Byron writes in one of his books that the most
polite man he ever met picked his pocket. O

certimong, Duke " This was said abruptly,

in response to an affable wave of the hand which
the Duke made as, he was passing by.

Choosing to misinterpret this salute as an
offer to escort her to supper, Mrs. Nethersole
promptly darted from her seat and took the
Duke's arm. Supper had just been announced,
and Eoland was going to take down Gertrude ;
but Gertrude had to smother her disappointment
under a pleasant smile, while Mrs. Nethersole
flowed by her, nodding in a patronizing maternal
way, and saying, " Dear girl, you are looking
a little pale to-night ; all this dancing must have
tired you. You should rest a while, and have
a cup of tea."

Mrs. Nethersole naturally divined that when
the Duke had catered for her wants, he would
try and get back to the ball-room to fetch Gertrude
; but she frustrated this move as long as
she could by compelling him to dance attendance
on herself When he had filled her plate with
lobster salad, and her glass with champagne, she
prayed for a little iced water in a tumbler ; then
for a piece of spread, if there was such a thing
in the house, for she mistrusted the rolls supplied
by confectioners for evening parties, having
VOL. I. 20

heard that they were generally made of flour
ground from old mutton-bones. By the time
the bread was forthcoming the salad had gone,
and Mrs. Nethersole thought she should like just
the merest cut from the breast of a chicken,
with a slice of ham ofi" the upper end. She
would take just a half-glass more champagne,
too, if you please.

Dear me ! it's very kind of you to be so
attentive to an old woman like me, Duke," she
simpered at last, with her eye on some jelly.
But I guessed at first sio^ht that we should like
each other. You must come and dine quietly
with my son and me one of these evenings ; you
really must."

I should have been most happy, but "

Oh ! I can take no refusal ; I positively
cannot. Thank you, a little of that iced pudding,
please. We live at Priory Crescent, and
I know you will tell me that your time is fully
occupied, but you will contrive to spare one
evening."

I have been obliged to refuse so many kind
invitations already," said the Duke, and at that
moment he was opportunely relieved of Mrs.
Nethersole by Dick Corrington's intervention ;

but he fell from Scylla into Charybdis, for ashe
turned away he was pounced upon by Mr.
Quang.

That rosy little gentleman, agreeably to his
passion for getting up entertainments, had been
going about among the male guests to propose
that a public banquet should be given to the
Due d'Alma in the Corn Exchange of Lewbury,
not only as a compliment to the Duke himself,
but to express the sympathies of the British
nation for the Emperor of the French. What
title Mr. Quang had to speak for the British
nation was not manifest, but he belonged to that
political race who are always taking the echoes of
their own tongues for the voice of the multitudes.
And as a goose going through a gap leads
other geese, he had found plenty of gentlemen to
concur in his proposal ; some because they liked
to dine in public, others because they did not
like to refuse subscribing for a guinea ticket,
and others because the sherry and champagne
they had imbibed had temporarily convinced
them of the propriety of giving a proof of goodwill
to the French sovereign and people. So
Mr. Quang's pocket-book was getting to be full
of names, and the little man already saw himself

taking the chair at the banquet, sending
a telegram to the Emperor to say that his
Majesty's health had been drunk, and receiving
a message in return which he would keep framed
in his study for evermore. But first the Duke
must be sounded as to his willingness to
accept a public banquet at the Corn Exchange,
and it was a grievous disappointment to Mr.
Quang when Eoland gaily declined the proffered
honour.

You would end by killing me with your
hospitalities, you are all so kind, Mr. Quang ;
I have received at least half a dozen invitations
this evening."

"But this, your Grace, is a public banquet ;
half political, I may say."

Ah ! but I never mix myself in politics ! "

I mean international exchange of courtesies.
AVe should be both happy and proud to give a
proof of our friendship to your country." And
Mr. Quang, drawing himself up, looked almost
ambassadorial : but at this the Duke only made
a grave bow ; and as he had more experience
than Mr. Quang in the official ways of putting
off bores, he got out of the invitation by declaring
he should like to accept it at some

future time, when his engagements were less
pressing.

Men in love are never disposed to be critical
about the relatives or friends of their intended
wives ; but the Duke had begun to perceive that
Gertrude's family did not exactly occupy the
rank he had imagined. Most of his own English
friends were men of high station and wealth, and
it certainly would have pleased him to discover
that some of them were General Corrington's
friends too.

The odd gentility of the Quangs and Nether-soles,
the airs of the Blacks, Browns, and
Whites — whose daughters, during the breathless

O ^ CD

pauses of a dance, all trumped up titled relatives
like court cards at beggar-my-neighbour — grated
upon him a little because he was anxious that
the family at Kingshouse, and their acquaintances,
should produce a good impression on
his sister when she came to Lewbury for the
wedding.

The Countess de Beaujeu was truly a g ramie
dame, and anything that smacked of bourgeoisie
excited her unmerciful raillery. Like that
Duchess, who, during the Terror, was told that
she must disguise herself as a tradesman's wife

or as a peasant girl, she would pertly have
said, '' Paysanne tant qiion voiidra, bourgeois
jamais''

Eoland could only hope that the Countess
and Gertrude would like each other by instinct
at first sight, and that as the Countess would
remain in Lewbury for no more than a couple of
days, she would not have time to notice anything
ludicrous in the Corringtons or their surroundings.

Gertrude at the ball had been seeking an
opportunity of presenting the Eector's daughter,
Susan Jentleigh, who was a great friend of hers,
to Eoland. While the Duke was in the toils of
Mrs. Nethersole, the two girls had withdrawn
to a conservatory to rest and chat a little.
Presently the Duke, having emancipated himself
from Mrs. Nethersole and Mr. Quang, appeared,
looking for Gertrude.

Here is Eoland, Susie : let us come out
from the shelter of these orange trees, or he
won't see us."

How well he wears that splendid uniform,
dear ! " said the Eector's daughter, playfully.
Doesn't it make you feel strange to own
absolute proprietorship in such a hero, and to
call him Eoland ? "

Yes, it does," laughed Gertrude ; " but
what am I to call him ? "

*' I was only joking, dear : call him Eoland
by all means, till you make it Foley — which
will be soon, I dare say."

Mab already calls him Foley," said Gertrude.
'' T am thankful she hasn't come to Pole yet,
but she will in time."

Somebody drew the Duke away just as he
was entering the conservatory, so the girls were
left alone for a little while longer. Then Susan
thought that she ought to speak a word in season
to her friend. People had been saying in the
town that Gertrude, after her marriage, would
certainly become a Eoman Catholic, and this was
most afflicting to the Eector's daughter. Susan
was too earnest in church matters to consider
proprieties of time and place ; or if she did consider
them it was only to reject scruples which
her innate refinement might have prompted lev
upbraiding herself as a moral coward. Therefore
she told Gertrude outright what people were
saying.

'' This is an odious town," protested Gertrude,
turning scarlet. " I believe every one in it,
except yourself, Susan, is jealous of my happiness.

Eoland would never think of asking me to
become a Catholic."

**I thought not," replied Susan Jentleigh,
evidently relieved. " But don't be offended,
Gertie ; marriages between persons of different
religions inevitably give rise to conjectures like
this, and it is natural that people who know you
should hope that you will not be converted."

I don't see what business it is of people's
whether I am converted or not, Susan."

Oh, it would grieve me terribly, dear, if
such a thing happened. I should be so glad to
think of your carrying our religion to a foreign
land. One in your high station could do so
much by example." Thereupon Miss Jentleigh
developed her views as to what a Protestant
Duchess might do, and the sinful way in which
the French spent their Sundays was pointed out
as the first thing calling for immediate reform.

Now, on this question of Sunday observance,
Gertrude resolved to take a stand at once : she
was not going to make herself miserable by
setting up any principles of her own against
those of her husband. She foresaw that Eoland
would never expect her to give up any particle
of her religion ; but if, in his good-natured way.

he allowed her to spend Sunday according to her
own tastes whilst he himself went to horse-races,
theatres, and parties, that would not doat
all.

Catholics do not think about Sunday as we
do," she said. " I shall have no peace, Susan, if
I take to preaching."

But would you go to theatres and balls on
Sundays ^ "

Yes, if he went."

If he really loves you, Gertrude, he would
not think of asking you to go, and he would not
oro himself. Would it not be straightforward of
you to tell him what the rules of our church are
before you marry, so that he may never tempt
you into evil through ignorance ? "

But it would not be evil if he saw no sin
in it."

Gertie, Gertie, it would. Don't, dear, trifle
with your faith at such a period of your life as
this. If you act courageously now, there need
never be any dissensions between you and your
husband on a matter settled once and for all."

What a girl you are ! " ejaculated Gertrude
But the dispute was cut short here by the Duke's
reappearing. Gertrude would have been so

happy to link her arm in his and get away out
of sight and sound of everybody ; but she had
to introduce her friend.

Roland, this is Miss Jentleigh, who is going
to be one of my bridesmaids."

*' Must I ask her to dance ? " was the query
which Roland conveyed by a glance, and a doleful
little nod was Gertrude's reply.

Accordingly the Duke led out Susan for a
quadrille.

Miss Jentleigh only danced square dances,
and she deemed it decorous in a Rector's daughter,
keeping house for her father, always to wear
black dresses. However, she did not object to
crimson roses or carnations, and some bunches of
these flowers set in her skirt and in her hair
became her very well.

"So it is your father who will officiate at my
wedding. Miss Jentleigh ? " said Roland, after
the first figure. " Your name will remain dear
to me because of that."

There will be another ceremony beside that
at our church, I suppose ? " answered Susan.

Yes, probably ; though, to my mind, the
blessing pronounced by your excellent father
would be enough."

"I, of course, think so, but ." And here,
surely, was an opening for another word in
season. At the next rest Susan asked her
partner if he had ever attended a service of the
Church of England.

'' No, I think not ; but it is never too late to
begin. I will go next Sunday."

Will you ? Gertrude will be so pleased."

Indeed ? Then I thank you for having informed
me of the way to give her pleasure."

Nevertheless Koland made no allusion to this
matter of going to church when, a few minutes
later, he at last got a valse with Gertrude. He
did not think a ball-room was the place for
religious topics. To the dreamy strains of Oliver
Metra's Valse des Roses, which was a novelty in
that year, he went round and round the room
with Gertrude, exciting general admiration by
his graceful step and easy skill in " reversing ; "
for, consummate dancer as he was, he never
stopped till the music ceased, and yet he never
tired his partners. After this valse he danced
no more with anybody, except Gertrude, and so
the pall ended happily to her.

Altogether it had been a most enjoyable
entertainment — everybody said so, everybody

thought it ; and by the time the company had
separated in the full sunshine of morning, the
French Duke had established himself as a
universal favourite, and it was the general opinion
that Gertrude was a fortunate girl.

CHAPTER XXL

But this was to be un head jour sans lendemain —
one of those that set in rosy sunlight and herald
in a morning of grey mist and rain. Towards
noon Roland was breakfasting at his hotel. His
sitting-room was a large place, with greenish
paper, and furniture of folded red damask. The
(carpet was growing string-bare, though it must
have been a fine one in its day, for this was the
room where county ladies lunched at election-time,
while county gentlemen addressed the
populace out of the bow window, ducking their
aristocratical heads good-humouredly at the
tokens of popular affection thrown at them from
the street. On the walls hung print portraits
of several of these county gentlemen, all with
whiskers, double-breasted hunting coats, hats
on their hips, and whips under their arms.

Roland, as lie sat at a broad table spread
with some of the old-fashioned silver of the
hotel, and sipped his tea out of a big cup, dark
blue inside and out, glanced at missives which
the morning's post had brought. A kind soul,
anonymous, had sent him a parcel of tracts
directed against Papists, and the Secretary of
some Association for Removing Motes out of
Neighbours' Eyes had written to ask if he would
receive a deputation anxious for the suppression
of divers evils in his country — in particular the
sale of spirituous liquors in cafes. Turning from
these displays of a philanthropy peculiarly British
for what English traveller has ever been asked
to receive a deputation of Frenchmen anxious to
purify Seven Dials, or to amend our licensing
laws ? — Roland took up the Times, which contained
important news. War was going to be
declared, and the news was in good earnest this
time. He was so interested that he left his
breakfast unfinished, and walked to the bow-window,
where he read, standing.

It was a market day — a slushy, sloppy
market day. The High Street was full of cattle,
sheep with shaken fleeces, and squealing pigs ;
but the farmers, as they trudged in the mud and

put their coat-collars up to ward off the drizzle
of rain, were not so intent as usual upon buying
and selling. They kept pulling crumpled newspapers
out of their pockets and pointing out
passages thereof to one another, nor was it
difficult to see that they were discussing the
outbreak of the fire which was perhaps about to
set all Europe in a flame. The French soldier
noted all this, and whilst he looked out of the
window, beginning to wonder why he himself had
received no tidings from his sister, the telegram
which he expected was brought to him by
Barney. The Countess de Beaujeu wired : — •

War going to be declared. You are appointed
to command 12th Cuirassiers, with
promotion to colonelcy. You must be in Paris
within four days at the latest. Telegraph immediately
to acknowledge receipt of this. Your
marriage will be postponed, I suppose, so I shall
not 2:0 to England."

Barney, it is war ! " exclaimed the Duke,
turning with a glow on his face, and waving the
paper in his excitement.

Indeed, sir ? . . . The Prussians are oroing
to catch it, then ? "

They are ; and . I marry myself tomorrow.

To-day I buy a licence — our wedding
will be quite private. It will be a short notice ;
]put needs must when Monsieur de Bismarck
drives."

The Duchess won't go with your Grace to
France ? " asked Barney, who was a little more
moved than he cared to show at the prospect
of being separated from his master, for, as a
civilian, he could not attend the latter curing;
a campaign.

Yes," said Eoland. " The Duchess will goto
Chateaufort. Her sister, Miss Bertha, will
accompany her, and you shall escort them. I
wish I could take you with me, my good Barney,
but I shall be obliged to have a regimental
servant."

I was in 'opes, sir, they'd let me go with
you," said Barney. "For the matter of that,
I wouldn't mind taking service in your Grace's
regiment during the Avar."

And the drills, and the riding-school ? You
forget you would have to be sent to a depot for
six months and longer ; before six months the
war will be over." . ,

Barney had it on the tip of his tongue to say
that he could ride against any French trooper

THE DOGS BITE. 321

who ever bestrode a pigskin ; but this would
hardly have been complimentary. His master
asked him for a sheet of paper, and drafted a
telegram to Paris, which Barney presently carried
downstairs to the hotel porter.

As Barney elbowed his way through the hall,
receiving nods from several farmers with whom
he had scraped an acquaintance, the barmaid of
the " Star," espying him through an open door,
beckoned him to her counter. Barney was
always very sweet with barmaid when they
were stylish and cheerful like this one, who had
dimples and saucy eyes, and a cherry ribbon in
her glossy black hair.

Well, the Duke is going, I suppose ? "
whispered the damsel. " But what about the
wedding ? I'm dying to know."

There'll be a wedding, Miss Carry, but
quiet-like."

What, no bells or bridesmaids ? "

Little of that — but keep it dark."

"Trust me."

Trust you for telling."

Well, there isn't any use knowing a thing
if you can't tell it," said the barmaid ; " but
what's come over you this morning, that you

VOL. I. "2]

look so down ? Men generally make-believe to
be glad when they're going to war."

I ain't going ; that's why I'm down."

Ah ! would you like a glass of that curacoa
? " Whether there was implied scepticism in
this proposal, or whether the barmaid was simply
cornered " by the display of valet's valour,
there is no saying. Barney certainly did not
regard the offer of curacoa as an allusion to
Dutch courage.

I was going to ask it, Miss Carry. It isn't
very pleasant to part with a good master, and to
think that one of those German roughs may send
a bullet through him."

I wish you'd tell me what the war's about,"
said the pretty barmaid, as she poured out the
beverage.

Oh, it comes of some quarrel between Boney
and Miss — that's the Emperor and Bismarck."

Why don't they fight it out between 'em,
then, I say, like the old song '] —

' Let those who make the quarrels
Be the only ones to fight.' "

Here's my respects and I'm off," replied
Barney with a wry smile, and he swallowed the

liqueur. " I was forgetting this telegram ; and
I've got a busy day before me, too, if the wedding's
for tomorrow."

He was off; despatched the telegram, and
returned to his master, who had been dressings
was ready to start for Kingshouse.

Barney," said the Duke, " there is an
official who delivers licences of marriage — you
will have to find out his address — the Protocol
or Surrogate, I think they call him."

"' Brovght-a- note-here,' 'Sorry-cats'" echoed
Barney. " Those must be nicknames, your
Grace."

No ; ask downstairs, and they will tell
you."

I'll ask, sir ; but I've always heard it's a Dr.
Commons that sells marriage licences, and I'm
sure he lives in London. I've seen his servants
standing at a gate near St. Paul's with white
aprons on."

"You are taking; the Piraeus for a man,"
laughed the Duke.

I beg pardon, sir ? "

Never mind ; do as I tell you, and learn at
what hours licences may be bought."

Roland had beam residing just a fortnight in

England, so that he was qualified to apply fora
marriage licence ; and he knew that Gertrude
was fully prepared for a marriage at short notice
if the emergency required it. Of course he had
no idea of delaying his marriage, as his sister
proposed.

He was an object of more than usual curiosity
to bystanders as he walked out of the hotel, for
the news imparted to the barmaid had quickly
circulated ; and a man who is going to be married
in a hurry is almost as interesting as one who
is going to be hanged. He reached Kingshouse,
and had hardly rung when the door opened, and
Mrs. Nethersole flounced out, literally turning up
her nose at him as she went by : — " Bong door,
Mossoo, oh wee, tray bo tong, bong door." In
these words the good lady seemed to give him
the cut direct.

Curious old dame ! what flea can have bitten
her ? " thought Eoland, and, walking in, he asked
to see Gertrude.

But he was shown into the study, and there
he found the General, Mrs. Corrington, and
Hucks Littleton, all looking as if they had
just received a piece of news which had upset
them. Attributing their emotion to the war

intelligence in the morning's papers, Eoland
communicated his sister's telegram, and without
delay urged that his immediate marriage was
necessary.

Then the General checked him in a nervous
manner, by putting a written paper before his
eyes and saying —

Are you sure, Duke, that you have not
made some mistake about the marriage laws of
your country ? I am told that Gertrude would
not become lawfully your wife unless you went
through all the formalities specified on that
paper."

Who wrote this ? " asked Eoland in an
altered voice ; and glancing at the paper he perceived
that it contained a minute statement as
to the French marriage laws. All the French
terms used were correctly spelt, and the writer
had evidently been consulting the Code Civil ; but
he said nothing about marriages conditionally
valid, such as that which the Duke wished to
contract.

I think we ought to say who gave us that,"
remarked Mrs. Corrington, who, seeing the
Duke's emotion, was full of Sympathy for him,
and put little faith in the paper. But the

General hesitated, muttering something about
a promise, and Hucks Littleton coughed as if
he thought the revelation ought not to be made.

We can't have any mysteries about such
a thing as this," continued Mrs. Corrington, disregarding
these hints. " Eoland (she had never
called him by his Christian name before), it was
Mrs. Nethersole who brought us this paper. She
came early this morning before any of us were
up, left the paper, and returned about an hour
ago to have a talk about it. I suspected that
she must have got her information from a doctor
in this town who is a great friend of M. Grachard,
the French master. So we have been questioning
M. Grachard, and he made no secret of
having dictated this paper to "

Grachard ? Ah ! a doom's bite is below the
knee ! " exclaimed the Duke. "Is M. Grachard
still in the house ? "

No, he went away before Mrs. Nethersole
came ; but he admitted having dictated the
paper to Dr. Cleverly."

Dr. Cleverly ! " Eoland looked up and
Mrs. Corrington reddened, for the name had
slipped from he]' unawares. Upon this Hucks
Ijittlepoint became very fidgety, having noticed

the Duke's tone in pronouncing Cleverly's
name.

Well, of course, Alma, we have every
confidence in you," cried the General in his loud
voice ; " but as we are both soldiers and don't
know much about law, we must take care that no
mistakes are made. That's Hucks' opinion."

Mission Grachard was very explicit," observed
Mr. Littleton.

He said the most shocking things," broke
out Mrs. Corrington indignantly ; for, in her fear
that Eoland should be offended, she lost all
patience with Mrs. Nethersole, Dr. Cleverly, and
M. Grachard.

Well, my dear, let's hear what Alma has to
say," interrupted the General.

Roland, exasperated as he was, could only
tell the truth ; but the interference of Cleverly
and Grachard in his affairs caused him such deep
annoyance that he spoke in a rather proud and
peremptory tone, and not at all like a man on his
defence.

This did him good with Mi's. Corrington.
Before he had finished his mortifying account of
family worries, the good lady saw that he had
acted for the best, and was persuaded that a

purely English marriage would be perfectly valid.
But this was not the view taken by the Lewbury
lawyer.

Supposing you — you were to be killed in
war, Duke ? " said this gentleman, blinking
through his spectacles at Koland. " I understand
that if all goes well you would have power to
prevent your grandmother from getting your
marriage cancelled ; but you would not have
that power if you got killed within the coming-twelvemonth.
"

As one blow striking the pedestal of a column
may lay the whole in ruins, so the structure of
Eoland's plans and hopes fell under this argument
of Hucks\ It was an unanswerable argument.

The Duke stared and bit his lips. In providing
for his marriage he had calculated every
possibility except that of his own death. Quite
a minute elapsed — and this was a long time — ■
before it occurred to him that his sister would
stand by Gertrude if he were killed in battle.
Inwardly he was persuaded that his whole
country would stand by his widow, and that
neither the Emperor nor any French judge
would suffer a marriage to be broken which had
been solemnized in articulo mortis, as it were, by

THE DOGS BITE. 329

an officer bearing the name of Alma. And
in so thinking he was right ; but his romantic
faith in sister, Sovereign, and country sounded
only as unbusinesslike equivocation to the
English solicitor.

If we could be quite sure of the Countess
de Beaujeu's intentions," remarked Hucks Little-point
with a shake of the head.

It was unfortunate that Hucks said lue instead
of yoii, for now the Duke felt affronted. " Will
you please put the dots on the i's ? " he said
with dignity.

Do what ? " asked Hucks.

'^ Make your meaning clearer, sir."

Oh, well, we ought to have some written
guarantee from the Count and Countess de
Beaujeu," said the impervious lawyer ; *' and I
think you should telegraph for the certificate of
two medical men to the effect that your grandmother
is of unsound mind. Even then, considering
that great settlements are at stake, I
hardly feel that we should be safe."

Who will not be safe, Mr. Littleton ? "
inquired the Duke with suppressed anger that
flashed out of his eyes. " Is there anybody here
who has a more vital interest in the validity

of my marriage than I have myself? What
guarantee would you have in written promises
or certificates that you do not possess already
in my word of honour ? If you do not believe
that, you are the first man who will have had
the audacity to say so to my face."

The General was too deaf to seize more than
half of this ; lout if the Duke had boxed Hucks'
ears the effect could not have been more alarming
to Mrs. Corrington. The Duke had turned
towards the door ; another step and he might be
gone — gone back to his own country and to war,
with the bitter recollection of this parting scene
to prevent him from ever returning. And then
Gertrude's brilliant match — nay, her love-match
would have crumbled away, and the poor child
be left heart-broken. And how the Blacks and
Browns, the Greys and Greens would tattle !

Koland, dear Eoland," cried the good lady,
springing from her seat and laying a hand on the
Duke's arm, " don't pay any attention to what
they say. It's all that wretched Dr. Cleverly.
Gertrude has told you about him, and Mission
Grachard, who shall never set foot in this house
aojain. The horrible little man ; he said the most
atrocious things, and I can't think how the

General can have had the patience to listen to
him. But don't you be angry about it."

'' I am not angry, my dear Madame Warrington,"
said Eoland, raising the hand of Gertrude's
mother to his lips and kissing it with filial
respect ; " but as to M. Grachard, I do not see
how he can impugn English marriages, since he
is Pfoinof to be married himself as if he were an
Englishman."

His case is different," interposed Hucks
Littleton ; "it seems he is an exile under
sentence of death — that is, the law accounts him
as dead — and he cannot go through any legal
formalities in his own country."

' Do, please, be quiet, Hucks ! " exclaimed
Mrs. Corrington, quite beside herself at seeing
the Duke move again towards the door. But
Eoland took his leave with words that were as
balm to her.

I will not see Gertrude now, but I will
return presently ; I pray you to tell her all that
has passed. She is of age, and can judge for
herself. When I come back I shall ask her if
she will trust me and become my wife before
I go away to war."

His anger seemed to have left him ; he

.spoke with a tranquil solemnity, and gave a
kindly nod to the General and Mrs. Corrington
as he retired. He did not say that he was goiiig.
straight off to find Dr. Cleverly and M. Tiinon
Grachard, and have a few words with them.

END OF VOL. I.

i'RJNTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. C., C. &> Co.

3 0112

illllil



^ ^

X'^^^^M'-i^i

■■^''i''^:i$'&>'

■'!^y'.'V,

<sf

ryl

e.

y

t

§,,,:,:^.-

mm ■

K

OF THL

UNIVERSITY

Of ILLINOIS

u

7iY Three VOLUMES
VOL. II.

lo:n'do:n':

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SOX

i3tiblist}rrs in (.JB^rtiinarg to 5&cr fHajrstg tfjr buren.

1885.

(sall rights reserved.)

CONTENTS OF YOL. II.

CHAPTER L

"don't let them fight!"

In one of the narrow thoroughfares branching
out of the High Street at Lewbury stood a house
having a brass plate on the door with the name
Hopkins. There was nothing to distinguish this
particular house from others in the same row,
which were ugly square blocks, devoid of any
architectural ornament They all had six rooms
apiece, and were rented by respectable artisans
or widows who took in lodgers when they could
get them. When they could not, cards were put
in the windows to tempt the homeless with, offers
of rooms furnished or unfurnished. It more
often happened that the houses could show cards
than lodgers. However, AL Timon Grachard

YOL, IL 22

lead resided in the street ever since he came
to Lewbury, and had found it suited his convenience.


The Frenchman's apartments were a bedroom
and sitting-room, furnished without regard to
luxury or even to comfort, and smelling rankly
of caporal tobacco. In the sitting-room there
was hardly space to stir, so encumbered was it
With books and old newspapers. The books were
set up in columns so lofty that the topmost
volumes were always lurching as though meditating
to take headers on to the carpet, but not
daring because of the height ; and as, when
]\r. Grachard wanted a book, it was his custom
to pull it out of the pile without taking the
trouble to lift those above it, the ruins of broken
columns were to be seen in every direction. It
was impossible to enter the room in the dark
without knocking something over, and unsafe to
leave it with a fire or light burning therein, lest
some of the papers scattered about the floor
should set first the room and then the house into
a blaze.

Almost every article in the room was grey
With dust or cigar ashes ; but M. Grachard would
not allow the apartment to be dusted. Attempts

to put order into it were resented by him with
such violent cano-er and screaming that even Mrs.
Hopkins, though vacant, had grown afraid to
dispute with him on this point. She declared,
however, that the room was fitter for pigs than
for two-legged Christians, without explaining
what sort of comfort pigs could have derived
from a room filled chiefly with the literature of
French pagan philosophy ; and as she could not
Ijrinof breakfast or dinner into it without the
risk of tripping up with her tray over a folio, or
of drawing an energetic Sacre ! from her lodger
if she set down her tray on a space which he
wanted for other purposes, it had gradually come
to pass that M. Grachard took all his meals in
the parlour downstairs with Mrs. Hopkins or
Polly, or sometimes with both. Thus it was that
the too tender intimacy with Polly had begun.

Mrs. Hopkins was a widow of the arm-akimbo
sort. The Hopkins advertised on the door-plate
had been gathered to his fathers, and Mrs. H.
did not pretend to mourn for him, but rather
alluded to him with querulous envy, as one who
had stolen a march upon her by getting to a
*' better place" before his time. This does not
mean that she herself wanted to die, but she was

secretly wroth with Hopkins for not having lived
longer to bear his share of their common troubles
and the brunt of her occasional tantrums. She
had an opinion lying quiet in her own mind
that Hopkins would have been more fit to
enter into eternal blessedness if he had enjoyed
the benefit of her training a little longer ; and
possibly, as she cast her eyes skywards to the
place where Hopkins' present residence was
supposed to be, she comforted herself with a
thought of continuing his education when they
met again. She was not quite sure that husbands
ought to be summoned off to heaven
Without their wives — at least not such husbands
as Hopkins, who had never been able to take
care of himself without her assistance, and who
could hardly give proper answers to questions
concerning himself unless she were at his elbow
to nudge him.

Hopkins had been a foreman painter, a
worthy man who had died suddenly of an aneurism
— going off, as his widow said, "like one
who steps out of the 'ouse without saying * with
your leave ' or 'by your leave.' " A black silhouette
portrait of him hung over the mantelpiece
in the parlour, and Mrs. Hopkins, glancing at it

now and then, would be observed to shake her
head as though to say, " John, John, I hope you
have been able to get on without me, but I
would like to see you before I believe it."

Mrs. Hopkins was of middle height and
medium stoutness, but she had a pronounced
nose, a double chin, eyes restless as a bird's, and
a tongue which went all day, like a red rag hung
to a nail in a high wind. We may introduce her
daughter and her as they sat at dinner in their
parlour nth Mrs. Crapps, a neighbour who had
come in to assist in making the dress ivdiich
Polly was to wear on her wedding day.

The talk rolled upon M. Grachard, who had
gone out that morning to buy a marriage licence,
with a view to getting his wedding solemnized
the following day. Mrs. Crapps' contribution
to the debate consisted of a series of ejaculations:
*' Lor now! dearie me! oh my!" accompanied
with a raising of both hands, all fingers displayed,
as if she could not forbear calling the attention
of her hostess to the fact that she had forgotten
to wash these extremities before sitting down to
the midday meal. Mrs. Crapps was a little old
woman with horn spectacles, who was a favourite
with Mrs. Hopkins, because she had nothing to

say for herself, and could listen to any length
provided you set eatables before her.

Polly Hopkins had left her work at Kings-house
at noon that day to prepare for her
wedding, or at least for the possibility of it, for
she was not sure yet when the ceremony was
to take place. It was to be very private — a mere
visit to the registrar's office, with a couple of
witnesses, but with no bridesmaids, breakfast, or
honeymoon tour to follow. Father abstracted
in her manner, the girl could not sit still, but
kept moving from her place to the window to
watch for her bridegroom's return. Her plate
remained untouched, and she had been answering
her mother in monosyllables.

I shouldn't wonder if that o^abv of yours
had made some mistake," exclaimed Mrs. Hopkins.
" He wouldn't stop to listen when I told
him where he was to go, but just started off
as though he had been stealing somebody's
umbrella."

Dr. Cleverly was to go with him, mother,"
replied Polly. " And I wish you wouldn't call
him a gaby."

Hark to that now ! " cried widow Hopkins,
who was slicing away at a beefsteak pudding.

I don't know what's come over the child these
last few days, she's suite glum-like."

Lor now ! " ejaculated Mrs. Crapps, with
her mouth full of meat.

Polly vouchsafed no answer, but walked to
the window again and pressed her forehead
against a window-pane. Very thoughtful sIk^
looked — rather pale, too, and nervous.

I call it popish and 'imitating to get
married like that, simply to release a foreigner,"
continued Mrs. Hopkins, pushing the dish of
potatoes towards Mrs. Crapps. " If Poll's father
lead been here now, he wouldn't have stood it ! "
It was Mrs. Hopkins' habit, now that her husband
had departed, to represent him always as a man
of unbending firmness and autocratic instincts.
The poor man thus enjoyed a posthumous
authority in the family circle such as had never
belonged to him whilst he lived.

No church-going ! what an idea ! " proceeded
Mrs. Hopkins. " I think I can hear my
John say, ' 'Lisa, I'm not going to allow our
child to be married like a heathen with a feather
apron on.' "

Dearie me ! " moaned Mrs. Crapps.

It's the furrineerinoj nature of the thin

that I object to, as I told Miss Jentleigh this
morning, when she said that she couldn't think
much of ' Mossoo ' if he promoted ' candles '
among the faithful. 'And a shameful thing too,'
I said, ' miss ; and I wish my John had been hereto
drag him through the church doors up to the
altar by his ears, and there would have been no
'' candle " then.' "

'• Mother, I wish you would be cjuiet," said
Polly, looking angrily over her shoulder ; then,
glancing out of the window again, she saw the
postman coming and went to the door,

More ' furrin ' newspapers '? " exclaimed
Mrs. Hopkins, when her daughter returned with
the delivery. " One, two, three, four. What
any man can want with all those papers beats
me ! We shall all be burned down in our beds
some night, unless Poll, when she's married,
makes him sell all his old newspapers and books
to the cheesemonger, who would give three
farthings a pound for 'em."

'' Be quiet, mother, now do," repeated Polly,
stamping her foot. " Here they come, both
together. Mrs. Crapps, clear off quick, wee must
have the room tidy."

M. Grachard's latch-key clicked in the

door-lock, and the little man ushered Laurence
Cleverly into the parlour. The two had been to
purchase a licence, and now M. Grachard had
brought in the doctor — his only English friend,
who was to be his groomsman — to take some
lunch, if such a thing were to be had. He was
in a good humour, for, regarding his marriage as
an absurdity forced upon him by our imperfect
social system, he had been making merry over
the ludicrous aspects of it with his friend.
Nevertheless, he had brought his bride a present
besides the ring. Saluting her cheek with a kiss,
he drew out a case containing a pretty gold
watch and chain and placed it in her hand,
sang :

There, mignonne, I hope you shall like it ;
but it is Dr. Cleverly who has made the
choice."

Oh, Tim, how beautiful ! " exclaimed Polly,
reddening with pleasure ; and she lost no time in
putting on the chain, to admire herself in the
glass. Then she became absorbed in the contemplation
of the interior of the watch, and had
recourse to Dr. Cleverly 's lights to learn how
the instrument was to be wound up and set.

Dr. Cleverly 's presence had a very subduing

effect upon Mrs. Hopkins and Mrs. Crapps, who
bustled about to clear away the dishes, and to
spread a clean cloth for another meal. Polly
was not called upon to assist in these menial
operations. On the strength of her coming
marriage she was to be treated as a lady, and it
was good to see how coolly she stepped into the
dignity of her new position now that the licence
was bought, and she was sure of becoming
gentleman's wife. She sat down beside Dr.
Cleverly, a thing she had never done before,
and the doctor did homage to her rank by
forbearing to address her as " Polly."

Meanwhile Timon Grachard, with rapid
French gestures, had taken up the Paris newspapers
which the midday post had brought. He
tore off the wrappers, cast his eyes swiftly down
the columns, and then tossed the papers aside.
This he did three times, but something in the
fourth paper arrested his attention and made
him stand stock-still. Then a sound escaped him
like the yell of a wild beast :

Sacer-re! what's this?" he cried, turning
round fiercely upon Polly, who rose all of a
tremble. " Do you know what this means ? "

"\Yhat is it, Tim?" asked Polly, endeavouring,

but without any success, to look
innocent.

This, this ! " screamed the Frenchman,
striking the newspaper furiously with his fist,
and thrusting it under Polly's eyes. " Mon
Dieu ! I think I shall go mad." Here he
clutched Polly's arm. " Tell me at once, girl,
is this your work ? "

What on earth is the matter ? " interposed
Dr. Cleverly, while Mrs. Hopkins and Mrs. Crapps,
the one holding a pile of plates, the other a
bunch of knives and forks, huddled near the door
dumfoundecl by the Frenchman's explosion of
temper.

"Yes, I did it, Tim," faltered Polly, after a
moment's hesitation. " But you mustn't be

angry with me, dear. I " The Frenchman

pushed her from him with such violence that she
would have fallen if the doctor had not caught
her in his arms.

"Miserable'' he shrieked, clenching his
fists. " Wretch ! wretch ! you have dishonoured
me ; you, who were to be my wife, but that you
shall never be now — ah no ; " saying which he
ground his teeth and stamped on the floor.

Mother, go out, do ! " screamed Polly, asher

parent rushed to her rescue T\ith a seeming
design of driving off Timon Grachard with her
handful of knives.

"Madame Hopkins, be pleased to retire,"
shouted Grachard, pointing indignantly to the
door, and sharing; as if he were o-oino- to bite.

In the midst of this altercation, Laurence
Cleverly had taken the newspaper from the
Frenchman's hand, and a glance at it showed
him what was the matter. The paper was the
Journal Officiel, and in the most prominent part
of its front page it contained an announcement,
that the fugitive Timon Grachard, who had
been sentenced to death in contumdciam for
joining in a plot against the Emperor's life, had
made an appeal to His Majesty for pardon and
leave to re-enter France. The letter purporting
to have been sent by M. Grachard was printed,
and the editorial note concluded by saying ironically,
that it was probable the supplicant's prayer
would be granted, as a revolutionist who repented
of his sins and made amende honorable for them
ceased to be dangerous.

Did you write this ? " asked Cleverly,
looking with surprise from Polly to Grachard,
and addressing the question to both, though he

felt it was liigiily improbable that Grachard
should have composed such a letter.

"/? " yelled Grachard, who was tearing about
the room and swearing; at large \vith unabated
vehemence. " Sctcrebleu ! is it likely ? It is

she who did it, she — she " and he pointed at

Polly with a forefinger, which shook as if it were
a loaded pistol. " The fool came to me the
other day with a letter which somebody had
prepared for her — Miss Corrington, I suppose
■ — and wanted me to sign it. I warned her
never to insult me again vdih such a demand,
and to tell Miss Corrington that I begged
her to mind her own business, and vet — and
yet "

Has he got his pardon, sir ? " interrupted
Polly, turning towards Cleverly. She had been
a little unnerved at the outset of the scene ; but
she was a girl of spirit, who at the game of
screaming and nagging was quite a match for her
French lover.

When Cleverly answered that it was probable
the pardon would be granted, the flush on
her face deepened, and she suddenly raised her
voice to quite as shrill a pitch as Grachard's.

Hold your noise, can't you, Tim ? You

14 THE DUKES Marriage.

ought to be ashamed of yourself, taking on in
that way. If you weren't such a silly, you'd be
thankful to me for what I have done. It wasn't
]\Iiss Corrington that wrote the letter, but the
Due d'Alma, who told me he'd get your pardon
if you signed it. So of course, when you were
so stupid and wouldn't write your name, I signed
it for you. Ask Dr. Cleverly whether I wasn't
right. The idea of such a one as you saying
you wouldn't ask pardon of the Emperor because
you were too proud. Downright silly nonsense
I call it ! and if the Emperor was in this blessed
room, mother and I would make you go down
on your knees to him — you'd see if we
wouldn't ! "

The effect of this speech on Grachard was to
make him for a moment absolutely mad.

"So it was the Duke who put you up to do
this ? " he hissed, with quite a wandering lookin
his eyes ; and emotion made his speech so
thick, that his next words were inarticulate.
This was more alarming to Miss Hopkins than
plain talking, however denunciatory. She saw
that the refugee looked assault and battery, if not
murder ; and she continued to chatter by way
of brazenino; out the situation, and cowing Tim

if she could. But for this once she had roused
a devil in the man.

"So it was Monsieur le Due who got up this
machination against me ? " he muttered hoarsely.
Well ! he shall see what comes of it."

Pray compose yourself, Grachard," interposed
Cleverly, who was also getting alarmed
at the Frenchman's savage manner. " Adhere
are you going ? "

Let me pass," said Grachard, who had put
on his hat and was striding; to the door. " I o^o
to find this man. I sleep not till this insult is
avenged."

Doctor, do not let him go out ! " squealed
Polly, rushing to the door and setting her back
to it. Fairly terrified now, she began to cry.
Tim, you shan't go. Listen to me. I wanted
to do my best for you, dear. . I saw you were
fretting here in England, and you mustn't goto
hurt the Duke. . It wasn't his fault, and
. . and . he is bigger than you, he might hurt
you or give you to the police. Don't be a
ally."

The noise made by Polly's sobs, Grachard's
oaths and stamping, and Cleverly's exhortations
to both parties to keep quiet, was so loud

that no one in the room noticed a knock at the
street door. Mrs. Hopkins, who was in the
passage with her ear to the key-hole trying to
make out all that was going on in the parlour,
went to answer the summons, and the result was
that Polly, who was still barring Grachard's way,
had to yield to the outside pressure of her mother
pushing at the parlour door.

A gentleman for M'soo," whispered Mrs.
Hopkins through the aperture. Polly fell back,
and the Due d'Alma appeared on the threshold.

It was a striking tableau. Timon Grachard
recoiled with an awful frown, and, folding his
arms, assumed an attitude of defiance just as
men do on the stage when they meet their
deadly foes. The stage in France is the great
school of manners and posturing ; and all
Frenchmen who have lived much in cities are
influenced by its traditions. Grachard, being
not devoid of sense, must have known that to
cross his arms, raise his nose to full cock, and
paw Mrs. Hopkins' carpet with an impatient
muddy boot was not the correct thing socially
speaking ; but he knew also that an important
scene in the drama of his life was going to be
enacted, and he wished to bear himself in such a

way as to produce the most forcible impression
upon spectators. The Duke, with a kindred eye
to effect, dressed up his own demeanour in a
little stage frippery. He might have guessed
who M. Grachard was, and have accosted him
joint-blank ; but he preferred to make a ceremonious
bow, and to stand with an affectation
of icy calmness, whilst he looked round as if he.
had not even noticed Grachard, and asked
whether a gentleman of that name were present.
I am Timon Grachard," declared the little
man bluntly, in French. " And I am glad
to see you here, sir, for we have an account to
settle."

We have," said the Duke, drawing off a
grey glove with great deliberation (here also an
old player might have recognized the faithful
imitator of Bressant or Delaunay). " Here is
a newspaper, sir ; did you write this article "? "
And the Duke held up before M. Grachard's
face the extract from that article in the Gazette
des Cafes wherein Gertrude had been maligned.
That extract had lain for days in his pocketbook,
but he had opportunely found it that
morning.

Before the dialogue could be pursued any

TOT,. IT. 23

further, Miss Hopkins interfered. Her first
impression had been that the Duke was bringing
his countryman's pardon, but there were no signs
of amicable intentions on the Duke's face as he
drew off his glove, and his speaking French
disconcerted the girl.

Oh, mercy ! stop 'em, Dr. Cleverly," she
cried ; " they're going to fight."

Hearing Cleverly's name, Eoland at once
turned. The two men exchange-ed glances like
sword-thrusts.

I have been looking for you, Dr. Cleverly,"
said the Duke.

You have found me ; what have you to
say ? " answered Cleverly, in a tone that was
meant to be haughty but was only uncivil.

You have been speaking about me to a lady
called Xethersole "

I have been sang not to one person only,
lout to several, that if you married Miss Warrington
in an English Church only, your marriage
would be worthless — a mere abduction — and that
you must know this well enough."

You have been misinformed, sir," said the
Duke.

You had better prove it," replied Cleverly.

My informant knows French law, if you
don't."

If that man informed you (pointing to
Grachard), may I ask if you have been giving
him some mendacious information in return ?
Was it you who dictated to him this paragraph ?"

Tormented by his love for Gertrude, which
he could no more tear from his heart than a
Broken arrow-head, hating the Due d'x\lma, and
predisposed to think everything that was evil of
him, Cleverly had, on hearing from common
report how the Duke was going to be married,
l)een quick, because eager, to conclude that his
rival meant to take an unfair advantage of Gertrude.
Grachard had formed the same conclusion
in all the honesty of his loathing for Dukes and
Bonapartists in general, and Cleverly had first
caught the infection of suspiciousness from him.
For all that, the attack upon Gertrude in the
French newspaper filled the English doctor with
consternation. He could not allow it to be supposed
that he had had any share in this lampoon
upon a girl to whom he had proposed, and in
whose esteem he wished to stand well.

Grachard, you surely did not write this ? "
he asked.

Ma foi" answered Grachard, mali a shrug,
but looking very crestfallen. " I did write it ;
I am sorry . it was a hetise . . . but what
will you ? "

"It is infamous," said Cleverly, looking
with the utmost displeasure at the little Frenchman.


Mon Dieu! do not all attack at me at
once," screamed Grachard, catching himself by
the hair as if he meant to lift himself off the
ground. He was overwhelmed at the tables
being so abruptly turned upon him just as he
had been going to play the role of insulted party
towards the Duke. "Monsieur le Due, I am
truly sorry that these untoward lines should
have escaped my pen. You are my enemy —
the son of a man who dipped his hands in republican
blood at the coup d'etat, and I scorn you ;
but that was reason the more why I should not
assail you with paper pellets. It was an error
on my part — I recognize it."

But do you admit that you were guilty of
a gross calumny ? " asked Eoland sternly, in
French.

I — I — admit that I was misinformed,"
stuttered Grachard, who had grown very red,

and who, to do him justice, yielded rather to
a look from Cleverly than to the Duke's demands.
He had never supposed that his article
in the Gazette des Cafes would be seen by
the Duke or Cleverly, and he was sincerely
ashamed at appearing (he a weighty political
controversialist, as he thought himself) to be a
retailer of country-town scandals.

I will publish a retractation in my next
letter," he continued. " Adhere a lady is concerned
there is no dishonour in making an
apology."

I hope you are satisfied with the character
of your legal adviser," said the Duke contemptuously
to Cleverly, speaking again in French.
The doctor could give no fluent reply in the
same tongue ; he pretended not to hear, and went
on upbraiding Grachard.

All this debating considerably astonished
Miss Hopkins, who, now that everybody was
going on " at her Tim, was, womanlike, disposed
to take his part.

"What have you been writing, Tim?" she
asked, sidling up to him.

But Tim snarled like a hyena. He imagined
the moment had at last come when he, in his

turn, might 'take high ground ; so, catching up
the Journal Officiel, he was about to demand
why the Duke had dared to apply for his pardon,
when, alas ! Polly Hopkins checked him. She
understood French imperfectly, but she could
read her Tim's physiognomy like an open
book.

'' Oh, Tim ! " she cried, putting her hand over
his mouth, and speaking right into his ear, " you
can't tell these gentlemen that I wrote your
sho-nature : it wouldn't sound nice."

Leave me alone, girl ! " shrieked the refugee,
trvino' to shake himself free. " You are nothing
to me from this day."

'' Oh, she ain't, ain't she ? " ejaculated Mrs.
Hopkins, hurrying up to her daughter's rescue
from the passage. " If you don't act fair towards
my Polly, M'soo, there's laws to make you.
We'll go to the courts and get two thousand
pounds damage from you for breach of promise,
as sure as my husband's in heaven."

Quelle honte ! " muttered poor Grachard,
sinking; into a chair, sick at heart. Under cover
of ]\lrs. Hopkins' sortie, the Duke had quietly
left the room, taking no more notice of his
countryman. Grachard felt crushed and disgraced.

He could only make a menacing gesture
behind his departing foe.

We shall meet again at the next revolution,
you — you Aristocrats and Jesuits ! — and that
may be sooner than you expect."

CHAPTER 11.

THE GENERAL FORBIDS THE MARRIAGE.

While this scene was being enacted at M.
Grachard's lodoins^s, General Warrington was
making up his mind that Gertrude's marriage
could not take place. His wife was against him,
but he listened to Hucks Littleton, whose
opinions were like coins of good mintage without
any alloy of sentiment, and he blamed himself
for not having made proper inquiries about the
French marriage laws. In all that Hucks said
there was not a word expressly charging the
Duke AA^th uncandid conduct, but his tone implied
that Frenchmen want watching in matrimonial
affairs. If it had not been that the Duke
had made such a generous settlement, Hucks
would have said more ; the allusion to the settlement
was, however, the argument that touched
the General most.

*' If anything goes wrong, people will be sure
to say that we thought only of the twenty thousand
pounds," remarked Hucks.

Egad, things must not go wrong," said the
General.

I am sure plenty of English people get
married without the consent of their grandmothers,"
sighed Mrs. Corrington, though she
knew this was begging the question.

"Yes, but English grandmothers cannot get
a marriage annulled," rejoined the lawyer, who
had an aoforravatino; wav of sticking the main
point of a case.

Mrs. Corrington could only think poorly of
Hucks, while feeling in her heart that her position
was untenable. If it had been simply a question
of postponing the marriage, she must have agreed
at once that postponement was desirable ; but
she was horribly afraid lest the Duke might take
offence at thinking that his word was not believed,
and what a miserable thing it would be if
the match were broken off ! How all the good
friends in Lewbury would jeer ! Those Blacks
and Browns, Greys and Greens, kept starting up
before the poor lady's vision like the mocking
crowds who chorus " Aha ! " in operas.

Kate Littleton had been summoned into
council, and the whole matter was laid before
her. If she had been discussing privately nth
her husband she would certainly have said that
Eoland's word was worth more than all les^al
safeguards ; but she always took her husband's
part when others were present. She became
very grave on hearing that Gertrude had been
on the point of contracting a marriage which
might be no marriage.

But, mamma, I am sure the Duke cannot
wish Gertrude to run any risks," she said, bewildered.


He assures us there are no risks, dear. He
talked of appealing to Gertrude herself; but of
course we cannot leave the responsibility of a decision
with your sister."

I should be glad not to have such a thing
to decide for myself," answered Kate in her
downright way ; " but it does seem hard that he
should be disappointed of his marriage just when
he is o'oino; to war."

That's what I say, dear, and I do not know
how to break the news to Gertrude. If Roland
would only hear reason ; but Frenchmen are so
impetuous."

He is so fond of Gertrude, mamma ; you
can see it in every word he speaks, and I can
understand how bitter it will be to him to go
away without her after coming on purpose to be
married. But then this trouble is one of his own
making, and he is bound to be reasonable. Why
didn't he tell us that his grandmother stood in
the way, and why did he not treat her from the
first as an irrational person, since he says she is
in her dotage ? I see no use in having' grandmothers
who act in this fashion."

The General did not stop to join in this discussion,
but walked out of the room and out of
the house with Hucks. His mind was gregarious,
it liked to herd nth numbers. In all the great
crises of his life General Corrinocton sought the
advice of people whose individual opinions he did
not value, but whose collective wisdom he set asa
lump in his head and by it weighed his actions.
so he called on Mr. Butterby, the banker, on Mr.
Jentleigh, and even on Mr. Quang, and all these
gentlemen naturally told him that an ill-tied
marriage knot cannot keep two young people
well joined. They marvelled politely that he
should not have satisfied himself honos ao'o as to
whether his future son-in-law was free to dispose
of his own hand.

Then Mr. Quang made haste to go off to the
reading-room, and circulate the news that there
was a hitch as to Gertrude's wedding. Before
evening a hundred people in the towTi knew that
the French Duke had been making; some false
representations. Some alleged that he had been
detected as a sham Duke ; others were credibly
informed that he had been trying to commit
bigamy.

Meanwhile Mrs. Corrington and Kate had
told Gertrude that her lover had been ordered
to join his regiment, and that it was impossible
the marriage could be solemnized before he
started.

At first Gertrude thought only of Eoland's
danger. She had tried to accustom herself to
the prospect of his being called to war ; but now
that the call had arrived, the hope of a short
campaign and of a safe return abruptly forsook
her. Her horizon was darkened, and a chilled
sensation crept over her, as if she were standing
alone in a plain with night and a storm coming
on. The short, sunny day of love-making was
over, and rapidly there flashed before her a vision
of the night's horrors, separation, disaster, and
heaven knows what besides.

"Oh, mamma, when is he going?" she faltered,
and sank on to a sofa. Outside, in the garden,
the lovely peace of an English home was pictured
by flowers, birds, and bee-hives. Little Mab had
filled a basket with roses, and was shading her
eyes from the sun that glowed in a blue sky
without a cloud. What a contrast this to the
sight before Gertrude's mind !

However, she looked up, remembering
Koland's promise that he would not leave England
without her. The pallor on her face changed
to a blush, as it struck her that Roland's departure
would only hasten her wedding day, for she had
not yet understood that the wedding was to be
adjourned. When she did understand that her
parents had interposed to delay a marriage which
Roland desired should take place at once — tomorrow
morning — darkness encompassed her
indeed.

Mamma, please explain. What has happened
? " she asked, with a little shiver and a
wondering look.

Gertie dear, it will only be a delay of a
few weeks," said Kate, with sympathetic tears in
her eyes. " You will remain with us whilst he
is away, and that will be better than being among

strangers in France. There must be a separation
in any case, you know ; but Eoland will soon be
back."

"If he should be killed?" murmured Gertrude.

"Dear child, officers don't get killed like
that," ejaculated Mrs. Corrington, stroking Gertrude's
hand, and keeping her own emotion
valiantly under control. " Your father has been
in action more often than I can recollect, and he
always says that it is not more dangerous than
fox-hunting, or crossing the streets of London."

But if Eoland were wounded I could not goto
him," muttered Gertrude in a low, despairing
tone, almost as if she were speaking to herself.
Up to that moment she had remained in seeming
apathy, but all at once she roused herself, and
turning a brave glance on her mother, said —

Mamma, if Eoland asks me to go with him
I shall go."

Kate could have hugged her for that, it
seemed so spirited. Anything appeared better
to Kate than moping ; and perhaps Mrs. 
herself imagined for an instant that it
would be well if Gertrude could be left to take
her fate into her own hands. Nevertheless, she
had to give a reproving answer —

Koland will not ask you to take a false step,
dear ; he will be reasonable. He cannot make
you his lawful wife without a number of formalities,
which he has not time to accomplish
before going away. That is all the trouble."

But if he says all those formalities are
unnecessary, I believe him," rejoined Gertrude.

We all believe that he thinks himself right,
dear, but he may be mistaken'* submitted Mrs.
Corrington.

Papa and Hucks may be mistaken," was
Gertrude's answer.

Her mother had never known her so firm ; but
there are occasions when the girl is transformed
instantly into a woman, just as the hot, soft iron
becomes steel. There was something alarming; in
Gertrude's resistance, but a moment's reflection
showed Mrs. Corrington that, under the Due
d' Alma's circumstances, her daughter could not
make a runaway or clandestine marriage ; accordingly
she laid herself out, with Kate's assistance,
merely to soothe Gertrude, and make her look at
the bright side of things. How different her
task would have been if she had been obliged
to persuade Gertrude to give up her match
altogether. She could not help thinking of this,

feeling deeply thankful that it still behoved her
to encourage and not to quench Gertrude's love
for a man worthy of being loved.

But by-and-by, when the General came home,
primed with the wisdom of Messrs. Butterby and
Quang, Mrs. Corrington had to recommence her
arguments. She told her husband how determined
Gertrude was to take her lover's part in
whatever the latter might propose, and this
induced her to make a suggestion, which had
suddenly occurred to her as a happy thought,
for settling matters to everybody's satisfaction.

Why should not Eoland be married on the
day of his departure, and leave his bride at the
church door ? Gertrude would remain with her
family during the war, and if Eoland returned
safe and well, he could then take the steps
necessary to prevent his grandmother from
annulling his marriage ; but if he died, Gertrude
would at least have some compensation for her
bereavement, since she would be Duchess of Alma,
and have her jointure of £20,000. That jointure
could not be taken from her, as the money was
already lodged in an English bank, to be paid
over to her trustee on the day of her marriage,
and that trustee was the General himself.

To all these plans the General hearkened
as a wild boar to a tune on the flute. He
grunted, and, as might have been expected, he
rejected everything authoritatively. Had he not
consulted Mr. Butterby, Mr. Jentleigh, and Mr.
Quang, and had not these weathercocks shown
him how the wind of public opinion blew ?
General Corrington was one of those men whose
intercourse with their wives, though affectionate,
consists largely of grumbles and growls. He
seldom condescended to give a reason in persuasive
language. " Stuff" and nonsense ! " " Tomfoolery ! "
Upon my soul, you must be mad, Eliza ! " were
the things he habitually said ; and this is what he
said now.

But he was not a meddler or a poseur. It
never entered his head that he should issue
any orders to Gertrude, or prohibit her from
having another private interview with the Duke,
or dictate to the Duke himself what he must
or must not say at such an interview. In all
difficulties that arise between English gentlemen
a great deal is taken for granted on both sides,
and all those declamations and categorical interdicts
which spring out of misunderstandings
betwixt foreigners are avoided.

TOT,. TT. 2^

When Eoland returned to Kingshouse, about
an hour before dinner (having, since his scene
with ]\I. Grachard, driven to Brightport to buy
a. licence), he anticipated that he was going to
have another explanatory scene sith the elders
of the Corrino^ton family : but there was no
scene. The General had withdrawn into his
study. Mrs. Corrino^ton and her two vouno^er
daughters were in the o-arden chatting; with some
visitors, and the Duke, after being cordially received,
was allowed to roam unhindered into the
drawing-room, where Gertrude sat alone.

She greeted him with gentle blushing self-possession.
There was a little sadness in her
eyes, but none in her manner, as she surrendered
herself to his kiss. She had put her whole trust
in him ; what was there to make her afraid ?

'•' You have heard that war has been declared,
and that I have been ordered home, my little
little one?" he began, rather excitedly.

Her hand trembled in his, and her look was
full of sympathy. The cohesion needed no
answer.

And when I am on the battle-field, my
darling, how will it be with me ? " continued
Eoland. " Shall I have left a wife at home to

welcome me back victorious, to come and tend
me. if I am wounded, or to mourn me if I fall i
You Lave been told that there are obstacles to
our wedding." (Gertrude nodded.) "But can I
bear to go away unmarried ? It may be that
I am only asking you to become my widows but,
iiioa Dieu, I am selfish enough to desire that, if
I die, you should have the right to wear mourning
for me, to preserve my memory, and bear my
name. Who will keep my grave, and put flowers
)n it, if I have no wife ? "

I will be your wife, Koland," replied
Gertrude, firmly, tears starting to her eyes.
Oh yes, Eoland dear, do not let us be
parted."

Ah, thank God ! but it must be tomorrow,
my darling," cried Eoland, eagerly. "See, I
have bought a licence to-day. But listen to me.
1 will not take you from your home. I will
marry you in your own church, and then I will
go. You will come with me to the station, your
arm in mine, you will be my wife before all men,
Jut it will be better that you should remain with
your family until I can come back and take you
to my own land. You would be too sad there
alone whilst I was absent. And your marriage

must not bring you grief, my darling ; it must
give you happiness and peace as it will to me."

Thus Eoland had formed the same project as
Mrs. Corrington.

All the prudent people of his acquaintance
might have told him that it would be kinder to
Gertrude if he left her free until his return. But
he did not think so. He loved and was loved :
if he had been o-oino^ to certain death he would
still have asked Gertrude to take from him, as
his parting gift, the sweet, sacred title of wife.
They would be joined for ever even though they
parted at the church door, and that was what he
wanted.

He had relied on Gertrude's acquiescence, but
there were some wild ideas in his mind that he
might have to marry her in a clandestine fashion
persuading her to slip out of the house early
in the morning and meet him at church. He
had heard that Eno^lish girls did this kind of
thing without much scruple when their parents
were obdurate ; and after what had passed in the
morning he did not doubt that the General
would remain obdurate. It was with some
surprise that he saw vdth. what tranquil dignity
Gertrude spoke of acting against her father's

advice ; she expressed no fear of his resentment,
for there was no rebelliousness in her purpose.
Dutifully, defiantly she meant to claim the
privilege which belongs to every English oriel of
age, of marrying whom she pleased, and of taking
all risks to herself

'' We will speak to papa and mamma about
this after dinner," she said ; and even to one
who knew the English so well as Roland did,
Gertrude's fearless candour and absolute faith in
the justice of her parents seemed novel and
admirable.

Dinner was announced while the two were
together. Roland gave his arm to Mrs. Warrington,
but had Gertrude on one side of him at
table. The General played the host as if nothing
disagreeable had occurred, chatting professionally
about the war — or rather, keeping up a
monologue on that topic as he carved.

I suppose your outfit is ready V he
said ; " and with stables like yours you will have
no trouble about chargers. Two bays are they ? "
(Roland had said nothing about bays.) "I expect,
though, that you'll have to get others now that
you're to wear breastplate and helmet — Dick,
some fish ? "

I forget lioAA' many hundredweight a life-guardsman's
charger carries," said Dick. " There
was Hugh Hill of the Blues ; he was six foot five,
and weighed eighteen stone, so they got up a
joke about an officer of the Society for the Prevention
of Cruelty to Animals being on the
watch, and ready to collar him the first time lie
rode out."

•' We have an officer in our Carabineers —
Colonel Oppressor, who is like the Portion of
Dumas's novels," observed Poland. " His name*
suits him so well that we say he must have had
a broken-down horse for his sponsor. We nickname
him ' Gog,' though, because, when he came
over to England in the Emperor's suite some
years ago, and went to the Guildhall, a little
London street-boy asked him where Magog was."

"Will your breastplate be bullet-proof?"
asked Bertha, from the opposite side of the table.

"After a fashion," laughed Poland, "so long;

as no bullets touch it. You know what the

Duke of Wellington did when a countr^^llan of

mine brought him a shirt of mail which he said

Pressoir, the stone press in which grapes are crushed.
Colonel Oppressor was the Goliath of the French army.
He became a general during the war ; was in Blaine's
army at Metz, and died in 1877.

could be worn under the coat, and was proof
against dagger and bullet : ' Put it on,' said the
Duke, 'and stand in the corner there But
when the inventor saw the Duke open his pistol-box
he took to his heels, and I dare say he is
running still."

It's a great point to be campaigning in a
good climate," continued the General, who only
stopped speaking when he ate. " I'd rather have
to meet a few thousands more of the enemy than
armies of mosquitoes and fleas."

'• Oh, papa ! " exclaimed Bertha.

'' You are quite right. General," said Eoland.
*' But against enemies like those, war is not very
romantic, is it. Bertha ? In Germany we shall
only have to reckon with fire and sword ; and here
I must tell you another story about Victory and
Slaughter, having once made a compact before a
war, as to the number of men who should ])^^
killed. When the campaign was over, Victory
reproached her dismal sister for having taken
more men than had been agreed upon. ' I did
not take them,' said Slaughter ; ' it was Fever
who carried off the surplus'"

How dreadful ! " said Bertha, with a well-imitated
shudder.

Ague is such a shocking thing, I've heard''
remarked Mrs. Corrington, who did not seize this
opportunity of reminding the Duke that her
father had been an army surgeon, and that she
knew a great deal about ambulances.

I've heard that it requires a man's own
weight in lead to kill him in action"' interposed
Dick.

Yes, it does, Dick," said Koland, turning
Viii a reassuring smile to Gertrude, for whom all
this talk had a too painful interest. " Napoleon
used to say, ' The lead currency is mostly made
up of bad pieces.' As to ague, my poor father
fell ill of it in the Crimea at the same time as
his servant, and shall I tell you how he was
cured ? Why, his servant having got well, my
father said to the surgeon, ' What doses have
you been divino; me ? ' ' Such and such doses,'
said the doctor. 'Ah, and so you expect a
general to recover on the same doses which you
administer to a private soldier,' exclaimed my
father. ' Here, give me the bottle,' and counting
off on his fingers the grades that separated
him from his servant — corporal, serjeant, sub-lieutenant,
lieutenant, captain, and so on, he
poured himself out a full tumbler of medicine,

and drank it. The next day he was well.
Aha ! That is a fact."

To hear how they all laughed (the story had
l)een spoken so distinctly for the General's ear,
that even he heard it) nobody would have
thought there were so many troubled hearts
round the table. After this, General Corrington
launched into strategy, winning pitched battles
and taking Prussian cities without opposition ;
while Mrs. Corrington was in motherly anxiety
about Koland's outfits, and wanted to know
Whether she could possibly do anything that
would be of service. " Those military outsiders
never do things properly — I do hope your sister
will look over your valises before you start," she
said.

^\Tien dinner was over, the General, Roland,
and Dick remained alone in the dining-room fora
short time, the General smoking a cigar and
sipping port. (As he never gave much for his
wines and was easily allured by the advertisements
of cheap dealers, Dick used to say, " The
guvnor always sticks to those genuine English
Vines, port and sherry") The conversation
between the three did not touch upon private
affairs ; but presently Dick retired, and immediately

afterwards ]airs. Corrington and Gertrude
came in.

Gertrude had told her mother of what
Eoland had arranged, and of her own resolve to
he guided by him. It was now Mrs. Corrington's
mission, hj a last appeal, to vdn over the General.
She was agitated, scarcely knowing whether the
plan which she had advocated a few hours before
was right or wrong, but feeling that the joint
will of her daughter and of Eoland was not
to be controlled. The scene derived a certain
solemnity from Mrs. Corrington being obliged
to speak to her husband in a slow, distinct tone,
so that he might catch every word she said.
Eoland had risen, and stood before Gertrude,
holding her hand.

The General took the cigar from his liss, and
looking gravely at Eoland, said, " You cannot
expect me to approve this scheme, xllma. I
should be glad to give you my daughter, but f(^r
the present you cannot marry her."

You hear what your father says, dear ? " exclaimed
Mrs. Corrington, in a lamentable voice.

Papa dear, I have given my promise," said
Gertrude, advancing towards her father and putting'
her hand on his shoulder.

Speak louder, my dear. What did you
say, Duke ? " asked the General, making a horn
of his hand, for he thought Eoland had spoken.

I entreat you not to stand in the way of
our happiness, sir," pleaded Roland, very respectfully
; and Gertrude adding some words of her
own, the General understood that he was to be
disobeyed.

I did not expect this from you, Gertrude,"
he observed, sharply. "And since you. Alma,
have shown so much consideration for the feelings
of your grandmother, I should have expected
you to have known better than to set my girl
against me."

Papa, don't be angry with us. Think,
he is going away to war," implored Gertrude,
clasping her hands.

I can give no consent to this," repeated tlu^
General, standing up. "I would rather hear no
more on the subject. If you choose to disobey
me, Gertrude, you are of age, and can do so,
that is all I have to say."

He did say no more, but waved his hand to
signify that further talk was useless, and walked
out of the room. Mrs. Corrington heard him
shut the door of his study. " Oh, Gertie dear,

how pained your father must be ! " cried the poor
lady ; and upon this Gertrude threw herself into
her mother's arms. She knew that her mother
Avould have to bear all the disagreeable of this
affair.

Please, mamma, you must ask him to forgive
me," sobbed Gertrude.

Dear child, let us wait another day ; perhaps
your father sill alter his mind tomorrow,"
faltered Mrs. Corrington, who was almost overcome.


There was no waiting, however. The question
had been amply discussed, and Eoland possessed
the soldierly quality of knoA;\'ing when negotiations
must cease and action begin. He and
Gertrude were convinced that they were action
for the best. After a trying scene Mrs. warrington
retired, feelings that she ouo-ht not to
participate in any scheme repugnant to her husband's
wishes ; and yet how could she help
rejoicing that the Duke was so firm ? He was
not going to take Gertrude away ; his proposals
were most chivalrous, his attitude towards the
General had been full of deference. It was not
in a mother's nature to desire that he should
waver. If he had been some Lieutenant Jones

^\'itli a ]jill at his tailor s, that would have been
very different. But he was not a Lieutenant
Jones. In a few hours he was going to give
Gertrude high rank and wealth ; and Mrs. Corrington,
as she died her eyes, was already
musing how she could prevail on her husband
to go with Gertrude to church on the morrow,
or at least to allow her to go. If the marriage
was to take place, why should the General bethe
first to publish to the world that he disapproved
it ?

Would not this be too cruel to Gertrude ?

CHAPTER III.

VISITORS FROM France.

The General had already done Gertrude harm by
asking advice right and left in his perplexity.
The man who offers his private affairs to
public comment is like one who opens the doors
and Windows of his house to the four winds.

Lewbury was going to bed with the idea that
the grand match lead failed. Laurence Cleverly
flattered himself that Gertrude's marriage must
certainly be put off, and this was to him a cause
for unspeakable triumph and hope. He was
persuaded that he had behaved very well in
communicating to Mrs. Nethersole the information
which he had received from Grachard about
the French marriage laws ; and though there was
a means look about the proceeding, coming
from him — the rival — nobody on reflection could
have pronounced it mean. Supposing that he

lead held his tongue, and that after Gertrude had
been deluded into a bogus marriage, it had been
discovered that he, Cleverly, had been aware
all the while that she was being deceived,
would it not have been said that he had kept
silent from vindictiveness ? "

There is such a mistrust of foreigners in
England, that only those kind-hearted people
who like to think the best of others, and who are
always sorry to see a love-marriage hindered —
only these refrained from jumping at once to
the conclusion that Cleverly had been exposing
an adventurer. But even these admitted that
Cleverly had no option save to caution General
Corrington about what he had heard ; and that
in using a pious, prudent matron like Mrs.
Nethersole for his intermediary, he had gone to
work in the most proper way.

It need scarcely be added, however, that in
spite of all this Cleverly was not quite proud of
himself. He had acutely felt the sting of the
Duke's contempt in the scene at Mrs. Hopkins'.
He had perceived that the Duke was truly a
gentleman. Adventurers baulked in some nefarious
scheme do not carry their heads as
Koland d'Alma did, when he taunted Grachard

and exacted an apology from him. Besides,
what scheme could a maa like the Duke propose
to himself by betraying the trust of an honourable
family ? There was no question about
his rank, his military antecedents, his wealth,
nor about the money which he had settled
upon Gertrude. How, then, could anybody,
not hopelessly prejudiced, imagine that the
Duke would disgrace himself by anything in the
nature of a mock-marriage ?

Cleverly brooded upon these things after the
Duke had retired, and while Grachard, Polly, and
Mrs. Hopkins continued their jangling dispute.
The Duke might be killed in action, or during
the campaign his fancy for Gertrude might pass ;
or hers for him — if it were but a fancy — might
vanish. At all events, while the Duke was away,
he, Cleverly, would have a clear field to begin
his courtship afresh, and he would have chance
on his side.

That is what he thought sith the knitted
brows that spoke of a passion which was strong,
and a contraction of the lips — that faint grin
which the French call rire jaune — which came
from a memory of the humiliations he had
suffered through the man whom he had now

suddenly disabled, as he believed, by a blow just
ou the line of the belt — if not below it.

He was drawn from his browTi study by the
noise which Grachard made, yelling at the two
women as loud as he could. " Silence, everybody.
Now listen. Mademoiselle Hopkins ; I
will marry you, but on one condition — instantly
you take this letter to the post."

'^ For mercy's sake, mother, do be quiet ! "
entreated Polly of her parent, whose tongue,
like Lancelot's blade, was not easily sheathed.

I'd be glad to know what's in the letter,"
declared Mrs. Hopkins. " I didn't like the looks
of him as he was writing it."

Grachard had just dashed off the letter.
The ink of it was still wet. He waved the paper
furiously under Mrs. Hopkins' eyes. " There,
madame, take and read."

Why, bless the man, it's in French ; I cause
it's a lot of nonsense, that's all, else it
wouldn't be writ so fast."

Nonsense ! ah, you call it nonsense, Madame
Hopkins, that your daughter's husband should
be jealous of his honour." Shouting which,
Grachard thumped his chest with both fists, and
wagged his nose close to that of his petrified
VOL. II. 25

landlady. "Dr. Cleverly here will translate
you my letter. But first, my friend " (and he
turned towards the doctor), " have you forgiven
me for what I put in that newspaper ? "

Let us say no more about it," answered
Cleverly, remembering that Grachard had
rendered him so important a service in delaying
Gertrude's marriage that he could not bear him
any grudge.

Well, then, read and give me your opinion ;
at least, give me your approval. I want no
criticisms."

The letter which Cleverly translated was
addressed to "Monsieur Louis Bonaparte," and
ran thus : —

Sir,

A person using my name has applied
to you for a pardon. You must know that I
have none to ask. For having tried to dethrone
you I have been exiled, but not made guilty.
My name is Harmonious, and for crimes like
mine, patriots claim public honours from a freed
nation. The doors of the Capitol will some day
be opened to receive me. I will return to France
when you shall have left it.

•' Timon Grachard."

The letter is explicit enough," said Cleverly ;
perhaps the allusion to Harmonious "

Will you that I say Brutus, then, William
Tell, Guido Fawkes ? It is all the same to me."

Xo, anything for peace's sake," interposed
Polly. " The letter will do very well, Tim ; give
it me and I vnll post it."

Nobody shall post it except myself," shouted
Grachard, putting the missive into an envelope.
Mees Hopkins, do you think that I do not
know your tricks ? There is no more trust
between us."

That's a foolish thing to say, Tim, if we're
to live together for better or worse," replied the
girl, sensibly. " I thought you said just now
that you wanted me to post it."

Why, he said he wouldn't marry you unless
you did," exclaimed Mrs. Hopkins. " Bless the
gaby ! his head must have been screwed on by
some 'prentice when there was a press of work,
about Christmas-time."

'' Madame Hopkins, there is the door,"
ejaculated Grachard, not for the first time.
And you, Polly, put on your bonnet. If I said
you should post it, you shall, but I will go with
you."

LIBRARY

UNIVERSITY OF ILLINOIS

It was not fated, however, that the letter
should be posted just yet. Grachard had plunged
downstairs, preceding Polly, and altogether for-setting;
Claverlev, who linseed behind and said
a few words to Mrs. Hopkins, warning her not
to irritate her future son-in-law. He was still
speaking when there was an explosion of voices
downstairs — a chorus of Ah ! diable ! Sacre-heu
! Sapristi ! after which Grachard returned
quickly upstairs in the greatest excitement,
followed by two other Frenchmen, in coats
with fur collars (though it was July), and cloth
telling caps. Both these Frenchmen carried
bags, smelt of pipes, and looked the worse for
sea-sickness.

The following unexpected scene was then
enacted before the eyes of Cleverly, Polly, and
her mother.

Both travellers set their bags on the table,
bared their heads (which had little hair on them),
and for a moment stared in silence at Grachard,
One of the pair was a close-cropped fat little
fellow, with a short beard black as crow's wing,
and rather jolly eyes. The other was tall, gaunt,
grey, with Ian tern-jaws, spectacles, and shirt collars
of the kind which were fashionable about 1848.

'' Poisons, Grcvchard, peut-on te server la
main ? " asked the fat little man, extending
both hands half open, and cocking his head
dubiously.

Tell us that you've not turned traitor
against the good cause," said the taller man,
spreading out a pair of much longer arms, and
speaking in a deep, husky bass.

Grachard burst into tears — tears so genuine
that Polly flew to his side ; but he thrust her
away. " Ah, my friends, Eatabouille, Compernot,
I knew these doubts would arise, but you are
just in time to see this letter which I was going
to send. All this has not been my fault ! Here
is my friend, the Doctor Cleverly, who knows
the whole matter, and will assure you of my
innocence."

The letter to Monsieur Bonaparte was opened,
and read by the two travellers standing together,

Grachard, embrace me," cried the fat little
man, as if a load had been lifted from his heart,
and Grachard was forthwith locked in the arms
of Ratabouille.

"Friend, I give you back my esteem,"
croaked Compernot ; and again Grachard went
through the process of hugging and osculation.

Well, I never ! " exclaimed Mrs. Hopkins.
Three big babies kissing and slobbering.
What in mercy's name does it mean ? "

It meant this. Many of Grachard's friends,
reading in the Officiel that he had sued for
pardon, had been seized \^dtli astonishment and
alarm. Grachard had always been considered a
safe man, and secrets concerning the objects and
resources of the Republican party in France had
often been entrusted to his keeping. Important
documents, which could not prudently be harboured
in a country where persons are liable to
domiciliary visits from the police, had also from
time to time been remitted to him for custody.
It was most necessary, therefore, that the Republicans
should ascertain whether Grachard had
really turned traitor, and sold all their secrets to
the Government. It was held that a man so
thorough as he was not likely to have done
things by halves ; so that if he had abased himself
to ask a pardon of the Emperor, it was
probable he had done much more. Accordingly,
two of the most knowing of the party had
started for England to find out the truth.

Eatabouille was a newspaper editor, 
a member of the Legislative Body.

Serving the same cause, they differed much in
opinions and objects, but resembled each other
like brothers in this, that neither of them wanted
to suffer for his Republicanism. To die for one's
country may have seemed a good thing in the
time of Crus ; but to live for one's country,
and upon it, is an improvement on that old idea.
Katabouille had found that, under an easygoing
despot, Republicanism pays. It would
not have payed him, of course, to get guillotined
or transported to Cayenne. He had once nearly
brought himself to the scaffold by getting accidentally
mixed up in a bombshell plot ; and the
mere thought of Dr. Guillotine's apparatus had
ever since been enough to give him a fresh
sensation on the nape of the neck. But he had
once undergone a sentence of a few weeks'
imprisonment for seditious writing, and liked
it ; for there had been a public subscription to
give him a testimonial, and he had come out of
prison a popular man, and with a large increase
of circulation to his newspaper. He was ready
for any moderate amount of martyrdom, as per
this sample. A well warmed room at the prison
of Ste. Pelagic, with congenial fellow-captives and
luncheons off champagne and pate de foie gras sent

in by s}Tnpathizers from outside, had no terrors
for him. The Correctional Court had saved him
from the Tribunal de Commerce — imprisonment
from bankruptcy. In the Republican army he
now served as bandsman, playing the big cb'um ;
and he was content with this position. He did
not really want the Empire to fall, except for
the fun of the thing, as he was of jocular humour.
No change of government could have made him
more than he was — the proprietor and editor of
a newspaper which brought him money, the
laughing applause of the Boulevards, and even
mob favour.

But Maxime Compernot hunted bigger game.
He had held office for a short time during the
Republic of 1848, and could put upon his visiting
cards Ancien Ministre. During his short tenure
of office he had disorganized a state department,
distributed government posts amongst all his
kinsmen to the fifth degree, and obtained three
decorations, native and foreign, for himself. It
was said that he had received his first decoration
because he had not got one ; his second because
he had only one ; and his third because he had
two already.

Compernot was nothing more than pompous

and prosy ; but revolutions are made, and
thousands of the bravest fellows among the
people let themselves be slaughtered behind
barricades fighting desperately as lions, in order
that men like him may become Cabinet ministers.
The mountains of democracy labour and the
world looks on wondering what race of giants is
coming to birth ; but the travail brings forth —
Compernot.

The grand merit of this patriot was his
respectability. Unlike most Republicans in
those days, he was neither bohemian nor fanatic ;
he was without debts, and no whispered explanations
were necessary about his domestic relations.
Every Republican can boast — and does
boast loudly — of a mother whom he adores, but
this one had a wife and family, servants and a
fixed abode. Distressed constituents who called
upon him for relief sometimes actually got a
five-franc piece instead of being put off with
a sermon against social inequalities, which is all
they can expect from most " friends of the
people," liberalism of pocket being, somehow, a
different thing from the other Liberalism.

Compernot's respectability made him very
careful in the selection of his friends. He only

cultivated people who could be useful to him ;
but he had acted as counsel for Grachard in the
trial where the latter was sentenced to death by
default, and he looked upon his connection with
his old client as a thing that should be kept up.
For, either Grachard would come to great honour
after the next revolution, or, if no revolution
occurred for several years, it was possible that he
might fall into new troubles from plotting, and
in this case Compernot would have the opportunity
of defending him again in one of those
sensational speeches which do so much for the
advancement of political barristers. Had 
learnt that the paragraph about Grachard
in the Officiel was correct, he would not have
quarrelled with his old client for all that. He
would have found excuses for him, at least to
his face, and the renegade would have been softly
disarmed by the intimation that Compernot
meant to remain his secret friend.

But it was of course better that things
should turn out as they had done, and end as
they were going to do, in a convivial dinner.

Sapristi ! I am hungry ! " exclaimed Eata-
bouille, when there had been one or two more
rounds of embracing and hand-shaking in honour

of divers patriotic sentiments uttered by the
three friends turn-about. '' Grachard's strong
emotions act as a tonic upon me."

The sea was very rough," observed ,
in a half-surprised tone, like one who has
been the first to witness a phenomenon of nature ;
'•' and I think a little soup "

Ah, my friends, I will take you all to the
hotel," said Grachard. " English cuisine hoiir-
gcoise is a thing I dare not offer you."

Treat us without ceremony, I beg," said
the respectable Compernot, sniffing dubiously,
however, at the odours which ascended from Mrs.
Hopkins' kitchen.

I would rather have some little ceremony,"
owned the less conventional Eatabouille. "Where
dinner is concerned I always say, ' Treat me
not as a friend, but as an enemy to be conciliated."


Listen to him," laughed Grachard, wiping
away the last tears from his eyes. He looked at
Cleverly and Polly as though saying, " See
what a funny fellow this is ; " but then he recollected
that he had not introduced the doctor or
Polly to his friends. The omission was repaired ;
the Frenchmen shook hands with Cleverly, and

tried to infuse some gallant grace into their
salutation of Polly.

Ah, you are going to marry ? " said Eata-
bouille. " My compliments." This with a sidelong
glance and a smirk at the English girl, who
thought him a monkey for his pains.

If these gentlemen would like something
to eat, Tim, mother can go out for some chops,"
suo'o'ested Polly, who did not much relish the
idea of Grachard's going to the hotel away from
her.

There's some of the beefsteak pudding
left," sang out Mrs. Hopkins from the landing.

And currant dumplings from yesterday in
the larder," piped the feebler voice of Mrs. Crapps
on the staircase.

No, we Till go to the Star Hotel," said
Grachard. " x\nd you, Cleverly, you will come
with us. I have brought you home to have
luncheon. It is time you ate something, after
all these interruptions."

Cleverly declined the invitation on the
o-round that he had to go and see some patients.
He guessed that the two strangers would prefer
to have Grachard to themselves ; indeed, it
struck him that they were but half satisfied with

Grachard's assurances. Gentlemen of that kind,
dealers in words themselves, are not to be paid
off with mere words, and the exile was no
doubt going to be subjected to sly cross-questioning.


Clave riley, however, walked part of the way
to the hotel with the three Frenchmen, and
overheard them talking about Grachard's own
marriage. Compernot and Grachard, going in
front, had begun to discuss this subject in an
undertone, and Cleverly saw the old lawyer
shake his head several times. Eatabouille,
curious to know what was being whispered,
cut in with a question, and then Compernot
said, " I have been telling Grachard that his
marriage won't hold in France. He will have
to go through another when he returns to our
country."

That is, if he likes," grinned Eatabouille.

Ma foi ! Mademoiselle Hopkins is forewarned,"
said Grachard, with a shrug. " She is
aware that she is marrying a corpse."

She knows our laws ? " inquired Compernot.

Yes, but she has faith that I will keep my
word when civilly resuscitated," said Grachard,
more seriously.

Where there is no concealment, there is no
trap," said Ratabouille.

At the hotel where we are going we shall
perhaps catch sight of the Due d'Alma, who
loco-es there," observed Grachard. " In that
man you will see a scamp who has been trying
to hide the traps of our law from a young English
lady whom he is courting."

The three men continued to talk about the
Due d'Alma, and in answer to a question from
Cleverly, Comj)ernot said emphatically, "M.
d'Alma knows quite well that his wife by an
irregular marriage would never be received at
Court or in respectable Catholic society, so it is
permissible to conclude that his courtship is just
what you might expect from a minion of the
Bonaparte — mere libertinage. "

Cleverly, pondering over these words, here
left the party and went home. Among the
letters awaiting him on his study table, he
found a short note from Miss Jentleigh : —

"Dear Dr. Cleverly,

'you will remember that we have to
make up the half-yearly accounts of our church
medical club. If you are too busy to give me an

hour during the day-time, would you come to
the Rectory to-day or tomorrow at half-past nine
in the evening, and take a cup of tea ? I could
then show you the books.

Yours faithfully,

"SusAJ^ Jentleigh."

Cleverly was gratified at being invited to
the Rectory in this friendly fashion. It is true
that he had business with Miss Jentleigh, for he
attended the members of the church relief clubs,
but it pleased him to fancy that in requesting
him to come and take a cup of tea. Miss Jent-
leigh meant to convey to him her father's
approval, her own, and that of church-going
ladies in general, for the course he had taken in
stopping Gertrude's marriage. This was a farfetched
conclusion to draw from an invitation to
tea, but sensitive men see in all unexpected acts
either snub or caress.

That Miss Jentleigh might be simply curious
to see him and extract from him a little more
information than the public possessed, of course'
occurred to his mind as a possibility ; but ht^
deemed her curiosity legitimate and in a manner
flattering. At the appointed hour he went to

the Eectory, and there fell in with Mr. Oram,
who had been invited on the same professional
business as himself.

Susan Jentleigh received him with that firm
squeeze of the hand and straight look which were
the signs of her thoroughness ; but the Eector
was not present. Meetings between his daughter
and the Curate over a tea-table always sent him
into his study, for Susan was never so inclined
for a controversy about ritualism as when she
sat at her gipsy-table dispensing tea in her pretty
Satsuma cups, and Mr. Oram, on his side, seemed
to derive infinite powers of sarcasm from the
mastication of buttered toast.

Tell the Eector, Dr. Cleverly is here," said
Susan to the maid who brought in the tray ; but
the girl returned saying, "Master begged to be
excused for half an hour, as he was very
iHisy."

Papa is deep in books on poultry," observed
Susan ; "he hopes to win a prize."

Mr. Jentleigh's Workings and Black Spanish,
it should be mentioned, were famous all over the
country, and the object of his almost undivided
solicitude. When not attending to their creature
comforts in person, he was generally reading

about the ailments peculiar to their race, or contributing
remarks about them to the poultry
column of the Field.

The Rector thinks that in half an hour Miss
Jentleigh and I may have settled our dispute
about the restoration of the church," said Mr.
Oram, with a slight smile over his cup.

It will take more than half an hour to convince
me that a Georgian church ought to be
restored in the Gothic style," said Susan, bending
over some crewel-work.

'' Georgian ! Well, perhaps the architect's
name was George ; but if you have noticed the
little window to the north of the altar "

"Communion-table," suggested Susan, quietly.

"Altar," mildly repeated Mr. Oram, helping
himself to some more toast. " It was
smothered in whitewash till last year ; but
there's no doubt that it's a thirteenth-century
window. "

There is work of all periods in the church,
so why not let it stand as it is ? "

"But you said it was a Georgian church."

I was thinking of the inside appearance,
and I should like it to remain as I have always
known it."
VOL. n. 26

So the pair went on without any irritation,
both appealing in turn to Cleverly for support.
After tea the church club books were produced,
but there had not been a word of allusion to
Gertrude.

It was then a quarter-past ten. As the maid
was removing: the things Miss Jentleigh asked

CO o

her if there had not been a ring at the door a
moment before.

Yes, miss, there's a gentleman with master.
The French gentleman who's going to marry
Miss Corrino[ton," she added for her mistress in a
lower tone.

You mean the Due d'Alma ? " inquired
Susan.

Yes, miss, that was the name on the
card."

The maid had scarcely left the room when
the house door was heard to close, and the next
moment the Rector walked into the drawing-room
with a perturbed look.

"Te Duke and Gertrude Corrington are to
be married tomorrow morning at eight o'clock,"
he said, point-blank.

Oh, papa, has the General yielded,
then ? "

Xo, the marriage is against the General' h
wish ; the Duke admitted that. Oram, I shall
leave you to marry them."

'•' But there cannot be a marriage," interposed
Cleverly, whose face had flushed with astonishment
and anger. .He stood up and looked round
at the startled group. The Rector only gave a,
shrug.

I shall write a few lines to the General,"
said he ; " but the Duke has a licence, and if he
comes to the church tomorrow we are bound to
marry him."

"The General might forbid the marriage,"
said Cleverly. " The rubric provides for such
interdictions when there is just cause."

We should be obliged to have a proof of
just cause," said Mr. Oram, quietly. Secretly he
had been very glad to think the marriage was
going to be delayed, but his mind was not
warped by passion and spite like Cleverly's.

Dr. Cleverly, are you sure there is a lawful
impediment ? " exclaimed Susan, gazing earnestly
into the doctor's face. '' It would be such a
dreadful thing for Gertrude if there were any
mistake."

The rubric does not speak merely of impediments

according to the law of the realm,
but according to God's law," observed Mr. Oram,
consulting a prayer-book. '' I think it would bea
religious impediment if we had knowledge that
some deceit was being practised, but suspicion
alone would not count."

The marriage must and shall be stopped."
Cleverly's brow was knit and his hands clenched
as he uttered these words. " Remember, Mr.
Jentleigh, that the Duke is ordered for foreign
service ; so that if there is a postponement beyond
tomorrow, the marriage cannot take place
until after the war — supposing it take place at
all," he added between his teeth.

Papa, shall I run round and talk to Gertrude
? " asked Susan, with a sudden sympathy
for the doctor.

No, dear ; it is enough that I should write
a note to the General," answered the Eector,
who was already anxious to get back among his
poultry books.

You are not going yet. Dr. Cleverly ? "
asked Susan, as Laurence Cleverly was making
for the door.

Yes, I must go," he said, returning to shake
hands ; and his speech was thick. " I must

go. I shall not allow this evil to be done to
Gertrude if I can help it."

He retired, and Susan could not help remarking
that he looked dangerously excited.

*' I hope he will not overtake the Duke in
the streets ; they might have high words," she
said.

CHAPTER lY.

THE BRIDEGROOM.

Poland had left Gertrude, saying he would go
straight to the Eectory to show his licence to
Mr. Jentleigh, and his parting words were, " A
demain, ma cherie, tomorrow morning at the
church at eight."

Sustained by his presence, she had borne up
very wtU through the trying interview with her
father, but when he was gone a sense of unutterable
wretchedness fell over her. It was as
though she were in a hostile house. She could
not take counsel again of her mother, and she
feared to go and join Bertha and Dick in the
drawing-room, lest she should have to gratify
their curiosity about what had happened and
was going to occur. She crept up to her bedroom
and softly locked the door.

In less than twelve hours she would be
married ! She had to consider what she would
wear on the morrow, at what hour she should
leave the house, and how miserable it would
be if she had to go out to the church all alone.
Unfinished finery for the grand wedding that was
not to lay about on chairs, and the sight of
these things gave her a pang, recalling how she
had hoped to be married amidst all her friends,
and to leave her home proudly and happily with
her husband as other brides do. Yet it would
be better that she should be Eoland's wife when
he went away alone than remain unwedded,
exposed to the cutting pity of those who had
been envpng her lot, and to the secret derision
of those who had caused her marriage to fail.
She had heard of Dr. Cleverly's interference, and
that man was now odious in her sight. If for
no other reason than to confound his machinations,
she would have been glad to get married.
Once she was Eoland's wife she would be delivered
for ever from the doctor, and from the
secret fear that had been troubling her since her
engagement, that this man, vindictive and persevering,
was destined to have an untoward
influence on her life.

At this date white pique dresses were much
worn by ladies in summer. Gertrude had one
which she selected from among her things, and
she had a rice-straw hat trimmed with white
ostrich feathers. Of course she meant to look
her best at her wedding. In the morning early
she would go down to the conservatory and
gather some orange-flower blossoms, stephanotis,
and white roses, to make little bouquets for her
hat and corsage, and a button-hole for Eoland.
While she sat down to ruche up lace for ruffles
for her neck and sleeves, somebody scratched at
the door. It was her brother Dick.

"Mother has told me all about the row,
Gertie," he whispered, when she had opened to
him. " But, you know, I'll go with you to
church tomorrow, and give you away, and all
that kind of thing, if you like."

"How good of you, Dick." Nothing at that
moment could have touched Gertrude more.
"But you mustn't make papa angry with
you."

Hang it ; never mind that ! " replied Dick,
lounging against the door-post. " They shouldn't
have allowed you and the Duke to go on spooning
if they didn't want you to marry. I am not

going to have it said that none of us stood by
you on your wedding day."

Has mamma been speaking to Bertha about
this ? "

No ; but Bertie suspects there's something
up. I dare say she'll come in and pump you on
her way to bed. It vdU be an awful sell for her,
your being married Without bridesmaids, for she
seemed to think her part in the ceremony more
important than yours." Then Dick added some
words of approval about romantic matches in
general. " There's Buncross of the Buflfs, an old
schoolfellow of mine, who was spoons on a jolly
girl in Cheltenham. He was ordered off to the
Abyssinian war, so her people cut up rough ; but
he just marched her off to church one morning,
and presently she came back to breakfast flying
the Union Jack. That's the style I like. As for
that snob Purkiss Nethersole, I'll punch his head."

What has Purkiss been doings ? "

He's been saying a lot of rot about your
marriage being broken off, and that's what made
me question mother about it. But tomorrow,
after you're married, I should just advise him to
mount guard over that mouth of his, or I shall
be mixing up his teeth for him."

'ris mamma still downstairs?" asked Gertrude

; she's waiting for the guvnor to come
out of his study. She's all on your side, you
know, and I dare say she'll talk him round before
tomorrow morning. The guv'nor is bound to
make it up with the Duke, once he has become
your husband, so he might just as well be pleasant
before. But whatever he does, I'll be your escort
tomorrow, Gertie, so don't be down-hearted."

'' Thank you, Dick, it's very brotherly of you.
Good night," said Gertrude, gratefully.

You might give a fellow a kiss," suggested
Dick ; and Gertrude gave him what he asked very
affectionately.

Sleep could not be expected to visit her on
that anxious night. She heard every member
of the household go up to bed, but nobody came
to her after Dick. Finding no rest on her pillow,
she read in some newspapers the learned prophecies
of military writers as to the probable
course of the war. The names of MacMahon,
Blaine, Canrobert, and Leboeuf had become
quite familiar to her, and nothing that the newspapers
said was calculated to diminish her confidence
in these men, for all, without exception,
predicted the success of the French armies, though

the leader-writers fulminated attacks upon tlit^
Emperor Napoleon for having provoked the war.
But the leaders Gertrude did not care to read.

Dawn comes early in July, and long before
any sound could be heard abroad, except the
twittering of sparrows in the trees, Gertrude was
up and dressed. The morning broke with promise
of a fine day, and by six o'clock the sun streamed
into the room. Gertrude was preparing to go
down into the garden for her flowers, when she
heard a door open and her father's step heavily
descending the stairs. A few moments later her
mother came into her room attired in a peignoir,
and informed her, with a mixture of hope and
trepidation, that the General had gone out to
call on the Duke.

He's much troubled, dear. I talked to him
a great deal about you, but he would not answer
what he meant to do."

What can he do, mamma ? "

"He said something about making a last
appeal to Eoland. Last night, very late, a letter
came from Mr. Jentleigh, saying that the Duke
had called to show his licence, and the Eector
wanted us to know that if you and Eoland
appeared before him with that licence he will

be bound by law to marry you. I hope, dear,
that if your father finds the Duke resolute, he
will end by giving way ; but you will wait till
he returns, won't you ? "

If he returns before a quarter to eight,
mamma ; but I have promised to be at the church
at eight, and nothing but force or an accident
could stop me."

Well, Gertie dear, I will go with you," said
Mrs. Corrington, as if all her powers of resistance
were exhausted. " Your father has not forbidden
me to go ; and what would people say if I stayed
away ? Your sisters must come too. I dare say
Kate will be here presently. Oh, dear child,
what a day we passed yesterday, and what a
night this has been ! Let me look at you. I was
going to advise you to put on your white 2^ W^^-"

Gertrude, in her virginal white, and with the
shade of melancholy on her lovely face, was too
beautiful a bride for a mother to gaze at unmoved.
All the motherly affection of Mrs. Corrington's
heart welled up to her lips as she kissed the
fairest of her children. " God grant you a happy
life, my darling ! " she said. " May you be as
precious to your husband as you have been
to us."

White flowers in plenty were blooming in the
conservatory and garden, and Gertrude was not
alone when she went down to gather those
requisite for her adornment. Roused by Mrs.
Corrino^ton, the whole house was soon astir.
Dick came down to help his sister, and soon
afterwards Bertha and Mab appeared both in
their bridesmaids' dresses. Then there was a loud
ring at the house door, and Kate Littleton
made a rustling entrance like a summer breeze.

Hucks and I have had a battle royal, Gertie
dear ; but I have won the day, and I think he's
coming behind me. I told him the story of
Mahomet, and vowed that if you would not do as
lise pleased, he had better do as you pleased, for
the credit of the family."

Last of all, a more modest ring at the house
door ushered in Susan Jentleigh, robed in black,
demure, and having altogether the air of a
missionary about to deliver a sermon. The
Rector's daughter had evidently expected to find
Kingshouse a scene of desolation, and was taken
aback by the cheerful spectacle that met her
view ; for Gertrude, seated under a tree on the
bright green lawn, and resplendent as a young-queen
in her bridal attire, was being ministered

to by every one in the house. The servants were
bringing' her tea, her sisters were trimming; her
hat with flowers, and Mrs. Corrington was stretching
some white gloves. There was an "in for a
penny, in for a pound " spirit among them all,
and it found vent pretty joyously in laughter.

Gertie dear, I'm 50 glad," began Miss
Jentleigh, embracing her friend.

We are all glad," exclaimed Kate Little-point
; "an early wedding Hke this is the best
fun imaginable."

Susan Jentleigh was bewildered. The sympathy
and lecture which she had come to ofl'er
were clearly not wanted. " Is the General down
yet ? " she inquired, looking round.

Papa will be here presently," said Kate.
But why did you not bring the Rector, Susan '?
I hope he's not had one of his old attacks
this morning ? "

Papa is not very well," answered Susan,
reddening. The truth was that Mr. Jentleigh,
who hated to take any side in the quarrels of no
matter whom about no matter what, had decided,
as soon as he heard that the General did not
approve his daughter's marriage, to let his Curate
perform the ceremony. Kate guessed that this

was the case, and Susan knew that Kate guessed
it ; therefore there was a moment's silence, and
Miss Jentleigh wished she had stayed at home.

"I am glad Mr. Oram is going to officiate,"
remarked Kate.

Why, dear ? asked Mrs. Corrington,
innocently.

*' Oh, because he is not nervous about doing
his duty," replied Kate, with a laugh, which
sadly mortified poor Susan.

It was now close upon a quarter to eight.
Susan's presence was felt to be an intrusion, for
all the Corringtons were growing anxious at the
Generals not having returned. Gertrude kept
glancing towards the house : it was only by an
effort on Kate's part that anything like a conversation
was sustained.

It's time for us to be starting, child,"
murmured Mrs. Corriugton. She much wished
that the General would come back to relieve her
of responsibilities, but it was necessary to show
a bold front in Miss Jentleigh's presence.

I dare say papa will have gone to the
church," Kate said, determined to put a good face
on matters. " Come along, all of you, there's nota
minute to lose."

You've told the bell-rioters to be in attendance,
JVIiss Jentleigh, I suppose ? " asked Dick,
winking to Kate.

Susan had not told them, and stammered an
apology, feeling shocked at Dick's wink. /'I
did t know — we thought you wanted a very
private wedding. Isn't there to be a Catholic
service ? "

*' Catholic ? no," laughed Kate, who was bent
upon teasing her. " Don't you know that the
Duke has joined the shakers ? We are going to
have a stand dance and a breakdown after the

o

wedding ; and Mr. Quang has consented to
officiate as dancing dervish."

So, thanks to this lady, the wedding party
set out in tolerable merriment. Bertha alone
was troubled-sith conscientious doubts as to the
perfect sanctity of a wedding in which there was
to be no groomsmen, no breakfast, and no toasts
to the bridesmaids.

The church was near to Kingshouse, and the
party walked to it in open order. Early as it
was, a little throng had assembled at the porch,
attracted by the sight of the bell-ringers. These
stalwart men in shirt-sleeves stood at their posts,
for the Duke had ordered their services overnight,

having a better memory for proprieties
than Miss Jentleigh. The throng was composed
of boys and girls who had lino-red on their wav
to school, a baker with his basket, a milkmaid
with her yoke, a postman with empty bag who
had just finished his morning delivery, and the
speedily attired reporter of the local paper, who
held a note-book, and was in a state of exhilaration
at having o-ot early news of the coming-event.
Inside the porch stood the Duke's
coachman and groom in livery, with bouquets cf
white roses at their breasts, and they took otf
their cockaded hats most deferentially to their
future mistress.

Barney was there also, but he had a strange
look on his face. Bowing to Gertrude, he stared
at her in a fixed way which smote her sith
uneasiness. What made the man fasten such a
gaze upon her ?

The bridegroom ought always to be first at
the church, but Eoland was not there. The
quick glance which Gertrude threw all around
when she entered revealed to her only a few old
women scattered among the pews — old women
with black bonnets and shawls of the sort who
seem to be as much church property as the
VOL. ir. 27

hassocks. But the holland cloth had been removed
from the altar, the cushion had been
placed on the reading-desk, and the verger was
present to marshal the company. Gertrude and
her mother walked up to the altar rails and
there both knelt down.

While they were praying, Mr. Oram emerged
softly from the vestry in his short surplice, long-cassock,
and embroidered stole. None knew of
the love which this excellent man had cherished
for Gertrude, or guessed with what feelings he
took his stand at the altar after having bowed
this head before it in a reverential manner. Fora
minute or two there was a perfect stillness in
the church. Eight o'clock struck, and the bridegroom
had not yet come ; but of a sudden there
was a noise in the porch, and the red baize doors
were thrown open. Mrs. Corrington nudged
Gertrude and both stood up.

Instead of the Duke it was General Corridors
who walked quickly up the nave. Long
before he reached the altar it was seen that his
visage and step betrayed consternation. When
he came to the place where Gertrude and her
mother stood, he was for a moment speechless
and stared about him.

You've not seen the — the Duke ? " lie
stammered at last.

What has happened, papa?" asked Gertrude,
who was as one transfixed, her l)lood turning to
iced water in her veins.

I don't know what's the matter ; the Duke
has not been seen at his hotel since yesterday.
I've been waiting more than an hour for him."

Had we nut better retire into the vestry ? "
suggested Mr. (Tram ; and supporting Gertrude,
sirs. Corrington led the way, all the rest following.


As soon as they were in the vestry, (gertrude
turned to her father. " Papa, you are not
deceiving me .^ '' she cried, joining her hands.
tell me that you've not forbidden Eoland to
come here."

She spoke too precipitately for her father to
hear, and the question had to be repeated VN'ith a
slower articulation bv Mrs. Warrington.

bless my soul, no," answered the General.
I was at the Star by half-past six, a night-porter
had been sitting up for him, and I waited
till nearly eight. Here's his own man, Barney,
Whom 1 sent on to the church to see if he wen
here."

The last time I saw my master, miss, was
when he dressed yesterday to go and dine at
Kingshouse," said Barney, respectfully.

'' May he not have gone to Brightport to
find a Roman Catholic priest for a second
ceremony according to his own faith ? " observed
Miss Jentleigh, and her words gave solace and
hope for a moment.

He might have gone to Brightport and
missed his train back," assented Mr. Oram.
We had better wait a little."

They waited. Barney started for the station
to try and get news of his master ; the General
returned to the hotel in case a telegram from the
Duke should arrive there. In the meantime
those tidino's of misfortune which travel so fast
had brought a number of idle people into the
church. The seedy reporter was questioning
everybody in the porch, and made one or two
attempts to edge his way into the vestry.

Gertrude scarcely spoke a word — nor did she
cry. After a quarter of an hour of waiting she
became intimately persuaded that nothing save
the most cruel accident could have kept Koland
away, but to speak her fears was beyond her
power. She sat beside her sister Kate, who held

one of her hands, administering sympathy in
silent pressure of the fingers.

At last Barney returned. From the door he
signed that he should like to speak to Mrs.
Corrington alone, but Gertrude started up.

You have some news ! Tell me all you
know."

I'm afraid there has been foul play, miss,"
said Barney, in deep dejection. " The police
have found my master's hat in a lonely place
called ' Lovers' Walk ; ' the hat is all battered,
and there's blood and marks of a scuffle on the
round where it was lying."

CHAPTER \.

> FOUL Plan.

With a wail of despair, Gertrude fell into lier
mother's arms, crying, " Mamma, they have
murdered him ! '"'

There's been some ugly job done," continued
Barney, passing the back of his hand over
his eyes. " They must have been several to
overpower my master, unless he was struck from
behind. You should see his poor hat, miss."

In the first anguish of this heavy blow,
mother and child sobbed aloud. Kate, Bertha,
and little Mab began to cry too. Susan Jent-
leioii had gone to fetch her father at the Rectory,
but reappeared at this juncture. General 
also arrived from the Star and brought
Hucks Littleton with him.

The vestry was too small for the excited

^•rowcl that it contained. '*' You must take
(gertrude home, my dear' said the General.

One moment, mamma ; I must know the
whole truth," cried Gertrude, rousing herself.
Barney, you say your master's hat has been
found— is that all ? Have they ? "

When was the Duke last seen ? " interrupted
the General, speaking at large.

Everybody in the room, save himself and
(gertrude, had been whispering the name of the
man who was believed to have last seen the
Duke — Laurence Cleverly.

Eoland had left the Rectory at about a
quarter-past ten, but after that he had called
upon the parish clerk to speak about engaging
the bell-ringers. The clerk — a carpenter bv
trade — lived near the church. " I was standing
at my door," he said, " a few minutes after the
Dook had gone — for there was a fine moonlight
— when Dr. Cleverly came along. I stopped
him to say a word about my missus, but he was
in a great hurry to be off, and said he'd look in
to-mortar. So I just mentioned that the Dook
had been to order the bells ; then he asked which
way the Dook had gone, and ran off to catch
him, as I thought."

Did he run ? " asked Susan Jentleigh, whose
face was overspread with horror.

No, miss, I rQean he walked fast ; but I
think he did overtake him."

"Are you certain of it ? "

"Xo, miss. The trees in the Lime AValk
throw a shadow right across the road, and the
two gentlemen got lost to sight in the shade ;
but Dr. Cleverly couldn't have missed the
Dook walking as he did."

The clerk spoke so that all might hear, and
Gertrude caught every word he said. To appease
her, Dick said, " Perhaps there was a fight
between the two ; but as they weren't armed
they couldn't have hurt each other much. The
Duke was a good boxer, wasn't he, Barney ? "

A good fencer and bricklayer, sir," said
Barney, adding with a shake of the head, " I
know this, that if my master had not been
killed, or made senseless, he would have been
here this morning,"

Let us go home, mother," said Gertrude, ina
broken voice. " Oh, Lve had a presentiment
of this ! My poor Roland — it's a miller — and
Dr. Cleverly has done it."

Her piercing sob, as she clung to her mother

and left the vestry, sent a thrill all round.
'' Father, let's go and find this man Waverley"'
said Dick, the tears of pity and passion in his
eyes.

I'll go sith yon, Dick," cried Kate, who had
lingered for a moment in the doorway, hesitating
as to whether she should follow her sister.

But Hucks Littleton nervously restrained
his wife.

Don't stir, Kate, I pray ; you can do
nothing but harm. This is a most delicate business
which ought to be left to the police."
Whenever Hucks spoke authoritatively, his voice
trembled like that of a man who makes a maiden
speech.

I beg pardon, ma'am, but I'd leave nothing
to the police of this toT\Ti," remarked Barney,
with disdain. " I don't mean to rest until I have
found out all I can for myself. The inspector
who has got charge of my master's hat isn't much
of a man, judging by the sort of questions he
put me. I've got to go back to him now."

Dick declared he would go with Barney and
hear what the inspector had to say. Kate, at her
husband's request, twice repeated, followed Gertrude,
but made Barney promise that he would

come to Kingshouse as soon as he had anv more
news. Gertrude, her mother, and sisters had,
with the Rector and Susan, passed out through
the door which led into the rectory garden, so
that they might escape the observation of the
crowd now fast collecting in and about the church.
As Kate retired through the same door, her husband
whispered earnestly to her, " Now, Kate,
don't be impulsive ; remember that you've no
business to accuse Cleverly without proofs."

Hu dear, this will be the death of Gertrude,"
answered Kate. " If Dr. Cleverly did
this, I would hang him with my own hands ; but

1 won't be impulsive."

The Lovers' Walk, where Eoland's hat had
been found, was at some distance from the Lime
AValk near the church, where, according to the
clerk, the doctor must have overtaken his rival.
It Alas a public passage between the walls of
private gardens, and offered a short cut from
Westover, the lower part of the town, to the
High Street for those who knew Lewbury well.
It was doubtful, however, whether the Duke
would have known of this passage. It was rather
to be assumed that he was led there.

A working man had picked up the hat as he

was going to his work early in the morning, and
had given it to the first policeman he met. Since'
then the police had explored the passage, and
discovered a piece from a broken sleeve-link with
an S and a coronet engraved upon it. Over
several yards the path was cut and torn with
heel-marks as if there had been a struo'^le, but
the recent cbyDCSs of the weather had made the
path so hard that there were no imprints of
footsteps.

These facts were not straightway disclosed by
the police to the public, and even Barney had not
been told about the sleeve-link. The inspector
of police, named Trotter, was a stout, grey, brick-faced
man of common appearance, and with a
provoking slowness in his ways and words, but
he knew his business. He had been questioning
the hotel servants while Barney was at the church,
in order to satisfy himself that the Duke's valet
had not been out late on the previous evening;.
Barney, as he learnt, had orders always to sit up
for his master till midnight, but no later. On
the previous night he had supped in the servants'
hall from ten till half-past, and had afterwards
spent some time in the bar-parlour, chatting with
the barmaid. It was certain that he had not left

the hotel after ten o'clock, and that he had gone
to bed soon after midnight.

Barney was thus acquitted of suspicion in the
inspector's sight, and when he returned from
church, accompanied by the General, Dick, and
Hucks Littleton, he received information about
the sleeve-link. The broken piece was shown
him, and he at once identified it. " That's my
master's, sir ; the very pair he wore yesterday —
there's no mistaking it."

Let's go up to your master's room," said
the inspector, for at that moment they were all
standing in the hall of the hotel. The whole
jDarty, including the landlord and landlady, went
upstairs. There was a quantity of luggage on
the landing and in the sitting-room. " All ready
packed for a start, I see," said the inspector.

Yes, sir ; his grace, my poor master, was to
have been married this morning."

So I've heard. Now, I want to ask, if you
know a party by the name of Mrs. Crapps '? "

Mrs. Crapps, sir ; who's she ? "

"You don't know her. I didn't suppose you
did," answered the inspector, sagaciously. "Well,
she was at the house of another party called
Hopkins yesterday, and she says that the Dook

and a Frenchman who lodges in Mrs. Hopkins'
house, Mr. Grachard, had high words, Dr. Cleverly
being present. Do you happen to have
heard of Mr. Grachard ? "

I have heard of him, sir, and little good."

Everybody knows that M. Grachard hated
the Duke," broke in Dick Corrington, excitedly ;
but Grachard and Cleverly have always been
great friends."

That's enough," muttered Hucks Little-point,
pulling Dick's sleeve in trepidation. '' Say
nothing till you are questioned, and express no
suspicions. Trouble always comes of this loose
speaking."

The inspector nodded. Accustomed to the
summary process of the French police in dealing
with suspected persons, Barney expected Mr.
Trotter was going to announce that Dr. Cleverly,
M. Grachard, and Mrs. Crapps had already been
arrested ; but the inspector as, he walked round
the Duke's sitting-room, taking a quiet look all
about him, observed that no suspicion could yet
be pressed against anybody. " Why, you see we
ain't sure yet that the Dook's missing."

"Not sure he is missing? What about this
hat, then ? " and Barney stood open-mouthed,

pointing to the muddy, battered hat which had
been placed on the table.

"That's not much," responded Mr. Trotter.
Repose a gentleman wanted to go aw^aj on the
quiet, he might leave his hat about just to throw
people on a false scent or for a lark, you know."

Get along ! " exclaimed Barney, indignantly.
My master ain't of that sort."

Do you mind letting me see one of his
'ats?"said the inspector. "I will compare it
for myself with this one, and I'd like just to take
a look round the Dook's bedroom."

Barney's respect for the police was much
diminished by these dilatory proceedings. Mr.
Trotter walked round the Duke's bedroom as if
he were in a museum where visitors are particularly
requested not to touch. The only objects
upon which he ventured to lay hands were the
hats, of which Barney extracted two or three
from different boxes and laid before him. These
he measured inside and out with a greasy tape
which he drew from the hind pocket of his tunic.
He pulled up the linings ; he planted one of the
hats on his own head. " I suppose, now, you
can't be sure as to which hat your master put on
when he went out last nidit ? "

I think you moonlit take mv word for it that
this is my master's hat," whimpered Barney, out
of patience. " I don't see the use of going on in
this way"'

'•' Eh, but I want to prove that this 'ere 'at
was the one your master had on when he was
last seen. What's to show that the Dook didn't
damage this 'at after he went out, and buy a
new one ? What's to show that, when he left
(general Corrington's house, he didn't put on
somebody else's hat by mistake ? "

Barney was silent, and the inspector triumphed.
" Two and two makes four," said he,
"' jut there's lots of people takes two ones and
calls it four. The Dook's gone, but he ain't been
away twenty-four hours yet, and we haven't
found his dead body, so that only counts for
Fie ; then as to this 'ere 'at, repose somebody
turns up and swears that when he last saw the
Dook his grace was wearing a pot-hat, or a
travelling-cap ; where should we be then ? "

There's the sleeve-link, though," observed
Dick, who would have said more but for Hucks.

'•' The sleeve-link and the at too-ether they
counts for one'' said Inspector Trotter. " We
want more facts before we can make two of 'em."

Here the party were joined by a detective — •
a young, neat-looking man, whom the inspector
had sent to make inquiries about M. Grachard.
He reported that Mrs. Hopkins' house was
empty. A neighbour had toil him that M.
Grachard and Miss Hopkins had gone off to
Brightport that morning to get married, and that
Mrs. Hopkins had accompanied them. Mrs.
Hopkins woukl return in the evening, but the
'• young people " were to be away for two or
three days.

Hem ! that's queerish," muttered the inspector.


Here's another bit of news," said the detective,
drawing the inspector aside. " The officer
who was on duty in High-street between ten
and twelve, and again between four and six this
morning, reports that Dr. Cleverly's dog-cart
was out almost all night. The doctor came home
soon after ten in the evening ; but about half an
hour later he went out again in his dog-cart and
without his servant, and he didn't come back till
nigh upon six in the morning."

D'ye hear that ? " said the inspector, repeating
what he had just heard to the assembled
company.

That's convincing enough, surely ? " blurted
out Dick, whom his prudent brother-in-law once
more tugged by the coat.

I dunno ; it may or it ma}Ti't be," replied
the inspector. " There's not much in a doctor's
being; out at night."

But you'll go and see Dr. Cleverly now,
and ask him what he was doing, eh, sir ? " said
Barney.

A doctor ain't obliged to tell me who his
patients are, nor what's the matter with 'em :
Dr. Cleverly 'ud order me to mind my own
business," answered Mr. Trotter, drawing on his
white gloves with composure. '* I don't see that
there's anything more to be done for the present,
except wait for fresh news."

"I'm bio wed if that isn't an easy way of
working," exclaimed Barney, with a grin of
derision. " Well, if you won't go and see Dr.
Cleverly, I wdl."

Ah, you can do what you like," said Inspector
Trotter ; " what I've got to do is to collect
certainties and make a correct addition sum
of 'em. I'll be at the office most of the day, soif
you learn anything more just come round and
tell me. Good morning."
VOL. II. 28

"Good morning. Oh, please take your
time' said Barney, mimicking him as he retired.
"Gentlemen, when that inspector's place falls
vacant, I'll put up my old grandmother to apply
for it. She's just the kind of party for it, if he
is.

CHAPTER VI.

THE Need ROSETTE.

By this time everybody in the town had heard
(jf the Duke's disappearance, but it was only by
Barney and by the family at Kingshouse that
this event was attributed to a calamity. Most
people believed that there had been an affray of
some kind in which Laurence Cleverly had
taken a part, and that the French nobleman had
got the worst of it. Some suggested that the
Duke had gone off because he had got a pair of
lack eyes and did not like to show himself in
church with those trophies ; others thought that
Roland must have been privately " warned off"
by General Corrington ; others, again, hinted at
a duel between the Duke and Grachard.

Mrs. Kethersole whispered that she was sure
the Duke's eyes had been opened at last to

Gertrude's past flirtations with Dr. Cleverly.
It grieved Mrs. Nethersole much to have missed
the sight of the baffled weddings in church that
morning, but before ten o'clock she was at the
Rectory, and had extracted an account of the
whole affair from Susan Jentleigh. It had never
struck Susan that Roland d'Alma might, at the
eleventh hour, have discovered something about
Gertrude's first love : she could not, of course,
know that Eoland had long been informed by-gertrude
herself of Dr. Cleverly's proposal and
pretensions.

Don't you see how it all is, my dear ? " chattered
Mrs. Nethersole, who had been Listening
with a pious enjoyment to the story of the bride's
public humiliation. " Laurence Cleverly made
a clean break-st of it last night, when he saw that
Frenchman. Then the Duke — the French are
so fiery — tried to spit in his face, or claw his
eyes, or something of that kind ; but he found
that at this game he was no match for the Englishman,
and, as my Purkiss would say, he got
a jolly good thrashing."

Do yoU' think that can have been ? " asked
Susan, helping her visitor to sherry and a biscuit,
for Mrs. Nethersole seldom went anywhere without

taking a refreshment. " In that case, it was very
unkind of the Duke not to write a line to General
Corrington, and so prevent Gertrude from going
to the church."

Those Frenchmen are all mean, dear," said
Mrs. Nethersole between two sips of wine. " I
dare say this one, finding how he had been fooled,
was anxious to take as spiteful a revenge as
possible on Gertrude."

Oh, Mrs. Xethersole, you shouldn't say the
Duke was fooled 1 " exclaimed Susan, reddening.
^' Gertrude is very fond of him, and she never
liked Dr. Cleverly— at least, not a tenth so much
as she loved her affianced husband."

Well, men always consider themselves fooled,
dear, if they hear that a girl has been made love
to by anybody else. It is very unreasonable."

Very unreasonable," assented Susan ; " and
I can't believe the Duke would have accepted
statements from Dr. Cleverly without asking
Gertrude for explanations."

Jealousy doesn't reason, dear, as you may
find out some day for yourself, if you should
faU in love. And then, you forget that the
Duke might have got himself into some scrape
by making an irregular marriage, and when he

saw that his truthfulness had been detected
he was probably glad to take himself off."

Poor Gertrude is firmly persuaded that her
lover must have been murdered," observed Susan.

Murder ? Fiddlestick ! " said Mrs. Nether-sole,
and finished her sherry.

It relieved Susan to hear Mrs. Nethersole say
fiddlestick. Remembering the dark look on the
Doctor's face when he left the Eectory the night
before, she was vaguely fearful, though not actually
suspicious, of a crime. Now her mind became
divided in its opinions about Cleverly. She
felt admiration for the man's staunchness in
love, and some little feminine sympathy for
him as an Englishman, a Protestant, and a comparatively
poor man standing up to fight against
a foreigner, who was a Catholic, titled, and
rich. But then, Susan had thought very well of
the Duke, .and on reflection she could not think
well of Dr. Cleverly for having told the Duke
tales about his love-passages with Gertrude.
Could it be that he was so unscrupulous as to
pretend that Gertrude had once loved him, or
that she loved him still ?

If you will allow me, I tn-III go into the
garden and tell papa what you think, for he has

been anxious, like all of us," said Susan. And
at this moment she privately struggled with the
feelings that mihi ouo-ht not to wed above their
station, and that, if in the upshot Gertrude and
Cleverly came together again, this might hn
better than if her friend had become a Duchess,
and had been tempted to give herself airs, and
perhaps to renounce the religion of her fathers.

The Rector did not appear to be very anxious,
for he was in his poultry-yard, distributing some
hot meal out of a basket in handfuls among this
fowls. It was more comfortable for a man <>f
his nature to smile over the idea of a fight with
fists than to bemoan a duel or a murder — so for
once he was actually pleased to see Mrs. Nether-sole,
and to talk for a few minutes with her.

Ah well, I dare say it's all for the best,"
he said, using a favourite' solatium. " Now, do
look at those two hens, Mrs. Nethersole ;
wouldn't you call one of them a feathered
duchess ? Don't you think she knows quite
well that she won a silver medal at the last
county show ? "

Mrs. Nethersole's interest in fowls was qualified
by a decided mistrust of cochin-china with,
big beaks pecking too near her shoes. She

had nothing more to say at the Parsonage ; so
she betook herself to Kingshouse, and left a card
marked "Kind inquiries." She made a virtue
of not seeking admittance, because she saw that
it would be denied to her. " How does Miss
Corrington bear up, poor dear ? " she said to the
maid. " Give her my best love, please — my
best love, and say I didn't like to intrude."

The maid might have said that Gertrude
bore herself with fortitude, for the grief of that
miserable day had not prostrated Gertrude. She
was, indeed, conscious of inspiring more sympathy
than she wanted.

Her mother and sisters and the servants all
spoke to her in compassionate terms, as if she
were ill. She would have had them be up and
stirring — hunting for news and bringing her
some proof of their activity every minute. To
be asked whether she would not like to lie down
a little, to take a glass of wine, a cup of tea,
some sal volatile — all this while her mind was
revolving like a grindstone, and, under pressure
of her cold, sharp sorrow, was throwing up as
sparks thousands of thoughts, fancies, suspicions
this was mere teasing.

When Dick returned with Barney from the

Star, she flew into the hall to meet him. He
could not resist the searching appeal of her eyes
and lips, and told her straight out all that had
been learnt from Inspector Trotter.

What does Hu think '? " exclaimed Kate,
breathless, looking round for her husband.

He has dropped behind with father," said
Dick. " I think he has gone home."

"Mr. Littleton won't give an opinion,
ma'am," said Barney, speaking to Mrs. Corrington ;
*' but my mind is made up," as they all walked
into the drawing-room.

Do you really believe it was a murder ? "
whispered Mrs. Corrington, with a shudder.

Yes, ma'am ; I do," said Barney.

*sit can have been nothing else, mamma,"
wildly exclaimed Gertrude, who had been catechizing
Dick as to its details. " Grachard's disappearance,
those two Frenchmen from Paris, and
then Dr. Cleverly being out all night in his dogcart.
. . . It was a murder — done by them all, four
against one, the cowards ! . . . and Dr. Cleverly
must have carried away my poor Roland's body
in his cart to hide it or throw it into the sea."

Barney nodded, as though this were his view
also, and everybody remained silent for a moment,

awed by the piercing tones of Gertrude's despair.
She had discarded her bridal dress and had put
on a black one, which set off the pallor of her
visage. The central figure in a horrified, dumb-stricken
family group, she stood the picture of
sorrow, but of courageous sorrow. Her love was
expressed in her kindling eyes, in the wringing
of her hands, in tears that glistened on her
cheeks and dried there without trickling;. But
her lips half-parted, and the resonance of her
voice, showed that she was not succumbing to
her grief, but meant to exact vengeance to the
last tittle for whatever had been done amiss to
the man whom she loved.

"Perhaps somebody ought to call on Dr.
Cleverly," muttered Mrs. Corrington, whose
tears were flowing.

Yes, mamma ; Barney and I are going,"
said Dick. " If Cleverly has not bolted, like
Grachard, we shall be able to see from his manner
whether he knows anything."

I will go T\dth you, Dick," said Kate, tying
the strings of her bonnet.

Perhaps you had better not, my dear," interposed
Mrs. Corrington. " Hu might not

like it;'

But a glance from Gertrude urged Kate towards
the door. It was kinder to leave Gertrude
to herself, and it had occurred to Kate that
Cleverly might be more amenable to questioning
by a lady than by a boy and a servant.
There was some sisterly idea in her mind, too,
that her presence might give protection to Dick,
if that youth fell into violent dialogue nth the
doctor, who was much stronger than he.

A few steps from Kingshouse, however, the
party of three met the General, who, not without
some demur, consented to accompany them.

Hucks says that, as a magistrate, I ought
not to mix myself up in an affair which may Inwrought
before me on the bench."

I should think a magistrate is just what
we want at this moment, sir," said Barney almost
grumbling, for he understood less and less how
criminal business is mano-ed in England.

A few questions from you, papa, might
clear up everything," said Kate.

"I don't think that," remarked Dick. "If
Cleverly had any good to tell us, he would
have sent round a note."

Hucks doesn't believe Cleverly capable of
a crime," observed the General ; " nor will I

without evidence. But I will go with you,
because Cleverly may have some explanations
to give. I know he's at home."

Mrs. Littleton nodded towards the doctor's
house. "You see, a visitor is being admitted
at this moment," she said.

It was now about eleven o'clock, and the
High Street presented the appearance which it
wore on every sunny morning. There was no
more animation than usual, and this amazed
Kate, who had thought that the matter which
was of such terrible portent to her own family
must be causing a public commotion. A dog
in a fit will collect a crowd, and a street will
become impassable from the throng of gaping
starers if a house in it has been the scene of a
murder ; but the curious appetites of crowds
must have something tangible to feed on. Kate
did notice, however, that from the moment
when she had espied Cleverly's door to that
when she reached it, three different visitors
knocked.

So many people had been quietly trying to
see Dr. Cleverly during the last hour or two !
All his patients seem to have fallen ill together.
Some had sent for him, but others had taken

a surer way of getting an interview by calling
at his house. Affecting to treat these visits
as purely professional, Cleverly was receiving
callers in his study as fast as he could. He
felt their pulses, prescribed for their ailments,
real or imaginary, and then packed them about
their business, ignoring all hints or questions
concerning; the missing; Duke.

The General and his little suite were admitted
without difficulty and the maid, knowing Mrs.
Littleton, promised to take in her name at
once. "But I'll show you into the garden,
madam ; all the rooms are full of people, and you
may have to wait a little time."

Kate had only once been in Dr. Cleverly's
house, and that was when, not many weeks
before this, she had gone with him to take
measure of his rooms, prior to advising him
about the purchase of new carpets. The doctor
was then refurnishing his house in view of his
wedding with Gertrude, and Kate shivered at
this recollection as she passed through the hall.

Just at this moment Laurence Cleverly
opened the door of his consulting-room and
came out with a patient. He changed colour
a little on seeing Mrs. Littleton, and looked

vicious as sin, thought Dick ; but that was not
the impression he produced upon Kate. A
splendid figure of a man always somewhat
supercilious in his mien, he looked on this
occasion particularly cool and brisk.

"Now, Mrs. Littleton,, what can I do for
you ? " he asked, after he had ushered his visitor
to the door ; and, seeing that no hand was
stretched out to him, he gave a toss of the head
and frowned.

'•' Dr. Cleverly, you know what is being
said about you ; you are bound to clear yourself,"
beoran Kate, beseeching. '*' Tell us what
you were doing last night."

'' I do not know what is being said about
me, Mrs. Littleton."

Why, the Duke's disappearance. You are
believed to have seen him last night later than
anv of us, and you know his hat has been found,
all battered T^dth footmarks, on the ground."

I don't profess to be astonished at the
Duke's disappearance," said Cleverly, in a careless
tone, which made Dick and Barney indignant.
"■ He knew that he was going to get himself into
a scrape."

•'•'That's sour view," broke in Dick.

Yes, it's my view and his too, apparently."

I don't think you ought to throw stones
at a man behind his back," continued Dick.

Why has he turned his back ? " retorted
Cleverly, drily. " Try and account satisfactorily
for his disappearance, if you can."

This is too much, bless me if it ain't," cried
Barney, astounded ; but Kate Littleton checked
him by a dissuading move of the hand.

Could you see Gertrude's distress, you
would pity her. Dr. Cleverly," she ejaculated.
If by a single word you can allay her anxiety
about the Duke's fate, it is your duty to speak
out."

I am not responsible for the Duke's disappearance,
and I can tell you nothing about
him," replied Cleverly.

But as he said this a strange think; occurred.

In making way reluctantly for the party to
enter his study, he displaced a chair over which
a light overcoat was hanging. The coat fell to
the floor; he picked it up, but something had
dropped out of one of the pockets.

Barney pounced upon the object, uttering a
sound that was between a snarl and a roar.

You villain, where did you get this ? " and.

springing back, the Duke's valet held up his left
arm on guard, while his right hand, pressed to
his chest, was tightly closed.

What is it ? " inquired Kate and Dick in
the same breath ; and Barney, opening his palma
little, revealed something that looked like a
red button. It was one of those scarlet rosettes
which officers of the Legion of Honour wear on
their coats, and Koland always had one in his
button-hole.

We have got you now, curse you," muttered
Barney, backing to a safe distance from the
doctor.

The servant's round face was suffused, and
all the veins of his neck were starting. " You've
killed my master and thrown him into the sea,
that's what you have done. This decoration
was on his coat last night, I^U swear to it."

Laurence Cleverly, standing with, an air of
consternation, appeared to be overwhelmed.
However, he recovered his self-possession pretty
fast, and had the effrontery to glance at his
watch, as if he desired his unwelcome visitors
to go.

Oh, Dr. Cleverly, what does this mean ?
Do speak out," implored Kate.

*' I have nothing to say," answered Cleverly,
mechanically opening a letter.

You had better find something, as matters
are looking very black for yon," observed Dick.

^' I'll go and fetch a policeman, sir," exclaimed
Barney ; but when Mrs. Littleton
again made her dissuading gesture, the servant
lost his self-control. " What are yer driving at,
with all this stopping, ma'am ? Dryer want to
'help him to escape ? "

No, Barney ; we understand your feelings,
but for pity's sake have patience."

Patience, ma'am ? Why you wouldn't act
like this if he where a poor man ; and Til tell
you what — he doesn't leave this house except in
handcuffs. If he tries to, I'll just call up a mob
out of the streets ; he won't escape then."

The situation was critical. Barney, in his
excitement, had only to raise a cry of " Murder ! "
and the house would be invaded immediately
by one of those rabbles who are always ready
for any piece of lawlessness. Happily, the
General was there to interpose his authority as
magistrate. With a hand to his ear, he turned
sharp upon Barney and rapped his heavy

on the floor to command silence.
VOL. II. 29

That rosette is not yours, is it, Barney ? "

'^No, General; but "

"Then you can't summon Dr. Cleverly for
unlawful possession. Your evidence as to its
being the Duke's property may be of use at the
right moment. This is not the right moment.
As for you, Dr. Cleverly, you must expect from
this hour to be watched by the police. You are
not a prisoner, but you will be watched."

Cleverly bowed, but vouchsafed not a word
to clear himself from suspicion. Thereupon
Kate burst into tears, and, clinging to her
father's arm, allowed herself to be led from the
house. Dick followed, crestfallen and half
frightened by the doctor's chilling cynicism.
Barney wrapped up his precious rosette in paper,
and was ordered to accompany the General to
the police-station, and there deliver it up to the
inspector.

This was done, and then no more clues as
to the missing Duke's fate were obtained till late
in the afternoon. A meetings of magistrates
was held, at which it was decided that no charge
could yet lie against Cleverly. If the Duke's
body were found, the doctor might be arrested
for murder, as principal or accessory ; and if it

were not found, he might be indicted for " spiriting
away ; " but so far there was no ground for
action of any sort.

Meanwhile the telegraph was set to work.
Barney sent a message to the Countess de
Beaujeu, and got answer that the Countess had
no tidings of her brother since the despatch
which she had received on the previous day.
The police telegraphed to Brightport to get
M. Grachard detained, but Grachard could not
1)0 found. He had got married at the registrar's
office, and after that all traces of him were
lost. Fortunately, ]airs. Hopkins was discovered.
At about six in the evening; a telegram to the
Lewbury police announced that a Brightport
detective had found the widow and would escort
her home by the next train. When that train
arrived at Lewbury station, Inspector Trotter
was waiting on the platform.

As Mrs. Hopkins had been enjoying herself
at her Polly's nuptials, and had afterwards partaken
of refreshments at the houses of various
Brightport friends, animation of countenance,
combined with Sunday finery and new green
gloves, made her a different woman from the
bare-armed lodging-house keeper, who on most

days was to be seen up to her elbows in soapsuds,
flour, or soot. The thorn in the rose of her
pleasure that day had been a tight boot. It was
this instrument of torture, and not, as she
reiterated to the sceptical Mr. Trotter, anything
whatsoever in the nature of a drink, which
caused her to stumble frequently as she walked
across the platform, and infused bitterness into
her objurgations on the manner in which sie
was being treated.

'•' My poor Hopkins, who's gone, wouldn't
have stood by to see me disgraced in this way,
Mr. Trotter. What's that young man been
going on at me about Mr. Grachard for ? I tell
you Tim Grachard's left the country,"

That's sudden, ain't it ? " said Mr. Trotter,
who had conducted the widow into the stationmaster's
private room. " Whit did he go
for ?" . ^

'•' Why, he went off vdth. his wife, my Polly,
to be sure. They were married this morning,
and they've started for Belgium."

Tel me now about those words that passed
between Mr. Grachard and the Due d'Ahna at
your house yesterday, ]airs. Hopkins," continued
the inspector.

'•' Alio told you there had been words ? "
cried the widow, as she subsided into a chair.

Never mind who told me."

It must have been that Crapps " — and
Mrs. Hopkins shook one of her green kid fists.
Oh, the artfulness of that odious woman,
whom I just call in to do a bit of charing now
and then, and give three meals a day to, she
being nothing but a pauper ! But she doesn't
cross my door again, or she goes out in front of
my broomstick, inspector, that's all I've got
to say."

Nothing came of them 'ere words ? " repeated
the inspector. " You know me, Mrs.
Hopkins ? "

Yes I do, Mr. Trotter, like almost everybody
in the town ; and I ain't above evening
that I've 'ad no fault to find with you."

Well, then, speak out the truth, and say
what happened after those two Frenchmen came
from Paris last night to see Mr. Grachard ? '*

Ah, you've heard of them two Frenchmen!"
and this seemed to the mow an inscrutable
mystery, so that her answer was given dreamily
and vdth. a glazed eye. " Crapps didn't see
them ; yes, she did, though ; they came just

before she went. Well, she didn't see them
come back after they'd been dining with Tim at
the Star. They was all three a good bit
the worse for drink, I should take it, for they
began a kissing and making speeches to each
other on the staircase ; three sillier fellows you
couldn't think of Then, when the two from
Paris had got their bags and top-coats, which
they'd left in Grachard's rooms, Grachard, he
slips on his inverness and says he'll see them
off to the station, and that's the last I saw
of him."

'' Do you mean to say Grachard didn't come
back to his rooms at all last night ? "

"He came back right enough, but I don't
know when, for I was in bed, and he had a
latch-key."

What about his looks when you saw him
this morning ? "

Why, Grachard isn't much of a one for
looks," said Mrs. Hopkins, gravely, " and my
Polly didn't marry him for his face. She thought
him a decent sort of a man, and that's her
business, I suppose."

That Thrill do, ma'am ; you can go home,"
said the inspector, when he saw that no more

could be extracted from the confused Mrs.
Hopkins.

The widow then limped home, being saluted
on her way by many cries from street boys
of " Where's French ? " For now that the
day's business was over, the French nobleman's
disappearance was being pretty generally discussed
by working men in public-houses and at
street corners.

Presently Inspector Trotter set his face
homeward. As he was going up the High Street
he was met by Barney, who, in a rather shamefaced
way, pulled a telegram out of his pocket,
and said —

I have just got this from Dieppe. It tells
me I shall get a cheque to-morrow morning, and
then I'm to pay the hotel bill, and to go off withall
the luggage, horses, and traps to join my
master in Paris"

Whew-w ! so he ain't dead, then ? " whistled
Inspector Trotter, cocking his eye. "Dryer see
what I told you this morning ? " Yer wouldn't
believe it then."

"Blowed if I ever could have believed it,"
said Barney, with a responsive wink and speaking
under his breath. " But now I want to know

what I ought to do about this telegram. Ought
I to take it to the young lady at Kingshouse 1 "

Depends who it's from."

'' Why, it's from my master himself. Look
here at the name ; " and Barney seemed to be
more puzzled than ever.

It's a queer go," muttered the inspector ;
and his voice had a compassionate touch as he
added, " Take it to General Corrington ; not to
the poor young lady."

CHAPTER VII.

THE HOTEL AT DIEPPE.

The steamboat going from Freshaven to Dieppe
had performed its journey that morning in the
time advertised as being usual in the company's
notices — a feat which the most experienced
passengers on board had never seen accomplished
before.

Leaving the English harbour an hour after
midnight, the boat glided over a pond-like sea ;
the sky above was all starry, and the air soft
with a summer warmth. When dawn broke, the
white cliffs of Normandy were well in view, and
at about half-past six the steamer entered the
port and was moored along the quay — the lively
French quay, where deep baskets of silvery fish
were being hauled up from countless smacks,
while crowds of fishermen chattered, and

green-coated doiianiers scolded, and the Angelus
bells from the city churches sounded with a far-off
faintness in the atmosphere of a sunny
morning.

There were many passengers on board, chiefly
young Frenchmen, who had been interrupted
from earning their livelihood in England by a
call to martial duties. They had been summoned
home for enrolment in the Mobiles, and on the
strength of the gun, drum, trumpet, and thunder
concert in which they were going to play their
parts, making Prussia dance and Europe quake,
they had passed the night on deck, crowing
patriotic songs, and preparing indigestion for
themselves with bottled beer.

Jules from a hair cutter's in Oxford Street ;
Alphonse, the sous-chef in a city restaurant ;
M. Alcibiade, the foreign-correspondence clerk
of a Piccadilly vine merchant ; M. Narcisse, the
assistant professor of tongues lately domiciled at
Putney, where lay his clientele of young ladies'
schools ; — all these and many more were clustered
together in temporary fraternity. They had
shrieked defiance before starting at a party of
young Germans, whom they had encountered ina
London railway station, and this first brush

with the enemy had stimulated their nerves and
voices Hke a ration of wine all round. So pleased
were they to behold their native land again
that they gave a cheer to the two gendarmes in
silver-laced cocked hats and yellow aldrich, who
stood on the landing-stage ; and the fishermen,
attracted by their merriment, crowded to the
quay side to laugh with them and cheer back.
Scores of women and girls huddled together,
with their wet blue skirts and bare legs, the
young ones ruddy of cheek, the old ones shrill
of voice and ^\ith faces like baked apples.

"Vive la France!" "A bas la Prusse ! "
*mort a Bismarck !" was shouted by all these
gay French folk ; as the shore-rope was made fast
to the catches of the boat ; and the gangway
descended rattling to the deck.

Two fidgety men, who stood apart from the
other passengers — men with well-muffled chins
and cloth caps pressed down over their brows
to the eyes — were the first to spring on to the
gangway. They were quickly ashore, and, having
apparently no luggage but a bag between them,
avoided the custom-house, and hurried straight
into the town. Behind them ascended Jules,
Alphonse, Alcibiade, and the others ; then ladies

none the worse for the passage ; then the nervous
lady who is invariably ill, whether it be rough
or calm ; then the portly, dictatorial man who
is always finding fault, and who always forgets
something and wants to return for it when he
is half across the o^ano-wav : and then the inevitable
British family, with overcoats and hats
wondrous to the foreign eye, dusky dogskins, rugs,
shears of umbrellas, a cricket-box, biscuit-munching
children, and a toy terrier.

The last of these tourists was hardly landed
when the English steward. Q-oins: his round of
the private cabins, found a passenger asleep in
one of them. " Hullo ! that's the gentleman who
was brought on board ill," he said to a tall,
hoarse man with a purple nose, the captain, who
was croaking some orders to a seaman. " Where
have his friends got to ? "

Had he any friends ? " asked the captain.

Ay, sir, two French gentlemen. They paid
me for the cabin, and told me he wasn't to be
disturbed. But, I say, what's this ? "

The steward, approaching the sleeper, saw
that his head was bandaged, and turning down
the rug that had been thrOT\Ti over him he
noticed bloodstains on his linen and clothes. In

the act of making this discovery the steward
shook the sleeper's shoulder, upon which the
passenger awoke and sat up.

You're at Dieppe, sir."

Where am I ? " and the passenger, with a
look of bewilderment and pain, pressed a hand
to his head.

They've brought you to France, sir.
Where's your two friends ? Do you think
they've gone to get a cab for you ? "

Give 'im some brandy," suo^o-ested the
captain, whose voice, coming up from the deepest
pit of his stomach, sounded like that of a man
in a well.

The passenger muttered something about
feeling giddy and sleepy ; but he understood
that he was being asked his name, and he half
drew from the breast of his coat a pocket-book,
which the steward handed to the captain. The
latter found in it notes, gold, some visiting-cards,
and a French passport in which the Due d' Alma's
names, titles, and military rank were given in
full.

Due d'Alma ! I wonder whether these
belong to 'im "? " mumbled the captain. " He
looks a gentleman too, with his evening clothes ;

you'd think he'd been brought on board straight
from the theater. What was his friends like ? "

Regular French, sir. I think I heard say
one was a doctor, and that this gentleman wasn't
quite right in his head, or that he was a bit
tipsy and had had a nasty fall, but I didn't pay
much attention ; there was so many on board
to serve."

Smells strong o' brandy," remarked the
captain, becoming suddenly aware that the odour
of spirits pervading the cabin did not come from
his own pea-jacket, as he had at first thought.

He must have spilled a lot over himself,"
said the steward, sniffing. " I suppose we must
take him ashore, sir."

Take 'im to a 'hotel, and tell the johndarms
about him," answered the captain ; and as he
spoke, the patient, whose head had been nodding
heavily, sank sideways on to the couch and fell
to sleep again.

Koland — for it was he — did not recover consciousness
for hours, as he had the effects of a
heavy narcotic to sleep off. When his mind
awoke to a dim perception of surrounding objects,
languor of body kept him motionless, and he
closed his eyes again, being unable to understand

what he saw. An officer in a French uniform,
a sister of mercy, a man in spectacles — these
were the figures on which his wandering gaze
rested for a moment, and they seemed to be the
creatures of an unfinished dream. .

The sounds of a familiar voice at last drew
him from his lethargy, and this time he plainly
recognized his cousin the Marquis de Maisonbelle,
talking to a sister, whose grey-blue robe and
broad starched coif proclaimed her of the Nursing
Order of St. Vincent de Paul. M. de Maison-belle
wore the undress uniform of a general, with
buckskin breeches and some riding-boots of a
new pattern. This little military detail riveted
Roland's attention and convinced him that he
was not dreaming. He addressed his cousin byname,
and the General advanced to the bedside.

Ma soeur, I think he is awake. Roland, do
you know me ? "

Why, yes. What brings you to England ? "

Man cher, you are in France, Hotel Henri
Quatre, Dieppe ; bedroom number 5."

Who brought me here ? "

Some friends who broke your head for you.
They put you on board the packet and decamped,
after drugging you in fine style."

And you ? "

I have just been appointed to the command
of the garrison of Dieppe. This morning the
police reported to me that you were Ipng here
wounded and senseless, so I came to see."

Am I badly hurt ? "

Only a scalp wound ; you must have lost
a deal of blood, but the doctor says it will be
nothing. Can you recollect how it happened ? "

Eoland could remember nothing. His memory
was a blank from the moment when he had parted
with Gertrude. Of the night's events there was
not even that confused impression on his mind
which resembles a spoilt photograph. The only
thing that recurred to him was Dr. Cleverly's
face, but whether he had seen it hours or days
ao'o he could not determine. Its outlines became
dim when he essayed to fix them.

How long have I been here ? " was Eoland's
next question. He had delayed putting it, for
he dreaded the reply, having lost all reckoning
of time. But when he learned that he had only
been unconscious half a day, he sat up in bed
and stared his cousin in the face.

De Maisonbelle, I was to have been married
this morning."

''Ahdiahle!''

'moil Dieu, what will she have thought,
poor child ? Tell me the time. I feel strong now ;
I will return to England by the next boat. I
see it all now. I had a quarrel yesterday with an
ignoble Httle rascal, a revolutionist, a man called
Grachard, and a doctor. They must have waylaid
me. It's fiendish ; but I will settle accounts
with them. Oh, my poor little Gertrude ! "

He looked round him for some clothes.

"You have nothing to put on," said the
General. " We must send to a ready-made
clothes shop. But do you really feel strong
enough to travel ? ''

Yes, yes. My head is a little heavy, but
that will pass."

We shall see what the doctor says ; but " —
here the General changed his tone and spoke
bluntly, with a gesture of one hand towards the
window and a jerk of his second thumb over his
shoulder — " your road does not lie there, over
the sea, but in the opposite direction towards
Paris. Do you foro-et that you have been
gazetted to the command of the 12th Cuirassiers
? "

That's true," lamented Eoland, in despair.
VOL. II. 30

'' I must be in Paris tomorrow. Man Die,
what shall I do ? "

"Goto your duty parbleu. That 12th is
«s fine a regiment as any in the army, and many
an officer of higher standing than you envies
you your luck. I do for one. Be up and off if
you can travel, and leave love-making till after
the war."

The Marquis de Maisonbelle had never been
friendly to Eoland s marriage. It has been said
that in face he was absurdly like Napoleon III.
The resemblance was the more complete from his
habit of stroking his long; moustache and twisting
waxed tips when he was thoughtful. He
lead at that moment a grievance of his own, by
reason of which the ornament of his upper lip
got severe pulling, and owing to which also his
cousin's love affairs interested him less than ever.
Aide-de-camp to the Emperor, M. de Maisonbelle
lead obtained brevet promotion on the declaration
of wear ; but instead of being ordered to the frontier,
he had been sent to Dieppe to form a camp
of mobiles, which he considered degrading and
tantamount to 'slitting his ear," as they say in
the French service for "shelving."

Adieu, mon baton de mareschal," he muttered

regretfully. " I was promoted off the staff because
the Emperor wants young aides for the campaign
; but I was surely as fit to command a
division before the enemy as ," and he repeated
the names of half a dozen brother generals
whom he considered to have been favoured above
their deserts. As for you, Roland, this campaign
may be the making of you. You will be a
general before the year is out, a general at thirty !
Mille bones ! and you look as if things Averse
going wrong with you ! "

I must send a teleo-ram to Enoiand," interrupted
Eoland, who was working himself into a
fever from thinking over Gertrude's anxieties.

A telegram for your clothes ? "

No ; to Miss Corrington — to my Jicincce.
She must have waited at church for me this

morning."

Isn't your head a little in the clouds still ? "
asked the General, niakino- a gimlet of one of
this moustache-tips. " How could you have got
married this morning ? I have not heard of your
]banns being published."

'"'Xo; I was orinoco oft married in the

GOO

English way."

Diable ! The man who cracked your head

perhaps rendered you a good service, then. Sister
Eosalie shall give you some paper, but we'll pack
you off to Paris as soon as possible."

During the dialogue between the two menthe
sister of mercy had withdrawn to the
window. At the General's summons she turned
her pale, grave face towards the patient, and
with noiseless dexterity did what was ordered.
She smoothed Koland's pillow, brought him some
paper, and held him up with lithe arm while he
drafted his telegram to Gertrude. Eoland looked
Wistfully at her, and, knowing that a woman's
heart beats even under a nun's robe, he said,
"It's for jxij fiancee, sister; you will make sure
that it is sent ? "

Oh yes, Monsieur le Due," she answered.

Then Eoland scrawled off a second message,
ordering Barney to join him in Paris ; and Sister
Eosalie, lowering him on to his pillow again, felt
his hand, and said, as to a child, " You are still a
little feverish. Try and compose yourself before
the doctor returns."

Sister Eosalie was one of those admirable
women who, detached from all mercenary interests
in service, wait upon God while tending the
sick. She spent her life in nursing, receiving

no pay or presents. What money her patients
pleased to give did not pass through her hands,
but went to her order, and for herself she was
only entitled to thanks, though even this reward
she mildly deprecated if offered in excess. Her
face had the sere colour of wax, and it was
impossible to guess at her age, for the linen band
over her forehead concealed her hair ; but her
eyes were limpid, her teeth white, and her light
voice, never weary or sharp, circulated like fresh
air in a sick-room.

Her greatest joy — and some accounted this a
fault inherent to her order, and demonstration
the superiority of lay over religious nurses —
was to draw the minds of her patients to holy
subjects, and many a pious little artifice she
used to this end. She had a well-worn missal
interleaved with coloured pictures of saints,
the Agnus, the Sacred Heart, and all the emblems
of the Passion, and she would demurely
turn these things over till a patient asked to
look at them ; and then, with a half-sly look
and a beating heart, she would offer to read some
of those mystically poetical prayers to the
Blessed Virgin, which, to her so beautiful], seemed
to some so infantine. Alas ! her reading: often

sent a patient to sleep ; but what if it pleased her
to read, and what if the patient's slumbers were
soothed by her gentle, reverent tones, which
drove bad thoughts away ? Even in the darkness
of sleep a light may shine, and our dreams
are none the worse for a flicker from those lamps
which the wise virgins hold ready-trimmed for
the Master's coming.

Sister Eosalie did not read to Roland, for
the General, who had gone to fetch the doctor,
soon returned with this man of science — a
dapper mannikin with spectacles, a shiny alpaca
coat, white vest, and a preposterously bald head.
Dr. Livery's head was one of those which kindhearted
people wince to see exposed to the sun.
One would have liked to clap a cabbage-leaf on
it even at the risk of mortally offending the
little doctor, who, being one of the most fashionable
practitioners in Dieppe, was always baring
his poll to the view of ladies, reflecting from its
.surface an amount of brightness which appeared
to crown him with a professional aureola. This
It omit nculus pronounced the Make unfit to travel ;
he cautioned him against brain fever. Then he
wrote a prescription. We pay dearly for such
medical opinions, and take of them quant inn

ijicicet. Five minutes after the doctor was crone,
Roland, with the General's assistance, glided
out of bed, and Sister Rosalie, who had left the
room for a moment, came back to find him
partially dressed, and walking round the apartment
on his cousin's arm.

He felt a little weak, and there was a numb
pain on one side of his head ; but he would
walk, he said. In any case, he would go to
Paris.

Bring him up a plate of soup and a good
glass of Bordeaux ; that will help him on," ordered
the General. " And, sister, you had better goto
Paris with him, in case he should want
nursing on the way."

Sister Rosalie bowed assent. It was her
duty to go an}nr\diere she was wanted, and her
look said plainly that she thought the Duke still
needed her care. With a kind entreaty she
tried to draw him away from the blood-stained
coat which he was examining, his brows knitted,
his hands clenched. " Never mind that, monsieur.
Come and sit in this armchair."

The villains, to have attacked me by night
in this way ! " said Roland, throwing down the
coat with passion. '' And to think that I can

remember nothing of what took price — nothing,
nothing ! "

This was the worst part of his misery. Ashe
was being led to the armchair, he caught
sight of himself in the flj-blown mirror above
the mantelpiece, and saw with a shudder how
strangely his pallor and his bandage disfigured
him. While the General went out again to see
about procuring him some clothes, and while
Sister Rosalie busied herself about getting him
some refreshment, he sat at a rickety table and
tried to redeem the promise which he had given
in his telegram of writing to Gertrude by the
first post.

But the words would not come. He kept
dipping into the well of the splashed white china
inkstand the oxidized steel pen which countless
hotel lodgers must have used, and he spoilt two
or three sheets of the cheap hotel paper before
he could write three lines, which rambled allover
the page, and which he saw to be incoherent.
His thinking apparatus was out of order. When
he endeavoured to recall something of the night's
incidents, the effort caused one spot on his head
to throb, and the fugitive visions that started
up had no more shape than faces in the fire.

I shall only fright en the poor child," he
ejaculated, throwing down the pen. " I must
write when I get to Paris ! my brain may be
cooler then."

His soup and wine did him some good ; and
after he had eaten, he had the beneficial excitement
— for it was mixed with a moment of
amusement — of dressing for his journeying ready-made
clothes. A hosier sent some hard, stiff
shirts ; a clothier, addicted to profuse pictorial
advertisements, a blue serge suit, which the
showman who brought it declared to be an
elegant fit, though it bub-ed at the collar like
the mouth of a letter-bag.

When Eoland was dressed in these odd
clothes, he walked about the room without
assistance. His head ached, but the floor no
longer seemed to heave under his tread. The
hotel-keeper, who had been much mystified at
the Due d'iUma's arrival at his house under
such peculiar circumstances, and who hung about
the passage expecting that the assistance of
several waiters would be required to carry the
patient down to the Jiaci^e at the door, was rather
disconcerted when the Duke descended leaning
on General de Maisonbelle's arm.

At the railway station the General retained
a coupe, and Eoland got into it with Sister
Rosalie.

I will go with you, Eoland, if you like,"
said the General, who in all the duties of cousinship
behaved with exemplary devotion.

No, thanks, cousin ; I shall sleep," said
Roland, with a grateful nod. He had to thank
his kinsman for much kindness, though in the
matter of his frustrated marriage the General had
markedly abstained from offering sympathy, and
but Eoland was not aware of this piece of
treachery — had taken upon himself to suppress
the telegram addressed to Gertrude. This he
had done unknown to Sister Eosalie, who had
entrusted both messages to the hotel porter.

Well, then, an revoir, and a lucky campaign
to you," cried the General, waving his red kepi
as the train started.

Eoland could not sleep in the train. It was
a resplendent summer evening, and he gave that
as his excuse.

To Sister Eosalie's chagrin, he sat up and
looked ont of the window with a troubled face,
for he was moved by the strongest feeling that
can lash the blood of a vouno\ brave, and impetuous

man — the feeling that he was impotent
to obtain satisfaction for a cowardly outrage.
The countenance of Dr. Cleverly recurred to
him every moment, like that black spot which
dances before the eyes when one has stared into
a furnace.

He doubted not that the man was a miscreant,
and fears for Gertrude's safety, with an unconquerable
presentiment of his own death in the
coming war, haunted him all the way to Paris;
while the fields for mile after mile glowed red
under a bloodshot sky, and trees and telegraph
posts flew by to right and left of the train like
the soldiers of an army in rout.

CHAPTEE VIII.

THE Miraculous SPRING.

Something has now to be said of divers remarkable
events which had occurred at Chateaufort
while Eoland was in Enoiand.

That niii^aculous apparition which had been
arranged with a magic lantern by Pierre Quiroule
and Odette, the cow-girl, had much startled the
religious minds of Brittany, and had brought
crowds of pilgrims every day to the castle.
Laughed at by the freethinkers of Auray and
Nantes, it was — as always happens in such cases
the more hotly defended by Catholics. The
Bishop of the diocese did not commit himself to
the position that all apparitions are credible, but
he held that the first impulse of a right-thinking
mind should be faith. One must not yield a
point to those scoffers who go about the city

grinning like dogs, and whose yelps are against
not one miracle only, but against all — curs who
bark at the moon and stars as readily as they
howl at candles. This is what the Bishop said.

His Greatness (for so are French bishops
designated) was a cautious man, however, and he
summoned Jerome Juva to his palace at Auray
in order to make quite sure that the chaplain
himself believed in the miracle. Jerome's feverish
manner was enough to clear up all doubts on
this point. He tossed his long arms about,
clasped his hands, and kept turning up his eyes
towards the ceiling.

*•' You are quite sure that you saw the Holy
Fiomre with your o^tl eves, mv dear friend ? "
said his Greatness, who was a polite little old
gentleman in a violet cassock, and a beautiful
cross of amethysts on his breast.

*' We all saw her, my lord, in shining robes,
and such a lovely face ! "

And you say that a spring has been discovered
on the spot ? "

On the spot where the Holy Figure appeared
the earth was found to have been freshly
stirred," replied Jerome. " We felt sure this
must be a sion to us that there was something

o o

to look for underneath, so all the Kergarecs went
out with shovel and pickaxe and dug two days
and nights, till behold ! water gushed out."

Truly marvellous ! " said the good Bishop,
taking a pinch of snuff.

Miraculous water," continued Jerome, excitedly.
" Some of our people hoped for a treasure
of gold and silver, but they found something
much better : for no sooner had old Jeanne Kern
dipped her rheimiatized leg in the water
than it began to move like the other ; and since
old Catherine, the laundry worn an, has bathed
her sore eyes with the water, she has begun to
see ao^ain as she did years ao-o."

And people from the villages are flocking
to the spring ? There are no totters among
them''

They are hastening in crowds, my lord,
from all parts — the rich as well as the poor — the
Polhuans, Penhoels, Gregarious. They all think
it so portentous that this apparition should have
come at a moment when France is just going to
war with an heretical nation, and when the heir
of Chateaufort was about to marry an unbeliever."

'• That marriage has come to nothing, has it
not ?" inquired the Bishop, in a discreet tone.

Yes, my lord Out venerable Marquise,
with a strength of will which would have been
impossible in one so aged and infirm but for
miraculous assistance, held out against monsieur's
wishes, and forbade the marriage ; and now weare
hoping for a supreme miracle. The marquise
wants to be carried down to the springs
to be dipped in it, that she may be cured of
her palsy. We trust this may be to her as a
bathing in the Pool of Siloam."

You won't dip her without her doctor's
advice ? " exclaimed the Bishop, unguardedly"'

Dr. Tregalloan objects*' answered Jer6m<'
Juva, with gloomy displeasure. "' But, my lord,
he says the Marquise is incurable, which means
that he cannot cure her. Why, then, should
we not appeal to a Higher Physician ? "

Well, hem ! " said the Bishop, eluding the
direct answer behind a cough. " We must truant
not give the enemy occasion to blaspheme.
But if the Marquise herself insists on being-dipped
in the water "

'•' She does, she does, my lord. Her faith
is so pure, so edifying ! She would fain cry, like
Simeon, '' Nunc Dimittis' now that she has been
marked out for this o-reat favour of Providence."

Well, well, I will go to Chateaufort myself,
and see the Marquise," replied the Bishop, ending
the interview nth some gracious words to Jerome
himself. " You may well exult, my young friend,
for you too have been marked out for great
favour in all this."

Jerome knelt to receive the Bishop's blessing.
The next day he had the gratification of seeing
the Bishop arrive at the castle with two chaplains.
His Greatness brought with him in his
carriage and pair his richest episcopal vestments
his cope of golden cloth, his mitre and jewelled
gloves. Arrayed in these, and carrying his
crozier, he celebrated Mass in the chapel of the
castle ; then went to the new-found spring,
which looked like a large puddle. The wooden
shoes of believers had trodden down aU the
surrounding soil, and made a quagmire of it.
Muddy water was oozing out of some place
which could not be clearly seen because of the
numberless slushy pools that had been formed
all round by the overflow.

His Greatness had to gather up his vestments
as old ladies do their petticoats in rainy weather.
But he advanced bravely as near to the ooze
as he could, and blessed it. Troops of villagers,

attracted by the sight, came clambering up the
slopes. Some helped aged cripples along ; others
carried children who were maimed or ill. The
Bishop had a good word for everybody. He
was saying to himself that one must not damp
popular fervour. What might be his owt private
opinion about the miracle he did not state, and
no one asked him.

Old Agathe, the Marquise's maid, witnessing
the commotion from the T\dndow of her mistress's
bedroom, muttered half a dozen Aves, and
thumbed the beads of her rosary. The Marquise
was asleep, and Agathe was afraid to awake her,
for Dr. Tregalloan had given orders that his
patient was never to be disturbed in her rest.
The sight of the Bishop's mitre and cope blazing
in the sun was too much, however, for the devoted
servant, who, in her list shoes, shambled
noiselessly to the bed and touched the Marquise's
arm. " Madame, the Bishop ! "

The words, whispered with bated breath in
the sleeper's ear, roused her at once. '' The
Bishop ! Has he come to consecrate the spring ?
Then, Agathe, this is the time for me to be.
dipped there."

Not dipped, madame. I dare say a touch of

VOL. II. 31

the water would do ; but I do think now is the
time, or never."

'' Yes. Call Pauline, and dress me quickly,
Agathe. Never mind what Dr. Tregalloan
says."

Agathe rang a bell, but there was no answer ;
she opened the door and called the names of
several servants, but not a response came. " They
must be all out on the plateau, madame ; but lie
(quiet just for a minute, and I will be back."
Saying which, the old woman, with an agility
surprising in one of her years, ran out to find
somebody who could assist in carrying the Marquise
out of doors. Agathe, for her part, had a
full faith that if madame could be dipped bodily
into the holy spring, it would be to her as a
resurrection.

The castle seemed to be empty, for the
entire household had gone out to attend the
Bishop's Mass. But as she was crossing the front
hall Agathe heard some talking, with a screeching
sort of laugh, which made her look up and
around her. She could not discover at first
whence the sounds proceeded. Again the screech
rang through the hall, and old Agathe's knees
knocked together with fear as she suddenly perceived

a fionre robed all in ^Yhite, standing; in
an embrasure of the first landing on the stairs.
It was like the figure of a bride, but of a mad
bride, chattering and laughing loudly to herself.
To make this sight more fantastic, the creature
in white supported herself in her fits of laughter
by flinging an arm round the neck of a dummy
clad in an old suit of armour.

Dion ! girl, what a fright thou gav'st me ! "
was the reassured exclamation, for Agathe had
recognized her o^^TL daughter, Odette.

What is it, mother ? " and Odette, turning-sharp
round, stared for a moment ; then made a
mock curtsey in all her finery. " It's mademoiselle
who told me to put on all this, for she
wants to show me to the Bishop, as I was the
first to see the vision of Our Lady. These are
mademoiselle's own things."

Agathe was divided between admiration and a
host of other feelings in looking at her daughter.
It's certain that thou wert the first to see Our
Lady," she grumbled ; '*' but what made thee
laugh so loud just now ? "

The people jostling one another on the
slopes, and tumbling with their noses in the
mud," sniggered Odette, suppressing a tendency

to laugh outright. " Mother, look at my satin
shoes and my silk stockings."

"Mademoiselle didn't lend thee the white
shoes ; she hasn't got any."

No ; they're among the things which the
Countess de Beaujeu left when she was last here,
so I borrowed them, as I want to look my best."

Madame de Beaujeu didn't leave any white
satin shoes here."

Yes, she did."

No, she didn't, and thought a Har. A pretty
think' for the saints to show off before such a
one as thee ! I have heard of that Pierre
Quiroule of thine, and I'll be sworn he gave
thee the shoes. He'll make a fool of thee, thou'lt
see."

He'd better ! " muttered Odette, and a scowl
passed over her brow like a cloud. But after
this she beat down the skirt of her white muslin
dress, ran nimbly down the stairs, and, looking
over her shoulder, cried, "See, mother, how it
trains ! "

"Ave Maria! thou ouo;htest to be looking
like a premiere communicate, and thought tricked
out as for a carnival ball. Take that feather
out of thine hair, and that silly brooch, and those

bunches of yellow ribbon ; why, they are made
of the silk tapes that go round monsieur's cigar
bundles."

To these maternal injunctions Odette obeyed
by putting out her tongue as far as it would go,
and retreating to a safe distance. Old Agathe
made a gesture which graphically conveyed the
idea of reprisals with a broomstick ; but, having
no such implement at hand, she mumbled, " I'm
wasting my time with thee. Where is mademoiselle
? "

'' In the kitchen, making an omelette for the
Bishop," replied Odette's voice half-way down a
passage.

'' Tell her to come at once to madame's
room," screamed Agathe, who then hobbled back
to her attendance on the Marquise.

Pauline was employed as Odette had said.
She was in the kitchen, with an apron on, beating
up eggs in a bowl. Marie the cook had nobody
else to assist her, for all the other servants had
run out, some with leave, some without, just
when they were most wanted. Bishops cannot
be sent away hungering. The unexpected visit
of monseigneur and his two chaplains made it
necessary that a good breakfast should be prepared

; and now it seemed that there were to be
other guests besides his Greatness, for several of
the neighbouring gentry were seen mingling with
the villagers in the throng on the slopes.

How shall we ever manage, mademoiselle? "
exclaimed the brown-faced Marie, clattering in
with her wooden shoes from the scullery sith an
armful of lettuce. " Count Eene de Polhuan
and Baron de Penhoel have come. I have just
seen Clovis leading their horses round to the
stable, and they're such enormous eaters."

The horses, you mean ? "

Eh, no, mademoiselle ; the Count and the
Baron, I mean, though their horses will eat too,
poor things, when they get into any stable but
their o^tl."

We must put another chicken on the spit,"
said Pauline, briskly. " All will go well. There is
plenty of food, and some of those girls will be
back soon to help us."

Hearing these words through the open door
of the kitchen, Odette did not go in, for she was
afraid of being made to do menial service in her
white dress. She had her misgivings also as to
what mademoiselle might say about her white
shoes, feathers, and yellow ribbons — glories which

she thought it best to keep as a surprise and
pleasure for the episcopal eye. So she coolly
returned to the hall without delivering her
mother's message.

Just at this moment the Bishop and the other
clergymen, the visitors and servants, all returned
into the castle courtyard, for the blessing of the
spring had not been a long ceremony.

'•' Oh, madame, I am afraid we re too late ! "
said Agathe, who had been dressing her mistress
as expeditiously as was compatible with extreme
care in not hurting or flurrying the invalid.
At least, we shall have to wait till after monseigneur
has breakfasted. Never mind ; we'll get
his Greatness to stay for vespers, and then we'll
all go out together. Who knows, madame, but
that you may come back from the spring walking
like the strongest of us ? "

Where is Pauline ? " asked the Marquise,
weakly, as she was being put back into bed. " I
want her to be beside me when the Bishop
comes in."

Mademoiselle is helping in the kitchen ; it's
such an affair to dish up a breakfast to a Bishop's
liking. But I've sent my girl Odette for her."

His Greatness must be well entertained,"

muttered the Marquise, as she was being propped
up by her pillows with large lace frills. *' I
wonder whether Pauline will know where to find
the old Bordeaux of '54 ? I ought to have a son
near me to attend to these things. Ah ! Agathe,
I wish my boy Eoland were here. But now,
mind what I've told you : nobody is to tell the
Bishop a word about monsieur's amourette with
a heretic."

'not a word shall be said, madame."
It would be such a scandal if his Greatness
heard of it. I mean to introduce Mademoiselle
de Penmarck to the Bishop as my grandson's
future wife."

Ah, madame ! what a blessing it would befor
us all if that marriage could take place ! "
sighed Agathe. It had been kept from the Marquise
that France was on the verge of a war in
which her grandson would probably have to fight.
She had no suspicion, either, that Eoland's engagement
to "the English girl" continued to be
talked of as by no means ended. In all things
the Marquise had to be humoured, and so Agathe
corrected her first exclamation by adding, '' And
why shouldn't they be married ? "

They must be married," answered the

Marquise, whose imperious tone was not louder
than that of a sick child.

'' They shall be married, madame," said old
Agathe, with docility.

And now put me on some pearl powder,"
faltered the Marquise. " The Bishop will think
me quite an old woman if he sees me like this.
Mind he comes in with his mitre on, and with the
other clergymen. The door of the oratory must
be opened, and monseigneur must give me his
blessing from the altar."

Yes, madame. . . . Ah, Maria ! I do believe
there's that girl of mine chatting with his Greatness
in the courtyard, and she's laughing too !
Will you make your curtsey, and take that feather
off, you hussy ? "

Agathe had thrown open the door of the
oratory, which faced the Marquise's bed. The
bedroom commanded a view of the plateau, bulb
the oratory overlooked the courtyard, and from
its window Agathe could see her daughter attitudinizing
and smirking before the Bishop. She
lifted up her wrinkled hands in amazement, but
of course her words did not reach Odette's ears.
In another moment the whole company of pious
and profane people had entered the house, and

Pauline Juva came running into the Marquise's
room. " Agathe," she whispered, before noticing
that the Marquise was sitting up in bed, " can
we awake madame, and get her ready to see the
Bishop?"

"Why, madame has been ready these ten
minutes, mademoiselle."

How long you have been away, my dear
Pauline ! " came from the Marquise's quavering
voice. "Didn't Odette say we wanted you ? "

"I have not seen Odette for more than an hour."

"The minx is all in white, and said you lent
her one of your dresses," remarked Agathe.

"I did, and thought I would introduce her
to the Bishop, but she spared me that trouble by
presenting herself. I have just left her chattering
o* with monseigneur as if she were an old friend
of his. You know her way ; but in this instance
it is better that she should be talkative than
reticent. The more she can tell his Greatness
about the miracle the better."

There was a flush on Pauline Juva's face — a
flush of the kitchen fire, and her manner was
exhilarated. This affair of the miracle had
caused her to live for days in a round of happy
excitement. Her mortification at Roland's conduct

towards herself, very sharp while it lasted,
had been assuaged Ijy the feeling that wondrous
things were happening around her, and that she
was in some way mixed up in them. As she
had faith in these things, so she had hope in the
issue of them.

If her heart sank now and then at the
recollection of how little love Roland had shown
her, there was a rebound when she reasoned
with herself, and reflected how much better her
position was than it had been before the Duke's
last visit to Chateaufort. Prior to that visit,
her love for the Duke had been a mere dream,
not acknowledged even by herself as a reality ;
but now her love was encoiu'ao-ed bv the
marquis. True, the Duke had gone away ; lout
had not Providence interposed to prevent his
marriage with Miss Warrington, and mio-ht not
that Providence bring him back ?

'•' Is everything quite ready ? " said Paine,
olancincr round her : then, in a daucrhterlv wav,
she went up to the Marquise's bed, smoothed
the pillows, and arranged the crimson satin
quilt. " Madame, I think the Bishop is going
to bring you some of the spring water in a
chance," she said softly.

The old lady thumped her shrivelled hands,
overloaded with rings, on her quilt.

I feel I shall want something more, my
dear," she insisted. " Now the Bishop's here,
I shall not be satisfied unless I am carried down
to the spring and plunged into the waters. If
I die — well, I die ; but I believe that I shall be
cured by that stream."

We all believe and hope, madame," said
Pauline, kissing one of her benefactress's hands.

Then you must let me have my way,
notwithstanding all that the doctor may object.
Promise me that. You are to be my daughter,
Pauline ; you must obey me as your mother."

CHAPTER IX.

A FLASH OF LIGHTNING.

The waters are too turgid, clear lady. Wait till
they have become quite clear, then we will carry
you down."

Not to-day, then ? "

No, ad augusta per augusta. Prepare
yourself for this great ordeal by a little patience."

With these words, the polite little Bishop
dissuaded the Marquise from having herself
carried down and immersed, clothes and all, into
one of the puddles on the slope. The poor old
lady listened more to him than she did to her
doctor. She liked the reasons he gave her, and
kept muttering to herself, 'rad augusta per
augusta'' Then it must be confessed that the
water which the Bishop had brought in the
chalice was very muddy. Madame de Chateau-fort

had been picturing to herself a stream of
waters like crystal, flowing noiseless and formless
down the hill-side.

On the evening of that day when the Bishop,
his chaplains, and the other guests entertained
at the Chateau, had long been gone — towards
seven o'clock, while there was much washing up
of plates and wagging of tongue in the kitchen —
Odette Kergarec might have been seen descending
to the village by the steepest and least -
trodden paths on the slopes. Her way lay in
zigzags all among the trees.

She was covered with a long black cloak and
hood, but now and then she opened this
garment to float with undisguised satisfaction
over the white dress underneath. A little
further on she would shuffle off one of her sabots,
and, holding up a foot at right angles to her
eyes, rejoice in the contemplation of a satin shoe,
and of a pink silk stocking drawn nicely over
her instep. There was just enough light under
those trees to enable a person to distinguish
a black thread from a white one, and Odette
used up this light for her own self-admiration so
long as there was any of it left. By the time
she reached the village it was dusk. She went

straight to the tavern of the Three Gulls and
asked to see Pierre Quiroule.

He came out, smoking a cigarette and holding
a billiard-cue, but started on seeing Odette.
What brings you here ? " Didn't I tell you
that you were never to try and see me without
an appointment ? "

Yes, but I've news, Pierre," she whispered.
They want to part us. I have seen the Bishop])
to-day, and he has been persuading madame that
I ought to go into a convent. Look here ! "

Odette threw open her cloak, as though the
exhibition of her finery would prove that a
young person who could dress in such superior
style was never intended for a claustral life.
Pierre Quii'oule at first said nothing, but blew
two puffs of his cigarette and looked thoughtful.
It would have suited him very well that Odette
should be put in a convent and never more get
out. The frown with which he had greeted the
girl suddenly disappeared, however, and his tone
softened, as he said, " Walk down the road, my
beauty, towards the beach, and I will join yuu
in a moment."

See here again," said Odette, drawing Ik'v
foot out of a shot to display one of those famous

160 THE DUKES MARRIAGE.

satin shoes. '' They're the pair you gave me ;
don't they just fit ? "

I hope the Bishop noticed them," grinned
Pierre, and gave Odette a little pat on the cheek,
which sent her away well pleased. She was
evidently under his thrall, and a kind word from
him went a long way.

She tripped down the road till she reached
a wild part of the shore where no boats were
ever launched. There was only shingle and
black rocks. Smoothest fisheries sometimes
went looking for shrimps, crabs, and
lobsters at low water ; but the tide was in just
then, and nobody was about. In the grey light,
the black faces of the rocks could be seen being
caressingly licked by the small waves of a sea
smooth and almost oily in its undulations. As
the day had been warm and the air was somewhat
sultry, the salt smell of the seaweed had
an enjoyable pungency, and Odette inhaled it
with heaving chest and dilated nostrils as she
waited for her beau.

He soon joined her, smoking as usual, with
a straw hat jauntily perched on one side of his
head, and the two ends of a bright red silk
neckerchief trailing over his brown velveteen

coat and white vest. He was a smart pedlar,
ad what Odette found most irresistible in him
was his cotton shirts, striped red or blue, sith
turned-down collars and half a foot of starched
wristbands. Nobody at Chateaufort had such
shirts !

\Yho is it that wants to make a nun of mv
girlie ? " he said, accosting Odette, and linking
an arm in one of hers. " Why, you know, they
couldn't put you in a convent against your

wm ? "

Yes, but I am afraid, Pierre," she said,
drawing closer to him. " You must take me
away from here. I want to go to Paris."

What are you afraid of .^ "

"Madame."

What, that bedridden old woman ? How
could she hurt you ? "

She doesn't want to hurt me ; she'd call
it doing me good," said Odette. "I shouldn't
be afraid of anybody except her ; but when she
orders, then my father and mother and mademoiselle
obey as if it were thunder that was
speaking to them ; and I believe that my brother
Clovis, at a word from mademoiselle, would tie
hay wisps round my Twists, fling me into a cart,
VOL. II. 32

and carry me to the Convent of Auray like a
load of chaff."

Diable ! but you would make it hot work
for the nuns when you got there."

I don't know. Have you ever seen the
walls of the convent at Auray ? I have heard
that there are girls in there who can never get out."

I'd get you out fast enough," laughed
Pierre. "Why, I would blow up the walls of a
fortress if I thought they were keeping my pet
in it."

That's the best word you have spoken
yet," murmured Odette, Tvith a brightening
look, as she sidled still closer to him. There
was something; of terror in her thrill, for she
could never for-et how he had swallowed fire
and pulled a live rat out of his mouth by the
tail. The brooch which she was wearing then
remained to her as a memento of his supernatural
power. Such a man might well blow up convent
walls if he were bent upon it ; but would
he do such a thing for her sake ? " Who were
you playing billiards with at the inn?" she
asked abruptly.

"With the landlord and some customers
whose names I don't know."

Who is that red-headed girl who was standing
in the doorway, and who didn't seem to know
whether you were in when I asked after you ? "

"That was the servant-girl," said Pierre,
pretending to be amused by ' Odette's cross-questions.
"You're not going to be jealous of
her, I suppose ? "

I could strangle any girl I saw speaking
to you," answered Odette, with quiet vehemence.
Then, passing in an instant from one mood to
another, she clung to Pierre's arm, while she
shook with a long fit of laughter. " Oh, Pierre,
you should have seen all those people scrambling
into the puddles to-day ! The old Countess de
Polhuan got stuck almost up to her knees in
mud ; her son and the Baron de Penhoel had
to tug both together to pull her out. Then
there were numbers of people who had brought
pitchers and bottles to fill with the water after
the Bishop had blessed it."

Don't I know that ? " chuckled Pierre, as he
rolled himself another cigarette. " Why, I was
standing just outside the avenue gates with a
barrow full of bottles of the water. I sold about
a hundred of them, different sizes and different
prices, but nothing luidQv fifths centimes."

He struck a match on the seam of this trousers
to light his cigarette, and at the moment the
whole heavens became overspread with a brilliant
yellow glare. Odette started back nth a scream.
Don't be afraid ; it's only sheet lightning," said
the baoman.

"D'you know, you are a sort of a devil,
you ? " exclaimed Odette, looking at him with
distended eyes, but with fascination in her whole
attitude. " I could have sworn that flash of
lightning came from the match you were
striking."

Perhaps it did. But, my beauty, I think
we are g-oino; to have a storm, so we had better
finish our business quickly. Shall you be ready
to come to Paris with me in a week ? "

She would have been ready to go with him
there and then. He had promised to marry her,
and she had come expressly to tell him that he
must make haste. It was of no use that he
should ask her parents' consent, for they would
not give their daughter to a pedlar from Paris ;
but if there were an elopement, her parents would
have to make a virtue of necessity. That is how
Pierre had taught Odette to reason the matter,
and she now repeated his own lesson to him.

But he must make haste. The apparition had
brought her — Odette — into notoriety. Madame
had said that day that she could no longer
remain a cow-girl ; the Bishop had talked
about her education, and had suggested novitiate
in a convent, with a view to her some day
taldng the veil. As she was but eighteen years
old, her parents might send her to school ina
convent whether she liked it or not, and
they could keep her there for the next three
years.

Pierre Quiroule approved all these remarks
with nods, but set forth his own position. He
had been buying land ; he wanted to buy more,
and must tarry in the neighbourhood of the
chateau for several days in order to make his
speculation fructify in a hundred manners. He
foretold that ere long Chdteaufort would become
a town, and receive its hundred and fifty thousand
pilgrims a year like Lourdes. All the land sofar
round him as he could see would be covered
with houses, and these all his own, for he was
going to start a building company. It was
worth while being patient to secure these results.
A week is not long, my charmer," he said,
with his cajoling tongue ; " and they won't try

to kidnap you during that time ; but if they do,
you must run down to me."

You will let me see you every day, then ? "
said Odette, who understood nothing about
building societies, and could not picture Chateau-fort
to herself as otherwise than it was. The
aggrandizement of this place was nothing to
her, for she was devoted to the man, not to his
work.

There had been many gleams of sheet
lightning while the pair spoke, and now light
gusts of wind darted through the still air,
bending the toss of distant trees and making
their leaves rustle audibly. There were no trees,
no shelter of any sort, where Pierre and Odette
stood ; and the sea, turning black before their
eyes in the thickening dusk, answered the
souofhino: of the wind with a swelling noise like
a prolonged moan. A storm was coming on.
Far away the horizon was slit with a streak of
steel-blue flame, and the earth shook with the
rumble that followed.

Odette was not afraid of thunder. She had
often stood in the middle of a field, watching
the heavens open and shut like the door of
a furnace, and letting herself be drenched by

cataracts of water, while her cows huddled under
trees. She would have cheerfully braved the
storm now in her white dress, but Pierre Quiroule
had not the same contempt for the elements
as she. He edged away homewards as the storm
approached, and reminded his companion that
he had not brought an umbrella. He ceased
smoking, too, and betrayed his nervousness by
random questions, to the answers of which he paid
no attention. " Misericorde ! what a blaze ! "
he cried, putting up his hand before his eyes
as a blinding flash struck him and Odette
motionless for a moment. Odette laughed ; not
so the poltroon bagman, who quickened his step,
bub, to give himself a countenance, inquired how
the inmates of the castle were all o-ettino- on.

o o

How is Mademoiselle Pauline bearing the
Due d' Alma's absence ? "

That foolish brother of mine, Clovis, is still
pining after mademoiselle, and mademoiselle
after the Duke," answered Odette. " But it
looks as if mademoiselle were going to have two
more lovers, for Count Rene de Polhuan and the
Baron de Penhoel were very sweet ^dth her
to-day."

Here Odette pouted. She did not find that

Pierre was Tery sweet to her. A big drop of
rain that fell on his face put him to flight
altogether. He just turned to kiss the girl,
muttering something about his coat getting
spoilt, and then ran ofi", telling her to get home
as quickly as she could by her ovm. way. For
sheer contrariety Odette would have stood and
waited for drenching, had the storm humoured
her by coming fast.

But it was not so near as all that. It broke
in fury just as Odette was half-way up the slope
on her way to the plateau. Angry at her lover's
cavalier leave-taking, vaguely suspicious, uneasy
too with an idea that her brother Clovis would
do something dreadful if he caught her with
Pierre Quiroule, the girl strode through brushwood
and brambles without much looking where
she went. It was pitch dark, except when the
lightning' threw flashes among the trees ; and
overhead rain was now descending in a pattering
downpour upon the leaves. A few steps in
spongy soil warned Odette that she must have
got near to the place where the spring had been
found.

She was about to pick her Away along a drier
path, when she heard footsteps in front of her.

This gave her a fright, for she fancied her brother
must have been sent out in quest of her. She
halted and stood behind a tree, catching her
breath and listening. A voice resounded amid
the din of the storm, singing the most unexpected
song that could have been heard in such a place,
and such weather, an Ave to a Gregorian chant.
It was the Abbe Jerome Juva's voice. Odette
remembered that a woodman in the village was
dying, and probably the Abbe had been spending
the evening at his bedside.

Unmindful of the storm, the young priest
continued to sing as he neared the spot which
had been hallowed to him by a miraculous
apparition. But he could not keep a straight
course in the dark and over slippery ground, so
a deviation l^rougiit him directly towards Odette.
The girl heard him come. She was seized with
an inspiration, and, throwing off her cloak,
stepped boldly forward. The next flash of
lightning glinting full upon her, showed to the
dazed young priest a resplendent figure in white,
standing only a few yards from him.

His song stopped ; he fell on his knees with
a loud cry, which, beginning in terror, ended in
exultation ; and Odette, satisfied with this new

exhibition of her powers at miracle-mongering,

ran off helter-skelter, laiiohino: to herself.

He'll swear now that he saw the White

Lady."

* * *

Naturally poor Jerome Juva did swear that
he had seen the White Lady, and this quickened
the wild rumours of all kinds that were now flying
about town and country. In Auray, where
people are less credulous than in villages, some
began to say that the Marquise had perhaps a
cracked chaplain ; lout in hundreds of hamlets
priests, galvanized into fanaticism by the Bishop's
consecration of the Chateaufort miracle, sang Te
Deems, and called upon their parishioners to
make pilgrimages.

The throng of pilgrims increased hour by
hour. They came at all times. The castle
grounds, courtyard, and chapel swarmed with
them. There were solitary pilgrims — mothers
who had sons in the army, girls who were parted
from their sweethearts, cripples who came upon
crutches ; and bands of pilgrims marching from
various parishes, carrying banners, and headed
by their cures, Each invalids were brought
from afar in landaus. The paralyzed old man.

the consumptive girl, the fine lady with fluttering'
nerves and sick headaches — all wanted to
taste of the healing spring. A copper basin
had been placed in the chapel to receive the
offerings of the faithful, and Jerome had to empty
its contents several times a day into a large
chest. He began to marvel what should be done
with all this money. The ]\Iarc|uise said that a
shrine must be built on the spot where the
spring had been found, but this she meant to doat
her own expense.

Another thing which she did was to request
the Bishop to send a couple of priests to stay at
the castle, and to assist Jerome in his chaplaincy.
His Greatness kindly sent four, who where lodged
in the best rooms of the chateau, lived on the
choicest that Pauline could provide for them, and
held services at the chapel at all hours of the
day and evening. Meanwhile the village of
Chateaufort became like a fair. Booths were
set up ; vendors of religious images, medals,
rosaries, scapularies appeared ; tents were
erected in fields for poor pilgrims who shed to
sojourn three days near the holy spot, or to
perform a whole neuvaine or nine days of
prayer. The landlord of the Three Gulls — or

rather the manager, for, as we know, Pierre
Quiroule had bought the place — sold out all his
stock of wine and cider, and had to renew it ;
while Pierre Quiroule, for his ora part, still keeping
up the pretence of being a hawker, drove a
brisk trade in bottles of muddy water.

CHAPTER X.

Chasseurs DE DOT."

Odette might well laugh at all this, Jut her
inclination to merriment ceased when she found
how Nemesis was pursuing her. For that project
of putting her into a convent, which she had
divulged to Pierre Quiroule as existing in the
marquise's mind, was no fancy of hers.

On the day after the Bishop's visit she flitted
about mysteriously, like a cat in corners, trying
to avoid observation. She knew there had been
some talk about her between his Greatness, the
Marquise, and Pauline, and she heard that she
was to do no more menial work. Another girl
had been appointed to look after the cows.
Odette put on her Sunday clothes and did
no work, but whenever she met her father,
mother, or brother, she passed them quickly,
saying she was carrying a message. Towards

evening, curiosity to see how her kine fared
under new management attracted her to the field
where the beasts were grazing. Leaning over
the gate, she whistled upon her fingers, and began
to chafe" the damsel who had taken her place.

Houp-la, Yvonne ! they'll all be gone if you
don't run."

At the sound of her voice the cows raised
their heads and quietly moved towards her.
Some of the heifers gambolled and ran. From
the further side of the field laggard cows lowed
and broke into a shambling trot. The recognition
of Odette was general, and Yvonne, who had
]been sitting under a hedge, flecking at flies with
a long' svntch having tuft of leaves at the end,
jumped up and tried a counterpoise without
avail.

Quite unawares, the two girls, as they jested,
were surprised by Jerome and Pauline taking an
evening walk. It was the first stroll which the
brother and sister had been able to enjoy together
for days. The young priest looked emaciated
and happy — tired by his work, but refreshed by
this saunter under a calm sunset. Pauline was
talking very earnestly to him when she came
upon Odette.

Why, my girl, IVe been wanting to see you
all day long. My brother and I were just speaking
about you." Pauline, as usual, wore a grey
frock with a large straw hat, and carried her
bunch of keys.

Madame has generously resolved to have
you educated in the convent of Auray," remarked
Jerome, shading his eyes from the slanting rays
by holding out his shabby shovel-hat at arm's
length.

Odette was too sly to say that she had no
hunter for knowledge. " I should rather like to
oro into a convent," she said. '^ When am I to
start, mademoiselle ? "

As soon as we have got you a trousseau.
But are you quite willing to go ? "

Oh yes, I am glad."

And you consent to remain three years ? "

Perhaps longer, mademoiselle, for I may
take the veil."

Jerome and Pauline exchanged glances of
astonishment and pleasure. They had not counted
upon winning over the girl so easily to their
plans. As Odette had been the first to see the
apparition, it had been settled that she ought to
go to a convent for a few years and receive a

first-rate education, but Pauline liacl quite made
up her mind that parental authority would have
to be exerted before the girl would accept the
proposals made by others for her benefit.

It now seemed both to Jerome and his sister
that a change had come over Odette. At most
times she was to be seen with a patched kirtle,
without cap or stockings, her hair down her back,
and her feet in sabots. But now she was wearing
a good dress of brown homespun, with a blue
woollen shawl crossed over her chest and tied
round her waist at the back. She had the Breton
poke cap of white linen, and grey worsted stockings,
and leather shoes with buckles. Round her
neck was a broad velvet band, from which hung
a small gold cross. All this worn on a Sunday
or a feast-day would not have arrested attention,
but on a week-day it contrasted with the
tatterdemalion appearance of the other cow-girl.
Add to this that a rather soft and wistful expression
had stolen over Odette's face as she
looked at her cows, who were now herding all
together close to the gate, and lowing in expectation
that she was going to open it.

*' Your cattle seem very fond of you, Odette,"
observed Jerome, kindly.

They'd all go into the convent with me, and
take the veil too, if I called to them," answered
Odette, with one of those short laughs to herself
which always made the young priest uncomfortable.
^

'^ You are 2:oino' to the same convent where
I was brought up'' said Pauline. " Several of
the teaching sisters there were my schoolfellows,
and you T\dll find them very good to you. You
will be a pupil in all respects like the others."

Like the daughters of the nobles ? " asked
Odette, who knew that the convent of Auray
was a most aristocratic establishment.

Oh yes, and they vail consider you as noble
as any one of themselves," said Jerome, fervently.

Odette could not understand this, but bethought
her of the promised trousseau. " When
will my clothes be ready, mademoiselle ? and
what sort of clothes are they ? "

Ah, that is a little secret," replied Pauline,
smiling. " I am, perhaps, doing wrong in telling
you that the Bishop is taking a great interest in
your trousseau."

Is he going to measure me for my things,
then ? " asked Odette, with a giggle.

His Greatness desires that several great
VOL. n. 33

ladies shall contribute to your trousseau, and to
your dower, should you by-and-by take the veil,"
answered Pauline, gravely. " Our good madame
was anxious to bear all expenses herself, but the
Bishop thought that several other ladies ought
to share in this pleasure; so the Marquise de
Polhuan ^\dll be coming to fetch you tomorrow,
or the next day."

To-morrow ? " and Odette started.

Well, as soon as possible. You see, a
trousseau includes a great many things — three
new dresses at least. Madame de Polhuan will
drive you to a milliner's in Auray, so that your
clothes may be nicely made, like those of other
young ladies."

And then drive me to the convent ? "

No ; I'm afraid that you'll have to wait a
few days before that. Your things will have to
be made, tried on, and sent home."

Odette breathed more freely, but had the
presence of mind to ])0\\t, as if she were disappointed
at the delay ; upon which the Abbe Juva
remarked mildly to his sister —

*' See, what a saintly impatience already !
How changed is the girl, and how wonderful
it all is!"

CHASSEURS DE DOT. 179

The brother and sister turned away, and
Odette pulled a face behind them. The next
day, being reassured that there was no chance of
her being suddenly whipped off to a convent,
the nun-elect did not hide, but gave herself the
pleasure of strutting about the castle and grounds
like a lady.

It has been said that four priests came to
sojourn at the chateau. As these clergymen
had not much to do, they seemed to be a multitude
; for it was impossible to enter the house
without meeting one in the passage, another
on the staircase, a third in a room. All blue-faced
young men, fresh from the seminary, the
priests treated Odette \\ith a half-frightened
obsequiousness, which she much relished. They
doffed their shovel hats to her almost to the
ground. Encouraged by their salutations, she
attended a mass, and had the impudence at a
time when the chapel was full of pilgrims to
make her way to the front row of seats nearest
the altar, and to occupy the Marquise de Chateau-fort's
velvet fall-stool, which was always left
vacant when the Marquise did not attend service.
But this usurpation, which Jerome witnessed from
the altar, and Pauline from her o^tl modest seat

in a corner, was admired by them both as an
inspiration. If the cow-girl had ascended the
pulpit to preach a sermon, they would have
regarded this as a new and blessed marvel. They
were ready for any kind of self-assertion in which
it might please Odette to indulge.

The drinking' of chocolat d la vanille foro



breakfast was one of these forms of self-assertion.
The servants generally had soup of bread and
onions for their early meal, lout chocolate was
prepared for the four clerical visitors, \dt\\ nice-rolls
sent in from the town, and Odette put ina
claim to breakfast like the priests. Pauline
ordered that she should have whatever she
pleased ; so before the astonished eyes of her
fellow-domestics, including her own father and
mother, V Enfant clu Miracle, as Pauline called
her, grandly poured herself out a bowl of chocolate,
and good-naturedly offered tippets dipped in
this delicious compound to some of the other
servant-girls.

In the interval between first and second
breakfast, on the day when she was to go to
Auray, Odette hung about expecting to seethe
Marquise de Polhuan's big, old-fashioned
carriage arrive to take her off. But the Mar-chasseurs

DE DOT. 181

quite could not come that morning, and sent
lier son, Count Eene de Polhuan, to make
her apologies to Mademoiselle de Penmarck.
This Count Kene was the same who had once
told Pauline Juva that " her lips were like
cherries," and had been rebuked by his mother
for this compromising gallantry. His mother,
however, had now altered her mind ; for the
Bishop had whispered to one or two dowagers
of this acquaintance that Madame de Chateau-fort
shed her companion Pauline to marry
the Due d'Alma, and this little piece of news,
swiftly reaching the Marquise de Polhuan's
ears, set her thinking that Pauline was certain
to inherit some money when Madame
de Chateaufort died. Madame de Chateaufort
was not the sort of woman to leave Pauline
unprovided for, after having sought to have her
as a granddaughter-inlaw, and she would feel
the more bound to provide for her if the Duke
declined the marriage that was being arranged
for him, and took an English wife, as it was being
said that he would. Under all these circumstances,
the high-born Pauline became a good
match, worthy the attention of Count Eene.
This accounted for Madame de Polhuan's interest

in Odette, and for lier sending lier son nth so
civil a message to Pauline.

Count Kene, having his heart free, of course,
entered dutifully into his mother's plans. He
was a chubby-faced young man, a little over
thirty, with rough hands and brown gaiters that
smelt of the stable. He talked of and to his
parents as "pajDa" and 'mamma," and knew to
the fraction of a franc what he should inherit from
them when they died. He spoke about his
expectation as though his one preoccupation was
to see his parents depart this life and leave him
the master of their vingt mille francs de rente ;
but he was not really desirous of seeing them die,
and he only talked in that way because he had
nothing else to think about, except his inheritance.
He worked harder on his estate than any labourer,
and he had long been anxious to marry if he could
find a suitable 'parti, with a hundred thousand
francs. The family notary had been instructed
to let him know of such a j9«rf/ if he heard of
one ; but it was indispensable that there should
be a hundred thousand francs in cash or land,
and that the demoiselle should be of noble blood.
To do the Count justice, he would not have
married a roturiere vdth a million, at least he

would not have done so without making his condescension
strongly felt.

Count Eene was ushered into the dining-room
just as Pauline was presiding over the midday
repast of her brother and his four clerical friends.
The eve young priests in their cassocks all rose
like one man to exchange courtesies, and the
Count said agreeable things all round before
sitting down to commence his ovm meal.

Ah, mademoiselle, what fish and what
wine ! I always say that the kitchen and cellars
of Chateaufort have not their equal in all
Brittany." But as the Count gave a personal
direction to this compliment by bowing to
Pauline, he suddenly pulled a grimace, and set
down his glass of Chablis as though it tasted
sour. This was because another noble visitor,
the Baron Nestor de Penhoel, had just entered
the room. The Baron was a little spindle-shanked
fellow of fifty, with a velveteen coat ten
years old, and a nose "^^-itli a purple point ; but
he had the reputation of being irresistible with
ladies. He composed madrigals and sonnets. Ina
reception-room he was all over the place, like
a ball in a tennis-court. His assurance was per*
feet ; and his wit cutting as a blunt penknife.

Ah, De Polhuan, we have already met this
morning' he said, grinning pleasantly to the
chubby Count ; and he rubbed his hands.

'' You didn't tell me you were coming to
Chateaufort," replied the other, ^dth a growl.

'' No ; that converts the occasion into an
agreeable surprise."

I thought you five leagues ofi"," grumbled
the Count, proceeding vdih. his fish in two-ounce
slices at a time, for he had an idea that the Baron
had come on much the same errand as himself.

I made a pretty good guess that you would
be here," responded the Baron, cheerfully.

Well, gentlemen, the great point is that you
should get some breakfast," said Pauline, who
could not make out why Count Eene was so
snappish.

The truth is, the Count and the Baron had
come into Auray that morning, the first to buy
a cart-horse, and the second to seU one, in consequence
of which they had met and tried to do
business. For two hours the Baron's long-legged,
raw-bone horse had been trotted about for Count
Eene's inspection. For two hours he had been
punched in the ribs, forced to open his mouth,
and made to cock up his tail ; but the Count

could not agree about bung him. He wanted
twenty-five francs taken off the price. The
Baron would not hear of this, and the two had
entangled not less sturdily and with hardly more
politeness than a pair of pig-drovers. Each
nobleman was accompanied by a couple of servants,
who played chorus to their respective
masters, gesticulating, shrugging their shoulders,
and spitting all about the road, while they yelled
contrary opinions as to the merits of the horse.
At last the Count and the Baron come to an
understanding by splitting the difference ; after
which they resumed the well-bred tone of nobility,
and adjourned together to take a glass of
liqueur at the nearest cafe. But as they sipped
their vermouth, neither noble informed the other
that he hoped to lunch with Mademoiselle de
Penmarck.

During the meal, that was long and heavy",
like all Breton breakfasts. Bene de Polhuan
thought he stole a march on his rival by telling
a long story about the shooting of a gander in
mistake for a snipe, which made Pauline smile.
The Baron, less talkative, evinced a religious
interest in the miracle and pilgrimages. But
Pauline soon had enough of them both. After

dessert had been ]3iit on the table, the priests
retired to their business, but the two noblemen
stayed. Pauline had to remain with them while
they took coffee. She tried, indeed, to escape
by asking them whether they smoked ; but both
prayed with one voice that she would not deprive
them of her company.

I don't smoke much, mademoiselle," declared
Count Eene, putting two large lumps of
sugar into his small cup of coffee, and then filling
himself a liqueur-glass of brandy.

"He is a very good young man," said the
little Baron, facetiously. " He only smokes his
pipe in the stables among the straw, or when
he's in bed and reading the newspaper."

In bed ? That must be very dangerous,"
observed Pauline, innocently.

I never smoke pipes," exclaimed Count
Kene, flushing up ; but it must be feared that
in so saying he fibbed.

I enjoy a cigar when I can get such good
ones as our friend the Due d'Alma gives me,"
remarked the little Baron, who noted the faint
blush that came over Pauline's face at the words.

"My cousin always leaves some cigars in
the house ;-nails you allow me to fetch you one ? "
she said.

Yes, with pleasure, mademoiselle, if you do
not object to the perfume."

^'No; I like it."

Drama doesn't smoke, so mademoiselle can
never have smelt his cigars," interrupted Count
End, savagely, before hearing Pauline's answer.

No ; Drama doesn't smoke," said the
Baron, " and that makes it all the more praiseworthy
that he should be so considerate of the
wants of those who do. Now, I know some
chateaux in Brittany whose owners keep four-centres
Hamburg cigars for their guests, and
call them Savannahs, because they have bought
them at a reduction from English smugglers."

If you are alluding to me " sputtered

Count Eene, after gulping down half his coffee
very fiercely.

My dear friend, how could I mean you ? I
don't believe you ever gave anybody a cigar in
yom life," retorted the Baron, blandly.

Pauline had risen to o;o and fetch the cio-ars,
and the two gallants Rustled up to open the door
for her. This was the first time in her life that
she had been alone with two gentlemen, not
priests, and the situation was strange to her.
She perceived that the Count and the Baron

were very quarrelsome, and supposed that wine
must be the cause. But as she was returning



with a box of cigars from the apartment which
was reserved as Eoland's sitting-room, a glimmering
of the truth flashed upon her ; that is,
she saw that the two gentlemen had been very
assiduous in their endeavours to be agreeable to
herself. What their object was she could not
guess, for it never entered her head that a
Polhuan or a Penhoel would pay court to a portionless
girl ; nevertheless, she suspected that
they had an object.

She was informed of their designs before the
day was over by her brother. While the little
Baron was inhaling the smoke of his cigar, the
chubby Count, mortified at having been beaten
in an encounter of wits, and determined to outmanoeuvre
his rival, slunk out of the room, found
Jerome, and asked him formally for permission
to pay his court to Mademoiselle Penmarck.
Having so done, he rode off home in triumph to
tell his mamma that the Abbe was Tilling, though
Jerome had simply said that if the Count had
an offer of marriage to make he had better address
it to Pauline in person. A little later the
Baron de Penhoel received the same answer, and

trotted it off just as the other had done, promising
to come again next day and every day
until his suit found favour.

All this was reported to Pauline, and Jerome,
in his surprise, unconsciously mimicked the gestures
and voices of the two squireens as he
related word for word what they had said to
him. If there had not been so many startling
events of late at the chateau, this double proposal
would have been a great incident in the
life of the brother and sister. As it was, no
Breton girl could be indifferent to offers of courtship
emanating from such noble personages as
Baron Nestor de Penhoel and Count Eene de
Polhuan.

They are gentlemen of blood almost as
ancient as ours," observed Jerome, who now and
again remembered with a meek joy that he was
a count in his own right.

They must not be put to the trouble of
coming; ao;ain," said Pauline. " You must thank
them, and tell them I am not free."

Strange that they should both have fallen
in love with you at the same time ! "

Love ! I don't think they said they were
in love 1 "

The meaning of love puzzles me, though
I preach about the thing," said Jerome, artlessly.
" Am I to speak to those gentlemen
about our cousin Eoland '? "

No," answered Pauline, colouring ; but she
was glad to have a clear understanding with
her brother on a matter that lay so near her
heart. He was gazing at her with his priestly
simplicity, and seemed to be awaiting her confidence.
She gave it in a sentence. " My name
and Eoland's must not be coupled — yet, Jerome."

Ah ! but those two gentlemen both know
that you have been almost affianced to our
cousin."

They do ? and yet they came nth the
proposals which you have just mentioned ? "

It's odd, certainly," admitted Jerome,
cracking his finger-joints. " I believe they said,
though, they didn't think of marrying you until
our good madame was dead." Here he looked
as if all his thoughts were in a state of flotsam.
They appeared to fancy that you did not care
much for our cousin, nor he for you ; but I did
not argue with them, not knowing what I ought
to say. As to madame's death, however, I did
remark that she might live for years if she were

clipped in the holy spring, and I am happy to
add that they both warmly advised me to make
this experiment."

Madame asks me every hour if the waters
are becoming limpid," murmured Pauline.

She talked of nothing else to me when I
went to say my mass in her oratory this morning.
Think, Pauline, what we should feel if she
were to die without our having gratified her
prayer ! Her wishes ought to be sacred to us —
even her wishes about you and Poland, if it
depends upon you at all to fulfil them."

'' It doesn't wholly, as you know, Jerome,
but" — and Pauline turned a glance at once
gentle and calm on her brother, as she added,
I may speak to you as to no one else, and I
believe that I shall be Poland's wife. Odette
has prophesied to me that I shall be. She has
had dreams."

Which may have been revelations," murmured
Jerome, over whose face the name of
Odette brought a shade that had something of
awe in it. "I wonder what has become
of Poland ? we have had no news of him for
several days."

'* He will come back before long; ," said

Pauline ; '•' not for me, who am nothing, but
because all this is ordained. Are we not living

o

amid mysteries ? See how his marriage vdth
that heretic was thwarted ! Madame, weak and
doting as she is, found strength to resist him,
and what a glorious miracle has been sent to
her ! Chateaufort will never have an heretical
mistress. The saints have set their decree
against it by calling up all these pilgrims to
make Koland's home for ever sacred."

This conversation was in Pauline's sitting-room.
It had begun in the twilight, and now,
though it was not yet dark, one of the Kergarec
fidrls came into the room vdth a Ho-heed moderator
lamp, which she set on the table. The shade
caused a golden glory to fall upon the book
which Jerome Juva was so fond of reading, the
well-worn " Lives of the Saints."

He drew the folio towards him, and mechanically
turned the leaves. Tears had started to
his eyes while his sister spoke, and as soon as
the servant-girl had left the room he exclaimed,
I am full of joy and hope, Pauline ! These
days have been to me so haj^py that I know
nothing on earth can excel them. For you,
dear girl, there may be more happiness of

another kind ; but for me, the priest, what
would remain, unless I were to have my share
of Paradise in this world ? While you spoke
I was thinking of the passage in which St.
Bruno says that ' he, to whom Heaven has
given everything, may ask for that one thing
more — that supreme honour which is only
bestowed on a chosen few, who are thereby
allowed to render something for all they have
received. ' "

And that one thing ? " asked Pauline,
drawing nearer to her brother.

I have seen it before me and yearned for
it since the vigil of the Seven Sleepers, when I
walked into the chapel at midnight," answered
Jerome. " I mean the Martyr's Cro^Ti."

VOL. II. 34

CHAPTER XI.

THE SQUIREENS.

Pauline did not get rid of her two new lovers
by simply saying that she must reject their
attentions. Either because Jerome was not
explicit enough in letting them know how the
case stood, or because they were obtuse in taking
a hint, Count Rene de Polhuan and Baron
Nestor de Penhoel continued to press their suits,
each in his own way.

It was a galloping courtship, literally and
metaphorically, for the pair of nobles were
always in the saddle ; the Baron had to ride
three leagues from the tumble-down house which
he Called a castle, and the Count three and a
half from his father's manse, to reach Chateaufort.
Clovis Kergarec, who used to take their horses
to the stable, and who, having learnt from Odette

the nature of their business, was in no good
humour with the pair — would make sullen remarks
on the condition of their steeds. The
little Baron had a muddy rough-coated bay cob,
^md the Count a fiddle headed roan hack.

Dion ! they're here every day now, and
-always at breakfast-time, and they never throw
sone more than a two-sou piece ! " growled Clovis,
leading off the roan for its third meal of the
Chateaufort oats that week, and it was only
Wednesday. " You would think there wasn't
so much as a dog about the place for mademoiselle
to bear the company of two such skinflints
as that."

She'll never put the pot on the fire when
their Bazvalans* call," answered Odette, who was
looking on.

In some parts of Brittany marriages are usually
made by the intervention of a personage styled Bazvalan.
He is generally a village tailor or cobbler, sometimes a
beggar. His name is derived from las, a little stick, and
alan, broom, which, plant he carries with him in his matchmaking
enterprises as the ancient symbol of courtship.
The Bazvalan goes to ask the hand of a girl on behalf of
her suitor. If he hears the cry of a turtle-dove while on
his way to perform his errand, he considers it lucky ; that
of a crow or magpie, on the contrary, would make him
turn back. If the pot be put on the fire at the Bazvalan's

'*' What dost thou know about it ? " said her
brother. " Whv hasn't she crossed the looks on
the hearth abbacy 1 "

Maybe she has, and they won't see."

I wish she'd call me in, then I'd fling 'em
crosswise over the hearth, one on top of the other."

But the cautious suitors did not declare themselves,
so that Pauline had no chance of " crossing
the logs." They took care to say nothing
that would close the doors of Chateaufort to
them. Always sporting a good pretence for their
visits, they came in such way that they had to
be welcomed ; and if Pauline had not been informed
of their intentions, she would have
thought they were under a vow of performing
a nenvaine, for they never failed to go piously
into the chapel before entering the house.

approach, he knows that he will be well received ; if two
logs are thrown cross-wise upon the hearth, he understands
that his errand will fail. On the wedding day the Baz-
alan acts as a second groomsman. He goes to the bride's
house and sings to her to come out ; a hired poet the
hreniaer, who is supposed to have the bride under his protection,
answers from within, singing. When the wedding
is over, the Bazvalan chants a De Profundity, for the repose
of the souls of all who have died in the house, and he
preaches a little sermon to the bride, reminding her of the
kindness of her parents to her during her childhood.

Indeed, they brought presents. The Baron
one morning came cantering across the plains
with a four-foot wax taper in his hand, the offering
of his elderly sister, who kept house for him,
and who hoped by this little bribe to the saints
to advance his love-affairs. Not to be outdone,
Count Kene the same afternoon galloped from
the Castle of Polhuan with two pounds of smaller
wax candles — the gifts of his parents, younger
sisters, and a small brother — in the tails of his
coat. The dips were all bent when he took them
out of their paper wrapping ; but they were duly
set on the taper stand, and made a fine show
against the Baron's solitary cierge. It should
be mentioned that the chapel had now a permanent
illumination of votive candles.

The Baron paid his court in compliments,
the Count in sulks ; but the latter had a mother
to help him, and at one of his visits he said that
by Madame de Polhuan's desire he had come to
fetch Odette Kergarec into Auray. This was
announced to Odette by Clovis as he was walking
the fiddle-headed roan for one more meal of oats
towards the stables.

Mademoiselle says thou art to get ready''
he shouted through the window of the kitchen.

"That gentleman with the tomato face wants
thee."

I am not going to ride into Auray a-pillion
with him," protested Odette, advancing to the
casement.

His mother's carriage is on its way, he says.
It'll stop at the foot of the hill, I'll be bound ;
for it would require a team of oxen to drag it up."

I am tired of Madame de Polliuan's comings,"
said Odette, sulkily. " This is the third
day I've been told to get ready for her ; I'll wait
till she is here."

** Thou'lt do as mademoiselle orders thee,"
replied Clovis, who had not dropped his big-brother
ways towards this sister, because she now
gave herself more airs than before. And he
smacked the hind quarters of the roan, who, in
surprise at such treatment, jerked his tail up
like a point of interrogation.

But Odette was in one of her dark moods
that morning. For two days she had missed the
signal by which Pierre Quiroule was wont to
notify that he would meet her. There was a tree
hollow on the slopes, in which he used to-put a
slip of paper appointing an hour for seeing
Odette The place of meeting was always the

same — a sort of bower near one of the woodmen's
cottages, formed by stacks of logs set so as
to make three sides of a square. The fourth side
Alas a mound, and the enclosure made a perfect
retreat. Here Odette had met Pierre several
times, and she expected to meet him every day.
But now two days had elapsed without bringing
her any news of him, and jealous alarm wa
kindling in her. She had been on the point of
braving Pierre's displeasure by running down to
the village to inquire after him, when she received
this summons to go to Auray with Madame de
Polhuan.

Odette in her dark moods suffered no common
melancholy. Her eyes sank into deep
hollows, her face was like parchment, her dry
hands hung idly, and all spirit of repartee was*
extinguished in her. She could only sit and.
mope ; but if teased while she was in this humour,
she would pass in an instant from apathy to the
most diabolical rage, and would catch up the first
thing at hand to fling at her tormentors. Her
fellow-servants knew this — they had remembrance
of well-aimed milking stools, bowls of scalding
soup and jagged iron choppers which had flown
out of her grasp, grazing hats or caps if not heads

and they gave lier a wide berth when her brow
glowered. Clovis alone was not afraid of her at
such times.

Get thee off now to mademoiselle," he
hallooed from the stable door, seeing his sister
still hesitate at the kitchen windows

Odette went to Auray in the Marquise de
Polhuan's landau, but she proved very dull company
to the noble lady, who had intended to
question her closely about the ways of Chateau-fort,
and in particular about Pauline Juva's ways.
Count Eene rode behind the carriage and out of
earshot on purpose that his mother might have
the girl all to herself ; but Odette would only
answer in monosyllables, though Madame de Pol-human
was one of those matrons who generally
can turn a girl inside out like a glove. She had
a bonnet with red strings and a small black
moustache. She was very tall, very patronizing
in her manner, and very decided. She addressed
peasants as " My man," or " My good woman,"
and said to girls, " Now then, speak up, child."
Odette, however, was not to be drawn, and at
length it occurred to the irritated Marquise that
the wench was perhaps out of sorts because there
had been a delay in getting her trousseau.

"Mademoiselle de Penmarck lias told my son
that you are very impatient to enter the convent.
I am sorry that I could not arrange about your
clothes in a single day, as you probably would
have desired." This was said with offended
irony. " But I dare say that your time of liberty
will be short enough now."

You are not driving me to the convent at
this moment ? " exclaimed Odette, starting and
making' a clutch at the carriage door.

No ; reassure yourself. You will have time
to say good-bye to your friends. I suppose you
have many at Chateaufort ? "

"Yes, madame." And Odette relapsed onto
the seat facing the Marquise, her brow morose
as before.

And you must have friends elsewhere too."
This was a random shot, but it struck, and
Odette sat up with a blush. Madame de
Polhuan, grown suspicious, ]proceeded with a
motherly laugh, " I have never seen a good-looking
girl of your station want to go into
a nunnery ! It's curious you shouldn't have
a sweetheart."

"Yes, madame," was Odette's disappointing-retort.
The girl had looked for a moment as if

she were going to give another answer, but the
words having started to her lips, vanished there,
and she evidently gave an affirmative to save
herself trouble.

Madame de Polhuan sat back, wrapping
herself up in dignity. '' I hope you will be on
your best behaviour at the house to which I am
taking you ; it is that of the venerable Countess
de Kerjogu de Kerkaradec."

What a name for a dressmaker!" remarked
Odette, as if speaking to herself.

Dressmaker ! Her husband was the head
of one of the oldest families in Brittany. The
Countess has generously consented to let her
mansion be used as a depot for all the gifts that
have been collected for yom trousseau."

"Second-hand dresses that want new sleeves."
coolly observed Odette, as though what little
interest she had taken in her journey had now
exploded.

Very good dresses ; one of which was worn
by my own eldest daughter, miss," cried the Marquise,
opening her eyes so wide that Odette, after
staring for a moment, yawned, and in the most
vulgar way, Without putting her hand to her
mouth.

The truth is that Madame de Polhuan,
tempering charity sith economy, had thought
it better to collect Odette's trousseau by offerings
of cast-off apparel than to collect money to buy
articles all new, and this Odette was too sharp
not to guess.

The carriage drove up to a stately old.
mansion ^dth a worn stone shield over the door,
and here Count Kene left his mother and trotted
off to the principal hotel in the to\STi, the
Pavilion caen Habit. He had not been invited
to join the party of dowagers which the Countess
de Kerjogu de Kerkaradec had assembled to dress
up Odette, and he was not sorry for it, for he
could go and indulge in the unusual dissipation
of a luncheon with oysters in the company of
any noble lando^ATier who happened to be staying
at the hotel. There was always some count
or baron to be found there, as the place was
a rendezvous for the squires who came into the
t(A\Ti on business.

Count Eene duly got his oysters and his
Baron, but something else too, which he had not
expected, in the shape of a bit of news about the
Due d'Alma. In summer, Auray is much frequented
by English tourists, and one of these.

who had been staying at the Pavilion, had
left there a sporting paper, in which it was
mentioned that fine preparations were being
made at Lewbury for the approaching marriage
of the Due d'ALna with General Corrington's
daughter. This paragraph had attracted the
attention of a waiter who understood English,
the waiter had shown it to the landlord, and the
latter had sent the paragraph to the Journal
cVAicray, which reprinted a translation of it.

The paper falling into Count Kene's hands
gave him great glee, for now he was assured
that in his courtship of Pauline he would
encounter no rival except the Baron de Penhoel,
whom he did not dread much, and whom he had
some private thoughts of chastising in a duel if
no other means could be found for getting him
out of the way. When, towards three o'clock,
he went back to Madame de Kerjogu's house to
fetch his mother away, he had a copy of the
paper nth him ; but his mother had abbacy
seen it, and all the Countess de Kerjogu de
Kerkaradec's guests had discussed the news.

'' It's o'ood news, at all events," said Count
Rene, as his mother put her head out of the
carriage window to speak to him. " Madame de

Chateaufort will, no doubt, make her displeasure
felt by leaving away as much money as she can
from her grandson to Mademoiselle de Penmarck."

'this cow-girl here is insufferable," whispered
Madame de Polhuau, with a jerk of her bonnet
towards Odette, who was sitting in the landau
moody as ever. " We have all been endeavouring
to find out from her what has been passing
at Chateaufort during the last few days ; but it
has been like trying to pump water from a kerbstone."


She is not often silent like that ; I'll be
bound I would have made her talk," snigoered

(DO

the Count, as if he had a special talent for
loosing the tongues of girls.

Don't be absurd, Kene," said his mother,
sharply. "It's a serious matter to your father
and me to learn how far things have gone
between Mademoiselle de Penmarck and her
cousin. A Polhuan must not make mistakes in
his marriage."

"No," assented Count Ptene, and this time
without any levity.

"I will give this copy of the paper to
Odette," continued the Countess ; "in that way
the news will be quickly spread among the

servants, and reach Madame de Chateaufort's
ears. When I saw Mademoiselle de Penmarck
this morning, she had evidently heard nothing
of the matter."

^' Why, the paper was only published at
noon."

Yes ; but she might have heard the news
straight from England. It is incomprehensible
that the Duke should he preparing to marry an
English girl, while his grandmother is telling the
Bishop that he is to marry Mademoiselle de
Penmarck. This wench here (another jerk
towards Odette) is convinced that the Duke is
going to marry his cousin, for she did say that
much when we asked her if she had heard talk
of this match. ' Yes,' she said ; ^ and I know
they're going to be married, for I've had visions
about it.' "

Diable ! if she's had visions, I had perhaps
better give up the game," said Kene.

'•' They may be visions sent by the devil, and
quite untrue," said Madame de Polhuan.

During this dialogue Odette had begun to
fidget ; but when the newspaper had been put
into her hand, and when Count Kene stepped
away from the window, directing the coachman

to drive to some other place, which was not
Chateaufort, she exclaimed, " Oh, madame, let
me out, please ; I want to get home quickly.
I don't mind walking." The truth being that
she wanted to go and make inquiries about Pierre
Quiroule.

As you please," said the Countess de Pol-human,
who was not sorry to save her horses. " I
promised mademoiselle that you should be driven
home, but I have got to pay one or two visits
first."

'•' I know the way home," repeated Odette,
opening the door of the carriage for herself, and
leaping lightly into the road. ' ' Good-bye, madam; "
and off she ran.

Not a word of thanks to me after all my
trouble," exclaimed Madame de Polhuan, indignantly.
" What a hoyden she is ! Yet it's
something to have known her ; for perhaps in
centuries to come she'll be canonized, and there'll
be stained glass windows put up to her in
churches with all our names under it."

"For the present, she has furnished me with
another excuse for riding over to Chateaufort,"
observed Rene, looking at his watch. " I can
ride over to apologize for our having allowed

this future saint to return home on foot. This
would be a good excuse, wouldn't it ? "

"It would be polite. Look at the girl, how
she's splashing her stockings in the gutter ! "

I shall get to Chateaufort before her, so
I've a good mind to take another copy of the
paper. I might show it to mademoiselle and
congratulate her upon her cousin's marriage, as
if it were a thing of which the whole family
approved. She would be obliged to speak out
then, and I should know the truth."

You would. But, Eene, look me in the
face."

'eyes, mamma."

You've not fallen in love, have you ? "

'' Not I."

Word of honour ? "

Word of a Polhuan."

That is right, my son," said the good mother,
judiciously. " You must not commit your affections
until your father and I have ascertained
that everything is exactly as it should be."

It may turn out that the dower is much
less than we think," observed the young Count,
as though he were quite alive to all the perils of
this delicate enterprise.

'* That point will, of course, have to be cleared
up. So now go and be prudent ; and, Kene ! "

'* Yes, mamma."

"Don't make yourself too seductive just yet."
This with a look of motherly pride on the round
face of her heir, glowing like a Dutch cheese.
*' It would be cruel for the present to raise hopes
which may be doomed to disappointment."

Primed vdih these maternal counsels, Eene
de Polhuan rode off. Odette had only a short
start of him ; but when he got out of the to^\ai
on to the high-road, he descried her running a
long way ahead, and she kept ahead. Though
the roan trotted fairly, Odette, who was always
darting through the gaps of hedges and taking-short
cuts, would reappear at points almost out
of sight, just as the Count imagined he was
gaining upon her.

It did not matter to him that she should run
so fast, for he was a young man who could calmly
think of nothing at all as he rode along. But
perhaps he had been a little more smitten by
Pauline Juva's grave blue eyes than he had
admitted to his mother, or else he would not
have been riding along that road for the second
time that day. This was a reflection that struck
VOL. II. 35

him as quite a new thing while he was passing
over the heath of Carnac, and his sluggish blood
was quickened by a sudden strong feeling of
animosity against Pauline's supposed lovers, the
Baron de Penhoel and the Duke. He had heard
that the jackanapes Baron de Penhoel was a good
swordsman and a pistol shot, and so he bethought
him that he would not deliver a cartel yet awhile.
But against Poland d'Alma, whom he was not
likely to encounter in person, he could vapour
off mentally a great deal of scorn and defiance,
and he did so. Most of the Breton squireens
despised Poland for being a Bonapartist, and
hated him for being richer than themselves and
not residing in Brittany. Count Pine, as he
sniffed the breezes of his native heath, now contemned
the Duke in all sincerity for misallpng
himself nth a Protestant and disgracing his
ancestry. He was proud to think that he
(Kent) was going to act more nobly in his projected
marriage ; for was he not leaving self out
of account, and considering only how the lustre
of the Polhuan escutcheon might be enhanced ?

The family policy of the Polhuans might tend
to small objects, but it was based on certain very
solid principles. They were bigoted Catholics

and bigoted Royalists, who had found out that
bigotry draws a large amount of reverence from
the world ; and it was the zest of their lives to
hold their heads high and look down upon thirty-nine
millions of their fellow-countrymen. They
might have obtained lucrative posts under Government
had they chosen to rally to Napoleon's
Court, for the Second Empire sought to conciliate
the old nobility ; lout the Polhuans would not
be conciliated. On Sundays, at mass, they used
ostentatiously to walk out of church just before
the end of the service, when the priest came to
the prayer Domine salvum fac imperator
nostrum Napoleon ; and their contempt for
the Beauregardss, the Beaujeux, and other renegade
families was not a piece of affectation, buta
strong, stubborn sentiment equal to their detestation
of Eepublicans or heretics.

Ah well, that pretty Pauline will marry
me," mused Count Eene philosophically, as he
came in sight of Chateaufort ; '' and if she hasn't
sense to do so, why, then, she's no wife for a
Polhuan."

CHAPTER Nil

Odette's confession.

Odette had vanished from the Count's view-before
he reached the estate, for she had branched
off and gone to the village. Flushed and panting,
but not breathless from her long run, she made
straight for the Three Gulls inn, and tried to
find Martin Polker, the landlord.

The Three Gulls was an old house built of
browTi shingle and mortar, with a thatched roof
and green window-shutters. Outside stood a
number of green tables with benches, and these-were
now crowded with pilgrims eating and
drinking. Their food was blackish bread, gar-licked
sausage, and highly odorous goat's-milk
cheese ; their drink, cider and red wine. Martin
Polker, a quid-chewing old fisherman, with a thick
blue jersey and a cotton cap of many colours

hobbled about, carrying large copper pitchers
hind baskets full of stone bottles.

Odette was unknown to the pilgrims, who
were aU strangers, so her coming excited no attention
; but old Polker, touching his cap to her,
would have proclaimed her name and quality
aloud if she had not put a finger on her Hp to
check him.

Hush ! " she said. " Where's Pierre
Quiroule ? "

Gone, my girl."

When ? where to ? for how long '? "

Ask me where the blackbird is flown that
perched on my window-sill this morning."

The kestrel can find out by flying after,"
cried Odette, with a stifled scream of fury,
Tell me where he went, now."

He flitted two days ago, wench, and
towards Paris, I'm thinking ; but that's aU he
wanted me or thee to know, or he'd have said
more, for he's not a gentleman who forgets
things."

He must be coming back, for this house is
his, and you are only his servant," said Odette.

Old Polker's manner changed. He had a
villainous squint, which gave a frightful expression

to his face when he winked ; for at such moments,
one eye being closed only the white of the other
turned inwards was seen, so that it was like a
sightless face staring at you. " You know that,
my girl ? " he whispered. " Well, just let me
serve those customers who are waiting for these
potius. Get to the tree yonder, where there's
an empty chair, and I'll be 'sith thee in a
moment."

Odette went and stood under the tree, and
Martin Polker presently came, straddling as
grooms and sailors do. His hands were buried
in his deep breeches' pockets as far as they would
ofo, his tongue was stuck in his cheek, and,
accosting Odette, he made a noise which was
intended to be amusing, by clocking the heels
of his wooden shoes together."

"No fooling," said the gii'l, roughly. "I'm
going after Pierre ; tell me where he lives."

"My girl, if Monsieur Pierre has let thee
smoke of his pipe thou must know the flavour of
his tobacco," said Polker, with another of his
winks. '^ What he is, I dare say thou couldst
tell better than I. He's no pedlar, that's sure ;
but he has a long purse, which means a long arm,
and I would rather not offend him. However,

here's a paper with the address he gave me ; the
house where he doesn't live, I'd stake my life."

Thou hast nothing else but this ? " asked
Odette, devouring the words on the paper.

Nothing. Thou knowest he's no fool ; at
least, yes, he must be a fool too to have made an
enemy of thee," added old Polker, with a wag of
the head, as Odette, with a bounding step,
turned hastily away.

She was out of sight in a moment. Pierre
Quiroule, had he been present, might well have
agreed with old Polker, and called himself a fool
on seeing the look of deadly resolution spreading
over the face of the deserted cow-girl.

She ran at first as if she were going towards
Auray. The nearest railway station was there.
But at the first turn of the road she encountered
the village postman — a young man with one arm,
who had been invalided from the army — and
him she stopped to question. He wore his cap
a-cock, and was a jaunty postman, communicative
enough with the fair sex.

Monsieur Desire, you've no letter for me ? "
began Odette. She had never received a letter
in her life, except those which Pierre Quiroule
put into the tree-hollow.

No, oim helle' said the postman, looking
into bis wallet.

'* I want to know how much it costs to go to
Paris," she continued ; '' and how must I do to
get there ? "

"There are four trains a day from Auray,
and it would cost you about twenty francs, third
class. I suppose you've never travelled by
train ? "

No. I want to go to see some friends."

It's lucky you've some friends in Paris,"
laughed the postman, "' else you'd find it a dear
place to live in. The last time I was there I
spent five hundred francs in ten days."

Five hundred francs ! Odette's whole stock
of money did not amount to a tenth of that sum.
The postman's words made her turn pale and
sick, and it was with quite a faint look that she
retraced her steps and ascended the road to the
plateau.

Half-way up she halted, drew out a cheap
purse of red velvet and gilt brass (one of Pierre's
gifts), and, glancing round to see that she was
unobserved, counted her money. She had still
the gold piece which "monsieur" had given hera
few francs, and some . bronze coin ; not thirty

francs in all. With lier imperfect notions as to
the uses of money she could not imagine how
any human being could spend five hundred
francs in Paris in ten days ; but then, she had
heard of the capital as a prodigious place full of
thieves, like those Jews and gipsies who sold
things at the fair of Auray, and were always
trying to charge a sou too much here and there.
The size of Paris she pictured as about twice that
of Auray, and she doubted not that she would
soon fall in with her faithless lover by standing
about the market-place and waiting till he passed.
But it might be that she would not meet him
for a day or two, and she must have money.

She mused and shook ofi" her dark mood. As
the tawdry purse was dropped back in her
pocket, the light of a sudden purpose kindled in
her eyes and brought a devilish smile to her lips.
Leaving the road to avoid some pilgrims who
were coming down, she darted among the trees,
and set off running, as though her long walk
that afternoon had been nought. The bell of
the chapel was ringing for vespers as she
arrived on the plateau. It ceased ringing as
she stepped over the drawbridge and walked upto
the chapel. A glance through the door

showed her that Jerome Juva was not officiating ;
so she turned to the door of the small sacristy
adjoining the chapel, and walked boldly in.

Jerome Juva was alone there. He had just
been celebrating a salutation, and was removing
his chasuble. The garment was half over his
head when the door opened, but he let it fall
back on his shoulders as he confronted Odette
with a look of mild interrogation.

Standing in his sacerdotal vestments, Jerome
Juva presented a very different appearance from
that which he usually wore when slouching about
in a shabby cassock with the sleeves too short.
The cupboards of the chapel-vestry had been
provided by the Marquise with vestments that
would have done credit to the parish church of a
large city. In this month of July, when the
colours of the priest's garments had to symbolize
the rich hues of harvest, Jerome wore a chasuble
of red and orange brocade with a cross of golden
embroidery. The close-fitting surplice underneath,
which showed at the open sides, was of
lawn, with a two-foot border of point lace.
Jerome's tall stature and fresh gentle face, with
its crown of light bro^ii hair, were well set
off by these habiliments. Under the square

chasuble the stoop of his shoulders could not
be seen, and his countenance, free from the
simper of shyness which disfigured it a little in
ordinary intercourse, was rather majestic in its
placidity.

An austere cleanliness reigned in the sacristy.
It was a room of good size, surrounded entirely
by dark oaken cupboards and presses. The floor
was of polished oak, with some little rounds of
rush-matting throT\TL here and there, to be used
somewhat in guise of skates by people who
wanted to move across the room without leaving*
the imprint of muddy boots on the glassy boards.
The massive oblong table and three high-backed
chairs were of oak, too, but the chairs were
covered with very old brown leather. There was
no fireplace, but on one side of the room as
much space as could have been filled by a door
was left blank, and on the distempered surface
hung a life-size realistic crucifix brought from
Spain, the figure on it painted flesh-colon', and
all its wounds smeared with blood. A peculiar,
quite ecclesiastical, light was thrown over the
sacristy by two or three panes of yellow and
violet glass, which were let into the two high
windows.

Odette's bird-like eyes roved round the room,
and the cold calmness made her silent for a
moment. But she lost no time in stating her
business. '' My father, I want to confess."

In the chapel after vespers," said Jerome.

'•' Wouldn't it count here ? " she asked,
thinking he meant to say that a confession was
only admissible in a confessional.

'you can confess anywhere," answered
Jerome ; "' but we might be interrupted here."

If we can be alone half an hour together
that will be enough."

"Is it so important, then?" inquired the
young priest, becoming uneasy at Odette's
strange manner. He never liked to shrive this
girl, and much wished that she would choose
some other confessor.

Oh yes, it's important ! " she exclaimed, and
so saying dropped on her knees, clasping her
hands. There is a formula which penitents
repeat before beginning a confession ; Odette
pattered through it glibly, ending with a sign
of the cross.

Jerome, on his side, signed himself, and took
up the posture most favourable for listening and
for encouraging his penitent to speak whatever

lie migHt have to say. These things have all
been rehearsed by Roman priests. Jerome sat
down and veiled his face with his right hand, the
elbow of his right arm resting on the palm of
his left. It was in this attitude that the priest
heard these words fall hot from Odette's lips.

My father, these miracles at Chateaufort
were all shams. There was a man named Pierre
Quiroule who came to stay in the village with
a magic-lantern. You know what those things
are ; I had never seen one before ; but Pierre
became my lover, and we two together managed
all those apparitions among the pine trees. We
did it because he — I mean Pierre, you know —
had bought some land, and he hopes that when
Chateaufort becomes knowTi as a place of pilgrimage
he can build houses and inns on his land
and make a fortune. Stop ! don't move, for
I've not finished yet. It was I who appeared
before you the other night in the white dress
when you were returning through the plantation
chaunting an avc. You remember a flash
of lightning came, for it was during the storm,
and the rain was pouring hard. You saw me
standing before you in the glare of that flash,
and you fell doom on your knees."

"Blasphemies! You are demented, girl!"
ejaculated Jerome, horrified.

"No, I'm not blaspheming. Look at this
newspaper which Madame de Polhuan gave me.
You thought the White Lady had come to show
that she would protect monsieur from marrying
a heretic ; but it's written in that paper that
he's going to marry the heretic, so you see there
was no "White Lady. I told mademoiselle Pauline
that I had had dreams of her marrying monsieur,
but it's not true ; and I know monsieur won't
marry her, for he doesn't like her a bit, though
she is fretting for him. The only man who loves
mademoiselle is my brother Clovis. That's the
whole truth of it."

Unhappy girl ! you can kneel there and
say these things and not fear Heaven's T\Tath !
What demon possesses you ? "

This was the only apostrophe which occurred
to Jerome for the moment. As the first aspect
offered by a burning house is that of a column
of flame and smoke in which nothing can be
discerned, so Jerome Juva, contemplating the
burning up of all his illusions, could in these first
instants but realize a general destruction T\dthout
estimating: all that had been destroyed.

Imagine a man who believes that he has been
honoured with the visit of a queen, and who
learns that his visitor, whom he has feasted and
reverenced, and whose graciousness has filled him
with gratitude and pride, was but a Saddling
adventuress ! His feelings would be the same
as those which invaded the soul of Jerome Juva.
With a lost look he gazed upon the cruel girl
who had smitten him so hard, seeking for
symptoms of aberration in her face, in the forlorn
hope that she might be lying to him. At this
juncture the voices of the pilgrims resounded in
the chapel with the deep notes of the choir
music, an ophicleide, and a violoncello. Then
followed the hateful chinking of coin in collection-boxes,
and this reminded the poor bewildered
priest that it was not only a fraud of faith, but
one of money that was being perpetrated on all
these pilgrims.

You will have to make public confession,"
he said abruptly to Odette ; but his voice was
so hoarse that he had to cough and repeat his
words.

"No, I shan't," replied Odette. Up to that
moment she had knelt with outstretched hands ;
she now sat on her heels, and her half-contrite

tone turned to one of dogged bargaining. " My
father, I want five hundred francs to go to Paris.
My lover has left me, and I mean to follow him.
I can't tell all the people here what I have done ;
they'd stone me. My brother Clovis would
be capable of breaking my head. But if you
like, I will confess to the Countess de Beaujeu
in Paris."

'•' It's certain that you must go away from
here," muttered Jerome, reflecting that the girl's
life would truly be in danger if she made public
her infamous avowals. '"' But why go to Paris
to join this miserable man, who has led you into
such deceits? If you repent, your properplace
is now in a convent. You must go to Am^ay,
and leave me to deal with your confession as the
Bishop may order. I can only give you absolution
on these terms."

But Odette shook her head. She had no
intention of letting Pierre Quiroule's secret become
common property. Her promise of confessing
to Madame de Beaujeu was only a
pretence. She wanted to go to Paris. The Abbe
was the only, person at Chateaufort who could
give her five hundred francs, and she knew that
there was but one way of obtaining this money

from him. She had just tried this way, and had
now to play carefully in order to carry out her
whole plan.

I don t want to be imprisoned for life
in a convent, M. Crabbe," she said. 'remember
the Bishop has consecrated the water
found in the plantation. He won't let people
laugh at him for a simpleton, you may be sure.
Let him once get me into a convent, and the
Bishop will tell you to hold your tongue, and I
shall be treated as a mad girl for denying a
miracle which all around me will believe."

Did some foreshadowing of episcopal policy
fall across Jerome Juva's mind? To hush up
scandals is ever the rule of the Eoman Church ;
and Jerome had to acknowledge to himself that
even if full liberty were granted to him to use
Odette's confession as he pleased, he would not
dare, on his own responsibility, to go and accost
the pilgrims as they came out of chapel, and to
tell them they had been fooled by a fraud. He
must consult his Bishop before he took a single
step. This is what he tried hurriedly to impress
upon Odette ; 1)ut all to no purpose.

I'll confess to Madame de Beaujeu," said
she, "and to nobody else. But, M. Crabbe, we
VOL. ij. 36

must be quick, for the people are going out of
chapel."

Do you promise to confess to the Countess
de Beaujeu?"lie asked, thinking — so far as he
could think in the woful agitation of his spirit —
that it might be better, after all, the girl should
make a confidant of Madame de Beaujeu,
than relinquish her hideous secret to his discretion.
Committed to him as a priest, this secret
was one which he durst not disclose by word,
hint, or stratagem to soul alive ; but entrusted
to him as an ordinary man to do with as he
pleased, it would become like an explosive shell
in his hands. The Countess de Beaujeu was a
great lady who had knowledge of the world, and
would know better than he how to approach the
Bishop and concert with him as to what ought to
be done in the interests of religion. He could
have no serious fear that Odette would Withhold
her confession from Madame de Beaujeu, for he
believed that the girl wanted absolution, and he
would not absolve her until she had done as he
commanded.

Come sith me," he said ; and when Odette
had risen from her knees, he divested himself
quickly of his chasuble and surplice, caught up

his hat, and left the sacristy with her. He
hardly spoke twenty words to her after that,
leaving her in the courtyard while he ran to
his room to fetch five hundred francs from his
small private store of money. Returning, he
counted some bank-notes into her hand, and
parted from her with the almost brotherly adjuration,
" Oh, my poor gut, try and be good."

Odette's fingers clutched the notes ; but now
that she had gained her point, a lump rose to
her throat as her eyes met those of the guileless
priest, who had always been kind and patient vrith
her. "You won't curse me in your thoughts,
M. Abbe ? " she said.

"No, no, Dominus tecum'' he replied gently.

To which instinctively the forsaken girl replied
in her Church Latin, '' Et cum spirit tuo."

CHAPTER XIII.

THE DAY OF MIRACLES.

Odette was gone from Chateaufort that evening,
but not missed till the next day. In the meantime
Jerome Jiiva passed a truly miserable
night, wondering what would come of the girl's
revelations. He was too simple to suspect that
Odette had tricked him ; he fully expected that
in a day or two he should be summoned to the
Bishop's palace, and be asked how it happened
that he had been so zealous in upholding Odette's
imposture. What could he say then ? Was it
not his ardour that had conveyed belief to the
Bishop's mind and brought his Greatness to consecrate
the so-called spring ? and how could he,
Jerome, now murmur if the Bishop were to say
that he must be punished for his credulity by
seeing the imposture remain undenied, lest scandal
afflict the Church ?

The wretched young man sat up in his bed
and asked himself whether he really had been
too credulous. He had a spacious room, and in
addition to the religious images and pictures
which decorated the walls, there were some heirlooms
to remind this last male De Penmarck of
his hardy forefathers. The sword and epaulettes
of his father, the naval captain, were there beneath
a portrait which showed a face full of
resolution. Jerome gazed round upon this and
other portraits, enjoying the firmness which
glowed on martial faces, and bemoaning the
Weakness which incapacitated him from discerning
wherein he had been weak before, and overwhelmed
him with a sense of utter helplessness
as to future conduct.

He asked himself what texts from Holy Writhe
ought, in the first instance, to have used for
his guidance, and he remembered indistinctly
several cautions against " dreamers of dreams."
He took down a Bible from a shelf in his alcove ;
list French priests are not well skilled in scriptural
research, and it was only after some
minutes' fingering of pages that he discovered
this passage in the thirteenth chapter of Deuteronomy.


If there arise among you a prophet, or a
dreamer of dreams, and giretli thee a sign ora
wonder,

And the sign or the wonder come to pass,
whereof he spake unto thee, sang, Let us go
after other gods, which thou hast not known,
and let us serve them ;

Thou shalt not hearken unto the words of
that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams : for
the Lord your God prove you, to know whether
ye love the Lord your God nth all your heart
and with all your soul."

Then flashed another text upon Jerome's
memory, that in the fourth chapter of St. John's
gospel.

God is a Spirit, and they that worship Him
must worship Him in spirit and in truth."

In spirit ! " that meant without a recourse
to signs and wonders and the prophecies of
dreamers. And "In truth," what did that
mean ? The words reminded Jerome of the
deceit he must practise until Odette should have
made her confession to some other than himself.
He must hear the miracle talked of as though he
still believed it were a miracle ; he must join in
the ecstatic chants of pilgrims, receive the offerings

of these poor people, and go through the
farce of letting them dip their limbs or garments
in water which he knew to be unclean in more
senses than one. From some words which Odette
had let fall he had gathered that the spring-was
nothing but a hill-side rivulet — the overflow
of rain-tanks on the plateau — which had long
been knoTVTi to trickle through the plantation,
but which the Kergarecs by their brings had
now diverted from its former course. Jerome
knew this ; but his lips were sealed.

In Eoman Catholic seminaries pupils are
taught that the secret of the confessional has
never been betrayed. Converts, who hear this
doctrine stated for the first time when they are
advanced in life, often say, as though they were
making a great concession, that they do believe
the secret of the confessional has very seldom
been violated : but the Church will have nothing*
to do with such squeamish shuffling away from a
solid fact. It says that the secrecy of the confessional
has never been violated, because God
would not suffer a priest to betray His trust. He
would interpose a miracle to prevent it.

Jerome Juva lived under the firm persuasion
that some horrible calamity would suddenly overtake

the priest who was an unfaithful steward of
mysteries. He believed that he could no more
part with, a confession than with one of his five
senses, or the soul in his body. Odette's secret
was, therefore, entombed in his mind ; but it was
a fearful secret for a man of fxitli and worldly
honour, for a priest and a gentleman, to carry
about with him. x\ll through his wakeful night
Jerome shuddered as he thought of the morrow.
He prayed that the cross, which he had perhaps
deserved to bear for his credulity, might not be
made to press its weight upon him too long.
How different this pitiable mood from the exultation
which had animated him but a little time
before, when he had boasted that his cup of
happiness was over-full !

Whenever there was an unusual occurrence
at the chateau, Pauline Juva always related to
her brother everything that she knew about it, in
order to see how much he knew. She made no
attempt to sound him, but she could tell by his
mere way of receiving her communication whether
her tidings were news to him. No young priest
is so versed in the art of facial dissimulation as
to foil a woman's perspicacity; but it was not
(Curiosity which prompted Pauline. By carrying

full news to her brother she often set him at his
case, and enabled him to converse upon topics
.which he must have eschewed if his only information
about them had come to him through the
confessional.

Greeting her brother as he came down to
early breakfast with his four clerical colleagues,
Pauline led him into her morning-room, and told
him of Odette's disappearance. He evinced no
surprise — for he was not bound to dissemble
unnecessarily — and by this she divined that he
was aware of the matter.

Odette must have gone last night," continued
Pauline, reassured. "Her bed has not
been slept in, and it seems that she told the
postman that she was going to Paris."

Did she say why she was going there ? "
asked Jerome, quickly.

No ; and her brother Clovis has an idea that
lie has gone away with a pedlar named Quiroule,
who has been haunting the village. But I do
not believe that, for Odette kissed both her
parents before going away yesterday, and she
told them that she had had enough of the life
which she had been leading. They understood
this to mean that she was impatient to get into a

conventual retreat ; and I dare say she was more
impatient than we any of ns suspected, and has
actually gone into a convent of her own accord.
Some fancy may have possessed her to seek
refuge in one of the great Parisian nunneries,
for she is a strange girl ; besides, who can tell
what spirit is now guiding her ? She may have
some holy mission in Paris."

Does madam know that Odette has gone ? '*
asked Jerome, wincing.

"Agathe informed her of the matter about
half an hour ago ; but she only said in her usual
trusting way, with a folding of the hands and a
look heavenwards, '' Odette is being led by the
hand ; be sure some new glory awaits her, and us
through her."

A servant summoned Pauline to some household
business, and Jerome was glad to get away
to his breakfast. Before leaving his sister's room,
however, he furtively deposited on her table the
newspaper which Odette had given him.

He had noticed that PauHne was cheerful in
her sedate fashion, and from this he inferred
that no intimation of monsieur's proceedings in
England had reached her. Jerome had not the
heart to speak to her about them, for it would

have distressed him miicli to see her cry in his
presence — her to whom he looked up somewhat
as a being of greater fortitude than himself — and
yet he thought she ought to learn as soon as
possible that her expectations of a union with
the Duke were groundless. He trusted also that
Pauline, seeing Odette's visions falsified, might
lose her confidence in the girl as an instrument
of Providence, and be led by the gradual operation
of suspiciousness to discover for herself the
imposture which he durst not reveal to her.

Swallowing the morsels of roll which he dipped
in his bowl of chocolate, Jerome almost choked
once or twice when he heard his brother priests
talk of the growing crowds of pilgrims, and of the
increasing fervour of all who came. These four
good young men had tied their napkins round
their necks, they ladled the chocolate-sop into
their mouths by capacious spoonfuls, and they
chattered with a beaming innocency about the
marvels wrought by healing springs or relics at
the famous shrines of Europe. One had seen
the crutches of cured cripples hung up by the
score in the grotto of Lourdes. Another, who
had travelled, had witnessed the procession of
the holy vane jar at Cologne, had kissed the holy

coat at Trees, and knew for a certainty that the
blood of St. Gennaro at Naples boils once a year.
A third, under the exhilarating influence of a
second bowl of chocolate, saw no reason why a
relic should not be disinterred at Chateaufort.
Doubtless the finding of the spring was only a
prelude to better things. Was there not a tradition
to the effect that in the eighth century,
while the bones of St. Clodoald were being carried
in a silver coffin to the abbey of Auray, the
bearers had been attacked by evil spirits on the
plain of Carnac, and that the coffin had then
vanished ? Might it not be found again ? Was
it not possibly lying somewhere near the spot
where the recent apparition had arisen, and waiting
for its definite sepulture in the chapel which
the Marquise de Chateaufort was going to build ?

"Ah, Jerome!" exclaimed the young priest,
glowing with zeal, " wonders may be laid bare
when the foundations of the new shrine are dug
for, and in time that shrine may become a
cathedral."

But Jerome was thinking that under the rule
of Chateaufort's next mistress there would be
very little shrine-building ; and all at once he
asked himself what would be the future of Pauline

when the Marquise was gone ? He had never
oared to face this question before ; now it had to
be faced. He did not want his sister to end her
days as a recluse, and, of course, if he eventually
obtained a benefice he could save her from this
fate by taking her to his presbytery to keep house
for him. But would it not be far better that she
should marry Count Rene de Polhuan or Baron
Nestor de Penhoel, provided that she could really
take her choice between these eligible suitors ?
Jerome resolved to speak seriously to his sister
on this point.

He regularly every day paid a visit to the
!marquise, and either said his mass or a few prayers
in the oratory contiguous to her room. The doors
being thrown open, she could see him from her
bed. It was usual that Pauline should inform
him at breakfast whether he was to say mass or
prayers, for this matter was regulated by the
condition of the Marquise's health. If he did not
say his mass in the oratory, he said it in the
chapel of the chateau, and in that case only saw
the Marquise in the afternoon.

That morning Paine had not told him what
were the arrangements for the day, so he had to
return to her sitting-room very soon after breakfast.

She was sitting there in tears. " The newspaper
is the cause of this," reflected Jerome, full
of pity.

But Pauline handed him a letter which the
postman had just brought. *' Jerome, this is
about our cousin Koland," she said, continuing to
cry.

I suppose it confirms what the Journal
cVAuray has been saying," remarked the priest,
gently; and he was nearly bursting into tears
too, so unnerved was he and wretched at his
sister's suffering.

Oh no, on the contrary," faltered Pauline.
Count de Polhuan showed me that paper
yesterday, but I did not believe it."

You did not believe it ? " and Jerome looked
amazed.

No ; my faith would have been weak if it
had broken down under the first trial. I was
grieved for a moment, but then reasoned with
myself, and felt sure that a light would arise in
the darkness. So it has ; for that letter, as you
see, tells of another miracle."

Another ! " sighed Jerome.

Our cousin has been hurt, but he is saved
from a great sin and calamity," said Pauline,

gradually mastering her emotion as lie proceeded.
How could doubt linger in any mind after this ?
Head, read, Jerome. The letter is from Aimee
de Beaujeu."

This is what Jerome read : —

Hotel de Beaujeu, Champs Else's.

My dear Pauline,

I write this in case my grandmamma
and you, and all the good people at Chateaufort,
should hear exaggerated accounts of an accident

OO

that befell my brother Eoland in England. It
was not a bad accident, for Eoland is at this
moment equipping his new regiment for war ;
but it was a curious affair which, I need not conceal
from you, stopped my brother from getting
married d la mode Anglaise. In brief, our poor
Eoland, being on the eve of his marriage, was
waylaid by some enemies, stunned, and thrown
into a boat, which brought him back to France.
We none of us know who stunned him. He does
not know himself, and has no time to hunt down
the malefactors at present. This is the long and
short of the whole matter, my dear Pauline, and
I dare say you pious folk in Brittany — ah, I wish
I were as good as you —-will consider that the

saints have stepped in to prevent Eoland from
taking' the wrong' kind of wife. I wish the saints
woukl interest themselves in me when I am going
to commit a hetise; but perhaps my patroness,
Ste. Aimee, has grown tired of giving me nudges
in the conscience, which I never attended to.
Eoland will, no doubt, run down to Chateaufort
to kiss grand mamma before he starts off to beat
those horrid Prussians. Mind you assure our
grand mamma that the war is only going to be a.
kind of military promenade to Berlin, and that
a colonel like Eoland will risk nothing worse
than being promoted to a generalship before he
has the regulation amount of grey hairs, baldness,
rheumatism, and old stories about Algeria, which
in France usually qualify a man for this high
grade.

I must close my letter now, for I am busy
preparing Eoland's outfit. You need not tell
grand mamma more than you please about the
English marriage, for the affair is tomhee dans
Vedic for the present, and perhaps for ever. Kiss
everybody at Chateaufort who wants a kiss, and
Believe me always
*' Your very affectionate cousin,

Alee DE BeAUJEU.

Post Scriptum. — When you answer me,
please give me a long description of the White
Lady as she appeared to you. I have read the
newspaper accounts, and believe ; but my wonder
is that the White Lady should confine herself to
Brittany, where your faith doesn't require stimulants,
instead of travelling to the Boulevard des
Italiens, where her appearance would really produce
a useful impression. I will certainly go on
a pilgrimage to the new spring as soon as I can.
Meanwhile it ought to prove an elixir of long life
to grandmamma."

Jerome as he folded this letter felt that the
time was not propitious for directing his sister s
attention to the merits of Count Bene de Polhuan
and Baron Nestor de Penhoel.

"Aimee always writes jestingly about the
most serious things," remarked Pauline, evidently
astonished that her brother had not gone into
transports.

I had no idea that Eoland had been so
near to contracting such an unhallowed union,"
observed Jerome ; " but his rescue has been most
happy."

^' Miraculous I " said Pauline.
VOL. II. 37

Miraculous, if you prefer that term ; " and
Jerome, aware that his utterance was constrained,
and that his sister was eyeing him with surprise
and pique, made haste to add, 'eat what hour
will madame receive me to-day ? "

I will go and see," answered Pauline, starting
from her chair and drying her eyes. " But
Jerome, I am resolved that this day shall be
wholly one of miracles. Madame has begged
again this morning to be carried down to the
spring ; we will no longer resist her entreaties.
What is it that has withheld us till now from
yielding to them ? is it not a secret want of
faith ? I do not speak of you who have always
been fervent in exhorting us. I am thinking
of us, of the doctor, of the Bishop, and even of
myself, for I cannot deny that I have hesitated.
But what is that letter if not a rebuke to me for
my want of faith ? I ought to tell you that
the Count de Polhuan and the Baron de Penhoel
have advised me, just as they counselled you, to-have
the Marquise immersed."

''If you do such a thing at madame s age,,
you may kill her outright ! " exclaimed Jerome,
in great excitement ; and he paced about the room
wringing his hands.

*' Brother, you are trying to prove me ! " cried
Pauline. A painter should have been present
to draw her portrait at that moment. On her
pretty face, usually a little prim, shone a glow
which was the reflection of light unseen.

"Pauline, I implore you !" ejaculated Jerome.

^'You are afraid for my sake," she said.
You fear that if there were a mishap, I should
bear the blame ; but there will be no mishap.
There will be a miracle ! Jerome, my brother, I
believe — I believe — I believe ! "

So do I ! " exclaimed Jerome striking his
forehead. He drew his sister rapidly to him and
kissed her, then walked from the room with a
steady step.

Soon he was on his knees in the chapel, and
praying that the venerable lady, the benefactress
of his sister and himself, the gentle, godly mistress
of all who lived on this ancient estate,
might pass unscathed through the waters of uncleanness,
even as Ananias, Acacias, and Missel
had been saved from the pagan s fire.

CHAPTER XIV

I WANT to have a talk with you about your
brother' said the Count de Beaujeu to his wife
a few days after Eoland's return to Paris.
Eohind had not as yet discovered by whom he
had been kidnapped and conveyed to France.
Absorbed by his military duties, he could not
give any time to the elucidation of this mystery ;
but both his sister and his brother-in-law noticed
that it preyed upon his mind. ''' Your brother
is acting strangely," continued the Count.

He has grown very excitable," admitted
Aimee, coldly.

*•' I hope that hit on the head has not injured
him ; but he must take c-care. He must keep a
guard over his tongue. They have given him
the command of a spl-splendid regiment, and he
is already finding fault p-publicly."

NOT READY. 245

'' He says his regiment is not fit to take the
field," answered Aimee. "The AVar Minister
issues orders, but the department does not obey
them. Koland has seen the minister twice about
his men's sabres. He is frantic about it."

'' He mustn't be frantic ; he mustn't see people
twice," said the Imperial Senator testily. 'ministers
don't like to be teased. I may be a minister
myself in a few weeks. How do you think that
r should like a colonel to come and worry me
twice about the sa-same thing ? "

'there's something about boots, too," remarked
the Countess, with a stifled yawn which
indicated not so much a want of interest in the
subject as weariness of her husband's company*
"Why cannot they give Roland's men the proper
sort of boots "? "

There is something worse than boots," said
the Count.

It must be very serious, then," rejoined the
Countess.

"There's this — that your brother has been
making a will by which he bequeaths three-fourths
of his fortune to Miss Corrington."

Who told you so ? "

"Eagotin, the notary; and the matter interests

you principally, for if Eoland died in war, his
fortune ought to go to you and your children."

I suppose my brother may do what he
pleases with his own," said Aimee.

'^ If you think so, then I — I have nothing
further to say," stuttered the Count.

But Aimee did not think so, and she knew
that her husband was aware that she did not
think so. This conjugal dialogue was being held
after a midday dejeuner tete-astute, and those
who know Mr. Richardson's ]picture, " Le Mariage
de Convenance," will have an exact idea of the
scene. On one side of the large richly served
table the high-bred, pouting beauty, whose face,
to others so sweet, was to her husband so hard
and scornful ; opposite her the elderly voluptuary,
with thin heated cheeks and shrivelled hands.
There was a tall glass of green Bohemian crystal
before him, out of which he sipped Sauterne, the
heavy stem, round which a snake was coiled,
trembling in his loose fingers every time he
raised the wine to his lips.- Yet his attire was
perfect, and everything about him betokened the
man who lives to please, and who, outside his
own domestic circle, is considered charming. No
misplaced crease marred the design of his finely

cut coat, of his starched white vest, aud his beautifully
dressed linen, of which, according to the
French fashion, he displayed a great deal. His
Avhite hair was brushed forward to make a juvenile
toupee over his venerable blotched forehead,
his moustache tips were nicely waxed, and
his blue spotted necktie was arranged in an
elegant bow. It must be added that, although
the Count's voice quavered, and though his eyes
were glazed, there was plenty of resolution in his
glance. Such men as he die hard, and the instinct
of imperiousness is that which perishes
last in them.

The Count's conversation with his wife was
interrupted by the staid entrance of the two little
De Beaujeux — Louis and Annette — who, returning
from a morning's promenade in the Tuileries
Gardens with their Norman nurse, came in to
kiss their parents before going to dinner. In
honour of the war the little boy was dressed upas
a Zouave, and his sister as a Yivandiere. They
were pretty children, and well mannered up to a
certain point. They would walk into a room hand
in hand, smiling like young comedians ; they
gave and received salutations with grace. They
had been taught to make the most of themselves.

But they were spoilt children, and, when not
parading before company, whined for sweets, and
told tales about their nurse and their playmates
and about each other. The Count, who was not
disposed to play with them that morning, thought
to dismiss them at once by giving them each a
small sweet apple ; but at this, Aimee s maternal
anxieties were aroused.

"Not raw apples, my darlings. Put them
down like good children, and you shall have some
candied apricots. Nobody eats raw apples."

'' But, mamma. Eve gave Adam a raw apple,"
said little Louis, who was a precocious boy, addicted
through his mother's encouragements to
saying sharp things.

'' No ; it was a baked apple which Eve gave
to Adam, and she put plenty of white sugar on it,
so that he might not have to take any of those
nasty powders which the doctor gives. Here, eat
these, my darlings."

Louis and Annette went out, munching candied
apricots by way of whetting their appetites
for a dinner of hitch and jam omelette. When
they were gone, their father said, nth mild irony —

*' I am glad that you are bringing up these
children so religiously."

If you mean that for a joke, I consider it a
poor one," replied Aimee, flushing.

I am quite serious," answered the County
whom his wife's hostile repartees never troubled
or disarmed. " And that reminds me that your
excellent grandmother has caught a chill in letting
herself be dipped in the miraculous spring of
Chateaufort. I have received a letter notifying
this event from her doctor, who seems to object to
healing springs as competing unfairly with his
own prescriptions. He wants me to interfere and
keep the Marquise in bed, but her cold will probably
do that without my interference. May I
ask if you purpose going on a pilgrimage to the
spring which is causing so much happiness and
influenza in your birthplace ? "

Why should I go ? " replied Aimee, rising
from table and listlessly arranging some flowers
in di jardiniere.

*' Why, the Nuncio was speaking to me about
the matter, and said the apparition was very
remarkable, and far better authenticated than
such things generally are. I wonder Mademoiselle
De Penmarck and her brother have not
written to you about it''

"Pauline has written several times," said

Aimee. '•' But people are credulous in Brittany,
and you yourself, I suppose, hardly wish to be
troubled with her reflections."

'' Pardon me'' said the Count, in that tone of
mock piety which is so exasperating to women
when used by men whom they despise,
*'p-popular credulity is not a thing to be discouraged
; we have none too much in these times.
Besides, it is not for one in your station to set
the example of scepticism."

Thank you for the sermon ; it comes appropriately
from you J'

I am afraid not, ma chere amie" sighed the
Count, changing his voice to a paternal tone, in
which there was a touch of sadness. " I am
growing old, however, and may presume to advise
you out of my experience. Perhaps, too, I have
more reason than most men for believing and
hoping in miracles."

Aimee was fairly astonished, and, as her husband
left the room after favouring her with a
little nod which was almost ecclesiastical in its
benignity, she watched his retreating figure,
wondering whether this impenitent old sinner
had at last been touched by some spirit of grace.

She herself had ever scrupulously observed all

NOT Ready. 251

the proprieties of mundane religiousness. If anything
had prevented her from going to church on
a Sunday, she would have been inclined to send
her card. More than a dozen benevolent associations
in connection with the Church printed her
name on their lists of patronesses, and she was
actually the foundress of L'CEuvre des Petits
Souliers, whose members, all ladies of rank,
embroidered satin shoes with their own hands for
the dignitaries of Rome.

So much orthodoxy might contemn an accusation
of scepticism, and yet the Countess de
Beaujeu felt some qualms of conscience under her
husband's reproach, while marvelling that he, of
all men in the world, should have exhorted her
to believe in the apparition of Chateaufort.

Soon afterwards her brother, Eoland, came in.
He was in undress uniform, and looked very jaded,
dusty, and thirsty. Gertrude would hardly have
known him, with his hair cut so short and his
bearing so military; but, somehow, his appearance
was not that of a soldier who is happy and hopeful
in his work. '' Mon Dieu, what a life I'm
leading ! " he said, throwing himself exhausted
into a chair.

He came from St. Cloud, where his regiment

of cuirassiers was quartered. A troop of them
furnished a guard every day for the palace where
the Court was staying, but their colonel was now
chiefly engrossed in equipping them for war.

They were a superb body of men, these
troopers of Eoland's, not one of them less than
five foot ten in height. They wore blue tunics
with red facings, scarlet trousers, breastplates,
and heavy helmets, with red plumes and black
horse-hair tails, which flowed down the riders'
backs. Martial ardour was ablaze among: them,
for they were longing to sabre down the Prussians,
and they presented a formidable appearance
on parade, when not too closely looked at.

So long as you eyed them in a body, it was.
well ; but when the mount, arms, and accoutrements
of each separate trooper were inspected,
defects stood out which scandalized a colonel so
particular about horses and equipments as Eoland
was, so that from the moment when the Due
d'Alma had taken command of the regiment, he
had known no rest.

Perhaps it was a good thing for him that he
should have had regimental worries to efface
private troubles from his mind. One pain drives
away another. But it was not a good thing for

NOT READY. 253

France that one of her colonels should have had
this kind of solace.

The cry throughout the French army, muffled
in some quarters, outspoken in others, but everywhere
despairing, was, even at this period, 'not
ready ! "

Half the horses in Eoland's regiment were unfit
for service ; the usual spring remounts had not
been wholly furnished that year, owing to some
half-formed plan of retrenchment which had been
contrived at the War Office to suit parliamentary
exigencies. The Government had been anxious
to show the Chambers a reduction on the military
estimates, and an insufficient number of charters
had therefore been purchased. But the sudden
declaration of war having raised the price of
horses, the Government had been driven to buy
in a hurry animals of all sorts — raw colts, cart-horses,
broken-down cab and omnibus horses ;
and these being drafted in unsightly herds to the
different cavalry regiments, colonels had to make
the best of them.

It was the same as regards the accoutrements
and clothing of the men.

At the beginning of the year tunics, cloaks,
bags, boots, and side-arms of new patterns had

been issued to some of the men in every regiment
; and the army clothing contractors and the
state arsenals, being now laid under an overwhelming
press of work to supply tens of thousands
of articles according to these samples, at
a short notice, were sending out tunics scarcely
stitched, boots with glued soles, belts without
buckles, and sabres of untempered steel. The
confusion was maddening. Organization and
control had broken down. The War Office
officials, at their wits' end, were barking at all
applicants, complainants and querists, like watch-dogs
driven into their kennels. Growing utterly
reckless in their inability to stem, direct, or
fathom the torrent of papers that was flowing
upon them from every fort, fortress, citadel,
barrack, and depot, these officials signed and
stamped documents without heeding whether
they sent to the same address two or three sets
of contradictory instructions on the same day.

Monpauvre ami, you look quite worn out,"
said Aimee, laying a hand on her brother's
shoulder, as he sat down to table and poured
himself out a tumbler of claret and water.

He allowed her to fill his plate with some
cold pie, and he ate ; but though he tried to be

NOT READY. 255

cheerful, and even playful, in this affectionate
answers to her questions, it was evident that he
was suffering from bitter annoyance.

"Those AVar Office clerks are at their old
games," he said. " I get an order to hold a
squadron ready to start this morning, and while
my men are saddling, there comes another order
making me give up a hundred of my chargers
to furnish remounts for the 4th Dragoons. How
we can be ready for campaigning in a week, I
don't know. I have to go to the Plaine of
Orenelle this afternoon to pick horses in place
of those they have taken from me, but I know
I shall only get screws to choose from. I
shouldn't wonder if I were left in depot with my
regiment through the whole war."

Well, don't fret about it," replied Aimee.
You are doing your best, and if other people
won't do their duty, the fault won't be yours."

"It is heart-breaking, though, to see our army
mismanaged in this way," muttered Eoland.
He then changed the subject, and said that he
must go down to Chateaufort to see his grandmother
before he started. Dr. Tregalloan had
written him a letter to the same purport as that
which had been sent to the Count de Beaujeu,

namely, to say that the ]Marquise had caught a
severe cold from having been dipped T\'ith her
clothes on in cold water. "Poor grandmamma!
the doctor says she is not in any danger ; but at
her age everything is dangerous. What an idea
to take this bath ! '*

Koland, I've a good mind to go with you,"
said Aimee.

'* I wish you would, dear. I can only stay
at the chateau for a few hours, but you might
remain for a few days, and try to put a stop to
those masquerades that are making people laugh''

*' Masquerades ! Why, my husband has just
been telling me that the Nuncio considers the
miracle very well authenticated, and he has been
reading me a lecture on strong-mindedness."

I don't like these parodies of sacred things,"
said Roland, rising from the table. " Chateaufort
ought not to be inter the governance of two
young people like Jerome and Pauline."

I can't go and live in the place myself ; it's
too horribly dull," said Aimee. " But if I did live
there, Roland, I should not endeavour to stop)
the apparitions, for those wretched peasants must
have something to entertain them. They've not
theatres and cii^cuses like our Parisians, and it is

Not Ready. 257

the least we can do to leave them their ghosts
and Korrigans."

That is one way of looking at it."

The only way, I should think. Whom do
these marvels hurt ? not even the disbelievers,
since you say they laugh at them."

** Yes ; but I've heard some mess-room
pleasantries which are not agreeable. I cannot
stand up for these ghosts, and it goes against
the grain with me to hear anything al^out
Chateaufort laughed at. I promise you there
will be no more of these profanities under
Chateaufort's next mistress."

Do you mean Miss Corrington ? "

Yes, of course."

'' If you marry her "

I shall marry her, if I live ; and if I die inaction,
she will inherit as much of my property
as French law will allow me to leave her."

Her inheritance would only include Chateau -
fort, if grand mamma died before you," answered
Aimee, biting her lips. " But seriously, Roland,
are you so infatuated that you would leave away
a family estate to a stranger ? Think of the
crop of lawsuits you would raise ! We should
all attack Miss Corrington for undue influence."
VOL. u. 38

Lie spoke in jest, yet, by a ring in her voice,
Eoland guessed that she was half in earnest, and
he frowned. He had just buckled his belt, and
was drawing on his white doeskin gloves.

Why, you and your husband are rich
enough, Aimee. What could you want with my
money ? "

'' I was only joking, of course," laughed
Aimee, colouring. " But you are not killed yet,
nor are likely to be. You make me think of
a bear disposing of his own fur — quite a lovesick
bear, too. I was beginning to hope that war
was curing you of your passion. Does my future
sister-in-law write to you every day ? "

'' She has only written once since I left
England," replied Eoland, moodily. " The poor
child does not know what to say to me ; she
is as puzzled as I am to account for the crime
which separated us."

I should think she might set the English
police to work."

Oh, the truth will all be discovered some
day ! " exclaimed Eoland, slashing angrily at his
boot with his heavy riding-whip. The blood
mounted to his face as he spoke, and the purpose
of vengeance gleamed from his eyes in a way

that would have made both Grachard and
Cleverly wince if they had been there to see.
"The infuriating part of the matter," he continued,
in a troubled voice, "is that most of
my English friends appear to think that I left
England on purpose. " Gertrude's parents evidently
think so, and she, poor child, cannot
conceal from me that this is the case."

Ah, well, don't get excited about it," said
Aimee, in a coaxing tone, as she took her
brother's arm and looked up into his face.
Don't frown like a big ferocious dragoon, but
go off and see to your horses, and when you
come back we will talk about starting for
Chateaufort together. It will be like old days,
travelling alone with you ; but I don't think
I shall spoil my holiday by talking with you
much about Miss Corrington."

What is this prejudice of yours against
Gertrude ? " asked Eoland, taking Aimee's face
caressingly in his two hands and gazing down
into her eyes. " You promised to be my ally in
this match."

So I have been your ally, but I cannot help
envying this English girl for having what I
never had."

'' What is that ? "

*' Why, such a faithful lover."

The words were kindly spoken, and they
sped Roland away with a little balm on his heart.
But it need scarcely be said that the Countess de
Beaujeu was not in the least reconciled to the
idea of seeing Gertrude Corrington become mistress
of Chateaufort in the event of her brother s
death. She had dissembled before Eoland,
because it is not good to contradict an impassioned
lover ; but she agreed with her husband,
that Roland must have been bewitched. As the
natural result of such musings, she was led to
reflect that there might be something, after all,
in the old notions about sorcery, omens, and
apparitions, and she pondered again over her
husband's words about the miracle of Chateaufort.

CHAPTER XV.

A GREAT MAx's LITTLE BUSINESS.

Aime would have marvelled if she could have
witnessed the strange scene that took place in
her husband's study soon after he had left the
dining-room.

The Count had a magnificent study, which
occupied an angle of the house, and had windows
on two sides. A couple of these overlooked the
gardens of the mansion — a small park with trim
plats of turf, beds of roses and geraniums, marble
groups of statuary, and deep porphyry basins
full of clear greenish water, in which gold and
silver fish flitted and flashed. The other two
windows, shaded with pink striped awnings and
leading to a balcony on which stood huge blue
china pots full of flowers, commanded a view
of the whole Avenue des Champs Elysees as far
as the Tuileries.

Many a grand imperial pageant had been
witnessed from those windows. Only three
years before, sixty thousand men, the flower of the
French army, had been passed under the trees
of the Avenue to be reviewed by the Sultan
Abdul Aziz. And now as the Count entered
the room, he was attracted to the balcony by the
music of a passing regiment — a regiment of that
invincible army at which the Mussulman had
stared with envious eyes, going to war ^itli
drums beating, colours flying, and hopes bounding
in the bosom of each man.

There they went, about two thousand of
them — the full strength of a regiment on war
footing. The little kinsmen, with their red
trousers and cow-skin knapsacks, marched in
loose order — their step that quick elastic one
which is to the heavy Prussian tread as dance
music to big drum play. Twelve bearded sappers,
in tall bear-skins and white leather aprons,
strode at the front of the regiment, csiirjmg axes
over their shoulders, like so many herdsmen. The
colonel rode proudly, with a hand on his hip ;
the tricolour standards, surmounted by brazen
imperial eagles, fluttered in the dust and breeze ;
and the band, playing the " Marseillaise," was

answered by the cheers and chorusing of a large
crowd — black coats and blouses, bonnets and
caps, all intoxicated by that odour of gunpowder
which seemed to fill the air. The
Emperor had allowed the long-proscribed revolutionary
hymn to be performed by the military
lands, in the hope that it would inflame the
martial ardour of the nation ; and everybody in
Paris, but especially the street boys, appeared
to rejoice in singing the first verse (somehow
nobody is ever heard repeating the other verses)
of that famous song —

Allons, enfants de la Patrie,
Le jour de gloire est arrive," etc.

The Count de Beaujeu turned from the balcony
with a grim smile, and shambling towards a
fine portrait of Napoleon III., which hung on one
of the walls, he made a mock bow, chuckling —

You are a great man, sire ! To have made
that r-rabble howl the ' M-Marseillaise ' to your
glory and profit is a sharp thing. It's well
played ! "

Then the Senator proceeded to work. Some
might have thought that a study so luxurious
as his was really no place for working. As it
was replete with every convenience for reading,

writing, or meditation, that was almost a reason
why there should be no meditation, writing, or
reading in it. The blotting-paper in those grand
rooms is apt to remain immaculate ; the books so
strongly bound for use stand on the shelves for
show ; and the thick-pile carpets, that were
intended to deaden all sounds that might disturb
labour, serve to make the stillness which is conducive
to slumber in an easy-chair. Those wanting
the best tools are not those who can afford to have
them ; so the hardest diamonds do not belong to
glass-cutters. However, the Count de Beaujeu
had so many irons, political and financial, in the
fire, that he did a great deal of work — work that
was clean, in that it left few stains on pens or
paper, though it might not be so unveiling in
other ways.

A touch on a hand-bell brought in the man
who helped him in this work, his secretary, an
Alsatian named Kleinwort, who spoke with an
atrocious German brogue. Kleinwort carried a
sheaf of papers.

'have you prepared the rep-report on the
Chateaufort Railway Bill ? " asked the Senator,
seated at his desk, and not looking at the secretary,
who stood behind him.

"Yes, M. le Gomte ; here it is."

And the notes on Belgium ? "

"M. le Gomte, I have collected twenty
coot instances of vat you vas pleased to gall
moral violations of de Belgian neutrality. Dey
would make a strong case vor annexation."

Let me see. You must c-continue to study
this question, Kleinwort. When we have got
our natural frontiers on the Rhine, we shall seize
upon B-Belgium. I shall be for striking while
the iron is hot, immediately after we have dictated
peace to Prussia and p-placed French
garrisons in Cologne and clarence. England
will not move."

Enoiand cannot move. Her Brime sinister,
he will give very coot moral reasons vor not
playing a return match with France at Waterloo,"
answered Kleinwort, with a short wooden
laugh.

England is dropsical, and people have been
taking her g-grossness for strength," stuttered the
French Senator, contemptuously. *but now as
to the Bourse to-day ? "

Everything is falling, M. le Gomte. The
Credit General veil twenty-vive francs again.
Dere is not much confidence among those who

have money ; and to-day dere will be no payers
for stock."

'' Then tell my broker to b-buy up all he
can during the next three days at the lowest
quotations. Let him do it quietly, and say
nothing that will raise the market."

•'You dink it prudent to puy wholesale,
M. le Gomte ? Suppose there should be another
vail?"

Quotations cannot d-drop lower than they
are now," said the Count, consulting a share list.

Suppose our armies are beaten, den dey
will vail very much lower," observed Kleinwort.
'' As for dat Credit General, it will be ruined.
De defeat of our armies would mean de overthrow
of de Empire and de establishment of a
Republic, and de Credit General could not live
without de support witch de Imperial Government
has given it. I would be prudent, M. le
Gomte."

The Count's writing-chair, revolving on a
pivot, enabled him without exertion to turn
round and confront his secretary. As will have
been gathered from a Teutonic accent, which it
has been attempted to render into English,
Kleinwort's French speaking " flayed the ears "

of a listener. Hailing from Outhouse, he was
French by virtue of the treaty of Aix-la-chapelle,
but in physiognomy, speech, and character as
German as if his infant teeth had gnawed their
first sausage on the banks of the Spree. He had
a pear-shaped, hairless face, pointed at the chin,
broad at the forehead, lank hair, high cheekbones,
a dull, earthy complexion, and steel -
rimmed spectacles. Tall and bony, having knotty
finger-joints, long arms, and long feet, Klein-wort
dressed in black clothes, with a low evening
waistcoat and a turn-down collar, out of which
his thin neck rose to such a height that the head
upon it seemed perched on a stalk.

If Kleinwort spoke French with an atrocious
accent, it could be said in his favour that he
spoke several other languages in just the same
way. His master found in him all those accomplishments
and qualities which are not to be met
with in a French secretary ; for your Frenchman
is flighty and unlearned, ambitious, sensitive,
and a rebel to discipline. The French secretary
to a man of importance glories in the honorary
perquisites of his position. He lets everybody
know who he is ; he likes it to be thought that
he has influence ; he tries to secure a badge of

merit for his button-hole (a South American
order will do if a European be out of his reach) ;
and he is so tender about his dioriitv that even
a reproach about his handwriting brings a flush
to his brow, with some passing idea of instantly
tendering his resignation. Kleiawort had the
erudition of a professor ; he worked hard as an
omnibus horse, and he had no objection to be
treated as a menial. To read Schopenhauer and
Strauss was his intellectual relaxation ; to smoke
pipes all alone in his small room on the topmost
story of the Hotel de Beaujeu, the only form of
dissipation in which he indulged. He loved
some far-away ' Lenchen/ to whom he wrote
long, long letters ; and he had neither religion,
principles, nor scruples, only the habit of obedience
and the instinct of discretion To drop a
secret into Kleinwort's ear was like throwing
a stone down a drain ; not a ripple on his face
betrayed what he had received.

You never play cards, Kleiawort ? " asked
the Senator, looking with a shalt sneer at his
circumspect secretary.

Vein, M. le Gomte ; at chess sometimes*'
Quite right, stick to that game ; it's safer.
But I see you do not know what playing for

high stakes means. I know what I am about in
telling you to buy up. So just obey me. Is
there any one waiting to see me ? "

Yes, a man who has been here at least one
hour and a half — M. Quirolo or Quiroule."

** Show in M. Quiroule," said the Count, in
an easy tone, " and remember m-my instructions
about the Bourse."

Pierre Quiroule, no longer dressed as a
pedlar, but as a man of fashion, was ushered
into the room, and made several deep obeisance
to the Count de Beaujeu from the moment he
crossed the threshold. These the Senator barely
acknowledged with a little nod ; in fact, he began
to write a letter, and for several minutes he took
no notice of his visitor, but left him standing.

Pierre Quiroule seemed to expect no more
civil treatment. The fellow's handsome face,
which had made Odette's heart beat, might well
have turned the heads of many other girls. With
his nice clothes he might have passed in the streets
for a cavalry officer or a prosperous artist. But
his attitude in the Count's study was not that
which he assumed in the street. His large eyes
were fastened with abject humility on the Count's,
like a dog's waiting for the master's word. At

last the Count, ^dtliout lifting his glance from
the paper on which his quill pen scratched loudly,
said, " Well, everything has gone off properly ? "
Everything, sir," answered Quiroule, in a
whispered tone, and keeping at a respectful
distance. " Pilgrims are already flocking in
shoals."

Come nearer, and don't whisper. How
much land have you managed to get me ? "

A great deal, sir ; three farms, a strip of
the heath through which any line of rail would
certainly have to pass, and a piece of the moorland
facing the sandy part of the sea-shore, quite
enough to build two or three streets upon."

"And you have bought the Three Gulls inn ? "
The purchase-money was paid three days
before the apparition."

"Good, then," proceeded the Count, folding
up his letter T^ith as much deliberation as the
palsied tremor in his fingers would allow. " You
will be able to make your f-fortune by turning
that inn into a first-class hotel. We shall soon
poet a line of rail constructed to Chateaufort. I
will take care that many ladies of rank go on a
pilgrimage to the m-miraculous spring, and that
doctors recommend the hygienic properties of

the water and the b-bracing quality of the air on
that part of the sea-coast. I will build a casino,
shops, villas, and in two years Chateaufort will
have become a fashionable sea-bathing place, and
have as many pilgrims as Lourdes or Decamp.
It will be a g-good speculation."

It cannot fail, sir," answered Quiroule,
whose deep abasement of manner made him involuntarily
sink his tone again as he spoke.
"No apparition ever came more opportunely.
Some have accepted it as a portent of the coming-war,
others connect it with the Due d'Alma's
intention of marrying a Protestant ; but there
are no sceptics."

Well, you've done your work satisfactorily,
and, as I p-promised, you shall have that hotel as
your reward," said the Count, drily. "'•' You'd
better go back now to Chateaufort, and help to
keep the popular faith in those parts at the
proper temperature. I won't detain you."

But Pierre Quiroule did not move, and the
Count, looking up after a moment with an air
of displeasure at his being still in the room,
saw on the man's features signs of an emotion
which he was trying hard but ineffectually to
master.

Sir," he said, in "an imploring voice, " you
promised me that if I served you well you would
use your powerful influence to get me the only
thing in the world I covet."

Well, I have given you money," replied the
Count.

I care nothing for money, sir," exclaimed
Quiroule, making with both hands a whole-hearted
gesture, as if he were emptying his two
pockets on the carpet. " I would give all I
have."

'' Don't talk nonsense."

*' At least, my money will be of little value
to me without that one thing," repeated Quiroule,
more calmly.

Let me see, what is that one thine Do
you want to be made a cardinal, a judge ? I
have so many p-petitions pressed on me."

*' Only a little piece of red ribbon," said
Pierre Quiroule, in a voice of the most wistful
supplication.

Ah, yes ; you want to be created a Knight
of the Legion of Honour. I re-remember now,"
said the Senator with a shrug; 'but the matter
is one of difficulty."

Not to you, sir ; a few words from you can

give me back character and the possibility of
beginning life ao^ain as an honest man. If I can
wear that red ribbon, nobody will suspect what I
have been, and — and, sir, I am tired of the work
I have been doing."

You chose it for yourself, my man, and it
seems to me you want to retire from business too
young. However, you've had my promise, and I
shall keep it at my own time. I may want you
to do me another service."

The animation died out of Pierre Quiroule's
eyes, and gave way to a look of sulky resignation.
" I am at your orders, sii' ; only let me
hope I may have my reward in the end."

There were not a few men like Pierre Quiroule
among the lower myrmidons of the Second Empire.
The fellow was a Corsican, on the staff of the
political department of the police, and he was
employed to do a great variety of curious fancy
work. Now he would appear at a Court ball,
dressed like a foreign officer, not so much to guard
the Emperor's person as to pick up words of conversation
that might fall from public men ; now
he would disguise himself like a workman, join
secret political associations, or help to form such ;
and sometimes, when the Government wanted to
VOL. n. 39

frighten the bourgeoisie with street riots, to show
that the revolutionary spirit was not extinct in
the country, he would stir up bands of boys —
dupes and desperadoes — to conflicts with policemen.
He often journeyed about as a commercial
traveller or pedlar in districts where a contested
election was to be held, and spread defamatory
stories about the opposition candidates. x\t
market-town tables cVhote and in village wine-shops
he gave marvellous accounts of the aggressive
designs of foreign powers against France —
designs always foiled by the Emperor's sagacity —
and he would affirm that the foremost men of
the Liberal party, men like Tiers, Jules Fare,
Gambetta, Ferry, were in the pay of Prussia.

He spoke so well, and had such experience in
suiting his words to the understanding: of his
hearers, that he never went anywhere without
leaving some lie that would stick. He was, indeed,
always doing mischief ; for if not very busy he
would — simply to while away the time — stroll
into a bookseller's shop, offer the man some
prohibited anti-Napoleonic works published in
Belgium, then oo and. denounce him as a retailer
of contraband, thereby leaving him to the mercies
of other police-spies, who either levied hush-money

from him or, failing to do this, had him
prosecuted. At times Pierre Quiroule was commissioned
to bring out incendiary newspapers, in
order to discredit the Republican party. These
sheets would be allowed to circulate so long as
the police thought proper ; then they would be
suppressed, and the writers whom Quiroule had
collected — the maddest among those who call
themselves Communists or Socialists — would be
swept off to prison.

At such work as this a man quickly amasses
money, and Pierre Quiroule was well off. Asa
Corsican he gloried in his treachery, for the men
of his island used to be devoted to the bonaparte,
and it had long seemed to Quiroule that
in pitting his cunning against the malice of
Napoleon Iii's enemies he was merely assisting
in the orderly business of government. An
instinctive national hatred against the French
served also to whet his eagerness in brino^in^
Frenchmen to trouble. But, growing affluent,
Quiroule had begun to feel his conscience get
more, tender ; and of late he had been hungering
for respectability, or rather for that badge of it
(which all Frenchmen, say what they please,
acknowledge), the ribbon of the Legion of Honour.

That is why lie had temporarily entered the
Count de Beaujeu's secret service. There was no
chance of Pierre Quiroule getting a decoration
unless a man of high position recommended him
for it ; but he had set eyes on the Count as a
likely man, for he knew this Senator to be a
personage of many intrigues, and he thought
that his intellectual and moral decrepitude would
make him easy to wheedle. He had found the
Count not easy to wheedle, but, having begun to
serve him, he meant to persevere until he got his
much-coveted recompense.

It occurred to M. de Beaujeu, as Quiroule
stood there gulping down his disappointment
with a wretched face, that the rogue might be
utilized in worming out the true facts as to
Eoland d' Alma's late adventures in England.

To the Count de Beaujeu these adventures
were incomprehensible. At first, he had been
indifferent to Eoland's marriage ; but now that
there was at least a possibility of his brother-in-law
being killed in war, it became undesirable
that the Duke's fortune should be secured in anyway
to !Miss Corrington. The Count de Beaujeu,
as we have seen, was a heavy speculator, and that
wear some of his investments had not been

successful. He hoped to recoup himself by a
prodigious haul in playing for a rise on the
Bourse — the rise to be produced by French
victories ; but, of course, he might be a loser,
and in that case, supposing Roland died, it
would be good to have the latter's fortune to
fall back upon. " x4nd if our armies are beaten,
there are ten chances to one that Roland will
be killed," thought the Count. " We can only
be beaten after terrific resistance, and the colonel
of a cuirassier regiment would be in the hottest
of the battle."

You mi-might serve me by running over
to an English town called Lewbury," he said
suddenly to Pierre Quiroule. And then he gave
a short account of Roland's " entanglements,"
adding, " I cannot understand how the dramatic
denouement came about. My brother-in-law was
assaulted, drugged, and kidnapped, as he says.
Try and find out all ab-about it. You m-may
at the same time circulate anything you may
think li-likely to keep him and this Mademoiselle
Corrington apart. Any proofs that mademoiselle
and her old admirer, the doctor, are still on good
terms would be wel-welcome. It looks to meas
if mademoiselle were being forced into an

en engagement against her will by her parents,
for the sake of the Duke's money, and the doctor
knowing this kidnapped my brother-in-law —
pro-baby with her consent. Do you understand?"


Yes, M. le Comte. But you have mentioned
Timon Grachard ; I know him well."

He is a political proscribe sentenced to
death for a plot on the Hemp-Emperor's life.
Was it a real p-plot, or one of your machination
? "

"It was genuine enough, sir, and I disclosed
it. Grachard probably hates me more than any
man alive."

"That is your affair Everybody ha-hates
everybody so far as I can see ; but don't go into
this — this business if you are afraid."

I'm not afraid, sir,' said Quiroule, with a
curl of the lip.

"Well, you can assist me in rescuing my
brother-in-law from the hands of an adventuress.
That service may deserve the Legion of Honour,
which, remember, will ad-admit you to the
ranks of those whose chas characters are above
reproach."

Pierre Quiroule glanced at the red rosette in

the Count's own button-hole, and a slight smile
passed over his lips.

One word more, sir," he whispered, drawing
nearer to the table. " I will give you a proof
that I am devoted to your interests. Beware of
your secretary''

Of Kleinwort ? Why ? " asked the Count,
starting in his chair and slightly changing colour.

M. Kleinwort says he is an Alsatian,"
continued Pierre Quiroule ; " but his brogue is
not that of Alsace. Tt is that of Prussia. The
two are very different."

'' You're mistaken, man ! " answered the
Count. " Kleinwort has offended you, and you
are sp-spiting him."

Kleinwort is always boorish and insolent tome,"
admitted the Corsican. " If it were not so,
I should doubtless have left him to play his own
game with you, as it is no business of mine.
But I am not mistaken about him. I should
advise you, sir, to put no State secrets into his
possession, or they may go to Berlin. My
suspicion is that he is a Prussian spy."

"It is your trade to suspect," muttered the
Count, regaining his usual diplomatic composure ;
but he was evidently ill at ease, and fright was

leo-able on his face for several minutes after.

o

Pierre Quiroule had retired, making a low bow.
*****

Quiroule had said nothing about Odette in
this interview. To have named the girl who had
assisted him in performing the Chateaufort
miracle would have been to give away a share of
glory in that operation ; but indeed, Pierre did
not so much as think of Odette now that he had
deserted her. He left for England that same
evening to discharge his errand of collecting
gossips and spreading untruths in Lewbury.

He must have actually passed Odette as he
walked to the St. Lazaree railway-station, bag in
hand, for she had then been two days in Paris,
and was spending most of her time in loitering
about the Rue du Havre and the colonnade round
the yard of the station. She could not have
recognized him at a glance in his Parisian
clothes, however ; nor could he have readily detected
her, for she, too, had changed her costume.
She had fallen in with a chance friend — a Breton
servant-girl out of place — who had been long
enough in Paris to learn its ways, and who, after
helping her to find a lodging, was now assisting
her to get rid of her money. Odette had not yet

made up her mind to call on the Countess de
Beaujeu in redemption of the promise which she
had made to the Abbe J uva.

Her object was to find Pierre Quiroule, and
her friend the maid-servant suo^orested — not
without a sly laugh in the sleeve — that she had
better keep a look-out on all the trains that
started for Brittany. There were about a dozen
of these trains daily, and Odette, on the mere
chance that Pierre might be accustomed to travel
on the Breton line, watched for them all. Thus
she would almost to a certainty have seen the
Duke and the Countess de Beaujeu if the two
had gone to Chateaufort together, as Koland had
arranged.

But Eoland found himself unable to carry out
his intention. One of those aggravating War
Office orders came, enjoining him to start for the
frontier within a week, just after another order
had consigned his regiment to depot duty and
had taken away about a hundred of its horses.
It turned out that the second order was that
which had to be obeyed. The colonel had to
mount and equip his men as he could, and it was
out of the question that he should leave the
environs of Paris, even for a few hours. Happily

a letter from Pauline to Aimee brought bien
reassuring news of his grandmother's health, and
added, " We have thought it best to conceal
from dear madame that my cousin Eoland is
ofoins: to war. She is so weak that wee fear the
tidings would give her a great shock, unless my
cousin were present here to console her."

Better not cause her useless sorrow," thought
Roland ; and he resolved, though somewhat
reluctantly, not to press his sister to go and carry
a farewell for him to their mother's mother.

CHAPTER XVI.

TO HORSE !

Lewbury had relapsed into its usual dull decorum
since the great bubble of the French marriage
had burst there. The situation after Roland's
mysterious departure may be described as
Gertrude and Kate standing up for the Duke
against all the world who believed him false.
Dick was, of course, on the side of his sisters, but
he had returned to Woolwich.

It will be remembered that when Roland
telegraphed from Dieppe to inform Gertrude that
he was safe, the Marquis de Maisonbelle suppressed
that telegram ; so that the first tidings
about Roland, after the alarm caused by his supposed
murder, reached the family at Kingshouse,
through the telegram which had been sent to
Barney ordering him to return to France with his

master's effects. It was not till two days later
that Gertrude heard directly from her lover ; in
the meantime she had the grief and humiliation,
not of feeling Eoland untrue, for that she never
thought a moment, but of feeling that almost
everybody suspected him of having fled from her
to avoid a scrape.

It made matters worse that Eoland was unable
to tell Gertrude how and by whom he had
been spirited away.

You must not blame people, dear," said
Kate, in one of her many endeavours to soothe
Gertrude's irritation against unsympathetic
parents, friends, and neighbours. '' People mistrust
a mystery as they fear the dark, and then
les absents ont toujours tort and then again
Eoland failed in what he tried. If he had married
you, it would have been a young Lochinvar sort
of business — very brave and beautiful ; but it
did not succeed."

'' Owing to an infamous plot between Dr.
Cleverly and those Frenchmen," interrupted
Gertrude, vehemently.

"I do believe there was a plot, dear ; but
Dr. Cleverly says there was only a duel, and
you see he let himself be suspected of all sorts of

things during a whole clay sooner than speak a
few words which might have got those Frenchmen
into trouble. People think that was high-minded
on his part, and there has been a reaction
in his favour."

Papa has shaken hands with him, hasn't
he''

Well, you know, dear, how papa is when
there's a duty to be done. He considers that he
owed the doctor reparation. Mamma, having
no will of her own, has come to think like
him."

Mrs. Corrington, indeed, had adopted current
opinion about the Duke. The failure of her
daughter's marriage was as the spoiling by rain
of a gorgeous set of fireworks pompously prepared.
She was going to dazzle the world, and the world
was tittering at her bouquet, which would not
go off. Self-reproach for her own officiousness in
promoting a match which had ended in mortification
made her for a few days lackadaisical and
ashamed, then querulous. When day after day
brought some fresh letter from Paris, she grew
alarmed that the Duke should thus g^o on writings
Gertrude. What was the use of exciting the
girl in that way ? Why not consider the match

as broken off and Gertrude as free to accept
other offers, should she be lucky enough to get
any ?

Gertrude treasured Koland's letters jealously ;
she let nobody read them, not even Kate. Quotations
from these letters, sent up to the day when
Koland rode into action, will give an idea of
the distracting anxieties under which the young
colonel corresponded with his betrothed.

His first letter was posted on the day after he
reached Paris. Unable to recollect how he had
been conjured out of England, and still smarting
from the wound in his head, he gave an account
of his day at Dieppe, and then added vows of his
unutterable fidelity.

I cannot say more about the dastardly
ambuscade into which I appear to have been
drawn, my darling ; for it hurts me to think, and
it is of no use. Whether these men intended
to inflict a deadly injury upon me, or only to
make me ridiculous, I cannot guess, nor do I care.
They shall be terribly punished when I have
time to track them out, and they will not have
j:) re vented our marriage, my darling, unless indeed
I die in battle. But why should I fall ? I am
full of hope. After the war we shall be married

without any secrecy or doubtful rite. I am going
presently to see my notary, M. Eagotin, and will
instruct him to take the necessary legal steps to
bear down my grandmother's opposition. Poor
lady, she will fret, but not for long, 1 hope, and
I cannot help it. My first duty is to you. Again
I say I am full of confidence. All France is
eager for the fray. I hear the war-cries of little
boys in the streets as I write, and I close this in
haste — fain as I would linger to talk with you
yet awhile — because in another hour I must begin
my work of soldiering."

When he wrote this, Roland had not yet seen
his regiment. His next letter, written on the
following day, glowed with enthusiasm and bristled
with points of interjection, being written in his
native too-ue.

o

What a spectacle, my darling ! Oh, how 1
wish you had been by my side that your pretty
blue eyes might have reflected the flashing of
all those breastplates ! I was wearing my cuirassier
uniform for the first time (my little sister
ordered one for me the other day, as soon as
I was gazetted), and though I had to keep the
bandage on my head, the heavy helmet weighed
no more than a J:epi, and the breastplate was like

a summer vest, so light was my heart beneath it.
The late War Minister suppressed the bands in
cavalry regiments, so we have only a fanfare —
that is, trumpeters; but these made a grand
flourish, I assure you, when the lieutenant-colonel
had read my commission to them, and I
felt tempted to wave my sabre and give one of
your English hurrahs. But that would not have
been military ; so I sat with forced coldness on
my charger, returning the salute of each troop as
it trotted by for my inspection, and I thought
with exultation of the thundering galops which
those brave fellows and I would soon have over
the German Hieland together ! "

The next letter was composed in a much more
sober vein. By that time Eoland had seen below
the surface of things.

'cavalry Barracks, St. Cloud,

"July 22, 1870.

*' My BELOVED Gertrude,

'' I have received your short note. Why
was it not longer ? I kiss the dear writing, and
I thank you, my sweet love, for all that it contains.
It has brought me encouragement at a
time when I sadly needed it. Do not repeat

anything I say to you about the state of our
armies, for I have no business to write of such
things ; but I tell you the truth as to my wife.
Dear child, it is dreadful ! If all the regiments
are in as bad plight as mine, we shall belike
a man crouch out to fight with one arm tied
behind his back"

"July 23.
I have been working nine hours at my desk
to prepare a report for the AVar Office of things
that we want. Finally, I lost patience, and wrote
in large letters, with a dash underneath, ' We
leant everything.' Dearest, you would have both
laughed and cried if you could have seen the two
score of horses they brought me this morning for
remounts. Some looked as if they had escaped
from a knacker's yard. I told the remount captain
that I would not sign a receipt for these beasts
as fit for service. He said, ' Take what is sent
you, and be thankful ; you will get nothing better.'
It turns out that the Germans bought the pick
of our horses in the eastern provinces during the
spring, and we have only just learned this. What
a state of things ! "

VOL. IT. 40

July 24.
To-day half a dozen heavily laden waggons,
drawn by four horses each, and escorted by a detachment
of the Army Service Corps, entered our
barrack yard with a great noise. ' Ammunition
and stores ! ' cried the officer in charge, delivering;
his inventory. We opened two packing cases
full of sabres of a pattern that is no longer used ;
in two other cases were scabbards that did not
fit the sabres — they belonged to others sent elsewhere.
Three big sacks, marked as containing
mess tins, were found to be full of rice. Imagine
me in the midst of this scene scolding the officer,
and being assured by him that the fault was not
his. AVhose fault is it ? That is what we are all
asking''

July 25.
This morning I went up to the War Office,
and saw a chief clerk about our horses. I told
him that I was willing to give up all my private
horses and a dozen racers from my training
stables for the use of the regiment, if they would
only relieve me of the beasts that had been supplied.
I received answer that I must, firstly,
get the horses to which I objected certified unfit

by the veterinary ; secondly, post the veterinary's
certificate to the Remount Department, and await
a reply ; thirdly, apply to the War Office for
leave to make a donation of horses to the Government,
the application to contain a description
of each horse, a warranty of his soundness ; and,
fourthly, to send the horses, at my own expense,
to any depot the Government might direct ; for
it was out of the question, said the chief clerk,
that the Government should promise to let the
horses be used in my regiment. Government
must be left to exercise its own discretion in
this matter. Can you imagine all this routine
in a crisis when every hour is precious, when the
enemy are actually knocking at our gates '? But
I am to dine at the Chateau de St. Cloud this
evening, and I will speak to the Emperor."

July 26.
I dined at the palace last night, dearest,
and I spoke with the Emperor ; but, of course,
I said nothing that would have been disagreeable
for him to hear. This dinner was the last to
be given at Court before the Emperor leaves for
^letz. The Emperor was evidently preoccupied,
but amiable, having a pleasant word for

everybody ; the Empress full of animation. Weare
under order to march tomorrow, so I was
asked if my regiment was in good fighting trim.
Could I have said " No " in the hearing of a score
of people, among whom were three Cabinet
ministers ? Courtiers never speak the truth.
Ah, if I could have got the Emperor alone ina
corner for a quarter of an hour ! But there
is no man in the country who would not like
to get the Emperor to talk with him privately
for fifteen minutes ; and Emperors know this —
and all the etiquette of Courts has been invented
to prevent people from getting these quarters
of an hour ! I am only irritated, however—
not despondent ! If we had to charge the
enemy in our shirt-sleeves and on bare-back
horses, I suppose we should rout them all the
same ; but it is cruel to reflect that the country
pays for our being properly armed and equipped,
and that the money is squandered or filched by
we know not whom. Poor Emperor, he has
some worthless servants ! But this is enough of
grumbling ; I am abusing the soldiers' privilege
of being a grognard."

"July 27.

My beloved Gertrude,

I shall be starting in half an hour ;
so, while my charger is being saddled, I sit
down, already helmeted and cased in iron — such
a fierce-looking figure you would not know me —
to write you this short farewell. I have made
a will, in which I leave you as much of my
fortune as the French law allows ; that is, three -
fourths. My notary will communicate with you,
if I die, and he will hand you a sealed paper, in
which you will find some requests, which I know
you will faithfully obey, for my sake, darling.
I have named as executors, your father and my
brother-in-law the Senator Count de Beaujeu.
The trumpet is sounding to horse, and I have
Ijeen thrice interrupted since I began these
lines. I write standing at a rickety desk,
and my man Barney, who has been sobbing
because the War Office will not allow civilian
valets to accompany their masters — Barney
keeps pressing me to eat and drink. He has
brought me, in ten minutes, wine, coffee, water,
and now he proposes tea ; so that my thoughts
wander a little. But they return to you, my
sweet birdie, after every disturbance, like flyaway

pigeons to their perch. There I have been
interrupted again. The trumpeters are sounding
their last call ; all the men are in their saddles.
I have only a minute left in which to say,
God keep you, my darling. I love you — I love
you — I love you !

Roland."

Metz, July 28, evening.
*just a line to say that I am at headquarters.
We rode through the streets of Paris
yesterday amid prolonged acclamations. As we
passed the Jockey Club, all my friends — many
English ones among; the number — were at the
windows, waving their hats and clapping their
hands. From Paris to Metz we went by rail —
horses, men, and all in two trains ! I ride out
to-nio^ht to join Marshal MacMahon's Arms
Corps. My letters for the future will pass
through the Quartermaster - General's office.
Write to me as often as you can, dearest, and
direct to head-quarters. Tell me that yon pray
for us all, and for me. Don't pray that I maybe
safe, but that I may so bear myself that you
will be proud of me."

Wissembourg, August 2.
Dearest, we shall be in action to-day or
tomorrow. You will hear before this reaches
you, I trust, of a French victory at Worth or
EeischofFen."

CHAPTER XYIL

NEWS.

Ox the clay after Gertrude received the last of
the foregoing letters, which were sent from Paris
that dated July 27, in which Roland intimated
that he had made a will in her favour — she got
a note from M. Ragotin, the Duke's notary,
announcing the death of the Marquise de
Chateaufort.

Mademoiselle,

According to the instructions of my
client, the Due d'Alma, who has requested me to
keep you informed during his absence of all
events of interest to his family, I have the
honour to report to you that Madame la Marquise
de Chateaufort died this day at Chateaufort,
almost suddenly, after a short illness.

"Pray receive, mademoiselle, the homage of
my respectful condolence and regard,

"N. Eagotin.

*' Paris, July 27, 1870."

Evidently Eoland was not aware of his
grandmother's death when he wrote his letter of
the 2 8th from Metz. This letter and M. Eagotin's
reached her at the same time.

Gertrude, having suffered so much through
the Marquise de Chateaufort, had formed rather
an awful conception of her, and was shocked at
the sudden news of the old lady's death. But
she understood the importance of the news to
herself, and felt she must take counsel of Kate.
So after breakfast she went to her sister's house,
and produced both M. Eagotin's communication
and Eoland's letter about the will. -

Kate drew a long breath. The letters brought
to her relief from sundry fears of which Gertrude
had no suspicion. For some days past there had
been rumours in the town about the doings and
sayings of a French detective named Quiroule,
who had come to Lewbury to make inquiry about
the assault committed on the Duke. He was
occupying M. Grachard's old lodgings at Mrs.

Hopkins' bouse, rdcI lie was reported to have
told the widow that the Due d'Alma was nearly
ruined by losses on the turf, that be was engaged
to marry a French girl of fortune, that bis little
affair with Miss Corrins^ton was nothing but an
amourette, and that he had had many such indifferent
parts of the world, being notoriously a
libertine who gave his virtuous relative, the
Senator Count de Beaujeu, much sorrow.

Kate did not mean to repeat a word of all
this to Gertrude nor to her parents, but the
gossip had come to her through her husband,
whom it had scandalized, and Kate was sincerely
afflicted by it. Her face quite brightened while
she re-read Eoland's letter, and she sent her
children out of the room that she might talk
more comfortably with Gertrude. They were in
the nursery amid a litter of toys and pictorial
A. B.C. books. It was the young mother's usual
hour for teaching her little ones that "A was an
Apple that grew on a tree, and B was a Baby as
good as can be."

Why, Gertie dear, it's a most important
letter," said Kate. " If — if Eoland were to
die — at least, you know what I mean — you
would become owner of Chateaufort."

*' Don't speak of that, dear," answered Gertrude,
tears starting to her eyes. " Ought I to
acknowledge the receipt of M. Eagotin's letter ?
I came to take your advice about that ; just to
show you how good Eoland is to me."

He is, indeed ! You will show this letter
to papa ? "

No, not to anybody."

You must let me speak about it to Hu,
then ? "

You can do as you like, but I shall say
nothing. Everybody is unkind to me, except you
and Dick. Nobody else believes in Eoland, and
yet — oh, if you only knew him as I do, Kate."

She broke down, and could not resist showing
Kate some of Eoland's other letters, which
she kept about her tied up in a packet. The tale
of Eoland's regimental difficulties, his ardour and
perseverance, worked powerfully upon Kate's
warm heart. " Oh, Gertie, he is a noble fellow ! "
she exclaimed enthusiastically. " Dear me, as
the old Marchioness was fated to die so soon,
why was she allowed to do so much mischief
just before going ? It matters little enough to
her now whom her grandson marries."

Isn't death a fearful thing ? " murmured

Gertrude, drying her eyes. ''A woman all-powerful
yesterday, and to-day of no account
whatever on earth ! But I must be off now to
my lessons."

Are you taking lessons, then ? "

No, dear," and Gertrude smiled faintly.
But mamma told me yesterday that we had all
idled long enough, and that I must begin this morning
to act as governess again to Bertha and Mab."

Kate reddened, and seemed to consider this
behaviour of her mother somewhat mean. But
she exclaimed brightly, " Well, dear, the teaching
of those girls will do you good. "We mustn't
mope. And I am sure Mab wants a governess ;
she is terribly backward."

Affliction and a general denial of the sympathy
which she esteemed to be her due had
made Gertrude sensitive, and were making her
prouder every day. She had taken to dressing
in black, and always wore a veil. Ashen she
went out, she walked quickly through the streets,
bowing to nobody, letting nobody accost her ;
and if she entered a shop, even one where she
was known, she asked for what she wanted in a
tone which precluded all incidental conversation
about the weather.

Kate watched her sister go homewards, and
thought it hard that the poor girl should have so
few sympathizers in her trial. But, in truth, the
world took its cue from her own family. When
Kate told her husband of the Duke's letter, the
lawyer answered that it would be time enough
to talk of the Duke's will when he was dead,
and when it was proved that he had property to
leave. This was said pointedly and peevishly,
for Mr. Littleton thought it somehow behoved
him to make his wife feel that she lay under his
displeasure in all that concerned her encouragement
of the match between Gertrude and the
Duke. He was one of those men who, in a mild,
unaggressive way, can sulk silently and long.
To forfeit his good opinion was like scaring a
whole flock of geese out of a poultry yard.
Every bird had to be brought back to the fold
with much patience and wheedling.

Kate met with no better reception when she
talked about the will to her father. General
Corrington had taken up that attitude so convenient
for irresolute men, which consists in
washing one's hands " of a business. He felt
disgraced among his friends by the catastrophe
to his daughter's engagement, and it worried

liii to answer the questions of inquisitive 
; accordingly he had given out that he
would not speak or be spoken to about the Duke,
in his home or out of it. A sense of duty,
however, commanded him to shake hands With
Dr. Cleverly the first time they met ; for the old
soldier was very angry with himself for having
(too lightly, as he now thought) suspected the
doctor of a crime.

The meetings of the General and the doctor
was in this wise. Laurence Cleverly strolled
one afternoon into the subscription-room at the
reading-rooms, and the General happened to be
alone there. It has been explained that the
subscription-room served the purpose of a club in
Lewbury. There was a large public room into
which anybody might enter for a penny ; but the
frequenters of the subscription-room formed a
select band, paying a guinea a year. They had
an idea that they were exclusive, because they
could not prevail on so many people as they
desired to disburse a regular guinea rather than
casual pence.

The General glanced up from his paper, held
out his hand, withdrew it, and looked foolish.

How i've do ? " he said.

Good-day, General' answered Cleverly,
nodding • and there the dialoo-ue would have
ended had not the General felt that he ought to
say something more. ^Yith a grunt he remarked —

"This is different to our last meeting — eh,
what ? AVe were all very anxious the other day
when we called upon you. Why couldn't you
tell us that you knew the Duke was alive ? "

I didn't know it. I had been summoned in
the night to dress a wound of the Duke's, who
had been fighting a duel with a Frenchman.

''WithGrachard?"

I can't say. There were three Frenchmen,
and I asked no questions; but knowing how hard
it might go with the Duke's antagonist if death
resulted from the duel, I held my tongue about
the affair until I heard the combatants lead
reached France. You know what a professional
secret is ? "

"Yes, of course," said the General, who was
making an ear-horn of his right hand. " So the
fellows fought, did they ? What about ? "

That was no business of mine ; I promised
secrecy. My part of the work was to dress the
Duke's wound."

Was he much hurt, then ? "

'' Well, I perhaps saved his life," replied
Cleverly.

The General continued to read his paper, but
presently, on leaving the room, he held out his
hand to Cleverly ; and, on his return home,
reported the conversation to his wife.

'' All that Cleverly says sounds very natural,
and I think he behaved very well," was his
remark.

Mrs. Corrington admitted that the duel story
was to the doctor's credit, if true ; but the
General was not satisfied with this hypothetical
concession.

'why, ]varia, you've not forgotten what
pranks used to be played when there was duel-minor
in our service. Your father, Perkins, had
many a time to help in getting a fellow out of
a scrape for fighting. Don't you remember
Tompkins and Wilkins, who fought about the
mulatto girl at Barbadoes, and would have been
court-martialled and cashiered if he hadn't certified
that they were thrown out of a buggy ? "

We have only Dr. Cleverly's word for it
that there was a duel," observed j\Irs. .


Well, but Cleverly has a right to be

believed so Ion or as his word is not challenged.
The Duke says he remembers nothing. That's
lame ; and besides, he deceived us about the
marriage. Everybody says that through his
carelessness, or worse, he was going to do
Gertrude a wrong."

Mrs. Corrino^ton, as we know, was beginning:
to think like everybody, and had no heart to
argue further against her husband.

But weak people are ever unjust. Plunderers
in the water, they clutch at whatever can
give them support, and rest their whole weight
on it. Mrs. Corrington got foothold on the idea
that " Gertrude had mismanaged things :" and.
stamping over this unassailable ground, the good
lady made many a bullying little speech to
Gertrude. She bemoaned the money that had
been spent on a wedding dress, on the hire of a
private carriage, on the jellies and wine for the
ball. The livery stableman, the confectioner, the
milliner, all sent in their bills together ; and there
was a quarrel With the man who had supplied
the band, and who, with unexampled rapacity,
wanted sixteen shillings more than had been
covenanted for.

*' We have almost beggared ourselves," wailed

VOL. II. 41

Mrs. Corrington. " Bertha and Mab can't have
new dresses this Christmas."

Gertrude behaved very wisely and well under
these indignities. She could not resent them
as evidences of any want of natural affection on
her mother's part ; she understood them as
showing that Mrs. Corrington was too much
perturbed in mind to reason over what she said.
So she grieved and was silent and inwardly disdainful.
But Mrs. Corrington, emboldened by
her daughter's air of dutifulness, ended by going
too far.

Returning from Kate's house, Gertrude was
questioned about the two letters that had come
from France that morning. Mrs. Corrington, hot
and flurried by some mistake in the butcher's
Weekly book, was in a quarrelsome mood.

I said you were to begin lessons at ten
o'clock this morning, Gertrude, and it's now a
quarter-past. Let me see the letters that came
from Paris this morning. I can't have you receiving
any more ; it isn't proper."

"I am ready to begin lessons, mamma," said
Gertrude, taking oft' her hat. " Where are Bertha
and Mab T'

Never mind about Bertha and Mab ; you

canst expect them to be punctual if you don't set
the example. Let me see your letters, if you
please."

I would rather not show you them,
mamma ; " and Gertrude sat down, preparing her
lesson-books.

Gertrude, you must show them me ; I insist
upon it!" rejoined Mrs. Corrington, with a scream.
And your father and I have been talking about
your wedding presents ; he thinks you ought to
return them."

Why were they sent me, mother ? "

Because people thought you were going to
be married. After what has happened, it would
be only right to return them."

This is unkind, mother," replied Gertrude,
quietly. " I have not complained before of the
way in which you have treated me, but I have
felt it very much. My engagement is not at an
end, and I must be at liberty to correspond with
Roland."

So long as you live in your father's house,
Gertrude, he has a right to decide with whom
you shall correspond, and to see all letters that
are sent you. Treatment, indeed ? I never heard
such a thins: ! "

Mother, let us say no more on this. We
shall both be sorry for it all our lives long, if you
continue in this way. My father may refuse to
,clive me a home in his house, and that is the only
rio^ht I acknowledge."

Gertrude rose as she said this, her face all
aglow, and Mrs. Corrington gave in with a
sigh. It was her own fault, as she knew, if Gertrude
had ceased to be confidential. But she
ought to have remembered how firmly Gertrude
had acted when the General had forbidden her
marriage. The scene came back to her mind
with a consciousness that her daughter had
been very forbearing of late, and from that
moment ]airs. Corrington risked no more encounters.
Gertrude kissed her without a word,
and in the kiss there was both forgiveness and
a tranquil assertion of independence. Mrs. Corrington,
with a little snivel, bethought her that
it was time to go and order dinner.

Later in the day she learnt from Kate what
Avere the contents of the Duke's letter, but she
was afraid to mention the subject to Gertrude.
Nor would her husband let her discuss it with
him. Kate also thought the question ought to
be shelved, for to talk about it would be like

wishing that the Duke might die, in order that
Gertrude should inherit his money.

We should appear to be watching every
battle like ghouls," said Kate.

My dear, I'm sick of the war already," said
Mrs. Corrington. " There's nothing else in the
papers, and your father seems to live among
maps and guide-books. I assure you, I am glad
he makes a point of never alluding to the war
at table when Gertrude is present, otherwise it
would be cannonading all day long."

Poor Gertie ! what a trying time it must
be for her ! " observed Kate.

Well, I can't help it, my dear," whimpered
Mrs. Corrington, as if she were being put on her
defence. " If she would fall in love with a
Frenchman and a soldier, she must bear what all
soldiers' wives have to put up with. I'm sure
I had alarms enough in my time."

"Of course, mamma dear," responded Kate,
with her cheerful heartiness. ^' But, do you know,
I have great fun with Hu, who thinks it right
to side with the Germans on moral grounds.
The French were the aggressors, he says. I tell
him I don't care a horse-shoe for moral grounds.
Dr. Cleverly, it seems, is all for the Germans

because he was a student at Bonn ; and Mrs.
Nethersole, who takes her opinions from the
doctor, Vows that the Germans are going to march
on Paris and destroy it like another Nineveh."

What does Mrs. Nethersole know of wars ? "
asked Mrs. Corrington, with a military lady's
professional contempt for a civilian meddling
with matters beyond her ken.

"Oh, Mrs. Nethersole goes with the Germans
because we are with the French, I suppose,"
laughed Kate. " She turns up her eyeballs
when I offer to bet her two Sunday dinner fowls
to a bundle of tracts that Napoleon III. will
destroy Berlin like a second Babylon."

"Your father thinks he will, and he says
that there will not be much danger for heavy
cavalry like those cuirassiers of the Duke's, for
the French are going to carry everything before
them with that new mit rail leur shaped like a
coffee-mill. It will be an artillery war."

It is not sure that General Corrington would
have reconsidered his opinion about French
superiority, even had he seen those letters in
which Roland deplored the unprepared condition
of his regiment. English officers are so accustomed
to Ain victories, in spite of army mismanagement

at home, that they attach — or
formerly attached — less importance to organization
than soldiers of other armies.

For several hours every day the General
talked and vaticinated about the war in the
Lewbury reading-room. Mr. Quang was always
there to keep up a dialogue. Before the war
this industrious little gentleman, devoting his
energies to social reforms, had joined an association
for the Enlargement of Vestries. He had
also taken up the cause of Spelling Reform, and
had induced two persons named Matthew to spell
their name With one t, for the public convenience.
But since the outbreak of hostilities, Mr. Quang
had invested in a large canvas-back folding map
of France and Germany, and in a box full of pins
with glass heads, red and blue. To stick the pins
into the map and to call them army corps was
Mr. Quang's occupation and delight. General
Corriugton pulled the pins out of the places
where Mr. Quang set them, and planted them
over other lines of the map. That was his
delight. " An army couldn't be taken through
this pass; it's out of the question." "What will
Von Moltke do for a line of retreat if you carry
him over here ? " etc.

This was the conversation that went on by
the hour, while everybody in the room, including
the peaceable Mr. Oram, would volunteer with an
air of profound sagacity the wildest dicta upon
tactics. But when the General got home, he
would be silent about the war, except when his
wife strayed into his study, and found him poring
over atlases and books relating the campaigns
of the first Napoleon. Dick Corrington, who had
returned to Woolwich, was about to get his
commission a year before the regular time, owing
to an increase of twenty thousand men, which
Parliament had voted to the strength of the
British army. His father missed him much, for
now would have been a grand time to give the
youth some lessons in strategy ; but Gertrude
missed him still more, for without his good-natured
help it was very difficult for her to
understand those long descriptions of army
movements which the papers published everyday.
She read every line of them, and would
have deemed it kind if her father had condescended
to tell her only a tenth part of what
he communicated to Mr. Quang.

One afternoon — it was Saturday — everybody
was on the look-out for news. It was known

that a battle must be going on. The morning
papers had reported a first engagement at
Wissemburof, in which a division of Mac^Iahon's
had got the worst of it ; but by some this was
thought to be only a strategical feint. The afternoon
was very hot, but idle people walked about
the dirty High Street, and hung near the railway
station, waiting for telegrams and first editions
of the London evening papers. The General,
looking very large in a white waistcoat and white
gaiters, was deafer than usual in listening, and
louder than ever in asseverating how his old
friend MacMahon, whom he had known in the
Crimea, was going to do things.

At last news came at about three o'clock :
Great victory of the French at Landau. Ten
thousand Prussians killed, and twenty-Jive thousand,
ivith Prince Frederic-Charles, made prisoners
by MacMahon. Immense excitement in
Paris ; flags from all the windows of the boulevards."


This was the wording of the telegram sent to
one of the London papers from Paris. The paper
printed it with the comment that there was no
official confirmation of the news ; but General
Corrington believed the tidings without question,

and, going straight home, handed a copy of the
paper to Gertrude.

There's no other news, papa V A rapid
flush, slight trembling of the hands — that was all
the emotion Gertrude showed. When she was
satisfied that her father held no other intelligence
in reserve — nothing about Eoland^she showed
a tranquil exultation in the victory. But she
had never doubted that the French would be
victorious ; and until details of the battle came
she could not be free from anxiety. Her father
was more jubilant than she. He had known
from the first how" his friend MacMahon would
do it.

But this story about the battle of Landau
was a hoax. Bourse speculators — Bulls who had
been playing for a rise, and who were dismayed
at the turn which matters were taking on the
Thine — had started the news in a desperate
attempt to send the funds up. And they succeeded.
In an hour Gentes rose three francs. It
need not be concealed that the Senator Count de
Beaujeu had a hand in this speculation. When
the hoax was discovered at the end of two hours,
Parisians pulled in the bunting which they had
sported on their balconies, and changed their

lusty paeans into such maledictions as made all
the cafes ring like temples of profane swearing.
But the Bourse trick had been well played.

It was on the following morning, Sunday,
that authentic news came. An hour before
church-time Mr. Quang brought a copy of the
Observer to Kingshouse. He met Gertrude in
the hall, and, as he had brought the paper on
purpose for her to see, he naturally whisked it
behind his back when she appeared. One look
at her was enough to check this comedy. He
gave her the paper, and her swift glance flew
from one flaming line to another, like a bird
hovering over a city of houses on fire.

'total defeat of the French. Rout of
MacMahon and Froissart. German victories at
Worth and Forhach. Gallant charge of French
cavalry at Reischoffen. Extermination of a
hole cuirassier regiment

So many headings in large print, over which
Gertrude skimmed until her eyes rested upon
this : —

In these heroic charges, twelve times renewed,
amid a continuous downpour of shells
and bullets from the Prussian lines, the 12th
Cuirassiers, commanded by the Due d'Ahna, was

completely hewn to pieces. Scarcely twenty men
out of eight hundred rode away from the field.
Only one officer escaped. The gallant young
colonel, having ten times rallied his men, fell at
last covered ivith wounds''

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE duke's will.

The telegram did not say that Eoland was dead.

*' Fell covered with wounds " might mean
that he was still alive. He was, perhaps, lying ina
German ambulance, and would be cured. If
he had been dead, would not the message have
said so in plain terms ? Gertrude clung to this
hope — a slight one, but strong enough to give
her support in this terrible moment.

Mrs. Corrington thought the message as plain
as possible, but bemoaned the ambiguities of
descriptive language when she saw that her
daughter would not put the worst sense on the
word "fall." It would have been much better
to her mind that Gertrude should recognize at
once that falling in action meant death. If the
Duke had not succumbed to his many wounds.

would not the message have said so ? But, of
course, the mother did not like to snatch the
hope away from her child.

Gertrude retired to her room, and was grateful
that nobody disturbed her there. The family
went to church, and the house was quiet. The
housemaid, going about her work with noiseless
steps, stopped several times near Gertrude's door
and listened for sounds of sobbing. She and the
cook wondered downstairs whether Miss Gertrude
would now ]3ut on mourning. Miss Bertha had
told them about the Duke's death, and in their
menial way these two mourned more sincerely over
the gallant gentleman, who had always been so
civil-spoken and generous towards them, than
any one in Lewbury, except their young mistress
herself.

Kate Littleton heard the awful news at
church. She had a sitting in her mother's pew,
and just before the service commenced Mrs.
Corrington whispered to her what had happened.
Kate was for running home at once to keep
Gertrude company, but her mother stopped her.
Many people were staring at the Corringtons'
pew. Mrs. Nethersole was quite unhappy at
having a seat in front, so that she could not with

propriety turn round more than half a dozen
times in as many minutes, under pretence of
feelings draughts in the neck. Noticing that
Kate with her blanched features looked ready to
faint, this good Samaritan sent her son Purkiss
up the nave with a smelling-bottle and a message
of condolence, which Purkiss rendered as,
Mother says she's awfully cut up about this,
you know."

Mr. Oram preached, and made allusion to
the unexpected defeat of the French armies
with tact and good feeling ; he also referred to
One who was lately among us, and to whom
this text from the sixth chapter of the Second
Book of Maccabees might be applied : —

And thus this man died, leaving his death
for an example of a noble courage, . . . not only
unto young men, but unto all his nation."

The text says "example of courage and
memorial of virtue ; " but Mr. Oram did not like
to risk the " memorial of virtue," for he too had
heard some of the gossip about Poland which
Pierre Quiroule had circulated.

Kate could not refrain from crying during
the sermon. Her efforts to control herself made
her almost hysterical, and she had to leave the

church with her mother to avoid dolDg so with
the crowd after service, when she would have
become an object of general and officious sympathy.
Mrs. Corrington, as she led out Kate,
screwed up her own face into an afflicted expression,
and tried hard to force up a tear ; but
it was of no use. All through the service she
had been thinking only of the Duke's will, wondering
if there would be any difficulty about
it, and how much Gertrude mio^ht be p^oinor to
inherit.

Mr. Oram had evidently entertained no doubt
as to the meaning: of "fell." Mrs. Corrino^ton
had to explain to Kate that Gertrude was not
yet convinced, and Kate had to compose herself
before seeing her sister.

Gertie dear, let's hope it is not true," were
the words with which she greeted Gertrude. In
that moment she wished, like her mother, that
the telegram had left no shadow of hope. Gertrude
was in a nervous condition, worse than the
absolute prostration which is caused by the
certainty of bereavement. Though her eyes were
red with crying, she rejected consolation, and
wanted a telegram to be sent to Paris.

Katie, can a telegram be sent on Sunday ? "

I think so, clear. Do you want to telegraph
to Eoland's sister ? "

*'No, not to his sister. If it should be true,
she couldn't bear it. Send to that lawyer in
Paris."

"M. Eagotin!"

"Yes, M. Kagotin. He will be sure to know
the truth."

Kate undertook that a telegram should be
sent ; but the answer did not arrive till late the
following day, and meanwhile all the London
morning papers published the Due d' Alma's name
in the list of killed at Reischoffen. M. Eaorotin's
telegram, which came in the evening, said —

Au Minister de la guerre on est sans
nouvelles de monsieur le Due" (the War
Office has no information about the Duke")

This time Gertrude could retain no hope.
She bowed her head under the stroke of adversity,
asking herself, as so many have done when
marked out for special hardship, why all this
should have occurred to her. Often since her
troubles had begun she had said to herself that
she was not good enough for the happiness of
marrying Eoland, and there had been a presentiment
in her of this evil which had now come.
VOL. n. 42

She was astonished that it did not crush her. iVs
a surgical operation much dreaded always gives far
less pain than was feared, and brings immediate
relief from other pain, so Gertrude's bereavement
after an hour or two's suffering restored composure
to her mind. She was disposed to reproach
herself with insensibility because this was
so. But as the worst had come, she had nothing
more to fear, and it was this that gave the relief
which seemed so unnatural to her. She had been
looking forward to long months of anxiety, and
now the war had ceased to have any importance
in her eyes. Newspapers, letters, telegrams,
could have no terrors for her. Ashen a sponge
is full, an ocean may pass over it without adding
a single drop.

Moreover, Gertrude was now reminded that
she had become the inheritor of Eoland's fortune.
The manner of her mother towards her, and even
that of her father, underwent a subtle change.
On the day when M. Ago tin's telegram arrived,
nothing was said about the will ; but the next
morning Hucks Littleton came to Kingshouse
with Kate, and there was a long conference in
the General's study, at which it was agreed that
the Duke's executor must be communicated with.

Then Gertrude was sent for, and all the family-were
very kind to her. Hucks, who could never
help feeling kindly towards people who inherited
money, was absolutely deferential, handed her
to a seat, and explained the object of the meeting.
Gertrude, who had put on deep mourning, said
the subject was harrowing to her, and that she
would rather not talk about it at present ; but,
of course, these scruples were overruled. Without
being mercenary, a girl may value the proof
of whole-hearted affection and confidence which
her lover has given by making her his heiress ;
and at a hint from Hucks that it mio^ht be expedient
to assert her rights at once, lest there
should be any dispute of them on the part of the
Duke's relations, Gertrude consented to let her
brother-in-law act as he thought best for her
interests. She could not feel charitably towards
the late Marquise de Chateaufort, who had been
the principal cause of all her misery ; and she was
not inclined to yield one tittle of her rights to
any other hostile relative Eoland might possess.
In the end, it was settled that Hucks should
write to M. Ragotin and to the Count de
Beaujeu, and this was accordingly done the
same day.

M. Eagotin answered by return of post, this
being the translation of his letter : —

"Sir,

The Due d'Alma made a will which
is in my hands, and directed that in the event
of his death I was to communicate with Miss
Corrington. But we have no legal proof yet
of the Duke's death, and his executor. Count de
Beaujeu, cannot consequently take out letters of
administration.

"Pray receive the assurance of my highest

regard.

N. Eagotin."

From the Count de Beaujeu no answer was
received for more than a week, but this caused
no astonishment, for the Corringtons learnt by
the papers that the Count had become a Cabinet
minister. In consequence of the French defeats,
M. Emile Ollivier's Liberal Cabinet had resigned,
and an administration of thorough-going Imperialists
had been formed, with the double object
of victualling Paris for a siege and of dealing ina
masterful way with the revolutionary factions,
should they attempt a rising. In this cabinet
Count de Beaujeu held a portfolio as Minister

of State, with general control over the police of
the Empire. The Corringtons understood that
he must be so overwhelmed with public work
as to have little time for the consideration of
private matters. However, the Count's reply
came at length, enclosed in a large whitey-brown
envelope nth an official frank, and one may
imagine with what feelings Hucks Littleton
heard his wife construe this to him.

Ministry General of Police,

"Paris, August 15, 1870.

Sir,

'' I am directed by his Excellency Count
de Beaujeu, Senator, Minister of State, to acknowledge
the receipt of a letter which you have
written to him, acting as solicitor for Miss Corrington.
I am to inform you that the War
Office has not yet published a full official list
of the officers killed at Eeischoifen ; but, assuming
the Due d'Alma to have died, his Excellency
desires me to call your attention to the first and
third sections of the 727th Article of the French
Civil Code. This Article specifies the cases in
which the heir of a deceased person shall be
deemed unworthy of inheritance.
II. 42—3

The first section debars from heirship, ' him,
lier, or those who shall have been convicted of
having murdered or tried to murder the deceased


'' The third section disinherits ' him, her, or
those who, being cognizant of an attempt made
to murder the deceased, shall not have denounced
the author or authors of that attempt to justice.'

In view of these two sections, his Excellency
the Minister of State is of opinion that your
client. Miss Corrington, could not claim to inherit
any part of the Due d' Alma's property. He
must remind you — •

'firstly, that while the Due d'Alma was in
Enoiand, a murderous assault was committed
on him ; and that the Duke alleged his belief
that one of his aggressors was Dr. Cleverly, of
Lewbury.

Secondly, that Dr. Cleverly and Miss Corrington
are known to have been at one time on
terms of great intimacy ; that, in fact, they had
l3een eno-ao-ed to be married to each other, and
that no proof exists of an estrangement having
taken place between them.

'' Thirdly, that if it should ever happen that
Dr. Cleverly and Miss Corrington became man

and wife, Dr. Cleverly would — if his wife had
succeeded to the Duke's estate — find himself
practically possessing the property of the man
whom he was suspected of having attempted to
murder.

On these grounds, assuming, as aforesaid,
that the Due d'Alma is dead, his Excellency will
decline to act as executor to the will by which
the Duke has bequeathed three-fourths of his
property to Miss Corrington. Unless Miss Corrington
freely renounces her claims, his Excellency,
as co-plaintiff with other members of the Duke's
family, will sue to have the will set aside.

I beg you to receive, sir, the assurance of
my high regard.

"Max Klein poet

(Cabinet Secretary."

Why, it's infamous ! AVhat will poor Gertrude
say ? " exclaimed Kate, astounded, when
she had finished reading.

A lawsuit in France ! " This was the first
idea that occurred to the dismayed mind of
Hucks. It seemed as if the troubles over this
wretched French marriage were never going to
end !

Hu dear, I call it simply monstrous ! **
exclaimed Kate ; but her perusal of the letter
had been chequered by many similar ejaculations,
so that her husband paid no particular attention
to this one.

If the family oppose the will, it will be
almost hopeless to fight them' muttered Hucks,
blinking through his watery eyes and rumpling
his hair, as was his practice when excited. " I
have never heard of an Englishman winning a
succession suit in France."

But we must fight," declared Kate.

"Yes, to the bitter end," answered Hucks,
with determination.

This valiant speech disconcerted Kate. The
weight of a meek man grown pugnacious has
something terrifying in it ; a colles has been
known to turn from an infuriated sheep.

But Hucks was a gentleman. Mild, pacific
much more so than Quakers, judging by the
specimens of this community whom we see in
the political world — a splitter of legal straws,
and a genius at compromise, he had nevertheless
a backbone of principle which would never bend
beyond a certain angle.

You see there is an imputation here," he

said, half absently, as ttiougli he were still looking
for a loophole of escape. " If they had announced
that they would oppose the will on the
ground that the Duke was in an unsettled,
excited state of mind when he made it, I might
have advised surrender or sought compromise.
But we cannot rest under what is tantamount
to a criminal imputation."

I don't think Gertrude would care so much
for the money, but this charge about Cleverly
is insanely odious," said Kate ; " for her sake it
must be withdrawn."

Not only for hers, dear, but for yours, for
mine ; she is your sister, and this is a matter of
family honour."

Kate kissed him for this, and was proud of
him. 'will it be very troublesome, dear?" she
asked, standing by his chair.

It will be a miserable business," he answered,
with a shake of the head. " We must engage
some English lawyer in Paris to watch our interests.
We must have as good counsel as the
other side, and we may be obliged to take over a
number of witnesses to France. Think of the
worry and expense ! But it is clear that we
must lose no time in taking the first step. If

there be a chance of getting an apology and
coming to an arrangement, it rests in our obtaining
immediate advice from somebody who knows
French law. If I could speak French, I would
start for Paris this very day."

Go, dear, and take me with you. I can
interpret," proposed Kate.

But in a minute she reflected that she could
not leave her babies. It would be very nice to
go to Paris — that charming city, which Kate had
not seen, never offered such a tantalizing aspect
as now, when such stirring events were in progress
there. But a young mother, with nurses
and little ones to look after, cannot go gadding
off at half a day's notice. Why should not
Gertrude go ?

It would simplify matters if she went with
me," confessed Hucks ; " but it might be a very
trying ordeal for her."

"Not worse than remaining here, dear,"
rejoined Kate, who had thought out the matter
very quickly. "I am sure she would go anywhere
to get out of Lewbury. And don't you
think the best thing for you both would be to
cal on the Countess de Beaujeu *? You remember
what a pretty note she sent to Gertrude while
poor Roland was in England 1 "

THB DUKES WILL. 331

I was thinking of that note," answered
Hucks, who was abbacy fingering a railway
time-table.

And you remember the Countess promised
to attend the wedding," continued Kate. " The
Beaujeux seemed very friendly then. What can
have put these atrocious ideas into the Count's
head ? Who can have told him about Dr.
Cleverly ? It must have been Barney. But
do you really believe that the poor Duke
ever accused Dr. Cleverly of assaulting him ?
I would give anything to know the truth about
that assault."

There was no answering Kate's voluble questions.
The final argument that weighed with
Hucks was that he recoiled from the prospect of
an interminable correspondence with Frenchmen
over a disputed succession complicated with libel.
A day or two in Paris might enable him to stop
litigation, or at least to get a clear view of the
ground on which any action with the Duke's
family was to be fought.

END OF VOL. II.

PRINTED BV WILLIAM Clowns AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. C, C. &= Co.

se

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

3 0112 052905483

'■< ^ -y -S ^ ■■ .

;m-.'?^:

i

4' sr

IN TEEEE VOLUMES,
VOL. III.

LONDON:

RICHARD BENTLEY AND SON,

i3iitjlisi}frs in (ZBrtiinarg to pen: iHajrstg i\}z ©urrn.

1885.

All rights served.)

CONTENTS OF VOL. III.

CHAPTER PAGE

I. Off to Paris . . . 1

11. HucKs IN Prison . . . 17

III. Odette in Silk . . . 33

IV. The Restaurant Cagnot . . 52

V. The Jackal and the Lion . 61

VI. The Minister of Police . . 74

VII. La Closure . . . 87

VIII. In the Prison of St. Lazaree . . 103

IX. Before the Magistrate . . 121

X. The New Joan of Arc . . 130

XL Odette's Mission Work . . 141

XII. A Chance for Waverley . . 163

XIII. Rebuff and Rebound . . 180

XIV. The Antechamber of Power . . 192

XV. The Last Days of a Dynasty . 201

XVI. The End of a Day-dream . . 218

CHAPTER PAGE

XVII. Thk Little Housekeeper of Chateaufort 232

XVIII. The Carmelite Convent . . 252

XIX. POLHUAN TO THE ReSCUE . . 272

XX. Madame La Prefer . . 297

XXL Met Again . . . 312

XXII. Conclusion . . 331

CHAPTER I.

OFF TO PARIS.

Kate had never seen her husband so prompt in
resolving a journey. When he copied a list of
trains in his note-book, she guessed that he had
made up his mind to go, even if nobody accompanied
him ; and such, in fact, was his intention.
He could go, as he said, without knowing French.
He would ask the British Embassy to recommend
him some lawyer who spoke English. Nevertheless,
Kate, with his consent, hastened to Kings-house
to show the Count's letter to her father
and mother, and to ascertain if Gertrude were
willing to take the trip to France.

Kate spoke to the General and Mrs. Warrington
before seeing Gertrude. The audacity of
VOL. ni. 43

the Count's letter astounded them both. The
General roared whilst his daughter was reading it,
'' By George, if Littleton hadn't proposed to
go, I should have started myself to pull this
scoundrel's ears. What the deuce does he
mean ? "

I made sure this would be disputed," sighed
Mrs. Corrington. " It would have been too good
that Gertrude should have inherited a fortune
without any trouble. We are born to trouble.
Height ! But I'll go and pack up the child's
things ; not that I think any good will be got
by her going to Paris, mind you."

*' But you agree that she may go, mother ? "
asked Kate.

If your husband advises it, dear. He's the
best judge. My advice to her would be to accept
what those people may offer, and think herself
lucky to get that. Anything for peace."

The girl had better go, if only for the
change of air," said the General. " She'll mope
herself to death if she stays at home. She has
not been out of doors for a week."

Gertrude was in the breakfast-room directing
a number of parcels, which contained her
wedding presents. Her mother had been afraid

to talk to her about these since the snub which
Gertrude had administered ; but now the presents
were going to be sent back. Gertrude had taken
upon herself the duty of sorting them, packing
them, and addressing to each donor a short letter
of thanks. There was a heap of these letters in
black-bordered envelopes lying on the table.

Gertrude did not appear to be moping, but
there was something dry and over-collected in
her manner. She was wearing the deep mourning
of widows, all except the cap, and looked
like a young woman who is her own mistress,
not a girl. Yet the sweetness of her voice
remained, and she was very beautiful. Kate
always fondled her. Before showing her the
letter, she put an arm round her waist, drew the
pretty head on to her bosom, and kissed it till
Gertrude smiled. But it was a cold smile, and
the elder sister could no longer feel that she was
caressing a child. All that Gertrude said and
did now showed that she had a will of her own.
If she let herself be fondled, it was because she
was so pleased, not because she was in a melting
mood.

I shall be glad to go to Paris, Katie," she
said. " I have been wondering what I could

do with myself. I think I shall become an
ambulance nurse, and remain in Paris."

You don't mean that, Gertie ? If I thought
you did, I wouldn't let Hu take you."

It is horrible to me to be in Lewbury,
Kate. I have refused to receive visitors. Mrs.
Xethersole, Susan Jentleigh, and some others
tried to see me ; but I could guess the sort of
things they would have said to me, and I don't
want to hear them. I was readings a religious
paper yesterday, and it said that the French
had been beaten because they were Papists. A
little more of this would make a Catholic of
me."

Don't say such things, Gertie."

*' I feel more than I express, dear. The
exultation of the people in this wretched town
over the German victories is downright shocking.
Don't you remember how Mr. Quang atour
ball was for giving a banquet to my poor
Roland as a mark of respect to the Emperor of
the French ? And you recollect how many
gentlemen put down their names. I feel inclined
now to pin a tricolour cockade in my hat, and
to oro out into the streets and ask these gentlemen
when they mean to get up a testimonial to

King William of Prussia. I'll go and tend the
French soldiers, Katie, if they will accept me, in
an ambulance. It's my duty, after all ; for if I'm
to inherit Roland's estates, I shall have to consider
myself a Frenchwoman and live in France."

She had opened the letter as she was
speaking, and now paused to read it. A flush
mounted to her face, and, receding, gave way to
an expression of calm anger, with tightening of
the lips.

Cleverly ! " she muttered. " You see
Roland did suspect him ! If I can have an
object in life now, Katie, it must be to bring that
man to justice. I never believed for a moment
in his story of a duel."

Hu thinks that the Count de Beaujeu has
been misled by the report of a French detective
who is over here," said Kate, who was prepared
for Gertrude's vehemence. " This detective may
have picked up the tattle of Mrs. Nethersole and
other such people. But I'll tell Hu that you are
willing to go with him, dear ; and you must
make haste to get ready, for Hu is a bad sailor,
and wants to go by the Folkestone route, so you
will have to start this afternoon."

'^ I will go, of course," said Gertrude. " It's

very kind of Hu to have offered to take me, and
you must thank him for me. I don't think the
Count de Beaujeu will dispute my claims once
he has heard what I have got to say about Dr.
Cleverly. But you can tell Hu that I mean to
have my rights."

"He thinks you should, dear. The only
thing he fears is, that we may have a great deal
of worry and expense."

'' We shall see." There was a flash in
Gertrude's eyes as she said this, refolding the
Count's letter. " M. Eagotin not only holds a
will made in my favour, but a sealed packet containing
Eoland s last instructions to me. It may
require money to carry out these instructions, so
I have no right to renounce my inheritance, even
if I were inclined to do so to avoid trouble. As
to expense, I will go into court and plead my own
cause, if necessary, without any counsel's help."

Upon this Kate wished her sister good-bye,
and ran home to assist her husband's preparations
for departure. She was able to tell Hu that he
would find in Gertrude something more than an
interpreter — an energetic client.

Gertrude met Hucks Littleton at the station
at four o'clock. Her father went to see her off,

but spoke little of the object of the journey, aud
supposed that his daughter would not be away
more than a couple of days. All Gertrude's
equipment was contained in a small portmanteau.
Hucks had less luggage — only a carpet-bag, with
a change of raiment. He was attired in his
ordinary garb — a long-skirted black coat and tall
hat ; but under his arm he carried a precious new
purchase — a cloth cap to be worn on board the
steamer, with lappets to go over the ears, and a
fall to protect the nape of his neck. He also
had a Quarto copy of '' Wills on the Law of
Succession," to read in the train.

"While the passengers were waiting on the
platform, Hucks noticed Inspector Trotter, of the
Borough Police, in conversation with a handsome
man of foreign appearance. This stranger stared
hard at Gertrude, and whispered to the inspector.
The latter turned, and, seeing General Corrington,
touched his cap to him ; then edged away with
the foreigner, giving him a slight nudge as
though to rebuke him for staring at the General's
daughter. A minute afterwards the two shook
hands, and the inspector, coming down the platform,
stopped before the General with a salute,
and said in a half-whisper —

*' That's a French detective, sir."

'' The man who came about the Duke's business
? " asked Hucks in a low tone, so that
Gertrude should not hear.

The same, sir. His name is Quirolo."

'' Is he going back to France ? " inquired the
General.

Xo, sir ; to Freshaven. It seems he's been
collecting evidence there, but wants more."

The south coast train came into the station
then, and Hucks handed Gertrude into a first-class
carriage. He had not taken a very long
look at Quirolo's face, but a couple of hours
later, on stepping aboard the Folkestone packet,
he fancied he recognized this man among: the
passengers. Recollecting what Inspector Trotter
had said about the detective being bound for
Freshaven, this surprised him ; but other surprises
were in store for the Lewbury lawyer,
who had never crossed the sea before, and who
was soon a prey to those sensations which are
produced on a weak stomach by frisky waves.
It was not a rough passage, but Hucks was
pitifully ill ; and in the intermittent contemplation
of a piece of crockery, which the steward
kept whisking before him, he forgot to wonder

what had made the French detective so suddenly
alter his route.

He was reminded of the man again at
Boulogne. While Hucks lay in the cabin,
musing by fits and starts that there was so much
to say in favour of the Channel Tunnel, Gertrude
had sat on deck, and M. Quirolo had rendered
her some polite little offices — finding her a comfortable
seat, a rug, and so forth. She did not
know who he was, but she could not help being-struck
by his uncommon face, and on landing
designated him to her brother-in-law as a gentleman
who had been very civil to her. Hucks
thought it best not to say that this gallant was
a detective ; and doubtless either a foolish or a
lying detective, whose misrepresentations were
the cause that had just brought him (Hucks) to
be so sea-sick. Hucks was still too unwell to
talk, and trudged into the Custom House pressing
"Wills upon Succession" to his waistcoat, and
feeling as if the floor was rising alternately to
hit him in the face or kick him in the back.
But now Hucks and Gertrude were to be indebted
to the foreigner for another piece of
courtesy.

Hucks had left England without passports,

forgetting that, since the outbreak of the war,
travellers were required to be furnished with
these certificates of identity. The demand,
Voice passeport, monsieur ? " struck him speechless
; but he Alas not suffered to feel inconvenience
a single minute. Quirolo, who had
contrived to walk up to the police-desk immediately
behind Gertrude, handed to the official
at the table his own passport along with something
that looked like a yellow picture in an oval
glass case, and at the same time he made a sign
with the hand, as if to show that the English lady
and gentleman were both under his protection.

'^ Passez, monsieur" then said the official,
eyeing Hucks and Gertrude with evident curiosity.


This is very good of you," stammered Hucks,
turning round at the door to thank Quirolo ; but
the detective had vanished.

"That gentleman must be very powerful.
I wonder who he is," remarked Gertrude ; but
Hucks made no answer, simply because, had he
done so, he must have entered into developments
too fatiguing for him in his giddy condition.
He was only too glad to climb into the Paris
train, and, once he had installed Gertrude, to

ensconce himself in a corner opposite to her, and
try if the broad soft cushions of the French
railway carriage could give him sleep.

Hucks Littleton was no lady's man, and,
even if he had been travelling by day with a
number of the other sex eager to talk, would
have found it difficult to keep conversation going.
But he had some old-fashioned gallantry, and
thought that ladies on a journey always required
to be eating or drinking or to be fidgeted with
as to wrappings. So at every stoppage of the
train on its night voyage, the lawyer started out
of his slumbers and made spasmodic offers to run
and fetch cups of tea, soup, brandy-and-water,
and extra rugs.

Gertrude was almost a stranger to him,
though she was his sister-in-law. He was too
shy to become familiar with a girl, and, in truth,
he had never examined Gertrude's face with any
full appreciation of its beauty until he scanned
it at leisure in this train going to Paris. About
an hour before the end of the journey, Hucks
sat up broad awake. Day had dawned ; but
Gertrude was asleep, and by the grey morning
light beaming on her pale features Hucks first
saw that she was very lovely. Then he understood

the French Duke's passion for her, and a
brotherly feeling towards the girl was kindled in
himself such as he had not known before. " Poor
thing ! " he muttered.

The war having played havoc with French
railway arrangements, the train which should
have reached Paris at six did not get there till
eight. The passengers were, as usual, turned into
a large room to wait for the examination of their
luggage, which would take place in another room,
separated from them by a glass screen. This
waiting-place was already half filled with the
passengers who had come in a train from Brussels,
and Gertrude suddenly became aware of a familiar
English voice ejaculating close to her.

Oh, my goodness, Tim, what a time they do
keep us waiting, and what Airs those chaps with
the pewter buttons do give themselves 1 It's worse
than our police."

What will you ? If these men were not
imbecile they would not be wearing pewter
buttons," grumbled an equally familiar voice, in
which Gertrude recognized M. Grachard's, though
the speaker was disguised almost beyond recognition
by a white wig and the shaving ofi" of his
black beard.

Hucks, that is Polly Hopkins, and that man
beside her must be M. Grachard ! " exclaimed
Gertrude, excitedly.

Madame Grachard, nee Hopkins, turned at
this, and from her lips and those of Hucks' names
started simultaneously.

*' Mr. Littleton ! "

Madam Grachard ! "

Hush ! " murmured Polly, who had turned
scarlet, and seemed abruptly smitten with a great
fright. " Don't speak my husband's name aloud,
Mr. Littleton ; he hasn't got his pardon yet.
But he's come to Paris on the quiet, because
there is going to be a Republic here soon,
and "

Malediction ! will you always be betraying
me ? " hissed the disguised Revolutionist, clutching
his wife violently by the wrist. Come along, will
you ? We shall be lost."

M. Grachard, I must speak to you I " cried
Gertrude, stepping forward.

But Grachard took to his heels, and, as he
plunged through the crowd, dragging Polly after
him, Gertrude was appalled to see Quirolo, the
detective, dart in pursuit of him. There was a
scuffle near the door, a woman's shriek, some

loud angry words, and this was all that the
passengers in the waiting-room heard, for the
door was instantly closed ; and in answers to
questions, the experienced station officials said —

It's nothing — it's nothing ; only a pickpocket
taken into custody."

I expect he's caught," said Hucks nervously
to Gertrude.

Oh, I do hope he is ! " exclaimed Gertrude,
trembling with agitation. '' He'll be forced to tell
the truth then."

But there's a capital charge over him,"
observed Hucks.

Why should you feel more for a man who
has plotted to murder the Emperor than for one
who has tried to kill our Queen ? " asked Gertrude
; and the question was so scornfully put
that the lawyer was happy that the sliding back
of the luggage-room doors, producing a surge
forward of all the passengers, relieved him from
the obligation of answering; it.

A few minutes later Hucks and Gertrude
were seated in a voiture de place, and Gertrude
directed the coachman to drive to an hotel, which
Hucks had ascertained from his " Bradshaw " to
be near the British Embassy. As the coachman

was climbing to his box, a man in uniform
approached him, and spoke a few words, to which
the man answered by a start and some nods.

As both the inmates of the cab were strangers

o

to Paris, they could have no idea as to how far
they were from their destination. They looked
out of the windows, admiring the tall white
houses, the broad causeways and pavements, the
showy shops with their wealth of mirrors and
plate glass, and the picturesque variety of uniforms
in the streets. Their cab had crossed a
bridge, whence they had obtained a glorious view
of the Seine and its quays, when their journey
ended by the vehicle passing under a gloomy
archway, guarded by two sentries. The cab
stopped, the door was opened, and a throng of
half a dozen policemen, wearing cocked hats and
straight swords, appeared.

What a strange hotel ! " thought Hucks.

There must be some mistake," remarked
Gertrude.

*' Get down, sir," said a voice peremptorily to
Hucks in English. But when the lawyer, having
alighted, turned to help Gertrude out of the cab,
he was told that the young lady need not get
down. " Walk in, sir, you alone ; " and Hucks,

essaying to speak, was pushed forward without
violence, but irresistibly, by two policemen, one
at each elbow.

The stupefied Hucks had guessed by this time
that he was not in an hotel. The nature of his
habitation was made but too plain to him when
he was marched into a dingy room with grated
windows, in which where two men in shirt-sleeves,
one of whom said to him —

Dishabille-vous — strip ! "

CHAPTER 11.

Hicks IN PRISON.

HucKS LiTTLEPOiNT was a prisoner at the Prefecture
de Police (the French Scotland Yard and
Newgate amalgamated), and, as an aggravating
circumstance, he did not know why he had been
taken captive. The men who surrounded him
could only speak those few words of English
which they had to use in their intercourse with
British and American thieves — '' Strip," '' Be
quiet," " Go there, " " Quick ; " but they understood
not what they spake, and repeated these
words at random.

Suffocating with terror and indignation, the
most respectable of Lewbury lawyers had to strip
to the skin till he stood

. . . nu comme la main
Nu comme un discours academician."
VOL. m. t-i

He kept on repeating that this was most unwarrantable';
but the stolid men, who rifled his
clothes, had no ears for such complaints. They
turned his socks inside out, prodded the interior
of his boots, fingered the pockets and lining of
every one of his garments. Then they ran their
hands through his hair, and Q-ave him a gentle
chuck under the chin, to see if he concealed anything
in his mouth. To end these indignities,
they ordered him to dress ; and whilst he was
struggling into his nether garments, they bundled
the rest of his clothes into his arms, forced a
brown loaf into his hands, and j)i-^t him out of
the room. At the door a turnkey cried to him
to run. Hucks understood the *scoured," accentuated
by an energetic stamp of the foot ; and
when, breathless and waddling, he had got halfway
down a dark passage, another turnkey opened
a door for him, and locked him up in a cell.

The cell was dingy and dirty. The walls
were not whitewashed, as in English prisons, but
painted a dark brown ; and the small corrugated
panes of the narrow, barred window were so
coated with dust that only a murky light passed
through them. Hucks sunk on to a low iron
bedstead, covered with a straw mattress and some

sacking* ; and, fumbling; amonof his clothes, he
discovered that his tormentors had left him his
watch and some silver money, but little else.
They had confiscated his pocket-handkerchief,
necktie, and braces, lest he should hang himself ;
his penknife, lest he should cut his throat ; his
pocket-book, letters, and papers, because they
wanted them.

Realizing his despoiled condition, Hucks
uttered a moan ; but he was not imaginative
enough for his terrors to get the better of his
judgment, so whilst he finished dressing he
gradually calmed his nerves with the reflection
that he would be brought before a magistrate in
an hour or two, and that he could then make a
formal complaint of the gross way in which he
had been treated. Afterwards he would write to
the Times.

He supposed that the charge against him
would be that of entering France without a passport.
He could conceive of no other charge ;
but the British Embassy would give him a passport,
and get him out of the difficulty. And he
should then take an opportunity of denouncing
to the magistrate the reprehensible duplicity of
that detective Quirolo, who had not apprised him

at Boulogne that lie, Mr. Littleton, would be
liable to arrest in Paris. No doubt Gertrude was
already on her way to the British Embassy. It
was a great relief to Hues that Gertrude had not
been made to get out of the cab, for it would
hare magnified his anxieties a hundredfold if he
had thought that any annoyance had befallen her.
Presuming that Gertrude had been left free to goto
the hotel, he naturally concluded that her first
proceeding would be to assist him out of his
trouble by getting him a passport, or bail, or
both. The philosophy engendered by this British
way of looking at his position enabled him to
bite a mouthful or two out of the stale brown
loaf that had been presented to him, for he had
to stay the gnawing of a stomach exhausted by
sea-sickness.

Yet poor Hucks reasoned without knowledge.
A great deal of the political nonsense that makes
its way among Englishmen is due to the defect
which reasoning like his betrayed, namely, a total
ignorance of the laws and customs of foreign
countries. If all Englishmen knew the extent of
their freedom from having compared it with what
passes for freedom abroad, they would be more
inclined to value those institutions under which

their national liberties have grown up, and less
disposed to try experiments with those foreign
systems under which democracy and universal
suffrage flourish, without protecting men from
arbitrary arrest or long imprisonment without
trial.

Here was Hucks Littleton, a gentleman of
education and a shrewd solicitor, munching his
brown bread resignedly, because he knew that in
England the liberty of a man cannot be taken
without open inquiry, and he imagined it must
be the same in France. The only thing that
seriously disturbed him was that he should have
to appear before a magistrate unshaved and
without necktie or braces. If the truth must be
told, the absence of these last adjuncts to civilized
costume obliged Hucks, when he paced about his
cell, to grasp his unmentionables by the waistband,
and he was aware that the dignity of a
man does not shine impressively in this attitude.

Hucks had entered his cell a little before
nine. London magistrates commence their sittings
at ten, so at that hour the captive was prepared
to face a Parisian bench ; but sixty minutes
crawled by, and no summons came. At eleven
o'clock a trap in the door was opened, and on the

ledge which the trap made in falling was set an
earthenware bowl, containing a small quantity of
thin brown soup. Hues tasted this mess, and it
was not good, so he put it back on the ledge. Ina
few minutes a hand whisked it away ; but
before the trap was closed, Hucks screamed —

Gascon — waiter ! "

Quest-ce qu'il y a ? " and a bristling
moustache, with a red nose, showed themselves
in the aperture.

Parley voo English ? " stammered Hucks.
I want to know a "

No spike Ingieesh. Tout a Inhere," was the
answer ; and the trap went up.

It was down again before long, and this time
words of English fell upon Hucks' ears as music
though it was like the music of a Jew's harp,
for the words were sounded with a Yankee nasal
twanof.

I say, boss, what's up ? "

'* Oh — a — I want to know at what time I
shall go before a magistrate," answered Hucks.
Are you the — a — interpreter ? "

"What, they've sent me to ask what you
want. What are you in for ? "

"Do you mean what is the charge against

me ? I came into France without a passport,
that's all."

*' Have you any chinks — any money ? "

''A few shilling's, but "

Wl)al, if you want anything, just write it
down on a bit of paper, and they'll bring it tome
; I'm on the same flat as you. But, I say,
chummy " — and here the speaker's voice sank to
a whisper — "help a chap to half a dollar, will
you ? So help me, I haven't tasted a bit of baccy
or a drop of liquor for six blooming weeks."

Mr. Littleton was scandalized to discover
that he had been talking with a prisoner. His
first impulse was to terminate the colloquy ; his
second, was to produce half a crown, suspecting
that unless he did so he was not likely to obtain
any more information. His '^ chummy '^ thanked
him for the coin, but could give him no cheering
assurances in return for it — at least, no assurances
cheering: to an innocent man, though his enumeration
of the creature comforts to be obtained in a
French prison might have raised the spirits of a
gaol-bird.

'^ They let you smoke, boss, and you can get
wine from the canteen — about a quart a day ; and
you can have your coffee, and roll and butter in

the morning, sossidge, cheese, and all that, I
guess. Any amount of letter-paper. I calculate
you can be writing all day if you like. If they
bagged any of your money when you came in,
they'll let you have it back by twenty francs at a
time. My name is U. B. Deed, of New York ;
don't forget that. I can't tell you when you'll be
called up. Guess I've been here nine weeks, and
I haven't been into a court yet. This is a tarnation
h of a country."

There is a stoicism in honest men that bears
them up through trials which cow those of whom
troubled consciences make cowards. Hucks
Littleton had nothing to be afraid of, except
injustice, and he was not going to believe the
authorities of a civilized nation unjust on the
faith of an American criminal's accusations. Then
Hucks Littleton was a religious man, and in
this moment, texts of which he had never been
obliged to make a practical use, so happy had his
life been, came back to him. He had stored these
texts in his mind as we put very bright coins into
a box to give away as presents, or to use ourselves
in some great emergency. The emergency having
come, he repeated to himself, " Why art thou cast
down, my soul ? and why art thou disquieted
within me ? ''

Presently he summoned a warder by ringing
a bell, and made signs through the trap that he
wanted to write. A piece of paper and a pencil
were given him, and he wrote out on it a list of
things that he wanted — stationary, soap, an
English book of some sort, and a cup of coffee.
These articles were brought to him pretty quickly,
for the warders, being empowered to levy a commission
on all money that passed through their
hands, had no objection to be sent to the canteen.
The man who came with the coffee — a burly,
good-natured fellow, with a black tunic and an
enormous bunch of keys — entered the cell, carrying
Hucks' carpet-bag and his book, " Wills on
the Law of Succession." This was unexpected,
and as Hucks had left both the bag and the book
in the cab, he fell to conjecturing how they had
got into the prison. Had Gertrude been asked
to deliver up his luggage before driving away ?
or had she brought it to the prison of her own
accord ? In the latter event, how came it that
she had been unable to get any message conveyed
to him ? How came it that she had been unable
to procure his liberty ?

Hucks still rejected the idea that Gertrude
might have been arrested too. He dared not let

his mind dwell on such a supposition. But a
vague uneasiness grew within him as the day
wore on. He wrote a letter to the British
Ambassador ; he ordered a plate of boiled beef and
a little red wine for dinner ; he tried to study his
law book ; and he ended by reading the Church
service of the day, for he had a Bible and Prayer-book
in his travelling-bag. Nevertheless, he was
in a very nervous state when the time came for
his going to bed. He was not yet troubled by
any thought about the alarm which his wife
might feel at his arrest, for he trusted he might
be free before the report of his misadventure
reached her. But his concern on Gertrude's
behalf banished sleep, while the parasites that
infested his horrible bed, and the many jarring
noises of the prison-house — slamming of iron doors
and the howling of fresh-arrived prisoners, who
were drunk or reckless or shamming mad — added
to the atrocities of this truly infernal night.

One of the things that a man misses most in
£gaol is a looking-glass. It did not occur to
Hucks that he mio-ht have one bought for him
at the canteen, nor did it strike him that he might
command the services of a barber if he had asked
to be shaved. AVith a prickly beard of two days'

growth on his face, and hair which he knew to
have a crooked parting, and without a necktie,
with boots unbraced and clothes unbrushed, he
felt disreputable. But at length the summons
which he had so long expected came. He had
just finished his breakfast of cafe au lait, when
the door of his cell was thrown open with as much
noise as so simple an operation admits of.

Courez, vite," cried a warder, clapping his
hands as if the place were on fire ; and the lawyer,
hobbling out, joined a flock of other hastening
prisoners, who were all turned pell-mell into a
arose ill-smelling waiting-room.

The worst rifi'-rafi' of Paris was collected in it.
Imagine all the " night-charges " of the London
police-stations herded in one large hall, with a
greasy asphalte floor and iron galleries overhead,
with warders on the look-out. In Paris there
are no district police-courts ; but prison-vans go
the round of the stations every morning, and
bring all the people who have been taken into
custody during the night to the Prefecture.

Thus Mr. Littleton found himself among
men charged with every imaginable crime or
peccadillo. There were flashily dressed, seedy-looking
youngsters, who had been drunk and

obstreperous ; and cold, cruel-looking villains
whose blouses were stained with blood. There
were tramps ; cabman in glazed hats and red
waistcoats ; begging impostors, with the paint of
false sores smudged over their hands and faces ;
pale-faced boys, with the precocious sneer of vice ;
and respectably dressed men, who wandered about
with scared countenances, like domestic dogs in a
menagerie. The greater part of this repulsive
crowd blew clouds of tobacco, jeered, yelled, and
blasphemed ; yet there was no molestation of those
who chose to withdraw themselves apart, and
Hucks, who sat down on a bench in a corner,
almost sickened by what he saw, was left to himself,
till, looking up, his eyes unexpectedly met
those of M. Timon Grachard.

He had to stare hard before he quite recognized
the Revolutionist, for the shaving off of his
beard had greatly altered M. Grachard's appearance
: but the recognition was still slower on
the part of the Frenchman, who seemed unable to
believe his eyes.

Sctcrehleu ! est ce possible f What brings
you here, Mr. Leetlepoint ? "

'how do you do, Mossoo Grachard? I —

*' sion Dieu I You are the last man T should
have thought to meet here."

Hucks explained that he had not come to
this place for his own pleasure, and he cut
such a ludicrous figure as he whimpered and
hitched up his clothes that M. Grachard unfeelingly
laughed.

'' I beg your pardon, Mr. Leetlepoint, but this
is really too droll. / am here through Miss
Corrington's fault ; but I do not blame her, for it
was that silly wife of mine with her chatter who
betrayed me. Well, I dare say my wife is in
prison too, and that will teach her a little lesson.
I must add that wee had no luck. Of the twenty
thousand orchards whom the Imperial Government
supports in Paris, the one who knew me
best happened to be in the station."

*' You mean that man Quirolo, I suppose ? "

Ah, you know Pierre Quiroule ? " exclaimed
Grachard, suspiciously.

With knitted brows the Revolutionist listened
while Hucks related how he had come to know
the detective. Grachard rolled a cigarette while
the Englishman spoke, but did not interrupt
him. Hucks went on to state why he had come
to France. Community of misfortune makes us

very confidential, and Hucks forgot, in alluding
to the Duke d'Alma, that he was talking to the
man who was best able to tell him why the
Duke's marriage with Gertrude had been impeded.
He only thought at the moment of getting instruction
about French judicial procedure.

'* 2Iafoi, I suspect you were arrested because
you and Miss Corrington were seen with my wife
and me," observed M. Grachard, musing; "and
I fancy you'll remain a good while in prison,
because you have jut yourself into the Comte de
Beaujeu's power."

'' And Miss Warrington ? "

You may be sure that she is at the female
prison of Saint Lazaree."

Great Heavens ! don t say that, man ! " exclaimed
Hucks, well-nigh choking. " What has
she done ? What have I done ? We shall see a
magistrate, I suppose ? "

Oh yes," said Grachard, with a grin. " Look
here, Mr. Leetlepoint, are you a man ? Well,
make appeal to all your patience and courage,
for you shall need them. It may be that you
will be liberated to-day, I know not ; but perhaps
you will be put an secret — that is, kept in a cell
for weeks without seeing anybody, or being

allowed to write letters or to receive them. You
will be as one entombed. Your wife, your friends,
they shall not know where you are ; and if at last
you are set free, the doors shall be opened to you
without apology or excuse. Those are the liberties
we enjoy, after three revolutions, in the name of
freedom."

At this juncture one of the warders in the
gallery, who had been calling out the names of
prisoners, was heard making spirited but unavailing
attempts to pronounce the names — Hucks

Littleton. '' Eggs — Ux Beetle . Quel

diable de nom est-ce cela ? oil eyes vous, Ux ? "

Run ; they are calling you," said Grachard.
If you are let free, hon voyage. If not, ask to
see the doctor tomorrow — say you are sick. I
shall do the same ; then we Vv'ill meet here."

Hucks ran. " C'est vous, Ux ? " said a towering
gendarme to him at the door, and the
prisoner was conducted through a series of flaofaed
passages to a fine room, furnished like a study.
At a table, covered with papers, sat a rubicund,
elderly gentleman, with a double eye-glass on his
nose. At another table was a clerk.

*' Vous ne parlez pas le francis, monsieur ? "
said the elderly gentleman politely.

Hucks shook his head.
C'est bien ; a aquitaine."

Hucks felt a hand on his shoulder. The
towering gendarme spun him roimd ; and the
prisoner, imagining that he had only seen a Clerk
of the Peace, and was now going into a police-court,
was forwarded back to his cell at the
double.

He had seen the examining; magistrate, and
was under remand for a week.

CHAPTER III.

ODETTE IX SILK.

As Galliard guessed, Gertrude had been taken
to the female prison of St. Lazaree.

Pierre Quiroule had ordered the arrest of the
two Eno^lish travellers, and an exhibition of his
'credentials to the Superintendent of Police on
«]uty at the railway station had been sufficient to
insure immediate obedience to his order'" Hucks
and Gertrude were entered on the registers of
their respective gaols as, " Prisoners of State :
Accused of holding intercourse u'ith a criminal
convicted of conspiring against the life of the

EraperorT

In apprehending Pinion Grachard, Quiroule

The detectives of the political police under the
Empire used to carry an oval yellow card in a glass case.
On one side of the card was engraved the picture of
an open eye — the crest of the prefecture.

VOL. HI. 45

had done a splendid morning's work. It was as
if a sportsman, being out with no purpose of sport,
had by mere luck ensnared an elephant. Quiroule
was sure to get praised from his superiors for the
capture of the Revolutionist, and the elation of
spirits produced by this piece of good fortune had
been the cause of his adding Mr. Littleton and
Gertrude to his 'bag." It had flashed upon him
that in putting these two into prison he might
render a service to the Count de Beaujeu, who,
being now a Cabinet Minister, had it in his power
to turn the detective into a Knight of the Legion
of Honour by a stroke of the pen. A man so
mighty was entitled to be served with the zeal
that sticks at nothing.

Pierre Quiroule had been in England collecting
evidence ostensibly about the outrage on the
Duke, but really about Gertrude's relations with
Dr. Cleverly, and he quite well knew that he
risked committing no mistake by patting the
Lewbury lawyer and the Due d'Alma's heiress
into the Count de Beaujeu's power. Aware that
there had been a correspondence between Mr.
Littleton and the Count about the Duke's property,
he had followed the lawyer from England
just to watch him, and it had then occurred to

him that Mr. Littleton and his fair charge
would DO where be so well watched as in gaol.

If their journey to Paris boded mischief to
the Count, that mischief would be thwarted by
their imprisonment ; and it might be that under
the terrors and discomfort of the prison cell au
secret, Miss Corrington and her brother-in-law
would consent to purchase their liberty by letting
the Duke's will in Gertrude's favour be destroyed.
At all events, if the Count de Beaujeu saw no
object in detaining the two prisoners, they would
be discharged, and it would be unnecessary to
offer them any apology for their arrest, since they
might be told that they had brought this mishap
on themselves by travelling without passports intime
of war.

Pierre Quiroule had two sets of lodgings in
Paris — one in the Eue de Tivoli, where his surroundings
were those of a gentleman ; the other,
in one of the old streets on the left bank of the
Seine, where he rented two rooms, poorly furnished.
In the first of these abodes he passed
for a courrier de cabinet — " Queen's messenger,"
as we say in England ; in the second, he was
believed to be a commercial traveller. The real
profession of a political police-spy is never known

to the landlord or concierge (porter) of the house
where he resides.

Leaving the railway station, Quiroule went to
the humble lodgings where he was known as
M. Pierre. The porter was a silent, snuffy
old fellow named Francois, who had been a
regimental tailor, and who, when not drinking
*' l:»lue " wine in the cabaret round the corner,
sat cross-legged upon a table in his dark, frowsy
little loose and mended clothes. A notice dancing
on the shutter announced that, by his skilful
repairs, Francois could make old clothes look
better than new — j9/?f5 beaux que neuf. But this
puff" had been composed for him by a facetious
artist who had once lived in the house ; and
Francois was so far from dishonour to it
that his customers were always complaining that
his patches glared like advertisements. But they
were too afraid of Madame Francois to say
much.

Madame Francois, the tutelary divinity and
servant-general of a house which had seven flats
and twenty-five sets of lodgers, was to be seen
every afternoon and all the year round knitting
or darning rev stocking's at the door. She was
an old woman with a grey moustache, a twilled

cap that was clean on Sundays but dubious the
rest of the week, a blue check apron, and a
tongue that wafted welcome to all comers who
had anything new to tell her. When the weather
allowed it, her rush-bottomed chair was set close
to the street pavement — that is, just under the
arch of the porte cocker e ; when it got colder,
she receded a little further under the arch, and
had a perforated box half full of charcoal embers
for a footstool. In these more inclement seasons,
too, her grey tom-cat lay curled on her lap like
a muff.

It required very severe frost to drive Madame
Francois quite indoors within the lodge, which
was at once her bedroom, her kitchen, her husband's
shop, and the office where the letters and
parcels of the twenty-five sets of lodgers were
deposited.

All day long lodgers, their* children, or their
maids-of-all-work descended to the lodge to
fetch away the letters and parcels which aU day
long postmen, carriers, and tradesmen's boys
were leaving : and Madame Francois liked this
bustle. She would have murmured at her lot
if she had not been disturbed from her work
twenty times within an hour. Fortresses from

other houses came and gossiped with her ; the
fried-potato woman, who had her oven in the
angle of a wall opposite, was her very good friend ;
the Aiivergnat water-carriers, going about the
streets with their yokes and brimming pails,
exchanged good-mornings with her ; and the
itinerant vendor of liquorice-water — a thoughtful
politician — often rested in her doorway with his
large silvered cylinder, and gave her his views
on public questions. Madame Francois was supposed
to know the family histories and domestic
troubles of every inmate of the house whereof
her sleepy husband was the salaried guardian ;
and as all the scandal, tattle, and loose talk of
the quarter reached her ears, any politician might
have consulted her safely as an echo of public
opinion. The vox iDopidi reverberated under the
roof of her mouth, and she rendered all its false
notes to perfection.

Pierre Quiroule, swaggering jauntily up to
the house with the dust of travel on him, found
Madame Francois and her husband polishing the
staircase together with bees' wax ; it was not yet
afternoon, and this was their busy time. He
asked for letters, and the old woman gave him
several.

"Had a prosperous journey, M. Pierre?"
lie asked.

Pretty fair, Madame Francois. I have been
among the vineyards buying wine, as usual, for
our firm."

*' So I suppose. And how long is it since
they have taken to growing grapes in Brittany ? "

What do you mean ? " asked Quiroule,
changing colour ; for these detectives are always
afraid of detection, and Quiroule saw that the
old portress was laughing at him.

Never mind," she said, grinning. '' You've
been to Brittany — that's enough ; and you forgot
something there. That something has been here
any number of times to inquire after you. Her
name is Odette, isn't it ? "

When did she come ? What's become of
her?"

She came yesterday and the day before.
Where she's gone I don't know. She seemed
more anxious to have a talk with you than with
me. Fine girl, M. Pierre, and has a bit of
temper, eh ? "

Quiroule pretended to laugh. " I think the
girl has come to Paris to seek a domestic
situation."

And you're going to give her a character ?
Ha, ha ! Tell us what she's best fit for, M. Pierre
swilling the broth or dancing gavottes? What
am I to say if she calls again ? "

You'd best say nothing," rejoined Quiroule,
and he walked away ; upon which Madame
Francois grinned and treated herself to a pinch
of snuff".

Qairoule then went by a roundabout route,
and looking often behind him to see that he was
not followed, to his other lodgings, where he
meant to dress and breakfast before o-oinor to
report himself to the Count de Beaujeu. The
porter at this last house was a respectable old
man, who wore a white tie and a velvet skull
cap. He had been butler in a good family, and
demeaned himself obsequiously towards the occupants
of his house, who were all people of position,
though there were some nice shadino-s in his
deference, according as he addressed tenants who
lived on the first, second, or third floors.

'' A young girl in Breton costume, who gave
the name of Odette Kergarec, has been inquiring
for monsieur," he said, as the tenant whom he
believed to be an Imperial messenger looked into
his lodge.

'* She's the daughter of one of my farmers
^Yho has come to Paris for a situation' said
Pierre, carelessly. " If she calls again, you can
send her up to me, or, if I am out, tell her to call
this evening."

"Very well, monsieur. I think the young
person said she was going to see the Countess de
Beaujeu."

Pierre nodded, as if the information were of
no consequence to him ; but he was deeply
annoyed and alarmed that Odette was aware of
both his addresses. He had made the girl some
foolish promises, and had left her in Brittany,
thinking; he should not see her ao-ain, at least
for a long time. It was bad enough that she
should have followed him to Paris, but that she
should have found out his two addresses was a
serious matter, and Pierre felt uncomfortable at
Odette's having gone to see the Countess de
Beaujeu.

The spy's apartments were furnished luxuriously
and with good taste ; for Quiroule had
bought all the furniture as it stood from a former
occupant. Had he furnished for himself, his
Corsican taste would have run riot in loud
colours, while the coarseness of mind inseparable

from the pursuit of a calling such as his would
have doubtless made him blend paltriness with
extravagance in the ornamentation of his walls.

o

He was one of those men who see no
difference between the artistic merit of a marble
statuette and a twopenny china dog, provided
the dog strikes their fancy. The best of his
rooms was stocked with portable curiosities,
stolen from the houses of people whom he had
arrested. State prisoners of all degrees had
passed through his hands, and as most of these
had been sent to Cayenne or to convict establishments,
they could be robbed with impunity.
But there were curious disparities in the value of
the articles which Quiroule had collected. He had
some ivory carvings, paintings on enamel, and
pieces of jewelry, which were worth large sums ;
but also a mass of trumpery. Having heard of
bronzes and china as objects which connoisseurs
prize, he had encumbered himself with a quantity
of worthless plates and chimney ornaments of
bronzed tin.

Now, as it was probable that Paris would
soon have to stand a siege, Quiroule bethought
him that he would do well to pack up some of
his valuables, so as to have them removed to the

country. He had commenced this work, and
was wrapping with the greatest care those of his
possessions which had the least value, when there
was a ring at his door, and going to open he
was confronted by Odette. He did not know
her at first sio-ht, for she was wearing; a black
silk dress, with a bonnet and veil, and in the
dim light of the passage looked like a well-attired
Parisian lady.

Well, this is a transformation 1 " said Pierre,
trying to brazen it out, as he led Odette into his
drawing-room, where she looked round her in
wonder, like a lark in a gilt cage.

Why did you leave me ? " asked Odette,
lifting her veil, and eyeing Quiroule with an
expression of menace.

"Come, come, my little Odette," he said,
endeavouring to take her hand, " you've not
come here to quarrel with me ? ''

Hands off ! " she cried, stepping back.
*' You promised to marry me ! "

Did I ? I make so many promises ; but
there's plenty of time to keep this one. Tell me
how you learnt where I live ? "

I didn't learn it from you, for you told mea
lot of lies about yourself. I don't believe

there can be in the whole world a greater liar
than you, Pierre."

It's pleasant to excel in something," laughed
Quiroule ; and he had such a power of blarney
that, although Odette had come prepared to make
a scene, he ended by coaxing her into a truce.
The fact is, she wanted him to admire her finery.
He had left her in tatters, and she reappeared
before him in silk. A big mirror reflected her
image at full length, and she had no suspicion
that to Quiroule's mind she was far comelier in
her Breton costume, with bare arms and dishevelled
hair.

"I told you I would have a silk dress, and
you see I've got one," she said, still sulky, but
fishing for a compliment, which he hastened to
give.

'' It's a very pretty dress," he answered,
noticing, however, that the silk was of the
commonest kind. '' Where did you get it ? "

All " she replied, as if she meant to keep
the matter a secret ; but as he looked at her very
intently she gave her head a toss — casting a side-glance
at the mirror — and said, as though
boasting of an achievement, " My confessor, the
Abbe Juva of Chateaufort, gave me five hundred

francs when I told him how we had managed the
apparition in the wood."

The devil ! " exclaimed Pierre Quiroule,
with an oath. " You went and confessed to
that priest ! Why were you such a fool ? "

"There's not a thing you ever told me —
there's not a thin 2^ we ever did together that
I've not repeated in the confessional," said
Odette. "You did not think I was a heathen,
did you ? "

Pierre could have throttled her. She saw by
the empurpling of his face and clenching of his
hands how furious he was ; but to her witch-like
nature the excitement of frig-htenino: or ano-erinof
people was pleasing.

Yes, I told M. Juva everything ; and you
should have seen him jump ! "

And he gave you eve hundred francs for
making him jump "? What do you mean ? Outwith
the truth, you minx 1 This is no laughing
matter to me ! "

"Ah, but you should hear me to the end,"
said Odette, with something like a chuckle.
The priest wanted me to tell his sister all I had
told him. Of course, he couldn't repeat what he
had heard in the confessional ; but he threatened

til at he would not give me absolution unless I
did as lie bade me. So I told him I would go
without absolution. Then he tried another plan,
and began wheedling me until I agreed to go to
Paris and confess everything to the Count and
Countess de Beaujeu. At first he offered to
write a letter to the Countess, which I should
sign ; but I wasn't so stupid as to consent to that.
I wanted to be sent to Paris at his expense, you
see ; and I am a good one at a bargain, I can
tell you, for I ended by getting the absolution
out of him and the money too."

'' And so with the priest's money you came
up and made a confession to Madame de
Beaujeu ?"

^'No, I haven't let the Countess into the
secret. I shall some day, just to keep the
promise by which I got the absolution ; but I
shall take my own time about it. Perhaps I
shan't speak out till my death-bed. Perhaps
I shall speak out this very day, and get you put
into prison as a deceiver and a vagabond. It
depends how you behave to me."

I should advise you for your own sake to
hold your tongue," said Pierre, significantly.
Then, observing that there was some crape on

Odette's mantle, 'for whom are you wearing
mom-king ? For the Due d'Alma ? " He put
the question rather to gain time, whilst he
reflected how he should dispose of Odette, and
he was far from anticipating the reply which
came.

You may call it mourning for monsieur if
you like, but it was put on for madame."

'' What madame ? "

Why, the old Marquise de Chateaufort.
Don't you know she is dead ? She died just a
fortnight ago, and was buried two days afterwards.
She had been ill for some time, but
when monsieur was ordered off to war it seemed
to kill her."

This piece of news was startling, and threw
the detective into a meditation. He tried to
examine all the bearings of it. " The Countess
de Beaujeu inherits all the Duke's and the
Marquise's property, I suppose ? " he said to
Odette, by way of proving how much she knew.

Yes ; and M. Juva will be more impatient
than ever for me to tell the Countess about our
hoax. You see, hundreds of pilgrims have been
coming to Chateaufort every day to visit the spot
where the apparition occurred, and the priest

wants to have these pilgrimages stopped. What
a state he must be in since I left Chateaufort ! "

Did the Duke inherit the whole of the
Chateaufort property by the Marquise's death ? "
interrupted Quiroule.

Yes, of course he did. Don't you know
that Madame de Beaujeu had her portion from
the Marquise when she married, so that everything
went to the Duke, though he didn't enjoy
it long — mercy on us ! "

Then perhaps the lawful mistress of Chateau-fort
at this moment is that English girl, Miss
Corrington," muttered Quiroule, a piece of information
which made Odette stare. It now became
evident to Quiroule that the Count de Beaujeu
would have very good reason to rejoice that
Gertrude was in prison.

He looked at his watch, and thought he
would go to see the Count at once. But what
was he to do with Odette ? The girl was moving
about the room with provoking coolness, examining
all its contents as if she had a proprietary interest
in them. She made him explain why Miss
Corrington was likely to be mistress of Chateau-fort,
but listened sullenly, as if she only half
understood. Quiroule had always been able to

manage her with good-humour and flattery, but
she was as intractable as a wild cat when bullied.
AVith a great effort to control himself, the spy
sought to retrieve the mistake he had committed
in using harsh language, so said cheerfully —

Well, will you come out with me and view
some of the sights of Paris ? "

No ; 1 want to stay here," said Odette.

But you can't stay here. What would the
people in this house say if you remained in my
rooms ? "

"You can tell them I am your wife. You've
told so many lies to please yourself that you may
try one now to suit me."

The difficulty will be to get the lie believed,"
said Quiroule. "However, it shall be as you
please. Will you have something to eat an[
drink ? "

Odette made no immediate reply, but continued
her tour of exploration round the apartment.
Then abruptly she changed her mind,
and, speaking as though everything must yield to
lier whim, announced that she wanted to go and
breakfast at a restaurant. " You promised that
you would make a madame of me, buy me fine
crosses and jewelry, and take me out for drives
VOL. III. 46

in a carriage. You will have to do all that
to-day. I see you're afraid of me, so you want
to play me false ; but I'm on my guard."

You are a strange girl ! " ejaculated Quiroule,
with a forced laugh. " If you scowl in that way,
nobody will take us for a pair of lovers. But
come along''

When Quiroule had got Odette into the street,
he breathed more freely. He was going to have
her arrested, and it would have been difficult todo
this in his own rooms without uproar and
scandal. Odette trudged by his side, watching
him stealthily, and guessing that he had some
mischievous intention. But as she did not know
the power of the man, her suspicions went astray.
Had he conducted her towards any lonely spot,
she would have imagined that he was going to
give her a beating; but as he kept his course
through crowded streets, walking rather fast, she
took it into her head that he might try and
decamp from her at a corner. It was a trouble
to her to keep pace with him, for her limbs were
not accustomed to the trammels of fashionable
attire. She peered about her to see how the city
ladies managed their dresses, but she made a sad
bundle of her own. and she noticed that all the

passers-by stared at her. She had caught up her
skirt in two bunches with both hands, and held
it up a good height above her ankles, as if she
were crossing endless puddles.

We shall get a good breakfast here," said
Quiroule ; and he stopped before a small restaurant
of third-rate sort. Two yards of bread and a
bowl of salad with rounds of beetroot on it were
displayed in the window. Odette was so suspicious
that she would not walk into this place
first ; so Quiroule led the way.

SS^or^HO'^

CHAPTER lY.

the restaurant cagxot.

Odette walked into a trap.

The Restaurant Cagnot, kept by a retired
detective, was a house of call for members of
Quiroule's profession. There detectives often
made appointments with persons from whom the j
wanted to get information, and thither people
who could not be conveniently apprehended in
their own houses or in the open street were often
decoyed. Quiroule was well known in the house,
;ind simply by his manner of touching his hat to
Madame Cagnot — a sharp, shrewish little woman,
Who sat behind a counter with a marble top — he
intimated to that lady that Odette was to be
kidnapped. Madame Cagnot touched a hand-bell
twice, by which sign the one waiter of tht
establishment understood that he was to conduct
the two to a private room.

There was something in the waiters manner,
however, which did not satisfy Odette, so she
paused on the threshold leading out of the public
room.

'* Where are we going ? " she asked.

AVe shall be more comfortable in a private
room," suggested Pierre.

No ; and I don't much like the look of this
restaurant," said Odette, gazing round her. " T
wanted to go to one with lots of big looking-glasses."


Pierre Quiroule, who was impatient to get rid
of Odette, had the imprudence to give one of her
elbows a shove, while the waiter pushed the other
elbow in order to force the girl through the door.
But Odette sprang round, and dealt the servant
a smack in the face which made him swear with
pain ; and while he was still reeling under it, she
favoured him with a second. The were not
light pats, but hearty thumps, such as those
which the wench used to inflict on refractory
heifers. '' Tell that booby to keep his hands off
me ! " she cried, turning round and glaring at
Quiroule.

*' Arrest that woman," screamed the waiter,
who was nursing the worst hit of his two cheeks

Avitli both Lands ; but he kept at a respectful
distance.

'* Arrest her ! " repeated Quiroule.

Hold her, and shut all the doors ! " echoed
Madame Cagnot.

There were only two customers in the restaurant.
They were seedy, red-faced fellows breakfasting
at separate tables, but both were connected with
the police, and they rose to give Quiroule assistance
in controlling Odette. They might as well
have tried to hold a runaway mule. Odette
stooped instinctively, and lifted one of her legs to
whip off her shoe — the shot being the favourite
weapon of defence with country girls. But she
forgot that she was not wearing wooden shoes, so,
taking a high leap with the same agility as a
ballet-dancer, she performed the savage kick in
honour among the youth of her native province,
and planted the heel of one of her new Parisian
boots plump between the eyes of the man nearest
her. It was like the thwack of a rolling-pin on
soft dough. " AYhat a she devil ! " howled
Madame Cagnot, behind her counter.

What, you are against me too, you hag ? ''
shrieked Odette, who, on recovering her balance
after the kick, rushed towards the counter, expecting

to get protection from one of her own
sex.

On the counter there was a white tureen half
full of water, in which floated lumps of ice and
little pats of butter. Odette caught up this
utensil, dashed all its contents into madame
Cannot's blemishes face ; then, whirling the
tureen above her head, called upon her antagonists
to stand back.

The first one of you who tries to touch me
shall get this on the face with something to follow.
Now then, who wants his nose broken ? "

Murder ! " equalled Madame Cagnot, whose
silk chess was drenched, and who had a pat of
butter in her left eye.

"She's mad!" shouted Pierre, runniDo- to
shut a door.

This scene had taken but a moment to enact,
but the noise it made had arrested the attention
of passers-by in the street. Quiroule, seeing no
further reason for concealment, called out that
Odette must be taken into custody ; that she was
a thief, a pickpocket, against whom there was a
warrant. Odette, having dislodged the soused
and yelling Madame Cagnot from the counter,
stood there herself as behind a bastion, and that

tureeu of hers looked so formidable that for a
moment all the men in the room fell back.

But Quiroule, who was a ruffian, brought
matters to a crisis by charging Odette with a
cane chair. The tureen descended with a crash
upon the uplifted thing, and broke across the
liars; but Odette, who could not dodge away
from the chair, received a blow from it full over
the chest, and it knocked her to the edge of the
little platform on which the counter stood. H ere
her foot slipped, and the infuriated Madame
Cagnot, catching her by the back hair, dragged
her to the ground.

Struggle as she would, Odette could not do
much against several men and a woman all
seizing her limbs, and in a moment she was
rendered helpless by her wrists and her legs just
above the ankle being bound in yards of that
strong, lithe whipcord which French policemen
carry about with them instead of handcuffs.
When mastered, however, Odette could still use
lier lungs ; and she did so to such good purpose
that a crowd of people from the street came
tumbling' into the restaurant to see what was the
matter.

There had been a time when, with a few

arrogant words, Pierre Quiroule could have made
these intruders slink back like curs. But the
heyday of the Imperial police was over. Napoleon
III. s prestige had been destroyed on the Thine.
It was felt, that unless some miraculous victory
was won over Germany, a revolution would soon
break out in Paris ; and the Parisians were
already seizing every opportunity of quarrelling
with the authorities.

Quiroule, asking the crowd haughtily what
they wanted, was answered with a request to
state who the deuce he was to speak in such a
tone. A workman in shirt-sleeves gave him a
push in the chest ; others hustled him. Some
who were jostling at the door cried " Shame ! "
without knowing what was up, but merely because
they heard Odette screaming. Quiroule saw that
he had better make himself scarce, and accordingly
darted through a back door, crossed a court-yard,
and fled through a street at the rear of the house.

But he was not going to be baulked of his
prey. He hastened to the nearest police-station,
and there stated that he had been impeded in an
endeavour to arrest a girl whom the Count de
Beaujeu suspected of treasonable designs. He
begged, therefore, that several policemen in uniform

moonlit be sent to the Restaurant Cannot to
disperse the mob and take Odette into custody.

This was done at once. It is the duty of the
police to disperse mobs, and whatever may have
been the causes that have produced a gathering
of the populace, it is held that the authors of a
street disturbance ought always to be summoned
before the Commissaire de Police to give an
account of themselves. The French from force
of habit acquiesced so completely in this system
that Odette lost all her champions from the
moment when the policemen in uniform appeared.
She was still clamouring at the top of her voice,
and there were plenty of men in the crowd ready
to protect her against detectives in plain clothes ;
but at short of the " town serjeants " with their
cocked hats and swords, the crowd choruses,
On va s'expliquer." And though Odette kept
protesting that she had nothing to explain, she
was marched off nem. con. to the police-station,
whence later in the day she was conveyed in a
prison van to the House of Detention.

Meanwhile, Pierre Quiroule had set off to call
on the Count de Beaujeu. He was annoyed at
what had just happened from a purely professional
point of view, because he liked to do his work

with artistic neatness, and the botching of an
arrest always put him out of conceit with himself.
At the same time, the mutinous demeanour of the
crowd in the restaurant led him to ponder
anxiously over the political crisis which he saw
to be approaching in France. In the course of
a fortnight the spirit of the people had got
ofanoTcned.

Whilst in England, Quiroule had hardly been
able to realize the effects which the defeat of the
French armies were producing upon the minds of
his countrymen. As a Corsican and a French -
hater, these defeats were indifferent to him, except
in so far as they threatened to undermine the
Bonaparte dynasty, which Quiroule served with a
real attachment. But until he had witnessed the
disorderliness of that rabble in the eating-house,
Quiroule had not believed that the throne was in
danger. He had imagined that the new Ministry,
having such men as the Count de Beaujeu in it,
would know how to deal with the revolutionary
elements in the capital ; and certainly the mighty
organization of the police-force, the strength of
the garrison in Paris, and the structure of the
city, with its broad avenues so well adapted for
the movements of troops and the manoeuvring of

artillery, were potent weapons in the hands of
any Government who knew how to use them.

What Quiroule had just seen, however, convinced
him that the Government must strike a
coup d'etat without delay, if it meant to save the
throne. As for himself, he reflected that he must
obtain his Cross of the Legion of Honour at once,
if he was to get it at all. More than ever now
he pined for this decoration, and since the Count
de Beaujeu could give it him, he meant to claim
it without further procrastination as the recompense
of his zealous work that morning.

CHAPTER V.

THE JACKAL AND THE LION".

The sio'lit of the grandiose official residence
which the Count che Beaujeu now inhabited ina
wing of the Louvre helped to revive Quiroule's
hopes. Here at least were the symbols of
authority unimpaired. Doubtless revolutions and
changes of ministry in France are stimulated nota
little by those magnificent public buildings in
which ministers are housed — palaces which must
fulfil a political adventurer's conception of earthly
paradise. There were sentries at the Count's
door, decorous ushers in the vestibule ; a perfect
'aim reigned in all the wide corridors and
waiting-rooms, just as if the country were enjoying
a forty years' peace. All the antechambers
were full of place-hunters, postulates
for honours, petitioners who had grievances, and

these, attired in evening dress, as etiquette required,
sat silent, or conversed with one another
in well-bred whispers. There were several ladies
amono- them bearings names that had honos been
influential at the Imperial Court.

Pierre Quiroule was put in a room by himself.
He had not long to wait. The Count's
secretary. Max Kleinwort, walked in, and said
with his horrible brogue, " Monsieur le Gomte
is ferry busy."

So I presumed," said Quiroule, who hated
without fearing this man ; 'but I am part of his
business."

Monsieur le Gomte says you can tell me
what you have to say," continued Kleinwort with
his wooden voice.

No, I cannot," answered Quiroule, with rising
cano-er at the idea that the minister meant too



throw him over. '' I will wait till his Excellency
himself can see me."

As you please," said Kleinwort. " You may
have to wait for a long time."

But not more than half an hour elapsed
before Quiroule was introduced into the minister's
study. A great change seemed to have come
over the Count. In a few days he had aged as

by so many years. His grey hair had become
white, his face was careworn, but all excitability
had disappeared from his manner. He had
become taciturn perhaps to hide the impediment
in his speech, but he made up for his little
speaking by a grave, cold politeness. He had
never honoured Quiroule with a bow before ; he
now bent his head towards him without mo vino:
a muscle of his face.

This disconcerted Quiroule, who found himself
pouring out a recital of his morning's work
without getting any response. But the Count
had been informed of the arrest of M. Grachard,
Mr, Littleton, and Miss Corrington before
Quiroule came, and he did not mean to let the
detective see that he felt under any obligation
to him.

You a-a-arrest too — too many people," he
said quietly, when Quiroule had concluded his
narrative by saying that he had put Odette
under lock and key.

But, your Excellency, the girl might have
betrayed us all. She has made a confession to
the Abbe Juva at Chateaufort, and she was ready
to tell other people, including the Countess de
Beaujeu, how the apparition had been arranged."

There was a m- miraculous vision witnessed
by many respectable p-people," stammered the
Count. " Nobody would believe what a servant -
girl said to throw discredit on it. I myself
don't b-b-believe her'

Quiroule was staggered at this coolness, and
wondered whether anybody could be within earshot,
making the Count afraid to speak confidentially.


I hope, sir," he said, " that you approve
my action in arresting Mr. Littleton and Miss
Corrington ? "

I have nothing to say on the subject,"
replied the Count. "It will be for j-judges to
decide whether the charges which you have
brought against these people can be sub substantiated."


I had hoped to render your Excellency a
service," observed Quiroule, biting his lips.
May I remind you that you promised to do rue
a kindness ? "

I sent in your name to the Emperor on a
list of appointments to the Legion of Honour,"
said the Count.

And may I hope, then, your Excellency ? "

"No; his Ma-majesty struck your name off
the list."

There was a moment's silence. A savage
look came into Quiroule's eyes ; the blood that
suffused his swarthy face appeared to make it
black. He clenched his fists, and during a few
seconds he made a frantic struggle to contain
himself, but he could not, and his anger exploded.

'' I don't believe it," he gasped, advancing
nearer to the table ; " no, I don't believe it.
You've used me for your purposes, and now you
want to deny me my reward. Why should the
Emperor think me unworthy of a cross which
bijou wear ? "

Superciliously raising his eyebrows, the
minister extended one of his white shaking hands
towards a bell.

Ah, you want to have me shown out ? "
shrieked Quiroule, beside himself. " But I
advise you to beware. I know enough about
you, M. le Comte, to get your name struck off
the rolls of the Legion of Honour, and this is
not a moment when you can afford to quarrel
with men like me. You've not got too many
friends, I can tell you. In a few days there will
be a revolution, and you can imagine how a
Republican Government will deal with you if
I turn round upon you and say all I know
VOL. III. 47

Now, just treat me fairly, for I'm uot a bit worse
than yourself. If I'm a scoundrel, so are you.
We've both made money by serving the Emperor ;
but money alone does not satisfy either of us.
You've got aU you can desire — you're a minister,
a senator, your coat is covered with stars ; now,
I want to have something on mi coat, and I'll
have it. Do you hear ? "

The Count touched the bell, and Max
Kleinwort stood in the middle of the room, as
though he had ascended through a trap in the
floor.

'this rascal is inso- insolent'' stuttered the
minister. " I dis-dismiss him from the service.
Let that be known at the Pre-prefecture and to
all the Commissaires in Paris."

A great deal I care for your dismissal,"
blustered Quiroule. " You will be sacked yourself
before a month is over. As for you, you
Prussian hound " — and he turned to Kleinwort —
keep clear of me, or I will stir up a rabble
against you and have you lynched for a spy."

"That is ferry foolish talk," remarked .
*' You are not in de street yet."

This reflection had occurred to Pierre Quiroule
just before the secretary made it. In his rage

he had forgotten that the Count de Beanjeu had
still power enough to get him transported to
Cayenne without trial. The law of suspects armed
Government with a terrible prerogative of transporting
by mere warrant men who '' were
dangerous to the safety of the State ; " and an
instant's thought sufficed to bring back to Quiroule
more than one example of detectives having
mysteriously disappeared after endeavouring to
trade upon State secrets which had come into
their possession.

Moved by these reminiscences, Pierre Quiroule
made a rather rapid exit. When he issued from
the Count's study, he had a dread that he might
be stopped at the foot of the staircase, and be
handed over to the officer of the Guard. But
nobody stopped him, so he fled from the house,
and fairly ran until he had turned a corner.
Here, however, he paused, overwhelmed by the
sense of the folly which he had committed.
What could he do, after all, to injure a man in
the Count's position ? It would be like a gadfly
warring against a vulture on a rock. By his
outburst of temper he had flung away all his
power, and Paris would now be too hot to hold
him. He must fly.

The Count de Beaujeu had acted towards
Quiroiile as the rulers of this earth often do
towards the infamous agents whom they have
employed for dark work. The truth is that the
Count felt everything cracking and crumbling
under him, and he was no longer afraid or dismayed,
but resigned. He had hoped that by
a vigorous coup d'etat the ruin of the Empire
might be averted ; but this measure would have
demanded that Marshal MacMahon should fall
lack upon Paris with an army to support the
Government, and since it had been decided that
the war with Germany should be fought out to
the end on the frontier, the Count's ministerial
colleagues did not see their way to sweeping all
Republican leaders into prison and putting Paris
under martial law.

To say that the Count grieved for the
Emperor's sake over the imminent destruction of
the throne would be to ascribe to him a fidelity
which was not in his nature. What he felt was
a spiteful chagrin about the mismanagement of
the war and the approaching triumph of the
Revolutionists. Like many men of old family, the
Count had rallied to the Empire because the
Count de Chambord — the Legitimist king whom

they would have preferred — head not had the
spirit to seize the Crown when it Lay within his
reach. Napoleon III. had accomplished the
splendid feat of restoring, after three revolutions,
and in the midst of an ashe of Liberal cant, a
monarchy more despotic than that of Louis XIV.
It made the Count laugh whenever he recollected
that three times dynasties had been overthrown
in the name of Freedom, and that Napoleon III.,
by a skilful manipulation of universal suffrage,
had brought the vast majority of the nation to
consent enthusiastically to a total suppression of
the public liberties. The Count de Beaujeu had
enjoyed the Imperial reign with the gusto of a
cynic. He liked it because its institutions and
policy, designed on popular lines, had outwitted
the Republicans. These ranters had prated about
universal suffrage, and lo ! during eighteen years
the constituencies had declared their unmitigated
abhorrence of Republicanism.

But now the glorious day of the Imperial
reign was setting in clouds and thunder, and the
Count de Beaujeu, like many others, was thinking
only how he could save his private property out
of the storm. If his wife could inherit her
brother's fortune, he might look upon coming

catastrophes with comparative indifference. But
he had speculated so wildly on the war that,
sunless he could recoup his losses out of the Due
d" Alma's estates, he must be ruined.

There had never been a more intrepid gambler
on the Bourse than the Count de Beaujeu, but,
as was explained in a former chapter, he played,
so to say, with loaded dice. He promoted companies,
bought script, and, by the aid of a political
ring, depressed or raised the market, according as
it suited his purpose. Now, however, the Bourse
had become as insensible to hocussing as a
paralyzed body to the shocks of an electric
battery. There was no galvanizing the public
into a fit of confidence. The Count's last
desperate expedient of raising the funds by circulating
false news of a victory at Landau had
enabled him to get rid of an enormous quantity
of bad scrip, but he still held a prodigious
amount, entailing liabilities that were incalculable.
He had thoroughly " plunged " in playing the
'' bull," having believed with all a Frenchman's
infatuation that the armies of his country were
invincible.

Gertrude Corrington was likely to have a
rough time of it in any encounter about money

with such a man. The Count had made up his
mind from the first to dispute his brother-in-law's
will ; but if Gertrude could be coerced into
allowing the will to be destroyed, that would
obviously be the best way of arranging matters.
Therefore Gertrude's arrest, from the Count's
point of view, was a master-stroke. Pierre
Quiroule, having done that much for him, could
do no more, and this was why the Count had
thrown him over, feeling that he could now finish
the game for himself.

When the detective had left the room, the
Count unlocked a drawer in his writing-table,
and took out a form of warrant, which he quickly
filled up, and stamped with a large dry seal.

That ma-man Quiroule is mad," he said to
his secretary.

Yes, M. le Gomte," answered Kleinwort.

He must be sent to Dicere. You will have
this w a- warrant executed to-day."

Dicere is a lunatic asylum, like Broadmoor
in England. One ward of it, called La Secrete,
serves for the confinement of murderers and State
prisoners of the most dangerous description.
Under the Empire, fanatics who were suspected
of regicide intentions, and grievance-mongers.

sho T\'orried the Government overmuch with
troublesome complaints against personages in
power, were habitually relegated there. As
Klein wort took the warrant, he said, " I will
telegraph to the Prefecture. Quiroule is too
well known to the Police to leave Paris unobserved."


"You must also s-send instructions about
that crim-criminal Grachard and his two English
accomplices."

I thought a barton under the great seal had
been made out for Grachard," submitted Klein -
wort.

That was before the war, and it never
received the Imperial sig-signature," said the
Count. " The man has thrown himself into our
hands, and he shall be transported. As for his
ac-accomplices, they must not be suffered to write
or receive letters, or to see anybody from outside
the prison. And — and I will go by-and-by to
the prison of St. Lazaree, and see Miss Corrington
myself."

There was nothing irregular in a Minister of
Police going to examine a State prisoner himself.
In cases of treason it was held that the revelations
of a prisoner had best be made to the highest

officials of the police department. The Count's
object, however, in proposing to visit Gertrude
was to judge of her character for himself. He
must have an interview ^dth her before he could
determine on the course of action that ought to
lye pursued towards her. According as she was
submissive or stubborn, so would the minister
use kindness or force.

CHAPTER VI.

THE MINISTER OF POLICE.

The prison of St. Lazaree continues to this day to
lye one of the worst gaols in Europe. Originally
a monastery of Lazarus friars, it was converted
into a prison for women towards the close of the
last century, when the population of Paris did
not much exceed half a million. As the population
increased, new wards were built in the
courtyards, and new stories were added to the
old buildings. The airing-grounds became smaller
and smaller, the buildings larger and larger ; but
prisoners came in such numbers that, in the early
years of the Second Empire, the accommodation
was already found to be insufficient. Plans for
another prison were prepared ; but this necessary
work, promised year after year to the Chambers,
was never carried out. While Baron Haussmann

was spending hundreds of millions of francs a
year on the embellishments of Paris — boulevards,
palaces, theatres, gardens — no money was ever
available for remedying the many fearful evils
which arose from overcrowding in the single
female prison of the city.

There were six large prisons for men, but
only this one for women, and to it were sent
female delinquents of every sort — the tried and
the untried, the suspected and the convicted,
hardened criminals who were going to be removed
to provincial convict establishments to
serve out long sentences, and young girls charged
with trumpery offences, which on trial would
only be punished by light fines.

Horrible to tell, it was not possible to keep
the various categories of prisoners wholly apart,
and the place would have been a hell but for the
Augustine nuns who had charge of the prison.
The matron and addresses were all nuns. Their
rule was severe. They were inflexible in exacting
obedience ; and the example of their blameless
lives gave them moral ascendancy over the
prisoners, which lay addresses could not have
obtained.

It was no more, however, than the ascendancy

which tamers can acquire over a menagerie.
They were often obeyed with scowls ; they had
to close their ears to much snarling, sullen
whispering, and half spoken menace, and their
eyes to much contamination of the better and
weaker natures by the stronger and fouler. It
was not possible that they could do much good,
but it was something that they should now and
then have been able to prevent evil. Their long-experience
of the most worthless members of their
sex made them quick to see how far corruption
had wrought upon the prisoners brought to them ;
and if by chance there came to the gaol a girl or
woman who was not wholly bad, or who was not
bad at all, they did their honest best to save such
an one from pollution by putting her apart from
the others, even though her circumstances and
the nature of the offence charged against her did
not, officially speaking, entitle her to this favour.

The directrice, or matron, of the prison at the
time when Gertrude became one of its inmates
was called Mother Ste. Agathe. It was she
who received the Count de Beaujeu on his coming
to examine the State prisoner.

She was a woman of about fifty, tall, strong,
with a cold, keen eye and a hard face. Her

flowing black robes, the starched cap which concealed
all her hair, the deep lawn collar which
fell over her shoulders and was fastened in front
like a cape, the cord of violet silk round her
waist, and the crucifix on her breast, made her a
striking figure to contemplate. She had that
pallor which belongs to all nuns who strictly
follow the rules of their order about diet, fasting,
and vigils ; and she looked at first sight like a
woman who had never sinned, and in whom is no
pity for sinners.

But with a masculine energy of character, she
had some womanly weaknesses. The hard stone
often hides a soft kernel. Mother Ste. Loathe
was kind with the obedient, pitiful with the
abandoned, and her pet failing was curiosity.
All the sickening stories she had heard in prison
lead not cloyed her appetite for secrets, and she
liked to find out all she could about every prisoner
in her custody. She once tried to exculpate herself
for this inquisitiveness by saying to her confessor,
"■ These prisoners are my newspapers ; I
read no other." " 1 am afraid, mother, that you
read only bad newspapers, then," said the smiling
priest, with a wag of the head.

It was towards four in the afternoon that the

Count de Beaujeu's brougham rolled into the yard
of the female prison. The matron received the
Minister of Police in her parlour, which was a
ofloomv room, without a book or an ornament.
The floor was of polished oak, shining like a
mirror ; the walls had high wainscots of stained
deal ; the windows were thickly barred and
grated ; the only furniture in the apartment consisted
in a heavy table, on which lay a large
brass-bound ledger, containing prisoners' names,
and a few straight-backed oaken chairs.

Mother Ste. Agathe shuddered slightly in
making: her obeisance to the Minister of Police,
because she was awed by the terrible power of
this man. He was the incarnation of absolute
irresponsible authority. His visit was unexpected,
and she had, of course, a multitude of favours to
ask him ; nor could he have come in a more
propitious manner. He was unattended, and
wore no uniform, but, being in mourning for his
brother-in-law, was dressed in clothes of dandified
cut, patent leather boots, and exquisitely
fitting black gloves. He greeted the matron
with purring courtesy of a man of the world.

Often had the poor woman prayed that she
might have an opportunity like this of speaking

face to face with one of the great men of this
earth ; to tell him of all that was wrong in the
miserable place which she ruled, and to ask him
for the many, many things which were wanted to
put matters a little straighter. She had learnt
long ago that official correspondence with State
departments availed little, and yet, now that she
stood alone with the minister, so urbane and
evidently desirous of ingratiating himself, she
could say nothing for bewilderment.

The Count saw that the nun was intimidated,
and he bade her in a gracious tone collect her
thoughts, and consider if there was anything he
could do for her. Thereupon, with a flush of
excitement, Mother Ste. Agathe unfolded her
budget of troubles. A very big one it was, and
included grievances in every section of the prison,
from the kitchen to the linen-room. The Count
appeared to sympathize, and promised that every
shortcoming should be repaired. From time to
time the matron took sly glances at him, expecting
that he must be growing tired of her lamentations
; but he evinced no fatigue.

At last she came to a very big request. In
view of a possible siege of Paris the prison was
shortly to be cleared of most of its inmates, who

were to be relegated to provincial gaols. The
matron had received no information as to the
plan on which these removals were to be effected,
and she wanted very much to have her say on
the subject. There were short-term prisoners
whom she would like to recommend for pardons ;
others whose health required, as she thought, that
they should be sent to prisons in the warm climate
of the south, etc., etc.

Well, make out your list, my good mother,
and I promise it shall be attended to," said the
Count, blandly. " You seem to take as much
interest in these prisoners as if they formed a
united family of which you were the head. It
is ver-very touching ; but I want now to see
that young English lady who was brought here
to-day — Miss Corrington. Where have you put
her ? "

*' In a cell by herself, your Excellency."
*' Has she complained much of her arrest ? "
She told me that she supposed she had
been arrested by mistake, that is all, your
Excellency. She is a very well-bred young
lady, and speaks French to perfection."
Has she written any letters to-day ? "
I believe not, sir ; but I have had no time

to attend to her. I meant to speak to her this
eveumg."

Bring her here to me, if you please," said
the Count ; "but do not tell her who I am."

Mother Ste. Agate carried in one of the folds
of her drapery a bunch of large keys, which
jingled as she stalked. She bowed, and retired
to fetch Gertrude herself. Her curiosity about
this prisoner was kindled into a quick flame.
What could this young lady have done that the
Minister of Police in person deemed it necessary
to question her ? As she passed under ancient
monastic vaults and through modern whitewashed
passages, Mother Ste. Agathe muttered a
prayer to her patron saint for grace to mind her
own business. But before she had reached
Gertrude's cell, she had persuaded herself that
it would be her business to peer into the young
English lady's affairs before bedtime.

The Count de Beaujeu had seen photographs
of Gertrude, which Eoland had sent to the
Countess, and he was prepared to behold a very
beautiful girl. But the reality so far exceeded
his expectations that he arose and stood dumb
when Gertrude entered under the matron's escort.

Gertrude wore a black travelling dress, but
VOL. III. 43

was without hat or gloves, for the matron had
told her not to put these on. She walked in
as if she were coming to o^reet a visitor in her
mother's drawing-room. There was no fright in
her expression, no awkwardness in her manner ;
her composure was admirable, and disconcerted
the minister, who had prepared himself for a
scene of tears and supplications. In his embarrassment
he forgot to order Mother St. Loathe
out of the room, and the matron was profoundly
astonished at the interview which she witnessed.

The Count de Beaujeu, I believe," said
Gertrude, advancing and fixing her eyes on the
minister with a fearless and not very friendly air.
I — I have not the honour," said the Count,
annoyed to think that the matron had disobeyed
his orders.

That is strange," said Gertrude, looking at
him with astonishment. " The Due d'Alma often
showed me an album of family portraits, and
those of the Count de Beaujeu were exactly like
you."

I — I have not denied being the Count de
Beaujeu," stuttered the minister, with one of
those smirks which he imagined ladies found
irresistible. But the dialogue had begun badly

for him. He had been attacked instead of
attacking, and was well-nigh unhorsed. He
tried to rally by saying, " The — the fact is, I
have not come to see you in a private capacity,
but as Minister of Police to inquire why you
are brought here."

I really do not know why I was arrested,"
replied Gertrude. " I suppose it was because my
brother-in-law and I were travelling: in France
without passports. I am very sorry that Mr.
Littleton should have been subjected to this
annoyance, for it was only out of kindness to me
that he came over here. As you know us to
be British subjects, I hope you will order our
release."

Ce-certainly," answered the Count ; and he
could find nothing: more to sav.

She was so calm that he was afraid of risking
an encounter of words with her, so lovely that
he was ashamed of appearing to persecute her.
A pretty face had always disarmed him, and his
habits of gallantry impelled him at that moment
to win Gertrude s good opinion by releasing her
there and then, and taking her to his own house.
He could discuss Roland's will with her there in
private, and perhaps, if she were not very grasping;

— and how could she be grasping with a face
of such sweet dignity ? — an amicable arrangement
might be arrived at.

Unfortunately the Count had power to bind
but not to loosen. He was just on the point of
telling the matron that he would take away the
prisoner with him, when he recollected that the
prison doors could only be opened by the Minister
of the Interior or the Minister of Justice. With
a wry grimace he explained the limits of his
prerogative, apologized for his helplessness, but
promised that Gertrude and her brother-in-law
should be set free in an hour or two ; and so he
retired. On his way out he spoke not a word
to the matron, who accompanied him to the
court-yard, where his brougham was waiting.

To give him his due, he drove straight from
the prison to the Minister of Justice ; but the
Keeper of the Seals was an obdurate functionary,
who had no notion of letting people out of prison
until their innocence had been demonstrated to
him through the proper official process. Poor
Gertrude and Hucks Littleton were already
enjoined in French red tape. The Count de
Beaujeu dared say no more in their favour than
that he believed they had been apprehended

through excess of zeal on the part of a detective
who appeared to be insane, to which the Keeper
of the Seals answered —

"It is not safe in such moments as these to
admit that we have mad detectives. The arrest
of Timon Grachard is an important capture,
and it is suspicious that this English girl should
have been found in his company. I will ask
for a report on her case from an examining
magistrate, and will study it myself, my dear
colleague, as soon as it reaches the department'

The Count de Beaujeu had to be satisfied
with that. He could have obtained Gertrude's
immediate release by begging it from his brother
minister as a personal favour, but this he had
refrained from doing, and he had indeed, by
his hesitating manner, conveyed to the Keeper
of the Seals an impression that this was an
ordinary case in which he felt no special interest.
Therefore the Keeper, who vv^as not new to
Cabinet office, had thought it seasonable to teach
him a lesson in routine.

In sum, the Count cared very little what
became of Gertrude once he had turned his back
on her. If she were to remain in gaol for some
days, he would send his secretary, Kleinwort, to

talk to her about the will. Kleinwort loved a
cabbage-eating maiden in Alsace, and was impervious
to the charms of all other women. But
if Kleinwort failed to terrorize Gertrude into
renouncing her fortune, then there would be the
resource of brino-ino; an action at law, and the
Minister of Police could not doubt that any
French tribunal would give judgment in his
favour against a helpless foreigner.

These were the Count's thoughts as he returned
to his official residence to transact the heavy
business which devolved upon ministers at this
period.

CHAPTER VIL

LA Clothes.

Since this promotion to the Cabinet, the Count
had closed his house in the Champs Elysees, and
his wife and children had come to live with him
in the palace which the nation placed at his
disposal. Aimee de Beaujeu was not called
upon to do the honours-of this abode to any
guests, because, being in deep mourning for her
brother and grandmother, she could not give
dinner parties. The shock of Roland's death had
been very severe to Aimee, so much so that the
demise of the Marquise de Chateaufort, which
occurred a few days before, had almost been put
out of her mind as an event of comparative
insignificance.

The Count de Beaujeu had gone to attend
the Marquise's funeral, but he had not been able

to prevail upon his wife to repair to Chateaubriand
take formal possession of her grandmother's
estates. Aimee's sorrow was too fresh and keen
for such an enterprise. She said she could not
bear to live alone in the house where she and
her brother had been brought up. Respecting
lier inheritance, however, she signed all the
papers needful to give her husband authority for
acting in her name ; and she quite agreed with
him, that the will made in Gertrude's favour must
be treated as an absurdity.

Any Frenchwoman would have thought like
her. Much as she had loved her brother, she
could be swayed by no high sense of duty in
carrying out his dying wishes the moment these
clashed with the interests of her children and
with her own sentiment as to the fitness of
things. She was quite disposed to look upon
Gertrude Corrington as an adventuress, and chose
to consider that Eoland had disinherited his
family for her sake, because he was blind to her
true character, and because during his latter
days he had laboured under excitements which
rendered him practically unfit to manage his own
affairs.

The Count did not see fit to tell his wife that

Gertrude was at St. Lazaree, but after this interview
with the prisoner he bethought him again
that the Countess should go to Chateaufort.
The administration of Eoland's will could be
delayed for a little longer, on the ground that
the Duke was still reported as *^ missing" only,
and not as dead on the War Office books ; but
for propriety's sake it would look well that the
Countess de Beaujeu should go and take up her
position as mistress of Chateaufort. At present
Pauline Juva was acting as housekeeper, though
of course M. Ragotin, the notary, had set seals
on all the rooms which contained the Marquise's
family papers and valuables.

The Count had another motive in wishing his

o

wife to go to Chateaufort, namely, that she could
give a great stimulus to the pious pilgrimages
that were tending thither. iVfter a little time
the water from the miraculous spring, a good
deal of which was now being carried away gratis
by the pilgrims, might all be sold at a profit.
A hundred thousand bottles at a franc apiece —
if this number were retailed as at Lourdes and
at Decamp — would yield a substantial income.
And then, why not convert the old chateau into
a monastery, and make the monks manufacture

some new liqueur, like the Carthusian and
Benedictines ? Something as good as Chartreuse
might be contrived under the name of Chateau-fortune,
or, better still, Eaufortine.

Turning all this over, the Count resolved that
he would speak to his wife at dinner-time ; but
before that hour arrived, Aimee burst into her
husband's study with a startling piece of news.
She had never invaded his official sanctum before,
and he could scarcely believe his eyes when she
flowed in with a long train of cashmere and
crape behind her. She was brandishing a letter.

Please get a telegram sent at once to
Saarbriick through England," she said. " I
believe my brother is lying in an ambulance
there. I hear he is not dead."

Not dead ? " echoed the Count, stupefied.

I am not sure ; it's a rumour," continued
Aimee, with her usual vivacity ; and to her
husband's dazed eyes she seemed like an apparition
tossing yards of crape and jet bracelets
before him. " Our cousin De Maisonbelle has
just come up from Dieppe to tell me that he has
received a letter from a brother officer who is
recovering from a wound at Saarbriick ; that
officer says he saw Eoland in the ambulance."

It must be a m-m-mi stake," stammered the
Count, looking at his wife with an affrighted expression,
which she mistook for genuine concern
in her brother's safety.

*' Why say it's a mistake ? De Maisonbelle
tells me that if Eoland was carried off the field
senseless there would be a good chance of his not
being at once identified. Perhaps he was carried
to a small ambulance, where there were no men
of his regiment to know him. Perhaps he had
no card or letter in his pocket. You remember
how particular he was about the tight fit of his
tunic, so that he could hardly be got to carry a
flat purse."

Well, I will telegraph," said the Count in a
sunken voice. " To Saarbrlick, you say ? "

*' Yes, and through the Embassy in London,
mind ; we cannot send a message straight. If
you send quickly, we may know the truth this
evening. Oh, my poor Eoland ! If he should be
alive they will make a general of him — won't
they ? "

He will deserve any — anything after such a
recur-surrection," muttered the Count. "But — •
but perhaps we had better not be too sanguine."

Oh no, I won't be sanguine," cried Aimee,

excitedly ; " but I am going to drive immediately
to the Church of Notre Dame des Victoires to
offer up a taper for my poor brother. Shall I
spurn one in your name ? "

By — by all means, two if you like, my dear
child," said the Count, rising and conducting his
wife to the door with ceremonious gallantry.

She had signed his death-warrant, and he felt
it as he tottered back to his chair. His ruin
would be irremediable if Roland was alive and got
cured, and his enfeebled health would not allow
him to survive the disgrace of such a ruin.

As drowning men are said to see in one
minute all the events of their lives flash before
them, so the Count de Beaujeu, resting his
wrinkled forehead on one of his wasted hands,
beheld the whole series of his misspent years whirl
round him like a panorama. Nature and fortune
had combined to give him everything that men
long for — rank, money, health, a fair mien,
talent, and the power to please — and he had
squandered everything. To make his life happy,
useful, and great, it would have required only
that he should have been an honest man, and he
had not been able to compass that much. If now
the fruits of his life's sowing turned to ashes,

none knew better than he that he was gathering
in what he had planted. He had no friends, the
love of wife was estranged from him, and the
affection of his children was only his because they
did not know him as he was. From among the
ambitions which he had cherished there was
hardly one that he had not realized, and there
was not one that had been honourable or unselfish
; and now there was but one that survived
that of retaining the place which he held in the
respect, or rather in the slavish fear, of the world
by any sort of violence and fraud to the end. If
that ambition now failed him, what was there to
live for ?

The blow had fallen so suddenly upon the
Count that it paralyzed his faculties, and for more
than an hour he could not attend to any business.
His secretary kept coming into the room with
papers for him to sign, and he signed them. He
even had presence of mind enough for a moment
to order the transmission of the telegram which
his wife had drafted ; but after that he lapsed
into the reverie about his past life, and could not
escape from it. Max Kleinwort ]had to remind
him at length that there was to be an after-dinner
sitting of the Legislative Body that dav. and that

he would have to be in his place on the ministerial
bench.

Have you not noticed in the messages from
the Chamber that the Eepublicans are going to
intermediate your Excellency on the arrest of
Dion Grachard ? "

The minister had not noticed the message from
the Chamber. Half a dozen of them on sky-blue
slips of paper were lying on the table before him,
and they spoke of great excitement in the lobbies.
Humours had come of new defeats round Metz,
and the Eepublicans were growing more and
more audacious in their vapourings against the
Imperial dynasty. They intended to make a
scene over the arrest of Grachard. These were
the reports furnished by the detectives on duty
at the Corps Legislative.

The Count de Beaujeu tossed the telegrams
away from him with disgust, and then rang for a
little broth and a glass of wine. He did not feel
equal to dining with his wife. After swallowing
his refreshment, he passed into his dressing-room
to put on evening clothes, with the broad red
riband and the star of the Legion of Honour.
He was about to go out, carrying under his arm
the portfolio of scarlet morocco leather, which

was the symbol of his office, when he became
aware that he was trembling all over as from
cold. The glass of wine which he had drunk was
Madeira. He rang again and called for a pint
bottle of champagne. This sparkling wine
steadied his nerves. He drank a full glass of it,
and, with a heightened colour, he said to his
secretary —

I am ready to face those dogs now."
Those dogs were having a fine time of it in
the Chamber. The Corps Legislative offered,
during the last days of the second Empire, a
spectacle never to be forgotten by those who saw
it. The decorum that had reigned there during
orderly days of Napoleon Hi's rule had
vanished. The monumental steps that led to the
portico, the great hall and the palace, the lobbies,
the galleries, were all black with the vermin of
politics. Every low adventurer was trying to
force his way there. The unkempt hangers-on
of revolutionary newspapers ; the Radical ranters
of cafes ; the working men who don't work, but
bray for strikes, riots, elections, and a three-quarter
share in other men's earnings ; — all these irrepressible
parasites of Republicanism swarmed round
the Deputies of the Left, trying to pick up crumbs

of information from them as to coming rebellion.
Not that these fellows intended to risk their
soapless skins in any armed encounter which
might occur with the falling Emperor's soldiery.
When bullets whistled through the streets, such
champions of popular rights dived down into
holes and sewers at once, finding their proper
level and most congenial atmosphere with an
unerring instinct ; but they come up again to
scramble for spoils when the fighting is over, and
that is why they like to get some idea beforehand
as to how long the dangerous operations aboveground
are likely to last.

Mixed up with the slugs and drones of the
Eepublican party were place-hunters of all sorts,
who pursued ministers and deputies in the hope
of snatching something from them before the
Empire fell. The gifts most sought after were
tobacco offices. In France, where the Government
has a tobacco monopoly, the tobacconists'
shops are held by State appointment, but once a
tobacconist always a tobacconist, and that is the
advantage which the Bureau de Tabac has overall
other official posts, except bishoprics, for the
bishop is like the tobacconist — he is not removable
by revolutions.

"La pire pauvre, la misery profonde
Est celle qui se montre en gants blancs clans le monde."

Among* the men who were jostling; their although
the lobbies to waylay ministers there
were many who, a few weeks before, would have
disdained to ask for anything less than a prefect-ship.
But they now had to think of that which
would give them bare bread should the Emperor
be dethroned.* Others were madly eager to get
the Cross of the Legion of Honour ; this, ao-ain,
being a dignity which could not be confiscated
owing to a change of regime.

Never had ministers been so courted as at
this time. The Count de Beaujeu passed through
the lobbies amid a lane of bowing heads. As
soon as he had entered into the hall of debate,
however, he saw that there was going to be a
stormy sitting.

The atmosphere was like that of a hot-house.
The galleries were crowded, and — significant

The licensee of a tobacco office need not conduct the
shop himself; he can sublet it. Under the Empire bureaux
de tahac were often given to the widows of officers. Some
of those in Paris and other large cities could be sublet
from £1000 to £2000 a year. There was one in Paris,
the famous Civette, opposite the Palais Kojal, which was
sublet for £4000 a year.

VOL. III. 49

symptom of the times — in that to which the public
had access there were men in shirt sleeves who
talked aloud and jeered, and behaved exactly as
if they were at the theatre. The Usher of the
Chamber, a personage in court dress and ruffles,
cast piteous glances at these men, but dared not
turn them out. He dared not even attempt to
eject men who had intruded into the boxes set
apart for great people. In the ambassador's box
were men in blouses and women in caps. In the
senator's box there was an itinerant song vendor,
who had been improving the half-hour before the
sitting commenced by trying to hawk his wares,
and who made the public gallery roar by offering-copies
of the " Marseillaise " to Deputies of the
Eight as they filed in.

The hall in which the French Legislative Body
sat was shaped like a half-circle. At the base
rose a platform for the President's chair, below it
the table for the secretaries and shorthand writers,
and below it the tribune or rostrum. The
Deputies were ranged in tiers of seats, rising from
the floor of the House ; the Ministerialists, about
two hundred and fifty in number, sitting to the
right and in the centre ; while the Opposition,
who were not more than twenty-three, occupied

the benches on the extreme left. The lowermost
semi-circle of seats was reserved for members
of the Cabinet, and it was here that the Count de
Beaujeu took his place, laying his red portfolio
on the desk before him.

His appearance produced a buzz among the
Eepublicans of the Opposition. The President
had just taken his seat and the sitting had begun.
One of the foremost members of the Opposition,
who was to play a great part afterwards as a
Eepublican leader — a man with a leonine head,
swarthy face, and flowing hair — rose in his place
and cried —

I wish to intermediate the Minister of Police
as to the arrest of M. Timon Grachard. We
understand that a pardon was promised to M.
Grachard, and it was on the faith of this promise
that he returned to France* Why was he
arrested ?"

The minister rose, but before he had spoken
half a dozen words there was a shout from
the Opposition, in which the public gallery
joined, " A la tribune ! " that is, " Go to the
rostrum."

The Count left his place, and toiled his way
up the steps of the rostrum. He looked so tired.

jaded, aud decrepit that a mocking voice from
one of the galleries cried, " Voila Empire ! "
which provoked general laughter. But upon this
the Count drew himself up and quite coldly
turned upon the Eepublican faction a look charged
with such implacable hatred that many of them
quailed. No officials are so dreaded as those
connected with the police department. Most
men have in their own lives, or in their family
antecedents, secrets which it would damage them
to have disclosed, and a Minister of Police is
supposed to know all those secrets. The Republican
who had interpolated the Count was the
youngest of his party as well as the most eminent,
and he was, perhaps, the only one who had absolutely
nothing to fear as to what the minister
might say to him or of him.

The convict Grachard was not arrested by
my orders," began the Count. " He was apprehended
by a detective in virtue of the Court of
Assize, which condemned him to death for
regiciclal conspiracy."

"A pardon was promised him ! "

He is covered by annuities ! "

His offence had nothing criminal in it ! "

*' Guillotine him if you dare ! "

These interruptions arose from the Opposition
benches.

If Grachard's fate rested with me, the sentence
passed on him should be executed," proceeded
the minister.

There was a loud explosion of murmurs, but
the speaker went on. "Your interest in this
convict — a base, skulking murderer and coward
will serve to remind the nation once more of
what you are as a party. Regicides your heroes,
crime and violence your instruments. This much
the nation ought to know, however, that the
criminals who expiate their offences on the scaffold
or at the hulks are, bad as they may be, more
honourable (if such a term may be used) than
politicians who sneak in the background, arming
the assassin's hand, and inciting him to crime,
]3ut enjoying a contemptible impunity because
they have not the physical courage to compromise
themselves."

Again there was an explosion of infuriated
cries, but the minister heeded them not. '' My
only regret," he said, " is that the Emperor has
been too indulgent with you all. I, for my part,
shall never advise him to continue in this policy,
but will urge him, whenever another conspiracy

may be brought to light, to affix the responsibility
where it really rests — upon you there, the
fomenters of murder and sedition and the charlatans
of democracy. And now I see no reason for
prolonging this debate, so I move the closure."

From habit of obedience the two hundred and
fifty members of the Right began to rattle their
paper-knives on their desks. Half a dozen
members of the Opposition stood up asking leave
to speak, but their voices were drowned. When
the rattling of paper-knives failed to make noise
enough, the majority slammed the lids of their
desks in chorus, and bawled all together, " La
closure ! "

Often and often had the closure been used
during the Empire to check free debate, and the
majority were so well trained that a minister had
only to move the closure of a debate, and his
motion was carried as a matter of course. When
the President of the Chamber put the Count de
Beaujeu's motion from the chair, the majority all
stood up, and M. Grachard's case was thereby
shelved. The Opposition could only jabber in
undertone and gnash their teeth.

** My compliments on your little speech," said
one of the Count's colleagues to him as he
returned to his seat.

Chapter Viii.

m THE PRISON OF ST. Lazar.

After her interview with the Minister of Police,
Gertrude was taken back to her cell.

I dare say you will be free in an hour,
mademoiselle," said Mother Ste. Agathe to her
respectfully.

The matron had been much struck by the
deference which the Minister of Police had paid
to her prisoner, and she could not doubt that this
young English lady had been brought to gaol by
some mistake. Guilty prisoners do not act as
Gertrude did. They try to curry favour with
the authorities of the prison, ask questions, and
give untrue accounts of themselves, saying all
that they may think best calculated to enhance
their respectability in the eyes of their custodians.

Gertrude was civil to the matron as to an

upper servant, but asked no questions, and
quietly rebuffed the good mother's attempts at
inquisitiveness. What surprised the matron most
was that the prisoner did not cry. "Those
English are made of marble," she muttered to
herself, with involuntary admiration.

Gertrude would have been ashamed to cry.
It is not pleasant to be locked up in a cell with
a stone floor and a window that gives little
light, but Gertrude had calmly reasoned that no
efforts of her own could get her out of this
place, and she was sure that, if she had been
arrested by error, her imprisonment could not
last long.

The matron had brought her a volume of the
Magasin Pittoresque — a French Leisure Hour,
and Gertrude composed herself to read some short
stories in this periodical. Her chair was not
comfortable, and the loud noise made by sudden
unlocking of cellar doors near her often caused
her to start ; but she managed to abstract herself
from surrounding circumstances pretty well until
it became too dark to read. Then, in the interval
between daylight and the time when the gas in
her cell was lighted, a feeling crept over her, iu
which there was more of perplexity than of

alarm ; but she had some mental pricking lest
her position should not be so much the result of
accident as she had supposed.

The trap in her door was opened, a flaring
tallow candle was passed through, and a voice
requested her to light the burner which projected
from the wall above her table, and the gas of
which could only be turned on or off from outside
the cell. Soon afterwards the matron came in,
and asked whether she would like anything for
supper. Gertrude had several pounds in her
purse, and this money had not been taken from
her. She had ordered some coffee earlier in the
day, and she would have been glad of some tea
now, but tea was out of the question.

She asked for a little soup, and it was quickly
brought by a young nun with a kind face. It
was not very good soup, the thinnest gravy, and
it was served in an earthenware porringer ; but
the young nun apologized for this, saying that
the soup had been got from the prison kitchen,
as the canteen was closed at that late hour.

That " late hour " was eight o'clock by Gertrude's
watch ; but gaol-birds have to be early
birds in cage, and they are expected to go to
roost before nine. Shortly before nine the matron

came to tell Gertrude that she would have to
sleep in prison, as the order for her release had
not arrived from the Minister of Justice. She
endeavoured to break the shock of this news
by saying that Government offices were always
dilatory. She had no doubt that the order would
arrive in the morning. Meanwhile, she would
make mademoiselle as comfortable as possible,
and she did so by adding to the pallet bed of the
cell a mattress and pillow from the infirmary,
luxuries not provided for common prisoners.

If Gertrude could have believed that Hucks
Littleton was at liberty, she might have resigned
herself without much regret to sleeping a night
in the prison. But it was terrible to think that
Hucks' kindness in coming to Paris for her sake
had been punished by incarceration. She tried
to picture the lawyer occupying a cell like hers,
and having to sup off cold soup in an earthenware
bowl. The idea was dreadful, considering how
sensitive a man Hucks was, and how particular
as to small creature comforts. Gertrude was sure
that he must hate her evermore after this, for
the disgrace which she had brought upon him.
Nevertheless, she was so tired, and the stillness
of the prison, once lights were put out, had such.

a lulling effect, that she soon fell asleep, and did
not awake till roused by the long ringing of a
bell at six o'clock in the morning.

Gertrude was not aware that Polly Grachard,
nee Hopkins, was the inmate of a cell near hers.
The matron's opinion as to English girls being
made of marble had assuredly been formed without
any reference to Madame Grachard's conduct,
for this young woman did nothing but cry and
chatter from the moment when she was locked
up. She rang her bell half a dozen times to ask
why she was in prison, and how long she was
likely to remain there. Her husband was under
sentence of death ; but what had she done to betaken
up ?

She fairly screamed when she recollected all
that her Tim had told her about the brutality of
the Imperial Government. Many a time he had
said (while bragging of his own importance as a
politician) that, if Badinguet's police caught him,
he would be guillotined without trial. Here,
then, was Polly with the prospect of soon being a
widow, and with some remoter prospect, perhaps,
of being guillotined in her turn, if all that Tim
had said about the Bad 'Un's having butchered
women and children was true. Bad 'Uns was

Polly's British and expressive abbreviation of
Badinguet."

Mother Ste. Orate had no fondness foro



prisoners like Polly, but by accident it came to
pass that Madame Grachard satisfied the matron's
curiosity about Gertrude, and so found favour
for herself. It happened thus : Polly, in enumerating
to the matron the many people who could
bear witness to her being an honest woman,
mentioned the Due d'Alma. She had either not
heard the Duke was dead, or had forgotten the
fact ; but she related in broken French how the
Duke had interceded to obtain her husband's
pardon, and some Questions then drew from her
how she had come to know the Duke, bv workings
his Jiancee, Miss Corrington.

Very much surprised (in fact, to the point of
breathlessness and gasping many " Oh mys ! ")
was Polly to hear that Miss Corrington was in
prison. The matron informed her of this by way
of ascertaining whether Polly could explain why
Miss Corriugton had been brought to St. Lazaree.
But Polly could, of course, explain nothing. She
described her meeting with Gertrude at the ,
and only stopped speaking when the
matron asked her why Miss Corrington had not

been married to the Due cl'Alma. This question
made Polly uneasy. She fenced with it, looking
afraid, and at length said, " I'll tell you about
that some other time, but not now, madam — ■
nong, nong pah mang-tenong."

The next morning the matron had a talk with
the gentlest of her nuns, one who had lately been
sent from the head convent of the Sisters of St.
Vincent de Paul to take temporary duty in the
prison infirmary. This was the nun who had
waited upon Gertrude.

Sister Rosalie," said the matron, '' did you
not tell me that you nursed the Due d'Alma a
few weeks ao-o ? "

o

"Yes, mother; and I have heard that the
poor young man was killed in the war."

"What was the matter when you nursed
him ? "

He had a wound in the head. I heard that
he was about to be married in England, when he
was waylaid and nearly murdered. He came
from England in the Dieppe packet, and was
insensible when carried ashore ; so they took him
to an hotel, and his cousin, the Marquis de
Maisonbelle, who commands the garrison in the
town, sent to the convent for a nurse."

*' Do you remember the name of the Duke's
English Jiancee ? "

'' No ; but I think I should if I heard it
spoken, for I saw the Duke write a telegram to
the young lady."

Was it mademoiselle Corringtonne ? "

** Yes, mother, I think that was the name."

'then, if what the prisoner in cell six says
be true, the prisoner in cell eighteen is Mademoiselle
Warrington"'

That is strange, mother," said Sister Rosalie,
looking up with a troubled face ; *' for there is
another prisoner here who has been reminding me
of poor M. d'Alma. It is that young girl who
was brought here yesterday evening. She was so
violent in the night that she had a fit of hysterics,
and had to be taken to the infirmary."

Her name is Odette Kergarec, is it not ? "
said the matron, consulting a list of recent admissions.
'■ I did not know she was in the infirmary."

*' I was going to tel you about her when you
came. We did not think it necessary to awake
you when she became violent, for she was
manageable. She says she is the daughter of
two servants at Chateaufort, the estate which
would now be M. d'Akna's had he Heed ; and

she declares — she declares " (here Sister Rosalie
signed herself most devoutly) " that it was she
who first witnessed the apparition of the Blessed
Virgin at Chateaufort ! "

"Holy Mother, what a blasphemy, if it is
not true ! " exclaimed the matron, who also made
the sign of the cross. " Why, the girl was
brought here for picking pockets and brawling ina
restauration

"I wish you would see her, mother," said
Sister Eosalie, mildly. "You will be able to
judge whether she is worthy of credence."

Mother Ste. Agathe lost no time in repairing
to cell two in the infirmary, where Odette was
confined. Like every nun, monk, and priest in
France, the matron had heard of the apparition
at Chateaufort, and heard of it with gladness.
In hundreds of convents and thousands of presbyteries,
where the mysteries of Christianity were
accepted with a simple faith, this new wonder
had been hailed as a precious consolation in time
of national sorrow. The good and the bad are so
intricately mixed up in this world of ours that
there is no gauging in what measure each flows
from the other. The hoax, elaborated by a bankrupt
senator and a rascally police hireling, was

sure in many ways to bring religion under contempt,
but it also unquestionably had the effect
of quickening faith in many places where it had
got weak.

It was with a trembling hand that Mother Este.
Ao-athe unlocked the iron-cased door of Odette's
cell. The sight which she beheld gave her strong
doubts as to this prisoner being the kind of
Christian whom the powers that be would consider
worthy to witness a miracle.

The iron bed of the cell stood under a window ;
on the bed was perched a chair, and on the chair
stood Odette, only half dressed, with her hair
flowing: down her back. Ambitious of reconnoitering
the outside of her cell, she had knocked out a
small pane of ground glass, and had poked out
some brown bread-crumbs to attract the Parisian
sparrows. The birds had come — sparrows have a
partiality for prisons, as though they enjoyed the
humour of seeing the ensnarers of their race
encaged ; and Odette, who, in her outdoor life,
had learnt to imitate the notes of all kinds of
feathered songsters, had been cawing, cooing,
crowing, chipping, and creeping till some of
them must have wondered what on earth was up.

Hearing the door of her cell open, Odette

turned on her chair, and, taking a bold jump,
with both feet joined, plump on to the floor, said,
'* I want to get out of this."

"Why, you little savage, you, what do you
mean by giving all this trouble ? " exclaimed
the scandalized matron. " You were like one
demoniacally possessed last night."

Oh, the fun is only just beginning," answered
Odette, who held a comb, and commenced passing
it through her hair. " It took six men to master
me at the restaurant, and I left each one a
keepsake on the face to show his sweetheart
when he got home. If you don't let me out of
here, I shall be drawing up a programme of
amusements for you — advertisements varies as
they say on the playbills of fairs."

*^ What brought you to prison ? "

"An old cab with one horse."

I mean, why were you brought here ? "

"Because there was a man who told lies
about me."

"You have been telling Sister Rosalie, here,
that you saw the miraculous apparition at
Chateaufort," continued the matron, approaching
this subject with evident trepidation. "That's
not true, is it ? ''
VOL. III. 50

"Yes, it is," replied Odette, with a fearless
face. " I was the first to see it on the slopes of
the pine wood one night as I was driving home
a cow that had strayed. Larger than life, with
beautiful red and blue robes, and a face which
made you almost blind to look at, she rose up
straight before me ; and I saw her again and
again after that. And I'll tell you what, mother,
on the spot where that figure appeared, the
heather had all been charred away by a fire of
dead leaves which we lit there last Martinmas ;
but now, all along the path where our Lady trod,
there's new grass like green velvet ; and at one
jDlace just beside the spring which we discovered,
there's a perfect round of turf covered with
daisies which don't close their petals at night,
but all shine like glow-worms. You never saw
such daisies."

Odette was too wily not to enlarge upon her
miraculous experiences in speaking to nuns. The
eyes of the two pious women who were listening
to her stood out like open oysters. " But — but,
my girl, what brought you to Paris after seeing
this ? " inquired the awe-stricken matron.

"There was a good-looking blackguard
whistled me ofi", promising to marry me," replied

Odette, coiling up her hair ; " but he's such a
liar, mother, that if he ever tells the truth it
must be when he is tipsy and doesn't know what
he is saying. It's he who put me here to get rid
of me ; but when I get out, I think he'll be
wishing that he had played his tricks upon some
other girl."

Unhappy child ! " ejaculated the matron.
"To think that thousands of good nuns would
have suffered martyrdom to see what you saw.
How is it that you are not more grateful ? Why
did you not enter a convent and devote your
whole life to works of praise. Mon Dieu ! I
should have fallen ill with joy if I had been
marked out for the honour which you treat so
lightly."

At this point, however, Mother Ste, Agathe
again had a misgiving. Prisoners were such
arrant story-tellers !

"How is it that the priest of your parish
allowed you to be decoyed away ? Did you
elope from your village ? "

"It was our priest, M. Juva, who gave me
money to come to Paris."

"That you might marry the disreputable
man you have just mentioned ? "

Oh no," said Odette, with a tittering laugh.
*'He sent me to Paris to see the Countess de
Beaujeu."

The matron and Sister Eosalie exchanged
glances, as much as to say that Odette's veracity
was now going to be put to a plain test. But
they said nothing, and suffered the girl to inform
them as to who the Countess de Beaujeu was.
Odette pretended that the Abbe Juva had sent
her to Paris simply that she might give the
Countess her own eye-witness's description of the
apparition, and relate how pilgrims were flocking
to Chateaufort by the hundreds every day.

'' You see, mother, there's an idea in Brittany
that the apparition came because our young
monsieur, Madame de Chateaufort's heir, wanted
to marry an English Protestant. All the family
were opposed to it ; but monsieur didn't care, and
he laughed at the apparition. Yet, mind you,
he didn't get married, for he was killed in the
war."

'sand his marriage was marvellously prevented
before the war," muttered Sister Eosalie.

sion Dieu ! " sighed the matron ; and the
good woman reflected that on Gertrude, too, had
celestial vengeance fallen.

Ah ! but I've not told you all yet," cried
Odette, who saw by this time that she had got
the nuns completely under her spell. "What
we were all afraid of on the estate was, that if
monsieur brought a heretic wife to Chateaufort,
we should all be turned off. But Monsieur has
outwitted us all, saints included, for we have
learnt that before dying he made a will, in which
he left every bit of property he had in the world
to his English sweetheart, so that now this
heretic will become mistress of Chateaufort, and
as monsieur won't be in the way to prevent her
from doing just what she likes, she'll pack us
about our business, all us good Catholics, and
she'll pocket all the money which the pilgrims
bring to the chapel of the castle — money which
is enough to fill a big soup-plate ten or twelve
times over every day, and which M. Juva pours
into a wooden chest without counting. I should
like to have seen mademoiselle's face when she
heard of this will."

Who is mademoiselle ? "

"Ma'm'selle Pauline, M. Juva's sister, who
is housekeeper at the chateau ; and I don't mind
telling you that she was in love with monsieur."
Saying which, Odette winked at the two nuns.

It was grievous to these holy women that
Odette should evince such levity. What they
had just heard sounded horrible. Was it possible
that the celestial powers could be thwarted by a
heretic, or must they not regard Miss Warrington's
imprisonment as a new phase in the dire
conflict between that young person and the
saints ? Was she not a mortal marked out fora
downpour of calamities until she either renounced
her heresy or her ill-gotten heritage, or
both?

Odette, who had tied up her hair, now returned
to the original point of her discourse.
I want a good breakfast," she said, " and
then I want to get out of this. Cafe cm Icdt and
liberty."

"You shall have some coffee," promised the
matron ; " and if what you have related to us
be true, you'll not be here long. But I'm going
to send Sister Eosalie to see the Countess de
Beaujeu about you."

Mind you do, and be quick about it," said
Odette. " If the Countess knew I was here, she
would very soon get me out."

The nuns withdrew. Pausing in the passage,
the matron excitedly told Sister Eosalie that she

must go that very morning to see the Countess
de Beaujeu. '' You know her, do you not ? "

"Yes; I saw her when I brought the Duke
to Paris. She's a very pretty and kind-hearted
lady, who would, I am sure, do anything for our
holy religion."

You must ascertain from her whether this
story of Odette's be true," said the matron. " It
may be that the girl is being Wrongfully accused,
and if so the Countess will have power to get
her released without delay. Think what a discredit
it would bring on the miracle of Chateaufort
if it got bruited in the papers that the girl who
first witnessed it was in prison for theft and
rioting."

I will 2:0 at once," faltered the gentle Rosalie,
trembling at the bare idea of such a scandal.

The matron had now her ordinary routine of
duties to attend to. This was the hour when
two prison vans came daily from the Prefecture
to carry to the Palace of Justice prisoners who
were going to be tried or examined by magistrates.
From the window of her parlour the
matron saw the two vans in the court-yard —
big yellow things with black roofs, which the
populace of Paris called paniers a salade, in
allusion to their very mixed contents.

A list was handed to the matron of the
prisoners who were to ride in these salad-baskets,
and the name of Gertrude Corrington was on it.
Already the first van was being filled. Jades of
the worst description were being brought out, and
as they were locked up in the compartments of
the van, they yelled immodest jokes to the
gendarmes, every one of such jokes making all
the others shriek in wild laughter. From the
passage of the prison other women waiting their
turn were heard vociferating shrilly, foully. It
was hideous.

The matron hurried out, and was just in time
to prevent Gertrude from being led right into
the midst of this revolting gang. The English
girl was coming unsuspiciously down a passage
in charge of a nun. She was dressed as though
she expected to leave the prison for good. She
wore her hat, cloak, and gloves, and carried her
travelling-bag. Her mien was grave and sweet ;
her step, free from timidity.

Stop, mademoiselle ! " cried the matron,
waving a hand to keep her back as soon as she
was in sight of her. The next moment, when
she had joined her, she said, " You are to go
before a magistrate, but I will take you myself
in a cab."

CHAPTER IX.

BEFORE THE MAGISTRATE.

It was a great favour for a prisoner to be taken
to the Prefecture in a cab, instead of going by
the cellular omnibus. In this way she avoided
not only a loathsome journey, but a whole day's
incarceration in one of the remand-cells of the
Prefecture. If the arrangements at St. Lazaree
are bad, the accommodation for prisoners at the
Palace of Justice is infinitely worse. Prisoners
ffoinof to or returning: from trial or examination
are detained in little cells, which are mere stone
cupboards without seats or windows. The only
light comes through a little grating in the door ;
and it is the custom to put at least three
prisoners together, because by these means
suicides are rendered impossible. Moreover, the
gendarmes allege that this system is a humane
one, because a prisoner who is about to be tried.

or has just been sentenced, requires to be cheered
by company.

In shielding Gertrude from the horrors to
which she would have been exposed had she gone
to the Palace of Justice in the customary way,
Mother Ste. Agathe bad yielded in her first
impulse only to the instinct of pity. On second
reflection, when Gertrude had returned to her
cell to await the hour of starting in the cab,
the matron asked herself whether she might not
be interfering with the designs of Providence.
Supposing it were destined that tribulations
should fall upon the too lovely heretic for her
good to break her obdurate will !

But the matron had not the mind of a
Torquemada, nor did she like to recognize the
finger of Providence, except in a good piece of
work. " Le bon Dieu est artiste," she would
sometimes say ; and it was part of her faith to
think of the Deity as doing all things grandly
and beautifully, with good instruments and fine
material, like a great artist.

Ce ne serait pas un tour du bon Dieu, mais
une niche du diable que de faire carter cette
pauvre petite dans un panier a salade." *

It would not be like God, it would be a prank of the

The matron rather thought that she should
look to the possibility of Gertrude being converted
; but in any case, should this young
Englishwoman become mistress of Chateaufort,
she might regard all nuns — nay, Catholics in
general — with gratitude or resentment, according
as she had been treated by them in time of
trouble. So the good mother was laying up
treasure, as she imagined, for the whole sisterhood
of nuns, if not for the whole army of
Catholics, when she behaved well to Gertrude.
Add to this that she was beginning to have a
suspicion that Gertrude's arrest on a charge of
conspiracy was only a pretence.

A skilled jeweller will not take brass for
gold, nor gold for brass, and on the touchstone
of Mother Ste. Agathe's experience Gertrude's
character had been revealed at the first rub as
good metal. Count de Beaujeu's visit to the
prison, his embarrassment in Gertrude's presence,
his hurried departure, were as so many pieces ina
puzzle, which seemed to fit together by simple
juxtaposition. Only a few pieces more were
needed to complete a design which the matron

devil's to let that poor little thing be jolted about in a
Black Bess.

already guessed, but which she did not care to
read entirely just at present.

She conducted Gertrude to the Palace of
Justice in a cab, and, as she knew the ways of
that place, she timed her arrival so that there
should be little waiting. Having whispered her
business to a gendarme, she walked about a large
vaulted gallery with Gertrude for about twenty
minutes, until summoned. Then she and Gertrude
entered the Juge cV Instruction's room together.

He was the same magistrate who had just remanded
Hucks Littleton. Indeed, the wretched
Hucks turned the angle of a passage at the very
moment when his sister-in-law appeared at the
other extremity of it.

The elderly civil-spoken magistrate had been
in a hurry to get rid of Hucks ; he evinced no
such haste to banish Gertrude Corridor-ton from
his sight. Judicial stiffness gave way to native
gallantry as he stood up and begged her to be
seated. He was taken aback by her beauty,
charmed by it, and a little upset. After all, she
was a political prisoner, and he could treat her
with respect without derogating.

But how should he question her ? He had
not a line of evidence against her. The charge-sheet

mentioned in three lines the crime of which
she was accused, but nothing more ; and yet
there before him lay a note from the Minister of
Justice requesting a special report on this case.
A remand was inevitable. At first the judge
started upon the usual course of trying to convict
the prisoner out of her own mouth.

Pardon me for putting a few questions,
mademoiselle. You are a friend of M. Timon
Grachard ? "

No friend at all, sir," replied Gertrude,
betraying her astonishment at this unexpected
question. " Very far from a friend."

You speak French very well, I see," and the
polite old gentleman bowed. '' You at least are
acquainted with M. Grachard ? "

Yes ; he gave French lessons to two of my
sisters at Lewbury, where my father lives."

"Your father is ?"

Major General Corrington."

"Did you and your father know that M.
Grachard had been sentenced to death ? "

"Yes, we did."

*rand are you aware that you are now
accused of being his accomplice in ? "

Gertrude flushed up, but her shock of surprise

ended in a little laugh — a real laugh ; and she
turned from the magistrate to the matron, who
stood behind her, and from the matron to the
mystified magistrate's clerk, expecting that they
would join in her merriment. They all did
smile ; but the magistrate felt bound to say, ina
maternal tone, that it was a serious matter.

'' Why, sir, in what can I have been M.
Grachard's accomplice ? " asked Gertrude.

*' Well, in his unlawful return to France, for
instance."

Is it unlawful, then, for a convict to return
and be guillotined according to his sentence ? "

Ay, but M. Grachard was under a sentence
of outlawry."

I thought you said death ? "

'death and outlawry."

'' That is to say, he was to be guillotined if
caught, and then to undergo some other punishment
for letting himself be caught. Is that
what you mean ? I don't understand." Again
Gertrude laughed, and the others did likewise.
But this time Gertrude was the first to become
serious, and said, " I'm afraid, sir, you must belabouring
under some mistake. I think the real
charge against my brother-in-law and me is that

we entered France without passports ; but if you
will send to the British Embassy "

And why came you without passports ? "
interrupted the magistrate, clutching at this
straw of manifest culpability.

We had forgotten that they were necessary.
We started for France in a hurry, because 1 am
entitled to considerable property in this country
under a will, and my right to it was very
suddenly and most unjustifiably disputed''

By whom, mademoiselle ? "

By the Count de Beaujeu, who is now
Minister of Police."

Whew ! " The elderly magistrate nearly
whistled, and all at once it flashed upon Gertrude,
as she looked round at the faces of the three
persons in the room, that she must have been
arrested by the Gout de Beaujeu's machination.
What an odious thing ! Remembering this man's
audacity in accusing her of having been the
accomplice of Grachard and Cleverly in their
dastardly attack upon Roland, she turned deadly
pale, wondering what moral torture might be
reserved for her in the magistrate's next question.

The old gentleman had raised his double eyeglass,
and was bending over some papers to give

himself a countenance. A French magistrate is
apt to smart for it if he comes athwart a Cabinet
Minister. It was evident that this lovely English
girl was the Count che Beaujeu's prisoner, and our
magistrate saw all sorts of unpleasant things in
store for him if he let his chivalry get the better
of his discretion. In sum, he could do nothing
but remand, and call upon the police to supply
him with evidence. On them must rest the duty
of framing a case. But, before dismissing Gertrude,
the magistrate put one more question —

*' Whose property in France have you inherited,
mademoiselle ? "

To this Gertrude made answer with an
emotion which impressed her three hearers.
Tears started to her eyes, and there was a quaver
in her voice as she said, *' I was engaged to be
married to the Due cVAlma, sir. I should have
been his widow now, in fact, except for M.
Grachard ; and the Duke by will made me his
residuary legatee."

But, mademoiselle, the Due d'Alma is not
dead."

'' What did you say, sir ? " The tone in
which Gertrude uttered this cry, the change
that passed over her face, the eagerness with

which she rose from her chair, and her yearning
attitude as she advanced to the table and bent
over it, while the magistrate took up a newspaper
and appeared to be looking for something in its
columns — all this is indescribable.

See here, mademoiselle' said the magistrate.
*but pray calm yourself."

'' Calm yourself, my dear child," echoed
Mother Ste. Agathe, supporting by an elbow.

I am calm, mother," sobbed Gertrude.
But let me read." The paper was put into her
hands. '' I can't read ! Where is it ? Oh I my
sight ! But he's alive — alive ! "

Yes, he is alive, my dear child," exclaimed
the matron, catching Gertrude in her arms.
'* He has been wounded, but he is getting welland
you will soon see him again."

No answer came from Gertrude's lips ; but
the girl glided from the matron's arms, and fell
on her knees, burying her face in her hands.
For several moments her whole frame was
convulsed in one of those dumb paroxysms which
seem as if they must end in a rending of the soul
from the body.

She loves him," whispered the matron to
the magistrate.
YOL. m. 51

CHAPTEE X.

THE New JOAN OF ARC.

Gertrude returned to the prison, because the
magistrate had no power to release her. The
case had been taken out of his hands by the fact
that the Minister of Justice had called for a
special report on it. As much as the magistrate
could do to favour Gertrude, he did, by notifying
to the Keeper of the Seals that the police had
brought him no evidence against her.

It may be as well to state at once what
accrued from this notification. It was despatched
in the evening, and consequently reached its
destination after office hours. The next morning
it was opened, docketed, and placed with heaps
of other papers, which the minister was to
examine whenever he might find time. He
found time after three days, and then marked

the report with instructions to the magistrate to
discharge the prisoner, if at the end of a week
the police had established no case against her.

The report, thus endorsed, passed from the
minister's study to the fourth section of the third
Bureau, or State Prosecution Office, where it
took its turn of being attended to. Three da3^s
more elapsed before the minister's instructions
were forwarded to the examining' magistrate.
But by an oversight the minister had not
mentioned Hucks Littleton when he had asked
for a special report on Gertrude's affair, so that
the magistrate was obliged to write back and
inquire whether the two prisoners were to be
dealt with conjointly, or whether their cases were
to be kept separate ; also, whether the Government,
abandoning a prosecution against the two
prisoners on the major count of high treason,
intended to proceed against them on the minor
charge of travelling without passports ? This
complicated matters by bringing the Public
Prosecutor [Procureur Imperial) on to the scene.
The Justice Department does not trouble itself
with petty prosecutions, so order was issued to
refer the passport business to the Procureur
Imperial, which official, before issuing a fiat,

made application to the Prefecture de Police,
asking whether the police had special reasons for
prosecuting these t\YO prisoners, and, if so,
whether it was desired that the maximum
penalty should be pressed for.

All this consumed days and days, but French
judicial procedure is a slow machine, and it is of
no use tr}T.ng to make it move fast. Meanwhile,
however, the magistrate had told Mother Este.
Asrathe that Gertrude mio-ht write to her friends
as often as she liked, provided her letters were
sent to him. She accordingly wrote to her
father and her sister Kate very soon after getting
back to the prison, and her letters, having been
carried to the magistrate, were by him faithfully
forwarded to Lewbury. That is to say, they
were forwarded after lying three or four days in
his drawer ; for the excellent man was very busy,
and he could not read English, so that he had to
get translated copies of Gertrude's letters from
the sworn interpreter of the Palace of Justice.

But Gertrude was no longer sad in her
prison.

Stone walls do not a prison make."

And now that Eoland had been restored to life,
as it were, by a miracle, it was better for her to

be a prisoner in France than free in England,
for thus she was nearer to him. He might be
brought back to Paris at any moment, and then
she would see him at once. It was sweet to sit
and think that perhaps her liberty might be
restored to her through him. She could imagine
him coming to the prison and carrying her away.
Once she understood that her release could not
be expected for several days ; she almost grew to
wish that it might not come too soon, as everyday's
delay added to her chance of seeing
Eoland.

What she most dreaded was a sudden
liberation, accompanied by a ministerial order to
leave France forthwith. The matron told her
that it was customary for foreigners to be ordered
out of the country after their discharge from
prison, no matter what they had done. Gertrude
learnt also that it would now rest with the Count
de Beaujeu, and with him only, to determine
whether she might remain in France.

If she could only have heard that Hucks
Littleton was free from his bonds ! The
thought of Hucks was like a nightmare, recurring
at aU hours. For herself personally she had been
so unhappy at home of late that the quiet of the

prison was really soothing to lier. It was no
worse than being in a convent ; in fact, the
matron took great pains to make Gertrude
comfortable, and very curious was her manner of
doing this, for she had more ends than one in
view.

She brought Gertrude, Polly Grachard, and
Odette Kergarec together by contriving a day-room
for them. The prison was now being
relieved of its worst inmates at the rate of about
forty a day. The vans fetched away gangs of
them every afternoon for consignment to the
provincial penitentiaries of Clement and Melon,
and this left many vacant cells at St. Lazaree.
Gertrude was removed to the infirmary, because
the cells were larger there than in the other
wards of the prison. They were more like rooms,
too, having ordinary windows, with flower-boxes
on the sills outside. However, the monotony of
imprisonment is heavily felt at certain hours
every day, and particularly in the afternoon, and
the matron suggested to Gertrude that she might
have companionship for two or three dullest
hours if she liked*'

There is a fellow countrywoman of yours
here — Madame Grachard," she said. 'did she

not work as dressmaker in your house at Loii-
bourn *? Perhaps it would please you to see her
occasionally ? "

I should have no objection," answered
Gertrude, purposely refraining from any display
of eagerness, precisely because she so much longed
to question Polly.

You will be doing the poor young woman a
kindness, for she is in deep distress," continued
the matron. " We cannot persuade her that she
is in no danger of the guillotine ; but perhaps she
will believe you, if you tell her that her fears are
nonsensical. She has offered to work for us, and
I am going to have a sewing-machine put into
one of the large rooms."

You will find her a good workwoman," said
Gertrude.

"Then I T\dU have your lint carried in the
afternoons to number four, or you can do whatever
else you like there — write your letters and
read."

Gertrude had volunteered to assist the nuns,
who were making lint for the wounded in the
war, and a little roll of linen rags was brought
her daily. Her willingness to sit with Polly,
who was not in herself a very desirable 

THE DUKES MARRIAGE.

panton, naturally arose out of the hope that she
might elicit from Polly the true account of how
Eoland had been spirited out of England. Polly
assuredly must know the truth. Gertrude's
reserved manner, however, made her seem to be
conferring the favour which she received, and the
matron was almost diffident in approaching the
other request which she had to make, namely,
that Gertrude would condescend to let Odette, the
cow-girl, enjoy her society.

Odette was a sore trouble to Mother Este.
Agathe.

Sister Rosalie had called on the Countess de
Beaujeu and learnt that Odette had given a true
account of herself, so far as the Countess was
aware. But Aimee had found no time for long
conversation with the nun. " I think she said
she was going to start for Germany by way of
England, to try and see her brother, whom
Heaven has restored to life," explained Sister
Rosalie, reporting the results of her errand to the
matron.

But Madame de Beaujeu did admit that
Odette was the girl who first saw the blessed
apparition ? " asked the matron, keenly.

Oh yes ; and she seemed fond of the girl.

She ran in to ask her husband how it came that
Odette was in prison, and the Count assured her
that Odette had been wrongfully arrested, and
should be set free without delay."

*' Without delay may mean a week," muttered
the matron; "and how are we to manage the
girl during that time ? Sister, it would be a
miserable thing if we had to lock up Odette in a
dark cell for insubordination."

"It would, mother."

Perhaps the girl will be canonized some
day, and then we should be numbered among
her persecutors."

God forbid, mother."

'joan of Arc was just such a girl as this
Odette," whispered the matron with awe on her
face. " It's strange that she should have arisen

o

at this time of a great war with a heretic nation.
Supposing she should be preordained to some
great work of deliverance ? "

'' Mon Dieu I mother, it may be ! " exclaimed
the gentle young nun, confounded by her superior's
far-sightedness.

'^ It is not without design that mysterious
things happen," proceeded the matron, speaking
as if to herself, while she folded her hands and

turned up her eyes like the saints in stained-glass
windows. *this girl was brought to prison
without cause, and lo ! here also is confined the
fiancee of the nobleman who owns Chateaufort.
The resurrection of the Due d'Alma is a things
full of wonder, but we cannot doubt that he loves
this beautiful Eno^lish oriel alio loves him, and
she will be his wife. Yet the land on which our
Blessed Lady has appeared cannot fall into a
heretic's hands. Supposing, therefore, that Odette
should have been sent here to convert this o^irl ? "

What a triumph for us if it could be so,
mother ! " ejaculated Sister Eosalie.

"It is reported that Joan of Arc in her prison
converted many," said the matron. " She was
rude of speech ; she had tended cows and sheep
like this one ; but language was given to her. I
dare say while the fire was burning in her heart
waiting to find vent she appeared intractable.
Odette will reveal herself if we put her with
Mademoiselle Corridor-tonne."

Not less on worldly than on spiritual grounds
was it expedient to place Odette under restraint
of some sort, moral or corporal. That modern
Joan was howling in her cell and kicking her
furniture about by way of proclaiming to all

whom it mio'ht concern that she wanted her
liberty. Cakes, wine, and well-sweetened coffee
had been administered as sedatives with beneficial
effect for just so much time as was required to
consume them. Odette declared that if not set
free, all that she had done as yet would count as
nothing beside what she meant to do.

The only way with such prisoners is the
punishment cell or recreative companionship —
darkness, or the light of a friendly countenance.
But Odette could not be put with common
prisoners without running in danger of corruption.
Somehow it did not occur to the matron that
Odette might convert common prisoners. Her
faith was tempered by prudence, and she reflected
that if the cow-girl had no mission to convert
Gertrude, the young English lady might have the
power of coaxing Odette into good behaviour.
But first. Mother Ste. Agathe was bound to have
Gertrude's permission before foisting the cow-girl
upon her.

A girl who was born and bred on the Due
d' Alma's estates," she said, putting forward the
qualification which she knew would weigh most
with Gertrude when she spoke of Odette, and
Gertrude's curiosity was kindled.

I shall be very glad to let the poor girl sit
with me if it pleases her," Gertrude answered.

Perhaps your future home will be at
Chateaufort, my dear child," remarked the
matron, with a meaning smile, which made
Gertrude blush. ^' Is it not strange that you
should meet here with a girl who can tell you all
about the place ? Odette is a very good girl,
though rouorh."

Why is she in prison ? " asked Gertrude.

Through no fault of hers, I am told." The
matron did not enter into particulars, nor did she
say one word about the apparition.

But it was agreed that Gertrude should see
one or other, or both, her fellow captives the next
afternoon.

CHAPTER XL

Odette's mission work.

It was just like being at Lewbury again to walk
into a large room and find Polly seated in a
corner with her sewing-machine. The treadle
turned, the needle went tic-tac, and there were
yards of lawn round Polly, who was making some
nuns cigarettes. Odette was not present, for she
had gone before the examining magistrate ; so
Gertrude was going to spend her afternoon alone
with Madame Grachard. She held out her hand,
Polly jumped up, and out came her tears with a
gush.

Oh, miss, what a shocking bad place this
is ! There ain't a worse people on the earth than
these French."

The matron left the two prisoners alone, and
when Polly had had her bout of crying, they both

set to work — Gertrude making lint ; Polly, collars.
Madame Grachard would have done nothing but
wing her hands and pour out objurgations on
the Bad 'Un if Gertrude had given her any encouragement.
The young woman's anxieties on
her own behalf were heightened during a few
minutes by the sight of Miss Corrington palpably
a prisoner ; but Gertrude took care to show no
alarm about herself, and so reassured her hysterical
companion.

No harm will be done to either of us,
Polly, so you must keep your spirits up," she
said. "The laws of France are not like ours,
that is all."

Oh, miss, but the Bad 'Un ; he's a terrible
one, it seems, when you do anything to put him
out. He won't stand it anyways."

Who is the Bad 'Un ? "

Why, the Emperor. My Tim always calls
him Badinguet."

That is not a proper name for the Emperor,"
said Gertrude, reprovingly.

Ah, miss, I'll call him the Good 'Un if he
lets me and Tim out," sighed Polly. " When I
came to Paris, I thought he was just on the point
of behoof knocked over ; but it don't look much

like it, with all these johndarms and Popish

nuns."

Then there was a pause. The treadle went
round, and Polly looked uncomfortable, guessing
what Gertrude was going to say next.

*' You know, Polly, IVe not had a chance of
talking with you since the day when I thought I
was going to be married. I want you to tell me
all that happened on the evening before you left
England."

I give you my oath, miss, Gratchard did not
strike the Duke ! " cried Polly, red as a cherry.

Who did, then— Dr. Cleverly ? "

No, miss, not the doctor. They was two of
the ugliest, stupidest-looking Frenchmen you ever
clapped eyes on. You remember, don't you, that
the Duke tried to get Gratchard a pardon, and
that there was something about it in a French
paper which led to words between him and the
Duke ? Well, on the very evening when there
had been those words, two Frenchmen comes over
from Paris to ballyrag my Tim. They belong to
the same secret society as Tim, and from what I
can make out of that society the members are
always swearing oaths, shaking hands, begging
for subscriptions, and calling each other traitors.

Well, these two, Katabouille and Compernot,
went on at my Tim until you'd have thought
they was a pair of drunken dancing-masters
coming to get a bill settled which my Tim denied
owing. Mother and I ran into the room, and
wee found Gratchard tearing his waistcoat open,
and crying, ' Wrapped, wrapped ! ' while the other
two sang out, ' Parlour ! ' The next thing was
that they all three fell to crying, and began
kissing each other, after which, it seems, they
had some vittles and bottles of Bordeaux at
the Star ; and, what with their drinking and
smoking, I don't believe that 'Rat ' and ' Comply,'
as I call those two Frenchmen, were in a fit
state to go home when they started for the train
about ten."

Polly's story, slightly imaginative, took an
hour to relate but the pith of it was this : The
three Frenchmen on their way to the station fell
in with the Duke. Polly could not say who first
accosted the Duke ; but an altercation arose about
Grachard's pardon, and the four men retired up
the passage called Lover's Walk to bandy their
words in privacy. It then came to pass that
Katabouille, the braggart journalist, called the
Duke by an insulting name, and was instantly

punished with a slap on the face which knocked
him down ; upon which he sprang up, drew a
blade from his sword-stick, struck the Duke on
the head, and felled him senseless.

The wound was not deep, but it bled a good
deal, and Grachard, apprehending that the Duke
might have been mortally hit, was seized with
terror for his friends' sake, and rushed off to find
Cleverly. Whilst he was gone, the two Frenchmen
held up the Duke as they could, but
luckily for them nobody passed through the
passage. When Cleverly came in his dogcart,
the wounded man was lifted into it, and the
doctor drove the whole party right into the
country by the Freshaven road. Grachard sat
beside the doctor. The other two men, propping
up the Duke between them, occupied the back
seat, and they were so unaccustomed to sitting in
this position on a vehicle going at full speed that
they were more than once in danger of being-jolted
off with their burden."

What a fearful thing ! How can you bear
to speak of it in that collected way ? " interrupted
Gertrude, pale with indignation when this point
of the story was reached.

"Ah, miss, but you mustn't blame Gratchard,"
VOL. III. 52

said Poll J, penitently. 'you see, it wasn't his
fault that he had to save his two friends from
being hung. He has often told me that he never
felt so grateful in his life as when the doctor
found there was nothing much the matter with
the Duke."

Where was this ? "

"In a field outside the town. The quick
going of the dogcart had woke up the Duke,
though he was in a kind of doze, and could not
quite make out what was up. They laid him on
the grass, and, by the light of one of the lanterns
of the trap, Dr. Cleverly dressed his wound."

He might have died from loss of blood on
the. way," murmured Gertrude. "It was Dr.
Cleverly 's business to have him carried to his
hotel."

Yes, miss ; but remember that if the Duke
had died in England of his wound, Gratchard and
his two friends miorht all three have been huno-.
After the quarrel at our house nobody would have
believed that the Duke hadn't been murdered on
purpose ; and Dr. Cleverly saw that, for as soon
as he had dressed the Duke's wound, he whispers
to my Tim, ' Now, just you get him quickly over
the sea.' "

A nice thing to say of a patient who might
be dying ! " exclaimed Gertrude, bitterly.

The end of the story was that the Duke was
driven to Freshaven, and put on board the
packet, which was to leave at one in the morning.
Eatabouille and Compemot promised to take care
of him as far as Dieppe. But in case the Duke's
condition should excite any suspicion on board,
Dr. Cleverly lent them one of the printed forms
which he used to certify lunatics. This was filled
up at Freshaven with fancy names, and it armed
the two Frenchmen with power to carry their*
patient anywhere unmolested. '' I think he also
gave a draught to make the Duke sleep," added
Polly.

Altogether a plot of the most iniquitous
kind," was Gertrude's final comment.

Well, but, miss, I hope you don't think
that Gratchard behaved badly ? " pleaded Folly.
What was he to do ? "

I don't blame M. Grachard," replied Gertrude
; "but Dr. Cleverly turns out to be just
as bad as I suspected."

Well, I don't know, miss ; you see, he
wanted to do a good turn to my Tim. He drove
Gratchard Imck to Lewbury when the other two

had gone off, and lie advised him, too, to leave
the country. That's why we went to Brussels for
our honeymoon, and I can tell you that I wasn't
very happy during that journey ; for I noticed
that Tim started at the sight of every policeman
we met, and it wasn't until we reached Brussels
that I could find out what was the matter."

Do you know what has become of those two
Frenchmen, M. Grachard's friends ? "

Eat and Comply ? Oh, I believe they're
in Paris, miss, waiting to overthrow the Bad 'Un.
That's been their profession for years, and Pritchard
had come to Paris to help them, thinking
all was safe when we were taken."

It was a comfort to Gertrude to know the
truth about the ao^o-ression on Eoland. At subsequent
interviews she forbore recurring to the subject,
but Polly did so once or twice to clear up
doubtful points that seemed to tell against her
Tim. Polly's moods alternated between sanguine
expectations of seeing her husband become a
man of might, and hideous fears of hearing that
his head had been severed from his body. However,
she had to give up talking politics on finding
that Miss Warrington would not listen to a word

o

against the Bad 'Un.

She had compassed her main object when she
had got Gertrude to promise that if the Bad 'Uu
were not overthrown, and if she, Gertrude,
became Duchesse d'Alma, Timon Grachard's sins
should not be visited hardly upon him. " After
all, miss, he's not such a Radical as you'd take
him for," declared the young wife, naively. " I
do believe that, if he was a Duke, like your
husband that's going to be, he would not befor
changing things much ; and that's the way
with them all. They're for equality, as they
call it ; but what they're all driving at is to raise
themselves above others, so as to have their turn
of ordering people about a bit."

Daily conversations with Polly would have
resolved themselves into monologues on the young
woman's part, evoking no more than monosyllabic
echoes from Gertrude. The minds of the two
were circles which had but one point of contact,
and Polly's circle was a watershed. Happily,
its clatter was so ceaseless that it produced the
same effect as silence. Gertrude could pick her
lint in complete mental isolation while Polly
babbled.

The situation became different when Odette
Kergarec was introduced to the day-room. The

first time she saw Gertrude she seemed bent on
illustrations the adage that "three are no company
; " for she sulked. It was just beginning to
glimmer upon her that iron bars are stronger
than a girl's screams ; in other words, she was
alarmed, that her mewing, squealing, and threatening
had not produced the same effect on the
walls of St. Lazaree as Joshua's trumpets on those
of Jericho. Gendarmes and magistrates — a dull
race, ill-prepared by their habits of mind to discern
a new Joan of Arc in a girl alighting from a
Parisian prison-van — had not been so gentle with
Odette as the good Augustine nuns were. They
had told her to hold her tongue. Therefore,
when Odette was led into Gertrude's presence
by the matron, she hid her face in her hands,
and snapped, " I don't want to see anybody."
Her second observation was, " I shan't ; " her
next, "I don't care." After that, she turned her
back upon Gertrude, but peeped out of the corner
of one eye at Polly's sewing-machine, a thing she
had never seen before, and burned to ask Questions
about ; only she would not ask questions, because
it was her mood to pout on that particular day.
She ended by having a loud, snivelling cry to
herself.

Poor child ! " said Gertrude, audibly, but
made no further advance.

At the next meeting Odette was all smiles,
with only a pretence at coyness. Curiosity about
the sewing-machine had been leading her through
the night over the trackless plains of meditation
; and then she had been a little struck by
Gertrude, while taking an eye-corner photograph
of her.

How lovely you are ! " she exclaimed,
simply. " And well dressed too ! That dress of
yours fits you as the rind does its fruit."

It's I who made that dress, didn't I, miss ? "
sang out Polly ; and from that moment, whenever
the French girl made a remark, Polly introduced
her commentary upon it, now in English, now in
Anglo-French.

Did she make your dress ? " inquired Odette,
who had at a glance settled for herself that Gertrude
and the sempstress did not sit on the same
steps of the social staircase. And she jerked her
head towards Polly. " Did she make it vdth that
thing that goes like a knife-grinder s wheel ? "

You have never seen a thing like that
before, Odette ? " said Gertrude, kindly, as she
followed the direction of the peasant-girl's glance.

*can you work with the thing, mademoiselle
? " asked Odette.

'' Yes, a little ; but not so well as Madame
Grachard. She is very clever with it."

I believe you do it better than she does. I
believe you do everything better ; your voice is
so pretty. I don't wonder that monsieur was so
madly in love with you."

The glow of sunrise came over Gertrude's
face.

You know the Due d'Alma well ? " said she,
unable to ignore or to ward off the compliment,
but taking it with a blush that went on deepening
for a whole minute.

We call him monsieur, mademoiselle. He
is Count de Beauregard. What is the use of an
Italian title ? " Odette was thinking with scorn
of the Corsican Quirolo. " When you become
monsieur's wife, you will call yourself Countess
de Beauregard, won't you ? I would rather be
Countess de Beauregard than Queen of France."

Anybody would be proud of the name,"
replied Gertrude, softly.

*' Shall I tell you about the Italians and
Corsicans, mademoiselle ? " continued Odette, with
the malice of a monkey in her eyes. '" Well, in

their country the meat is as grass, and the grass
is water ; their men are Avoient, and their women
uothino^."

Well, I never ; that's a character to give a
people ! " ejaculated Madame Grachard, nee Hopkins.


Those old names like Beauregard and
Chateaufort are like the stone carvings over the
castle door," said Odette ; " they don't want any
gilding. I thought till yesterday that monsieur
was dead, mademoiselle. What a time you must
have had when you thought you had lost him !
Mother Ste. Agathe told me he had come to life
again, and I know somebody besides you who
will have cried for joy over that news."

'you mean monsieur's sister ? "

I had forgotten her, mademoiselle. I was
thinking of one whom monsieur treated as of no
more account than a daisy in the grass, because
a true man has but one love."

In another minute Gertrude had heard of her
rival, and of Pauline's hopeless love. It was
^'orth coming to prison to have heard this. Never
in freedom could Gertrude have had all the
details of the story unfolded to her as they were
now. She might under other circumstances have

caught rumours here and there, and have suffered
in mind while trying to understand them ; but
Odette told her all things without reserve.
Nothing was wanting to complete Gertrude's
triumph in the victory over her unseen rival.
But, of course, Gertrude felt no ^^ity for Pauline,
and no predilections in her favour. Every word
of Odette's in praise of Pauline was like a little
pin-thrust to the English girl ; and drily sarcastic
was Gertrude's inflexion of the word, " Indeed ? "
when Odette came to the narrative of how the
Powers above had made a proniLnciamiento in
Pauline's favour.

*' You are a Protestant, mademoiselle," said
Odette, with a half-laugh. " "What is a Protestant
? "

line qui proteste contre les betimes " (one
who protests against nonsense), cut in Polly.

*' Let mademoiselle speak," snapped Odette.
Do you believe in our Lady, mademoiselle ? "

Yes," answered Gertrude.

Odette had expected another answer. If
Gertrude had said no, the contrary spirit of
the Breton girl would have turned her into a
champion of orthodoxy. As it was, she hesitated.
It was no fun sparring with Polly.

During several of her afternoon conversations
with Gertrude, Odette returned to the story of the
apparition, and was disconcerted by Gertrude's
placidity in listening to her. Only she could see
that she did not rise in mademoiselle's estimation
by her efforts to play the part which the nuns
had assigned to her.

This did not suit Odette. She wanted admiration,
or, at least, wonder for herself personally ;
and if she could not get it one way, she would
try another. Now and then she sulked with
Gertrude, and devoted all her attention to
Polly.

Will you make me a dress like hers " she
whispered, pointing with her finger at Gertrude.

Don't be rude and point in that way," said
Polly. " Can't you speak civilly to ma'm'zelle ? "

*' She doesn't care to talk with me," said
Odette, moodily, with a toss of her head. " She
doesn't believe what I say."

"Nee moa nong plot " (nor do I), replied
Polly.

"My dress is silk, though, and hers is only
stuff," murmured Odette, turning to a new order
of ideas.

Polly laughed. " That's the silk they use to

line dish-cloths with in my country. How much
do you get a day for wearing that dress ? "

Je ne vous comprends pas," gravely answered
Odette, whose cheap silk dress was certainly not
improved from having been worn every minute
since she purchased it, saving at night, when its
owner rolled it up and pressed it under her
pillow, lest somebody in the prison should steal
it. The nuns had not been able to impress upon
her that there are fewer thieves in prison than
elsewhere.

Well, I shouldn't wear such a dress as that
unless somebody paid me," resumed Polly. '' As
for your hair, you are all in the fashion, though I
dare say you don't know it. Much of your
money doesn't go in combs, eh ? "

Polly could not promise to make Odette a
dress, because the materials were wanting ; besides,
Mother Ste. Agathe had held out hopes of beautiful
white and scarlet robes, if Odette were good.
The girl did not understand as yet the matron
was alluding to a Carmelite's habit. Every evening,
when she returned to her cell, Odette thrilled
the good matron with cock-and-bull stories as to
the spiritual impressions which she was making
on the two English Protestants.

If she had been dealing with common prisoners,
the matron would have satisfied herself about the
truth of these statements by eavesdropping, but
some holy fear withheld her from prying into
Odette's work. She may have feared to detect
the new Joan in fibs. So she recompensed Odette
for her stories by dainties, and she communed
with her nuns about the possibility of getting the
child to enter upon her novitiate as a Carmelite.
The allurements of costume were obviously the
first things to offer for such a purpose. But the
matron also wrote to the Superior-General of
the Carmelitess about Odette, and she spoke to
her confessor, and the confessor spoke to the
Archbishop of Paris.

When people speak of the formidable might
of the Eoman Catholic Church, they mean this
kind of thing. Mother Ste. Agathe had made
up her mind that a girl connected with a miracle
should defy all the coalesced powers of judges
and police, even if she were ten times guilty, and
lo ! there was Odette at once under the protection
of a Church which has hidden active agencies
running under the surface of society everywhere.
Her case soon reached the Empress Eegent's ears,
and her Majesty signed an order for the prisoner's
immediate release.

Not only so, but Count de Beaujeu was
sharply rated for having let her be arrested, and
the order which he received compelled him to
quash Odette's hosier ; that is, to expunge Odette's
name from the police-books, so that no record of
a charge should linger against her. Moreover,
he was instructed to suspend the detective by
whom Odette had been apprehended. Such
things can despotic power do.

One afternoon Odette, coming into the day-room,
said in a half-pouting fashion to Gertrude,
I am going out this evening, mademoiselle."

I am very glad of that, Odette," answered
Gertrude, really pleased. "Shall you go to
Brittany ? "

They want me to go and stay in a convent,"
said Odette, uneasily. " What would you do if
you were in my place ? "

Our cases are so different, you see."

I wouldn't be in the skin of those who have
put you here," remarked Odette, after a pensive
look at Gertrude. " It's for politics, isn't it ? "

So they tell me."

"Well, you won't be the first Countess de
Beauregard who has been in prison. One of
them nearly as nice-looking as you had her head

cut off during the Eevolution when those accursed
Blues beat the Whites. There's her portrait at
Chateaufort."

I say, I wish you wouldn't talk about
cutting off heads," whimpered Polly, who was
jealous at seeing Odette get out of prison first.

They won't cut off your head ; it isn't worth
taking," snio-orered Odette, who was crouching; on
the floor of the cell, her clasped hands encircling
her knees, and her chin on her breast — a favourite
posture when out in the fields minding her cows.
Mademoiselle," she continued, " when monsieur
comes to Paris, he'll take a pretty vengeance on
those who locked you up. I think I can see him.
"Won't you be glad to pay them out ? "

I would rather there were no vengeance,
Odette. What would be the use of it ? "

'' I'd have them ail bled like pigs," said
Odette, tranquilly. " That Count de Beauregard
whose wife they guillotined was monsieur's
grandfather, and he swore he would have the life
of a Blue with his own hand for every day that
his wife had spent in prison before going to the
scaffold. And he kept his word. He was just
like monsieur in the face."

*'He lived in rough times," said Gertrude.

He would have acted differently if he had lived
now."

*' Blood boils quicker than water ; and give
me a man who has blood in his veins." After
that there was a long pause ; then Odette transferred
her chin to her knuckles, and exclaimed,
I don't believe you like me a bit, mademoiselle."

What an idea, Odette ! " and Gertrude put
a great deal of kindness into her face as she
looked at the girl.

Nobody ever did like me," said Odette.
And I love myself just as much as the road-side
bramble which does no good, and which I crush
down with my shot whenever I pass. I say,
those were all lies that I told you about the
apparition."

Hark to that now ! " ejaculated Polly.
'' What a wicked, bad girl she must be, miss ! "

What was the use of telling me things that
were untrue ? " asked Gertrude, without much
reproach in her tone ; for she had never put faith
in Odette's stories.

Odette had nothing more to expect from the
nuns now ; so she abandoned herself to the
pleasure of repeating to Gertrude all that she
told to Jerome Juva in the confessional. Her

narrative failed in the kind of success which she
had anticipated, for Gertrude did not laugh ; nor
did Polly, who, though inclined to do so, modelled
her behaviour on Gertrude's. But Gertrude was
smitten nth. a sincere pity for the unhappy
Jerome, whose plight Odette described in mocking
lanoruas^e.

If you are a good girl, Odette, you will let
the whole truth about this be known everywhere"'

Oh, it's no use ; people wouldn't believe me
now," answered Odette, becoming; sullen ao-ain ;
for she was disappointed at not having raised a
laugh. " If I told the truth, I should be hooted
for a witch ; and, mind you, if you go to Chateau -
fort, you will have to pretend to believe in that
miracle, or they will call you a heretic."

They shall call me what they please," replied
Gertrude. " But as for you, Odette, you must
try and be a better girl, or you will be very
unhappy all your life."

And if you marry and keep on telling such
awful lies, your husband will be smacking your
head for you," was Polly Grachard's more definite
prophecy.

I'm not the wood out of Which they make
saints," murmured Odette. " I have seen the

YOL. III. 53

image-maker of Auray come into our woods to
find blocks out of which to cut his fissures. He's
all day choosing them sometimes. He wants wood
with a straight, close-grain line over line and all
white. If there's a block with a notch or a knot
in it, he throws it aside, and nobody cares much
what becomes of it till it is wanted for the fire.
It gets its turn of being burnt in time, and it's
good enough for that. You look to me like the
white wood, mademoiselle. I am one of the
notched and knotted blocks."

And Odette shook her head as if she did not
care to struggle against the Destiny that had
made her what she was.

CHAPTER Nil

A CHANCE FOE Waverley.

At Newbury nothing was heard of Gertrude or of
Hacks Littleton till more than a week after
they had started for France.

Hacks had told his wife that he should not
be away more than a couple of days. On the
third day after his departure, the English papers
reported the rumour that the Due d'iVlma was
alive ; and upon this Kate and her relations concluded
that Gertrude must have prevailed upon
Hucks to take her to Saarbrtick, where the Duke
was alleged to be lying.

'* I think Hucks might have written us a line
from Paris," complained Kate ; but, having said
this, she began, wife-like, to make excuses for her
husband.

In war-time the post was not to be depended
upon. No doubt Hucks had written, and his

letter had miscarried. It was very kind of him
to take Gertrude to Saarbriick, for he had only
two shirts in his carpet-bag ; but how unlike
Hucks to venture thus into a region where armies
were fighting. Kate, while trembling lest any
mishap should befall her husband at the seat of
war, was proud of the gallantry which he displayed
for Gertrude's sake.

Whether they should be glad or sorry the
Due d'Alma was alive, Kate and the Corringtons
knew not. They were growing utterly tired of
Gertrude and her affairs, Even Kate, who loved
romance in marriage, was thinking that there
had been too much of it in this case. And she
could not approve of this last escapade of Gertrude's
in going to Saarbriick. It was a very
forward thing to do, and apparently the girl had
been quite intractable, so that Hucks had felt
compelled to accompany her lest she should go
by herself. It was not considerate of her to
carry off a married man in this way from his wife
and family and his clients.

During these days of suspense General
Corrins^ton fell ill. He caught a chi one evening
going to the reading-rooms to hear the latest
news of the war, and, after a sleepless night, fever

set in. Dr. Cleverly was sent for. Mrs.
Corrington would have preferred to call in somebody
else, but Cleverly had been the family
doctor before his quarrel with Gertrude, and the
General had more confidence in him than in any
of the other local practitioners. Cleverly came.
He took charge of the patient in the most professional
manner, and for several days, while the
fever was at its worst, he was in and out of the
house at all hours.

One evening he was by the General's bedside
when Kate arrived at Kingshouse, all breathless
and agonized from two letters she had received
from Paris, informing her that her husband and
sister were both in prison.

What a piece of news ! The General in bed
and Dick Corrington at Woolwich, there was no
man with whom Kate and her mother could confer
in the first throes of their anxiety, except Laurence
Cleverly. They showed him the letters. Kate
was wildly talking about starting on the instant
■ »r Paris ; Mrs. Corrington sat wringing her
hands.

'' Oh dear ! oh dear ! all this because that
wayward girl would go and marry a foreigner.
How I wish she had listened to my advice, Dr.

Cleverly, and taken you when you were willing.
I always said to her, ' Gertrude child, you will be
sorry for your behaviour to Dr. Cleverly as long
as you live "

Mamma, they have been carrying him about
Paris in a prison-van ! " sobbed Kate, referring
to the letter in which her husband related his
woful experiences. "And fancy their accusing
him and Gertrude of being M. Grachard's accomplices
! Did you know that M. Grachard had
been arrested. Dr. Cleverly ? "

Yes, I saw it in the papers a week ago,"
answered the doctor. "But there is no danger
for him, or for your husband, or for Miss Warrington,
you may reassure yourselves."

No danger ? What do you mean ? " cried
impulsive Kate. " Think of my husband in
prison lying on straw, perhaps in a stone cell.
Why, it's enough to break his heart."

Kate thought more of her husband than of
Gertrude ; the doctor, a great deal more of
Gertrude than of Hucks.

Of course we must try and get them out,"
he said ; " but what I mean is, that the Empire is
on its last legs, and that they are certain to be
released in a few days."

Onlookers do see most of a game, and whatever
Hucks and Gertrude mio^ht be fearing in
their respective prisons, an Englishman, viewing
their position from afar, saw that the prison-doors
must soon be opened to them. But the doctor s
perspicacity did not serve to appease a distracted
wife.

I must start for Paris at once," declared
Kate, for the twentieth time.

"You cannot go alone, Mrs. Littleton," said
Cleverly.

I'll telegraph to Dick to apply for leave and
come with me."

This was done ; but Dick, who had only just
obtained his commission in the artillery, could
not get leave for more than one day at an hour's
notice. Too many officers had applied for leave
in order that they might go and watch the
operations of the French and German armies, and
every application was now being critically considered.
Dick came up from Woolwich on receipt
of his sister's telegram, which had merely said
that he was wanted for several days, without
entering into details. On hearing what was up,
he expressed himself about the cheek of the
French in the pointed language which a young

officer may be expected to use under such circumstances
; but he perceived that lie should be
obliged to tell his colonel all the facts before he
could get leave long enough to be of any use to
him.

It isn t very pleasant for a fellow to have to
tell his colonel that he has got a sister in quod,"
grumbled the sub-lieutenant. " Why haven't
you telegraphed to the Duke's family to tell them
what's happened ? "

A pretty family ! " ejaculated Mrs. Corrington.
" Why, you've not seen the letter
which they wrote to Hucks about the Duke's
property, almost accusing your sister of having
plotted the Duke's murder with Dr. Cleverly."

"That's stiff," muttered Dick, stroking his
incipient moustache. "Who's the skunk who
wrote that letter ? "

Why, the Count de Beaujeu."

And he's Minister of Police, isn't he ? I
shouldn't wonder if that charge against Hucks
and Gertrude of being mixed up with Grachard
was all humbug. I dare say De Beaujeu has
locked up Gertie because he hopes that if he
disgraces her, the Duke will be the less inclined
to make her his wife."

This had not occurred to Kate or to Mrs.
Corrington, and it had not suggested itself to
Cleverly, because the doctor knew nothing of
the letter which the Count de Beaujeu had
written. He had to be told of it now, and it
was a very disagreeable communication, both for
the Corringtons to make and for him to receive —
the more so as it put an ugly complexion upon
Gertrude's predicament. If the Minister of
Police had been unscrupulous enough to put
Gertrude in prison for private motives, he might
have the villainy to trump up against her some
false charge difficult to refute.

"I think somebody ought to go to Paris,"
Cleverly now said, with knitted brows ; " and as
I seem to have been indirectly the cause of this,
I shall be ready to accompany you, Mrs. Little-point,
if you'll allow me. I can't suffer the
Count de Beaujeu to make free with my name,
and I shall not be afraid to tell him what I think
of his conduct."

I won't trouble you to go with Mrs. Little -
point, doctor," said Dick, coldly. " But, of course,
you can go on your own account."

The doctor reddened, and Mrs. Corrington
was indignant.

"Why shouldn't the doctor go with your
sister, since he is kind enough to propose it ? "

Never mind, mother. My opinion is, we
should send a telegram, answer prepaid, to the
director of the Saarbriick ambulance, asking if
the Duke is well enough to receive a message.
If he is, then we can let him know of Gertrude's
scrape. He certainly will have power to get her
out."

Telegrams, telegrams ! the boy talks as if
they cost no money ! " screamed Mrs. Corrington.
I don't believe the Duke will move a finger for
your sister, and I'm sure I don't know whether
it wouldn't have been better if he'd been killed
at Reischofi'en. We are only going to have a
number of new worries now ; but I tell you
plainly, Dick, I shall set my face against a reopening
of the courtship."

"Come, mother, I don't think you ought to
be hard on a fellow like that. The Duke was
wounded in action, and, as a wife and mother of
soldiers, you ought to stick up for him."

Dick was very true to the Duke, and all his
sympathies in the war were with the French.
Cleverly's, as he knew, were German, and he
hated Cleverly, not for this particular reason.

but because he thought the doctor uncanny and
*' bad form all round." He objected to Cleverly's
being mixed up any more or in any sort of way
with Gertrude's affairs, guessing that Gertrude
would suffer a good deal more than she had yet
done sooner than owe her liberation to Cleverly.
Mrs. Corrington repeated in Dick's hearing and
the doctor's that no good ever came to a girl
when she was unfaithful to her first love, and
this incensed the young officer.

Hang it all, Kate ! " he said privately to
his sister. " Mother is Cjuite forgetting herself.
We don't want the sympathy or the good offices
of this cad. The Duke and Gertie are engaged,
and we have just got to speak of him and act
for him as if he were an English officer disabled
by war."

That's all very well, Dick, but Hu is in
prison," sighed Kate, tearfully. '' Tell us, if you
can, how to get him out. Dr. Cleverly may do
more than you can."

'' Confound Cleverly ! " said Dick. " I won't
have him go with you. I'm sorry the beggar
was ever called into the house."

But we are the toys of circumstances. Dick
had to return to AYoolwich, and his colonel

refused him leave. The necessities of the service
made it imperative that at this moment, when
there was a chance of England being suddenly
engaged in war for the defence of Belgium, every
officer should remain at his duty.

Meanwhile Kate had applied for a Foreign
Office passport through her husband's bankers,
the Messrs. Butterby, and this document could
not be had for two days ; so that an inevitable
delay of three days had arisen since the receipt
of Hucks' letter. And now there came another
letter, in which Hucks besought his wife on no
account to come to Paris. He wrote from the
prison of Ste. Pelagie, to which he had been
transferred from the Prefecture, and the tone of
his letter was far from serene, for anger at the
indignities which he had suffered throbbed
through every line of it. But he said that he
expected to be free soon, for he had been allowed
to communicate with the British Embassy, and
he had been visited by an attache, who had
promised that the French authorities should be
urged to release him quickly.

Kate and her mother felt they must take
the General's advice. He was recovering from
his fever, but was, of course, unfit to travel.

Chafing at his helplessness, he took Cleverly's
offer of going to Paris in very kind part, and
begged him, as a great personal favour, to start
on this journey. Somebody ought to go, he
declared ; and who else could go ? Dick's objections
were stuff and nonsense.

To Laurence Cleverly this was a triumph.
He was one of those men who, fighting for their
own hands, never acknowledge their indebtedness
to circumstances. Since Gertrude had jilted
him everything had gone ill with her, and he
thought that all this was his doing. Had
he been a canter, he would have said that
Providence was on his side ; but, subscribing
to no definite faith, he found his moral like most
agnostics in copybook texts, " Everything comes
in time to those who know how to wait," and
that kind of thing.

During the few days when he thought that
the Duke was dead, he had made sure that
Gertrude would be his after all. He felt less
certain about it now, but hoped. If he could
win his match, it would be by good fielding,
missing no chance that came in his way.

His love was strong because his nature was
like a hard soil, in which none but vigorous plants

can live. Everything that took root in him —
love, hatred, ambition — grew up to luxuriance ;
and the roots and branches of all these things
were intertwined so that there was no distinguishing
them the one from the other. He perhaps
hated Gertrude as much as he loved her, and
ambition propped both his hatred and love. He
wanted mastery, and he was not magnanimous
enough to despise those little vengeances which
take the colour of kindness. That is why he was
willing to 2fo to Paris, at some inconvenience to
his professional work, to see if he could not place
Gertrude and her family under some obligation to
him. Every little point of that sort counts in a
long game.

Cleverly's manner had grown singularly curt
and haughty of late, and he knew it. Having
acquired notoriety, and being much run after
from curiosity, he had no reason to conceal the
traits of his individualism, as young doctors must
do while seeking to make a practice by being all
things to all men.

He spoke peremptorily now to patients whom
he had formerly flattered. He meant for the
future to speak out his opinions on politics,
religion, medicine, and all other matters that

set men by the ears. The consciousness that he
could do this without suffering for it now that he
was noted as a character was imparting a strange
new zest to his life. His mind had shaken off
the bonds of convention, and with a sense of
intellectual freedom there had come to Cleverly
an undoubted increase of power in his science asa
healer. His treatment of the General's fever
had been able, because he had not been afraid to
dictate, and he had tried some experiments upon
which he would not have ventured some weeks
before. He was confident now that his professional
rivals thenceforth would not be amono-

o

small provincial doctors, but among the foremost
medical men of the land. He was ofoino-
to be numbered with these, and he thought he
could already foresee the exact place he would
hold in their ranks by the time his hair was
grey.

Before leaving Lewbury, the doctor had to
make arrangements with a colleague to look after
his patients during his absence, and he deliberately
made choice of the doctor who disliked him most,
and was sure to abuse him heartily behind his
back. There was something rather magnificent in
this which somewhat abashed the recipient of the

favour — a little Doctor Jupe, the oldest practitioner
in the town, who had outlived the pleasure
caused by the recruiting of new patients unless
they belonged to county families and gave good
dinners.

Dr. Jupe, a dignified, white-covered, chin-stroking
little gentleman, whose backbiting
propensities could never have been guessed from
his benevolent countenance, came hobbling round
to see Cleverly, intending to ask with paternal
impertinence what kind of a practice the young
doctor could have to hand over to such a big
man as himself. But Cleverly crushed him by
exhibiting a list upon which were several county
people whom Dr. Jupe had hitherto considered as
patients of his own. It was like treason to learn
that these people had been ill without calling him
in to make them well, or at least to pocket their
money, and to drink their port wine.

Going to be away long ? '' asked little Dr.
Jupe, gulping down his mortification.

Only for a few days, I think."

*' You won't blame me if I set your best
patients on their legs before you come back?"
asked the little doctor, struggling to be facetious
under damping influences.

"Hold in your hand a wee," replied Cleverly,
in the same spirit and with a smile, so that the
little doctor half for-ave him. Not that we are
any the richer for a man's half-forgiveness which
is like half a bank-note when the other piece is
missing.

Nobody outside the circle of Kingshouse knew
why Cleverly was going to Paris, or learnt that
he was going with Mrs. Littleton. There are
secrets which can be kept in a bag like a cat for
more or less time, and others which can no more
be bagged than a swarm of gnats. That as to
the whereabouts of Hucks and Gertrude did not
go buzzing about the town in a swarm of winged
whispers. It belonged to the fierce black cat order,
a thing which may do damage if it gets abroad,
and was therefore very tightly tied up. Kate
Littleton changed her mind every hour about
going to Paris, but finally decided not to go,
because she did not think it safe to leave her
mother alone to guard the black cat. Affection
urged the good wife seawards ; experience reminded
her that Mrs. Corrington would be in
the hands of Mrs. Nethersole or Mr. Quang
as an orange to be squeezed. It was not worth
while running the risk, especially as Kate was
VOL. m. 54

under orders from her husband not to leave
Lewbury.

Danger did arise, however, as to the secret
escaping through the town, and this came from
the hyper-conscientiousness of Bertha Corrington.
That very good young lady, who had been filling
her notebook for some time past with thoughtful
speculations upon the duties which are laid upon
us by adversity, was moved to propound to herself
the following poser. It was writ large upon
her note-book, in melancholy sloping letters : —

'' If I heard that my sister was being entertained
in a royal palace, should I not he proud to
circulate the news ? Oh, ought I not to he proud,
then, for the mere tilth's sake, to go about owning
that she is in prison f Would it not be noble todo
that 1 Is it not the kind of thing that Monica
and Hypatia^ and Bayard, and General Washington
hould have done ? Shall I ever he truly
good unless I can Hse superior to caring whether
I make all around me wretched? There is a
load upon me which I am bearing for others;
but have they a right to lay such a burden
upon me ? "

For all this Bertha held her peace, and she
even had the pious fortitude to dress up the truth

a little — out of charity to the naked, so to say —
when next asked by co-members of her Mutual
Improvement Association whether Gertrude was
enjoying herself in Paris.

My sister is living very quietly," she said ;
but all that she has seen as yet of Parisian life
is very new to her, and perhaps exciting. I feel
myself I am just as happy where I am."

CHAPTER XIII.

REBUFF AJ;D rebound.

Laurence Cleverly travelled to Paris by the
shortest route, and arrived there early in the
morning. He alighted at the Grand Hotel,
breakfasted at leisure, and went out neither too
soon nor too late to call at the British Embassy
and the State Police Office. Half the secret of
getting great people to listen to you consists in
going to them at the proper time and showing
no hurry. The doctor had nobody to guide or
second him in the steps he was going to take.
The only man whom he knew in Paris was a
fellow-doctor named Sanguineous, a great Republican
and vivisector, a cutter up of dogs
and constitutions, a avail who put his knife
daily into half a dozen birds, rabbits, and frogs,
just to satisfy himself that Harvey was not

wrong in pretending that blood circulates in the
veins.

Sano:uinettL was one of those men who are
always too busy with the welfare of mankind to
help a friend. Besides, after the Prussian victories
no Parisian cared to be reminded that he
had studied at Bonn. Cleverly knew that he
should get nothing out of Sanguineous (who was a
mongrel Corsican), and so he went about his
business by himself.

He got politeness at the Embassy, et praeterea
nihil ; at the Police Office, the discourtesy habitual
with petty French officials, but two orders empowering
him to visit Miss Corrington and
Monsieur " Ux " in their prisons. He did not seethe
Count de Beaujeu, and was told that " M. le
Ministre ne se voyait pas comme les tours de
Notre Dame " — was not to be seen like a public
monument by every would-be spectator. He
also learnt from an atom of officialism, talking
big and bouncing behind a glass partition, like
a ball in a Fives Court, that it was only by
a great favour that he was allowed to visit
prisoners.

Thank you," said Cleverly.

Your servant," answered the atom, who was

more civil to people going out than to those
coming in.

Cleverly, of course, went to St. Lazaree first.
His heart beat as he rang at the big black door
under an old grey porch, and while he was being
conducted by a nun across a courtyard, he was
like a young actor who is going to appear in
public for the first time, and who cannot remember
a line of his part when the curtain is
about to rise. The sight of the nun was grateful,
as removing all idea of indignity from the prison ;
but it likewise suggested that Gertrude was not
without friends, and that was disappointing to
one who wished to appear as an only friend.
Selfishness and devotion meet at their extremes,
as heaven touches earth at the horizon.

The nun examined Cleverly 's order, and it
was then he learnt that officialism had not vainly
boasted in representing that he had got a favour.
This was not a visiting day. Twice a week he
could have seen the prisoner without much difficulty,
but only for twenty minutes, and behind a
thick grating. The order admitting him on an
ofi'-day procured him ingress to the parloir de
faveur — a small room, one of half a dozen such,
divided by a low wooden partition, whence iron

bars ascended to the ceiling. But the bars were
far apart, and a couple separated by the partition
could still sit close to each other, touch hands,
and even kiss. The parloir had necessarily two
doors, and they were panelled with glass, in order
that a nun walking up and down a passage on
the prisoner's side might have an eye on interviews,
though she could not hear what was
spoken.

Cleverly had been waiting about ten minutes
on his side of the partition when Gertrude
appeared on the other. Then Cleverly felt the
bars to be a blessing. Though hands could be
shaken through them, they provided an excuse for
not attempting this salutation, and so obviated
the awkwardness which must have occurred if
Cleverly 's extended hand had been refused.
Gertrude, indeed, had no idea that she was going
to see Cleverly. On beholding him, she flushed,
and made a move to retire.

Don't go. Miss Corrington," he said quickly.
Your father has been ill ; your mother and your
sister cannot leave Lewbury, and I have come
over at their request."

"Is my father's illness serious?" she asked,
with an anxious look.

But he shook his head, so the temperature of
her voice sank and froze as she inquired if he had
brought any letters. It was like saying, " I want
your credentials."

I have brought several letters'' said Cleverly ;
but as he handed them through the bars, the face
of an elderly nun darkened the glass of the door
opposite him, and the door was opened.

Pardon me, mademoiselle, no letters can be
received in the parloir without the Mother
Superior's permission," grunted the address.

Take them to the mother," said Gertrude,
handing the packet unopened to the nun.

What an outrageous thins: ! " exclaimed
Cleverly.

"It is the rule," replied Gertrude, simply ;
and the nuns have treated me very kindly. I
have nothing whatever to complain of"

AYhat more could be said ? Gertrude had
repudiated sympathy, and seemed to have no
desire for assistance. If a person bent on almsgiving
were greeted before he had opened his
mouth with the remark, " I am not hungry nor
thirsty ; I am well clothed and warmed," he
would feel as Cleverly did. Gertrude wanted
him to go, and showed it.

For all that he proffered his sympathy, and
spoke of his determination to help her.

"You can do nothing for me," she interrupted
coldly. '' I shall not be here long."

"But it is abominable that you should have
been brought here ! " he exclaimed, thinking to
touch her by his anger against those who had
persecuted her.

It was rather amusing," she replied, with
an air of absolute indifference ; for she was
resolved not to be of the same mood with him fora
moment. He saw this, but answered mildly —

Your parents, your brother and sisters, have
been very much alarmed. That is why I am
here. AVould you mind telling me what hopes
you have of being soon released, that I may reassure
them ? "

You need not take any trouble on that score,
thank you. I will write home myself to-day."

She lingered, intimating by a slight raising of
the head as she turned towards the door that she
expected his next words to close the interview.
But she could not retire of her own accord,
because the door of her compartment was locked,
and she must wait until the attendant nun passed
again to let her out. She remembered this justin

time to save herself from an ineffectual attempt
to open the door, which must have exposed her
to some more words of commiseration. But the
feeling that she was forced to remain for a few
minutes more in the company of the man she
hated made her temper rise.

Up to that moment the dialogue had been
rapid, as the clinking of foils at the outset of a
fencing bout. Now there was a stop, and, the
two measuring each other with the eye, their
glances met. In such cases, when the glance of
the weaker does not quail, the next thrust goes
home. The difference between the two was that
Cleverly did not want to hurt, while Gertrude
suddenly determined to inflict a sharp wound.
This man was crossing her path again ; it should
be for the last time. She had been dreaming
that she would be released by Eoland ; to be
liberated by Cleverly's good offices, to owe this
man thanks, would be intolerable.

While this crossed her mind, Cleverly had
looked to see if he could notice any trace of
suffering on her face, anything of gaol-privations
in her general appearance. But she was calm
and winsome, evidently in good health, and as
well dressed as if she were at home.

Are you sure you want nothing ? " he asked,
as if he did not mean to be rebuffed. " I am
acting upon the instructions your father act
mother gave me in saying that I will do anything
whatever that will be of service to you''

You can be of no service to me, Dr.
Cleverly, and you know it," was her quick reply.

I hope to prove the contrary ; and you
must know, on your side, that I shall not rest
until I have set you free."

You are the last person in the world whom
my father and mother should have sent to me
with such words as these," she said. " On your
own good taste in coming here, I pass no comment
; but please do not disturb me again."

The nun passed at that moment, and Gertrude
rapped at the window.

While the door was being unlocked, Cleverly
said, " I can bear a great deal from you. Miss
(warrington."

She made no answer, but went out. A few
minutes later he had been ushered out of the
prison, and was bending his steps towards the
other gaol, where Hucks Littleton was.

He was not despondent, for he had kept his
temper. The victories which we win over ourselves

are an earnest of strength, more so than
those which we win over others. It was something
to have gone through an interview with
Gertrude without being driven to reproaches,
and yet, before Cleverly had turned the corner
of the street, he felt the palpitations of a
dangerous excitement in him. He could not
gather up his impressions into thoughts, but
Gertrude had fascinated him, and he vaguely
foresaw that it would be so whenever they met
again — if they did meet.

He was walking in a broad, crowded boulevard,
and, not knowing his way to Ste. Pelagic,
asked a policeman to direct him. He was told
the prison was very far, quite the other side of
the city, and that he had better take a cab or an
omnibus. Before doing this he looked about
him for a place where he could slake his thirst.
Excitement makes the throat dry. He sat down
outside a cafe, where two rows of little round
marble tables were arrayed under a pink and
white awning, very cool to look at, and very
enticing to a thirsty man. Most of the tables
were occupied, and many of the customers were
sipping a greenish clouded liquid with an
appetizing smell of aniseed or caraway.

Willing to make trial of a beverage which
seemed so popular, Cleverly told a waiter to
brinor him some of that orreen stuff.

'^ Absinthe, m'sieu ? " asked the waiter, who
was all shirt-front and snowy apron.

Cleverly nodded. He had heard of absinthe,
but had never tasted it. He was aware that
this liqueur, distilled from wormwood, was a
deleterious drug when taken habitually and inlarge
quantities, but a tonic for occasional use.
The waiter brought him a large glass containing
about a tablespoonful of dark, green oil, and
with it a decanter of iced water. The Frenchman
prepares his absinthe lovingly by making water
trickle into it drop by drop, and he then sips
the compound at leisure. Cleverly doused
his absinthe with half a pint of water at one
time, a proceeding which prevents it from getting
a proper cloudiness. Then he drank the
mixture in two or three draughts, as if it were
lemonade.

He became conscious almost instantly of
treat exhilaration. He began to see all things,
not couleur de rose, but in the green tints of his
absinthe, which are quite as pretty. Difficulties
vanished from his sicrht. He would obtain

Gertrude's release, then win her for his wife by
any means, even if he had to challenge the Duke
and fio-ht him. Was he not in a land where all
things are possible ? and had he not the secret
good wishes of Gertrude's parents ?

Two other topers of absinthe sat at a table
near his, and were attracting general attention
by their loud talking. One was a cuirassier
sergeant, with his arm in a sling; the other, a
Zouave, with a bandage round his forehead.
Both had been slis^htlv wounded at the outset of
the war, and had been sent back to Paris for
treatment. Their uniforms were soiled and
covered with sewn rents, but the wearers were, of
course, all the prouder of them. Though Paris
had Q-rown accustomed to the sio^ht of wounded
soldiers, the prestige of battle-stained uniforms
was not o-one, and all who were within earshot of
the two wounded men pricked up their ears to
catch what these braves had to say. Under such
inspiriting circumstances the braves, of course,
vapoured a good deaL

We have been betrayed," bawled the
cuirassier. " If our generals had been like my
Colonel d'Alma, we should have been on the
march to Berlin by this time."

Were you in the charge of Eeischoffen ? "
asked Cleverly, turning round.

Qui, monsieur,'^ answered the cuirassier,
thumping his chest. " I rode close behind the
Colonel d'Alma, and a better officer never
charged a square. I saw him roll three times off
horses shot under him, and pick himself up
laughing, as if he were in a ball-room. Sacre
tonnerre I and it was a fine ball too, with rousing
galops, I can tell you ! "

Courage ! " cried the Zouave, who was
getting a little maudlin. " Let's have some more
absinthe, and drink his health."

** Courage ! " answered the cuirassier, clinking
glasses with his comrade. 'ewe have not had
our last word with the Prussian. He's strong,
but we will beat him yet."

I'll say courage too," muttered Cleverly to
himself. " My enemy is strong, but I'll beat
him ; " and, fired by these thoughts, he hailed a
victoria, and was driven to the prison of Este.
Pelagie.

CHAPTER XIV.

THE ANTECHAMBER OF POWER.

Cleverly quite expected that he would see
Hucks Littleton as he had seen Gertrude —
behind bars. But at the Prison of Ste. Pelagie,
in the street of the Hermit's Well (Puts de
I'Ermite), political prisoners were very well
treated. Like St. Lazaree, it was a monastery,
and in the parts through which the visitor was
conducted there was but little to remind one of
a gaol.

"I think Monsieur Ux is in the airing
ground," said a warder, who escorted Cleverly ;
and a door being opened, the doctor found himself
in a pretty spacious yard, gravelled, and
planted with two rows of leafy plantains. Some
green benches with backs were set under the
shade of these trees, and in the centre of the

yard was a large round bed of geranium and
mignonette.

He whom the warders persisted in calling
Ux " was not at first discernible to his countryman's
eye. More than a score of men were
wandering: about the yard or resins on the
benches — enough of them to animate the scene,
but not to make a crowd ; and there was the
same promiscuity of ranks among them as in an
omnibus, but no more. None of the prisoners
had the look of paupers. Most of them were
smoking and reading newspapers or chatting.

A melancholy figure, wearing a cheap riband -
less hat of plaited reeds with a very broad brim,
rose from one of the forms and accosted Claverlev.
With him rose Timon Grachard and two or
three other gentlemen, one of whom Cleverly
recognized by the photographs he had seen of
him in the streets as Henri Eochefort, the
pamphleteer.

The doleful figure in the hat was '' Ux."
It's very good of you to come here, Waverley''
he began, with a quiet shake of the hand ;
]put Grachard was, of course, more demonstrative.
He fairly flew into the doctor's arms, kissed
him on the necktie, being; unable to reach his face.
VOL. in. 5.5

then, spinning round with his arms extended like
two sign-posts, introduced him to his friends.

"The best and bravest of Englishmen —
Eochefort, Yalles ; this is my friend Cleverly."

While there was lifting of hats all round,
Cleverly had expressed his surprise at being in
such merry company. " This doesn't look much
like a prison, Grachard."

It is not a prison," exclaimed the little man,
solemnly ; " it is the antechamber of Power.
To-morrow, perhaps — in a week at latest — we
here shall be sitting in the places of those who
locked us up."

Or we shall all have been shot," remarked
Henri Eochefort, with a serio-comic grin.

"Or we shall have been shot," repeated
Grachard, as if he felt bound in fairness to contemplate
this alternative, and it must be owned
that there was seventy-five per cent, less bounce
in his last words than in his first.

I incline to think that we shall all be shot
in the cool of the evening, just after supper," said,
with a disconcerting sneer, the man who had been
introduced as Yalles. " We have been allowed
to do as we please for the last week ; there have
been no rules ; friends have been free to come and

go as if we were in an hotel, and last night mv
warder omitted to lock up mj cell. That looks
to me much like the jolly time the allow a man
on the morning he is oroinof to be guillotined."

Let us hope M. de Beaujeu will at least
send us a good champagne dinner, if we are all
to be shot this evening'' observed a handsome
young man, with deep-set eyes and wild hair,
whom Cleverly heard addressed as Florins.

At this moment the door of the court-yard
was opened ; and, oddly enough, there appeared
a marmitoii, or pastry-cook's boy, with a white
flat cap, jacket, and apron, carrying a tray, on
which were a number of dishes with plated
covers. A laugh burst from all the light-hearted
Revolutionists ; but it would be useless to conceal
that two or three of them looked a little blue,
until Hem-i Eochefort observed, with a flicker
of drollery on his smileless face, "It is om good
friend Eatabouille who is fortifying himself in
view of siege and famine."

Eatabouille is a Sybarite," said Yalles.

"A Eepublican must be a Spartan," said
another, laughing. " If there be any truth in
Communism, I think I am entitled to a share of
Eatabouille's dinner."

In a trice the cook's boy was surrounded, and
good-liumouredlj hustled. Some of the poorer
prisoners — jouug artisans who had been shut up
for crying " Vive la Publique " a little too
soon — that is, before the Republic was yet born —
lifted the covers on the tray, and beheld a roast
duckling with some peas, a dish of sweetbread,
a nice little salmon cutlet en papillote, and a
plateful of choice red strawberries, with a little
pot of St. Dacier cream. Two bottles belonging
to the guard nobile of wines, one of Chateau
Arose, the other of champagne, stood as sentries
beside these dainty dishes.

Somebody proposed that a clearance should
be made, and the motion was voted with far
more unanimity than generally prevails in Republican
assemblies. Notwithstanding that the
rubicund visage of M. Ratabouille appeared at
a window, this good citizen's dinner was shamelessly
appropriated by his friends. To add insult
to injury, one of the loiters wrote on a slip of
paper —

Un bon journalist e ne mange pas les cards
qui I'ont aide ^ faire fortune"*

A journalist does not eat the ducks that have helped
him to iDake his fortune. In French canard duck, means
also a newspaper fib.

While this scene was being enacted amid
seals of mirth, which must have been heard over
the spiked walls far down Hermit's Well Street,
Cleverly and Hucks remained apart and talked
of their private affairs. Being in the greatest
distress about Gertrude, Hucks was wistful to
Jiear all that Cleverly could tell him about her.
From the moment he learnt that the doctor had
been to St. Lazaree, he would obtrude none of
his own grievances until he was satisfied that
Gertrude wanted for nothing, asked for nothing,
and was not despairing. It was only when
Cleverly had given him a pretty truthful account
of his interview that he heaved a sigh of relief
and alluded to his own concerns. At first he
shook his head with a rueful look towards all
those fellow-prisoners of his, who were playing
school-boy pranks.

"What do you think of those men, Cleverly?
Are they not dreadful ? Think that the destinies
of France may be committed tomorrow to their
care !

They seem gay companions enough," answered
Cleverly, beginning a stroll with the
lawyer under the trees.

Gay 1 " echoed Hucks, with a shudder.

That tall thin young man there, with the sallow
slice and black bushy hair, Henri Eochefort, has
in some things the simplicity of a child with the
vanity of a peacock. T am not so afraid of him.
But that short man with the beard, who is always
sneering, Valley, is a sinister fellow ; and the
boy Florins is stark mad."

Have you picked up enough French to
understand what they say ? "

No ; but Grachard interprets for me. I
could not shun their society without losing his,
and he has been really very good to me. But
my good friend, when we sit altogether under the
trees and talk, these men positively shriek with
laughter at the opinions I convey to them through
Grachard, though, indeed, I am not conscious of
saying anything jocular. They, on their side,
appal me by their want of faith and principle,
and unfathomable ignorance."

Here Hucks had to sink his voice and change
his subject, for the prisoners were spreading
about the yard again. His own individual
grievances were that he had been made to ride
any number of times in a prison-van to be
questioned by a magistrate who would never
listen to what he said. He had conceived the

lowest opinion of the French magistracy. But
since his consignment to Ste. Pelagic, he had been
much more comfortable than at the Prefecture.
As he was saying this a warder beckoned to
Cleverly to intimate that the half hour allowed
for his visit had expired.

Cleverly had forgotten that he was limited
as to time, and he had to take leave of Hucks
somewhat abruptly, without saying half of what
he had intended. But he promised to make
application for another visiting order. " However,"
he added, " as you may be released yourself
at any moment, remember my address is the
Grand Hotel."

As Cleverly was leaving the yard, Grachard
ran after him, crying, " You have not seen my
wife, doctor ? '' ^

"No'

"Ah, well, listen to this joke. They will
not acknowledge her as my wife, because they say
that I was civilly dead and could not marry.
So if she's released she will not be allowed to
write to me, nor shall I be able to write to her.
I mustn't send money to her either, because that
would be improper. Try and let the poor
creature know all this if you can."

Will it help you if I certify to the authorities
here that I was a witness of your lawful
marriage ? " asked Cleverly.

Not a bit," said Grachard ; " but when you
get back to England, you may caution your
(Countrywomen of what they must expect if they
insist on marrying refugees, I warned Madame
Hopkins that she was wedding her daughter to
a dead man ; but she was incredulous, being one
of those formalists who will take nothing for
settled until all legal forms have been accomplished.
I ought to have come to her like
St. Denis, holding my head in my hands ; then
she would have believed. But, I say, give my
love to Madame Grachard in partibus infedilinm,
and au revoir either on the Place de la Coquette *
or at the Hotel de Ville." t

The place where criminals are executed.
j The Town Hall, where moribund dynasties receive
their coup de grace.

CHAPTER XY.

THE LAST DAYS OF A DYNASTY.

Cleverly returned to the Grand Hotel, and
after dinner at a table d'hote, which was very
thinly attended — for foreigners had become scarce
in Paris since street loafers had taken to hustling
every person of strange attire or accent as a
Prussian spy — he wrote to the Count de Beaujeu.
His letter, which pleaded for Gertrude's release,
was to remain without answer.

On the following day he busied himself with
visits to the British Embassy and the Palace of
Justice, but nothing could be done for him at
either of these places ; and then he lost considerable
time by being himself arrested as a
Prussian. He had taken a cab from the Embassy
to his hotel, and, paying the driver his proper
fare, was met with a demand for ten francs.

It's absurd," he said. " You're a Prussian. I
know you ! " shouted the coachman, a. drunken
fellow, in a red waistcoat and glazed hat ; and
instantly a crowd circled round the disputants.

The shorter of the hotel, instead of giving
Cleverly assistance, ran indoors frightened. The
mob, which rapidly collected, was not wholly
composed of vagabonds. There were several
well-dressed men in it, and these were as demonstrative
as the others in their vituperation.
"C'est un Prussien!" " Traite ! " ^'Lache!"
"Miserable!" " Flanquez le a I'eau ! " "Cassel
lui la gueule ! " '' En avant chez le commissaire ! "
These were the cries that were raised round the
Englishman as he expostulated in broken French,
and the end of the incident was that he got
marched off to the nearest police-station by two
sergents de ville, with a cohort of some three
hundred yelling natives at his heels. At the
station he was thrust into the violon, a public
cell, reeking with stenches, and had to wait for
nearly an hour until that great man, the commissaire,
could attend to him.

It will have been noticed by any one who has
seen a foreigner brought before a magistrate in
England that there is always an honest anxiety

to do the man j justice. From the policeman who
arrests him to the magistrate who examines him
everybody wishes that he shall be under no disadvantage
through being an alien. In France it
is all the contrary, not only in time of war, but
at all times. An instinctive hatred of foreigners,
but especially of Englishmen, perverts the official
mind. It is invariably assumed that if one of
our countrymen has got into trouble, it must be
because he deliberately intended to show his contempt
for France and its laws.

Imagine a London magistrate lecturing; a
French prisoner about the honour of the Union
Jack ! " Le drapeau Francis " was brought out
in one of the first sentences of the commissaire's
remarks, and Cleverly found it useless to parley
with a man who was less concerned to discover
whether the foreigner before him was a culprit
than to prove that he was himself a good patriot,
and could talk bombast like a man-of-war's
parrot.

Cleverly exhibited his passport ; but it was of
no assistance as a certificate of identity, for these
documents issued by our Foreign Office do not
contain the signalement or description of the
bearer's person. He showed a number of private

letters ; but, as the commissaire wisely remarked,
letters prove nothing. Luckily he had a letter
of credit on a Parisian bank, and having expressed
his readiness to write out a cheque, he
was allowed to do so, and was sent back to the
violon, while a policeman was despatched to get
the draft cashed. For some mysterious reason
the cashing of a cheque on a Paris bank (which,
by-the-bye, bore a German-sounding name) established
to the commissaire's satisfaction that his
prisoner was not a Prussian, and Cleverly was
released.

He had wasted several hours in this foolish
business, and could have no security that he
might not be apprehended again the first time he
opened his mouth in public. He thought it
prudent to avoid cabman, cafe-waiters, tradesmen,
and the whole irritable genus of silver-seekers ;
but this policy of self isolation ended by driving
him to take refuge in the reading-room of the
(Grand Hotel. Here, trifling over newspapers, of
which fresh editions containing monstrous fables
Avere brought in about every half-hour, he
pondered anxiously to try and shape out a course
of action for himself. But he could think of
nothing. He must wait for some turn in political

events. Even the semi-official journals, with
their persistent bragging about German defeats,
could not conceal that the fortunes of France now
hung on a half-severed thread.

While Cleverly was at dinner, a newspaper
was brought him, which contained a report that
the Emperor had capitulated at Sedan. Going
up to his room after dinner, he smoked a cigar on
his balcony, which overlooked the Boulevard des
Capucines, and saw that excited crowds were
gathering on the pavements, and making rushes
for the kiosks as fast as new editions were
brought to them. He doubted the truth of the
news, however, because he saw that policemen
remained at their posts unmolested, a circumstance
which, to any observant eye, indicated
that the Emperor was still upstanding. So he
went to bed.

But next morning he learnt that the news
was true. When he came down to breakfast, the
marble bust of the Emperor on the mantelpiece
in the large dining-room had been removed. The
waiter who brought him his coffee boasted that
he, the man of five penny tips, had always i)een a
Republican. Cleverly went out on to the boulevards,
and found the city alive as for a public

festival. Men with ladders, hammers, paint-pots,
and brushes were hurrying about to remove all
the Imperial emblems over the shops of court
purveyors, and to smear out the words " Fournisseur
de L, L. Majesties." The shameful news
of the sovereign's surrender, which should have
filled every patriotic heart with sorrow, seemed
to be hailed everywhere as a public deliverance.
The police had vanished. Soldiers and workingmen
were fraternizing in the wine-shops, and
vellinof snatches of the " Marseillaise." Mischievous
boys were throwing handfuls of mud at the panels
of private carriages, the occupants of these vehicles
being presumably no friends of the " Proletariate."

Borne along by a stream of people, Cleverly
presently arrived on the Place de la Concorde,
the immense square, to the south of which runs
the Seine, with the Palace of the Legislature
facing it on the other side of the bridge, while to
the east lies the garden of the Tuileries.

The flag which floated on the central pavilion
of the Imperial palace showed that the Empress
had not yet left Paris, but the crowds of holiday
folk mustering on the Place (for it was a fine
Sunday, and all these people really behaved like
holiday folk abroad for an outing) were clamouring
o- for the Empress Eegent's deposition.

The bridge leading to the Corps Legislative
was guarded by a battalion of infantry, but the
crowds kept pressing closer and closer to these
soldiers, who made but little resistance, and that
little only of a mild, expostulating character. In
the distance, men, waving hats and handkerchiefs,
could be seen standing on the steps of the Corps
Legislative, and signalling to the people.

There were deputies and journalists, as cleverly
heard say. At a given moment their harangues
apparently prevailed upon a general on horseback,
who was in command of the troops, and who
suddenly sheathed his sword Upon this the
soldiers fell back ; the crowd, in one great heave
forward, surged over the bridge ; the steps of the
Parliament house were flooded with a dark torrent
of Revolutionists, and it was easy to see that the
days of the Second Empire were over.

Afraid to open his mouth lest his speech
should betray him, Cleverly elbowed his way
about slowly, listening and watching, till he
became aware of a man watching him, one whose
features were familiar to him, too, though he
could not recollect where he had seen them. The
man wore a semi-military uniform, with the
insignia of the Need Cross Society on his cap and

round his arm. Edging up to Charley, lie
made a sign of recognition by laying a finger
across his lips, and then whispered in bad but
intelligible Enorjish —

You are Dr. Cleverly of Lewbury, the lover
of Miss Corrington, and the enemy of the Due
d'Alma. Are not you ? "

Tell me who you are before I answer,"
replied Cleverly.

'' Never mind. And you are Timon Grachard's
friend ? Do you understand French ? "

'eyes, I am M. Grachard's friend, and I
understand French."

Then I will serve you, if you serve me,"
proceeded the man in his own language.

How can I serve you ? "

My name is Quirolo, and I was in the
police. You see I am frank. I was sent to
Eno-land to discover who had tried to kill the
Due d'Alma. M. de Beaujeu sent me, but now
he is my enemy. Au diable with him. I do
not care for him to-day ; his power is gone, and
I saw his landau carrying him at post pace out of
Paris an hour ago. Unfortunately, M. Grachard
is my enemy too, so I should be no gainer by
the change of regime, unless you will get Grachard

to pardon me ; that is, to promise that the
Eepublic shall not molest me. I ask nothing but
that ; then I will help you in what you wish."

How do you know that I wish for anything.
? "

"You have not come to Paris for your
pleasure, I suppose ? I first saw you three days
ago, and I have been watching you a little ever
since. I know you have been to St. Lazaree, to
Ste. Pelagic, to the Prefecture, and I conclude
you want to get Miss Corrington out of prison,"

Yes ; and if you help me in that "

Listen ! " said Quirolo, sinking his voice.
'■' I have some blank papers in my pocket, bearing
the stamp of the Prefecture de Police. I can
easily fill one up with an order for Miss Corruption's
release, and I will imitate the signature of
the Minister of Justice. The Empire is dying,
but the Eepublic, its accursed abortion, is not
Ijorn yet. As there is no government at this
hour, any sort of document will be accepted as a
good warrant by the governor of St. Lazaree.
Besides, I am well known at the prison. But we
must get out of this crowd. Come along, fast ;
every minute is of value."

There was much difficulty in getting out of
VOL. III. 56

the crowd, and the pair found it impossible to
retrace their steps towards the boulevards. They
had to let themselves be slowly floated onwards
towards the quay, which skirts the Tuileries
Garden. After an hour's progress at a snail's
pace, they reached the Pont Royal, and here got
whirled into a very eddy of mobs, one making for
the Legislature, another for the Hotel de Ville,
and a third for the Tuileries, while a fourth was
struggling to get out of the Tuileries, having
perceived several battalions on guard there, and
being apprehensive that the soldiers might perhaps
do their duty in defending the Empress.

Happily the crowd was good-natured, and
there was no violent pushing. Jokes were snapped
about like crackers. Persons whose wit was short
could always raise an approving shout by crying,
*' Down with the Emperor ! " (who was down
enough already).

Quirolo discerned that it would be useless to
try and reach the boulevards by what is usually
the shortest route, so he drew his companion over
the bridge, intending, when on the left side of
the Seine, to take a cab and make for the
northern quarter of the city, where St. Lazaree
stands, by a circuitous way.

The two had just crossed the bridge when
they were driven into a corner of the parapet by
a horde of noisy folk trudging down the Eue du
Bac, and escorting a couple of open hackney
carriages, in which were packed a number of
gentlemen waving their hats and smirking.

Those are the political prisoners released from
Ste. Pelagic," whispered Quirolo. " Stand back I
I dare say you will see Grachard."

Sure enough. Among the occupants of the
first carriage was Henri Rochford (who, being a
nervous creature, looked much as if he would
rather be elsewhere), and among those of the
second stood Timon Grachard and Mr. Hucks
Littleton.

They stood like criminals going to execution
in a tumbril, because there was not room for
them to sit down. Grachard, perched on the
hind seat, was purple in the face from shouting.
Hucks Littleton, half reclining upon the hood,
and with his straw hat crushed upon his knees,
stared about him pale and distraught, utterly
overcome, apparently by the novelty of the situation
in which he found himself placed.

The carriage halted for a moment near the
bridge, and Quirolo, ducking into the crowd,

disappeared from view. Cleverly, on the contrary,
darted forward, and cried, " Grachard 1 "

Cleverly ! " was the quick response. " Ah !
my brave friend, the day of freedom has dawned.
It will be the turn of our enemies now to go to
prison. Vive la liberty ! "

'' Cleverly, Cleverly, do ask them to let me
out of this carriage, and allow me to join you,"
pleaded Hucks Littleton, suddenly rousing
himself.

But Grachard enjoyed joking at the expense
of the Lewbury lawyer, and so bawled to the
rabble, " My friends, this is the Citizen Ux, the
great English Eepublican ! He has been oppressed
by the tyrant, but remains among us to prove that
all nations are sisters ! Down with the English
monarchy ! Long live the British Eepublic I
Give le Socialists Democrats Ux ! "

Vive Ux ! " thundered the crowd.

** Dear me, this is dreadful ! " groaned
Mr. Littleton. " Cleverly, do please explain
to M. Grachard that he totally misrepresents
my views."

But the carriage moved on, and Mr. Little-point
was seen feebly resisting, while Grachard,
who had 2fot hold of his wrist, was making him

wave his hat to acknowledge the cheers for the
English Eepublic.

Quirolo now reappeared by Cleverly's side.
His face was blanched, and he muttered between
his teeth, " A pretty lot. I should have a fine
time of it if I fell into their hands."

Do you think they would really harm you ? "
asked Cleverly.

They are wolves, and I have been hound,"
replied Quirolo. " Open all the cages of a
menagerie, and see what becomes of keepers and
dogs. But come along ; we shall find a quiet
street soon."

The moment they got into a street where
they could walk at ease, Quirolo entered a cafe,
and called for some refreshments, with pen and
iuk. Then he drew out his pocket-book, and
filled up a piece of stamped paper with an order
for Miss Corrington's release. This done, he
handed the pen to Cleverly, saying, " Now
write something in my favour for Grachard."

Cleverly wrote on the back of one of his
own cards, " Dear Grachard, — the hearer of this
has been most useful to me. For my sake, overlook
anything he may have done you, and see
that he comes to no harms''

Will this do ? " he asked, passing the card.

Yes ; it is as good as a safe-conduct to me'
answered Quirolo, pocketing the card with an air
of D-reat relief. " Now let us be oS aorain. Our
next business must be to find a cab."

A cab was soon forthcoming, and Quirolo
gave the driver careful directions as to the
itinerary he was to follow. The man was told
to go westward, and not cross the Seine till he
came to the Pont de Jena opposite the Champs
de Mars. This made a very long drive of more
than an hour's duration. However, the prison
of St. Lazaree was at last reached, and the two
men alighted.

Quirolo was known to the door-keeper, and
was admitted at once with Cleverly into the
matron's austere parlour. Mother Ste. Agathe
came in, and she also recognized the detective,
but without remembering his name. The sight
of the order of release made her stare.

"It is curious," she exclaimed, *that you
should bring; such an order from the Minister of
Justice, for Mademoiselle Corrington was released
yesterday."

By whom ? " asked Cleverly, excitedly.

*' By a ministerial order, sir ; and I am told

it was owing to her Majesty the Empress's direct
interference. Mademoiselle Corrington has been
removed to the Convent of the Carmelitess of
Auray."

*' To a convent ? and why ? " said Cleverly,
amazed.

Why, there was a girl of the name of
Odette Kergarec here," answered the matron,
glancing inquisitively at him, '' and this girl was
to be sent to the convent. The Empress Regent,
hearing of Mademoiselle Corrinsfton's case, and
learning that she had been arrested by some
mistake, and that she was affianced to the Due
d'Alma, graciously decided that she should betaken
to the convent until her affairs could be
settled. I do not know what those affairs were,
but I know that the Empress was displeased at
mademoiselle Corrington's arrest ; so that young
lady and Odette Kergarec left for xVuray together
yesterday, in charge of one of our nuns."

And without gendarmes ? " inquired Quirolo.

I believe an officer of police went with
them, but in plain clothes," replied the matron.

Whew ! we are too late, then ! " muttered
the detective.

Cleverly bit his lips with vexation. " I

suppose I could catch a train for Brittany today
? " he said, looking at his watch.

Oh, there are plenty of trains," answered
Quirolo.

"Then I shall go. Will you come with
me ? "

"What to do?"

To assist me, if I want you."

Perhaps I shall be safer in your company
than alone in France at this moment," muttered
Quirolo, reflectively. But he thought of Odette,
and added, " We must talk the matter over, as
there are difficulties."

This conversation being held in an undertone,
the matron did not catch any of it ; but she now
interposed with the remark that she had another
English prisoner — a young woman, who had been
crying her eyes out since mademoiselle was gone.
She calls herself Madame Grachard, gentlemen,
though it seems she is not married."

Oh, she is safe enough ! Her husband will
be one of our rulers before night," ejaculated
Quirolo, with a short laugh. "Perhaps she will
be locking you up now, reverend mother."

Heaven have mercy upon us ! " said Mother
Ste. Loathe, signing; herself

Cleverly was too much preoccupied to deliver
any message for Polly from her husband. He
made haste to leave the prison, and a couple of
hours later he was on his way to Brittany.
Pierre Quiroule accompanied him.

CHAPTER XVI.

THE End OF A Day-dream.

Since the Marquise de Chateaufort's death the
castle had become the scene of animation and
disorder, such as were never witnessed there
during the old lady's lifetime.

The governance of the estate had fallen
entirely into the hands of Pauline Juva, who,
though she was not wanting in firmness, lacked
the experience and judgment necessary to maintain
her authority under the most exceptional
and tr\'ino' circumstances created for her.

In ordinary times she might have ruled very
well ; but then, in ordinary times she would have
had ample assistance. It was owing to the war
that she was left absolutely alone. M. Ragotin,
the notary, could not spare a day from his
business in Paris. The Comte de Beaujeu was

immersed in statecraft ; the Countess hated
Chateaufort, and could not have resigned herself
to living there for more than three days at a
time. Roland, the new master of Chateaufort,
was off with the army.

The engrossing affair of the miraculous spring
and the pilgrimages aggravated Pauline's position.
So long as the ]marquise lived, respect for her
kept all the inmates of the chateau and the
tenants on the estate pretty quiet, but once the
breath was out of her body all restraining influence
was gone. A rumour that the marquise
had died through being dipped at night in the
holy pool, far from discrediting that piece of
turbid water, only added to its sanctity. It
seemed as though its healing properties had been
triumphantly demonstrated by its having sent
the venerable lady to a better world.

This is what the priests said, and they now
fairly overran the estate — they and their droves of
pilgrims. The presence of so many strange people
ended by utterly demoralizing the Kergarecs.
These curious domestics began by entertaining
the visitors with wine, cider, and food out of the
castle provisions, and accepting gratuities for so
doing ; next, they took fees for showing pilgrims

the room in which the Marquise had died, and
the old haunted room upstairs, and several other
things, about which, with unblushing effrontery,
they told big artless fibs. Lastly, ignoble
wranojles commenced between them and the
villagers about the sale of holy water, medals,
and spurious relics.

Heads were cracked in these encounters. The
Younger Kero-arecs took bludgeons one niorht,
marched down to the village, overturned the
stalls of those who were trading on the miracle,
and smashed every bottle of water they could
discover. The gendarmes had to be summoned
from Auray to quell this riot, and several of the
Kergarecs, including Clovis, were arrested.
Luckily, Count Rene de Polhuan and Baron
Nestor de Penhoel interceded for the prisoners,
who were released with a caution ; but as the
two gentlemen made the most of their intercession
by calling several times on Pauline to
explain what they had done, and to receive her
thanks, that young lady was very much annoyed
at the incident, and vented her displeasure by
lecturing the servants.

She easily humbled Clovis, but some of the
older Kergarecs were inclined to be saucy. They

had a presentiment that their heyday was nearly
over, and were inclined to make what pay they
could before the sun had quite set. Old Jehan,
the father of Clovis and Odette, shrugged his
shoulders, and muttered that he had been on the
estate, man and boy, for seventy years — " Before
your father was born, mademoiselle ; and I know
how to behave myself. '^

What do you say ? " asked Pauline, who
had not caught his words.

'' Portion, you're not deaf," grumbled the old
man. " If I said that our good madame who's
gone would never have stood in the way of our
earning a bit of money, what then ? for it's
true. Your mouth is full ; let us eat our crusts
in peace."

There are people who'd grudge a bone after
they have taken the best cuts off the meat,"
growled a voice in a corner, that of old Bernard,
the coachman.

That's true, though," crooned several of the
women ; for it was in the kitchen that Pauline
was administering her lecture.

The innuendo was levelled at a legacy which
Pauline had inherited from the Marquise. All
the servants had been remembered in the

Marquise's will, but only for small sums ; while
Pauline's bequest amounted to a hundred and
fifty thousand francs — a fortune which made her
independent, and rendered her eligible as a pcvrti
even to such matrimonial purists as the Polhuans
and Penhoels. The Kergarecs did not in their
hearts feel that Pauline's legacy was undeserved,
nor were they sorry that she had got it, nor were
they hostile to her in any way. But as she
made free to try and stop their contentions and
perquisites, they made free to snarl at her, just
as spoilt dogs will do if disturbed at a meal.

She was more indignant than hurt at their
insolence, because she knew that the whole pack
would be brought to obedience by a smart whip-hand.
As it was, the younger Kergarecs, and
especially Clovis, were ashamed at the unmannerliness
of the older ones. Clovis upbraided his
father and mother, and there was a pretty scene
of anathemas all round when Pauline had left
the kitchen. As Frenchmen are not tolerant of
filial insubordination, the altercation ended by
old Jehan's flinging a wooden bowl at Clo vis's
head, and hitting two chattering dairymaid by
mistake. In the confusion created by the lamentations
of these damsels, Clovis escaped, and ran after

mademoiselle, whom she expected to find in tears.
But she was quite cool and proud, and sitting in
her deeply crape black dress at a writing table,
and casting up an account which showed what a
prodigious amount of victuals the Kergarecs and
their guests had been consuming of late.

Clovis, you will all be sorry for this," she
remarked, pointing with the feather of her
quill at the significant total of the addition sum.
This house is not mine, and when monsieur
comes he will turn you all out together. If your
father and mother will not listen to me, they
will have to obey him."

Portion, who doesn't obey you, mademoiselle
? Father's old and surly, but if there's one
of us young ones, boy or girl, who doesn't listen
to you, tell me who it is, and I'll "

Why, you are as bad as any," she said.
'' What made you go and fight in the village, and
get taken to prison ? "

You wouldn't have had us allow those
rascally pedlars from the town to go on selling
oiu^ water," he answered. " Not that it was our
water, either, that I'll swear ; for there was old
Moses, the clothesman of Auray, who had a stall,
and I'll be bound he didn't climb up the hill to

get good water every time he wanted to fill his
bottles."

'the water ought not to be sold at all,"
declared Pauline. *' It's an impious traffic. My
brother has told you so again and ao-ain."

Then Clovis swore that he would keep order
at the spring, and for two days he did so, acting
as an amateur beadle, and, by the help of a very
unecclesiastical-looking staff and much un-canonical
language, preventing his kinsfolk from
bartering the liquid which Pauline thought so
precious. But after this Pauline's position became
worse, because all the young men were summoned
to join a canis of Mobiles established three leagues
from Auray. x411 the young men who had not
been drafted into the regular army were enrolled
in the Mobiles, and Clovis among the number.

One morning all these young fellows, with
their white baggy clothes and long hair, mustered
in the court yard of the Castle to give mademoiselle
a cheer before setting out. They carried
sticks over their shoulders, and bundles on the
sticks. With them was a paid musician of the
neighbourhood — the one who always graced
rural weddings with his minstrelsy — who made
frightful noises on his hiniou, an instrument like

the Scotch bagpipes, but with more droning
sounds.

The news of French defeats at the frontier
had not yet come, so all the young men were
starting with light hearts — to a few weeks jolly
camp life, as they fancied. Pauline wished them
God speed," and watched them troop down the
hill, their bundles swinging behind them, and
that hireling piper in front making them keep
step with his wild war-notes. To the self-same
tunes the Chouans of Larochejacquelein aud
StofiBet had made luckless war upon Hoche's
soldier eighty years before, so there was no omen
of victory in them — though they stirred Pauline,
who knew them from childhood, and had heard
of all the fearful heroic exploits with which they
were associated.

Pauline brother was standing beside her as
the Mobiles marched off, but Jerome's face was
set in melancholy. Since Odette had made her
confession to him, this young priest had carried a
heavy load at his heart. For some days he had
hoped that Odette would keep her promise, and
cause her imposture to be made public by the
Countess de Beaujeu ; but now he knew that the
girl had duped him, and as it has already been
VOL. in. 57

said the daily deceptions to which he was an unwilling
accessory shocked his conscience as a priest,
not less than they outraged his honour as a man.

His faith had ever been simple and beautiful
pure as a first love. He could not lay to his
soul any flattering unction that anything which
degraded his religion in his own eyes could exalt
it in the respect of others ; and what troubled him
most was the feeling that many of the priests
around him — and possibly the Bishop — did not
believe in the miracle, but connived at a fraud
from polity, and imagined that he, too, was
actuated by base, worldly motives in taking holy
names in vain.

The fire burned within me," says the
Psalmist, "and then I spake." The fire burned
within Jerome, and he dared not speak.

Lord, make me to know mine end and the
number of my days," says David also ; and this
had been Jerome's prayer many and many a time
as he returned from the chapel, shuddering at the
profanations he had witnessed, and pursued by
the unhallowed sounds of the money which the
poor deluded pilgrims had been casting into the
treasury — not of God's temple, but of an idol.

He had crown weary of his life. Xo trial

which he had read of in the martyrology of
saints seemed to him comparable to that which
lie was enduring. When in his moments of
faithful ecstasy he had felt ambitious of the
martyr's crown, he had looked to the sweet
pleasure of suffering for a Church which he
adored — which was to him as mother and wife.
But to see that Church defiled, to see her made
the instrument of low trickery, and to be unable
to defend her — nay, to be thought by some a
mercenary accomplice in her shame — this was
a torture passing words. There was the blood of
knights in Jerome's veins, and the clear light of
God's own Truth in his eyes, so that he saw
things as they were, not taking one colour for
another, or things crooked for straight.

Pauline had sought in vain to o-et assistance
from her brother in the governance of the disorderly
household. She could not draw an idea
from him on the subject. He had grown quite
taciturn with her, and, as she could not guess his
secret, she attributed this to the pious awe which
she thought had fallen upon him, in consequence
of all that had lately happened at Chateaufort.

But she failed to enter into his mood, because
it differed so much from her own. In the facts

wherein lie seemed to find cause for solemn
meditation and trembling, she saw only occasions
for outspoken joy and hopefulness. The rescue
of Odette from a semi vagabond existence to a life
of saint ship (for she fancied that girl had been
admitted to a Paris convent), and the frustration
of Eoland's marriage with a heretic — were not
these cogent proofs enough of miraculous interposition
? And as to the war, Pauline deemed it
but a natural climax in the sequence of marvels
that Eoland should go forth and vanquish an
infidel nation. She was sure that he would come
back victorious. She had many a vision of him
returning to Chateaufort, bronzed with glory, to
pray beside his grandmother's grave in the village
cemetery ; and when she saw the visions, she
always shut her eyes, blushing as if the close of
them revealed to her something almost too good
to be true, and which would yet come true.

It thus came to pass that the events which
have been detailed in previous chapters were
totally unexpected by her, and arrived like shocks
of earthquake. One Sunday morning she had
been attending early mass in the chapel, and went
for a stroll towards the Plateau dairy in a mood
of peculiar serenity. She had been praying for

the soul of the Marquise, and was saying to herself
that it was something like a sin to mourn for
her benefactress, whose invalid days had only
l)een shortened that her eternally happy life
might begin. The weather was very lovely — the
air light, the sky pure ; and all this was conducive
to perfect peace of mind.

Pauline had some orders to give at the dairy.
On her return to the castle she perceived a young
soldier standing in the court-yard. He saluted
her respectfully ; she bowed, and was about to
pass on when she recognized Clovis. But she
had to look twice to assure herself that it was he.
His long hair had all been cropped off, and,
instead of the baggy clothes which used to give
bulk to his figure, he wore a neat blue tunic, which
made him quite slim. His uniform was very
dusty, however, and the deepest dejection was
stamped on his countenance.

Mademoiselle, I didn't wish you to hear this
bad news from any one who would not feel for
you," he said in a husky voice, as he handed hera
newspaper. *' You see, France has been betrayed,
and monsieur "

Mon Dieu ! what does this mean ? " exclaimed
Pauline ; for her brain reeled.

He died like a brave, mademoiselle. Bear
up," cried Clovis, supporting her. "By Este.
Anne of Auray, I can do no more than avenge
him, but I will do that ! "

*****

So he was dead ! There was the end of
Pauline's vision of victory ; and indeed, one shock
after another coming within the next few days
laid the entire fabric of her illusions in ruins.

France was beaten. Her armies were in rout ;
her statesmen and generals were HinHngr taunts
of imbecility and treason at one another. Roland
dead had not so much as atoned for his misplaced
affections before dying, but had actually bequeathed
the whole of his fortune to the heretic
English girl. The intelligence that Miss Warrington
was to be the new mistress of Chateaufort
reached Brittany from some mysterious source,
and produced even more dismay on the estate
than the tidings of the German invasion. To
Pauline it was like the downfall of all things
worth living for, and the pang of this fearful ruin
was made more sharp to the poor girl by the
craven conduct of some of the Kergarecs, who
began to talk of currying favour with their new
mistress so as not to be turned off the land where

they had fattened. After this came the news that
Odette Kergarec was not in a Paris convent, butin
prison ; and some strange rumours got about
concerning the girl's doing in Paris prior to her
imprisonment. These did not affect the popular
superstition as to the Chateaufort miracle, which
lead by this time spread like a fire past quenching,
but they completed Pauline's dismay, and led her
to guess what secret it was that had made all the
light fade from her brother's face.

CHAPTER XVII.

THE LITTLE HOUSEKEEPER OF CHATEAUFORT.

There is the love that grows like the violet or
wallflower in any soil, and stands against wind
or rain. It requires no tending ; neglect does
not lessen its perfume ; broken or blown down, it
clings to the soil and strikes new roots anywhere.
But there is the love which, like a rare exotic,
blooms only in artificial soil and in a special
atmosphere. This love will pine away if its air
is changed ; and should the wind lay it low, it
will take root no more.

The belief that Eoland was dead lasted at
Chateaufort only a few days; but when intelligence
arrived that he still lived, Pauline's love for him
was like the exotic — torn up and exposed to the
wintry blast. It would not revive.

The girl had suffered the deep mortification

in learning that Koland had never cared for her,
or thought of her. He had gone to the war
thinking only of Gertrude, and had left her his
Avhole fortune, never troubling himself as to what
might be felt at Chateauforfc about such an ungodly
bequest.

Then he was not victorious, but beaten, and
this counted for something in the estimate of a
girl who had been exulting in the idea of saintly
protection. The heretic hordes of Germany were
pouring into France through all the breaches in
the frontier. So of Pauline's day-dream nothing
remained. She was bewildered to sickness,
humbled, and ashamed.

This was seen by the way in which she
received the news of Roland's resurrection, the
bearer of this news being Count Eene de Polhuan.
He, too, had joined the Mobiles ; but he was an
officer, and wore a smart uniform, with a great
deal of silver lace on the cuffs and collar. Moreover,
he had martial boots, which ascended to his
knees, and a clanking sword, with a shiny new
scabbard, and he carried himself with that very
stiff*, erect bearing which is not seen in real
soldiers, but comes naturally to warriors who
have not been drilled further than the goose step.

However, Eene de Polhuan was quite in earnest
about his soldiering. He had disdained to serve
the usurper Bonaparte ; but now that his country
was in need of him, he was going to fight, and
was prepared for death. The battalion of Auray
Mobiles ^^^as to be sent to Paris, if it became
certain that the capital would be besieged.

Of course Pauline was startled by his tidings,
and for a moment she fell a prey to emotion.
She rose up reddening, pressed him for details,
and then melted into tears. But she soon died
her eyes, and struggled to be calm.

'* You love him well, mademoiselle," remarked
Eene, who had been watching her with a jealous
dejected air.

He is my cousin," she answered.

And something more. We know that the
Marquise wished you and him to be affianced."

No, no ; he is nothing to me, except as a
cousin," replied Pauline, vehemently.

"Ah, mademoiselle, how happy I should be
if I could believe that ! " he exclaimed, brighten -

mg.

He in his turn was moved. What was there
now to stand between this young lady and himself,
since she had a dower of a hundred and fifty

thousand francs? Count Rene de Polhuan was
not incapable of true love for a well-born maiden,
endowed with all the pecuniary advantages necessary
for a proper marriage contract. He had
discovered that his heart beat when he came near
the girl. Unfortunately, he had come near her
twenty or thirty times, and had never detected
any pulsations in her corresponding to his.

I wish you would come and stay at Polhuan
with my mother, mademoiselle," he continued,
fumbling at the hilt of his sword, which he had
not learned to sling properly on his belt-hook, so
that it kept knocking against his elbow. " This
chateau is no place for a young lady of your age
to govern alone. You must be very lonely here,
and you need not be afraid to come to our house
because of me ; I shall soon be gone, and perhaps
I shall never come back."

I hope you will come back, cousin."

Do you hope it ? And why do you call me
cousin ? "

Are we not all cousins here after the Brittany
fashion ? "

Yes, no doubt ; but cousin is a very cold
title. You just said, talking of Eoland dalmatia
he was nothing to you except a cousin.

I should like to be something more — your
husband."

He flattered himself that he had made his
proposal very neatly, but coloured up to the
roots of his hair as soon as the words were out of
his mouth. He had undertaken a responsibility
which, according to strict etiquette, should have
been left to his mamma, and if now Pauline
refused him, he should never be able to speak to
her again. He was so unnerved by this thought
that he deemed it prudent to dilute his osier into
a generalization. " I am sure everybody would
like to be your husband, mademoiselle," he added,
with a jabbering smile.

The osier in this shape did not call for any
direct response, and Pauline made none. She
was calmly wondering what she should do now
that circumstances rendered it impossible that
she should continue her present life. As Poland
was alive, he might be returning to Chateaubriand
Pauline's whole soul revolted at the idea
that he should find her keeping his house.

I must find out what my brother means todo,"
she said, following her own train of thought,
instead of paying attention to what Pen said.
"Wherever he goes, I shall accompany him."

*' But where can lie go, mademoiselle ? "

I should like him to leave this, and take
some quiet country benefice ; then I should go
and live with him in his presbytery."

That would be as bad as entering a convent,"
said Eene.

I should not consider it a hard fate to enter
a convent," replied Pauline. " If my brother and
I were compelled to separate, I should take the
veil among the Carmelitess of Auray."

You are cruel ! " exclaimed the young man,
and this time in a tone so sincere that Pauline
looked up at him with more intentness than he
was aware of They were alone together in the
drawing-room of the chateau ; but Eene had to
speak low, for fear of being overheard by one of
those numerous priests and tourists who were
constantly prowling about the passages. As men
who live much in the open air are accustomed to
speak loud, Eene's unwonted accents lent persuasiveness
to what he said ; while his uniform
clothed him with a dignity he had never worn in
his shabby shooting coats that smelt of the stable.

I am not a Parisian gallant, like our cousin
Poland," he said ; " but I am a Breton, who have
lived on my native soil, keeping faithful to the

religion and ways of my father ; and I believe
you are a loyal Breton girl. Why, then, do you
spurn me ? Ask the people round our place if
VTQ Polhuans do not make good husbands. My
father and mother have gone along hand in hand
in quiet happiness since their wedding day. My
sisters all say that I am good to them, and my
Aunt Martha, with my grand mamma on mamma's
side, will both tell you that it isn't in the nature
of us Polhuans to be rough or tiresome with our
women. The cupboards in our house are full of
linen ; the cellar has some wines laid down thirty
years ago ; and my mother's jewel case has a
trinket to show for every year since my father
gave her the engagement ring, which I shall put
on your finger — yes, on yours, mademoiselle, if
you will let me. Ah, you ought to know me by
this time. Who has ever told you that I was a
spendthrift, or a profligate, or an undutiful son ?
If you sj^urn me, I shall think that it is of not
much use for us Bretons to remain as we are.
AVe had better buy eye-glasses and tight boots,
fling our money about, sneer at our Church, and
joke at our escutcheons, since that is the only
way to resemble the Parisians, and win the love
of the best and fairest of our girls — of those like
you, I mean."

"Really, cousin, you misjudge me," faltered
Pauline, somewhat carried away by the Count's
rude eloquence. " I am sure I have never spurned

you."

You know that mamma has tried to brinor
about a marriage between us," complained Eene,
his voice breaking a little ; " but it has been of
no use. She has given you hints, and I have
spoken plainly to your brother ; but you have
been more civil to that ridiculous old Baron de
Penhoel than to me."

To Baron de Penhoel ? What an idea ! "

"He writes verses, and I don't," said Eene,
with a savage pout.

You have other accomplishments, no doubt,"
replied Pauline, willing to soothe the young man.

You own that ? " responded the Count, artlessly.
"Well, then, if you're a good girl, will
you give me some hope ? "

Hope of what, Monsieur de Polhuan ? " asked
Pauline, fastening her clear blue eyes on him
with an expression which did not succeed in conveying
that she was ignorant of his meanings
see I am in deep mourning. I have had
bitter sorrow lately. Let us talk of other things."

But you won't always be in mourning; and

as for going into a convent, you should hear what
my old Aunt Ermyntrude, Sister Ste. Radagonde
by her religious name, says on that subject. She
was a pretty girl once, but, after ten years in a
convent, turned yellow as a quince, and fell in
love with the glazier, who used to come and put
in the new panes. It was a pretty business, for
the pair were nearly eloping. And now my
Aunt Ermyntrude mourns every day of her life
that she did not marry young when she had the
chance."

"It is certainly a pity that she did not,"
replied Pauline, drily.

Yell, then, don't be so foolish as she was,"
was the blunt rejoinder. " Promise me that, if I
am alive when the war is over, you will become
my wife."

No ; it is impossible."

Well, then, try to think well of me when I
am gone."

I shall certainly think well of you."

No, that's not what I mean. Don't give mean
answer now. Let me go away hoping. If
I'm to be killed, what can it matter to you that
I should die with the thought that you might
have made a happy man of me ; but if I am to

return, why, then, perhaps in a few months your
mood will have changed. Girls and grey skies
do change, you know."

Perhaps ; but "

That's enough. You have said ' perhaps ; '
don't spoil that word with another. Good-bye
now. Mind, I have never said all this to any
other girl but you. If you were an ordinary girl,
I should give you a kiss, and ask you for a glove
or something ; but I aren't. I think you can
judge by the look of me at this moment that, if
you were my wife, you wouldn't find me very
hard to manage. Good-bye again."

Kene marched out with much clattering: of
his sword ; and when he was gone, Pauline asked
herself why she had said " perhaps " to him. She
had not the remotest intention of marrying the
young squire. However, it is to be noticed that
when Baron Nestor de Penhoel next called upon
her, she did not say " perhaps '^ to this more
elderly beau.

The Baron had been reckoning that he should
have things all his own way while his younger
rival was on the march. But Pauline was very
sharp with him. She remarked that a man was
never too old to go and fight for his country,
VOL. m. 58

which was a most untoothsome utterance, as the
little Baron wished to be thought neither aged
nor valorous. He made the mistake of cutting
a joke at the expense of Bene in his uniform,
upon which Pauline retorted —

You are a good jester, Baron. I believe
jesters used to have a uniform too ; but I don't
know how it would look on a battlefield."

'^ Charming, upon my word ! " said the little
Baron, with a sour grin. " I must be on my
guard to-day."

No ; it was you who began the attack."

*' On you, mademoiselle ? "

On a friend, which is the same thing ; " and
from this moment Pauline laid herself out to
show the Baron that if he were willing to play
the part of elderly adviser to her in her present
perplexities, she was ready to accept his friendship
in that capacity, but in no other. The Baron, to
use his own words, felt that he had no talent for
the role of amateur uncle ; but he did tell Pauline
that she ought not to remain longer at Chateau -
fort, and on the strength of this honest counsel
the two parted as friends.

But where was Pauline to go ? There is
always time to jump into a river or to take

eternal vows, and the prospect of becoming a nun
was one to which Pauline only looked as an
alternative that might be forced upon her by her
desolate position.

In former times, when she was a dependent
on the Marquise, she had contemplated taking
the veil as a necessity that would have to be
faced some day when her benefactress died, and
she herself had been left penniless. But now she
was not penniless. She had enough for comfortable
subsistence in the country, and had she been
ten years older, it would no longer have entered
her head that she was bound to become a nun.

The difficulty of her position was that, being
so young, she would be teased wherever she went
by matchmakers. If she followed her brother to
a presbytery, the rumour of her having a dower
would quickly spread, and she would have no
peace. If she went to live with some friend in a
country chateau, there, again, mothers and aunts
would be circumventing her in the interests of
sons and nephews.

On the other hand, if she went into a convent
simply as a guest — a proceeding not unusual with
single ladies in France — pressure would certainly
be brought to bear upon her to take vows, and

give her fortune to the nunnery. She would be
told that, having resolved to take refuge in a
convent when she had no fortune, it would be
impious of her to deny help to the Church now
that she had something to give ; and she knew
her own character well enough to be aware that
arguments of this kind, persistently used by
righteous women, would end by wearing away all
her powers of resistance.

Ao'ain Pauline sought guidance from her
brother in her dilemma ; but Jerome had fallen
into a provoking little habit of staring vacantly
before him, and cracking his finger-joints when
Pauline spoke to him. He would say, '' We
shall see," " Heaven alone can help us," and other
such things ; and he sometimes complained that
his head swam, and that he could not think.

"When Pauline told him that she wanted to
leave Chateaufort, he answered — ■

"Oh yes, of course you must go. But we
will talk about it another time. I mean to go
too.

Where do you think of going, Jerome ? "
she said.

We shall see. Heaven will help us," he
replied, with his favourite phrase, and making a

noise as of nut-crackers with his finger-joints.
'' I cannot stay here. I should like to go away
to China as a missionary."

Why to China ? "

"Any other place would do as well," he
answered, dreamily. " I read in the life of Saint
Methodius that he went among the Slavs with a
great basket on his back full of stones, and every
time he converted a soul he threw away a stone,
saying, ' One of my sins be forgiven me.' But
when he had thrown away all the little stones, he
found a big one at the bottom of the basket,
which he had not placed there himself, and which
he could not lift. Not even by winning ten
thousand souls could he lift it, and the basket
was heavier on his back from that one stone than
it had been with all the others. He knew by
that that there was one unredeemable sin for
which he could not atone by works, and for
which he could only expect the pardon of free
grace. To the hour of his death the stone
remained in his basket ; but as he lay on his
death-bed, a little child whom he had baptized
came in to see him, and lifted the basket to play
with. Then he knew that the stone had gone,
and died in peace."

*' Jerome, Jerome, don't say such things,"
besought Pauline, alarmed by the agony on her
brother's face ; and, raising herself on tiptoe, she
placed one of her cool hands on his forehead.
Your head must be aching, dear ; it's so hot."

Don't pity or fondle me," he said, drawing
back after he had yielded for a moment to the
refreshing sensation by closing his eyes ; and
nothing more was said between them just then.

Instinctively Pauline had ceased to make any
allusion to the apparition and the holy spring
when talking to her brother, and whenever she
was drawn near to these burning topics the conversation
always had an abrupt ending.

Pauline's own affairs, however, were brought
to a sudden crisis by a disgraceful riot which took
place at Chateaufort, in consequence of a visit
which some Mobiles paid to the spring. Clovis
and some other young Kergarecs, wishing to get
their scapularies blessed before they marched for
Paris, came over from the camp one afternoon,
and brought with them a number of other Mobiles,
who were natives of Nantes and Brest. The
elder Kergarecs spread tables for this company,
but the meal, which began quietly enough with
bread, cheese, and cider, degenerated into a

carousal, wherein young and old almost all got
drunk.

Then the town-bred Mobiles, beginning to
wag their tongues jocosely about the miracle,
roused the blood of the Kergarecs. Odette's
name was lightly bandied, and this made the
matter worse. A tipsy young fellow, not knowing
that he was speaking in presence of Odette's
father, brother, uncles, and cousin, said he had
heard queer stories about a cow-girl and a bagman,
who had eloped to Paris together, after being
well paid by the Marquise's chaplain to get up
an apparition which had brought grist to that
chaplain's mill.

This knave's nose was flattened out for him
by a redoubtable blow from Clovis's fist, and a
scrimmage ensued. The citizen Mobiles, thrashed
by superior numbers, were driven out of the
chateau, and decamped, staggering and stumbling,
to the village ; and they swore, with drunken
hic coughs as they went, that they would bring
back reinforcements and set the place on fire.
While they were gone, the Kergarecs quarrelled
among themselves. Old Jehan, who could
scarcely stand, screamed maledictions against his
daughter's traducers. The women came from the

kitchen to join in the scene, and by-and-by a
troop of both sexes forced their way into Pauline's
presence, and demanded loudly to know what
had become of Odette.

You said she was in a Paris convent,
mademoiselle," whimpered old Dorothea, Odette's
mother.

If I could catch them both — her and the
man who took her away — I'd break their heads ! "
exclaimed Clovis, who had come with the noisy
party, but rather to keep the peace than to assert
himself.

The untoward circumstance of his having a
black eye and a swollen nose prevented Pauline
from recognizing him as a pacificator, so she
turned upon him with severe upbraiding.

'' You foolish boy, you have been drinking
again."

No, I've not. Look at my hand. Does it
tremble ? " he asked, stretching out his palm.
But I'll tell you what, mademoiselle. You
ought to know w-hat some of those scoundrels
whom we have turned out have been saying
about you. They pretended that the miracle was
nothing but a trick got up by Monsieur Jerome
and you and Odette ; and that you paid Odette

to go away ; and that now you and your brother
divide between you all the • money which the
pilgrims bring."

They said that of me and my brother ! ''
ejaculated Pauline, horrified.

"They did, and they paid dearly for it,"
grumbled Clovis.

'' And were there none except you to defend
us ? " asked Pauline, looking round at the circle
of servants.

Eh, but they were only silly words," said
old Dorothea ; " and besides, what do we know
of all that went on between you and Odette ? "

'' Then it is indeed time for me to leave this
place," murmured Pauline, with a cruel pang at
the heart.

The old servants never imagined that she
spoke in earnest about departing ; but that same
evening she wrote to M. Ragotin, requesting that
he would appoint somebody to take charge of the
estate, and next day she began to pack up her
things. For the last time she went the rounds of
the castle where she had spent so many happy
days, which seemed now so few, and a few unhappy
ones, which seemed now so many.

She gave no more orders, but when she had

collected her own belongings, she locked up
cupboards and rooms. The lazy housemaids,
wandering about amazed, found only closed doors.
At length Pauline took her bio-o^est bunch of
rusty keys, went down to the cellar, and locked
that.

Then the Kargarecs understood, and were
thrown into consternation. The new keeper of
the castle, whoever he might be, would put an
end to their life of ease. Some of them would
be turned straight off with a month's wages ; and
those who remained behind would have to work
for every crust they ate. So degrading a necessity
made them penitent, and they sent a deputation
to Pauline, praying her " not to desert them."

But the lawyer's answer had already arrived
by telegram. Pauline was to resign her stewardship
to " Monsieur Barney," the Duke's valet,
who was going down to Chateaufort as caretaker,
and the accounts were to be settled by a solicitor
in Auray.

Jerome thereupon resolved that he would
depart also. He and Pauline discussed the matter
together, and he said, " Til go with you to Auray,
and resign my chaplaincy into the Bishop's hands.
Perhaps he will allow me to go to Paris as

chaplain of one of the Mobile battalions. I will
ask for that favour first."

Brother and sister left the chateau without any
fuss one fine autumnal afternoon. It saddened
them both to part with the Kergarecs, to whose
ways they were accustomed, and whose idlest
faults they secretly condoned. So they had no
leave-taking. It would almost have broken old
Bernard the coachman's heart if he had been
ordered to prepare the landau and take mademoiselle
with her luggage down to Auray, knowing:
that she was never to return.

Jerome and Pauline left the chateau as if
they where going for an afternoon walk, and set
out on foot for Auray, both silent, and she crying
quietly all the way. Having reached the town,
they parted on the market-place with few words.
To passers-by they looked like a couple who are
saying '' good-bye," intending to meet again in a
few hours. But Jerome went to the Bishop to
volunteer for " any service of danger," and
Pauline turned her steps towards the Carmelite
convent.

CHAPTER XVIII.

THE CARMELITE CONVENT.

The Carmelite Convent, seen from the outside,
showed nothing but a lodge and a high garden
wall, bounding one whole side of a blind alley.
Not a single window faced to the street, and
people who came to the lodge on business were
chilled by the cold aspect of a whitewashed room,
without any ornament except a crucifix.

Even strangers who obtained the much-valued
permission of attending an occasional service in
the convent-chapel saw nothing of the nunnery,
except a bare court-yard, whence they were
conducted up a mean wooden staircase into a
small gallery. Any curiosity they might feel to
see the Carmelite sisters was invariably disappointed,
for the nuns sat behind a grating
under the gallery. From this eminence, however,

the visitor, having eyes keen enough to peer
into the obscurity of the small southern aisle,
could perceive in front of the altar of the Lacly-
chapel a white figure, prostrate and motionless.
This would be a nun performing the adoration,
a function Aldrich consisted in kneeling for two
hours with lips touching the cold flags, and arms
stretched out to their full extent.

The confessor of the nunnery and the Bishop
of the diocese were the only two men who were
permitted to penetrate further than the first
court-yard, and this rule had never been infringed,
save in revolutionary times, when the populace,
of course, took liberties which kings and emperors
had never dared.

But Eoman Catholic ladies could, with the
Mother Superior's leave, have access to any part
of the convent, and those who passed, as Pauline
at once did, beyond the first yard, found themselves
in an enchanting garden, or rather a
small park, beautifully kept, although the only
gardeners were women. There was a pretty
white house with green shutters standing in these
grounds, and several smaller residential pavilions
were set here and there amid bowers of chestnut
trees, laburnum, and lilac.

All this part of the convent was allotted to
ladies who came to live in retreat, and such
ladies were high-born or very rich — generally
both. Some came for a brief season to seek
convalescence after illness or great sorrows ; some
were permanent residents, and among these a few
ladies of weak intellect, whose friends preferred
to place them in a convent rather than in
asylums. The residents who were sane furnished
their rooms as they pleased, lived according to
their tastes, and were free to come and go,
provided they kept convent hours. The only
difference between their lives and those of people
in a comfortable hotel was that they paid very
heavily for their residential privilege, and had to
be waited upon by sisters. No lay-servants were
admitted. But the sisters who did menial work
were not the Carmelite nuns.

These, about forty in number, lived in a
separate part of the convent ; they had white
habits with scarlet crosses, and were discarded —
that is, went barefoot. Though they were all
ladies who had been gently nurtured, their rule
was one of frightful austerity, and it was made
so much more grievous by the penances which
the nuns inflicted on themselves, that very few

of them lived more than ten years after taking
the veil. Those who held out longer had touo-h
constitutions.

The serving sisters were all poor women, who
wore a black habit with white cuffs, and were
bound by vows, but never got beyond the degree
of postulates. Sometimes, as a reward for very
long and faithful service, a serving sister was
clothed on her death-bed with the white and
scarlet robes, that she might have the honour of
beinoj enrolled amono- the Carmelitess, and laid to
rest in their burial-ground. But this was considered
a very great honour.

Pauline was known to the Mother-Superior
of the convent, and, being the daughter of one of
the most illustrious Breton houses, she might
always have claimed the hospitality of the
convent, or have been admitted to the novitiate
as a Carmelite, even if she had not been rich
enough herself to pay the dower required by
custom.* She walked straight into the visitors'
garden, conducted by a serving sister, and sat

Not less than £4000. When a novice cannot pay
this sum, the dower is made up by donations from persons
who may be induced to take an interest in her. A
plenary indulgence can be bought by contributing to a
nun's dower.

down on a bench under the trees to wait till the
Mother Superior could see her.

The Mother Superior soon came hobbling over
the gravel paths. She was a queer, good-natured
little woman of sixty, who wore spectacles and
walked with a stick. Of ducal family, she had
taken the veil when very young, but had never
been austere in her observances, and was a little
bit of a free-thinker by comparison with some of
the women under her sway. She thought one
could be religious and jolly at the same time,
which was a doctrine sternly reprobated by the
fanaticism of the younger nuns. Perhaps, indeed,
it was because her rule was so indulgent that
these nuns devised harder rules for themselves.

Pauline made a deep curtsey, and kissed the
mother's hand. Then the good lady began to
talk with animated gesticulations, flourishing her
stick or thumping holes in the gravel with it.
She was one of those women who have always a
quantity of little troubles to relate, and ease their
minds so considerably thereby, that every trouble
seems to be vapoured off and is forgotten.

"Ah, my dear Pauline!" she began, "just
fancy what a quandary we re all in here ; we've
got a Protestant in the house ! "

Mon Dieu ! " exclaimed Pauline, clasping
her hands.

Yes, child, it's shocking ; but don't make it
worse by looking like that. It seems that no
Protestant has ever entered these walls before —
we've only had atheists — and the nuns have all
been cackling about it like frightened pullets ina
poultry-yard. But, my dear, it wasn't I who
made the girl a Protestant, and I couldn't help
taking her into the convent, since the Empress
sent her "

The Empress ? "

'^ The Empress and a policeman — at least, it
was the policeman who brought her to the door ; "
and the mother plumped down on to a seat.
It's quite a story, dear child. The young lady
had been put into prison. Now you will want
to know who she is. There she is yonder, under
the trees."

That young lady in the blue serge dress ? "

The same ; an English girl, and so beautiful
that I couldn't help kissing her at first sight.
It's Mademoiselle Corrington, the young person
whom your cousin the Due d'Alma wanted to
marry."

'* Mother!" interrupted Pauline, starting up,
VOL. ni, 59

and a momentary horror kept her spellbound.
She became pale as snow, and her hands trembled.

'moil Dieu It appears I have said too
much," cried the Mother Superior, with a shrug.
'' To be sure, I had forgotten that you and this
Miss Corrington could not be good friends. We
hear every kind of gossip in this convent, you
know. But, my dear, sit down now, and don't
be hurt if I tell you that you could have no
chance against this beauty, if the Duke saw her
before there was any question of a marriage with
you. Those men are all alike, and a face like
lies would turn a whole troop of dragoons, let
alone a single officer. But, my dear, let me
know the truth. Are you in love with the
Duke ? "

No, mother, I assure you "

But you have been ? ''

It's all over now ; but — but — I can't stay
here."

Why not, if you thought of staying ? But
what made you wish to stay ? "

Pauline had to explain. The mother listened
attentively to all that concerned the miracle of
Chateaufort, but wagged her head whenever
Odette's name was mentioned.

We've got the girl iu this house," she said
at length, "and I have my doubts about her."

Do you mean that Odette is in the
convent ? " exclaimed Pauline, astonished. " Oh,
mother, let me speak with her ! "

*' You shall speak with her to your heart's
content, child ; but I am afraid she is going to
be a great trouble to us. She says the apparition
was all a practical joke."

She has told you that ? "

'' Yes ; and, what is worse, she has told Miss
Corrington. If she had only made her avowals
to us, we could have kept the scandal secret, and
have concluded that the girl was not in her right
mind ; but to go and tell this young English
lady, who will spread the matter "

"Nobody will believe a Protestant," said
Pauline, with a sudden religious animosity
against her rival.

No ; and I won t believe Odette herself,
unless Rome orders it," replied the mother, with
decision. " You see, a girl may mean to joke
with holy things and yet bring a miracle about
in her own despite. Joseph of Syracuse, who
began life as a sad dog, it seems, declared once
that an archangel had appeared to him, and

traced a cross on his forehead. He had marked
that cross himself with red paint ; but when afterwards
he tried to wash it off, he could not, and
he bore it all his life. That is what our confessor
recalled to me this morning, and he is a worthy
man, most expert in solving doubts of conscience."

'• I wish my poor brother Jerome could hear
him," answered Pauline, naively.

The mother silently punched holes in the
ground for a moment, being lost in meditation.
Then she broke out afresh about her own troubles.

The Empress has sent me Miss Corrington
and Odette to keep till further orders. I wish
she had favoured me with some other present.
There would be no hope of converting Miss
C-orrington unless she remained two or three
years with us, and that is out of the question.
As for Odette, we might work upon her to
become a Carmelite, for she is all vanity ; but the
girl wouldn't change her character in donning
< sur habit. She is one of those who would sing
out of tune in a choir sooner than not call attention
to herself in some way ; and, my dear,
speaking for myself as a woman, I would rather
that she went to the devil "

Oh, mother I "

*•' I mean, child, that the devil is generally
the best corrector of characters like hers," continued
the mother, unabashed. "If she Jeanie
poor, sick, and sorry, after • finding all the apples
of her vanity turn to ashes in her mouth, then
she might come back to us chastened ; and
meanwhile we should all have been praying thjit
the work of her purification might be hastened.
It would be easier for me to keep a hundred
vigils for her on my knees than to pass a
hundred minutes with her at a stretch, without
lying out at her and laying this stick of mine
across her shoulders ! "

'' She is the most perplexing girl I ever met"'
assented Pauline ; *' but I believe her heart is
good."

I dare say each of the seven devils who
Avere cast out of Mary Magdalene had his good
joints'' answered the mother. " But now, you
come and see the girl. We have had to put her
into one of the pavilions where we tend the
patients who are not quite right in their heads ;
her conduct is so strange, and she says such
outrageous things."

Pauline showed some hesitation to move,
because she shrank from meeting Miss Corrinirton

face tofnee. She had been watching Gertrude at
a distance, and remembering all that she had
suffered on this stranger's account. With a
heightened colour and quickening breath she
made a step backwards, when the mother, noticing
her confusion, took her by the arm.

Curiosity, however, overcame Pauline's
scruples ; and, as she advanced, the purely
feminine sentiment possessed her of desiring to
find some blemish in her rival. She surveyed
Gertrude as only women can examine women. If
she had discovered that Miss Corrington was
awkward in her gait, or had irregular teeth, or
dressed ridiculously, she would have been in part
avenged. But the result of her scrutiny was disappointing.
Gertrude was walking quietly under
the trees with an air of being quite at home.
Her dress fitted her well : she wore a becomiuor
hat, and her pretty eyes lit up with a pleasant
look of recognition as the mother drew near her.

What a beautiful afternoon, my dear child,"
said the mother to her, kindly.

'' Yes ; and T am enjoying this garden so
much, mother," answered Gertrude.

'•' She speaks French ?" whispered Pauline, as
the two left Gertrude behind.

Oh yes ; and she is most agreeable company
very well bred, speaks prettily, and does such
lovely things with her needle. She brought an
unfinished piece of crewel work with her — a bunch
of violets — a mere trifle, but exquisite work."

Doesn't she complain of having been brought
here ? " asked Pauline, speaking rather at random,
for she was still panting with the emotion of the
brief meeting.

'^ Oh no ; she is rather glad. She knows that
she cannot be here long. There seems to be no
fear in her. Odette, on the contrary, struggled
and screamed as soon as she got into the house.
She had travelled quietly enough, but some
demon set her playing pranks the moment she
entered the convent."

Miss Corrington was in prison. She must
have done something for that," proceeded Pauline,
in a harder voice.

Politics, I think, my dear. Some relation
of hers got mixed up in a conspiracy."

What business had she to conspire ? "

Ah ! I have done nothing else since the
Bourbons lost their throne," answered the mother,
coolly. " I am sure I should have been sent to
prison long ago if Organisms, Republicans, or

Bonapartists had known how I plotted for Henri
V. ; and I trust my plotting days are not over."

Pauline had to hold her tongue, but did not
love Gertrude any the better on that account.
They had now reached a green door, which was
the entrance to a small garden within the park.
The garden was walled in, and enclosed a pavilion
with three rooms — that is, a sitting-room, bedchamber,
and servant's room.

The mother unlocked the door, taking care to
relock it behind her. Odette was not in the
garden, but her visitors found her in the sitting-room,
attitudinizing before the glass over the
mantelpiece. She had climbed on to a chair that
she niio-ht see herself at full length in a blue nun's
robe, which she had borrowed from a serving
sister. Found her head was coiled a towel, With
Vv'hich she had been endeavouring to extemporize
a nun's coif.

Seeing the reflection of Pauline's face in the
glass, Odette jumped oft' the chair and ran into
a corner. But the next moment she faced about
and laughed. Pauline was evidently the last
person she had expected to see ; yet she brazened
things out with a teasing impudence.

Mademoiselle, I am not going back to

Chateaufort : so it's no use asking: me. And I
won't stay here either."

Nobody will compel you, Odette," said
Pauline, mildly. "But what do you want todo
? "

Go back to Paris. Why couldn't people
let me alone ? "

'' But how can you live in Paris, my poor
child ? " asked the Carmelite mother. '' You
have no trade for earning your bread."

'* Everybody can live in Paris," protested
Odette. '' I'd turn vivandiere, and march at the
head of a regiment against the Prussians."

Do you hear her ? " whispered the mother,
nudffinor Pauline. " The nun who brought her
here said that some have been thinking this
odd girl might turn out to be a new Joan of
Arc."

Pauline was not prepared for this ; but the
smile which came to her lips passed away as she
glanced at Odette, and thought there might be
unlimited hidden possibilities either for good or
evil in this puzzling creature.

Tell me truly, Odette," she said ; " tell me
about that apparition. You said to our revere ad
mother that it was a trick."

I didn't."

My good girl, you told me that, and you
repeated it to Mademoiselle Corrington."

You must both of you have been dreaming,"
responded Odette, who by this time had taken off
her coif, and was now divesting herself of her
nun's robe, regardless of present company.
Mother, I don't care for this dress. I've
had a vision that I'm to wear a uniform, and that
the Prussian general will be killed by my hands.
You had better send me back to Paris ; but for
to-day I want to walk about in the park outside
this garden, and I want greengraore tart for
dinner."

She had green gage tart yesterday," muttered
the mother. '*If we could only keep her good
With tarts."

Odette was quite shrewd enough to see that
the reverend mother was a weak vessel, who
could be moved with a finger ; but her assurance
vanished aU at once when Pauline made her next
remark. " Your brother Clovis and my brother
are, I believe, both going to Paris with a battalion
of Mobiles. If you insist on becoming a
vivandiere, Odette, I dare say you could march
with them."

Clovis a soldier ! " echoed Odette ; and in
the same breath she added, " I won't go to Paris
with Clovis and Monsieur Jerome ; I'd rather stay
where I am."

Shall I send your mother to see you ? "
asked Pauline.

No ; I've changed my mind. Perhaps I
shall become a nun. I don't want to see anybody
; and you had better not tell the people at
Chateaufort that I am here, for I won't speak to
one of them."

Pauline said that she was not going back to
C'hateaufort that evening, and by this Odette was
a little appeased. But no more conversation
could be coaxed out of her, and she did not even
press her demand to be allowed to walk in the
]park. As was usual with her when she wished to
be left alone, she sat down, turning her back to
lier visitors, and hummed to herself one of those
melodies with which she had been accustomed to
regale her cows.

The mother drew Pauline away ; and now
came the question as to what Pauline should do
with herself To remain in the convent and be
exposed to the chance of meeting Gertrude at all
hours was repugnant to her ; but, on the other

Land, her only practical alternative was to accept
the invitation of going to stay at the Chateau de
Polhuan. When she came to think of it, Pauline
could remember no other person except the Marquise
de Polhuan who would be ready to receive
her as a guest for an indefinite period. Yet to
go and stay at Polhuan would be tantamount to
accepting the offer of Count Eene's hand.

So Pauline decided to stay. The Mother-superior,
without questioning her about her
interior intention, promised to send to Chateaufort
for her luggage, and placed two pretty rooms at
her disposal. They were in the principal house
of the park, which was inhabited by several
ladies.

"They are the only rooms vacant," said the
mother, as a serving sister opened the shutters,
and let in a flood of the warm evenings light.
Mademoiselle Corrino^ton is stavino- in the
pavilion opposite ; but that need not trouble you,
for you are not going to quarrel, I hope."

No, mother ; but I am not bound to speak
to her, am I ? " asked Pauline, anxiously.

Well, my dear, there can be no forcing ; but
remember that those who come here ought to
leave all uncharitable sentiments outside."

It shall be as you please, then, mother' said
Pauline, submissively ; for the Carmelite Superior
had spoken with a grave tone of authority ; and
in token of obedience, Pauline lifted the hem of
the mother's veil and kissed it.

You are a good girl," remarked the old lady,
kindly patting Pauline's head. " Let me manage
for you. I will act for the best."

Only those ladies who were ao;ed or infirm
were served in their own rooms. The others
breakfasted and dined at a table dote. Pauline
had not been long alone in her room before the
bell rang for dinner, and through her open
window she presently saw Gertrude walking
towards the refectory. For as long as possible
she delayed following, but at last went down
herself with a beating heart.

Meanwhile, Gertrude, who had been introduced
by the mother to her neighbours at table,
had learned from these ladies that mademoiselle
Juva de Penmarck had come for a retraite to the
convent ; so, when Pauline entered, Gertrude
knew that this was the girl who, according to
Odette's account, had thought to marry Poland.

The situation was embarrassing, and Gertrude
coloured. She bent her head like the others

when Pauline, who had come in last, made a bow
addressed to all the company, and took her seat
at the lower end of the table ; but she could not
help noticing that in Pauline's manner there was
evident consciousness of her, Gertrude's, presence,
and something like resentment at it.

Gertrude, as the conqueror in the strife of
which Poland was the prize, could afford to look
more kindly at Pauline than Pauline did at her.
But she did not look very kindly. She would
have been better pleased if Pauline had been less
pretty, and if the ladies round her had whispered
less about the great antiquity of the house of
Penmarck and about Pauline's own goodness.
However, the dinner ended without incident ;
and as soon as Pauline had said her grace, she
hastened away.

But she was soon summoned to see the Mother-superior,
and remained closeted with her for half
an hour, during which the reverend lady said to
her many gentle and true things about humility.
Thus it came to pass that, a little later, while
Gertrude was seated alone in her room, enjoying
the repose of evening, with the soft twilight of
a lavender sky studded with diamonds, there
was a knock at her door. Then the door

opened, and a timid figure crossed the threshold,
saying —

'mademoiselle, will you allow me to kiss
you ? I am almost your cousin. I am Pauline."

CHAPTER XIX.

POLHUAN TO THE RESCUE.

There could be nothing like a friendship between
Pauline and Gertrude, but they felt a great
pleasure in having kissed and shaken hands when
once the thing was done. They made no attempt
to become friends, but only sought to be very
friendly, which is quite different. Their conversation
rolled on topics which interested neither of
them ; for the subjects nearest to their hearts
each avoided. Eoland's name was mentioned
but cursorily.

They kissed again at parting ; and their eyes
meeting for an instant, they said much to each
other in that glance, and felt esteem one for the
other ever afterwards. Their characters would
gladly have mated had it been possible.

'' I wish she had been Eoland's sister,"

thought Gertrude, when Pauline had retired.
Pauline conceived no kindred wish, for to her
less tolerant mind Gertrude's religion raised an
impassable barrier to intimacy. Still, when she
met Gertrude once or twice subsequently in the
garden, and talked to her about flowers and
embroidery, she wished that Gertrude might
become a Roman Catholic — and this for her rival's
own sake. Her charity could scarcely go further.
It was a life of perfect peace which Gertrude
led in the convent for a few days, and the refined
comforts of such a home were much appreciated
after the dreariness of the prison. There was no
noise in the place ; everybody was soft-spoken and
polite. The serving sisters were well trained,
and everything provided for the visitors at table
or elsewhere was of the best.

When Gertrude looked out of her windows in
the morning, she saw sisters leading clean cows to
the milking, and other sisters busily tending the
flower-beds. The breakfast table was always
adorned with jars of fresh-cut roses. The tablecloth
was snowy white, the jugs full of cream, the
coffee fragrant. Golden-crusted rolls, sweet butter,
eggs, and honey furnished forth this appetizing
meal. Generally the Mother-Superior appeared
VOL. III. 60

at the head of the table, after attending mass in
the chapel. She never took her meals with the
visitors, but she showed herself at breakfast that
they might have her greetings, and very graciously
she played her part as hostess, remembering what
were the ailments, sorrows, hopes, or wants of
each one, and offering the solace of her sympathies
or encouragements.

After breakfast the ladies would take their
books or work into the garden, and sit there
talking. The daily topics of the outer world
entered but little into their discourse, for the
echoes of them reached the convent only like the
sound of voices heard through doors. There was
no rule against visitors bringing newspapers into
the convent, but it was not the rule to bring
them. If sometimes a lady of gossiping disposition
came as a sojourner, tact soon prevented her
from starting conversation which would have been
too exciting to those of her companions who had
come into the nunnery on purpose to seek refuge
from the world's anxieties. For many of these
ladies desired to live wholly in the past, cherishing
reminiscences, melancholy or agreeable, as the
case might be. That isolation from the turmoil
of politics and society which the poor enjoy

through ignorance, these ladies, who had all lived
in the whirl of mundane affairs, tried to create
for themselves by becoming voluntary recluses.
Thus the war was scarcely spoken of among
them.

With her straight Kentish notions, Gertrude
might have ended by finding this sort of existence
very selfish, but at first the novelty of hearing
talk that was not borrowed from the columns of
newspapers was full of charm. And if she wanted
some brisker relaxation, Gertrude had only to
retire to her room, and call in the serving sister
who had been allotted to her — a girl who had
been bred on the Plaine of Carnac, and who knew
all about Chateaufort. It was a continual pleasure
to Gertrude to feel herself so near to Eoland's
home, and she would often listen for more than
an hour at a time, while her willing attendant
answered questions about the chateau. In this
way time glided by smoothly as a boat down
stream for a day or two, and Gertrude thought
the convent delightful.

o

But a rude irruption into the calm of the
place was made one morning by the tidings that
a Republic had been proclaimed in Paris. This
was news that interested every soul in the house.

for to convents the accession of a Republican
Government is like the near howling of wolves to
a sheepfold ; it is the signal of coming danger, or
at the least of tribulations, petty annoyances, or
chronic fears of worse. That form of government
which is always saluted on the Bourse by a
headlong fall of funds is also hailed in religious
establishments by a sudden depression of valuables,
^^Jy by a total disappearance of them underground.
Chalices and chapel ornaments have to be quickly
buried in cellars ; money must be conveyed to the
keeping of some faithful solicitor. Even bottles
of wine required for the infirmary must be stowed
out of sight, lest they should furnish indisputable
proofs to the invaders of convents that nuns spend
their day in tippling.

On the same day, when it was known that
France had once more covered herself with that
Phrygian bonnet which so resembles a fool's cap,
the Mother-Superior came in alarm to Gertrude
that a gentleman was waiting to see her in the
lodge. " It's against rules that he should come
into the house, my dear child, but you can go
and see him."

Did he not give you his name ? " asked
Gertrude.

No. He is a tall, dark gentleman ; a friend
of your family, he said, but would not give a
name."

Dr. Cleverly ! " guessed Gertrude ; and she,
of course, declined to see the visitor.

She gained much in the mother's opinion by
this show of propriety ; but the good lady said,
You know, my dear, that you are free now. The
Empress Eegent sent you here for her own
reasons ; but she is deposed, so you can go away
at any moment. If you want money, I will lend
you some."

I expect that my brother-in-law will be here
before long," answered Gertrude, who reflected
that since the Imperial Government had been
overthrown she could not be long without hearing
from Hucks Littleton. Besides, she did not
want to leave France without getting some news
of Roland, and at least a sight of Chateaubriand
she knew that she could not pay a visit to
Chateaufort unless some relation accompanied
her.

Accordingly, she begged leave to remain in
the convent until she could communicate with
her friends.

"Stay by all means, dear child," said the

mother, graciously ; "we all like you, and I hope
you will think of us sometimes when you are
gone."

The Carmelite mother little thought that in
showing kindness to a stranger of Protestant
faith, she was ensuring her convent against
molestation from her own countrymen. But soit
proved ; for on the following day towards
evening, there was a violent ringing at the front
door of the convent, and, after a curt parley with
the affrighted portress, a whole band of France's
new rulers forced their way into the house, whose
threshold no monarch or prince had ever crossed.

It was the freshly appointed Prefect of the
Department, who had come to assert himself.

Gertrude was seated at a table near her
window writing to her mother, and she could
scarcely believe her eyes when she saw the green
lawn of the park invaded by a herd of disorderly
men, who were making the visitors run away in
terror, and causing the poor little Mother-Superior
to clasp her hands.

In the midst of this throng stood a pigmy of
a man in a cocked hat and embroidered swallow-tail.
The creature could not have been in
possession of his appointment more than twenty-four

hours, and yet there he was, all glittering in
black and silver like a newly bound missal.

Gertrude looked ao-ain, and recognized this
man as Timon Grachard. The screaming accent
of his voice would have assisted identification,
even if she had not seen his features ; but all
doubts were removed when she perceived amid
the concourse her brother-in-law Hucks, Dr.
Cleverly, and also Polly, nee Hopkins. Gertrude
ran downstairs at once, and arrived on the
lawn just in time to hear Grachard cry —

'' The day of liberty has dawned ! This immoral
Bastille is condemned. You, tremblingly
woman, who have degraded your convent to
be a prison-house, give up your captives ! Surrender
Mademoiselle Corrington."

Why, here she is ! " exclaimed Polly
Grachard, rustling forward in a new black silk
dress and a bonnet covered with poppies. Oh,
miss, what a fright we've had about you ! AVe
made sure they'd tried to hide you away somewhere
in this wicked place."

Gertrude paid no attention to Polly, but ran
up and embraced Hucks, who was quite overcome
by the suddenness of this demonstration.

'bertie dear, don't be alarmed," he said,

though he was quivering himself like a jelly ;
were come to set you free."

*' But, Hu dear, I am not under restraint,"
she said astonished. " What is the meaning of
this scene ? "

"Mademoiselle, I do pray you, tell these
gentlemen that you have not been persecuted
here," implored the Mother Superior.

There was no craven fear in the mother's
attitude, but she had to deal with an official who
stamped and yelled without listening. Grachard,
wielding the besom of dower, was for making
clean sweeps with it. He wanted to launch
suspensory decrees and prohibitive edicts.

'' Guilty nun," he began again, when Gertrude,
walking up to the mother's side, took her hand
affectionately, and said —

Monsieur Grachard, this lady has been very
good to me. I am here now of my own free will."

"Mademoiselle, you are more fortunate than
others," answered Grachard, with a cold bow ; for
he had never liked Gertrude, in whom he had
always recognized an incarnation of those female
forces which are not favourable to Republics.
"But a bad principle is not vindicated because
you yourself have been no sufferer by it. This

house has been used as a prison, and I am hereto
break the chains of others. The hour of
expiation has sounded. I am going to make a
round of inspection."

Let's break all the doors open," growled a
man in a filthy blouse behind Grachard,, one of
those gentlemen whose notions of a revolution
are symbolized in a jemmy and crowbar.

"These monks and nuns all live like pigs
being fattened for a show," clamoured another
representative Revolutionist, whose red nose proclaimed
a long and steady contribution to the
excise branch of the revenue. 'make the old
hag give up the keys of her wine-cellar, and
bother the rest ! "

They have been having roast chicken and
salad for dinner' resumed the first speaker,
sniffing. " I should like to know how often the
honest working man gets as much."

During this hubbub, to which everybody's
voice added something, the whole crowd had
moved forward a little, and found themselves
near the door of the refectory. They were about
threescore people in all. Polly, to avoid the
press, walked into the dining-room ; the mother
and Gertrude followed her. Two serving: sisters

were clearing away the remnants of dinner, and
there were several dishes on a sideboard.

I'm hungry," said Polly ; and she tasted the
first sweets of power by appropriating a piece of
plum tart.

*' Madame a faim ? " said the Mother Superior,
courteously. " Let me offer you a plate."

The example set by the prefect's wife was
quickly followed, and most of the intruders fell to
upon what they could find, some gnawing drumsticks,
others foraging for bread and cheese, and a
smaller number making with a sure instinct to
the closets where the wines were kept.

All these poor people are hungry," declaimed
Grachard, to excuse the voracity of his political
friends. " If, madame, you had employed some of
your wealth to feed the famished "

^' I do not think, Monsieur le Prefet, that anybody
ever came hungry to the door of this convent
and went away empty-handed," replied the
mother, with gentle dignity.

'' Oh yes, you give them your stale crusts,
which the pigs won't eat ; but fat capons and the
like are not often handed out of the front gate."
This was said by the red-nosed patriot, who, it
need scarcely be remarked, allowed his wife to

beg for the sustenance of herself and children,
while he himself drank her wages and his at the
public-house, spouting against tyrants all the
while.

Up to this time Dr. Claverlej kept his mouth
closed. He noticed that Gertrude studiously
averted her stance from him, but he had not
expected that it would be otherwise. He had
been looking out for the chance of rendering her
some unmistakable service, and he seized the
opportunity that now presented itself by asking
Grachard to come away.

It was odious to Gertrude to lie under any
obligation towards Cleverly ; but, for the sake of
those who had been good to her, she made a
personal appeal to him. "Dr. Cleverly, I wish
you would repeat to M. Grachard that this is a
house of retreat for ladies, many of whom are
very ill or distressed. It is cruel to agitate them
by such scenes as these."

'' Lor', miss, my husband only came here to
be of use to you ! " exclaimed Polly, with her
mouth full of tart. She was nettled that Gertrude
did not appeal to her to exercise uxoris
authority, and Gertrude perceived the mistake.

Do tell your husband to go away, sirs.

Grachard," lie said. " I am sure lie meant well,
but this is very painful to me."

Tim, come along ; you've talked enough,"
interposed Polly, unceremoniously.

Madame Grachard, be silent ! " responded
the new-made prefect. " We have one of the
prisoners here ; but there is one other, at least.
Where is that cow-girl who tells lies ? "

''He means Odette, miss," said Polly. "I've
been telling him of the shocking fibs Odette used
to try and pass off on us, and how she ran away
from home to follow a policeman, and it turns
out that this policeman is the man whom Tim
most hated on earth after the 'Bad 'Un.' Only
now Dr. Cleverly has asked Tim to let the man
alone, because he was useful in helping the doctor
to find you. All this is queer, ain't it ? But
really these last two days the oddest of things has
happened. Gratchard is a prefect, you know,
which is like I don't know what in England, but
something very grand, for every one must do ashe
says, except me, of course. We ain't going to
live at Auray ; we only came here because of you.
Our home is going to be in a big town, Rennes ;
and we're to live in a palace, with two sentries at
the door, and our salary is twelve hundred a year

in French money, which I've not learnt to reckon
yet, and everything found, including coals. But
I don't know who's to keep house for us ; for I'm
going to be too grand now to do marketing for
myself, so I've thought of calling mother over
from Enoiand to look after the French servants
and all that. Only Tim doesn't seem to like it
much."

Polly chattered away not without purpose, for
she was a shrewd young person, and did not
want Gertrude to come to a downright quarrel
with her husband. The blood had mantled very
red on Gertrude's cheeks by reason of the indignities
which the Mother-Superior and the
convent were suffering. Polly was well aware
that Miss Corrington had a proud spirit, but,
moreover, she was attached to Gertrude ; so,
while pouring out her gossip, she made energetic
signs to her husband, by stamping her foot and
waving her hand, that he was to hold his peace
and begone.

But Grachard had asked to see Odette Kern
and the name aroused the attention of the
tatterdemalion crew who had followed him into
the convent, for most of these people knew of
Odette by hearsay. There was a gradual streaming

out of all the motley company on to the lawn
again, Polly this time leading the way ; and the
Mother Superior gave orders to one of the serving
sisters to summon Odette and, at the same time,
all the Carmelite nuns. This she did for fear
that her unwelcome visitors where oroino: to invade
the nuns' cells, and she reflected that these poor
sisters — many of whom had not seen a strange
man's face for years — would have braver hearts
against the intrusion if they stood all together to
hear what the prefect wanted, and whereof he
accused them and her.

But the effect of the mother's order was
wholly surprising to most of those present, who
had very imperfect ideas as to how a nunnery is
constituted. Grachard had taken the serving
sisters for the Carmelitess, while Dr. Cleverly
and Hucks Littleton imagined that all the
elderly lady-visitors were nuns.

But now there appeared among the trees, to
right and left, walking by twos and threes,
women with pale faces, and clad in those imposing
white robes with scarlet crosses.

As they approached the Mother Superior, they
all made deep obeisance, and ranged themselves
in silence, where she directed them by a sign of

the hand. There were some forty of them
arrayed in a semicircle, motionless, their hands
buried in their sleeves, their faces astonished, but
calm and without any fear.

The fear was among those who had disturbed
them. A murmur ran round. Polly sidled up
in dismay to Gertrude, and whispered, ''Oh,
miss, who's they ? " Even the citizen with the
red nose was struck dumb. It would have been
absurd to talk of any of these women with
waxen complexions, bare feet, and rope girdles,
as gluttons and wine-bibbers. Cleverly gave
expression to a medical opinion about them, by
whispering audibly to Hucks Littleton —

It's like a troop from a graveyard. These
women are all killing themselves."

As for Grachard, his cocked hat was hot upon
his head. He had suffered too much himself
from fidelity to his principles not to have an eye
for self-denial in others. He had half a mind to
salute these women, as enemy salutes enemy in
the field ; but he stifled the impulse as one of
weakness, and was glad that Odette Kergarec,
appearing before him at this minute, gave him
an excuse for not looking at the Carmelitess.

At this juncture, however, there was a sudden

change of scene, and a very dramatic one, brought
about by Pauline's agency. Horrified at the
desecration of the convent, and unable to understand
that anybody not being a malefactor should
presume to force his way into the sacred walls,
Pauline had run into the town to tell the Bishop
of what was happening. She could not conceive
that there was anybody more powerful than a
Bishop. His little finger must have more weight
than a prefect's arm. It had always been sounder
the Empire, and it must be so now.

So Pauline ran, and at the first street corner
met a company of Mobiles, with Eene de Polhuan
at its head. It was the company in which Clovis
and most of the Nero-arec lads served. No encounter
could have been more fortunate. Pauline
made a sign, and Eene commanded the company
to halt, colouring as he did so, and attempting
a somewhat awkward salute with his sword ; for
this was his first occasion of heading a company
on a march out.

In a few words Pauline informed him of how
the convent had been violated. If there was no
military precision in the wheel which the company
of recruits executed upon receipt of this news,
there was at least soldierly agility in it. It

never occurred for a moment, either to the officer
or to his men, that they had no business to interfere
with a Republican prefect. What was the
prefect of a Republic of two days' standing ?
These were days of civil commotion, when there
was yet no regular government, and Count Rene
gave no allegiance except to a queen — this queen,
Pauline. His men — sturdy Catholics every one —
hastened to the defence of a convent as they
would have hurried to the protection of a church,
or to the rescue of a house on fire.

Don't wait for me ! " ejaculated Pauline,
who could uot keep pace with the cjuick step of
the men ; and so Rene, with another schoolboy
blush, started his company at the double.

It was grand to see the soldiers debouch into
the convent garden, and halt in two lines at
about fifty paces from the Mother Superior and
her nuns.

Fix bayonets, and guard all the issues ! "
cried Rene de Polhuan. " Let nobody pass out."

The Carmelitess all understood that a protector
had come to them, and many a wan face became
coloured with a slight glow of excitement at the
unwonted sight. Equally did Prefet Grachard
and his band understand that these soldiers with
VOL. m. 61

fixed bayonets had come with no friendly intentions
to them.

Lor', Tim, the Bad 'Un must have come
back, and these soldiers are going to take us
up ! " screamed Polly, who, thanks to her abrupt
transfer from a prison cell to the dignity of
prefect's wife, had already acquired a shrewd
experience as to the ups and downs of French
politics.

Rene de Polhuan took no notice whatever of
Grachard, but, approaching the Mother Superior,
raised a hand deferentially to his kepi, and
lowered the point of his sword. Then he turned
towards his men, and commanded a general salute.

To the Mother Superior of the Carmelitess —
present arms ! "

With a one, two, three, in very fair time,' the
recruits shouldered their rifles, carried, and presented
as to a general. This did not please
Prefet Grachard.

May I ask who you are, sir ? " he said to
Eene. " I am the prefect of this department."

Monsieur le Prefet, I have come to bring
you assistance," answered Rene, politely.

Assistance ? I never sent for you."

But it was my duty to come," said Rene,

who had had time to reflect on the little speech
he should make. " The Carmelitess are a legally
authorized community, and by the Concordat
with Some they are guaranteed against all
molestation from the civil power. Not even the
]minister of Worship has a right to enter here
without a law abrogating the Concordat."

Sir, as prefect, I assume the responsibility
of my own acts," said Grachard, proudly.

That may be, but all these persons here are
not prefects," replied Rene. " If you will tell
them to retire, I will quickly cause your order
to be executed ; if you do not give them the
order, I will expel them myself."

By what right, sir ? "

"In the name of the law, or by the right of
the stronger — whichever you please," answered
Rene, who spoke louder now that his dialogue
with the prefect was being listened to in dead
silence. '' There are no soldiers in Auray now,
and since yesterday there are no police. We
mobile remain the only force for the preservation
of order. If you tell me that all laws have
ceased to exist, then we return to the state of
nature, and my men and I will defend against
you Anarchists the institutions of our Church,

Avliich we cherish. If, on the contrary, you
admit that our laws are still to be respected,
then I shall eject these trespassers, and leave you
alone, since you wish it, to assume the responsibility
of having acted illegally."

Grachard was cornered ; but he never forsook
people who were in the same boat with him,
however little he might relish their company.
*' These persons followed me into the convent,
and, since I did not forbid them, they had the
right to conclude that I allowed their entrance,"
he said. " I shall not order them out ! "

'' Then I shall," said Eene ; and he commanded
his men to eject the trespassers.

I\Iost of these persons did not wait for a
second injunction, but made a stampede towards
the gate, where their exit was much expedited by
blows in the small of the back from the Mobiles'
rifle stocks. The recruits performed their work
of ejectment roughly, and Grachard bit his lips
with rage. In a few minutes the garden had
been cleared of all intruders, excepting Grachard
himself, Hucks Littleton, Cleverly, and Polly.

Pauline, who had entered the garden soon
after the Mobiles, had witnessed the foregoing
scene with some pride in Eene's conduct ; and

indeed, lie must have known that it was for her
sake that he bore himself so spiritedly. But
she now interceded for Hucks Littleton and
Cleverly.

These gentlemen are Miss Corrington's
friends," she said, introducing Gertrude.

"And I may tell you, sir, that it was only
to liberate Miss Corrington, unjustly imprisoned
by the ex-Emperor, that I came here," cried
Grachard, who now felt foolish in his swallowtails,
and wished that he had kept to the attire
of the citizenship.

Miss Corrington ! " exclaimed Kene, surprised,
and looking from Gertrude to Pauline.
Do you mean the Due d' Alma's fiancee ? How
happens she to be here ? "

'never mind ; it's a long story, cousin," said
PauHne, reddening. " But Miss Corrington is
entitled to all our thanks for having tried to
protect our reverend mother."

*' In return for this service, I think I can bring
mademoiselle some good news," continued Rene,
bowing to Gertrude. " The Due alma arrived
at Auray about an hour ago, and is gone to
Chateaufort."

Cleverly gave a start, and made a gesture of

despair. The caudle of bis hopes was clean put
out.

'' Oh, sir, are sou sure of this ? and is he
well ? " asked Gertrude, flushing in a transport of
joy which she did not attempt to conceal.

Mademoiselle, the reason for my being outwith
my company this evening is that we went
to meet the Duke at the railway station," said
Eene. " We heard that he was comines, and our
commandant ordered that a guard of honour
should be at the station to receive him. The
Duke has been invalided on parole not to bear
arms ao-ain during the war. He still walks on
crutches ; but you will be happy to hear that he
is in the best way to recovery."

Cleverly turned away, hiding his face from
Gertrude's happiness, which was too painful to
him. x\s he went he took Grachard by the arm,
but this potentate would not be dragged away
without crossing: tongues once more with Rene
de Polhuan, who, so far, was exulting overmuch
in the honours of war.

'' Sir," he said, " you and your men have been
very brave against a defenceless crowd of unarmed
persons. I hope you will be equally so
some day against the Prussians."

monsieur le Prefet, we are going to Paris to
fight," replied Rene, " and we shall leave our
families, our homes, and our churches to your
care. I trust that your friends who showed such
cowardice against us Mobiles will not recover
their courage simply to attack these defenceless
women during our absence."

o

I shall remember your words, sir," said
Grachard, loftily.

I intend that you should," answered Rene.

And when the proper time comes — not now,
but after the war," continued Grachard, beside
himself, " you will learn that the Republic is to
be respected, and that the days of arrogance and
impunity for you clericals are over."

The day of battle between Catholics and
Infidels is not upon us yet," rejoined Rene ; "but
when it comes, I have no doubt we Catholics shall
give a brood account of ourselves."

Once more Rene de Polhuan gave the command
for a general salute, and thus he warmed
poor Grachard's wrath to boiling pitch.

Sir ! " shouted the little man, " you owe mea
salute."

'pardon me," said Rene, to whom the admiring
approval of scores of feminine faces was

lending: a wit which was not mother wit. "Pardon
me, we owe no salute to a prefect in the act of
breaking the law. I choose to consider that you
are here incognito

During this long altercation, everybody had
forgotten Odette Kergarec, who had vanished.

CHAPTER XX.

MADAME LA Prefer.

Brooms at work everywhere, mops sponging away
cobwebs, garden paths weeded, stables cleaned,
Kergarecs toiling as they had never done in their
lives, and yet not uttering a grumble, — by such
outward signs of regeneration was the presence of
a master's hand felt at Chateaufort.

A couple of days were enough to work this
transformation, and somehow it was found possible
to keep pilgrims off the estate when the voice of
a master, who was not to be trifled with, gave the
order, " No admittance, except on business."

Half a dozen cartloads of gravel disposed of
the miraculous spring. The Baron Nestor de
Penhoel, coming to pay a visit to the Due d'x4.1ma,
beheld the heretic Barney superintending some
workmen, who were dragging a roller over this

gravel. The little Baron had read his French

o

classics, and so amused himself by scrawling on a
card a paraphrase of some verses to be met within
Voltaire's " Siecle de Louis Xii." : —

De par le Due, defense a Dieu
De faire des miracles en ce lieu."

And this card he pinned on to a tree. One
regrets to add that the Bishop of Auray, who was
not learned in Voltaire, coming soon afterwards to
visit Eoland, was much shocked at this couplet,
which he mistook for a genuine ducal decree.

Koland had been released from captivity as a
prisoner of war in consideration of his wounds,
and on giving his parole not to fight again during
the war. He was a general now, and had got a
step in the Legion of Honour. Those were his
spoils from the campaign. For the rest, a sore
heart, when he thought of all the blunders and
jobberies, the infatuation and failures, which had
driven whole armies to the shambles, and consigned
French flags by the sheaf to German
keeping.

But his doctors told him not to think of these
things past mending, or he would retard his cure,
and happily he had enough philosophy in him to

bear in mind that a nation need not be killed by
a heavy fall.

He occupied the rooms where his grandmother
had spent her last years. The couch near the
window, where he had to lie all day, was in the
room where she had died, and from it he looked
out wistfully on to the plateau, watching for
the carriage that was to hving- his sister from
Paris.

Not that he was so very impatient to see his
sister ; but as soon as Aimee de Beaujeu arrived,
Gertrude was to be brought to the chateau by
her brother-in-law. Eoland had reached Chateau-fort
without any idea that his destined bride was
so near him. He heard of her adventures and of
Mr. Littleton's on the morrow after his arrival,
from Hucks himself, who went up to the chateau
as a messenger of news, and carrying in his
pocket a little note from Gertrude, which by the
writer's express recommendation was only to be
delivered if Eoland seemed "anxious to have a
letter, and wonders that I didn't write one."

Needless to say that Eoland did seem anxious,
and did wonder, and did get the little note.

Gertrude had left the convent, and was staying
at the Pavilion Hotel of Auray with her

brother-in-law. But there is a sister of Mrs.
Grundy who lives in France, and is as potent asher
British kinswoman with social edicts. Out of
deference to her, it was not good that Gertrude
should go and visit her lover unless there were a
lady in the house to do the honours. Madame
Grundy might have been defied if Koland's sister
had not been forthcoming ; but Aimee had been
telegraphed for, and had answered that she was
coming. So it was only a question of a day or
two's patience, and the chief sufferer, after all,
was Hucks Littleton, who wanted to get home
to his wife, and to shake ofi" from his boots the
very dust of French soil.

During: the short time of waiting, Eoland
mano-ed to send a few notes to Gertrude. The
had to be very short, for Dr. Tregalloan, the
physician with the fearful grin and wooden voice,
would not allow of more than five minutes
epistolary exertions at a time. Of this kind were
Eoland's missives : —

11 o'clock, Tuesday.

"My darling, fancy Providence having brought

you so near to me to carry unutterable comfort

after these sad worries. I have heard of all you

have suffered — of those prison days. I dare not

write about it ; but there will be some long
accounts to settle with various people when I am
strong again. Write me just one line."

5 o'clock, Tuesday.
'* I have your clear note in answer to mine of
this morning. You tell me I am not to think of
vengeance. Well, I have often come home from
shooting with both barrels loaded, because I would
not waste the shot on vermin, and so it may be
in this case, if you wish it. But you must be by
my side first, dearest, to wish it in words.
Letters don't count."

Noon, Wednesday.
"Young Eene de Polhuan has just been here,
and described to me the scene in the convent
garden, which I had heard already from our
excellent Hucks. I used to think this Eene a
terrible bore, but wearing the uniform has made
a gentleman of him. I hope he will marry my
cousin Pauline. He asked me whether I thought

o

she would love him the better if he came back
from the siege of Paris with an arm or a leo the
less. I advised him to keep his arms and legs, as
they might be useful to him when the war was
over. He seemed to wonder at my joking ; butin

these times il faut se depeeher de vive pour ne
pas pleurer."

5 o'clock, Wednesday.
We will be married as soon as this war is at
an end, my little one. I will return to Lewbury
to fetch you, and try to think that all these
months have been a bad dream. My sister will
be here in a few hours. You must not go back
to England after seeing me only once. Try to
stay at Auray at least two or three days more.
Employ all your arts of persuasion upon Hucks
to this end. Our separation has been so long,
and must be so long; assail ! "

These notes used to be carried down to the
town by Barney, who, in his joy at getting into
his master's service again, was disposed to sponge
off his mind all the ugly events of the past weeks.
The recollection of how the Duke had been
treated in Lewbury was necessarily dimmed
somewhat now that the Duke had been so much
worse treated by Prussian bullets. Barney met
Dr. Cleverly in Auray, and felt a little ashamed
of himself for having once suspected this calm
looking Englishman of an attempt at murder.

Dr. Cleverly was going towards the railway
station with a bag in his hand, and he stopped to
speak with the Duke's servant.

*' How is your master, Barney ? "

"Thank you, sir, he's getting on pretty
middling," said Barney, touching his hat.

If there are no bones broken, he outfit to
mend fast now. This has been an awful war,
hasn't it ? "

Ah, it has, sir ; and the worst ain't over
yet. Going back to England, sir ? "

Yes ; I'm off by the next train. Good day."

Not many minutes after seeing the doctor
depart, Barney also met Mrs. '' Gratchitt," as he
called Polly. In the hall of the hotel he encountered
this lady, who had a fine tricolour
rosette on her bonnet ; for her husband was going
to make an official inspection of the Auray
Mobiles. She was with several other ladies, the
wives of newly appointed Eepublican officials.
There was the wife of an obscure "penny-aliter,"
who, on the strength of having been twice
imprisoned for malicious slander, had set up
during the Empire as a political martyr, and was
now sub-prefect. There was the spouse of a
quack doctor, who had also made political capital

out of a punishment inflicted for professional
mal practices. The husbands of the other ladies
were all up to these samples ; and, poor creatures !
it was nice to see how much the whole company
of them wanted to be respectable, and to model
their bearing and language on those of former
officials, whom they had feared, admired, vilified,
and supplanted.

Polly drew herself up on meeting Barney ; but
when she perceived that this domestic was not
going to make free, she became friendly.

I am so glad to see you, Mr. Barney," she
said, drawing him aside. " You know what's
become of Mossoo Gratchard, don't you ? "

I hope he's not come to any trouble, ma'am,"
answered Barney, ready to osier sympathy in case
he should learn that Grachard had been lodged
in the lock-up.

"No ; he's become a prefect."

Oh yes, I had heard that, ma'am ; and a
very good berth too. I shouldn't mind something
in that way myself."

Polly jerked her head on one side, as she
tried to button a glove which was a size too
small for her. "Those places are not to be got
so easy as you think, young fellow. Just you

get sentenced to death, and have the police
running after you, and know that if they caught
you they'd cut your head off your shoulders.
That's the way to begin."

"Thank you, ma'am, I'd rather not," said
Barney

Ah, well, all the Frenchmen who are going
to govern the country now have been run after
by the police, more or less. That I know for
certain," declared Polly, impressively.

"There's a lot just like them in the Newgate
calendar," thought Barney.

"But that's neither here nor there," continued
Polly. "What I want to say is that me and
Mosso Gratchard are going up to see your master
at Chateaufort. I hope the Duke will be civil,
as we're not going up there because we want to."

Then who the deuce does want you ? "
reflected Barney, but interpreted this question
into civil language.

"It's the Government that orders us," answered
Polly, who then explained that Grachard had
received instructions to carry the star and riband
of Grand Officer of the Legion of Honour to
Poland. The new Government was anxious to
pay great respect to all officers who had fought
VOL. III. 62

view for their country, and among these the Due
cl'Alma was pre-eminently conspicuous. " But,
you see, as we ain't going up to the * chatty ' to
please ourselves, the Duke ought to be nice. He
and Gratchard have never taken much to each
other, I know ; and Gratchard said at first that
he wouldn't do as he'd been ordered, but I talked
that nonsense out of him, and so we'll both go
up together without any fuss. But just you try
and make things pleasant, will you, there's a
good young fellow, and you shall have something
for yourself."

Barney's fingers closed over four large silver
five-franc pieces (gold had vanished in those
days), and he went to deliver Madame la Prefer's
message to his master, much as that lady had
given it him. Eoland laughed a little, but was
not too well pleased at the threatened visit. He
loathed both Grachard himself and his principles ;
yet he was too much of a soldier to behave with
discourtesy to any human being discharging a
duty, and he had too great an experience of
society to feel the least awkwardness in a necessary
official meeting with a man personally
repulsive to him.

Therefore Grachard, who went up to the

chateau with much the same sentiments as may
pervade a badger going to exchange bows with
a bull-dog, was very well received. He was in
plain clothes — though this was not strict etiquette
and Polly accompanied him by her own desire,
for she was determined, as she said, to " prevent
a shindy."

But there was no shindy. Eoland apologized
for not rising from his couch, and Grachard, with
a bow, placed in his hands a morocco case containing;
the insignia of the decoration. He
addressed Eoland as " General," never once
giving him his nobility title ; and Eoland called
him Monsieur le Prefet, never once pronouncing
his name. Again Grachard said that he came
in the name of the Republic, to which Eoland
answered that he was grateful for an honour
bestowed by France.

A court master of ceremonies would have
noted these little finesses with a peculiar relish ;
for is it not beautiful to see men proclaim their
differences of opinion without uttering a word to
which any formalist can take exception ? On
Polly, however, these refinements were lost, and
she artlessly accepted a glass of sherry which
Barney proffered. The master of the ceremonies

would have winced at this concession of the
Republican side, and would have felt that Polly
was spoiling a pretty game. She did spoil it
indeed, when, on her husband's shaking his head
at the tray, she exclaimed —

*'AYhy don't you take a glass of wine and a
biscuit, Tim 1 You said, coming up in the
carriage, that you were hungry and wanted a
snack."

It's time for us to be going home," retorted
the prefect, gruffly. " General, I have the
honour "

'* Monsieur le Prefet, your servant "

But, Tim, wait a minute ! " cried Polly.
Then, throwing of a sudden a shrewd womanly
look at the Duke's face, to read what might bethe
precise nature of his feelings towards her
husband, she said, " Your Grace, won't you and
Gratchard make it up ? "

My dear madam, we are not quarrelling
now," replied Poland, with a smile.

But you don't look as if you were going to
shake hands," she insisted.

'' You have not noticed, then, that my arm is
in a sling ? "

This was really a little masterstroke of

diplomacy ; for had not Eoland been writing a
note but an hour before, and could he have put
on that sling with any object except to avoid
shaking hands with Grachard, if perchance such
a salutation were offered ? Our imaginary master
of ceremonies would have grinned from ear to
ear at Polly's disconsolate face.

Grachard had not waited for the end of this
dialogue, but had walked out ; and on the way
back to Auray in the carriage he sternly promulgated
a series of domestic decrees for his
English wife's guidance, when she received or
paid visits in his company.

'' You are to be friendly to those of our party,
not to others. Hear me when I say this, and
obey me."

"You mean, then, that I'm only to show a
kind face to those who want to turn you out of
your post ? " Polly answered. " To my thinking,
Tim, there isn't a man among those Republicans
who doesn't feel that he's as good as you, and
better."

Do you fancy, then, that any of these
Bonapartist dukes have a better opinion of me ?
Peace, giddy woman ; now you're my wife, you
must reason as I do."

Mind you do reason, then, Tina, and don't betaking
men for friends merely because they come
shouting round you, and wanting you to make
speeches, and asking you to do silly things which
they don't care to do themselves. That's not friendship,
you take a wife's word for it."

The Orchards were to proceed to Rennes
that evening ; but as Polly had seen the Duke
before Gertrude had, she asked her husband for
leave to go and call upon Miss Corrington, in
order to tell her what kind of a place Chateaufort
was. Grachard granted the permission, but
reluctantly, and Polly went.

Oh, miss," she said, when she was seated on
a sofa by Gertrude's side, " you would hardly
know him ; he's so changed, with his hair cropped
close, and his fiice so thin, and a pair of crutches
beside him."

It's very kind of you to have called, Madame
Grachard," answered Gertrude, not knowing what
else to say.

"Well, miss, I'd several things to say to you,"
remarked Polly, who became pensive a moment,
and then added, '' and, first, I wish you'd tell me
one thing — do you believe all this is going to
last?"

'•' All what oroinor to last ? "

Why, Grachard being a prefect, and France
being upside-down ? "

That's politics, Polly ; and I do not profess
to be a prophet."

Well, I don't know," was Polly's doubting
; *' but it seems to me that if all this
had happened at Newbury — if a number of men
from the Magpie and Stump Debating Club, and
a lot more from the county gaol, and a batch of
others with long hair and dirty hands from I
don't know where, were to become mayor and
aldermen and magistrates, and to begin altering
the names of streets, and bullying clergymen, and
telling people not to go to church, — if all that
happened at Lewbury, I say, I shouldn't somehow
think it was going to last."

Well, England and France are different, you
know."

There's some comfort in that," assented
Polly ; " and yet, miss, I can't help feeling as if
we were all like servants having a dance in the
drawing-room, while our masters were away at a
funeral."

CHAPTER XXL

MET Again.

Drums rattling, bugles pealing, a brass band
playing the " Marseillaise ; " old women stopping
their ears at the din, and street boys calling for
the tune again and again. There was not much
peace in the streets on the day when the Breton
Mobiles were to march to the railway station, on
their way to Paris. These Mobiles were the
flower of the Breton youth, and well-nigh every
lad in the ranks was carrying away some girl's
heart with him.

Gertrude was going to see Roland that day.
A note had come from the chateau overnight,
saying that Aimee de Beaujeu had arrived, and
would drive down to Auray to fetch Gertrude
towards noon. But she was not due for another
hour, and Hucks Littleton, who yawned wearily

in this slow Breton town, proposed a walk to the
market-place, where the battalion was assembling,
just to while away the time.

Girls were grouped at the street corners with
their white aprons to their eyes. The Mobiles
stood massed in the centre of the square in
heaviest marching order — each man with his
knapsack full. The brass band was playing the
Marseillaise " for the twentieth time.

Pauline walked in and out among the ranks,
shaking hands with one man and another ; for
there must have been a score of Kergarecs to
whom she had to say good-bye. Gertrude guessed
that the tall, stooping young priest beside her
must be her brother. He, too, had a haversack
slung across him, and the corners of his cassock,
being turned up to allow greater ease in marching,
showed that he wore boots like the soldiers.

Eene de Polhuan followed Pauline at a few
paces, with his sword drawn, and a sprig of
heather in his kepi. His face was happy enough.
Doubtless he felt he had won his spurs in that
affair at the convent, for Pauline had looked
kindly at him ever since.

Pauline stopped opposite a youth whom Gertrude
heard addressed as Clovis ; but Gertrude

could not overhear what was said between the
two, nor could she have understood if she had
heard, for they spoke in the Breton Gaelic.

You won't be harsh with Odette, if you
meet her, Clovis ? " Pauline was saying.

She'll keep off my path, mademoiselle ; but
if I meet her, I'll be good to her for you."

Not for me ; but for your parents, and for
herself — she's your sister. You believe, don't you,
that she has gone to Paris ? "

"Yes, with that bagman — that Pierre Quiroule.
He was seen here ; he had come with the English
doctor. Maledictions on them both ! But he must
have had some sorcerer's tricks to wile away
Odette, for a kestrel was easier to catch than she.
If I meet him ! "

You're too passionate, Clovis. You're not
my boy who used to run errands for me, and was
so gentle. Be a good soldier, and come back
without that frown which grieves me."

I've only one thing 1 care to come back for,
mademoiselle," said Clovis, doggedly, " and that's
to see you ; but I shall always see you wherever
I am, dead or alive, and perhaps the better if
dead. As the sun glows through the darkness,
so your face would beam on me in the grave."

A church clock struck, and the sound was
followed by a long roll of drums. The crowds fell
back as the whole column closed up its files, but
several girls struggled forward to take one last
look, one last kiss. Through a gap thus made
Gertrude beheld Pauline and her brother locked
in a tight embrace. All the pent-up affections
of the young priest welled up in this supreme
parting with his sister, the only being on earth
who cared for him, the only creature whom he
was allowed to love. Pauline's fortitude gave
way at this moment, and she clung desperately
to her brother.

'* Jerome, you will come back to me ; say you
will."

We shall meet again, Pauline," he faltered.

Oh no, don't say it in that way. I am
alone on earth. What shall I do if you leave
me?"

It was infinitely pitiful. But now the sobs
of women were all drowned in the clashing of
kettle-drums, the riot of bells, and the strident
calls of the bugles. The standard-bearer unfurled
the flag of France, and the column began to
move. Jerome, with streaming eyes, had run to
place himself beside the colonel, and when this

officer raised his sword on high to order the
march, Jerome held up beside it a crucifix.

Faces were crowding in every window of
every house, handkerchiefs were fluttered, and a
slight breeze catching: the silken folds of the
tricolour made it flap gaily as it swam through the
air. The Mobiles, about a thousand in all, marching
eight abreast, filed past the town hall, and
there on the steps stood the new mayor, the
ex-penny-a-liner, resplendent in a white, red, and
blue sash, which covered half his waistcoat. At
this moment, when there should have been lout one
feeling of fraternity in the hearts of all present,
the mayor thought it seemly to assume that the
Mobiles were goings with enthusiasm to risk their
lives for the crew of adventurers who had seized
upon power in Paris, and so he yelped, " Vive la
Publique ! " The Mobiles answered with one
roar, " Pour Dieu et la France ! "

The market-place was deserted now, except
bv some mothers and girls who had been crowded
out from following the column, and who remained
behind hysterically crying. The emotion of the
scene was so human that for a few moments
Hucks Littleton could not speak. But as he
and Gertrude walked back to their hotel, he

remarked quietly that England had much to be
thankful for in her strength and peace.

Think of our English fields invaded, Gertie,"
he said, " and our towns given over to such
sights as this ! "

To party divisions, too," added Gertrude,
with a sigh ; ''to hatred so deep and unreasonable,
when all Frenchmen should be standing
shoulder to shoulder."

'eyes, that is the worst of all. May God
ever spare us that plague ! But it seems to me
we've been out rather long, and I think that lady
sitting in the open carriage yonder must be
Madame de Beaujeu."

He guessed rio'ht, and the next minute
Gertrude and her future sister-in-law became
acquainted. There could be no greater contrast
in human nature than that between the martial
excitement of soldiers which Gertrude had just
witnessed, and the refreshing airiness of the
Parisian grande dame, who sat in her carriage as
if she were in the Bois de Boulogne. She was
dressed in black, for all women wore mourning
at this time ; but her mourning had been made by
Worth, and the trinkets which she sported as
emblems of patriotic sorrow were of black pearl?,

worth the ransom of ten villages, according to
the rates then current among the Prussians, who
conducted war and business in so calculations

o

a fashion.

Doubtless Aimee de Beaujeu was not in the
least indifferent to her country's fate, but she was
the wife of the most unpopular among the ministers
who were responsible for France's disasters, and
she had to keep a j^i'oud upper lip. From time
to time she lifted a pair of gold-rimmed eye-glasses,
and surveyed whatever came within her range of
view with an air of half-amused criticism. The
hotel manager, a brace of waiters, and a chambermaid
bustled about on the pavement, obsequious
in their offers of service, and dismayed that anybody
should keep so worshipful a lady waiting.
The very tone in which the Countess told them
not to mind her made them think it infinitely
condescending on her part not to mind.

Aimee put no touch of affectation into her
greeting of Gertrude. She gave her a smile of
extraordinary sweetness, and invited her by a
gesture to get into the carriage. With Hucks
she shook hands. There was hardly a word
spoken, but as the carriage drove off, Aimee
threw one searching photographic glance at her

future sister-in-law, by which she got Gertrude's
portrait in her mind ; and, contemplating it
mentally, she no doubt said to herself —

What sort of a wife will you be to my
brother ? and what sort of a sister will you be tome
? Are we o^oino; to be friends ? Will it
please me to take you out in drawing-rooms, to sit
with you in my carriage, to go with you to the
opera, to chat with you about dress ? Are you
a good-natured girl without eccentricities, who
will drop nicely into your part as duchess, and
be a pleasant acquisition to the family ? Can
you dress, can you talk, can you carry yourself
well ? Is that smile of yours honest ? Did m\'
brother really fall in love With you, or did you
spread a snare for him in which he became
entangled ? "

The answers to these silent queries must have
]seen satisfactory, for a reassured expression
passed over the Countess's face. She had already
set Gertrude at her ease by a few kind words,
and Gertrude had certainly peered at her privately,
with the intention of forming a rapid
judgment of her character — judgment not the
less likely to be indelible because rapid. There
came a moment when conversation was impose,

owing to the jolting of the carriage over
those ill-joined paving-stones which make the
streets of French provincial towns abominable.
Then Aimee reclined as far back as she could
in the carriage, so as to o;et another good side-view
of Gertrude, who sat forward. But this
time the Countess's scrutiny was much more
serious and fistful than it had been at first.

Her glance seemed to say, "Are you going
to bring peace to us all ? Are you likely to be
my true friend — one who would stand by mein
sorrow ? Will you take an interest in my
children, so that if I were called away from
them I should not feel that they would be left
quite motherless ? Shall I be able to talk with
you about serious things ? Have you that sound
heart, sweet temper, love of truth, and right
purpose in life which will keep you straight
amid society's temptations, and make me the
better for imitating you ? Shall I lead you, or
you me? Are you going to be vas protegee, or
my example ? "

Again the self-communion must have brought
consoling answers ; for as they drove out of the
to^Ti, Aimee a propos de rien suddenly squeezed
Gertrude's hand.

But, mj dear Gertrude, you will find life at
Chateaufort colossal event instep She quickly
added, "Luckily, Eoland has another estate on
the Loire, and I dare say you will live there when
you want country air."

*'I think this so beautiful, though," said
Gertrude ; for they were driving over the Heath
of Carnac.

To-day, no doubt, because Nature has
made herself smart in your honour. But, mon
Dieu, what a place it is when the heavens are
de merchants hither ! I am sure St. Retard *
must keep his reservoirs somewhere above this
heath. There are days when the rain descends
in cataracts, and the wind makes a noise like a
hundred orchestras full of violins trying to play
the music of M. Wagner. But the plateau where
the chateau stands is even worse than this."

'but I do love old castles," said Gertrude.

Walter Scott, Mees Radcliffe, Mees Brandon,
Wilkie Colleges," laughed Aimee. " I have read
them all, and you will not believe it when I tell
you, but I dare not read their stories at Chateau-fort.
However, you will find the place more
civilized than it used to be, for my brother has

The French St. Swithin.
VOL. m. 03

made the old servants work, and has got his own
grooms with him. I myself have brought my
cook from Paris. The poor man was afraid that,
like the Empress, he was going to be deposed by
the Revolution. We have had to fly from Paris,
you know. Doubtless, some day the Republic
will be proscribing good looks as being contrary
to the principles of equality. ' La cuisine
mediocre pour tons ! ' would do very well for a
party cry. This morning, just to tease our chef,
I told him that the new Government had issued
a decree to reform the culinary vocabulary.
Such terms as Potage a la Seine, Carpe d la
Chamhord, and Vol-augment a la financiers are
to make way for Soupe a la Publique, Carpe
a la Damietta, and Ragout a la sans-lesson."

Prattling away as she did, the Countess
never spoke of her husband, and of course
Gertrude did not bring up M. de Beaujeu's
name. She guessed that Aimee knew little of
her husband's misconduct, and in this she was
not mistaken. Aimee mentioned that her children
were at Chateaufort, and conversation about
these little people served to while away the time
until the carriage reached the lodge gates of
Chateaufort.

Here a crowd of wretched-looking people
were standing with their faces pressed against
the bars of the gates. Some held rosaries, and
were muttering prayers.

"Shall I tell you who these folk are?"
exclaimed Aimee. " Well, they are pilgrims
who want to get at the miraculous spring which
my brother has choked up. Can you imagine
Roland being so hard as to prevent them from
wallowing about in water ? Mon Dieu ! life has
so few new amusements to offer. You are not
shocked by what I say, are you ? You also, in
your religion, have miracles, haven't you ? "

*' Very old ones," replied Gertrude, embarrassed.


But the old must have been new once.
When people tell me of anything wonderful, I
always believe it. I am not going to argue,
though, for I dare say some of my beliefs are
brittle. I like to keep them in a cupboard, as I
do my Bohemian crystals, and let nobody touch
them but myself See, now we are nearly at the
top of the slope, and yonder is Chateaufort."

"Just such a place as I had dreamed,"
whispered Gertrude.

Possibly it was endurable in old times,

when there were no railways to take you away
from it," smiled Aimee.

As the carriage rumbled over the drawbridge
into the court-yard, the talking was carried on by
the Countess and Hucks. A natural emotion
stole over Gertrude, and kept her silent in this
long-looked-for moment, when, after so many
woes, she was on the point of again seeing
Eoland.

*^ 7^ ^ 7P 7^

They had been together for more than an
hour, alone, hand in hand. Roland lay on his
couch, Gertrude's chair as close to him as might
be. Through the open window they could see
Aimee and Hucks Littleton strolling together
in the garden, whilst Aimee's children gambolled
about. The brilliant Countess had given Hucks
a rose, and the lawyer was enjoying himself.
He and his companion had started a serio-comic
discussion on the bringing-up of children, and
very well they got on — he with his lame French,
she with her dashing attempts at English ; and
it is certain that Hucks' insular views caused
Madame de Beaujeu no small amusement.

But I'm sure you are a good husband,
M. Lcetlepoint, though you do look so serious,"

said x4.imee. " You talk of your wife as all
wives would like to be spoken of when they are
not present. I will wager you carry madame
portrait about with you. Now come, show it
me ; " and she held out her small hand.

I— a — really," stammered Hucks, blushing ;
but who could resist a Parisienne's coaxing ? and
so the photograph came out, and x\imee, nodding
her pretty head, pronounced it " Une douce et
delicious figure."

The talk of lovers is like the flitting of
butterflies from flower to flower. No petal is
sucked quite dry of its sweets, and there is no
sequence, but pretty long pauses here and thereon
topics particularly attractive.

Whenever one of these pauses had lasted
rather long, Eoland broke ofl" from the subject in
hand, sang they would recur to it another time ;
for he wanted an excuse for reminding Gertrude
that she was to pay him another visit.

•' You will come again tomorrow, my little
one ? "

Yes, once more — tomorrow,"

"And then must you go ? Think of me here
alone for months."

Eoland dear, how gladly I would stay with

you ! "' she said ; " but there's my .
who is so anxious to get home. It is very
gooch of him to have waited for us as he has
done. I know it is miserable, and it seems cruel
to leave you — but "

"" But you will come for the whole day tomorrow,
won't you ? My sister will show you
everything — house, grounds, servants — that you
may judge whether you would ever like to live
here for a while."

"As if any place could be dull when we shall
1>e together," answered Gertrude.

Now and then a cloud settled on Eoland's
brow, especially when he glanced towards Aimee,
and Gertrude tried to chase the cloud away ; for
she divined he was thinking of M. de Beaujeu.

My brother-in-law behaved infamously to
you. my darling," he remarked once. '' You will
have to tell me all about it."

"No. Promise me you will never recur
again to the subject, Eoland,"she said. 'everything
is forgotten in this great joy of our being
side by side once more. Think of what I suffered
when that awful news came from the war."

"It was not fated, my darling, that I should
die. you see."

Upon this she looked at him with love and
sympathy till the tears filled her eyes. He was
really bnt a shadow of his former self, for his
eyes had grown so large and his hands so wasted.

Do you really feel that you are getting
better, Eoland ? " she asked, anxiously. " I am
so thankful that you must not bear arms again
during the war."

"Well, as to that, I hope the war will be
over before I am fit to get into the saddle ao-ain,"
he answered, with a sigh. '' If not, it will be a
bad thing for France."

*****

Gertrude came again next day for a long,
happy visit, which lasted from morning till dusk.
In the meantime Roland's face had brightened
wonderfully with the knowledge that Gertrude
and his sister were going to become friends.
There was no need to trouble one's self about the
Count de Beaujeu, who had fled to England, and
was not likely to turn up again for some months.
To look forward to unpleasant things months
ahead is not the way with invalids ; and whenever
Eoland projected his gaze forward, it was
always to picture the scene when he should be
standing with Gertrude to be married to her at

the altar of the church in Lewbury, where he had
once appointed to meet her.

We shall have to be married in great style,
dear," he said playfully to Gertrude, " in order
that there may be no mistake about it this time.
AVe must have a ceremony in your church and
in mine, and perhaps one before the Ambassador,
and then, I dare say, even your excellent Mrs.
Xethersole will be satisfied that eye are properly
man and wife."

"Do you know, I have had a letter from
mamma this morning, and she talks about Mrs.
Xethersole," said Gertrude, laughing. '* It appears
that Mrs. Nethersole has learnt nothing of
what has happened since I have been in France.
The secret has been well kept from her. So it
seems that she is hinting her suspicions that you
and I must be already married."

"Would it were so, my darling! How long
the time will seem to me when you are gone ! "

The time of parting would have been a very
sad one had not Aimee, with her tact and cheerful
spirits, set herself to promote hopefulness all
round. She took Gertrude over every room in
the house, opening everywhere the doors and
cupboards which Pauline had locked. She introduced

Gertrude to the servants, and gave them to
understand, by her manner of presentation, that
they were bowing to their future mistress. They
were a little frightened at first, for their consciences
smote them for things which they had
said against Gertrude, and which they feared
might reach her ears. But she was anxious to
make friends with them, and she managed so well
that, heretic as she was, she went out of the great
kitchen with their blessings upon her.

That is the chapel, I suppose ? " said Gertrude,
as they passed into the court-yard.

*' Yes. Would you like to see it ? " and Aimee
called for the keys. " Roland has had it closed
for the present, because he wants the people to
recover from their excitement about the White
Lady."

The keys were brought, and Gertrude walked
into the chapel. Several of the Kergarec women
had come out and followed her into the porch,
curious to see what she would do. Gertrude and
Aimee both walked up to the altar steps, and
knelt down together.

Thus it got noised abroad that the new
mistress of Chateaufort was not a Protestant
after the manner of M. Barney, and that this

domestic had been untruthful in asserting the
contrary. At least, la bonne demoiselle, as some
of the Keorarecs besran to call her, could wish no
harm to the chapel where she had once knelt to
pray, nor to the folk for whose devotions that
chapel had been built by the great family of
which she was about to become a member.

All felt that, with her bonnie face and kind
manner, the English girl had come to bring, not
strife and trouble, but an olive branch ; and so
there was peace in the minds of these poor people.

CHAPTEE XXII.

CONCLUSION.

The experiences of Mr. Hucks Littleton on
French soil were not likely to be lost on a man of
bis delicate sensibilities, and nine months after
his return to his tranquil English home he was
still disposed to combat the proposition that
France could properly be called a civilized nation.
There are civilized beings in it," he would say,
but that is a different matter."

Of course it got to be known in Lewbury
that he and Gertrude had been in a French prison.
The secret probably leaked out through ]airs.
Hopkins, who went to reside in Brittany with
her daughter, Madame Grachard, and who, whilst
actively superintending her son-in-law's electoral
household, found time to write home
occasionally, and tell her friends in Lewbury what

kind of a place France was. Judged by the
capacity of its people for speaking English, and
for selling good tea at cheap prices, she thought
the place a poor one, and had no hesitation in
saying so.

It was considered a very good joke in Lew-bury
that the most respectable among the local
lawyers should have been released from gaol by a
revolutionary rabble, and should have taken his
part in the overthrow of a monarchical government.
Against such witling as Mr. Quang, our
friend had several times to defend himself from
the charge of having worn a red bonnet, and
having affiliated himself to some clandestine
English brotherhood of universal Republicans.

Needless to say that these small jokes made
honest Kate very angry, and when once repeated
by Mrs. Nethersole, they led to a strife of tongue
between her and that lady, and to an estrangement
which lasted a full week. It was not in
Kate's character to remain on bad terms with
anybody for more than seven days ; so at her first
meeting with mrs. Nethersole after the bout in
question, she said, '^ Now we are going to shake
hands assail, Mrs. Nethersole ; but if you dislike
hearing sharp things said to you, mind you keep

from saying unpleasant things about persons in
my family."

My dear Kate, you are too touchy," protested
]airs. Nethersole. " Surely a joke is a joke."

'' Jokes ^Yith stings in them are no joke,"
replied Kate ; " those you generally utter about
my sister, for instance."

'about Gertrude! Dear me, what can you
be thinking of ? "

Never mind ; but this to^Yn of ours has ears,
Mrs. Nethersole, and I don't suppose that you
even said an ill-natured thing; without its coming;
back to us somehow. And there's your son,
Purkiss, too ; you had better give him some good
advice about holding his tongue, or I shall be
obliged to get my brother Dick to speak to him."

It takes more than this to silence crowd women
of Mrs. Netbersole's kind, and doubtless many of
the little rumours, fables, and innuendoes which
found their way about during the nine eventful
months while Gertrude was waiting for the end
of the war, and after that for the end of the
Commune, might have been traced to Mrs. Nether-sole,
bad anybody cared to trace them. But
Gertrude could afford to be indifferent. Almost
every day she received a letter from Eoland, and

he was the source from which proceeded all news
which was of any living interest to her.

Yet many things occurred during these nine
months, and nearly all the personages of this
story were more or less concerned in them.

Lewbury, to begin with, became filled with
Imperialist refugees. Policemen, who had lost
their all through the Eevolution, found a temporary
asylum in its hotels and lodging-houses. The
apartments which M. Grachard had occupied
became tenanted by a well-dressed gentleman,
with a waxed moustache and a pointed chin tuft,
who had been a prefect, but had never saved a
twenty-pound note in twenty years, imagining,
on the faith of plebiscites, that the Empire would
last eternally, and that he himself would always
be provided for. This gentleman, quiet, urbane,
and dignified, used to slip out of an evening to
the pawnbroker's, and, by disposing of his personalities,
scraped together enough to live on
bread and cheese for a time, and to wear always
well-ironed hats and clean gloves in public. One
night he fainted on his staircase, and Mrs. Crapps,
his landlady (locum tenens for Mrs. Hopkins),
sent for Dr. Cleverly, who found his patient
suffering from puzzling symptoms, which proved

to be those of starvation, and which could not be
cured ; for the refugee prefect died the same
night.

Other patients had Dr. Cleverly among the
refugees, and he resumed his practice in Lewbury
without appearing to be much affected by the
heart wound from which he suffered. In stories
it is often a hard matter to dispose of men like
Cleverly who have courted the heroine, failed,
intrigued, and made themselves obnoxious to
those who take any interest in the heroine's
fortune ; but in real life such men dispose of
themselves without tragical complications. They
are too busy to hang themselves, and Fate, having
also plenty of business to attend to without
troubling herself about disappointed lovers, often
forgets to provide for their romantic exit from
life's difficulties.

Often they get hardened to their work, whatever
it may be, and do it better than before from
applying greater energy to it ; more often still,
they marry. To the irritating, shadowy memory
of a Gertrude who has been unkind succeeds the
tangible, not-too-retiring form of some Mary who
says "Yes" plumply to the first offer of marriage,
and, some months later, flings into the fire the

photograph of the Gertrude which she has discovered
in one of her husband's drawers.

It got whispered that Laurence Cleverly was
going to marry. He had been elected physician
to the County Hospital and chairman of a
sanitary board. He set up his carriage, discarded
his dogcart, and was observed to be very civil to
Susan Jentleigh, the rectors daughter. Unfortunately,
this young lady had just about that
time made up her mind that the only way of
winning over Mr. Chrysostom Oram to the path
of Protestant orthodoxy was to lead him thither
by wav of the Church altar. Renouncing
celibacy, Mr. Oram was likely to forswear some
other things ; and, in truth, his Gloucester hat
and cassock vanished in turn, whiskers were
allowed to bloom on his cheeks ; the Rock was
seen in his hands ; and one evening, sitting
clothed and in his right mind at the feet of the
prophetess who had converted him, he found
o-race to laugh when she whispered in his ear
that "such a funny thing'' had happened —
nothing" less than a proposal to her from Dr.
Cleverly.

Some men are born to prove the axiom that
kissing goes by favour. Having all gifts of mind

and body, they are a standing consolation to
their less endowed brethren, the ugly and the
dull, with whom courtship is a matter of plain
sailing. Perhaps it is true that, after his second
rebuff, Laurence Cleverly started for America
with some thoughts of choosing a squaw to rear
his dusky race, but came back instead with a
specific against one of the hundred thousand
ailments of the flesh, and married a JVIiss Quang.
He is settled in London at this present time, and
is a knight ; but the author of these chronicles has
not been able to ascertain whether the lady who
is so particular about having the knight's helmet
painted large on his carriage panel was really nee
Dorothy Quang.

Mrs. Hopkins reappeared in her native town
one day, proclaiming that her son-in-law had
gone mad. This, however, was but an English
and strictly practical way of putting the fact that
Timon Grachard had resigned his prefectship,
with palace, sentries, swallow-tails, and salary, in
order to try and become a member of the French
Parliament. As a prefect receives J£l200 a year,
whereas the precarious position of a deputy
carries with it but a remuneration of about
£400, without palace, sentries, and the rest, the
VOL. III. 64

lunatical nature of the bargain which her son-in-law
had effected was pronounced by Mrs. Hopkins
to be obvious to the meanest capacity.

Mrs. Crapps, by whose mean capacity Mrs.
Hopkins was wont to gauge the opinions of
higher minds, agreed that Grachard's conduct
looked all the worse owing to its effect on Polly,
who was said to be no longer conscious as to
whether she was standing on her head or her
heels. She had been remarried to Grachard,
because the marriage in England had been pronounced
worthless ; but it remained doubtful
whether she was legally married after all, because
if the Imperial regime were restored, the sentence
of death passed on him would still hold good,
and entail all its retracted disabilities, including
that of taking a wife. Polly, however, felt more
secure in her status as a wife than in her position
as a great official lady, and it was because she
keenly appreciated the agreeable of office-holding
that she felt as much exasperated as her mother
when her refractory husband flung his cocked hat
to the wind.

But Grachard had never the soul of a prefect.
The weak compromises which a placeman has to
make with possibilities were not to his mind. If

the world could be reformed by decrees, be would
have done a great deal for it with a few sheets
of paper. He would not have stinted ball-cartridges
either to clear from his path the
enemies of Progress, as he understood it. But
to shoot, to coerce, or even to disown those who
were for moving onward faster than he, was more
than he could do. He had a tender heart for
the shirtless, a child's faith in those who had
leather lungs, and could cloak sordid designs
under much vapouring talk for the world's good.
The outbreak of the Commune was a grief to
him, but the extermination of the insurgents,
red-handed with the massacre of priests and disgraced
by arson and plunder, drew screams of
execration from him. He was elected deputy
for a large city, and started a newspaper. He
became a terror to his own party, if so be that
it could be said he had a party.

To this day he makes cabinets tremble.
Elected again and again to the Chamber, rich by
reason of his newspaper, influential because of his
talent for giving immediate and vehement expression,
regardless of consequences, to whatever
destructive whim may be uppermost in the minds
of the most ignorant and reckless classes, his

parliamentary motions generally operate like
explosives. How often have friendly hands
pulled him back to his seat by the coat-tails just
as he was starting forward to say something
which had far better have been left unsaid, and
how often he had insisted upon springing up,
disdainful of the rent in his raiment, to hurl the
unutterable something into the gnashing teeth
of furious Eepublican ministers ! Grachard has
often been spoken of as a coming Cabinet
Minister. In all the false starts for power, he is
seen rushing to the front. He has been the
premier of half a dozen still-born cabinets, the
pivot of ever so many combinations which would
not work, because they would not work as he
desired.

Polly has had to accommodate herself to her
husband's high-temperature mode of life; she still
calls him a "silly" at times, and wonders how
long all this is going to last. But she has her
children to attend to, half a dozen of them, unbaptized,
and educated by their father in the
contempt of clergymen, churches, chapels, and
even synagogues. Perhaps it may be true that
Madame Grachard sometimes steals out on a
Sunday evening to the English Church in the

Rue d'Ao^iiesseau with two of her little orirlg
"just to let the poor children hear a few English
hymns, which they like, and prevent them from
feeling quite foreign." If this be true, Grachard
probably knows of the matter, and tolerates the
irregularity as a concession to womanly weakness.
But he would be very angry if his sons where
brought under the thrall of any "superstition."
The two eldest of them, ao^ed fourteen and
thirteen, lately signalized themselves at their
lycee by hissing the chaplain, and then signed
a petition to the Minister of Public Instruction
for the abolition of this functionary. They never
meet a priest in the streets without nudging each
other and crying couac, to imitate the cawing
of a raven ; and not long ago, when one of
their schoolfellows died, and was buried without
religious rites, the elder of the young Orchards
delivered an oration, in which he declared his
pity for Plato and Pascal, who believed in the
immortality of the soul, and for his own part
professed a confident belief that he should never
see his late schoolfellow again. The two boys
are the despair of their mother, but the rising
hope of France.

Treading a path very wide from Grachard 's,

and keeping very different aims in view for his
life's journey, Jerome Juva met with a different
end.

One of Eoland's letters to Gertrude, written
during the sieo^e of Paris, related how the Breton
Mobiles had saved the Government of National
Defence from overthrow during the Communist
insurrection of the 31st of October, 1870. A
subsequent letter reported that almost the whole
battalion had been hewn to pieces in the last
battle of the siege — that of Montretout. Clovis
and a dozen other Kergarecs were killed, and
Eene de Polhuan was seriously wounded. It
may be added here that, about twelve months
afterwards, when Eene was himseK again, he
and Pauline were married.

Jerome Juva escaped slaughter with the
Mobiles, though he was on the field of battle
all the time, attending to the wounded. All
through the siege he was indefatigable in
ambulance work, and when the Commune came,
he remained in Paris to continue his ministrations
among those who were going to fall in the
Second Siege. As a consequence, he was arrested
by the Communists and thrown into prison, to
be kept as a hostage.

In one of the northern quarters of Paris, in
the Hue Saxo, there is a garden, where one of
the most revolting acts of savagery in the annals
of civil wars was enacted towards the end of the
Commune. During the early years of the Republic,
this garden could be seen by visitors, and
a man, who had been an eye-witness of the
butchery, was there to give an account of it,
which made the blood of listeners curdle. But
this was in the days when Tiers and MacMahou
governed. The present rulers of France, and
especially the Municipal Councillors of Paris,
having brood reason to be ashamed of what was
done in the Eue Saxo, have shut up the garden.
They have even interdicted all projects for erecting
a commemorative chapel on its site.

The garden used to belong to a small eating-house.
Into it were led, one evening in May,
twelve priests and fifty-seven gendarmes, followed
by a hooting rabble, who had been throwing mud
and stones at these prisoners along the whole line
of their march from the prison of La Coquette.

Jerome Juva was one of the priests. Hustled,
reviled, and pelted, he was thrown, with his
brother clergymen and the gendarmes, against a
wall, and there put to death. Not expeditiously.

however. The hostages were fired at indiscriminately
by squads of drunken Parisian
Mobiles, and by a number of jades with revolves.
When one of the hostages fell down
wounded, he was set upon with clubbed rifle -
stock or with bayonets. Some cried aloud to
be put quickly out of their misery, and these
became the targets for slow firing on the part
of the women, who seemed to exult in their
colonies. These things were done amid the
thunder of cannon from the advancing Versailles
army, and under a huge canopy of black smoke
arising from the Hotel de Ville and Tuileries
in flames.

It is said that at the moment when Jerome
was thrown against the wall, a girl, wearing the
uniform of vivandiere to one of the insurgent
battalions, uttered the priest's name in a dismayed
shriek of recognition, and rushed forward
to protect him. Notwithstanding his efforts to
thrust her aside, she stood in front of him, covering
him with her body till a bullet struck her,
and she fell down. They were afterwards found
dead side by side. It is believed that the girl
was Odette Kerg^arec.

Eoland was one of those generals who helped

to suppress the Commune. Hardly cured of his
wounds, he had to get into the saddle to fight
against his own countrymen. None loathed this
obligation more than himself, or felt a deeper
answer against the men who had turned to rend
their own nation in the days of its defeat and
wretchedness, and to offer it and themselves as
an object of derision to the million of mocking
Germans encamped in France. But Eoland did
not vent his anger, as some did, by executing all
the miserable rebels who fell into his power. He
showed himself chivalrous and merciful. Certainly,
if he could have got hold of Timon
Grachard and some of the other leaders to whose
false teaching during years and years the dementia
of all the social outcasts in Paris was due, it
would have gone hard with these persons. This
was pretty well known, and from their safe
retreats in Paris, Brussels, and Geneva, the
runaways of the Commune, for years after the
suppression of the revolt, slavered their insults
over the Due d'Alma ; not because he had injured
one of them, but because he had spared so many
of their misguided dupes, and had openly given
his reasons for doing so.

As soon as the last embers of the civil war

had been stamped out, Eoland came to England.
He was a general of division now, for lie had
got another step for his services against the
Commune. His achievements were well known
in England; and indeed, there was such a revulsion
of feelings at that time against the Germans, that
he would have been honoured with enthusiastic
public demonstrations in Lewbury had he cared
to lay himself open to such things. Every respectable
person bowed to him in the streets.
Little Mr. Quang ran about to collect subscriptions
to offer him a sword of honour, and when
dissuaded from these endeavours by Eoland himself,
he besought that his Grace would at least
do the Brightport Mutton Chop Club the honour
of dining: at its table. Eoland dined at the
Mutton Chop Club. He could do no less, and
he tried to look becomingly grateful when Mr.
Quang made a speech, in which he descanted on
those British sympathies for the French, which,
as we know, had been so very useful in helping
them to keep Alsace-Lorraine.

Within a week of this dinner Eoland and
Gertrude were at last married. Once more
wedding presents flowed in ; once more Bertha
Corrington was severely exercised in her mind

as to whether she had any moral right to rejoice
at this glittering finale of her sister's love-story.
Once more this good young lady had to make
an entry in her diary to the effect that she had
been too sadly vainglorious, she was afraid,
because the Countess de Beaujeu had taken her
out for some drives in her carriage, and had
presented her with a diamond locket quite too
beautiful for this vale of tears.

For Aimee and her children came over to
Lewbury for the marriage. The Count de
Beaujeu, of course, remained away ; but, lest
sympathy should be wasted on this personage in
the belief that he suffered overmuch from the
calamities which he had brought about, it maybe
remarked that gentlemen of his kind have a
cat-like agility for falling on their legs. Having
lost one fortune by the war, he made another
during the siege of Paris, by entering into contracts
sui rossi for supplying shoes with cardboard
soles and rifles with tin barrels to the
armies of France. After the war he published
a fine book, in three volumes, to prove, as so
many others were doing each for himself, that
he had never committed a fault, and that the
Emperor Napoleon had only come to trouble

through not being guided by his advice. Pierre
Quiroule, who right have revealed some unpleasant
things about him, had fortunately been
shot out of this world through a blunder in
getting on to the wrong side of a barricade
during the last days of the Commune.

Eoland and Gertrude had two weddings : first
one, at the Eoman Catholic chapel of Brightport,
after all sorts of formalities before the French
Consul ; and then another, with as much pomp
as possible, in the parish church of Lewbury.
This time Mr. Jentleigh was not too ill to
officiate.

On the morning of this last ceremony, while
Gertrude was in her wedding dress waiting to goto
church, Mrs. Nethersole, who had been forgotten
amonor the invitations to the weddings
but who sadly wanted to take her
share of this meal, burst into Gertrude's room
with her present — a copy of the " Siege of
Mansoul.''

*' My dear Gertrude," she exclaimed, throwing
her arms round the bride's neck, " so the day has
come at last which I have been so fondly expecting
! It is almost the happiest day of my own
life. No, dear, don't say a word. I know you love

me ; but I do so want to be of help to sou a little
to-day, so I'll stay and mind the house while
you're all at church. Hired servants, you know,
want a deal of looking after. "

Really, Mrs. Nethersole, it's very good of
you," objected Mrs. Corrington ; " but "

Not one word, Mrs. Corrington, I beseech
you ; and really, I can't tell you how happy I am
that our dear Gertrude is going to be married ina
proper Protestant church. I assure you there
were some people wicked enough to bet that she
would become a Roman Catholic ; but I never
believed in such nonsense."

And I hope you backed your opinion by
offering to lay odds, Mrs. Nethersole," remarked
Kate Littleton, who just then appeared on the
scene to say that the carriages had come.

Nevertheless, ]\[rs. Nethersole had her way,
and secured one of the best seats at the wedding
breakfast.

*****

The wedded life of the Due and Duchesse
d'Alma has been a very happy one. Dukes areas
much in request for State service under a
republic as under a monarchy, and Roland might
easily have become ambassador or senator, or kept

high military command, had he chosen to offer a
homage, sans arriere-pensee, to the new order of
things established in his country.

Perhaps it has been a weakness of his mind
that he has not been able to look upon this new
order of things as embodying much of what a
man likes to see in his country's institutions,
when he considers their durability and their
prospect of ennobling the race subject to them.
The France of the future to which he looks is not
that of M. Grachard. With a good God-fearing
wife by his side, and children growing up around
him, his responsibilities as a father have made
themselves felt in extending the sense of his
responsibilities as a citizen. The France which
he hopes to see emerge from troubled periods
of revolution will be remodelled on that of a
happy household, where God's governance is
owned. Then will be the day of a new and
better race, when there shall be no more decay,
no leading into captivity, and no complaining in
the streets.

THE End.

PRINTED BY WILLIAM Closes AND SONS, LIMITED,

LONDON AND BECCLES. G., C. &^ Co.

UNIVERSITY OF Illinois-URBANA

lilililillllllllilll

3 0112 052905491
